Hey friends, my name is Zhidong Zuo.
Who am I?
I am a Doer, I believe in action. I talk less,
but do more and fast because I believe the
only way to accomplish your goal and make
changes is to do the real thing.
I have valuable experience in Imperial
College. I am a Council Representative for
Undergraduate Natural Science students.
Therefore, I have many opportunities to
observe how the Student Union works. I
always read the reports carefully, never miss
any meeting in the Council, and thoughtfully
Zhidong Zuo vote for the choice which would maximize
the benefits for Natural Science students
I represent. Besides, I am also a student
representative of first-year physics students.
I solve lots of problems. Particularly, I
promote the improvement of the new
curriculum, seminar, with my teammates. I
also strongly protest in the department for
the discriminatory speech towards Chinese
students about Cornorviours Pneumonia.
All of my friends are satisfied with what I
did.
What can I do for you?
Depending on my experience, I not only
understand the overall business operated
by Union, but also comprehend what
students usually concern.Thus, I believe in
myself I can do the best for students and
always protect our standpoints to ensure
every policy or action hold by Student
Union is good for the benefit of students. I
will question, reject, stop any unfair policy
against students and approve, propose
positive policy.
Please Vote for Me!
Please Vote for ZZ!
Hi, my name is Afaaf Azreen and I am a first
year Chemistry student and I am running
for the position of the StudentTrustee.
I believe I am suited for this position
because I can offer insight about student
experience as an International student and
can also offer unbiased opinions regarding
various subjects. Having held positions of
various levels of responsibility and multiple
positions of leadership such as Vice House
Captain and President of the Islamic Society
at school, I am aware that I will be able to
adapt to exactly what is required of me as
a student trustee. I am also keen in helping
Afaaf Azreen
As a current member of the Union’s Board
ofTrustees, I’ve come to learn the following:
-That the organisation has long-standing
structural issues, the symptoms of
which include the forced closing of the
FiveSixEight kitchens, and the shambles of
room bookings this year.
-That there is no current long-term strategy
for dealing with these issues.
-That the organisational and financial
models of the Union are in desperate need
of a whole-scale rethink.
I have had 6 years of experience in a broad
set of Union volunteer roles, such as:
Lloyd James
uphold the Union’s values and will strive to
achieve this. I will work towards providing
insight that will improve student welfare
by acting as a middle person in taking any
feedback on offer. I think my experience
with working with charities will help me
reaching the goals of being a student
trustee. As a trustee I will further the
effort being made by the union to increase
sustainability through the university.
Thank you for reading my manifesto and if
you have any questions you can contact me
on my college email.
academic rep, club committee member,
Constituent Union President, and Chair of
the Union Council.This has given me insight
into the various workings of the Union from
a variety of student volunteer perspectives.
At a time when the Union will be going
through significant upheaval and restructure,
it is imperative that the views of ordinary
student volunteers are represented, and
decisions are not left exclusively to staff and
sabbatical officers.
OnTrustee Board this year, I’ve:
- Pushed the Union to make more activities,
such as the Summer Ball, principally
student-organised.
- Brought up-to-date the quagmire of
outdated Union Policies.
- Stressed the importance of a well-
developed strategy and appropriate
performance metrics.
If re-appointed, I will:
- Ensure all aspects of the next Union
Strategy are shaped in partnership with
student volunteers.
- Keep sabbatical officers accountable by
properly scrutinising their reports.
- Resist cuts to essential student services.
So re-appoint Lloyd to the Board ofTrustees,
to secure a genuinely member-led Students’
Union.
Candidate Manifestos: Student Trustees (x2)
Hey there! I want to serve as your next
StudentTrustee because I want to achieve
the full potential of what Imperial College
Union (ICU) can offer. As your student union,
ICU must be held accountable for how
we implement our financial and physical
resources, and I believe there are many
ways we can transform your experience
at Imperial. Some of my key goals for ICU
include:
-Running more events that are accessible to
the entire student population, like pushing to
invite celebs to come perform at Imperial!
Lei Shen -Increasing the freedom and flexibility
of room bookings and union personal
resources (financial, advisory and project
services)
-Implementing easy and relatively hassle-
free ways of collecting your feedback and
acting on it in a timely fashion
-Making the reimbursement and financial
e-activities system of individual societies
more efficient and straightforward
Personally, my experience has amply
prepared me for this role. I have worked
within the Union before as Biochemistry
first year Wellbeing Rep and have been
trained in effective leadership and
representation. From organising major
events on the Finance Soc committee, I
personally understand how frustrating the
union’s room booking, catering and financial
claims systems can be. In addition, I am a
proud Christian and wish to launch more
non-alcohol events that are inclusive and
celebrate our diversity. Finally, serving as
Marketing Director in the Social Innovation
Academy has taught me effective methods
to improve transparency and to better
implement your feedback.
As StudentTrustee, I will work to improve
our university experience!

