In this new feature, Felix will profile one Imperial student each week, and they’ll tell us what
they do in London, their favourite places and a few tips that might be useful. This week,
we spoke to third year Physics student Nichola Jahn
www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 14 October 2004
14
My London felix@ic.ac.uk
My... clubs
“Aquarium is my favourite club in London. Just up the
road from the Medicine Bar in Old Street, it plays host to
Carwash every Saturday – the best seventies dress-up
night with disco, funk and soul music all night. The club
itself is small but there’s loads to do, including a swim-
ming pool and jacuzzi with an underwear only policy!
They do student discounts too.” www.carwash.co.uk
My... pubs
“The Litten Tree in Putney is amazing... 15% discount
off its already cheap drinks and food, and special offers
sometimes too! Putney’s great – there are loads of nice
restaurants, bars and shops for a more laid-back trip
out.”
My... restaurants
“The whole of Brick Lane in the East End! OK, there are
some exceptions but there are so many amazing places
to eat up there, and if you haggle as a group you always
get a great deal.”
My... work
“Twice a week and some weekends I work as an Army
Cadet Force Instructor over in Kennington (just south of
Vauxhall), which is something completely different. We
work with teenagers aged 12 to 18, giving them compre-
hensive life skill coaching and instructing them towards
a BTEC in Public Service. It’s a very hard-up area in
general, and we help where the schools are failing these
kids in discipline, education and welfare.”
My... money saving tip
“There are so many free music nights. If you fancy a
cheap night, then buy a copy of Time Out and take pot
luck. I managed to see the backing band for Groove
Armada a while back at an amazing Caribbean themed
bar for free.”
My... favourite day out
“This summer I discovered the recreation areas in
Bishop’s Park (also home of Craven Cottage in Fulham)
and one Sunday, after getting bored of the Fulham DC
Carnival, I went up to the mini beach in the park with
some friends.
Admittedly twice the size of the other paddling pool
goers, we splashed around in the sunshine like nutters
which was cool. Then we wandered along the river to
Putney Bridge and walked back down the other side up
the Half Moon Pub to enjoy an afternoon of jazz with
their resident band [free, every Sunday 2-5pm].
Afterwards, it was a short wander up the high street to
Pizza Express to have dinner in their garden restaurant,
and a walk home just as the sun started to go down.”
My... ideal London date
“The most romantic place anyone ever took me was
Chelsea Bridge (the one next to Battersea power station
and park) in the middle of the night. There’s an all night
cab drivers’ café there, which does great hot chocolate,
so we sat on the bridge drinking hot chocolate watching
the trains go over the river in the shadow of Battersea
power station… it was amazing!”
Name:
Department:
Year:
Living in:
Nichola Jahn
Physics
3
Fulham
Interested in telling us about your London?
We want to hear from you.
Feel free to choose different categories
to this week.
Email felix@ic.ac.uk
Brick Lane: Nichola’s choice for restaurants

