In America you can now get car
stickers in support of John Kerry
which simply read: “He’ll do.” I doubt
that this is authorised campaign
merchandise, but it does highlight
the current trend in politics – it’s
not that you vote for your favourite
candidate, you just don’t vote for
your least favourite. And in a two
horse race, that doesn’t leave many
options. Kerry isn’t going to publicly
base his campaign solely on the fact
that he isn’t George Bush, although
everybody knows that this fact alone
will win him plenty of votes in the
November poll.
This side of the pond, the situation
is remarkably similar, right down to
the key dividing issue – Iraq. Except
over here, not only do we worry
about whether the war was right,
but also the extent to which we,
or rather the Government, blindly
followed in America’s footsteps.
Everyone has a view on the issue
– plenty against, a few for, and a lot
of us somewhere in between.
For those vehemently against the
military action, the next general
election (which is expected by May
2005) will be the long-awaited oppor-
tunity to get rid of Tony Blair. Who
do they vote for instead? Who cares,
as long as it’s not Blair.
Blair, Blair, Blair... but what about
the rest of the Government? When
criticising the UK’s actions over
Iraq, most will blame Tony Blair
directly. Following the brutal and
tragic murder of Ken Bigley last
week, there were claims that “Blair
has blood on his hands”. Not the
government, not Labour, but Blair.
Perhaps if he did stick to his alleged
agreement to step aside and hand
over the reigns to Gordon Brown,
Labour’s election campaign would
be a much easier ride.
The fact that the Prime Minister
has become almost the exclusive
hate figure represents the dispar-
ity within the Labour party that
could ironically rescue it at the elec-
tion. Plenty of Labour MPs vocally
opposed the war and continue to
do so, and many do an excellent
job serving their local communities.
This could be enough to tip some
anti-war, anti-Blair votes back into
the red territory. I refer to this as
the call centre effect – you get all
riled up with the phone/gas/electric-
ity/catalogue company, but then get
through to the most pleasant under-
paid telephonist and end up apolo-
gising for bothering them with your
complaint. Or is that just weak willed
me? Damn, manipulated again.
Is it wrong to vote like that? Well
technically no – you’re electing your
local MP
, not the government. It just
happens to be the rule that whichev-
er party gets the majority of the seats
(give or take) also gets the keys to
Downing Street. The Prime Minister
gets elected by the back door, almost
as an afterthought. It sounds daft
put like that, but it’s based on the
reasonable assumption that if the
MPs are popular, so too will be the
party leader. Unfortunately this goes
horribly wrong with big issues such
as Iraq – disagreements occur, and
the party fragments. Ironically, in
this case, it could work in Labour’s
favour. Blair may act like he’s a
president, but it’s lucky for him that
he’s not elected as one.
For those not distracted by local
issues who are determined to get
rid of this government, the question
is – what, or who, now? The opposi-
tion obviously, that’s what they’re
there for… oh hang on, that’s the
Conservatives isn’t it. And Michael
Howard. Oh...
Suddenly it becomes a bit more
obvious why, despite the Iraq mess,
the election still isn’t clear cut.
Having followed the conferences
quite closely this week (I have a stack
of newspapers here that my father
would be proud of), the resounding
message from Bournemouth seems
to be “we’re nice people really, please
be our friends”, like the unpopular
kid on the first day of school.
There are two parts to this – first-
ly, shedding the stuffy, grey image
embodied by John Major. “A lit-
tle less conversation, a little more
action” echoed around the confer-
ence hall. Shadow cabinet ministers
appeared in video diaries gushing
about their personal lives, announc-
ing for example that they enjoyed
listening to Dido CDs in a bid to
convince us that they actually are
real people. But do we mind if our
politicians are a bit stuffy – let’s face
it, one of the Tories’ most popular
characters is Boris Johnson, and
nobody would suggest he’s a real
person!
The second prong of the attack
is the policies. At least the
Conservatives have some, but many
seem to have been devised with
Daily Mail readers firmly in mind
– don’t like speed cameras? We’ll
scrap them! Immigration: bad!
Asylum seekers: evil! It’s all a bit
reactionary for my liking, taking on
the easy targets. Still, it’s worth a
try – but they should remember
that just because people rant about
things, it doesn’t make them sound
political policies.
The highlight of the week had to
be when Busted added their support
to Howard’s band of merry men.
I honestly don’t know who to feel
more sorry for.
So with the Conservatives in a
state, where does that leave us. The
Lib Dems? Before they even start
with policies, they need to get people
to take them seriously. There have
been glimmers of hope, but there
are still a lot of people who won’t
vote for them because they think
it’s a waste of time and effort. The
problem is only compounded by the
anti-Iraq movement, with the Tories
picking up the vote of Lib Dem sup-
porters who ultimately are more
determined to get rid of Blair and so
support the most likely candidate to
banish him to the political graveyard
– or Bayswater as the post number
10 residence is to be for Tony and
Cherie.
UKIP? You’re having a laugh,
right? Europe may have been
the big issue at the last election,
but look what the negative policy
now favoured by UKIP did for the
Tories last time around. I’m sorry,
but Robert Kilroy-Silk gives me the
creeps. At least when he was doing
the talk show you could avoid him
– now he jumps out when you least
expect it, like some monster in a bad
horror film. And when did UKIP (the
acronym) become ‘Ukip’ as far as
all the papers are concerned? Is it
too tiring to hold down the shift key
for so long? More likely, they want
us to forget what it stands for (UK
Independence Party, in case you
didn’t know), to avoid the continuing
accusations of being a one-policy
party. There are other policies, after
all. Erm... anyone?
So where does this leave us? I
have no idea. Still, that will make for
an interesting election, I suppose.
Did you notice that I haven’t really
discussed any of the actual issues in
any significant depth? Should there
be so much other stuff to talk about?
Well like it or not it seems that there
is. But for those of you who actually
care what these people are standing
for, if anything at all, next week I’ll
cast my cynical eye on the major
parties’ views on student funding
and see if any of them can come up
with something resembling a fair,
and dare I say effective, solution.
JAMES ROBINSON
COMMENT felix@ic.ac.uk
www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 14 October 2004 7
Who will you not vote for?
In the current political climate, voting for your favourite candidate seems less important
than making sure your least favourite candidate doesn’t win
Would you call your friend if you
knew it would cost you £2 for five
minutes? If you answered no to that
question and are shocked that a five
minute call could cost that much,
then this article is just for you.
First off, mobile networks in the
UK are especially known to be
dodgy when it comes to educating
potential customers about the true
cost of using their services. Many of
you might have seen ads promising
“double minutes” or “half price line
rental”, but upon reading the itsy
bitsy text at the bottom you will dis-
cover that there are as many strings
attached to the offer as there are to
Pinocchio. That is why I have writ-
ten the following guide, for freshers
and seniors alike, to help guide you
through the labyrinth of choices and
to give you the lowdown on each of
the networks.
At the moment, there are eight
networks available to choose from
in London. They are Vodafone,
T-Mobile, Orange, O2, Three, BT
Mobile, Virgin Mobile and Tesco
Mobile. Many of you might never
have heard of some of these before,
but don’t panic, I’ll cover them all
here. In addition to the eight, there
is another network, Easy Mobile,
expected to be launched by the end
of the year.
The first six networks mentioned
above all offer postpaid/monthly
services. This means that you agree
to pay a certain amount of money
each month in return for a fixed
bundle of call minutes and/or texts.
Alternatively, all of the eight net-
works (except BT) offer another
service called prepay, more com-
monly known as pay-as-you-go. This
means that you pay only for the calls
or texts that you make. Generally,
monthly is better for people who
consistently call or text a lot, and
prepay is better for those who spo-
radically use their phones to make
quick calls. The bundled minutes in
a monthly service is usually cheaper
than if you call the exact same min-
utes using prepay, but bear in mind
that if you don’t use up the minutes
(perhaps you are on holiday over-
seas) in a particular month, they
usually cannot be rolled over and
you end up paying for something
you didn’t use.
Unlike many other countries, call-
ing a mobile on a different network in
UK usually is much more expensive
than calling a mobile on the same
network or calling a landline. For
example, calling a Vodafone mobile
from an O2 mobile would cost 45p,
whereas an O2 to O2 call would only
cost 15p. Therefore, a good tip would
be to get a mobile on the same net-
work as most of your friends, other-
wise you might find yourself with a
huge bill! Another difference in the
UK is that most incoming calls are
free, so it is often a good idea to get
someone to call you instead of you
calling them. Bear in mind, though,
that calling a friend and hanging up
after a ring in order to get them to
call you back might be the quickest
way to lose that friendship!
Thankfully, some networks have
realized that what customers really
want is a fixed rate to call any net-
work, as remembering which net-
work your friends are on takes up
valuable brain power which should
be conserved for remembering stuff
like which pubs offer the cheapest
pints. Tesco Mobile and Three are
both good choices if you call num-
bers on other networks often. Tesco
charges a flat rate of 20p per minute
to any mobile or landline, and an
incredibly cheap 10p per minute to
any three numbers of your choice.
On the other hand, there is Three,
which offers you calls to other net-
works at 12p a minute, with calls to
Three mobiles at 5p and landlines
at 10p.
Some of you might be wondering
if there are offers specifically for
students. I am glad to say that there
are, although I can’t say I am too
impressed with them. Vodafone and
Orange both have student offers,
with the former giving 250 free texts
a month if you sign up for the £30
“Anytime 200” plan, and the latter
giving 1000 free texts and 50% off
calls to UK landlines. This, at first,
seems a good deal (after all, free
stuff is best, right?) However, upon
closer inspection, a 12 or 18 month
contract is required, and the phones
on offer look like old stock from the
1990s. You are better off taking one
of the numerous other plans that
they offer.
The other networks that I haven’t
covered yet (T-Mobile, BT Mobile,
and Virgin Mobile) appeared to me
as dull, although there were some
unique points about them. T-Mobile
has cheap off-peak plans for call-
ing your friends on weekends, but
unfortunately they charge you £3
extra if you don’t pay by direct debit.
BT Mobile was just boring (perhaps
that’s why I haven’t found a sin-
gle person on it so far), and Virgin
Mobile is only worthwhile if you text
a lot to other Virgin mobiles (3p per
text).
In a nutshell, there’s a multitude
of choices out there, and it is best to
choose carefully or you might end
up wasting your week’s allowance
on one or two calls.
Mobile networks: what they try to hide
Did you know a five minute call could easily cost you £2? Boon Koh investigates
Calls can be costly: make sure you get the best mobile deal

