ISSUE 1727
FELIX
42
INVESTMENT icu.investmentsociety@imperial.ac.uk
42
42
I
found out about most insight events through talking to people in the Investment Society. I thought it would be a
very good way to get the ball rolling if you are thinking about a career in finance. Since I applied for a Capital
Markets Insight week, and given my quantitative engineering background, I was placed on a Securitisation
Desk.
I mainly work shadowed my team but also had talks from members in the DCF, ECF, Leveraged Finance and
Equity Linked teams. On the final day was a series of interviews for the summer 2020 internship. It was clear that
Citi was extremely diverse, people had a range of backgrounds from History to Astrophysics. Furthermore, whilst
they were extremely driven, they were also very humble and approachable even during my interviews.
Personally, I thought it was an amazing opportunity. The financial services industry is so ranging and vast that
before my Insight week, I was almost intimidated and overwhelmed. However, having completed it, I’m now much
more informed and know what I want to do and how I’m going to achieve it.
I would say that you have nothing to lose in giving it a shot. All firms are clear that they expect you not to be 100%
sure about a career with them. In fact if you are, you can come across narrow minded in an interview.
Tom Alston,
MEng Aeronautical Engineering
Spring Week at Citi Bank
Vanessa Tang
MEng Chemical Engineering
Spring Week at Deutsche Bank and PJT Partners
Rohhil Chhabra
MEng Mechanical Engineering
Spring Week at Citi Bank
I
heard of spring insight weeks before entering Imperial. I joined the Investment Society, which conducted C.V.
workshops and assigned me a mentor, from whom I received guidance throughout the application process. My
interest in the financial services motivated me to apply to gain exposure to the day-to-day work in the industry
Being in the Banking and Custody Team in the Private Banking division, I worked with various directors on client
profiling and performed an analysis on different regions of the bank’s business. My managing director was patient
with his explanations and in answering my queries. I enjoyed the flexibility to shadow other teams, it granted me
insights into teams like Markets and Investment Management. The amount of employee contact, from junior analyst
to global heads helped in building a network within the company. I was impressed by the complexity of the division
and the number of teams that go behind the entire vehicle. I also learnt of the huge potential of private banking as
global wealth is growing exponentially.
I was surprised with the amount learnt over just 5 days and how approachable senior employees are. This is the
advantage of being an intern, most people are willing to help. I made strong connections with some employees
that I am still in touch with and who mentor me on this journey to break into the industry. Being fast tracked to an
Assessment Centre for a summer analyst position the following year was a benefit as summer internships are very
competitive. The professional work environment also exposed my strengths and weakness, giving me fresh insights
into my work ethic. Apprehensive juniors should apply as STEM students are highly sought after for their analytical
and problem-solving skills. They are a fresh template for firms to train and mould. Spring weeks are an opportunity
to discover how well you fit into the industry and firm, making you aware of your motivations and interests.
Are Insight Events important for a career in finance?
Hear all about it from your fellow students
I
found out about insight events through attending company networking sessions and through word of mouth.
I believe in having “hands-on” experience rather than learning about a company through a two-hour pres-
entation – therefore insight events that run for one week allows me to better understand the day-to-day
tasks and the company culture. In addition, most insight events fast track attendees for summer internships
– it is always better to secure an internship a year in advance to reduce the stress of applying. After attending
two spring weeks, one at a bulge bracket bank and another at a boutique financial advisory firm, I realised:
1. Financial skills do not matter. You just need to be smart, be able to read the room, and be commercially aware.
2. Firms receive a very high volume of spring/insight week applications, sometimes your offer is based on “luck”.
3. Firms are really good at marketing themselves and their roles. Be aware of the firms’ sugar-coating.
4. What you do as an analyst does not differ much from bank to bank. Getting to know the people and the culture
is more important.
For those who are apprehensive about applying:
1. Apply early.
2. Go through the whole process. You will see for yourself whether you like it or not. Financial services is not for
everyone. Feel free to reach out to me on Linkedin or via email (vanessa.tang17@imperial.ac.uk) if you have any
questions, always happy to have a chat.

