ISSUE 1669
FELIX
7
A CONVERSATION WITH... felix@imperial.ac.uk
This year, Felix is introducing a new section: ‘A Conversation With...’ in which we will have weekly interviews with
the Union sabbatical officers. This week, however, they want to welcome students and introduce themselves.
Abhijay Sood - President
Fifi Henry - Deputy President (Finance and Services)
Ashley Brooks - Deputy President (Education)
Shervin Sabhegi - Deputy President (Welfare)
Thomas Fernandez Debets - Deputy President (Clubs and Societies)
Hi,myname’sShervin,andI’myourDeputyPresident
(Welfare) this year! It’s my responsibility to ensure all
Imperial students have their wellbeing looked after, and
to promote the voice of all students no matter who you
are or what you believe. The key areas I’m responsible
for are student support services (such as the Disability
Advice Service and the Counselling Service), Halls of
Residence, and Equality Diversity and Inclusion. I also
lead the Wellbeing Representation Network, compris-
ing wellbeing reps in every year and course, as well
as 8 Liberation and Community Officers who lead the
Union’s efforts to represent underrepresented groups
and celebrate all people at Imperial. This year, I plan to
campaign within the university to improve services to
students, as well as to review the structure’s our Union
has that represent the wellbeing interests of students.
Flick through to my article ‘Welfare and Faring Well at
Imperial’ if you want to find out more!
Hi everyone – I’m Abhijay, your Union President
this year. As President, I’m ultimately responsible for
the activities of the Union, and representing the inter-
ests of students to College.
I ran for this position because, for all its strengths, our
university could do more for its students. With this in
mind, this year I’ll be working to increase student rep-
resentation, as well as the representation of academic/
support staff, at the highest levels of College. I want to
ensure that wherever possible, the people affected by
decisions are directly involved in the decision-making
process, whether that’s around our courses, the cost of
food on campus, or student services.
Within the Union, my priorities are communication,
preserving and improving our offer to students, and
getting our student staff paid the London living wage.
We’re also going to be asking for your input in helping
us set priorities for the next three years. I want to make
sure you have opportunities to make your voice heard,
and that we let you know what’s going on, so that
together, we can make Imperial a better place.
Hi, I’m Ashley, your Deputy President (Educa-
tion) for this year! Hope you’ve had a great summer
wherever you’ve been and whatever you’ve been up to!
I’m responsible for all things related to your learning
and teaching experience, from exciting new initiatives
to fundamental assessment & feedback; and from new
undergraduates to seasoned postgraduate researchers.
To achieve the best possible outcomes, I look forward
to working closely with the Academic Rep Network on
this year’s journey. It’s already been a busy summer
working on the Union’s response to the most recent
National Student Survey (NSS), and I’m pleased to say
that our recommendations (formed from a close reading
of student’s comments and in close collaboration with
student reps), have been well received, and endorsed,
by the most senior college committees. In a similar
vein, we are now also working on the Union’s response
to the biannual Postgraduate Research Experience
Survey (PRES), so watch this space, and look out for
your reps!
Hi, my name is Fifi and I am your Deputy President (Finance and Services).
On the finance side of things, I manage the finances for all clubs, societies and
projects. This tends to fall into my day-to-day tasks, and you can often find me at my
desk reading sponsorship contracts.
The other official half of my job is services and making sure that what both
Imperial College Union and College offer meet the needs of you, the students. I also
often get involved with College services to represent student views. Also head to
my bio on the Unions webpage to start to have your say on the Summer Ball 2020!!
My underlying aim is to make lasting and sustainable changes across the services
we offer students, and so will chair a Services & Sustainability Board this year as
well as working with Greening Imperial! Ultimately, I want to be part of ensuring
you graduate from Imperial proud of the institute and your Union.
Hi, my name’s Thomas and I’m your Deputy President (Clubs & Societies). Half
Dutch, half Spanish, I moved from Hong Kong to London to study Biomedical
Engineering at Imperial.
Little did I know most of my personal and professional development would come
through my time on the Lawn Tennis Club committee and as Sport Chair. Clubs,
Societies & Projects (commonly referred to as CSPs) are a great place to meet
like-minded people with similar interests and they provide invaluable development
opportunities as they’re all student-led.
This year, I’m looking forward to working with elected volunteers to facilitate,
promote and celebrate our 350+ CSPs – you can meet them across the South Kens-
ington campus at Welcome Fair on Tuesday. With projects ranging from working
with sports clubs to implement the Sports Hub, promoting Arts & Entertainment
clubs through their own bar nights, to engaging all CSPs to celebrate their events
through the Union’s central social media channels, it’s going to be a busy year but
I’m looking forward to it!

