12 felix Friday 23 November 2007
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Mike Cook, Rosie Greyburn, Caz Knight and David Paw
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Caught in Hyper(ion)bole
A
s I write this editorial, a
good week in advance of
release, I’m forty-thou-
sand words into a rather
rubbish novel. I wrote
about National Novel Writing Month
earlier in the term, and now that No-
vember is well underway that familiar
hatred of all forms of writing is making
its way around my bloodstream.
By the time you read this, I will have
finished.
Naturally, no-one on this earth is go-
ing to take a look at my novel, not just
because it contains the kind of script-
writing that makes Hollyoaks looks
wild and varied, but mainly because I
only wrote it for myself, and to be frank
it’s not fit for anyone else’s consump-
tion anyway.
However, there’s a lot of culture go-
ing on at Imperial that’s considerably
more noteworthy. This term we’ve had
some superb concerts and dramatic
performances, as well as some visually
amazing festivals. Felix’s photography
section has showcased a host of talent,
and even Felix itself occasionally un-
earths some journalistic gems (if you
haven’t been reading Politics, you’ve
been missing out).
But where’s it all going? It’s Felix
Arts’ job to cover the goings-on of the
highbrow and below all throughout
London and perhaps even beyond, but
culture starts in the home, and it’s high
time we got you, our adoring public, to
start flaunting what you’ve got.
If the large blue sign doesn’t grab
your attention, then I hope my edito-
rials are gripping enough to make you
read this one. Felix Arts wants you to
get in touch and tell us what’s going on
around Imperial. If you think it needs
covering, we’ll do the whole ‘press’
thing and before you know it you’ll all
be gurning down from the heady peaks
of Page Fourteen.
We’ve still stuffed Felix’s britches
with arty goodness this week, mind
you – some top-notch Sci-Fi gets some
love, we go all gloomy on you in Stan-
zas for Students with a healthy – or
rather, unhealthy – dose of Philip Lar-
kin. As if that wasn’t culturally edu-
cating enough, Caz Knight has got an
overview of the playwrights you need
to know about.
We’vebeendoingabitofsoul-search-
ing too, as the excellent Emily Wilson
trotted off to the Tate Modern to bring
her verdict on Louise Bourgeois’ exhi-
bition. Freudianists be warned.
David Paw brings us some coverage
of The Lady Of Burma, too, for those
who were beginning to despair that
art did anything for politics nowadays.
And Student Art in Focus has another
week of critical analysis for you.
Nothing, though, beats a bit of
home-grown talent, so let us know
what you’re up to and we’ll tell the rest
of the world.
I won’t see you before, so I may as
well say it now – Merry Christmas,
folks. Hell, if Sainsbury’s can do it a
month early, so can I.
Chin Guo Heng reviews the start of Dan Simmons’ science-fiction masterpiece
T
he first part of the Hype-
rion Cantos and winner
of the Hugo Award, Hy-
perion is a must read for
fans of science fiction and
space opera. Epically written in an im-
mensely imaginative backdrop, Dan
Simmons’ book is a compelling read.
Hyperion takes place in the far fu-
ture where Earth as we know belongs
in the history books and mankind had
spread across the galaxy, colonising
planets. An interstellar government
called ‘Hegemony of Man’ rules the
galaxy and the colony planets. Hype-
rion begins with the Hegemony on the
brink of war with the Ousters, a group
of separatist transhumanists who roam
around the borders of the Hegemony
Web Worlds.
As the galactic war looms, seven
pilgrims set out on a journey to the
mysterious time tombs on the planet
Hyperion to uncover the secrets of the
universe. And to meet the Shrike; a
godlike killing machine with the ability
to bend the laws of physics.
The pilgrims are warned that amidst
them, lies an Ouster agent.
On top of the tension between the
Human Hegemony and the Ousters,
the Technocore Artificial Intelligenc-
es are plotting mysterious schemes
not known to the Hegemony and the
Ousters.
Using frame narrative, the novel
consists of a main story; the pilgrim’s
journey and seven segments where the
pilgrims each take turn every night to
recount their tale and events that cul-
minated in their participation in the
voyage. Each of their story introduces
new and startling insight into the
events, politics, worlds, and the tech-
nologies in the far future universe Dan
Simmons has brilliantly envisioned.
Each tale also serves as very personal
account into the pilgrim’s character
and thought. The pilgrims truly wore
their heart on their sleeves as they re-
told their experiences. At the end of
each pilgrim’s tale, your perception of
them will be altered significantly – a
testament to Simmons’ writing.
The tales are infused with plenty of
discoveries and suspense to keep one
reading on. The best part is of course
the revelations and puzzle pieces fit-
ting together at the end of each ac-
count which makes the reader eager to
get through with the story.
The group of pilgrims are made up
of a priest with a heavy burden, a foul-
mouthed poet who never ceases to
speak out his mind, a scholar and his
infant, a private detective, a Hegemony
FORCE colonel, a Templar priest and a
Hegemony consul.
Dan Simmons created a myriad of
technological wonders. In the World
Web,everyoneisconnectedtoavastin-
formation plane called the data sphere
via devices called comlog. Spaceships
use a technology with a reference to a
well-known physicist in our time. And
the farcaster portal which allows in-
stant translation from world to world
in the Web became the cornerstone
of the Hegemony civilization. Some of
these technologies are run by the Tech-
nocore and its concepts are unknown
to humans. These technologies do not
prove to be all good as humankind had
to pay a price for they dependency on
the Technocore.
Hyperion gives us a look at out atti-
tude towards development and its ef-
fects on the natural state of the world in
one of the character’s tale about a para-
dise world ravaged by development.
Besides all the science fiction, there
is humour here and there, mostly com-
ing from the very expressive poet.
Dan Simmons drew inspiration from
the 18th century English Romantic
poet, John Keats and his epic poem
‘Hyperion’, although Keat’s influence
become more prominent in the sequel
to Hyperion, The Fall of Hyperion.
Hyperion has been hailed as a land-
mark work of science fiction in the 90’s
and it sure does lives up to its reputa-
tion. It would appeal to fans of science
fiction and high fantasy. It is a good
read and an appealing dive into a fu-
ture where man has traversed the gal-
axy and technological advances revo-
lutionized the way we live.
Author Dan Simmons, doing a photoshoot for the Littlewoods Winter Catalogue. Looking good, Dan.
Hyperion is available now and
has been for a few years
Arts needs you!
Felix Arts is looking to regularly cover
performances, exhibitions, concerts and
more held by Imperial societies – but we
need you to keep us updated! Intermail us
at arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk.
Michael Cook
Arts Editor

