14 felix Friday 23 November 2007
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
The Lady of Burma by the Riverside
The world media may have forgotten Burma, but David Paw sees for himself that the people have not
W
e are in a tiny audi-
torium in Hammer-
smith’s Riverside
Studios, crammed
into matte plastic
seats, knees squashed and rubbing
shoulders with our neighbours. The
seats keep filling up as a stream of
young professionals and their erudite
older kin flow quietly up the aisles and
into the seats. There are a lot of Bur-
mese too – unexpectedly, many are
from the younger generation. During
these uncertain times, the Diaspora
congregates in quiet, intimate spaces,
far away from the intently listening
ears of the junta and their informers.
But this is not Rangoon. Old habits die
hard, as they say.
When the lights go down, the sound
of crickets emanates from the tinny
speakers and the lone figure of the
lady steps to the fore before a modest
background depicting the interior of a
prison cell – presumably the notorious
penitentiary in Insein, on the outskirts
of Rangoon. The lady is, of course, Daw
Aung San Suu Kyi – Nobel Peace Lau-
reate and daughter of Burma’s revolu-
tionary Bogyoke Aung San, hailed as a
female equivalent of Nelson Mandela
by some, and universally revered by all
in her impoverished nation.
Unless you have been living in a cave
for the past few months, you will have
seen the so-called “Saffron Revolution”
splashed across the mainstream media
in reference to the fuel-price hikes and
the ensuing chaos that ensued when
the people, led by their charismatic
Buddhist monk leaders, protested
peacefully for their rights. Shots were
fired as the military junta rolled out its
weapons in another clampdown echo-
ing the relentless massacre of 1988.
During the space of the 20th century,
Burma went from being the region’s
breadbasket to its basket case, chaf-
ing under the British and thrown into
a bizarre timewarp under the current
military regime. Burma has one of the
highest literacy rates in the region, and
is blessed with bountiful natural re-
sources, but the regime’s mismanage-
ment of its economy, infrastructure
and natural resources have left it lan-
guishing so far in terms of development
that only Ethiopia is on a par with it in
its semi-unique title of LLDC (least
economically developed country).
Hardship upon hardship piled upon
the Burmese and corruption infiltrated
every aspect of everyday life, from its
bloated generals to schoolchildren.
Then came the 8th of August 1988,
and nothing was quite the same after
that. The only glimmer of hope was
Suu Kyi, the daughter of Aung San, the
man who had liberated the country
from British rule earlier in the century
(he was swiftly assassinated along with
his cabinet and replaced by a socialist
regime). Entering politics for a demo-
cratic Burma, she founded the Na-
tional League for Democracy (NLD)
in 1988, winning a landslide election in
1990. The regime was quick to annul
the result and continue her house ar-
rest. Since 1989, she has spent over 10
years under house arrest. Her Rangoon
house is overgrown and fenced off and
passers-by have almost no chance of
seeing the interior of the house, let
alone the lady herself.
All of this is chronicled in The Lady
of Burma, tracing Suu Kyi’s memo-
ries from childhood and the scattered
memories of her parents, her rose-
tinted recollections of Oxford at St
Hugh’s and her coincidental return to
Rangoon in 1988 to attend to her dy-
ing mother and the accounts of the
violence that ensued. Almost sooth-
ing, catatonic but always with supreme
control, actress Liana Gould mimics
the lady perfectly, from her gentle, in-
tent stare down to her clipped accent.
Suu Kyi’s personal memories are the
more interesting – the world knows so
little other than the public figure and
symbol of hope and quiet determina-
tion she has come to represent – and
serve as respite from the production’s
harrowing, jarring reimaginations
of violent standoffs, intense political
struggle and the almost regular reports
of close ones being killed or placed
in forced labour camps. Between her
personal identity and her political one,
there is little to separate them, and the
connection is reinforced and reempha-
sised throughout.
At an hour and fifteen minutes, it
is relatively brief but with Gould the
sole cast member, it manages to pack
a lot in. She runs the gamut of emo-
tions, highlighting the impressive di-
rection and writing, and inhabits the
bodies and minds of a whole host of
characters. Her impersonation of nor-
mal Burmese is hilariously convincing.
Somehow she makes us believe, and
holds our attention through the entire
hour, never waning or losing our inter-
est. Her tender impersonations of a
mother absent from the adolescence
and eventual adulthood of her sons
resonate with an earthy pathos, and so
too does her heartbreaking decision to
stay with her country when her hus-
band is diagnosed with advanced pros-
tate cancer in Britain.
The Lady of Burma is said to have
The protesting was well-covered at the time by the media, but the struggle in Burma extends far beyond this year’s more public events
made numerous Burmese audience
members shed tears, and as a tribute to
Burma’s isolated leader and the dead,
incarcerated, beaten and raped, it is a
fitting one to an extent. However, its
main purpose is, of course, education.
So few truly appreciate the scale of the
internal strife of smaller nations such
as Burma and others, and productions
such as this produced at decisive mo-
ments can increase our level of un-
derstanding and awareness. Written
before the events of this year – which
are understandably not incorporated
– The Lady of Burma also serves as a
source of income for Suu Kyi’s char-
ity of choice, Prospect Burma, offer-
ing scholarships to Burmese students
in Thailand and India. Catch it again
when it goes on tour in the spring of
2008.

