arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 23 November 2007 felix
Arts
Louise Bourgeois at Tate Modern
Emily Wilson fights off a large spider and a Crack of Doom to judge the Tate Modern’s latest offering
N
ot an artist everybody
has heard of, Louise
Bourgeois features in a
major exhibition at Tate
Modern until 20th Janu-
ary 2008. The first glimpse you get of
Louise Bourgeois’ work is the grand
sculpture, ‘Maman’, outside the build-
ing. It is a giant black spider-like crea-
ture that towers over you, harbouring
its marble eggs beneath it. It’s dark and
sinister, yet the description beside it
informs me Bourgeois compares it to
her mother. Perhaps not the most flat-
tering dedication, it makes you wonder
what to expect from Bourgeois in the
exhibition inside.
I feel obliged to mention the cur-
rent installation in the Turbine Hall
– ‘Shibboleth’ by Doris Salcedo. Tate
Modern is littered with signs that say
“warning: please watch your step”, and
for good reason. Not so much a sculp-
ture, ‘Shibboleth’ is a long crack in the
concrete floor that runs from the en-
trance to the far wall. Looking upwards
for the usual grand-scale masterpiece,
I nearly missed it. It’s unexpectedly
fun – the Turbine Hall was full of tour-
ists walking along it, arty types lower-
ing their cameras into it, and children
sticking their heads into it. I like to
imagine what the Tate curators and
executives said when Salcedo delivered
her proposal: “well, mostly I’m going
to be drilling through your floor”. The
only downside is the commentary ac-
companying it, which is the most re-
diculous thing I have ever read. I quote:
“Walking down Salcedo’s incised line...
might well prompt a broader consider-
them for a cocktail-and-stew party.
Then all came and had a good time”.
Good stuff.
The exhibition soon turns its focus to
Bourgeois’ works of sculpture. Early on
are a series of pillars made of stacked
pieces of painted wood, like miniature
skyscrapers or fish spines. One, to me,
looks like a kebab with chunks of red
meat. Perhaps this is what comes of
walking round the exhibition hungry.
Despite the shift of the focus, I still
prefer Bourgeois’ drawings in black
ink, which show off her precise tech-
nical skill. In particular there are three
‘Untitled’ pieces in room four. One is
a glass house full of child-like lollipop
bushes which I find charming. I want
to colour them in with green watercol-
our paint, then add red fruits and pink
flowers in felt tip.
Room five is the beginning of the or-
ganic, cocoon-like sculptures Louise
Bourgeois is famous for. People crowd
round them as if waiting for them to
hatch. They are not the kind of pretty
things I would want to take home with
me, but they are elegant in their dark
mystery. My favourites out of them
are the shiny ones in bronze with gold
patina, particularly ‘Untitled (Fingers)’
which remind me more of lithops. I’m
afraid the one to its right, ‘Lair’, looks
like a turd, and nothing more.
By room six the sculptures have be-
come more human, hinting at different
body parts. ‘Amoeba’, not resembling
its name at all, could either be an in-
sect’s nest or a man’s face. Reading the
label beside ‘Fillette (Sweeter Version)’
reveals that the sculpture is supposed
to be a penis and testicles, and it’s not
just my dirty mind. In fact, just about
all the sculptures are sexual in some
way. ‘Le Trani Episode’ – what a name!
- is supposed to be breasts pressed
against eachother. I’m sorry, but I’m
seeing potatoes. Then there’s a group
of four sculptures hanging from the
ceiling that are pretty much just four
vaginas. The commentary says there’s
a penis in there as well, but really all
I’m getting is cunt. As you progress
round, the sculptures become increas-
ingly grand, in marble and gold, but the
subject matter is still raw and sexual.
‘Mamelles’ is a wall of big, bulging pink
breasts with angry nipples. ‘Sleep II’ is
apparently a contrast between the sub-
ject (a soft, floppy penis) and the hard
marble it is made of. You have to marvel
at art as a profession. In what other ca-
reer can you wake up and think “today
I am going to make a massive marble
foreskin, and everybody will love it”.
In room eight the scale shifts to BIG.
A series of metal cages surrounding
found objects like a chairs and glass
bubbles. The huge cells of wood and
metal are a delight to walk around –
you can peek through the gaps in the
walls, never knowing what you’re go-
ing to see next. From clothes to furni-
ture to blood red entertwined hands
made of wax. Another spider, twinned
with the one outdoors, nearly touches
the ceiling. Despite its size, the thin
spindly legs make it appear delicate
and graceful.
The final room rounds up the ex-
hibition with a series of glass cases
like cabinets of curiosities. Inside are
smaller renditions of works I’ve seen as
I’ve walked round the gallery. Dress re-
hearsal art. They make you realise how
much time and thought have gone into
Bourgeois’ art, and how much of her
95 (and counting!) year-long life she
has dedicated to it.
While Louise Bourgeois’ work is not
my favourite kind of modern art, I still
enjoyed the exhibition immensely. The
art is beautiful in its own sinister way,
and I liked Bourgeois for the person-
ality she exudes through her painting
and sculpture, and for her shamelessly
daring subject matter.
The visit will be well worth your £8
student-rate ticket, especially since en-
trance to the Tate Modern itself is free
to all.
Maman, the giant spider, leers down on prospective visitors as they approach the exhibition at the main Tate building. The eggs are particularly ‘eww’-evoking
ation of power’s divisive operations as
encoded in the brutal narratives of co-
lonialism, their unhappy aftermaths in
postcolonial nations, and in the stand-
off between rich and poor, northern
and southern hemispheres”. Oh really?
Well, I largely considered how many
people had dropped valuables down it
so far.
Against the expectations set up by
the giant spider, the Louise Bourgeois
exhibition starts off small. The first
room is a series of neat, manageable
paintings. ‘Fallen Woman’, which re-
fers both to the shame brought upon
women who have sex outside of mar-
riage, and also alludes to Bourgeois’
fears of failing, is touching. You imme-
diately identify with Bourgeois in that
she gives the impression of being a real
person with real insecurities. Also in
room one, her ‘Femme Maison’ tackles
the female identity. A play on the title
meaning both housewife and “woman
house”, the paintings are of houses
with waving arms and knobbly knees.
They’re dark and gloomy, but with a
sense of humour. A further insight into
Bourgeois’ motivation is ‘Cell (Choisy)’,
which is a scale model of her childhood
home inside a metal cage and relay’s
the artist’s traumatic childhood.
The works in the next room are
also of a smaller scale. The series of
text and ink works entitled ‘He Disap-
peared into Complete Silence’ is hor-
rendously sinister, but comical with it.
My favourite parable reads: “Once a
man was angry at his wife, he cut her in
small pieces, made a stew of her. Then
he telephoned to his friends and asked

