arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 23 November 2007 felix
Arts
A Bedou-winner at the Barbican
James Copley gives us his take on the Bedouin Jerry Can Band, and on the quality of toilet experience there
L
ocated a short walk from
Old Street tube station, St.
Luke’s is an 18th century
church, designed by the cel-
ebrated baroque architect
Nicholas Hawksmoor. After a con-
version which seems to have largely
consisted of adding swirling chrome
staircases and coloured blinds, it has
played host to a collection of musi-
cians including Aled Jones and PJ Har-
vey. After arriving early, a thoroughly
pleasant half hour was spent in the
church’s café, located beneath the main
hall in the crypt. Despite the predict-
ably inflated prices which plague these
supposedly high-brow events, the time
flew by sipping coffee and discussing
the minutiae, my journey and reasons
for being there with some amiable pen-
sioners from Kent. It also gave me the
bizarrely memorable experience of uri-
nating next to a robed man wielding an
ammunition case.
Tonight we were treated to the grand
finaleoftheBarbican’sRamadanNights
– a series of concerts taking place
throughout the Islamic festival. Two
groups from vastly different Islamic
cultures descended upon this venue
usually steeped in Christian tradition.
Opening proceedings were Gaza native
Moneim Adwah and his group Rouh
Waheda, making their first appearance
on these shores. Consisting of Adwah
on vocals and oud, Sayed Ghoneimy
Shaban on kawala and percussionist
Mando Al-Sowerki, they performed
forty minutes of Adwah’s own brand
of traditional Palestine folk music. As
a westerner from a particularly blink-
ered town in the north of England,
I’d be lying if I said I truly understood
the music. Although the musicians
involved are obviously extremely tal-
ented, and there is quite clearly some
beauty in the largely percussive sound,
the music could be found to be slightly
impenetrable to the uneducated ear.
Doubtless the “we listen to world mu-
sic because it makes us seem cultured
– lead us, Jools Holland” brigade were
appreciating it though.
Next came the main attraction of
the evening. From the Sinai peninsula
in Egypt came the Bedouin Jerry Can
Band. Clad in the traditional jellaba
of the Bedouin people, this band of
men (and one woman) sit on stage in
a semi-circle around a (pretend) fire,
escaping the tedium of the city for the
sweeping dunes and sandstone cliffs of
the Sinai.
The group used an interesting blend
of traditional instruments, such as the
simsimiyya (a kind lyre used in the area
around Port Said), and the ney (a kind
of flute that has been around since
Ancient Egyptian times) coupled with
more recent and improvised instru-
ments, including assorted ammunition
boxes and the eponymous Jerry Can.
This juxtaposition of old and new itself
tells a story of the fight the Bedouins
have in moving forward with time, but
maintaining their ancient traditions.
The group themselves tell us that
songs and poems are now distributed
between the Bedouins not just through
word of mouth, but also through MP3’s
and mobile phone recordings.
The music, poetry and dancing that
follows is a completely encapsulating
experience: vocalists and musicians
change roles with abandon, and any
member who isn’t needed for a song
gets up and has a dance. That is with
the exception of poet Soliman Agmaan
Mohammed Agmaan, who frankly
looks slightly too old and far too wise.
The group performed songs from their
debut album, Coffee Time, so named
because of the great importance of
coffee in the culture. Fantastically for
those slightly fatigued from a rush-
hour long journey from west London,
the performance was accompanied
by a demonstration in the method of
coffee brewing traditional to the Sinai.
Although the group seemed vaguely
embarrassed by the electric heater they
were forced to use (damn those health
and safety fascists) and the fact they
had to distribute said coffee in poly-
styrene cups (damn those cost analysis
fascists), it created a wonderful aroma
throughout the airy church.
This unlikely group of Bedouins
came to be in England through the
mentorship of Zakaria Ibrahim who,
with his El Mastaba Centre, is attempt-
ing to reignite the traditional popular
music of Egypt after years of steady
Americanisation. In fact Ibrahim, a
vaguely dishevelled man of forty clad
in a scruffy jumper joined his protégés
on stage for the last two songs and a
somewhat more lengthy rant at the
crowd. Despite this, it is hard not to be
endeared to a group with such talent,
such enthusiasm, and such a passion
for caffeinated beverages. As the poet
Agmaan says: ““We make the coffee
strong to clear your mind... your mind
will become good on the second cup” –
a mantra by which to live your life.
The members of the Bedouin Jerry Can Band somehow looking cool, yet sweltering at the same time

