18 felix Friday 23 November 2007
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
Philistine’s guide to Playwrights
Arts Felix is on a mission to educate. This week Caz Knight remembers some of the world’s best writers
U
nless you are an English
literature or drama stu-
dent (does not apply at
Imperial) or take an in-
terest in those subjects
then it is not surprising that you may
not known much, if anything at all,
about some of the most prominent and
talents playwrights that have existed
and bequeathed upon us magnificent
works of art. Trying to choose a few
to write about here was a hard task
especially when there are so many and
because there can not be a definitive
“best playwright” as this is a very per-
sonal opinion. However, we can rank
playwrights (and indeed any other type
of artist) in terms of their influence,
notoriety and how their works have
been received. The playwrights below
do not convey directly my personal
favourites, as I keep remembering
ones I have forgotten. Instead I have
tried to select a few “important” ones.
Of course, the likes of Bertolt Brecht
(Marxist German playwright and the-
atrical pioneer), Anton Chekov and
Henrik Ibsen, although not included
here, have influenced the likes of Cow-
ard, Bernard Shaw and many others.
I have also mentioned nothing of the
ancient Greek playwrights who have
given us classics such as Oedipus Rex
(Sophocles), The Bacchae and Medea
(Euripides). Incidentally, Women of
Troy, also by Euripides, is starting its
season at the National Theatre at the
end of this month. For now let us go
to the medley I have chosen for this
feature.
WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE
25 April 1564 – 23 April 1616
I don’t think I could have got away
without including what some call the
Messiah of English Literature. Every-
one educated at secondary school level
in this country will have studied him
at GCSE at least. It is a shame that the
requirement to study him will often
detract from the pleasure of reading
his work.
Not only a playwright but a poet,
Shakespeare created 38 plays, 154
sonnets, 2 long narrative poems and
much else. His works have been per-
formed more than any other the world
over and one can guarantee that at any
given time there will be a Shakespeare
production going on the West End. I
think any philistine could name one of
his plays which include Othello, As You
Audrey Hepburn appears alongside Rex Harrison in the 1964 adaptation of ‘Pygmalion’ – ‘My Fair Lady’
Like It, Taming of the Shrew, The Tem-
pest and A Midsummer Night’s Dream.
George Bernard Shaw even coined the
term ‘Bardolatry” which means exces-
sive adulation of Shakespeare!
OSCAR WILDE
16 October 1854 – 30 November
1900
Winona Rider as Abigail and Daniel Day Lewis as John in the 1996 film
version of Miller’s ‘The Crucible’
Without a question the wittiest man
ever to have lived (in my humble opin-
ion), Wilde was Irish and went to Ox-
ford. Despite being married with chil-
dren, he was arrested for sodomy; a
cinematisation of his life was made in
1995 starring another great British wit
(Stephen Fry) as Wilde and Jude Law,
token eye candy, but brilliant none the
less as Wilde’s lover, Bosie. His works
include his only novel, A Picture of Do-
rian Grey and plays An Ideal Husband,
A Good Woman and The Importance
of Being Earnest all of which have been
made into delightful films. My favour-
ite way to enjoy Oscar Wilde is simply
by reading a few of his many, many
quotations: I will leave you with a few
now.
“A man can be happy with any wom-
an as long as he does not love her.”
“Anyone who lives within their means
suffers from lack of imagination.”
“Fashion is a form of ugliness so in-
tolerable that we have to alter it every
six months.”
GEORGE BERNARD SHAW
26 July 1856 – 2 November 1950
Another Irish playwright who was also
a keen political activist, his 60 plays
are predominantly comical but with
earnest underlying messages. Among
his political plights were the equal
rights for men and women, alleviat-
ing the abuse on the working classes
and Fabianism. He started the Fabian
society (a British intellectual socialist
society), which endeavoured to further
such causes and also founded LSE with
money left from the society. In terms of
his plays, much inspiration was drawn
from Norwegian playwright, Henrik
Ibsen who pioneered modern realistic
drama. This was a sharp contrast to the
frothy, sentimental drama which the
London stage had seen in preceding
years. Probably one of his more famous
works is Pygmalion which was made
into a musical (My Fair Lady) starring
Rex Harrison and Audrey Hepburn.
ROBERT CEDRIC SHERRIFF 6
June 1896 – 13 November 1975
I chose R.C. Sherriff for the sole reason
that he wrote my favourite play of all
time: Journey’s End. I know it inside
out having studied it at GCSE, but that
did not perturb my enthusiasm! The
play ran recently in the West End for
some time and received huge praise.
Sherriff was educated at New Col-
lege, Oxford and served in WW1 and
was wounded at Passchendaele, near
Ypres. It was on his experiences in the
war which formed the basis for Jour-
ney’s End. The play is highly emotive
and encompasses both the horrific,
brutal reality of war as well as explor-
ing the friendships which form during
the ordeal. Laurence Olivier appeared
in the first production of the play in
1928, taking on the lead role of Stan-
hope, the borderline alcoholic officer
who is made uneasy upon the arrival
of a younger boy from his old school.
Sherriff wrote the screenplay for movie
Goodbye Mr. Chips, adapted from the
novel by James Hilton.
SIR NOEL COWARD
16 December 1899 – 26 March
1973
Noel Coward seems to be a jack-of-all-
trades. Not only was he a playwright,
but he wrote and released hit singles,
won an Academy Award for his acting
abilities and has a theatre named after
him in St Martin’s Lane. The theatre’s
name was changed from The Albery
to The Noel Coward Theatre for the
premiere of Broadway hit, Avenue
Q. In Coward’s day the theatre would
have been called The New Theatre
and it was there that he made his act-
ing debut in 1920. It was not until 1924
that he was propelled to stardom for
his role in the play Vortex, which con-
tained many sexual and drug related
issues. During the war Coward sang to
the troops to boost moral. It was lucky
the Germans had not invaded Britain
as Coward was in ‘The Black Book’ for
being gay and, following an invasion,
would have been arrested and liqui-
dated (H.G. Wells was also in this book
for being a socialist).
The peak for his play writing came in
the 1940s with works such as Present
Laughter, Blithe Spirit and The Happy
“Yeah... I’m cool, I just got into Oxford!” ‘The History Boys’ follows a
class of grammar school boys as they apply to Oxbridge

