arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
Friday 23 November 2007 felix
Arts
Laurence Olivier appeared in the first production of ‘Journey’s End’ in
1928
Breed. Critics have likened his work
Waiting in the Wings to that of Russian
playwright Anton Chekov. This work
was completed in Jamaica to where
Coward moved for tax reasons. It was
here that he died, three years after re-
ceiving his knighthood.
THOMAS LANIER WILLIAMS III
26 March 1911 – 25 February 1983
Better known as Tennessee Williams,
he acquired the nickname whilst at
college on account of his father’s Ten-
nessee background and his southern
drawl. Much of his work is said to have
been inspired by his troubled fam-
ily life; at five years old he contracted
diphtheria which rendered him para-
lysed from the hips down for two years.
Encouraged by his mother, he took to
writing and making up stories. Anoth-
er blown came following the mental
health of his sister Rose, with whom he
was very close. Rose was schizophrenic
and spent most of her time in mental
institutions, as was the practice then.
Finally it was decided that she undergo
a lobotomy, a procedure which left her
incapacitated and possibly had the big-
gest influence on Tennessee, who later
suffered from alcoholism and depres-
sion. He won Pulitzer prizes for his fa-
mous works A Cat on a Hot Tin Roof
and A Street Car Named Desire. Wil-
liams finally died in 1983 after having
choked on an eye cap lid following sup-
posed drinking and prescription drug
taking.
ARTHUR MILLER 17 October 1915
– 10 February 2005
Miller was a Jewish- American play-
wright, born into Manhattan but then
banished to Brooklyn following the
Wall Street Crash of 1929 and the sub-
sequent failing of his father’s clothes
making business. He is considered
one of the greatest dramatists of the
twentieth century and gave us some
great works including The Man Who
Had All the Luck, View From A Bridge,
The Crucible (the film version starring
Illegal love – Wilde was arrested for sodomy and released from prison in 1897. Stephen Fry as Wilde and
Jude Law as his lover, Bosie
A Young and verrry Sexy Marlon Brando in the 1951 film adaptation of Tennessee Willaim’s ‘A Streetcar
Named Desire’
Winona Rider and Daniel Day-Lewis)
and Death of A Salesman for which he
is most famous (the film stars Dustin
Hoffman and John Malkovich).
His work on the Federal Theatre
Project was closed down due to its po-
tential communist affiliations (remem-
ber the Cold War still going); the witch
hunt which takes place in The Cruci-
ble is thought to be an analogy for the
similar hunt for socialists taking place
in the States at that time.
It is perhaps his marriage to Marilyn
Monroe for which he is most famous!
After a brief affair in 1951, Miller and
Monroe were married just weeks after
Miller divorced his first wife in June
1956. As per his will, there is only one
theatre in the world which shares his
name. The Arthur Miller theatre at the
University of Michigan, where Miller
received his degree in Journalism, was
built in March 2007.
ALAN BENNETT 9 May 1934
– present
Another man possessing many talents,
Bennett has written books, appeared
in films and on television and written
plays. He was educated at Exeter Col-
lege, Oxford, obtaining a First Class
History degree. During his time there
he acted alongside many other would-
be famous actors in the comedy sketch
group the Oxford Revue. (Michael Pa-
lin, Terry Jones, Rowan Atkinson and
Ken Loach have also been a part of
the group). His fame came after per-
forming at the Edinburgh film festival
in 1966. As well as narrating a very
popular version of Winnie the Pooh,
Bennett has written any plays includ-
ing Kafka’s Dick and the very famous
History Boys no doubt drawing inspi-
ration from his very own experience
of applying for Oxford. The play has
been a hit on both sides of the Atlantic
and has received awards for Best Ac-
tor (Richard Griffiths). The film ver-
sion, starring the original cast, has also
had high acclaim. As well as refusing
an Honorary Doctorate from Exeter
College, Bennett has referred to can-
cer as ‘a bore’ after undergoing treat-
ment in 2005. Bennett was made an
Honorary fellow of Exeter College in
1987 and currently resides in Camden
Town where has lived for thirty years.
When it comes to questions regard-
ing his sexuality, Bennett has likened
these questions to asking a man dying
of thirst to choose between Perrier or
Malvern mineral water. I am still strug-
gling to figure out the similarity; can
anyone shed some light on it?
Laurence Olivier as the title character in the 1944 film adaptation of
Shakespeare’s play ‘Henry V’

