film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
24 felix Friday 23 November 2007
Film
Film Editor – Alex Casey
Darjeeling: Enjoyment Unlimited
By a fifth feature, many directors begin
to detach themselves from the roots
of their filmmaking philosohpy.
They get bigger budgets, less politi-
cally active and generally very prone
to believing their own hype. Thank-
fully, one man worth the hype, Wes
Anderson, continues to know what he
does best. And do it better.
Always watchable, Anderson has
reached new levels of rewatch-
ability with a story so seemingly
simple that the appeal can appear
difficult to explain to someone
unfamiliar with the Anderson
mould. As three estranged broth-
ers reconnect on a train jour-
ney across exotic India, Adrien
Brody, Owen Wilson and Jason
Schwartzman lift the quirky sib-
lings beyond the script and into
true characters, all set against the
gorgeous backdrop that allows An-
derson the chance to explore his
cinematography skills beyond the
scope of his previous features.
The staples of his oeuvre are all still
here though, and the family of film-
makers that he has built around him
feature strongly here, especially Wilson
with whom he has worked consistently
since their debut feature, Bottle Rocket.
Jason Schwartzman returns to the fray
following his turn in Rushmore, show-
ing that maturity as an actor has seen
his talent grow, and should see him
break out to a larger audience follow-
ing smaller roles in I Heart Huckabees
and the atrocious Marie Antoinette.
Bill Murray even pops up again in a
cameo role for continuity.
Anderson and his filmic family are
nothing short of fascinating,
with an appreciation of
human
Wes Anderson welcomes us on board his Indian voyage with his latest take on the modern family unit
Movies based on video games don’t have to be crap – so why are they?
It’s been quite fashionable to buy the
movie rights to videogames for some
time now. With almost 30 such mov-
ies made in the last fifteen years and
a whopping 43 to be launched in the
next three years or so, the popularity of
VG movies among major Hollywood
studios is undeniable. However, the re-
sulting cinematic productions have al-
most invariably been thrashed by film
critics and alienated fans. Being an avid
gamer myself, I’ve wondered on many
occasions why films “inspired” from
videogames just aren’t capable of deliv-
ering on their potential – and whether
this potential is actually attainable.
Tending to the more simple issue
first, I’ll look at the latter part of the
question. It stands to reason that films
and games come from two different
mediums. Films, while absorbing ex-
periences in themselves, can hardly
become as enticing and (oh dear, here
it is) addictive as their VG counter-
parts. Given their different underlying
characteristics, an exaggerated level
of imitation between the two is likely
to produce hilarious effects, the first
person camera view used in Doom’s
big screen appearance being a perfect
example thereof. So basically, a good
adaptation would presume the writers
and directors of the films to acknowl-
edge the different materials at hand
and work from there on to recreate
and further develop the storyline and
the characters.
But seriously now, this is a no-brain-
er. The actual cause underpinning the
(few) mediocre and (many) bad VG
movies is of a financial nature, as well
as a perceptual one. The major film
studios, in their search for highly re-
warding business opportunities, have
identified this sector as an extremely
lucrative one: gamers are seemingly
unpretentious and loyal to their favour-
ite games. So instead of hiring able and
expensive directors/writers who are
capable of fulfilling the metamorphosis
of a videogame to a film, the studios go
for several “experienced” names of the
genre, whose adaptations have brought
in vast amounts of money for arguably
small investments – the likes of Paul
W.S. Anderson (Mortal Kombat, Resi-
dent Evil, Alien versus Predator) and
Uwe Boll (Alone in the Dark, Blood-
rayne, etc.) come to mind. Their recipe
for success is grounded in the idea that
sexy lead actresses and buckets of gore
and violence ensure high weekend box
office revenues. Of course, this does
not apply to VG movies only, as most
of today’s “horror” films abide by the
same principles.
Along the way, game franchises such
as Resident Evil get massacred on the
big screen, as storyline and characters
are sacrificed in order to offer the likes
of Milla Jovovich some more screen
time (nothing against that in general,
just not under these circumstances).
Perhaps a defining moment for the
genre took place when the produc-
ers of Resident Evil went for Ander-
son’s script of Resident Evil, instead of
choosing the more game-faithful ver-
sion of a milestone figure in the busi-
ness of the undead, George Romero.
Consequently, the films have come to
appeal mostly to those people who are
satisfied by the genre of action/horror
films, and not to the fans “for” whom
they were made.
On the other hand, even faithful ad-
aptations don’t ensure a quality film –
mainly because successfully adapting a
videogame to the big screen is far more
difficult than it seems. It’s no secret
that many games lack substance, so the
scripts resulting from them are pretty
slim – which poses a serious problem
for a ninety minute movie. This is
where the quality of a good screenwrit-
er would come in handy and – surely
– a good collaboration with the game
producers (who themselves some-
times forget about their buyers and get
swayed by percentages) wouldn’t harm
anyone either.
In the end though, game fans aren’t
looking for The Seventh Seal when
watching these adaptations. A cool,
mind-blowing, special-effects ridden
experience might do as well, as long
as it has a decent story behind it. And
more often than not, the cornerstones
of the story are already available in
the games. Succeeding in implement-
ing the aforementioned factors would
not only satisfy and mystify gamers; it
would also let other people enjoy these
films.
So VG movies are bad because stu-
dios choose to believe that gamers
don’t expect a lot, just because they
like blowing the brains off rotting
zombies, or controlling a hot, under-
dressed female Indiana Jones around
watery caves and dusty rooftops. Why
is it so hard not look down on someone
just because they enjoy having some
fun every once in a while? Sure, not all
gamers become world renowned sci-
entists, doctors or managers, but we’re
talking about a matter of principle here.
There is no big difference between the
game industry and the film industry,
as both relish the prospect of milking
innocent fans of their (and sometimes
their relatives’) money, but at least eve-
ry now and then they offer something
worthwhile, something truly special
and genuinely life altering.
The VG movies industry on the oth-
er hand seems to have taken over the
worst of both worlds and that makes
for an extremely distasteful experi-
ence. Is it really that hard to stand up
to our gamerish expectations, or do
the film producers think it’s just not
worth bothering because the money
will come in anyway?
Stefan Carpanu
Alex Casey
Film Editor
relationships that continually crop up
in their cinematic depitction of unu-
sual family units. While Rushmore
centred on a student trying to form a
family outside his own, The Royal Ten-
enbaums took a much more direct ap-
proach to dysfunctional relations and
then The Life Aquatic with Steve Zis-
sou provided a working family, parallel
to the environment in which Anderson
has grown his own career. Darjeeling
however, whilst not succumbing to
the mundane norm,
does at least con-
tain horizons of
identification
that make the
brothers in-
finitely more
human, push-
ing it beyond
even the immense
enjoyability of his
aforementioned
previous
features.
Also stepping back on board with
Darjeeling is Randall Poster, the stal-
wart music supervisor, the man who
scored The Life Aquatic almost en-
tirely with a Portuguese folk transla-
tion of David Bowie’s greatest hits.
Soundtracks are a defining part of
the Anderson experience
and the sounds of
the Kinks in-
terspersed
with the
old scores
of Satya-
jit Ray’s
films, not
to mention the hilarious uses of Peter
Sarstedt’s Where Do You Go To (My
Lovely), are a true delight here. Re-
gardless of whether the direction re-
quires it, Poster’s scoring anchors each
moment and emotion perfectly.
Darjeeling never fails to set the per-
fect scene; whether in a Parisian hotel
as is the setting of the opening accom-
paniment piece, the short film Hotel
Chevalier, or in the heart of India,
Anderson projects an insight beyond
most filmmakers. His attention to de-
tail and reflection on the more uncon-
ventional aspects of humanity make
him endearing, whether he is creating
losers, winners, has-beens or will-bes.
For the uninitiated, I beseech you to
give this a try. Whilst by no means an
auteur in an individual right, Ander-
son has his personal stamp all over
this film. If ever a cinema term
needed to be redefined here, The
Darjeeling Limited would be the
ultimate family film.
The Darjeeling Limited ★★★★★
Director: Wes Anderson
Writers: Wes Anderson,
Jason Schwartzman
Cast: Adrien Brody,
Owen Wilson,
Jason Schwartzman
Born to be
wild. And
fun
Having a go at my overly airbrushed face and CG eyes, eh?
Let’s pray for these stangers in the background to leave our house

