film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
25
Friday 23 November 2007 felix
Film
But like Hayden Panettiere alone at
a nightclub, the rapists soon turned
up. First there were the competition-
hungry bastards at Dreamworks. Then
the slightly pitiful attempts by 20th
Century Fox. Then dead silence, be-
cause the film-going audiences were so
appalled at what was being produced
– and I don’t care if you thought the
Ice Age squirrel thing was funny; you’re
wrong – that no-one could be both-
ered to work out what generic settings
hadn’t been done already. Cartoon for-
est. Cartoon garden. Cartoon toybox.
That’s enough to fill the coffers for a
little longer.
Thank goodness, then, for Beowulf,
which brings CGI slap bang into the
modern market (naturally, I discard
anything Squaresoft did as pissing into
the wind). If Felix has already covered
the film, then you’ll know it’s a rage fest
of the disembodied voice of Ray Win-
stone beating the shit out of stuff, and
Angelina Jolie getting naked. If they
haven’t covered the film, then frankly
you probably know all you need to to
make you go and see it.
Naturally, the move to computer
graphics is a big one for a studio whose
largest decision generally is where to
get rid of the leftover millions of dol-
lars each film seems to leave cluttering
up the offices, but looking at all of the
fancy graphics, lovely trailers and com-
pletely semi-legal clips from it, this
horrible realisation dawns on you that
they’ve not so much set out to make a
CGI film as they have just put CGI in
wherever they couldn’t be bothered to
do it with real people. Which just hap-
pens to be everywhere.
I mean, Angelina Jolie’s character
looks like Angelina Jolie. Ray Win-
stone, admittedly, looks considerably
more do-able than he does normally,
but that’s not really a good reason to
start doing everything up in 3DSMax
now, is it? It’s a little disconcerting, be-
cause it’s beginning to make me think
that maybe Dreamworks had it right all
along, and that derivative cartoon fan-
tasy lands might be the safe option. Af-
ter all, rehashing Looney Tunes isn’t so
bad, because that was actually good in
the first place. As it is, I’m stuck staring
at Angeline with a tail, while the most
repulsive Cockney of all time gets na-
ked on screen.
Christ. Bring back the squirrel.
Angry Geek
Alex Casey
“I don’t care if
you thought the
Ice Age squirrel
thing was funny;
you’re wrong”
Hubris or not hubris, Beowulf asks
With controversy flying at murmurs of
plot tampering and computer graph-
ics abound in this adaptation of the
Old English classic, Beowulf is waging
a knowing war on tradition. Expecta-
tions aren’t high; yet somewhere in
this digital mesh of effects, Beowulf
launches an onslaught of innuendo and
tongue-in-cheek references that ques-
tions everything we hold sacred about
the classics.
Is it better that a film hold its hands
up at the start and say “We used com-
puters, here’s the result” than to try
and include it seamlessly leading to in-
furiated ‘serious’ filmgoers clearing the
cinema? Robert Zemeckis certainly
seems to think so, sacrilegiously replac-
ing poetry with pixels. Or so the public
outcry would seem to imply. Why are
old words not to be subjected to mod-
ern storytelling methods? Assuming
you can live with this, helped by the
knowing nods that Beowulf makes to
its unconventional rebirth, this can be
a suprisingly enjoyable film.
Hubris seems to be the order of the
day with the bounty of bosoms on
show in the early half laying the scene
for a tale of temptation that adds a hell
of a lot more sex than originally was
translated from the Old English text,
at least in the Seamus Heaney ver-
sion. The faultless hero of our poem
is now just as interested in getting his
leg over as he is in protecting the Dan-
ish kingdom of Hrothgar from the evil
Grendel and its mother. The effect of
this is a curious and intriguing mesh
the original Beowulf tale and the crea-
tion of an almost Shakespearean tragic
hero, haunted by lust, but still there is
not as much bastardising as expected.
It does seem he is in good company
though, as it seems the other men in
Middle Ages Denmark can’t keep it in
their pants for more than a few min-
utes at a time either. Anyone who has
visited Copenhagen recently probably
understands that, even though this
was 1300 years ago, this is simply due
to a lack of entertainment on offer. But
then they should still have been con-
centrating more on Grendel slaying in
those days.
The humour here is the means by
which Zemeckis assuages the crowd
of academics baying for blood. Austin
Powers-like moments near the begin-
ning, both the comic obscuring of Be-
owulf’s cock and the randy Geat trying
to get a ‘gobble’ outside the hall, work
wonders at loosening up the tough
crowd and keeping tongue placed
firmly in cheek throughout reassures
the die hard literati that this at no
point claimed to be a faithful retelling
of Britain’s oldest written work.
In order to throw some real contro-
versial films into the mix here however,
the fact is that Angelina Jolie is becom-
ing so unsexy it hurts. As a beautiful
woman with an exotic Amazonian look
about her, you’d think she might be sexy
just by being. But no, when Hollywood
requires a temptress, they get Ange on
the phone and she negotiates skin time
and begins method acting with whoev-
As the oldest piece of literature known to have originated in Britain comes back to the cinema screen, Felix
investigates whether the CGI treatment and bags of boobs are a dumbing down of the classic poem
er she’s costarring with. Demi Moore
did a similar thing whereby every role
she chose for a while revolved around
sex but they at least had the decency to
give her a different character side that
made her seem slightly naïve. Here
Jolie is supposed to be playing the
mother of the most hideous creature
on Earth, and with three kids or some-
thing on the roster you might want to
tone down the nude scenes with ex-
cessive gold body paint and tail, albeit
computer generated.
Elsewhere it’s the role of Robin
In the days where everything is cheaper with CGI, has it all gone too far?
There’s something brilliantly consist-
ent about the majority’s ability to take
something nice and just smear faeces
all over it. There’s democracy, which
was ruined the second that more than
one American got involved in it. Then
there’s free speech, a great theory made
redundant when Americans figured
out a way of mass-producing it. And
finally there was computer-generated
imagery, unceremoniously desecrated
the second Walt Disney noticed it was
making money.
I will generally watch anything as
long as it’s being projected onto a large
enough screen, and so things like the
political alignment of George Clooney
or the breast alignment of Maggie Q
aren’t really of massive importance to
me in whether I enjoy a film or not. But
as someone who almost broke down in
tears at the sight of the latest series of
Spooks, I am rather sensitive to good
things becoming awful.
Toy Story was, and still is, a fantas-
tic film. I do not mean this simply in
a landmark-in-the-industry sense, but
also in the way it wrote to every level
of the audience. The new age of CGI
wasn’t necessarily a facet of that and
it didn’t make the writers any better,
but Pixar’s team ethic as a whole was
something precious. It was something
beautiful.
Beowulf ★★★✫✫
Director: Robert Zemeckis
Writers: Neil Gaiman,
Roger Avary
Cast: Ray Winstone,
Anthony Hopkins,
Angelina Jolie
Wright Penn that steals your attention
in every scene she’s in. I refrain from
saying steals the scene, because it is her
computerised face that seems least to
resemble anything human (which she
is meant to be) rather than any extraor-
dinary talent that does it. And in case
you’re not sure what she really looks
like, you can rest assured knowing she
does not look quite so airbrushed and
facially stretched in reality.
As a poem, this is a tale of men where
women get about two pages of atten-
tion and that’s including Grendel’s
mother (Angelina). The film makes
the women’s roles pivotal which is the
means by which Beowulf himself gets
his most severe character assassina-
tion. Zemeckis seems to be implying
that after over a millennium of surviv-
ing as one of the most studied heroes in
English literature, women’s liberation
gets you. As far as its artistic merits go,
this won’t go down in the same league
as its source material. But it knows so,
and at least the CGI is honest about
what it is. If only Peter Jackson would
take note.
Woody gets his own back for all those Brokeback Mountain jokes
Another morning in the Jolie-Pitt house; The pervy period costume neighbour across the street...

