music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
26 felix Friday 23 November 2007
Music
Music Editors – Jenny Gibson and Matty Hoban
It’s Britney, you female dog
‘It’s Britney, bitch!’ Who would have
guessed way back in the late nineties at
the height of the bubblegum pop craze
that this would be the opening line of
a Britney album? No one. Then again
I don’t think anyone expected her to
still be making albums let alone be on
her kill-me-now-the-world-has-gone-
crazy 5th studio LP. It seems Brit-
ney has managed to escape the mid-
noughties slaughter of pop princesses
the same way Madonna escaped the
culling of the pop stars from whatever
pre-historic era she is from – by con-
stantly changing her image.
Everyone knows how so utterly bril-
liant Madge is at this but don’t forget
that her lesbian make-out partner,
Britney, has also undergone some
spectacular transformations. She’s
gone from slutty schoolgirl (“Baby,
One More Time”) to tight cat-suit clad
seductress (“Oops, I Did It Again”).
Then came the snake-charming,
midriff-baring dance diva who has no
objections to having her faced licked
(“I’m A Slave 4 U”) followed by a clum-
sy flight attendant willing to make out
with an obese gentleman in the toilets
after spilling a beverage on his crotch
(“In The Zone”). But the one constant
with all these personas Brit has adopt-
ed in the past, I’m sure you will agree
is that they have all oozed sex appeal.
The difference with the release of her
latest album, “Blackout”, is there is no
million dollar music video to accom-
pany the album and the media has no
qualms with portraying her as an alco-
holic, baby-dropping, divorced moth-
er-of-two. An image which doesn’t
really lend itself to the adjective ‘sexy’
unless, of course, you’re into that sort
of thing, in which case this must be like
a wet dream come true.
But that’s okay, right? I mean with all
the things going on in Brit’s life right
now and the changes she has been
through since she was “In the Zone”
you’d think she has more than enough
fodder to deliver an album with some-
thing to say. A few scores to settle (JT?
K-Fed? The media?), a couple of myths
to dispel – did kissing Madonna re-
ally mean she needed surgery on her
lips afterwards? What happened to
her underwear on the infamous night
out with the girls? – and a whole lot of
explaining to do (The haircut? where
is the real video for “Gimme More”?).
With all these experiences to draw from
[Enter pun taken straight for thelondonpaper, London Lite or Metro talking about
Britney Spears here for minimal comic effect and devaluation of our self-worth]
Matty Hoban
Music Editor
I
played at a gig last night in East
London, and it was fun even
though we played to a very
empty venue. The latter fact did
not bother me in the slightest
because I did actually have a ton of
fun, not in the sun or in your mum.
However on my way home, I had my
usual thoughts about gigs and things
and the music business in general.
Forming a band is something a lot
of people do, so it alarms me when
people in a band relish and adore the
attention they get as if they are gods
amongst men. The British music press
is probably to blame because they are
constantly idolising individuals and
visionaries and reinforcing the idea
the whole rock star ideal. Forming a
band should be about having fun and
satisfying your inner audience. The
most satisfying bands I have seen just
do what feels right to them and fuck
the rest.
The band that to me demonstrates
the fun over phallusy factor is Pave-
ment; they are perhaps the best band
that ever existed. They did not just
write songs, they played with the idea
of a song until that idea became some-
thing resembling a song. The most
challenging thing to do when you are
in a band is to actually think about
what sounds ‘right’ but then what
does ‘right’ actually mean? It is elusive
and sometimes is actually wrong. You
can actually be right by being wrong.
Anyway, I’m blathering on.
Chances are, your band is okay and
you have some songs which sound
right to you. You might even find a
small audience whose concept of right
matches up with yours or they just
think you sound like their favourite
band. Either way, you persevere with
what you are doing and you play more
gigs. Logically, the more gigs you play,
the more likely you are to acquire
more fans. Soon, you’ll have record
labels nipping at your ankles and sup-
porting Bloc Party at Wembley.
Wrong! No-one owes you anything
and the powers that be, ie. most high-
level promoters, record labels and
A&R people do not actually care about
music. They care about bums on
seats and sustainability. Myspace has
just made everything worse meaning
people wanting to become promoters
and start record labels have a footing
and can begin their exploitation. I say
exploitation because for promoters
and middlemen it is impossible for
them to make any money whatsoever
since venue hire fees are ridiculously
high and barely no-one wants to pay
money to see a band they have never
heard of. In order for promoters to
make money they cannot possibly af-
ford to pay the bands.
The only way to usurp all this
nonsense is to avoid shady looking
promoters, take more power into
your own hands and just have fun
and make music for yourselves; you’ll
stand out more from everything. Also,
if you are a London band, do not just
start gigging as much as possible; your
friends are your first fanbase; gig oc-
casionally and make it an occasion.
Britney Spears
Blackout (Jive)
★★★✩✩
Album Review
she might be just be about to deliver
the best work of her career. A body
of work some might even describe as
being a ‘classic’. Wrong. “Blackout” is
merely an update of her last album –
fun, whimsical but relentlessly imper-
sonal. In fact, Paris Hilton could have
recorded the very same album and not
had to change a thing about it.
That’s not say that it is as bad. Hon-
estly, it is probably better than anyone
expected – the super-producers re-
cruited for the project make sure she’s
up to date style-wise and that she is
never left wanting for a hypnotic beat.
This time around she does sound a
whole lot more robotic than usual and
the noticeable absence of ballads is
also a let down seeing as this is one
area she has improved on during her
career (“I’m Not A Girl”, “Everytime”).
I think I deserve a medal for this re-
view. Not because it is particularly
good (dearest reader I would never be
so presumptious), but because I just
had to listen through “Songs About
Girls”, the new album by the Black Eyed
Peas’ Will.I.Am, which is probably one
of the worst pile of bollocks albums I
have ever heard. It’s like war crimes
have been committed on my senses;
my ears and face. I feel physically ill.
It pains me to have to write such a
scathing review for a producer with
so much potential. Previous to this re-
lease, he had been slowly building up
his solo fan base with guest spots on,
amongst others, Justin Timberlake’s
“Damn Girl” as well as Talib Kweli’s
buttery smooth “Hot Thing”, both of
which have been scaling the heights of
my Last.fm for a good few weeks now.
I suppose this is why I found it such
a disappointing release – after hav-
ing demonstrated his excellent ear for
funky, hip-hoppy, take-off-your-shirt-
and-dance-in-front-of-the-mirror
tunes, he goes and releases 17 tracks
(61 minutes and 41 seconds) of ge-
neric brainless R’n’B bullshit. I really
don’t know how he thinks he can get
away with it. Who will buy it? The only
people I can conceive of liking this are
Will.I.Am
Songs About Girls (Interscope)
✩✩✩✩✩
Album Review
12-year-old love-sick girls, and people
who have given up on life entirely, both
of which are somewhat lacking in buy-
ing power. Here’s what I didn’t like:
1) It is extremely repetitive.
The same 5 seconds of music re-
peated over and over again in each and
every song. No innovation or varia-
tion for minutes at a time. If they were
particularly catchy hooks, it may be
forgivable, but they aren’t even close.
Pure filler.
2) Will.I.Am’s voice is lazy and slow.
It’s as if he just can’t be bothered. He
doesn’t want to be there, he doesn’t
care, he knows it’s bad, and he just
wants to go home and pretend it never
happened.
3) The beats are slow, uninteresting
and uninspiring.
They don’t change for entire songs!
What is the point?
4) The lyrics are absolutely devoid of
Will.I.Am or Will.I.Am.Not, that is some sort of question?
The problem is when an artist’s 5th
album sounds like a modernised and
more provocative version of her debut
it begs the question – why bother?
There are few songs worth giving a
listen. These include the Danja-pro-
duced “Gimme More” which she royal-
ly screwed up during that performance
at the MTV awards, the paparazzi-
bashing “Piece of Me”, which sees her
taking a swing at the media for, “Print-
ing pictures of her derriere in the maga-
zine” and is rumoured to be the next
single off the album. Other stand-outs
are “Hot as Ice”, which features the
dumbest chorus ever but still manages
to shine despite it, and the terrific “Toy
Soldier”. It looks like Britney messed
up the formula this time but just might
end up getting away with it.
Jemil Salami
lyricism.
You can find more insight on a box of
cornflakes. Recurring themes are: girls;
money. Yes, it’s a full stop; there are no
more! It must be said, there are some
gems in this category though, I guess
due to Will.I.Am’s poor grasp of irony,
and a failed editing process.
Some good points to provide a bit of
balance:
Um. There is a picture of him wear-
ing a very nice suit in the album art.
Oh, and the CD came in one of those
new shatter-proof cases. Pretty fancy.
Well, I think Will.I.Am himself sums
up his own album on the penultimate
track “Spending Money”, when the
line “I got nothing but money, honey!”
is repeated over and over. Really, he
couldn’t be more right: no talent, no
wit, no future – just money, honey! Oh,
and no stars.
Peter Sinclair
You can actually trace the rise and fall of the Republicans with the rise and fall of Britney; no coincidence

