games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
28 felix Friday 23 November 2007
Games
Games Editors – Azfarul Islam and Sebastian Nordgren
Azfarul “Az” Islam
Games Editor
I
know a lot of people are afraid
of writing because they think
they can’t: that’s rubbish. Have
you seen the film Ratatouille?
The motto there is “anyone can
cook”. And I think the same is true
for writing. Yeah, initially there are a
few hiccups and the people around
you may not be the most encourag-
ing bunch. But if you think you enjoy
it, then I say stick with it. You certainly
couldn’t have gone past your Personal
Statement or heck, even school, if you
couldn’t string together a sentence. So
give yourselves atleast that much and
try dabbing your hands in the literary
arts. You’ll be surprised at how creative
an outlet it can be; just like music or
drawing.
Thus, this week I’m proud to present
one of the latest additions to Felix
Games: the Reader Riposte section.
This is essentially the space for you -
the gamer, the reader and the writer
- occupations that we sincerely hope
aren’t mutually exclusive.
While the section itself elucidates
the minor details; I’m summarise it. In-
itially, we want to start it as a series of
comments on a game that is reviewed
in Felix. This not only allows us to get
a broader picture of said title, but also
lets the readers get more involved and
have their say. So, don’t worry if your
comments don’t agree with that of the
main review - your opinions are yours
to express and we wouldn’t want it any
other way.
Now, you may be wondering why
we’re reviewing Portal so late since
the Internets is already brimming with
praises and much orgasmic lyrical wax-
ing. We believe that we shouldn’t just
rush through a game just for the sake
of reviewing it. Rather, it’s about expe-
riencing the game like it was meant to
be and then expressing our thoughts in
literary form. It sounds a bit haughty,
but Felix Games is about being differ-
ent. That’s why we strive to give you
so much more. It’s not only about the
games, but about the exciting medium
of interactive, digital entertainment.
We love to explore not only the depths
but the breadth of this insane industry.
And we definitely want you to join us
for this journey.
Gairaigo returns this week with a
look at Katamari Damacy which made
a bit of a splash on the Internet a few
years back. While you may think it’s a
waste to be focusing on a old game, I
think it tells much about what makes
certain games special. Katamari
Damacy isn’t the kind of game you can
easily forget about and particularly not
when the King of All-Cosmos is such
a random, effed-up character. He of-
fers some genuine “WTF?” moments
and you’ll be surprised at how eagerly
you look forward to his next flippant
speech. Gotta love that freak.
I’d like to point out that the Christ-
mas Term is almost up. I would like
make a request for your feedback on
the section so we can kick some more
ass come Spring. E-mail your opinions
to games.felix@imperial.ac.uk.
This
Week
While true, run through
Mama, I’m scared!
Reader Riposte
All hail the Companion Cube A return to roots
Sebastian Nordgren opens a portal to another dimension, all for the sake of cake
“T
his was a triumph.
I’m making a note
here: huge success.
It’s hard to over-
state my satisfac-
tion.” Rarely has the ending of a game
so fully represented the feelings of the
player as these lines sung by the lilt-
ing, robotic voice of Portal’s antagonist
GLaDOS. What Portal really highlights
is Valve’s ability to acquire an idea and
morph it into something so much bet-
ter - in this case not Counter-Strike
or Day of Defeat, but the little-known
Narbacular Drop.
For all 12 of you who played Narb-
acular Drop, it was a clever little puz-
zle game about a princess escaping a
castle, overcoming obstacles with a
wand that could create, unsurprisingly,
portals. What Valve have done is take
a great gameplay idea and wrap it in
layer upon layer of meat (or soy bean
for the carnivorously challenged) and
created a shockingly good game. In-
stead of merely porting the concept to
the Source engine, they hired the lead
writer of Psychonauts and expended
an enormous amount of effort in cre-
ating one of the funniest games since
the late LucasArts’ adventure games.
And it works.
It works so well, in fact, that the
2-3 hour mind-bending puzzler is
one that will live on in the collective
consciousness far longer than any of
the other excellent games they pack-
aged into The Orange Box. Not only is
the gameplay excellently twisted, but
throughout the game the anonymous
protagonist is jeered on by the oddly
reassuring robotic voice of GLaDOS
(a cunning word-play on Gladys). In an
oddly backwards way, your antagonist
becomes the main character, as she
changes from a deadpan lab coordi-
nator to menacing to desperate to so
many other states of mind - all while
dropping casual off-the-cuff remarks
like “if you feel faint from thirst, feel
free to pass out” and “thank you for
helping us help you help us all”. And
in the final fight, each layer of her per-
sonality is stripped away individually,
showing how multi-faceted all of us
really are.
And while Portal’s enjoyment is
largely independent of narrative, it’s a
testament to Valve that they’ve man-
aged to weave in so much humour with
so little material. Instead of having an
all-encompassing philosophical view
of the world like BioShock with its Ayn
Randian objectivism, Portal’s narrative
is about cake because (in the words of
the lead writer) “everyone likes cake”.
Turrets plead at you to come out of hid-
ing, declaring “Nap time!” if they don’t
find you, incineration is referred to as
euthanisation and it’s all distorted by
the sort of politically correct nonsense
that permeates society today. Even
crates get their share of the attention,
with the absurdly-named Weighted
Companion Cube, emblazoned on all
6 sides with a little pink heart - good
for at least a hearty chuckle. And then
one finds pictures of the little fellow
superimposed on pictures of Marilyn
Monroe and Charlie Chaplin... In a
way, this is what Psychonauts should
have been - a hilarious game with fun
gameplay, instead of the cack-handed
platforming that ultimately made it so
frustrating.
Portalisremarkablebecauseitdoesn’t
just have one of those “why didn’t any-
one think of this” concepts behind it,
and it’s not just excellently executed
gameplay-wise, but because it does all
those things and adds in a generous
sprinkle of good old-fashioned black
humour that is completely unnecessary
for the core game. So, if you don’t own
The Orange Box yet, you really should
buy it for Portal alone. It’s a landmark
game, packing more enjoyment into 3
hours than Titanic and showcasing a
fact that us gamers have been aware
of for quite some time - that games are
superior to any other medium when
done this well.
And remember, the cake is a lie.
One level. Two Portals. And a multitude of ways to solve it Portal messes with your mind
Ah, Portal - one of the latest progenitors of a whole new series of Internet memes and a true successor to “It is delicious cake. You must eat it.”
Review

