games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
29
Friday 23 November 2007 felix
Games
“Leetsauce in game format, this pwnz all.
Pure simplicity, beautifully crafted into a magnifi-
cent entertainment package, Valve have outdone them-
selves in their creation of Portal, a game included in the Half
Life 2 Orange Box. The idea behind this game is brilliant beyond
bounds, overcoming obstacles and puzzles using mere holes in the space/
time continuum, taking leaps beyond the imagination of any other game creation that
I for one have played. If you don’t already have it, you’re a total n00b. l2game.”
- Samuel Turnouff, 2nd Year, Computing
“Portal. What can I say? A breath of fresh air to what can be deemed a stagnating FPS genre. It’s such a new
experience whacking down Portals here and there and it can take a bit to see how you solve the 3D puzzles using
this powerful new tool. Although once you get the Companion Cube rolling you’ll soon be on your way to a delicious
reward, but is the cake a lie?”
- James Finnerty, 2nd Year, Computing
“When it comes to Portal I’ve heard numerous comments saying that it’s too short. You’re damn right it’s too short! With
entertainment this good, I demand there to be more! It’s just as well, as modders will be all over this game.”
- Kris Machowski, 1st Year, Physics
“It was a game that actually required you to think about what you were doing as opposed to mindlessly shooting.”
- Adam Rutherford, 1st Year, Biology
“It’s short because the first thirteen levels are basically tutorials leaving only six actual gameplay levels left.”
- Andrew Lim, 2nd Year, Computing
“Portal’s somewhat of a milestone, showing that Valve’s policy of finding talent, encourag-
ing it and nudging it towards success pays off with awesome results.”
- Michael Cook, 2nd Year, Computing
Reader riposte: Portal to the public
W
hat really makes
gaming special for
me is how it can
bring people to-
gether for a truly
communal experience. Sessions like
these become exciting adventures that
are saturated in equal amounts of cut-
throat competition and cheering ca-
maraderie. To celebrate that spirit, I
thought it would be quite interesting
if Felix Games opened up a section
where readers from all over Imperial
College are able to offer their com-
ments - without regard for censure
- on spotlight games.
What Felix Games wants is
for you readers to be your-
selves; there’s no reason
to be all professional
or uptight. Offer your
thoughts - whether
they be serious,
cheesy, quirky or all
of the above! Or you
could just pick out
whatever made you
love and/or hate
the game in ques-
tion. Heck, you
could even write
haiku which would
be pretty damn
cool and witty at
the same time. It’s
really your canvas (if
a little limited in size,
sorry) and I want you
to draw on it.
This is a fantastic way
to get involved with both
Felix and the world of gam-
ing; you don’t have to write
lengthy reviews or feature arti-
cles. We’ll just take a few words
of your time and you can let the
world (or atleast, Imperial College
students) know about your gaming cri-
tique in aperitif form.
While this was basically a trial run;
for future submissions I’ll have to be a
little mean and ask that there be a word
limit of about 50 words. This means
that you can write absolutely anything
- say, ten to twelve words - upto a total
of fifty. I’m also sorry to say that sin-
gle word comments like “Awesome” or
“crap” or “leet” will have to be passed
on. I’m sorry but they really don’t say
much.
The best way to know what games
will be focused on is to be part of the
Felix Games mailing list. If you’re not
part of it then just hit me with an e-
mail indicating your desire
to be placed in a list
of truly distin-
guished
lu-
minaries at games.felix@imperial.
ac.uk.
Alternatively, I’ll indicate in some
form as to what titles will be appearing
in Felix Games for subsequent issues.
Hopefully we’ll be running reviews for
the likes of Super Mario Galaxy, Call
of Duty 4, Assassin’s Creed, Crysis and
Mass Effect as time goes on.
Of course, we’re always open to read-
er submissions; don’t hesitate to tel-
eport to us a copy of your
reviews for the
above,
and any other, games that you fancy.
Back to the ye olde rulebooke: I
would really appreciate it if I could get
the comments for Reader Riposte (and
another other material for that matter)
by the Monday that precedes the Friday
that Felix is published. This is so that
I can get enough time to organise the
layout properly and make sure each
article is done proper justice and isn’t
just relegated into a tiny corner with an
equally tiny picture.
So, warm up MS-Word (or,
gasp, pick up that pen)
and start jotting down
your thoughts on
the wacky and
wonderful
world of
gaming.
Now,
shoo!
Azfarul Islam thinks that you should speak up about the games that matter to you; enter Reader Riposte
Gairaigo Episode III: Katamari Damacy insanity
Gairaigo returns after an elongated
hiatus to the chagrin of many and the
sheer joy of some. This time we look at
a game that’s not necessarily the latest,
but is definitely one of the quirkiest.
Katamari Damacy
Easily one of the most bizarre games
I’ve played in a while, Katamari was
quick in establishing itself as a con-
noisseur of infantile surrealism.
It’s a game that tasks you to do some-
thing that’s an intrinsic impulse of the
curious toddler; roll any round object.
However, there’s more to it than just
playing with balls. The King of All-
Cosmos apparently got a little tipsy one
night and somehow managed to snuff
out all the stars in the galaxy. Being the
great monarch he is, it’s upto you as his
son to right his gigantic wrongs.
To that end you need to roll around
the magical katamari - a strange sphere
that has the ability to adhere any object,
within relative size, to its being. The
reason being that you need to build
up a repertoire of solid matter that the
King will fuse together into a star.
You start quite small - with a diam-
eter of a few centimetres - but as the
game wears on you quickly attain mag-
nitude and it’s not long before entire
cities become part of your omnipotent
mass. There are a myriad of items -
most totally and utterly random - that
are strewn about a level. You need to
be wary of what you pick up though.
Elongated objects will transfigure
how your Katamari rolls, fast, mo-
tive objects may knock items off your
Katamari and obviously you want to
avoid trying to pick up the ladies until
you’re a bit larger.
Yes, Katamari allows you to make
humans and other living creatures
become but a stepping stone to your
voracious desire to rebuild the heav-
Azfarul Islam
Start small, think big
Katamari is not available in the
UK, although the sequels are
ens. While this does seem to effuse
subtly Stalinistic vibes, it’s all wrapped
in a wonderfully kaleidoscopic aura of
sheer insanity.
The gameplay is strangely addicting
- there’s a certain sense of empower-
ment as you incorporate more and
more objects to your bulk. The visuals
are technically quite inadequate but
compensate with sheer personality.
Special mention must go to the incred-
ibly eclectic soundtrack: it’s one that
will make you hum the tunes a long
time after you’ve finished playing.
The logical lunacy never falters:
where else would you go about collect-
ing crabs so that you can rebuild the
Cancer constellation?
Despite there being sequels to this
game, I think the first one truly ema-
nates a truly ebullient level of charm
and iridescent joy.
Portable
Azfarul Islam
Portal gets brilliant representation as
a flash-based title that takes the FPS-
but-not-really and then scales it onto
the 2D plane. The genius still perme-
ates throughout and the puzzles are
fiendishly clever. You do need to apply
a level of forethought that’s somewhat
different from the volumetric iteration.
As a teaser to the full package, the web
edition is a tantalising tidbit.

