news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 23 November 2007 felix
News
Live! scoops award
live.cgcu.net named best student website at 2007 Guardian
Student Media Awards. Felix takes best travel writer award
Changes to the Chemistry Depart-
ment’s policy on demonstrating have
left many second year PhD students
believing that they have been unpaid
for hours worked last year.
Science departments across the
country rely on PhDs to supervise
experiments in their undergraduate
teaching laboratories. Many students
come to rely on money earned this way
to supplement their basic stipend.
However,lastyearImperial’sChemis-
try Department stopped making direct
payments to departmentally funded
PhDs for this work. The new students,
who are now in their second year, were
instead required to complete a yearly
quota of 100 hours. Existing PhDs,
who chose to do work demonstrating,
were paid directly for their time.
Following unrest from the postgrad-
uate community, the department has
now reversed this decision, and as of
October this year, all PhDs will be paid
for demonstrating at the standard rate
Andrew Turley of £11.60 per hour. A student working
100 hours would earn £1,160.
These payments however, will not
be extended to cover hours completed
last year. Some have suggested the de-
partment has squeezed the postgradu-
ate community in order to offset its
burgeoning teaching bill.
Speaking on behalf of the Chemis-
try department, Professor James Dur-
rant, Director of Postgraduate Studies,
refuted claims that second year PhDs
have been left uncompensated.
He said: “In 2006 we implemented a
scheme whereby all PhD students were
required to participate in demonstrat-
ing; in return the department contrib-
uted to the overall PhD stipend. This
change was made to distribute demon-
strating more equitably amongst the
students, which we see as a valuable
part of their training. However, the
departmental contribution made by
this route was less visible than via the
historic method of direct payment, as
it was factored into the basic stipend,
and resulted in some students feeling
that they were doing unpaid work.
“On reviewing PhD funding for
2007-2008, we decided that the mech-
anism introduced in 2006 was overall
not beneficial and so reverted to direct
payment for hours worked. This was
partly because of the damaging, but
unfounded, perception that students
were doing unpaid work, and partly to
ensure that those students who take on
demonstrating roles are in fact moti-
vated to do so.”
According to the affected students
however, the individual stipends were
not significantly increased for the
2006-2007 year. They received £14,300,
much in line with other departments
at Imperial, and elsewhere in London.
Instead the money went into the over-
all departmental contribution and was
used to fund additional studentships,
something the department informed
them of at the start of the year.
They also claim they had not been
made aware of these obligations before
arriving in 2006, despite insistence to
the contrary from the department.
The Chemistry department where some second year PhD students
have reported they felt they were doing unpaid work
PhD students left unpaid for demonstrating work?
Students voice their opinions
on Union’s bars and catering
L
ast week on Wednesday,
Union staff members along
with Deputy President (Fi-
nance & Services) Chris
Larvin held this term’s
Trading Forum. Students were invited
to air their views on the Union’s bars
and catering outlets.
The event was very successful even
though Mr Larvin admitted that he
was “sceptical” before the event about
how many students would turn up.
Around 30 people attended the Forum;
a far better turnout that last year.
The main complaints were about
the speed of service, most notably in
dB’s where some customers have been
left queuing whilst the staff watch the
panini press do its work. Similarly,
Da Vinci’s was also criticised because
queuing times have forced students
to eat elsewhere on campus. The bars
have also come under fire for providing
an “horrifically slow service.” The Un-
ion has taken note of these issues most
of which have been addressed as staff
training issues.
Other problems highlighted includ-
Tom Roberts
Editor-in-Chief
This year’s Guardian Student Media
Awards took place on Wednesday
evening at the KOKO nightclub in
Camden. Students news website Live!
(live.cgcu.net) beat four other nomi-
nees to take the best student website
award, whilst Felix’s Peter Dominiczak
took student travel writer of the year.
Live! defeated websites from Durham
University (durham21.co.uk), Sheffield
University (shefsteel.com) and two
from York University (nouse.co.uk and
theyorker.co.uk).
Live! has had an eventful year. The
website forced College’s hand into re-
vealing who the next Rector of Impe-
rial College would be, namely Sir Roy
Anderson. It helped voice the opinions
of many students who were angry with
the TfL (Transport for London) be-
cause they had been overcharged when
using their Oyster cards, resulting in
the BBC picking up on the story.
The Guardian Media Awards pan-
ellists praised Live! for its frequently
updated content, its use of video ma-
terial partly thanks to stoictv and also
because of its active interaction with
students through its message boards.
One notable article over the summer
period generated 185 replies; the posts
largely consisted of many angry Wye
students disappointed with their de-
gree results.
Live! Editor, Ashley Brown, won a
cheque for £1,000, one week of work
experience with The Guardian and
heaps of kudos. He said that he was
“delighted with the result” and that his
plans for “world domination are now
truly in motion.”
Felix lost its crown as best student
newspaper having not even been nom-
inated in the category. However, Felix
was nominated in the student travel
writer category this year and Peter Do-
miniczak took the award, along with
£500 and one week of work experience
with the Guardian.
Mr Dominiczak wrote about his trip
Left, Felix’s Peter Dominiczak who won best student travel writer and
right, Ashley Brown, the Live! Editor which won best student website
to tourist-infested Lithuania and also
his adventure in the Quantocks, Som-
erset with a man simply known as Big
Iain. Mr Dominiczak, who didn’t even
know he had been put forward for
nomination until last month when he
was contacted by The Guardian said:
“it was an excellent surprise to win,
especially since I went on to do jour-
nalism in the summer after leaving
Imperial.”
The big winner on the night this
year was York University which won
seven awards in total. York Vision took
student newspaper of the year. Heidi
Blake, editor of York’s news website
Nouse won student journalist of the
year and also student feature writer of
the year. York University completed
their haul by taking student critic of
the year as well as student reporter of
the year.
Union-sponsored Pole
Dancers/Ann Summers party
ed the number of flies in the bars as
well as the use of disposable cutlery
and plastic skiffs – the latter point was
raised by the Environmental Society
who remain concerned by the amount
of waste being disposed.
Some of the freshers who attended
the forum expressed their enjoyment
at the Freshers’ Week entertainments
which fits in with the good perform-
ances of the bars this term.
A number of students called for a
wider variety of fancy dress nights in
the Union along with foam parties,
however the latter has been ruled out
due to the damage that floors will
sustain.
One final request made was for more
drinks deals and offers, something that
Mr Larvin said he feels the Union “is
missing out on.”
The next Trading Forum, includ-
ing free food, will happen some-
time next term. If you missed
this one and want to voice your
opinions now, email Chris Larvin
on dpfs@imperial.ac.uk
S
HAG week is being over-
shadowed by student outcry
over accusations of gender
discrimination in the Union
events.
This year’s SHAG (Sexual Health
Awareness and Guidance) Week has
a number of events organised to high-
light sexual health matters, including a
debate over Government HIV policy, a
cake sale, an Ann Summers Party (for
girls only), and pole dancers.
The last two of these have drawn
criticism over the exclusion of men
from the Ann Summers party, and
the perceived sexism inherent in pole
dancing.
The Union President and Deputy
President (Education and Welfare)
have responded by consulting the
Equal Opportunities Policy, and have
issued a statement to the effect that
there is no breach of the policy, and
therefore they are pleased to allow the
event to continue.
Whilst arguments over the taste
and discrimination of such events are
necessary, SHAG week is an event
with good aims to educate and fur-
ther the agenda of sexual health, which
shouldn’t be overshadowed by such
debates.
For more information on SHAG
week and also for sexual health
advice, turn to the page 11

