ogised to a local child for not offering
any money the child responded with
“sorry don’t help me.” The other reason
is that many of these sellers will mas-
sively overcharge you for their goods,
simply because you are a tourist and
to them you like a big walking dollar
sign. In Morocco, the local market stall
workers have learned an extremely use-
ful English phrase. When you’re hag-
gling over an item fiercely, absolutely
convinced that the salesman is trying
to fleece you and accusing them of that
very crime, they’ll whip this classic out
of the bag: “Why are you so paranoid?”
You think, “Why am I being so para-
noid; I’m on holiday!” you settle for
the price and that’s when they’ve really
fleeced you. There are few things more
annoying than thinking someone has
got the better of you and is laughing at
you behind your back because of it.
The lesson here is that the discern-
ing tourist must use his judgement to
decide when and to what extent it is
appropriate to haggle and accept that
sometimes you will be unwittingly ex-
ploiting poor people or playing into
unscrupulous vendors’ hands. Life’s
tough like that.
as ‘Strachan Mackenzie’ and the poor
local vendor as ‘Tiny Tim.’ These are
just arbitrary names that I got from
a random word generator. Now, rich
Mr. Mackenzie wants to get a flavour
of the local culture by driving down
the price of the handicraft he wants
to buy. It’s a simple wooden sculpture,
depicting an emperor from the coun-
try’s ancient heyday in a humorously
erotic situation. Strachan Mackenzie
just happens to enjoy erotic woodwork
and has amassed a large collection in
his stately home. In his own currency
the amount that Mackenzie is haggling
over is about 20p.
Tiny Tim is just 11 years old. His
mother runs the stall, normally, but has
been taken ill with a condition that has
all the hallmarks of a nasty infectious
disease, which is often fatal in this part
of the world. When Tim isn’t helping
his mother in the market he generally
works an 18hr day, with breaks to run
to the nearest well (a mere ten miles
away) to acquire water for himself, his
mother and his nine younger siblings.
Tim has never been to school and has
only a rudimentary idea of numeracy.
The 20p that is the centre of the pro-
tracted negotiations could make the
difference between affording a ride to
a local hospital to see if anything can
be done about his mother’s worsen-
ing state. His pride prevents him from
revealing this fact to tourist in front of
him though.
While the intolerably hot, fictional
sun bears down on them, Mr. Macken-
zie refuses to back down so the desper-
ate Tim must accede, since he cannot
turn down the sale. Even the tiny profit
made will help to an extent. Strachan
holds his prize up against the sunlight
and laughs again at its sexual overtones
before using the wooden figure’s man-
hood to perform a lewd action on his
wife, who is not amused. This desecra-
tion of his culture’s most revered his-
toric figure is the final insult for Tim,
who breaks down into tears. The salty
tears run down his face and drip on
to the earthen floor and are trampled
underfoot by Strachan Mackenzie’s ex-
pensive Gore-Tex hiking boots.
Yes, this was a protracted way of
saying that sometimes when you hag-
gle over amounts of money that seem
small to you, in order to ‘experience
the local culture,’ you should realize
these values could be small fortunes to
locals.
There are flipsides to this. That is to
say, there are arguments for haggling
in many situations. Local merchants
are the undisputed kings of emotional
blackmail. They’re even better at it
than mothers. I have heard people in
markets use the difference in value
of money between countries as a way
to convince tourists into settling for
a higher price. A friend who visited
Cambodia told me that when he apol-
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
Travel Editors – Ahran Arnold and Nadine Richards
The ancient art of haggling
“Let us never negotiate out of fear, but let us never fear to negotiate.” The wise words
of former US President John F Kennedy. He probably wasn’t talking about price
negotiations, or ‘haggling’ as it is known, but his words still ring true for tourists
Ahran Arnold
Travel Editor
As this is the travel section, the thought
struckmethatperhapsweshouldn’tjust
be talking about different parts of the
world we’ve visited. Perhaps this page
can offer practical and moral guidance
to travelling people (not in the gypsy
sense, of course). This, in turn, led me
to think of the issues that face travel-
lers as they delve into the unknown
regions. The constant threat of theft,
insulting foreign cultures, personal in-
jury, getting lost and being murdered
are all issues that are worth discussing
and are of considerable importance to
the wary wanderer. There is one par-
ticular topic that I feel warrants special
concern this week; many intrepid holi-
daymakers feel a compulsion to dabble
in the curious art of haggling.
Haggling is not a ubiquitous phe-
nomenon. In Japan, for example, hag-
gling is usually just a matter of asking
for a discount once and then being
declined or accepted. Haggling in
western, developed nations can per-
meate many types of purchases but is
usually confined to markets. In many
countries however, especially in North
Africa and South East Asia, haggling is
a huge part of day-to-day life for locals
and tourists alike.
So negotiating a price is not uni-
versal but it is certainly widespread
enough that you’re more than likely to
come across it at some point. But the
question is: just because you can hag-
gle, should you? I’m not talking about
locals haggling with other locals for
goods. This is clearly beyond reproach;
it is a part of their culture and helps to
ensure fair prices for both vendor and
seller, sustaining the local economy.
What I’m referring can be best ap-
preciated with the following example.
I’m sure many of you have witnessed
scenes like this before.
Relatively wealthy tourist, from de-
veloped, affluent nation with strong
currency in an impoverished third
world country haggles with a poor local
vendor in a market. Without throwing
any bias or prejudice into this exam-
ple, let us refer to the wealthy tourist
“No, you’ve got to haggle” Monty Python send up the idea of haggling
in ‘The Life Of Brian’
“You think, ‘Why
am I being so
paranoid? I’m
on holiday!’ You
settle for the
price and that’s
when they’ve
really fleeced
you.”
“Jesus wept”, and “Emily Hoxworth-
Howard stared longingly out of the bay
window onto the harsh and unforgiving
wild moor knowing one day she would
find that secret garden and frolic in the
morning dew”, are well known as the
two shortest sentences in the bible; this
week however I am going to talk about
Edmonton, in North East London.
I happened upon Edmonton by ne-
cessity and initially believed that I had
inadvertently uncovered the remnants
of a previously unreported nuclear
holocaust as dishevelled individuals
drifted about town, plastic bags stuffed
into their pockets like sweets. It is sur-
prising indeed how many busses are
happy to take you to the area, given
the fact that every driver is mugged on
average six times a day when driving
through.
Arriving in Edmonton you may be
lucky enough to catch a glimpse of the
fabled Edmonton Seagull which prays
on the weak and infirm in the vicin-
ity, carrying them off to the nearby
rubbish dump so that they may be ex-
changed for fish and suchlike by the lo-
cal council.
The MP for Edmonton is Andy Love
(Labour), who ironically is notoriously
never in love. He did however oversee
the building of the new shopping com-
plex in Edmonton Green which, I must
admit, was a good idea in that the re-
moval of asbestos from children’s lolly
sticks in the 1970s was a good idea. In
order for you to truly understand the
monstrosity that was the old Edmon-
ton Green shopping complex you have
to try to imagine what might happen
if Jade Goody was given a vat of con-
crete and a set of instructions in Hindi,
then left for an hour to construct as
she pleased. As one walked into the
old shopping mall, the overwhelming
sense of foreboding that would envel-
op you would be powerful enough to
cause you to panic and decide to buy
an ill thought out bomber jacket. This
would be a decision you would regret
later in the day as you were held at
gunpoint by the shop owner who had
previously sold you the coat.
Moving away from the centre of
Edmonton, it is conceivable that one
might decide to visit the Lee Valley
Leisure Complex. This dear reader
would be a mistake. Never before has
the thought of visiting any one of 12
cinema screens in one building sound-
ed so unappealing. Firstly, the greatest
mathematicians in the UK have not yet
calculated a route to the complex that
doesn’t involve getting lost 7 times, 4
of which end up with your car wedged
into the surrounding low-lying marsh-
land. Once there, you are allowed to
park a minimum of 2 miles away and
must walk the rest of the distance. In
the cinema itself, once the film has
finished, it is customary to leave your
footwear behind as it will be well and
truly stuck to the floor by indistin-
guishable sticky substances.
Edmonton, in summary, is enough to
make Jesus weep.
Travels
without
my aunt:
Part 3
Theo Georgiou-Delisle
Haggling in action. These guys are the experts: if they see tourists they know it’s payday
34 felix Friday 23 November 2007

