35
felix
Friday 23 November 2007
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk Sport
RSM Hockey victorious
Last Sunday saw the RSM mixed team
recapture the magic after a slow start
to the season, beating the Strollers 5-4.
With the wind howling and the Stroll-
ers putting away a cracking goal to the
amazement of first time keeper Borja
(after being told there wouldn’t be any
air shots to save by a certain Sharky)
it looked to be a gloomy afternoon. It
took another goal from the Strollers to
get veteran Mikey P into gear to start
the amazing comeback the team was
about to pull off. With a beauty from
Timmay (aka sharky junior) and an un-
expected tap into the back of the goal
by novice Aaaaaadam Baldwin before
half time, the underdogs were in high
spirits despite the lung burn, stitch and
other signs of poor fitness displayed
by some of the members following the
usual chaos of a Saturday night.
Strollers came back strong as the
RSM got carried away with the score
line being in our favour so early on in
Charlotte Atteck
Hockey
RSM Mixed XI 5
Strollers Mixed XI 4
the game (lets face it doesn’t happen
too often) and let a goal through de-
spite the fine efforts of the defence who
had a smashing game. Fresher Dave
soon retaliated and earned a nomina-
tion for champagne moment with an
absolute beauty from the top of the D
to put us back in the game. Slushy man
Steve gave it all he had in an attempt
to loose his scoring virginity but it just
wasn’t to be... No matter, it will happen
one day and it will be exquisite.
It was my privilege to round up the
match with the worst, most flukiest
goal known to man giving the RSM
mixed team their first win of the sea-
son. Man of the match had to be given
to Aaaaaadam Baldwin for his brave
performance in both defence and up
front, Gilly managed to secure cham-
pagne moment for her constant gig-
gling and almost giving away a long
corner in the first play of the game
and slushy Stevie got TFC for not be-
ing able to follow through and get the
ball in the goal although his efforts in
the pub after could not be faulted in
the least.
All in all a fantastic game, thanks to
Susie for her continuing contribution
and excellent skippering of the team
and to everyone who showed up to
play it was a pleasure as always.
The IC 1st Netball team are on a
roll this season having not lost a sin-
gle game in both ULU and BUSA. The
29/10/07 saw the ladies in blue facing
King’s Medic’s 3rds at home in Ethos.
Imperial dominated the whole first
half, however with the score at half
time being 36 – 6, King’s Medicals de-
cided not to continue the match due
to ‘dodgy’ umpiring. Obviously losing
gracefully is not a Medic trait.
The next BUSA game saw us all the
way out at Teddington to play the
University of Hertfordshire 2nd team
thanks to yet another cock up by Hol-
land Park. (I’d like to thank Luke Taylor
for driving us like a lunatic in a bright
yellow minibus all the way there before
legging it over to Harlington for his
match. We love you Luke!). With us
lending the medics our second umpire
(a thank-you would be nice btw) we
had Jess Marley’s mum stand in, de-
spite driving from Cardiff that morn-
ing to come and watch. The game was
like our previous BUSA encounters,
IC dominating from the start. Despite
the other team being very worthy op-
ponents, their shooting and passing
accuracy let them down and IC had
another convincing win, 51-16, Man
of the Match went to Sara Willis, IC
player went to Rachel Dilley and Twat
of the match went to Jess Marley for
running round the Union like a muppit
trying to sort out courts and umpires,
and for telling everyone not to say the
umpire was her mum but then shout-
ing “mum” when pulled up in the mid-
dle of the match.
Next we were off to beautiful Staines
on Monday the 5th of November to
play Royal Holloway 2nds. Being dis-
tracted by the beautiful fireworks and
the thought of fish and chips from the
chippy on the way back to the station,
the IC girls managed a win, although
less than convincing, 39-26. Man of
the match went to Jen Lang and Twat
of the Match went to Kate Chapman
for just being as dizzy as a blonde in a
beauty shop.
On the train to Luton with a hung-
over team we were off to challenge
the University of Bedfordshire 1st.
The game was challenging and the IC
girls were a little worried after watch-
ing their professional warm-up, whist
standing on the sideline gossiping
about the night before. The IC girls
however came through in the end
showing it’s not all about wanting to
win; it’s more about wanting to get to
the pub ASAP, with a 67-35 win. Well
Netball
Imperial 1sts 36
King’s Medicals 3rd 3
Netball
Imperial 1sts 51
Hertfordshire 3rd 16
Netball
Royal Holloway 2nd 26
Imperial 1sts 39
Netball
Bedfordshire 1sts 35
Imperial 1sts 67
Netball
UCL 3rd 14
Imperial 1sts 52
Sara Willis done guys, knew we were all feeling
rough! After the game we went to their
sponsors pub and polished off 4 pitch-
ers of Strongbow (in true IC netball
style) and a burger and chips (nothing
better to cure a hangover), before get-
ting the train back more than a little
tipsy. Man of the Match went to Rachel
Dilley, IC player went to Candy Fisher
and Twat of the match went to Kate
Chapman for getting her ass out in the
pub to show all the Beds girls her huge
bruise from playing rugby.
In the pouring rain, we were off to
challenge UCL 3rds on the 19/11/07.
Despite being freezing on court and the
UCL team playing more like in a rugby
game than a netball game the girls in
blue had yet another credible win, 52-
14. Let’s keep up the good work guys!
Man of the match went to Sara Willis,
IC player went to Lauren Anderson-
Dring and Twat of the match went to
Kate Chapman for running round her
goal third cause she was cold and look-
ing like a complete “twat” whilst doing
so.
I’d also like to take this opportunity
to let the readers know, if they haven’t
already heard, that the Rugby boys
have challenged the IC 1st to a netball
match in order to raise money for char-
ity. Therefore I’d like to invite everyone
to come along to Ethos on the Sat 24th
of Nov (tomorrow!) 4-6 p.m to watch
the Rugby boys, most likely in dresses,
make fools of themselves playing (and I
use the term “playing” very lightly) net-
ball. It will cost £2 to come and watch
and all the money is going to the West
London Sports Trust.
BRING IT ON LADS!!!!
Sports Editor:
You girls haven’t got a chance!
Netball 1sts mammoth report on unbeaten run
After an hour playing the ‘weight
game’ at the airport, a short fifty
minute Easyjet flight to Geneva and a
two hour coach journey me, Andy Par-
sons and Mike Halls-Moore arrived
at Chamonix-Mont-Blanc, the capital
of world climbing. After meeting up
with Luke, who informed us that “the
weather was stable and we needed to
go up into the mountains now!” we set-
tled in to our new campsite home.
The next day we took the truly amaz-
ing Aiguille Du Midi cable car, feeling
highly conspicuous in the crowds of
tourists with our 100 litre duffle bags
full of six days food and climbing packs
bristling with axes and crampons. On
arriving at the Midi station (3842m)
we wasted no time, and after hiding
our bags in an ice cave, headed out to
the Mer De Glace Glacier, squinting in
the blinding sunlight of a perfect Al-
pine day. We dashed up the stunningly
beautiful Arete Du Cosmeque in three
hours and arrived back at the station
feeling breathless and rather pleased
with ourselves.
In continually superb weather we
managed most of the Rebuffat Route
(TD rock climbing), some of the Midi-
Plan traverse and Mont Blanc Du Tacul
(4248). However sleepless nights due
to the altitude and concrete floor of the
station forced us down after four days.
After a couple of happy days dosing
around Chamonix eating ice-cream,
the possibly of a storm front hitting in
a matter of days persuaded us it was
time to go for the biggy, Mont Blanc
itself.
The next day an early morning cable
car, then a train journey, deposited us
in the fog at the start of the Gouter
Route. Four hours of slog brought us
out of the fog and on to the glacier.
We now had to cross the most lethal
part of the route, the 100m wide Grand
Couloir. This 70o snow gully is noto-
rious, due to the large quantity of TV
sized rocks which continually whiz
down it, released by melting ice or a
careless climber above. We roped up
and ran across (not easy in crampons!)
after waiting for a gap in the fuselage.
A breathless four hour scramble up a
60o arête made of teetering car sized
blocks brought us to the Aiguelle Du
Gouter. We camped on the snow ridge
above, where watching the mountains
change colour in the sunset couldn’t
quite compensate for the onion fla-
voured snow/pasta mush which passed
for tea.
We were awoken from blissful sleep
at 2am by a multitude of alarms and
after a solid hour of general faff we
were ready to go. During the first two
hours of the accent a combination of
pitch blackness, biting cold and steep
cramponing at altitude made for not an
entirely pleasant experience. However
by 5am the arrival of the sun in the East
gave an illusion of warmth and more
importantly a view of the fantastically
sinuous and knife edge Bosses Ridge
which leads to the summit. Two hours
of careful footsteps and false summits
later we had arrived at the Roof of Eu-
rope. It was an amazing place, with
white and orange mountains stretching
in all directions, the clouds thousands
of metres below us and the sky above
looking un-naturally black. However
lack of feeling in fingers and toes en-
couraged us not to linger and ten min-
utes of frantic photo snapping latter we
where on our way back.
The twelve hour descent was long
and torturous and we finally arrived
back to Chamonix in the dark. A crate
of beer, 2 bottles of van rouge and a
chilli later, we were all enjoying a well
earned kip.
Matthew Cooper
A lovely trip to Mont Blanc
An RSM mixed hockey team The climbers at the summit

