37
felix
Friday 23 November 2007
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk Sport
The importance of carbohydrates in exercise
and sports performance
Andy Mitchell
When most people think about nu-
trition for sports performance or gen-
eral exercising they will almost always
think about their protein intake and
whether they are getting enough to
build bigger, stronger muscles. Few
ever worry about their carbohydrate
intake, except for some of you endur-
ance athletes out there. Most athletes
and gym users seem to forget the im-
portance carbohydrates have to play in
performing good quality workouts or
playing well in sports competitions.
Carbohydrates can be split into two
main categories, simple and complex.
Simple carbohydrates are broken down
easily by the body to provide energy
quickly and come in the form of sug-
ars. Too many of these in the diet and
they cause a sudden increase in blood
sugar levels, which although will give
you a big energy high at first, result in
an energy crash causing you to feel fa-
tigued and lifeless. Complex carbohy-
drates however are broken down slow-
er by the body and provide a steadier
stream of energy into the body keeping
blood sugar levels balanced and mak-
ing you feel energetic throughout the
day. These complex carbohydrates
can be divided further into two more
categories- digestible and indigestible.
Digestible carbohydrates such as pasta,
potatoes, bread etc are broken down
for energy, while the indigestible ones
(commonly know as fibre and found
mainly in fruit and vegetables) are used
in keeping the intestines healthy and
your trips to the toilet regular!
Carbohydrates, along with fats, are
the body’s main sources of fuel for all
of its biological functions and daily
activities. The percentage of carbohy-
drates or fat used to fuel these func-
tions or activities varies dependent on
the level of intensity. Low to moder-
ate intensity activities (such as sitting,
walking or easy jogging) are primarily
fuelled by fat and as activities become
higher in intensity (weight training,
running or any sports activity) carbo-
hydrates take over. Certain functions
of the body such as the working of the
brain rely solely on energy from car-
bohydrates (glucose) and cannot be
fuelled by fats.
To perform high intensity exercise or
sport the body needs plenty of carbo-
hydrates to provide it with energy. The
carbohydrates to do this are stored
in the muscle cells or liver as glyco-
gen and in the blood as glucose. The
muscle holds the largest amount of
energy (over four times as much as the
liver and over 17 times as much as the
blood) and if these muscle stores are
low then you will struggle to perform
at your best. The less energy you have
in your muscles the less force you can
create to lift weights, run faster, jump
higher etc. As I mentioned the brain
requires glucose to function and if liver
glycogen and blood glucose levels are
low this can result in loss of function of
the brain limiting neuromuscular co-
ordination resulting in poor perform-
ance. Therefore this drop in exercise or
performance will mean that the body
fails to receive an overload stimulus
and thus will not adapt and improve.
So how much carbohydrate should
you be having in your diet to maintain
adequate muscle glycogen stores and
high levels of performance? Studies
suggest that active sports people and
gym users should have a diet consist-
ing of 60-70% carbohydrates. To cal-
culate the amount of carbohydrates in
grams per day you first need to know
how many calories you need to con-
sume a day for your daily activities.
The average active male will require
around 2500-3000 calories a day. Car-
bohydrates provide four calories per
gram. So if we assume you need 3000
calories per day and 65% of these come
from carbohydrates then you need
1950 calories worth of carbs per day or
487.5 grams.
If you would like to find out how
many calories you need to consume a
day then book in for a body stat test at
the gym where you will be able to get
an estimated value (oh the shameless
advertising!).
The new intake of Imperial College
rowers had their first taste of victory
on Saturday, as the Women’s Novice
eight took victory in Cambridge. The
boatclub novices, most of whom only
started rowing in October, had been
training hard for the ‘Cambridge Win-
ter Head’ and obtained an impressive
set of results.
For those who know little about
rowing (i.e. most people!), the season
of ‘Head’ races runs roughly from Oc-
tober until March. A Head race is es-
sentially a time trail, usually over a
distance of 3-6 kilometres, with boats
in the same category starting one after
another. The winner is then the crew
that has completed the course in the
fastest time.
For Saturday’s race, four eights (each
with eight rowers and a cox) travelled
to Cambridge, leaving at 7 in the morn-
ing. Each crew raced twice during the
day, with men’s results including 5th
ICURFC 3rd XV match medic demolition report
Since the previous Wednesday’s mo-
rale-crushing defeat at home to Kings
Medicals, IC’s 3rd XV had all eyes on
redeeming themselves at Teddington
in their first face-off with the Scum for
this season. Travelling by public trans-
port to an away match always causes
difficulties in preparing mentally for
the match ahead. So when IC arrived
via the wonders of National Rail with
less than half an hour before curtain
up, they were relieved to have kick off
pushed back 10 minutes. With moti-
vational speeches from Captain Ollie
“Southern Fairy” Bevis and veteran
medic crusher Alex “Pain-Train” Fer-
gusson over, IC were ready to take the
game to the Scum on their own soil.
With barely 5 minutes gone, IC
seemed decidedly to have the upper
hand. After relentless pressure from
the IC pack, an ever-so-sexy intercep-
tion deep inside the medic’s half from
Borja “I‘m a back, honestly” Sordo set
up a ruck, from which the unrelenting
forwards were only too happy to pro-
vide secure ball for scrum-half Penfold
to offload on the blind side to Adam
Baldwin. After making several yards,
Rugby
Imperial Medicals 3rd XV 24
Imperial Men’s 3rd XV 31
Penfold
and being tackled just short of the line,
Baldwin returned the ball with a beau-
tiful pop off the floor to Penfold, who
opened the scoring with a try in the
corner. After this, the medic vermin
came back and scored a soft uncon-
verted try, leaving the score at 5-5.
This level-pegging did not, howev-
er, hold for long. Filled with renewed
determination, IC took it back to the
medics and camped themselves in
their half, with the pack supplying
immaculate ball from their immense
scrummaging for the backs to work
their magic via 3rd team debutant fly-
half, Jack ‘I can’t remember his sur-
name’ It was one of these displays of
colossal scrummaging that set up IC’s
second try. With the back line playing
the ball straight through hands, and
making yards themselves, Man of the
Match, full back George Watkins, cut
a beautiful line through the medic de-
fence, scoring IC’s second try, with it
being converted by Sordo de la Pena.
Once again, the medics came back to
bring the scores even at 12-12.
With lots of encouraging talk from
both captain and vice captain at half
time, IC took the ball from the restart,
knowing that this game was theirs for
the taking. Once again, it was flanker
Baldwin who made the break, catching
the ball inside his own half, selling the
Scum a dummy and sprinting through
the now gaping hole in the medic “de-
fence” before side-stepping their “full-
back” and placing it underneath the
posts with the greatest of ease. Once
again, this try was swiftly converted by
Borja, making the score 19-12. After a
period of light pressure by the medics,
an unfortunate mis-kick allowed the
medics to come back with the softest
of soft tries. Their conversion man-
aged to bring the medics back into the
game at 19-19.
IC were not going to give up lightly,
however. After applying yet more pres-
sure following the restart, the medics
cleared their lines with a kick into the
IC half. This was caught by Charles
“Not-So-Token-Frenchy” who started
a rampage of sublime interplay with
Watkins, with the latter teasing the
“failed engineers” behind their own try
line before slamming it down a short
distance from the posts. 24-19. Scum
scored. 24-24.
After another irresistible example of
the mean scrummaging machine that
the IC pack was, the front 8 were then
treated to a awe-inspiring display of
defence-penetrating running, ending
with Max “No-Nickname-Required”
Steele with only two human-butchers
to beat. In what can only be described
as a demonstration of absolute sports-
manship, Twat of the Match Steele
decided to give the medics one more
chance to step up against the indomi-
table IC pack by dropping the ball over
the line to give the Scum a 5-metre
scrum.
The pack’s opportunity came, and
they sure as hell didn’t disappoint.
With another awesome heave from the
pack demonstrating IC’s overall su-
periority, the medic pack didn’t quite
know what to do. The ball skipped
out between their open-side flanker
and their seemingly inexperienced
scrum half was just not quick enough
to compete with the eager snatchings
of Penfold, who successfully poached
the ball from the back of the scrum,
placing it just over the line to put the
score at 29-24. Fresher debutant, Jack,
ably converted this try to put the final
score at 31-24.
As the final whistle sounded minutes
later, the boys in blue knew that they
had done what they came to do - shown
the Scum what they are capable of and
what the remaining two encounters
have in store for the medics.
and 6th (out of 25) in the beginner cat-
egory and 4th (out of 22) in the nov-
ice category. These excellent results
indicate great potential for many wins
during the coming year. The most im-
pressive result was from the women’s
student beginner eight, which beat 15
other crews to come first by over 30
seconds in a time of 11 minutes, 45
seconds.
In addition, the quality of coxing was
evident on an extremely narrow river
that is notoriously difficult to steer.
While in past years there have been
problems on some of the tighter bends,
there were no collisions this year, and
the new intake of coxes should be com-
mended on their ability to bring home
an undamaged set of boats! After trav-
elling home, the celebrations were car-
ried out in suitable fashion, in various
bars around Fulham!
This first race has been an excellent
result, and marks the beginning of a
successful race season for the novice
squad. Well done to all who raced!
Rowing novices’ maiden win
Iain Palmer
The 3rds celebrating their win in the bar after the game
Women’s novices in action Mmm, pasta!

