sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
38 Friday 23 November 2007
felix
Sport
Imperial Team of the Week
This week, Sports Partnership along
with Felix Sport have chosen the
Fencing Men’s 2nd team as their
‘Team of the Week’.
The guys have been doing excep-
tionally well, and a lot better than
their 1st team (cheap dig, very cheap
dig), and are still unbeaten this
season.
Hopefully this streak can continue
and the team can win their league.
All the best guys!
Men’s 6th scrape to victory
Fencing Men’s 2nd
Exciting
Women’s 9 pull out a draw
A cold wind swiped through Harling-
ton on this clear Wednesday. Despite
the piercing cold, the IC Women’s
Football had come to play. Everyone
seemed en form and injury free, par-
ticularly Lily! The team started warm-
ing up on the astro, waiting for the
Bedfordshire, Luton girls. These were
expected to be quite rough, given their
locality. The IC girls were therefore not
disappointed when they saw 14 beasts
arrive. The IC ladies, for their part, had
only come with a reduced formation of
8 equipped players plus one! Luckily
for IC however, Pav finally found some
boots and shin pads to play with and
brought the number of players back to
9. The Luton girls smiled as they saw
the reduced IC team, sure to come
away with a victory.
The first 20 minutes went on great
for IC, with good charges up the field
and a comfortable pace. The Luton
girls obviously were not sure what
they had to do. With the exception of
their two forwards, it seemed that their
team was mostly composed of ran-
domers picked up in the street. Every-
where the ball went, at least three or
four red Luton jerseys followed. It was
like watching 3 year-olds play football.
The ref, Richie P. therefore had a hard
job of seeing what was happening. Pav,
made a few breakthroughs, supported
by Steph and Barbara. The defence re-
mained solid, passing accurately and
retaining possession of the ball. The
first goal came in at the 17th minute.
An absolutely brilliant shot from Lily
at the edge of the box, which flew over
at least three or four of their defenders
before landing in the left corner of the
goal. The goalie, who did not appear to
Football
Imperial Women’s 1st 1
Bedfordshire Women’s 1st 1
Chloe Joyeux
be very skilled or bright, did not realise
what was happening.
The victory was not long lived how-
ever. As a result of their fewer numbers
of players, the IC girls started becom-
ing slightly tired. This was not made
better by the constant shouting of their
manager on the side line and the out-
of-place comments of their “support-
ers”. Steph therefore took the liberty
of asking the manager to be quiet, to
which he replied “I am the f****** man-
ager you b****! You suck anyway!” in a
complete lack of sportsmanship. Steph
became red with fury but managed to
avoid strangling him for fear of being
shot by the opposition. Luton took this
opportunity and equalised minutes be-
fore half time. The shot was, one must
admit, perfectly placed. Emily jumped
but the ball passed right out of reach
between her hands and the cross-bar.
Half time was welcome by both
teams. Steph related her “beef of the
week” to the team, stating that the
“manager” of the opposition had a
mental age of 5 and she couldn’t play
because his fake gold teeth blinded her.
In a more serious tone, Squashie gave
the IC girls a full report, insisting on
short passes and playing wide.
The second half started with a Lu-
ton girl trying to come onto the pitch
with her jacket, before being told off
by Richie P. It went on at a quick pace
straight away, giving everyone little
chance to breathe. Sheryl, now center
mid nevertheless kept the beasts at
large, keeping them out of the center.
The going forward movement of the
IC ladies improved, resulting in Pav
nearly scoring a late goal. Despite Lu-
ton girls having several forward runs,
Emma, Chloe and Kate closed the de-
fence, leaving them without any shots
on goal. Other events in the second
half also included several IC ladies
being fouled a few times, particularly
by their wide number 10, and the ab-
solute warrior behaviour of Emma.
Emma seemed to be everywhere and
saved the day more than a few times.
As a result, I am taking the liberty of
naming her woman of the match! The
IC ladies took the coach home with a
happy feeling of accomplishment and
the conclusion that Luton town must
be a rough place!
Wow, nine of them in this one!
On Friday 26th October a full contin-
gent of Imperial kayakers left London
and headed for the Hut. After reclaim-
ing a fresher who had got on the wrong
bus, we got to Snowdonia by midnight-
ish. On Saturday morning, post fry up,
we had a dilemma: no water. No water
means no paddling.
The Tryweryn and Vyrnwy were no-
gos. The Dee, however, was low but
running. A few of the freshers swam
on a section called the ‘Serpents tail’,
but soggy toes aside it was awesome.
Dreams of some slalom fun were
shattered by the BCU Open Slalom
Champion getting to Town Falls first.
Undeterred, we missioned over to the
Glaslyn gorge, which was run by the
more experienced paddlers for a few
more thrills.
The evening consisted of the pub
in Beddgelert, chilli and drinking in
the hut. Halloween was celebrated in
ICCC style with glow in the dark skel-
etons, Tesco Value face paint and black
nail varnish (on boys).
On Sunday morning all prayers of
overnight rain had been answered.
The rivers were crazily high – even
the boathouses on the lake above the
Glaslyn were underwater. The keen
paddlers went on an early morning
mission t a river no-one can pronounce
(the Afon Nantygwyrd) and came back
grinning. After their return, some van
packing and a fry up, everyone headed
to the Conwy. There were a few swims
but Hargreave’s Folly was run by most.
Most of the freshers got out by the A5
road bridge. The rest of the paddlers
ran the second half. Then it was back
to Llangollen for fish and chips, and
back to the real world by 11pm Sunday
IC Canoe club go kayaking on freshers trip
Catherine Charter night.
Imperial Canoe Club holds pool ses-
sions every Tuesday at Ethos, 7 til 8.30,
usually followed by a drink or two. We
have various trips to Wales and the
Lakes, and a big summer trip to the
Alps. Membership is only £30, and in-
cludes all the gear you need. For more
information, go to www.union.ic.ac.
uk/rcc/canoe or email rachel.fox@
ic.ac.uk.
The day started off with IC 4ths, 5ths
and 6ths boarding a coach to Shenley
the sports ground of UCL and their
respective medics, RUMS. For those
of you unaware of where Shenley is,
it is where Watford have their train-
ing ground and is a ridiculous distance
away from central London so we were
lucky we had 3 teams playing there on
the same day, enabling us to get the
aforementioned coach instead of the
usual tube, train, taxi combination
which takes about 2 hours and is one
of the most frustrating journeys since
the Titanic’s inaugural launch from
Southampton.
Anyway the match started off on
time with both teams ready for battle.
The opening exchanges went against
what the league table would suggest,
with RUMS seemingly more up for the
game and their midfield and winning
the key challenges. It was also a very
scrappy game both teams restricted to
hopeful punts downfield and long shots
at goal. It was one of these scrappy at-
tempts in the 40th minute that resulted
in the opening goal. The RUMS mid-
fielder pumped the ball into the box,
leaving AD and Matthew to wrestle
each other off the ball while the RUMS
striker showed the predatory skills of a
great white shark to wade in and stab
the ball home from 5 yards.
This was the kick in the arse IC need-
ed to start playing some of our beauti-
ful football to try and get a foothold in
the game and before halftime we had
equalised. Dave the right-back tackled
their player from a throw-in and the
ball bobbled through to AD in midfield.
He had the space and vision to play an
erotic ball through the centre-backs to
Rob who was steaming in from the left-
wing. Rob then showed great compo-
sure to control the ball with one touch
then nutmeg the keeper with his next.
1-1 at half-time and game on.
The second-half started and it was
RUMS again who started the half
the better team, but fortunately they
weren’t as good at creating chances
as we were and within 10 minutes we
scored to take IC 2-1 up. The goal was
a thing of beauty, involving Ricky dart-
ing out of defence like the title charac-
ter of peter benchleys second master-
work after the jaws, called “the beast”
about a colossal squid attacking a sea-
side community. He skinned three of
their players before passing the ball off
to AD, who again noticed Rob breaking
down the left wing. AD played in Rob
who showed great skill in beating the
defender and getting the shot off. Their
keeper exhibited his lettuce wrists and
only succeeded in palming the ball to
the rushing striker Killer, who calmly
slotted away the goal.
It was at this point the RUMS player
turned referee decided to start trying
his best to upset our rhythm by refus-
ing to give any decisions for us and
constantly giving free-kicks to RUMS.
The pressure began to mount and this
culminated in the ref awarding a penal-
ty when the RUMS striker was tackled
and he flopped to the ground like the
worlds largest jellyfish. You’re ‘avin a
Giraffe we all thought but our wails of
protest were to no avail as the ref stood
firm, despite the fact it was an absolute
dive and a blatant lie… GRRRRR would
best sum up our feelings at this point.
Anyway we had to be professional
and accept the decision. This accept-
ance was made all the more easier by
their striker running up and taking an
awful penalty. Straight down the mid-
dle and into the grateful hands of C.Y
the ‘keeper.
Shortly after the penalty save, the fi-
nal whistle went and we were happy to
leave Shenley with all 3 points after a
below-par performance. But points will
hopefully become prizes by the end of
the year if we can continue this good
form and keep our position within the
promotion places.
Football
Imperial Men’s 6th 2
RUMS Men’s 3rd 1
Adrian Doyle

