felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Medals!
Singaporean Society report on their massive haul of medals at the Nottingham Games, see page 36
Imperial Men’s 2nd Fencing team
predictably beat a rock-bottom Port-
smouth 1st side, but were made to work
hard for their efforts. The lengthy train
journey clearly took its toll on Impe-
rial’s fencers and with Ez Hassan ab-
sent with the University of London Air
Squadron and new man Alex Bishop
reportedly suffering from leukaemia,
they were bound to struggle.
The match started with sabre and
Luka Lukic was given the all important
anchor position, seeing away his first
opponent 5 – 4. Both Will Hoy and
team captain Maurice Berk enjoyed
5 – 2 victories in their first matches,
putting Imperial 15 – 8 ahead after
the initial round. Maurice, Luka and
Will then all won their second round
matches 5 – 2 to further increase the
lead to 30 – 14 with everything pro-
ceeding according to plan. Maurice
was made to work hard for his 5 – 4
final victory against the opposition
captain while Will won his last match
5 – 3. Portsmouth were not quite ready
to give up, it seemed, as Luka struggled
his way to a 5 – 9 defeat in the final sa-
bre match, leaving the score at 45 – 30
for that weapon.
Next up was épeé and it was here
that Portsmouth started to threaten.
Maurice went down to a 4 – 5 defeat
against the opposition captain in the
opening match before Luka put Impe-
rial in front after a 6 – 4 victory. With
both Ez and Alex absent and after get-
ting his first taste of competitive épeé
last week, Nathan Blundell was Impe-
rial’s third man and he kept them in
the lead with a 5 – 5 draw in his first
match. Maurice then comfortably beat
his next opponent 5 – 2 while Nathan
again drew 5 – 5. Luka saw off his sec-
ond opponent 5 – 4 before Nathan
finally got the hang of it and won 5 –
1. With Imperial 35 – 26 in the lead
for épeé before the final two matches
they seemed well in control yet Port-
smouth had other plans. Maurice was
defeated 2 – 7 in a match that went to
time while Luka suffered a 7 – 12 de-
feat at the hands of the Portsmouth
captain to leave the final score for épeé
44 – 45 in Portsmouth’s favour and
the Imperial team wondering whether
overconfidence might prove to be their
downfall.
Imperial were still 14 points in the
lead going into foil, traditionally their
strongest weapon. It was, however, an
under strength foil side with Will ini-
tially standing in for the absentees and
Luka nominated as a reserve. Things
started particularly badly with Nor-
ris going down to a 1 – 5 defeat at the
hands of the opposition captain before
Nathan restored the lead with a re-
markable 9 – 3 victory. Will struggled
against his opponent 4 – 7 and Luka
was nominated to replace him for his
remaining two matches. Norris re-
deemed himself with an excellent 6 – 0
win while Luka could only managed a
5 – 5 draw in his first match. Nathan
and Luka both comfortably won their
next matches 5 – 2, putting the game
beyond doubt with Imperial 20 points
in the lead and only 16 to play for. Nor-
ris drew against his final opponent 5 –
5 before the opposition captain again
created problems, this time serving up
a 5 – 7 defeat to Nathan. In the end,
however, one man does not make a
team and Imperial added another scalp
to the collection, final scores standing
at 134 – 116.
Fencing
Portsmouth Men’s 1st 116
Imperial Men’s 2nd 134
Maurice Berk
Fencing 2nds made to work for winning streak
The stuntmen for the latest Matrix film were just beginning to warm up

