4 felix Friday 23 November 2007
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix
How to amuse yourself with MS Word
I
discovered this at work. The the-
saurus provided by the ‘lovely’
people at Microsoft can provide
hours and hours of entertain-
ment simply by its overuse. Try
it some time. Below is a childish story
I wrote followed by the same story put
through the thesaurus, in some cases
as many as five times.
Now I warn you that it gets a little
messy, and the normal rules of gram-
mar no longer apply, but, if you read it
like it makes sense then it very nearly
does(/doesn’t). Before I unleash Mi-
crosoft’s gift to the world of comedy on
you however, allow me to share my own
game which you can play right here and
right now. It’s quite simple. Take a film
title (without cheating and using the
internet), change one word for nudist
and then begin to laugh heartily. Give
it a shot. My Big Fat Nudist Wedding,
Die Hard with a Nudist, An Inconven-
ient Nudist, The Nudist Samurai, the
fun is never ending. Anyway, back to
the story:
Despite a flourishing head of hair Mr.
O’Donnell had a constant fixation with
strawberry cheesecake. “Strawberry
cheesecake is the bestest thing in the
whole wide world”, said Mr. O’Donnell.
At work, Mr. Lardyright told him he
had to “Stop eating that darned des-
sert”. So he hid under a bucket in the
lady’s toilet for three days. When Mr.
Lardyright found out about this it made
him mad. Now Mr. O’Donnell had a
big problem because, without money
from work he couldn’t buy cheesecake.
Mr. O’Donnell vowed to get his job
back. He washed Mr. Lardyright’s car
to see if that would help, but it didn’t.
Then he played Mr. Lardyright a tune
on his recorder. But that didn’t work
either. Mr O’Donnell didn’t know what
to do. Then one day, as he walked up to
the security gate with a large bowl of
perch and a monkey wrench, he sud-
denly had a better idea. Mr O’Donnell
went back to his car. It was a shiny
red one. Mr O’Donnell liked red. He
put the perch in the pond and hid the
wrench in his jacket pocket. Then he
drove to Morrisons and brought a
sheet of card and some crayons. Eat-
ing the blue one made his tummy feel
funny. Mr O’Donnell set about making
a card for Mr. Lardyright. It said, “I am
sorry” on the front and there was a pic-
ture of a cat and a big red balloon. Mr.
O’Donnell was very pleased with him-
self. Mr. Lardyright said “Man! Do you
have the mind of a three year old?” But
Mr. O’Donnell was thirty-eight and
three quarters. So he had a paddy.
In malice of a blossoming cranium
of tresses Mr. O’Donnell included an
unwavering passion fleeting through-
out strawberry cheesecake. “Strawber-
ry cheesecake is the bestest yearning
in the absolute inconsequential boul-
evard dust”, pretended Mr. O’Donnell.
Deceitful on slog, Mr. Lardyright, (on-
the-ball him) fitted en route for slam
downhill disbursement, thus, vis-à-vis,
irksome syrupy.
As a conclusion he secluded inferior
than a treasure chest in the female’s
adhesive condition, expected for musi-
cal tones of unremitting continuation.
What instant, Mr. Lardyright recog-
nized non-manifestation unfolding
to this it derelict him tactless. By the
side of the handy, Mr. O’Donnell blew
his own trumpet, (a mammoth quan-
dary), prearranged that, in the middle
of no equipped capital as of overhaul,
he couldn’t crust absent prevalence de-
signed for cheesecake. Mr. O’Donnell
assured to exhume squeeze of his
business cultivate. He unsoiled Mr.
Lardyright’s wagon to scrutinize the
condition, so since to would give a
hand, previous than it achieved not.
Cataloguing alongside, to silky the
evolution of, he betrothed in respite in
the ballet company of Mr. Lardyright;
a hymn listed his traitor. But that ac-
complished not trade also.
Mr O’Donnell carried out not be on
top of recognizable conditions with “I
beg your pardon?” towards execute.
Subsequently single-handed fragment
of sun-up hours, for the stimulus that
he hiked cognisant to the buttressing
front entrance, via entombment of a
cosmic deliver drop of “confiscate it
unproblematic” involuntary and an
orangutan haul, he swiftly included a
finer manifestation. Mr O’Donnell fer-
vently inverted en route for his gig. It
was a beaming pink superstar.
Mr O’Donnell was analogous to bur-
gundy. He situated the recreational
area physically on apex of delimited by
the lagoon and restricted the tweak in
his skin wrinkle. Next he congregated
to Morrisons and acquired a segment
of credential and a scope of buff dedi-
cation tackle. Utilization of the cobalt
single refined his appetite logic comi-
cal. Mr O’Donnell situated, scheduled
the subject matter of dexterity, a merit
predictable in aid of Mr. Lardyright. It
assumed, “I am penitent” on the mas-
querade and wholeheartedly available
was a facsimile of a cat and a colossal
burgundy sizzling atmosphere expand.
Mr. O’Donnell was terrifically at alle-
viating in the itinerary of himself. Mr.
Lardyright believed “Fellow! Assassi-
nate you include the mental power of
a three rendezvous seasoned?” But Mr.
O’Donnell was thirty-eight and three
billet. In favour of that rationale he
clinched a wheeze.
Let’s talk about God, Matty
Jellybean
T
wo weeks ago (#1,386,
“Let’s talk about God,
baby”) Matty Hoban in-
troduced the new Atheist
and Agnostic Society. On
behalf of the Christian Union I’d like to
say welcome. I was surprised a month
ago to learn that Imperial didn’t have
an Atheist society and it’s good to have
you around.
I was encouraged by your call to be
pro-active against apathy and would
completely stand by it. A couple of days
ago I came across a quote from Martin
Luther King, “A man who won’t die for
something is not fit to live.” Surely bum-
bling through life with no direction or
vision is just a waste of time.
It puzzles me, though, how you in-
tend to stop apathy and promote athe-
ism at the same time.
Personally, the notion that we are
here as a cosmic insignificance due to
15 billion years of good luck to live our,
say, 24x365x80 hours and then return
to non-existence and be forgotten in a
hundred years (how many of your great
grandparents’ names do you know,
let alone jobs, friends and favourite
colours?) doesn’t thrill me. Rather it
leaves me feeling pretty indifferent
to the choices that I have open to me
– what difference will it make, really,
whether I’m a doctor or a plumber or
just a grumpy old man?
The apostle Paul wrote: “If in this life
only we have hoped in Christ, we are of
all people most to be pitied…If the dead
are not raised, ‘Let us eat and drink,
for tomorrow we die’ ” (1 Corinthians
15:19,32 - The Bible). He argues that if
there’s nothing more than we can see
around us we might as well just have
some fun before we die.
However, given Paul’s confidence
that there is life beyond this painful one
and that God is working through Paul’s
sufferings to bring about ultimate good
(just read the rest of the chapter to see
where the world is going) he doesn’t
want to just eat and drink. He wants to
be pro-active in working for the God
who has saved him and who will wel-
come him into the next life as a son
because of the death and resurrection
of Jesus. It’s only because of his hope
in God and eternal life that Paul can
conclude, “therefore, my beloved broth-
ers, be steadfast, immovable, always
abounding in the work of the Lord,
knowing that in the Lord your labour
is not in vain”.
In the Lord – because of his love and
his final plan – our decisions and our
work have a point. Otherwise they’re
just vanity.
This is a longer conversation than
we can reasonably have in the opinions
pages of Felix which is why I’d love to
invite everyone reading this along to
Impact. This is an event the CU runs
every Tuesday at 12 in the UDH look-
ing at objections to the Christian faith
– from whether God exists (he does, by
the way) to whether allowing religious
groups to influence society really is
wrong.
For example, this week we were
thinking about the charge “Its eth-
ics are socially regressive!” and next
week is “I’m happy without God, why
do I need him?”. With a short talk ex-
plaining what the Bible says and a time
for questions or thrashing the issues
through with the people around you
it’s a fun way to spend lunch. Plus (or it
wouldn’t be a CU event) there’s food!
See you there.
“
Take a film
title, change
one word to
‘nudist’ and then
begin to laugh
heartily
Richard Criddle
IC Christian Union
President
Matty Hoban
Atheist and Agnostic
Society Chair
An unreasonably expected reply
T
hanks for the warm wel-
come Richard, and I am
slowly getting round to
kicking the society into
full swing. Please do e-
mail if you would like to join or get
involved.
I just want to address Richard Crid-
dle’s and anyone else’s concerns. When
I wrote my column a couple of weeks
ago (referenced above), it was not to
persuade people to become atheists or
agnostics but merely to inspire them to
act on their beliefs and help represent
those with non-religious views who
feel like they need support. I find the
comments made by Richard a little bit
insulting to both the intelligence and
better judgement of the non-religious
and religious.
Firstly, I do not propose to stop apa-
thy (this sounds impossible) but mere-
ly show that it makes sense to be active
about your beliefs, whatever they are.
However, of the things Richard has said
that I find most concerning is the im-
plication that wishful thinking comes
above evidence and logical discourse.
It is ignorant to say that those who
have come to the decision in their life
that they do not believe in God through
thinking about it should then write off
that decision because their lives will
not have a ‘higher’ purpose or meaning
– even though their higher purpose is
only revealed through a contradictory,
bigoted and ancient text.
The most worrying thing that has
been said is that we are here due to
‘good luck’, and you are at a scientific
institute? I suggest he actually reads
On Natural Selection and he will real-
ise that the words, “15 billion years of
good luck” are a complete contradic-
tion. Surely the fact it took 15 billion
years means nature progressed slowly
going through many permutations and
mutations until the right combination
provided success for life? By the same
logic, I can be seen as a lucky Blackjack
player even if I lost every single hand.
The meaning in my life comes from
relationships with people and it is dif-
ficult to debate with the religious on
these matters since we do not share the
same axioms and logical structures.
When I am around my friends and
loved ones, I find an enormous wealth
of happiness and in nature, I see some-
thing which has allowed me to appre-
ciate this happiness. For me, God does
not need to be there and that is where
we differ. I would however love to ar-
gue about the necessity for secularism.

