science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
6 felix Friday 23 November 2007
Science
Science Editor – Ed Henley
The zodiacal light appears as a conical glow low on the horizon, and is visible around dawn and dusk. Look out for it when you’re not in London
Brian May’s lecture: not too dusty
A black hole may have no hair, but an-
other type of star, lecturing on zodiacal
dust in the Great Hall last Wednes-
day, was a tad more hirsute. Yes, Brian
May, Imperial’s most stellar son (as far
as rock goes anyway) had brought his
flowing locks back to college, to tell a
sold-out crowd of alumni about the
subject of his recently-awarded Ph.D.
– apparently one of the first awarded
by Imperial rather than the University
of London.
Many of you will know that the
Queen guitarist went to Imperial, and
will have heard about the award, but
may have assumed that it was a mere
honorary degree, of the sort bestowed
like popcorn on the great and the good.
Certainly not so in this case – May had
in fact come very close to completing
his Ph.D. 30 odd years ago, before fame
and fortune beckoned and he threw
in the towel. But not irrevocably – he
retained an interest in astronomy,
formally rekindled in 2006 with the
publication of “Bang! The Complete
History of the Universe” (reviewed in
these pages just over a year ago), which
he wrote with Patrick Moore and Chris
Lintott.
Whilst promoting the book, he men-
tioned he was interested in revisiting
his thesis work, an aside which was
picked up by Imperial’s Prof. Michael
Rowan Robinson, who suggested May
return to Imperial to complete the
original thesis under him. But this was
to be no easy ride – Rowan-Robinson,
testified to May’s 3 a.m. emails com-
plaining that completing his thesis was
“killing [him]” – a hallmark of any true
degree. And he underwent a gruelling
viva at the end, his examiners scruti-
nising his work for 6 hours, to make
sure it was up to scratch. No, this was
no sham; May had to sweat to get this
qualification.
Presumably quite literally at times
– back in the 70s, May and his fellow
scientists conducted their investiga-
tion in a hut which, though rather ba-
sic, had an enviable location: a sunny
mountaintop in Tenerife. A picture
of a younger May, next to his equip-
ment and sporting a tan several shades
darker than that normally seen on as-
trophysicists made this author wish his
Felix went along to hear the Queen guitarist on zodiacal dust, the subject of his recently-awarded Ph.D.
research was based in sunnier climes.
Yet to see zodiacal light, May ex-
plained that one in fact needs to ob-
serve when the sun is just out of sight:
right before dawn, or straight after
dusk. It appears low on the horizon,
and takes the form of a conical or el-
liptical glow, with its axis in the dawn-
dusk plane. At its best, it can appar-
ently be very bright, far more so that
the brightest regions of the Milky Way.
Early (recorded) observations include
an ostensible sighting by Omar Khay-
yam, and an indubitable one by Cas-
sini, who correctly attributed it due
to dust orbiting the sun, mostly in the
solar system plane, and closer in than
the Earth. The light which scatters off
this cloud of dust means it is visible in
the night sky, at the times previously
mentioned. At those times, an observ-
er can look towards the centre of the
solar system without direct sunlight
drowning out the light reflected from
the dust.
Interest in zodiacal dust apparently
dwindled somewhat while May was
out of the field (purely coincidentally,
he claimed), but has been invigorated
in recent years by the discovery of
similar dust clouds around other stars,
as these clouds hold vital clues for how
planetary systems develop, and hence
may have implications for the presence
of exoplanets around these stars, and
even life itself.
Fortunately, this was not the question
May had set out to investigate initially,
nor did he change course – as Prof.
Rowan-Robinson pointed out, catch-
ing up with 30 years of literature is no
mean feat, even if one remains within
the narrow confines of a thesis topic.
Instead, May stayed with his original
work, studying the motion and nature
of the zodiacal dust around our own
star.
This involved studying a very small
part of the reflected solar spectrum
– a “line” or narrow frequency band
of light, due to magnesium – using a
sophisticated device known as a Fabry-
Perot interferometer. Using a mirror
arrangement known as a coelostat to
track the zodiacal light and reflect it
into the interferometer, May and his
colleagues could measure the wave-
length of the magnesium line in this
light. By studying the difference be-
tween the measured wavelength and a
reference value measured in the labo-
ratory, they were able to determine
the speed of the dust. Light which had
scattered off dust moving away from
Earth was Doppler-shifted towards the
“redder” part of the spectrum, whilst it
appeared bluer if the dust was moving
towards Earth.
In such a way, May was able to ex-
amine whether the dust was moving in
a prograde orbit – in the same direc-
tion around the sun as the Earth – or
a retrograde orbit, counter to Earth’s
motion. Furthermore, by looking for
asymmetries in the motion found in the
dawn and dusk observations, he could
also look for evidence of a bulk flow
relative to the solar system – say due
to our motion through the interstellar
medium, the cloud of material which
our solar system ploughs through due
to its orbit within our galaxy.
As with any Ph.D., the devil appeared
to be in the detail, and more specifi-
cally in the details of work published
by others in the field, as some of these
disagreed with May’s findings. Nev-
ertheless, his observations appeared
to agree with a plausible theoretical
curve, and with enough previous liter-
ature, that his examiners were satisfied
by his conclusions: that a large propor-
tion of the dust, which (as the name
suggests) is predominantly composed
of small particles, is in a prograde or-
bit, and that furthermore, there may be
some evidence for an interstellar flow.
May seems content to call it a day
there, and who can blame him? Re-
turning to a field 30 years on and suc-
cessfully completing Ph.D.-calibre
research is cause enough to hang up
ones’ laurels. Yet May retains a keen
interest in the area, and looks for-
ward to the immensely detailed view
of the zodiacal dust which IRAS, a
space-based infrared telescope, should
shortly be providing. Much work has
already been done in this wavelength
range, as zodiacal light has typically
been seen as light pollution interfering
with the study of more distant objects.
However IRAS’ contribution may help
explain the origin of the dust which is
thought to arise, amongst other caus-
es, from collisions between asteroids,
and comets shedding their outer lay-
ers. May noted that a good example
of the latter was comet Holmes, which
recently graced our skies with a celes-
tial fireworks display, suddenly bright-
ening a million-fold as it blew off its
outer layers, for no apparent reason.
Who knows, maybe somewhere in the
world, a budding musician saw this
and set down one instrument to pick
up another, one more suited to study-
ing the music of the spheres.
Edmund Henley
Science Editor
Many thanks to Emma Jones for
all her invaluable help
“Catching up
with 30 years of
literature is no
mean feat”
More than one string to his... guitar? That’s Dr. Brian May to you son

