science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
Friday 23 November 2007 felix
Science
The National Health Service is almost
entirely reliant on ‘modern’ or ‘West-
ern’ drug treatments, dubbing natural
herbal treatments as ‘alternative’ or
‘complementary’ medicines.
The use of herbal medicines, also
known as botanical medicines, can be
traced back to around 1500 BC in an-
cient Egypt, where herbs were used to
protect people from infections. Mod-
ern day herbal remedies such as garlic
supplements, Echinacea and St John’s
Wort, all readily available in high
street health stores, are advertised to
help prevent illness: Echinacea is pre-
scribed for colds, while garlic is meant
to give a general boost to the system.
Chinese medicine stores, which pro-
mote natural medicines that have been
used for thousands of years, are also
very common.
However, in some cases taking com-
plimentary herbal medicine along with
Western treatments can have unde-
sired effects, with some combinations
being fatal. A study by Norwegian sci-
entists is currently investigating these
dangers and aims to improve knowl-
edge of this issue.
St John’s Wort is widely taken as a
liver detoxifier as well as to help treat
mild to moderate depression. However,
it is also known to ‘kill’ a lot of medica-
tion, decreasing the effect of the drug
treatments, up to the point that they
can disappear altogether. For instance,
St John’s Wort is said to weaken the ef-
fects of including birth control pills,
Viagra, and the drug that is supposed
to aid organ acceptance by blending
new organs into their surroundings. St
John’s Wort can also increase the ef-
fect of some medicines, which can lead
to undesirable side effects. Generally
speaking, St John’s Worth should not
be taken with drugs that require a con-
stant amount being in the blood at all
times; these include drugs for cancer,
organ transplants, HIV, epilepsy and
mental illness.
Anaesthetics can also be affected
by herbal remedies: Valerian, which
is used to calm the nerves, increases
the effects of the anaesthetics, whilst
Ginkgo Biloba weakens them. Scien-
tists and doctors still do not know how
exactly this occurs as the tests to deter-
mine this are hard. Nevertheless, they
do indicate that the individual effects
of two substances can be very different
SPECIAL
STUDENT
OFFER
SAVE 50%
WHERE WILL IT TAKE YOU
THIS WEEK?
OR GO ONLINE www.newscientist.com/s/3376
CALL THE HOTLINE + 44 (0) 8456 731 731
9am to 9pm, 7 days a week. Please quote special offer code 3376
SUBSCRIBE TO NEW SCIENTIST AND GET
51 WEEKLY ISSUES DELIVERED DIRECT TO YOUR DOOR • LATEST SCIENCE &
TECHNOLOGY JOBS • CAREERS ADVICE • FREE FULL ACCESS TO THE ENTIRE
CONTENT OF NEWSCIENTIST.COM INCLUDING THE 15 YEAR ARCHIVE
Alternative medicines: positively dangerous?
Christiana Christodoulou from their effect as a mixed product, a
complication when trying to tease out
the intricate interplay between herbal
extracts and drug treatments.
Despite these slightly bleak exam-
ples, belief in the benefits of alternative
medicines is widespread, even though
they might not be scientifically con-
firmed. The Norwegian study found
that nearly half of cancer patients in
Norway resort to herbal remedies to
strengthen their health, with 70% ad-
mitting to take remedies (principally
garlic and green tea) to boost the im-
mune system. However, none of the
patients was aware that there are po-
tential risks of mixing herbal remedies
and drug treatments.
The study, at the Norwegian Uni-
versity of Science and Technology
(NTNU), aims to improve the infor-
mation that doctors and patients have.
Research Fellow Silje Engdal says “Now
we know more about how many cancer
patients actually use the herbal rem-
edy, which remedies they choose and
whether they tell their doctor about it.
This information enables us to find out
more systematically which combina-
tions the patients need to avoid.”
The researchers want to enable doc-
tors to provide patients with a list of
herbal remedies to avoid in particu-
lar cases. This should help, provided
people tell their consultants if they
are taking complementary medicines.
The long-term goal is to include a list
of herbal remedies in the Physician’s
Desk Reference, a database which al-
lows doctors to check whether mul-
tiple drugs will work together and to
determine the appropriate dosage.
As herbal and Chinese medicines
will inevitably continue to be used
with Western medicines it is impor-
tant both patients and doctors have
greater awareness of possible risks as-
sociated with combining these treat-
ments. This study may be just what the
doctor ordered.
“Some
combinations of
Western & herbal
medicines are
potentially fatal”
St. John’s Wort. Not quite Deadly Nightshade, but no shrinking violet either – too much of the supplement
derived from this little number, and your new kidney transplant will be pushing up daisies
Roses are red, Viagra’s blue, and won’t be of any use to you at all if
you’re taking St. John’s Wort

