business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Business
Business Editor – Afonso Campos
Barclays’ disturbing history
A quick voyage through the household banking firm’s somewhat dubious past
Afonso Campos
Business Editor
I
do not tend to go out on mas-
sive rants and rarely do I ever
voice my opinion in such pub-
lic a manner, but not too long
ago, I was utterly bemused by a
comment regarding a fad that has been
going on for a while in the investment
world.
I was out with an old school friend
and we were kicking the old peanut
around when the conversation turned
slightly more serious and borderline
pretentious. As wine poured into his
gormandising gullet, massive amounts
of bullshit spewed out of it. He told me
he was now “playing the stock mar-
ket”. I tend to chuckle at phrases of the
sort, because more often than not, this
supposed “game” involves an under-
informed, underage kid throwing his
cash away on a whim because the name
of a particular security sounds mildly
exotic. Either that, or it reminds him
of the name of his ridiculous pet ham-
ster or stupid goldfish. Not wanting
to seem like a smug idiot, I asked him
what sectors he was into at the mo-
ment and why; “I don’t care” he replied
rather (a)pathetically, “I’ll put money
on anything that’s either carbon neu-
tral or negative. You know… because
of the thing, the whole responsible in-
vesting malarkeybob”.
Let’s sneakily skip over the fact that
the most irresponsible type of invest-
ing is the moronic kind where you have
no clue what’s going on or what you
are doing. I have a tough time com-
prehending this concept of “ethical in-
vesting”. I know it entails not touching
stocks of companies with a 10ft pole if
they are even in some remote amd pn-
scire way connected to a myriad of less
than socially acceptable endeavours.
These include, but are not limited to
companies linked to: arms, gambling,
child labour, tobacco, booze, sex indus-
try, environmentally unfriendly firms,
oil and of course, baby stealing and
trading.
What I don’t understand however,
is why you wouldn’t invest in them. I
can speculate and guess it probably has
something to do with a vain fear you
may have of being labelled a supporter
of any of the highly noble causes just
mentioned.
In all fairness, whether you invest
because you like the thrill of knowing
your decision was correct, enjoy the
academic side of trading or are just
a whore for cash, there is one goal.
This goal is that of supernormal alpha
-making more money than leaving it in
a completely stagnant long-only fund
for old grannies returning a measly
3%, or underperforming most market
averages.
If you are serious about your goal,
this concept of ethical investment
must be abandoned; markets aren’t
for sissies. They are for those who can
stomach pretty much anything, from
killer losses to insults of the most dis-
gusting kind.
Now, get off your high horse, go
make some serious bucks and make
me proud, son.
B
arclays – the 17th century
bank that has become more
than a household name.
It has become a British
institution to the world.
The name is recognised in any of the
four corners, and has been subject of
press clippings day in, day out for the
last the seven months due to the now
withdrawn bid for Dutch powerhouse
ABN Amro.
One would expect a long-standing
company with such visibility, scope,
and reach to be the pinnacle of ethics
in the world of finance. Most people
still see this facet of the well known
brand. The bank has even received a
few awards in years past due to their
supposed modus operandi with a de-
ontological code the College of Sur-
geons would probably kill for. In fact,
most people have no trouble rushing to
use all of their commercial and invest-
ment banking services through a wide
network of ‘daughter’ institutions. At
first sight, this makes perfect sense.
Barclays does after all have more assets
under management than the GDP of
some large European countries.
What most people are not aware of
though, is that the ‘can do no wrong’
financial mammoth has actually been
involved in a significant number of
massive social scandals throughout its
history. Some of them recent, others
not so much.
Most semi-intelligent, reasonably
educated and aware citizens of any
nation where information is not com-
pletely biased by the powers that be
have heard of Robert Mugabe’s oppres-
sive and corrupt regime in Zimbabwe.
Many will not however know that it is
mainly Barclays Bank (along with some
smaller houses) that is bankrolling the
rather sickening state of affairs in the
African nation. Barclays’ biggest loan
so far has aided Mugabe and close sup-
porters to take control of land owned
by over 3000 white farmers. It has also
led to the expulsion of 100,000 black
farmers from their homes and the
kicking out of over 1,000,000 people
out from the capital for opposing the
regime. This specific loan totals over
$60,000,000 and has come mostly in
the form of Barclays snapping up and
buying government paper and t-bills.
The loans so far total a staggering $1.5
billion in the first half of the year alone.
It is sad that such a figure has the effect
of dropping jaws and opening eyes, but
the insane cruelty that is going on has
not been able to do the same and press
for greater pressure from the rest of the
planet. Even Zimbabwe’s closest neigh-
bour has chosen to turn a blind eye to
the problem. We can only speculate
what is going to happen in the future,
but one thing is almost dead certain –
financial institutions like Barclays will
always play a role in helping dictators
make their doctrine and play their peo-
ple like pawns.
Barclays history of supporting tyra-
neous and destructive regimes does
not end here. About a decade ago, the
bank has been found to be financing
one of the world’s most environmen-
tally unfriendly companies – Asian
Pulp and Paper. While most people
are not terribly interested in what is
going on anywhere but where they
live, the Friends of the Earth Founda-
tion has made a difference and found
out Barclays has had direct impact and
influence in organsing and raising over
$800 million worth of loans for APP
over the period of 1990 to 1996. To put
things slightly into perspective, these
monies have helped the company tear
away over 600,000 hectares of incred-
ibly wild-life rich Indonesian rain for-
est. This is roughly five times the size
of greater London.
If that were not enough, the Bank
has recently been accused by Mem-
bers of Parliament right here at home
of essentially ripping off the National
Health Service and therefore, you, the
taxpayer. The report commissioned by
these MPs has found that the bank par-
took, in conjunction with other high
profile companies (including the pri-
vate equity giant 3i), in some pretty im-
pressive, somewhat obscure account-
ing trickery to make money seemingly
out of thin air. The head of this consor-
tium of companies successfully found
a way of increasing NHS borrowings
by more than 50% to build a private
hospital. Some leveraging, regearing
and restructuring of this extra capi-
tal meant that the group managed to
make circa £82 million extra from this
deal. Playing around with the taxpay-
ers money in such a fashion is a clear
abuse of capitalism and a down right
smack in the face of all the citizens and
workers who struggle to pay their taxes
every year.
We will not see the end of this tom-
foolery any time soon. Financial in-
stitutions play too large a part in a
country’s stability and are too deeply
entwined with policy making bodies
for there to be any real change.
A. Fields
Mr Mugabe is momentarily distracted as he notices Bombhead from Hollyoaks walk past
8 felix Friday 23 November 2007

