12 F E L I X
S i • # # N . U . S
Bias?
floom 432
Tizard Hall
Wed. list Oct.
Dear Sir,
Hall spirit in itself is not a bad thing, in fact it is no doubt very
good. However, our Halls of Residence appear to be run for this
purpose only, and not as I first understood, as an aid in promoting a
good' life for all at college.
If you want to get into Hall, then when you fill your application
form, do not admit that you take Q leading part in any of the college
societies. If you boast of your
club activity, it will be taken for
granted that you will have no time
left over to promote hall spirit—
ie. by joining the " Hall Rugby
8 " or the " Pea pushing team."
Keogh Hall is known to reject
people who do endless work for
their college, but little for hall.
In I.C. there are about 700
places in hall, for some 3,100
students; this means that at any
one time 20 per cent Are in hall.
Now a quarter of these (the hall
spirits) stay in hall for^a second
year to keep the " Pea pushing
team " together, which means that
there is only 15 per cent of new
students get into hall per year.
Last year at a Guilds Union
meeting we had a debate concern-
ing college life, and whether it
should be based on the constituent
college system as it is at present,
or on a hall's system. The meet-
ing was in favour of retaining the
present system because the ma-
jority of peole, 80 per cent are
not in hall.
If some day there is enough
places in hall for even 50 per cent
of students all the time, then I
would be prepared to accept a
system based on halls. While the
present situation prevails I think
it is grossly unfair to run the halls
for their own sake. If they con-
tinue to do so, then college life
will soon collapse...
Yours not in hall,
P. J. MOSS
Dear Sir,
May I appeal to you to be a
little more fair in your comments
and reporting. I'm sure no one
really believes, for instance, that
anyone struck a woman just for a
mascot.
Mascot whipping, if not carried
to extremes can be good fun, as a
large section of all three Unions
will agree. Breaking and entering,
letting down tyres, removing
trousers etc. have all been done
before by all three colleges.
We have suffered similarly with-
out venting our anger in print.
After your report, the staff can be
excused for refusing fresher's
dinners invitations and thinking
that we are all louts.
You failed to report that Guilds
mistook your own car for that of
an RC.S. man. The aerial was
probably broken when they
rocked it. I can't imagine anyone
just going up to it in the street and
snapping it.
I would like to have seen more
subtlety in the R.C.S. attempt to
pinch the Spanner from a flat,
especially in view of Guilds ex-
tremely cunning and inoffensive
removal of Theta from our Din-
ner. I fail to see the need for
biased reporting, however.
Yours faithfully,
C. S. EVANS
(Vice-President, R.C.S.)
A Newly
Discovered Manuscript
or A Reply to Yogi Bishop.
And let noi our collegiate royalty
Be thus unwisely slandered:
Let not citizen, bishop, still less foul mechanical,
Tamper with historic and traditional place.
Question virtue or query well-earned station.
Let our laurels show our status and our temperament.
And thou, sweet cousin Bedford, tarry awhile :
Do not abandon thy leafy and secured fortress
For new and grey if royal quarters.
For thee are not fit miners, nor mechanicals;
Those sweaty toilers should not dare even kiss
Thy long black protective boot.
Attend thou only for men of good degree,
Men fresh from a well-considered College of Life,
Bachelors yet in state if not in mind or act;
And with them only venture forth.bedecked,
Upon the neon stage of our society.
W.S.
Since these letters were received, we have been notified (hat the
NUS question will be brought up at a Union debate this year. We
feel, however, that the letters below retain their value in this new light.
Dear Sir,
Many freshers at the Societies day at the beginning of term were
puzzled to find no N.U.S. information stall. This was explained when
they found that I.C alone out of ths major university colleges is not
a member, but perhaps the puzzlement still remains in many minds.
I.C., in fact, has had a long flirtation with the question of joining
N.U.S. We did join for a very short period after the war but left
because many people suspected the political nature of N.U.S.—in
particular N.U.S. affiliation to I.U.S. Then two years ago a majority
vote in the Union was in favour of joining, but when those against
forced a re-opening of business, a very much smaller Union meeting
reversed the decision. This presumably was because the critics turned
up in force while the pros rested on their laurels and didn't bother.
Unfortunately the whole campaign, especially the reversed decision,
was fought in a bitter and unpleasant way, and there was more muck-
stirring than honest discussion.
At first sight it would seem that the advantages of joining with
a national body, that is a powerful pressure group on such matters
as grants, educational policy, teadMng conditions etc., would be over-
whelming. But, on the other hand, this would mean greater contact
and.association with colleges that have little in common with us. Again
in favour of joining, is the large number of trading concessions in
most large towns, and the cheap holidays that N.U.S. sponsors. But
on the other hand there is the cost of affiliating I.C. which would come
to about 2/- per head per year. However, the pro-N.U.S. people
point out that this would be paid by the local education authorities'
grants to I.C. Union, not be individual students. Clearly we can see
that there are strong arguments on both sides of this issue.
In the past N.U.S. has received the support of many labour M.P.s
so obviously now with a labour government N.U.S. will be in a much
stronger position to make representations and get things done on behalf
of its members. Clearly we at I.C. must carefully consider whether
we want to be associated with N.U.S. in these conditions. We must
re-open this question as soon as possible. Let us hope that this time
we can discuss it reasonably, listen to the arguments of both sides,
make a decision and stick to it.
S. JEFFERS,
Physics P.G.
The Editor of Felix,
Dear Sir,
We, the undersigned members of the Social Clubs Committee,
consider that there is an overwhelming case for I.C. applying for full
membership of N.U.S. Our reasons are :
(1) The facilities available for contact with other colleges. The
I.C. student is almost notorious for his narrow outlook—due to having
little or no contact with non-scientists. The obvious way of remedying
this is to make use of N.U.S. facilities for nation-wide conferences,
debates, competitions, etc.
(2) Although at present students can make use of agreements for
cheap travel, the facilities offered by N.U.S. are superlative. For
instance, there is a 25 per cent reduction for students travelling between
home and educatioid institutes in Europe and Africa, as well as
numerous holiday reductions.
(3) l.C. would be in a much stronger position to bring influence
to bear on the government on issues such as grants, education policy
and national insurance for students.
By joining N.U.S., I.C. students will not only gain financially
from membership but will be in a position to make positive contribu-
tion to national student welfare.
S. Jeffers of Comm. Soc.
G. Thompson of Huxley Soc.
D. Boothman of C.N.D.
T. Marklew of Soc. Soc.
M. Aslam of Islamic Soc.
D. A. Livesey of Cath. Soc.
F. S. AlBayati of Arab Soc.
Keith Guy of Con. Soc.
M. Mansfield of Lib. Soc.
I. Notley, Editor, Scrutiny
Axel Meissen of I.R.C.
B. T. Chan of Chinese Soc.
A. Dutta Roy of Indian Soc.
M. F. Hutton of Wells Soc.
J. D. Holder of Jewish Soc.

