F E L I X 13
Cattle Market
Dear Sir,
I am all for Felix containing controversial articles, but only if
the reporting contained in them is accurate. However, Peter Cart-
wright's article on the Cattle Market contained two statements, both
of which are completely untrue.
I consider his attack on Bedford College girls cheap and nasty
and more in keeping with the drivel published in the sexsational
Sunday papers
I challenge him or anyone else to prove that Bedford girls are
statistically inferior (vital or otherwise) to any other collection of the
fair sex.
The people who usually complain about the lack of talent are tlte
anti-social characters who gate-crash the dance by coning to the dance
after 10 o'clock when there are no ticket-collectors. They apparently
do not realise that all the best talent has paired off by this time, and
in any case they \have no right to grumble, having got in for nothmg.
Peter Cartwright also states that " a very few people were waltz-
ing to the strains of Phil Jennings." From the interval to the end of
the dance it was full—not everybody wishes to spend Saturday evening
in crush-hours-tube conditions.
Finally, I would like to state that, at the present time, I have no
personal connection with any member of Bedford College
Yours faithfully.
Pseudonyms
" Felix " Editor.
I am appalled, nay, horrified, by the subversive, sesationalist
tactics used by a member of your staff in writing what I can only
describe as pernicious poison-pen letters above a name which is all
too obviously false. I am reliably informed of the writer's identity
and was particularly astounded to learn of his underhand activities
in view of his responsible position on your staff
I cannot even accept his grouse as having reasonable foundation.
More attention could have been paid to his letter had he the courage
to sign it with the names by which he is known at the Registry.
I am further astounded that you, Sir, should publish such an
horrible letter; you must bear as much, if not more, of the blame as
your misguided, pseudonymous colleague.
May I state that I am quite prepared to have MY identity made
public when this policy of disguising your staff is abandoned. 1 am
sure that there are sufficient writers of sufficiently high quality and
integrity to make this policy completely unnecessary and that such
a policy should be beneath the Editor of a newspaper responsible to
the student-body of Imperial College.
I am, sir,
Yours etc.,
" Expergefaciens."
H. BAKER
Really Mr. Editor,
Even a worm can turn. Take
your "Cattle Market" corre-
spondent—please do. Methinks
he doth pretest too much. One
bursts from time to time, but why,
oh, why does Felix have to publi-
cise them.
The hop in question was specifi-
cally organized as a joint venture
with Bedford. To denigrate
those " dregs of Bedford Life "
who turned up in good faith shows
an appalling lack of taste. Felix
should be a forthright, virile organ
but surely not at the expense of
good manners. And the Editor
should be the guardian of those.
Yours,
DON LEEPER
Other letters have been received
concerning Mr. Cartwright's ar-
ticle in FELIX no. 207.
To Charity
It has been brought to the
notice of the I.C. executive com-
mittee, that a discrepancy occur-
red in the selling price of hop
tickets in the S.S. buildings on
Friday 23rd of October. This has
been investigated to the satisfac-
tion of the executive and they are
united in the belief that the over-
charging by sixpence on 29 tickets
was done without intent. The
surplus accumulated i.e. 14/6 is
being forwarded to the charity
carnival fund.
Sir,
I.C. Union,
The Jaws of Hell,
I resent the callous way in
which your Late News Editor
embarrasses lCWArians by re-
vealing the murky depths of his
private life. Whether Mr. Need-
ham wears pyjamas or not is of
little concern or interest, but it is
worth remembering that journal-
ists have been jailed for refusing
to betray their confidences. Mr.
Needham, however, distributes
his like manna to the lustful soul.
Yours SINcerely,
CERBERUS
Electronic engineers, designers, system planners and
manufacturers of aeronautical, broadcasting,
communications and maritime radio equipment,
television, radar and navigational aids
on land, at sea and in the air.
T H E M A R C O N I C O M P A N Y L I M I T E D C H E L M S F O R D E S S E X E N G L A N D
X2D

