14 F E L I X
Swimming
CLUB HAS FOTENTIAL,
BUT —
The new session has not yielded
much new fresher swimming
talent. Two notable exceptions,
however, are Walton and Tewson
who came second and third re-
spectively in the free style event
at the match against U.C. on
October 23rd. M . Dapot seems
likely to develop into a useful
'polo player. Apart from this
trio, I.C. depended on the old lags
to beat U.C. at swimming and
'polo.
A new discovery is J. Godfree
who now swims butterfly. He
easily won his race with a well-
timed dolphin stroke and his pre-
sent form should place him first
in the coming U.L. Champion-
ships. Other I.C. winners were J.
Furness (Breast-stroke) and S.
Rowe (Back-stroke). U.C. won
the Free-style and just scraped
home in the Medley Relay. Re-
sult I.C. 37 pts. U.C. *23 pts.
The 'polo match, which started
with two quick goals by Stapley
and Collins for I.C., soon de-
veloped scrappily. B. Stapeley
held superiority in the centre of
the bath and Collins (Captain)
played his usual reliable game.
Occasionally one caught a
glimpse of the old genius of
Shorty Randall. Apart from this,
however, the efforts of I.C. could
only be classed as mediocre and
the team was lucky to win 5—3.
IN TOUCH
Behind the Bar
For a number of montlis tliere has been a great
amount of criticism (little of it constructive) arid
a great deal of enquiry (with negligible results)
concerning the quality of Fullers' Beer served at
Harlington. The matter was first raised at a meet-
ing of the Athletic Ground Committee on Nov. 7th.
1963, when a tentative desire was expressed for one
alternative Keg bitter to be served. However,
Colonel Fuller took a dim view of this especially
as his brewery had financed the construction of the'
new bar to the extent of £750—a " gentlemen's "
agreement has been reached giving Fuller's a
monopoly for two years, now expired.
The matter finally reached Council on 16th Mar.
and as dissatisfaction was still expressed, a survey
was conducted amongst the students using Harling-
ton. The response was rather poor (33%) and as
a result, quickly dismissed by the Athletic Ground
Committee. However, just to keep the matter
brewing, it was agreed that a representative of
Fullers should visit Harlington and taste for him-
self. He appeared one Wednesday and proceeded
to drink only shandy! It was agreed, though, that
cask London Pride (ca. 1/9) be served as an al-
ternative to the ordinary bitter (l/6d).
There, most unsatisfactorily, the matter rests.
The whole episode is an example of the incompe-
tence of the Union to organise a case for itself
based on strong support from the majority of
Students concerned. The Union officials will surely
press for further changes, but their efforts will be
frustrated unless they are well informed as to the
general student opinions.
Only members of the Union can supply these.
Williams (left) makes
to I.C. Hockey
his return
Winter
Holidays
ARE
Snow & Sun
Holidays
Book yours through N.U.S. and be sure of student company
PROGRAMME COVERS WINTER 1964-5 AND SPRING
1965. SKIING IN AUSTRIA, FRANCE, SWITZERLAND,
ITALY, YUGOSLAVIA AND CZECHOSLOVAKIA.
Order form jor free travel booklet:
To: Travel Bureau, National Union of Students, 3 Endsleigh
Street, London, W.C.I.
Please send one copy of
WINTER SPORTS AND SPRING HOLIDAYS
Name t
Address
Date
Soccer
UNSETTLED TEAM
I.C. maintained their unbeaten
record by beating C.E.M. in the
opening league game on October
28th. This was despite finishing
the game with ten men due to an
injury to their centre-half
Grundy.
The game started at an un-
usually fast pace, with C.E.M.
keen to justify their newly-found
promotion. I.C. are still experi
menting in mid-field and as a re
LEAGUE SUCCESSES
From a Special Correspondent
The I.C. Hockey team have had two wins in
their first two league matches. The first was the
crushing defeat of L.S.E. on October 21st: the I.C.
forwards, one goal up at half-time through a
Phillips short corner, swept through the home
team, finally winning by the clear margin of 5-0.
It must be added that I.C.'s first spectator contri-
buted greatly to the margin of the win. However
his photographic talents did not match the vocal.
The second league fixture was on October 28th
versus Kings College 1st X I , at Harlington. The
pitch was extremely fast and rather springy, the
opening exchanges being marked by both sides'
inability to collect their passes. I.C. took the initia-
tive shortly before half-time when inside-right
I. Kershaw put a centre from N . Mackenzie into
the net. Soon afterwards one of King's insides
was taken to hospital with a badly cut knee.
The second half play was somewhat scrappy,
the forwards getting very close to scoring several
times, whilst at the other end the defence was
encountering problems in dealing with the very
fluid " four-man Kings " attack. In the final stages,
the loss of one man told on the
visitors' strength and the end
came with I.C. pressing hard.
This win gives the team a good
chance of winning the coveted
league trophy and much en-
couragement for the 1st round of
the U.L. Cup on November 4th
versus Westminster Hospital.
After the interval I.C. main-
tained their superiority and were
unlucky not to go ahead when a
shot from Bentham hit the up-
right. Thefirstgoal came when
a corner was forced on the right
and Batcup floated a perfect
suit the visitors began to gain centre for centre-forward Kemp
control, but were unable to pene- to head into the corner of the net.
trate the I.C. defence. Towards
half-time, however, the home side
came more into the game with
some delightful cross-field play
by Hunt and Eastell, but that
crucial, final pass to the attack
was repeatedly fumbled.
Ten minutes later from a goal-
mouth scramble, an I.C. forward
pushed the ball back to Kemp at
the edge of the area. The centre-
forward shot through a crowd of
players, the goalkeeper utterly
beaten.
The 2nrl XI drew 1-1
Dulwich 3rds
with M . Cleare attacks for IC 5th team in
their UL Cup Match against Wool-
wich 2nd.

