F E L I X 3
PET£R CARTWRIGHT AND RICHARD WALKER INVESTIGATE
THE M
E
W
S AND US
Relations between Southside and its Prince's Gate Mews neigh-
bours are now in a serious state. So many complaints about noise
and nuisance have been sent by the Mew's residents to the Hall
Wardens and to Westminster City Council that an injunction is
threatened.
Are these complaints justified ? There can be no doubt that
too many definitely are. Here are some extracts from letters received
from Mfcws residents by the Senior Warden, Mr. Stephenson, who has
done much work to alleviate this problem :
" Record-players, radios, raucous laughter, etc., enough to drive
the most patient people insane. . . ."
" For the fourth time this week, I have been woken up by your
students climbing out on the roof or into each other's rooms. . . ."
" The dust-bin lids were used as footballs and kicked the length
of the Mews. . . ."
"Missiles thrown from windows . . . paper darts . . . empty
food tins . . . milk-bottles . . . water . . ."
Injunction Pending?
Many of these letters are rea-
sonable in tone and there seems
to be little or no exaggeration. It
is unfortunate, but it seems that
College hooliganism is not solely
confined to mascot-collecting.
Westminster City Council
could ask for and probably get
an injunction against the College,
calling for the noise and nuisance
to end. If more complaints were
then received this could even
lead to the closure of Southside.
Not only would this render 400
students homeless, but woifW be
a damaging loss of prestige for
the college, which could directly
affect the welfare of every one of
its students. Thus, this problem
affects all of us.
The Problems
What
how
There are three chief problems
(1) Noise and nuisance in the
Mews.
(2) Noise from the Union,
chiefly the dining-hall.
(3) Noise and disturbance
from study-bedrooms.
The first problem has already
received attention. From 8.30
p.m. the Mews entrance to South-
side is now locked, and students'
cars and motorcycles have been
banned from the Mews. I.C.
people returning from the "Ennis-
more" etc., now walk(?) past the
east side of the Halls and enter
seems that the number of Stomps
will be limited. The matter is now
up for discussion at I.C. Council.
Noise and disturbance from
study-bedrooms can only be re-
duced by individual co-operation.
Unfortunately, an even higher
standard of co-operation is re-
quired from the people who live
near the south-facing wall of
Southside. If such people have
any number of visitors in their
rooms, they should shut the win-
dows and leave the door open
for ventilation.
Milk Bottles
Surely no one can justify hooli-
are the problems, and
can they be dealt with?
ganism, especially the dropping of
milk bottles from windows ?
Such childish, loutish action de-
serves severe punishment, and if
anyone is caught, he may well be
made an example.
The Wardens and Hall Com-
mittees are considering this whole
problem, and among their worries
is the form of punishment for
noise and nuisance offenders. At
present, there is no intermediate
form of punishment between a
mere verbal warning and the
ultimate punishment of expulsion
from Hall.
Halcyon Days
The only answer to this prob-
lem, like most, lies in com-
promise. The Mews residents
must accept a certain increase in
noise level from the halcyon days
pre-Southside. Equally, Southside
residents, especially those facing
south onto the Mews, must do all
they can to keep the noise down—
not only for their benefit, but for
the college as a whole.
In such a small space it is im-
possible to cover such a complex
problem at all fully. I apologise
in advance for any omissions and
hope that any critics will bear in
mind the main point of this article
—that students alone, especially
those in Southside, can alleviate
the problem of noise and nuisance
Only this way can we gain the
essential good-will of our neigh-
bours.
by the north side, facing the
gardens.
Mews will noi be directly at-
tributed to I.C. students, who are
certainly not the sole offenders.
Electronic Ban
Union noise seems to come
chiefly from the Stomps Last
year two Public Health Inspectors
visited a Mews house during a
Stomp, and normal conversation
was drowned by the row. Ampli-
fied equipment (electric guitars)
is now banned at Stomps, and it
COROLEE DIVE
Because of difficulties with a borrowed compressor, there were
serious doubts on Friday afternoon, 16th October, of a dive taking
place that week-end. But by 8 p.m. six members of IC Underwater
Club were on their way, bound for the eastern shore of Southampton
Water.
The base for the dive was a 30-foot cabin cruiser, belonging to
the parents of a committee member. Saturday dawned fine, and
we set in the Corolee to a spot off Sandown and Shanklin, on the
eastern coast of the Isle of Wight The choice of the site was poor as
the water was very murky ; but our diving officer made history by
being the first man, or woman, to be seasick on Corolee.
Conditions were perfect, however, for Sunday's dive off Swanage
with hot sun and calm sea. Excellent diving was found in some 40
feet of water off the Old Harry Rocks ; at the bottom visibility was
several feet and plenty of marine life was seen.
Voluntary
Service Overseas
VSO provides opportunities for qualified men and women
wanting to serve for a year or more in the developing
countries of the world.
VSO needs graduates from every University faculty for
teaching posts, medicine, agriculture, engineering adminis-
trative and social services and many other projects. VSO
is interviewing now for 1965.
VSO offers a unique chance of seeing other countries and
other ways of life to volunteers before they settle down
to a career. It presents a challenge to those who want to
make a personal contribution towards meeting real needs.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONSULT YOUR UNIVERSITY
APPOINTMENTS BOARD, OR WRITE DIRECT TO
VOLUNTARY SERVICE OVERSEAS
3, HANOVER STREET, W.l.

