4 F E L I X
tit""'" "
Theta
Congratulations to Guilds. It makes a change to see no one
squashed and mangled. The clues were good but mail from Canada
must have sunk.
Mixed Freshers Dinner
Someone tried to impose a slimming course on the ladies but
Mooney rescued the situation admirably. Far from civilising the
dinner, the ladies led the banging—a great success all round, as was
the Coffee afterwards.
Union Meeting
Minutes—Rep. resigning saying he was drunk when he was
elected—George Hulme passing round £'s to get himself elected to
R.C.S. Ents. and then Queen of Jez.
After some hesitation, inspired by their modesty, the fair maidens
underwent the ordeal of selection. After the traditional applause
level method had proved too close to be decisive, Kish suggested
that the duration of applause should be timed. Five minutes later
he was pleading for an end to the uproar before the resonant fre-
quency of the lecture theatre was reached. Finally, the contest was
judged by the age-old traditional formula (just thought up by Kish):
His scientific evaluation of the situation made Cindy Stonehill
of Chemistry I the new Queen of Jez.
Next came a grotty sketch from last year's Smoking Concert
together with a olea from Dick Smith for better scripts for this year.
Then an idiot called Evans in his Salvation Army hat addressed
the throng. He attempted to explain the slight subtle differences
between Morphy Day and the other well-known boat races.
Vague mutterings of Theta had been building up and Mr.
Fletcher voiced our feelings, the case of R.C.S. vs. Trophy officers
was adjourned so that the accused could seek legal representation.
Mr. Evans produced a copy of Sennet and revealed that thq
Royal College of Surgeons had lost their mascot. Two gentlemen in
white coats relived the dramatic scene at the operating table.
Finally the meeting was adjourned until Morphy Day.
Queen of Jez—1964/5
GUILDS - MINES
J
9.30 FRIDAY 2 0 t h NOVEMBER
(The "Roaring Twentieth"
or Black your Bottom)
FPm : " Some Like It Hot" 25/- Double.
Guildfinger
The column born of our age,
replacing the old Spannerama.
The column that gives you the
news and views of Guildsmen.
Freshers' Dinners
Up until the time of going to
press, there have been three
Freshers' Dinners. Mechanicals,
Civils and some Electrical, which
have tasted Mooney cuisine and
Howard ales. Congratulations to
the Civils for making their dinner
a perfect mixture of manners and
spirit.
Morphy Day
You will probably be reading
this just before Morphy Day. . . .
or then again, the officer may be
benevolent.
This year's Morphy Day has a
new format, which is biased
against Guilds. In order to win,
at least 300 of us must assemble
on Putney towpath to face the
combined enemy. The sport
should be lively for two reasons ;
one, the new lineup with the old
tactics ; and two, R.C.S. were a
little careless with Theta at one
of their dinners. So, here's to a
good punch-up, not forgetting all
the hard work all the crews have
put in.
Gotta Getta Theta
Two weeks ago, one of
Mooney's waitresses, disguised as
a guildsman, or vice versa, had
an unfortunate lapse of memory.
At one of the R.C.S. dinners, she
was serving the President, when
she noticed a tatty piece of bog
lying on the table. As it looked
rather obnoxious, she took it
outside and threw it away. Quite
by chance, it landed in the back
of a Guildsman's car, just as he
was driving off. Certain R.C.S.
gentlemen were so " cut u p "
about the whole affair, that
Sennet mistook them for sur-
geons. However, these gents
around the countryside, waking
vented their fury, by dashing
up young boys, old men and King
John. They were observed lis-
tening to a loop of tape, which
appeared to be a Chinese lesson
recorded backwards and inside
out. At the full moon, they
bought a tin of spaghetti in
Somerset for £5. By now they
should have that which they seek,
and it reflects much credit on the
R.C.S. Union for the way in
which they have gone about their
task. (I wonder if their trousers
are safe at Morphy Day, or if
these too will find their wav into
bondage, care of Guildfinger.)
THETA THINKERS
R.C.S. Theta Men exchanged waste paper bins with the C. & G. President
the morning atter 1 heta vanished ano pieced togetner the above clues and
answers. They thank " yogi" for his co-operation.

