F E L I X 5
Gentlemen
of the Mines
UPSET IN MINES FIRST
UNION MEETING
As the president, Des Kearns,
declared the meeting open a shrill
cry was heard from the back.
Before a stunned and well
attended meeting, Auchtourlounie
declared that the last Union meet-
ing on the 26th May was in-
quorate according to rule 31 of
the R.S.M.U. constitution. This
startled the executive for they
had all been elected at this par-
ticular meeting, filling casual
vacancies. Chaos reigned until
it was realised that Des. Kearns
could still effectively chair the
meeting as he had previously been
Vice-President elect. He proposed
elections there and then and the
executive were returned unop-
posed with Des Kearns as presi-
dent and John Taylor Vice-Presi-
dent and Robin Forbes-Jones as
hon. sec.
It was healthy to see such a
keen interest in the constitution
although it caused an adjourn-
ment until the following Tuesday.
The continuation of the meeting
again brought the gentlemen of
Mines logether. This time busi-
ness was dealt with swiftly until
the topic of " Mines Night" was
broached. Various suggestions
were put forth most of which
would have left one to doubt the
rectitude of MINESmen. The
proposal to visit the Prospect of
Whitby, a renowned hostelry in
the East End, was very popular.
Finally, our voices cried out in
unison the words " of cats " and
" Gimme-an-M."
Fresher's Dinners
Once again they are over, pre-
sumably the yard was drunk and
the songs sung few can remem-
ber, and, if the acute hangovers
experienced by most are any
gauge a good time was had by
all.
TAKES
Some two dozen Bedford girls
and fewer I.C. Males agreed at
a debate at Bedford that N.U.S. is
well worth the money spent in
membership. Bill Savage Presi-
dent of N.U.S. and Tony Berry of
U.L.U. explained the advantages
of a united student body and con-
cessions in shopping and travel.
David Reich, president of I.C.
debates and his Irish seconder
were sole dissenters.
Southside's iron cow is to be
mated with a cig machine.
The officer in charge of lady
cleaners reports that " a pressure
cooker type of thing " apparently
containing soap suds and giving
off asmell, has been in the Ladies'
Powder Room for nearly a week.
.Is it l.C.W.A.'sl
Will it all seem worthwhile 5 years from now?
At Turner & Newall a man's degree — whether
in science, engineering or the arts — couftfs
for far more than a passport to a round of
interviews. Our Training Scheme is planned
to employ all his university attainments to
the full, and to be adaptable to his individual
needs.
Just who are T & l\l ? Turner & Newall is one
of the strongest, most important groups in
British industry. With a large and growing
stake in asbestos-cement, in insulation, in
brake linings and in plastics T & N is closely
linked to all four major areas of economic
growth. To the building industry; the motor
industry; the newer plastics; and to activity in
the developing territories of the Common-
wealth . . . all adding up to a strongly expand-
ing £100,000,000 business with 36,500
employees. Overseas, with 17 companies in
10 countries.T & N has doubled its interests in
ten years.
Earlier Responsibility T & N thus offers
outstanding graduates a career of great scope,
keyed from the first to areas in which expan-
sion is at its fastest... opportunity at its best.
Moreover, under our broad and flexible
training scheme, the graduate assumes
managerial responsibility more confidently —
and certainly earlier — than is often the case in
industry today.
Note to Research Men T & N also recruits
scientists and engineers direct into its re-
search and development branches, whose
projects are particularly closely linked to the
needs of the expanding industries. Opport-
unities for supervising work with a practical
application, as well as for fundamental study,
are thus outstandingly good.
Ask your Appointments Board for further de-
tails, or write direct to: Management Appoint-
ments Adviser, Turner&Newall Ltd., 15Curzon
Street, London, W.1. (Tel. GROsvenor 8163)
TURNER £ NEWALL LIMITED mm
TURNERS ASBESTOS CEMENT CO. LTD • TURNER BROTHERS ASBESTOS CO. LTD • FERODO LTD • NEW ALLS INSULATION 8c
CHEMICAL CO. LTD • J. W . ROBERTS LTD ' GLASS FABRICS LTD • BRITISH INDUSTRIAL PLASTICS LTD 1
ETLLLTTE PRODUCTS LTD
S ASBESTOS FIBRES LTD ' AND 17 OVERSEAS MINING & MANUFACTURING COMPANIES I^HIBM
milt*

