6 F E L I X
T O T E A C H
IS T O C R E A T E
From the time of Socrates, teachers have made
at least as important a contribution to society's
progress as the statesmen, the inventors and
the artists. Their influence is now wider, their
responsibilities greater than ever before. Today
education offers a creative career of increasing
scope, in which people of ic'eas and initiative
can use their talents and attainments to the full.
Many exciting new things are happening in the
education service . . . things in which you might
take part. Ask for the new booklet, C.E.G.,
at your University Appointments Board, or from
the Department of Education and Science,
Curzon Street, London, W.1
C
O
M
M
E
M
O
R
A
T
I
O
N
Sir William Holford
speaks on Architecture
Despite the amalgamation of many scientific and
teaching institutions in the last century, there were
continuous demarcations of theory and profes-
sional practice.
One of the technologies to take this forked path
was that of Construction. But these two paths will
converge with the entry of the School ot the Archi-
tectural Association into the I.C. fold in 1967.
Modern Technology began in the early 19th
century. Professions were Emerging concerned
for the first time with machines and the applications
of scientific techniques to industry and commerce.
Above all the professional associations desired
respectability and integrity. In his inaugural ad-
dress as President of the Institute of Civil Engin-
eers in 1820, Thomas Telford observed "Talents
and Respectability are preferable to numbers."
THE ARCHITECTS
Some 16 years later, the Institute of British
Architects was formed. Until then the architect's
special function had been as an artist, for their
clients needed few drawings. As a member of the
professional association he had to be competent
simultaneously as a business adviser, technician
and artist.
The two Institutions then slowly drifted apart,
the one concerning itself with machines and con-
structions, the other interesting itself in the uses of
buildings, their style and setting. While architects
stimulated craftsmanship, engineers made great
technological contributions.
THE ARCHITECTURAL ASSOCIATION
Certain young architects were disgruntled by
their lack of education under the apprenticeship
system. They stirred a group of architectural
draughtsmen into forming the Architectural Asso-
ciation in 1847.
From the start there was sympathy between
the academic establishment of the day and the
irregular, independant and unconventional school
designed by architects for architects. The school's
future link with I.C. is not expected to destroy its
training methods or the independance which has
given it such vitality in the past. In fact, it should
strengthen these traditions, for in the words of
modern architect Mies van der Rohe, " Wherever
technology reaches its fulfilment it transcends into
architecture."

