8 F E L I X
felix
EDITOR
NEWSPAPER
OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Circulation, 1700
N. J. WALKER
ASSISTANT EDIITOR
D. I. WILLIAMS
Production Manager Alan Oxley
Sports Editor Dave Hunt
Late News Editor Ted Needham
Sales Andrew Mayo,
Jocelyn Mackintosh
Business Robin Webster,
Peter Combes,
Geoff. Bean,
Barry Pichler
Cartoonists Brian Bull,
Chris Wright
Photographers John Cawson,
Will Chorley
PRESENTATION
We have received various complaints this term on our treatment
of articles submitted for publication. Many writers expect us to print
their material literally, in spite of spelling and grammatical errors and
whether it ma^es interesting reading or not. There are grumbles,
too, at headlines verging on sensationalism.
The fact is that the Felix staff are journalists. They have to
present to the mass of I.C. students news and views on college affairs.
We believe that to do this successfully we must make every item
attract the general reader. The first essential, therefore, is an interest-
ing, snappy headline. Thefirstparagraph must continue to hold the
reader's attention if the writer is to succeed in broadcasting the whole
force of his script. ,
. Any articles wh'ch, in our opinion, are not journalistic, will be
rewritten and shortened if necessary. We will, however, publish in
part or in toto any serious article we receive by the Wednesday even-
ing preceding publication. It may be held over to a later issue.
MORPHY DAY
This can be enjoyed by all without disturbing the general public.
We can have just as much, if not more, fun debagging people on
the towpath and throwing flour all over the place as in charging to
one of the nearby tube stations and scattering the innocent bystanders.
All those who go to Putney with the constituent colleges know what to
expect. Also, the police know what to expect. But the general
public do not.
After the fiasco of a disorganised riot last year the officers of
the constituent colleges met to work out ways of improvement. They
only succeeded in improving the organisation. Surely anything that
may prevent lawlessness should be incorporated. Travel to and from
Putney in coaches, an idea that was rejected this year, would be a
first step. A n approximate timetable would be some advantage for
then the general student would know when the boat races were to
take place (the object of the exercise).
FRESHERS DINNERS
"The first-year students' formal introduction to College life.''
This was how one prominent Guildsman last year summed up
Freshers' Dinner. This year another Guildsman said they were " A
chance for second-year to have some fun ;first-yearsdon't enter into
it." The true picture of the Freshers' Dinner probably lies between
these two extremes.
In this issue Mr. Bishop writes that Staff-Student relationships have
a " We-They " attitude and that until this is changed Staff will not
queue up to pay to see them getting drunk. This year Messrs.
Bishop, Sadhvani and Kearns have made great strides in improving
the tone of the dinners and those staff who came appeared to enjoy
them far more.
The R.C.S. mixed dinner in Southside, was enjoyed by all, as
could be testified by the fact that people were chatting over coffee
until nearly midnight.
At freshers' dinners the majority of speakers can only amuse
by telling a continuous stream of dirty jokes ; spseches can attract
attention without resorting to vulgarity. Only when this has been
achieved will Freshers' Dinners be fully appreciated by the Staff.
c
o
L
A PLACE IN HALL
Every Summer, the Union Presidents nominate
some people doing important Union jobs for places
in the halls during the next session. By the begin-
ning of the session, some of these nominees have
resigned their official positions but keep their
places in hall, often for a third year. This is a
travesty of the regulations, and extremely unfair
to the many people on the waiting lists. Hall
selection procedures are obscure enough as it is—
the Union should demand to know more tacts
about these places and how they are alotted, as a
first step to throwing more light on the whole
situation.
A QUESTION OF ATTITUDE
I was astonished to hear that a staff member
thought it necessary to tell some Guildsmen how
to behave at their forthcoming Freshers' Dinner.
The Unions and older Halls have built up a tradi-
tion of responsible behaviour, without intervention
from the staff, mainly because students are treated
as adults and not as members of a glorified sixth
form. It appears, however, that there are people
who subscribe to the latter idea. We must show
them how ridiculous this is.
SWINGIN' COMMEMORATION DAY
Commemoration day, in all its antiseptic splen-
dour, has come, been and gone again virtually
unnoticed. What to do? A beat group to liven
up that dreary Albert Hall ceremony perhaps?
c
u
T
T
To add variety, the platform procession could
converge, shaking, from all parts of the building,
with one or two professors coming down ropes
from the roof. Better still, why not record the
whole thing beforehand at 16 rpm, and play it
back on the day at 78? To revive flagging interest,
a competition to see who can find the hardest
Mooney sandwich before 6 p.m., followed by a
special (conversatzione) showing of " The Silence "
(dubbed with the sound track of " Camelot").
Is it remotely possible, dare one say it, that the
Commem. Ball could be held in a slightly more
convenient and less expensive establishment?
Seriously though, the College seems to be throwing
away an awful lot of money to no purpose.
SENNET
One becomes used to the misprints and gross
inaccuracies that seem to crop up in Sennet every
time our name is mentioned. One thing, however
—why can't they call us I.C. like everyone else?
THE ASSISTANT EDITOR
WRITES. . .
on
felix
progress
You were, perhaps, as dismayed as we were at
the number of spelling errors, particularly in head-
lines, in the last issue of FELIX. Always we aim
at perfection in this sphere; but with production
still requiring the best part of a week, we cannot
afford to further delay publication without totally
losing topicality.
Changes for the better are continuously being
made. Increased advertising allowed us to embark
with the last issue on a plan whereby much of the
headlining will be done by our staff rather than
by the printer. Also we tried a new column-width,
did the setting-up four days earlier, and introduced
page one as " news in a nutshell." A l l three
plans take further steps forward in this issue.
This week-end, for chefirsttime, F E L I X was
represented at a Student Newspapers' Conference.
This was not the annual NUS event, for which we
do not qualify, but a new one sponsored by ULU.
Advice gleaned from this will be put to goad use.
As earlier statements indicate, F E L I X staff
are severely conscious of the appearance of this
newspaper. However, the most important item is
content. And that is where you can help us, for
our small staff cannot be everywhere. Just let us
know immediately what is going on, and we will
make it presentable.
One story is better covered by two people than
by no one.
D. I. WILLIAMS.

