S T A F F - S T U D E N T
F E L I X
RELATIONSHIPS
b y O.G.BISH0P
Freshers' Day has passed, with its usual work-play theme and
variations. The Freshers' Dinners have dwelt on the note that " The
staff are human after all." But after the Theme and Variations
have been played out, we note that most of the staff are not in tuns
with students and, in fact, it could be said that staff travel through
time on the treble clef, while the students follow the bma line. To
the outside observer, the music might seem quite pleasant, but in fact
the work is being played by two separate hands.
The theory of College Education tells of an integrated staff-
student system, with a dual aim of advancement of knowledge, and
development of character. The role of the staff, should be that of
friend, not that of a tutor acting in loco parentis. Many departments
seem to regard an annual Sherry Party as the ultimate in socialising,
and many so-called " personal tutors " see the solving of a few tutorial
sheets, and the answering of a few personal problems through the
year as the sum total of obligation to their tutorial group. A few
may take their tutorial group to a Hall Dinner, but their main aim
seems to be grinding the students through the education machine with
the minimum of mental mishap. Most of the staff are ignorant of
the activities of the Unions, there being, possibly, a higher percentage
of " Brown-Baggers " amongst the staff than in the student body.
Back t o Square X
It could be argued that the
students should make the first
move. Nine metallurgists took
their staff out to dinner last year
at the expense of the students.
After a week " we were back to
square X . "
We are still in the throes of
Freshers' Dinners. We, in Guilds,
usually manage to get about ten
members of staff to each Depart-
mental dinner. We are very glad
to see them there as they represent
the staff members who are inter-
ested in students. And this year
we changed the format of our
dinners so that the staff could par-
ticipate more fully. However, the
number of staff who do ask if they
may come is a very small fraction.
In Guilds we are very fortunate
it seems, because both Mines and
R.C.S. have difficulty in getting
more than two or three to their
dinners. A n R.C.S. dinner is
very pleasant to attend (Mines
dinners are a little more more
. . . er . . . lively), and I can see
no reason why so many members
of staff should find that they are
" unable to attend."
Extention of School
Too much of the attitude of the
College seems to run in the " ex
tension of school" groove, with
9-5 staff and students and very lit-
tle staff-student social integration
within the residential student
structure. Staff-student spirit
seems highest within the Civils, in
Guilds, where field courses bring
the two groups together. Within
the other departments, the Sherry
Party seems like tea with the
Headmaster.
The start of a solution lies in
the tutorial system. This ought
to be carried through the three-
year course with the accent placed
on personality development
through useful discussion of the
many hardy themes that students
are always talking about, the-aim
being to develop reasoning and
ideological standpoints, and thus,
develop character. This cannot
be done by a grotty codfish tutor
with less life and character than a
stale bun. The tutor should have
an extrovert personality if he is to
draw comment from the students.
He should have evaluated his own
ideals, and lived outside his books
and laboratory.
U n t o u c h e d b y Hand
At present, any development of
character is left to the students
themselves . . . and presumably
to the Unions. This works reason-
ably well with the people who
would socialise anyway, but it
leaves a high percentage of stu-
dents who pass through the de-
gree-box untouched by human
hand. They ride to and fro by
tube, and live for three years in
Fulham without ever having to
decide on why people tick. We,
the so-called " Officers of the
Union " are just amateurs at the
handling of students. The staff
should be professionals, having
processed so many.
I shall write later of what I see
of the function of the Guilds
Union, but we could never pro-
vide the long term mental develop-
ment and character-build-up that
the type of tutorial outlined above,
run conscienciously, would pro-
vide . . . and this is just the first
step. The next step would be
more staff living on the College
Campus in close contact with the
students.
H y p o c r i t i c a l Views
I often wonder how many of
the staff are hypocritical in their
views on students. All too often
there is the feeling of the " We-
They attitude . . . " as long as
the students don't move too vio-
lently, don't clash with the build-
ings and come regularly to lec-
tures, getting to the correct
academic level in their three years,
then we'll put up with them as a
necessary part of the college
structure."
I realise that I may have of-
fended many people in writing
this article . . perhaps damaging
staff-student relationships (if so,
it shows how fragile they are).
But I have always been taught,
first, to identify a problem, then,
suggest a solution, and finally,
implement a solution.
Who plays the next movement!
MMiliiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliilili^
1 CHRISTMAS VACATION I
WORK
Students on vacation in
L O N D O N over Christmas
are invited to apply for tem-
porary night work as Se-
= curity Officers e.uarding pro-
— perty and premises in the —
=
s Greater London area M i n i -
3 mum age 20. Higitesr refer-
8 ences."Pay from £ 1 1 lis. 6d.
to £ 1 4 18s. Od. p.w. accord-
— ing to hours worked.
Apply N O W and ensure an
interesting job with free uni-
form and fares assistance
— awaits you in the vacation. S
= Ring BRUnswick 7104 or =
= call at S E C U R I C O R , 366. ~
E Gray's Inn Road, W . C . I , for
full particulars and enrol-
— ment forms.
fiiiiiiiiiiniii!iiiiiiiiiiii!i:iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiig
Among those applauding the
stage show in the Concert Hall
last Thursday were, in the front
row from left to right, the Bur-
mese Ambassador, the last
Governor of Burma, and the wife
of the Burmese Ambassador.
Below, one of the exotic acts.
Photos by Ian Williams.
BURMESE EVENING

