MEET IMPERIAL COLLEGE
Poor Turnout by Local Residents
Jez on show at the Meet IC Day
O W E N S Y M P A T H Y
F O R S O V I E T J E W S
Foreign Secretary David O w e n has expressed support for the
work of individuals and private organisations who campaign
on behalf of h u m a n rights for Soviet Jews.
In a letter to M a r y Attenborough D r Owens Political Adviser says
that' the Government have considered carefully whether to intervene with the Soviet
Government on behalf of Boris Kalendarev, the Soviet Jewish student
adopted by I C U n i o n and recently arrested by Soviet police.
H e goes on to say that'/Ac Government have concluded that they can best help
by doing all they can to bring about a more enlightened and humane attitude on the
part of the Soviet authorities to human rights in general rather than by making
representations on behalf of individuals
• 'Private organisations and others, of course, do extremely valuable work in
drawing attention to individual cases; and I am convinced thai evidence of
widespread public concern does have an effect on the Soviet authorities ..."
'The predicament of Mr Kalendarev is only likely to reinforce public concern
about the Soviet Government's implementation of the Act, and will reinforce the
Government's determination to do everything they can to bring pressure on the
Soviet Government to improve its performance in these areas'the right of peoples
to cultural and religious freedom and freedom of movement , the letter
concludes.
conld. on back page
About 130 local residents saw Imperial College in action on
Wednesday this week when they were invited to 'Meet Imperial College'.
No effort had been spared to impress the visitors and in the event the
organisers were rewarded by success.
The aim of this public relations exercise was to enhance goodwill
among College's nearest neighbours for IC by showing them something
of what the College was doing. Residents from all walks of life received
invitations including members of the Knightsbridge Residents
Association, some of whom had been vocal in their opposition to the
proposed Linstead Hall extension.
The chief organiser Captain Lindley had miscalculated somewhat on
the numbers. He had expected around 300 people and numbers were
disappointingly low. But those who came thought the effort was well
worth while.
The visitors arrived at 4.30 and were first of all treated to tea and
biscuits in the Sherfield lower refectory to the accompaniment of music
provided by members of IC's orchestra.
At 5.00 precisely they all filed into the Great Hall where they listened
to The Rector telling them about the College, its history and activities.
Visitors were duly impressed with the scope of ICs facilities both
academic and recreational, and the Rector ranged over the various
research subjects of the department and the activities of student
societies.
After listening to the Rector the
visitors had an hour to look at the
displays set up in the J C R and the
heavy electrical and hydraulics
laboratories. Professor Laithwaite
was on hand to demonstrate his
linear motor which proved a
source of amazement to all.
Most departments had set up
displays of their work in the J C R .
A number of student societies
a l s o p a r t i c i p a t e d i n c l u d i n g
Photographic Society, Audio Soc,
STOIC, Radio Society, Art Club
and the Red Cross detachment.
Outside, Jez, specially polished
for the occasion, was popular
among the few children present.
At 6.30 the visitors moved into
the Senior C o m m o n Room for
wine and snacks. Mooney truly
excelled himself giving part-
i c i p a n t s a t o t a l l y f a l s e
impresssion of IC catering.
Every detail had been worked
out. E v e n a d r a w i n g p i n s
subcommittee had been set up to
solve the problem of obtaining
large numbers of drawing pins all
of the same colour. In the event
they failed as I observed both
white and gold drawing pins
securing the displays.
The Union also participated,
both in the guise of its societies
and as a provider of 20 guides to
help visitors find their way
around. These were equipped
with specially designed slop shirts
with the rather unimaginative
motif 'meet Imperial College'. A
lengthy argument had taken
place over whether the guides
should be allowed to keep the
shirts, but following indications
that the College was unlikely to
get them back anyway, the
organisers finally decided to let
t h e s t u d e n t s k e e p t h e m .
But on the whole 'Meet I C , the
first event of its kind in College
was a success and the visitors,
who ranged from the Director of
Studies of the French Institute to
an Irish Civil Servant who had
only come for the wine, left with
a good impression of the College:

