Page 14
R E V I E W S I
FILMS
Now, for the more discerning FELIX reader,
we present a totally new concept in review
design. You are about to experience an article
written in the novel (and enormously
expensive) process of shake-er-round. To
achieve this unique and stimulating effect
merely rock violently from side to side whilst
jumping up and down, at the same time
clutching your half open FELIX in one hand,
whilst also Which leads me to
BATTLESTAR GALACTICA (U, Glen A.
Larson)
A s u c c e s s f u l s c i e n c e f i c t i o n /
fantasy/adventure movie (delete those you
think inapplicable) shook the Film industry in
1977. Immediately the cogs engaged o n a
production line geared to exploit. First off the
line is a mammoth television series called
'Battlestar Galactica'. A 3 hour pilot show has
been cut to 118 mins (what's missing?) and
adapted for the cinema, incorporating
sensurround (a rip off I swear!) I would
approve wholeheartedly if the plot were new
and innovative but
Another galaxy, another time. Sounds
familiar. The 12 planets of humanity have
decided to end 1000 years of war with the evil
Cylons and walk directly into the inevitable
ambush. All but one of the mighty Battlestars
are destroyed and the defenceless home
planets are s i m u l t a n e o u s l y attacked.
Commander Adama (Lome Greene) collects
the survivors into a ramshackle convoy and
heads for a mysterious 13th sister planet,
steeped in half-legend etc, etc. It is, of course,
Earth. The subsequent trek (my spelling) is
the excuse for 21 hours of TV serial, like it or
not.
Commander Adama (Lome Green)
The resident baddies are adorable robot-
like creatures who speak with the dulcet
tones of an electric razor, brandish plastic
swords, and have this annoying urge to kill off
h u m a n i t y . T h e i r m o s t e n d e a r i n g
characteristics also include being almost
everywhere at once and being lousy shots,
providing endless target practice for our
heroes. These are Lt Apollo, son of Adama,
a n d Lt. S t a r b u c k , a cigar s m o k i n g ,
womanising, gambling, happy-go-lucky
maverick. To quote Larry Grayson, " S u c h a
nice boy!' The love factor is introduced by
Serina, a widowed mother, whose son, Boxer,
has lost his pet 'daggit' (a dog ingeneously
disguised as a dog). A robot replacement
called Muffit naturally becomes a sort of
intergalactic lassie. It still looks like a monkey
in a fur coat.
At last, the cavalry. The film's saving grace
is the work of special effects-wizard John
Dykstra. Even his superb opticalsare marred
by the fact that they were really designed for
TV and do not necessarily translate well to the
big screen. Well there is not much else to
relate except that even though I was
disappointed, the film was still enjoyable. I
just can not seem to reconcile this dribble
with my belief that science fiction must not
just be perverted into simple 'cowboys and
indians', however much fun that may be.
Despite this, for a film which has achieved
about as much critical acclaim as 'Watch with
Mother', it is doing amazingly well at the box
office - £59,000 in its first week alone. Many
thanks to Chris Harris for the cartoon.
WHAT Vt> YOU »*eHN -»0W»OWT L..KE V
T ?
-BEA-JH WO Vo^ <,AY l x
*- —
The next bit
Following the success of Star Wars a whole
host of films of that genre are soon to hit us. In
my mind one of the most promising is a movie
version of Star Trek, due for release at
Christmas. It stars the original cast plus a
new captain for the Enterprise and a bald
headed woman as 'number one'. Kirk is now
an Admiral, but when a huge tapioca cloud
threatens earth he is recalled from a desk job
to save all. Great stuff. Another promising
picture is Alien, which has the look of
Kubrick's "2001: A Space Odyssey", from the
pictures I have seen. Disney are also in the
hunt with an epic called The Black Hole.
Apparently a record number of mattes have
been used to create the 150 special optical
effects used. Frank Herbert's Dune, trilogy is
being adapted in some form and also
Asimov's I Robot. Sir Lew Grade follows up
'Capricorn One' with Saturn 3. O h no!!!!
From the rest I would point out two major
follow ups. Firstly The Empire Strikes Back
(Star Wars 2 is way too simple for George
Lucas) which could be brilliant now that even
more funds are available. Also we have the
promised Superman 2, which could be fun.
These will not be ready until the new year, but
in-between we have the new Bond epic
Moonraker. Roger Stotesbury's tip would
easily be Stanley Kubrick's The Shining, after
having raved about the novel by Stephen
King. When I discovered Jack Nicholson is
starring I could only agree. A n interesting
remake called Nosferatu will shortly be
released. This is Werner Herzog's adaptation
of the dracula legend and could make one of
Europe's most promising directors an
international figure.
Keep a special eye open for two very fun ny
films. From America we will soon see The
Kentucky Fried Movie, from the director of
'Animal House'. Although dull in places this
had me in stitiches. Also there is Monty
Python's The Life Of Brian. This should be
released in the Summer and is guaranteed to
raise more than a smile.
Mark Smith
One of the Cylons
FINAL SCORE
Cylons 12
People 1
R E C O R D S
SUPERTRAMP - BREAKFAST IN AMERICA
Supertramp are a band with an enigmatic
quality. What is it? Well, if I knew, it would not
be an enigma. Initially shot to fame and
fortune and the dubious influences that
success brings with the 'Crime of the
Century' album in 1974, they have since kept
a distinctive, melodic, slightly orchestral
sound that falls short of elaborate sympho-
rock, but stands a cut (or ten) above Pop.
Everybody knows the name, and most
people, when up against the wall, will
probably admit to liking their songs. Yet can
anyone who is not an ardent fan name one of
the band? When did they last tour? Are they
British or American? Do they in fact exist?
They're hardly obscure - the new album shot
into the charts in the top 10 in the first week of
release.
Which reminds me - what about this new
album. This is the second that Supertramp
have produced since 'relocating' in America
(from England), and seems in some ways to
reflect in the lyrics some of the emotions,
anxieties and so on of moving lock stock and
barrel to another country. This is not to say
that Supertramp's lyrics are particularly
profound or affecting - in fact they really do
not stand much examination. A s with their
previous albums, it is the distinctive style of
the two vocalists and the use of strong
refrains that keeps the songs from being
more than instrumentals with singing. The
band have always been pretty strong on the

