Page 15
LONDON WINS AGAIN
The University of London Men's 1st team retained the relay trophy for
a second year at the British Universities Sports Federation Orienteering
Championships held during the Easter vacation.
The 3 man team consisting of Steve Kirk (IC), David Rosen (IC) and
Richard Gardner (Barts) all ran very well managing to beat their nearest
rivals, Oxford University, by almost 3 minutes.
Steve Kirk sprinted round the first 8km leg in 41 minutes 23 seconds
coming in third behind Southampton and Reading Universities. David
Rosen then took over and ran the fastest second leg of the course in 42
minutes 46 seconds putting London in the lead. He was followed by
Richard Gardner who ran the third leg in 41 minutes 35seconds putting
London well ahead.
The forest of Burnham Beeches was the venue for the event which was
organised by the University of London Orienteering Club. The London
Womens team, consisting of Frances Lumb (Royal Holloway), Sonia
Hochfelder (IC), and Helen Pyle (QEC), did well to finish fifth in the
womens relay although this is a drop from last years second place.
The London University men won more prizes last Sunday when they
came third at the British Relay Championships (which includes non-
university teams) at Swynnerton Old Park in Staffordhsire.
Steve Kirk was the second to finish on the first leg, finishing the 6.8km
course in a fast 38 minutes 11 seconds. David Rosen running second
had a good run but dropped two places to fourth. Richard Gardnertook
over to bring the team up to third place.
The team was frustrated to learn that the race had been won by
Oxford University whom they had beaten a month previously. A team
from Bristol came second.
Steve Kirk is to be Captain of IC Orienteering Club next year. His
nomination which was unopposed was accepted at the clubs Annual
General Meeting last Friday. Steve is a very experienced orienteer who
came to IC last October as a physics postgraduate after studying at and
running for Reading University. Ken Warren will be the Clubs treasurer
and Nigel Ward is to be publicity officer.
Orienteering continues throughout this term, despite exams, with a
full programme of Sunday events and several Wednesday afternoon
events. Particularly recommended is the event at Burnham Beeches on
May 13th. The forest is very fast and pleasant orienteering terrain and
closeto London. Further details can be found on the club noticeboard in
the Union building entrance lobby or at the clubs Friday lunchtime
meetings. Beginners are always welcome and the Wednesday
afternoon events are especially suitable for anyone wishing to take up
orienteering for the first time. Sonia Hochfelder
IC Vths 11-1 Kings IVths
O n the final Wednesday of last t e r m IC Vths played what
should have been their last league game of the season. This
produced a truly emphatic eleven goal rout of an obviously
outclassed K i n g s IV team
The m a t c h was also significant in that it m a r k e d the final
appearance of one of IC's finest footballers; a skilful ball-
playing and 'fair' tackling defender who has oftened been
compared to Franz Beckenbauer, I a m , of course, referring to
Peter Twigg.
It was only fitting that in his final game Peter T w i g g should score
probably the best goal ofthe game when he ghosted past two defenders,
and sent an unstoppable shot into the top corner ofthe net out ofthe
keepers reach (Twigg 2-0). This followed a fine goal by M o Misra, to
open the scoring, when he latched onto a through ball by Steve K a y e
round the keeper and cooly slotted the ball home. W i t h J o h n Healy
adding a third goal when the keeper dropped the ball, Kings were
looking fairly disorganised and though they did pull back a goal just
before half-time, their only chance of avoiding defeat seemed to be the
weather which was rapidly deteriorating. Their prayers seemed to be
answered when with three minutes of the half remaining the players
were called off due to a heavy hailstorm.
Unfortunately for Kings not as possible,
only was the game restarted after
a twenty minute delay but by
then they only had seven men
(four others having already
showered and changed). The
fifths facing only seven men soon
took control of the game and the
Kings goalmouth was under
constant siege for the whole ofthe
second half. This resulted in a
further seven goals for IC,
amongst these was a fine penalty
by C y r i l Knowles, his first goal for
IC, and A l Cable miskicking the
ball between the goalkeepers legs
for his goal, after a brilliant run by
D a m i o n Kelly. In the final
minutes it was pleasing to see that
one member of the fourths.Steve
Veats, came across to cheer the
fifths on, the others obviously
prefering to get to the bar as soon
Before the final whistle was
blown there was time for both M o
Misra and J o h n Healy to
complete their hattricks for
Dennis Cook to score two and
someone whose name escapes me
to miss a penalty.
Team: Russ Gilbert, Steve have, Cyril
Knowles, Giles Brerelon, Pete Twigg,
Damion Kelly, Al Cable, Dennis Cook,
Mo Misra, Lewis Roberts, John
Healy.
PS. This was to have been the last
fifths game but due to weather
interference only sixteen games
were played by the fifths and they
will be relegated unless they play
another two games, and lor this
reason a double banker has been
arranged against C h a r i n g Cross
Hospital on Wedensday M a y 9th.
R E V I E W S I
instrumental side, boasting an excellent
drummer, an imaginative use of keyboards,
and the woodwind skill of John Anthony
Helliwell on assorted saxes, whistles, and
other oral devices.
All these qualities are present on 'Breakfast
in America', although perhaps in a subtely
different form than previously. In the past,
people may have been scared away from the
band by the apparent magnitude of their
compositions. As far as I know, they have not
yet written a rock opera, but there are plenty
of 6/7 - minute tracks knocking around. O n
the new album the songs have become more
condensed, giving a tighter blend of vocals
and instrumentals that brings down the
length of the songs whilst keeping the
product typically Supertramp. 'The Logical
Song' is a good example of this, as is
'Goodbye Stranger'.
In general terms, this album has a great
deal to recommend it - it is a progression for
the band and a rewarding earful for the punter
- catchy tunes, interesting arrangements and
an overall gloss of good production make it
impressive the first time round, and it stands
the test of time very well; my copy is only six
weeks old and wearing out fast, but the music
does not bore me yet. Supertramp will be
touring Britain later in the Summer, and I
fancy that this album will attract a new
audience on top of the diehards. It certainly
deserves it.
Simon Milner
"Go and Review a bad concert", they said, "It
will be good practice tor you." So one
Saturday evening six thousand fans
converged on the Wembley airship hanger
and one sceptic went along for the ride not
expecting much in return for his £3.50.
Nine million people had bought one of his
records, so what better example could you
find of an overrated boring old hippy
preaching to the converted. Surely this would
give full scope to the nasty reviewer.
It started off at the entrance, "come and
buy the programme of the tour of the album
as commemerated on the badge, T shirt or
poster'. Anyone would think they were after
your money. But no, a free gift is distributed
to the hoards; your very own Mike Oldfield
european tour commemorative dart. Great -
the highlight of the night perhaps?
E v e n t u a l l y e v e r y o n e w a s s i t t i n g
comfortably so they began; a 22 piece rock
and string orchestra with an 11 piece choir,
hardly a small affair. Then a man in a white
suit came on and started to play a guitar. The
people at the front applauded so I suppose it
was the man himself but unfortunately I'd
forgotten my binoculars.
His friends then joined in and they started
playing Incantations, the sound was perfect,
the production exquisite, the musicianship
flawless. The music was not bad either. In fact
it was nice, very nice. So nice that one
member of the audience fell asleep. Twenty
minutes later slumber was interupted by a
lady singing. Maddy Prior was singing the
poem Hiawatha; her voice was crystal clear
and worse still the music had suddenly
c h a n g e d a n d b e c o m e enjoyable a n d
interesting. Incantations then ended and
being considerate souls the musicians left so
we could go and spend our money. A few
people queued for the priviledge the rest
played with their paper planes.
Mike and his mates returned, played three
notes and the crowd went wild. Yes this was it
'Tubular Bells', the ultimate in mankind's
many achievements; the one and only rock
symphony, at least according to my
n e i g h b o u r . A l m o s t e v e r y o n e c l a p p e d ,
stamped, bopped, or jigged along with the
beat. One member even managed the odd
twitch and didn't fall asleep at all. The shapes
on stage began to move and even looked like
humans.
I suppose I'll have to be honest, it was
enjoyable, even the new blatently trendy
disco single and the silly traditional sailors'
hornpipe.
The high standard of musicianship and
sense of occasion was just too much and they
deserved all the praise they got. Maybe next
week will I find that illusive bad concert when
Public Image appear in secret gig fiasco
report.
P.S.

