Day By Day
A ROUND-UP OF LAST W E E K ' S NEWS
P a g e 5
Wednesday 25th • Friday 27th
No Violence at NF Rally
Around 3,000 police were drafted into the
East End to stop a confrontation between the
National Front and extreme Left-wing
opponents. Meetings of the National Front at
Newham's Town Hall and the Anti-Nazi
League, a short distance away, resulted in
police organising what one senior police
offical described as 'our most extensive
public safeguarding operation ever.'
Guerrilla killed by own bomb
A patriotic Front guerrilla was killed when
the bomb he was attempting to plant in
Salisbury exploded. The bomb was believed
to be a Russian T M 36 landmine.
£2M Salmon Bill
Last year's botulism poisoning case in
which two people died after eating a tin of
John West salmon is estimated to have cost
the parent company, Unilever, around £2
million in 1978, according to the chairman of
the comapny. John Wests sales are still
running at only 60% of their previous levels.
Thursday 26th
Nuclear Ostriches attacked.
Nuclear power is still the salvation of
Britain's prosperous industrial society, in
spite of recent criticisms, according to the
chairman of the United Kingdom Atomic
energy Authority.
He said that there were "far too many
ostriches in our society" who believed that
Britain could continue living o n "a buried
treasure of fossil fuels" for ever.
Vanishing people
Several reports, this week, indicate an
increase in confirmed cases of teleportation.
Throughout history people have disappeared
without trace, sometimes in the most bizarre
and baffling circumstances imaginable.
The Argentinian newspaper Diario da
Cordoba describes an experience which
happened to a local businessman. H e had
been staying at a hotel in the town of Bahia
Blanca. O n e morning he left to visit some
business clients. He got into his car in the car
park and started the engine, and was just
about to drive away when a cloud appeared to
envelop him, shielding him and obscuring his
vision of everything.
His next recollection was the image of a
deserted country road and then he found
himself standing alone on the road. He was
frightened and confused but he succeeded in
flagging down a passing lorry and asked to be
driven to Bahia Blanca. The driver replied that
it was a 600 mile journey. Instead he arranged
to be driven to the nearest police station
where a quizzical station officer decided to
check the story and phoned the Bahia Blanca
police. They rang back confirming that not
only had an officer found the man's car still in
the parking lot with the engine ticking over
but a crowd of curious onlookers were
debating what had happened to the
disappearing driver.
Pilot dies to save village
A n American pilot was kiled after
struggling to prevent his blazing Phantom jet
plane from hitting the village school of
Lealholm in North Yorkshire, where 55
children were having lessons. Instead of
trying to eject to safety, the pilot, Major
Donald Schuyler, stayed at the controls and
swung his plane towards the only gap in the
village.
Wilson's disclosures cause anger.
Sir Harold Wilson angered the Prime
Minister and other leading members of the
Labour party by praising Mrs Thatcher's
talents in a newspaper report in which he was
quoted as saying that his wife might vote for
Mrs Thatcher.
Saturday 28th
New Snooker Champion
Terry Griffiths won the World Snooker title
after winning the last nine out of ten frames
against Dennis Taylor. He collects £10,000
prize money. Griffiths went from 15-15
overnight to a 22-16 lead and into the final
session needing only two more frames.
Painless Yoga Dentistry
Dr Ashwan Barot practises an ancient and
now little-known form of yoga called
jalandarbandh, used by Hindu medics 5,000
years ago to "tranquilise" their patients.
Watched by a Harley Street dental surgeon,
Dr Barot demonstrated his skills. T h e
patient's head was covered by a towel and
then rocked gently up and down, and from
side to side stopping abruptly. Dr Barot
gripped the tooth with the forceps and pulled
it out. This was repeated with two other teeth -
the patient apparently felt no pain. He said
that he felt fine, and that "it didn't hurt a bit. It
was as if my jaw wasn't there."
Sunday 29th
Shirley Williams and the school unions
The second biggest teaching union took
steps to serve a High Court injunction against
Mrs Shirley Williams, Education Secretary.
The Government is accused of having forced
local authorities into breaking the law by
interfering with teacher pay negotations and
preventing them going to arbitration.
Mob stops Euro Times
500 extremists prevented publication of the
proposed new European edition of the Times
when they beseiged the Frankfurt works
where it was to be printed. A B B C reporter
was threatened with a knife, cars were
damaged and petrol-soaked rags were
pushed through a vent so that they might
catch fire if the compressor started up.
However officials state that copies have
been printed at an undisclosed printing
works and it is hoped that the Euro Times will
be in full production within the week^
Monday 30th
Now Labour lead by 0.7%
For the first time in the election campaign
Labour edged ahead. A National Opinion Poll
in the Daily Mail shows that 43.1% of people
interviewed said they'd vote Labour. 42.4%
would vote Tory and 12.2% Liberal.
Conservatives lose election
No matter how the electorate vote in
Leiston, Suffolk, the Conservatives will lose
control of the council ... because officials
blundered and forgot to put forward any
nominations for the party.
Long campaigns, short prices
The election campaign has been too long
and still people don't understand what each
party really stands for. The predictions have
been further complicated by the teacher's
dispute which could give the Conservative s a
last minute bonus.
W h i c h e v e r party w i n s t h e e l e c t i o n
Ladbrokes, the bookmakers, aresuretomake
a large profit on the record number of bets on
this election. Their prediction which is the
basis for all their election prices is that there
will be a 28 seat overall Conservative
majority. 8 Liberals, 6 S N P and 12 Ulster
Unionists and one Plaid Cymru.
Tuesday 1st
Job apartheid to end in South Africa
The South African Government acted
today to end apartheid o n the factory floor
and in offices and anywhere else where
blacks and whites work si.de by side.
The Wiehahn Commission of inquiry into
industrial relations regulations released its
first report urging that every vestige of
apartheid should be scrapped.
Auckland students send up Maoris
M a o r i s a n d Pacific Islanders were
extremely upset with A u c k l a n d University
students who 'performed' traditional dances
at a university event. Angry Maoris clubbed a
student on the head with an iron bar, and
others had cuts, bruises and bloody noses.
Miami radar units detect speeding trees
Evidence taken from radar units to convict
drivers of speeding has been accepted bythe
Miami courts for 25years. The machines have
now proved to be extremely unreliable O n e
police radar unit indicated that a stationary
palm tree was moving at speeds up to 86mph,
and a wall at 54 mph. A n ordinary-looking
house was idling along at 28 mph.
Quiet day for Jubilee line
"The public didn't seem to know that the
Jubilee line was there" said one spokesman.
The line opened to the public today. Students
at Imperial could benefit from the link from
Baker Street to Green Park changing to the
Picadilly for South Kensington. However the
interchange at Green Park involves using
several escalators.

