Page 10
N E W H O R I Z O N Y O U T H C E N T R E , A G M .
Last Friday, 27th April, saw the Annual General Meeting of the New
Horizon Council, the governing body of the Youth Centre. New Horizon
(NH) is a day centre for young people drifting in the West End. They
offer advice and a specialist referal service to these young people and
for their more regular visitors they have a workshop where they offer
some practical experience. They also offer some assistance in literacy
and numeracy. The meeting was chaired by Lord Longford and
attended by about 60 council members, workers and volunteers. After
rushing through the preliminaries with great speed we arrived at items 6
and 7 on the agenda, the 'presentation of the annual report' and the 'Co-
ordinators report'. Both of these were presented by the Co-ordinator
John Rodgers, and what followed was a very graphic talk on the
problems and attempted solutions to the problem of drifting youth in
London.
No one can deny that there is a problem with youth homelessness in
the West End. Its persistance can be seen in the fact that last year was
the tenth since the establishment of NH. The numbers involved fell to a
minimum in 1975/6, possibly as a response to the television program,
'Johnny go Home", July 1975, but have since crept back up, reaching a
new peak in 1978. The drug abuse problem still exists although its
pattern has changed from predominantly narcotic and intravenous to
the oral mixing of pharmaceuticles, illicit drugs and alcohol.
The majority of these youths still come from the North, Scotland and
Ireland, driven by unemployment to try their luck in London, but as the
recession begins to hit the traditionally more prosperous SE the
numbers from this area begin to increase, reaching 21% of the total in
1978.
There have also been considerable changes in the housing scene in
recent years, mainly due to the governments ill-conceived legislation.
There has been increased provision > for short term accommodation,
mainly government reception centres but this has been more than offset
by the fall in private sector accommodation, exacerbated by the
increasing costs, tourism and the use ofthe 'holiday Let'. The 'Housing
Homeless Persons Act (1977)' made no provision for young single
people except in the special cases of pregnant women and the
handicapped. At the same time, the 'Criminal Law Amendment' made
squatting, previously an important source of housing to NH's clients, far
less attractive. The prospect of fines of up to £1000 or 6 months in jail for
displacing a residential occupier serve to put most, but not everyone,
off. Most local authorities won't place single people on their housing
lists until they have passed a certain age, Barking - 25 years, Newham -
45 and Reading, not until they have reached retirement. All in all,
homeless young people with ho secure job face little prospect of
settling down in society. The near impossibility of progressing into the
private sector has 'bottle-necked' the short-stay and emergency
accommodation provisions. The newly-arrived youth therefore has no-
where to go and quite often ends up sleeping rough.
THE PARENTS OF THE IC DAY NURSERY
ARE ORGANISING A
Jumble Sale, Stamp Sale
and Home Made Sale on
18th May.
Please can you collect jumble
and give it to:
A n g e l a B a g u e n a R m 8 1 , O l d B l d g . C h e m .
S u e T h o r n e t t D a y N u r s e r y
J a n i c e Y e a d o n . . . L y o n P l a y f a i r ( L e v e l 4)
S a n d r a D a w s o n R m . 4 3 1 , 5 3 P r i n c e s G a t e
C O N T R I B U T I O N S of Home Made crafts, jams,
cakes etc. will be very gratefully received. Please
deliver to the people named above before 18th May.
For someone in this situation, with no permanent base, it is very
difficult to remain presentable, sleeping in one's only set of clothes does
not endear one to a prospective employer, and in fact NH provides a
store where people can leave a few possesions. There are also facilities
where they can have a wash and a shave to make themselves more
presentable. Some may even use the video equipment to practise their
interview technique. For the more regular visitors they offer training in
literacy and numeracy as well as workshop facilities. Here people can
gain experience in working with wood or making pottery and the
experience of creating something, like a chair, which they will be able to
see in use around the centre, can give them a much needed sense of
achievement. Another problem of being unemployed for so long is that
one begins to lose confidence in ones ability to hold a job when
obtained, something that also worries prospective employers. This can
quite often be overcome by placing people on a TOPs scheme, sticking
the months out is an achievement in itself and the skills acquired are
useful. NHs aim can b.e summed up quite simply in the desire to give
their visitors a sense of purpose in their lives and to stop them from
drifting into the more permanent homelessness sub-culture that is also
present in London.
In the future NH faces many financial difficulties and the prospect of a
reduction in staff. The means of financing, in that most of their money
comes from statutory grants which are usually made on a year by year
basis makes long-term predictions uncertain. The most important goal
is for an improvement in housing provisions as once people have
somewhere permanent to live many of the attendant problems
disappear and progress can then be made on those that remain.
Unfortunately, until we see some dramatic upturn in the economy, or
even less likely, a radical change in peoples ideas on unemployment
and poverty, I can't see any significant improvements taking place.
Just to close, if anyone is interested in finding out more about these
problems or the history of NH, I have a few copies of the Annual Report
which you can look at. Also, NH can use volunteers on Sunday
afternoons just to be friendly with the visitors, maybe help them with a
little art work. The number of the centre is (01) 242 0010.
Thank-you. John Whitehouse. Chem PG Int 4162
J-SOC PR£StltTSi
W H O
N E E D S
J E W S ?
C L I V E L A W T O N
(Board of Deputies)
Tuesday 8ra
May t-O0pM Maths. 340

