CFELIX;
College Refectory Supremo Victor Mooney is retiring in May
after over 30 years in his position. Although his cuisine is widely
regarded as inedible by many students and even staff, his
stature as gourmet, chef, bon viveur and wit is immense.
Bearing this in mind, FELIX decided to find out some of the
culinary secrets of the old master.
FELIX: Mr Mooney, before you retire, are there any secrets
recipes that you would like to pass on to students?
M O O N E Y Well, when I was a lad, there was one very nutritious
ingredient that everybody used, though it seems to be largely
forgotten now...perhaps you could call that a secret...I'm talking
about tadpoles of courses...
FELIX Tadpoles! You've got to be joking!
M O O N E Y : I thought you'd say that, but then you young people
just don't know what it was like, in the wars for instance...Of
course, the thing with tadpoles is the season is very short, round
about now as a matter of fact. You've got to use young tadpoles,
the jet black wriggly kind. The older they get, the tougher they
are, and then you know, they turn into frogs and they're useless
for anything except frogs' legs. You're best to catch them
yourself naturally, in a pond or perhapsthe Serpentine, and just
keep them in a jam jar till you need them. And of course, the best
thing for you poor students is, they're free'.
FELIX Isn't this tadpole cuisine a bit cruel?
M O O N E Y : No, I wouldn't say that. You just look at how many
tadpoles a frog produces—If they all grew up into frogs we'd be
up to our eyes in 'em and that would never do, well I suppose we
could serve them to the French. No you'll see, I'll give you some
recipes and then you'll understand. Delicious!
Mr Mooney then went on to give recipes for a complete
dinner, all based on this unique ingredient.
A vocado Cribbage Surprise
3 ripe avocadoes
small green pepper
small red pepper
4 oz mushrooms
tadpoles to taste (when out of season, use sultanas)
Olive oil
White wine vinegar
garlic
serves 6
Finely chop 'he peppers and mushrooms. Place equal
quantities of oil and vinegar with a finely minced clove of garlic
in a screw-top jar and shake well. Dress chopped vegetables in
this vinaigrette, and then carefully fold in tadpoles.
Cut avocados in half and remove stones. Spoon mixture into
the holes. Chill and serve.
Tadpole Quiche
4 eggs
4 oz Cheddar cheese, grated
1
/4 pt milk
1
2 lb mushrooms, chopped
4 oz tadpoles, (replace with more mushrooms when out of
10
season)
1 pkt frozen pastry
salt and pepper
Beat the eggs, add the milk and cheese and combine
thoroughly. Add salt and black pepper and the mushrooms and
tadpoles.
Roil out the pastry and line medium sized flan dish with it.
Pour in the filling and bake in a moderate oven for 20—30
minutes until firm and golden.
Banana and Tadpole Risotto
1
/2 onion
3 mugs brown rice
2 bananas
4 oz tadpoles, (replace with sultanas when out of season)
Walnut pieces to garnish
olive oil
serves 6
Place the rice in a large pan, cover with water and swish it
around. Pour off the cloudy water, continue washing the rice in
this way until the water remains clear. Pour the rice on to a clean
cloth on top of some layers of paper to drain. Meanwhile chop
the onion and fry in oil in a large pan. Add the rice and fry for a
couple of minutes, coating all the grains. Add 6 mugs of cold
water, bring to the boil and simmer, covered, until all water has
been absorbed (usually 30—40 minutes). Gently mix in slices of
banana, walnuts and tadpoles.
Blackcurrant and Tadpole Sorbet
8 oz frozen blackcurrants
2 egg whites
1 tablespoon tadpoles
4 oz white sugar
lemon juice
Boil the sugar in one cup of water for ten minutes and leave to
cool. Boil the blackcurrants for ten minutes in a little water and
pass through a sieve. Mix the syrup, fruit and lemon juice to
taste. Pour mixture into a freezer container and freeze till just
firm. (1—2 hours). Whisk the egg whites until stiff, fold gently in
to the mixture and mix in thoroughly. Now add the tadpoles
carefully and make sure they are evenly distributed. Freeze for a
further 2 hours.
Mr Mooney says 'This is a wonderfully tasty and nutritious
dessert'. Allow the sorbet to thaw just a little before serving. If
you're lucky, some of the tadpoles revive and start to wriggle
around in the sorbet. Delicious!
To finish: Grenouille Marnier, a French liqueur based on
oranges and tadpoles, and coffee.
And then FELIX asked the burning question which has been
on every student's mind for decades...the secret of Sole
Mooniere (coelacanth and chips), the fish dish first introduced
into the refectory repertoire by Mr Mooney and since copied in
universities and colleges throughout Britain. Mr Mooney was at
first reluctant to reveal the secret of this famous creation, but
after beng reminded that the method could be lost forever, he
complied.
M O O N E Y It's esential tc start with fresh fish, which hasn't been
filleted or skinned, otherwise the dish will be ruined. Obviously
the first step is to skin and fillet the fish yourself. Use a sharp
knife and it's not as difficult as it sounds. Discard the flesh, and
wrap the rest in a square of cardboard about 6" square.
(Cardboard is very rich in fibre, that's why I use it in many of my
dishes). Finally, dip it in the batter and deep fry until it's quite
hard. It keeps for days.
FELIX Why do you think this dish is so popular?
M O O N E Y : Well, it's got bones, which are full of calcium, it's got
skin, and we all know that all the goodness is in the skin. And, as
I've said, it's gc' ':
bre. Finally, there's next to no meat in it. That
should please ail the health freaks! And whatever you do, don't
spoil it with chips, you students eat far more chips than are good
continued on page 94
FELIX
Wednesday 20 March 1985

