Welcome to the Easter bumper edition of the puzzles column.
As before there will be £5 prizes for each of the puzzles plus a
£5 prize for those solving all of the puzzles who will
automatically have each of their solutions entered for the
individual prizes.
The first puzzle was invented at the start of this century by H E
Dudeney. In my opinion his puzzles were all of a standard of
elegance and originellity as yet unsurpassed.
This was his most popular puzzle, needless to say it is unlikely
to be new to the experienced puzzler.
3 0 FT.
As shown a spider is at the middle of an end wall, one foot
from the ceiling. The fly is on the middle of the opposite wall one
foot from the floor.
What is the shortest distance the spider must crawl over the
walls in order to catch the fly?
G R A D E TWO
Here it is then, the moment you've all been waiting for, your
chance to show your superiority; here is the puzzle I can't do. It
is a varient of the latter puzzle,from Maurice Kraitchik.
Eight spiders start from a spot 80 inches above the centre of
one end wall of the rectangular room. They take eight different
routes to reach a fly that is 80 inches below the centre of the
opposite wall. Each spider moves at a speed of 0.65 mile per
hour, and at the end of 625/11 seconds, they all arrive
simultaneously at the fly.
What are the room's dimensions?
G R A D E 5
In this sentence the number of occurences of the number 1 is
blank, of 2 is blank, of 3 is blank, etc.
A second sentence is identical but that it begins with the
number nought rather than the number one.
Find the length of the sentences and the missing numbers
given only that your two answers have an identical number of
fives yet a different number of fours.
G R A D E 4
PUZZLESD
The last puzzle is the result of a number of requests for a
purely geometrical puzzle.
Prove that A + B = C without using trig.
G R A D E 3
Best of Luck
The eight different solutions to last fortnight's puzzle are
given by flipping each of the three ambiguous pairs of cubes in
the diagram below.
There were fifteen solutions of which an all time high of four
were wrong. Of the remaining eleven the lucky winner was R
Sharp from Computing who may collect his £5 cheque from the
FELIX office after Wednesday.
FELIX Wednesday 20 March 1985 11

