CLUBS!]
PHOTOSOC
Och ave the
noo, Jimmy!
It was a bright sunlit Friday afternoon when
the Photosoc committee went up to the
Union Office to see if there was any mail in
the letter-rack and, to our delight and
amazement, we found a huge parcel
addressed to us, with the words OMEGA
C760 MODULAR SYSTEM printed on the
side. We could hardly contain our excitment
(misprint). After what seemed like years of
banging our heads against a brick wall, we
had finally achieved something concrete
(well, die-cast aluminium actually). For those
of your who haven't got the foggiest idea of
what I am talking about, we have just taken
delivery of a new colour enlarger, which is
now in the old darkroom waiting to be used.
It is Berkey-Omega C760 modular unit with a
voltage-stabliised dichroic colour-head. It's
big, black, beautiful and very expensive; so
much so that we won't be able to replace it
for at least ten years. And so if we catch
anyone mistreating it even slightly, they
really will get their goolies chopped off and
nailed to the door, and we are not joking. We
will be arranging some colour printing
demonstrations soon, anyone who wants to
attend one should sign their name on the
usual notice-board.
Due to the general apathetic nature of the
average IC student, we have only had one
10-PIN BOWLING
Moonlight
Bowl
Today sees the Annual CCU competition,
with Guilds v RCS v Mines. To make sure of
your college winning the CCU trophy, turn
up to get the best possible chance.
Yesterday was our AGM at The Three
Kings. The results of the Elections will be in a
later report.
Next term will see a possible trip to
Heathrow for a 'Moonlight Bowl', a midnight
till 3 am job. Watch out for further details.
Lastly, to all those avid sports report
readers (both of you!), you may wonder
about our year's matches. Well, we lost all six
matches in the universities' championship,
but in the Brunei Doubles tournament, two
pairs came first and third from
approximately sixty teams. Also, the annual
Birmingham Marathon was cancelled thus
robbing me of my only stimulation for the
year.
Anyway, that's enough of the rundown;
watch this space for the exciting news of next
year's committee.
entry for our FELIX competition. We have
therefore (rather optimisitically) put the
deadline back to the end of term. If we
haven't had more than three entries by then
we will give up in disgust! Remember, there
will be prizes of Jessop's vouchers for the
winner and runner up, and with so little
competition any old rubbish could win. Just
to remind you, each entry should consist of
four B&W or Colour prints, of any size and
of varied subject-matter. Entries should be
handed to the Photosoc committee by the
end of term, or, alternatively, send them to H
Rudd, Chemistry PG, via the internal 'mail'.
Also due to lack of interest, the trip to Syon
Park Butterfly House which was to have
been on Sunday has been cancellled. Are IC
students totally devoid of even the slightest
spark of creativity? Are they really just a
bunch of Neanderthal Philistine Pissheads
who divide their time between lying
horizontal in the bar and throwing up in the
bog. The answer, reached after nearly five
years of careful observation, is a resounding
yes! With members like this, it's no wonder
that nobody ever turns up to the events we
organise, and we're really pissed off with it.
Photosoc does not just exist to provide a
service! It is supposed to be a club, with
proper club activities. It seems that a lot of
members are joining just to use the
darkroom and take for granted all the hard
work put in by the committee. Next year we
shall be taking measures to combat this
tendency, you have been warned.
Finally, just a quick reminder that it's our
AGM today (usual time, usual place). And
also don't forget the 'Fox-Talbot'
demonstration on March 21 in Elec Eng 408
at 6.00pm.
DANCE CLUB
Imperial
Waltz to
victory
On Friday 22 February, two teams plus
numerous supporters travelled to Oxford for
the Southern Universites Ballroom Dancing
Championships. The venue was Cowley
Working Men's Club (very glamorous!) and
seven universites, each entering two or three
teams took part.
Our second team came second in the 'B'
team trophy competition with Neil
McCluskey and Shirley Brown dancing
brilliantly to take third place in the jive. Jim
Cohen and Louise Barker reached the
second round of the quickstep with Paul
Jeremaen and Hilary Todd only narrowly
missing the final. Field Kondowe and
Carolyn Burn pulled out all the stops to win
the jive, the Cha-cha-cha also being won by
Imperial in the shape of Dave Caballero and
Annabel Mak. The waltz saw Chris Yates
and Jill Barrett taking first place most
convincingly and in the open Paso Doble
Dave Annabel added yet another trophy to
the collection by coming first.
Thus, with three first places our first team
won the 'A' team trophy—the first time
Imperial has ever won it. Not content with
winning the Southern, our first team went to
Cambridge on March 9 to try for the
double—the National title. This time there
were 19 universites taking part, but IC was
undeterred and once again left with a host of
trophies. For Chris and Jill these consisted of
a fourth place in Open Tango plus the
National Inter-varsity Waltz Trophy. Dave
and Annabel held on to their National Inter-
varsity cha-cha-cha title and managed to
reach the/semi-final of the Open Tango (after
only one' lesson!). The most closely fought
contest 'was the jive, with Field and Carolyn
taking third place.
This meant that Imperial had made history
a second time—winning the inter-varsity
Trophy and the London Challenge Cup
(presented to the highest placed London
team—UCL and ULU also competed).
Finally, Dave and Annabel were awarded the
Edna Murphy Shield as the most promising
couple in the competition.
A very tired group of dancers piled in to
the coach for the return journey and many
bottles of wine were consumed. Dave gave
Tango lessons to some of the female
supporters (inner thigh contact is very
important in this dance) whilst Chris and Jill
improved their chances in any future Rumba
competitions on the back seat(rumba is the
dance of love—need I say more?). Other
people on the coach have bribed me
sufficiently, so I shall say nothing about
Shirley Brown's indiscretions.
FELIX Wednesday 20 March 1985 13

