COPINION
T)he Brandt report published in
1980 reads, 'It is a question of
enabling the inventiveness and
enterprise of scientists and
engineers everywhere to give the
/ulilest possible benefit to mankind',
and goes on, 'greater international,
regional efforts are needed to
support the development of
technology in developing countries'.
In this article we would like to present
some arguments about the overseas
students and talk about the aspects of life for
overeseas students at Imperial. There are
846 overseas students at Imperial, as
classified by fees, 17.2% of the college,
population. 280 are undergraduates and 566
do advanced courses of research.
The question is who is the 'big winner?';
the students that gain the education or the
college that earns from £3475 to £5125 from
each overseas student. It is our firm belief
that education is not a game or a battle of
winning sides, but a long process of
interaction and co-operation on an
international basis with results that benefit
mankind on the whole.
It is true that the benefits are often long
term revenue and not immediately
discernible on a crude and hurried approach,
and this is the approach that has supported
the high fees charged to overseas students to
the dismay of most people in the university
sectors, including home students, academic
and non-academic staff. We will here try to
point to some arguments which advocate
that education of foreign students in the UK
(and the making of this education possible by
alleviation of the financial stress), besides
advancing technology in and its correct
transfer to the developing countries, also
benefits Britain.
A lot of .foreign students are involved in
research progammes (at Imperial about 40%
of the research students are overseas) and
therefore form stong links with the British
academic and scientific world, which
continue to be their communication line
once they return to their countries.
Overseas students, once back in their
countries ensure that correct transfer of
appropriate technology takes place,
protecting their nations from possible
mismanagement from big companies and
ensuring a smooth co-operation which
results in steady development and healthy
economical planning. Besides, they form the
basis for the collaboration of British
engineering firms and counsultancies, as
Professor J Dowling pointed out in the
'Engineering for Wealth' Simposium of the
Centenary Celebrations. He said that he felt
very sharply about it and more overseas
students should be trained here from a better
balance of countries (to include the poor
ones), since they facilitate British exports
and collaboration in overseas countries. It
must be noted here that last year only £561m
came to England from British consultants
and engineers working abroad. And of
course there are the exports of British
products, British technology and know how;
when this is done correctly it is of obvious
benefit to both parties. But there cannot be
exports if the market is not available, and
there cannot be a market and healthy trade if
the countries are in economical crisis and
have no need for the products that are
offered, nor ability to use the modern
technology due to lack of expertise,
technological gap, financial crisis or
otherwise.
It is therefore obvious that the well being of
the underdeveloped and developing
countries, besides being a matter of justice
and humanitarian concern—which is not
discussed here as it is self-evident, is also of
extreme importance for a balanced trade
and international co-operation on scientific,
economic, technological and other aspects.
The industrialised countries have not been
willing to go very far towards accepting the
South's case that the world economy works
to the South's disadvantage. The Brandt
Overseas
Students
report has argued that 'North and South
have more interests in common on a medium
and long—term basis than many have so far
been able to recognise' and 'we are becoming
aware that a quickened pace of development
in the South also serves the people in the
North'.
It is therefore obvious that hampering the
education of overseas students in the UK by
charging them such high fees does not in the
long term benefit anyone, and in the short
term only helps to make up the income of the
universities that are hit by cuts in education.
This is alarming as the foreign student is
often treated as a commodity item to raise
money for the College. With this approach,
this College has managed to recover from
the drop in the number of overseas students
after the charging of high fees, by organising
recruitment visits to foreign countries, such
as the recent ones in Malaysia, Singapore
and Hong-Kong, and so promoting Imperial
College. However, it is obvious from
references in the report that the College has
to address the 'wealthy' students or the
institutions and governments.that can afford
the fees. Therefore, although the numbers of
overeseas students are recovered, the
balance of their countries of origin might be
upset and include only rich countries or
individuals of extremely poor countries that
get scholarship aid. We deplore the cuts
imposed on British universities as they inhibit
the benefit that can be achieved by education
and scientific research which form the basis
of world progress.
The recent UGC (University Grants
Committee) visit and the comments made by
its members seem to advocate even further
the idea and image of the 'fully
profitable/cost effective' foreign student,
urging for even more money to be charged if
a particular form of laboratory assistance is
required. We are extremly dismayed to hear
such discriminatory policies advocated by
such an influential body as the UGC, and
were only reassured by the solid suport that
we have so far received from IC Union, home
students and the adademic and non-
academic staff representatives, which we
greatly appreciate.
We do not enjoy being treated as an
impersonal 'endless' money source without
consideration for the people that are
spending this money and devoting their
labour to further education and research to
the benefit of Britain as well as their own
country.
This brings us to the second aspect of our
article, which is the problems that are faced
by overseas students at Imperial. Cultural
differences and, even more, different ways of
teaching, and different customs should not
be something that is underestimated and
overlooked just because it is heard very
often, since it often results in unnecessary
friction, anger, frustration and general
unhappiness which, we are sure, is unwanted
from both parties. Imperial presents a unique
place for an International life, since it has
students form nearly 45 different countries.
The potential of cultural interaction and
intellectual stimulation is immense and is
only suppressed by the stress that the
academic requirements often impose on all
of us.
At Imperial College there are fifteen
National societies: Afro-carribean,
Bangladesh, Chinese, Chinese Students and
Scholars Association, Cypriot, Friends of
Palestine, Hellenic, Indian, Iranian, Latin
American, Nigerian, Pakistan, Singapore,
Sri-Lanka, and Turkish. They have activities
the whole year round. All these societies
form the overseas students body which is co-
ordinated by the Overseas Students
Committee (OSC), elected annually. The
OSC is represented in the Union Council
and throughout the year organises its own
functions of International spirit.
In this article we have attempted to touch
on some of the aspects of the presence of
Overseas students at Imperial. It has by no
means covered all we'd like to talk about and
we hope to include other topics later.
16 Wednesday 20 March 1985 FELIX

