FELIX.
FELIX
The Lunatics have
taken over the
Asylum
The results of the elections for President, D P
and Hon Sec don't exactly fill me with
optimism for next year. Carl has had
experience on Union committees, but his
contributions, though often amusing, have
rarely shown real understanding of the issues
at stake. He has been content to allow his
witty manner to hide his ignorance.
Carl may find that this works with Union
committees, and he may even be able to bluff
his way though Council next year. But where
he will come unstuck will be in College
committees, dealing with professional
administrators. They are unlikely to find his
jokes funny, and they are unlikely to be
fooled into thinking that he understands the
issues involved. The importance of Union
representation on College comittees should
not be underestimated. At the moment the
Union's voice is respected by College and
does influence decision making. It would be a
tragedy to lose that influence.
Ask students to place their favourite
activities in rank order, and it is unlikely that
attending lectures would be placed very
highly. Even among students who have a
genuine liking for their subject, lectures are
notoriously unpopular.
This is in no small part due to the pathetic
standard of lecturing at IC. Some lecturers
fail at the most ba"sic level: they keep their
backs to the audience and can't be heard.
At the next level of failure the lecturer
realises that he can't be heard and so writes
out his notes and duplicates them. He uses a
special sort of photocopier which leaves the
first word off each line. This is to ensure that
the students still turn up so that they can fill
in the missing words as the lecturer reads out
the_ notes.
Next comes the modern, trendy lecturer
' full of new ideas about audio-visual aids (Is
this a nasty disease peculiar to lectures?). He
uses an overhead projector. His techniques is
the same as the last lecturer except that you
can watch him following his notes with a
pointer on the overheard projector as he
reads them out.
What the College needs is somebody to
teach the lecturers how to teach.
Dave Parry has made an error of judgement
in even provisionally accepting a Union
estimate that is 20% higher than what we are
likely to get.
Every club submits an estimate of
expenditure for the coming year. The D P and
Union Finance Committee add up the totals
for all the clubs. If the total comes to
significantly more than that the previous year
then questions have to be asked. If the
increase is reflected in an improved range of
facilities then the College look on it quite
sympathetically when deciding on our
subvention. But if the increase is simply due
to over-claiming by certain clubs then it
should be dealt with before college even see
the estimates.
This has just not been done. And by the
time college come back and say 'No you can't
have a massive increase on last year for no
good reason' it will be too late for Dave-
Parry or U F C to decide how to spread the cut
fairly. We will see another blanket cut. This
means that clubs with realistic estimates will
be penalised while clubs with inflated
estimates will be sitting pretty.
The D P has actually encouraged over
claiming.
Acknowledgements: Many thanks to Hugh,
Hugh, Grenville, Martin, Dave, John, Diane,
Jon, Pete, Ed, Luke, Tinker, Finian,
Absorbance, Pete, Nigel, Chris, Alan, Judith,
Farah, all the collators and Rosemary and
Tony.
Felix is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperia.
College Union Publications Board and is printed by the Union Print
Unit, Imperial College, Prince Consort Road, London SW7.
Telephone 01-589 5111 Ext 3515
Editor: David Rowe, Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1985. ISSN 10140-0711.
By B.B. Wolffe
Discreet and
Unavoidable
'Sex in the Union Building is allowed only
when discreet and unavoidable'. Dave Parry
certainly takes his responsibilities seriously.
While duty officer at the Centenary Carnival
Dave was found being discreet and
unavoidable on the floor in the Table Tennis
room! Since then, those in the know have
only had to say 'Ping Pong' in order to silence
Mr Parry when he begins to get tiresome
about the estimates.
There was much celebration after the
announcement of the sabbatical election
results last week. Hugh Southey telephoned
his mum to tell her the good news. Mrs
Southey, obviously aware that young Hugh
would be spending the rest of the evening
drinking until he feel over, immediately
advised 'Take your contact lerises out nowV.
Later, shortly before he fell over, Hugh paid a
gentleman from R C S U for next year's
sabbaticals to be flanned, without realising
that this would include himself.
Carl Burgess won't be receiving the same
deferential service at the Kwality Tandoori
that Ian Bull has enjoyed. The red carpet is
rolled out for Ian, who the waiters refer to as
'President—sahib'. Unfortunately Carl was
refused entry recently because on a previous
occasion he removed a cruet set and a vase
when he left. He was eventually let in after
promising he would return the 'borrowed'
items.
Returning home by coach after a party at
Silwood last year Carl boarded the vehicle,
somewhat inebriated (in fact, completely
pissed), carrying two beer glasses, one part
full and one empty. A short time into the
journey the empty glass also became part full,
after a process which commonly follows a lot
of drinking. Unfortunately Carl's senses were
a little befuddled and he forgot the
distinction between the contents of the two
glasses, with the result that when the coach
arrived back at South Ken both glasses were
empty, which doesn't say much for the
quality of the beer at Silwood!
G r a h a m B r o w n , c h a i r m a n of I C
Conservative society is pictured below
striking a characteristic pose at a recent
Monday Club meeting. F E L I X says: Why
doesn't the jack-booted jack-ass jack off?!?
Wednesday 20 March 1985

