•TITERS
Letter causes controversy
Mascotry
v YHA
Dear Sir,
I will willing take up the 'challenge' to
reply to Mr Eriksen's letter denigrating
mascotry, having also been at College for
three and a half years and spending a large
proportion of that time involved in mascotry.
By far the most entertaining activities-
throughout this time have involved the
purloining of mascots. They are a tradition
once common throughout London colleges if
not all England but unfortunately through a
variety of reasons, usually that other colleges
were sick of having their mascots pinched by
Imperial, it remains to us to continue the
noble art.
If Mr Eriksen were to spend some time
talking to past members of College rather
than in single-sex dormitories he might
realise that the one of three things that
students recall most often from their time at
Imperial is Mascotry (the other two being
Morphy Day and Field Cup, two other much
maligned activities).
Some hilarious stories have been told
concerning mascots ever since the constituent,
colleges were formed. Perhaps it would be an'
idea to serialise them as they would probably
make interesting and amusing reading to a
wide audience.
Mascotry now involves from fifty up to a
hundred or more people per CCU, more than
most societies and requires considerably less
money per capita indeed no claim is
necessary from Guilds to cover expenses.
Mr Eriksen, you wish to see Mascot
stopped at this College after a small non-
refcresentative group of students—not even
from IC, have misdemeaned. I find this
jather harsh speaking as one who lives in the
county of North Yorkshire I would not like to
see the banning of the whole of the YHA
bacause of the disgusting, untidy behaviour
of some of its members who leave litter and
damage everywhere causing great 'money
and inconvenience' to the 'innocent public' of
whom you are so concerned.
This bring to mind another interesting
point, why did the unavailability of one van
mean Mr Eriksen had to cancel the whole
weekend? Does he not have the initiative to
use Public Transport? Perhaps this might
involve a certain amount of walking but I
seem to remember from my hostelling days
that that was the main purpose. Good
planing would put the first hostel near to a
station. Were this to happen the College vans
would then be available to a few more clubs
and societies at weekends who require their
use for perhaps half a day each rather than
monopolising them unused—in a Youth
Hostel car park for the weekend.
Mr Eriksen's letter indicated that he knows
very little about Mascotry. It is nothing to do
with 'letting off steam in a competitive
manner'—the vast majority'-of people
involved in Mascotry also play at least one
sport—the aim of Mascotry is to obtain
mascots with a minimum of violence or
damage. Admittedly there are incidents
where someone has been hurt or damage
caused and these are bound to attract
attention, but they are looked back on
distastefully and perpetrators are
reprimanded.
It would be gratifying to learn that the
YHA took the same attitude with members
who broke their rules of conduct.
Yours,
Mike Bartlett
C&GU VP 82-83
YHA member 71-80
Minority
interest
Dear Sir,
Having just read 'QMC fooled in ambush
bluff and the letter from YHA President in
FELIX No 699, I feel compelled to add my
own comments on the vandalization of HLO
by QMC Union.
I have no particular views on mascotry and
don't object to it as long as the stealing is
confined to violate mascots. A Union van, as
far as I am aware is not a mascot, violate or
otherwise, and its vandalization and the
stealing of wheels and electrical components
has caused many people considerable
inconvience. The Union vans are in
continuous use by College clubs and
societies, mainly from RCC and ACC, and by
other groups including CCUs. This creates
enough problems of maintenance, bookings
etc already without the problem of the vans
being brought into the mascotry farce. Few
people seem to realise that the vans are not to
be involved in mascotry in any way, shape or
form. Geoffrey Reeves is quoted as saying
'This is what you expect when you steal
someones mascot', when he saw the
retaliation C&GU had arranged for QMC. I
don't know if this is a true quote in the correct
context, but if it is then it gives the disturbing
impression that security considers vans in the
same light as mascots. Also this retaliation
attack will do nothing to help relations with
QMC over the return of HLOs missing
wheels. RCSU also consider vans in the same
light as mascots, judging by the last sentence
in the article. (Mary, the QMC mascot, is still
in the possession of RCSU and its return will
not be considered until the return of the
wheels). I find it distressing that because of
the activities of minor users of the vans, the
majority of reliable users are inconvenienced
Yours,
Steve Lane
ICUTO
....
Appeal for
sense
Dear Sir,
I write in reply to last week's letter from S
Eriksen. As a CCU President I obviously
have more than a passing interest in mascotry
and would like to give some arguments in
favour of its pursuit.
The whole aim of mascotry is to raise
money for charities by relieving a rival
college of a violate mascot, which is then
ransomed back for a donation to rag. An
important side-effect is a sense of
comradeship amongst a team of people who
both protect their own mascots and search
for those of other colleges.
However it is obvious that since mascotry
appears to the majority of students as a
'pointless and silly tradition', somewhere
along the line the admirable intentions and
purpose of the 'sport' of mascotry have been
sadly misinterpreted.
It is high time that all mascoteers realise it
is not the end of the world if their mascot is
lost. They should accept it in the spirit of the
tradition—not resorting to violence while
protecting their mascot; or to petty acts of
vandalism as a revenge if they lost it. Surely it
is apparent that unless attitudes relax and
people are willing not only to risk losing a
mascot occasionally, but also to retrieve it
with good grace, the very pastime which they
so care about will not survive at all.
Yours faithfully,
Ann Collins
Abolish YHA!
Dear Sir,
In reply to Miss Eriksen's whining
complaint that her weekend holiday in
Dartmoor at the Union's expense, had to be
4 Wednesday 20 March 1985 FELIX

