LETTERS!]
cancelled as a result of 'this pointless and
stupid tradition of mascotry', I should like to
make a few comments.
As Miss Eriksen accurately explains, an IC
Union van was criminally damaged by CMC
students. However, by my understanding of
the rules of mascotry this action is entirely
irrelevant to the earlier violation of their
mascot, Mary, by RCSU and is the kind of
behaviour which would not be condoned by
the student unions at Imperial College in a
(hypothetical) reversal of roles.
Mascoty is a Rag Activity—violated
mascots being ransomed back to their
owners, the proceeds being donated to
charity. Over the last five years, RCS
mascotry alone has raised of the order of
£1000 for Rag. I wonder what contributions
to Rag events Miss Eriksen has made in three
and half years.
I was a member of a group of about twelve
who spent the whole of Friday evening at
QMC, replacing the stolen wheels and towing
the van back to IC. If YHA club were so keen
to go to Dartmoor, why didn't any of their
members volunteer to help recover the van?
Does it require too much intiative of YHA
club to hire a van from an outside company?
Personally, I see no reason why ICU
should finance students to go youth-
hostelling and I should like to see ICYHA
abolished.
The highly self-centred attitude expressed
in Miss Eriksen's letter is the root cause of
most internal problems in IC Union.
Yours sincerely,
Ian Thomas
Physics 3
Misstake
Dear Sir,
I have recently been applying for jobs, and
as. each company requires a different form
this takes a considerable amount of time.
Recently I received a rejection letter from
Logica signed by a female. It was addressed
to 'Mr Margaret Regnault' and started 'Dear
Mr Regnault' I was annoyed at this and wrote
a polite reply saying 'If you do not intend
reading application forms please say so'.
The other day I received a reply saying I
was wrong to be 'Irritated by that small
error', and that applications were not dealt
with by machine and 'a certain amount of
human error is inevitable'. How many
humans do you know who think Margaret is
a male name?
The letter ends T would suggest that you
think more seriously about writing such a
letter in the future. It would most certainly
jeopardize any future application you may
make'.
Impying: a) I would write back without
considering the matter and b) I should be
proud to be called male.
I wouldn't work for them now. Would
you?
Yours,
M L Regnault
Maths 3
Stood down
Dear Sir,
On the Friday that nominations closed 1
stood for the sabbatical post of Honorary
Secretary on the suggestion of some of my
friends and colleagues. Due to the timing of
the deadline, however, the decision had to be
made quickly so I could obtain the required
number of seconders.
Since then I had time to consider what I
have to offer as a candidate and found that I
do not know enough about the job to be able
to start in a confident manner, and , as I still
have the final year of my degree to complete
and worry about, I do not feel that I could
give the position the effort and dedication
that is required for such an influential post,
Thus for this, and another personal reason,
I decided to stand down. Nevertheless, I
would like to express my gratitude and
thanks to those people who had enough
confidence in me to, propose, second and
encourage me—I hope they are not
disappointed, and I wish the other candidates
success for next year.
Yours faithfully,
Andy Belk
Physics Dep Rep
commerce and the public services. This
aspect of the Institute serves more than
500,000 entrants annually, at levels ranging
from Pre-Vocational courses in further
education colleges, to Licentiateship of the
City and Guilds (LCG) which equates to
Master Craftsman status in Continental
Europe.
City and Guilds courses and certificates
cover technologies from agriculture,
catering, construction, electrical and
jlectronic, mechanical and maintenance
engineering, to vehicles and many other
personal and scientific services. These
activities are based on advice and expertise
contributed by many thousands of volunteers
from industry and teaching who serve on the
Institute's Council and Committees or act as
examiners and assessors. They are supported
by the Institute's research, consultancy and
computer/data processing facilities and by
an administrative and specialist staff of 360.
I hope this outline of the Institute's work
will be interesting to Imperial College
students—and that when in their
professional lives after graduation they meet
holders of City and Guilds certificates, they
will recognise them as belonging to a
different branch of the same family.
Yours sincerely,
J A Barnes
Director-General Designate
City and Guilds of London Institute
City and Guilds Slogans slammed
Dear Sir,
The City and Guilds of London Institute is
alive and well, and living all over the
world—it did NOT become the City and
Guilds College in 1907!
No doubt what you meant to say was that
the City and Guilds Central Technical
College became one of the constituent
colleges of the new Imperial College on its
incorporation by Royal Charter on 8 July
1907. On 16 December 1910 by a
Supplemental Royal Charter extending the
Institute's original Royal Charter of 26
October 1900 the Central Technical College
became the 'City and Guilds College'.
In June 1877 fourteen of the Livery
Companies met in Mercers' Hall to form a
Provisional Committee 'for the purpose of
preparing a scheme for a national system of
Technical Education', to be funded by the
Livery Companies. In November 1878 the
City and Guilds of London Institute was
formally established, one part of its scheme
being the Central Institution. The Institute is
today represented on the Imperial College
Governing Body, pays a modest annual grant
to the College, and awards Diplomas of
Associateship (ACGI) and Fellowship
(FCGI) annually to successful students of
City and Guilds College.
The Institute also provides—and has done
since 1879—curricula, examinations and
qualifications to set standards of knowledge
and skills for trainees for jobs in industry,
Dear Sir,
As the only Israeli student in College I
believe someone left a message for me on the
walls of the walk-way last Wednesday, saying
'down with Israel'.
I thank who ever it was for the moral
support as these kind of messages kept us so
strong for the past 37 years.
However I would like to suggest that
perhaps further correspondence could be
done, in this wonderful age of techology, via
other means of communication; if only for
the sake of showing a little more respect
towards our British hosts.
Yours faithfully,
Gad Aharoni
Computing 1
Dear Sir,
During last week I was most distressed to
find 'Down with Israel' daubed in large red
letters on several walls around campus,
including some in the public's view. We, as
members of Imperial College, denounce this
act as childish and wanton damage to college
property, but, as a Jewish Society, we find
this offensive to ourselves, personally, and
our religion, as well as to the State of Israel.
If the perpetrators of this deed would step
forward and present their opinions in a
sensible manner, we are willing to discuss
them in an open forum, but we condemn
these underhand tactics.
Richard Davis
lewish Society
Computing 1
FELIX Wednesday 20 March 1985 5

