•MEWS FEATURE
Take a Walk ©owif
Exhibition Road is most famous, not for the
Mormon Chapel, not for the Goethe
Institute, not even for Imperial College, but
rather for the Science Museum.
More than 4,000,000 people visit the
Museum annually. It is the Mecca of school
children everywhere in the country, and its
fame has spread throughout the world.
Like so much in this area, the Science
Museum was spawned by the Great
Exhibition of 1851. The collections from the
Exhibition were housed in the 'South
Kensington Museum', later re-named the
Victoria and Albert. But the V&A soon
became too small to house the science and
art collections and in 1909 the Science
Museum was formed as a separate
administrative entity.
The museum is at present undergoing a
ajor re-organisation—some galleries are
temporarily closed, but new ones are
springing up.
One of the newest innovations for the
museum is the 'Synopsis' Gallery—it is
advertised as an introduction to the
museum. But it is much, much more than
that. Starting from pre-history it traces the
scientific/archaeological progress of man
through the ages. There are superb models
of ancient settlements—iron age, bronze
age, roman. It goes on to cover the 'great age
of learning', the scientists of the 18th
Century, the Industrial revolution and the
advent of science as we know it.
The
Science
Museum
The Synopsis Gallery is a museum in
miniature. It contains excellent scale models
of machines from looms to printing presses,
from power stations to railway stations.
As you would expect, the last 150 years of
science dominate the gallery. There are mini-
displays on the train, the telephone and the
wireless—the technological advances that
have truly changed the world.
But the centre-piece of the gallery, and in
many ways the most thought provoking
exhibit, is a scale model of a small town and
its environs. The taped commentary records
how the coming of the railway, and other
technological 'advances' affected the town
and its people. One leaves understanding, if
not sympathising with, the Luddites.
South Kensington Museum 1857
6 Wednesday 20 March 1985 FELIX

