NEWS FEATURED
Museum of medicine
Glasgow Corporation Tramcar No 585
(1901 )-an exhibit in the transport gallery
of the Science Museum
The top couple of floors of the Science
Museum seem to have recently undergone a
facelift. The Wellcome Museum of Medicine
may not seem an interesting place to spend a
Wednesday afternoon, but appearances can
be deceptive.
After climbing what appears to be 1000
flights of stairs you arrive, exhausted, at the
Wellcome Museum. The exhibition kicks off
in classic style, with an interesting picture of
some neanderthal man performing brain
surgery with a flint axe. The exhibits are
alternately quaint and gruesome. One
moment a bizzare machine for producing 'Ye
Olde Healinge Vapours', next an obscene
glass case full of restraints for mental patients
designed in the nineteenth century.
One or two of the exhibits deserve a special
mention. 'Mr Gibson's Chemist Shop' is a
superb 1903 chemists, perfectly preserved
and full of patent medicines with tacky
slogans. An iron lung proved the most
harrowing exhibit. Comedians make jokes
about iron lungs, but until you have actually
seen one, with a wax dummy trapped inside
it, you can not appreciate what life inside an
irong lung is like. Did I say a wax dummy? It
could have been a live human being for all the
movement possible.
The exhibition does not concern itself
solely with 'Western' medicine. Witchcraft,
voodoo and mummification techniques all
have their place in medical history alongside
leeches. Rather like an art gallery, where one
of the pieces may be made from ordinary
household objects, many of the exhibits in the
Wellcome Museum seem at first
incongruously normal and modern. A '50p
for a packet of 3' contraceptive machine
stands just ten yards away from examples of
the kind of titanium plates that are used to
repair the skulls of bomb blast victims.
The Wellcome museum section of the
Science Museum seems at first glance more
like a MacDonalds Burger Bar than a dusty-
old museum with flashy doors and
atmoshperic lighting. It is agressively
interesting, and every effort has been made to
draw parallels between now and the past. It is
lively, treats the visitor as a mature human
being and most of all has nothing whatsoever
to do with your course. The only criticism
could be that sometimes the ligting level is
too low to be able to see the labels on the
exhibits. Other than that, very little can be
said other than take a walk down Exhibition
Road.
Iron Duke
On April 3 a historic event will take place in
Kensington Gardens in front of the Albert
Memorial: for the first time this century a
broad gauge train will run. It will consist of a
locomotive tender and two carriages.
The locomotive concerned is 'Iron Duke',
a full size replica of an Iron Duke class
locomotive constructed for the Science
Museum as part of the celebrations of the
150th anniversary of the Great Western
Railway. Appropriately the naming
ceremony will be performed by the present
Duke of Wellington, and will be performed at
12 noon. Working demonstration will take
place that afternoon from 2.00pm to 5.00pm
and also during the period 4—9 April from
10.30am to 5.00pm
The broad gauge was 7ft 0 l/4in and was
abolished in one weekend during May 1892
with all GWR track becoming standard
gauge (4ft 8 l/2in). The Iron Duke class was
the mainstay of the broad gauge express
locomotive fleet and was so successful that
although originally designed in 1847 a second
batch was constructed in 1871-1888.
Three broad gauge locomotives were
preserved but the two stored at Swindon
Locomotive Works (North Star and Lord of
the Isles) were dismantled early this century
in order to increase the space available for
locomotive maintainance and construction.
In 1935 North Star was rebuilt using as many
original parts as possible for the GWR
centenary celebrations and is still kept at
Swindon Works. The third locomotive was
Tiny which after languishing on Newton
Abbott station for many years has been
passed to preservationists.
Even today the broad gauge affects British
Railways (Western Region). It was because
the Paddington—Penzance line had been
engineered with broad gauage clearances
that the HSTs were first proven on that
route. Also if you look at the trackwork
between the platforms at Paddington you will
see that it is still constructed in the broad
gauge fashion of Baulk Road—with timbers,
called baulks, laid lenghtways continuously
under the rails and the gauge maintained by
cross braces called transoms in place of
sleepers.
It is proposed that after taking part in the
celebration this year that the locomotives will
find a permanent home in the National
Railway Museum at York although it is
rumoured that it may be permanently loaned
to the Great Western Society centre at
Didcot where a mixed gauge branch line is
presently under construction using
authentic broad gauge rails.
The Railway Museum at York is an
'outstation' of the Science Museum, London.
FELIX Wednesday 20 March 1985 7

