CPROFILE
Mike Osborne
This week Hugh Southey takes a look
at the president of the Royal School of
Mines, the smallest and most
controversial of the CCUS.
Mike Osborne is different from the other two
CCU presidents. For a start he was
unopposed when he ran for Mines President,
while both Maribel and Ann were 'anti-hack'
candidates running against 'hack'
candidates. Mike is also the only one of this
year's C C U presidents who bear any
resemblance to their stereotype in any way.
He is very definitely the sort of well built,
clean cut, rugby playing ex-public school boy
that one expects to run RSMU. He also has
the sort of quiet self confidence that makes
him a natural leader. When interviewing him I
felt there was not a question I could ask him
that would disturb his calm.
RSM rugby club was Mike's first contact
with Mines' union. He was vice-captain and
treasurer of the club last year. Although he
held no Union post until this year, he has
always been involved; as he put it, 'I've
always been very involved in the Union. I've
always enjoyed the company of those
involved in the Union although I wouldn't call
myself a hack, because they don't exist in
RSM'.
This year has not in Mike's view been one
for major new initiatives. Mines' Union hasn't
changed a great deal although Mike does
believe that the typical Miner may be
changing. In his view students may be
becoming quieter because of higher
entrance requirements.
'Stuff it Rector'
The only major things that have happened
in RSM this year have been the cancellation
of Hon Porn Night and of the South African
barnight. Hon Porn Night was cancelled after
the Rector called Mike, Ian Bull and the
Honorable Pornographer into his office on
the night of the event. As Mike put it 'The
Rector is a very tricky, experienced
politician, much more tricky and
experienced than anyone else in College. I
had my back to the wall. It was easy for
people to say, when I came out, that I should
have s aid 'OK, stuff it Rector' but I was in that
meeting and it was only the decision I felt I
could make. I sometimes feel that the Rector
put the shit on me rather than on himself. He
didn't put himself in a bad name. He didn't
put the Dean of the RSM, Ted Brown, in a
bad name. He took the shit right down lower
than that, right to myself. Obviously some of
the members of the RSM were shocked.
However once I explained myself to the
RSM, the RSM was totally behind my
decision'. He criticised the people who
disrupted the event saying that they were
overturned the democratic decision of a
UGM by contacting the press and militants
at other colleges.
Mike believes that Hon Porn Night is
unlikely to take place on campus next year. It
will take place somewhere though because
'Our argument is that we are not
pornographic dealers, we are just there to
have a boys night out. lt happens at every
Rugby club and college in the country. Here
it got into the press. That has all been a bit
unfortunate. However it goes on
everywhere. If the boys want to enjoy
themselves, the boys will enjoy themselves. I
enjoy myself and have a good night out'.
Apartheid
The South African barnight was also
cancelled following threats of a mass picket
by students from other colleges. Mines
defended their barnight by saying that they
always held as part of their foreign student's
week, a barnight which had a country in
which they worked as a theme. In the past
they had held an Australian barnight.
However, is it right for RSM students to take
jobs in South Africa? 'At the moment the
National Coal Board, in this country, doesn't
hold a great future for the mining engineer.
They are not taking on a great deal of people.
South Africa, at the moment, is, the only
Wednesday 20 March 1985
other place we can work. It is highly unlikely
we can get work permits to work anywhere
else. I'd love to work in Australia. I spent my
second year vacation in Queensland and
thoroughly enjoyed myself. I liked the
Australian way of working and their way of
socialising, but that is totally closed because
of the lack of work permits. North America is
the same. Canada much the same. I'm
prepared to work in South Africa because
I'm totally committed to production mining
which after three years on a mining course
not everyone is. I'm open minded enough to
go to South Africa. I don't feel that the
argument that going to South Africa
supports Apartheid holds a lot of weight. I'm
not supporting Apartheid I'm supporting
myself and my career opportunities'.
Block vote
Over the past four years Mines have been
able to defend these attitudes at UGMs by
mobilising the Mines block vote. Something
that has caused a lot of controversy within
IC. Mike doesn't believe the block vote is
undemocratic 'Mines is the smallest CCU by
a long shot. We make it known when the
right of Mines needs defending, be it against
something serious or something stupid like
the selling of South African oranges in the
shops. We make it clear that we would like
the block vote mobilised. I think it is a fine
thing when a college of between 500-600
students can muster between 200-300 people
to go along to a UGM which is more than
usually go to a UGM anyway. It is a fine
display of the spirit within the RSM. You get
people going along who you have rarely seen
before but they come along to defend the
Royal School of Mines. The Royal School of
Mines is an institution amongst the students
and it's an institution amongst the mining
industry around the world. We'll always
argue that we are the finest mining college in
the world and I'll always support that
wherever I go'.
Personally Mike has found the year as
President enoromously enjoyable. It has also
taught him to organise his time properly so
that his academic work hasn't been affected
by his Union commitments.'I watch very little
television. If I'm sitting on my bum half an
hour I go and do something'. He feels his year
has brought him into closer contact with
members of staff and all students.
Next year Mike wants to work
underground, probably in South Africa so
that he can gain the experience to take
supervisory positions in mining as soon as
possible.
FELIX

