Page 3
Boycott Off
Hello and welcome back to IC. By now you should have heard that
the Boycott is ofTso you can all go back to eating in the refectories. I ' m
glad that College decided to reconsider their choice of the new
regulator and I hope that any future changes will be fully discussed and
voted on at Refectory Committee before being implemented.
The E G M yesterday decided not to withdraw from the Meet I C
scheme. This get-together with local residents takes place next
Wednesday and guides are still wanted to show guests around the
departments. If you are interested then contact Annie in the Union
Office (int 2232).
F E L I X A G M
At 1.00pm today the F E L I X A G M will be held in the F E L I X Office.
Everyone is welcome to attend and you can join F E L I X at the meeting.
Membership for the rest of this year (until 30th June) is free and if you
put your name down now membership for next year is only 30p (50p
otherwise). T h e post of Photographic R e p is still open for any budding
F E L I X photographer. T h e j o b entails keeping up the stocks of
chemicals, co-ordinating photographers and taking pictures.
By now papers for F E L I X Business Manager should have been posted
in the Lower Lounge (Union Building). Election for this position takes
place at a U G M .
Abortion and Homosexuality
In reply to the letter on the facing page I would like to explain why I
closed correspondence on both the above topics at the end of last term.
The discussions had been running for several weeks (since issue 508 in
the case of abortion) and I had received many requests to terminate the
debate. F a r from acting undemocratically I felt that the vast majority
were fed u p to the back teeth with the topic being discussed by the same
few. Matters of this nature are questions of religion, ethics and personal
belief, and as such cannot be proved. If anyone feels sufficiently strongly
they can always take the matter up privately with the individuals
concerned.
I would like to know where it says I was "elected not to censor but lo set".
As far as I ' m concerned I was elected to edit which means using my
judgement in selecting copy for publication.
Urgently Wanted
Back issues of the following copies of F E L I X are desperately needed
for our files. These are no.s 492, 494, 495, 497, 501 and 508. If anyone
has any spares of these copies would they please drop them into the
F E L I X Office.
Croquet 0 : K . ?
Printed below is an article prompted by a school's declaration that
Croquet was an "unofficial" game. Thanks to Shlomo Godsi for
bringing it to I C and saving Croquet C l u b the trouble of writing an
article.
Future Events
O n Tuesday M a y 1st D r Neil Harris (Careers Officer) will be
giving a talk to second year students on 'choosing your career'. A n y
second years are very welcome to attend the talk which takes place in
the R e a d Theatre, Level 5, Sherfield Building at 1.15pm.
L a d y Flowers and the I C Wives C l u b will be holding another of their
celebrated Beer and Bangers on Wednesday M a y 9th at 5.30 , i n 170
Queen's Gate. Names to J e n in the U n i o n Office, (int 3915) by
1.00pm Tuesday M a y 8th.
THE CROQUET SAGE
"Mr President, what has your administration
done about one of the vilest and most
pervasive problems to afflict our great and
glorious nation today, a plague to which a
large section of our youth has already
succumbed? I am, of course, referring to
croquet abuse."
The president started sweating. This had
been the making of three ex-presidents
already, and he did not want to join his
compatriots in the past tense.
"Well...."
Meanwhile, somewhere in Katmandu a
man was transacting what could become the
greatest deal of his life. He had just bought
the largest shipment of illicit croquet
equipment ever. This deal would mean an
early retirement to Miami Beach.
Of course, there was always the minor
matter of the C E A (Croquet Enforcement
Administration), but bribes would go a long
way towards solving that ...
Meanwhile, in a dark, dingy room in the
wilds of St John's Wood a young man was
slowly dying from the effects of his addiction.
He had started it all for kicks, but it had soon
become a habit, which had forced him to
steal, lie, cheat, mug little old ladies and fiddle
his income tax forms ...
Meanwhile, in police H Q a band of loyal
citizens was being given lectures on how to
recognise addicts. The sergeant held up a
stubby wooden object.
"Right, this is a croquet mallet, and it is
used for hitting these things called balls."
He paused, as the shock registered on the
faces of his audience. A responsive audience
was always a nice thing to have.
"Now I want to warn you all. This is a very
sordid business. If you can't stand the sight of
raw mallets you had better leave, before I
show you the hoops"
Somebody had to be carried out from the
back row...
Meanwhile, back at the ranch, the tourists
had finally arrived. But they were no ordinary
tourists. They were important, underworld
croquet pushers. Representatives from the
Communist International were there too.
They passed by the sacrosanct croquet pitch,
surrounded by an electrified fence. Inside
there were would be almost half a ton of balls
(Yucch!) ...
Meanwhile, in a tenement basement in
downtown Manhattan a young man was
bowing down to a bronze statue of a croquet
player. He firmly believed that the Messiah
would be a croquet grand master. The door
burst open. Two policemen, foaming at the
mouths, beat him to a joyful pulp with his own
mallets, before driving a steak through his
heart (well done). There was a lot of
discontent in the police force because the
courts tended to apply croquet legislation
rather leniently. O n e of the cops spat.
"Who was he?"...
"I don't know, I just came to use the John"...
Meanwhile, in a rickety plane over a rickety
American border, a rickety man was fighting
for his rickety life (ricketily). A storm was
ricketting the buffetty plane. He swore to
himself that if he could get this shipment
through alive, he would give up chewing gum
for a year. But a flash of lightening sheared
the tail rickets off the rickety plane. The
plummetty plane began ricketting and ...
Meanwhile in suburbia.
"Mom, I... can you take a shook... Well, I'ni
er..."
"Oy vay, Allah protect us (and a hey nonny
nonny) don't tell me you're ..."
"Yes, I'm pregnant."
"Ahh! Thank the Lord. For a moment I
thought you were a croquie."
"Oh, that-as well"
"Fee, ooh, ah ..."
Mother drops dead ...
Meanwhile, back o n a plummetty, ricketing
plane a few metre* above the ground.
"Oh my God, I think I'm catching rickets".
(Dies)
Tons of croquet equipment were destroyed.
Meanwhile, back at the brothel... Oh, sorry,
wrong magazine ...
Meanwhile, Fred was walking through the
Park under the watchful gaze of a poster
proclaiming the evils of croquet.
"KICK THE CROQUET,
YOU'LL BE O.K."
Suddenly two big schwarzers loomed up in
front of him and knocked him into the ground
(with a mallet) took his money and hearing
aid and ran.
"Ee, ooh, aah", he said, "Just my luck to run
into croquies". (stay alive).
Meanwhile.
"Of course, all modern science says that
croquet is no more harmful than smoking,
drinking and group sodomy. Moreover we
have found that it is not possible to stem the
growing tide by force or even nasty means.
Even free collective bargaining has failed.
"So, dear Congress, I've decided to do the
only thing possible... No problem is so great
it can't be run away from, so I'm going to
introduce legislation to make croquet playing
compulsory. In future the country's emblem
will be an eagle clutching a croquet mallet.
Voters will have to be accomplished players."
Camera fades out on dazzling grin. Thinks.
"Got out of that one O.K."
There now follows a message from the first
croquet mallet on the moon.
"Yippee! I'm the first croquet mallet on the
moon"...

