Page 4
Welfare
A lot of people, even at university level don't find that exams are the
easiest or most pleasant of exercises. However, a lot of the worry of
exams can be countered by a good examination technique.
The article reprinted below was produced by the College Health
Service based on a lecture given by Dr Robert Sharp of the Institute of
Behavioural Therapy and deals with various aspects of exam strategy.
If you find exams particularly nerve-wracking, it is worth
remembering that the College Health Service and the Student
Counsellor are very good at helftjng to overcome the various worries
caused by exams and no doubt they would be happy to help you to
perfect your own exam technique.
A L L STUDENTS SHOULD K N O W A B O U T EXAM S T R A T E G I E S
Arrive at an exam with a few minutes to spare. If you are worrying
about being late you will rush into the exam hall worrying and will be
even more nervous.
Opening Strategies.
For the initial 15 minutes of a 3 hour exam, plan out the exam as
follows:
1. Choose the questions. This means reading the paper carefully and
then re-reading it.
2. Choose the order of questions.
3. Make a timetable for the exam.
4. Make quick notes on all the questions you intend to answer. This
acts as a memory trigger and while writing one question you may
remember facts about another - add them to your list.
Questions
Estimate the questions you cannot do; mark those which are either
easier or your favourite questions and select the questions which offer
the M O S T M A R K S .
Order of Questions
If there are three questions to be answered, then put them roughly in
the following order:
1) Gift question, this is the one everybody expected and prepared for.
Answering it first warms you up, and motivates you by getting you doing
one successfully. It can also produce a "Halo effect" if it is read first
because it gives the examiner a mental set that "this is a good paper".
2) Pet question. This is the one you hoped would appear and which
you can answer especially well. It is a good question to do next because
you are warmed up and you won't run out of time.
3) Difficult question. If you write down as much as you possibly can,
you can at least collect a proportion of the possible marks, without
sacrificing marks on the other two questions.
Timetable
Organise your timetable, put it down on your answer book, put your
watch next to it and stick to it. For example for a 3 hour exam which
starts at 2 pm in which you have to answer 3 questions which carry equal
marks then your timetable should look like this.
2.00 Planning.
2.15 Question 1.
3.10 Question 2.
4.05 Question 3.
4.55 Finish off.
The timetabling of exam questions could depend on the weighting of
marks for the different questions. Do not borrow time from another
question. This is because of the law of diminishing returns for marking
G o for the easiest first few marks, (it is hard to get zero). The principle is
that it is easier to get the first 50% of marks by just answering the
question. Top marks are harder to get therefore if you can manage to get
50% on each of them, you have more chance of passing the exam than
attempting only 2 questions where you must get the highest marks
possible. You have a better chance of obtaining the average mark than
you do of doing brilliantly on only two.
Planning
In each block of time set aside on your timetable for your questions
you can break it down further, spending a few minutes for planning. It
might prove useful to reproduce at the top of the page a short-hand note
for the essay. At the end of your essay, draw a clean, oblique line
through it to show your examiner that it was part of your notes, and not
to be counted as part of your answer.
Difficulties in starting and finishing essays
Suggestion: If introductions are difficult, start with the second
paragraph, leaving a space for the introduction. Write the bulk of your
essay and then return to write the introduction followed by the summary
which tells the reader what might have been pursued if there were more
time.
Strategies if things go wrong.
1. If you run out of time; tell the examiner you have run out of time and
these are the points you would have gone on to discuss.
2. Getting stuck; allocate a time to struggle with recall or puzzling out
the answer. If at the end of that time, you still do not know what to
write, then go on to the next question. Alter your timetable, and in
the remaining time at the end return to that question.
3. Panic. Switch off. Close your eyes, do nothing for a limited time.
This is better than having to give up entirely. If you think you might
be one of those who panics and cannot cope please discuss it with
someone early either your tutors, the student counsellor or one of
the doctors.
4. Blank out: if you just forget everything, plan to use the "scribble
strategy" - write out words, which lead to other words, and get your
mind thinking again.
5. Examination Phobia: This can be helped and indeed cured by
therapy. If you know you have difficulties with examinations come
and see someone at 14 Princes Gardens. Now is a good time.
Stress
Everyone devises their own useful strategies for managing stress.
These are some suggestions for 'opening gambits' during the first
stressful few minutes of an exam.
1. Relax before looking at your exam paper for a few minutes to
organise thoughts. This is basic relaxation. Enter, sit and relax.
2. 'Scribbling technique': this is a sort of rote learning which you do
immediately upon entering the examination. Outside the exam hall,
you are revising last minute details which are on a piece of A4 paper
or 6 x 3 cards. The information on these last minute aids must be
ordered, structured to be easily remembered. Immediately as you
enter the hall (having thrown your cards away... don't cheat) rewrite
these ordered notes fast and first, without looking at the actual
examination paper. This maximises short-term recall, and gives you
a feeling of a slight-edge, and control.
3. Timetabling and reading through the questions. Spend some time
reading through the questions. Spend some time reading through
the question and then write down your timetable for doing the
questions you have chosen.
4. Ritual behaviour. This is one way of relaxing, being 'mindless', and
may consist in putting your bits and bobs in order, tieing your
shoes, whatever ritual behaviours you normally do to get ready and
relax yourself.
5. Unplanned contingencies (these are things which could go wrong,
unanticipated occurrences). Accept that you will have instructions
and give in to them, at least for a limited period. If for example,
during the exam you feel like daydreaming, give in to it, saying to
yourself, 'I'm going to daydream', but only let yourself go for a few
minutes. If you feel a severe anxiety attack then understand what is
happening and let it happen. Tell yourself something like' This is
an anxiety attack. This means that there is a rush of adrenalin
pumping through my system which will subside in a little while'. The
psychology behind this strategy is that it will need to take its
physiological course but since you know what it is and have told
yourself what it is, then you are still in control. The attack will pass,
and you will be able to get on with the exam.
Anxiety reveals itself in various physiological symptoms; dizziness,
rapid heart beat, sweating, breathing overhard, nausea or vomiting,
defecation or urination, tension, muscle spasms. If you know that these
symptoms are signs of anxiety then you can control them. Anxiety
states are not in themselves detrimental, but should be kept in control.
So if possible, give yourself a mock exam, get the feel of the adrenalin
pumping through your system, know what it is, and then practice
rela/ing
S o m e p l a c e s i n d o u b l e r o o m s
a r e a v a i l a b l e i n f l a t s c l o s e t o
G l o u c e s t e r R d . T u b e . A n y o n e
i n t e r e s t e d i n m o v i n g i n n e x t w e e k
s h o u l d c o n t a c t M i c h a e l A r t h u r ( I n t
2 8 9 8 ) or go to the W e l f a r e C e n t r e ,
3 r d f l o o r U n i o n B u i l d i n g .

