Day By Day
A ROUND-UP OF LAST W E E K ' S NEWS
Page 5
Wednesday 18th
General Election Fever?
The General Election may be less than a
fortnight away but the public have not seen
many signs of drama in the political arena.
Both the major parties seem to be cruising
towards the Election on May 3rd. Publicity
promotes the parties as if they were products
available at a supermarket and the main
interest has focussed on betting on the
Election, especially on Labour, including
two seperate bets of £1,000 at 8-1. Corals give
the conservatives a 3-10 chance of winning
the greater number of seats with Labour at 5-
2.
Golfer loses Open because of Seagull
In the S u n s h i n e C o a s t O p e n golf
championship the leader was about to hole
out on the 15th green. A s he was playing the
ball a seagull dropped a 1.51b fish from a
height of 300ft. T h e golfer was knocked own,
missing the putt, and consequently lost the
tournament.
Butler drops bomb
Lord Brownlow's butler daily dusted a
WW butterly bomb which was displayed in
the library of Belton house. Millions of visitors
have passed the bomb, & the Prince of Wales
has slept adjacent to the room where it is
kept.
The butler dropped the bomb on his foot
and a visitor, w h o had served in the Royal
Engineers, recognised that the bomb was
dangerous and arrangements were made for
its removal.
Thursday 19th
17 year old cadets with Army in Ulster
The Ministry of Defence admitted, tonight,
that schoolboy members of Combined Cadet
Forces, are being allowed to patrol Northern
Ireland's Republican trouble spots with
regular troops.
Mrs Thatcher visits chocolate factory
Mrs Thatcher made a visit to a Birmingham
chocolate factory while touring around the
country. S h e would descend on a woman
making chocolate and they would have a
conversation. Because of the din, neither
could hear the other. This is the ideal
arrangement for conversation between party
leaders and voters at election time since it
cuts out a lot of unnecessary detail.
Friday 20th
Election is ideal for cranks
The Science Fiction Looney party (SFL)
and Fancy Dress parety (FDP) are just some
of the o d d groups who will be fighting the
election. Protests have been made that the
£150 Election deposit is too low. They blamed
the ludicrously low deposit figure which they
described variously as a crank's charter, open
invitation to extremist causes, and a mockery
of democratic processes.
For their £150 deposit candidates are
entitled to one free mailing to every elector at
an officially estimated average cost of £4,500
for each constituency. The deposit has not
been changed since 1919 when today's £
would have been worth 10.8p. Many former
MPs want it raised to at least £1,500, close to
the contemporary value of £150 in 1918.
Many former M P s are anxious that in a
General Election with so many marginal seats
even the relative handful of votes picked up
by fringe candidates can be crucial.
TV nervous over program content
Last Sunday the comedy film 'I'm All Right
Jack' was cancelled by ITV. A row began
which has provided much copy for the letters'
pages of the national press.
The Independent Broadcasting Authority
is scrutinising the film lists of each of the
programme companies to ensure that no hint
of political controversy reaches the screen as
'entertainment'.
In some regions the 'Jim Davidson Show'
has been taken off because it contains
political jokes. The B B C will be first back to
normal after May 3rd because 10 minutes
after the polls close they will be broadcasting
a repeat of the Mike Yarwood Christmas
Show cancelled during the campaign.
Saturday 21st
Frau Hess seeks inquiry
Frau Use Hess has agreed that an
international panel of medical experts can
check the claim by Hugh Thomas that the
man in Berlin's Spandau jail is not her
husband, Rudolf Hess, Hitler's former
deputy.
London casinos to close
Gambling at London's casinos has become
an easy task... if you have the money. Gone
are the crowds that usually surround the
roulette wheels and blackjack tables. The
casinos face their most nervous period since
Crockford's was closed down back in the
1960's.
Police investigations, the prospect of a tax
to be imposed on the punter and a drop in the
big Arab money may mean that the boom is
over.
Ladbroke's are almost certain to have their
application, for renewal of their licences,
opposed by the police. The big punters tend
to shy clear of casinos if they sniff
controversy or trouble in the air.
Some of the big boys are holding their own
games in the privacy of their hotel suits, with
the help of specially hired casino dealers.
Sunday 22nd
Election polls - 5 V 2 % or 20% Tory lead?
About 2,000 electors make up the
'nationally representative samples' used by
the famous names specialising in Election
predictions. There are 635 constituencies
and so an opinion poll questions about 3
people per constituency. 402 constituencies
are racing certainties (200 Labour, 200
Conservative, 1 Liberal and 1 S N P ) . This
leaves around 800 samples taken in the
marginals. A s in previous elections, only the
marginals matter, and the opinion polls taken
in these seats show a Tory lead of 12%.
Although other polls give a lead ranging from
5 V 2 to 20%, the final Conservative majority is
likely to be about 60 seats.
Strangers tramped through bedroom for 3
years
A Barnsley family moved into a council
house 3 years ago. While the husband and
wife were in bed, they were surprised to find
strangers entering the room asking 'Where
does the bridge club meet?'The council had
arranged a lease with the local bridge club
allowing its 30 members access to the council
house in order to play bridge in a room above
the garage. The family could do nothing to
stop the unwanted lodgers from wandering
all over their house.
A council spokesman said the club lease
had been overlooked when the family were
offered the house.
ITN lose SALT talks
An urgent request for film of the S A L T talks
was almost refused when no film could be
found in the ITN library.
However, someone suggested searching in
the files under, 'Food and drink' and the film
was found.
Monday 23rd
National Front protest riots
Over 300 people were, arrested, tonight,
during clashes with police which erupted out
of protests against a National Front election
meeting at Southall. A 32 year old teacher
was killed and 40 police were seriously
injured.
Mr Callaghan will have a hard struggle to win
seat.
The Liberal candidate in Mr Callaghan's
constituency deliberately witheld his papers
when nominations closed and urged his
supporters to vote Conservative. If the
Liberals and Conservatives join forces there
only needs to be a 5 per cent swing to unseat
Mr Callagham.
Tuesday I -
Bishop Muzorewa wins election
Bishop Abel Muzorewa was victorious in
Rhodesia's first one-man one vote election
which ended today. The Bishop is the leader
of the United African National Council which
won 51 of the 72 black seats in the majority
rule Parliament.
Anna Ford - newscaster of the year
ITN news reader, A n n a Ford, was
presented with the Radio Industries Club
award as 'Newscaster of the year'. Penelope
Keith and Jasper Carrot won the ITV
personality award.

