simon baker
n
i i
j !
| |
• •
• :
'A^A^A
f l f l f i
I I
r i
1
Price £4.99 ixij-H-i •
Ghassan Karrian. U L U President,
Labour Councillor, available for
weddings and bar mitvahs. I don't
know what it is, but I have my
doubts about him. The fact that
he was elected unopposed struck
me as unfortunate, although, of
course, not his fault. His alleged
role in the Union Bar raid last year | H |
still has not been cleared up to the | H 9 b
satisfaction of most people. Until
recendy, I thought I might be
being a touch paranoid, but after reading
Nooman Haque's excellent article, it's nice to
know I am not alone [Mind you, Nooman, I
wouldn't pin your hopes on a Christmas card
from our own Pres). We, like the Kings students
before us, seem to be mere pawns in the Karrian
game plan designed to propel him into
Westminster. It has been shown beyond doubt
by the NUS that overtly political student repre-
sentation is a dangerous and counter-productive
thing, which ends up satisfying the leadership's
desires and aspirations at the expense of the rank
and file membership. As Nooman points out, it
is a fair question to ask whether Mr Karrian is
using the University of London students as a test
bed for Labour policy on higher education. If this
is so, it is scandalous and pressure should be
brought to bear on him by the other members of
the U L U Council. As for the duplicity of our
own President, I wouldn't like to say. I haven't
met Sarah and have heard very little about her
actions as president (no bad thing, some would
say). It does seem however, that she is a little too
eager to jump into the ideological sack with
Ghassan. I like to use the 'Used Car Test' i.e.
would you buy I'm afraid that, for my money,
I'll not change my motor.
Speaking of politics, I am writing this week's
column after spending a couple of hours locking
horns with one of Paddy
Ashdown's political researchers
and prospective LibDem parlia-
mentary candidate at the next
I election. Now, dear reader, you will
probably have guessed by now that
I am not of this political persuasion.
That said, I do have considerable
respect for the Liberal Democrats.
OK, they've got more than their
fair share of daft policies, but at
least they are straight down the line
about them, which is more than
can be said for Tony Blair's mob.
Their obsession with constitutional reform as the
cornerstone of any future Liberal government or
deal in a coalition and their insistence that simply
adding a penny to income tax will solve all the ills
in the education system do not bear inspection,
but they are clear manifesto pledges on which
they may be judged. Discussing politics with
someone who makes it her business to know
everything about everything topical is no picnic.
I survived, but not without the odd scar or two.
I heard on the news that the Merseyside
Fire Brigade were striking on November 5th.
This latest move in a long series of industrial
action proves that there are no depths to which
the trade unions will not sink. Supposed profes-
sionals with a vocation to serve the public who
try and hold the authorities to ransom are not fit
to be employed in the emergency services. It is
about time that no-strike agreements were
established in this field, as practised by the
police.
It has been suggested by some people that
my repeated, glowing tributes to Southside Bar
are a vain attempt to gain free beer. This is
absolutely untrue for one very good reason. It
never occurred to me, but thanks for the tip!
Finally, I know I'm not employed for my musi-
cal tastes, but go and buy the new Pulp album.
It's brilliant. Not 'arf.
book: terry pratchet -
interesting times,
andles
This book is a good indication of why Terry
Pratchett is so popular. Although Interesting
Times, his 16th Discworld novel, is far from his
best, it is still an amusing, and hence worthwhile,
read.
Maybe Terry is trying to be politic in giving
all of his favourite characters a turn, because this
time the main lead returns to the hero of the first
two novels - the wizzard Rincewind. Catapulted
by the machinations of the inhabitants of the
Unseen University into the Agatean Empire - the
Discworld equivalent of China - Rincewind
learns only too well why the saying 'May You
Live In Interesting Times' is a curse. The time in
question is that of a revolution by overly respect-
ful peasants, an attempted sacking by a group of
nonagenarian barbarians, and wood (or to be
more specific trunks) showing that it does not
necessarily go in for asexual reproduction a la The
Sorcerers Apprentice. It is a pity, however, that
Rincewind's well honed strategy of dealing with
pretty much everything, the method called run-
ning away from and letting the to work itself out,
is indeed Rincewind's strategy for dealing with
pretty much everything.
As well as the gags, there is increasingly
within Terry's works a more concrete story.
Although this makes for a more coherent read, I
felt that this book, at over 300 pages paperback,
was a little too drawn out, and unlike earlier
books was not a one sitting read. Also, chapters
would be nice.
If you are a dedicated Pratchett fan, you are
going to read this (whatever I say), and probably
enjoy it. If you are not, start with Guards!
Guards! instead.
[Pratchett will be at Forbidden Planet three
weeks tommorow.]

