DIARY FELIX FRIDAY NOVEMBER 1 OTH 1995 . SEVENTEEN
f r i d a y
lO
november
Rag Meeting
1.10 pm Ents Lounge. (R)
Pakistan Society
3.00 - 5.00 pm basketball practice in the
union gym. Bring trainers! Contact Kashif,
aero II, k.ahmed@ae.ic.ac.uk. (R)
Ents
The third of our hugely successful Bust-a-
gut Comedy nights, this week featuring Dan
Freedman, with support from Mancunian
Tony Burgess. Dan's been described by
Melody Maker as "the best young comedian
on the circuit". Doors 8pm. First act on
stage 8.30. £2.50/£2 with Entscard.
If you just want to dance - "Climax",
top tunes from 1 0 - 2 am - £1/free with
Entscard.
f r i d a y
S a t u r d a y
november
Gliding Club
Gliding at Lasham Airfield. (R)
S a t u r d a y
Explosoc
On Thursday Nov 16th at 6pm in Bio W2,
Jack Jackson will be giving a lecture titled
'Exploration for a living'. Jack is one of the
world's most experienced explorers. He has
undertaken a total of over 150 expeditions,
including an amazing total of 23 to the
Sahara. He makes his living from writing,
photography and lecturing.
To be able to hear a such an
experienced explorer talk to you should
prove both informative and inspiring. We
invite all those with any interest in
exploration- both experienced and non
experienced, active and passive, to attend.
S u n d a y
november
Gliding Club
Gliding at Lasham Airfield
Contact gliding@ic.ac.uk
Come to Thursday meeting first. (R)
Fitness Club
2:00pm Intermediate Aerobics (R)
S u n d a y
Matt Crompton
Our Deputy Pres would like to point out
that a mere 54% of you have union cards. He
says you've all got to remember that if you
don't get one, you can't vote for next years'
sabbaticals, which is a bit ironic, really.
If you want one, nip over to the union
office with that bit of paper you got when
you registered, and they'll sort you out. And
if you ask nicely, they'll get you a card, too.
Boardsailing
Last year the boardsailing club enjoyed
success in several events in the student
windsurfing race calendar. This started with
the brass monkey regatta organised by
Oxford University. It was a tough event due
to the cold and total lack of wind, and a real
test of stamina for those poor sailors who get
away with sailing in shorts and a harness back
home, but IC won the event.
Next was the Veloce challenge organised
by Cambridge at Grafham reservoir. One of
our sponsors, Bic sports, provided brand new
boards with brand new sails for the event. We
were the first people to sail them in the UK.
The racing was very close and required
great commitment from the London team
which contained many an Imperial sailor. The
Universities were fighting it out for two
distinct trophies: the Loxbridge cup, a
closely-fought contest between Oxford
Cambridge and London, whilst the overall
cup (a natty little silver one) can be won by
any University team. London won both cups
this year. This on top of the fact that London
has won the Loxbridge cup two years running
should make for an interesting fight this year.
During the Easter holiday the club
entered the BUSA competition at Christ-
church. In gusty offshore winds Imperial
fought hard, and won division two in the
course racing. Then came the mother of all
student events: the Clacton National Student
Windsurfing Championships. IC dominated
the volleyball court but lost one of our best
sailors to a broken thumb, and this might
account for our lower position in the racing.
The apres-windsurfing was very good and we
enjoyed ourselves at the Mayor's civic
reception and the night-club afterwards.
I can't stress enough the fact that
student windsurfing is about good times in
the evening with epic days on the water.
Don't worry about being good at the sport as
all events cater for beginners. The club also
has a heavy schedule of fun trips to a variety
of locations. For more information then
contact cn@ic.ac.uk or pop a message in the
Chem Eng pigeon hole addressed to Chris
Newlands Chem Eng IV, or the athletic clubs
pigeon hole under B for boardsailing.
Bust-a-gut
First up at last week's National comedy
network was Jason Freeman, who has a
mixed start with a predictable-but-good set;
"I bought my fox a new leg for his birthday.
I bought it from the Body Shop, but they
don't test on animals so when I got it home
it didn't fit." On the whole most of the time
was spent waiting for him to get to the
point, which is a shame as warm-up acts
should really be a little more punchy.
At this point the interval arrived and I
turned around to see that the ents lounge
was almost at capacity, with people sitting
on any flat surface. Alan Parker's reputation
and previous performances were obviously
the main pull for the evening. Unobtrusively
on stage himself to set up his props, he
looked distinctly Mark Horne-esque in his
clothing. The next time I saw Alan he was
dressed for his act, with awareness ribbons
everywhere, wild-eyed and with the mother
of all bad hair days. His show was typically
manic and fast-paced, and if you see him
again I recommend the third row at the
closest - this is a scary guy. He was also
extremely funny, finally bringing the
audience to life and even being heckled.
The evening was good value at £2.50
but it was a shame that the first acts were so
lacklustre in comparison to Parker.

