six . FELIX FRIDAY NOVEMBER 1 0 T H 1 9 9 5
RAG W E E K
Rag week
S W e d n e s d a y 1 5 t h ( j
Beer Festival •
An annual event organised by the RCSU for Rag, the beer festival is
regularly the largest and most successful event of the week, with over
1,000 people turning up. This year boasts an extremely wide range of
beers from all over the country, from even as far afield as Orkney and
the furthest reaches of Wales.
The festival is the largest non-CAMRA one in the country, boasting
over 60 beers and ciders which are listed here (se facing page). Also
under consideration are a couple of other beers, for which we are
negotiating with the breweries.
Obviously with 59 different brews, attempting to try all of them will
be nearly impossible, but with such a quality selection make sure you
get your taste buds around a few. (Although it must be said that the
gentleman last year, who declined to drink anything other than
Marston's Owd Roger, on the grounds that he'd told his wife he'd
only have one drink, will remain in m y memory for many a year).
Above all the beer festival is an enjoyable event and well worth turn-
ing up to, if only to get a glass engraved with your name and a quick
pint after lectures finish on Wednesday.
F r i d a y 1 7 t h
5 l e g g e d pub c r a w l
This is when Raggies go for a wander around as many pubs as possible
in one evening and get to know the people they are tied to. This year's
event is raising money for leukemia research.
9
S a t u r d a y 1 8 t h
5NKPJ
The Sponsored Nude Kamakaze Parachute Jump is a little event
where a group of people jump out of the back of a minibus wearing
nothing but a grin (and maybe a few goosebumps) and run from
Harrods back to the Union. If you want to do something silly or just
watch then be at the Union Satuday morning.
C o n c e r t c o l l e c t i o n
Make all those poor souls who have to attend the David Bowie con-
cert at Wembley arena cough up even more. Much better that their
money should go to Rag than line the pockets of the rich and famous.
S u n d a y 1 9 t h
rag rugby
The RSM take on IC Virgins in this annual clash of the titans - always
a highly anticipated event, this is the highlight of the sporting year for
many people! Playing at Harlington, contact RSM for details.
S p o n s o r e d bunj e e j u/r»p
When most students should be in bed with a hangover then we get
even more silly and throw ourselves off a very high crane after attach-
ing ourselves to it by a rubber band on steroids. Come along and fly
through the air in an experience that is pure adrenaline. Come and see
us soon as places are limited.
M o n d a y 2 O t h
mines dirty disco
The less you wear, the less you pay. It's that simple. Any bloke arriv-
ing in a sock would obviously pay very little, as would a girl in only her
underwear. The only time you can get your kit off and not get
chucked out of the bar (probably). How far will you go?
c5 /
Well, it's not exactly a week... more of a lunar week, a conceptual week
if you will... oh, you know what we mean anyway...
RAG WEEK FELIX FRIDAY NOVEMBER 1 0TH 1 9 9 5 . SEVEN
events
T u e s d a y 2 1 s t
C o n c e r t collection
Collect money at the Beautiful South concert - Wembley arena. Who
knows? You might even get to see some of the concert... Contact rag
office for details _
W e d n e s d a y 2 2 n d
a night in the bar.
A fun and relaxing evening where we all get together for a few beers
and a good laugh. We may even buy you a beer if your nice to us. It
promises to be a good night.
T h u r s d a y 2 3 r d
guilds slave auction
Starting at 12.15 in Union. A lunchtime event where you can buy a
slave to do all those little things that have been piling up since the
start of term such as the washing up, laundry, get a meal cooked or
you could sit back an relax while drinks are bought to you.
S a t u r d a y 2 4 t h
rag raid 4s^>
To a mystery location. These are always great fun. We hit a town and
collect loads of money .from its unsuspecting residents. They won't
quite know what's hit them when we arrive. Places are limited so
come to the rag office and book yours early.
Further details of all events are available from the rag office which is
above Felix in the union building. Anyone who would like to take part
in the SNKPJ, bunjee jump slave auction and rag raid, or if you would
like to help out at any of our other events should come and see us at
lunchtime today (lpm Ents Lounge) or leave us a message.
Beer!
A guide to the beers and ciders on offer at the Rag Beer Festival.
Brewery Beer Name Strength
Arkells Kingsdown 5.0
Aston Manor Organ Grinder 6.0
Banks and Taylor Black Bat 6.4
Batemans XB 3.8
Batemans Victory 6.0
Brakspear Old 4.5
Brewery-on-Sea Ginger Beer 5.5
Bulmastif Son of a Bitch 6.0
Butterknowle Conciliation 4.2
Butterknowle High Force 6.2
Cains Formidable 5.1
Commercial Old Toss 6.5
Crouch Vale S.A.S. 4.8
Daleside Monkey Wrench 5.4
Dent T'owd Tup 6.0
Felinfoel Double Dragon 4.2
Gales Gold 3.8
Gibbs Mew Deacon 5.0
Gibbs Mew Bishop's Tipple 6.5
Goldfinch Midnight Blinder 5.0
Greene King Mad Judge ?
H.B.Clark Burglar Bill 4.5
Han by Black Magic Mild 3.3
Hook Norton Best Bitter 3.3
Hook Norton Old Hooky 4.3
Hopback Summer Lightning 5.0
Kelham Island Golden Eagle 4.2
Kelham Island Pale Rider 5.2
Marstons Owd Rodger 7.6
McGuinness Feather Plucker 3.4
Mole's Tap Bitter 3.5
Morlands Tanners Jack 4.4
Morlands Old Speckled Hen 5.2
Nethergate Umbel Magna 5.6
North Yorkshire Fool'sGold 4.4
Ridleys Witchfynder Porter 4.3
Ringwood Old Thumper 5.8
Robinsons Hatters Mild 3.3
Ruddles County 4.9
Smiles Exhibition 5.2
Thwaites Craftsman 4.5
Tring Ridgeway 4.0
Wad worth Old Timer 5.8
Wadworths Farmers Glory 4.5
Wood Wallop 3.4
Wychwood Hobgoblin 5.9
Cider
Weston s Perry 4.5
Zum Zum Medium Scrumpy 5.0

