What's On
Mike-lost?
Still no indication of where the IC Union
mascot Mike could have disappeared to.
There has been no ransom, no telephone calls
or secret notes. It appears that someone may
have actually stolen it for good!
Next Week
Next week's issue will contain the annual
reports of the President, Acting DP and Hon
Sec for your delight and amusement. Don't
miss this thrill-packed issue!
Caption Competition
Last week's winning caption was "Barney
McCabe did it—how about you!" Mr Pallab
Ghosh of Physics 2 wins the very appropriate
prize of a haircut voucher from Jingles of
Gloucester Road.
Another voucher will be given to the person
who can supply me with the wittiest suggestion
for where Mike, the IC Union mascot could be
and/or who has stolen it. Entries to the FELIX
Office by 1:00pm Wednesday.
Injury Time
this hilarious programme will be recorded
in the Concert Hall this Sunday at 7:15pm.
Come along to see Grift Rhys Jones et al.
Tickets free from the Union Office.
Credits
A special thank you to Martin S. Taylor and
Jane Williams for photographs. Also Paul
Bailey and his merry band who are still
delivering FELIX on Fridays (you wouldn't get
them until midday if you had to rely on me
waking up).
More thanks to the regular crew: Peter,
Pallab, Soheel, Steve, Ramzi, Jez, Nick, all the
collators, Maz and Hugh.
Dissection puzzles. A farmer has a field which
he wants to divide into five congruent fields for
his five sons etc. etc. etc.
I must admit to not liking dissection puzzles
very much. They're mostly far too difficult for
anyone less patient than Job, and those which
aren't tend to require an intuitive leap before
the solution suddenly becomes obvious.
This week's p u z z l e , one of the few
dissection puzzles that I find really entertain-
ing, falls into the latter category. Some solvers
will make the logical jump very easily, and will
find the puzzle on the easy side; others, I
promise, will not!
The first diagram shows how a square with
the corner removed can be dissected into five
congruent shapes. If the cornerless square is
halved along a diagonal, the resulting shape
can also be divided into five congruent pieces,
as shown in the second diagram. The third
diagram does the same feat on an equilateral
triangle with the corner missing. This week's
puzzle is to dissect an unmutilated square into
five congruent shapes. There is a unique
solution.
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the
FELIX Office, please. £5 (donated by the ever-
generous Mend-a-Bike) for the correct
solution randomly selected at 1:00pm next
Wednesday.
Last Week's Solution
20 padlocks are needed. For any three
members of the Exec, there is at least one key
they lack; and since everyone else has that
missing key, every subset of three Exec
members is associated with a different key
which thev don't have. So there are at least6
C 3
keys, i.e. 20 padlocks are necessary.
But 20 locks are also sufficient. Take each
subset of three Exec members in turn, and
'give everyone except them the key to one of
the locks. This satisfies the conditins of the
puzzle and needs 20 locks.
Ken Morison, Chem Eng P G , was the only
one to get it right, but honorable mentin goes
to Gary Smith who descibed a method of
locking Mike in a box so that four people are
needed to open it. His method uses fourteen
padlocks, but since it needs a box as well I felt
Ken Morison's solution rather more sound.
Friday, May 14
•Baha'i Soc A G M , 12:30pm, Brown C o m m Rm.
•Soup Run, 10:30pm, Falmouth Kitchen.
Saturday, May 15
•Rag Fete, 2:00pm, Queens Lawn. Prizes, fun, bar all
afternoon, climb the Queens Tower.
Sunday, May 16
•Theatre workshop and cast meeting for Edinburgh
Fringe, 2:00pm, Upper Lounge. Anyone interested will
be made welcome.
Monday, Mfxy 17
• C o m m u n i t y A c t i o n G r o u p A G M , 5:30pm, Rag
Office, top of the Union.
•Dancing club advanced class, 7:30pm, J C R .
Tuesday, May 18
•Boardsaiiing Club: All coolcats who don't mind wet
fur—come to our Tuesday meeting if you want to go to
Mudside Lake on Wednesday or Brighton (Flat calm
guaranteed!) at the weekend.
•Cycling club pre-Brighton meeting. Anyone interested
in becoming a member or even officer of the newest club
at IC, welcome, 12:30pm, Southside Upper Lounge.
• U N S o c A G M , 1:00pm, Union Dining Hall.
•Liberal Club A G M , 1:00pm, Senior C o m m Rm.
• I C C A G Soup Run, 10:30pm, Falmouth Kitchens.
Wednesday, May 19
•Dancing club intermediate class, 7:30pm, J C R .
Thursday, May 20
•Turn It O n Again (first of three programmes), 1:00
and 6:00pm, J C R , Southside T V Lounge, Beit, Linstead,
Weeks and Garden Halls. A browse through the S T O l C
archives, featuring material recorded over the last
academic year.
INJURY TIME
A Radio 4 revue with
Robert Bathurst, Jimmy Mulville, Rory McGrath,
Emma Thompson and Griff Rhys Jones
will be recorded on Sunday, M a y 16
at 7:15pm in the U n i o n C o n c e r t Hall
Tickets available from Union Office.
H A L D A N E LIBRARY
sale of ex-library books
begins Monday
9:30 to 5:30
To run to the end of term with new books
added every week!
Southside Shop: At last what you've all been
waiting for—IC sweatshirts and T-shirts. We now
have a large stock of colours and sizes. Prices:
Sweatshirts £6; T-shirts £2.50. Don't miss the
sportswear sale with reductions on all racquets
and training shoes plus many miscellaneous items.
Beer and Bangers
Lady Flowers and the IC Wives Club
invite you to Beer and Bangers at 170
Queensgate, Wed May 26. Names to
Jen in the Union Office by 5pm, Friday
May 21.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of the Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince
Consort Road, London SW7 2BB (589-5111 ext 1048 int 2881) Copyright FELIX 1982. Editor: M A Smith, Advertising Manager: S M Gibtin.

