The most surprising release of the week must
be the double bill of Star Wars and The
Empire Strikes Back, not least because they
are the top two selling films of all time.
The lack of publicity for this event is thus
understandable—who needs to "sell" films
which have already been seen and enjoyed by
millions? Way back in May 1977 when Star
W a r s was released in A m e r i c a , nobody
expected the overwhelming response which
occurred. At first things were slow, then word
of mouth resulted in massive queues and Star
Wars mania had struck.
An imperial stormtrooper.
The success of the film was probably a
greater shock to 20th Century Fox; the film
cost $10m and has grossed a staggering'
$185m. The 'sequel' it spawned (which writer:
George Lucas had planned well before Star
Wars was filmed) The Empire Strikes Back
scaled new heights in movie technology and
turned out to be an effects epic (which was
equally enjoyable) and grossed $135m on an
investment of $22m. It is not surprising,
therefore, that the third film in the series
Revenge of the Jedi (which will cost $32.5m)!
has already started filming and will be released,
in May 1983. I
Well, figures apart, what else is impressive;
about these giants of the screen? The stories
are undeniably simple; in Star Wars a young
farmboy (Luke Skywalker) is lured away from
his home by the promise of adventure and in
Empire his fight against evil begins in earnest.
Both, however, are filled out with a selection of
unusual characters and machines which just
about manage to raise them above the average
space soap opera.
Although George Lucas chose unknowns
for the main roles in Star Wars, he managed to
persuade Sir Alec Guiness and Peter Cushing
to take roles, which undoubtably raised the
general standard of acting. They were also a
reasonably good bet to ensure moderate box
office success at least. However, these
characters were almost totally overshadowed
by the two androids R2-D2 and G3PO (who
provided an absurd comic element) and the
magnificent Darth Vader. For me, Vader steals
the show time after time—there seems to be
something appealing about evil incarnate and
his external appearance adds much to that
appeal.
Our herogs on the bridge of the Millenium Falcon
But the most important breakthrough was
certainly not the characterisation. The most
amazing step forward was undoubtably the
extensive use of ingenious special effects. By
now you're probably groaning at the mention
of the words "special effects" as the horde of
imitators that Star Wars prompted has meant
that you can hardly watch a film which hasn't
got lasers or enhanced glows somewhere in it.
But this is where Star Wars broke new ground
and is where the appeal of the film lies. The
convincing space scenes, tumbling spacecraft,
well designed ships and costumes together
with excellent sound effects results in a "look"
which initially overcomes any shortcomings in
the plot or acting. Without this customised
"look" Star Wars (and certainly Empire) would
be nothing more than a shoddy space western.
Anyway, in terms of enjoyment, both films
score very highly and I'll be first in the queue to
see them again for the umpteenth time on the
big screen, where both should be seen. Oh
yes, I didn't mention that Star Wars has been
sold to ITV for about $5m and should be seen
at Christmas.
Mark Smith
Tunnels Under London by Nigel Pennick.
Price £1.20 by post from Electric Traction
Publications, 142 Pheasant Rise, Bar Hill,
Cambridge CB3 8SD. (Only available
direct from publishers.)
Nigel Pennick has written a very well
researched book detailing tunnels built under
London for underground railways, roads, air-
raid shelters, telephone networks and nuclear
bunkers. A l l the information has been
gathered from public sources and piecemealed
together with plausible deductions to fill in the
grey areas. Considering the now well-known
GPO cable tunnels being clandestinely built by
the Government and not admitted to, the
subject matter is naturally contentious and
difficult to research. London is possibly the
only major city in the world with an
underground network of tunnels that remains
practically undocumented for the public. Mr
Pennick's small (28 page) book is the next best
thing in the absence of official literature.
Written almost in the manner of a scientific
paper Tunnels Under London quotes its
sources continuously and distinguishes fact
from theories. Consequently, the book is
seriously written and is believable. Well worth
buying by anyone interested in the tube
system, or esoteric literature, or both.
S. Marshall
Page 8 FELIX, May 14, 1982

