One of the Union’s objectives from its strategy was to work towards our improvement
in University Green League. Part of that work included taking part in the NUS Green
Impact scheme. The NUS Green Impact is an environmental accreditation and awards
scheme that is undertaken by students’ unions, universities and community colleges.
It helps recognises new work and continuous changes made by these institutions to
make their campuses greener.
Headed up by our Commercial Services Manager, a team of staff reviewed current
practices and implemented changes at the Union to the scheme’s criteria in order to
better measure and reduce our environmental impact. 28 criteria were completed in
total for our submission this year, including:
A Switching A4 paper at the Union to 100% recycled material where possible
A Conducting a waste audit of the Union Building with the help of College’s Soft
Services Department to help us highlight ways in which we can improve our
recycling efforts
A Introducing a new green campaign in the Union Shop and Shop Extra to encourage
our customers to reuse bags
A Supporting student-led campaigns on environmental issues, including Fossil Free
Imperial
A Taking part in NUS’s Snap It Off campaign , highlighting buildings on campus with
their lights left on
A Documenting these changes in a new Green Impact section on our website
A After an audit of our work by the NUS, we have been awarded the Bronze Award,
which is a great achievement. Schemes that were started for this year’s Green
Impact are continuing, and plans to develop work to gain the Silver Award have
already been set in motion.
For more information, visit the Green Impact area of our website at
imperialcollegeunion.org/greenimpact.
Since last week hundreds of you have been taking part in our poll to decide the new
name for the bar and restaurant in Woodward Hall, North Acton. Over 600 of you
took part in the poll and we are pleased to announce that the winning name, by a fine
margin, was The Foundry. The name is a great way to recognise the history of the site
where the new hall of residence stands. From the early 1920s right up until the mid
1980s the site was owned by Landi & Gyr forming the site for their factory and offices.
The factory made "Elgee" electricity meters and time switches. Specifically the Elgee
factory, just like Woodward Hall, was cut into the slope just west of Victoria Road.
We are really excited to bring you this new bar and restaurant in conjunction with
College Campus Services and look forward to it being an integral part of the student
experience for hall residents and students who live nearby!
Final poll results
A The Foundry 100
A Urban Oak 96
A The Meter 85
A The Contingency 81
A West Three 72
A The 1923 44
A One Victoria Road 44
imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
New bar and restaurant name announced!
NUS Green Impact
Looking for a one off volunteering opportunity in the next few weeks? Join us on one
of our Mass Volunteering events, volunteering alongside 5, 10 or 20+ other Imperial
Students in a fun and rewarding activity, instantly seeing the difference you are making.
Everyone will get a free Community Connections t-shirt and travel expenses can be
reimbursed. Sign up for the activities on the Mass Volunteering pages of the Union
website at imperialcollegeunion.org/volunteering.
GoodGym - Wednesday 24 June
We are joining forces with GoodGym Westminster to do some good deeds in the local
community. Grab your running shoes and be prepared to run 6-8km to a community
project where we’ll spend 40 minutes making a difference!
Kids City Abbeville Fete - 27 June
Now in its 19th Year, the Abbeville Fete near Clapham Common is entirely ran by
volunteers. Kid’s City are welcoming volunteers to come along and take part on the
day, helping them to run their Kid’s Zone which is set to be bigger and better than ever
before!
Bugs! Day 10 July
Support Bugs! Day at our Silwood Park Campus, helping visitors discover the
wonderful world of bugs and other invertebrates. They are looking for volunteers to
help out with various activities on the day and you can take part in activities you think
you are most suited for. Transport will be provided.
Community Connections Mass Volunteering

