31 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
16.01.2015 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 32
16.01.2015
FELIX
Arts Editors Fred Fyles & Kamil McClelland
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Arts Editors Fred Fyles & Kamil McClelland
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
BP Portrait Award 2015
Like the RA’s Summer Exhibition and standing in the courtyard of The
Globe to see some Shakespeare as a groundling, the NPG’s Portrait Award is
a summer tradition. This year saw over 2,700 entries to the competition,
all vying for the top prize of £30,000, and – more importantly – acclaim
and prominence in the British art world. With a variety of styles and
sitters, sometimes the stories behind the works are more interesting than
the paintings themselves. As usual, entrance is free (although perhaps
selling out to an oil giant is the real cost), so unless you’re willing to go at an
odd time you’ll need to suck it up, make your way through the hell that is
Trafalgar Square, and be prepared to barge stupid tourists out of the way to
get a view of the paintings.
BP Portrait Award 2015 is on at the National Portrait Gallery until 20th
September. Admission Free
Barbara Hepworth: Sculpture for a
Modern World
A highly anticipated exhibition, this will be the first retrospective of one
of the most famous British sculptors of the 20th
century since the 1960s.
If you think you don’t know who Barbara Hepworth is, think again: her
Winged Figure adorns the John Lewis flagship store, just by Oxford Circus –
in order to preserve the view she ordered that a street lamp be taken down.
Her sculptures, with their dynamic properties, exploration of tension, and
undulating curves, are some of the best examples of British modernism,
equal – if not better – than those of her contemporary Henry Moore. The
Guardian’s art critic Jonathan Jones called her a ‘second-rate artist’. Fuck
him. Go see this show at the Tate Britain.
Barbara Hepworth: Sculpture for a Modern World is on at the Tate Britain 24th
June - 25th
October. Tickets from £14.50
We Want More
What with PJ Harvey taking up residence at Somerset House earlier
this year, and the Björk retrospective currently taking up space in New
York’s MoMA, it seems that there is a resurgence in collaboration between
popular musicians and fine art venues. The Photographers’ Gallery
picks up on this with their latest exhibition, We Want More, which looks
at the role visual artefacts – in particular photos – play in the creation
of a musical artist. In a world of Instagram and Pinterest, the impact
that photographs can have on the identity of a musician has never
been stronger; expect bold looks, creative set-ups, and simply stunning
photographs.
We Want More is on at The Photographers’ Gallery from 17th
July - 20th
September. Free admission
The World Goes Pop
Too often is any discussion of the Pop Art movement centred solely
around the USA, and – to a lesser extent – the UK. Any retrospective of
the movement tends towards simply showing the same old Warhol and
Lichtenstein, and perhaps the odd Richard Hamilton. Luckily for us, the
Tate Modern’s upcoming show explores the links between different places,
revealing Pop Art as an international language of protest and uprising, one
that questioned concepts like domesticity, the politics of the home, and the
body as property. Shying away from the traditional narrative, this show
will offer work from across the world, from Tokyo to Tehran, from Paris to
Panama.
The World Goes Pop is on at the Tate Modern from 17th
September 2015 - 24th
January 2016
Opera
Over the summer, the opera world has a tendency to somewhat ‘shut
down’, as patrons eschew sitting in a dark auditorium listening to gloomy
tales of revenge and lust in favour of outdoor pavilions, promenades, and
Pimms. At the English National Opera, just three productions remain:
Tchaikovsky’s tale of greed, murder, and playing cards, The Queen of Spades,
is on until 2nd
July; a dramatic reimagination of Bizet’s Carmen, which
shifts the action to Franco’s Spain, is on until 3rd
July; and Mike Leigh turns
his attention away from JMW Turner towards Gilbert & Sullivan, in his
production of The Pirates of Penzance, on until 4th
July. After these finish
their run, the opera season closes until September.
Luckily, the Royal Opera House is able to pick up the slack: their roster
of operas is also reduced, but productions continue throughout the season.
Highlights include: Guillaume Tell, Rossini’s final opera, whose complex
melodies will be taken on by Damiano Michieletto, in his ROH debut (29th
June - 17th
July); Puccini’s La bohème, a classic in the opera repertoire, with
its dark tale of love and loss, also makes an appearance, with a revival of the
1974 production (23rd
May - 16th
July); and Shakespeare’s comic hero Falstaff
makes an appearance in Verdi’s hilarious, witty opera, which is relocated
to 1950s England (6-18th
July). For those of you who prefer a slightly more
modern take on opera, the ROH is also putting on a double programme
of chamber operas by composer Harrison Birtwistle, to celebrate his 80th
birthday, celebrated last year: The Corridor, which premiered at the 62nd
Aldeburgh Festival, and The Cure, which will be having its debut at the
ROH. Both are collaborations with the librettist David Harsent, a long-time
collaborator of Birtwistle, and centre around his obsession with classical
mythology.
Ballet & Dance
Fans of dance are luckier than the opera buffs: summer sees the ballet
schools putting on a number of recitals and shows, displaying what they
have been working on throughout the year. At the Royal Opera House,
the Royal Ballet School have their annual summer performances in the
Linbury Studio from 1-4th
July, showing off the school’s talent, and the
Annual Performance (12th
July), which gives a taste of the stage to the entire
school, which ranges from eleven year olds to graduates, about to embark in
a career in ballet. Another ROH highlight is Whelan/Watson: Other Stories
(9-12th
July), a collection of works for American dancer Wendy Whelan
and Royal Ballet Principal Edward Watson – one of the works is by Arthur
Pita, the choreographer behind the production of The Metamorphosis with
which Watson made his name, winning the Olivier Award for Outstanding
Achievement in Dance for his role as Gregor Samsa.
Sadler’s Wells has a number of productions on over the summer,
with one highlight being Matthew Bourne’s The Car Man (14th
July - 9th
August), which first premiered in 2000. The production’s longevity is
only a testament to its ingenuity: loosely based on Bizet’s opera, The
Car Man updates the action to 1950s Americana, introducing elements
of physicality, lust, and homoeroticism into the mix. Also on offer is
TOROBAKA, a collaboration between the celebrated dance artist Akram
Khan, and the award-winning flamenco dancer Israel Galván. The resulting
work brings together two very different dance cultures into one sublime
show (30th
June – 5th
July)
Meanwhile, at the English National Opera, we have the last recitals of
French dancer Sylvie Guillem, possibly one of the most highly-regarded
artists alive today. A continuation of her sell-out run at Sadler’s Wells, the
programme sees Guillem going out in triumph, with a quartet of daring,
modern works that show off her fluid movement and easy sensuality (28th
July - 2nd
August). Another ENO highlight is their production of Cinderella,
which will run from 8-11th
July. Choreographed by Cheistopher Wheeldon,
the internationally acclaimed artist, and scored by Prokofiev, this show
made its debut with the Dutch National Ballet in 2012, where it recieved a
glowing reception from fans and critics.
Une Baignade, Asnières by
Georges Pierre Seurat, 1884. Photo:
Wikimedia Commons
Art In The City: Our Summer Guide
Felix Arts presents our cultural guide of what’s on this summer
The National’s new season has
kicked off, under the guiding hand
of new director Rufus Norris. With
the Entry Pass scheme for 16-25
year olds providing £5 tickets to
every show, and the new Friday
Rush system providing £20 seats to
sold-out shows each week, there’s
no excuse not to catch the work of
Britain’s leading producing theatre.
The Motherf**cker with the
Hat
Already playing, this Tony
nominated play by Stephen Adly
Guirgis looks at the nature of love
and addiction in New York City. It’s
the story of Jackie, a former convict
who finds himself finally moving
forward in the world, staying clean
and maybe even finding a job.
Until 20th
August, Lyttelton Theatre
An Oak Tree
The 10th
anniversary of Tim Crouch’s
classic production means it’s time
for a revival. The show is performed
by two people: Crouch himself, and a
different actor for each performance.
The actors involved won’t have seen
or read a word of what they’re about
to engage with, leading to a wide
array of potential paths for the actors
to explore.
From 23rd
June - 15th
July, Temporary
Theatre
Our Country’s Good
The tale of the birth of Australia
as we now know it, thanks to the
actions of the English government.
In 1788, the first ship loaded with
English convicts lands in Botany
Bay. This new prison in a far away
land is brutal and unforgiving, and
demands a new method of keeping
the prisoners in control. One officer
suggests a play, and as rehearsals
begin a new sense of common
purpose begins to develop.
From 19th
August - 17th
October,
Olivier Theatre
Always exciting, the Donmar never fail in quality productions. Fresh off
the back of The Vote, broadcast live on election night, and currently in the
middle of a run of the critically acclaimed Temple, there’s still plenty of life
left in one of London’s most consistently exciting and innovative theatres.
Splendour
A new play by Abi Morgan, Splendour is the story of four women, brought
together for one moment. A photojournalist, the wife of the dictator she is
here to photograph, the wife’s best friend and an interpreter all await the
arrival of an unnamed dictator. All four have secrets, all four are in danger,
and all four stand in a Presidential Palace on the day of a revolution.
30th
July - 26th
September. Tickets from £10
National Theatre
The Court are slowly winding down,
but they still have one last play up
their sleeve this season in the main
Jerwood Theatre Downstairs, as
well as plenty more productions to
land in their studio space.
hang
A new play by debbie tucker green
debuts at the Royal Court. Little
is available about the contents of
the plot. A crime has occurred, a
criminal has been convicted, and a
choice must be made. Short, sharp,
unforgiving.
Until 18th
July, Jerwood Theatre
Downstairs. Tickets from £10
Men in the Cities
A one man show that first debuted
at the Court in 2014 before
appearing at the Edinburgh Fringe,
Men in the Cities spirals around the
murder of Fusilier Lee Rigby in
2013, and the suicide of a young
gay man, using them to examine
how our relationships, our lives,
are shaped by forces beyond our
control.
21st
July - 1st
August, Jerwood Theatre
Upstairs. Tickets from £20
The Royal Court
Never one to be outshone, the
Young Vic are looking to repeat
the enormous successes they found
with their productions of A Streetcar
Named Desire and A View from the
Bridge, both of which are making
their way to Broadway.
The Trial
Next up is an adaptation of Franz
Kafka’s The Trial, starring Rory
Kinnear. Josef K’s 35th
birthday is
interrupted by three unnamed,
unidentified agents knocking on
his door to arrest him for unknown
crimes. A terrifying interview
follows, as K realises that is far
beyond any prank, this is a matter of
life and death.
19th
June - 22nd
August. Tickets from
£10
Song from Far Away
The UK’s most prolific playwright
has another work on the London
stage this year, as Simon Stephen’s
latest play appears in a co-production
with Toneelgroup Amsterdam.
Directed by Ivo van Hove, the man
behind A View from the Bridge, this
is the story of a young man forced
to return home by a death in the
family, a family he’s been estranged
from for years.
2-19th
September. Tickets from £10
The Young Vic
The Old Vic
The National isn’t the only major theatre enjoying its
first season under a new artistic director, as Matthew
Warchus follows on from Kevin Spacey. His first
season in charge promises an eclectic mix of shows,
with revivals of old classics alongside new works.
Future Conditional
Matthew Warchus kicks off his tenure with Future
Conditional, a new play by Tamsin Oglesby. Starring
Rob Brydon alongside a cast of 23 young performers,
the play deals with the mess that is the British
education system. One young Afghan refugee, Alia,
has some bold ideas that could shake everything up…
1st
September - 3rd
October. Tickets from £10
Donmar Warehouse
Alec Newman (Ralph), Ricardo Chavira (Jackie) & Yul Vazquez (Julio) in
The Motherf**cker with the Hat. Photo: Mark Douet
Marianne Jean-Baptiste in hang at the Royal Court Theatre. Photo:
Tristram Kenton
Suzy King, Sian Thomas, Rory Kinnear, and Kato O’Flynn in rehersal
for The Trial. Photo: Keith Pattison
Splendour, at the Donmar Warehouse. Photo: Donmar
Warehouse

