44 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
16.01.2015 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 45
16.01.2015
FELIX
C & S Editor Ben Howitt
Clubs and Societies
felix.clubsandsocieties@imperial.ac.uk C & S Editor Ben Howitt
Clubs and Societies
felix.clubsandsocieties@imperial.ac.uk
Pirouettes, miners and Red Bull
Phil Rymond and Matt Wright as Billy’s father and brother. Photo: James Chadwick
Jack Steadman on 24 hours of frantically ambitious activity
Summer term rolling around
again can only mean one thing:
exams. No, hang on. Two things.
I’ll try again.
Summer term rolling around again
can only mean two things: exams,
and the Musical Theatre Society’s
(MTSoc) 24-hour musical. One of
these is an intense, high stress period
where everyone involved goes in
feeling massively underprepared,
sits through the whole thing still
feeling massively underprepared,
then staggers out the other side not
entirely sure of how they’re still alive.
The other is, of course, the 24-hour
musical. Yeah, you thought you knew
where I was going with that one. You
were wrong.
Either way, 24-hour is typically a
hectic blast of musical theatre that
does its very best to kill everyone
involved, and then still somehow
sucker an audience into turning up
and sitting through the results. The
end product could, quite literally, be
anything.
None of the cast, band or crew
know what the show is going into
this, making the big reveal at 19:00
on Friday evening an event in itself.
Obviously people guess the show (or
find out through nefarious means),
but it’s all a big surprise. In theory.
This year, the reveal was made even
larger than usual thanks to the MD
stitching together a reveal video,
using archive footage alongside
clips of the show. As shots from
the miners’ strike in the 80s rolled,
followed by news footage of Maggie
Thatcher, it quickly became obvious
where this 24 was headed. The shot of
a group of miners clustered on stage
belting out ‘Once We Were Kings’
provided the confirmation nobody
needed: it was Billy Elliot. For better,
for worse, for sheer insanity, we were
going to try our hand at Billy Elliot.
God help us all.
It all develops into a bit of a blur
after that. The cast were given their
scripts, and a detailed timetable of
where they were meant to be and what
they were meant to be doing every
minute until the show was supposed
to go up. Yes, that included when they
were supposed to sleep, to the minute.
And no, the show was never going to
go up on time. Don’t be ridiculous.
With that, the cast were packed
off to their singing/acting/dancing
rehearsals, while the band were
prepped and set up for their
rehearsals. The crew, meanwhile,
disappeared for a crew curry.
As rehearsals got rolling it became
clear that, for want of a better
word, this show was a particularly
ambitious undertaking, something
the directing team had wasted no
time telling everybody within earshot
over the couple of months running
up to the show. Trying numbers like
‘Solidarity’, one of the most tightly
choreographed numbers in musical
theatre, showed the scale of what we
were trying to pull off, and with a
dramatically reduced length of time
to do it.
At some point during this, the crew
returned from their curry, scooping
up the lighting plan and cracking
on with taking items out of storage
and putting them in the ceiling (a
favourite pastime of all technicians).
Time swept rapidly onwards, as new
numbers were rehearsed for the first
time and then hurriedly memorised
during the rehearsal for the next one;
the costume team sprinted around
checking everyone had brought the
items they were supposed to; and the
tech team continued their inexorable
march towards a stage that was visible
to an audience. And also not covered
in metal shavings, courtesy of the
(still ongoing) redevelopment works.
Sometime around 02:00 (maybe
03:00, it’s a bit fuzzy), things started
to come together. A run of ‘Solidarity’
produced something truly special that
left the hairs on the back of my neck
standing up. A feeling that maybe –
just maybe – we could pull this off
started to infuse everyone (apart from
the crew, who were a little distracted
by one of the lighting designers
falling ill and having to go home).
As morning broke, and several
cast members who nipped out for
a quick shower at home found
themselves locked out of the building,
there was no let-up in proceedings.
The choreographer had her first
break of the night, before diving
straight back in. Everyone started
to brace themselves for the first full
runthrough of the show with the
band and cast together. The crew,
meanwhile, carried on making noises
(some of them intentional) in the
Union Concert Hall, as the sound
team rolled in and started setting up
while the lighting rig was fine-tuned
and focussed.
Miraculously, everything was still
running to schedule by the time the
sitzprobe started. It’s an unwritten
law of theatre that nothing (least of
all a 24-hour musical) will ever run to
plan, let alone to time, but somehow
that was precisely what was going on.
Obviously, at some point that all
had to come to an end, and here
(at last) came that point. No-one’s
yet worked out how everything
slowed down, but slow down it did,
as everything started to overrun to
the point of needing to cancel the
technical/dress rehearsal because
there simply wasn’t enough time
before curtain up.
With the house still a mess, and
barely an hour until curtain up, the
decision was made to run the most
important numbers, and throw in
some tests for the more complicated
moments of tech. Trying to rehearse
over the clattering of a small army of
people clearing away any and all junk
in the room, before covering the place
in chairs can’t have been easy, but the
cast, band and crew managed it.
And then, a mere half an hour
late, the show started. The audience
swarmed in and took their seats,
filling the house, and the projection
to open the show started.
From there, everything flowed
near-perfectly. The whole thing felt
like the opening night of a show that
had had almost an entire week to
get in and get setup, off the backs of
months of rehearsal. It’s testament
to the hard work of the production
team, the sterling efforts of the cast
and band, and the ceaseless work of
the crew (after the curry) that it all
came together in the way it did, and
it ranks as quite possibly the best
24-hour musical the society has ever
done.
I’m probably not the most qualified
person to make the judgement, but
whatever. It was great. It was absolute
hell during the majority of that
period, but at the end of it, it was
worth every minute.
Except for the 20 I spent curled
up on the floor of a meeting room,
staring blankly into space as the
enormous quantity of caffeine I
managed to consume finally crashed
its way into my bloodstream. That bit,
I could probably have done without.
Jenny Galloway as Wilkinson and the ballet girls. Photo: James Chadwick
Earlier in this issue Kunal Wagle wrote about
the results from this year’s Union Awards.
The individual winners of Union Awards are
reproduced one more time below.
Union Colours
Aaniya Ahmed,Aditya Ranjan,Akash Jyoti,
Alex Compton,Alexander Bond,Alice Tang,
Andrea Michi,Ashley Wen,Ayano Mizuguchi,
Ayshah Sawjani,Ben Stockton,Bertram Lim,
Bethany Davison,Bradley Pollard,Bryan
Liu,Cecily Johnson,Christopher Winchurch,
David Leonard,David Snowdon,David
Thompson,Dexter Tarr,Diana Newman,
Diane Pople,Don Koh,Edward James Cox,
Edward Kardouss,Edward Parker,Eleanor
Vincent,Elisabeth Robinson,Elise Rattigan,
Elizabeth Cotton,Enric Juan Alcocer,Francis
Clegg,Fred Fyles,Frederik Piech,Gareth
Holden,Gloria Rosetto,Guillermo Marrero
Samarin,Hammad Malik,Harriet Campbell,
Hasan Asif,Heather Lambert,Henry Harrod,
Henry Legge,Isobel Mackay,Ivan Zheludev,
Jake Reynolds,James Murphy,James
Threadgill,Jasper Stassen,Jessica Wade,Jo
Schlemper,Joel Russell,Jonas de Beukelaer,
Joseph Gafton,Josh Orpen-Palmer,Joshua
Renken,Kai-Te Wang,Katherine Fok,Kayla
Chiew,Khizr Nawab,Laura Baird,Laura
Wheatcroft,Lauren Anders,Lloyd James,
Luke Armitage,Marcus Bishop,Mark Sykes,
Matthew Douthwaite,Matthew Slater,
Max Boleininger,Melanie Wilson,Natalie
Andrews,Nicolas Prettejohn,Noor Mulheron,
Oscar Peace,Peter Bridgman,Peter Brook,
Philip Sayer,Qiaotong Ren,Qinghua Lei,
Rachael Fletcher,Rachael Shuttleworth,
Rachel Castola,Rachel Hounslow,Rasheed
Rabiu,Rele Ologunde,Rex Manurung,
Richard Simons,Rikki Rothwell,Robert
Maizonnier,Robert Schussler,Rosanna
Nichols,Safiyyah Abdulla,Sami Simreen,
Samuel Spreadbury,Serena Yuen,Shanzeh
Khurshid,Sheeraz Iqbal,Simon Escobar
Steinvall,Sinziana Giju,Sofia Qvarfort,
Stephen Ball,Stephen Ingram,Sudeep
Biswas,Thomas Arrow,Thomas Jones,
Tim Weenink,Timothy Munday,William
Daubney,William Smith,Yasir Ashraf,Zheng
Gu,Zoe Hsu
Outstanding Service Award
Alexander Lown, Athanasius Andriopoulos,
Benjamin Fernando, Benjamin Howitt,
Benjamin Warnick,Cem Hurrell,Christopher
Wood, David Ham, Emma Toms,Ethan
Butler,Ethan Haley,Ibtesham Hossain,Jack
Hatfield,Jack Steadman,James Badman,
James Targett,John Winters,Jonathan
London,Jonathan McNaught,Lillan Agerup,
Luke Granger-Brown,Maredudd Harris,
Matt Jones,Michael Chung,Michie Takeuchi,
Mimi Li,Nida Mahmud,Oliver Benton,Peter
Griffin,Philip Kent,Richard Cameron,Robert
O’Keeffe,Shiladitya Ghosh,Steven Tran,
Theresa Davey,Thomas Lim,Tom Rivlin,Xin
Phang,Yulia Bulgakova.
Fellowship
George Butcher,George Goldberg,Max
Hunter.
What you may not be aware of is the fact
that each management group (that’s like a
smaller committee of club chairs with similar
aims and objectives–so Gliding and the
Underwater club are in one,all the overseas
societies form another,etc) also give out their
own set of awards for clubs and inidividual
volunteers.
These awards celebrate volunteers’
leadership,talent and general affability,
and represent a chance for volunteers to get
something back from the work they do on an
event basis and all year round.
Recreational Clubs Committee (RCC)
The RCC includes a wider range of clubs,
ranging from Gliding to Meat Appreciation to
Synchronised Swimming.
Distinguished Service Award:
Tom Arscott,Chris Wood,Rhys Tyers.
RCC Colours:
Guy Dutton,Naomi Bassett,Joanna
Beresford,Phiip Kent,David Leonarrd,Jose
Videira,Karl Zimmermann.
RCC Merit:
Courtenay Johnson,Ferogh Ishan,Luisa Doria,
Owen Leech,Ellen Mathieson.
Athletic Clubs Committee (ACC)
The ACC comprises of all of the directly
athletic clubs,in particular those that
compete in the British Universities and
College Sport (BUCS) competitions.The
awards were presented on Thursday night
at the Appreciation,Recognition and
Celebiration of Sport (ARCS) awards,after
this issue went to print,but can be found on
the online version.
Also receiving ACC Colours:
Luke Armitage,Michael Parkes,Cloudy
Carnegie,Matthew Douthwaite,Lawrence
Greenfield,Ernest Lo,Joel Russell,Mireille
Rack,James Badman,Luke Gardner,Gareth
Holden,Hermione Glyn.
Arts and Entertainment Board (AEB)
The AEB is made up of all the performing arts,
visual arts and music societies.
A&E Colours:
Rachael Fletcher,Sofia Qvarfort,Harriet
Campbell,Heather Jeffery,Natalie
Bevan,Olivia Kuo,Enric Juan Alcocer,
Peter Munton,Beth Woodhams,Rachel
Januszewski,Kathryn Sayer,Jack Steadman,
James Targett,Michael McCree,Will O’Reilly,
Henry Harrod,Isabelle Barrett,Raymond
Williams,Joshua Carr,Joseph Hoggett,
Maria Schofield Legorburo,Luke Granger-
Brown,Beni Bienz,Peter Bridgman,Rohan
Arambepola,Ethan Haley,Peter Griffin,
George Goldberg,Bethany Hall,Douglas
Addy,James Craven,Justin Pither,Kieran
Ryan,Richard Flint,Deana Kwong Hong
Tsang.
Union Awards 2014/15
Did you attend Fresher’s Fair 2015?
Can you read and/or write?
We are looking for a Clubs & Societies Editor
for 2015/16!
Apply at felix.clubsandsocieties@ic.ac.uk

