46 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
19.06.2015 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 47
19.06.2015
FELIX
Sport Editor: Kunal Wagle Sport Editor: Kunal Wagle
SPORT SPORT
Murray, the Ashes and a World Cup: this Summer in Sport
In November 2013 I wrote a
column in Felix about the Ashes.
In it I (unlike the newspapers) said
that I was wary that Australia would
pose a much stronger threat than the
previous summer. The newspapers
were right. There was a whitewash.
But it wasn’t England that were
victorious.
Eighteen months on, and everyone
in England is a lot more circumspect
about what to expect this summer.
Gone are the days where England
were considered the better side. This
time round, the question I’ve heard
is not “Who will win the Ashes”, but
“How much will Australia win by”.
To be honest, I’m also really tempted
to answer that question rather than
the former. In fact I will.
Australia have soared to new
heights since delivering the Ashes
thrashing, beating India and
thumping the West Indies. They’ve
also added another World Cup to
their trophy cabinet and look near
unbeatable. Especially over five tests.
Their batting is formidable. Even
if Chris Rogers does not recover
from concussion, the opening pair
of Shaun Marsh and David Warner
are both reliable and potentially
explosive. The middle order of Steve
Smith and Michael Clarke can take
the game away, and Adam Voges
is making the most of his belated
introduction into test cricket. And
once you’ve got through them there’s
still Shane Watson and Brad Haddin
to get through.
Australia’s bowling is something
to be admired. It says it all that we
are looking at a bowling line up that
Mitchell Johnson, the man behind
England’s destruction, might not
even get a look in. Ryan Harris and
Mitchell Starc have the potential to
run through any batting order with
the new ball. And Josh Hazlewood
and the in-form Nathan Lyon will
be on hand to clean up the rest, with
the assistance of the useful Shane
Watson.
But it’s not the team that will win
Australia the Ashes. In my opinion,
it’s their style of play that’ll be
the death of England’s Summer.
Australia’s brand of cricket is
incredibly aggressive. How many
captains in the world would declare
like Clarke did last week, setting only
390 to win, and that too with more
than two days left in the match?
In my mind there’s only one other
Captain in the world who would
consider that, and it’s to England’s
advantage that they’ve played the
first half of the summer playing
against his side.
Brendon McCullum’s New Zealand
showed this Summer at Headingley
how attacking cricket can take a game
away from the opposition in a matter
of hours. McCullum played the game
as if the rain was going to rob his side
of a hundred overs to bowl England
out twice, and he reaped the rewards.
However, that also showed in the
first test match of the series that
the attacking ploy is not foolproof,
and this is where England will get
chances this Summer. It’s because
of the way the attacking style can
backfire that I predict that England
will comfortably stave off the threat
of a whitewash. But make no mistake
about it – this is Australia’s Ashes to
lose, and when have they ever given
up that chance?
Kunal’s prediction: A 3-1 win for
Australia. I reckon England will be
able to sneak one of the later tests as
Australia’s luck will run out. And it
wouldn’t be an English summer if we
don’t lose a test match to the weather
would it?
Felix Sport takes a look at the key questions that will be answered during the summer
England celebrate at Trent Bridge in 2013. But will they win this time? Photo: Yahoo
How realistic are England’s
chances?
With the Ashes looming Kunal Wagle says he will
hoping but not expecting
Happy Halloween for
England?
Jonny Pratt gives his views on this
September’s rugby extravaganza
There’s now a bit fewer than 100
days to go until the kick-off of
the 2015 Rugby World Cup,
which England (and the Millennium
Stadium) is hosting. Three of the
seven Rugby World Cups to date
have been won by the host nation (or
one of the host nations in the case
of multiple hosts), and in two of the
others the host has been the losing
finalist. As such, there is a huge
amount of pressure on England to
deliver this Autumn. However, this
England side still feels like a work in
progress, and coming runners up in
four consecutive Six Nations is not
quite the position they’d like to be in.
England have been drawn in a
tough group, with a victory needed
over at least one of Australia or
Wales. While England have a strong
record against Australia in recent
years, and a couple of victories in
the last two games against Wales,
these are both teams that can really
cause England problems if their
game clicks. Look no further than
the now infamous 30-3 loss to Wales
in Cardiff a few years ago. That said,
at Twickenham you would have to
back England in both of these games.
There is also a potentially tricky
opening match against Fiji, who are
always keen to cause an upset at the
World Cup. While “international
friendlies” don’t exist in rugby, the
62-5 victory against essentially a
reserve Wales team in 2007 shows
that these aren’t necessarily played at
full pace, England will have to make
sure they’re battle ready from the
get-go. This tournament there has
also been a concerted effort to make
the scheduling fairer on the smaller
nations, with some expected to play
after only three or four days rest in
New Zealand in 2011, so expect to see
a few more shocks.
Top this group though, and a
hardened England team will (likely)
have a relatively favourable route
to the final. If the other groups end
as the formbook suggests, England
would avoid any of the Southern
Hemisphere teams until the final.
While you have to be prepared to
beat any team to win the World
Cup, sticking with the teams which
England should be more comfortable
playing could massively help.
Avoiding New Zealand is always a
bonus, as having only lost two games
since the last tournament they go
in as clear favourites to retain the
William Webb Ellis Cup. So, can
England win the World Cup? Yes,
but I don’t think they will. England
can beat any team in a one-off game,
but I just think this team isn’t ready
yet. I hope to be proved wrong but
I’m predicting a narrow semi-final or
final loss.
Whatever happens in this
tournament, I hope that we get to
see rugby at its best. It’s a massive
opportunity for rugby to grow in
this country and, much like Jonny
Wilkinson in 2003, the opportunity
for new heroes to be made. Whether
Stuart Lancaster gets on the
Christmas Honours list, or South
Africa steamroll everyone in their
path, I hope we get to look back on
the tournament and be proud. Even
if it’s Wales going up the steps to
the Royal Box on the 31st
of October,
which would be a frankly terrifying
Halloween.
We are fast approaching
the best fortnight of
the British sporting
Summer. Although, having said
that, Wimbledon’s status as Britain’s
biggest event of the Summer is under
serious threat from the Ashes and
the Rugby World Cup. However
nothing, at least in my mind, can beat
the traditions of the tournament in
SW19.
Andy Murray has made a much
improved start to the season, reaching
the final of the Australian Open,
before losing out in a marathon
match against Novak Djokovic in the
semifinals at Roland Garros. He also
had a very strong season on the clay
courts in general, including beating
King of Clay Rafael Nadal for the first
time in Madrid.
But the grass court season will
present a very different kind of
challenge for Murray. It’s this time of
year that Roger Federer comes into
his own, and I for one would not be
surprised if he puts a really good run
in South-West London this summer.
There’s also Nadal, who proved
last week that he can still keep in
touch with those above him, despite
a disastrous clay season and crashing
out at the Queen’s Club this week.
He’ll be itching to provide a good
performance to show the world that
his career hasn’t stagnated.
There are the “peripheral” players
as well. One person we always seem
to be talking about when it comes to
Wimbledon is Grigor Dimitrov, or as
you may have heard him for the last
few years, the next Roger Federer.
Dimitrov beat defending champion
Murray in last year’s edition, and he
would probably be a good outside
bet for surprise winner of this
tournament.
Another player who has recently
thrown the cat among the pigeons is
Swiss Stanislas Wawrinka.
Wawrinka, who has now won two
grand slam titles (after his shock
victory over Djokovic in Paris a
fortnight ago), will feel that he is well
placed to add to his collection, despite
being defeated in the second round in
Barons Court.
Since shocking Rafael Nadal in
the early stages of last year’s edition,
Australian Nick Kyrgios has gone
from strength to strength. He’ll be
hoping to spring a few surprises
as he aims to bolster his already
burgeoning reputation.
And of course, there is the world
number one Novak Djokovic. The
Djoker will be feeling wounded after
not winning a seemingly inevitable
first French Open title. There is no
better way to get past that shock than
to win the greatest tournament of
them all.
Prediction: It’s going to be tough
for Murray this Summer, and I don’t
think he’ll manage it. I feel that he’ll
reach the semifinals before losing to
Djokovic. And I think it’s inevitable
that Djokovic will win the title. I do
think that there will be a surprise for
the other finalist. Either Dimitrov or
a rematch with Stan Wawrinka would
not be unexpected.
Will Andy Murray win Wimbledon?
Kunal Wagle fears that Novak Djokovic might just be too good
Andy Murray hasn’t won a grand slam since his Wimbledon triumph in 2013 Photo: Getty Images
Driving Lessons
For Imperial Students
5
Lessons
only
£95
A special offer for Imperial Students from Denis Smyth
• Driving Standards Agency (DSA) Accredited Instructor
• Mock Test Examiner
“Having always been apprehensive about learning to drive, especially in London - learning
with Denis gave me the confidence and skill to pass my driving test first time round.”
Llywellyn Edwards, Royal College of Music Student.
To make inquiries or book lessons, call 07808 610 898
“Dennis is a fantastic teacher and knows how to get people from completely inexperienced and
utterly hopeless driving up to the standard to pass their test. He is always calm and his comments
are constructive; his knowledge of London and his knack of engineering driving routes that test
the learner make the lessons more than worth it. Since I have met him he has shown a great desire
to offer cheaper lessons to Imperial students and with backing of other students I am more than
happy to support him.”
Alex Kendall, Imperial College Union President 2010/11.
“I learned to drive in one of the busiest cities in the world. I passed first time. Would I r
ecommend Denis? Without hesitation.”
Leon Vanstone, Aeronautical Engineering, Imperial College London
5 lessons only £95
Following is a list of Imperial students who passed their driving test with Denis: John Golden, Zain Chaudhry, Min Kyu-Kang, Elinor Edwards, Yan Zhao,
Tianyi Han, Oliver Sneddon, Nikolay Vyosokov, Ahmad Al-ldelbi, Tony Wang, Nicholas Thorne, Amanjit Dulai, Ben Gan, Thulasi Arthi Naveenan
and Dimitri Varotsis.

