imperialcollegeunion.org/whats-on
Union Page
t ake a l ook a t wh at ’s on offer
Imperial has launched a consultation, open to all staff and students,
on the development of a new College-wide Learning and Teaching
Strategy. Led by Professor Simone Buitendijk, Imperial’s Vice-Provost
for Education, it aims to bring modern and fresh approaches to the
educational experience across College. From evidence-based teaching
methods through to new approaches to assessment and feedback,
the new Strategy will be key to delivering excellence and innovation in
education
The aim of the strategy is to realise the potential for positive change in
education delivery that online learning innovations can bring, at the same
time as supporting staff who are already innovating in this area. The
strategy will also be focusing on how we reward and develop staff who
deliver excellence and innovation in education and those who will play a
key role in championing these changes.
The College is working closely with us on the development of the new
strategy, including Nas Andriopoulos, Union President, Luke McCrone,
Deputy President (Education) and our Academic Representation Network.
Find out more and take part in the consultation by visiting:
imperialcollegeunion.org/news
Take part in Imperial’s new Learning and Teaching Strategy
Our Response to the National Student Survey
The results from the National Student Survey (NSS) this year revealed that
the number of students satisfied with Imperial College London dropped
by 5%, with the number of students satisfied with us, the Union, dropping
by 7% (from 2015 to 2016). These new results still put the Union with a
higher satisfaction rating than most Student Unions. However, we should
always aim to be the best, and understand why and how Imperial College
London and the Union can improve our student satisfaction.
We’ve spent dozens of hours carefully crafting 14 recommendations for
the College to take action on, and for the first time ever the College have
agreed to implement all of them – an unprecedented move. This is a huge
step in the right direction, and shows real commitment from the College. Our fundamental aim at the Union is to make your time at Imperial the best it
can be. It’s been that way for over 100 years, since the day we were founded.
Read our full Response online at imperialcollegeunion.org/news
We oﬀer academic and non
academic advice.
We are conﬁdential,
impartial and independent
from the College.
We’re here
to help
Worries?
Get in touch advice@imperial.ac.uk 020 7594 8060
INDEPENDENT
CONFIDENTIAL
IMPARTIAL
C
M
Y
CM
MY
CY
CMY
K
Advice Centre A5 leaflet.pdf 1 28/09/2016 18:20

