4. FELIX
EDITOR'S
Uomment
THE YEAR AHEAD
Our Union grows more powerful each year and correspondingly
the volume of work facing the Executive increases. In the past the
Union leaders have frequently been " good lad " leading the social
life of the Union and too frequently have drifted away from one of
their main tasks—the representation of I.C student opinion. This
yerr I.C.U. faces several challenges, through which it is the duty of
the Executive to guide and represent the average student with unremit-
ting energy
Probably one of the most vital of these challenges is student
residential accommodation. Last year Council accepted a proposal for
the purchase and development of " Student Houses " -fraternity-like
residences run for and by the students. The capital expenditure is
large as the intention is to purchase houses in the expensive vicinity of
I.C. Loans are being negotiated at present. Obstacles will inevitably
occur. It is to be hoped, however, that the Executive will never allow
this exceptional scheme to lag or fade. " Student Houses " could in
the not too distant future become the mainstay of accommodation for
I.C. students and provide a much needed larger residential atmo-
sphere to the College.
POSTGRADUATE GRANTS
Remaining in the held of student welfare, the problem of post-
graduate grants in London has arisen. The Association of Scientific
Workers (to which all students may gain membership) has approached
the S.R.C. with the aim of obtaining a London allowance of £70 to
supplement postgraduate grants. Postgraduates (capable of earning
very reasonable salaries in industry) receive a pittance from the S.R.C.
of £500. With the cost of living in London and short holidays
(inhibiting the earning of additional money) the London PG is in a
very poor financial position. Here the Executive can lend their
con 'ete support in backing the Association of Scientific Workers or
in p,. viding a fresh initiative.
CARNIVAL
Facing the Executive in the immediate future is the task of getting
Carnival under way Last year's Carnival was a record-breaking
success netting £3,500. This year we must again surpass the efforts
of the past, for a College of our size should be able to achieve profits
approaching £10,000. Jerry Stockbridge, last year's Carnival co-
ordinator, stated that it was crucial to eke the maximum effort out of
thefirstterm, when exams remained over the horizon and people were
fresh. A Carnival Co-ordinator and Committee still have to be
selected to organise and whip up enthusiasm quickly
A lot of hard work lies ahead of the Executive. It is to be hoped
an early start is made on these problems.
WELCOME TO FRESHERS
In this first issue of the year Felix takes the opportunity of
welcoming all Freshers to the College. No doubt many freshmen are
bewildered and jaded by the incessant demands to join this or that or
the other society While some dynamic characters will by now be
members of perhaps twenty clubs or societies (perhaps too hopeful of
the equation of time and work), others will not have got around so
much. It is not worthwhile to preach here on student apathy, which
is not limited to this College but occurs among all students. It is up
to each person to decide his own way of life, though he who puts the
most into student and Union life will gain the most out of it. For most
of us, we remain students for only a very short three years. Those three
years are worth making the most of and only through a communion
with other students can one make those three years truly unique.
Imperial College
London, S.W.7
Internal 2881
Tel. KEN 2963
F X
Editor : D. E. POTTER
Asst. Editors : Nigel Shindler
John Mullaly
Sports Editor : Vacancy
News Editor : Vacancy
Features Editor Martin Walker
Business Manager : Dave Cooper
Sales Manager Vacancy
Advertising Manager: Vacancy
Cartoonist: Stuart Senior
What's On : Ken Simpson
With : Colcutt, Colin Harrison.
Steve Mallinson, Paul Heath,
Caroline and Pat
Advertising Agency: Educational Publicity (Partners) Ltd.
CHA 6081
FELIX NEEDS
Can you write?
photograph?
sub-edit?
sell?
YOU!
PROBLEMS FACING
OVERSEAS STUDENTS
Overseas students were very much in the news last session with
the increase in tuition tees. This arbitrary decision by the Govern-
ment provoked wide rebellion in British academic life.
No purpose will be ierved by re-opening the issue of overseas
students' fees, though, it seems, one has yet to see the end of the
matter. What the ultimate outcome will be of the admirable stand of
Oxford, Cambridge and some other universities in refusing to abide
by the government directive still remains to be seen. However, amidst
all the arguments and counter-arguments there was a tendency to
believe that overseas students—those leftists from Berkeley! —were
the cause of much trouble. What was not recognised was that if
overseas students did take part in various protests, as indeed they did,
it was because they were an integral part of the entire student
community
It is, however, true that over-
seas students face many problems
on their arrival and even after-
wards. Many find life in this
country rather different from what
they are accustomed to and con-
ditions in some respects are not
quite good enough to make every-
body feel at home. But it would
be a reflection on the intelligence
of the student if I were to suggest
that he does not find his way
around quite quickly. Neverthe-
less it is true that there is an ini-
tial lack of communication. Over-
coming this is not always easy and
needs an effort on the part of both
old and new students. It is, there-
Published by D. E. Potter for and on behalf of FELIX BOARD
Imperial College, London, S.W.7. and printed by WEST LONDON
OFFSET CO.. 86, Liliie Rd., London, S.W.6. Tel.: FUL 7969
Activities
This is the most important
thing an overseas student should
always bear in mind. In our Col-
lege there are 800 overseas stu-
dents. If they remain isolated
from the mainstream of activities
in the College the whole purpose
of travelling thousands of miles to
come here will be lost. While
study and research are of para-
mount importance it is at the
same tune worthwhile to take part
in at least some of the exciting
things that are happening in and
around the College. With stu-
dents from almost all corners of
the globe we have an excellent
opportunity to understand the
problems others are facing and
only on the basis of such mutual
understanding can the interna-
tional communiy ever hope to
live in peace.
fore, hopeful that the Union is
striving to improve the situation
through the newly-formed Over-
seas Students' Committee. With
the most active co-operation of
the International Relations Club
and the various national societies
a Reception Centre has been
opened in the Union where a
number of present students of the
College are ready to meet the
newcomers. The object is not
necessarily to offer ready-made
solutions to the problems of the
new student but to provide the
earliest opportunity to make
friends in informal surroundings.
The Centre will remain open till
Friday and I urge those who have
not already done so—whether or
not they have any particular
problem—to pay a visit.
NITIN SOM
Scene
Page
seven #
NITIN SOM
Nitin Som was Vice-Chairman
of the International Relations
Club for the last two years and
is now the Chairman of the
Union Overseas Students Com-
mittee. He is also Vice-President
of the national United Nations
Students Association.
Then as Now?
In 1934 H. G. Wells wrote of
Imperial College :
It is today a huge fungoid as-
semblage of buildings and schools
without a visible centre, guiding
purpose or directive brain. It has
become a constituent of the still
vaster, still more conspicuously
acephalic monster, the University
of London.
The thumbsy wisdom of the
practical man, with a conception
of life based on immediate needs,
unanalysed motives and headlong
assumptions, and with an innate
fear of free and searching thought,
is still manifest at a hundred
points in the structure and work-
ing of this great aggregation.
The struggle to blend technical
equipments with a carefully
cherished illiteracy, an intact oaf-
ishness about fundamental things,
has been well sustained. South
Kensington will still tell you
proudly, " We are not literary,"
and explain almost anxiously that
the last thing it wants to impart
is a liberal education.
The ideal output of the Im-
perial College remains a swarm of
mechanical, electrical and chemi-
cal business smarties, guaranteed
to have no capacity for social
leadership, constructive combina-
tion or original thought.
The Imperial College was and
is still in fact not a college but a
sprawl of laboratories and class-
rooms. Whatever ideas of pur-
pose wrestled together in its be-
ginnings are now forgotten.
It has no firm idea of what it is
and what it is supposed to do.
That is to say, it has no philo-
sophy. It has no philosophical
organisation, no social idea, no
rationised goal, to hold it together.
I had come up to South Ken-
sington persuaded that I should
learn everything. I found myself
in South Kensington lost and dis-
mayed at the multitudinous incon-
secutiveness of everything.
If s o m e b o d y
did something
A letter to the President:
Sir,
How about a little action here?
I mean, damn it, I am appalled at
everything. I really must protest.
Just look around you for God's
sake. Why doesn't somebody do
something? I mean if somebody
did something we might get some-
where.
Well, just look at what every-
body is saying this year, and last
year, and they are saying it every-
where. Everybody's so damn
apathetic. In FELIX they wrote
last year :
" Despite any appearance to
the contrary that may be interpre-
ted from our pages during the
year, far too many Union clubs
and societies are " sick " through
lack of support. It has been said
that at least half of the students
at I.C. take no part in the Union
other than to obtain their midday
meal "
Well, this is just not good
enough. Let's get these clubs and
societies moving. And SENNET
said :
" It is only by casting his mite
into the fund of communal contri-
bution to Union Activity that
University life, in the form of
societies, clubs, sports teams etc.
can exist at all. Students of Lon-
don University too often make the
mislake of owing allegiance solely
to their College to the detriment
of course to the University as a
whole.
" When numbers are so large
and the component parts of the
University are so spread out and
often far removed from each
other, it is only too easy for the
student to lead a hermit's social
life in his own College Union and
turn his back on the rest of the
University."
That's not good enough. You
see, if we get this show on the
road and something moves, well
then, the President would have a
real organisation to preside over—
you know, something to do. Ana
the Secretary would have some-
body to write to. And the Editor
of this paper would have some-
thing to edit. Things would be on
the move.
So lets have some original hap-
penings and things this year. You
know this Carnival jazz and
Union meetings and so on has
fallen out of the groove. I mean
people get bored with this year in,
year out. So how about something
new Like a happening with the
staff and Rector and all that—like
at L.S.E. last year I mean. Well,
give it to those fellows—at least
they got a bit of action out of it.
Or how about a Red Guards
job. You know, some real stu-
dent involvement in the problems
of the community We could have
minor battles with reactionary
workers and dunces caps for re-
visionists and things . . .
Well anyway something. I
mean, get with it.
Somebody please do something.

