F E L I X
OPINION
Spiritual matters
Working late one evening a PhD
student broke an expensive part of
some equipment he was using. The
damage wasn't obvious and he left the
machine as if nothing had happened.
He arrived in some trepidation the
next day ready to explain the matter
to his supervisor. However, a
colleague had come in early, started
to use this same machine, and on
discovering it was broken had
considered herself responsible. The
supervisor was furious with her
because of the expense and delay
involved in repairing the result of
careless stupidity, as he saw it. On
finding he was unsuspected, the real
culprit let things lie.
Does it go without saying that he
ought to have owned up? In 'Soul
Searching' (FELIX 780) R G Fincher
seems inclined to dismiss the
existence of human soul. In later
week's F E L I X Steve Black and David
Ashforth suggest that our soul is
encoded entirely in the molecular
composition of our brains. I consider
here that the 'ought' in our decision
making carries implications of a
supernatural basis for firstly our free
will and secondly for the origin of
what is right or wrong in our
actions—both of which are related to
the soul (or spirit) and to what it is
to be human.
What is going on in the mind when
we make a moral decision?
Psychologically and neurologically
the mind is very complex, but
fundamentally it is not. The physics
and chemistry of the mind must be
presumed to involve the ordinary stuff
of protons, neutrons and electrons
engaged in attractive and repulsive
forces, clumped together, spinning,
vibrating, smashing into one another
and rearranging (not to put it too
technically!). At any instance in time
during the making of a decision, the
mind will have a given physical
arrangement. A n instant later there is
a new arrangement, as the decision
progresses. What links the two states
in time? Suppose the link is entirely
a cause-effect circle, such that any one
physical state of the mind is wholly
dependent upon the previous state and i
wholly the cause of the next, then the
progression of the decision-making
process is an inevitable consequence'
of the first state. This could be traced
back to our conception. What we are
now would have to be an inevitable
consequence of what we were at our
conception, as shaped by interaction
with our environment. O u r
environment—including other people
and the expressions of their minds,
such as conversation, books,
television, music, etc—would also be
completely determined by its physics
and chemistry. We must remember
that all the higher level descriptions
of human behaviour, such as
intelligence theory, psychology and
sociology, ride on the back of the
underlying physics and chemistry
which expresses them; fundamentally
they are controlled, not controlling.
If, then, only cause-effect (and
possibly also random) processes are
at work in the physical universe, there
can be no free will. Give up your seat
on a bus for an old lady—inevitable
(or random); marry Jane rather than
Jan or Joan—inevitable; let a
colleague in your lab carry the can for
something you have done—inevitable.
No blame, no praise, is attributable
to any action. This, however, does
not tally with our experience of what
is human at its highest level, or indeed
the way any of us live. At the centre
of what is human, or personal if you
l i k e , we seem to exercise a
supernatural control within our minds
over their purely physical nature. This
supernatural element is without prior
cause (it is baseless assumption of our
'scientific' age that everything has a
cause), it stands alone as an origin of
cause and is in essence what we are.
We are, then, determining and
responsible, rather than determined.
In this sense we are like God.
It is because of this supernatural
free will that we are ready to blame
others for what they do—they are
responsible. The student who dropped
his lab partner in it, had the ability
freely to choose to own up. He ought
to have owned up. But here is a
second problem, why ought he to
have owned up? What possible reason
could one give him? I can think of
none. One might tell him that he
wouldn't like the same done to him.
True, but so what?—it constitutes no
reason for not allowing it to happen
to someone else. Y o u might tell him
that it is for the good of society that
people behave truthfully and decently
toward one another. He could very
reasonably reply, 'stuff society'. That
which we feel we ought to do is very
easily squeezed out of existence
between the self interest of our reason
and our free will! If we do anything
of benefit to others it need only be out
of self interest, perhaps so that they
will like us and reciprocate.
Yet in practice that is a very cynical
view. The world is full of people who
do selfless acts as if there were some
independent goodness which stood
without reference to themselves or
others, but which they endorse. We
often behave as though there were a
way in which we ought to live, and
yet we oan find no reason why it is
right. I believe this Tightness to be
God's will, God's love, part of who
God is. It doesn't enlarge our ego to
perceive that any good which we do
is only a response to God's will for
us, all the glory passes to him. That
might go sqme way to explaining why
so many people are not too happy
with this line of argument, and are
prepared to go on holding
inconsistently to a set of principles
which they can in no way validate.
There is nothing behind G o d .
Goodness originates in God's nature.
The very possibility of the idea of
creation is in God. In his personal free
will he has formed a universe with
causal physical structure so that our
actions are not empty but have real
consequence, in favour of or against
his goodness. He-himself lives as a
man in Jesus. Jesus declared, 'I and
the Father are one', and some of the
Jews took up stones to kill him for
blasphemy saying 'although you are
a man you claim to be God' (John Ch
10). Jesus' disarming defence was to
quote from the Old Testament 'I
(God) say, 'you are gods"—God can
live as a man because every man is
like God in having freewill, in being
and originator of cause.
Our supernatural free-will
responsibility to do what is right is
fundamental to Christian belief, as is
our failure to do it. Also fundamental
is the substitutionary bearing of the
cqnsequences of our failure by Christ
in his death on the cross, and his
ressurection to life as a demonstration
of God's power to give us new life
after our death.
P Baker.
• Kicking off the week on the Beeb
there is a second chance to see the
final part of the Biography of George
Balanchine (BBC2, Sat 7.25pm),
founder of the New York Classical
Ballet, and.arguably the greatest
choreographer to have ever worked
in the States. Even if you missed the
first part this is still worth watching
just to see what ballet is all about.
• Once that's over tune to BBC1 to
catch the first showing on British T V
of Stephen King's Cat's Eye (BBC1,
Sat 10.40pm). A cat that hears voices
and monsters lurking behind skirting
boards. M m m m .
• Formula One fans will want to be
up with the lark at 7.15am (BBC2,
Sunday) to watch the the Japanese
Grand Prix. More civilised viewers
can see the highlights that evening at
10.05pm.
•Review (BBC2, Sunday, 5.50pm)
contains a review of Rolling Stone,
the U S arts and media magazine
which has just celebrated 20 years of
reporting American pop culture and
all with the same editors.
• The return o f . . . T h e sequel
to...Here it is again...Spitting Image
is back (ITV, Sunday, 10pm).
• First of a new series of science
fiction films on B B C is The Day The
Earth Stood Still (BBC2, Monday,
6.00pm). Produced in 1951 in black
and white it still is one of the S F
classics and, funnily enough, doesn't
seem all that dated. Watch out for
other films in the series Future
Worlds.
• Pick of the week must be After
Pilkington ( B B C 1 , Tuesday,
9.30pm). A repeat showing of an
excellent film, starring Miranda
Richardson (who is brill!), that won
Europe's highest T V award, the Prix
Italia. Wonderful querky plot
excellent acting, what more can I say'
• Finally, two good documentaries
this week. Is There Anyone There?
has psychologist Nicholas Humphrey
taking a look, on halloween night, at
the paranormal with the likes Of U r i
Geller and Carl Sagon giving both
sides of the story.
• Later in the week 40 Minutes has
a programme called Convictions.
What makes people criminals? Is
punishment the answer? The Jales
brothers are crooks and spend most
of their time in jail. As they await trial
once again, they talk about their
lives...
Chris Martin
14 Friday October 30th 1987 FELIX

