L e t t e r s W8 .....
..v.
Francophiles
wanted
Dear Judith,
You may remember the exchange visits that took place
last year between students from IC and ESPCI (Ecole
Superieure de Physique et Chemie Industrielle) in Paris.
The exchange involved industrial, academic and cultural
events in both London and Paris and was judged by all
involved to have been a great success. However, the
organisers have now left College and unfortunately have
not passed on their roles.
The students of ESPCI have sent a draft of their
proposals for a 1988 exchange. If this is to go ahead, plans
must be made for industrial sponsorship, travel and
accommodation, industrial visits and social events. W e
urgendy need a team of enthusiastic francophiles (?) both
staff and student, to get the ball rolling. If any of your
readers would like to be involved please will they drop
me a note as soon as possible. A bientot!
Sue Browne,
Elec Eng IV.
Clear image
problem
Dearest,
I've heard talk of 'Freshers apathy'. I'm a first year .
and have some comments. First some problems with IC. .
Its image attracts apathetic applicants trying to avoid •
hassles. The high entrance requirements mean most.
students are studiers, and better than averagely well off..
Thus less Union support and less outgoing people. A l l .
science students and few women leads to an atmosphere
not conducive to creativity, or anything much. The large
overseas contingent spend much of their time learning to
live in London. The Union is the least of their worries.
IC should be helping these students develop socially not
complaining about them.
There are however plenty of 'active students'. Did they
go to the U G M ? No. The Union labels them apathetic.
Student opinion: 'There must be something more
interesting to do'. A clear image problem. Despite the
publicity students saw no more than an extended lunch
break. It wasn't something they felt they should go to,
as opposed to 'Freshers events' which they were, and.
which were well attended. How about having the U G M
2.30 to 4.30pm with lectures before and after and reps
reminding everyone just before-hand. I don't know if this
could be timetabled. Then the message would be: 'It's
something you do while at College' not 'come if you've .
nothing else to do'. Better organisation is required. Some
people had to leave without voting to attend lectures.
Another good example was the R C S Laserium trip, ie
equally badly attended, about 4 first years out of 23
(mainly Union hacks). Again image failure. A rep came
to the lecture theatre and invited 200 people to come. Not
very personal. Most students thought: yes very interesting,,
but they don't mean me, what shall I do instead. It failed
to reach 'Freshers event' status. Most people I know in
my house went on a pub crawl invitation instead. N o w
the first year reps have been elected I hope they are used
effectively. Had half a dozen reps gone round inviting
small groups personally to come along and bring friends
the attendance would have been much higher. It's harder
to turn down a personal invitation.
IC does suffer from apathy, but it's not incurable. People
in the appropriate position just have to give things a push.
People will get involved if encouraged, and wonder why
they weren't going anyway (take Freshers' Week). The
push can take many forms as in the examples. It's up to
the active people to encourage the rest.
Luv,
Cambel Si, Physics 1.
PS. I went to everything all Freshers Week events, tiddly
winks, U G M , and the laserium trip. Most people's opinion
of me: quiet, introverted, not the outgoing type. A fair
description I suppose. So why did I go. Just curious to
see what was going on. I probably fall into the category
or, had nothing better to do.
Lower forms
of life
Dear Judith,
Although term is a mere three weeks old, much criticism
has already been directed at us Freshers so I feel it is about
time that someone stood up and hit back.
Firstly, the U G M . Fresher 'apathy' and 'no interest in
the Union' we were told in the aftermath of the dismal
attendance. As any student knows, Freshers are laden with
booklets, pamphlets and numerous other bits of paper of
varying interest on arrival at Imperial. Therefore a small
paragraph in the Freshers Handbook is easily missed.
What about the posters, I hear you cry? There are literally
hundreds of posters up around Imperial that are for the
most part of very little interest, so one soon becomes
oblivious to all but the most eye-catching of them. A far
better way of publicising the meeting would have been
to stress its importance at the Freshers Reception where,
if my memory serves me correctly, it was not even
mentioned.
And what of the Union? If we are to believe what we
read in the pages of F E L I X , the Exec (especially M r
Howgate) are a bunch of egocentric, power-crazed,
mindless cretins, incapable of organising a grannies tea
party! Hardly likely to endear us impressionable Freshers
to the Union, or indeed encourage us to attend U G M s .
In replying to the above criticism in your last editorial
you said, 'It doesn't really effect you anyway'. This is
typical of the attitude of student bodies and organisations
towards Freshers. We all appreciate the great work that
you are doing for us but I do object to Freshers being
depicted as some sort of moronic, lower form of life. One
only has to look as far as the election of a Fresher
(congratulations Tanya) as Guilds V P to see that the
Freshers of 87 mean business.
Yours disgruntedly,
Simon Holden.
A long, long, long time ago I was a Fresher and I don't
doubt that this year's intake 'mean business'. Let me
take this opportunity to remind everyone of the free
chips at next week's UGM.
i l l
ANNOUNCEMENTS
• Acts needed for the S m o k i n g Concert.
Anyone interested in having fun a n d
helping R a g contact Steph Snell, Physics or
via R C S O f f i c e
• Thrills, spills and Nigel B a k e r — R a g
meeting, 1 2 . 3 5 p m , Union Lounge.
• Micro Club, 1.30pm, top of Union
Building and follow signs.
• Anyone interested in watching rock and
jazz music live, please drop a note to
M a r t y n Peck (Chemistry I) a s a p Meeting in
Southside Lounge, M o n d a y s 1 2 . 3 0 p m
• To all residents in College
a c c o m m o d a t i o n — I f you have not yet
received a bill for this term please c o m e t o
room 4 0 3 a , Sherfield Building n o w or your
name will not be entered onto the electoral
roll for 87/88.
• QT Soc—Meet, meat, mate and all
before you're very eyes in Stan's Bar
(above Southside Bar) at 1pm every week.
• Bean's Club Extraordinary General
Meeting, 2 n d November, 8 p m , R o o m 6 3 2 3
Holbein H o u s e A l l members welcome, past
and present, any motions or proposed
constitution amendments to be passed to
the secretary before Monday.
• Good wine costs less at Sainsbury's.
Tuesday 6 p m , S C R w i n e tasting orlly £1.50
• A trolly spectacular tasting of
supermarket wines. Tuesday 6 p m , S C R ,
Wine Tasting S o c .
• IC Folk Club—Free fun, fireworks and
folk music! 7 p m onwards in the Holland
Club, Thursday N o v 5.
• Anyone w h o has not lived in Linstead
Hall in .1987, with belongings in the
basement must have claimed a n d removed
t h e m by December 2.
• Linstead Hall basement sale December
5/6 1984. Wide range of goods at very
reasonable prices.
ACCOMMODATION
• Single Room in large flat. Share with 4
males, near Ealing C o m m o n tube ( 4 0 mins
to College), £ 2 6 p/w exclusive, tel: Doug
on 9 9 2 6 8 7 0 .
• Male PG, non-smoker, looking for a
single room in shared flat/house close t o
Imperial or if you are also looking along
these lines contact m e with a view to
sharing a flat in this area. Richard Nords
(Pet Geol, PG).
• Accommodation available in
comfortable flat close to College shared
with 4 males. Rent £ 4 4 p/w exclusive
Contact J o n Moores (Physics II).
• 1 Male required t o share room in flat in
Fulham. £ 3 3 p/w ( £ 2 3 with rent rebate)
exclusive 5 mins walk from tube, w a s h i n g
machine a n d phone (soon). Contact A M
Taylor (Mech E n g II).
• 1 double and 1 single bedroom, lounge,
kitchen, bathroom, TV, telephone, would
suit couple with child. 5 2 Hamlet Court,
Hamlet Gdns, Hammersmith. Contact M r
Hatem Abdi o n 581 4 6 1 7 evenings.
FOR SALE AND WANTED
• One Tom Waits ticket for sale Thursday
Nov 19, Hammersmith Odeon, £12.50.
Contact Louise Arnold, room 4.41 Geology
(ext 5 6 4 3 ) .
22 Friday October 30th 1987 FELIX

