N e w s F e a t u r e
Cess Pools and Steam Rollers
•The Fifth Column-
The pursuit of engineering excellence and the desire to make a quick buck
has prompted some wierd and wonderful innovations over the years. Who,
for instance can fail to be impressed by 'captain Nortons frictional shell'
or 'Johnson's improved machinery for emptying cesspools'? 'They don't
make them like that anymore'—more's the pity.
In the following article, the Fifth Column takes a look at some of the
potential inventions from the past, which for one reason or another didn't
quite make it. The text (for the most part) and diagrams are genuine
reproductions from engineering magazines printed at the turn of the
century. Read on...
Revolutionary weapon
A R E M A R K A B L E new weapon has
been patented by researcher Captain
Norton. The frictional shell is likely
to have applications in blasting, house
defence, and submarine explosions.
The device is constructed from an
ordinary wine or soda bottle, filled
with gunpowder.
Rolling along
B Y SLIPPING 24-in wide butt-
welded tires of Vi in, thick steel over
the regular wheels of a paving mixer,
made by the Chain Belt Company, a
contractor for road construction in
Glenwood, Iowa, converted the mixer
into a road roller at a cost of $75. This
remarkable idea allowed the firm to
.roll and mix at the same time.
Jointed ship tames the waves
r—i
M A C S W E N E Y S revolutionary
design for a jointed ship will set new
standards in maritime speed and
safety. The vessel, consisting of a
series of hinged sections is capable of
rising over waves instead of going
through them and will thus be able to
reach hitherto unattainable speeds.
The segments can be readily
disconnected in the event of an
accident so that the undamaged parts
of the ship can remain afloat allowing
lives and cargo to be saved.
The inventor claims that one engine
module will be sufficient to operate
three ships. The theory goes that at
any given time there will be two ships
in port either loading or unloading
and one ship, equiped with the
engine, out at sea. A s the engine is
the most expensive component in the
ship, the vessel will make commercial
shipping much more profitable.
I'm a lumberjack, okay?
A R E A D I L Y - L A I D track of 4 x 4
inch maple rails laid on tree-trunk ties
has been used recently i n
Massachusetts to secure
transportation at automobile speed
from a portable sawmill operating in
the woods to the nearest county road,
a distance of 2 miles or more. Much
cheaper than road building, the track
enabled an automobile to replace three
trucks.
Channel
Tunnel
S P E A K I N G at the meeting of the
Institution of Mechanical Engineers
at Leeds in 1883, M r Crampton
announced a new tunneling machine
ideally suited to the proposed Channel
Tunnel project. The machine, which
can cut through chalk and other soft
rocks, is powered by high pressure
water and disposes of waste materials
by generating a sludge which can be
pumped to the surface. It is claimed
that the system is not only quicker
than conventional systems, but that it
requires only one third of the power.
The machine employs a hydraulic
motor to drive the cutting heads, as
shown in the accompanying etching.
The debris is thrown by a series of
cups into a cylindrical revolving drum
which reduces it into a sludge. When
it is of the required constitution the
sludge can escape through a metal
grill from whence it can be pumped
to the surface.
Bill Goodwin
6 Friday October 30th 1987 FELIX

