I
•APPEARING IN The Baron of
Cheapskate is achieving the same
kind of social status within College
as Spitting Image is in the country at
large. Certain members of the College
community are keen to see their name
in print without anything nasty
actually being said about them.
Expect to hear soon of the exploits
of some of the following:
Steve Garbage, controller of Radio
Cheapskate, Ms Pippa Trout, citizen
in charge of other citizens' happiness
(and one time Citizens' Guide to
Cheapskate Editor), Chas Piano-
Player, citizen in charge of other
citizens' work, Alastair Hearless,
stool of citizens' meetings, Iain Bore,
Baron's yes-man who tells the rest of
the world what a wonderful place
Cheapskate is and Editor of WetNerk.
• M R HOWGATE doesn't seem to
like F E L I X very much. On hearing
that the contents of the gents' toilets
had seeped into the F E L I X Print
Room, he was heard to utter " W e l l
that's not the only cr*p to be found
in there".
• GUILDS PRESIDENT Dave
Tyler's braincell has been working
overtime recently. In addition to
trying to persuade the Rector, Deans,
and senior staff that 'they are human'
and should therefore donate blood (ha
ha!) he has been complaining to
F E L I X about being called just plain
M r Tyler. He is, as most people
know, a weekend action-man who
likes nothing more than playing
shooty-shooty, bang-bang with the
O T C . A s such, he should be called
Second Lieutenant Dave Tyler, but
this takes up too much space so from
now on Dave will be known as
S.L.O.B.—Second Lieutenant One
Braincell.
• M R HOWGATE has been talking
about Network, that awfully tedious
Imperial Public Relations exercise,
and F E L I X . Sources close to the
President have told me that he has
compared Network with the Times and
F E L I X with the Sun. Watch out for
next week's page 3—Ian Howgate's
full frontal in the Union Bar last
year—unless he donates £5 to Rag of
course.
T H E B A R O N
'And furthermore', Derek was saying, 'all
the citizens in the Angel Gabriel's land
of sick people are so desperate to move
to Cheapskate that dozens of them ring
me every day to ask for my wife's
autograph'.
Derek Dash, the Baron of Cheapskate,
was in the middle of his farewell speech
at the citizens' leaving ceremony. He had
gone through the usual 'Cheapskate is
wonderful' part of his speech as quickly
as possible (which was a good thing
since all the citizens who were leaving
had heard it all before at their welcoming
ceremony three years earlier) but now he was trying to prove to everyone
just how wonderful Cheapskate was. He had been going on for hours and
hours about how nice it was that the Cheapskate boundary was being
extended to include Angel Gabriel's land of sick people, which was nearby.
Derek was very pleased that Cheapskate was going to get bigger—he kept
imagining how future generations of Cheapskate people would remember
him as the Baron who conquered Angel Gabriel.
There had been lots of preparations for the expansion of Cheapskate.
John Secretary had rounded up all the Baron's workers who had been
sitting on their bums in the Surefield fortress (there were a lot of them)
and ordered them to form lots of committees with the workers from Angel
Gabriel's land of sick people. There had been lots of meetings, lots of cups
of coffee, and lots of arguing about who should take the minutes.
Eventually the two sides had agreed upon terms for the Cheapskate
expansion, and Derek thought that everything was going very well.
Unfortunately, all the Angel Gabriel citizens were not quite as pleased
about being swallowed up as part of Cheapskate as Derek seemed to think
they were. The leader of the Angel Gabriel citizens had been elected
because he had promised not to talk to the citizens at Cheapskate. All
the head citizens at Cheapskate were very upset that nobody wanted to
talk to them, but thought that it was probably very sensible of the Angel
Gabriel Head Citizen not to risk talking to Whygate. Everyone went out
of their way to avoid talking to Whygate if at all possible, chiefly because
they all knew that it would be an hour or two before they could get a word
in edgeways.
At the moment, Whygate was not particularly concerned about the
Cheapskate expansion, or even about the fact thet nobody wanted to talk
to him. For the past two weeks he had spent nearly all his time studying
the Financial Times and pretending that he knew all about the stock market.
He was already planning to invest a hundred thousand pounds of the
money from Gravlington rocks; half in a company which had just developed
an insoluble suppository and half in Halifax Town Football Club. Whygate
knew when he was on to a good thing!
Meanwhile, in another part of Cheapskate, Dave Braincell, one of
Cheapskate's three clowns and the leader of the lumps of metal
worshippers, was explaining to his new deputy how to do her job. His
new deputy was called Tanya Grope, and she had won her election for
the simple reason that she was a female citizen. Whenever a female citizen
stood for election as a leader of the lumps of metal worshippers she was
always sure to win. This was because all the citizens were desperately
sex starved, and seemed to think that voting for a female citizen would
impress the other female citizens. As well as being sex-starved, the lumps
of metal worshippers were very thick
How many lumps of metal worshippers does it take to change a light
bulb?
How is Dave Braincell getting on with Tanya Grope?
Will the Baron be struck down by Angel Gabriel?
Will Takeiteasy appear in the citizen's office this week?
Find out in the next episode of 'The Baron of Cheapskate'.
L i b > e l
• CHARLES 'TAKE-IT-EASY'
JACKSON, Union Hon Sec seems to
have been responsible for adding
some flavour to the Union Bar cellar
earlier this week.
While being overly helpful one
evening tapping a barrel of Royal
Oak, he decided to remove a core
plug in the barrel by hitting it with
a screwdriver. The beer being quite
old had developed some pressure. The
sudden release of gas caused a geyser
J of beer, hops and yeast spraying all
i over the ceiling and walls of the
recently cleaned cellar. Takeiteasy
ran away 'to collect his coat'. With
his wet weather gear adoned, he
braved the gusting barrel, and put a
new plug in the barrel. M r Jackson
I said 'it was quite funny'.
• IT'S TIME TO START
speculating who's going to stand for
the top three Union posts next term.
Several candidates have been
practising their handshakes and baby
kissing. The strong contenders for
I C U President include the incredibly
awful Alistair Seymour who has been
most notable for his streak around the
Albert Hall and Alistair Birch who,
after having External Affairs whisked
away from him, has turned his sights
to Internal Affairs instead. M y name
has also been mentioned in closed
circles as a potential candidate. I'll
have to see what my personal tutor
has to say about that one. Not many
mugs would do Deputy President
especially having to follow in the
steps of Peirce and Rose, it's odds on
that Pub Board Stool Chris Martin
will finally take the plunge after six
years of umming and arring. Only
dorks stand for Hon Sec. There seems
to be a lot around the Union at the
moment so that post should be hotly
contested.
Chris Jones
N
•THERE HAS BEEN a serious leak
from Silwood Park. The Weed
Science Department have made a
significant break-through in managing
to create a weed with human
characteristics which has escaped to
South Kensington. It has taken up
residence in the Deputy President's
office. The weed is believed to be a
strain of the Rose family and must not
be approached without suitable
precautions being taken. Pest
management and the spraying
laboratory are urgently looking into
the matter.
FELIX Friday October 30th 1987 7

