THE NOBEL PRIZES 1987
U N D E R \ T H E
MICROSCOPE
9
b y S t e v e B l a c k '
This week the reports are all about the Nobel prizes for outstanding
smartness in Physics, Chemistry and Medicine. Even two pages is not
enough to do justice to the work in any of these fields, so there may
be features on some of them later. If, for example, some kind Physicist
would care to do a survey of what we know about the new
superconductors, it would make a wonderful feature—and they would
get their name in print. Other in-depth articles on specific topics of
general interest will be forthcoming soon.
I'm sorry I've gone on at such length about Chemistry, but it is
what I know about: if you want your subject to fill up the space then
become a contributor!
Even if you don't want to contribute, we welcome your criticisms,
suggestions and ideas for things to report in this column. Send them
to the FELIX Office or to my letter rack in the Chemistry foyer.
The medicine prize:
shuffling genes
A Japanese scientist who did his
important work in Switzerland and
who now works in Boston won the
medicine prize for his work on the
immune system.
Susumu Tonegawa won the prize
for working out the details of how the
human immune system is able to
produce such a variety of antibodies.
This had been a big problem for
immunologists for a long time.
There are only a limited number of
chromosomes in a human gene, yet
the immune system seems to be able
to create a virtually unlimited variety
of antibodies to fight off nasties in the
bloodstream. Antibodies are just
proteins and proteins are coded by the
D N A of the genes, so the source of
the variety was a mystery.
In experiments with the antibody
genes in mouse cells, involving
comparison of cells from mice
embryos and from mature mice,
Tonegawa was able to show that the
genes are 'shuffled' randomly during
development. The shuffling produces
a vast variety of possible antibodies,
enough to fight off most invading
horrors.
The elegant details o f his
mechanism have illuminated how it
is possible for an apparently wasteful
process to achieve useful results.
They also show how simple, natural
systems can show a staggering ability
to adapt themselves to their
environment.
The fastest physics
prize on record?
Nobel prizes are supposed to go to the
most prestigious work in the given
field in the year of the award. This
year's Physics prize is just about the
first time that that has happened:
normally you have to stay in the race
for twenty years after hitting the
jackpot before you get the prize.
The news only broke last
September that the superconductivity
temperature record had been trounced
by Bendortz and Muller at the I B M
labs in Zurich. This started the great
bandwagon that has led to the
recognition of their work as one of the
most important new discoveries in the
last 50 years of Physics.
Persistence pays off
IBM had a big project to develop
superfast computers about ten years
ago. The parts that did the work were
based on Josephson junctions (which
involve two superconducting bits
separated by a sandwich of insulator
about 15 atoms thick). Computer
widgets fashioned from Josephson
junctions are very much faster than
the same widgets made in
conventional silicon. Unfortunately,
they only work at below about 20
Kelvin (about - 2 5 0 ° C ) . This means
that the C P U of the computer has to
be cooled by liquid helium. I B M gave
up the project because it was simply
too difficult to arrange to keep the
computer cool at a reasonable price.
However, two of I B M ' s bright
researchers (Georg Bendortz and
Alex Muller) maintained an interest
in superconducting materials. As long
ago as 1979, Muller was getting
pissed off with the conventional metal
alloys that superconductors were
made of. There seemed to be no way
to increase the superconducting
transition temperature which was
stuck at about 23K: no compounds
were superconducting above that
temperature. They decided to look at
metal oxides, which is strange since
they are normally insulators.
However, they obviously knew what
they were doing, since their first
experiment pushed that temperature
to 35K, the biggest jump since the
discovery of superconductivity.
The group of compounds they
picked (modified barium copper oxide
ceramics) proved to be an inspired
choice, and rapid modifications were
made by them and by others to push
the record temperature to above 90K.
The work was not really a one-off
discovery, but represented a deep
insight into solid state physics, backed
up by years of previous work on other
materials. This is why the reward is
not really the fastest ever: the group
has been working towards its goal for
years.
The important thing about the new
compounds is that they are
superconducting at liquid nitrogen
temperatures. It is extremely cheap
and easy to handle liquid nitrogen and
the compounds themselves are also
cheap and easy to make (though they
are not readily made into anything
useful as yet). They seem to mark an
amazing democratisation of high-tech
physics: previously only wealthy and
well-equipped laboratories could deal
with superconductors, now anybody
can have them.
It is strange that a discovery that has
come out of a wealthy company
research lab should make it possible
for the impoverished universities to
get into important research: normally
the company labs just make us
jealous.
The discovery of these new
compounds is likely to lead to more
prizes soon, because nobody knows
why they are superconductors. The
first person to think of a good
mechanism will deserve the next
Nobel prize.
8 Friday October 30th 1987 FELIX

