The Case for Deterrents
IC Conservative Society
answers CND
Last week C N D put forward a number of arguments for unilateral
disarmament which we believe are totally misleading. Their arguments
are strung together with half-truths and over simplifications and we
believe it is now time for realism.
The Soviet Union, over the last ten years, has amassed the largest
armed force ever seen in the history of mankind. They have spent no less
than 17% of their G N P on military purposes, building up an enormous
arsenal of the most sophisticated nuclear and conventional weapons
modern technology affords. C a n we really believe that these are for
defence purposes only? Like it or not, the evidence points in the opposite
direction. Leaving strategic nuclear missiles aside, the Soviet block has
an enormous force of Badger, Blinder and Flogger bombers, each
capable of flying low under our radar net to "nuke" every city in the land.
Even with our full complement of 380 Tornados, there is no way we can
repel this Russian force. Soviet SS20s, based in Eastern Europe, are also
aimed at every city in the U K . W e have nothing to counter them. These
are hardly moves by a peace-loving nation to defend itself.
Last weekend a Soviet Whiskey class submarine was washed ashore
near a major Swedish naval base in the Baltic. The Russian claim that the
sub had compass and steering problems is ludicrous as no submarine
would have been able to penetrate into the complex system of fjords and
channels without full control. So what was a Russian submarine doing
spying on Swedish naval defences? The only realistic conclusion is that it
was attempting to gain intelligence as to the effectiveness of Swedish
defences against attack.
O u r only defence against the Soviet bloc has been our nuclear
deterrent. Its purpose has been to prevent war by making it clear to a
potential aggressor that, however much force he might use against
N A T O , he could not hope to win. It is only this facility that has kept and
will continue to keep peace in Europe.
Last week y o u r e a d C N D ' s arguments. T h e y try and delude
themselves into believing that the Soviet conventional superiority is not
realistic as they have less sophisticated weapons that N A T O . Do they
really believe that the M16 21 "foxbat", the fastest aircraft on earth, is
inferior to N A T O capability? The Soviets possess some of the most
sophisticated and effective weapons available in far greater numbers than
N A T O . C N D then claim that a computer failure that had N A T O
bombers ready for take-off could cause nuclear war. A bomber on the
runway threshold is a long way from a bomber over its target. It is
refreshing to see that this computer error was spotted even before the
aircraft got airborne.
"/ couldn't place the
smell before hut now
I've got it. It's
mothballs."
Set against reality, C N D ' s calls for us to unilaterally disarm are nothing
short of madness. We must not allow future generations to mention the
U K in the same breath as Afghanistan, Hungary or Czechoslovakia.
These countries were defenceless, and they paid a heavy price for their
folly. T o use the words of Denis Healey: " O n c e we cut defence
expenditure to the extent where our security is imperilled, we have no
houses, we have no hospitals, we have no schools. We have a heap of
cinders."
7C Conservative Society
If we got rid of our nuclear weapons, would we be any less safe from
attack? Again, here we must look at hard facts, not waffle. Afghanistan
had no nuclear weapons, yet this has not stopped its people from being
butchered by Soviet napalm and poison gas. If we lay down our nuclear
deterrent, there is nothing we can do to stop that very poison gas drifting
down the Thames Valley instead of the valleys of Afghanistan.
W e can only disarm when we are sure that the Soviet Union does not
have the superior capability or desire to attack us. This can only be
achieved by multilateral disarmament, where both sides disarm on a
parity level. This is the only way we can realistically lay down our nuclear
arsenal.
*' No, no, Ivan. After you !"
r
HALDANE LIBRARY
New Opening Hours
Mon-Fri 9:30-21:00
Saturday 9:30-17:30
Music Library
Mon-Fri 9:30-17:30
The Library is open for reading purposes
only after 17:30 and all day Saturday.
Books—Journals—Maps—Records—
Tapes—Music Scores
This is your library-please use it!
J
FELIX, November 6, 1981 Page 11

