New opening hours for Haldane
by Richard Williams, Haldane Librarian
There, are changes afoot in your friendly Haldane Library. From
next Monday, November 9, the Library will be open for reading on
weekday evenings and on Saturdays. So if you want somewhere
nice and quiet (and warm!) to settle down in a comfortable chair
with a good book on these dark, wintry evenings, then maybe this
is the place for you. You could even write your essays there
The new opening hours are the same as those for the Lyon Piayfair
Library: 9:30am to 9:00pm, Monday to Friday, and 9:30am to 5:30pm on
Saturdays. So if you want that book or record for the evening or for the
weekend, please come and borrow it from the Haldane Library counter
Mondays to Fridays between 9:30 and 5:30. In 1983 or 1984, all being well,
we shall be able to lend material at all times when the Library is open. So
have patience, please, folks....
So you've already found that our door next to the Great Hall is now
firmly locked against you? Cursing and gnashing your teeth, you now
have to go on safari through uncharted routes (well, no—we've tried to
signpost you) and stairs to level two. Maybe you missed the library lift...?
If you're never in College in the evenings and if you're not one of the
many doing a Humanities course option, then probably you feel there's
nothing in the new arrangements for you (especially if you live in Maths or
Physics). Probably not, except that you might be a little fitter with the
extra lunchtime exercise involved in getting to us.
Maybe you are in College in the evenings. Then the changes should
suit you well. Maybe you are doing a Humanities course. If so, then you'll
find that the changes have been made especially with your needs in mind.
The Humanities Short Loan Collection is now at the Counter of the Lyon
Piayfair Library; it contains most of the titles recommended on your
reading lists, with several copies of those most in demand. W e are also
building up the stock of reference copies of these titles so that eventually
there will always be a copy in the Library to which you can refer—this is
one of the things you asked for when we sought your views last year. So
is the new loan period of three days, extendable if no-one is waiting for
the book. The Haldane Library also contains many related titles, for
those of you who wish to read further or for those unlucky enough to find
all titles you want out on loan. The freedom of access between the two
libraries means that there is now more reader and working space
available to you—the Haldane is so popular that we often haven't enough
room for everyone. O h , and that locked door? A n unfortunate and
inevitable consequence of opening up internal access between the
libraries—so long as there are people anti-social enough to deprive other
members of the College of books which they need (perhaps desperately)
by what is commonly and indelicately called theft, then we have little
choice. It really is in your interests, even though we may be hard put to
convince some of you.
For those of you who are new to the College and haven't yet
discovered the delights we have to offer, a brief summary now, and a
reminder to all our many users: we have a good collection of all types of
fiction (Student Union property and selected by the Union Book Buyer),
general interest non-fiction on a wide range of subjects, Ordinance
Survey and other maps and atlases, and about ninety journals and
newspapers. There are two special collections of books: the H . G . Wells
Collection, commemorating the College's most famous student, and the
Corin Collection, a small collection of modern private press books. The
Music Library contains books and journals on all kinds of music and on
hi-fi, music scores, and a very large collection of classical and popular
music records and cassettes together with some spoken word recordings
and language courses. Y o u can get discount tickets for classical music
concerts through the Y o u t h a n d M u s i c organisation; the M u s i c
Librarian, Miss Cedric, is the local representative. She also keeps a list of
musicians in College interested in performing chamber music. W e have a
free "small ads" noticeboard—sell your old stereo, your old car, your old
mother-in-law (buyers not guaranteed) or find yourself a typist for your
thesis or project (we have more advertisements from typists willing to do
such work than anywhere else in College). W e also have a number of
library exhibitions during the year. This year's programme includes
displays of H . G . Wells and Imperial College (for the R C S Centenary), of
rare books on the history of mining from the Robert Annan Collection
and private press books from the Corin Collection, among others.
If you're worried that the changes mean that you can say goodbye to
the Library's pleasant surroundings, have no fear—we value them too,
just as we do the service we have offered as a sort of on-the-spot public
library to the C o l l e g e for many years. N e i t h e r are in danger of
disappearing. Changes in the College, and particularly the growth of
Humanities courses, have meant that the demands on the Library have
grown and that the balance has shifted. If we are to meet these demands
then such changes are inevitable, unpopular though they be with some. I
hope those people will understand that the changes have not been made
lightly or without considerable thought by the Working Party which
recommended them, and that the aim remains to provide the best
possible library service to the widest number of members of the College.
1 9 E x h i b i t i o n R o a d , S o u t h K e n s i n g t o n
10% discount to Imperial College Union
cardholders.
A choice of 24 superb crepes
Open 12:00 noon to 12:00 midnight
Including Sundays
FULL LICENCE
FELIX, November 6, 1981 Page 5

