NUS? No thanks!
Despite the fact that our long dissociation
from NUS has not resulted in the predicted
collapse of student services and lacilities at
IC (far from it-there has been a distinct
improvement), there remains a small body of
people who still feel we ought to throw 10% or
so of our annual budget into the bottomless
pit of NUS expenditure. So I am called to put
yet again the reasons for not being part ot the
NUS, particularly for the benefit of new
students.
First a history lesson. ICU was a founder
member of the NUS, and since then it has
been in and out several times. The last
withdrawal came after a very close vote in a
referendum early in 1977. The majority was
just five votes. But a second referendum in
November 1978 (after students had experi-
enced life outside NUS) was much more
conclusive. Out of a massive turnout of over
2,500 students (compare that with typically
1,700 in sabbatical elections) there was a
substantial majority of 344 in favour of
continued disaffiliation. This was even with
the NUS enjoying the support of the ICU
President and most other officers. So ICU
remained outside NUS and still does to this
day. Apart from several Scottish universities
and Kings College (at the moment) we are the
only large university institution outside NUS,
and have been disaffiliated longest. This is
almost certainly due to the unique nature of
Imperial College and outlook of the students
who come here.
The National Union of Students represents
1.2m students, full-time and part-time, in FE
colleges, universities, polytechnics and
institutes of higher education all around the
country. In England there is only one major
students union which is not affiliated to the
NUS and that is Imperial. A few years ago in a
campus-wide referendum, LCU decided to
leave the NUS by a majority of just five votes
in a total ballot of two thousand. (The last
College-wide referendum just three years ago
produced a larger majority of over three
hundred, but there was still a substantial
amount of support for NUS—about 43% of
votes cast). Next Tuesday, at the second
Union General Meeting of term, David
Aaronovitch will be talking about NUS, and at
the same meeting a motion will be put
forward calling for a referendum on NUS
membership. I believe we should accept this
call for a referendum and subsequently vote
to reaffiliate.
There is, and probably will only ever be,
one national students organisation and that is
NUS. No other in the forseeable future will
replace it. Government accepts NUS as our
representatives, asking each year that NUS
should submit student grant claims and give
evidence to select committees on, for
example, overseas students and housing.
Last year's grant claim from NUS earned
students an increase of 8% which to someone
on the maximum grant meant an increase of
around £120. Negotiating on grants has been
one of the most important facets of NUS but
in recent years much more has been done of
great importance to all students. NUS
negotiated on behalf of Imperial during the
last government cuts and managed to retain
another £3m in the education budget. Most
After such a long time outside NUS we are
in a good position to judge what benefits we
have lost by not being members (and what we
stand to gain by affiliation). Voters in the two
referenda did not have this period to look
back on, only various hacks warning of the
gloom, doom and destruction which would
result from being outside the NUS.
So what have we lost, what benefits are we
missing by virtue of our withdrawal from the
main stream of the 'student movement'
(whatever that is, comrades!). One needs to
look long and hard. There are a few colleges
who refuse to make a reciprocal agreement
with us for mutual use of facilities (notably
Chelsea College). The Union does not
receive the endless flow of bumph which
emanates from Endsleigh Street (NUS HQ).
We can't send delegates to NUS conferences.
NUS doesn't officially represent us in their
dealings with the Government and other
national bodies (although they would claim
that we still 'benefit' from their negotiations).
Let me deal with these one at a time.
First, reciprocal agreements: this is a
tangible benefit, but not one which greatly
affects many students. (In fact the main
losers are colleges like Chelsea who can't use
our more extensive facilities). Second, NUS
information: much of this c o n s i s t s of
campaign literature, e.g. anti-nuclear power,
CND, unemployment, anti-apartheid, etc. But
information on these issues is readily
available from national organisations which
important of all in these negotiations, they
helped to stop the introduction of the loan
system which would have caused many
students great hardship (By using a survey
they conducted in European countries where
the loan system did operate, they managed to
convince the government that the system was
too expensive to run, and too difficult to
m a n a g e . ) T h i s was a very important
contribution to student welfare. Other recent
campaigns from NUS have included overseas
students, attempts to stop students paying
high prescription charges and marches
against unemployment (about one fifth of all
graduates are unemployed on leaving
college). At the moment it appears that the
NUS legal advisors have found a loophole in a
recent rent act which could allow students to
get rent rebates even if they live in halls.
We have seen that NUS can be an effective
c a m p a i g n i n g body but much more is
available than this. Endsleigh Insurance
which provides a specialist insurance service
for students was set up by NUS and though
not totally controlled by them now, there are
student board members and the company
provides g o o d insurance for halls of
residence, mopeds and motorbikes, rag
weeks and concerts. A National Student
Travel Organisation was set up by NUS but
this collapsed due to mismanagement.
However it still persists to a degree in the
form of London Student Travel. Without NUS
there would be no London Student Travel
O r g a n i s a t i o n . Student railcards were
pioneeered by NUS who also introduced to
the UK. ISIC cards (International Student
Identification Cards) and the National
Discount Scheme (which gives varying
discount at many thousands of stores around
college societies (and individuals) can
contact directly. And however laudable one
may or may not find these causes they are
hardly student issues. Neither have IC
students ever shown much interest in being
in any campaign, be it student related or not
Some of the information NUS sends out is
useful, but it is easily obtained elsewhere.
NUS merely passes it on, they receive no
privileged information.
NUS conferences: not sending delegates to
these is hardly a great blow to the average
student, although it does deprive four or five
hacks a biannual chance to attend a four-day
hack-in, hotel included, at the Union's
expense. Lastly, representation: does NUS
really represent anyone other than the
political activists who attend its conferences?
Its grant "negotiations" are a failure. Since
NUS started making demands for grant
increases in 1962, the real value of grants has
fallen by 30%. This is because all governments
realize that NUS is not representative of its
1.2m "members". A more moderate line than
that which is usually taken would probably
meet with far greater success.
There are many more arguments one could
use against NUS: its unrepresentative nature,
its party political basis, its often extreme
policies, its bureaurcracy, its failure to run its
service companies viably. Here I have
concentrated on the issues within college as
they would affect every student. I think I have
shown that there is no real benefit to be
gained from NUS membership, certainly not
commensurate with the huge expenditure
involved.
Martin Taylor
External Affairs Officer
the country). The cheap student deals with
National Coaches were also negotiated by
NUS.
What are the arguments for staying out of
NUS? The letter written to FELIX last week by
Chris Webb gave only one important reason
for staying out, and that was financial. NUS
does seem at first glance to be expensive but
a closer look shows this to be a mere £3.50
per member. This is not too much to pay for
all the NUS negotiating services and other
advantages given by NUS membership. We
certainly managed to find the money when
we were members a few years back. I am sure
that though the amount is large, it could be
found without a great deal of hardship (and
that a concentrated attempt to find a way
around the NUS block affiliation fees could
prove fruitful). However attempts to find the
money will not take place because the real
reason for N U S disaffiliation was not
financial but political.
One of the main points put forward as part
of the opposition to NUS is that the executive
members are left wing politicans and NUS is
heavily involved in left wing politics. It is true
to say that most executive members are
elected on left wing labels but they are
elected, and this is the important point; and
when elected they work on student matters
and not for the world revolution. It really
would not make much difference if an NUS
rep was in the "Kermitthe Frog" party as long
as he could negotiate well on student affairs.
In conclusion, we do need a national union
and NUS is our only option and is a good
option. At the moment we gain advantages
from NUS and contribute nothing. We can sit
back as Chris Webb implies in his letter and
say "I'm alright Jack" but without NUS we
could well have had a student loan system,
greater cuts in education, as well as smaller
grant increases. For how long are we to
remain parasites sucking the backs of NUS,
simply on the grounds that we think they're a
bunch of lefties? If we think things are
wrong let's go and change them from within.
Philip B. Nathan
An appeal for reaffiliation
Page 6 FELIX, November 6, 1981

