I. THE BASIC COVER. (2
)
(a) Personal Belongings insured for up to £2000
-covered whilst in the rooms which you occupy during Term-time and in any place of residence within the U.K. where you may
reside during the year: also whilst anywhere on the premises of your College, Department, University, Student Union or Hall of
Residence during term-time and whilst removed during the vacations to secure storage designated by the College authorities and
within the said premises; whilst you are in transit between home and College within the U.K. at the start and end of each Term;
also whilst on holiday in any hotel private house or flat anywhere on the Continent of Europe for the first 60 days of such travel in
any policy year; against Loss or Damage arising from Fire or Theft or any attempt thereat or caused by Lightning, Explosion,
Smoke, Earthquake, Storm, Flood, Escape of Water, Riot and Civil Commotion and Malicious Damage (other than in the
Republic of Ireland or Northern Ireland), Impact by Vehicles or Animals or Aircraft, Subsidence, Heave, Falling Trees or
Aerials, Leakage of Oil. Main Exclusions; losses other than from the premises as above defined; losses of money, tickets,
documents, securities, stamp collections, medals, coins, aircraft, watercraft, hovercraft, caravans, trailers, motor vehicles and
their accessories and any loss from a motor vehicle or cycle; skis, hearing aids, camping equipment whilst outside your residence
space, sub aqua equipment, riding tack, business goods and equipment; pedal cycles (which can be insured below) livestock and
contact-lenses; property more specifically insured; the first £15 of every claim, rising to £25 in the GLC area, certain specified
districts of Glasgow, Liverpool & Manchester, and outside the U.K. Maximum any one item £300.
(b) and Your Personal & Occupiers Liability at Common Law up to £500,000
giving protection for accidental injury to person or damage to property caused by your negligence as a private individual
occurring during any period of insurance in the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland, the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man
and in the remainder of Europe in respect of temporary visits. Exclusions are the normal ones for this type of policy: e.g.
claims arising from use of possession of vehicles, aircraft, caravans, watercraft: claims by servants or claims arising out of
your business activities other than your activities as a student; claims over the ownership of land or buildings.
(c) and Personal Accident Insurance of £1,500.
covers bodily injury caused by (i) fire or thieves at your rooms, (ii) an accident whilst travelling by motor vehicle, railway train,
passenger ship, ferry, aircraft or hovercraft as a farepaying passenger, (iii) an accident as pedestrian involving a motor vehicle,
and resulting within 12 months of the injury in death or total loss of or complete and irrecoverable loss of use of one or more eyes
or limbs. Main exclusions: war; wilful self-inflicted injury; accidents occurring whilst the insured is under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or drugs, or suffering from any physical defect or infirmity (unless it has been declared to and accepted by the
insurers); racing competitions, rallies, or trials, pregnancy, childbirth, miscarriage or abortion or any consequence thereof.
(d) College/Landlords Property in your room. Cover £1,000 See (a) above for main exclusions.
II. OPTIONAL EXTRAS
1. HIGHER COVER
you may increase the sum insured on your property (indeed you should, if it totals more than £2,000 in value
apart from such specified items you may decide to cover separately against 'All Risks' below). Remember
that a heavy claim might be under-compensated if you have under-stated the full value of your belongings.
(max. cover £3500 in alt).
2. ALL RISKS COVER (valuable items)
List on page four any items you wish to insure separately against All Risks such as loss, damage and
breakage as well as fire and theft, anywhere in U.K. and up to 60 days per policy year in Europe. This is
advisable for valuable jewellery, watches, expensive garments, H1-FI etc. It can be continued after you cease
to be a student.
3. PEDAL CYCLE
We can cover loss of or damage to your pedal cycle by Fire and Theft and Impact anywhere in the U.K. and
up to 60 days per policy year in Europe; excluding accessories unless the cycle is stolen or damaged by fire at
the same time; and the first £15 of every claim.
HOW TO APPLY
Complete the right-hand portion (pages 3 & 4) and send it with the correct premium to:
HARRISON-BEAUMONT (Ins. Brokers) LTD
WENRISC HOUSE, 4 MEADOW COURT,
HIGH STREET, WITNEY, OXON OX8 6LP. TEL: WITNEY 3251
(or in the event of postal disruption take to the nearest Norwich Union office)
Make cheques payable to HARRISON-BEAUMONT LTD. These are the Registered Insurance Brokers
who administer the Scheme for Norwich Union, and they will send your Policy Certificate to your H O M E
ADDRESS.

