• We report with great sadness
the death, on March 31 1988,
of the Imperial College
Spectroscopy Group. The cause
of death, at age 106, is believed
to have been severe
malnutrition.
• S.H.B. is T.A.H. right about
the bondage?...Ask Ian.
• Q. Do the Irish soundproof
all canvas in Wales? A. No, it
was moose to mouse
rescucitation.
• Engineer seeks Aussie
landmark to build partnership.
• Syd: Not all scrap iron is
unloved. Even when it's
statically indeterminate.
• What is it that women find
so funny about PK's body? The
Penthouse Club.
• Attention all ball goers, only
a few more Silwood Ball tickets
left. Price £50 from the RCS
Office.
• Sydney Harbour-Bridge you
are a hero and we think you are
wonderful. Neil and Liz.
• Heavy Metal mania—next
Friday.
• Holbein beware! Lord
Rayleigh is amongst us Vive le
Rhino club.
• The bloody horn is charging.
• £ 1 0 reward for return of Ents
Chairman pot lost beginning of
March last term in the SCR,
contact Rich Homan (Chem Eng
4). No questions asked.
• Who are the biggest creeps in
Weeks Hall?
• How many Union Officer^
pay for their Union van hire?
• Does anybody care?
ACCOMMODATION
• For this term. Single room in
Fulham (nr Earls Court) rent
around £25 per week (after
rebate). Contact Steve Kilmurray,
c/o IC Union Office.
Accommodation for October
Nothing to pay throughout the
summer. Deposit given n
o
w secures
accommodation for Oct 88.
Fully-furnished flats in South Ken,
Fulham and Putney. Flats for 3,4,5,
6 and 8 sharers. Prices from £36 per
person. Fully furnished houses in
Fulham for 7, 8 & 1
0 sharers. Prices
from £36 per person. Fully-furnished
bed-sits in S Ken and Earls Court.
Single bed-sits from £25 per person
and doubles from £26 per person.
Telephone Marisa or Silvana:
731 4073,7310292,546 8159.
Wot no Baron?
Dear Judith,
I was somewhat surprised to read in your editorial last
week that you are about to cancel The Baron of
Cheapskate. I have been reading it weekly since I started
College and would be disappointed to see it go.
Your editorial said that the column will be scrapped due
to 'popular demand'. I take this to mean that you don't
think that very many people read it, and that you have
something better with which to replace it. I think that you
are underestimating the number of people who read The
Baron. It's readership is certainly not limited to those
people who appear in it. I know a lot of people who have
never appeared in The Baron, but who read it regularly,
both for humour and information. I think that if you were
to compare the number of people who read The Baron
with those who read other regulars, such as the sports
page, racing column or music reviews, you would find
that The Baron is far more popular. If you have to cut
anything, maybe it should be one of those rather that The
Baron.
I think that The Baron is an excellent parody of college
and student life, and scrapping it would be a major loss
both to FELIX and to its many faithful readers.
Yours sincerely,
Gavin Spittlehouse (DOC 2).
Thanks for the letter, Gavin, but the Baron has been
dropped for now, due to pressure of exams, etc., etc.
He's still in cold storage, though, so don't be surprised
if he pops up once more this year!
UGMS: the
chips are down
Dear Judith,
With regard to your editorial (FELIX March 23), I
would like to make the following points concerning
UGMs.
Firstly, although UGMs have appeared quorate this
year, this has seldom been the case. They merely seem
to be because there are usually at least 300 people in the
JCR at lunchtimes anyway. The fact is, at UGMs this year,
most of the students deemed 'present' are just eating their
lunch and couldn't give a toss if there is a meeting going
on or not. When abstentions and votes cast are counted,
they rarely total 150, let alone 300.
Secondly, regarding the location of UGMs: The JCR
obviously won't do, nor would any other place where the
quorum can be fiddled in the way I have described. UGMs
were traditionally held in the Great Hall. Was this to cope
with the vast numbers of students desperately trying to
fight their way in, to get a seat so that they could pay close
attention to what was going on? Somehow I doubt it.
This leaves a dilemma: If UGMs are held in the JCR,
they are quorate until everyone has finished eating their
lunch and get up to leave. If they are held somewhere farty
like the Great Hall, no one bothers turning up anyway.
One solution is to lower quorum. It seems to me,
however, that it is low enough already and dropping it
further would make UGMs even more unrepresentative.
Is it not an indictment of how boring student politics has
become if a college of 5000+ students cannot muster 300
for a meeting once a month?
The ideal, of course, is to make UGMs interesting. If
Joe Student attends a lively and, dare I say it, fun U G M ,
he may well go to the next one, possibly with a mate or
two. It appears to me that people are turned off for a
variety of reasons: Union Officers giving lengthy, boring
reports; Sabbaticals attempting to sabotage meetings; faulty
PA system; arguing political factions; constant challenges
to the Chairman's ruling; speakers ranting on for hours;
etc, etc...
I don't know the answers, but I do have a few questions:
Are UGMs properly advertised?
Why do the Union hierarchy appear unbothered by the
apathy that exists at ICU?
Why are students so apathetic to their Union anyway?
UGMs are the only forum for students to hear the people
they voted in explaining what they do with their time,
despite the idea put forward by one sabbatical recently
to abolish them altogether.
One of the reasons I stood for the post of next year's
UGM Chairman was to try and break down the barrier
between students and 'those people sitting up there at the
front' at UGMs. However, given the level of disinterest
at IC, could anyone really care less?
Cheers,
Paul Shanley.
Endurante?
Dear Judith,
Student life at some Italian universities is reputed to
contain features that might make the Imperial student raise
an eyebrow. We refer to the well established Goliardia
tradition that many student there undergo.
Goliardia derived from the Latin 'Golia' meaning
excellence at everything, was a term used to refer to
students. The traditional view held by many at the time
the term was coined was that a student should be
outstanding at studies, be physically robust, and be aware
of contemporary Italian culture. Being a student at
university was considered to be adequate proof of the
former. Italian students devised many light-hearted tests
to determine the other qualities mentioned. Passing any
one of the various tests of character earned the students
the accolade of Goliardia (member of the Goliardia).
1) The arena.
In this event all the competing candidates are made to enter
a ringed enclosure in nothing but their underclothes and
on all fours. The only form of motion allowed is crawling.
The contestants are eliminated when they have their
posterior bitten. The contestant managing to avoid
suffering this humiliation emerges victor.
2) The juke box.
In this event the contestant is placed in a man size cupboard
with a slit in it. Other students put money through the slit
and request a song to be sung. Failure to satisfy the
audiences' high expectations of the singers result in the
juke box being shaken violently.
We urge students at Imperial to borrow a leaf from our
Italian counterparts. In particular we urge Fiona Nicholas
to introduce the Goliardia tradition as a part of the Rag
tradition. There will be no dearth of ideas about what
students here could be made to do to earn the accolade
of Goliardia.
Yours sincerely,
Luca Zullo,
Yishu Nanda,
Chem Eng PGs
FELIX Friday 29th April 1988 23

