New Kebab Bar opens, offish
College have opened a new Kebab Bar on the groundfloorof the Southside
Halls of Residence. The new outlet cost £36,000 to build which Refectory
Manager Rob Northey described as being 'cheap' for a catering outlet.
Mr Northey doesn't expect trade to pick up until next academic year and
sees this term as a trial period for his latest venture. The Kebab Bar is
serving food during the Southside Bar open hours along with a limited
range of drinks.
ICU calls in
the police
Imperial College Union President
Sydney Harbour-Bridge has called in
the police following a large loss made
by the Union Snack Bar and Union
Bar over the past year.
The discrepances came to light
following the appointment of Reggie
Blennerhassett as Union Finance
Officer. It appears that a large sum
of money has been unaccounted for.
The police have interviewed all the
Snack Bar's and Bar's permanent
members of staff but nobody has been
charged.
Some of the staff are unhappy about
their treatment and the lack of support
they have received from the Union.
One member of staff, who asked not
to be named, said that a lot of bad
feeling had been created by the
President's action and that they had
been called before the police without
being informed about what was going
on. Deputy President Alan Rose
refused to comment on the situation
because it is still being investigated
by the police.
New optician
The Health Centre has a new visiting
optician, Mr D Raz, who will visit the
Centre on Thursdays. Mr Raz also
has a local practice in South
Kensington at 8 Old Brompton Road.
The Health Centre also has a visiting
acupuncturist, osteopath and
Alexander Technique teacher. The
Consultant Psychiatrist continues to
attend each week.
Up in smoke?
An advertising campaign based on
research from IC's Department of
Civil Engineering has been cancelled,
following complaints from the
College.
Professor Robert Perry is
undertaking an investigation into
indoor pollution caused by three
components of tobacco smoke. The
project was partly funded by the
Tobacco Advisory Council, which
commissioned a campaign reassuring
the public about the effects of passive
smoking. Professor Perry is the Head
of the Public Health and Water
Resources Engineering Section, a fact
which is included in the campaign.
According to Professor Perry's
work, even a room with a visible
tobacco haze contains less than two
per cent of the permitted workplace
level of inhalable particles. He also
found that average carbon monoxide
levels were less than five per cent and
nicotine levels less than four per cent
of the allowed exposures.
A letter to the Council from
Professor Perry concluded the
findings 'put into some perspective
the relative contribution of
environmental tobacco smoke' to
indoor air quality, an extract from the
letter, including the Imperial College
letterhead, was used in the Council's
advertisements. However, College
Director of Public Relations, Iain
More, said the advertisements 'did
not reflect the message the research
produced.'
Professor Perry agreed that the
concentrations of the three
components which were studied were
relatively low, but added 'there are
another two hundred down the line
and they include ones which cause
irritation and distress to non-
smokers'. He also remarked that an
understanding of the components of
smoke was different to understanding
their effects on health.
Iain More described the settlement
with the Council as 'amicable' in what
was a complicated disagreement.
Although about half the College's
research funds come from non-
Government sources, he had had no
other problems with sponsors'
references to Imperial College in their
publicity.
A Tobacco Advisory Council
representative has been quoted as
maintaining the Council's right to
promote the Professor's findings if
Imperial were in agreement, adding
'we still think the research is sound'.
Government
cracks down
onNUS
The Government is to carry out an
extensive study of the role of student
unions in universities, polytechnics
and colleges. The survey, which is to
investigate the costs, organisation and
legal status of the unions, will be
paying particular attention to the
National Union of Students.
Education Secretary Kenneth Baker
said, in a written answer to the
Commons, that the Government was
concerned that the money paid to
student bodies should be used to
provide services for students and not
for politics. It also believed that many
students did not want to be
represented by the NUS, though
trying to limit membership to
individual choice, as some
Conservative MPs suggest could
prove difficult. This is because many
students are affiliated to the NUS
through their local students unions,
and restricting the rights of these
unions to affiliate to the national body
woud raise complex legal issues.
The NUS is unconcerned about the
survey, which they think will only
vindicate the students unions, and the
NUS, and demonstrate the importance
of the work they carry out for
members.
Royal visit
King Olav of Norway was the guest
of the Department of Mineral
Resources Engineering two weeks
ago when he came to Great Britain on
a state visit.
The King was shown around an
exhibition on 'Energy for the Future',
sponsored by the Norwegian State Oil
Company, by Professor John Archer
and meet students from Norway who
were studying for a degree in
Minerial Resources Engineering.
Shan's Dodgy
Sporting Tips
Carlisle Z 4 5 Tina's Song
Plumpton 4.45 Mr Caractacus
Carlisle 4.25 Tender Whisper
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication Board and is printed by the Imperial College
Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel 01-589 5111 ext 3515). Editor: Judith Hackney. Business Manager: Chris
Martin. Copyright FELIX 1988 ISSN 1040-0711.
24 Friday 29th April 1988 FELIX

