Emergency Flysheet
Thursday 5th May 1988
£ 3 5 , 0 0 0 stock unaccounted for —Police called in
Union Staff S
u
s
p
e
n
d
e
d
The Manager of the Union-run Snack Bar and his deputy were
yesterday suspended on full pay and the outlet closed until further
notice. This action has been taken following a police investigation into
substantial losses which have been occuring over the past two years.
At the same time, the casual staff in the Union Bar, where stocks have
also gone missing, have been told they no longer have jobs.
The gross profit deficit in the past no responsibility for checking any
nine months of trading has been details or keeping detailed trading
around £35,000 from the Snack Bar, accounts.
approximately half its turnover, and The accountant quickly identified
£6,000 from the Union Bar. This that the Snack Bar was making a
means that an average of £130 per day
has been lost in the Snack Bar and £20
per day in the Union Bar. Union
President Mr Sydney Harbour-Bridge
told FELIX yesterday that such losses
could not be accounted for purely
from petty pilfering.
The workers in both outlets are
extremely unhappy about the way that
they have been treated. They claim
that they have been given no
information about what has been
happening, and were told by the
Union Office that they had appear at
an interview by Police Officers
without an explanation. They feel it
is unfair to effectively sack all the
student casual staff of both outlets
without any evidence that they were
involved in any criminal activity at
all.
The losses were noticed when the
Union appointed an accountant to
keep the Union Snack Bar and Bar
books in January. Before this, Jen
Hardy-Smith, the Union
Adminstrator, was handling the
invoices and payment for the outlets,
as well as her normal duties, but had
substantial trading loss, and, on
further investigation, that the Union
Bar was also making less profit than
it should. This prompted M r
Harbour-Bridge to call in the police
for the first time. They advised that
a stocktaking system be introduced to
discover where the losses were
occuring.
The outlets continued to make a
loss throughout the Spring Term so
the police were called again and
IC Union President Sydney Harbour-Bridge keeping the Union Snack Bar open
last night, after the suspension of the Manager and his Deputy earlier in the
day. The Snack Bar will not be open again before October.
recommended that a 'stake out' team
watch the deliveries of goods each
morning. A team then spent two
weeks watching the entrance to Beit
Quadrangle but discovered nothing of
significance.
A second stocktake was carried out
at the end of last term which showed
that goods were still disappearing
from both outlets. The police decided
to carry out interviews with all the
Snack Bar and Bar staff two weeks
ago. A number of staff were seen but
no conclusive evidence was
unearthed. A few members of the
casual bar staff admitted to petty
thefts, indicating that they believed it
to be 'common practice'. It is still to
be decided if they are to be
prosecuted. The police did, however,
recommend that the entire staff be
dismissed if the huge losses are to
stop.
When the accounts for 1986/87
were returned from the College
Auditors last week, seven months
overdue, it was discovered that the
Snack Bar had made a loss of £3,000
and not a profit as was previously
believed. The Union Bar had also not
lived up to its expected profits.
Once the scale of the losses had
become apparant, a meeting of
'interested parties and Union officials'
was called on Tuesday evening to
discuss 'the future of the Union's
Snack Bar and Bar'. The
'investigatory committee'
recommended that the casual bar staff
continued overleaf
T H E N E W S P A P E R OF I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E U N I O N

