• AVID READERS of the FELIX
Small ads have probably noticed
references to Yishu of Holbein
House. All last term we read his
poems to his secret admirer who was
declaring love through these very
pages. Unfortunately Yishu
discovered the identity of this secret
admirer over Easter—a male Mining
PG—and was livid. He also
discovered that FELIX Ed Judith
Hackney had helped him out with one
line of a poem. To get his revenge he
baked her a cake, brimming full of
port and brandy, and then proceeded
to eat it all. I bet that really taught her
a lesson, Yishu!
• WACKY AL Birch, IC Union's
Internal Services Officer, has been
playing the fool again. He decided to
wind up 'naughty' Nigel Whitfield by
sending him a mock telephone bill
final reminder. Nigel, however,
realised instantly that the threatening
letter was the work of the devil and
ignored it. Unfortunately Nigel's flat
mate, Simon Bradshaw, was not so
astute and became very upset upon
reading the letter, i wouldn't have
minded so much,' said Simon later,
'if it wasn't for the fact that Nigel was
disputing the bill over a unit (an extra
4.4p)'.
The Baron is dead. Before his death, he laid down plans for his
successor —'Blackmail'. His last wish was for all cover-ups in
College to be exposed. Wherever you are, Baron, you won't be
disappointed...
Information required on the following topics:
• Why has there been a mass exodus of Mining and Min Tec
lecturers from College in recent months? Are Professors Shaw
and Archer letting on all they know?
• Whose ideas was the Union re-organisation?
• Who are 'The Players'? Where is Lord Keogh?
• Which member of a C C U executive is a registered student of
a different CCU? Will he be for the high jump if he is found out?
• Why does a photocopier salesman spend most of his life in the
Union Office when they already have three machines?
• A S S A keys: Who is holding what? Who is on Geoff Reeves
suspect list of unauthorised keyholders?
• Next year's elections: Who is the co-star in the Howgate ' 8 9
production of 'The Return of Sydney'?
• Why did the IC President decide not to No Confidence his
Deputy after declaring he would?
• Why did College Welfare Advisor Linda Simmons quit her job
so soon?
All information, of course, is in the strictest confidence. Send to
'Blackmail', FELIX, Beit Quad.
I hope to elaborate on all these stories, and more, in future
weeks.
Last, but not least, this week's items of Blackmail. The rules
are very simple. I find out something very embarrassing about
someone. They then pay five pounds to Rag, via FELIX, or I
publish. Cheques to arrive by Midday Monday at the latest.
1) A cassette has been sent to me with an admission of nipple
sucking contained thereon. This indecent act occurred between
an RCS hack and an Evelyn Gardens resident. Five pounds from
the resident pays for the tapes destruction.
2) The tape also contains some extraordinary interviewing
techniques by t w o 'friends' of the nipple sucker. One of these
is the idiot who leaked the tape to FELIX in the first place. Five
pounds, Messrs S & T, or I print a transscript of the interrogation.
3) Five pounds from the student who sold his body for a night
of passion for only £85 over the holidays, or I print the contract
that was signed.
4) Picture the scene: A busy Saturday night in a Wimbledon pub.
Two IC students go on the prowl for a lady. Eventually they find
one, albeit slightly inebriated. Said students stand to lose lots of
credibility points if they do anything embarrassing. This is because
one has a regular girlfriend and the other is standing for election
for a College post this term. I can now reveal that the lady who
was chatted-up is a well known prostitute in the Wimbledon area.
Pay a £5 fine (each) or take a chance.
There will be more Blackmail next week.
Delator.
Li bel
• GUILDS PRESIDENT 2nd Lt
Dave Braincell has been in severe
agaony this Easter if rumours I heard
in the Union Bar the other day are
true. It seems that Dave has been
suffering the pain of ingrowing hair
on his buttocks. The poor soul, unable
to sit down to revise for his finals,
went to hospital to have the offending
hairs removed by electrolysis!
• SI BICHARA has been voted the
number one IC Radio presenter. This
startling fact came to light when a
copy of 'Shark' Si's CV was leaked
to me. Further investigation revealed
this poll was strangely unanimous
having been conducted between only
two people (Si himself and his
girlfriend). That's probably double IC
Radio's audience.
• COLLEGE Assistant Secretary
Michael- Arthur is finally leaving
Imperial after many years loyal
service to himself. He will be sadly
missed by us all here at FELIX as he
has given us so many reems of copy,
wacky ideas and happy memories.
Does the London School of
Economics realise just what it's
letting itself in for?
•FOUND by a College notable while
cleaning out one of his desks, a strip
of colour negatives of an adolescent
girl in a shower. Anybody who finds
they have lost such a negative can
retrieve it from the FELIX Office
next week.
• WHO is the strange person that has
been ringing up Martyn Peck in the
early hours of the the morning
recently? This nocturnal caller giggles
and plays music down the line.
Martyn will not let on who he thinks
it is, but once let slip he suspected it
might be a fellow resident of all-male
Holbein House.
• SELF-STYLED 'sex-kitten',
Judith Hackney, has been airing her
sharking fin during the Easter
holidays. Whilst having a drink with
hard-working FELIX staff, she
decided to let her hair down. Union
Bar regulars were shocked as she
sprung on each of the three Union
sabbaticals in turn, attempting to
undress them. Having revealed the
manly physique of ICU President,
Sydney Harbour-Bridge, to all and
sundry, she turned her advances to
Honorary Secretary, Chas Jackson.
Later, topless Mr Jackson was seen
crying in his beer. Once again, Ms
Hackney, 22, denies everything.
Chris Jones.
FELIX Friday 29th April 1988 5

