The RCS go walkies...
Ten Tors '91
Every year the RCS Union enters one or
two teams for the Ten Tors competition.
This is a 55 mile hike over Dartmoor.
The object of this is for teams of six to
walk from checkpoint to checkpoint,
which are situated at the summits of the
Tors, passing through ten over two days.
The event has been running for about 30
years, and is open to young people from
both military and civilian organisations.
Too easy? Please read on...
This year's 'Ten Tors' takes place on
18/19 May, and we hope to enter two
teams. Those selected will be driven
down to Okehampton on Friday 17 May,
where we will stay at the army base. The
walk begins at 7am on Saturday morning.
Each team will then walk for 10 to 12
hours, stopping only for food and 'blister
control'. We hope to cover about 30 miles
(six tors) before the checkpoints close at
nightfall, then, breaking camp early on
Sunday morning, cover the remaining
four tors (25 miles) by 5pm.
Matt Jarman's account of the expedition
last year gives a further insight to this
challenge:
'... having made the long drive down to
Okehampton on Friday afternoon, we
stood in line for the various kit checks
necessary for the team to be passed
'ready' for the following two days. This
was followed by a short film on 'Safety
on Dartmoor'.
With all our checks completed, an
'interesting' meal was cooked and eaten,
and, as darkness fell, we settled down to
sleep. It seemed only moments later
when we were rudely w o k e n by the
sounds of 'Chariots of Fire' blasting over
the tannoy. This was followed by a
medley of songs including 'The long walk
home', 'Here comes the rain again' and
'Keep on running'. We completed our last
minute kit check and made our way to
the start.
Having been addressed by the visiting
dignitaries, w e chatted to some of the
other teams at the massed start (about
2000 young people), and then we started
our 'Ten Tors'. It was a distinct
disadvantage that we had never been to
Dartmoor before: it is a lot less rugged on
the 'Guildford Downs' where we had been
training. However, we walked on
regardless both of the pain i n our feet
a Manned Tor
and, sometimes, the direction in which
we were heading.
Although our expedition was to cover
55 miles, there are 45 mile and 35 mile
hikes too. This makes for some confusing
path crossing, as everyone seems to head
in random directions.
We walked on, arriving at the sixth tor
at around five pm. We continued until it
got dark, whereupon we stopped for the
night in the quiet of the moor.
The following morning saw the team
tired and footsore, slogging on from tor
to tor, desperately trying to stay in touch
with the finish time of 5pm. At each tor
we were urged to keep going, asour card
was checked, and the time marked down.
If you do not reach a tor by a certain
time, the team is 'crashed out', retired for
its own sake.
Finishing was a sight for sore feet, as
by now only sheer determination kept us
going. Pete sympathetically loaded us into
the minibus, and the long drive back to
London gave us time to tend our many
blisters and aching legs. Although we
could not walk very well for the next
week, all the team agreed that our effort
had been well worth it.'
This challenge is not for the weak-
hearted. It is a severe test of stamina,
endurance, enormous care in planning,
hard training, skilful navigation and,
above all, fitness and team work. W e
hope to begin training soon, starting with
fitness and stamina, leading on to
walking, navigation and team-work skills.
The fitness training should not be too
time-consuming, taking about two hours a
week. W e hope to get out onto wilder
terrain later.
There will be a meeting for all those
interested on Monday 11 February, at
12.30pm in Southside. Priority will be
given to RCS students, but there will be
places for G & G and RSM members. If y o u
are interested please contact:
Matt Jarman Materials II
or
Peter Galley Ten Tors Manager RCSU.
Finally, if the Ten Tors sounds too
demanding, or if you think last year's
team were a bunch of nancies and Y O U
could run round the course, do not be
put off, it is well worth it, even though it
may hurt a little!
11

