Editorial
I'm sure you've all heard the analogy
where you imagine life as a big roller
coaster, with y o u strapped in the front
car. Roller-coasters, by their nature, tend
to go up and, er, down quite a bit, thus
representing life's successes and, er, little
(?) problems. A l l fairly simple stuff. What
the analogy doesn't tend to cover is what
happens w h e n the tracks finish in
mid-air...
Disaster. Depression. A n d Exams.
It's been one of those weeks...First two of
the section editors resign due to the
pressure of their courses. I've got exams,
so I haven't been able to do as m u c h as I
should to make up for this loss, and, as
any astute readers may have realised,
Felix is not as big as it usually is. There
are several reasons for this, but the main
one is our printing press. It's broken.
Badly. Or it was, but due to the super-
heroic efforts of A n d y and Chris, it is no
longer. Unfortunately, it was broken for
long enough to totally throw our printing
schedule into an orbit of Ursa Minor, thus
causing the smaller edition y o u now hold.
A l l these factors, combined with some
personal ones (from which I will spare
you, as I'm such a generous guy) have
combined to give me the feeling that the
track has definitely stopped (but the car
I'm in didn't). To top it all off, the latest
issue of Legends of the Dark Knight (a
Batman comic which has been uniformly
excellent for months) is crap.
So, time for some medal awarding. As
noted above, I haven't done much for
Felix this week. Thus all the remaining
staff deserve a massive round of
gratuitous back-slapping, for being
incredibly stupid and doing loads more
work than they should have to do. A n d y
and Rose, of course, have been brilliant.
Chris now ranks alongside Batman and
Lobo in m y estimation of super heroness,
and A d a m T. deserves every award I can
give him, but he'll have to wait until I'm
Prime Minister.
Things that annoy me. Quite a bit.
These are not unrelated to the above...
Exams: At some point in my life someone
will explain to me just w h y sitting in a
large, intimidating hall, surrounded by
nervous people and trying to remember
facts and theories that you're supposed to
have memorised (even though, in a job
involving them, you'd be able to look
them up) gives College and thus potential
employers a good indication of your
academic abilities. At least they could let
you take in your notes and/or textbooks.
After all, the ability to find the relevant
piece of information from such sources is
just as important to you in real life than
the ability to remember it, if not more so
(you can always look it up again, in real
life). Yes, I'm aware that the usual reply
to this is that exams provide an abstract
scale to measure people against, etc, etc,
but w h y not provide a more realistic
scale?
Staff: Two of the best staff Felix has
have had to give up their posts, because
of college work. This is basically because
they'd been having to do so much for
Felix. This in turn is because not enough
people come in to help us! In the last few
weeks there have been some hiccups
with the distribution on Friday morning
(my fault). People have come in or rung
up to find out what happened. The letters
page normally gets at least one letter
each week complaining about something
to do with the content etc of Felix. This
is great, I love to k n o w what people
think, and that people miss Felix when
it's late. But (BIG but), for whoever's sake,
if you are interested, come in and give us
a hand! (please!)
Credits
Typesetting & Printing: Rose and A n d y
News Editor: A n n a Teeman
Arts Editor & Night Watchman: A d a m
Features Editor: Roland
Music Editor: John Furlong
Photo Editor and Distribution: Richard
The Team: Stef, James, Ian, Toby, Matt
Jarman and pseudonymed reviewers.
Collaters: ICSF - Steven, Stephen, Paul,
Rebecca, Nick, A l e x and the Ghostbusters.
Heroes from last week's Battle of the
Collating Machine - James, Steven, Nick,
Jeremy and Chris.
Felix is produced for and on behalf of the Imperial
College U n i o n Publications B o a r d a n d is printed at
the Imperial College U n i o n Print Unit, Prince Consort
Road. L o n d o n S W 7 2 B B (Tel 071-225 8672).
Editor: A n d r e w Butcher, Manager: C h r i s Stapleton.
Business Manager: J e r e m y B u r n e l l . Copyright F e l i x
1991 ISSN 1040-0711
Next week is the ...
Valentine Special
So if you're a romantic, loving, caring in-
dividual, or even if you're a 'real'
man/women, or even just for the hell of it:
SAY IT WITH FELIX
Write a personal message to the one you
love/want to love/whatever, and FELIX will
make sure that he/she/it sees it (as well as
about 6,000 other people).
All messages to the FELIX office, Beit Quad by
Tuesday the 11th.
And...on March the 1st it's the
Travel Special
And as we at the FELIX office are all too poor
to go anywhere nice, we'd like you to give us
a hand. If you've travelled anywhere in the
last year, write an article for US become
famous!
Deadline for submissions 1pm Monday 25th
February
15

