Computer Company Crashes
A n authorised Apple Mac dealer, CSS,
called in the receivers last Friday, leaving
among its creditors some Imperial
students with no means of legal redress.
Such students had paid cash up front to
the Apple Centre, Knightsbridge, a CSS
outlet, and have not received the
hardware ordered.
The receivers, Levey Gee and Partners,
are liasing with Apple regional sales.
However Apple U K states that it has no
legal responsibility but that it is
monitoring the situation carefully.
So will the Imperial Students get either
their money back or the hardware they
ordered? The first priority of receivers is
to pay the wages of the staff of the
company involved. Funds are usually
raised by an asset sale, including stock.
Their next priority is to pay outstanding
debts, eg rates, then creditors, then
shareholders. Creditors, in this case
students at Imperial, may receive as little
as 2 5 % of their money if the receivership
follows its normal course.
Apple U K has not been specific about
the role it might play if creditors were
not fully recompensed. Apple U K has
made it clear that it acknowledges the
distress caused to prospective Apple Mac
customers by the CSS receivership. Apple
U K sees today's student customer as
tomorrow's corporate buyer.
Students are strongly advised not to
pay by cash or cheque for any large item
in advance. If y o u do have to pay up
front then use a credit card. If the
company in question goes bust, the credit
card company will refund the lost money.
W h y did the students pay up front? The
answer is simple. According to one
student, the staff at the Knightsbridge
Apple Centre refused to order hardware
unless it was paid for fully in advance.
According to another authorised Apple
dealer this is not normal practice. Five to
ten percent of the total cost may be
asked of the customer as a sign of good
faith, and the hardware must be fully
paid for on delivery.
SERC Cuts Funding
The Science and Engineering Research
Council (SERC) have been forced to cut
back on research spending, it was
anounced on Wednesday. Of concern are
plans to close the Nuclear Structure
Facility (NSF) at the Daresbury
Laboratory, to reduce the neutron
IC Student Invents The SNOW-
BOX (World Patents Pending)
facilities at the Rutherford Appleton
Laboratory and to pull out of the
European Laser facility.
Other reductions in funding include
'sharp cutbacks' in information
technology, the pulling out of research
into gravity waves and less spending on
engineering design.
The rector, Sir Eric A s h , said that the
shortfall of £40 m in SERC's budget would
have 'some effect' on the research
departments at Imperial. H e went on to
say that the College is 'one of the biggest
customers' of SERC, but added that he did
not expect the effect to be drastic.
Expert List
The College Press Officer, Karen Peploe,
is compiling a list of 'experts' at Imperial.
This will contain the names of those
accademic staff who are willing to be
interviewed by the media on their
specialist areas.
Other institutions have made such lists
available to the media, including the
London Schooi of Economics (LSE). This
explains the preponderance of LSE staff
interviewed o n television and radio.
Karen askes that any member of staff
who has not returned the questionnaire
do so immediately, as the list is due to be
published mid-February. A n y member of
staff who has not received a
questionnaire should contact the Press
and Public Relations Office o n internal
8628 as soon as possible.
So w h y were CSS following a cash in
advance policy? CSS had a serious cash
flow problem. The company has long
been undercutting its competitors in the
Apple Mac market. In times of recession
profit margins narrow and companies
such as CSS feel the squeeze.
Since other Apple Mac dealers have
stated that they were aware of CSS's
possible financial problems, it can be
surmised that Apple U K was not totally in
the dark. Indeed, one of CSS's creditors
is, of course, Apple U K .
The receivers are compiling a list of all
creditors and monies o w e d and this list
will be passed to Apple U K . If you
ordered hardware through CSS, parted
with money and have not yet received
your equipment, contact A n t h o n y Lester,
C h e m Eng III. M r Lester is compiling a
list that will be passed to the CSS's official
receivers. Students in difficulty should
also apply to the Access fund (room 344
Sherfield) today.
Silwood Disco
Drunk 'n' jivin' is the name of the game
next Friday when the Silwood Park
Valentines Evening makes its annual
appearance. Relax in the splendour of the
conservatory or recline in the historic
lounge as the band play their up-tempo
brand of jazz. Elegantly sweep across the
dancefloor as you and your partner glide
in perfect unison, the picture of bliss.
Alternatively, drink ten cocktails from
Wac's Bar, take off your jacket and jump-
jive like a lunatic as that last Daquiri
takes effect.
Either way, this promises to be a great
party night, in the most picturesque part
of College. Get your tickets from the
Union Office; only £3 in advance. Coach
provided at 6.30pm from outside the
Union, return to London around midnight.
Resignations
The newly vacated post of Felix Music
Editor has been filled by John Furlong.
The ex-Music Editor, Sarah Harland, said
that the combined pressures of college
work and the constant chasing up of
reviews during the week figured in her
decision to resign. Better luck to John!
This week we also say goodbye to
Toby Jones, stressed ex-News Editor,
who's resignation letter contained the
following sentiments: 'Too tired, too
stressed, too far behind on coursework,
N O T fed up w i t h doing news.' The post
has been temporarily filled by A n n a
Teeman.

