The Grifters
IThe opening shots of The Grifters is
rather reminiscent of W o o d y Allen's
Manhattan— black and white shots
of a city, complemented by a 'big' score.
However this is not New Y o r k but Los
Angeles, and the director does not have
the same love affair with the metropolis
as W o o d y Allen—not surprising since he
is the British director Stephen Frears
(with My Beautiful Laundrette and
Dangerous Liaisons to his credit). Instead
what Frears has produced is a marvellous
thriller with rather risque sexual
undertones.
The story revolves around Roy Dillon,
his girlfriend, Myra, and his mother, Lily,
played excellently by John Cusack,
Annette Bening and Anjelica Houston
respectively. Roy has spent his adult life
'gritting', a grifter being the same as a
con-artists. He is stricly a small-change
man, a buck here, a buck there—no one's
going to worry about a couple of dollars,
so life goes o n for Roy. That is, until his
mother appears after eight years without
any contact whatsoever. Lily works the
numbers for the mob, placing bets to
shorten the odds at racetracks. However,
Lily commits a crime from w h i c h Bobo
Justus (sic), her boss, will make her pay
dearly.
Myra, meanwhile, is the sexually
charged girlfriend w h o m R o y finds
impossible to trust. She will, in fact, do
exactly what she feels she can get away
with—normally involving the charms of
her body. M y r a and Lily hate each
other—Myra tells Roy that she mistrusts
his mother. Lily, on the other hand,
declares M y r a a slut. A n d Roy...what's he
supposed to make of all this? Well, poor
Roy doesn't k n o w who he wants to fuck
more—his girlfriend or his 'ma'.
Everything comes together in this
film—the script is sharp, the acting good,
and the direction slick. O h yeah, there
isn't, strictly speaking, a plot, but you
probably won't notice.
I.H.
Metropolitan Flying A s h e s
IY o u k n o w those old black and
white films that they show on
B B C 2 . The ones with the
marvellous acting, the simple but
intriguing plot lines and the complete and
utter lack of extraneous action. Do you
like them?
If so then y o u will probably appreciate
the subtle humour of Metropolitan. Set on
the island of Manhattan, the film concerns
the lives of some 'preppies' (UHP's) over
the Christmas season of prom balls and
after prom parties.
However, amongst the party of UHP's is
an outsider. A man from a lower class
background than the others. Metropolitan
deals with his integration with the prom
set while trying to stay true to his
conscience.
So, who's in it? Certainly nobody that
I've ever heard of. This seems to be a
good thing; no-one is trying to upstage
anybody else and the actors work truly
as a team. This film is most definitely a
'Classic'. Go see it.
Stef.
IA question: is mere performance
enough to sustain a piece of
theatre? Exchange Productions'
performers certainly know their stuff, and
the performance was on the edge of
modern theatrical technique, with the
right amount of emotional intensity for
the subject matter. The play is largely
derived from letters written by political
prisoners in the USSR, and is performed
in a bitty, sylised manner, that will
probably not be to the taste of all, but
then, what is?
It principally revolves around three
archetypical characters, Tanya, Lazerina
and Irina, relocated for indeterminate
reasons and hailing from wildly differing
backgrounds. They interact with each
other, and with a cipher of a male, who
represents rapist, husband and lover at
once. Relations between the sexes seem
restricted to a purely sexual level,
whereas those between w o m e n are
allowed more room, although they do
stray into the territory of the homo-erotic
at times.
That's your lot, really. The point the
play seems to be making is either
impenetrably obscure, or depressingly
simplistic. To wit: it isn't any fun being a
political prisoner. If this is all the play is
saying, we have a chronic waste of
talent, thrown away on an inadequate
play. O n the other hand, maybe i'm just
too dense too see the point. Interesting...
Flying Ashes is showing at The ICA, the
Mall. Concessionary tickets cost S5.00,
with day membership costing SI.
Alternatively, student membership can be
bought for a year at £9. The Box Office is
on 071 930 3647.
Pendragon

