T h r e e M e n & A Little L a d y
I Hooray ! We're back ! There are
Ithree things you need to know
about this film : 1) It offers an
unrivalled chance to hear the late (great)
Jim Henson at his best with a superb
rendition of the seminal classic 'Rubber
Duckie'. 2) The butler is mad. 3) T o m
Selleck is a nicer example of humanity
than the entire A A put together (for our
older readers, see Felicity Kendall re:
Little Mermaid) The cast includes three
men and a little lady, and a big lady. A n d
another bloke. A s well as a vicar
(phwoarr !), a headmistress and an
incomprehensible (and possibly
incontinent) shepherd.
So basically, the story goes : the little
lady has grown up from a baby (in a
rather suprisingly short time, ie about five
minutes of 'endearing' snapshots) but she
still has three daddies (none of w h o m are
engaged below the waist) but just the one
m u / o m m y w h o is about to be. But (and
this is a big but) not to any of the
aforementioned three men but to an
Intruder (even though she secretly loves
Magnum, PI. Even better, he loves her
too) and naturally none of them are
happy about this, especially since it
means abodage in Good Old Blighty (if
there isn't such a word as abodage there
should be). It turns out that Intruder is
Not A Very Nice Person; he vivisects live
sheep, spits in elevators and E V E N
W O R S E he's N O T V E R Y G O O D W I T H
C H I L D R E N . Now Magnum, as well as his
pals The Guy F r o m Police Academy and
Sam from Cheers, can tell this at some
til
six thousand miles distance and set off to
right matters, naturally involving m u c h
hijinks and apoplexy. Excuse us, there's a
good bit on the telly.
For our more devoted fans (and we
know there are many, many of you)
there is nary a poodle in sight. Magnum
somehow resists solving the mystery by
grinning charismatically and getting the
crap beaten out of him and settles for a
desperate if abortive snog sesh with
headmistress. Suffice it to say that once
more everything comes out happy
bunnies in the end and rounds off a very
nice movie very nicely indeed. O n the
minus side: The big lady has a nine mile
wide grin and refuses to stop using it and
Minis get more bad coverage in this film
than in the entire back catalogue of
Jacques Cousteau.
This film is better than it has any right
to be, as well as including a few willy
gags. Nice acting and superior direction
make for an elegantly observed drama of
social mores with tension drawn in every
line (spesh the bit where Sam the barman
enters in Drac bloodsucker costume). W e
liked it better than Look Who's Talking
(and we liked that better than
parthenogenetic sex). But is it great ?
A l a n Freeman says 'Not arf, pop-pickers !'
The Amazing (And Original) Flying
Gerbil Machine
Dances With Wolves
I The film opens in the midst of the
Civil W a r in Tennessee. A s a
reward for an act of bravery Lt.
John Dunbar (Kevin Field of Dreams
Costner) chooses reassignment to the
Western Frontier—wanting to see the
frontier before it disappears. O n arrival
he finds that the post has been deserted
but he elects to stay there and wait for
replacements to arrive.
He soon comes into contact with the
Sioux Indians and tries to communicate
with them. With the help of Stands with a
Fist (a white w o m a n adopted into the
tribe as a child) as an interpreter,progress
is made,albeit slow at first. A s Dunbar
gets to know the Sioux he learns their
language and their customs. He wins the
trust of the tribe and, having fallen in
love with Stands with a Fist, marries into
it. By this time he has a Sioux n a m e -
Dances with Wolves—and he does not
want to see the Sioux way of life
disappear, although he knows it is
inevitable.
Although a very ambitious project for
Costner's directorial debut, it seems to
work well. The screenplay was written by
Michael Blake (an old friend of Costner's),
based on his novel of the same name.
The minutae of Sioux life were
reserached painstakingly for this film:their
dress, customs and even the language
,Lakota, w h i c h is spoken in the relevant
scenes in the film and subtitled in English.
All the Red Indian characters in the film
are played by Native Americans.
However, in all this laudable attention
to detail there are a couple of anomalous
points: W h y is Stands with a Fist the only
woman in the tribe not to wear her hair
in plaits? Also, although she only
appeared to be about five years old when
adopted into the tribe, she can recall
words such as 'holy' and 'honour' but not
words like 'stand' or 'bird', yet she can
tell Dunbar if he's guessed the word
correctly after she writes it.
Overall though, the film is a realistic
and detailed portrayal of Sioux life in the
last century. It is a very moving film,
with plenty of action, humour and, of
course, the obligatory love interest. Well
worth a visit and, at just under three
hours long, good value for money.
JLW.

