Clubs and Sports
Hang Gliding Judo
The Inter-University Competition in Hang,
Para Gliding will take place in Swansea
between the 23rd and 25th March. The
tasks will suit the abilities of the
participants. A n y o n e with an E P C + or
F l + can take part.
The Easter course starts on Saturday
23rd March. The costs of the course are
as follows:
First certificate (EPC, F l ) : SI35 for the
whole course (£30 deposit required)
CPC: £25 per day
F2: £25 in total payable on the first day
Accommodation costs will be about £13
pw (£3 deposit). If you w o u l d like more
information join us on Fridays at 12.30pm
in Southside Upper Lounge. Alternatively
contact Yasmin Saudi, p/h Maths UG.
Lebanese
Thanks to the increasing number of
Lebanese students w h i c h enabled us to
set up the Lebanese Society. It's
constitution was presented to Imperial
College Union and was passed according
to normal procedure.
Our main activities will be to try and
organise parties, set up sports teams.
Huxley
Professor Sir H e r m a n n Bondi, one of the
principal originates of the Steady State
theory of cosmology, and one time Chief
Scientist to the Department of Energy and
the Ministry of Defence, will be speaking
on 'Science and Religion' this Thursday.
He is President of the British Humanist
Association and as an active humanist has
won international awards for his work.
He is a strong believer in the duty of
scientists to tell society what science is
about. As Fellow of the Royal
Astronomical Soceity and the Royal
Society and author of such books as
'Relativity and Commonsense', and 'The
Universe at Large' his talk will not only
be riveting but also authorative.
'Science and Religion' is the title used
by Prof T H Huxley in his lectures over
100 years ago as Dean of the College. He
coined the term agnostic for his beliefs.
Come and hear Bondi follow this tradition
at 1.15pm in H u x l e y 231.
The following Thursday Michael
Newman will be talking about the theme
of his book 'Breaking the Shackles', the
history of Huxley, Wells and Imperial
College.
Last weekend saw the British Student
Judo Championships at Crystal Palace
National Sports Centre, where members
of IC Judo Club helped re-affirm London
University's position as the country's top
judo university.
In the under 71kg category, brown belt
Simon Lloyd convincingly won his first
round pool, throwing all his opponents
with full ippon scores in short time.
Having qualified for the knockouts, he
was very unfortunate to lose after getting
through to the last eight.
Fighting in the highly competitive
under 78kg class were black belts and IC
judo club coaches Jon Lean and Peter
Swettenham. Jon destroyed his first two
opponents, one of w h o m recently
represented Cambridge in Japan. In his
last fight he conceded a score to another
London fighter, which by the rules of
contest was just enough to prevent him
fighting in the knockouts.
Peter showed his customary efficiency
in his first three fights, throwing all his
opponents for full ippon scores, using
techniques including a spectacular and
rarely seen 'pick-up' throw, dropping the
unfortunate recipient from almost six feet
cleanly to the mat. In his first knockout
fight he strangled his opponent but was
unfortunate to go out in his next fight
due to some dubious refereeing.
The whole squad's sympathies go to
blue belt Reg Cook, a hot medal prospect
in the under 60kg category. Reg nursing
a severe shoulder injury showed
tremendous spirit and determination but
was forced to withdraw. His physio will
not be pleased.
Sunday saw the team competitions
comprising of a five man university
championship, and a ten m a n area event.
London had lost the five m a n title to
Glasgow, in Glasgow last year and were
out for revenge. They made short work
of U W C Edinburgh, and then faced hotly
tipped Southampton. It was a hard fought
contest, with London going through on a
judge's decision.
W h i c h leaves the final, against Glasgow
once more. Nothing could stop London
with IC players Pete and J o n , and it was
all over in three fights. Peter once more
won the decisive fight.
Then came the ten man competition.
Peter, Jon and Simon fought first against
the South. Jon, fighting first man,
managed to get a passivity warning with
zero seconds on the clock cancelling his
winning score. London went through
anyway to face Scotland in the final. Jon
and Pete both won in superb style. Jon
giving away 2!/2 stone in weight. Peter
strangling a medallist. Simon, fighting
tenth man, drew tough fights and lost but
showed real skill and determination. With
five wins apiece it went to points with
London losing 43 to 40.
ICSF—Total Recall
The film beyond your imagination with a
body count bigger than the special effects
budget.
Arnie, who plays a simple muscular
construction worker, is very surpised to
find his mind has been messed around
with. After the bodycount has reached
double figures he decides to see a
specialist. He recommends a relaxing trip
to Mars and a sex change.
The script for this film, adapted from a
Philip K Dick short story, was written ten
years ago. Only recently have the special
effects advanced enough to do Mars in its
full glory and has to be seen in
cinemascope.
ICSF will show this film at 7pm on
February 12 in Mech Eng 220. Entry fee
is 80p to members, with membership £2
which includes free entry into the film.
6

