Anna Teeman faces up to the monetary realities of war...
Gulf Economics FELIX
Back in August, Iraq's invasion of Kuwait
precipitated a massive increase in the
price of oil. The cost of oil rose a
staggering 100% to over $40 per barrel.
Iraq posed a threat to the w o r l d economy
on two fronts: it jeopardized the supply of
oil - a crucial raw material - and now had
the power to impose global inflation on a
world still in the grips of a recession.
But where did the magical $40 per
barrel come from? The increase absorbed
the following: the loss of the Kuwaiti
contribution to the world oil supply (8%
of the total), the winter increase in oil
consumption a n d what is k n o w n as a
'war risk premium'. This premium was
the dominant factor. It was calculated on
the assumption that Iraq had the military
capability to cripple oil production in
other Persian gulf states including Saudi
Arabia.
W h y then has the price of oil now
fallen to well under $30 per barrel?
Winter has been milder than predicted
(difficult to believe after wearing woolly
gloves in a lecture theatre) and the 'war
risk premium' proved to be an
overestimate. If Iraqi scuds are inaccurate
enough to hit the villages of beleaguered
Palestinians, sympathetic to Iraq, then
they pose a barely credible threat to the
defended oil installations of the Gulf.
The international oil community, in
allowing the price of oil to fall, has not
considered the obliteration of Kuwait's oil
infrastructure by a retreating Iraqi army.
The original rise in oil price was partly
based on the current loss of Kuwaiti oil
not on the possible destruction of the
entire oil industry. Such an event would
herald a rise i n oil price and global
inflation.
Britain has already felt the warmth of
the Gulf's inflationary flame. Because of
the initial rise in oil price the inflation
peak came later in Britain last year than
earlier. The Conservative government is
obsessed with controlling inflation and
sees it as not just a primary factor of
economic policy, but the only one. The
government keeps interest rates high,
sledge-hammering inflation and deepening
recession. Britain is trapped in a recession
fuelled by high interest rates and now by
war. War walks hand in hand with
recession because, during wartime,
consumer and business confidence is
shattered. People are too scared to spend
money, so they save instead, reducing the
volume of transactions and thereby
sparking a recession. Additionally war
costs money; money that must be
removed from the remainder of the
economy. The less money in the
economy the greater the recession.
In the past week the British economy
has been further weakened by a rise in
German interest rates and an associated
rise in German exchange rates. Put
simply, the pound Sterling is now worth
less in relation to the Deutschmark. The
Germans are portrayed as selfish and
irresponsible to make such a move at a
time of not only recession but war. They
have, of course, made a hefty financial
contribution to the communal coffers -
sniffed at because they haven't even sent
'their boys' to be butchered in the Gulf.
A n d what of Japan, another cowardly
custard, throwing its coins into the box?
H o w can countries which, by their post-
Second-World-War constitutions, are
forbidden to take part in international
conflicts sail gung-ho to the Gulf?
A 1% fall in growth rate is forecast for
both the G e r m a n and Japanese
economies. A m e r i c a , on the other hand,
is about to receive billions of dollars from
around the w o r l d to fund the
predominantly American force in the
Gulf. However the A m e r i c a n force in the
Gulf is paid for: the equipment is bought
and the wages are already budgeted.
Admittedly there will be additional costs;
the loss equipment and use of live
ammunition. However economists are
predicting a considerable surplus.
How will this surplus be spent? Not on
defence: significant cuts in the American
defence budget were announced by M r
Bush last week. There are other
deserving causes including a burgeoning
budget deficit and a crippled economy.

