Richard Eyers and Mick Jagger investigate.
Spitting Image Unmasked FELIX
How it begins—the guts of a model
Covent Garden, home of the busker and
street entertainer has just been taken
over by, amongst others, Margaret
Thatcher. This out-of-work ex-PM can
now be found regularly appearing in a
tacky budget game show. Lickety-Lick
forms the centre point of a new venture
in Covent Garden.
Peter Fluck, already well k n o w n for the
satirical and generally offensive 'Spitting
Image' has brought his characters and
skill to the 'Rubberworks'.
Since 15th December 1990, Prince
Charles has been seen prowling the
streets around the Royal Opera House
trying to entice people into a small dark
tunnel that leads into what looks like a
small disused warehouse. In a small dark
quadrangle you're met by ex-President of
the United States, Mr. Ronald Reagan,
and a policeman dressed i n boxer shorts.
Sound strange? You're right, it is, and by
now your pocket will be £2.90 lighter,
with nothing to show for it. Suddenly
doors are thrust open and y o u are
enticed into a dark dingy room. A n d then
the fun begins
It starts with a twitching of a giant
tongue, and as the lights go up, the panel
of Lickety-Lick are revealed. The
chairman of this well k n o w n game-show
is none other than Sir Alastair Burnet. His
illustrious panel consists of Maggie, Neil
Kinnock and a couple of well k n o w n
Royals, namely the Queen and the Duke
of Edinburgh. The show lasts for about
ten minutes and is very reminiscent of
the T V show.
Whilst watching the show, which is
only just too long, it is easy to imagine
the real characters in action. There is the
almost friendly bickering between Maggie
and Neil, the odd suspect comment about
the Chinese from the Duke, and an
interesting relationship is struck up
between Sir Alastair and the Queen,
although the Duke, posed with his trusty
weapon, actually a blunderbuss, seems
none too bothered by this.
The difference between the T V version
and this show is that the characters are
'live'. There are no puppeteers, instead a
series of carefully arranged fire-hosing,
latex and silicon chips bring the
characters to life. Lickety-Lick
demonstrates some of the newest
technology in the puppet world, and after
the performance you get a chance to see
behind the scenes. The Rubberworks has
a full workshop set up, with a
demonstrator guiding you through both
the history and the technical background
of Spitting Image. Unfortunately, what
most people don't see is behind the
scenes of Lickety-Lick, where all the
technology is pulled together.
In a system invented by Peter Fluck
and Jim Hennequin, sophisticated
computer programming synchronises pre-
recorded voices with a full range of
bodily functions. It is the Flexator that
has made all this possible, an artificial
muscle worked by air. It provides life-like
movements that wouldn't be possible with
conventional hydraulics. These are then
clothed and covered in the rubber mould
of the desired character. (Yes, even
Ronald Reagan was desired once!) A
complex collection of circuits and valves
can then be linked to a computer, a
joystick and a compressor and then the
programming begins. It can take a skilled
operator up to three days of computer
time to fully program the character. Once
built, a fully automated, talking model
will have cost between £30,000 and
£40,000.
Margaret Thatcher was the first to be
produced; she was finished in the middle
of 1989. It then became possible to hire
her for the day to speak to any audience
anywhere, and have her say anything,
something the Conservatives never quite
managed with the real one. Following her
successful debut, further characters were
built for hire. The list is now long and
distinguished including such stars as John
Major, Oliver Reed and G a z z a for
example. They cost a mere £2,500 per
day w h i c h includes the speech of your
choice.
If all this seems a little expensive, a
conventional model can be made for
around £7,000. They may be cheaper but
Mick and Jeremy, or Jeremy and Mick?
The brains and brawn of a character
they can require between three and five
people to operate them, with their hands
controlling various parts of the puppets
anatomy, depending upon what the
character requires. For example, Mick
Jagger's lips require one operator on their
own.
The next series of Spitting Image begins
in March, and with a cast of at least 500
characters as diverse as Gorbachov and
small parrots, the cost of each episode
will probably be in the region of £40,000.
There are bound to be some new
characters, with the potential for
controversy better than ever at the
moment.
These models have also appeared in
adverts around the world. The 'Halls
Mentholyptus' advert with an elephant's
trunk and a giraffe's neck growing out of
a commuter are typical of Spitting's
approach. They offend people, but
because they amuse more than they
offend they get away with it.
In the future it can only get worse or
better depending on how you feel, with
Peter Fluck diversifying further and
further. The venture in Covent Garden is
just a taste of what there is to come, no-
one is sacred, and there are plenty of
people that still deserve to be ridiculed
by rubber and compressed air.
8 9

