F * * * i n ' A Positive. It's this kind of record
that makes you wanna' ditch the last
reefer and flush the last of your stash.
Power of positive thinking and all that.
At first sight it looks like a dodgy
Japanese hardcore import but at closer
inspection y o u may realise it comes
straight and direct from the West coast
A short slide guitar intro drifts into a
gentle acoustic strum and as the female
-LP
(of the USA. Asshole). This is just another
confusion tactic to hide its undeniable DC
roots.
They draw extensively from the sound
characterised by Washington D C s
'Dischord' label (made famous by Minor
Threat/Fugazi) but there are subtle
changes ot what is now a rather single-
faceted musical ideal. The addition of
vocal harmonies and a bit of pace have
livened up what would otherwise be
another record with the D C sound.
The underlying philosophies (optimised
by Minor Threat's Out of Step with the
World)—Don't drink, don't smoke, don't
f***, but at least I can F * * * i n ' think) are
still there. This music is however subtlely
different. Heavily stylised metal riffs are
layered over a bassline w h i c h controls
both pace and melody. The vocals range
from harmonics (almost) to a full on
hardcore shout and the lyrics deal with
aggressive, right on, politics—preaching
the straight edge way.
The music is aggressive—if you wanna
by hyped enough to chew your balls
off—buy it.
Seb
vocal starts, I feel myself transported to
another time, another place. It's some
halcyon daze—I could be a repentent
northern man returning home for a
reunion with m y father w h o m I haven't
seen in ten years, or maybe I could be a
woman sitting in a Beatle overlooking the
sea. I sip m y coffee and ahh, the sun
breaks through the clouds and, yes, I can
go on another day!
This is pseudo-hippy nonsense at its
worst. The song is totally inoffensive, full
of life and happiness but their sincerity is
completely misplaced (oh such a sad
plink-plonk harp solo). The nearest
comparison I could make could be an
inner-city All About Eve. Having said that
it would sound 'good' on daytime radio
but it's way too twee for me.
Harry Cross.
Milltown Brothers
—Borderline 5.2.91
Walking down the stone steps I had a
stong feeling of deja vu, was it Bonanza
or The magificent Seven? The rather
tacky surroundings revealed nothing of
what was to come.
Sitting down, avoiding the authentic
splinters, I surveyed m y surroundings
again. Did they have ultra-violet lights
and projectors in the W i l d West? I hope
not.
Ten minutes later I was pulled from m y
seat by the soft drifting vocals of one
lady and the strumming of a guitar. I
k n o w the tune but not her name. Was it
a cover or had I seen somebody famous
and not realised?
Three or four songs later she left with
what can only be described as intermitent
applause. I don't k n o w her name but she
was good.
Next, The Love Kittens performed well
despite one of their amps failing in the
first minute. A combination of indi rock
mixed with a few slower numbers failed
to liven up the audience.
They seemed to suffer from recurring
intro disease, every song sounded the
same and each time it reminded me of
The Charlatans. With a little more
imagination they could become very
good.
Despite their efforts the crowd failed to
respond. W h e n they left the stage the
only sign of their presence was a few
moving heads and ten seconds applause.
The crowd grew and the tension
mounted as everybody waited for the
arrival on the Miltown Brothers. Fifteen
minutes later they appeared, with new
haircuts. Gone is the sheepdog look, now
more like a terrior.
A instant hit with the audience
everybody (well the front half) were soon
jumping up and down and creating
general mayhem.
Four songs in and all hell broke loose
with a brilliant rendition of their single
Which way should I jump? The answer,
anyway you wanted. It soon got very
dangerous and very sweaty but definitely
not to be missed.
They continued for half an hour during
which time the crowd began to get
heavily into the mood. They combined
heavy numbers with slower ones so that
you could spread your energy and last
the distance.
W h e n it was time for them to leave,
the audience called them back for more.
The encour consisted of two more
songs and a final and very lively repeat
of the single. A t this stage I was
beginning to fear for my feet and on
several occasions the steal toe-caps saved
the day.
A group not to be missed, I haven't
sweated so m u c h for years. Brilliant.
A n n a B
MUSIC REVIEWERS
Could all music reviewers please contact
the FELIX Office a.s.a.p.
W i l d River A p p l e s
—/ Can't Wait for Heaven 12"
10

