QQcaQOoq
I t a l S o c i s b a c k . . .
K e y s : C a s i n i s t i , F o o t b a l l , P i z z a
The Imperial College Italian Society has
finally returned, after a year's absence. In the
past the society was renowned for its very
active social events, such as the 'regular'
evening meals. For such occasions, a bunch
of both Italian and non-Italian casinisti
(sorry, untranslatable...) would gather at an
Italian restaurant, where you could get a
decent meal (by Italian standards!).
Unfortunately, the society folded due to lack
of members willing to take up the posts in the
committee, probably because not enough
bribes were raised.
But the newly formed Italian Society,
'officially accepted' by the OSC last term, is a
strict adherent of anti-corruption policies,
now working effectively in Italy.
Enough jokes for the moment... The tra-
ditional evening meals will not be the main
events organised by the society. We intend to
be very active for this year, involving both
Italians and non-Italians and trying to have
fun all'Italiana.
The events we intend to do vary from the
physically demanding Quasar games to relax-
ing Italian film sessions. Others include sport
events, such as football (NB: World Cup final-
ists...), volleyball, table football, etc.
Most importantly, events we are looking
forward to are : International night, where we
hope to present Italian food and a tradition-
alal Italian dance, and Latin Night, which
will be a joint venture with the French and
Spanish Societies.
Membership fees are £3. We know it's a
rip off but you'll surely get more than you
paid for in term of social life so come and join
f F E L I X I 3 J M 1 9 5
us. See us in the JCR at lunch-time (just look
for a bunch of Italians, they usually stand
out) if you want to join us. For more informa-
tion (such as dates of events), you can contact
the following people; K . Sasaki@mt.ic.ac.uk
or Cabodima@ph.ic.ac.uk, and be part of the
family!
P i a n o P u s h e r ' s R e v i e w
K e y s : A s h , G e r s h w i n , R h a p s o d y
The concert opened with the overture to 'Les
Francs-Juges' by Berlioz. The scoring is bold
and imaginative, although Berlioz did not yet
know Beethoven, and showed hints of
Berlioz's late romantic love of immensity.
Despite the lack of adequate practice
facilities Imperial College Symphony
Orchestra has grown extremely large, so that
in terms of instrumentation we were in a
good position for this performance. Indeed,
the overture was chosen amongst other things
for the fact that it could exploit our size, most
notably the four tuba players.
The overture finished, I enlisted volun-
teers and made use of my major musical skill,
namely pushing the piano onto the stage for
Gershwin's piano concerto in F, the second
item i n the programme. T h i s is only
Gershwin's second well known work and was
his first serious work for orchestra after being
recognised for Rhapsody In Blue. Gershwin
wrote popular tunes but with his serious
works, however, this resulted in a somewhat
repetitive development. Hence it is up to the
musicians to prevent the audience tiring of its
conventionally defective construction.
This was facilitated to a certain extent by
the use of various jazz-inspired devices such
as the walking bass line of the pizzicato celli
and double basses. Also worthy of particular
mention was the trumpet playing of Steve
Hicks, an A s h music scholar. Although a
suitable trilby for muting the trumpet was
not available until the last rehearsal, the styl-
ish solo was played with much daring. This
was vindicated by a musical performance
where the technical difficulty of the solo, par-
ticularly the intervals, went unnoticed by all
the non-trumpet players in the audience.
Most important to the concerto is the
pianist. One of the benefits of having a pro-
fessional musician conduct the orchestra is
that, as a bonus, we regularly get soloists of
the highest quality. Our soloist on this occa-
sion, Vanessa Latarche, was no exception.
After the normally bibulous interval, the
orchestra returned for Rachmaninov's
Symphonic Dances. The tentative feeling
from the beginning of the concert had gone,
and the relaxation of the orchestra with what
was by now a very familiar piece clearly
showed, as the audience ignored the orchestra
in favour of listening to the music. Standing
at the back of the auditorium listening to the
sound of the strings it was clear why so many
violinists had asked to play this. The orches-
tra was obviously enjoying themselves, partic-
ularly during the first two movements. The
string sound was exemplified by E d Bale,
leader of the orchestra, a joint degree student
and also the soloist at one point, giving us the
benefit of a resinous gypsy sound.
As a critical review, this has been some-
thing of a failure, but anybody who can take
part and not write a similar review must be
lacking in some respect. As scientists, per-
haps you should judge for yourselves. Our
next concert has a British theme and will
include not only the Elgar violin concerto
and Britten's Sinfonia Da Requiem, but also
the premiere of a piece by Andrew Booker,
who graduated from IC last year and used to
run the jazz and rock club.
D(gQg
W o l f
K e y s : C o p p o l a , J a c k , P f e i f f e r
Wolf is a rather peculiar little film updating
the werewolf myth for the '90s. It scores heav-
ily over Francis Coppola's rehash of 'Dracula'
in that it is far more concerned with character
and emotions than surface sheen. A book edi-
tor played by none other than Jack Nicholson
(who, let's face it, is initially hard pushed to
play a wimpy executive type) is bitten by
something he is sure was a wolf, and begins to
in some way merge with the spirit of the wolf.
The emphasis is upon his new lust for life,
his heightened perceptions and his growing
relationship with his nasty old boss's daugh-
ter played by Michelle Pfeiffer.
The story verges on the surreal at times
and does have a couple of good, if predictable,
twists near the climax. More of a 'Mid-Life

