The S-Files
°God machines
Susie
a s p a n n e r i n m y w o r k s
TECHNOLOGY GETTING FREE
THE AUTHORITARIAN COMPUTER
A CINEMATIC ICON
One of the most misguided of the modern technophreak's wisdom bytes is that the
computer is making us more free. Listen to the plaintive bleetings of the Internet
crowds [especially the San Diego one]. On they go with their anarchistic meanderings
about how the Net is so big that no one can control it and how authoritarian
governments can do nothing about it. Hurray!! Then off they go to input the top floor
of Delft University. Still that aside it should be obvious that the power of Internet is
only the mirror of the power that the computer brings to the establishment. Just as the
computer [in conjunction with the Criminal Justice Act and genetic fingerprinting]
will allow the British Police to build up a national dna database of all criminals [kinda
scary huh?] so imagine how quickly government agencies can access information on
you - from your last library book taken out to tax, medical, insurance and wage
information. Someone once said, 'computers aren't good or bad, computers are
powerful' but that implied neutrality misses the mark. Because computers are powerful
they will be used by the powerful to enhance that power. Indeed the examples of
China and Singapore show that technology and democracy are by no means
synonymous.
In the same way, © Joseph Weizenbaum poured suspicion on the whole
'computer revolution' syndrome. He pointed out that all the introduction of
computers into organisations accomplished was the shoring up of bureaucratic
working practises which would have had to have been changed because they were
being over loaded by information. Hence the 'computer revolution' is a total
misnomer, it should really be called 'the period of computer conservatism'.
The most powerful theme w i t h i n the
Frankenstein story is the one concerning the
autonomy of the created creature. In the
actual novel this is taken to a climax with the
murder of Victor Frankenstein's wife on her
wedding night and the eventual death of
Victor himself.
When this k i n d of t h i n k i n g is
transferred to modern issues of technology
the same fear is also developed. However, it
is important to realise that all technology has
that same freedom to become autonomous
once developed. W e do not have to built
artificially intelligent machines to see this in
operation. In fact it is this very quality
which makes technology useful. A n artifact
or technique maybe designed for a specific
purpose but it generally it only becomes
useful when it is applied to a totally different
field from that for w h i c h it was first
designed.
In a strange sense this is one way
scientists remove themselves from the
responsibility for their work. It has become a
cliche to hear phrases along the lines of "I
just do pure science, its application is
someone else's problem". So i n order to
overcome the Frankenstein dilemma
scientists must be responsible and face up to
the fact their work will be applied in ways
which are not obvious and with which
they may disagree with.
If w« Fell in there you'd be mashed
iti a trice N itror-e tmrmam
0ri«rter*. •• look, down there,
W
U
N
V tea...
credits: inspiration - herge & tintin
everything else - jon
w .
Frankenstein may not at first appear to be a good
place to start a study of how our culture ,
through film, views technology. The standard
approach of Boris Karloff in the 1931 classic was
certainly evocative but also highly wayward in
terms of literal accuracy. It also perverted the
image of Frankenstein's monster from
something which was produced through the
secret but noble arts of alchemy and natural
philosophy into something crude and base.
However during the 1970's Frankenstein's
monster became a popular metaphor for
"mankind's ambiguous relationship to
technological creation and power" - 9 Langdon
Winner. Since then, the image has been put to
good use i n the cinema, particularly i n the
modern genre of science fiction.
Alien is an interesting film because
the real villain is not the alien life form
but the man-made android science
officer, Ash. A s h was created by the
company and in obeying them it destroys all its
crew members excluding Ripley. Equally the
Ramboesque style of Aliens inverted the
original's ethos as this time it was the aliens who
were the real enemy [Burke aside]. Only military
technology, including Bishop - another android
science officer, saved the day.
However perhaps the most striking film i n
this line of t h i n k i n g is Blade Runner. One
obvious point here is the revenge wreaked upon
the creators by the created as both T.S.Sebastian
and T y r e l l are murdered by the Nexus 6
replicants. Yet a more interesting angle is that in
a human world where technology only seems to
lead to decay and rot, it is the man-made
replicants which appear to most human. Indeed
the mercy shown by the replicant's leader, Roy
Batt, to Deckard, his supposed terminator, is the
most emotionally alive part of the film. In this
way the metaphor of Frankenstein's monster has
perhaps become even more damning than in its
original form.
F E L I X

