Feature
It's j/je 24r/? December, 1998. You are in deep
trouble - you have forgotten to buy your
boyIgirlfriends Christmas present. (In fact, you've
spent the last two days at the Trocadero's new
rubber contact virtual sex parlour and you can
barely remember your boylgirfriend at all!) You
decide to make something real, a physical
embodiment of the love you feel for him/her in
your soul. Two hours and two buckets of papier
mache later you have created, not the resplendent
two foot wide heart & sun tribal totem you had
envisaged but a messy, wet, 1:1 scale replica of
what happens when you force-feed an elephant a
diet of porridge oats. Despair! You collapse onto
the bed and stare up at the ceiling. And there are
angels in that ceiling, or at least the beamingfaces
of Take That II (reborn from the ashes after the
original Take That split over allegations of
overaged drinking). S/he loves TTII. And their
latest album has just become available! You swing
across to the PC on your desk and connect to the
WEB. Surfing to the site takes twenty seconds,
downloading a soundbyte for approval two more.
It's good, in that it's bad, their usual rubbish. You
key in your credit card number and the whole
album is ported down the wire and written on to a
WORM drive. Trust Technology...
It's the 19th December 1994 and I'm at a
Press Conference thrown by Southern
Records in honour of the launch of a
European version of the Internet
Underground M u s i c A r c h i v e ( I U M A ) .
(Southern, together with Silicon Graphics, are
providing much of the mettle behind the new
site). It still seems a dazzling concept, even
after the relentless advances of the last year, to
attend a buffet lunch in honour of a World
Wide Web site. But this isn't any old
promotion. This is the music industry rushing
for the Internet bandwagon that may, i f
ignored, take their livelyhoods with it.
All things are degenerating digital and
music has been no exception. The C D is now
the standard music format and its
condemnation by purists such as Neil Young
are largely soundbytes under the bridge. As
the disc has conquered the home, so high
quality PC's have the taken office. Sampled
sounds first appeared on home machines such
as the A M I G A but the arrival of cheap C D
drives for the ubiquitous PC has led to games
backed up by lengthy breaks of sampled
speech or C D quality music. Many PC drives
now marry software drivers allowing you to
spin your Nirvana album when the spread-
sheets get to much for you. A convergence of
all this hardware seems inevitable. Why buy a
C D player if your Compact can do it all?
The thread to bring record releases to
the PC may be the Internet. The only thing
computers do better than arithmetic is
communication and the ease of sending
'^^^^IliiliRlilRRMMMI^:
m urtt mm uet nunevsM-Dream
fv'eH'Stufr. Mtctrat GoWbwg nrri IUMA pra&nt Artrtkl*] It* Now a r->:L n:>v*eiJ*
y.ytr- RorklkeVetc end U*ti La'Xy 1UMA Buropr js tww » lull «mar
Welcome to H'MA tc~p updtf*) onlOMA w»h *<*• hniy»
packages of l's and O's around the world
means that everything finds its way onto the
net. Porn, propaganda and, of course, music.
I U M A began in Santa Cruz w i t h
unsigned bands offering soundbytes to anyone
in the net community willing to listen (or
wait for half an hour whilst the files down-
loaded, and then listen...). Like many seeds
planted in those heady days, it blossomed
rapidly and has attracted deals w i t h
mainstream labels such as Warner Brothers
and Geffen, as well as less mainstream outfits.
"Indie bands will get the same exposure
as say, Madonna, and be available on a more
even basis," says John Loder from Southern
Studios. "In just three weeks, 30-40,000 people
had accessed the system - one of them was
from the Kremlin."
The idea that the Internet will actually
bring about a change in our listening tastes:
promoting a catholic range and a readyness to
gamble on the new rather than be led by big
money promo campaigns is an idea close to
IUMA's heart. Time and again they refer to
the benefit that this new form of distribution
w i l l have for the musicians themselves,
bypassing the need to be signed to get your
music heard. One, a baseball-capped West
Coaster by the name of Rob, calls it 'the level
playing field of cyberspace'.
Others are more sceptical. A journalist
from the IT press constantly asks for hard
Late last year,
F E L I X obtained
an invitation to
a select
gathering of
computing
industry lackies
and music
journos. There
we witnessed
the latest
incarnation of
an insidious
revolution.
investigates and
provides the
BIO...
o o o
figures and transmission rates and pours scorn
on the retrieval time of up to twenty minutes
for a single track. (The I U M A people had
cheekily brought the entire archive along on
hard store giving complete songs and band
details in seconds to amaze the more gullible.
It provided a glimpse of the possible future
though). Others argued that encouraging the
placement of music on the net would
ultimately result in piracy on an awesome
scale. T h i s was countered w i t h a home-
taping/radio analogy which isn't really valid
because that method of schoolboy lawbreaking
results in a degradation of sound whereas
copying a digital soundfile from one location
to another obviously leaves the quality
unchanged. There was talk of copyrights but I
had the feeling that everyone knew the future
was going to have different values to the
present, different rules, but were trying to
usher in this new age with the values of today.
After the press conference I thought I'd
get another view. Lee M c L o u g h l i n , of the
Department of Computing's support group,
was sceptical of the value of any encryption
routine: "Eventually speakers must play the
sound, you can always tap onto this." He
highlighted D A T machines, which avoid
home-piracy w i t h an agreement that all
D A T ' s will be unable to copy other D A T
recordings. Home machines recognise data in
a copyrighted format (a signal beyond the
MM F E L I X I 3 J I M 9 5

