FELIX
12
Tips & Hacks
TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Feroz Salam
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 10 june 2011
Apple unveils iOS 5 at WWDC
Unveiled at Apple’s WWDC keynote this week was
iOS 5, the latest version of the operating system
that powers iPhones and iPads. The latest iteration
brings many features available on competing plat-
forms to Apple devices. Notable among them are
iMessage, a BBM-style messaging utility, an Android-
esque notification capability and update over-the-air
which should allow you to update your phone without
having to plug it in to a desktop. Don’t hold on to any
hopes of showing off to your Android and Blackberry
toting friends in the near future though - the update
is only going to be pushed to users in the fall. Apple
will no doubt do a solid job in bringing their excellent
interface design skills to the fore, but the update
seems to be a small step rather than a giant stride.
Wait for the iPhone 5 for bigger and better things.
Facebook has apologised after yet another priva-
cy-related furore this week. This time the uproar
revolved around their roll-out of facial recognition
features meant for use in tagging photographs. The
biggest complaint about the new feature centred
around the fact that it was opt-out and not opt-in:
people were startled to discover that Facebook could
now recognise their friends and family without hav-
ing subscribed to such a service in the first place. In
Facebook’s defense, the technology was merely sug-
gesting possible tags for photos from your friends
list and not tagging them automatically, using data it
always has had access to. The intention behind the
release seems to have been harmless, yet the im-
plementation bears Facebook’s usual heavy-handed-
ness. It’s clear that Zuckerburg and co. have some
work to do before they win anyone over with their PR.
Facebook in privacy row (again...)
Launched in London last month was a new
online game called Chromaroma. The game is
played on the London transport network and
utilises your Oyster travel card to gain infor-
mation regarding your commuting. Players
can get points by many different actions but
each swipe of your card contributes to your
team’s tally. You can go on personal missions
to set record times between stations or venture
to parts of London that you might not have vis-
ited before.
The developers of the game describe is as a
“type of location-based top-trumps. You col-
lect places, identities, modes of transport and
passengers as you travel around the city; dis-
cover and investigate mysteries attached to
different locations and build alliances with fel-
low passengers that share your journeys. It’s
a game you can play on your own, or part of
a team.”
It sounds like an initiative by TFL to coerce
the weary Londoner into increasing their Oys-
ter card usage and decrease their bank account
funds but it’s actually a new interactive form
of gaming that has been taken up very quickly.
Most games of this nature would require you
to use your GPS smartphone to ‘check-in’ at
certain locations (like Foursquare) but this
game is based entirely online allowing anyone
who owns an Oyster card or a Boris Bike key
to get involved.
“It’s like a bank, if you deposit money then
you have the right to remove it and count it. If
you create data then you have the right to take
it out and look at it” says Toby Barnes who’s
responsible for the development of the game.
It’s the data that’s the fascinating part of the
game and the biggest reason to sign up is to
see your journeys round London visualised in
an interesting and engaging way.
The exciting part of the game arises when
you align yourself with a certain group and
try to take over stations. The game revolves in
‘seasons’ (lasting a few months each) and the
team with the most swipes of the season has
ownership of that particular station. The busier
stations: Victoria, Waterloo, Liverpool Street
etc. all seem to change hands daily which
opens up the game.
The data used does raise some ethical ques-
tions about tracking people’s whereabouts and
creating a log of everywhere you’ve been. The
game designers, Mudlark, get around this with
a forty eight hour delay on your information
being updated online. This does seem to re-
move some of the immediacy of the game as
you can’t always remember your whereabouts
two days previous and if you’re involved in a
vicious battle to takeover your home station
then you’ll want to see your results straight
away.
But it’s not all about rushing between sta-
tions to secure more points and records. The
organisers say that they are looking to intro-
duce new features to the game which might
give you more points for getting off one stop
early and walking. Using the Boris Bikes cur-
rently scores you points but you may be re-
warded with more points if you switch from
the underground to the bikes. Mudlark are
also considering sponsorship opportunities
which would give users discounts to services
along their favourite routes and players with
more points might receive special offers from
companies.
It’s well worth a try, the visuals will keep
you enticed more than anything else although
I’m not sure the game has enough to keep peo-
ple coming back for months.
The game best played on the move
Windows 8 preview promises app bonanza
After weeks of speculation and leaks regarding
the next version of Microsoft’s flagship soft-
ware, Windows 8 was previewed this week at
the Computex Expo.
Most striking about the new operating sys-
tem was the user interface, which has dropped
the traditional Start menu and desktop combi-
nation in favour of a Windows Phone 7 style
tile layout. The interface has won plaudits
from many reviewers of their mobile devices
and Microsoft has obviously attempted to
channel this into their desktop software.
The OS is very touch-oriented, having ob-
viously been designed keeping tablet compat-
Jake Lea-Wilson
Feroz Salam ibility in mind. With ARM based Windows 8
tablets on preview as well, it’s clear that the
company is betting on demand for touch tech-
nologies at least equalling the market for de-
vices with physical keyboards.
The preview revealed very little about
changes under the hood, however. While the
majority of new programs (or ‘apps’ as we’re
now meant to call them) will be designed for
the new interface, all the traditional programs
can still be opened in the old interface should
you require it.
Microsoft should be commended for mak-
ing their first truly bold move in years, but it
remains to see if their stodgy but vital business
clientele appreciates it as much as they should.

