FELIX 13
POLITICS
Politics Editors: Rory Fenton
Joseph Letts
Rajat Jain
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 10 JUNE 2011
“We win or we die”
The “Arab Spring” has changed the Middle
Eastern map beyond recognition. Sparking
off in Tunisia, after a fruit vendor set himself
alight in protest at the way he was treated by
the police, protests have spread like wildfire
through Algeria, Egypt, Yemen, Bahrain, Lib-
ya, and Syria.Although each country is unique,
all these protests point towards the discontent
and dissatisfaction many Arabs feel after liv-
ing most, if not all, their lives under the same
dictatorial, autocratic, and oppressive regimes.
For many political analysts the uprising in
Syria, which started on the 15th of March,
was a huge surprise. The Syrian regime is one
of the most oppressive regimes in the Middle
East and the people knew that any rebellion
would be met with brutal force.
Ruling since 1963, the Baath party came to
power through a military coup and quickly
placed Syria under emergency law. This took
away the Syrian people’s human rights and
ruthlessly protected the position of the ruling
Baath party. Hafez Al-Assad, father of the cur-
rent president Bashar, took over through anoth-
er military coup in 1970. He started his reign
by clearing the scene of any perceived threats
to him. During the late 1970s, when the Syrian
people rebelled against his rule, they were met
with vicious attacks to control them and keep
order. However, things began to get out of con-
trol and his brother Rifaat destroyed the city of
Hama in 1982 during an army operation which
killed over 40,000 people. Hafez, driven by the
fear he installed in the Syrian people, wanted
to make himself the ultimate and eternal ruler
of Syria. Statues and pictures appeared all over
Syria and children were made to chant slogans
at schools. By the time of his death in 2000,
Hafez had killed, imprisoned, and expelled
hundreds of thousands of Syrians and left
those who survived scarred for life.
Many people thought Bashar Al-Assad
would be different to his father, having lived
and studied in London. But it fast became ap-
parent that he was truly his father’s son. Al-
though he began opening Syria up to the world
this was done for financial gain, which is
evident looking at the ownership of all major
technological, oil and trading companies.
Seeing the effects of the revolutions across
the Middle East installed a sense of hope in the
Syrian people. This led a few children, all un-
der 11 years of age, to paint anti-government
slogans on walls in the city of Deraa. They
were all arrested and spray cans were made
illegal by the government. The parents of
the children went to ask for their release but
were told to forget about them and make new
children. Unsurprisingly this sparked protests
across the region, protests that were met with
violence from the Syrian security forces result-
ing in the death of many of the protesters.
Cities all over Syria, outraged at the killing
of peaceful protesters, came out to protest in
support of Deraa, but they too were repressed.
Doma, a suburb of the capital Damascus was
the first area outside Deraa to feel the wrath
of the security forces. They killed and injured
dozens of its people and have had installed a
large security presence there since.
Just as they rose to support Deraa, the Syr-
ian people rose again to support Doma. This
time Homs, Latakia and Banyas were the areas
worst affected by the security crackdown. The
most shocking footage came out from Bayda, a
village near Banyas, where the security forces
gathered the men in the village square and be-
gan stepping on and humiliating them.
As ever, the more repressive the Syrian se-
curity forces became the more determined the
people became. The people of Homs rose to
defend the people of Deraa, Doma, Latakia,
and Banyas. They were met with great oppres-
sion over three days, the last of which saw a
large death toll, which led to a large open end-
ed protest that turned bloody when the security
forces attacked at 2 am on the 8th May. The
death toll for that night is unknown as security
forces took the bodies to hide their crimes.
Under pressure from the growing waves of
protests, the government began an army of-
fensive on areas with heavy protests, this led
to Deraa being placed under siege and anyone
trying to break it, even to supply people with
food, was killed. Other areas that have also ex-
perienced increasing military presence include
Homs, Banyas and some of the suburbs of Da-
mascus including Doma and Moudamya.
However these plans, rather than scare peo-
ple into submission, have made them more
determined than ever to overthrow the re-
gime. Which has led it to its final option- all
out war on its own people. This led to mili-
tary operations in Deraa, Banyas, Homs and its
surrounding towns, Hama, Jisr Al-Shogour in
Idlib and many other cities, towns and villag-
es. Mass graves are being discovered all over
Syria and soldiers who refuse to obey orders to
kill protesters are killed themselves by the cold
blooded security forces. No one has escaped
the brutality of the security forces. However,
the most shocking and heartbreaking case is
of the 13-year-old Hamza Al-Khatib who was
kidnapped by security forces during a protest.
A month later his body was handed back to his
family, neck broken, knees shattered, penis
severed, body beaten badly and covered with
cigarette burns. However, sadly he was not the
only case of torture among children.
These operations have fuelled the protests
and helped them spread to areas which the
government thought were out of reach- the
centres of Damascus and Aleppo, the second
largest city in the country. Furthermore, the
protests that were once weekly are now a daily
occurence.
Rather amusing in all of this, is the Syrian
state channels who have blamed these protests
on anyone but the government. Israel, Amer-
ica, Islamic extremists and traitors have all
been blamed. It seems that somehow the whole
world has put its standing quarrels aside and
has decided to attack the great and magnificent
Syrian regime.
Finally, I am often asked what I believe will
happen in Syria. Although I am no fortune
teller I am in contact with people in Syria who
repeatedly say that having tasted freedom they
will never back down. They use the popular
Arabic saying of the great Libyan rebel Omar
Al-Mukhtar “We will never surrender, we win
or we die.”
Pro-democracy protests in Syria continue despite violence
“The more repressive the
security forces became,
the more determined the
people became”
Basel Chamali
Pro-democracy protestors in Damacus after Friday prayers on March 25th
The world beyond
College walls
Chile
Ban Ki Moon has formally asked members of the
United Nations to support his candidacy for a sec-
ond term as Secretary General. Mr Ban whose five
year terms ends on December 31 has no opponents
and has secured the backing of the five Permanent
Members of the Security Council. The Secretary
General is elected by the General Assembly on the
recommendations of the Security Council. Many
human rights group accused Mr Ban of putting too
much faith in quiet diplomacy and not taking China
to task for her human rights abuses during his cur-
rent term in office.
United Nations
Flights in several South American nations are be-
ing disrupted by the volcanic eruption in Chile’s
Puyehue-Cauldon-Caulle volcano range. Aviation
officials have said more than 60 flights have been
cancelled and officials fear that the ash cloud could
reach the Argentinean capital Buenos Aires. 4000
people have already left the region and Chilean offi-
cials are persuading more to leave amidst concerns
of flash flooding which could clog the rivers. Chile is
the world’s second most seismically active country
after Indonesia with about 2000 volcanoes.
Norway
Norway and the Russian Federation have agreed a
deal to divide up their shares of the Barents Sea
concluding decades of negotiation. The deal splits
the disputed area into two equally sized chunks and
will allow for exploration of oil and gas in that area.
The United States Geological Survey predicts that
the Arctic could contain up to 30% of the world’s
undiscovered gas. The region is becoming increas-
ingly accessible as global warming melts the polar
ice caps and has been the scene of may border
disputes between neighbouring states.
Edited by Kenneth Lee

