In 1887 a humble undergraduate, studying at what would
later become Imperial College London, founded an arts
publication called the Science Schools Journal. That
studentʼs name was H. G. Wells, and he was to become one
of the most celebrated writers of the twentieth century.
Today, 65 years after Wellsʼ death, his creation lives on,
though transformed beyond all recognition. The rather
lacklustre title was soon abandoned in favour of something
snappier, and for more than 60 years The Phoenix served
as the premier student publication on campus, until the
establishment of Felix in 1949.
In all those years, though, one thing never changed: every
single piece published in Phoenix belongs to a college
member. The incredible popularity and longevity of the
publication are a testament to the sheer volume of artistic
activity at Imperial.
A huge number of clubs and societies, covering all forms
of art, are to be found at Imperial. Lunchtime and evening
concerts run constantly. Nearly every week, it seems, the
Blyth gallery is invaded by some intriguing new exhibition.
We truly are blessed by the range of events going on
around College.
With all this in mind, we had high expectations when we
began to receive submissions. We were not disappointed.
The quantity of moving, truly beautiful work received was
staggering, and in fact humbling. This publication would
not have been possible without the great talents and eﬀorts
of all those who submitted their work.
A great many of the contributions relate to the idea of
freedom. Allowing this common link to guide the process
of production, we have divided the publication into three
distinct acts. Each act explores the concept of freedom
from a diﬀerent perspective.
We hope you enjoy this yearʼs edition of Phoenix.
Phoenix 2011
ActI
04. attack from within
06. GAUNT/HYPO
08. untethered
10. THe continent of hope
15. ton rai plai dee
16. nature of man
18. zoltan varga
22. the fishing trip
24. exposure
26. barbican
ActII
ActIII
28. design flaws
30. UNTITLED
32. oil and water
34. mum, i need a doctor
Front cover image by Charles Thomas
Act I image by Charles Thomas
Act II image by Daniel Oppenheimer
Act III image by De-Cheng Lao
Back cover image by Luke Tomlin
Editors: Marie Chkaiban and Navid Nabijou
Design: Kadhim Shubber
Web: Jonathan Kim

