T
4
he sound of the radio was not loud enough
to drown out the cries from upstairs. Sophie
continued with her routine, putting the
shopping away, unloading the dishes; making
sure everything was in its rightful place. She
paused, just briefly, to adjust the old radio,
which seemed to be getting quieter and
quieter these days. She still had the whole of
the downstairs to vacuum before she could
even start dinner and, with a small sigh,
crossed into the dimly lit corridor towards
the cupboard under the stairs. It took a while
for her eyes to adjust to the dark, and while
she was scrabbling to find the door handle,
the abrasive noise from upstairs registered
again. Realising she could no longer put off
going to see her, and with no small measure
of trepidation, she ascended the staircase and
gently knocked on the door at the end of the
landing.
“Can I come in?” muttered Sophie, not
really wanting to be heard. A moment or two
passed in silence before Sophie could gain the
courage to enter. The room was even darker
than downstairs; with only a faint corona of
light penetrating past the thick curtains.
Quietly, she crossed the room towards the
window and slowly drew open the curtains,
just a small amount, to allow the now overcast
day to filter through. Though the room
brightened only a fraction, it was enough to
disturb the hunched figure resting beneath the
covers on the bed. The figure coiled tighter,
and let out a quiet murmur of disapproval, or
possibly pain.
Sophie felt annoyed and, although she
instantly regretted the feeling, that small surge
of adrenaline racing down her spine could not
be subdued. It had been this way for almost a
year now. She sat herself down at the end of
the old, iron bed, which juddered noticeably
as she did so. A hand was protruding out
slightly from beneath the sheets. Sophie had
an overwhelming urge to grab the hand, to
shake it violently even, to do anything to get
her to react. What use would it be really, she
thought. She couldn’t change anything, and
neither could the doctors.
Reaching out anyway, she delicately touched
her mother’s hand, which was as icy cold as it
always was. She hoped for even the smallest
sign that her mother acknowledged her
presence, but none came. Was the numbness
getting worse, Sophie wondered, or was she
retreating even more into her slowly crumbling
shell.
There really wasn’t any point wondering
about such matters again, seeing as she
probably would never get the actual answer,
not while her mother was in this condition. She
had spent too much time sitting here anyway;
she had more pressing things to do. Sophie
collected the used plates and mugs from the
bedside table, and slipped out of the room. As
she closed the door behind her, she could hear
her mother stirring once more. She had been
going through another relapse for the past few
weeks, and obviously, the pain was once again
getting too much for her.
As she rushed down the dark staircase, hands
laden with the remnants of yesterday’s meal,
she somehow lost her footing – stumbling
down the last three or four steps – collapsing
on the floor at the bottom. How foolish
she must look, Sophie thought, her school
clothes covered in the half eaten stew she had
prepared yesterday. Really, she was lucky not to
have broken her neck, never mind the dishes,
which had miraculously survived, although
her ankle felt less than lucky. Sophie had seen
With her head in her
hands, she closed her
eyes and tried to imagine
what it was like before she
had been reduced to this
state of simple servitude
“
ATTACK
FROM
WITHIN
By Charlie Harvey
These radio waves
were made of the
same thing as
light, so even in the
darkest room one
might be illuminated
by the soft,
comforting voice of a
stranger
“

