her mother have similar falls many times over
the years; it had been a normal occurrence,
that is, until she had resigned herself to her
bed. Sophie had no disease to blame for this
accident, however, and no mother to console
her. And so, with a determined grimace, she
picked herself up, gathered the scattered debris
and hobbled back into the kitchen.
Returning to the corridor to clean up the
mess, she reached for the light switch – for
now it was almost completely dark – and, as
she flicked the switch, the light bulb above her
head flickered violently for a second and then
extinguished. The wiring in this old house was
in tatters; every other day there was something
short circuiting on Sophie, or at least it seemed
that way.
The ceilings in their Victorian house were
unusually high, and Sophie was quite short
for her age. Normally, changing a light bulb
would have been in the realms of dad-territory,
just like mowing the lawn or accompanying
mum to the hospital had been. Circumstances,
however, have the frustrating ability to change
on you with very little notice. Dad was no
longer here and so, once again, the burden
would have to fall on her. There were no
spare bulbs in the house and she couldn’t
really be bothered to run to the shops to get
more. She had already replaced two bulbs this
week, and money was pretty tight these days
anyway. Her father’s cheques might come as
regular as clockwork, but they were small, and
could barely meet the household’s monthly
obligations, certainly not any frivolous
expenses like reliable artificial illumination.
Wandering into the kitchen, she walked over
to the windowsill and turned the radio up
again.Sophielikedtheradio,itwascomforting;
a character always ready to entertain her when
she was bored, a presence to accompany her
when she was lonely. Her father, many years
ago now, had explained how it worked. How
electromagnetic waves could, invisibly, carry a
voice, uttered hundreds of miles away, through
the air to be decoded by this small box on the
window sill. It was fascinating. And, moreover,
how these radio waves were made of the same
thing as light, so even in the darkest room one
might be illuminated by the soft, comforting
voice of a stranger.
She looked up from the radio, staring outside
at the deserted road. The streetlamps had
begun to light now; the sodium glow turning
the landscape monotonous and flat, like an
old sepia photograph. Standing on her toes
and straining her neck, she could just see the
entrance to the dusty strip of land, supposedly
a garden, shared by the estate. She could see,
very faintly, a young child with its mother on
the swing set, a rusting monument to the slow
passage of time. It was barely useable these
days, but despite its dilapidated frame, the two
looked happy, together.
Sophie turned away, and collapsed into one
of the rickety kitchen chairs. With her head
in her hands, she closed her eyes and tried to
imagine what it was like before she had been
reduced to this state of simple servitude. Was
there even a time when she was happy, she
couldn’t be sure, it had been so long. Looking
after her mother was all Sophie did now,
whether it was fetching prescriptions from
the chemists, walking her to the bathroom,
or changing the sheets if she couldn’t help her
in time. There was hardly any time for herself
anymore. Of course she knew she had to be
there, no one else was going to do the hard
work. And on a good day, she was happy to do
it; after all, her mother had done pretty much
the same things for her. But today – Sophie
exhaled – today she just didn’t have the energy.
A bit ironic, she thought, as this was exactly
what mum had been fighting for decades. She
had first gone to the doctors over 20 years ago,
complaining that she felt like she had just ran a
marathon, only this feeling would not go away.
Sophie found it hard to imagine what it must
feel like to find out that lethargy, something
everyone feels from time to time, could be a
portent of such a devastating future.
Later on, when Sophie had accompanied
her mother on one of her frequent hospital
visits, a doctor had tried to explain exactly
what was happening, and what was going to
happen. The doctors said they didn’t quite
know what caused the condition, only that it
was partly genetic, and that because her mum
had it, she was quite likely to get it. And if
she did – God forbid – it probably wouldn’t
start to show for a fair few years. Something
to look forward to, she thought cynically; the
slow, painful transformation into the relic that
now inhabited the small bedroom upstairs.
It had taken 23 years for her mother to self
destruct into her current state; for her own
body to slowly destroy her very essence, her
personality, her very being. How long would
Sophie last?
Enough time to start a family perhaps? She
didn’t even have time enough for a boyfriend
as it was, if you could call Adam that. When
was the last time they had seen each other? She
couldn’t remember. All she knew was that it
wasn’t fair, so many opportunities missed, so
many chances taken away.
How much time she had passed in that
solitary doze, Sophie didn’t know, but by
the time she had come to her senses, it was
completely dark. The radio in the corner was
softly murmuring to itself once again, a voice
content to be heard, but never truly listened
to. Sophie sympathised: whenever she would
explain her problems to someone they would
give all the signs of real human concern, but
she knew they would forget just as soon as
Sophie was out of sight. It was a tragic situation,
certainly, but not life threatening quite yet.
She was sure that, when the time came, she
would be inundated by offers of support, but
at present she was stuck in a torturous state of
limbo; and Sophie was at once dreading and
desiring the end to come.
There wasn’t much point starting dinner
now, her mother wouldn’t eat this late, and
besides Sophie wasn’t that hungry any more.
She picked up the radio, extinguished the
remaining lights in the house and climbed the
stairs for bed. Passing her mother’s door, she
paused – just to listen. No cries could be heard
now, just her slightly laboured breathing.
She carried on to her bedroom, closing the
door behind her. Placing the radio on her
bedside table, she undressed and got into
bed. Without looking, she reached out and
detuned the radio to static, the white noise
between stations that was not one thing or
the other, and could drown out all other
sensations. With an empty mind, she drifted
into a dreamless sleep, a carefree expression
descending on her features – one that would
never be seen.
Opposite: by
Rafael Benitez-Cabral
Above: by Jane Seok

