FELIX
4
NEWS
Friday 10 june 2011
Physics students Deep Shah, Kin-Hing
Lo, and Victor See have developed
the ‘Imperial Physics Wiki’, a website
which allows students to share lecture
notes and past-paper solutions. The
collaborative website is built upon the
same technology behind Wikipedia.
It’s fully integrated into the Imperial
system, such as logins and email alerts,
and by using open-source software, the
whole thing hasn’t cost the department
a penny.
Since its launch in November, the
site has amassed hundreds of pages of
crowd-sourced lecture notes and past
exam paper solutions. As well as allow-
ing students to easily download mate-
rial, they are able to make their own
changes and improvements too. An
online forum has been used by students
to share helpful hints and to help co-
ordinate the bidding for MSci projects.
Students seemed to agree that the
wiki was transformative to the way they
studied. This has been most evident in
the third-year ‘comprehensive’ exams.
Third year physics student John Selby
said, “The third year comprehensive ex-
ams are a nightmare, I don’t know what
I would have done if I didn’t have the
wiki”. The comprehensive exams page
on the wiki has received over 14,000
views and features annotations of past
paper questions as well as summary
notes that have been produced by stu-
dents in the department.
Deep believes that the wiki will grow
as a resource and become an invalu-
able resource for physics students in
the coming years. “Every year students
spend loads of time making notes, col-
lating information, doing past papers,
and trolling the web for information. Yet
as soon as the year is over all this in-
formation just disappears into the ether.
I always wondered why we didn’t have
a central place where we could collect
everything so every student would not
have to repeat the work each year.”
Deep is excited about how quickly the
wiki has taken off and has pushed for a
similar solution to be rolled out across
College. “The vast majority of students
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Deepka Rana
Physics students create
popular revision ‘wiki’
Union could join CaSE
President ‘discussing possibility’ of affiliating
after College decision to leave
Life Sciences head Ian Owens to take
up post at Natural History Museum
The Union has criticised the College’s
decision to cut ties with the science
lobby group CaSE, calling the decision
“cynical” and suggesting that the Union
itself could affiliate with the group in-
dependently.
In a statement to Felix, later posted
online, Union President Alex Kendall
praised the Campaign for Science and
Engineering (CaSE) and said that the
Union was “grateful” for the work it had
done to support science research fund-
ing and to promote a “positive portrayal
of science in the media.” He said that he
was “discussing the possibility” of the
Union joining CaSE so that the students
of Imperial would still be represented
by “the main lobby group for science
and engineering.”
CaSE is regarded as having a pivotal
role in the government’s decision to
freeze and ring-fence the science re-
search budget after the Comprehensive
Spending Review, instead of cutting it
in cash terms. It also led a campaign to
win a generous settlement on immigra-
tion for researchers, meaning that al-
though there is a cap on the total number
of migrants, researchers are favoured
significantly over other applicants.
Alex Kendall said that Imperial’s de-
cision to “ditch” CaSE after the hard
work they had done for the science
community in the UK was a “very cyni-
cal move” that would “damage the unity
needed to present a single voice on sci-
ence and engineering funding.”
It is currently unclear as to whether
the Union will be able to affiliate with
CaSE. In an interview with Felix,
CaSE director Imran Khan said that the
Union’s gesture was “very appreciated”
and that it was “humbling” that students
wished to support CaSE. However, he
was hesitant of setting a precedent of
Student Unions affiliating instead of
their parent universities. He said that
they were still considering whether such
a model could be sustainable as student
unions. He was unable to shed any fur-
ther light on Imperial’s decision, saying
that there were no personal disagree-
ments that he was aware of and that all
of the feedback, prior to the decision,
in the department regularly use the wiki
and a growing number of students are
beginning to contribute their own con-
tent. Over 700 students have registered
to use the wiki and the site was receiv-
ing in excess of 1,500 page views a day
during the exam period. I hope the web-
site will continue to grow as a resource.
We’re currently working with Alex Da-
hinten to give the wiki some additional
backing and to roll it out a similar solu-
tion to the rest of college.”
Deputy President of Education Alex
Dahinten had nothing short of praise for
the wiki. “The Physics Wiki has been
one of the really outstanding initiatives
thought of by reps this year. A great
thing about the Physics Wiki is how it
is student run. Although staff members
can access it and contribute, the day-to-
day running is done by selfless students
who wish to get others to interact online
about their learning.”
Kin-Hing added, “In the future, we en-
vision that the department could move
to a wiki system for lecture notes and
lab scripts. This would allow students
to add their own improvements such as
links to useful resources or alternative
ways of deriving a solution to a prob-
lem. Lecturers would play an important
role in producing the basic content and
moderating the page but I feel this could
make undergraduate teaching a more
interactive experience for both parties.”
Director of Undergraduate Studies
Prof. Angus McKinnon said that the
Physics department is supportive of the
initiative but is “slightly nervous about
unforeseen circumstances” which could
arise – in particular the challenge of en-
suring coursework problems are not too
similar to those which have been set in
the past and for which solutions may
be available on the wiki. “In a subject
like Physics, where coursework tends
to involve solving mathematical prob-
lems, the effect is very different from
another subject in which coursework
consists mainly of essay writing. You
can feed an essay through ‘turnitin’ (a
programme to detect plagiarism) but not
a solution to a physics problem.”
The Imperial Physics Wiki can be
found at rcsu.org.uk/physoc/wiki/.
Website is “outstanding” says
Union Deputy President
Police appeal for Royal Albert Hall death witnesses
On the 23rd of May, a ten-year-old
boy was hit and killed by a coach
outside the Royal Albert Hall. Police
are appealing for witnesses. If you
saw the accident occur, or have any
other relevant information, please
get in touch with the police via gary.
herrett@met.police.uk.
that CaSE had received from Imperial
was positive.
Normally the Pro-Rector for Research
at Imperial would liase with CaSE, but
currently Imperial has nobody perma-
nently filling that position. Professor
David Begg, Principal of the Business
School, has stood in since the departure
of Sir Peter Knight from the position
last autumn. When the Times Higher
Education supplement first reported
Imperial’s decision to cut ties, they
pointedly referenced Imperial’s Pro-
rector situation. A reporter for the Times
Higher Education, told Felix that it was
unclear whether the reshuffle had any-
thing to do with the decision, but added
that he understood that the reluctance
to renew membership came “right from
the very top.”
The College did not add anything
new to their previous statement, which
explained that they felt the £3,000 sub-
scription could be better directed to
“core activities”, except to indicate that
the decision was taken “collectively”
and that it was up entirely up to the
Union if it wanted to affiliate or not.
Kadhim Shubber
Professor Ian Owens, the current head
of the Department of Life Sciences, has
been announced as the Natural History
Museum’s new Director of Science.
In his new role, Professor Owens will
be responsible for setting the strategic
direction of its scientific activities and
taking responsibility for the collections
of over 70 million scientific specimens
from around the world.
Professor Owens attracted contro-
versy earlier this year for his role in the
the restructure of Life Sciences. The
restructure faced fierce opposition and
protests from the Union and students.
The Natural History Museum has ex-
pressed its “delight” at Owens’ appoint-
ment, remarking that, “Ian’s leadership
will give our progress greater momen-
tum.”
Union President Alex Kendall wished
Professor Owens well in his new job
and acknowledged that despite their
differences in the past year, “[Professor
Owens] remained courteous and polite
throughout, where others may have not.”
Professor Maggie Dallman, Head of
the Faculty of Natural Sciences, wishes
“warm congratulations” towards Pro-
fessor Owens, adding that, “thanks to
his careful and professional leadership,
the Department of Life Sciences is in an
excellent position to grow and develop.”
Responding to his appointment, Pro-
fessor Owens has highlighted the con-
nection between the College and the
Museum.
“In my new role I hope to strengthen
the relationship between Imperial and
the Museum…working together I hope
we can do even more to inspire the pub-
lic and tackle major challenges in natu-
ral sciences.”
Professor Owens, who has served as
Head of Department since 2007, is ex-
pected to embark on his new appoint-
ment in the autumn while maintaining
affiliation with the College. The selec-
tion process for his successor is ongo-
ing.
Matt Colvin
Natural History Museum

