enough. You finished at a good time –
they've just finished work on your own
afterlife.” He places a hand on the bar of
the fire door, “are you ready?”
“Yes.”
He nods and pushes open the door,
letting you step through. Immediately
you see something is wrong. There is fire
and darkness and...pain. Already, you feel
it gnawing at your extremities. Then, with
a chill, you recognise the hellish vista in
background and the towering infernos
in front of them. They are familiar, all
too familiar, because you designed all of
them. Panicking, you turn to your guide.
“But wasn't this for my worst enemy?!”
you cry.
“Yes, that's right.” John nods calmly,
“Just who did you think your own worst
enemy was?”
to envisage all that? And how can you
design a Nirvana or Pandemonium for
your worst enemy if you do not even
know who they are? John was unhelpfully
brief on names.
Hesitantly, you put pen to paper. The
first attempts are a few ginger strokes
before you crumple up the sketch in
frustration. A series of idle doodles follow.
The first serious work involves a lot of
clouds, harp and white people with wings.
It is beautific but horrendously clichéd and
it is not long before it too is binned.
You rub your jaw and ponder what
Heaven should really be like. Freedom.
Pleasure. Beauty. You begin to see, and
your hand loyally scribes, vast halls of
Ionic white marble set in awe-inspiring
verdant vistas. The most spectacular of
wildlife will populate the land, seas and
skies but will not harm a single person.
Meanwhile, people will be free to engage
in deep philosophy, charismatic sports-
play and, a weakness of your own, a
library with all the books there ever was
and ever will be – with no late fines. This
creation will be populated by all your,
no, their loved ones and there will be no
ageing, pain or death.
It is a good start, you admit, but, if it
were you, you might be a bit disappointed.
It still feels a bit uptight, a bit stuffy, for
Paradise. You bite your lip and add a few
footnotes. Women will be irresistibly hot,
with none of their earthly inhibitions or
preferences – the men too! And while pain
will be gone, pleasure will be multiplied a
thousand-fold. The most blinding orgasm
on earth will be like a faint tickle in this
Heaven. As your grip on morality loosens
further, you decree that people will be able
to do what they like with absolutely no
consequences. All the things they wanted
to do on Earth but were too scared to, and
much more besides.
You are not struck by a thought but two
at once. First, if Heaven grants people
true freedom and they use that freedom
to do bad things, is that really Heaven? Or
merely some ghastly parody? Secondly,
this bliss is supposed to be for your
worst enemy. You have no idea what you
yourself might be getting – there is no
guarantee you will get anything anywhere
near this nice. Why should he get a better
afterlife than you, you argue jealously.
Your vision of Utopia is consigned to the
bin and you begin again.
You are not certain who your worst
enemy is but there is no way he deserves
better than you, so you begin to rein in
your largesse. You imagine something a
lot like Earth but only a bit nicer. Traffic
lights will go his way, and people will
generally like him. He will not win the
lottery but he will not catch any nasty
diseases either. You think of a particularly
good day you had when you were alive.
He shall have an eternity of them.
But that is not fair, you realise. Clearly,
your worst enemy is a bit of a prick –
otherwise, he would not be your enemy. Is
it Bartridge from the office who had never
liked you since your first day? That guy at
the pub who always resents your help on
the quiz machines? The playground bully
who probably lived the rest of his life
in nameless frustration? It could be any
one of them and none of them deserve a
good day, let alone a lifetime of them if
they are just going to be mean and ornery
to everyone they meet. Another potential
hereafter scrapped.
You are a good person, or so you
believe, so your worst enemy must be
bad. So, if they did not receive any
justice for their crimes on Earth, you
will make sure they get it now. You
grin malevolently as thunder rolls and
lightning strikes over jagged mountain-
scapes. Sulphurous fumes billow into the
black air from raging fires that will never
die. These will be bonfires, funeral pyres
for everyone and everything your enemy
has ever loved. Even his memories will
burn. His family will burn last, just after
the last of his favourite books has turned
to ash (you hope he can appreciate the
horror of book-burning – to you, it is
an abomination). But that is only the
start; mental, emotional, physical – he
will be tortured without limit. Flesh
stripped from bone, haunted by monsters
grotesque and barbarous, every feeling he
ever felt twisted and betrayed – he will
suffer without end, you declare with no
small amount of glee. And here is the best
part, you note down, when he is finished,
completely spent, dried up to the husk
with pain and anguish, it will start all over
again, repeating until time itself dies.
Yousitbackwithafeelingof satisfaction.
It is cruel, yes, maleficent, definitely, but
you convince yourself that this is what
your worst enemy deserves. Though their
nature and identity still remain a mystery to
you, he must be your enemy for a reason.
Confident that this is the final draft, you
rise and search for John.
He is standing by a door – a fire escape?
– in the corner of the room. It is filled
with a myriad of cubicles much like your
own, unending, with people beavering
away at a thousand different versions of
Elysium and Gehenna. As he sees you,
John checks his watch.
“I didn't expect you to finish so soon.”
he remarks, faintly impressed, “well, let's
have a look at it, shall we?”
Youhandhimthefinishedblueprintand
he examines it. He frowns to begin with
but says nothing as his eyes scan over it.
You feel the seconds tick by intolerably as
he silently critiques your work. He pauses
once or twice for clarification on some of
the finer points. You sigh, relieved, when
he finally nods and rolls it up.
“Very good. It's not my cup of tea but
it will do. Are you sure this is what your
own worst enemy deserves?” he asks.
You nod with not a trace of doubt. “Fair
"If Heaven grants
people true
freedom and they
use that freedom
to do bad things,
is that really
Heaven?"
Opposite: by Rocío Molina
Above: by Michael Sahyoun

