5
FELIX Friday 10 june 2011
FEATURE
An eloquent
spokesperson
for science
Kadhim Shubber
meets CaSE director
and Imperial
alumnus
Imran Khan
I
’m standing outside the offices
for the Campaign for Science and
Engineering (CaSE) on Gordon
Square, near Euston Square tube
station, trying to stop sweating
(summer showers tricked me into wear-
ing a coat...) when I notice something.
While our university recently took the
controversial, and in my opinion fool-
ish, decision to cut ties with CaSE, their
offices are actually situated in an UCL
building. Our closest London competitor
embraces this influential lobby group,
“puts their money where their mouth is”
as UCL vice-provost David Price puts it,
and we do the exact opposite. I’m not
sure whether to be surprised or not.
Once I’ve cooled myself down, I go in-
side and I’m buzzed through into CaSE’s
modest office. The two rooms seem to
perfectly capture a sense of ‘punching
above your weight’. CaSE is an organ-
isation that has successfully lobbied the
government at the highest levels, spear-
headed national campaigns, and won
front page headlines on major national
newspapers; and all from an office that’s
a little smaller than the Union bar.
Imran Khan, the director of CaSE, rath-
ershinesinthissmallspace.Policypapers
are stacked around his office, and there is
a heap of placards from the Science is Vi-
tal campaign, which helped spare science
funding from the worst of the cuts back
in October, stacked up against one of the
walls. He’s extremely well spoken, pos-
sessing the rare ability to speak quickly
in properly constructed sentences without
‘umming’ and ‘ahhing’, and also disarm-
ingly charismatic – not characteristics
that one would immediately associate
with an Imperial alumnus.
He studied on Imperial’s Science
Communication masters course in
2007/08 and during his time at Imperial,
wrote articles for Felix and had a couple
of shows on IC Radio. Gareth Mitchell,
who lectures on broadcast and written
journalism on the course, remembers
him as enthusiastic, saying that he “re-
ally threw himself into the course”.
He calls Imran “an aspirational fig-
ure” for students on the course today.
“Even though he is doing really well
for himself, he still comes back to
Imperial, to give seminars to our
students, to give them direction and
advice,” says Gareth, “he has had
a big impact by being a role model
for students interested in science policy”.
As we start our interview it quickly
becomes apparent why. He has a deeply
technical grasp of the issues affecting
science and engineering research in the
UK, but also the skill to explain them
in an easy-to-understand manner. Why
don’t politicians ‘get’ that investment in
science is important, I ask him. He re-
jects my premise, “I think that is a bit
of a misapprehension. All the political
parties understand that science and engi-
neering is really important.” But the real
question, he says, is how important is it
in relation to other challenges.
A perfect example of this was shown
the Comprehensive Spending Review
(CSR), where CaSE and others argued
successfully that research funding needed
to be prioritised and protected, which it
was to an extent. Is rising inflation chip-
ping away at the ‘generous’ 10% cut
that we were given? Yes, he says, but
he also points to U.S. research that
shows that inflation for some scientif-
ic research has often been higher than
general inflation, warning that we are
still yet to see “how stringent these cuts
are going to be.”
I ask him about the 50% cut to re-
search capital expenditure, the ‘sting
in the tail’ after the success in the CSR.
“You had people saying ‘oh we’re fine’
and then reality hit.” He says that the
science community has a job to do in
not only adapting to the cuts by shar-
ing more, “it’s not like the old days, we
can’t just compete against each other,
there’s got to be a mixture of competi-
tion and collaboration”, but also in con-
vincing the government of the folly of
the capital expenditure cuts: “[We’ve
got to say] actually here’s the impact of
these cuts, here’s the world class reser-
ach that’s not being done, here are the
world-class scientists that we’re losing
to Singapore or the States because they
can afford the equipment that we can’t.”
Although I’m enjoying his careful de-
construction of the research landscape,
we both know that the reason that I’m
there is to discuss Imperial’s decision
to leave CaSE. Given the the successes
that scientists have won since the last
General Election, but also the huge
challenges that we continue to face, it
seems a peculiar time for Imperial to be
disengaging from the science commu-
nity in this way. Does he think Imperial
can speak for itself, I ask him.
“All institutions will want to speak for
themselves. UCL are very kind in that
they’re not only members, but they also
house us here. However, it’s not as if all
their science lobbying comes through
CaSE,” he says. But Imperial doesn’t op-
erate in a vacuum, he goes on to argue:
“What [Imperial does] impacts of the rest
of the community, and what the rest of the
community does impacts on Imperial.”
The only other institution to end its
subscription to CaSE since the last
General Election is the British Library,
which given their financial problems
Imran says “he would have been as-
tonished if they had stayed on.” Impe-
rial on the other hand recently emerged
from its ‘phoney war’, so called by the
former Chief Operating Officer Dr Mar-
tin Knight because it had come through
the financial crisis with a £40 million
surplus. During the same period, around
20 new members have joined CaSE. “I
think if you just look at those numbers,
20 new members vs. one drop out ex-
cluding the British Library...” says Im-
ran, who pauses before adding, “[The
decision] surprises me.”
There’s no resentment or anger towards
Imperial, however. This is partly pragma-
tism, “We’re a tiny organisation, we can’t
afford to stick our noses up at Imperial”,
but also a focus on what is important. Of
course CaSE will still need to engage
with Imperial, and Imperial staff and
researchers, even if it isn’t as straightfor-
ward now – ”you can’t do anything relat-
ed to science communication or science
policy in London without dealing with
Imperial at some point,” he told me on
the phone before the interview.
And of course there’s the personal
connection to Imperial. He remembers
being part of a very close-knit depart-
ment and says that he loved being close
to the Science Museum and the V&A.
He speaks very highly of the Science
Communication and Science Media
Production courses, saying that they are
“a real training ground for science com-
munication policy professionals.”
When I met his former lecturer Gareth
Mitchell, he was setting up the IC Radio
studio for his current students, much in
the same way that he would have done
for Imran when he was here. He says
that he finds students initially start out
with a strong interest in the media side
of science communication, but more and
more get drawn towards the policy side,
towards directly improving the state of
science through influencing govern-
ment, and other institutions’ decisions.
He says that Imran followed a similar
path. It’s obvious when you meet Imran
that he could have had a go on the media
side, he’s got the charisma for it.
But when you hear the passion that
he’s got for the work that he does, I’m
happy that, in the nicest possible way,
he’s not on our TV screens. It’s while
we’re talking about whether Imperial
can lobby on its own. He points to the
CaSE’s work during the ‘Science is Vi-
tal’ campaign: “It’s not a scientific ex-
periment, we can’t run it again and say
here’s the difference that we made, but
what we can say is that we left no stone
unturned. Everything that we could do,
we did. We lobbied everyone from the
Prime Minister down. We lobbied civil
servants, journalists, the research com-
munity, people on the streets. People
who weren’t scientists turned up [to
protest] to make sure that the UK [con-
tinues] to lead the world in research.”
He adds, “Of course that will have
all benefited Imperial, I hope,” but I
don’t pick him up on what could be the
understatement of the year.
.
pin
i
g
s
ar
sea
in
“Yo
and
sci
t
CaSE’s letter, published in The
Times and signed by eight Nobel
laureates, helped to influence the
government’s migrant cap policy
Charles Poon

