FELIX
16
COMMENT
Comment Editors: Anna Perman
Jan Piotrowski
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 10 june 2011
T
he news that the Belgian
victims of abuse at the
hands of Catholic priests
are attempting to sue the
Vatican should not surprise
any of us. There have been various at-
tempts over the years demanding that
the church tries to put right the hideous
crimes performed by its members, in-
cluding a high profile effort to have
the Pope arrested on his trip to Britain
last year, headed by prominent athe-
ists Christopher Hitchens and Richard
Dawkins. Their lack of success comes
as no shock to me; the Catholic Church
has, after all, built its defenses tall and
strong, impenetrable to the opposition
it faces.
What I do find shocking, and detest-
able, is the absence of support by those
in power for the people who have been
brave enough to stand up to the church.
If you care to examine our own govern-
ment, for example, you will notice that
not only have they failed to provide
anything resembling encouragement
for those seeking justice, last year they
actually rolled out the red carpet to the
man at the centre of the scandal. All at
the expense of the tax payer, of course.
How can we as a nation feel comfort-
able with this? How can we, on the one
hand, send our troops to far off coun-
tries to emancipate those worse off than
us from terrible tyranny, and on the
other, show an unflinching solidarity
with an organisation that fails to move
away from its arcane beliefs in subjuga-
tion? The covering up of child rape and
molestation is a heinous crime, which
should be met with appropriate disgust
and animosity. In this particular case,
it does not seem to have elicited this
response from those who could really
make a difference.
What makes matters worse is that the
rot in the Catholic Church that allows
these crimes to continue has spread all
the way to the top. It was, after all, the
future Pope Benedict XVI who in 1985,
whilst still a bishop, refused to defrock a
Californian priest with a known history
of sexually molesting children, citing
“the good of the universal church” as his
explanation. It was Pope Benedict XVI,
this time in his current position, who of-
fered immunity and safety in the Vati-
can to Cardinal Law, former head of the
Archdiocese of Boston. Law resigned
after it was revealed that he approved
the transfer of Rev. John Geoghan to
another parish under the knowledge that
he had raped at least 7 boys. These are
just two examples of the conniving that
goes on amongst those who hold lofty
positions in the Vatican.
Even if child molestation was the only
issue towards which the church has dis-
played a loathsome attitude, the mutual
friendship it has with governments of
the world would surely cause us all to
raise an eyebrow at the very least. The
fact that these attitudes stretch across
a manifold of issues make the respect
it enjoys nothing short of nauseating.
For example, the church preaches that
people such as these disgusting paedo-
philes can, merely through the act of
asking for forgiveness, experience an
eternity of bliss in heaven after they die.
The same generosity is not offered to
those who experience love with some-
one of the same sex. This is viewed
as, to quote from the famous Leviticus
verse, an “abomination.” To see this as
anything other than hateful babble is to
surrender your own integrity as a moral
human being.
The Pope, as an individual, deserves
no more respect than the organisation
he governs. I would ask you all to es-
Mass deception
timate how many lives you think have
been ruined directly by the Pope’s stand
on HIV, which as he has preached in the
past “cannot be overcome through the
distribution of condoms, which even
aggravates the problems.” I would chal-
lenge anyone to come up with a more
destructive, divisive statement. It has
undoubtedly led to the deaths of thou-
sands of people at the hands of this ter-
rible illness. For a man who is meant to
be a beacon of morality to those in need,
the Pope certainly has a lot of questions
to answer.
The church’s reluctance to budge
from a set of archaic beliefs derived
from a book written by second hand
authors nearly 2000 years ago should
give us pause for reflection. It has, in
my opinion, become impossible for any
self-respecting government to associate
itself with this administration without
experiencing palpable cognitive disso-
nance. It is not until we start to question
the actions of religious leaders ruling as
demagogues that we can truly start to
claim we are moving in the right direc-
tion, and fighting for freedom the world
over.
The Catholic Church is not a force for good in this world
Sam Horti
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
“
e
”
The Pope, as an individual,
deserves no more respect than
the organisation he governs
A great number of controversial decisions
have been taken at Imperial this year. Some
have been taken by departments, some have
been taken by central College management,
others have been taken by the Union. The one
thing that unites them, something that Felix
has always been pleasantly surprised by, is
the willingness of the decision-makers to put
forward their argument; to answer questions
about their motivations; and to make them-
selves accountable. Of course this has oc-
curred to varying degrees, and we have not
always agreed with their arguments or moti-
vations, but the story of the past academic
year is of people accepting the accountability
that must come with authority. Which is why
we are disappointed that this accountability
has not accompanied Imperial’s decision to
cut its £3,000 subscription to the Campaign
for Science and Engineering (CaSE).
There has been no explanation given for
the decision. Well, no proper explanation. To
say that it was felt the £3,000 would be bet-
ter directed towards “core activities” doesn’t
explain why somebody thought CaSE’s lob-
bying efforts weren’t already benefiting Im-
perial’s core activities. (We would truly love
to hear the reasoning behind this, it is self-
evident that helping to protect our research
budget from more stringent cuts and lob-
bying successfully to improve the lot of our
overseas researchers in the visa system
benefits Imperial’s core activities.)
But even if the argument was made, who
would make it? The person normally respon-
sible for Imperial’s relationship with CaSE
would be the Pro-Rector for Research. But
this role is currently unfilled; Professor David
Begg of the Business School is standing in
temporarily. Did he make this decision? Is
the decision linked to the departure of the
previous Pro-Rector for Reseach, Professor
Sir Peter Knight? The College have refused
to shed further light, saying only that the
decision was made “collectively”, which es-
sentially means that no-one is going to take
responsibility for the decision.
Why is it important that somebody be held
responsible? The answer is not complicated:
this decision affects a large number of people
at Imperial. Researchers at Imperial are now
left without a formal voice in the UK’s most
prominent science and engineering lobby
group. At a time when the science and engi-
neering sector faces great challenges, this is
very alarming.
People across Imperial have been willing
to stand by their decisions, make their ar-
guments, and be held accountable for the
choices that they have made in the past year.
Felix too has done so, and has apologised
when it has made mistakes. We believe the
decision to leave CaSE is stupid and a step
in the wrong direction, but if there’s a good
argument for doing so, whoever made the
decision should have the decency to stand
up and make that argument.
FELIX
Accountability is needed
“Why are they booing? What do you mean ‘they were expecting Colin Firth?’”

