FELIX
18
MUSIC
Friday 10 JUNE 2011
Stephen Smith
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Stephen Smith
music.felix@gmail.com
Competition
Would you like to see Skream live? How about The
Wombats? Roll Deep? Metronomy? Example? Ed
Sheeran? Architecture in Helsinki? You’re in luck!
This week only, we’re giving away a pair of FREE tick-
ets to see all these artists (and many, many more) on
Friday 15th July at Lovebox.
To get your hands on these (that’s over £60 worth
of tickets) all you need to do is write 50 words (or
less) on why you think London’s Lovebox is one of
this summer’s best festivals. Some of the best sub-
missions will be printed in next week’s final issue of
Felix, and the author of the winning article will get
the tickets. Simply email your 50-word submission
to music.felix@gmail.com by Tuesday 14th June to
be in with a chance of winning. For more information
on the festival, see below, or visit the website www.
lovebox.net.
Any submissions recieved after 14th June may
not be considered. Any submissions longer than 50
words may not be considered. The winning author
will be informed by email by Friday 17th June. The
Editor’s decision is final.
Most
listened to
this week by
Felix Music
members on
last.fm
Make sure not to miss
This Ting
London Underdog, London Bridge
Friday, 17th June 2011
This Ting is a rare example of what happens when
an exam-oppressed, vinyl junkie decides to call in
his friends to have a rave. Yes, a £5 entry, £2.50/
drink romp in central London. It’s set in a temporary
venue under the arches of London Bridge, around
the corner from Debut and Cable, with an unnec-
essarily large soundsystem and the usual balding
middle aged men replaced with student DJs that will
actually play your requests.
In the lineup are producers receiving regular air-
time from DJs such as Radio 1’s KIssy Sellout and
representatives from several different record labels
giving you the unheard exclusives mashed into your
guiltiest of pleasures and everything in between.
These guys are of course joined by the people you
may, or may not, see in your lectures bringing their
A game to celebrate finally finishing the month-long
onslaught their departments put them through.
There is absolutely no excuse not to miss this, even
if you are a natural scientist and your exams are at
messed up times. You need to rebel against that
anyway. Giovanni Charles
Join in at: http://www.last.fm/group/Felix+Music
1. Radiohead
2. Daft Punk
3. Kanye West
4. Coldplay
5. Bon Iver
6. Arcade Fire
7. Muse
8. Two Door Cinema Club
9. Bloc Party
10. Fleet Foxes
www.facebook.com/thisting
J
ealous of your friends going backpack-
ing this summer? Don’t be. London in
the summer is wonderful and the weath-
er rivals that on any expensive holiday
abroad. One of the best things about
spending summer here has to be South West
Four. What better way to celebrate the end of
your exams than two days dancing till the sun
goes down (or comes up) to the world’s best
house and techno DJs? It’s on your doorstep in
Clapham Common so there’s no need to travel
to a muddy field in the middle of nowhere, or
pay the ludicrous prices of going to Ibiza.
Headlining on Saturday are electronic inno-
vators Underworld playing their only show in
London this year. John Digweed will be there
coming home after performing at Exit, So-
nar, and Ultra joined by fellow house heavy-
weights, Layo and Bushwacka and the not so
youthful but always incredible Sven Väth of
Cocoon records. Joining Sven are fellow Co-
coon artists Loco Dice, brought up on hip hop
and house, his grooves never fail to please, and
Tiefschwarz with a live set, a line up destined
to set the festival alight. Expect the best of clas-
sic trance and techno with the likes of James
Zabiela tearing up the decks. The turntablist
genius, with his triple deck, scratch effects
anything goes master class will be a highlight
of the Saturday. If more contemporary electro
house is your cup of tea, Laidback Luke is
also headlining. Joining these guys are techno
veterans Laurent Garnier and Josh Wink, as
well as big names in house music such as Ger-
many’s M.A.N.D.Y.
If you prefer your grooves harder and your
beats dirtier then Sunday is the day for you.
Headlining the main stage are the infamous
South West Four
If you’re looking for a festival with big names
in central London, it doesn’t get any better
than Lovebox. Set in the lovely Victoria Park
in Hackney, Lovebox brings together some of
today’s most popular artists, and all within cy-
cling distance of Imperial.
The winner of 2008’s Best Medium Sized
Festival award, London’s premier three-day-
long musical extravaganza has become an es-
sential part of London’s summer calendar, and
has previously played host to Dizzee Rascal,
Roxy Music, Groove Armada and Grace
Jones, among others, and this year promises
to be the best yet.
Friday features dubstep giant Skream along-
side Metronomy, Ed Sheeran, The Wom-
bats, and a huge list of other big artists in an
extremely diverse starting day.
On Saturday, Snoop Dogg, Jessie J, The
Drums and Santigold grace the stage while
Sunday features Scissor Sisters, 2ManyDJs,
Robyn, Beth Ditto (from The Gossip) and
Blondie on tour for their recent album Panic
of Girls.
But Lovebox is about more than just the
music. Information about this year’s entertain-
ment is yet to be released, but 2009 featured a
treehouse, a vintage fashion fair and a “healing
and massage centre,” so expect great fun even
Alex Ashford on Clapham’s best summer offering
Dates: 27 - 28 August 2011
Location: Clapham Common, SW4
Price: £85
Website: www.southwestfour.com
Pendulum and dubstep heavyweights, Benga,
Skream and Artwork performing under their
Magnetic Man alias. Joining the dubstep
drum and bass vibe are jungle pioneers Shy Fx
and Andy C along with Sub Focus.
The techno and house vibe carries on from
the Saturday going darker into the grooves of
Richie Hawtin, the founder of m-nus records
whose innovative digital mixing will blow
you away. This along with Adam Beyer, Paul
Ritch and Ellen Allien provides one of the
hottest line-ups of all festivals this summer.
For the electro fans there is Eric Prydz play-
ing his debut set under his Cirez D pseudonym
and Simian Mobile Disco who remain the
must see group of the moment.
If you love clubbing get ready for the most
slamming weekend party in London. Tickets
are on sale now at www.southwestfour.com.
Day tickets are £45 and weekend tickets are
£85 but go up by £10 nearer the date so buy in
advance if you don’t want to be disappointed.
Beth Ditto? Apples? Love? Box??? How
could anyone say no!?
Lovebox: huge artists on your doorstep
The crowd quickly become unruly after they realised that it wasn’t Colin Firth DJing
www.southwestfour.com
when your favourite artists aren’t performing
on stage.
Lovebox has been described simultaneously
as the “trendiest”, “most authentic”, and “most
convincing” festival in the country, so if you
want the best festival experience around with-
out spending huge amounts on transport and
accommodation, Lovebox is the festival for
you.
Tickets are available at www.ticketmaster.
co.uk. Day tickets sell for £30 for Friday and
£50 for Saturday or Sunday, but a well-spent
£100 will get you access to an entire week-
end’s worth of music.
Dates: 15 - 17 July 2011
Location: Victoria Park, London E3
Price: £99
Website: www.lovebox.net

