FELIX Friday 10 JUNE 2011 19
MUSIC
T
oby Ridler, A.K.A. Be-
coming Real, is one of
the most promising young
producers around today,
giving birth to strange new
music that tends to melt faces and scar
minds. It also turns out he’s a really nice
dude. He answered a few questions of
mine in anticipation of his headlining
set at BONED, the second Felix Mu-
sic Night, taking place this Saturday at
Metric (Imperial College Union).
How would you describe your music
for readers who might not have heard
of you?
Eski / Footwurk / House.
In interviews, you seem to refer to Be-
coming Real in the third person, im-
plying that you as an artist separate
yourself from the music you’re pro-
ducing. Do you have any other cur-
rent projects, musical or otherwise?
Yeah we, there is me and Becoming
Real, we ain’t the same person. I’m just
the guy that makes the music, he’s the
entity. Just doing Becoming Real right
now, that’s my main project. I do loads
of filming and walking, I have kinda
like a team of people who I’m creative
with, but musically it’s just me myself
and I.
Any plans for a full-length album?
Not right now. I’ve pondered it, but I’m
Future sounds at BONED
Greg Power talks to Becoming Real about his music, collaborations, future projects
and Samurai movies in anticipation of his headlining set at BONED this Saturday
busy working on other shit: two EP’s,
couple films. Full-length is gonna have
to wait.
Do you think that the album just
wouldn’t work as a format for Be-
coming Real?
I’ll make it work for me I guess. It’s
just a blank CD I gotta fill with music
so I’ll just do my own thing, but yeah it
certainly ain’t gonna be some 12 track
dance compilation. Fuck that. All I
know is it’ll be epic.
I really dig the tracks you did with
Trim, as his voice and flow really
match your music in an interesting
way, in a similar way to how Kode9
and Spaceape complement each oth-
er. Do you plan on working with Trim
again?
Trimbal, yeah, maybe in the future.
We’ll see. I’m giving the straight up
grime ting a rest right now.
Are you interested in working with
other vocalists, and not necessarily
grime artists?
Maybe. I used to think some R’n’B
thing would be cool, but seriously, fuck
that. I don’t wanna be some guy who’s
got some American chick over the top
of my stuff. I’m British, my music is
informed by what’s around me. I love
R’n’B and all that, but really, I ain’t on
that bandwagon, if you feel me...
You are an Imperial student. Your brain
and body require intense stimulation.
Thanks to exams, you now have free
time and money, are still in the vicin-
ity of Metric, and are dying – craving,
praying – for a chance to have your jiv-
ing, drunken body pounded with bass-
heavy, cutting-edge dance music. Your
prayers have been answered. This Sat-
urday, I’ll be running the gamut from
garage and dubstep to full-on neo-rave
frenzy, dropping in 8-bit chipstep treats
throughout.
Chipstep is something of a fondness
of mine, you see – it’s the nostalgic love
child of old-school video games and
modern dance music, and my produc-
tion focus. Remember how abrasive and
gritty those games used to sound? Our
top bass scientists have harnessed its
plutonium-like power and are now put-
ting it to use manufacturing weapons of
mass booty destruction.
Chipstep encompasses any dance mu-
sic with a retro game flavour, from re-
mixes of old game music to tunes that
merely incorporate the characteristic
bloops, razzes and buzzes. In my tracks,
this works particularly well for genres
like bassweight dubstep and electro,
where a raw, primitively digital sound
is what’s needed. The target audience is
emerging just about now – we’re look-
ing to get into clubs and listen to serious
dance music, and we’re older than the
new generation that won’t say “aha!”
when they hear “ha!-ha”. I’ve noticed
a little chip influence in a lot of recent
dance music releases now, and some
big names have gone all out and made
proper chipstep releases, a notable one
being Bop - The Amazing Adventures Of
One Curious Pixel.
Promoting the good cause is a night
called Nintendisco, for whom I’m an
occasional DJ. These guys run monthly
events where you can come on down to
93 Feet East in Brick Lane for a combo
‘Bloops, Razzes and Buzzes’: DJ Niceberg on his neo-rave madness
William Berg
What would be your dream collabo-
ration? You can pick anyone, living
or dead.
Hmm, I could get Dizzee back on track.
I recently heard your remix of “Kiss-
ing You” on The FADER Soundcloud,
which is hypnotic and eerily soothing,
and really quite different from the
more visceral material you play at
your live shows. Are you more inter-
ested in pushing sonic experimenta-
tion than writing songs?
Yeah, this a good point. I certainly start-
ed off by just pushing sounds and see-
ing what I could make with my cheap
ass equipment, how far could I reach or
where could I stretch my equipment and
tools to. But nowadays I’m just trying
to make otherworldy dance music, mu-
sic that’s been remembered incorrectly.
I want them to be left with something
afterwards to make people time travel
when they come see me live, I guess...
durr.
Your ghost-step has its roots in grime
and dubstep, but could you see your-
self moving away from dance music
altogether?
I was never really into dubstep to be
honest, grime and footwurk for sure.
And I think there’s always been traces
of house, more and more that’s coming
to the forefront actually... I’m doing my
best to make dance music come closer
to me, to inject my set of sounds and
processes with more swing and that.
I find that there’s a real cinematic
quality to your music, in the way
it evokes images of dark, desolate
back-alleys and seedy city under-
bellies. What with Trent Reznor’s
Oscar for The Social Network
soundtrack, the Chemical Brothers’
Hanna soundtrack and the awesome
soundtrack Basement Jaxx wrote for
Attack The Block, it seems like the
soundtrack is becoming an increas-
ingly attractive way of getting your
music out there, reaching crowds out-
side of club nights, whilst remaining
an artistically challenging endeavour.
Have you ever thought about doing a
soundtrack?
Yeah man, I’d love to do a soundtrack.
I’d like to make a sound track to places
in London, or make a soundtrack to my
memories of places I’ve been.
What are you listening to these days?
Any recommendations?
Yeah, the new Anti-G record on Planet
Mu is the shit. Seriously awesome. A
lot of older stuff on Kompact... Kassem
Mosse is pretty good. I’m working on a
remix for him right now.
Finally, I’ve heard that you’re quite
the samurai movie geek. I would like
you to tell us about your favourite
samurai movie.
Yeah sure. I like ‘The Bride With White
Hair’. It’s a bit more comical, but it’s
incredibly well edited. Any Akira Ku-
rosawa is a sure fire classic, the texture
of his films are so silky... Been watching
The Kingdom recently though – the Lars
Von Trier series. I’d recomend that also.
Come see Becoming Real at BONED
on Saturday 11th (that’s tomorrow!)
Becoming Real is next level dance
music for the cybersoul
Chip music characteristically involves the coolest fucking set-ups ever
evening of SNES and boogying. Do you
get better or worse at Street Fighter with
a couple of pints in you? Come along
and find out. This comes especially rec-
ommended for those of you who need a
fun pre-lash or who don’t go for longer
nights, as it starts and ends relatively
early.
If you want to learn more about any-
thing I’ve mentioned here, just search
SoundCloud, where you’ll find my art-
ist page, the chipstep group and Ninten-
disco’s mixtapes, among other things.
Check out Niceberg’s sick chiptun-
age on soundcloud.com/dj_nice-
berg.
Come support Niceberg and the
rest of the Imperial musicians per-
forming at BONED, the second Felix
Music Night, this Saturday at Metric.

