Mango and rice? It can only be Soho...
FELIX
20
FOOD
Food Editors: Dana Li
Vicky Jeyaprakash
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 10 JUNE 2011
A r e you MADD?
Dana Li visits MADD, Soho’s hottest café and
brainchild of a Business School alumnus
R
upert Street. It’s not ex-
actly a street name that
shouts out “Food Mecca”,
such an honour usually
reserved for the likes of
Brick Lane, Old Street and Borough
Market. But think again. I visited Ru-
pert Street, located in the centre of
Soho, three times within a period of two
or so weeks. Not for the X-rated sex
shops as some would relate Soho to, but
for the relatively newly opened MADD,
a mango dessert café.
The brainchild of an Imperial alum-
nus, Ralph Monthienvichienchai, its
creation was stemmed from an unwill-
ingness to study a PhD and a passion
for mangoes. Of course, it isn’t every
day that an equation like that results in
opening your own mango café in the
heart of Soho. A Masters degree from
the Business School may have put him
in good stead for the theory behind busi-
ness, but Ralph believed the only way to
learn was to get out there and take each
hit and fall as they came.
MADD initially opened back in Febru-
ary with little furore, preferring to test the
waters and taking time to listen to their
customers. After renovation and ironing
out the creases, MADD has had its foot
on the accelerator with recent articles in
the Evening Standard and more close to
home, in the Reporter attracting attention
to the café. And the publicity definitely
bears fruit, the weekend following the
Evening Standard article, MADD was
bursting with customers up until its mid-
night closing time on Friday and Satur-
day. Ralph also mentions a food blogger
who brings a fair share of his custom-
ers, mostly students, who make it their
mission to leave with a photo with the
dashing young entrepreneur. It certainly
would be hilarity if all Imperial students
Be honest now. You love this exam
period. It’s the ultimate trump card, a
super-charged get-out-of-anything free
excuse accepted by everyone. Exercise?
Can’t, exams. Important favours? Can’t,
exams. Washing? Can’t, exams.
But the best guilty self-persuasion is
a culinary one. Spending time cooking
economically sensible, easy-to-prepare
lunches at home? Can’t, exams. Eating
out is the order of the day, and the South
Kensington station area is the place to
eat.
So how come everyone goes to Sub-
way, when they could go to Chopstix?
You know, Chopstix? I would say “it’s
the Chinese place near to Little Japan”,
but can’t for two reasons: 1) I don’t
want to blow their cover and start some
Yakuza/Triad turf wars in the genteel
heart of London. But more importantly
because 2) I don’t actually know if it’s
Chinese. Especially because 50% of the
choice of dishes are called things like
Thai Red Curry or Malaysian Chicken.
And the internet reliably informs me
that these are not actually boroughs of
China but whole separate countries! Se-
riously, I’m not joking!
So I can only assume they call it Chop-
stix as a catch-all temptation for people
from all Chopsticks-using countries.
And of course for people like me who
use chopsticks to imagine themselves
as a kung-fu master/wandering samurai/
impossibly trendy Japanese school-girl
and so forth. A smart move, like calling
a restaurant Forx to appeal to all those
savages from outside the west who still
eat without them. I say ‘the West’, but
of course do not include Obese Amer-
ica in that as everyone knows they’ve
evolved teeth between their fat rolls and
now just plough food straight into their
abdomen.
To be fair, I can’t talk. That is to say,
I can’t talk because I’m eating, unlike
those guys who chat happily whilst their
fat rolls munch away.
…Did someone say Fat Rolls? Then
they must be talking about Chopstix
which has the fattest spring rolls al-
lowed before they become Spring Logs.
But tasty as they are, they’re just the
side-show to the main courses.
Sure, they’re probably not Authentic
Chinese Cuisine. They don’t have deli-
cious dumplings from Guangdong, or
delicate, crispy Peking duck. There is
no Sichuan spice or the stretched ribbon
noodles of the people of Uighur. There
isn’t even any tea; green, bubble or oth-
erwise.
There are however several vaguely
eastern dishes packed with flavour.
There are the soft potato-and-skin
slices in the creamy vegetable curry, or
the bright bell papers in the Malaysian.
There’s succulent nuggets of meat if
you get salt-and-pepper chicken or the
bright orange gloopiness of its sweet
and spicy sister. I especially appreci-
ate the goblets filled to the brim with
red-hot Lya-Jyao sauce, to sate those
of us who treat a spice as a nutritional
priority over protein and carbs and to
sweeten the deal they have those awe-
some cardboard cartons to eat from,
after they’ve been stuffed generously
with grub.
But best of all? It’s spreading around
London. Now Chopstix (and its identi-
cal siblings Wox and Noodle Box else-
where) is my first point of call for a reli-
ably tasty meal that you can order and
start stuffing into your mouth within a
minute. It’s not so much fast-food as
instant-food but no less tasty for it.
Maybe though I’m too easily pleased,
and am sullying Felix’s food pages by
reviewing a cheap, unauthentic, over-
flavoured eatery frequented by people
like me with a bi-polar palette-gauge of
delicious and sub-delicious. So I asked
Nicole Ahmed, who is instead someone
who describes eating Thai food as like
walking into a garden of scents and fra-
grances.
And she likes Chopstix too.
Chopstix 28 Thurloe Street London
SW7 2LT
Try Chopstix
Omar Hafeez-Bore
descended on MADD demanding the
same service, albeit not so amusing for
Ralph. But hey, it’s an idea.
MADD bears a striking resemblance
to the other more familiar yoghurt
brands like Snog, Yuforia and Frog,
capitalizing on clean white décor com-
plete with quirky colours and a slogan
here and there; but its unique dedication
to the mango is one unheard of amongst
Londoners. When asked, “Why the
mango?” Ralph is animated in inform-
ing us that the fruit bears plenty of
healthy vitamins and is one of the most
eaten fruits in the whole of Asia. His
experiences whilst travelling there have
provided much of the inspiration for his
extensive desserts menu. And the results
are sublime.
Our Mango Sago bowl combines
mango with sago pearls, a starch ingre-
dient originating from New Guinea but
rarely presented to the Western palate,
and is one of the best representations in
London of a Mango, Sago and Pomelo
dessert I often seek in Hong Kong. Next
comes the Mango MADDness, a jumbo
platter featuring sticky glutinous rice
with mango, a mango pudding and a
Panna Cotta that was created especially
for MADD with a chef from Le Cordon
Bleu. You’d be challenged to finish that
all on your own, which is why MADD
is a place to visit with friends. Jenga
towers, Connect 4 and UNO cards com-
plete the experience where you can just
be a bit... MADD.
Rupert Street is also home to the
heavily publicized Bubbleology, which
serves Taiwanese bubble tea, a bever-
age containing tiny tapioca pearls which
slide up into your mouth as you sip. In
my opinion, it’s overrated, definitely
not original (although its PR says other-
wise) and I can’t believe they’re open-
ing a pop-up store in Harvey Nichols
next month. Try it if you’re not used to
having balls in your mouth.
Finally, you can also find the food
blogger’s favourite, Spuntino, serving
comfort food with an Italian-American
twist, on this street. Peanut butter ice
cream and jam – totally!
MADD 53 Rupert Street, Soho.
W1D 7PH. Opening hours: Mon-Thur
11am-10pm; Fri-Sat 11am-midnight;
Sun 11am-8pm. www.wearemadd.
com
Bubbleology 49 Rupert St, Soho.
W1D 7PF. Opening hours: 11am-
11pm
Spuntino 61 Rupert Street, Soho,
London, W1D 7PW. Opening hours:
Mon-Sat 11am-midnight; Sun noon-
11pm
Surviving the exam period with a tasty
alternative to Subway
Half-price mojitos
Tamarai, Covent Garden
Until end of June
10pm–midnight only
Free entry for ladies before
11pm. £10 for guys before
11:30pm on guestlist
Email guestlist@tamarai.
co.uk for info and guestlist
DEALS

