FELIX 21
TRAVEL
TravelEditor: Chris Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 10 JUNE 2011
Trekking to Machu Picchu
C
usco (or Qosqo in the na-
tive Quechua) is the his-
toric capital of the Inca
Empire in South-Eastern
Peru. It consists of windy
cobbled streets, black whorled iron
fences, spacious plazas, expansive and
luxurious fountains, ceramic plant pots
and is home to a constant whisper of
“Inca Trail Senorita?” floating the grin-
go-way. Reaching the Plaza D’Armas
(the central square) you are mobbed by
Peruvian companies trying to get you to
purchase their specific trail, “how much
chica?” to the awe-inspiring Inca palace
of legends, cloaked in mythology, sit-
ting high above the clouds, the mystical
and enigmatic ‘Machu Picchu.’
We booked an ‘Inca Jungle Trail’, an
alternative route to the historic trek tak-
en by many travellers, in which they beat
through jungle to reach the ‘doorway to
the sun’ spying in the sunrise, the first
view of this UNESCO world heritage
site, a smattering of stonework aligned
in a vast array of doorways, windows,
outer frameworks of temples and houses
for Inca royalty. Our route took us over
a disused railway track, past waterfalls,
hot water springs, a hydroelectric power
plant and several kilometres of bumpy
ground before arriving at the base of our
much anticipated end-point.
Our first day involved jumping on
to racing bikes and freewheeling our
way down 3000 feet of Andean moun-
tain-side. At the very top the wind was
harsh, whistling through our jackets as
we bent round corners. The ‘peloton’
started pedalling together as a line, then
bundled closer as a pack with finally a
few adrenaline-seekers bursting free
from the ranks to speed down the circu-
lar asphalt road, with a spectacular drop
down to the lakes and hills below and
before us. Several travellers suffered the
consequences of this reluctance to use
the brakes with one girl careering off
her bicycle to graze her chin, and one
Spanish man landing on his arm in a
ditch. However, we were lucky enough
to spin through the waterfalls, across
the bumps, glide past the villages on the
Priya Garg takes the ‘Inca Jungle Trail’ route to this iconic site
way and race up to the finish line a few
hours later. Our efforts were rewarded
with a meal of warm empanadas (local
pastry) and slices of gateau as we rested
upon a sacrificial Inca mount, rolling
green hills in front of a sheer blue sky
cradling us in a circular fashion.
The next day involved the unglam-
orous (walk seems the wrong word to
use for this gruelling march) trek over
rough terrain in the searing heat to
reach our second lodge at the base of
Machu Picchu. Sixty minutes hanging
in a hammock, and three minutes be-
ing pulled over the tempestuous waters
of a rough lake on a pulley-bridge pro-
vided a welcome respite to the cushions
of blisters padding my feet as I arrived
seven hours after we started, limping to
the town where we would set off for one
of the wonders of the world. The words
‘3am wakeup call’were not music to my
ears. Brutally, that hour of the morning
arrived all too soon, and hauling our-
selves out of bed, we trudged towards
the bridge where at 5am the Peruvian
doors would officially swing open for
us to begin our ascent to Machu Pic-
chu. Flashlights, trekking pants, energy
bars, hiking poles and sun-cream galore,
a scrum formed to charge up the thou-
sands of slippery steps.
Puffing and panting through the
flora and fauna as the mountains arose
around us, the clouds quickly disappear-
ing from far above us, to below us, and
the oxygen levels thinning with every
step, we finally made it, all 1480 ft, to
the official entry to the ruins of Machu
Picchu after fifty minutes of hill climb-
ing. “Bloody steps” (or something
less polite) was the general consensus.
Rather than a momentous sprint to see
the magnificence of the sights that we
were to behold, it was more of a 6am
stagger up to the entry of citadel, as lla-
mas picked at the grass, and bus-loads
of tourists appeared, clean and fresh to
the world, as if to taunt our weary and
sorry state.
However, as the first few travellers
handed their tickets in, we were re-
warded with a view of terraced fields,
soaring luscious green peaks and a me-
tropolis, a labyrinth of tiny stone hous-
es, coming together to form a dramatic
and astonishing view of Inca life, evok-
ing the grandeur of a lost empire from
centuries ago. As Becky made the hor-
rific climb up a neighbouring mountain,
‘Waynapicchu’, the local Inca meeting
point for the high priest and the cho-
sen virgin sacrifices to the God of the
Sun, I nursed my feet and sat at the
topmost viewpoint on the peak itself,
the ‘Guardian’s Hut’, watching as thou-
sands of tiny people milled their way up
and down the steps, awe-struck at the
magic of this now defunct and absent
city, imagining its sounds, scents and
colours.
In summary, it was an honour, an en-
chanting, unbelievable, inspiring, stu-
pendous sight. But, Machu Picchu, you
were a real bitch to get to...
Left to right, the route to Machu Picchu: Cross a river (the Peruvian way), cross some abandoned rail tracks, take a left at the sheep, and voila! Machu Picchu!
Photos by Priya Garg
“Machu Picchu, you
were a real bitch to
get to”

