FELIX
22
hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 10 june 2011
Hangman’s Finest College News Source
the turnip
Time travellers revealing exam answers – but
not to arseholes, twats, or Medics...
Departments across the College have reported
unusually high average marks in exams taken
since 19th May, when boffins in the Physics
department confirmed that they now have a
fully-functioning time machine that goes back
as well as forward in time. All attempts up to
this point have left volunteers stranded in ran-
dom points in the future, lumbered with hav-
ing to explain to friends why their hair grew 5
inches overnight and tracking down their other
selves to challenge them to a duel, Highland-
er-style. This also accounts for the numerous
sightings of students acting as if they don’t
have exams to revise for.
All evidence points towards students using
the time machine to obtain the exam papers
with solutions in advance, avoiding the ob-
vious route of obtaining next week’s lottery
numbers or stock market data because Impe-
rial students aren’t renowned for their common
sense. Alarm bells first rang when invigilators
noticed that everyone in the Modelling in Bi-
ology exam finished within 45 minutes, apart
from one student who has no friends at all and
evidently was left out of the loop. Examiners’
suspicions were confirmed when it came to as-
sessing their answer booklets, which contained
not only the full solutions but also various
spelling mistakes and in some cases even the
accompanying footnotes such as “These are
the marks the examiner anticipates giving”.
Not to be outdone, various examiners dis-
gruntled by the fact that the impossibly hard
exams they’ve set have just been undermined,
are considering using the time machine to
change the paper set, resulting in an endless
back-and-forth battle until the space-time con-
tinuum finally has enough of their bullshit and
collapses into a singularity.
Have you ever wondered exactly how fit you
are? Have you ever thought that your Face-
book stalking is unfocused? Have you ever
wanted to know if you were the more attractive
member in the couple?
With FitFinder having, like a super hero
with the power of superspeed and premature
ejaculation problems, come and very swiftly
gone, the website with the word fit in the name
was roughly like Imogen Thomas’ legs – wide
open.
If the answer to any of the questions in the
first paragraph were yes, then we have a revolu-
tion for you. It’s called fitsort. Unlike FitFinder,
everyone at Imperial is automatically applicable
to be on it. Basically it’s where you do what you
do in the pub with mates, but via the Internet.
You rate all of the girls and guys you know. Ex-
cept the twist is that it’s a one-on-one situation.
It’s a bit like a boxing match, if a boxing match
consisted of two peoples’ poser profile pictures
put side by side and the audience rating them.
This can cause some David vs. Goliath situa-
tions. Usually occurring when someone you
knew from school who now goes to Durham is
up against someone you met at Imperial.
Results are shown in the form of a bps (bang-
able points system). Then you get your friends
list all ranked from hottest to decidedly nottest.
A lot of people have been worried about pri-
vacy, seeing as it’s an opt out system. To be
honest, fuck privacy, who cares about that shit
when you can instantly know how (un)attrac-
tive you are.
Obviously this isn’t going to help revision
in any way, as you will constantly be check-
ing it waiting for the moment when your stats
change. This will most likely end up in spend-
ing the entire night sulking as you haven’t got
the win to lose ratio you deserve. I mean come
on, you have long hair in a side parting, what
the fuck else do these people look for in a guy?
The most interesting thing is when you spot
a large disproportion in a couple. Pointing this
out to the couple is obviously the way to go.
I’ve found it can only strengthen a relation-
ship if one of them knows that they have been
punching above their weight.
If fitsort isn’t exciting you as much as you
thought it would, there’s always sexymp.com.
This is where mps go head to head in a contest
to see which one you’d rather force legislation
through. Then the MPs are ranked in order of
hotness. There are obviously some problems
with the system. For example, Eric Pickles is
not actually last. So we can only assume Eric
Pickles goes on there everyday to vote for
himself.
Are you fitter than your MP?
An artist’s impression of what he wish-
es the time machine looked like. What
we all wish it looked like
DRUNKEN MATE OF THE WEEK
Send your photos to felix@imperial.ac.uk.
As the former head of the IMF will tell you,
asking for permission, is a good idea.
HANGMAN
Spoilt for choice. Look at that blue steel. Oh baby I want you to reform my system
Medics said to be angry
and drunk...
This week Editor Kadhim Shubber was able to an-
nounce exclusively, via Felix’s Facebook and Twit-
ter feeds, that Colin Firth would be at Imperial. The
exposure meant he had to pull out, and not in the
good way – or so Kadhim says. The excuse given has
been that “due to the uncertainty principle; the more
I knew about one thing the less I knew about another.
Also I was trying to get the record for most likes and
retweets on a single post.”
This week he has upped the ante, and told us that
Scarlett Johansson and Keira Knightley will be filming
a nude lesbian scene on campus. Apparently they will
also be filming an orgy scene and need ‘horny male
students’ to act as extras. It has been reported that
they decided to film at Imperial as horny male stu-
dents would be in plentiful supply. Applicants should
turn up on the day wearing geek chic (so basically
whatever you usually wear.) Hangman has been in-
formed that the extras ‘will not need to be able to
differentiate’ and so even Medics can take part. Al-
though as it is exam season Medics are likely to start
reciting anatomy, completely ruining the mood.
Students at Imperial were so excited to see a Hol-
lywood movie star that they almost stopped revis-
ing. One student was overheard saying: “Unless it’s
filmed in the library and contains scenes that include
detailed mathematical explanations of Quantum Me-
chanics I’m not interested.”
It has been suggested that it will just be body dou-
bles and minor characters. However, this is being an-
nounced in the fourth paragraph, as it’s more fun to
get your hopes up. Kadhim has defended his decision
to release the news before knowing whether or not it
was bullshit by saying “Hey, even if you’re just a body
double for Scarlett Johansson you are likely to still
be fuckable”. The Physics department has refused to
confirm or deny that the body doubles will be “definite
eights, borderline nines”.
It is thought that angry Imperial students will protest
by picking up Felix, flicking straight to the centrefold,
scanning for talent, and when they inevitably find
none, reading the horoscopes and throwing it away.
As this is the way that most people indulge in Felix it
may prove hard to perform the reverse operation of
integration (differentiate – keeping you on your toes,
you guys have exams to revise for) between protestors
and innocent students. Although innocent bystander
and vicious protestor is a distinction that the police
never bother making, and if it’s good enough for them
it’s good enough for anyone.
We here at Hangman believe that the Felix Editor
should be held accountable, and needs to be de-
posed immediately. Reports suggest his stranglehold
over the Facebook page has become unworkable. The
other day he was even seen wearing a military uni-
form, contemplating growing a moustache, insiting he
is referred to as ‘General’, and calling Sepp Blatter a
“good man, with a kind heart”.
H A N G M A N
Multiple movie stars will
DEFINITELY be at Imperial

