FELIX Friday 10 june 2011 23
Scorpio
This week, you’re watching the King’s
Speech when you suddenly realise that
it’s 1846 and you’re playing croquet
with Queen Victoria. You panic and start
running around screaming. A man stops
you in your tracks. It’s the invigilator
again... damn pills...
Horoscopes
Aries
This week, you’re cycling home when
suddenly a car hits you and breaks both
yourlegs.Youstartscreamingandcrying,
the pain is unbelievable. Someone grabs
your arm. It’s the invigilator. He kindly
asks you stop screaming and to leave the
exam hall immediately. Damn pills...
Taurus
This week, ‘Firthgate’ explodes all over
campus like a horny suicide bomber with
a one-way ticket to New York. Crowds
of angry students lay siege to the Felix
Office demanding to know where the
fuck Colin Firth is and if he’ll be giving
autographs in exchange for blowjobs...
Gemini
This week, you’re cutting your finger-
nails when you cut a little too deep and
end up slicing your wrists upon. At least
that’s what you tell the picture of Colin
Firth on your computer. He’s not buy-
ing it. “Oh I can’t lie to you Colin!” you
exclaim before breaking down in tears.
Cancer
This week, Colin Firth is ragging Bon-
ham-Carter when he suddenly gets a call
from his agent. “Apparently you’ve come
out of the closet, why didn’t you let me
know! We’re finished asshole.” Upon
ending the conversation, Firth sighs
“Damn Felix” before resuming ragging...
Leo
This week, you’re sitting in the Chem-
istry department, feverishly trying to
finish your lab report, when Colin Firth
appears out of nowhere, slaps you in the
face with his royal dick, and then strides
off laughing, “‘Filming in Blackett’, ha!”
No-one believes you, not even Felix...
Virgo
This week, you send a picture of your
erect dick to a girl on the internet. She’s
not very impressed with you and sends
you an angry email back calling you
a disgusting pervert and threatening
to “cut off your allowance if you do it
again, Love Mom.”
Libra
This week, you’re a cameraman filming
in the Blackett Lab. You’re feeling kind
of good today. Because even though
you know lots of students are watching
because they think Colin Firth is there,
you can’t help but think it has something
to do with your new haircut...
Sagittarius
This week, you leave too much of your
work until the last minute and end up
spending all night writing any old drivel
about refraction or some shit. By dawn
you’re so worn down that you just want
Colin Firth to come and put his finger in
your ear. Oh yeah Colin, just like that...
Capricorn
This week, you’re the chair that they’re
using in the filming in Blackett. You’re
not happy. You were promised that it
would be Colin Firth’s beautiful round
behind pressing down on your face. But
it’s not. You cancel your subscription to
Felix...
Aquarius
This week, the voice in your head tells you
to stop. You tell it to fuck off and resume
perfecting your life-size model of Colin
Firth. “I could cut off the penis,” you
think. “Or you could let me go?” says the
real Colin Firth. “Shutup, talking life-size
model of Colin Firth...” you retort. Snip.
Pisces
This week, you’re freaking with a 3-year
old and are so close to busting a nut when
the police break down your door. “WE
WERE PROMISED FIRTH!” they shout.
You ask them “Where is your God now?”
and when the girl turns into a sock you re-
alise that you’ve been at the pills again...
DRUNKEN
MATE OF
THE WEEK
Well done sir! Finally someone with real balls. The rest of you are all pussies, it’s the night before your exams,
and all you want to do is go outside, lie on the concrete, and die. But you don’t, do you? Fucking conformists...
THE NEWS WITHOUT THE NEWS
German farmers shown ‘no
mercy’ over E. coli outbreak

