Cotton computers
Imagine plugging a USB port into a sheet of paper,
and turning it into a tablet computer. It might be a
stretch, but ideas like this may soon be a reality
thanks to a technique called atomic layer deposi-
tion.
The technique involves coating woven cotton or
plastic bags with conductive nanocoatings, such as
those found in solar cells or microelectronics. Atom-
ic layer deposition is capable of coating a textile
fabric so that each fiber has the same nanoscale-
thick coating that is thousands of times thinner
than a human hair. The research shows that com-
mon textile materials could soon be used for com-
plex electronic devices.
“Research like this has potential health applica-
tions since we could potentially create a uniform
with cloth sensors that could track heart rate, body
temperature, movement and more in real time. To
do this now, you would need to stick a bunch of
wires throughout the fabric – which would make it
bulky and uncomfortable”, says Dr. Jesse Jur, lead
author of the paper published in Advanced Func-
tional Materials.
FELIX
8
In brief
SCIENCE
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Charlie Harvey
Thea Cunningham
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 10 june 2011
Kermit-ted to helping out
Scientists at Queen’s University Belfast have dis-
covered proteins in frog skins that could be used
to treat cancer, diabetes, stroke and transplant pa-
tients by regulating the growth of blood vessels.
The research identified two proteins that can be
used in a controlled and targeted way to regulate
angiogenesis – the process by which blood vessels
grow in the body. The proteins, found in secretions
on the skins of the Waxy Monkey Frog and the Giant
Firebellied Toad, have the ability to either stimulate
or inhibit the growth of blood vessels.
Most cancer tumours can only grow to a certain
size before they need blood vessels to grow into the
tumour to supply it with vital oxygen and nutrients.
By ‘switching off’ angiogenesis and inhibiting blood
vessel growth, the Waxy Monkey Frog protein has
the potential to kill cancer tumours.
Meanwhile, a protein from the Giant Firebellied
Toad is able to stimulate blood vessel growth.
This has the potential to treat an array of diseases
and conditions that require blood vessels to repair
quickly, such as wound healing, organ transplants
and strokes.
It’s a strange feeling when you first step into
an Alzheimer’s care home. What hits you
immediately is the smell of urine and cheap
school dinners, but the far more unnerving as-
pect is the sea of blank faces that greets you.
I’m here to see my grandma, who has been
suffering from Alzheimer’s for a number of
years.
As I progress down the thick-carpeted hall-
ways towards her room, my gaze catches a
group of people sitting in easy-chairs in a loose
circle, facing each other as if to facilitate con-
versation. But they’re not here to talk; instead,
they mumble away to themselves, uncertain of
where they are, forced out of their own homes
into one that’s been chosen by their children
for convenience.
When I finally get to my grandmother’s
room, I gingerly loiter at the door: she’s tucked
up in bed, being carefully fed by a nurse. I feel
like a voyeur, like I’m watching something I
shouldn’t, witnessing the cyclical nature of
life, and death, as my grandma is fed like a
baby. At first I’m not sure if this is the right
room, as her complexion shocks me. This is
not the person I knew before, who helped me
build sandcastles, and fish in rock pools on
carefree school summer holidays spent in Dor-
set. Instead, her weathered skin loosely wraps
her toothless skull, her thick-rimmed glasses
magnifying tired, confused eyes.
At first I just stand there, rudely staring, but
the nurse catches my eye and smiles, gently
moving closer to grandma, “There’s some-
one to see you Betty.” “I don’t want to see
anybody,’’ comes the curt response, but I en-
ter anyway and sit on a chair in the corner of
the room, as the nurse helps her out of bed and
into a chair. It’s not that she doesn’t want to see
me, I tell myself, it’s just that she’s probably
scared, and doesn’t know who I am.
It wasn’t until 1906 that a German doc-
tor called Alois Alzheimer first identified the
disease that came to be named after him. De-
spite this, it was only much later that it was
characterised as a neuro-degenerative disease,
caused by the misfolding of certain proteins in
the body.
It is the misfolding of two proteins – amy-
loid and tau – which causes them to clump and
tangle inside brain cells. The continual build-
up of plaques and tangles eventually causes the
cells to die, explaining the progressive loss of
brain function that characterises Alzheimer’s.
Despite the fact that Alzheimer’s has been
known about for over a century, treatment is
still relatively primitive. But researchers at the
University of Cardiff have uncovered a new
molecular interaction that may help us un-
derstand what causes Alzheimer’s in the first
place, and design better treatments.
Instead of looking at traditional targets of
tau and amyloid in isolation, the team led by
Professor Trevor Dale, looked at the interac-
tions between amyloid and nucleic acids – the
building blocks of DNA. Together the two
can combine to form Amyloid-Nucleic Acid
(ANA) fibres, which can also cause deadly
plaques in the brain.
According to Professor Dale, the findings
could have “importance for Alzheimer’s dis-
ease because it may be that we can find a way
to stop the ANA fibres forming and protect the
brain from harm.”
While long-term drug development pros-
pects for Alzheimer’s are poor, Professor Dale
said that “continued funding and basic research
will be essential”, especially as the number of
sufferers in the UK will continue to rise to an
estimated 1.7 million by 2050.
This is something Dr Simon Ridley, Head of
Research for Alzheimer’s Research UK, ech-
oed, as “research is the only answer to heading
this off, giving us hope of new treatments and
better evidence for prevention. We must invest
in research at all levels now to avert a dementia
crisis in the next generation.”
It’s a sobering sight to see my grandmother,
once close to six feet tall, now huddled, dimin-
ished and shrunken in a chair. But when her
weathered face breaks into a toothless smile as
she recognises me for a few brief moments, I
realise how important it is for more money to
be pumped into research, in the hope that a po-
tentially breakthrough treatment can be made
available to help ease the suffering of patients
such as grandma.
George Wigmore
Grandma, Alzheimer’s and me
Alzheimer’s causes neurons like these to become tangled by proteins, killing them
Alzheimer’s could affect 1.7 million people in the UK by 2050

