FELIX 9
SCIENCE
Friday 10 june 2011
Ever find sex horribly disappointing?
Finding it difficult to get those teenage
kicks? If it’s any consolation, accord-
ing to a recent study from the School of
Public Health, you are not alone.
The rather raunchy study probed
15,000 young adults on their previous 7
years of sexual activities and ratings of
their sexual enjoyment. For many, recall-
ing so many sexual exploits may be a
struggle, but it would seem rating pleas-
ure was another matter. Remarkably,
87% of men compared to 47% of women
reported to having orgasms most of the
time. This shocking disparity might be
interpreted as a lack of male performance
but perhaps the real issues lie with the fe-
male psyche. In the study, regularity of
female orgasms and sexual enjoyment
was linked to three psychological fac-
tors: autonomy, self esteem and empathy.
Autonomy is the ability to follow per-
sonal convictions, even if this means
going against social norms and is sup-
posed to represent sexual explora-
tion. Self esteem, on the other hand is
the sense of self worth and is aligned
with the ability to communicate sexual
preferences. Finally, empathy is linked
to understanding the partner’s needs
and knowing how to satisfy them. It is
thought this empathy may then inspire
the partner to return this “favour”.
Unsurprisingly, it was shown that
women score higher on empathy but
lower on self esteem compared to men.
The co-author of the study Adena Gal-
insky said “these developmental assets
may be more important to young wom-
en’s sexual pleasure since they help them
break down impediments to sexual com-
munication and exploration”. So maybe
it’s time to take the pressure away from
male sexual performance and work on
female confidence for a change.
Poor performance, or low self-confidence?
Katie Tomlinson
It’s ok, I’m sure Colin Firth will visit Imperial one day...
Low self esteem may
hinder sex life
EYFastTracks
Apply in July andget ahead faster
Applications for 2012 Ernst & Young Internships and Placements open on July 1st
with opportunities in Advisory, Assurance, Corporate Finance and Tax.
Act now and you could sort out your plans for 2012 before the university year begins.
Find out more and apply at www.ey.com/uk/eyfasttracks
© Ernst & Young 2011. Ernst & Young is an equal opportunities
employer and welcomes applications from all sections of the
community. The UK firm Ernst & Young LLP is a limited liability
partnership and a member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited.
Photo by Scott Fynn

