10
POLITICS
Politics Editors
Politics Editors James Goldsack and James Lees
James Goldsack and James Lees
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 19 FEBRUARY 2010
Professor David Nutt, since being sacked as Chair of the ACMD, has set up a new Independent Scientific Committee on Drugs. His recent talk held by the PPS at Imperial College had a strong turnout.
Prof. David Nutt, Science and Politics
I
t is very easy, when you study at
undergraduate level, to imag-
ine that science has got nothing
to do with politics, or philoso-
phy, or history.
So claimed Dr. Stephen Webster,
Director of the Science Communi-
cation Group at Imperial College, as
he opened Imperial College Union’s
Political Philosophy Society’s recent
event. The subject of the Interview
and Question and Answer session,
Professor David Nutt, is “emblematic”
of the ease with which disagreements
arise at the interface between science
and politics.
That the Pippard Lecture Theatre
was full to beyond capacity suggests
that a proportion of Imperial Col-
lege’s students are well-aware of at
least one current source of friction
between scientists and government.
In October last year, Professor Nutt
was sacked from his position as chair
of the Advisory Council on the Mis-
use of Drugs (ACMD) when he gave
advice that was at odds with govern-
ment policy.
Professor Nutt graduated in Medi-
cine from Cambridge University, and
subsequently trained as a psychiatrist
with an interest in neuropsychophar-
macology. A relatively recent arrival
at Imperial College, he holds the Ed-
mond J Safra chair in Neuropsychop-
harmacology here. Such a background
Ex AMCD chair Professor David Nutt recently took part in interview and Q&A session at Imperial, Erica Cule
reports on the event and the Professor’s views on the relationship between Science and Politics.
made him the ideal candidate for
chair of the ACMD, a position he was
appointed to in January 2008, having
served on the council for a number of
years before that.
In common with Dr. Webster, I
first became aware of Professor Nutt
in February last year when I read his
article ‘Equasy - An overlooked ad-
diction with implications for the
current debate on Drug Harms’,
which was published in the Journal of
Psychopharmacology.
This article compares the risks as-
sociated with horse riding with those
associated with taking ecstasy, and
reaches some surprising conclusions.
The article and its subsequent press
coverage ruffled the feathers of the
then Home Secretary, Jacqui Smith
who requested that he issue an apol-
ogy, which he did. The call for his
resignation in October last year was
prompted by the publication of a re-
port, ‘Estimating Drug Harms: a
risky business’, by the Centre for
Crime and Justice Studies at Kings
College.
The report, itself an edited tran-
script of a lecture given by Nutt,
discusses the many factors influenc-
ing legislation about drugs. In the
report, the scale published in The
Lancet in 2007 was presented. This
scale attempts to parametrize and
summarize the risks associated with
the use of various drugs, both legal
and illegal, resulting in a hierarchy
at odds with current drug legislation.
Known for being outspoken, perhaps
Professor Nutt felt able to be even
more frank because since his sacking
he can no longer be chastised by the
Home Secretary for making his views
public whilst holding a government
advisory position.
At the PPS event, he did not shy
away from the challenging questions
presented by Dr. Webster and later
by the audience. Dr. Webster encour-
aged this candour, opening by ask-
ing him what it felt like to be sacked
by the Home Office. Professor Nutt
touched on the power of e-mail - he
was able to communicate his side of
the story within hours of his sacking.
Such a rapid response is not possible
from a bureaucratic government de-
partment. Professor Nutt spoke about
the lack of scientific rigour underly-
ing the ACMD’s decisions at the time
that he joined, something that ap-
palled him at the time.
However, establishing a system of
classification based on relative harms
(the aforementioned publication in
The Lancet) did not win approval
from government ministers when
classifying drugs according to their
harms brought out striking incon-
sistencies between current drugs leg-
islation surrounding possession and
supply. Questions from the audience
covered a wide range of topics.
Imperial’s cosmopolitan student
community were able to point out the
differences in drugs policy in differ-
ent countries, and to discuss the im-
pact different approaches have on the
problems caused by drugs. Professor
Nutt clarified misconceptions about
drugs and our current understanding
of their effects, and carefully pointed
out where research was lacking, or
difficult to conduct.
His passion for evidence-based
policy-making was clear. Following
his sacking, Professor Nutt has not
retreated from investigating drug
harms. In January this year he an-
nounced the launch of the Independ-
ent Scientific Committee on Drugs
(ISCD). At the press conference an-
nouncing the launch of the new Com-
mittee, Professor Nutt outlined its
planned remit, to include not just re-
search on drug harms but also their
benefits and treatments.
Drugs are an emotive issue, and,
in establishing the ISCD, Professor
Nutt hopes to lead an independent
committee once removed from the
government, that will eventually be
commissioned by the government
to conduct research. Whether this
comes to pass will probably not be-
come clear until after the general
election. Questions from the floor
made it obvious that Professor Nutt
was, in this instance, somewhat
preaching to the converted.
As an advocate of the role of scien-
tific evidence in the formation of gov-
ernment policy facing an audience of
science students, he was unlikely to
meet many dissidents from a political
point of view. And when his published
research points out the discrepancy
between evidence of harms and cur-
rent drug classification, and further-
more leads to the recommendation of
the downgrading of some drugs, and
his audience are students, he is likely
to be met with far fewer accusations
than he has received from Home Sec-
retaries over the years.
For a lively, upfront and honest
discussion of Professor Nutt’s ef-
forts to bring some science to sci-
entific advice, and a demonstration
of his refusal to march to a political
beat, the evening was informal and
entertaining.
However, I could not help but feel
that the debate might have been all
the richer if there had been a sprin-
kling of Daily Mail readers in the au-
dience. In this vein, if I may take the
liberty, on behalf of the PPS I would
like to extend an invitation to the
Home Secretary to face a similar au-
dience, some of whom might have an
interest in a future career in science,
or in government, or in both.

