T
his is not what you would
call a normal book review,
butthat’sjustbecauseSoz-
aboy is not a normal book.
It is not one of those nov-
els that after you have finished reading
you’ll put back on the shelf. No, when
you will be done reading Sozaboy you
will give it to everyone you know. This
happened to me because Sozaboy is a
book that makes you perceive injustice
and when you perceive injustice, espe-
cially when you are young, you want to
make other people aware and want to
do something.
Sozaboy is a book about war and the
dumbness of war as seen by a young
Nigerian boy. The historical context
in which Sozaboy is set is the Nige-
rian Civil War. But Sozaboy is not a
book on a particular war because it
expresses the despair and sorrows that
characterize every war. The message
carried by Sozaboy extends beyond a
particular time and setting. Sozaboy is
a young recruit in the Nigerian Army
who initially believes that the folly all
around him has a meaning, only to lat-
er discover the contrary. The power of
the novel lies in the language used by
Ken Saro-Wiwa to express Sozaboy’s
perception of the world. In fact this
novel is written in “rotten English”, a
mixture of “Nigerian pidgin English,
broken English and Idiomatic English”.
This language adaptation results in an
extraordinary realism and a very effec-
tive communication, which fascinates
the reader straight away.
Ken Saro Wiwa, was hanged on
November 10, 1995 by Nigerian Au-
thorities, with the formal accusation
of inciting riots and separatism. The
informal reason is that he had been
annoying. He claimed that the Mul-
tinational Corporations prospecting
for oil in the Niger Delta had to share
the profits. He accused the oil indus-
try of damaging the environment. He
revealed the paradox that somehow
the more resources a country has the
poorer it is. He denounced the geno-
cide of the Ogoni people. He wrote
Sozaboy. And he was killed.
One year after the execution Human
Right activists and Ken Saro-Wiwa’s
family brought lawsuits against Royal
Dutch Shell, accusing the company
of being involved in Ken Saro-Wiwa’s
death. In 2009 Shell opted for a settle-
ment out of court with the Saro-Wiwa
family.
Although Shell justified the deci-
sion by saying that they wanted to
“move on”, some people thought that
this proved that Shell had something
to hide and that it had responsibili-
ties in Ken Saro-Wiwa’s death, but this
is another story. This is not the place
to discuss these lawsuits. And it is not
even the place to talk about Ken Saro-
Wiwa’s importance as a Human Right
and Environmental Activist. This is
the place to discuss Ken Saro-Wiwa’s
words, which were dangerous and
annoying.
Ken Saro-Wiwa was afraid that his
words might be forgotten. But writ-
ing, thinking and discussing his words
and writings means that we know
them and that we know that they are
still dangerous if they continue to be
known. His books are still a powerful
and pacific weapon against any kind
of injustice and power. A lesson to
be learned from Ken Saro-Wiwa’s life
and words is that he didn’t protest, did
what he did, and wrote what he wrote
on the basis of some abstract belief or
absolute idea.
He didn’t protest because he was an
environmentalist or because he hated
multinational corporations. He was
an intellectual and he understood per-
fectly that the development of his peo-
ple, the Ogoni people, could have been
promoted by the wise use of his land’s
resources. But he protested because
he perceived evident injustice in how
these resources were managed.
Ken Saro-Wiwa’s words are still im-
portant, and still dangerous for some-
one, but only if they are known, only
if we remember the lives of true, real
people like Ken Saro-Wiwa.
War, Genocide and Human Rights- Sozaboy
Edoardo Borgomeo looksatSozaboybyKenSaro-Wiwa,itstragicthemesandevenmoretragicbackstory
T
he Royal Court Theatre
production of Jerusalem
is named after William
Blake’s iconic poem of the
same name. A favourite
hymn to many, Jerusalem reveres the
majesty of bucolic England – a coun-
tryside so beautiful that Christ must
surely have been born here. It is with
a sense of irony then that Jez Butter-
worth’s play begins with the morn-
ing-after-the-night-before carnage at
Johnny ‘Rooster’ Byron’s trailer in the
woods of Flintock, Wiltshire. Rudely
awoken by the local council on St
George’s day issuing an eviction no-
tice in lieu of a decision to build the
new estate in Rooster wood, Johnny
stumbles out, limping, and fixes his in-
evitable hangover with a milk, raw egg
and vodka concoction. This spinner of
yarns is a modern day Pied Piper, fa-
ther and drug dealer rolled into one, as
his home of twenty years is local party
destination for underage revelers and
old friends alike. St George’s day her-
alds the beginning of the annual Flin-
tock village fair and presents a chance
for Johnny and his motley crew to do
what Brits do best and go mental.
The play is quick-witted, uproarious
and bears all the hallmarks of modern
British culture: binge drinking, under-
age sex, Morris dancing, cups of tea,
bacon rolls and village fetes. The post-
party destruction in the first scene is
all too familiar to students and signals
the squalid and debauched lifestyle
which Johnny has become famed for
– a sharp contrast to the idyllic forest
setting, the real trees used on stage and
the various live animals that make an
Jerusalem- Perfection in the Westend?
Caz Knight goestoseetheRoyalCourt’stransferofJerusalem,aquickwittedsatireofmorrisdancingandbingedrinking
appearance throughout the perform-
ance, including the chickens which live
under the Rooster’s trailer.
Jerusalem treats us to some brilliant-
ly bizarre scenes which see Johnny re-
counting the tale of his encounter with
a one hundred foot giant, a professor
donning a Pope’s hat on acid and the
very awkward conversation between
the Rooster and his ex- about taking
his little boy Marky to the fair as the
ex- snorts coke and the boy is out of
sight in the trailer. The three acts are
punctuated by bursts of song from
Phaedra, the fifteen-year-old runaway,
whose stepfather beats Johnny up in an
incredibly intense and moving scene in
which he is assaulted to the sound of
Joni Mitchell-esque music.
Mark Rylance gives an superbly en-
tertaining performance as the pathetic
anti-hero, Johnny Byron, evoking all
the pity that such a mess of a charac-
ter rightly deserves, without any of the
self-indulgent monologues as he did as
Hamm in the recent West End produc-
tion of Beckett’s Endgame. Mackenzie
Crook does what he does best, making
comedy out of the weedy, nerdy roles
he is landed with, as wannabe DJ, Gin-
ger, while the rest of the cast make up a
perfect crew of West Country wasters.
Jerusalem is such an excellent and hi-
larious social satire that it would not be
surprising if it were made into a televi-
sion comedy sometime in the future: it
would definitely have a lot of viewers. The superbly entertaining Mark Rylance as Johnny “Rooster” Byron
A very strange fancy dress party. Look, Mackenzie Crook has come as Adam!
13
felix FRIDAY 19 FEBRUARY 2010
ARTS
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk

