Sabbatical
2010
Bright candidates
required!
Stand for Election.
Shape your Union.
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
What are these Elections?
Every year elections are held to elect students to run the Union. They take
a year out of their study or are at the end of their course. These students,
called Sabbaticals, each have different roles looking after areas of the
Union. Most importantly the Sabbaticals shape the Union ensuring it stays
student focused and how you want it to be.
The Sabbaticals are supported by a team of full-time staff to help them
achieve what they want from their year in charge. If you think you have
what it takes to run a multi-million pound organistation then you should
consider standing in the Sabbatial Elections 2010.
What positions are available?
There’s something for everyone. The Sabbatical
positions are:
• Union President
• Deputy President (Clubs & Societies)
• Deputy President (Education)
• Deputy President (Finance & Services)
• Deputy President (Welfare)
• Felix Editor
We are also electing four Student Trustees, these
are positions you can do whilst still studying. More
information can be found on our elections website.
Who can stand?
Good question! Any full-member of the
Union can stand for election. Remember
that this is a full-time position and you will
need to take a year off from your course if
you are not in your final year. The contract
is 13 months running from 1 July 2010 to 31
July 2011. International students are eligible
to become a Sabbatical and the College
will be able to inform the relevant authorities
about the change to your Visa.
Why should I stand?
Being a Sabbatical is a fantastic and unique
opportunity. Each role is an extremely important
part of the Union. You will have the chance to
shape and change the Union and what it does.
These roles require you to demonstrate confident
leadership abilities, to take the initiative and
make big decisions, but they will give you the
opportunity to develop your skill set and learn to
deal with challenging situations.
How do I stand?
If you are interested the best thing to do is
have a look at our elections website. This site
contains lots of information about each of
the roles and also our Elections timetable.
The deadline for standing is 1 March. If you
have any questions which are specific to a
rol then it’s best to contact one or our current
Sabbaticals, again their information is on the
elections website. Any general questions can
be sent to elections@imperial.ac.uk.
Nominations close 1 March.

