27
felix FRIDAY 19 FEBRUARY 2010
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk NEWS FEATURE
Whilst most
Imperial stu-
dents will be doing in-
ternships or idly wasting away their
summer at home, Luke Johnston will soaring
across several countries on two wheels.
He will join up with his two friends Matthew Gibson and David Cook
to complete a 10,000 mile bike-ride anti-clockwise around Europe. Dur-
ing this adventure they will enter 16 countries across the continent.
Their hope is to raise £10,000, and they’ve aptly named their journey
the 10k for 10k Challenge.
The 5-month adventure will start in March when David and Matthew
set off from the French channel. However, as matters in life dictate Mat-
thew and Luke will have to split the 10,000 miles between them whilst
David completes the round-trip entirely. Luke will take up the last 5,000
miles starting from Greece’s capital, Athens.
A 2nd year Chemical Engineer, Luke is eager to get going as soon as
Imperial will let him. He says: “As soon as exams are over, I’m preparing
to leave for Athens. I’ve got three days after my last exam.”
Asking him what his drive was behind this epic task, it was clear that
alongside raising money for three chosen charities, there’s a desire to
travel and see different places.
“It’s a personal challenge. I haven’t seem many places and when David
asked me to come along for the ride, I couldn’t really turn it down. Loads
of my friends are doing the whole Ibiza thing, which they’ve been asking
me to come along for, but obviously this is going to be a lot better.”
He’s clearly excited about his decision. When probed about what he’s
most looking forward to, his answers are very specific.
“There’s a sense of adventure, obviously, as we camp every night by the
side of the road in the middle of nowhere. Also, the route is planned out
but we’re going to have SatNavs with us. There’s still going to be those
quick decisions we’re going to have to make. I think that’ll be exciting.”
Luke also speaks of the dangers of his voyage across Europe comically.
“Yeh, I’m also scared of meeting any murderers and then defending my-
self when I can’t speak the language.”
Talking about his riding partners, Luke’s also taking his relationship
with them lightly.
“Dave’s a man of few words. He’s a simple man, and I’m going to be
alone with him for 2 months. Though, we all have the same amount of
passion for this as this bike ride will be as much of a physiological chal-
lenge as physiological one.”
The £10,000 they hope to raise will go to three charities. Luke ex-
plained their reasoning.
“We all feel very passionate about what these charities do and so we
felt that by doing this bike ride we could help them raise money by using
the skills we have. Geoff and Julie Henson live locally to us who run the
Jukado district development fund. I have a lot of respect for these people
as now that they’ve retired, they commit a large part of their lives to try-
ing to help the Gambians build a health clinic which is vital to the health
care of the local people in that area.
We also personally believe that the performance of Paralympians was
inspirational. However with the current situation, it is a lot easier for
an Olympian to achieve their dreams than it is for a Paralympian as the
amount of funds aren’t out there (i.e. less sponsorship deals and media
coverage).
Finally we’ve decided to raise funds for Brake as well. Dave, Mathew
and I have had close friends of ours die in car crashes who were only
in the year above us in school. Things like that can often be avoided
quite easily and Brake does try to reduce these incidents occurring by
methods that we feel are effective. We would like to try to reduce these
incidents occurring and this is the way we feel we can contribute.”
David and Luke expect to arrive back on August the 18th, leaving Luke
another six weeks before he returns to Imperial. He certainly won’t have
wasted his summer.
France-Spain (Pamplona) 880 miles
Spain-Andorra (via Barcelona) 580 miles
Andorra-Italy 580 miles
Italy-San Marino (via Rome) 750 miles
San Marino-Croatia 350 miles
Croatia-Montenegro (Podgorica) 605 miles
Montenegro-Macedonia 280 miles
Macedonia-Greece (Athens) 690 miles
Turkey-Bulgaria-680 miles
Bulgaria-Romania (Bucharest) 600 miles
Buceresti-Budapest - 620 miles
Budapest-Bratislava - 150 miles
Bratislava-Warsaw –500 miles
Warsaw-Berlin – 480 miles
Berlin-Amsterdam - 410 miles
Amsterdam-Paris -350 miles
+ Unintentional off-route mileage)
= 10,000 miles
http://www.justgiving.com/10kfor10k
to donate!
10,000 miles for £10,000

