felixSport
Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
19.02.10
Imperial College Football and Kick 4 Life join forces
Damian Phelan Football
Hockey’s
winning
streak
continues
Having trekked from one end of Lon-
don to what seemed like the Far East,
IC ladies 2s arrived at Redbridge
Sports Centre in Essex ready to take
on St Bart’s, only to find out that the
hockey astro had been taken over by
some hockey players of the miniature
variety, who were playing a nice little
tournament.
After various phone calls back to the
union and some heated discussions
with the other captain and the sports
centre staff about the mix-up, the IC
ladies reluctantly decided to stay and
wait for the match to go ahead when
the pitch became available. So, after a
one hour delay, it was game on.
IC got off to a steady start. With the
help of Caroline, Carina and Rabiya
in the midfield, the forwards Hilary,
Soraya and Annabel were seeing a lot
of the ball in the opposition’s D.
Our reliable defence were also always
there to halt any counter attacks made
by the opposition, who really struggled
to penetrate our D. Before long, Anna-
bel opened the score line with a simple
tap in and IC were ahead.
Soon afterwards, Maddie, Ann Marie
and Amanda, who had been cheering
from the sidelines and bantering with
the friendly umpire subbed on. Within
a few minutes, thanks to some beauti-
ful passing by IC, Amanda added to
the tally with a superb strike that flew
past the keeper’s right shoulder.
IC dominated the rest of the first
half, and with three more strikes from
Amanda smashing the back of the net,
we were feeling quite content with the
comfortable lead going into the break.
IC came out fiercely in the second
half and continued with their ferocious
attack. Some excellent interceptions
and wonderful hockey saw more Im-
perial goals fly past the keeper into the
net courtesy of Annabel, Soraya and
Amanda (who went on a slightly mad
goal spree).
Even our captain Carina couldn’t re-
sist a cheeky goal when the ball made
it through to her in the middle of the
D. As IC steamed ahead, the weather
decided to play bad cop and for the last
ten minutes, Imperial were exposed to
sleet and snow in blizzard conditions.
The pitch was swiftly being coated by
a thick white blanket of snow and a
momentary lapse meant that IC had to
hold their breath in the last few min-
utes of the match as St Bart’s won a
string of short corners. While the team
struggled to make out the lines on the
pitch, our goalie Gemma was called
into action. Thanks to some marvel-
lous defending by Alice, Kathryn, Izzy,
Fi (who took a little knock in the shoul-
der when one of their players tried to
take her down with a hockey ball), and
of course Gemma, IC secured another
clean sheet and their 10th victory in a
row, wreaking havoc upon their oppo-
nents with an awesome final score of
14-0.
Amanda Cheung Hockey
Imperial College Women’s 2nd XI 14
St Bart’s Women’s 2nd XI 0
Imperial College Football Club last
month held the inaugural Kick 4 Life 5
a-side tournament in Ethos. Elite foot-
ballers from across our university were
invited to test themselves at the high-
est level of indoor football, all in the
name of raising funds for Kick 4 Life.
The event attracted a diverse range
of teams including notorious choke
artist Jack Jeffries and his Band of Gen-
tlemen, Ahmed Farag’s Mediterranean
Magicians, the Southside Legends led
by Phil Meier, Fitsum Degefa’s Wilson
Kings, the RAF squadron marshalled
by Mike Turrell, ABACUS captained
by Matt Wong as well as a Kick 4 Life
team doing its best to represent the
foundation. Over 2 Sundays in January
all of the sides contributed some daz-
zling football as well as some generous
donations culminating with the Wil-
son Kings coming away as winners of
the championship and almost £400 be-
ing raised to help increase awareness
of HIV/AIDS in Lesotho.
Football has an incredible ability to
bring people together, to evoke fierce
passion and also to improve lives for
the better. You might question the fi-
nal part of that statement, however
through organisations involved in the
Development through Football pro-
gram, organisations like Kick 4 Life
which have recognised the amazing
power that football has to draw people
together. Founded in 2005 the foun-
dation arranges regular football tour-
naments throughout Lesotho where
children of all ages are encouraged to
demonstrate their skills while also hav-
ing access to free HIV education and
testing. In a country where being HIV
positive is associated with the worst
social stigma and often leads to outcast
status, Kick 4 Life provide a new per-
spective for those with and without the
disease. By creating an atmosphere of
positive peer pressure through bring-
ing people together for sport, they
make sure all of the children at their
events get themselves tested and that
their parents do too. The Development
through Football program has changed
the lives of so many individuals from
Uganda to Cambodia, Palestine to
Australia. It is an honour to have
helped raised funds which I hope can
change the life of at least one person
for the better.
As a university football club we carry
a lot of responsibility on our shoulders;
organising training, matches and social
events for more than 120 members.
Responsibility takes many forms and
when you have the power to contribute
something positive for those less for-
tunate then you have to seize it. Every
member of our club loves the game we
play, so we took advantage of this to
create an event to mirror those held by
Kick 4 Life, even involving the NHS to
conduct chlamydia testing.
The first week of the event consist-
ed of quick fire round robin matches,
dominated by Southside Legends who
won all their games with quality per-
formances all round with Justin White-
house and Phil Meier looking solid at
the back while Mamzi Roshid netted a
bag of goals up front. There were some
tight affairs though with the Mediter-
raneans, Wilson Kings and the Kick 4
Life team all looking strong. Moment
of the day came when Club Captain
Ed Lobb nutmegged Vice Captain Pete
Frampton to help the Kick 4 Life team
to victory.
The second week of proceedings
caused real fireworks. There was con-
troversy as Jack Jeffries Gentlemen
were denied a place in the knock-out
stages on goal difference only to be
thoroughly beaten by ABACUS in
the wooden spoon match. More con-
troversy followed in the quarter final
match between Wilson Kings and the
RAF as Mike Turrell scored an opening
goal of questionable legality. The Kings
equalised, but captain Fitz missed a
last minute penalty sending the game
Continued on page 35

