4 felix FRIDAY 19 FEBRUARY 2010
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
NEWS
As no doubt many of you are already
aware, Imperial College Union is hav-
ing a face lift. Phase 3 of the redevel-
opment is well under way, with many
thanks to our Union President, Ash-
ley Brown, and Deputy President (Fi-
nance & Services), Danny Hill, among
others.
After Phases 1 and 2 of the union re-
development, which saw the rehousing
of the Student Activities Centre (SAC)
and the Union offices into the main
union building, creating a mezzanine
level and freeing up the Beit Quad
East Basement to allow it to be used as
storage and additional meeting rooms
for clubs and societies, we’re now see-
ing the beginning of Phase 3.
Phase 3 involves the refurbishment
of the ground floor of the main union
building, including the two bars. The
design for the bars has almost been
finalised, amid controversy over what
to do about a certain pillar in dB’s.
Imperial College Union is nothing
without its students, so they’ve asked
for your input into the designing and,
more importantly, the renaming of
Tensions between Lord Mandelson
and the academic community have
been rising ever since his then Depart-
ment for Business was given control of
higher education, to become the De-
partment for Business, Innovation and
Skills. Many complained that this was
a blatant move in the direction of com-
mercialising academia. The situation
has been considerably worsened by the
government’s all-round budget cuts,
designed to appease voters alarmed
by the record deficit ahead of general
elections in May.
At a lecture at Nottingham Univer-
sity last week, Lord Mandelson argued
that academics were wrong to feel sin-
gled out, “much of the rest of the public
sector will receive similar constraints
in the course of this year or soon after...
the appearance that universities are in
the frontline of public spending cuts is
an illusion created by that need to plan
ahead. I have always said that higher
education would have to bear its share
of public spending cuts, but not more.
Public funding cuts are the regrettable
cost to the UK of saving the banking
sector and getting the country through
the recession.”
A £1 billion reduction in the higher
education budget has been announced
for next year. He claimed that academ-
ics “think they have a right to be set
in aspic in what they do,” arguing that
when they complain about the budget
cuts, what they are really concerned
with is dealing with change. “They are
using the argument about spending re-
ductions as a screen or a cloak behind
Sina Ataherian
Sina Ataherian which resistance to any sort of change
and reform can be conducted.”
From the common experience of uni-
versity academics, this sounds more
plausible than the Russell Group’s
warning that the cuts could “bring
universities to their knees within six
months.” However, the cuts may be es-
pecially damaging as last year’s record
of 570,000 undergraduate applicants is
expected to rise by one fifth.
Lord Mandelson also reiterated his
earlier advocacy of two-year intensive
learning bachelors’ degrees, describ-
ing it as something that “needs to hap-
pen anyway.” It is also likely to save the
government billions in higher educa-
tion spending. He also reaffirmed the
government’s commitment to ensuring
that not everyone has access to higher
education, “it makes no sense, either
in terms of the cost to the public purse
or the provision of quality teaching,
which remains critical to the credibil-
ity of higher education.
“A large-scale, untargeted further
expansion of full-time three-year de-
grees, without any real attention to
what these additional students are
studying, or how well it equips them
for life at work, also makes no sense
at a time when we need to be focus-
ing more closely on strategic skills and
alternatives to full-time study.” Man-
delson encouraged students who fail
to get into university to instead “take
up apprenticeships.” The government’s
encouragement of all children to aim
for university places has aggravated the
offence felt over these comments.
Lord Mandelson’s statements come
as the think tank Policy Exchange pub-
lished a study last week arguing for
higher tuition fees as a source of ad-
ditional funding for universities. One
of the report’s authors said, “if we want
to retain Britain’s position as a glo-
bal leader in higher education, we are
convinced that fees will need to rise...
[higher fees are] vital, if we are to have
a fair system in which institutions that
serve students well are rewarded”. The
report has been criticised for putting
students from poorer backgrounds
off applying for the most prestigious
universities, which would be the most
likely to raise their fees.
On a positive note, the government
is planning a transfer of funding from
“degrees” to degrees in science, tech-
nology and medicine. Dr Richard
Pike, chief executive of the Royal Soci-
ety of Chemistry, said “Mickey Mouse”
courses such as celebrity journalism,
drama combined with waste manage-
ment, and international football busi-
ness management – all of which exist
– should be “kicked into touch”.
Universities are now waiting for an
independent commission chaired by
Lord Brown to report back after the
general elections. It is expected to rec-
ommend raising fees to £7000 per year.
This will not apply to existing students,
or those starting next year. It may ad-
vantage existing students and gradu-
ates by reducing new applicants, which
could tackle ‘grade inflation.’ This is the
phenomenon of graduate salaries going
down because of the rise in the supply
of graduates, seen particularly in the
last decade. It has already tightened
the graduate premium – the difference
between average life-time earnings of
gradates and non-graduates – by over
70% in this time, to below £200,000.
Bar names
shortlists
announced
the bars on the ground floor of the
union building. dB’s will no longer
be called dB’s and Da Vinci’s will no
longer be called Da Vinci’s. The Un-
ion have asked you to email in a few
suggestions of what you think they
should be renamed to.
Over the last couple of weeks, peo-
ple have been emailing in their ide-
as; sending in all kinds of weird and
wonderful names for the bars. We
had over 150 different suggestions
sent in by students, from the typical
Imperial geeky ones, such as ‘Pi’ and
‘Dark Matter’; to the downright weird
‘Smarties’ and ‘Gash’.
After much deliberation, those 150
suggestions have been whittled down
to a shortlist (see below).
It’s time for more input from Impe-
rial students. Now that the shortlist
has been decided, you can go to fe-
lixonline.co.uk from today and vote
for your favourite name for each of
the bars. The poll will be online until
Thursday 25th February at noon, so
you’ll have to hurry up if you want to
have your say!
Don’t forget you can keep up with
the Phase 3 developments on the un-
ion website.
CharlotteMorris
CharlotteMorris
Mandelson criticises academics
amongst impending cuts
Lord Mandelson peers into the abyss that the higher education cuts have left in universities’ budgets
The blizzard-effect decor for the new nightclub might not last long
Have your say!
Vote online from today at felixonline.co.uk
Shortlist for
new nightclub:
1. Neighbourhood
2. Lab
3. Metric
4. Theory
5. Iris
Shortlist for
new bar:
1. Library
2. The Consort
3. The Crown & Shield
4. Quad

