5
felix FRIDAY 19 FEBRUARY 2010
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Lord Winston has bad ideas coming
This Monday evening, over 80 stu-
dents and staff members of Imperial
College, together with members of the
local Jewish community, gathered to
hear Professor Lord Robert Winston.
Lord Winston spoke about his new
book “Bad Ideas”, due to be published
the 18th February. In this unique and
timely book, he takes a fresh look at
man’s greatest discoveries and innova-
tions and asks whether our depend-
ence on science and technology has
led us into a precarious situation which
is doomed to become worse before it
gets better? As well as tracing the his-
tory and fall-out of our very worst ide-
as, this book also advocates the merits
of scientific progress. For, our drive to
invent and improve the world around
us is what, after all, makes us human.
Many Imperial students were
present, as well as students from
various nearby colleges. Mark Harris
studying maths at IC said, “I was very
interested in his subject matter, and
his examples were all thought provok-
ing, and presented in a way I had never
thought of before”.
Professor Winston discussed the
basic human fear of change, and the
fear of new science and technology. To
cite an example, he went as far back as
the early days of writing. Interestingly,
people back then reacted with fear,
burning books and other forms of writ-
ing in large public displays, because
writing transmitted sacred knowledge
which should be kept, and not dissemi-
nated; or it transmitted knowledge that
didn’t suit the current powers that be.
Today, for the most part, we see writ-
ing as a good thing.
Governments often use and mis-
use science and technology with key
decisions being made by a select few
people. Professor Winston advocated
educating the public, so that they
could be informed and involved in key
decisions which would perhaps help in
harnessing the rapid advancements of
modern science and technology. Pro-
fessor Winston connected the ‘drive to
invent’ to the first biblical command-
ment in Genesis (1:18), “be fruitful and
multiply, fill the world and conquer it”.
He explained the term “conquer it” as
meaning to take control of science and
harness the innovations that humans
come up with and use them for posi-
tive things.
“The talk was thought provoking
and well received, both by scientists
and non-scientists,” Rabbi Mendy
Loewenthal, director of Chabad of
South Kensington said. Adam Sz-
erenyi, an undergraduate in finance
at Budapest University commented,
“he brought scientific concepts to
a level that made them universally
understandable”.
DavidHarrington
DavidHarrington
Imperial has launched its first interna-
tional PhDs in partnership with three
Asian institutions: University of Hong
Kong, National University of Singa-
pore and Nanyang Technological Uni-
versity, also in Singapore.
Students who apply for the joint PhD
(across all the subjects offered at Impe-
rial) will have to be accepted by both
Imperial and their Asian counterpart
and will divide their time equally be-
tween the two institutions.
Their PhD will also be jointly as-
sessed in a joint viva at the end of the
course.
Professor Mary Ritter, Pro Rec-
tor of International Affairs said that
students taking part in the joint PhD
programme “will have the chance to
become part of a network of leading
researchers in two world centres of sci-
entific excellence, launching them into
a globe-spanning career.”
The venture is also aimed at strength-
ing Imperial’s links with other re-
search groups. Acting Rector Sir Keith
O’Nions said: “If we’re really going to
tackle major challenges like climate
change, sustainable energy and global
health, the world needs science to be
outward looking and collaborative.”
There are fears that such projects
dilute the prestige of the more famous
partner, in this case Imperial College.
However, Hong Kong University and
University of Singapore are amongst
Asia’s premier academic institutions.
Imperial goes PhD
international
Chabad - Lubavitch (UK) has long
been active on university campuses in
London, including IC, with classes
and social programmes. In 2008, the
activities expanded to include a full
time Chabad House in South Ken-
sington, serving the needs of Jewish
students and other locals.
Chabad of South Kensington is part
of a pioneering Jewish network of
some 4,000 Chabad-Lubavitch cen-
tres in more than 50 countries around
the world.
Winston connected the
‘drive to invent’ to the first
biblical commandment in
Genesis (1:18), “be fruitful
and multiply, fill the world
and conquer it”.
Applications are invited for the position of
HALL SENIOR
in
SOUTHWELL HALL
Southwell Hall is one of four halls of residence located around Evelyn
Gardens, just off Fulham Road in South Kensington. We are inviting
applications for 10 Hall Senior position for 2010-2011. Applicants
should be friendly, lively and resourceful. Application forms can be
downloaded from:
http://www.union.ic.ac.uk/halls/southwell/node/173
The closing date is: Friday 26th
February 2010
KadhimShubber
KadhimShubber News Editor
Lord Winston heads up the core module ‘Moustache Growing 101’
Bored of your degree? So are we
Writing for felix can be really rewarding. You meet some awesome people, have a laugh and join a
team that cares without caring too much. Obviously we’re biased, we think we’re cool. Just about,
anyway. Join in by writing or editing! Send your submissions to felix@imperial.ac.uk
NEWS

