6
COMMENT
Comment Editor
Comment Editor Ravi Pall & Charlotte Morris
Ravi Pall & Charlotte Morris
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 19 FEBRUARY 2010
Ken Wu is a lazy, good-for-nothing student
“The idea of
‘less effort’ is so
dominant in a
student’s brain...”
A
man goes to his doctor,
“Doctor, I get this pain
whenever I have a cup of
tea.”
“Have you tried taking
the spoon out first?” Haha.
This joke wouldn’t work with a bis-
cuit. Firstly, you don’t need a spoon
to eat a biscuit and secondly, food is
simple. You either like it or you don’t.
You know that whenever you try a
new meat, it will always taste a bit like
chicken. Drink, on the other hand, is
more complicated. It flows, it’s ever-
changing, it won’t bloody sit still. A
drink is never just a drink.
Water, for example. Chemically, it’s
as simple as you can get. Oxygen, hy-
drogen, a few double bonds and you’re
sorted. But that’s not the whole story.
Without it, life is impossible, but too
much and life starts having serious
second thoughts...unless you’re a fish.
It’s free in any pub, bar or club yet the
bottled water market is worth £50 mil-
lion a year. Everything goes into it and
it goes into everything. You can even
get a taste for a place from their wa-
ter. Back home, the water in Cardiff
is friendly, easy-going and just a bit
fruity...just like the people. Here, in big
bad London, the water is strong, stiff
and tough on the liver. Pregnant wom-
en are advised to avoid London water
and I’ve heard that the Thames is the
only river that can be ploughed. Seems
like a lot of fuss over some oxygen and
hydrogen.
Throw in some carbon and mix
things up and you’ve got alcohol, etha-
nol in particular, and suddenly things
get even more complicated. Contrary
to all objective evidence, it runs thick-
er than blood or water in the bonds
of fellowship. It’s a drink of initiation,
of commiseration, of congratulation,
and manifold other purposes. If you
don’t believe me, visit the Reynolds on
a Wednesday night and watch as the
floors run red with Snakebite (and oth-
er fluids). I can still remember my first
day at Imperial, the respect that radi-
ated from my peers as I funnelled away
everything they had to contribute. That
feat would have been nowhere near as
impressive if I’d downed Diet Cokes
and J20s instead.
But no matter how legendary your
actions towards alcohol, they can’t
compare to the magic of alcohol’s ac-
tions on you. After a few dances with
Señorita Tequila, I become a different
person; affable yet clumsy, and gifted
with an encyclopedic knowledge of
Welsh culture and history (wait, how
is that different?). But that’s the great
and terrible thing about alcohol. Peo-
ple act more true to themselves while
sloshed, pissed and rat-arsed. If you
find walking in a straight line while
gazeboed difficult, do you really think
you have the cohesive cognitive abil-
ity to present a false façade to the
world? Any and all masquerades sub-
tly dissolve into that ubiquitous social
solvent over the course of a night. Of
course, for every infinitely friendly
drunk, there is a lusty, fighty half-cut
lout. It’s not exactly a glowing endorse-
ment of humanity but hey, cheers!
Themagicalcoholcanworkonsome-
one is indeed impressive but it pales in
comparison to the otherworldly pow-
ers of that prince of beverages, tea.
No matter how bad things get, a cup
of tea can always make things better.
And how does it do that? The universe
doesn’t suddenly contort into some
fancy origami of a new reality. The rent
will still be overdue, those exams will
still happen next week, and I guarantee
it will still be raining...but after a cup
of tea; milk, two sugars and perhaps a
cheeky chocolate digestive, everything
will seem better. As a scientist, the only
rational explanation I can find is...it’s
magic. Simple as that. Even its origin
is somewhat otherworldly. The ancient
Chinese emperor, Shennong, was sit-
ting peacefully in his garden with a cup
of boiling water (and I won’t deny that
that is delicious) when some camellia
leaves drifted into his drink, like a gift
from the gods. And maybe that’s what
it is, a gift. A gift for when life crowds
in, when it all piles up and everything
seems too much. Sometimes, in those
awkward moments, when there are no
words to say, you can say it best with a
simple cup of tea.
They say that, after all the evils of
the world had escaped, the last thing
to leave Pandora’s box was hope – is it
possible that the box Pandora opened
was a box of PG Tips?
Rhys Davies can down drinks all day long
“No matter how
bad things get,
a cup of tea can
always make it
better”
L
aziness has become an in-
tegral part of any university
student’s life. It is one of the
most important trademarks
of a student, placing it on a
par with excessive drinking, partying
and self-inflicted sleep deprivation. It is
a unique phenomenon only shared by
those who have experienced it and can
therefore appreciate its artistic beauty.
In fact it is so sophisticated that there
should be an entire academic branch
devoted to studying this incredible
occurrence. Ok, maybe too much but
throughout my time at university I
have noticed many unusual and pecu-
liar quirks which have arisen purely due
for the sake of saving effort.
Effort, time and money: the holy trin-
ity of a student’s life. Less effort spent
on working and passing the exams
means more time available for “things
other than work”. In fact this notion
can be simplified even further to an
equation (keeping to the Imperial style)
“less effort = more time”. More time for
what? The answer to that is unknown
and not even necessary. In fact the idea
of “less effort” is so dominant in a stu-
dent’s brain that it overrides any sense
and reason that is left and it stimulates
students to find ever more ingenious
ways of saving effort, even if it is at the
expense of time. A friend of mine, who
wishes to remain anonymous in fear of
the media furore that will arise from
her Nobel Prize-worthy solution of
saving effort, epitomises the concept of
minimising effort by choosing to take
the District rather than the Piccadilly
Line from South Kensington station
purely because “there are fewer stairs
to walk”. Despite the fact that the jour-
ney may even take longer, in the end,
“less effort” rules the day.
Having dealt with one side of the
equation, the other side is equally fas-
cinating. Having obtained more time,
there is the question of how to use the
time. I normally idealise my thinking
and convince myself that time saved
means that there is more time for stud-
ying and working. Unfortunately, the
truth is the time is used on procrastina-
tion, yet another hallmark of a univer-
sity student’s life.
In a world where the internet is so
accessible, there are countless distrac-
tions to immerse yourself in, even if the
Facebook/YouTube axis of evil is taken
out. I recently witnessed a series of
events that again embodies the pleth-
ora of “procrastinatible-material” avail-
able on the web. Somehow, research on
injuries of the spine lead to 30 minutes
spent on an internet ten-pin bowl-
ing game (If anyone is interested, the
sequence goes: spine injuries-can be
caused by bowling-google bowling-
bowling game). Taking a second glance
at it, none of this makes any reasonable
sense: in the world of high-end graph-
ics and computers, there are countless
games available which are far supe-
rior to some internet bowling game; if
worktime does not transcribe to work
surely it would be wise to spend that
time with friends or eating. Such is the
nature of procrastination!
What is worse is that the more you
procrastinate, the more regret you feel
in not doing any work, thus leading
to more extreme measures into sav-
ing time thus leading to more time for
procrastination. I myself am victim to
this as well. In fact when I typed “Face-
book/Youtube axis of evil” I did an ob-
ligatory check on Facebook. In the end,
the extra time obtained is again wasted
on doing nothing worthy, except may-
be thinking of more ingenious ways of
saving effort!
I have probably exaggerated the
whole aura surrounding the very sim-
ple task of not doing anything at all,
especially with the ridiculous amounts
of hyperbole used. However I do think
it is very intriguing how students can
come up with ways to be lazy most of
the time, considering the fact that the
age of an undergraduate is probably the
age of optimal physical fitness. It is an
art form and I think it deserves some
appreciation, even if it is for the absurd
techniques for minimising effort.
Write for Comment! Make your voice heard. Or, rather, read. Like this. Only, this is white on red.

