7
felix FRIDAY 19 FEBRUARY 2010
L
adies and Gentlemen, I stand
before you now as a sinner. A
vile, unrepentant transgres-
sor of the laws of healthy af-
fection and a victim of a dark
and hideous power that holds my en-
trails in its icy grip.
Some of us are captive to a love that
dares not speak its name. Others are
trapped by a love that dares to speak
of little else. But few of you innocent
readers will, I venture, have been en-
snared by a love that dares to write its
name in blue, black and green ink on
any sheet of paper that floats within
the reach of its venal claws.
The irresistible fascination of pens,
paper, and the combined parapherna-
lia of printing makes the lure of the sta-
tionery shop greater and more exciting
than that of any other den of iniquity
found on the high street. A sideways
glance at the fluttering covers of untar-
nished notebooks is enough to punch
a hole through the binding of my heart
and staple my throat to the pit of my
stomach
There is nothing more romantic than
the terrifying and nothing more ca-
pable of inducing terror than the un-
known. Those of you emboldened by
your Valentine’s day experiences may
wish to expand on this comparison,
but I urge you to do so when you are
alone.
Not for nothing has the tantalising
draw of terra incognita always been
matched with the fear of inconceivable
terror. The appeal of untrodden worlds
and the attraction of the night sky’s
impenetrable blackness owe as much
to their potential for horror as the pos-
sibilities they offer for adventure. And
Death, the greatest of all unknowns –
the unsolvable variable, if you will, in
the Diophantine equations of destiny
– has become the most mythologised
of life’s tribulations. Rather than ignore
the fatal elephant in the room, centu-
ries of religious thought have resulted
in the stray pachyderm being strewn
with sweet-smelling flowers, and laden
with as much romance and saccharine
tripe as it can bear.
But, I hasten with an unforgivable
disregard for the rules of ordinary
syntax to stress, there can be nothing
more terrifying than the tabulated per-
fection of an empty page. The millions
of characters who can, in a blink of an
eye, be conjured up to crowd those nar-
row margins. The lives and romances,
the truths and ironies, phrases opulent
with rhetorical finery and laden with
orotund periphrasis fighting for space
with much simpler ones. A universe,
in words or colours, symbols and lines,
brought to life with ink and graphite on
sheets of compressed wood pulp.
An act of creation on this scale re-
quires an accompanying ritual of suit-
able gravitas. Our Lord the Abrahamic
God had his 6 days of selective creativ-
ity, while the Norse have the primeval
cow Auðumbla without whose taste
for rime ice the likes of Noel Edmonds
might never have been born. In their
stead, artists and authors have made a
deity out of emptiness and religion out
of undiscovered potential.
So who can blame the fetishisation
of apparatus that artistic endeavour
has engendered? The stationers and
arts supply stores of the world have be-
come statuaries of sacred relics to be
worshipped and revered before being
bought by those of us with worryingly
weak minds and bladders. And then, at
last, when the supplies have been safely
carried to one’s personal altar of writ-
ing desk or study, the act of genesis can
unfold.
If we look past the disused easels
and mildewed keyboards littering the
studio of metaphor, and peel back the
layers on the collage of comparison,
Art has far more in common with Sci-
ence than is usually supposed. Note
the careful and sustained use of majus-
cules in the preceding sentence. These
are not merely the result of accidental
flicks of a finger on an Apple keyboard
(whose enervating complexity is such
that you would be forgiven for making
text bold, le traduire en Francais, and
changing the font when, had you
but chosen to play a different chord
on the ivory keyboard, you could have
achieved the desired effect of aligning
the text with the left margin), but a
deliberate and deliberated choice. The
capital letters act, like the staccato dots
on written music, to indicate that the
words are to be given special empha-
sis outside of their immediate context.
Art and Science are here to be treated
as Abstract Concepts – as independ-
ent axes on the Cartesian graph of
Pretension.
The artist and the scientist are both
fundamentally dissatisfied creatures.
Dissatisfied with their choice of cloth-
ing and ability to attract a partner per-
haps, but more importantly, dissatis-
fied with the world around them and
the pitiful attempts others have made
to explain it to them. Both are fascinat-
ed by the deepest questions of purpose
and meaning, and are unwilling to ac-
cept easy answers. The palette and the
pipette, the acrylics and alkalis, the
HCl and the HB pencil are all tools of
creation and discovery which allow
their wielders to link arms as pioneers
on the frontiers of knowledge.
Of all the filthy and depraved hab-
its that artists and scientists share,
however, the most invidious, insidi-
ous, perfidious and hideous must be
the grotesque desire for independ-
ent thought. Nothing is as problem-
atic to dictatorships and oligarchs as
the ability of individuals to think for
themselves. That and satire. Fascists
hate satire. As Tom Lehrer was fond
of quoting what Peter Cook was fond
of saying, “those wonderful Berlin
cabarets did so much to stop the rise
of Hitler and prevent the outbreak of
the Second World War.” Regardless of
this démodé cynicism, those countries
with the greatest limitations on per-
sonal freedom will always be the most
scientifically constipated and the most
artistically repressed.
Art and science cannot flourish in-
dependently of each other, or, to put
it less arrogantly and more accurately,
art and science will often flourish to-
gether. The explosion of artistic styles
which began on the Italian peninsula
in the late 14th Century was accompa-
nied by a literal rebirth and metaphori-
cal maturity of experimental science.
The development of cubism, and Pi-
casso’s attempts to capture all the di-
mensions of space and time in a single
image, coincided almost exactly with
the birth of the Theory of Relativity,
and its compression of the Universe
into one four-dimensional manifold.
Artists and scientists alike refuse to
defer to any restrictive dogma. They
fight for the truth and the right of in-
dividuals to interpret the world as they
see it. Given all this, it is remarkable
how proponents of these disciplines
devote their energies to looking down
their noses at each other. Artists from
their lofty, geometric perspective and
scientists from their hidebound, invar-
iant frame of reference.
This is why, in my mind, any at-
tempt to bring C.P Snow’s fabled ‘Two
Cultures’ closer together should be
embraced with open arms and per-
manently stuck to one’s heart with
cyanoacrylate glue. And that includes
the upcoming ArtsFest, a week-long
attempt by those Imperialites with a
bad infection of sciencitis to raise the
profile of the arts on campus.
Artistic endeavour, much like en-
deavour of any kind at this notoriously
apathetic campus, is lamentably un-
dersubscribed and woefully underap-
preciated. Let’s try to change that this
coming week, as the walls shake to the
sound of trumpets, and the walkway
vibrates to the beat of drums.
DevotedReaderconfesses their undying love
F
rom the first time I saw him
at Fresher’s Fair I knew he
was the one. He told me of his
plans to be a journalist and
how writing for felix would
change my life. Would that he knew
it was he who would change my life. I
stared enraptured, a misty look across
my eyes – from that moment the flame
in my heart was ignited…
felix, I think I may be in love and the
object of my affections is someone you
know very well indeed. This love is so
intense I must tell someone, and felix,
you are my only confidante. His mon-
osyllabic name strikes a chord in my
heart. Yet alas, I fear my love goes unno-
ticed - he doesn’t even know who I am.
Time and time again I peer through
the door of the felix office hoping to
catch a tiny glimpse of him, yet never
being brave enough to enter. From
snatched glances through the window I
see the light from his Apple Mac reflect-
ing against his raven hair, his glasses
masking my only window into his soul.
From my vantage point outside the fe-
lix office I have observed many happen-
ings. Occasionally I hear raised voices,
muffled by the door, the snatches of a
discussion within. His passion for felix
is evident in his tone, but only in my
dreams does he feel this passion for
me. It is always he who dominates the
arguments, his strong leadership is un-
compromised by his adequate stature. I
sometimes follow him on his short walk
from Eastside to the Beit quad, seeing
him go about his daily life makes me feel
closer to him. Yet I can never be as close
as I wish I could be.
I always wonder about his enigmatic
smile. He seems so open yet I can sense
further depths, secret sides of himself
that he conceals. His bold glasses rep-
resent a shield, protecting his delicate
soul from outside intrusions. I wish I
could teach him to open his heart to
me. I would do anything for him, even
venture to the darkest realms of his im-
agination, which he hides so deftly.
He presents himself so well that I
cannot imagine how anyone could re-
sist him. His unique fashion sense cap-
tivates me. He should not have to hide
behind the words of his newspaper - in
writing and in the flesh he is a beautiful
person. In spite of this his writing in fe-
lix touches me like no other writer ever
could. Whilst I read I imagine his sup-
ple writer’s hands, poised above the key-
board, crafting his weekly masterpiece.
So I write this to you, felix, as an ode
to the fire in my soul, the love of my
heart, the light of my life. I am con-
vinced that we are made for each other.
He just hasn’t realised yet, perhaps this
letter will finally make him notice me.
Make him seek me out. Make him love
me.
Gilead Amit, eventually, discusses ArtsFest
“I think I may
be in love, and
the object of my
affection is...”
“Death is the
unsolvable variable
in the Diophantine
equations of
destiny.”

