8 felix FRIDAY 19 FEBRUARY 2010
BUSINESS
Business Editor
Business Editor Sina Ataherian
Sina Ataherian
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
What really causes the Business Cycles?
change, calculating business decisions,
and storing accumulated wealth. It
grew out of the barter system prima-
rily when the following problem pre-
sented itself: what if the other party to
the exchange doesn’t want what I have
to offer?
The problem was resolved by ex-
panding the chains of exchange be-
yond two people. Over time, it is no-
ticed that certain items are required
with great frequency.
Of these commonly used commodi-
ties, some can be stored without losing
their value (for example, food rots and
some technologies may become obso-
lete). Some things pack great value into
a small weight and volume, and so are
easy to hide in the house and transport
when needed.
Again, only some of these will be di-
visible into small parts of little value,
without losing their value. If all of
these conditions are met by a particu-
lar commodity, something interesting
happens.
People would start to accept it as
payment not for personal use, but be-
cause they know they can trade it for
whatever they will want at a later time.
The commodity has become money.
Traditionally, gold and silver have been
the most popular choices because they
have all of the qualifications listed
above.
*
MANIPULATING THE MONEY
MARKETS
So how does this relate to the business
cycle? Remember that money is ulti-
mately just a commodity that’s being
used as a medium of exchange. Like
any commodity, it is subject to the
laws of supply and demand. In an ideal
situation, the supply of money is deter-
mined by the amount of money being
saved and deposited in banks, and the
borrowers in the economy determine
the demand for money. The price of
money is the interest rate presented to
borrowers and savers.
And again, just like any other com-
modity, manipulating the price of
money against its economic equilibri-
um causes problems. When the bank-
ing system creates money out of thin
air, it presents it to be borrowed along-
side the real supply created by people
saving money.
As a result, the supply of money is
flooded and the price of borrowing
is artificially lowered. This has two
principal effects: it discourages people
from saving money, and it encourages
people to borrow money. Clearly, this
dislocates the balance between savers
and borrowers.
This manipulation of the money sup-
ply has been the single most important
cause of every artificial boom and sub-
sequent bust since the American reces-
sion of 1921. In each instance, coercive
mismanagement has greatly worsened
the problem.
Notice that was the ‘recession of
1921’ rather than the ‘recession of the
1920s’ precisely because the Warren
G. Harding administration rightly em-
braced it as the healthy correction to
First World War over-spending. Back
then, America was saved from the
greatest excesses of intervention by
a Federal budget equal to just ten per
cent of GDP, compared with over thir-
ty percent today. The administration’s
economic understanding was nonethe-
less an important factor.
“[ideally] the
supply of money
is determined
by money being
saved in banks,
and borrowers
determine
demand”
It recognised the problem as the
simple realisation that assets are over-
priced, an understandable increase in
risk-aversion, and liquidity issues for
firms and their customers. Unlike all
subsequent administrations to date, it
did not pick out the one saving grace of
recession – lower price levels – as the
problem to ‘correct’.
Since then, every government in the
US, nearly all British governments, and
most governments elsewhere have be-
haved in the same way. Every time a
price correction is needed, they rein-
flated. This is despite the obvious dam-
age (as with the Depression) or public
anger (as with the recent TARP). This
represents the political favouritism
shown towards the logically impaired
and empirically debunked Keynesian
School, becuase it calls for huge gov-
ernment spending. And as Richard
Nixon famously explained in 1971, “we
are all Keynesians now.”
Edward Townes explains the once forgotten, now rapidly growing, view of the Austrian School of Economics
T
he silver lining of the 2008
recession has been people
remembering that person-
al financial understanding
directly relates to our own
individual wealth. Understanding what
caused the recession gets us a long way
towards identifying how we can per-
sonally reduce the impact of the next
recession on ourselves. We could even
put ourselves in a position to benefit
from it. It is now clear that the practi-
cal value in sound economics is not re-
stricted to financial professionals and
policy makers.
*
BUSINESS CYCLES AND THE
RECESSION
The mainstream politicians and pun-
dits who foresaw nothing of the crisis
and advocated the wrong remedies are
sticking to the old political adage not
to waste a crisis. They have spotted an
opportunity to anchor their ideology
into conventional wisdom. By far the
worst possible ending to this story in-
volves us letting them do this. Over re-
cent decades the well-intentioned but
gravely misinformed people, who are
also disproportionately represented in
politics, have significantly slowed eco-
nomic development. Today, as always,
they are appealing to the same irra-
tionality that allowed and then inflated
the problem.
Deregulation is a favourite explana-
tion for why things got so out of hand
in the financial markets, but this ap-
peals only to ignorance. Finance is eas-
ily one of the most heavily regulated
industries and almost all the misdeeds
occurred right under the noses of the
existing regulators. Furthermore there
are numerous laws that demonstrably
created incentives to lend money ir-
responsibly. Other explanations gen-
erally focus on blaming symptoms
of the problem, such as bonuses and
compensation in the financial indus-
try, predatory lending, and speculative
bubbles.
The question of who is to blame is
simultaneously dismissed as childish
and answered with ‘the greedy banks’
or ‘irresponsible borrowers’. In fact, the
general explanation was discovered by
Ludwig von Mises, one of the great-
est economists of the last century. His
explanation of the business cycle was
developed by F.A. Hayek, for which he
won a Nobel Prize in 1974.
*
THE ORIGINS OF MONEY
The core of the problem is the way
new currency is created. Understand-
ing how our currency affects our econ-
omy is crucial, but not immediately
obvious. The injustice and destruction
caused by the current monetary sys-
tem depends on the subject being
considered to be beyond the intellec-
tual grasp of the average voter in order
for it to continue unnoticed. In reality,
the system is not especially difficult
to understand once you side-step the
myriad of obfuscation, which has been
built up around it to create a barrier
that hides what’s really going on.
Money is about facilitating ex-
Left to right: Alan Greenspan, lucky winner of the Enron Prize for Public Service, kept interest rates artificially lower than its market rate throughout his eighteen-year reign as Fed Chairman; his
successor continued the policy - Bernanke’s academic specialism is ‘causes of recessions’; Nobel Laureate Paul Krugman went further - he called for a housing bubble to ‘reinflate’ after the .com bust.
“...the current
system [is] dressed
as beyond the
intellectual grasp of
the average voter”
“Deregulation
is a favourite
explanation...but
this appeals only to
ignorance”

