3
felix FRIDAY 19 FEBRUARY 2010
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk BUSINESS
9
felix
BUSINESS
Left to right: Austrian economist Ludwig von Mises was first discovered the ‘Austrian’ theory of business cycles; F.A. Hayek, the ideological rival of Keynes, developed von Mises’s theory - for this he
shared the 1974 Nobel Prize in Economics; Tom Woods (pictured above) is one of many economists in the Misesian tradition who warned of the 2008 crises. Peter Schiff is another famous example.
*
SO WHY DOES ANY OF THIS
MATTER?
Money itself is not wealth; it is the po-
tential to claim wealth. When people
borrow money from the bank, they
expect to be able to use it to purchase
real things. When there is more mon-
ey in existence than there are things
to buy with it, prices have to go up
accordingly. Most people do not earn
enough money to compensate for
this. This is because the prices of real
goods and services do not all rise at
the same time.
The first people to use the new mon-
ey - the government and its agencies -
can spend it before this causes prices
to rise. Therefore inflation is a tax, just
like any other. But because it is more
difficult to see and easier to get away
with, it is subject to nowhere near as
much scrutiny as other taxes.
The problem with this is that the
government can spend its proceeds on
policies that would not be otherwise
acceptable. For example, the recent
war in Iraq would probably not have
happened if every American family
was asked to pay $15,000 up-front. Yet
this is what it cost, as calculated by the
notable economist Joseph Stiglitz.
Also, inflationism plays particular
havoc with investors and entrepre-
neurs, who calculate their business
decisions based on false information
concerning the amount of real wealth
available. The result is a boom in bor-
rowing and investment in new ven-
tures, and a corresponding boom in
debt created at the same time.
But the laws of economics do not
allow this situation to be sustainable.
There comes a point where the debt
cannot be supported by the productive
capability of an economy and through
compound interest it grows out of
control. There comes a point where
the people who have borrowed and in-
vested realise that they’ve obtained less
real wealth for their efforts than they
had been led to believe. A collapse
ensues.
Note that it is not necessary for in-
vestors to be ignorant in order to fall
prey to this trap. Even if you know that
debt levels are unsustainable, if you
work for an investment fund or bank
you may well fear losing your job if you
pull out of certain markets even as they
are rapidly growing.
As the system unravels, money that
was created by loans through fraction-
al reserves is demanded back, which
causes insolvency problems for the
banks as they only deposit a fraction of
what they owe. At the same time, they
recover only a fraction of what they are
owed. Banking regulation and money
printing are the most direct forms of
State interference in finance. The ar-
gument for the former is that some
unregulated banks will fail, causing
irrational savers to lose confidence in
all banks. Apparently market forces do
not apply.
Ironically, both problems are mas-
sively exasperated by the implicit
promise of State bail-out as well as the
perceived homogeneity of an entire
industry regulated to exactly the same
standards.
of an unsustainable asset bubble is
that its price will rise in terms of gold
beyond fundamental justification. But
this is only the beginning of the story.
The Austrian School of economics
has a long and distinguished history
of being right on key debates, includ-
ing business cycles.
If you have found any of the ideas
discussed in this article interesting,
you are in luck. The website of the
world’s leading institute of Austrian
economics, mises.org, has further re-
cources on all economic topics. It is
all available online for free.
The Dow Jones industrial average is shown in terms of gold grams. The first peak is the Great Depression. The next peak
was caused by the strains of the Vietnam War and LBJ’s ‘Great Society’ reforms. The latest one is the biggest of all.
*
PREDICTING THE NEXT RECESSION
As we have seen, recessions are
mainly caused by excessive money
printing. So how can we tell when this
has happened?
For at least the last 4000 years,
gold has the commodity standard of
choice. Even today, it still remains the
best available approximation to a free
market in money. The reason for this
is that its supply can grow only very
slowly.
Therefore a good early warning sign
“...both problems
are massively
exasperated by the
implicit promise of
State bail-out”
“When there is
more money in
existence than
there are things to
buy with it, prices
have to go up ”

