2 F E L I X
PhOFlLt
T H E P R E S I D E N T
AS STUDENT ORATOR LAST YEAR
R.H.T. GARNETT
Richard High-Tension Garnett waa,
in common with many of lis, born and
pursued a relatively orthodox career
before entering I.C. some years ago.
He i s now engaged (academically) to a
Cornish tin-mine; we hope that they
w i l l be very happy and perhaps one day
produce some high-grade ore.
Secretary of the Union last year,
High-Tension has the stature of many a
present-day dictator - being neither
t a l l nor thin. I f looking far the
President, don't let the dizzy heights
of his Office mislead you into looking
on too high a plane: 5ft. will oatoh
him right between the eyes. In his
youth he played rugger but now prefers
to conserve his energy for other pur-
suits.
His oorpulenoe has further
increased since his acquisition of a
motor-aoooter. But, chubby though he
may be, women have oft been known to
oall him handsome. Besides being
possessed of a ready charm and wit, he
can also be a aiaoheivous imp, as hostel
residents since 1956 know to their oost.
Although more at ease in a base-
ball cap, tartan shirt and mining
boots (he considers trousers a
luxury) - H-T*s urbane handling of a
sherry glass i s unparalleled and his
formal speeches masterful.
Peculiarities:-
H-T has a predilection for a raw
carrot, whioh he considers as one of
Nature's bounteous gifts.
H-T, among a wealth of original
thought*, i s a firm adherent to the
belief that the Death-Watch Beetle
ia here to stay.
However, an impression of Richard
as a playboy would belie his prodigious
capacity for hard work and his ruthless
efficiency: two essential qualities
whioh ensure a successful Presidency.
O F F T O P E R U
When we read about expeditions to
far off places, many of us wish that
we too could climb the highest mount-
ains or tread the icy wastes of Polar
regions. However, for the great maj-
ority the dreams are never realised
owing to lack of opportunity. Those
of us at Imperial College are more for-
tunate than most because the opportunity
for exploration does exist.
Towards the end of 1955 a body
known as the Imperial College Explor-
ation Board was formed to sponsor ex-
peditions of a scientific and advent-
urous nature, proposed by members of
the college: students or staff, men
or women. The Board, whioh meets two
or three times each session under the
chairmanship of Prof. H.H.Read, has a
membership representing the teaching
staff, the Unions and the old students
organisations. It has an income of
£1200 per year provided by the college
and I.C. Union and i t has discretion to
award grants to proposed expeditions as
i t sees f i t . Last year for example,
i t gave i t s support to expeditions which
spent the summer vacation in places as
widely separated as Ghana, Iceland and
Norway. It must be emphasised, however
that the support of the Board must be
bought as early as possible, especially
for the more ambitious proposals.
E X T R A M U R A L
TOUCHSTONE
Touchstone is the occasion when
serious topics are discussed at l e i s -
ure in the congenial surroundings of
I.C.'s Country House at Silwood Park:
this term has two such week-ends.
The first, on November l s t and 2nd,
with "The Problem of Force" as the
subject, should prove extremely con-
troversial, the main speaker being
R.H.S. Crosaman, O.B.E., M.P., well-
known for his lively oratory: the
second, to be held on December 6th
and 7th, will consider "Second Thoughts
on Marxism", under the guidance of
Prof. H. Levy of the Maths. Dept.
GENERAL STUDIES
The General Studies this term again
cover a wide range of subjects, and
are given by a number of well-known
speakers. Of special interest may be
mentioned a series of lectures on
various aspects of Nuclear Warfare,
including radiation hazards and the
military implications of the H-bomb:
the speakers on these topics will i n c l -
ude Prof. Dame Kathleen Lonsdale and
Sir George Thomson.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
the St. Hon. Heathcoat Amory, M.P.
will be giving his hopes and fears for
our future, and a subject of wide and
never-failing interest, "Modern Marri-
age", will be discussed by D.J. Bred-
ahaw, the Sec of the Hat. Marriage
Guidance Council.
Antony Hopkins will continue his
series of talks on the appreciation
of amain, and those interested in
poetry, sculpture end ballet w i l l also
be well catered for.
One such proposal was discussed by
the Board last April: i t is intended
that a party of six should visit the
Nudo de Apolobamba on the Peru-Bolivia
border in the summer of 1959. Prelim-
inary approval was given to the scheme
and preparations are under way. Pres-
ent indications are that the programme
will include geology, surveying and
olimbing, although the details will not
be deoided until the party has been
selected. Further applications for
membership will be considered i f they
are sent iimnediately to Mr G.Bratt,Room
113, Physacal Chemistry R.C.S. or Mr W.
Melbourne, Aero.
The Peru Expedition will absorb a
considerable proportion of the funds
whioh the Board will have available this
year but i t i s hoped that there w i l l be
something left for one or two smaller
expeditions. Decisions about next
year's expeditions will be made at the
next meeting of the Board which will
take place at the end of this term.
Proposals must be submitted to the Hon.
Sec. (Mr P.F.Taylor, C i v i l Eng.) not
later than November 14th. Detailed
instructions about submitting proposals
to the Board will be posted on the Ex-
ploration Society notioe board in the
Union.
P.F.T.
THE VANISHING
P H O T O G R A P H E R
It i s my painful duty to report and
explain an unfortunate incident which
will mar for acme the memory of last
session's President's Ball. A photo-
grapher had been hired to cover the
event in the usual way, and during the
course of the evening he flashed away
industriously so that he and his lady
assistant took a considerable number
of cash orders. A few weeks later i t
was obvious from the complaints receiv-
ed that this photographer did not intend
to send his customers the prints they
had payed for, and a visit to his ad-
dress soon confirmed this. He had, i t
transpired, disappeared shortly after
June 20th - the date of the Ball - lea-
ving many creditors poun-\ing at the
door, and needless to say, the police
were looking for him.
The matter i s now entirely in the
hands of the police, so there is l i t t l e
we can do at the moment. I would like
however to get some idea of how much
money was involved, and I would be gi»d
i f a l l who placed orders, including
those who did receive some prints,would
let me have details so that I can pass
the information on to the polioe.
My predecessor, Gil Streets, joins
me in offering sincere apologies to
those who were victims of the fraud. I
should point out, especially to Freshers
that we have never had a crooked photo-
grapher before, and I shall do ay beat
to ensure that we never have another.
John Sheldon
Chairman Entertainments Committee

