8 F E L I X
O U T S T A N D I N G .
S U C C E S S
Ladle• first - while the wen's
olubs are almost embarrassed by num-
erical support, I.C.W.S.C. labours
under the handicap of being a compar-
ative handful. The courage and enth-
usiasm with which they compete in many
sports earns, deservedly, the admira-
tion of the entire College.
The Rugger, Soccer and Hockey Clubs
have reported very successful seasons.
The Rugby Club won the U.L. Cup, for
the f i f t h time in seven years, and
enjoyed another fabulous tour of Prance.
"Despite hospitality whioh proved, in
certain oases, overwhelming, Saintes
were beaten 6-3 and the matches with
Scarlat and Royan drawn 3-3 before large
and appreciative crowds. Attempts
to drink the whole I.C. party under the
table were repulsed with heavy losses
on both sides, but far heavier on the
French side".
The Soccer Club second, third, and
fourth teams a l l won their respective
divisions of the U.L. League.
The Hookey Club provided 6 members
of the U.L. first team, but s t i l l lost
only 5 on their 29 first XI matches.
Outstanding feature of the season was
the Dutch tour. I.C. played in the
Dutch Universities tournament and some-
what embarrassed everyone by reaching
the final. However they kept Anglo-
Dutch relations completely amicable by
a diplomatic withdrawal in favour of
the team they had beaten in the semi-
final, who went on to win the champion-
ship.
The Boat Club have also had a fine
year, bringing yet more silver-ware
to the Trophy case. In the Head of
the River, I.C. moved up 4 places to
12th. We must mention the outstanding
sculling of Martin Geylard, who finished
7th in the scullers * Head, following
this by magnifioent wins in the Willes-
den, Chiswiok and Walton regattas.
The Cross-country Club gained an
easy viotory i n their U.L. Champion-
ships, and provided the individual
winner in John Evans. In the Hyde
Park Road Relay, I.C. dipped 50 sec-
onds off the record, but were narrowly
beaten into second place by Liverpool
University.
The Athletic Club was just pipped
in the U.L. Sports by U.C., 9$ points
to 95.
A dub with a really outstanding
record ia the Rifle Club, whioh entered
16 teams in 13 different divisions of
various leagues, obtaining 9 first
places and 5 second.
Both tha Swimming Club and the
Boxing Club won their U.L. Champion-
ships, the latter sharing their tro-
phy with Kings*.
D E V O N C R I C K E T T O U R .
The 15th. Cricket Club tour of Devon
began in the murky mists of Plymouth,
where only one of three fixtures could
be played. In thin match I.C. shot
out the Royal Naval Barracks on a sticky
wicket for 52 ( Hearn 7-14, i n d . hat-
trick) and showed a superior batting
technique under such conditions them-
selves by knocking up the required runs
in 45 minutes for the loss of 4 wickets
(Kitchener 23 n-o.)
The weather, the tempo of the orio-
ket and the evening festivities a l l im-
proved together ss time went by, cul-
minating in a glorious four days at
Torquay. A supporters' group of drink-
ing ex-I.C. students arrived on the
Saturday and inspired the teem to an
easy viotory over Uplyme, where Murden
dumped 75 in an hour ( i n d . 14 fours)
towards the I.C. total of 144. Uplyme
f e l l for 76, mainly to Oggi (6-26)
X.C. hit up 178-5 declared (Kitoh
48 n.0., Hearn 35, Kapur 30) against
Whinple, the cider village, and Oggi
gained further fame by hitting the oak-
tree whioh flourishes half-way to the
boundary. This won him the year's
dropped catch kitty, amounting to thirty
two «h-MH«E«. which at 6d par catoh, ia
pretty good going. Since Oggi had con-
tributed no small portion of the kitty
from his own pocket, i t was considered
Ironical injustice that he should win
i t a l l back. Whimple replied with
111-7 (Logan 5-26) and a joyful even-
ing ensued.
So to Torquay, where first an even-
ing match was played against a good
team raised by the sporting Torquay
skipper, J.E.Dickenson. His XX dec-
lared at 137-9, but unfortunately I.C.
oaptain Hearn misinformed his teaa aa
to the finishing time. He tried to
remedy this by manually altering the
pavilion dock, but was ignored.
Meanwhile his batsmen, Kitoh«ner(5l)
and Bartholomew (42 n.o,), mesmerised
and irate at finding everything con-
spiring against them, tried to pull
the game out of the fire, but L.C. had
to be oontent with a draw at 129-5.
Oggi' a aentd derangement was the chief
topic during the hilarious celebrations
which followed*
CONDENSED FROM ANNUAL
A.C.C. REPORT
The Squash Club succeeded in win-
ning 20 matches out of 26. The Cricket
Club and Golfing Association did well,
but the Table Tennis, Fencing, Bad-
minton, Sailing and Judo Clubs report
only fair years.
The A.C.C. "has given birth to a
new Club .... the Basket B d l Club
now exists and has played and won i t a
first match."
After en undistinguished dram with
Brixham, there came two truly magoifi©-
ent and bard-fought matches with Paign-
ton, especially against the bowling of
the professional J.Kelly (Northants)
However, they made 131 (Kitoh 33, Bart-
holomew 30) and held Paignton to 107-7
after an excellent battle of fluctuating
fortunes.
A new peak of exoitement oame i n
the finale at Torquay, who were put in
to bat by I.C. and dismissed for 142,
Carter doing the hat-trick i n hie 5-32.
L.C., with two hours to get the runs,
started badly and were 9-2 after 25
minutes. However a tenacious sad det-
ermined stand by Murden (42) and Kitch
(68 n.0.) of 87 i n 73 minutes gave I.C.
a winning chance. Amidst mounting ex-
citement, Hearn and Kitoh added 37 in
twenty minutes and I.C. got home with
three minutes to spare - our first viot-
ory over Torquay since 1954 and a fitting
oHmjT to the season.
The team owed much of their success
to their ability to achieve evening re-
laxation over the foaming glass. Hap-
py reunions with our hospitable Devon
hosts were followed by debates and dis-
cussions until the early hours, often
culminating in ceremonial paddling etc.
in Torbay. Freshers who wish to ex-
perience this great institution shodd
note June 23rd - July 3rd in their
diaries, in big red letters.
M A R T I N G A Y L A R D .
A member of the I.C. Boat Club,Mar-
tin Gay lard, starting the 1958 season
with an ambitious but unsuccessful ent-
ry in the Wingfield Sculls (Amateur
Championships;,ended with victories in
four open senior sculls events.
Having come seventh in the sculler's
Head', he won at Willeaden Regatta -
dao rowing in a successful Junior-senior
eoxless four - at Chiswiok Regatta from
G.C. Justios, at Walton and at the Met-
ropolitan Regatta.
In the Diaswaoda at Henley, a tele-
vised race, he successfully used against
the United States ohampion tactics ev-
olved especially for upsetting adher-
ents to the uniform-pace theory of
racing. In the semi-find he realised
that the Russian Olympic Gdd-faedaliat
7. Ivanov, a much faster Soulier, was
playing with him and cunningly res-
erved himself for a vicious sprint up
the enclosures, but was beaten in very
exciting race for whioh he got much
publicity - the distance waa $ length.
In the Empire Games trials he was
narrowly beaten by S.C. Rand, who also
defeated him at Mdsey Regatta, sculling
the 6 minute course at an average
rating of 34,
Tha University of London, in con-
trast to most Public Schools and row-
ing universities, appears to consider
that i t has insufficient tdent to
promote a sculling race in beet boats.
Martin Geylard probably confirmed this
opinion by falling in, when about to
win the final of the U.L. Potter cup
whioh i s rosed in rum-turns.
Published by FELIX BOARD tmperid College Union S.W.7.
Printed by S IL VOUS PLAIT Ltd, 307a, Telephone Place W. 14.

