_ Feature
THE
MANAGEMENT
SPEAKS
When Michael wrote his Christmas
wish list in F E L I X 1015-X, he barely
expected a reply from one Rector let
alone two! The first, Sir Ronald
Oxburgh, replies overleaf. But the Pro
Rector had more to say...
B y M i c h a e l L u d l a m
Most of us don't have a good excuse to visit
what is known as 'the Rector's Suite'. Nor had
I, until I was invited by the Pro Rector, Alan
Swanson. As I wait to be seen I am passed by
Big Suits and Power Dresses. Suddenly a man
introduces himself as the Pro Rector. Where
is the big suit? Where are those power
shoulders? He's in 'academic clothes'! He
looks like one of my lecturers!
The man is Professor Swanson, formally
of Mechanical Engineering, who last year
became the first Pro Rector for Educational
Quality. We talk in his office, quickly getting
around to the number of lecture theatres.
They would build more, he says, but they
cannot get funding for them. Departments are
going to have to start sharing lecture theatres
because for long periods of time they lie
empty.
>• Departments are fond of their autonomy. Is
that going to change especially concerning lecture
theatres?
No department owns their building, strictly
the governing body owns all the buildings.
Department autonomy has never been
universal. The management school, for as
long as anyone can
V- The problem I have, is that when
you do decide to build
accommodation like Southside it
should be built to last.
Southside was regarded as
a good example of a Fifties hall
of residence when, for example,
most students were gentlemen
and would get properly dressed
in the morning and come down
and eat a proper cooked -
breakfast served in a dining room. The idea
that students would do their cooking for
themselves just wasn't around. Times have
changed, and I suppose we could demolish
Southside and start again but the costs are
awe-inspiring. The basic structure, I am told,
is good. Someone has to see how we can adapt
it to make it more in tune with today's needs.
We could always make bigger common rooms
and bigger kitchens at the expense of
removing some bedrooms but the one thing
that we desperately need is more places for
students to sleep.
The difference in accommodation between
Linstead and Evelyn Gardens is huge. Are there
any plans to bring
remember, has shared "ftjg sifflplv CaUYlOU MUSt UOt. a l 1 t h e h a l h t 0 t h
the mechanical engin
eering building with
the M e c h . E n g .
department. B i o -
chemistry has never
had enough [theatres],
they have always used
one of the ones in the Sherfield building...The
boundaries are going to be crossed more in
the future.
>- Tell me about the accommodation problem.
I don't think anybody in the college would
dispute the general drift of what you are
saying here (pointing to my Christmas list) but it
is quite simply a case of money. I walked
around the halls with the Director of Estates
and the Director of Finance recently. Y o u
don't have to be an expert to see there are lots
of things that need doing. [To get to] the sort
of state that most of us would be happy with -
without being luxurious - you are into many
millions, maybe even tens of millions.
allow the price of our
accommodation to drift
upwards..."
same standard?
We want to make
it all better.
Linstead is one of
the most recent
and therefore you
would expect it to
be one of the soundest and most nearly in
tune with modern-day thinking, whereas so
many of the others, i n Evelyn Gardens
particularly, are adaptations of Victorian
houses, with all the associated limitations.
That was the product of the time when it was
prohibitively expensive to build new
buildings. It does look now that that was too
much of a cut price job. Some of the wiring
and plumbing still looks Victorian.
>• When college does things it tends to do them on
the cheap, which does not solve the problem.
It is a problem that every householder has:
spend more money today and get a better job
that w i l l last longer. But when you are
Academic Clothing: Pro Rector Alan Swanson
running a big organisation, particularly when
it is basically taxpayer funded or charitable or
both, you have also to consider - is it better to
spend the money now and hope that it will
last longer or spend not quite so much now
and redo it sooner? ...When you charge
yourself interest on the money you are
spending now it can sometimes actually be
cheaper to do a second rate job and redo it
frequently. As an engineer I am appaled, and
as a householder I don't like it, but as
someone who has got some sort of hand in
managing the money one has to think about
that. I would like our students to live in
accommodation - I wouldn't quite say luxury
hotels - where the quality of what is done is
above any reasonable criticism. But all that
costs money and students' funds are limited
and we simply cannot, must not, allow the
price of our accommodation to drift upwards
more than it has done.
V In my Christmas list I mentioned that I would
like to see more exchange programmes. Are there
any plans for an extension?
We have to satisfy certain regulations from
the University of London and sometimes an
accredited body. We do have to make sure
that this year [abroad] is genuinely
equivalent. We have chosen to have fewer, but
genuinely enjoyable, exchange programmes.
^ The impression I have got from some
departments is that they are not very keen to do
exchanges.
Oh that's not true at all. If one of the heads of
department puts up a case that looks
reasonable it will get through quickly. The
bottom line is the academic time that has to
be invested by the department in getting to
know another place.
MM F E L I X B3FBB95

