feature
)• But what if because of this Imperial gets left
behind compared with other universities doing lots
ofprogrammes?
Um... I am not bothered. There may be others
that haven't a programme like ours. If a
university has a lot of exchange programmes
then I would certainly want to ask what
preparation had gone into them. It is
important that the exchange programmes on
offer are properly prepared so that students
have a good year there... In Mech. Eng. for
example, this is the first year that we sent a
few students to North America, where you
might feel the difficulties are few because
there is no language barrier. But in fact the
difference in ethos, in the way in that the
course is conducted, was as least as great -
which is a warning to us.
>• Imperial College catering always seems to
think that we are here for them and not the other
way round.
You may be right in that that is the image
they project. A lot of people are unhappy with
various aspects of catering. I have been in this
job for only a few months so in a sense until
recently I have been a
customer and have
observed some of its
limitations. We have
had a fairly quick
succession of catering
managers. A new one
is due to start soon.
The main misunderstanding in catering
is that it is not actively clear who it should
report to. It used to be the domestic bursar,
but for many years, for various reasons, it
hasn't. When the new manager starts, the
Rector has decided that he should receive
general direction on policy from a body which
will be like a company board - with me as the
chairman - which signals the Rector's
intention of a serious intent [ummm?] to
which to direct the policy of catering, with a
strong eye for the customers.
>- The biggest complaint I have of catering is the
price of things, especially those in Southside shop.
That is interesting, because they tell me beer
in college is significantly cheaper than local
pubs.
The Writer Replies
When I wrote my list I never thought that I
would receive a reply. M a y b e I have got too
used to people not listening to my complaints,
especially in this college. O r maybe too many
people around me had given up without even
trying. Everybody loves to whinge; I love to
whinge - it is good to complain when things
are wrong. But I think that we have all been
programmed to believe that challenging things
does not work. W e all went to a school where
)• It is, but basic items in the shop are as
expensive as those in shops in South Kensington.
Hmmm, I do not know why.
)• / believe that the shops exist rent free and that
college pays their bills.
I agree with you on the face of it - that should
mean lower prices. If Sainsbury's can for their
reasons sell more cheaply than the corner
shop then I don't see why the college shop
shouldn't sell more cheaply than the corner
shop too for a different set of reasons.
)• Why does catering still make a loss?
I think you will find in many universities that
catering just about breaks even. The general
idea is that food makes a loss and beer makes
a profit and they cancel each other out. And it
just about balances.
>• But in Linstead each of the meals costs £3 and
some of them are inedible.
And you would expect it to be at least
edible. I can think of no excuse for inedible
meals. I am tempted to say that is part of the
new catering manager's job. I do know as I
have been here a long
time that people have
being wringing hands
over catering.
Catering staff are not
necessarily happy
because of this and I
am little surprised that they don't smile all
the time. People are not simple machines that
you can wind up and run.
>• What is the Rector doing to prevent student
union 'reforms'?
We live in a democracy and we can't
change the government just because you and I
don't like it. Well, what can you do? Rectors
together sometimes write strongly worded
statements. The Rector is a member of the
'Russell Group', whatever exactly that is, but
they do things such as having the Secretary of
State round for dinner, and it is possible that
pressure like that is more useful than public
statements. I see normal pillars of
respectability by no means foaming at the
mouth, left-wing revolutionaries condemning
this government's lunacy in student union so-
called 'reforms'.
we could not change things, where we were
told that we were not mature enough to make
decisions, a n d in o n e way or another that
seems to carry on with us. This college, along
with just about every other college in Britain at
the m o m e n t , has a p r o b l e m with student
apathy. Maybe there isn't much out there left
to fight for? But is everything perfect? Are you
completely happy with everything that goes on
in this college? Hadn't you better start doing
something about it? I meet people every day
who would rather bottle it all up than speak
T h e R e c t o r ' s R e p l y !
Greenland
9th January 1995
Dear Michael,
I am delighted to learn that you still
believe i n me. I am told that i n some circles
the political correctness of parents' even
discussing my existence with their children
is i n debate.
Never the less here I am. I was very
pleased to receive your Christmas list.
Unfortunately i n these days of long lead
times it was a little too late for me to slide
all your requests into your stocking. I have
to say, however, that for the most part it
was a very reasonable list and includes
many of the presents I'd have been inclined
to leave you had I been left to think it up
for myself.
You have to remember though that
I'm still working at becoming a magician.
This means that although I may be able to
slip i n a few late delivery presents during
the year, others may have to wait for next
Christmas or the year after. You may be
interested to know that I had a similar
letter from the Rector. I may even be able to
satisfy you both.
Happy New Year,
Santa.
It is rather interesting seeing all these
presumed conservative voters, saying that this
Conservative government has got it all wrong.
But when you have a government that
governs by obsession, which is what we are
now facing, they don't often listen... The
answer is, of course, voting for a different
government and hoping that they will be
more enlightened, but I wouldn't like to
guarantee that they would.
)• Finally, what are you hoping to achieve in your
new job?
[Laughter] I am not expecting to solve
all the college's problems, but there are two
main things. One is that universities in
general need to be much more aware and
understanding of the educational process; the
other is to work out what happens to students
outside their departments i n the college
community. There are always going to be
these tensions, basically because we don't
print money and therefore we have to make
the money we have go as far as possible. 5
out. You say that it won't make a difference, or
that it will never come to anything. I disagree -
I didn't think that my complaints would be
taken seriously but they were.
O K , so you have heard this all before.
G o o d rousing moral stuff isn't it? 'Speak out
a n d d o s o m e t h i n g ' sounds like the careers
office, but has a n y o n e actually bothered?
Shouldn't someone start? A great m a n said
"for evil to triumph it is only necessary for
good men to d o nothing."
M i c h a e l L u d l a m
"I can think of no excuse
for inedible meals..."
03FeB9S F E L I X H i

