Xtra Curricular
Joker: Stewart puts on his funny pose.
SgaQQ
That's Entertainment
Keys: Blind, Rudolf, Newcastle
A week before Valentines when a boy needs
to look his best, and what happens? You get
hit by flu, and your nose looks like Rudolf...
not good news, it has to be said! But there is
good news, in terms of this week's events.
Friday, 3rd February
The frighteningly photogenic Stewart Lee
brings his own individual style of observa-
tional sarcasm to the Bust-a-Gut Comedy
Club, ably supported by Ronnie Ancona and
Ricky Grover, plus guest open spot. So, 4
comedians for just £2.50 - plus you get a
disco afterwards, and if you're among the first
50 in, a free bottle of Newcastle Brown as
well! Doors open at 8pm, with the first act on
stage at 8.30pm prompt!
From 9pm - 'Atmosphere' - with top
tunes (which I could do with now!) and gen-
eral fun and laughter. The bar's open until
lam and dancing until 2 - it's the cheapest
night out in town, and it all goes back to you
in the end! Just £1.
Saturday
5 Nations Rugby live on the Big Screen in Da
Vinci's. Bar opens at 1.30pm.
Monday
More sport! Live football on the Da Vinci's
Big Screen (and I'm not saying a word about
Mr Kung F u Cantona). Starts 7pm.
Tuesday
It might not be University Challenge, but it's
much more fun. Bar quiz, starts 8pm. Big
prizes to be won.
Wednesday
Infamous in its own right, the truly 'unique'
experience that is 'Club Spanque'. Bar until
f F E L I X 03FEB95
midnight, dancing until lam and it's all free.
Thursday
In total contrast - our ever-successful
'umbrella & bits of fruit' night. Yes, that oasis
of sophistication that is... Cocktail Night.
Weekly specials and food are available.
Upcoming Events
Just to prove we do plan ahead, next week
(Feb 10-17th) is I C U 'Love Week' because
we're all romantic at heart. Watch out for a
special 'love' quiz, blind date and, on Friday
17th, 'Atmosphere' with a twist. So get ready
to go out and find the one you love.
While you're at it - find some funkadelic
flares, some sequins and get ready for 'Shaft'
on Friday 24th, when all things tasteless take
over the evening - it starts at 8pm with the
return of Stevie Starr the 'Regurgitator' and
going on until 2am with a mix of groovy 70's
and 80's sounds. Prizes for the coolest threads
(man!). It's £2.50 for the whole night and just
£1 if you just want to join in the boogie won-
derland.
Wanted: 10 attractive, fun-loving, con-
testants for ICU's very own Blind Date on
February 16th. The prospective lovers (5
male, 5 female) should apply to the Union
Office before Valentines Day.
JillcJ
Rag's Trip 'Up North'
Keys: Dirty, Mag, Wine, Potato
Once again Rag are inviting you to join them
on the annual weekend tour which will be
departing on the 24th February. At least two
minibuses packed with students will be head-
ing "up North" to visit various universities,
take over their Union bars and sample their
cheap beer!
But if you think that the purpose of the
trip is purely to get very drunk then you're
sadly mistaken. We'll in fact be introducing
our somewhat sensitive friends from other
colleges, to the subtler points of the Imperial
College sense of humour. Yes, despite numer-
ous bans (including a blanket ban from our
good friends at the NUS), we will be selling
our 'critically acclaimed' Rag Mag. Having
made a few aesthetic improvements to their
union buildings we shall then be waved on
our way to our next port of call by those nice
college security men. To partake in this cul-
tural experience then attend one of our
Friday meetings or pay a visit to the Rag or
RCS Office.
Before the tour we have a few other
events going on, as follows:
How would you like to win half a crate of
wine? You could do just that if you enter our
Halls D i r t y Dozen this weekend, 4th
February. No doubt your hall rep will have
organised a team - look out for posters in
your hall. If not then come to the meeting
today at 1.10pm in the Union Lounge and
you can sign up for a team. This also applies
if you are not in hall but would like to take
part anyway - the more people taking part,
the better. The prize will go to the team who
manage to collect the most money over 24
hours around L o n d o n or at the Q P R vs.
Newcastle match.
There is also a collection on the 17th
February(Friday) in the City, for the Royal
Hospital, Putney. This should be good if you
go in the evening, as you can target all the
business people going to the pub! If you col-
lect on this date and/or on the 11th March
then you have the chance of winning two
three month interail passes with which you
can go almost anywhere. These collections
have the added incentive of a plastic ' M r
Potato Head' figurine for each collector
which would add style to anybody's home!
Lastly, thank you to all those wonderful
people who helped us on the collection for
John Grooms on Saturday 21st. Your efforts
were especially appreciated considering it was
raining all day.
For more information about any of these
events or other future happenings then contact th
Rag Office (Ext. S8099) or join us at our Friday
meetings.
An tGB Network Starts...
Keys: Orientation, Scene, Out
On my arrival at Imperial, like many other
people, I was struck by the lack of any les-
bian, gay and bisexual group. However as
mentioned in the last few editions of F E L I X ,
Imperial is now getting its own L G B society.
Many people come to London because it
is home to a thriving and diverse gay scene,
and as a student you are well placed to make
the most of what is on offer. The aim of estab-
lishing an Imperial group is to provide an
essential social and support network for those
both sure and unsure of their sexual orienta-
tion.
Although attitudes in society are slowly
changing, it is still not easy growing up gay
or bisexual as homophobia is still prevalent.
However going to University provides an
excellent opportunity for developing greater
independence and maturity. Many people
find it a good environment in which to be
more open about their sexuality. This is not
to say that "coming out" is necessarily easy -
I for one found it to be a tough experience.
The establishment of a L G B network will
help those who need it.
So for all of you out there who want to
meet new people, please come along to the
first weekly meeting. It's on Tuesday 7th
February at 7.30pm in the Brown Committee
room on the top floor of the Union. If you
can't make it you can leave messages in the
LGNetwork pigeonhole in the Union Office
or with Lucy Chothia (ICU President).

