Xlra Curricular
Jatpam 3.0|
Japan Night '95
Keys: Party, Food, Big Prizes
Japan Night is the annual party organised
jointly by the Japan Societies of the Colleges
of London (IC, L S E , Kings, U C L , SOAS,
Q M W and Royal Holloway). It is very big,
there should be over 600 people from differ-
ent colleges and subjects, Japanese and non-
Japanese. You don't have to be members of
any Japan Societies or even be a student to
come along - everybody's invited! It is being
held on the 9th of February i n Tutu's, i n
Kings College Union.
There will be Japanese food included in
the price of your ticket, and Japanese beer
available at the bar. There will be demonstra-
tion of Japanese drumming, games, a raffle
and a Disco, with a bar extension until late.
We are being sponsored by A N A ( A l l
Nippon Airways) who have offered us a
F R E E T I C K E T T O J A P A N to just give
away. Yes, that's right: one free student
return to Japan. A l l you need do to stand a
chance of winning is to come along - your
entry ticket is your raffle ticket.
Our other major sponsor is A V E X . This
is a company that I'd guess few people in the
U K have heard of. They only arrived i n
Britain this year, but in Japan they're well
known for their record label and night clubs,
including the largest night-club in the world
in Roppongi, Tokyo. They are providing
prizes and also professional DJs for the disco
so we'll have a great mix of international
music.
So you'll agree that it'll be great fun, and
the good news is that tickets cost only £6.00
in advance (on the door tickets will be £7.00)
for everything. Tickets will be available from
all the Japan Soc. committee members, every
lunch time in the JCR and in the Sherfield
Ante-room on Wednesdays.
If you want any more info, E-mail Gavin
Brock (Phys UG2) at Japanese@icac.uk or
phone Gen Nakamura (Mech.Eng. UG2) on
071-373 3893 or see posters plastered all over
college.
m. Wm\k
Social Clubs Committee Week
Keys: Corruption, Flesh, Max
In the week starting February 6th, the Social
Clubs Committee (fondly known as the SCC)
will be plugging itself and trying to entice
you to swell the ranks of its constituent clubs.
These comprise a mixed bag of religious,
political and miscellaneous societies ranging
from ArtSoc through Science Fiction to
WelshSoc, stopping at European Youth and
Transcendental Meditation along the way.
Most of them will be occupying stalls in the
JCR at lunch times during the week. Come
along and see what they have to offer;
Finance Soc will be only too happy to throw
leaflets and prospectuses at you (as w i l l
Industrial Soc), the International Tamil Soc
will tell you about their forthcoming events,
and the religious/political groups will talk
about why they have chosen to follow their
respective creeds and what it all means to
them.
As a bonus, we're showing three
films for free: on Monday 6th Feb we have at
6pm 'The Killing Fields', the story of a pair
of journalists covering Pol Pot's communist
regime in Cambodia and the atrocities they
discover. Third World First will be present
at the film to tell you more about how you
can help out in related campaigns and invite
you to read their reference books i n the
library. Later at 9pm there's 'The Crying
Game', Neil Jordan's story of terrorism and
self discovery. Information about U L U ' s
forthcoming Gay/Lesbian/Bisexual events
w i l l be available at the film. F i n a l l y on
Tuesday 7th at 7pm, we have 'Malcolm X ' -
Spike Lee's version of the life of the man
assassinated for his beliefs. A l l these movies
are free, so arrive early before the Cinema fills
up. I'd like to give a big thanks to Steff and
Ian at ICU Cinema for making it all possible.
Watch the posters for any last
minute events, and we hope to see you at
some of the existing ones.
B(BDQ©to22
Benelux Society Future Plans
Keys: Amsterdam, Moules, Bier
After our first meeting on Thursday 26th
January, several events have been planned for
this year. The society was officially accepted
only last month, and our first meeting men-
tioned a few things that will be very interest-
ing and exciting for all members and future
members.
Our trip to Amsterdam will take place in
March but the final date has to be finalised
during the next meeting. Before that, we are
planning an evening in a Belgian restaurant.
Moules, frites and beer will wait for you there
in a warm ambience. The date for this event
will be decided on Tuesday, 7th February.
The very last important point; from now,
all meetings will be in the Union Bar from 12
till 1.30pm every Tuesday. A l l members and
those interested should come and discuss
what hot and exciting social events could be
planned for this new society.
For more information contact:
j.tissier@ic.ac.uk, Mining II, Vice President
or m.tonkin@ic.ac.uk Aero II, President.
Soar: Wheels up for sailing on the air.
^ J j J J j J i J
IC Gliding Club turns 65!
Keys: Waves, Diamond
1995 marks the 65th anniversary for Imperial
College Gliding Club, which was formed at
the start of gliding in Britain in 1930. As one
of the oldest gliding clubs i n the country,
ICGC has a long and illustrious history - our
members have represented Great Britain in
World Championships, run the national glid-
ing governing body (the B G A ) and given
thousands of IC students the chance to safely
discover the world of soaring flight.
To mark this milestone i n our history
the club will hold an open day on the Queens
Lawn between 10am - 4pm on Thursday
23rd February 1995. O n display will be the
club's latest glider, a high performance ASW-
24 single seater, as well as a vintage 1930 'pri-
mary' glider and information of our exploits
over the past 65 years. A l l are welcome.
During the summer of 1994, Aeronautics
fourth year Afandi Darlington became the
first I C G C student ever to complete the
Federation Aeronautique Internationale
Diamond badge for gliding. He completed a
507 kilometre distance task on 30th June, and
gained the badge with a flight in mountain
waves to 22,000 feet i n Scotland during
September.
3.0(3
You Too Can Find True Dates
Keys: Roommate, Bribe, Perfect
Date Soc is a society for those who are look-
ing for lonely dates. Potential dates can be
found dried up and desperate but here at
Date Soc we can find you your true date.
All you need to do to join is to hand in
your application form to me (Date Soc Chair,
email /dev/null). There is no charge for join-
ing but bribes are considered. Once you have
joined we will look for your perfect date.
After being a full member you too can also
help others to find their dates.
If you have a roommate and you wish to
devour you dates alone we can provide the
perfect place. W e accommodate all sorts of
tastes and guarantee to do our best to please.
03FEB95 F E L I X

