THE m
e
n
u
Monotone has always been alive and well in the world of art
films so tintin goes under the scalpel of suture, whilst Katie
Hopkins peers down the barrel of a french hitman in leon.
In a week which sees us host friends of the transatlantic
variety, Vile partakes of live experiences at the hands of the
black crowes and moist. He/en-Louise stays home and plays
her new extreme and denzil albums instead.
Door policies and large bouncers dominate as Fiona
attempts to gain access to malibu stacey. As the lady says,
"remember children, if you don't try you can't succeed".
Joseph 'Mr Mauve' Barr dons black suit and shades before
venturing into the theatrical debauchery of killer joe.
In the series so occasional that it's termly, Ripley talks about
the greatest english novel, nostromo I
© the power of suggestion
Suture n. 1. Surgery, a. catgut, silk
thread, or wire used to stitch
together two bodily surfaces, b. the
surgical seam formed after
stitching, c. an independent US
film.
Films shot in black and white
make a statement and in this
respect suture is no different.
Grainy black and white films which
are rooted and referenced within
the cinematic tradition and have
unpronounceable titles hang
dangerously over the edge of
cleverness. Yet for all its obvious
intelligence Suture is not a bad little
film.
Too much press emphasis has
been placed on the central visual
ploy of the film (if you don't know
what I'm going on about don't
worry) but that not only spoils the
audience's realisation, it also
misses the point that it is of minor
import to the strength of the plot.
All you need to know before you
see the film is that we start by
following the character of Clay
Arlington as he meets his weird
and wealthy half brother, Vincent
Towers, for the first time.
The reason for the scarcity of
preview plot is that for the first half
of the film at least, the viewer
should only have as much
information about what's going on
as Clay himself. Thrillers don't work
if you know what's in the closet,
remember? But Suture isn't just a
thriller. After the sudden spark
which wraps up the first third of the
film we're into more conventional
territory. The loss of memory and
the transference of characters are a
well used cinematic devices - a fact
that the directors of Suture
recognise when listing their
influences; Frankenheimer's
'Seconds', Dmytryk's 'Mirage' and
Hitchcock's 'Spellbound'. In the
land populated by beautiful plastic
surgeons, symbolically driven
dreams and slowly narrating
Japanese shrinks, Suture may slow
down but it retains its sure
progression to a nicely twisted end.
And perhaps this is the most
impressive piece of the film. We're
taken back to the dreamlike
flashback which started the film off.
Even that is brought to a conclusion
which affirms the subtle
undercurrent that has gone before.
If you see Suture at the ICA
you also get the thirty minute short
tropical fish thrown in for free too.
There's not a better combination.
Leon (Jean Reno) is a hitman
or a 'cleaner' whilst Mathilde
(Natalie Portman) is the 12 year old
next door. But when her family are
all murdered by a gang of drug
dealers, led by a corrupt Drug
Enforcement policeman, Mathilde
goes to live with Leon. In order to
get revenge she asks Leon to teach
her to become a 'cleaner' and in
the process they become much
closer. Leon's relationships with
Mathilde and his pot plant show
that he is not as unemotional as
he'd like to think.
The storyline is original, apart
from the predictably corrupt
policeman, and the odd funny parts
make the film lighter going than it
otherwise would be. Although near
the end it goes a bit over the top -a
whole policeforce to get one
man?- the film ends well and is
worth going to see. Don't be put off
by the first five minutes of arty
camera shots. 0

