Standby
moist
away down south
A box in the Royal Albert Hall is a
strange, if rather cool, place from
which to watch a rock concert.
Ornate surroundings (well this is our
graduation hall), sculpted ceilings,
tiers of seats below you, a circular
pit of rockers and retros standing in
front of them and a bunch of scruffy
Americans on stage - I'm sure
there's a contradiction in there
somewhere. Still, support band
Dillon Fence served themselves
well, delivering faithful, perfectly
harmonised snippets from their new
album and garnering a positive
reaction.
But it was the black crowes
that everyone was here to see and
the punters were not left
disappointed. The Crowes, as
they're affectionately known to their
fans, have made an art form out of
nicking the best traits from old
bands, melding them, adding their
own little idiosyncrasies and selling
it. Not exactly iconoclastic, and
some might call it plagiarism, but
when they end up sounding way
better than all of the bands they are
supposed to be copying, quite
frankly, who cares?
Tonight's set gathers in
highlights from all three of their
albums. 'Jealous Again' and 'Twice
As Hard' showcase the best
attributes of the debut, 'Shake Your
Moneymaker' - simple but skillfully
crafted songs that are perfectly
suited to this sort of forum. The likes
of 'Hotel Illness' and 'Sometimes
Salvation' do the same job for
1992's 'Southern Harmony...'.
Meanwhile, the percussive and
groove elements of the recent
'Amorica' are borne out in 'A
Conspiracy' and 'High Head Blues'.
The crowd lapped it up and
with a coup de grace of 'Remedy'
the Crowes left the stage to a
roaring ovation. With a reaction like
that it might not be long before they
have attained the same status as
the bands that they so lovingly
embrace.
With heavy MTV rotation, a top
40 single in 'Push' and a pretty boy
singer in David Usher, you'd be
forgiven for being suspicious of
Canadian band moist. Take a listen
to their debut album 'Silver' and
they don't really put up a strong
case for their defence with a bunch
of woefully produced, quasi-rock
songs that don't justify (or would
explain, depending on your point of
view) a major label deal. See them
live, on the other hand, and it's a
slightly different story, with their
claim to writing songs with "live
performances in mind" becoming a
reality.
Quite simply, singer David
Usher and guitarist Mark Makowy
are mad, but then you'd know that
if you've ever seen MTV. Usher has
apparently broken everything on
stage during Moist's short career
and tonight he succeeded in turfing
keyboardist Kevin Young off the
Camden Palace stage (while he was
still playing keyboards, of course).
As for Makowy, well if you'd seen
the ridiculous and seemingly infinite
range of facial contortions he pulled
whilst playing guitar then you'd
know that Canada has finally found
its answer to Phil Cool. At least if
the band don't make it he can make
a living in the circus..
Obviously, these factors alone
could not make for an enjoyable gig
but unsurprisingly the music also
took on a somewhat more exciting
vibe. Songs like 'Kill For You' came
across with a considerably harder
edge and got a lot closer to meeting
their would-be "Pat Boone-meets-
Kiss" aspirations than on disc. Not
quite as wet as you thought...
extreme started their career
playing annoying, but good, pop
rock music for little girls. However in
1992 they decided to go all serious
on us with the release of their
'ambitious and controversial'
album, 'Three Sides To Every Story'.
This was a commercial flop as the
little girls, myself included, weren't
ready for such a progression. So
Extreme are back to try again.
Their new album, waiting for
the punchline, takes ages to get into
-longer than the five days I've had
to hear it- but it improves on
repeated plays. Like 'Three Sides',
the music is more progressive than
pop. Fans of proggie bands like
Dream Theater will love this. A
couple of tracks, (eg 'Shadow-
boxing') are more instantly
accessible and remind me of the
extreme of old when I was thirteen
and fancied Nuno Bettencourt!
Unfortunately this album suffers
from extreme length [groan -ed.]
and pretentiousness. I'd rather hear
this on my radio than rave music
TRICKY G A V E A W A Y
WELL DONE AMY NICHOLAS,
MATHS 1, WHO IS NOW THE
PROUD OWNER OF ONE BLACK
BIN LINER WITH THE FAB TRICKY
BITS INSIDE. THE ANSWER TO THE
QUESTION OF TRICKY'S ORIGIN
WAS, OF COURSE, BRISTOL.
but I wouldn't go rushing out to buy
it unless I was feeling rich. (7)
With song titles like 'If Only
Alan Won The Pools' and a cd cover
consisting of three pints of beer in
various stages of emptiness, I don't
know what to expect from denzil
and his album pub. After listening to
it, I could quote from Cliched
Phrases for Record Reviewers and
say "there's something here for
everyone". The lyrics are witty with
an amusingly ironic slant, while the
musical style varies drastically. Each
song sounds like a different band.
There's traces of Dodgy, Oasis, the
Wonderstuff, Mega City Four and
even some country and western,
whilst the singer sounds like
Morrissey! I really don't know how
else to describe it.
The sixteen songs would fit
happily onto one side of a C90 and
this album would fit happily into
your record collection between
Beautiful South and Blur - except
that would put your collection out of
alphabetical order.
If you like melodic indie music,
you have a sense of humour and
you're prepared to buy an album by
a band you've never heard of, you
might just like this. (7) 0
^ big door coming
malibu stacey, Hanover grand, Hanover st, W l , is the place to be seen
at on a Saturday these days; [10:30 'till 4:30 and £12]. The reason for
its big rep is not just the high quality house but the skill required to
negotiate your way past 'security'. Door policy here leaves a little to be
desired ... the young, beautiful and preferably outrageous will have less
problems than everyone else. Drunk or exclusively male crowds will be
turning up at Cafe de Paris an hour or so later. Even if you know the DJs
expect difficulties in entering after the witching hour. This place is tough
... but think of the sense of achievement you'll feel once you've made it
thru' those hallowed portals, and give it a go. Remember children, if
you don't try you can't succeed - on the other hand you can't be made
to look reeeeeally stupid either.
Stop press for the city's hottest movers, a bbc talent scout is
planning a Thursday night at starsky and hutch this week. So if you
think you're hip winding is good enough for TV, get yourself there.
Upstairs at Ronnie Scotts, Frith St, Soho, the price of fame is £6/4 NUS
or £3 if you say you know me. Which you will because i'll be taking your
money. Preferably lots of it.
Finally, a big apology to all those ruined backs as a result of last
week's comments. Sit-ups are now officially bad for you (not that i
hadn't known that for years) and crunch curls are the thing. So budding
fashionable tummies take care!
Dancing, on the other hand, is the best form of exercise there is
so, if they let you in, go strutt! 0
03FGB05 F E L I X MM

