The S-Files
©Science Line
©The acid test
©Grrr... Hello?
QUESTIONS PLEASE
SOLID OR LIQUID?
DAVE COHEN SPEAKS HIS BRAINS
Science Line began in 1993 as a phone-in question
service after Equinox programmes on Channel 4.
Four programmes were chosen, on the subjects of the
Space Shuttle, Memory, A i r Traffic and Dinosaurs,
to pilot the service. Thousands of people phoned in, and their
questions were answered by scientists and science students.
In March 1994, during the first British Science Week, the
permanent Science Line was launched. The service now receives calls
every day on subjects ranging from genetic engineering to prime
numbers.
Science Line follows in the footsteps of the
first European public science service which
was set up in the Netherlands. But how good
are these services? In this S-files exclusive,
read Dave Cohen's experiences as a Science Line
worker, and draw your own conclusions from
the "test case" question below.
Editor: Hilary * Thanhs to-. Daue * Picniched
S
c
i
e
n
c
e L
i
n
e
0
3
4
5 6
0
0 #1
(
H
o
ntoF
n I
p
m° 1
p
m
Is g l a s s a s o l i d o r a liquid? The d i f f e r e n t a n s w e r s on o f f e r O
What flew Scientist readers said.
Although for me the Science Line started off as a financial
saviour, it very quickly turned into my favourite Sunday
afternoon pastime. Originally part of the BBC and now an
independent charity, under the wing of the BSS (Broadcasting
Support Services), Science L me is a non-profit making
organisation whose aim is to publicly promote science. It
provides a telephone information service to Channel 4 and Radio 5 science-
oriented programmes for the cost of a local telephone call. And, combined, the
team is able to answer questions on most science and technology related
subjects.
My two hour stint, for example, revolves around the Radio 5 Programme
"The Big Byte" which is a weekly focus on
what's going on in pop-computing.
Sometimes I feel like a glorified secretary
accepting competition entries, or telling
Sometimes I feci like a glorified
secretary, but none of that detracts
from the times when I hear that
•'aaahhhh'' of comprehension
people where they can get connected to
the Internet. But occasionally the more
intriguing characters surface and pose
real hum-dingers, like the one who
wanted to know the implications Electronic
Media and Communications will have on
our society in the next generation(l), and
the man who insisted that email will lead
to the downfall of humanity. Scott, who
rings every week to discuss possible ways
of improving ISDN bandwidth, does tend
to get a little tedious, as do the tens of
people who are willing to swear blindly
that they have witnessed ball-lighting. But
that doesn't detract from the times when
you hear that " a a a h h h h " of com-
prehension. All in all I can't think of a
better way of getting myself out of bed
and spending a Sunday aftemoorT."
\
What Science Line said...
the Last Word, 30 July 1994: "...glass is a l i q p a \ ^ S ^ S l solid, cji
most people believe. If a sheet of glass was placed vertically and left
undisturbed for a period of a few hundred thousand ye-Sf'ST '* would
eventually become a horizontal sheet spread ovef'the floor on which
it was resting. In older buildings, windows are thicker at the bases..."
The Last Word, 17 Sept 1994: "...glass is a solid at normal
temperature. It will not flow and experiments have been done to
show this. Bubbles in obsidian, a volcanic glass, are still spherical
after more than a million years in spite of the weight of overlying
rocks, which exert a much larger force than gravity does on the glass
alone. Old glass windows panes are usually thicker at •ho bottom
because they were installed that way for convenience (they «f|> rtpt
fall over easily and remain in position while t l ^ are nointea) Jven
so, old panes are sometimes found installed *hick edge up,
especially in stained glass windows..." \ Vf
Do y o u h a u e a uieiu on g l a s s ?
If s o , t u n t e t o t h e s ° f i l e s . c / o Felix O f f i c e
c ^ e ^ ^ ^ ^ o V ^ p e r i o d
Liner 1: "Well, I think it's a liquid because it flows
Hang on, I'll ask my colleague."
(muffled conversation, then the receiver is passed over) ,
Liner 2: "Glass is a supercooled liquid. In a liquid the atom's"naven't found
their sites. They haven't got their ideal bonds. The atoms aren't arranged in a
lattice as they would be in a solid."
Me: "What's a lattice?"
Liner 2 (trying not to use technical terms): "If you think of a cube, with an
atom at each corner, then that is a lattice like a salt crystal."
Me: "...errr..."
Liner 2 (quickly): "Here's an analogy. Think of lava - molten rock. When rock
becomes lava it is exposed to the air and cools very quickly. It forms a glassy
sort of substance called obsidian. Obsidian used to be really valuable
because very sharp tools could be made out of it. If the lava cools slowly - if
it doesn't get exposed to the air - then it forms rhyolite instead, which has
crystals in it. The crystals get a chance to form because it cools slowly
Me (the-light-has-dawnedly): "So if glass was cooled slowly then crystals
would form in it?"
Liner 2: "Yes - if you look at Roman glass, it has often started to devitrify
Crytals have started to form, and the glass doesn't look so clear."
Me: "And supercooled just means cooled very quickly."
Liner 2 (relieved): "Yes."
03FEB9S F E L I X MM

