Feature
Isn't getting out of bed
enough?
Kamran Malik explores depression and what you can do about it
Some days just trying to get out of bed is
hard enough. I can go to sleep all right
but wake up at stupid times like four or five
in the morning and then I can't sleep again. I
just lie in bed mulling things over again and
again..."
Ivan is a graduate who is depressed.
Since finishing his degree last summer he has
been unable to find work and over the past
few months he has been on a downward spiral
of lack of confidence and depression.
"I just feel so useless, as i f life is
passing me by... I see people come and go
from work and I feel trapped and so stupid.
I've been feeling like this for three or four
months, I think. After I graduated my family
just expected me to walk into a well-paid job.
I am a graduate after all... Then the bank
really started hassling me about my overdraft,
wanting me to pay it off... I feel like such a
failure."
Depression is a common experience,
but feeling sad or miserable when things are
not right is not a bad thing. The problem
occurs when the depression dominates your
life and just existing day to day becomes
difficult. In a small number of cases the
depression can be clinical, needing special
therapy, but for the majority, like Ivan, the
solution could be simple counselling. Ivan is
sceptical about seeking help himself. "I'm not
really into going to counselling... T h e
problem is that I'm unemployed - how can
they help with that?"
To a large extent, depression goes
unrecognised and untreated. According to the
mental health charity M I N D , a majority of
psychiatric referrals are due to depressive
disorders. Twenty per cent of the general
population may be depressed at any one time,
but only 2-4% are clinically depressed. This
leads to a great deal of personal and family
suffering which, according to M I N D , is
unnecessary: "Depression is recognisable and
treatable, but unfortunately it goes undetected
in up to 70% of cases." People like Ivan suffer
alone when there is help available.
What about depression in students? Do
MIND's facts and figures apply to Imperial? I
spoke to D r Irene Weinreb, who manages
psychotherapy at the Imperial College Health
Centre.
"We do see quite a lot of cases of
F E L I X 03FEB95
depression, but I think it's quite important,
before you label people, to separate depressive
illnesses, which may require treatment with
antidepressants, from reactive depression,
which is often due to the stress of work or the
break-up of a relationship." Each case is
treated individually at the health centre. "It's
a bit like being a detective: you ask them
loads of things until you have an idea of what
the problem is."
This is a relief, since I've found that
reading symptoms of depression out of
textbooks leads me to the conclusion that I'm
depressed too!
"I don't work like that and many of the
doctors here don't work like that either. I
think it's more to do with how the person is
feeling and behaving."
These days depression is b i g news,
especially among students. Last month the
Daily Express reported "Cambridge hit by
outbreak of student despair." Statistics
compiled by the Samaritans show that suicide
rates among 15-24-year-old men increased by
71% over the last decade. Although more
women than men attempt suicide, men are
more liable to succeed.
Student hardship is increasing the
incidence of depression everywhere.
According to D r Weinreb, the incidence has
increased dramatically over the last 10 years.
"Certainly students have a much tougher time
now." London students have a particularly
hard time. " L i v i n g i n L o n d o n - with
problems about accommodation and money -
and the fact that Imperial is a non-campus
science university makes it more difficult."
Work pressures and expectations of success
from family don't help.
We are a l l increasingly prone to
depression. Life is getting harder and the
caring, sharing nineties aren't all that great.
What can we do when things are getting so
bad that despair takes over your life?

