Letters
As the world
falls down
Dear FELIX,
On the news item 'ceiling collapse' of the last,
issue, Mr Peter Hallworth, the Managing
Surveyor of Residences, said that there was no.
danger to students living in Evelyn Gardens. He,
also pointed out that there was no plan to re-;
appraise the safety of the ceiling although the:
ceiling had quite frequently collapsed.
I could not understand whether Mr Hallworth's
comment on safety was based on his professional
judgement or his own commonsense. It is
ridiculous to think that a collapse of a five foot
square section of ceiling causes no danger to the
students of Evelyn Gardens. My commonsense
tells me that a 2 inch thick piece of concrete of
5' by 5' is heavy enough to kill.
If the occupant had been injured or killed, who
would have been liable for damages? The
College, the Warden or Mr Hallworth himself?
I really want to know what would be Mr
Hallworth's feeling if the collapse had happened
in his bedroom.
And finally, thank God I am still alive.
Yours,
A. Li, The Occupant, Evelyn Gardens.
Bloody flipping
burgers
Dear Bill,
How many ecologically aware budding
scientists and engineers take their burgers and
drinks from QT in ozone unfriendly polystyrene
containers?
Only by consumer actions (ie drinking out ot
cans or cartons or taking burgers wrapped in-
paper) will manufacturers realise that these
products are undesirable and seek to replace
them.
If we start at IC and get our house in order then
perhaps we can stop people perpetuating the
reputation of scientists and engineers as people
who are uncaring about the environment.
Yours faithfully,
Paul Francis
Sentiment supported by Frank Dean and Colin
Boxall.
Student loan
apathy
Dear Editor,
We the undersigned write in disgust at the
apathetic attitude of IC students with regard to
the Government's plan to introduce Student
Loans.
Thousands of students from all over the
country marched to demonstrate against loans on
Thursday 24th November, however, only a
handful of IC students were present. Why is it
if people from as far afield as Dundee can make
the effort to march that IC students cannot even
manage a quick tube ride across London.
It was particularly disappointing to note the
absence of any members of the Union Exec,
perhaps if the President had considered the
demonstration important enough to attend more
students would have followed his example.
Those of us that did go on the march shouted
'Baker Out!'—the question is which 'Baker' were
we referring to??
Incidentally, none of us are members of the
Socialist Workers Party.
Yours sincerely,
S Owen, Life Sci 3
L Kenton, Life Sci 3
N Bolton, Life Sci 3
R Isaacs, Life Sci 3
F Marsh, Life Sci 3
W f Edmunds, Life Sci 3
T A Dighton, Life Sci 3
N Martinez Alier, Life Sci 4
H Roberts, Life Sci 3
C Zachary, Life Sci 3
South Africa
no platform
Dear Bill,
I am writing to you to protest about the staging
of a debate with a speaker from the South African
Embassy at Imperial College.
There can be few other institutions that are
prepared to lend legitimacy to an oppressive and
unjust regime by saying that it has a valid defence
to be heard and debated.
I would hope that rather than sitting back and
condemning the apathy of everyone else
something can be done to prevent what can only
otherwise be seen as Imperial's support for the
South African regime.
Yours etc.
Alistair Goodall, DoC.
President
slammed
Dear Bill,
The President of ICU, the Hon Nigel Baker,
stated at the UGM on 29.11.88 thai he needed
a further 1
% weeks to formulate a paper to be
circulated about the introduction of student loans,
before the EGM on 8.12.88. He said that people
need to know the 'facts' about what is happening
and not have their judgement on heresay and on
the media. Less than a minute later he
condemned the march on Parliament based on
what he had heard. Does our President know
what he is talking about?
S Essen/, Life Science 2. ' -'
George Ingle
Finch
Dear Bill,
Might I ask through your letters column for
help in getting back one of the life-size
photographs used for the Merger exhibition
outside the Great Hall last month?
The photograph is of George Ingle Finch,
Professor of Applied Physical Chemistry here,
who was on the College staff from 1919 to 1952.
He founded the College Mountaineering Club
and pioneered the use of oxygen in
mountaineering as a member of Mallory's 1922
Everest expedition. The photograph shows him
in walking clothes and carrying a long walking
staff.
As such photographs are very expensive to
produce, we are naturally keen for its return, and
so long as it is returned undamaged we shall ask
no questions. We should be grateful either for its
return or for information leading to its recovery.
If the person who has it wants to return it
anonymously, then he/she will find the Archives
Offices on Level 4 West of the Sherfield Building;
it can just be left outside out of office hours.
Richard Williams, College Archivist.
Bio Blues
Dear Bill,
As I feal repercussions from powers that be that
might seriously affect my future, I wish my name
to be held by request. My complaint is simply that
the Biology Department persists in contravening
College rules by holding practicals and lectures
on a Tuesday and Thursday lunchtime. This
means students who wish to go to lunchtime
activities do so to the demise of their education.
This is compounded by the fact that out of, say,
a class of 20 three may wish to go to lunchtime
activities and by 'democracy' the three lose out.
Secondly, and possibly a more serious
contravention, is the Biology Departments
insistance (including the Head of Department
Professor Anderson) on holding bctures at
11.00am on a Tuesday thus clashing by half an
hour with humanities lectures at 11.30, or by
starting practicals at 11am thus totally clashing
with humanities lectures, these practicals running
over lunchtime. We are allowed to do humanities
courses (although the department does not
positively encourage us to do them) and yet due
to our department's time-tabling I know
personally of two biologists (and there are
probably more I don't know of) who have had
to give up their chosen humanities option. I
myself missed several practicals on my last course
due to"the timetables. I have already complained
to Chas Brereton as to what I feel is an
unacceptable state of affairs but I very much get
the feeling that, unless serious action is taken
against the department, this state of affairs will
continue as it has done for at least the last three
years despite efforts to prevent it.
Name and department supplied, but withheld by
request.
Page 2 FELIX December 2 1988

