On the tube
What is art? This question has bothered a number of eminent and not
so eminent people and has prompted them to define it, write books about
it and explain it in metaphysical slang making it yet more inaccessible to
the public.
Till the last century, art was indeed considered as various forms of
entertainment and pleasure only suitable for the aristocracy. It was not until
the Great Wars and the advent of the rule of the masses that the plebians
became acquainted to art.
These days many people define art as whatever appears under that title
in the national papers. Among the post-yuppie affluent classes of today,
it is considered chic and sophisticated to talk about these, and a person
well-versed in such trivia is bound to attract, in a house party the smiles
of admiration from the amorous females who will inevitably be reeking
of Chanel/Knowing and the envy of slick men in their white shirts, Chinos,
brogues and braces. (Men read this upside down)
But we are mavericks and a group of non-conformists and shall not accept
this materialistic definition of Thatcherite British propoganda. So let us
explore further.
Across the globe, art is defined in various manners. The French (whether
you think of them as indescribable frogs with their mouths stuffed with
garlic and horsemeant and their hands stained with virgins' blood, or worse)
nevertheless perfected the art of conversation in the Parisian cafes of the
nineteenth century, until an eccentric Scotsman came along and invented
the television (after which must have been published a pompous little book,
probably called 'The Television and the Empire').
In pre-AIDS India (2000 B.C.), love-making and sex (they are not the same)
were considered to be art forms. And sexist as it may sound, the KamaSutra
indulges in at least sixty ways on how to be a good wife. The closing
chapters deal with male sexuality and are a must reading for people out
to try the exotic.
The Japanese (kimono-wearing Lillipudians who never stop bowing when
meeting strangers on the tube) cultivate the tea-ceremoney as an art. Killing
an opponent in sword-combat is also a hightly regarded (but less often
practiced) form of art.
In Europe and Persia, painting, poetry, literature and music have come
under this heading.
But in essence, an activity which a person pursues in leisure and is a
source of pleasure can be regarded as art. Though how you interpret this
definition is another matter.
Under this generous label, we shall regularly be discussing art forms
in Felix-On the Tube.
The most improtant thing we need is feedback from the readers. So of
you want to write, be creative and give it a try.
Once a good friend of mine wrote to the 'Times' editor and disclosed
his rather biased views about the Gulf war. He had hoped that Britain being
a free land where everybody has the right to free speech, his letter would
be published soon. A few days later, the editor's secretary worte back, '...the
Editor regrets that he was unable to publish it...'.
The reason I tell you this story is that this sort of thing will not happen
to you. So get in touch.
How to get in touch:
1.Visit us in the cosy and comfortable interiors of the Felix office where
prevails an atmosphere of leisure (and abandon) and everybody drinks
Merrydown Cider.
2. Drop me a note via the pigeon holes.
what is art ?
a sentimental journey
I wrote the following piece of surrealistic writing in April 1988. On the
31st of July, it was broadcasted by Buerger Radio Berlin in a program on
non-linear art.
The Prince riding on his horse came closer to Samarkand. Dusk was falling
rapidly and he had to be at the palace before nightfall. The raod was dusty
and only occasionally but blissfully provided with an oasis or a water-well.
The landscape was typical Transoxanian, arid and barren. The sacred Amu
Darya flowed further North and this region of the Silk route between
Bokhara and Kashgar was not green. Sometimes the hills near the Caspian
were visible too, a place so dreaded by travellers because it was in these
mountains that a paradise existed, the pleasures of which were only for
a fanatical class of assasins, the Hashisheen.
The Prince was born In Nishapur. He was a contemporary of Omar
Khayyam. He had the fortune to live his youth in a rather colourful part
of the Moslem Empire. By the age of fourteen he was adept at sword fighting
and reading Latin. He was a handsome young man with a strong Caucasian
face, dark brown eyes and flowing black hair. The Persian women, so proud
of their own beauty used to gaze at him haplessly from behind their veils.
His adventures had led him so far to the forbidden gardens of the Nizam
of Badakhshan, where he secretly made passionate love to the Nizam's
seventeen year old daughter. His days were carefree, spent either drinking
grape wine with Khayyam or talking to the old man in the mountain about
Astrology, Alchemy and Philosophy,
(continued)
Emile Nizan
Elec. Eng II
December 2 1988 FELIX Page 7

