F E L I X
5
The Refectory price
syndrome.
TRUST is needed
If there are two heads which ought to be mercilessly
smashed together at the present time, then those heads
belong to Peter Teague, the Union President, and Victor
Mooney, the College Refectory manager. Whilst the refectory
price situation at IC seems to get worse, these two key
figures, who could if they really tried ease the situation
somewhat, seem content to just watch the opportunity
disintegrate like a dea"d sausage.
The fact that Mr Mooney expected to put up prices by
40% without increasing the quality of the meats served in
Southside clearly indicates that he is a total loony. The
fact that Mr Teague is encouraging the students to eat
elsewhere thus doing harm to the College's refectory account
and thus ensuring that the prices increases at Christmas
will probably be double what they were first expected to be
indicates that he too is a total loony.
"It's the UGC's fault with their self-balancing catering
rules!" they scream indignantly in an improbable incestuous
unison, "The buck stops there, not with us.'' "Meatballs,"
I murmur, sotto voce. (Naive hysterical catcalls broach my
train of thought: "Come on then, nitwit! So what's your
solution then, eh??" I unsuccessfully try to stifle a snigger
andmanage to purr "Glad you asked".
Here goes:-
tJC Boycotting the refectories or encouraging students to
eat elsewhere is crass stupidity: it simply perpetuates
the loss on the Col lege refectory account thus provoking
further price increases.
$Z The cost of a refectory item is essentially in two parts:
A. the basic cost of the item; B. the cost of preparation
plus staff wages, plus overheads.
& If part A cannot be altered, what can be done about
part B? Answer: Get more students to eat at the
refectories to increase the turnover and thus produce a
refectory profit which can be used to keep the prices
down.
How cmn you do that? Answer: SERVE B E T T E R
PREPARED FOOD. Once the quality is established,
IC Unifm can play its part by vigorously campaigning
for students to support the College and eat in the
refectories as much as possible.
Too many students are exasperated at being unable to
do anything constructive about refectory prices. This
plan would at least give students the opportunity to do
something about it.
This is a plan which calls for TRUST. The Union would,
have to TRUST Mr Mooney to maintain the high quality of
food and service which he would initially undertake to reach;
Mr Mooney would have to TRUST the Union to keep its part
of the bargain and get students to fill the refectories. If
arbitration could help, then maybe the Rector should be
asked to step in.
Doubtless the smug little cynics on both sides of the
fence will point to the difficulties involved in monitoring"
fairly the "quality of the food"; will quote Union policy
which might preclude such a plan. May I be the first to
metaphorically spit in their eyes. This "plan" is a roughly
hewn principle; no-one is denying that the College and
Union bureaucrats would have to work overtime, to determine
the necessary details which make up a proposition viable to
both the Union and the Coljege. Difficulties' CAN be
overcome; Union policy CAN be changed at a single UGM;
all it needs is painstaking commonsense and the belief that
it can work.
Don't you think it would be worth all the effort? If it
worked, the goal of good quality food optimally priced
would be realistically attainable, not just a figment of our
already exasperated imaginings. Not only that, but it
would be a storming victory for diplomacy, trust and common
sense in a situation that was crying out for it.
P L E A S E MR MOONEY, MR T E A G U E AND ANY OTHEfl
INTERESTED PARTIES (AND THAT INCLUDES A L L
4,000 IC STUDENTS) GIVE THIS IDEA FAIR CONSIDERS
ATI ON WHEN DETERMINING YOUR ATTITUDES ON
R E F E C T O R Y PRICES. IT CAN WORK. IF YOU DISAGREE,
P L E A S E WRITE T O FELIX AND T E L L US WHY.
MIKE WILLIAMS

