6 F E L I X
E D I T O R I A L
" IT IS H A R D TO KICK AGAINST T H E PRICKS "
If you don't change your editorial policy pretty soon we wSl
have no alternative but to find another editor. These were in effect,
the last words of the President, Dave Watson, at a Felix board meet-
ing last week. This was the climax to over an hour of heated argu-
ment during which Massey, Union Secretary, said at one point,
" print what you like, but you must report Council." The point the
board were making (though in all fairness, not all of them) was that
in some mysterious way we are responsible for a failing Union. By
not publishing an account of last year's Council meeting now, we
have seriously affected Union participation. Only eighteen months
ago we were not allowed to report Council at a l l ; now it seems we
have to.
To the President Felix has been disappointing, disillusioning,
and in short, something of a failure. This is sad. His remedy it
appears would be to publish all Union news regardless of content or
topicality and in this way create a thriving Union ; this might well be
so, but for a readership of net much more than three hundred. To
be successful Felix must be lively, controversial and informative. We
are fortunate indeed that Union news is not all that is available.
At the beginning of the meeting a request was made to allow
two Felix staff members to attend for the reasons put forward here
last issue. Some felt that this was quite unnecessary and that the
editor could comfortably deal with the eight others. When a vote
was taken one abstained through self-confessed ignorance. How is
it that someone can sit on this board who admits complete ignorance,
while attempts are made to exclude better informed members of the
newspaper staff.
The talk of resignation comes after what Watson calls repeated,
unpardonable omissions, and lapses j n taste. Last term we were
torn apart for being destructively critical; now the President and
Secretary don't care what we say as long as we say something. Even
" rotten Council" is better than nothing. This sort of inconsistency
i • hard to follow, as is Watson's repeated cry that the paper should
be wholly independent, but of course must fit in with Union wishes.
E N O U G H INTERFERENCE
A further suggestion at the meeting was that a Council report
should occupy at least half a page, and that last term's Union meet-
ing was covered inadequately—even though it did make the front
page This, of course, would mean excluding other things. The people
who are really interested would in both cases be there anyway, and
for those who aren't, a " sparse account" would be more than
enough.
"6w t l x wovtbs i CYtltU tftlf
Rvi ot) the seveyth*—"
The first of the Fashion House's
Collections have been on view in
the last few weeks. Although the
clothes shown are for the most
part extravagant and unrealistic-
ally expensive, it is worth every
girl's while looking at the new
lines and ideas conceived by the
Fashion Barons, for these are the
clothes that will influence the
chain stores when they come to
produce their budget clothes for
the summer.
Femininity
The first clear cut result to
emerge from the various Collec-
tions is that the Cathy Gale black
leather look will melt away as
quickly«. s next month's snow, and
its place will be taken by the
pretty, yet elegant, feminine
clothes that the Englishwoman
wears so well; clear bright col-
ours, and a revival of the Empire
line will make themselves felt in
high-waisted seams, braiding or
trimming on otherwise loosely
fitting dresses and coats.
Pleas (e)!
Why do so many Icwardians
come td College looking as though
they choose their selection of
clothes for the day with their
eyes shut—fancy sweaters with
patterned skirts, tartan skirts etc.?
I am in favour of wearing com-
ft
fortable and even moderately old
clothes to College, but at least
wear clothes that match.
And please, please, girls, find
the two minutes in the morning
that is all you need to apply a lit-
tle makeup. Thanks to Rimmel
and Outdoor Girl, cosmetics are
within the reach of even the most
stringent /budget, and that you
are outnumbered by men is no
reason to loose your feminity—all
the more reason to preserve it.
You spend most of your time in
College so you may as well make
the most of it and not keep make-
up and smart clothes for extra-
collegiate hours. Female students
have long had a reputation for
being scruffy, sloppy and untidy.
Isn't it time we repudiated it?
More than 80 people came to
the second Hootenanny organised
by the newly-recognised IC Folk
Club on Tuesday, 21st January.
This evening of folk-song, even
more successful than last term's,
was again compered by Folk
Club president Brian Bull.
In the subdued light of the
ICWA lounge, established acts
like the Wayfarers and the Chris
Wright Blues Group made small
contributions being only too
pleased to give leeway to new
talent of great diversity. On the
international scene, Sam Apeji
delighted with songs from his
native Nigeria, Mr. Dragon gave
us some Jugoslav love ballads,
Dai Evans sang unaccompanied
in his native tongue about Welsh
goatherds, and Jim Bloomer used
his authentic accent to render a
number of American folk songs.
Among the gathering there were
guests from other colleges : Chel-
sea provided Elvina, Judy, Colin
and Ricky whose programme
varied from humour to protest;
Kate and Ros made a return visit
from Westfield to do several Eng-
lish and foreign songs ; singing
and playing Czechoslovakian and
Russian numbers was Ivana, a
music student; and organ-builder
Roy Grubb introduced the audi-
ence to the lute and also showed
1 is worth on the guitar.
Talent in IC
The show was, however, domi-
nated both by local talent and by
tunes sung in English. Trev con-
tributed blues numbers, Pat and
Mike harmonised in their own
unique way, and Zoology techni-
cians Rod and Alex proved their
superiority over Robin H . and
Jimmie MacG. Members of the
Chris. Wright Group demon-
strated their virtuosity on banjo,
banjalin, harmonica, and a home-
made mouthpiece as well as on
guitars.
Altogether, an action-packed
evening of over three hours
music performed live, broken
only for 15 minutes at half-time,
and with all performers only too
eager to give more songs than
time would allow. Audience
participation in the better-known
songs, especially the final num-
bers,- was vociferous and must
surely have climaxed everyone's
enjoyment on the Hootenanny.
An evening spent in any Folk
Club is a rare and wonderful ex-
perience. At I.C. you are fortu-
nate to have such a flourishing
club, and you would be well ad-
vised to make the effort to come
to the next Hootenanny planned
for mid-February —watch for
notices. D.I.W.

