Music Felix • 25 October 1999
frequencyN/\
Right, frequency week three.
Five pages, but somehow
only one page of albums.
Aaargh! I've got PR people
on my back, and disppoint-
ed writers at my throat.
Okay then, shut up James,
let the reviews begin...
Slick Sixty - Nibs and Nabs
Music that could easily
coerce you onto an empty
dance floor. Much better
than good.
Material - Intonarumori
Quite perhaps the future of
hip-hop. Wicked.
Spain - She Haunts My
Dreams
Perfect for a Sunday spent in
an armchair. Put it on repeat
play and relax.
Juantrip - Balmy Under the
Storm
Chill-out, funky and will
appeal to those who like Air
and such like.
The Folk Implosion - One
Part Lullaby
Lo-fi. Unhappy. Alright.
Shelby Lynne - I am...
A fusion of a ridiculous num-
ber of styles. Better than the
Puff Daddy title suggests.
Antenna - Installation
Australian, but not quite
Kylie or Peter Andre. Okay I
suppose, but nothing to
shout about.
Muse - Showbiz
Not as good as it should be.
Lots of styles, but more mis-
matched than fused. Leave
this alone. It's all gone a bit
tasha really...
Is that alright? Bye Bye
Nitin Sawhney
Beyond Skin
(Outcaste)
There are some albums which are good. There are some albums
which are bad. Some are just okay. There are also albums which
make you feel good or bad, provoking a reaction in some way. Then
there are the rarest of all. Albums which are sublime.
This album was first sent to the frequency office as an album-sam-
pler. It was my turn to open the mail that day, so I just put it on the
pile with the rest, not expecting much. I had a cursory listen to the
usual batch of lame indie tracks with no imagination and no soul.
Then I slipped the tape in. Within five minutes I had called the label
and demanded a full review copy, and selfishly hid the album to
review myself. Yes, I know it's pathetic but I had to have this work of
art.
This isn't just an album of beautiful beats, elegent melodies and
painfully soulfull vocals - its also full of messages. Nitin talks about
many subjects close to his heart, the current political situation in
India and Pakistan, his parents move to London, their hopes and
fears for the future and the eventual integration of East and West.
This album made me feel ashamed that I had not previously active-
ly sought out the huge amount of music coming from all the many
communities in the UK - and not realising how much we have to
learn from each other - and how great it can be (and how good it
can sound!), when everyone works together.
Back to the album. If I was forced to pick highlights, Letting G o ,
Homelands and Nadia would be the ones I simply could not do with-
out. Letting Co has Tina Grace sing an touchingly delicate and razor
sharp vocal over a subtle blend of Spanish guitar, various drums and
an increadiblu relaxing backdrop of crackly vinyl. A real heart ren-
derer. Homelands has the entire 4 h e r o string section helping out and
Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan's nephews chanting the main vocals. A spine
shaking percussive menagery lifts you up and won't put you down.
Nina Miranda of Smoke City leans in to with a refrain in Portugese
- 'Fragile is the land, and so are the minds of men'. Nadia means
The River1
, the vocalist sings in the thumri style to help create a feel-
ing of fluid movment - relentless junglist beats don't do any harm
either.
fw:fk
Nine Inch Nails
The Fragile
(Nothing)
Get this album today - you'll still be listening to it next year.
Joel
The Fragile is the latest top- quality offering
from Nine Inch Nails sole-member, Trent
Reznor. It's subtitled Halo Fourteen, being
the fourteenth proper NIN release in
Reznors peculiar numbering system, and for
your money you get two CDs with over two
hours of music. Further, the CDs come in a
beautiful gatefold pack with the CDs laid
out next to each other imaginatively labelled
left and right.
left begins with Somewhat Damaged, a
powerful and chugging tune. Then there's a
couple more sonic delights, and the remain-
der weave into a clanking, grinding collage
of tunes, with The Great Below providing a
graceful exit. Right is a little shorter but it
doesn't suffer in quality. More electronic
and distinctly less mainstream than Left, it
rewards the listener's perseverance with
some great tracks. Into the Void and Star-
fuckers Inc. deserve mention for their pow-
erful beats and vocals. Ripe (with decay) is
as soulful as it is eerie.
There's a distinct splitting of musical style
between Left and Right. Whereas Right
seems more in the tradition of NIN's style,
Left sounds more like mainstream hard
rock. As you would expect the production
and mixing is slick and you have to be lis-
tening with a very good sound system or
headphones to catch the clever subtleties
inherent in the recording. This is an album
that should appeal to a wider audience than
NIN's hardcore fanbase. Personally, I
haven't listened to anything else this week.
Any open-minded person unafraid of loud
and heavy music should take a good look
at this.
Hardy
!•

