Music Felix • 25 October 1999
frequency N A
Add Nto X
The Forum
11th October
I'd never been to the Forum
before I went to see Add N
to X and I can safely say that
it's a very nice venue. None
of your Wembley Arena
can't-see-a-damn-thing rub-
bish. No, this was a proper
gig, with proper beer and
lots of people in black T-
shirts. Including the bald
one from Add N to X.
Seeing A d d N to X was
another first for me: I knew
a little of their music but I
was keen to hear them live
after a friend of mine
labeled them "mentalists".
Quite. A d d n to x pro-
ceeded to thrash up the
stage for the next forty min-
utes with a vast array of
bleepy noises, vocoders,
thunderous drumbeats and
experimental sounds. I par-
ticularly enjoyed the exten-
sive use of Theremin, but
the audience as a whole
was unmoved, which is a
shame because I am sure
that if most of the crowd
sat down and listened to
them, they would really
enjoy their distinctive
sound.
Add N to X are not really a
band suited to live per-
formance, but they are def-
initely one worth checking
at home.
Christian
Skunk Anansie
Brixton Academy
19th October
If you hang around in the Felix office for long enough, people give you
things. Sometimes the flu'. In my case, it was a pair of tickets to see
Skunk Anansie, in about two hours time. It's a hard life. Brixton Academy
is huge - the biggest 'real' venue in London, and it was sold out. This
may have been the reason I was stuck up in the circle seating, but since
I had a review to write I didn't mind too much.
Ewan McFarlene walked onto stage with only an acoustic guitar and a
Scottish flag to cover his seat. He looked very small on the huge stage
but his voice made up for that. He played three powerful, emotional
songs, to a politely enthusiastic reception. Muse play fairly strange, noisy
indie, with a hard edge and some impressively bizarre guitar sounds.
Their songs seemed fairly long, with some nice solos. Good vocals, even
if I couldn't make out what they actually were. They pick up bonus points
for the stand-up bass, although their lack of visual performance doesn't
do them any favours. The crowd seemed to enjoy it though, with a few
people bouncing away towards the end.
This was Skunk's homecoming gig after two and a half years away from
these shores, and they gave Brixton a show to remember. Opening with
Charlie Big Potato they treated us to an hour and a quarter or so of undi-
luted entertainment. The whole band are a frenetic blur of energy. Gui-
tarist Ace somehow manages to find the time between pogoing like a
mad thing and throwing rock star poses to manipulate the twenty or so
stomp boxes in front of him. Cass's bass and Mark's drumming are tight,
vibrant and energetic, and. they're both in constant motion. The star of
the night though is vocalist Skin. As if her soaring, evocative and pas-
sionate voice wasn't enough in itself, she's a masterful frontwoman, teas-
ing and coaxing the crowd into a frenzy while using every inch of the
stage to its full potential. She spent a fair amount of time in the photo pit,
laying hands on the audience, and even, to the security's horror, man-
ages a brief stage dive. Al! the classics are played, with older songs such
as I C a n Dream and closer Little Baby Swastikka getting as good a
response as more recent material from their new Post Orgasmic Chill LP
There's constant motion and a steady stream of crowd surfers, especial-
ly for anthemic tracks like Twisted (Every Day Hurts) and Weak. The light
and shade dynamics are well-executed, and five thousand or so people
are baying for more as the main set closes.
One of the most spectacular and impressive gigs I've had the pleasure
of attending. Let's hope they're back soon.
Gareth
Rico
Electric Ballroom
14th October
Rico is making a name for himself as an
intense, uncompromising rock act. After
working with various bands, Rico went
solo, attempting to get what he wanted out
of his music. Felix had a chat to him
before the gig and this is what he had to
say...
'My music tends to be kind of my darkest
moments, that's where I go to. I spend just
days kind of getting things out of me, so I
use it to get me through. But I don't know
where it comes from. I'd say it comes from
experiences and things that move you,
things that do something, they get under
your skin, get inside you. You express
them, you throw them back out.'
'Some people have put forward similarities
between myself and artists like Nine Inch
Nails and Tricky. I don't think I sound any-
thing like them, and I think that Trent Reznor
is a genius. I think people have to give out
markings for people to gauge where it is
before they've heard it. I suppose it can
pish you off sometimes but it's quite flatter-
ing cos I really respect them both.
'I'm not into pop music at all. Music after
a while as well gets so lethargic and so
kind of withdrawn... These boring bas-
tards strumming guitars with a little tune
with words that are about nothing, and it
just really pissed me off. It's just like fuck
off, don't bother. Get a real job.
Okay then Rico, so you talk the talk well,
but can you walk the walk? Thankfully, the
following show is more than impressive.
Rico's stage presence fits well with the bru-
tal, industrial-tinged music, and his first sin-
gle, Attack Me, finishes the set in consider-
able style. One to watch, most definitely.
Gareth

