25 October 1999 • Felix Books fly
books =
War Zone, Alexander Stuart East and West, Chris Patten
This controversial book has just been repub-
lished, complete with the obligatory film diary to
tie in with the recent release of Tim Roth's film
adaptation.
From the outset this novel has a shocking plot-
line. An apparently 'normal' middleclass family
has moved from London to tranquil Devon. Fol-
lowing a car accident, the mother gives birth on
the car seat without anaesthetic in front of her
voyeuristic family. The narrator of the novel is 1 5
year old Tom, a hostile, rebellious adolescent
who opposed the families' move by trying to
burn down his school. Tom unexpectedly wit-
nesses a possible sexual encounter between his
father and sister. After this discovery he is drawn
into an obsessive sexual game with his sister
Jessie as he attempts to discover the truth about
his family. This obsession eventually leads to vio-
lence as the family gradually breaks down. In a
wider context, this can be seen as an allegory of
the materialism and greed inherent in
Thatcherite England.
The disturbing twist in this compelling story is
that Jessie is not a victim of incestuous abuse.
On the contrary she is the instigator of the rela-
tionship, seducing her father for the sexual chal-
lenge. "Incest is brilliant. It's scarier than shag-
ging some Adam in a pub car park or stroking
some girl's thigh in some Fulham cafe". Jessie is
portrayed as a manipulative character, exploring
the dark side of her own sexuality. Aspects of this
include a sadomasochistic lesbian lover in Lon-
don, with whom Tom loses his virginity and a
local Buddhist boyfriend. The character of Jessie
is unbelievable and as such weakens the credi-
bility of the novel in my opinion.
This novel has amazing raw, visual imagery but
is often sensationalist and incredibly shocking. It
is a dark, claustrophobic novel with vivid
descriptions. However the subject matter is truly
disturbing so approach with caution.
Former Bath MR one-time Conservative Party chairman and Last British
Governor of Hong Kong, Chris Patten was, it seemed, headed for early
political retirement. But with a first-rate CV, Patten need not have worried
too much about his future, and began to write about the five years (I 992-
1997) he governed Hong Kong. As things have turned out, Patten
shouldn't have worried at all - he is now European Commissioner for For-
eign Affairs. Look out for his book on Expanding Europe in five years or
so.
From the outset, Chris Patten tells us that his book is NOT: a) an autobi-
ographical account of his life (I guess he will probably be doing that
later), b) a detailed account of his Governorship of Hong Kong, c) a book
exaggerating or belittling East Asian Tiger values, or d) an economic text-
book about East Asia.
So what is the book about then? That's what I had to read the book to
find out in this new, updated paperback edition of East and West. The first
part is entitled 'Governing' and it tells the story of his five years as Gov-
ernor. We are introduced very quickly to Patten's central belief that the
Chinese government is totalitarian and uses despotic techniques to deal
with its own people and foreign countries. We also become aware that as
far as Patten is concerned, the deceased British Empire was not an impe-
rial force but an enlightening one. Further, we gather quickly that Patten
sees liberal free market economics as the only way to go.
In the second part, 'The View From Hong Kong', he essentially tries to
substantiate his argument that free economics should go hand in hand
with free politics. He takes a moderate position on the successes of the
Tiger economies, pointing out that it was inevitable that there would be a
slowdown. We hop along from one East Asian country to the next while
he describes the politics as well as the economics of each.
Finally, in the third part, 'Looking to the Future', he outlines his vision of
the twenty-first century. Surprisingly, he paints a rosy picture of East catch-
ing up with West, with both sharing good standards of living. He insists
that for this to happen certain matters of lack of political freedom and
socialist economics must wind down
Surprisingly, Patten writes well for a politician, he is honest, light-hearted,
and does not impress on us too much with flashy literary devices. It is his
underlying beliefs and ideas that come out clearest, which is a good
thing. No wonder the China Daily wrote of his book: ".. .the portrait of a
narrow-minded, retired politician who vents his spleen over those who
opposed his perverse actions - extremely provocative language".
Fight Club,
Chuck Palah-
niuk
For fans of the genre
pioneered by Dou-
glas Coupland - Gen
X angst - Fight Club is
a strong new addi-
tion. The story of a
young white collar
worker who is fed up
with his place in an
overtly materialistic
society, Fight Club's
characters answer is
not to sit around
lamenting society's
ills, but rather to
make the world a bet-
ter place via blowing
up office buildings.
A very interesting
read and a cool book
stylistically. Buy it,
read it, and then see
the movie.
Russell
2 0 % Off!
Each of the books
reviewed this week is
available from the
Waterstones book-
store on Campus
(beside the main
library) at a 20% dis-
count.
Eleanor Ahmed

