www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 16 June 2005
10
Comment felix@ic.ac.uk
The joy of... columns
Feeling the sand
beneath your feet?
It’s not long now until all you guys will
be off for a nice long summer break.
Of course, some of you will be off for
good, and perhaps others are hang-
ing around to work academically or to
earn some extra money.
This has been my first academic
year at Imperial as the adviser and
I can honestly say it has been one
of the most interesting and chal-
lenging years that I’ve experienced.
The Information and Advice Centre
(IAC) has dealt with a multitude of
issues including all the classic things
such as housing, finance and academ-
ic issues, and some unusual queries
as well.
In Felix we have covered all sorts of
subjects. It can be quite challenging
trying to think of something to write
about week after week, so I thought I
would use my last column of the year
to let you know how you can use our
services over the summer period.
Many people think that some serv-
ices in the Union close down over the
holidays. The IAC doesn’t close – we
are still here to help you with all your
welfare needs and we will be run-
ning a full service over the summer
period.
We will be available for advice in
all areas, including housing rights,
employment rights, consumer rights,
debt advice, academic appeals, com-
plaints and international student
issues. We will also still be here as a
point of contact for all information in
the College.
Over the summer, we are also
reviewing our leaflets and publica-
tions and will be producing two new
booklets for the new term – one on
money management, and an interna-
tional students’ welcome guide. We
are currently in negotiations with the
College to produce these together.
In the summer, many students
choose to work full time to supplement
their finances. Sometimes, unfortu-
nately, companies try to take students
for granted and treat them unfairly.
If this happens to you, the IAC can
advise you on your statutory rights
at work and can write letters to these
employers on your behalf.
Over the summer we also get a lot of
academic appeals, so we are going to
produce an information sheet which
talks students through the process.
We also be available to assist any stu-
dent who believes they have a case to
launch an academic appeal.
Whatever all you students out there
have got planned, I would just like
to wish you all the best of luck, espe-
cially those who are going off into the
big wide world. I hope that all your
dreams come true.
I would like to thank Dave Edwards
for giving me this column in Felix and
for being a supporter of the cause
throughout the year. I would also like
to wish those leaving the Executive
Committee good luck for the future
and thanks for your support.
Remember: don’t let your concern
turn into a crisis. Make the IAC your
one stop shop for all your welfare
issues. If you would like to contact
us, please call 020 7594 8067 or email
advice@imperial.ac.uk.
Have a great summer!
ADVICE SERVICE
NIGEL COOKE
STUDENT ADVISER
Well, having contributed to this
esteemed organ more than a dozen
times throughout the year, this is it
– my last column. I’m quite sad really...
in more ways than one.
Accommodation
It was my birthday on Tuesday, and I
was stuck at work, busy interviewing
wardens for the new halls which are
being opened to replace the capacity
lost by the demolition of Southside.
Now that’s been an interesting project,
and not without its controversies
either! Needless to say, I don’t want
to reopen any cans of worms (since
Mustafa seems able enough at that),
but I am glad that the College is finally
getting round to sorting out a hall of
residence which is ceasing to operate
as it should. I don’t say that without
affection for the place though, since I
lived there for three years; I think we
should all give the hall, and the bar,
a good send-off, and look forward to
ushering in the new.
Accommodation has probably been
one of the more interesting (and con-
tentious at times) areas of my job. I
have enjoyed being involved in the
selection of new wardens and sub-
wardens, and firmly believe that the
quality of pastoral care that freshers
receive in our halls easily outstrips
the competition from other universi-
ties. So well done to the wardens for
that! I have been quite busy working
with Residences to develop a good
exit survey, so that we can improve the
provision of accommodation to future
generations of students.
Patience
It always seems to be future genera-
tions who benefit from our labours. A
turning point in my job was when I
stopped expecting instant results and
recognised that many of the things I
was working on would not benefit the
student body until future years. Once
I realised that, my frustration dimin-
ished and my enthusiasm increased.
I guess that’s one reason why col-
leagues of mine have decided to stand
for sabbatical positions for a second
year, so that they can see through the
work they’ve started.
Some things I’ve been involved in,
such as the Strategic Review and
the QAA Audit, may take quite a few
years to manifest themselves. I think
it would be quite interesting to come
back in ten years’ time to see the
transformation to Princes Gardens
and the Union Building. Hopefully I’ll
have better things to do.
Your Union
We’ve said it countless times before,
but this is your Union, and you should
use it as such. You should take the
opportunities which are available to
make your views known. You could
always stand to serve on a commit-
tee, or Council. You could vote! Why
am I telling you all this now, at the
end of the year? Maybe you haven’t
been involved in the Union or one of
its clubs and societies this year... you
could reflect over the summer about
what you want to get out of your stu-
dent experience, since you only get
one shot at it. Why not come to the
Summer Ball on Saturday? And yes,
that was a cheap plug.
And finally…
As I said before, this is my last column.
It’s been a pleasure working for you,
and with you, if you are a fellow officer
or member of College or Union staff.
I’ve had a great year. Enjoy the sum-
mer, and don’t get sunburnt.
Saving Southside: location,
location, location
L
ess space in the new Southside building means no room
for a new Southside Bar. Campaigners have already made
significant progress in persuading the authorities that there
is enough demand for a new bar, but on a campus where there is
already intense demand for space, the problem of finding a location
has proved a major difficulty.
Now, however, it appears that a suitable spot in South Kensington
may have been found. Whilst we would not wish to ‘jinx’ the proc-
ess by revealing the location or saying that the deal is done, we are
optimistic that students’ efforts in campaigning for a new bar will be
rewarded soon.
Visit www.felixonline.co.uk in the coming weeks for further devel-
opments on this and other stories.
Beit redevelopment is long
overdue
I
mperial College is ranked in the top four UK universities and the
top 15 in the world. From next year, many of its students will be
paying £3000 per year in tuition fees, while those from overseas
will pay well over £10,000. A students’ union with good social and
recreational facilities is essential to building a vibrant university
community in which students can both learn and enjoy themselves.
For all these reasons and more, the outdated facilities in Beit Quad
must be redeveloped and brought into the 21st century.
The exact specifics of the redevelopment are to be considered over
the coming months. All students should be encouraged to find out
more and submit feedback via the Union website – not only because
their views are important, but also so that they know they are part
of the process.
It is crucial that Imperial College Union provides facilities that are
useful and events that are appealing, all together in a building that
its students can be proud of. If the Union is confident, dedicated to
the task and willing to make big changes – and if the College can
be persuaded to part with the cash – then there is no reason why
our Union building cannot become the envy of the rest of the higher
education world.
Transport trouble could cut
student activity
I
t is totally understandable that each section of the Imperial
College community must lose parking spaces during the Southside
rebuilding project, when 98 spaces will be out of use. But how can
it be fair that departments and faculties face cuts of around one third
when Imperial College Union faces a 60% reduction?
Student activities at Imperial depend on transport to a large extent,
especially considering the central London location of the main cam-
pus. The Union’s minibuses are frequently used, most often by sports
teams, and their relocation will cause considerable delay and incon-
venience to club members in their already busy schedules.
Extra-curricular activities produce well-rounded, employable stu-
dents. Without sufficient transport, participation will become far
more difficult. Unfortunately, it would seem that the College does not
realise how important these activities are.
Join us next time
T
he next issue of Felix will be published in late September. Any
comments, questions or contributions should be directed to the
usual address: felix@ic.ac.uk.
SAM RORKE
DEPUTY PRESIDENT
(EDUCATION & WELFARE)
UNCLE SAM

