www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 16 June 2005
14
FEATURES felix@ic.ac.uk
Last week, I was fortunate enough
to go with a delegation of officers
from Imperial College Union to visit
the lovely town of Delft in Holland.
“Good grief, what are they up to
now?” I hear you all cry, but don’t
be so quick to judge: it wasn’t a
jolly! We were there as guests of
members of the Student Council
of Delft Technical University, one
of the four members of the ‘IDEA
League’, at a conference of student
representatives.
The IDEA League is a strategic
alliance between Imperial College
London, TU Delft, ETH Zürich and
RWTH Aachen; these four techno-
logical universities are committed to
the highest international standards
in both research and education. The
League aims to increase collabora-
tion between the institutions and
facilitate student mobility.
Established in 1999, the IDEA
League has hitherto only been uti-
lised by the highest level of pol-
icy-makers within the institutions
– whilst we were in Delft the Rector
was meeting his counterparts at a
monastery in Zurich – and as the
basis for an annual sports tourna-
ment.
Our colleagues in Delft had iden-
tified that the League could also
be exploited by student representa-
tives, in order to enhance the qual-
ity of representation on matters of
European significance, and to open
up the IDEA League to a higher
level of student participation. They
started this process back in January
when they visited the three other
institutions on a ‘Grand Tour’.
Alright for some! They were investi-
gating factors which affect duration
of study, since the average length of
study in Delft is 7.2 years, and there
is increasing political pressure to
reduce this. Government interven-
tion in higher education (usually to
save money) was a common theme
that emerged. Delft since decided to
host this conference to get everyone
together for two days to discuss per-
tinent issues.
Some interesting contrasts came
out of the conference; it appears that
Imperial and Delft are leading the
field when it comes to quality assur-
ance. All those hours I have spent in
College ‘scrutiny’ committees (with
seemingly limited powers) seemed
worthwhile when I found out that
representatives at Zurich appear to
have very limited capacity to moni-
tor the quality of education and sug-
gest improvements.
We had much interesting discus-
sion about the Bologna process,
which is a move by governments all
over Europe to harmonise the struc-
ture of higher education to allow
greater student mobility and more
widespread mutual recognition of
degrees. They seemed to know a lot
more about it than us, since the rest
of Europe is adopting the Anglo-
Saxon Bachelor’s/Master’s system,
so changes to date in Britain have
taken place behind the scenes. In
particular, the Germans seem to
resent these alterations.
Probably the most significant
thing we achieved was a date for the
next conference! I also gracefully
volunteered next year’s sabbaticals
(who were represented by Sameena
Misbahuddin, President elect, and
Sarah Khatib, my successor) to host
the event in July. It took quite a lot of
time to converge the diaries of four
very different institutions with dif-
ferent exam dates, different officer
terms, and other complications.
We also managed to agree on draft
aims and objectives, and a few of
the projects which we would like
the alliance to work on, and set
realistic target completion dates.
We decided on a name: my sugges-
tion of ‘IDEALiStiC’ – IDEA League
Student Council – was, rather sur-
prisingly, accepted. We identified
possibilities for cultural exchanges
between societies from member
institutions, and decided that we
wanted to lobby our institutions to
organize a summer school to raise
student awareness of, and participa-
tion in, the League. We also tasked
Zurich with setting up a website for
the alliance.
Possibly the most enjoyable part
of the trip was experiencing life in
another (very different) university
town. Delft is a small city charac-
terised by the proliferation of canals
and bicycles. The people are very
welcoming, and things seem a bit
more laid back than London. We
also experienced student life in
Delft – one evening, we did a tour of
some of the ‘student associations’,
which seemed to be founded on the
principles of cheap food, free-flow-
ing beer, a very strict pecking order
and humiliating initiations!
Dutch universities don’t have
automatic-membership unions in
the British sense, so the student
associations really underpin the stu-
dents’ social life. There appeared to
be a great sense of camaraderie, and
loyalty to the associations, which
Imperial College Union could only
dream of experiencing. Best of all,
of course, was the superb hospitality
extended to us by our hosts, and the
friendship between all the delegates
which was formed very quickly.
So, what’s the message? Britain
is only a tiny island, I guess. There
are other things going on in other
places and it’s about time we got out
of our silo and started talking to our
neighbours! I was pleased with what
we managed to get out of the event,
and I wish the alliance the best of
luck next year.
What a good IDEA!
Union Deputy President Sam Rorke visited Delft in Holland for a conference of student
representatives from four European universities
As I stood there at the starting
point, heart beating, heavy breath-
ing and nerves on the edge, I await-
ed the starting signal. Over 8000
people were gathered just before
the Serpentine Bridge, just as eager
to start the race. All that training, all
the talk, it was all down to this. The
siren went, we were off.
It all started in January, with my
sister introducing me to the idea.
I have never participated in a real
race in my life (that’s if you exclude
the 1 mile fun-run I did in Primary
school. Man that was tough!)
The BUPA 10km race in Hyde
Park was the perfect motivation fac-
tor to get me back into shape and
jogging again. All too often we use
the excuse of work to prevent us
from improving oneself physically.
Thus, I entered the race along with
my sister as ‘Reem Team’ (eeem
meaning a type of deer or gazelle
in Arabic). The race was organised
by 95.8 Capital FM radio along with
BUPA, and all the money collected
from sponsorship went to Help a
London Child (a charity run by the
station).
So early February, while normal
human beings were still sleeping
in their lovely warm beds, I was out
in Gunnersbury Park bursting my
lungs. Each day saw more improve-
ment, quicker time, and longer dis-
tances. It was a struggle but I knew
it was going to pay off at the end.
The day of the race had finally
arrived, Sunday 5 June. At 8am we
set off for Hyde Park for the long
awaited race. At 9.30am there were
several hundred people gathered in
the park, but the number soon grew
to thousands by 10am. There were
young and old, male and female, fit
and unfit. A stage had been erected
for the DJs to entertain the crowd.
The warm up session started at
10, and I can tell you that it was a
lot harder than I could have imag-
ined, leaving me with a stitch before
the race had even begun. Then the
hordes of runners filed towards the
starting line and Richard Bacon
(formerly of Blue Peter) sounded
the starting siren. We were off, going
across the Serpentine Bridge before
running along the Serpentine.
I had my mp3 player in my ears
with the Rocky theme music and
I felt really good. The first 2km
were pretty easy. The course then
led us around the edge of Hyde
Park, before coming back towards
the Serpentine, then along the edge
of Hyde Park again. Large crowds
of people had gathered along the
race course. Some were taking pic-
tures, some cheering, and others
clapping. Every kilometre seemed
like a few miles. I kept running, just
dreaming of the 5km mark where
they would be providing us with
water. The most testing time was
the 6 to 8km section, where I hit the
infamous psychological wall (every
experienced runner should know
about that, though for them 6 to 8km
would be a breeze).
The final kilometre took us across
the lake before the long stretch
alongside the Serpentine. This was
the part where I forgot that my
muscles had stopped working and
that I was no longer able to breathe
properly. I became a mad man near
the end, giving it my all. Whatever
it took, I was going to reach my
target of one hour. The long stretch
seemed to go on forever, but bit by
but I was getting closer. Just as I
thought I had nothing left in the
tank I crossed the line with my
whole body in agony.
Despite all my training I did find
the course quite tough, as did the
other runners. The majority of the
course had a gradient that meant
twice the workload. However, this
did not prevent me from reaching
my target of 1 hour (my time was
59min and 43sec). I came in at posi-
tion 2792 out of over 8000 people.
The other Reem Team member (my
sis) came in at 1hr and 29sec (pretty
impressive). As I passed the finish-
ing line the satisfaction I felt was
immeasurable. I did it! I had fin-
ished a whole 10km race for the first
time. I had my medal in my hand
and a bottle of water, perfect!
The warm down then started at
12noon before the award ceremony
for the fastest runners. The fastest
male had a time of 36min and 28sec,
and the fastest female 36min and
49sec. However, the most notable
prize went to the wackiest fancy
dress, a man who wore a Darth
Vadar outfit (that must have been
terribly uncomfortable).
Many of you would think that you
need to be super fit to run in any
race but the reality is that it is pos-
sible for anyone. All you need is
motivation and a will to go all the
way. Since the event is right at the
doorstep of Imperial, it should be a
perfect occasion for many of us stu-
dents to take part in. Next year you
can join in as a group or individually.
It is a great way to keep fit, collect
some money for charity, and have
a wonderful time. Go and find those
old trainers, wipe the dust off and
start jogging. I expect to see more
familiar faces next year!
And they’re off
Imperial student Mustaffa Junaid took part in the BUPA 10km run in Hyde Park
Mustaffa Junaid proudly shows
off his medal after completing the
10km run
Top: Delft Technical University. Bottom: bicycle parking is a big
problem in South Ken, but not in Holland!

