Imperial College Union awards
Imperial College Union has given out the following awards for the 2004-5 session.
Congratulations to all the recipients.
Half Colours
“Awarded for a positive contribution to the general life of the Union in an extraordinary fashion”
Full Colours
“Awarded for repeatedly, through outstanding achievements, over the course of the year, making a significant contribution to the life of the Union”
Outstanding Service Awards
John Collins for his continuous outstanding achievements across a broad spectrum of Union activity, including: valuable contributions to Council,
being a very active RAG treasurer, involvement in DramSoc activities, improving representation within the City and Guilds College Union and
developing alumni relations in the engineering faculty. The quality of his representational work has been noted, in private, by College officers as
well as his peers.
Alex Guite for driving forward the development of the Physical Sciences Union. He played a major supporting role last year in starting up new
events such as the Freshers Ball and has built on those achievements this year as President. He played a key role in helping to develop the
Union strategy and also had a major influence on the Union’s mini governance review. He has revived both the Labour Society and the Debating
Society, largely running both single-handedly for two years.
Fellowships
Richard Plackett for continuous and exceptional long term service to the Jazz and Rock Society and the Arts and Entertainments Board in
general. Richard has single-handedly run the technical aspects of the Jazz and Rock recording studio and related facilities for seven years.
Numerous club and society events, successful student bands as well as parts of the Arts Festival simply would not have happened without
Richard’s dedication to the Union.
James Robinson for continuous and exceptional long term service to STOIC (Student Television of Imperial College) and the Media Group in
general. James single-handedly kept STOIC News running through a very difficult period when they were moved into a bare basement in 2001
and had to rebuild their studios from scratch. He brough back STOIC’s coverage of the sabbatical elections from the archives to reality. James
has truly dedicated his extra-curricular time at College to our media societies and the Union is richer for it.
Nicola Williams for her continuous and exceptional long term service to the Athletic Clubs Committee (ACC) and the Union in general. Nicola has
been the Chair of the ACC for two years. During that time she played a pivotal role in helping the Union develop a draft sports strategy last year,
and followed that up with a major contribution to the development of an overall Union strategy this year. Nicola has been a stalwart representative
for the interests of sport at Imperial College and a conscientious Union officer.
President’s Awards
Tony Mitcheson, Danny Sharpe, Will Dawson, Richard Walker and Richard Washington
President’s Award for Clubs and Societies
Felix
Honorary Life Membership
Sameena Misbahuddin, Sam Rorke, Dave Edwards, Lucy Pickard and Therees Tkach Hibbard
Clare Anderson
David Balfour
Joseph Bull
Matthew Cunningham
Rachel Daniels
Michele Daryanani
Helen Dawson
Mark Flower
Andrew Haynes
Suzanne Horn
David Horton
Nicholas Jones
Ryan Kerstein
Hussain Khan
Robin Kumar
Zhi Lim
Christopher McIver
Louise Oakes
Morten Olesen
Henri Ozarovsky
Simon Pascoe
Daniel Reader
Christopher Rowlands
Fabio Sidoli
Siddharth Singh
Eirini Spentza
Martin Smith
John Sykes
Yingke Wang
Helene Wehrmann
James Yearsley
Imran Younas
Philip Braude
Edward Coles Gale
Nichola Hawkins
Jessica Hill
Dan Lehmann
Brett Manning
Max Marsden
Darius Nikbin
Michael Perring
Simon Rawson
Colin Smith
James Thompson
Thomas Tibbits

