www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 16 June 2005
16 www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 16 June 2005 17
“My job is to represent the
interests of all the students”
Mustafa Arif, outgoing President of Imperial College Union, talks top-up fees, Southside Bar, student democracy, great
achievements and big mistakes with Dave Edwards in our final interview of the year
Mustafa Arif has been President of
Imperial College Union for the last two
years. Despite receiving criticism for his
handling of a number of important issues,
he was elected with a substantial major-
ity on both occasions and comfortably
survived an attempt to ‘sack’ him last
term.
A 25-year-old graduate in Information
Systems Engineering, Arif claims to work
upwards of 80 hours per week on a regu-
lar basis in his role as President. I man-
aged to find a spare hour in his schedule
to discover his views on a range of sub-
jects such as higher education funding
methods and the controversial closure of
Southside Bar.
Arif decided to study engineering in
1997 because of his interests in science
and business. He says he “wasn’t posh
enough” for Cambridge, and Imperial
came highly recommended, though not
for the usual reasons:
“My physics teacher, who I had a bit of
a crush on, used to work behind the bar
in Da Vinci’s and she told me I’d fit in
perfectly at Imperial because they were
mostly spotty and wore glasses.”
He wanted to be President “ever since
the first year welcome meeting where I
remember Natasha Newton (President
1999-2000) getting up on the stage, and
yes, I probably had a bit of a crush on her
as well. Then in my fourth year issues
like tuition fees and the proposed merger
with UCL made it seem quite interesting,
and I thought I could probably cope with
being President.”
Arif found his first year in the job “frus-
trating”, as it was “difficult to get things
done”.
“I don’t think any sabbaticals really
appreciate until they’re elected just how
many external constraints there are,”
he says. “Even with the best will in the
world you often can’t do what you set out
to achieve.”
He tells me that the impending depar-
ture of the Union manager (Mandy
Hurford, who retired in summer 2004)
meant that it was impossible to start any
new major projects when he started the
job in August 2003. “To be elected and
then realise that you can’t do what you
promised to do, what people elected you
to do, is very galling. To some extent,
despite my manifesto being focused on
developing the Union’s services, I spent
my time not doing that but instead
raising the profile of campaigns and rep-
resentation… and I don’t think we did a
bad job.”
The next Union manager – or
Permanent Secretary, as he was officially
known – has recently left the Union after
less than a year. I put it to Arif that this
departure will cause similar problems.
He argues that the organisation is
now better equipped to cope with such
changes: “I think things are quite messy
with the departure of the Permanent
Secretary, but we’re in a change mode,
we’re not in a static mode. We’re still
pushing the big priorities forward, and I
think we’re coping.”
Top-up fees
An outspoken critic of the National Union
of Students (NUS), Arif places much of
the blame for the introduction of univer-
sity top-up fees at their door.
“The battle was lost in 1997 when the
NUS gave their support to the Labour
Government to introduce their original
tuition fees of £1000 per year,” he says.
“Everyone in the university business
knew that that was the indication that
free education would stop, a fee would
be set, sooner or later the fee would rise,
and sooner or later universities would be
allowed to vary it. The debate was lost
by the NUS, who for their own political
interests supported the Government at
the time.”
He believes that there is over-supply of
university education in Britain, “because
people seem to want a degree when it
might not necessarily be of benefit to
them. A lot of people who go to univer-
sity these days are just using it as a
middle-class finishing school.” He brings
up a MORI opinion poll from 2002 which
showed that “public opinion was against
the 50% education target and would pre-
fer real education for a more defined
set.”
And his personal view? Is there a solu-
tion to the fees problem in the current
political climate?
“My view is that, given the situation of
the past few years, the only way we’re
going to get back to a sensible number
of people doing degrees is if we do have
a market for tuition fees. Inevitably the
£3000 cap is going to rise, and I think
eventually it could become unregulated,
but what I think we would need is a sys-
tem of state scholarships to fund tuition
as well as living costs. Others who want
to do it when there is no academic benefit
can pay the whole way. You then wouldn’t
have such a burden on the taxpayer.”
Southside Bar
The decision to close – and not replace
– Southside Bar in just over a week’s
time has been met with disappoinment
and anger by students, staff and others
who value the award-winning venue. The
President has been attacked for reject-
ing the College’s proposal to move the
bar into Linstead Hall, and for not doing
enough to find an alternative location
for Southside Bar after it the building is
demolished.
“I do think we need to get this into per-
spective,” he says. “This isn’t a long term
problem. There will be a bar in the new
Linstead [though not for several years],
and the Union will be redeveloped so that
we have a pub-type environment.
“I don’t think we need a direct replace-
ment for Southside Bar... but with the
redevelopment of Beit we’re looking at
something like a 12 to 18 month project,
and if that’s going to happen we’re going
to need something.”
The Union is often criticised for poor
communication. So should the student
body have been consulted about Southside
Bar and perhaps other issues too? Arif is
not convinced. He argues that in fact,
“this year we’ve engaged in the Union’s
biggest consultative exercise in my entire
time as a student – the strategic review”.
“It’s an interesting paradox with con-
sultation,” he says thoughtfully. “When
you consult people, they always demand
more consultation, and they may not nec-
essarily have done that if they had been
ignorant because you hadn’t consulted
them at all.”
I argue that if the issue had been put to
a referendum, an overwhelming major-
ity would have voted in favour of moving
Southside Bar into the communal space
in Linstead. Arif accepts that, but points
out that one of the problems with democ-
racy is “the tyranny of the majority”.
“My job is to represent the interests of
all the students,” he stresses, “and I can’t
allow Linstead students to be screwed
over just for a bar – a bar that wouldn’t
have been that big, it would have been
non-smoking and it wouldn’t have had the
massive real ale collection.”
Confidence and accountability
The President is critical of those who
brought motions against him to the Union
Council. “Some people got a bit overex-
cited, and in one or two cases that’s a
bit disappointing because they should
have known better due to their previous
involvement in the Union. They could
have asked for clarification rather than
writing motions to Council.”
But he admits: “I’m human and all
humans make mistakes. University is a
learning experience for everyone; stu-
dent politics is a learning experience for
all involved.”
Attendance at Union events
I bring up the low level of attendance
at Union events – in particular the
Wednesday and Friday late nights – com-
pared to other London colleges. Arif
claims that he is either “the best or the
worst person to ask, because I had never
been to one until I was president”.
“It’s to do with our student demograph-
ic,” he explains. “We have a very science
and engineering centred student base.
We have a very male student base, and
I think many students prefer to go out
where they meet a more rounded set of
students. I don’t think we’re ever going to
get around that.”
He sees little point in trying to com-
pete with local clubs and other students’
unions. “I think it’s more realistic to
recognise what our limitations are and
provide services when the building is
redeveloped. We’re not a campus univer-
sity, we are in the middle of London. We
can’t provide everything so we should
provide what the rest of the city doesn’t
provide and we should provide a commu-
nity focal point.”
The future
The President believes that Imperial
College needs to be more positive and
ambitious in its outlook. “The College
needs to stop holding back on the Bologna
process of standardising degrees across
Europe,” he says. “We need to get out of
the mindset of competing with the Russell
Group of [British] universities and into
the mindset of competing with the likes of
Harvard and MIT and Princeton.”
He thinks the Union must develop
its facilities to meet the rising expecta-
tions that will come from rising fees. He
also suggests “something like in the US,
where part of the Union’s funding comes
from a compulsory addition to student
fees,” though he accepts that “it’s not an
option at the moment because of the cur-
rent fee arrangements.
“We would have to consider whether
people could opt out of paying that fee
and joining the Union, but more impor-
tantly it would mean that when you vote,
you’re voting for a membership fee.”
Achievements and regrets
Arif believes his greatest achievement
was “going from a situation where we’ve
been endlessly sitting around discuss-
ing things to a situation where we’re
taking the best steps of taking the union
forward.
“The evidence of that is in the success-
ful adoption by Council of a strategic plan;
the creation of the Graduate Students
Association; and the massive increase
in turnout as a result of electronic vot-
ing, despite all the criticism, mostly from
the authors of the accountability motion,
about rushing change through. We can’t
let bureaucracy get in the way of what is
the right thing to do.”
And his biggest mistake? “I didn’t take
holiday between the end of my degree
and the start of my tenure as President
because I have worked every holiday
since the age of 16 in paid employment,
which in hindsight I regret – I probably
should’ve done some travelling. So last
year I was burnt out and this year I’m
still burn’t out. I know I haven’t personally
performed as well as I’m physically capa-
ble of doing over the past two years.”
Afterwards, Arif tells me he will con-
sider taking a postgraduate course at
Cambridge or return to the IT world. But
first: “Basically I need a two to three week
break to physically get back together.”
THE FELIX INTERVIEW felix@ic.ac.uk
“Even with the best will in the world you often can’t do what you set out to achieve” – Mustafa Arif (right), President of Imperial College Union, with Dave Edwards
“The fees battle was lost
in 1997 by the NUS... who
for their own political
reasons supported the
Government”
“I do think we need to
get the Southside Bar
issue into perspective.
This isn’t a long term
problem”
“I’m human and all
humans make mistakes.
Student politics is a
learning experience for
all involved”
©
Science
Museum
Design
Studio
21 june 2005
from 10am to midnight
www.exhibitionroadmusicday
.org
London's home of Fête de la Musique
What’s on at Imperial?
Imperial is thrilled to be participating in the ﬁrst
Exhibition Road Music Day. Two major performances
will take place on the Queen’s Lawn on Tuesday 21
June 2005:
13:20 Imperial College Big Band
18:00 Imperial College Symphony Orchestra
Imperial student musicians will additionally present
informal performances outside the College’s main
entrance on Exhibition Road.
BBQ food and a bar will be available on the Queen’s
Lawn, between 12.00- 15.00 and 17.00- 20.00.
The full programme of local events is available a
www.exhibitionroadmusicday.org
For further information, email events@imperial.ac.uk

