www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 16 June 2005
4
Imperial 2004-5: Felix news
NEWS REVIEW
Students to have no voice on College Council?
In September, we brought you news of the
College’s proposal to remove all student
representation from its main governing
body. We asked how the Council of an aca-
demic institution could govern effectively
without representatives from the student
population.
Mustafa Arif, President of Imperial
College Union, called the proposals “mis-
guided” and told Felix: “Students are the
most important stakeholders in higher edu-
cation. Council is there to hold management
to account over the College’s long term
strategy. The College’s future depends on
attracting and retaining the best students,
so student representatives should be able
to contribute to that process.”
Students were successful in lobbying
against the change, and three weeks later
it was decided that the Union President
would remain a member of the Council
after all. However, the number of elected
members of academic staff on the govern-
ing body was cut from six to one.
Future of Wye campus in doubt
Last summer, Imperial College announced
plans to transfer most courses away from
the Wye campus, close the department
of Agricultural Sciences and consider the
future of the campus in a review.
The Department of Agricultural Sciences,
which is wholly based at Wye, was making a
loss of £1.8m per year. Professor Sir Leszek
Borysiewicz, the Deputy Rector designate,
said: “The Faculty of Life Sciences’ pres-
ence at the Wye campus in its current con-
figuration is not economically viable.”
The College insisted that students start-
ing courses at Wye up to and including 2005
would not be affected, but in an interview
with Felix in May, Professor Borysiewicz
told us that prospective students in agricul-
tural sciences would have to look elsewhere
and he could not guarantee that current
students would complete their courses at
Wye.
Undergraduate teaching will contin-
ue at Wye, but only in Applied Business
Management.
Former Prodigy star assaults student at Union
An Imperial student was assaulted in dBs
by Keith Flint, the former Prodigy vocalist,
and two other men.
Mr Flint, 35, and his new band Clever
Brains Fryin’, played live at the Union
as part of Freshers Week. During their
performance, the student, who does not
wish to be named, was apparently danc-
ing the ‘macarena’ in front of the stage.
This may have offended the band members.
According to witnesses, Mr Flint and two
of his colleagues then jumped down off the
stage and began to punch the student, who
was left with cuts and bruises to the head
and face.
Later that night, police officers ques-
tioned the band members and the student,
who eventually decided not to press charg-
es. According to a senior Union source, the
police were prepared to make arrests at the
scene for actual bodily harm.
The assault was an isolated incident in
an otherwise successful Freshers Week for
Imperial College Union.
Imperial ranked world’s 14th best university
Imperial College appeared in 14th place in
a list of the best universities in the world,
compiled by The Times Higher Education
Supplement and published in November.
Harvard University, in Massachusetts,
took first place by a considerable margin.
Seven of the top ten institutions in the list
were American.
Imperial was ranked fourth among UK
universities, behind Oxford, Cambridge and
the London School of Economics. The only
other European university in the top 20 was
ETH Zurich, Switzerland, in tenth place.
MustafaArif,PresidentofImperialCollege
Union, commented: “It’s a good thing for
Imperial students, when they graduate, to
have the value of their degrees recognised
by employers across the world”.
In an interview with Felix in May, the
Rector, Sir Richard Sykes, said that
“Imperial has done extremely well” to be
ranked so highly. “It’s an amazing feat when
you think we’re not even 100 years old,” he
added.
Departments break rules on working hours
In November, Felix revealed that students
in a number of College departments were
having to attend lectures and tutorials at
times supposedly reserved for humanities
classes and lunch breaks.
According to the Imperial College website,
“on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and
Fridays in the autumn and spring terms
there is a two-hour break at midday for the
lunch-hour Humanities Programme”.
However, some students had regular lec-
tures, tutorials or labs between noon and
2pm. In the worst cases, first year students
attended lectures and classes continuously
from 10am until 6pm in the autumn term.
Students in aeronautics, chemistry, elec-
trical engineering and information systems
engineering were among those affected.
Professor Rees Rawlings, the Pro Rector
for Educational Quality, told Felix that he
was disappointed to hear about the issue,
continuing: “The situation is quite clear.
Certain times of day should be kept free for
these activities. By now, all departments
should be aware of this and timetable their
activities accordingly.”
The problems have since been solved in
some cases, but a significant number of
students still have classes timetabled in the
‘no-go’ areas of lunchtimes and Wednesday
afternoons.
“Students need to bring the examples to
the Union so they can be brought to me,”
said Rawlings in an interview in May.
Pay problems for student staff
Students who work part time for Imperial
College suffered serious problems receiv-
ing their pay between October and March.
Despite opposition from the Union, weekly
pay was scrapped in the autumn term, with
the College imposing a monthly pay system.
Student staff complained about a range of
issues, including a lack of communication,
insufficient compensation payments, short
notice, incorrect tax deductions and the fact
that some non-student staff were still being
paid weekly. Some workers even quit their
jobs as a result.
The change was made in order to cut
costs and make it easier to co-ordinate pay-
ments. However, under considerable pres-
sure, the College reversed the decision and
reintroduced weekly pay from 1 March.
Malcolm Aldridge, the College’s Financial
Controller, admitted: “Paying students on
a monthly cycle was leading to recruitment
problems in our organisation.”
High turnout as election results announced
The turnout in this year’s Imperial College
Union sabbatical elections reached a record
high of more than 2800 votes – over 22% of
the student body.
Mustafa Arif, the current President,
expressed his pleasure at the turnout, say-
ing: “The Union is now in a much stronger
position to legitimately represent students
than at any time in its history.”
Sameena Misbahuddin, the current
Deputy President (Finance and Services)
was elected as President, overcoming her
nearest challenger Morten Olesen by 1126
votes to 862 after the other candidates’
votes had been reallocated.
Miss Misbahuddin told Felix: “I was
delighted to be voted President and I’m
looking forward to it immensely. There’s a
lot of work ahead, as always, but I’ll do my
very best to justify the faith of those who
supported me.”
The Deputy Presidents will be Tim Aplin,
Simon Matthews and Sarah Khatib. Rupert
Neate will be next year’s Felix editor.
President survives confidence votes
The President of Imperial College Union,
Mustafa Arif, survived two votes of confi-
dence this year.
In October, he offered his resignation
but then withdrew it a day later. Having
originally written in an email, “I no longer
believe that I am up to the job,” Mr Arif
quickly changed his mind and told us: “It is
in the best interests of the Union that I con-
tinue in office and serve out the remainder
of my term.”
Then, in March, physics postgraduate
Tom Tibbits brought a second motion of
no confidence to Union Council, alleging
that Mr Arif was guilty of bad manage-
ment, intimidation, a lack of communica-
tion, and steamrollering through various
high-level changes without the approval of
the relevant committees. Mr Arif called it
“silliness”.
After almost three hours of deliberation,
the President remained in post when only
eight members voted in favour of dismiss-
ing him.

