www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 16 June 2005 5
review of the year
felix@ic.ac.uk
Former student set for US terrorism trial
The case of Babar Ahmad, who studied
engineering and went on to work in ICT at
Imperial College, appeared in Felix and the
national news on several occasions.
Mr Ahmad, 31, has been in prison since
last August. He stands accused of run-
ning websites to raise funds and recruit
new members for terrorist organisations
in Chechnya and Afghanistan. His case is
the first to be heard under the Extradition
Act 2003, which allows British citizens to be
extradited to the US without the need for
any evidence to be provided and without the
accused being given any chance to respond
to the allegations.
In December, after a highly charged
Council meeting, Imperial College Union
decided to campaign for his release from
prison.
Writing for Felix in January, Mr Ahmad
said: “I know, and God knows, that I am not
a terrorist and that I have not done any-
thing wrong or illegal.”
In May, as hundreds of people protested
outside Bow Street Magistrates Court, a
judge ruled in favour of Mr Ahmad’s extra-
dition. The final decision now rests with the
Home Secretary.
Last orders for Southside Bar
When the Southside area is rebuilt next
year, the popular Southside Bar will not be
replaced. The building, which also contains
halls of residence and the health centre,
is due to be demolished in July. College
redevelopment plans make no allowance
for a bar.
Imperial College Union was given the
option of using the communal space in
Linstead Hall for a replacement bar, but
rejected it. “It would be unfair to leave
Linsteadstudentswithnoprivatecommunal
space,” said Mustafa Arif, the President.
Just weeks before its closure, Southside
Bar won the runner-up award in the nation-
al ‘Club of the Year’ competition run by the
Campaign for Real Ale (CAMRA).
Meanwhile, over 3000 people have signed
a petition calling for the continued existence
of “a Southside Bar” on campus. Students’
groups are investigating alternative loca-
tions but are running out of time – Southside
will close its doors for good on 24 June. The
situation is set to worsen when the Union
bars in Beit Quad are closed for refurbish-
ment next year. There are plans for a new
bar when Linstead hall is rebuilt, but this is
unlikely to occur for several years.
Students believe that the food available
on Imperial College’s main campus is
unhealthy and overpriced, according to a
Felix poll conducted in May.
Of the students interviewed, only 26% felt
that food on campus was ‘healthy’ and just
32% believed it was ‘good value for money’.
The poll also shows that caterers would be
wise to reconsider the nutritional content of
their food, with 67% of students saying they
would be interested in healthier options
than already exist.
Edward Lilley, Imperial’s Catering
Manager, told Felix that the College serves
food that is popular with students. “We
provide customers with what they want,”
he said.
Many of the sandwiches sold in the JCR
contain worryingly high levels of salt and
are significantly more expensive than simi-
lar products offered by local stores such as
Boots and Marks & Spencer.
College clothing controversy
Union staff told Felix that they were asked
to stop selling certain items of clothing
which were seen as offensive to the Imperial
College brand.
The College’s Director of Communica-
tions, Ardi Kolah, and Director of Project
Management, Chris Towler, visited the
Union shop on the Sherfield walkway in
May. “I understand that my staff found
them quite threatening and intimidating,”
said Union President Mustafa Arif.
The staff felt that they had been asked
to take various items – bearing the name
‘Imperial College London’ without using the
new logo – off the shelves.
Mr Arif continued: “It was stock that was
apparently ‘offensive to the brand’, in par-
ticular the underwear and the fun T-shirts,
like the Matrix spin-off and so on.”
Mr Kolah said: “We’re working together
to find a solution to this. There is policy on
how the brand ought to be used, and there
should have been more importance placed
on following that to the letter.”
Staff say central library is ‘an embarrassment’
Imperial College’s central library has
become “an embarrassment” and “a total
dump,” according to some members of its
staff. In letters to Felix in May, two cen-
tral library librarians launched a scathing
attack on College management for “putting
finances before education”.
Sir Richard Sykes, the Rector, told Felix
that the central library is “not an embar-
rassment, absolutely not. This is the way
forward, it has to be 24 hours a day, seven
days a week.”
Meanwhile, the mechanical engineer-
ing department library will be transferred
to the central library despite opposition
from students. A petition signed by over
400 mechanical engineering students was
handed to staff, who then assured them
that their library would remain open for 18
months. But it was later announced that it
would close this summer.
Helen Dawson, the mechanical engineer-
ing department representative, told Felix:
“The students are gobsmacked that such
an important resource in our department
is being closed down, and it is a sore blow
when we thought the library was saved for
now. No effort has been made to move the
library to unused store rooms in a bid to
keep it.”
Sir Richard said that the College needs
to transfer “as many of the departmen-
tal libraries as possible” to the central
library, “because you cannot work in a
departmental library 24 hours a day, 7 days
a week”.
Imperial cyclists killed on Cromwell Road
A postgraduate student and an ICT man-
ager were both killed while cycling in the
South Kensington area. The two accidents
occurred on the same road within three
months of each other.
Apijak Srivannavit, from Thailand, was
studying for an MSc in environmental engi-
neering. It appears that he was at the junc-
tion of Queen’s Gate and Cromwell Road
when he was hit by a coach in late May. He
was 26.
Thomas Sippel-Dau, who was 54 and origi-
nally from Germany, had worked in ICT at
Imperial for many years. He was knocked
off his bicycle and killed on Cromwell Road
by a 4x4 vehicle which then drove away.
Imperial College Union called on students
and staff to unite in demanding changes to
Cromwell Road, reducing the impact of dan-
gerous motor vehicles and better reflecting
its place in the cultural heart of London.
Practical advice for cyclists and informa-
tion on campaigning are available at www.
union.ic.ac.uk/icbug/cromwell.html.
Campus food unhealthy and overpriced,
say students
In brief
● Due to timetabling issues and the way the
College term dates were arranged, many
students faced the difficult prospect of having
only a two-week Christmas break in which to
revise for their final exams. The Christmas
vacation usually lasts for three weeks.
● In February, Felix exclusively revealed
that the Imperial College Union shop and
newsagent were selling three Cadbury’s
Creme Eggs for just 90p.
The shop and the newsagent, located on
the Sherfield Walkway, were inundated by
crazed students desperate for the fondant-
filled treats.
● Tony Blair visited a research laboratory
in Imperial College’s chemistry department
in March. On the same day, the Government
announced that it would invest £10bn into UK
scientific research.
The Prime Minister and Patricia Hewitt,
the Trade and Industry Secretary, visited
Professor Donna Blackmond, a US citizen
who holds the College’s chair in catalysis.
● Death threats were made to College secu-
rity guards by a group of aggressive young
men, at least one of whom was carrying a
weapon, as they left a Union event in Beit
Quad in February.
● Smoking was banned in Da Vinci’s Bar
for a trial period beginning in March. The
bar, on the South Kensington campus, was
officially smoke-free all day every day for
three months.
The response to the trial was mixed – more
positive comments were received than nega-
tive ones, but support for the ban was not high
enough to convince the Union to introduce it
on a full-time basis. Smoking is now permit-
ted after 9pm on weekday evenings and any
time at weekends, again for a trial period. On
our letters page, students have expressed
their disappointment at the reintroduction of
smoking in Da Vinci’s.
● Eighties superstar Mr T joined an elite
group of physicists in May, when his picture
appeared in a display of Nobel Laureates in
the Blackett Laboratory. The prank amused
students as they revised for exams, but the
photograph was soon removed.
● The Imperial College Union summer ball
secured over £34,000 in funding and, accord-
ing to the organisers, “looks set to be a
great event”. The Hollywood-themed ball has
been promoted around campus by charac-
ters ranging from ‘Marilyn Monroe’ to ‘Darth
Vader’. It will take place this Saturday on the
South Kensington campus.

