Improved
Relations
The gulf between the staff and
the students could be narrowed
by extending the tutorial to en-
courage students to treat the staff
not as masters at school, but as
more experienced friends. This
was the general concensus of
opinion at a meeting of interested
members of staff and the Union
on Tuesday, December 1st.
Contact among the resident
population was, on the whole,
quite good, but relations with
staff and students not living in
Hall were in a sorry state.
Another meeting ground
should be provided by the Union
Societies. There must be many
members of staff interested in
some of the varied interests
covered by the societies. If they
were invited to join, both students
and the staff themselves would
gain.
Much ground was covered and
a number of ideas were suggested,
which, if implemented, could
make the beginnings of a grand
new era in whjch staff- and stu-
dents would meet more often and
for extracurricular as well as aca-
demic reasons.
Four times a year there is an
occasion ideally suited for im-
proving-staff-student relations It
is unfortunate that so little interest
is shown by both sides in the
Touchstone Weekends, for these
are events where everyone can
minele quite freelv and profit.
V.S.O. Exposed - page 6
URAL C
H
A
R
I
T
Y
Members of I.C Union seemed to wish that the College be recognised by the citizens of the
Royal Borough of Kensington as THEIR COLLEGE when they elected that the Notting Hill Hous-
ing Trust Association be the 1965 Carnival charity at the last Union Meeting of term, on December
3rd.
Of the four charities proposed, the NHHTA, whose case was put by Chris Tye, last year's
President of R.C.S., was the only one to evoke strong vocal support from the house, and, put to
the vote, it won overwhelmingly.
It was carried because it presents the greatest challenge (" They need our help because they can't
help themselves "—Bob Collins), there is a " Great possibility of . . . giving manpower help " (Chris
Evans, R.C.S. Vice-President, added, " A l l we ever do round here is cause noise and nuisance'-
)
and we shall be able to see the fruits of our labours (but " Personal pride should not enter into it"
—Chris Tye).
Of the other proposers, David Reich, President of Debates, presented the strongest case, for the
Imperial Cancer Research Fund. Barry Utting, I.C.U. Secretary, droned on about Oxfam in a
speech that seemed the longest but was, in fact, the shortest, and Barry Mair, ICU Deputy Presi-
derit, seemed beaten before he began to speak for the British Red Cross Society.
Commenting on the result, Dougal McCreath, spokesman for the Carnival Committee, merely-
said, " Wish us luck."
See also page 3
MIKE TO BE MASCOT
Guilds, R.C.S. and Mines are to make a joint effort to manu-
facture a five-foot working micrometer. " As this is university it
will be graduated in degrees."
Referring to his copy of Felix 210 for facts Nigel Gravette proposed
at December 3rd's Union Meeting, that " As I.C. is a predominately
male college it is only appropriate that it should have a screw gauge
as its mascot."
BISHOP PUSHES LAMPOST
Much concern was expressed that a micrometer was not in fact
representative of all the sciences and technologies studied at I.C.,
and David Bishop, President of Guilds., made an abortive attempt
to amend micrometer in the motion with lamppost. The former,
he felt, had " Too much of an engineering bias," and showed " the
narrow-minded outlook of Imperial College," a lamp-post, he felt,
represented our past by being Victorian, our present by being in the
middle of the Beit Quadrangle, and our future by shedding light.
On its defeat he explained that Imperial College IN PLACE OF
the Queen's Tower." The motion
was carried.
DISCUSSION
The clock ruled that some
business in the Union Meeting be
held over until Friday, December
4th. This was inquorate so a
valuable half-hour was spent in
informal discussion.
Keith Cavanagh, student Chair-
man of I.C.A.Sc.W., moved that
a Staff-Student Committee be set
John Tutelman, Ex-Chairman
up to investigate Lecturing Me-
Cont. on page 2.
he had only put forward the
amendment to make the meeting
consider seriously the prospect of
a micrometer as a mascot and
not to make a rushed or rash de-
cision.
Time was getting short and
President Price told Kish Sadh-
vani, RCS Fresident, to for-
get his proposed amendment.
The house disapproved of this
comment from the chair and Mr.
Sadhavni moved that Mike the
micrometer be the mascot of

