4 F E L I X
felix
NEWSPAPER
OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Circulation, 1700
EDITOR
ASSISTANT EDIITOR
D. I. WILLIAMS
Production Manager Alan Oxley
Sports Editor Dave Hunt
Late News Editor Ted Needham
Sales Andrew Mayo,
Jocelyn Mackintosh
N. J. WALKER
Business
Cartoonists
Photographic
Editor
Robin Webster,
Peter Combes,
Geoff. Bean,
Barry Pichler
Brian Bull,
Chris Wright
John Cawson
Opinion expressed in these pages are not necessarily those of the
Felix Editorial Board.
This term, behaviour has been relatively sane and sober. Unlike
previous terms, there have not been floods of complaints over noise
in Southside, there have no violent disagreements between staff and
students, or petty squabbles between members of the Union hierarcy.
However, there have been a number of occurrences in or concerning
the Halls, which have caused much ill will between the Wardens and
their Disciplinary Committees. Under the present Hall rules, the
Warden can override his Hall Disciplinary Committee. Such a move
would surely destroy any trust between the student-residents and the
Warden of the hall concerned, and would generally be regarded as
a step backwards from everyone's ideal of staff-student relations.
Of course, it is up to the members of the Hall Committees to
adopt, at all times, a reasonable and responsible attitude. It is regret-
table that, on a number of occasions this term, members of the Dis-
ciplinary Committees have reprimanded other members of their hall
for making a noise, and, ten minutes later, were causing an even
greater nuisance themselves.
Students are, in general, responsible people; and those holding
senior posts must remain responsible at all times.
A t efb
I would like to take this opportunity to wish
all members of the Felix staff and all our many
readers a very Merry Christmas and a successful
New Year.
Foreign Affairs
ANTI-APARTHEID APATHY
There is a big row at King's
College because only six of their
students turned up for the anti-
apartheid rally. Presumably it
hasn't occurred to some zealous
"antis" that not everyone is
yearning to meddle in the internal
affairs of another country. Per-
haps this is an indication the
people are not really as passion-
ately caught up in other country's
affairs as some " pink " student-
politicians would like to think.
Besides, is everyone really sympa-
thetic with a terrorist movement
which places bombs in stations,
killing innocent people. Once
again, it looks like one net of
opinion for whites and another
for blacks. The O.A.S. were
white, and naturally condemned
by " world opinion! " The South
African terrorists are black and,
just as naturally, are condemned
by " world opinion" for per-
forming the same acts of terror-
ism in roughly similar circum-
stances.
BUNNY STUDENTS!
Reading Union is looking for
girls who look bedable but are
not bedable to^ict as bunny girls.
A local brewer who wants to open
a spicy restaurant has appealed to
the University for girls.
GOWNS FOR NEWCASTLE
Newcastle Students Represen-
tative Council has passed a mo-
tion that "Gowns should be worn
to all lectures by students in this
University" by a narrow majority.
Opinion in the main student body
is strongly against so be prepared
for an outcry.
KING'S UNION
UNDERSPEND!
King's are worried about
Underspending. Their Union un-
derspent by over two thousand
pounds last year. The figure was
described by the secretary as "far
too high" and it is hoped to bring
the profit margin down next year.
EXETER GOWNS
Exeter students are being urged
to wear gowns so that visitors
realise that the town does possess
a University!
SHEFFIELD VERDICT
The seven students responsible
for the Rag Week Mock Murder
were sentenced to two weeks
suspension by a Union Discipline
Tribunal. One of the guilty quite
rightly called it " harsh and un-
necesary."
IF YOU C A N T HAVE O N E -
BUY ONE!
Aberystwyth Union, the onjy
STUDENT ACADEMICS
What must be realised about the A.Sc.W. is that
provided the Unions, especially the constituent
ones, are doing their jobs properly, then it is com-
pletely irrelevant to undergraduate needs. The
present saga of events started in the Chemistry
department, whose students decided to call in the
A.Sc.Wu, rather than the R.C.S. Union, to help in
trying to set up a staff student committee. This
somewhat misguided action was, I am told,
prompted by a feeling that the Union was really
only interested in "sport" and beer full stop.
Talking to union officials, I am convinced that
nothing could be further from the truth. In the
Jong run, as always, it comes back to the ordinary
member, the so-called man in the street. He (or
she) can hardly expect the Union to reflect the
opinions of its members unless they tell their reps
what these are. At the moment, far too few
people are prepared to do this.
THAT HARLINGTON BEER
Ask any sportsman about Harlington beer, and
the odds are that the answer won't be couched in
very complimentary terms. Enquire further, and
you will find that its sale is controlled by the eight
strong Athletic Ground Committee, five of whom
are students. It appears that in 1961 we made
a gentlemen's agreement with Fullers to sell their
beer exclusively " for several years." The prob-
lem therefore is one of equating the definition of
" several years " against the quality (or lack of)
of the beer, and the latter seems to win. It is the
duty of all students on the A G C to forcibly put
forward the opinion of the people they represent
—only then will anything be done.
BUILDERS WANTED
I was very glad that the Union decided to
choose the Notting Hill Housing Trust as this
year's Carnival charity. At last we have a chance
not only to enjoy ourselves, but to give help of
a practical nature to solve a vast problem on our
Own doorstep. M y only fear is that the stirring
" do it all ourselves" speeches at the adoption
meeting, will in fact merely result in the Carnival
R.CS. TRIAL—Clarke of the
Court exhibits a lock of Brass's
hair.
dry universiiy union in Britain, is
considering buying its own pub if
the college authorities persist in
refusing to allow a bar on the
home premises.
LOSS AT L.S.E.
Max Williams, organiser of
L.S.E.'s rag dance at Battersea, is
faced with a loss of over £300.
Among the factors contributing
to the loss were the removal, and
distribution, of 300 tickets from
the Union Office by an unknown
person and the poor support (only
30 students turned up) by L.S.E.
itself.
BRIBERY AT N.U.S.
An L.S.E. delegate at the
N.U.S. Conference at Margate al-
leges virtual bribery in the form
of social activities, dinners and
other persuasive means. He said
the way things were sorted out
was not, in general, honest.

