FELI X 5
Guildfinger
The column born of our age,
replacing the old Spaimerama.
The column that gives you the
news and views of Guildsmen.
7.00 p.m. Wed-
our special cor-
Union Office,
nesday. From
respondent.
There is an increase in the
crime wave sweeping through
Imperial College. This was the
reluctant conclusion to which I
was forced after I had secreted
myself into a Guilds Union Meet-
ing (disguised as a spanner) which
was held tomorrow.
Forthcoming at this meeting
were several important facts con-
cerning a vast criminal organisa-
tion, known as the " Guilds." A n
anonymous tape recorder gave
away closely guarded secrets con-
cerning the recent dramatic
"Great Theta Theft." I had
hardly recovered from the shock
which these meticulous details
had given me, when another
audacious play was revealed. A
number of the gang, disguised as
student " Carol Singers," were to
gather in the entrance to the
Mechanical Department of the
College at 7.00 p.m., and were
then to proceed to open an attack,
by foot, on the West End of Lon-
don itself.
Finally, the gang were to hold
a celebrational orgy at " M's
Baths." This would circumvolve
throwing a number of innocent
victims into the turgid waters,
and forcing them to attempt to
catch the crack swimmers of the
" Guilds." Obviously this is an
unenviable, even an impossible
task.
It is obvious to even the un-
trained eye that the gang is highly
organised, even to the extent of
imprudence. The head of the
gang is apparently the ubiquitous
" Y,"who has the backing of a
large international organisation,
known to the few as the "O.C's."
In recent weeks they have
shocked the world with such es-
capades as the " stealing of the
Lord Mayor's Show," the "hold-
ing to ransom of the inhabitants
of Brighton," in which they em-
ployed their secret weapon,
known by the code name of
" Bo." There was also their
strategic naval victory at the
" Battle of the Morphy "? cl964.
It seems that the gang, flushed
with recent successes consider
themselves invincible, and unless
rapid concerted action is taken
against this powerful organisa-
tion, they will only be sated by
complete domination of the
world, as we know it, and of I.C.
NEW THETA
The new Theta (see above) was adopted as the official R.C.S.
Union meeting. It was also decided that the old Theta should be
sacrificially burned because it had been contaminated by guildsmen
(whose half-life isfiveyears. This is because guildsmen are thicker
than R.C.S. men and need longer to take a 3-year course.)
TROPHY OFFICERS' TRIAL
After the Graham Clarke of Court had introduced the case,
Adrian Fletcher, prosecuting, built up a massive case against the
accused. His first witness, Miss Gladly Ann Freely, had almost
seduced the entire jury before it became apparent that although she
knew many interesting things none of these were relevant to the
case. It was then shown how the loss of Theta had affected a typical
innocent fresher. A young lad, Algernon Brass, conclusively demon-
strated that he was a mental wreck. Then the prosecution produced
their chief witness, Private Eye Rodney Slothly-Nicely, who testi-
fied how he had found the Trophy Officer celebrating the loss of
Theta, and, in particular, how he found a heavy blunt instrument,
namely Graham Clarke.
Ted Needham, defending, then called his chief witness, who just
happened to be Rodney Slothly-Nicely who (for an undisclosed sum
of money) reversed all his earlier testiments.
Throughout the proceedings, the other counsels played a major
part. Ray Phillips successfully objected to Adrian Fletcher several
times (and who would blame him) until he realised they were both
on the same side. Roger Cook (who assures me that he is not preg-
nant) attempted to visualise the proceedings by holding up pieces
of paper containing challengeable statements, e.g. R A Y PHILLIPS
IS A HOMO sapiens.
Surprising as it may or may not seem, the accused were found
guilty, and the traditional sentence passed on them. This was
carried out a few minutes later at the Round Pond when they were
immersed, fully clothed, in its healing waters.
For Photograph see page 4
GENTLEMEN OF MINES
ACADEMIC SUB-COMMITTEE
The meeting chaired by John Taylor, Mines Vice President,
was held on Tuesday, 8th December.
The first topic discussed was the relationship between Mines
Union and the A.Sc.W. It was finally decided that no action would
be taken until after the A.Sc.W. had been discussed by I.C. Council.
The meeting then went on to discuss the tutorial system in general
during the course of which several interesting conclusions were drawn.
On the whole it was thought that the tutorial system in Mines was
operating well but that it might possibly be a good idea if marked
reports were handed back via one's personal tutor.
This would have the dual purpose of bringing the tutor and student
more frequently together and also give the tutor some idea of ones
progress.
Questionnaires dealing with the whole question of tutorials,
lectures and syllabus are being formulated at the time of writing.
FRESHERS POT
The freshers pot was presented to Roger Lea for the fastest and
driest yard at the freshers dinner in 9.4 seconds. Roger readily
demonstrated his skill by christening his newly acquired prize.
THE BARBARAFEST
Monday morning we were faced with the sight of two Minesmen,
Fergus Kerr and Piet Velzeboer, returned from Paris and St. Etienne
after 10 days of wine (champagne), women (French) and song (—).
This visit culminated with the Grand Ball of St. Etienne School of
Mines and was a fitting closure to the week of revelry known on the
Continent as Barbarafest, St. Barbara being the patron Saint of
Miners.
MINES 3, GUILDS ,1
This was the result of the first round of the Stephenson Hockey
Cup. Mines thrashed Guilds; we completely dominated the first half,
scoring all 3 goals through a strong Guilds defence during that period.
Each goal was the climax of a team movement neatly finished by the
scorer. Our scorers being Mike Ansty and Miles Philpot. The for-
wards and half-backs played well, inter-passing and intercepting passes
truely.
Mines defence were never really tested, they dealt easily with the
full weight of the Guilds forwards. The goal that Guilds did score
being generously conceded by our goal keeper.
A win against R.C.S. will mean that our hockey team have the
cup. The result annears in the Late News.
MINES NIGHT, THURSDAY, 17th DECEMBER
Mines night this time is being held in conjunction with a carol
singing tour of the West End. Our guests on the evening will be the
foreign students from the European Mining Schools who are with us
at present and to whom we give a hearty welcome.
The evening will start with a 2-hour vocal lubricating and warm-
up in the I.C. bar. The party, which will number approximately 60,
will then move off with collecting tins to the melodious strains of the
carol "Away in a Manger." Once in the West End those Minesmen
with tins will be deployed strategically around the main body. The
purpose of this movement will be two-fold, firstly to collect and
secondly to restrain the more thirsty ones amongst us. For, as Big
Ben chimes 11 o'clock, we will be led to a rendezvous where carefully
hidden will be two barrels of beer.
SMOKING CONCERT
Congratulations to Mike
Grodie and Dick Smith for pro-
ducing the best Smoking Concert
for years. There will be, as ex-
pected, a slight financial loss, and
this would have been negligible
had it not been for the barrel of
beer donated to the W.U.S. Fund.
R.CS NEWS-SHEET
Next term there will be an
R.C.S. newsheet. Editor—Peter
Finch, 88 Beit. Help will be
needed.
R.CS, UNION OFIFCE
The R.C.S. Union Office
(Room 20, Chemistry Building)
will be open this Thursday, and
on Thursdays next term, from
1 p.m. to 2 p.m. This is a ser-
vice provided for you—please use
it.
Finally — Happy Christmas.
Don't work too hard.
KENSINGTONS
MOST COMPREHENSIVE
BOOK SERVICE
N E W B O O K j
S E C O N D H A N D B A C K S
P A P E R B O O K S
RECORDS
H. KARNAC (Books) LTD,
56-58 GLOUCESTER RD.,
S.W.7
KNI 7908/0177

