F E L I X 7
3>.
Carping Comments
A . S c . W
Sir,
Taken in conjunction with various chortlings about Sennet's
" sensationalism and inaccuracy " in reporting and possibilities of
libel action, and the letters complaining about racial and political
smears, Felix' (210) article about the A.Sc.W. could hardly have
come at a worse time.
The correctness of the quotation from the A.Sc.W. Rules shows
that N.J.W. and D.I.W. must have read at least part of them. If
so, it is inexcusable that they should have used Rule 3flll as they did.
In full the rule reads: —
" To pursue the furtherance of political objects to which section
3 of the Trade Union Act, 1913, applies, as defined by Rules 83 and
84."
Rules 83 and 84 concern contributions to the Association's Politi-
cal Fund, the use of which is strictly defined by the above Rules and
Trade Union Act. Such contributions are of course not compulsory.
Allegations of Communism need no comment, beyond pointing
out the letters of other irate readers concerning the irrelevance of
political leanings in non-political bodies. The A.Sc.W. does not discuss
politics, it does what its 16 objects before RuleWll say. It negotiates
on behalf of its members for their benefit and for that of science and
the scientific industry in general.
Lack of political leanings is said to be a source of strength for
I.C.U. (and College Unions) in their relations with the staff. What
then is the secret of the A.Sc.W.'s obvious success in past years and
now? Could it be that the Association spends its lime doing what it
was set for, looking after its members, rather than in indulging in
student politics?
Yours sincerely,
P. F. HART (Metallurgy P.G.)
ED: What successes has I.C.A.Sc.W. had in Student matters?
Depravity
Dear Sir,
In view of recent criticism in
your columns directed against the
" depravity " of Sennet, I was not
a little surprised to come across
the Sennet of March 10 this year.
It carried a report of articles in
contemporary editions of Felix,
in which it was able to use such
a phrase as "extremely suggestive
pictorial back page." The con-
tent of several articles in Felix at
that time was obviously open to
serious critisism.
People in glass houses . . .
Yours etc.,
L. F. JOHNSON (Chem. 1)
Ed: Felix is now under new
management.
Record ?
Dear Editor,
Last Tuesday I received a letter
through the Internal post, dated
November Sth 1962. Is this a
record?
PENELOPE M. WILLIAMS
APOLOGY
We offer our sincere apologies
to Mr. A . Stephenson and Mr. F .
Irving concerning an item in the
late news of issue 210 on Halls
of Residence. The meeting alleged
to have taken place with Mr.
Stephenson in the chair did not,
in fact, take place. We regret
any inconvenience or misunder-
standing that may have arisen
through this article.
Freshers Dinners
Dear Sir,
Now that the Freshers Dinners
have finislied, we feel that we can
voice our opinions on the subject.
It appears that a convention
has grown up over the years that
Freshers Dinners are all male, all
drinking, all swearing sessions
punctuated by derision as the
freely flowing beer causes some-
one to leave the room.
We - feel that these Freshers
Dinners are not the best way to
introduce a Freslver to the college,
and tliey give a completely false
impression of what is to follow.
We are also sure that many of
tile staff and other speakers would
be able to provide far better
amusement after dinner if they
were not obliged to reiterate the
old and exceedingly obscene jokes
whidh seem to o^ur with mono-
tonous regularity every year.
They would aUo feel far less
embarrassed at being asked to
attend a Freshers Dinner.
Could the dinners themselves
not be kept decent and conducted
in a more mature manner ? The
dirty jokes and songs could be
saved for the bar later, so that
those who feel that they do not
wish to take part in such activities
may opt out and not be forced to
sit through the exliibition.
Yours faithfully,
IAN McKENZIE Aero I
GRAHAM HORDEN Aero I
D. CHOW AT Aero I
S. P. HERTZOG Aero I
DAVE HICK, Mining I
TONY FIRMIN Aero II
Dear Sir,
After Mr. Needham's deliberate misrepresentation of the number
of people at the debate with Kings College (see,my letter and Mr.
Needham's reply in Felix No. 209) we now have the carping comments
on the Debating Society in your last issue. You did not bother to
point out that attendances have been appreciably more than last year
(averaging about 120 this year). All the debates except one have had
sufficient floor speeches, to make them run their full time. The ex-
ception was the contraception debate, when quite a few people were
prepared to speak against the motion, but only one person was pre-
pared to speak for it; thus the floor speeches were cut short as it is a
rule of debates that floor speeches should be evenly balanced between
those for and against the motion. These facts contradict your state-
ment that there has been little speaking from the floor. The number
of speakers from the floor, in fact, should be sufficient to get the poten-
tial good speakers to become good speakers and provide the number of
good speakers that a College the size of l.C. should have.
Yours faithfully, R. J. KIRK (Physics lit)
Lighting A r r a n g e m e n t s
Dear Sir,
May I be permitted to make use of your columns to make an
announcement concerning entertainments in l.C.
As many of your readers are aware, all lighting and most of the
sound equipment for entertainments is installed and operated by the
technical departments oi the Dramatic Society. While we are always
willing to help and our services are provided free of charge we find
it very difficult to arrange things at a moment's notice
As from the beginning of the Spring Term we will not consider
any work unless we are given adequate notice. Those who have not
seen the circular can obtain copies from me or any lighting department
member.
Requests for lighting should be given to me and requests for
sound work to Eric Thorniley of Elec. Eng. and not to the President
or Secretary of the society.
Yours faithfully, PHILIPS and EDWARDS
(Dramatics Soc, Lighting Supervisors)
Unfortunately due to the lack of space the above two letters had
to be cut.
Winter
Holidays
ARE
Snow & Sun
Holidays
book yours through N.U.S. and be sure of student company
P R O G R A M M E COVERS WINTER 1964-5 A N D SPRING
1965. S K I I N G IN AUSTRIA, F R A N C E , SWITZERLAND,
ITALY, YUGOSLAVIA A N D CZECHOSLOVAKIA.
Order form for free travel booklet:
To: Travel Bureau, National Union of Students, 3 Endsleigh
Street, London, W.C.I.
Please send one copy of
WINTER SPORTS AND SPRING HOLIDAYS
Name ,.
Address
Date

