i n t e r v i e v v ^ b u f f a l o t o n i v i k .
"We feel that that we're doing something really
worthwhile and that we're giving something pos-
itive to society. And who knows, maybe what
goes around will come around back to us."
These are not the words of one of the
hideously self-deceived landlords in South
Kensington who think that offering sardine-
friendly rooms to students for aristocracy-friend-
ly prices constitutes a philanthropical feat wor-
thy of a Nobel Prize. And neither are they the
words of a Mother Theresa-styled visionary on a
genuine humanitarian crusade. No, thus spake
Chris Colbourn, bassist and second vocalist with
Boston guitar trio, Buffalo Tom, on the blower
from their Milwaukee hotel.
Now to the uninitiated this might seem like
a somewhat pretentious statement. However, if
creating forty-five minutes of integrity-soaked
such as the emotive, Van Morrison-esque epic,
'Sunday night', and the punk-tinged Neil Young-
acised 'Tangerine', that should be termed great
by anyone's definition. The latter song, in par-
ticular, is indicative of a raw streak that pervades
the album. Chris explained:
"Well, it was a reaction to the last record
(1994's 'Big Red Letter Day') where we spent
three months in the studio. This time we really
didn't want to spend too much time recording.
Also, we wanted to stay close to home. Tom's
(Tom Maginnis, drummer) wife was eight
months pregnant and he had to leave every cou-
ple of days for baby classes! So we recorded
most of the songs live. We had a Stones' 'Some
Girls' album attitude where we just went in and
blasted it out."
And of course, with the album recorded live,
playing live is now second nature.
music (the Tom's fifth album, 'Sleepy Eyed')
and putting on superb live performances don't
classify as virtues, then Saddam Hussein is a
member of the 'Fair Election, Let's Give the
People a Fair Vote' Society.
Not that enough people have recognised
Buffalo Tom's virtue or virtuosity. Over the
course of their seven year history they've been
lumped in with everyone from The
Lemonheads to Dinosaur Jr. In reality they pos-
sess a blue-collar, down-to-earth (lack of) atti-
tude missing from both those bands. Do they
resent being the perpetual underdogs?
"No, we don't mind. I've always known that
if we sold five million records then the reviews
of our records would change. Even when we
started to sell 100,000 records journalists started
to say that we weren't that great any more. You
could say that part of our problem is that we
don't have an Evan Dando frontman or a singer
who's died of a heroin overdose. And it's just not
in our blood to write a hit single like 'Runaway
Train'."
Maybe not, but 'Sleepy Eyed' hoards songs
"We've been touring for months already and
we'll be coming to Britain soon (Shepherd's
Bush Empire on November 4th). We're really
looking forward to it. I still have this romantic
view of all these towns and villages in Britain...
And then there's always the ludicrous side of the
British music scene."
British music scene, ludicrous?
"Well, British music has thisridiculousside
to it. I mean, Mr. Blobby and Whigfield - how
seriously can you take them?"
Yes, but what about Britpop? Isn't all this arty
lack of musical talent, laddish behaviour and
Adidas tracksuits exactly what the public needs?
, "I think that Blur and Oasis are so comic
book, kind of like something that should be on
Saturday morning children's T V They're very
entertaining and very theatre and that's a side of
things that too many American bands forget
about. I think that there is a place for that kind
of ephemeral stuff. Unfortunately, that place just
happens to be Britain1
."
Buffalo Tom - Americans who tell it like it is.
Listen to them.
Oil itLlvTo.lii. a
s
;;::rZ%\ fi"•*';s £C030M
Butler's sexy guitar. What
I avers o
tin
hai
ir™
i ovei ol 'Rawhide' it the end con-
I">'. £0- * -
. . . . . . . , :^->
• buii't l o •
Mainly acoustic gii • ightty
it tor.
veliowcai why did you go?
but heard k aH befbre, i | | | | | | | f
w
h
i
n
y voice gets • 'Ving.
haul hop heathen - beat Lttstik
L\id'j I* .i •ir.nv.m.-cVijiitlMh-
i:
have:

