c e l l u l o i d g u i d e s
! ?.tOD::,i.^
|\K<ihonUs
raw m o n t h s
i 13
11K- usual suspus 1
i . . j . • • •
:
i l if
nine merntJhs 1.30, 3.5(11:6.4(1, 9.30
ixxahontas
12.35,2.25, 4 15,6.05,7.50
'>()
B i t ;
the lite .mil extraordinary adveil-
inns ol private ivan rhonkin
pnnce cbasrks
film: to die fors
p
t
x
>
k
y
Suzanne Stone (Nicole Kidman) will do any-
thing to succeed in television. Starting with a
small job at the local cable station, she eventually
rises to the meteoric position of weather girl.
Suzanne sees this only as a springboard to greater
things and sets about making a documentary
about the lives of some local teenagers. This
brings her into contact with three local dead-
beats - Jimmy (Joaquin Phoenix), Russell and
Lydia, with whom she forms an unlikely friend-
ship. Gradually she drags them into her fantasy
world promising them success when she make it
big in California.
She seduces Jimmy, and in classic film noir
tradition manipulates him into killing her doting
husband (Matt Dillon), who wants her to give up
her television career to start a family. The mur-
der of her husband finally gives her the media
attention she craved, but it soon cruelly degen-
erates as the accusing finger begins to point at
her.
To Die For is shot in a rather non-linear man-
ner, composing of a variety of flashbacks with
camera interviews in both past and present, cre-
ating a wickedly dark and humourous black
comedy. The film marks a return to form for the
director, Gus Van Sant, after his disappointing
efforts of late.
• • • • • The star of this picture is undoubt-
edly Nicole Kidman, who finally gets
to show she can act in an American
film. Although on previous roles she
seems an unlikely choiceforSuzanne,
she makes the part seem like it was
written for her. She plays the vamp-
ish femme fatale with the right
degree of brainless confidence but
exuding sex appeal to appear seem-
lessly natural. She is helped by a sup-
porting cast who in general take a
backseat to Kidman's tour de force
and an excellent script which con-
tains some bitingly satirical scenes,
especially about the States' depen-
dence on television.
Although the non-linear storyline
helps to keep the film interesting, the
story suffers from the jumping
between too many strands, some of
which give too much away while oth-
1
ers don't explain enough. In addition,
Nicole Kidman's killer comes over as a bit exces-
sively naive and brainless which stretches
credulity too much in places. In the States,
where stupidity seems to be revered (see the
farce that was Forrest Gump) this probably
worked, but over here it makes it less easy to
swallow, although at least the film isn't another
advert for the American dream.
However, these are minor details and you
could certainly make a worse choice of film. It's
mainly for those who like their films black with
a bit of bite.
-video: bad lieutenantem y
Many films have, alphabetically, contained alco-
hol abuse, bad language, bribery, cocaine
(snorted, smoked and dealt), corruption, gam-
bling, guns, heroin, Jesus, masturbation,
menage a trois, murder, prostitution, rape, sex,
suicide, theft and visions. But this film only has
one character.
A lifestyle that would leave you physically
and mentally mined in a week is lived by this
immortal figure. All America's evil's rolled into
one man - and he is a policeman. A powerful
statement? Nothing compared to the liihilistic
and frightening power of the film. Even two
days later I am left listless and frustrated.
The film's plot is the background, its style
is all. Don't watch it - it's excellent but no pos-
sible pleasure could be gained from doing so.
Nothing more to say.

