O f all the zany goings-
on around London,
one in particular has
attracted my attention:
pigeons riding the
Underground.
Standing quietly on platforms,
seemingly waiting for trains, travelling
nonchalantly in carriages along with
amazed commuters, alighting at particular
stops...This is the surprising behaviour of
London's pigeon population, recently
reported in New Scientist.
One reader writes that during the
seventies he regularly encountered a
particular pigeon who would board the
tube at Paddington and disembark at the
next stop. Another commuter shared her
carriage with a pigeon who got on at King's
Cross and stood patiently by the door,
refusing titbits, until it flew out at Euston.
Indeed, the birds
appear to act as if they
know exactly what
they are doing. One
pigeon apparently
made numerous
attempts to board a
Piccadilly line train at
Hounslow Central.
Even after being
repeatedly shooed out
by a concerned
passenger, the bird,
determined to board,
made one final 'frantic
swoop' towards the
doors as they closed.
Stay awake and you might see the avian
hitch-hikers in action for yourself - there
have been reported sightings on most
lines.
So what is going on? There is no doubt
that pigeons aren't shy about travelling on
the Tube, but are they doing it
purposefully? Could pigeons have learned
they can quickly and easily travel to a new
feeding ground by going one or two stops
Fare dodgers?
>in
Are Pigeons Going Homing On
The Tube?
on the Tube? Could it have something to
do with their renowned navigational
ability? To answer these questions, Insight
talked to pigeon expert, Dr Simon Tonge...
What does the Bird
Man Say?
'Any such observations should be taken with a
pinch of salt." says Dr Tonge, ornithologist and
senior curator at London Zoo. He felt that
anyone who maintained that the pigeons knew
where they were going had "seriously
overestimated the skull power of these birds,
they are not in the front
ranks of bird
intelligence. People can
be terribly unobservant
when it comes to this
sort of thing, they think
they've seen something,
and read too much into
it."
Dr Tbnge's analysis was
that any bird could catch
the Tube. Pigeons are
those most likely to be
spotted because they are
common and habituated
to being around people.
They'll hop into a
carriage in search of food, not notice the doors
closing and therefore are unflustered whilst the
train is moving. When they see the doors
opening, they'll hop out. Certainly there is no
chance that the pigeons are navigating their way
around. Pigeons need to be up in the air to get
their bearings.
"You could ask 10,000 ornithologists and get
just as many different answers, but the rump of
the opinion would be that there is nothing in it."
Bird Tales
Staggering amounts ol time and money have gone into the investigation oi navigational ability
in birds, particularly to determine how migratorx birds know when and where to 'fly south for
descendant ol die North African and Southern European R<xk I)o\e {Colmnba Una) and a
direct relation to the (oral pigeon whit h crapson Nelson s column and rides the I Underground.
probabh navigate instinctivel\ using a combination of the sun, a built in magnetic compass and a
memorised 'map' ol scenery, sounds and familiar smells. When navigating in flight, a bird
apparently first determines the compass direction o
> ;C:i|if
beneath. Then by a lorni of vector navigation, it homes', flying on a compass bearing until it
jireachilsaifamiliari area around the destination.
Since the days of the ancient
Egyptians, pigeons have been used to
carry messages. They were used as
'pigeon post' in civilian and military
service by the Greeks, Romans, and
throughout the Middle East. At the
siege of Paris in 1870, 150,000
official messages and 1 million private messages
were carried by pigeons. During the Second
World War, the British and US armies made use
of200,000 and 50,000 birds respectively. Nearly
17,000 were parachuted to the Resistance in
occupied Europe...parachuted?
The advent of speedy long distance
transport led to the development of
the sport of pigeon racing. The first
race, in 1818, was over 100 miles
and was held in Belgium. Today,
there are about 100,000 pigeon
racers in Britain alone, with an
amazing 2 million pigeons in their
lofts.
Researcher Shigeru Watanabe and
his colleagues at Keio University in
Tokyo have recently had remarkable
success in training pigeons to tell the
difference between paintings by
Picasso and Monet. Perhaps they
should be judging the Turner Prize?
C.Gull, Nat Barb
XVI

