theatre:venice preserveeLn
If there's one thing to be said about pro-
ductions at the Almeida, it's that they always
have excellent sets. Before Venice Preserved
starts, the audience sit, rapped in shadows as the
gentle lapping of the flooded streets provides the
only sound. As the lights slowly rise, always a
magical moment in theatreland, a classically
columned street rises into the distance forced to
a vanishing point under the rule of severe per-
spective.
Thankfrilly for your laterally thinking critic
it's also a metaphor for the entire play, although
sadly one better observed in optical than theatri-
cal terms. For Venice Preserved is full of classical
dilemmas; our hero is rejected should he seek
revenge?, our hero is put to the test, should he
give in?, our hero must choose been love and loy-
alty, life and death, cowardice and bravery, which
way will he go?
It is therefore unfortunate that plotwise
our hero (Jaffier) is a vacillating whiner whilst
actorwise (David Bark-Jones), he is merely
weak. Equally his wife Belvidera (Alice Krige)
has perhaps too delicate a balance to walk, slip-
ping as she does from love struck infatuation to
column:simon baker
Apart from the shocking pictures of the
Grim Reaper giving death a bad name by
destroying the poor old Watts Way traffic barri-
er, the main preoccupation of the press of late is
your friend and mine, Michael Howard. The
embattled Home Secretary got himself in a ter-
rible mess over the prisons, the latest in a fairly
long line of gaffs. Now don't get me wrong, dear
reader, I'm not against a bit of tough talking on
the law and order front. Like Tony Blair, I live on
the Thatcherite side of the political fence, and
think that the punishment should amount to
something more than a quick slap on the wrist
with society blamed for the wrongdoing. But
there is something about Mr Howard that both-
ers me. It should be the cause of very great con-
cern that Labour now appear to be trusted on
Law and Order more than the Conservatives,
probably for the first time ever. This used to be
natural territory for the Right, but by a series of
clumsy, ill-conceived policies of late, public sup-
port has plummeted. Much as this pains me, and
despite a brilliant performance in a very tricky
debate in parliament, in which Jack Straw was
about as effective as Mr McGoo in an archery
competition, I really feel that it is time he went.
Perhaps now that Derrick Lewis is looking
for a new job, he might consider taking charge of
the Imperial College Union Council and
Executive Committee (or Head of Security?), in
the safe knowledge that even with him running
things, they could not possibly get any worse. I
never fail to be amazed at the sheer incompe-
tence and time wasting of these esteemed bod-
ies. As soon as any decision seems to be made, a
shrieking hallucination, to be the capstone on
which the performance is built. Thankfully how-
ever, it is possible to place such 'heroic' burdens
on one side and concentrate instead on the sup-
porting players, for it is they who make the play.
Central, in both senses, is the figure of
Pierre (Ray Fearon). A hardy soldier and coup
conspirator, it is Pierre who acts as devil, tempt-
ing Jaffier into the coup, before ending the play
as a sacrifice offered for Jaffier's redemption.
Interspersed between these affairs of state are
the scenes that work best, though add least to
the plot. Alphonsia Emmanuel's Aquilina, as
with all the characters, experiences the compro-
mise of life; loving Pierre but 'playing around'
with one of the senators. And it is in the latter's
grasp that the play really shines for a while, albeit
as a comedy.
Which leaves your critic in a dilemma of his
own. Venice Preserved proves itself to be an
unwieldy beast. The basic material is a bit rough,
and the cast, through strong, don't sparkle where
they should and the end scene is appallingly
directed. Yet for all that there are some extreme-
ly funny moments. Shame it's a classic tragedy
then.
vote of no confidence or some bizarre procedur-
al device is used to scupper it. We may be a sci-
ence university, but we clearly have some bloody
good constitutional lawyers in training.
These silly antics do nobody any good. They
account for a lot of the apathy in college about
the Union and explain the stigma of being a
Union hack'. Most people see a small group of
people playing politics for little discernible rea-
son other than for their own enjoyment. We
have a Union Constitution that took almost as
long at the Maastrict Treaty to implement and
seems to be as complex, resulting in every deci-
sion being queried as illegal and unconstitutional.
Surely a set of clear guidelines by which to run
the Union shouldn't be that difficult to draw up
and implement. For God's sake, this is ICU not
ICI. At the moment, we have an administration
that resembles the G L C at the height of its luna-
cy. The other problem with the current state of
affairs is that nothing ever seems to get done. I
assume that, if the Council elections have to be
re-run as a result of a vote of no confidence, pre-
cious little will get done before the end of
November. The Union will have moved to
Sherfield before the first proper meeting gets
under way. A small consolation is that we are not
members of the NUS. I dread to think what a
mess we'd be in if we were.
And finally (as a newsreader once said), I am
told that Brian May was back at the Union last
Wednesday. Obviously, years on the road with
one of the greatest bands ever have made him
careless and he didn't have a Union card on him.
Result? Our man in yellow on the gate refused
him admission, of course. Surely someone could
have signed him in...

