Alan Parker,
Urban
Warrior
They had another "Who's
the most left-wing person in the
pub?" competition the other night.
They asked me to enter. I said that I
didn't agree with the concept of competition
generally, let alone IN A PUB - the very rock
of equality and democracy in this country. So I
won. Which was good really. I got a new
megaphone and a year's supply of placards - enough
for about 20 marches of 100 people each.
Being a bit of a 'one man political force', the second
bit didn't seem that useful so I thought, "I know, I'll sell
them to the Revolutionary Communists and raise some
money for my party fund (and by that I mean a PARTY fund
because it strikes me that only by GETTING PISSED that
we're going to achieve some REALISTIC CHANGE in this
country - "The personal revolution is the first step in any
revolution" say The Disposable Heroes of Hiphoprisy - Cheers
to them, but some of us KNEW THAT ALREADY and as the
saying goes "have been in the pub since half past five").
Unfortunately the Rev Corns were down to 14 members and
didn't really need that many placards either. So I tried the "Fourth
Term - Fourth Reich" group. They're a small new group but
they've got big ambitions. Problem is, they're really against the
whole buying and selling bourgeois-capitalist thing. But I lowered
the price a bit and in the end they took the whole lot.
What did I do with the money? I SPENT IT. Don't talk to me
about "saving for a rainy day" - you
start saving money the next thing is
you'll be getting a mortgage, a pony
and a servant and calling yourself
"Lord of the Manor". Yeah. Non,
Merci Mein Fuhrer. Any money I
can't immediately piss up the wall I
BURN as a gesture of defiance.
Apart from coins which bitter
experience has taught me to not
burn under any circumstances.
Who am I defying by burning
money? (YOU ask) Well,
"logic, for a start," to quote
the barperson in The
Halfway House. But (as I
replied) as long as I
remain
UNPREDICTABLE
I shall be an UN-
GOVERNABLE
FORCE.
Take that
home
NETWORK
with you and
burn it in
your oven.
I've found another unusual oppresses
minority to support - STUDENTS. People
hate students. I was a student once, and I hated
MYSELF - CUTTING OUT THE MIDDLE
MAN. If one of the ordinary decent working-class
people of this country said to me "What do you do
mate?" I'd say, "I'm a bleeding student waster toss
head" and then I'd punch myself in the mouth just to let
them know I really meant it, and also to save them the
trouble. But I don't think that it's right. I didn't mean to
become a student though. I was FORCED INTO IT by the
combined effect of society's pressures and my extremely high
'A' level results.
I didn't go easy, I put up a fight. When my call up papers
came, drafting me into the army, I burnt them.
That's right - I burnt my 'A' level certificates. You come up to
me at one of my gigs and I'll show them to you (photocopies of
course - the actual burnt certificates I framed and gave to my
Mum. She was really moved). I didn't like it very much as a
student. They were always having demos and that but I didn't
really fit in with any of their 'organisations' - too radical probably.
For example I was thrown out of the first meeting of the Anti Nazi
League because I stood up and shouted, "come on, admit it - we are
all Nazis in some ways; we all admire the uniforms." Another group
told me to piss off because I suggested
taking an air rifle to lectures and
shooting the lecturers if they said
anything unsound. Made me despair.
So I set up my own ANTI student
demonstration. Only one bloke came
to it. And it turned out he thought
it was an anti-STUDENT demo -
you know, against students. He
hated them.
Anyway, we got talking, I
explained to him the situation,
one thing led to another, and
he smacked me in the gob. I
remember laying there in
the gutter saying to
him, "yes mate, I see your
point. On your side."
But now I think
different: Students,
I am on your side
as well.
Cheers to
you.

