News in brief
TWO . FELIX FRIDAY OCTOBER 2 7 T H 1 9 9 5
Union Adviser Departs
Minevar Kavlak is departing from her role as Imperial College Union
Adviser after two years in the job. She is leaving the College to take
an educational course as she 'thought that it was time to move on'.
Minevar is however 'very sad to leave', adding that: 'I'm going to miss
people here, they're a good bunch." The Union Adviser does feel that
she has helped students: "I think that in my own little way I've helped
who I can. I know who they are and they know who I am."
While looking forward to her course - 'it's really funny being a
student again' - Minevar considers her time working for the Union as
well spent. "One issue that kept coming up was harassment" she says,
adding that this was an area in which she had striven for an official
ICU policy. Equal Opportunities and the Nursery Service were other
issues which particularly concerned her. Having enjoyed her role in
ICU, she emphasised that, 'challenging people, especially in college',
were actions which she found most fulfiling.
Matt Crompton, Deputy President Finance and Services, pointed
to her work on student accommodation as one of her most influential
activities. Expressing disappointment at her departure, Matt illustrat-
ed her vital role with an example in which she had recently forced a
local landlord to improve the standard of student accommodation in
the hostel he runs.
A locum advisor is in place and a permanent replacement will be
found in the new year.
Disappearing Bikes Cannabis Catch
Imperial College has been hit by a
string of bicycle thefts in the first
few weeks of term, which has led
to fears that IC is being targeted
by professional thieves.
This series of incidents is
concentrated around the Central
Library bicycle racks. Dan
Seaman (Physics 1) bought his
bike on the Monday of Freshers'
Week and it was stolen the fol-
lowing Friday. He said that his D-
lock had jammed so instead he
used a good quality cable lock to
secure his bike. Sue (Physics 2),
also using a cable lock, said her
bike was stolen on the first
Wednesday of Freshers' Week
Both victims said they had
informed the Police. Asked if he
had reported the incident to
College Security, Dan said, "Of
course I didn't, it would be a
complete waste of time."
One security officer at the
Security Desk in the Sherfield
building said that bike thefts are
usually very high during the first
week of term because so many
people buy new bikes. Asked if
anything was done to prevent
bike thefts, she said "We are
doing as much as we can to stop
these sorts of things happening
here, by fitting cameras and coop-
erating with the police. But it is
ultimately up to the students to
look after their bikes as it is very
difficult to catch the thieves."
She went on to say that the
police cannot "convict someone
unless we see them in the process
of stealing a bike. Thieves can
break through any lock, including
cable and D-locks. They break
the latter by covering them with
liquid Nitrogen. It is very difficult
to spot bike thieves in the act as
they are very quick."
The security officer gave
some advice on how to protect
your bikes suggesting that stu-
dents, code their bikes, insure
their bikes, report any thefts to
security and that they buy a
cheap bicycle.
A Student Residences Tribunal
has concluded the hearing of the
Tizard Hall resident who was
caught with cannabis in the first
week of term. Following a police
presence, the Chem Eng student
was cautioned, and will face sus-
pension if he re-offends.
CCS Users Shut Out
Computer Centre users voiced
frustration at the beginning of
term when Mech Eng introduced
a policy of shutting its doors at
8pm. The centre, which is sup-
posed to be open until ten, was
effectively shut off to all but
Mech Eng students. The move
was made after the department
spent considerable sums installing
new lifts and refurbishing the
building's general amenities
(including its library) over the
summer.
Mr Rogers, the building's
Supervisor, said that initial con-
sultations with the Computer
Centre and College Security
failed to highlight the problem
but that the building will once
again be open till 10 pm as a tem-
porary measure.
However, some form of
swipe card controlled entry will
be implemented, due to the very
significantly increased risk of
thefts when the doors are left
open until late at night.
Willis Resigned To
Appeal
Richard Willis resigned as Rag
Chair pending the result of his
appeal against his Imperial
College Union Disciplinary. The
appeal board will hear the case
sometime next week, and will
consist of randomly drawn mem-
bers of the Union Executive with
Sarah White as chair. Ms White
said that Willis had wanted a sec-
ond hearing, but that he himself
had pointed out that'it would be
too long after the event so "he'll
have to settle for an appeal".

