DIARY FELIX FRIDAY OCTOBER 27TH 1995 . T W E N T Y - O N E
f r i d a y
27
O c t o b e r
African Caribbean Society
Get your ACS card today in the JCR
between 12-2 pm and get free entry into
the OSC party tonight.
Rag Meeting
1.10 pm Ents Lounge. Regular meeting.
Ents
Put on your drainpipe jeans and get ready to
smash the system, with the voice of the kids,
a Wolfie Smith for the nineties.... Alan
Parker - Urban Warrior. Supporting the
cause tonight is Jason Freeman, and the
venue for all this anarchy in Kensington is
the "Bust-a-Gut Comedy Club". Doors
open at 8pm, it's £2.50 on the door, £2 in
advance, and there'll be free Newcastle
Brown stuff for the first 50 in.
If you just want to dance the night away,
we've got top sounds in the lounge from
10:30pm with "Climax", and as a special
treat, a special Hip-Hop, Funk + Soul
sounds in the UDH, in association with the
Overseas Committee. Where else can you
get two rooms of music for £1?
f r i d a y
A word from y o u r
s p o n s o r :
A little request from the events and
marketing manager: when you leave the
Union late at night, please try and leave as
quickly and as quietly as possible, and don't
hang around the front gates as it causes a
disturbance. Cheers.
S a t u r d a y
O c t o b e r
Gliding Club
Gliding at Lasham Airfield.
Ents
Rugby League World Cup Final between
England and Australia live on the big screen
in Da Vinci's. Bar opens at 1 pm, coverage
starts at 2 pm.
S a t u r d a y
S u n d a y
O c t o b e r
Gliding Club
Gliding at Lasham Airfield
Contact gliding@ic.ac.uk
Come to Thursday meeting first.
Food
Sunday lunch available in Da Vinci's
between 1.30 and 3 pm.
s u n d a y
Exploration
Society
IC exploration society invites YOU and
friends to one of its lectures. The talk will be
given by the renowned cyclist and explorer,
Nick Crane. Nick will be talking about his
expedition on horseback to war torn
Afghanistan. This was carried out with local
people with the aim of assessing war damage
for Afghan Aid. They then had an epic return
journey in which both men and horses
perished. As many will know, Nick is a
superb lecturer and his talk should prove to
be highly entertaining. There will be an
opportunity afterwards for an informal
discussion with Nick for those contemplating
a similar adventure.
Last Thursday, Phil Wickins gave an
introductory lecture, encouraging even those
with no experience to go exploring. The
question so many people ask is, " How do you
manage to get the experience to do
something like this?" Phil himself entered
college having done "a little" climbing and
other outdoor activities. Through
participation in IC Scout and Guide - the
Outdoor club, Phil progressed to the stage
where he was confident enough to go to
remote corners of the World and "explore".
Finally, "Intrepid Phil" had the confidence to
tackle Tirich Mir this year. Located near to
the Pakistan/Afghan border, Tirich mir, at
7708m, is the highest peak in the Hindu
Kush mountain range.
Luckily for this expedition one day was
enough to get the required documents upon
arriving in Pakistan. Some teams have been
known to be held up for up to 5 weeks. He
survived a fire in a hotel in Islamabad and
managed to bluff the local cricket fanatics -
unluckily for Phil the greatest skill one needs
to conquer Pakistan isn't mountain-craft, but
knowledge of which woman Imran Khan
married this summer!
After staying in the servants quarters of a
local palace for a while, the team managed to
recruit 50 local men - with knowledge of the
area - as porters. Each porter, armed with
new sunglasses and a new pair of socks, was
to carry 25 kilos each up to the area where
Base Camp would be made. This was at a
height of 4800m. To put that in perspective,
that is the height of Mont Blanc. Having
everything they needed for 6 weeks in the
mountains - including their very own local
cook, Abdullah - the team proceeded to make
1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th camps at strategically
placed points up Tirich Mir.
Through radio contact the team were
able to keep in touch with each other when in
the different camps, vital should someone get
lost. Working together as a team, they
managed to put 2 people on the summit quite
soon. Upon attempting the summit himself,
with fellow team member Gerry, Phil
became very ill. They wisely decided, since
he had lost coordination almost totally, that it
would be safer to descend and so they
returned by skis to base camp. Phil had been
suffering from an onset of cerebral Oedema,
something that is caused by altitude and can
in extreme cases be fatal. Despite obviously
being disappointed not to get to the summit
himself after being so close, Phil considered
the expedition a success.
I hope that Phil's exploits inspire you to
go and do what you want to do. If you would
like more information then please come to
the next lecture. See you next Thursday in
Biology W2 at 6.30 pm.

