TWENTY-FOUR . FELIX FRIDAY OCTOBER 3 0 T H 1 9 9 5 CLUBS A N D SOCIETIES
Yacht Club
This month is proving to be the warmest
October since 1975 and while some breathe
the suffocating atmosphere of London,
others are spending their weekends sailing in
the sun and the fresh air of the Solent.
Once again, the Yacht Club has an
exciting program to look forward to. We' ve
been able to expand our activities
tremendously thanks to some devoted
members of staff: Prof. Pat Holmes from Civ.
Eng, now Commodore of the Yacht Club, and
Jim Gibb from Physics, Senior Treasurer and
also enthusiastic social event co-organiser.
The main activities of the Club are
concentrated over two areas: training and
racing. We try to put a large emphasis on the
training since most of our members are
complete beginners. We encourage everybody
to take theory and practical RYA exams so
that they obtain a worldwide qualification
enabling to rent boats out. In the last 3 years
between 10 and 15 people each year have
walked through the RYA Yachtmaster theory
course. This year, it looks like a member of
Finance Society
Asset Management Group
The asset management group was started at
the beginning of last year by a small number
of members of the finance society who
wanted to increase their knowledge of the
financial world and achieve a greater
understanding of the financial investments
available. We have all heard of investments
like bonds and derivatives, but do you know
what they are used for, and more importantly
what effects their price?
This year's plans include fantasy share..
ConSoc
For those of you who don't think this week's
speaker, Michael Portillo, was important
enough, Conservative Students have
organised a National Parlimentary Rally in the
Grand Committee Room of the Houses of
Parliament for this Wednesday.
Ordinary students like you will be able to
put their questions and views to the people
who run the country: people like the Foreign
Secretary, Deputy Prime Minister, Party
Chairman and at least three other Cabinet
Ministers. And for the first time, we will be
allowed to socialise with them, as well as
other students, in the wine break in the
middle of the proceedings. We will meet at
South Kensington tube station at 2.00 pm and
the entrance fee is £4. The visit will also
staff will be able to teach the course at
College, making it more flexible and probably
cheaper. Not only the Club does its best to
organise these courses but the tuition fees are
also heavily subsidised.
Our main objective for this year is to
improve on our 10th position obtained at the
British Yachting Nationals last year and beat
the South coast Universities at their own
game. Also the prospects are good of going
racing in France over Easter in one of the
many massive Student Regattas.
Our program for this year consists of
competing in the Hamble Winter Series and
some of the Sunsail Regattas during the
Winter Term. Then a provisional crew of 10
to 12 will be selected to train for the
Nationals held at the end of March, before
we pack our oilskins and head to France to
compete with the best of the Europeans. .
If any of these activities tempt you, come
along to one of our meetings held every
Thursday from 1 - 2pm, Physics LT2 to
share some of our members experience, or get
in touch with Carlo on 0171-935 3685 or via
e-mail: c.contaldi@ic.ac.uk.
trading, talks and visits. There is no better
way to learn how investing works than to have
a go yourself, so we are going to a run a
fantasy share trading game over e-mail. Once
you start, you realise that it is pretty easy to
lose your money. Fortunately the finance
society has an enormous amount of fantasy
pounds for us to spend. Last year the players
formed groups and acted as teams under the
watchful eye of their elected portfolio
manager.
The AMG also hopes to organise a couple
of talks this year - at the start they will be
pretty basic, but will be designed to give
everyone a sound basic knowledge of
include a walking tour of Westminster Hall,
the scene of the trial of King Charles I and the
oldest part of our Parliament.
Interested in having real influence over
the future of Higher Education? Why not
come to the Commons again on Thursday at
7.00 pm and put your suggestions directly to
the Secretary of State for Education herself,
Gillian Shepherd? We will be gathering
beforehand for our usual weekly meeting in
Southside Upper Lounge at 1.00pm to
discuss the issues we should raise.
Just to prove that we are a social club as
well, we have planned a few social outings for
the coming days. On Friday, we will be
visiting the splendid Orthodox Westminster
Cathedral for a performance of Bruckner's
9th Symphony. The following Saturday we
will celebrate the defeat of the most infamous
Full ahead Captain Blighl
investment and financial terminology. Once
foundations have been laid, some more high-
powered talks by people making their living
in the financial world should turn us into
experts overnight.
The only requirement you need to join us
is a sound interest in finance. Whether you
are a total novice, have a few shares in the
privatised utilities, fancy a career in the city
(remember CV's and first interviews...) or
plan to be the Nick Leeson of IC, you are as
welcome as the next member.
The first meeting will take place on
Monday November 6th in room 342 of
Huxley.
attack on our Parliamentary traditions, the
Gunpowder Plot, in the usual manner with a
fireworks display at at Battersea Park. We
have also offered to help out Knightsbridge
Conservatives with a musical evening on the
15th. We're also planning museum visits for
the future.
See our Web pages at http://
www.su.ic.ac.uk/clubs/societies/scc/consoc/-
home.wtml or http:// www.ibmpgup.co.uk/-
—execute./home.html - for an account of our
Michael Portillo meeting.
Don't forget that you can attend the
speaker events at college free of charge even
if you are not a member. We will be visited by
Nigel Evans, John Gummer and Tom King
this year, and Sir Marcus Fox and Jonathan
Aitken next year. For further details e-mail
consoc@ic.ac.uk.

