EIGHT . FELIX FRIDAY 2 7 T H OCTOBER 1 9 9 5 FEATURE
In a small theatre at Sadler's Wells, you can see the
perfect dancer performing. He can execute any
combination of moves you ask him to, no matter
how complex or difficult. He can repeat them at any
speed, as many times as you like. He won't get tired
or complain and he never makes even the slightest
mistake. But the most extraordinary thing about this
performer is that he exists only in Cyberspace. He is
the 'digital dancer' and he is starting a revolution in
dance and choreography.
I went along to see him at the Digital Dance Project, part of
'Dance Umbrella', Europe's leading dance festival. The project is being
held at the Lillian Baylis Theatre at Sadler's Wells all of this week and
aims to "move dance-making out of the rehearsal studio and into the
CyberStudio."
Walking into the CyberStudio is a striking experience. An array of
stage lights and video cameras are trained on a small black dance floor,
centre stage. Towards the
rear there is a huge
projection screen showing
video images of live dance.
But around the perimeter
of the stage is something
you won't normally find in
a theatre: Several top of
the range Apple Macintosh
computers, and seated at
them are some of Britain's
most talented choreo-
graphers, digital artists,
and multimedia designers.
Henry Johnson, of
Illuminations Interactive,
explained what was going
on.
"What we have here is
five teams of artists openly
collaborating with each
other. They are using interactive software which combines video, live
dance, animation and sound." The CyberStudio will be linked via the
internet to other Dance Umbrella sites around London and the public
can access and participate in this via a web site
(http://www.illumin.co.uk/unibrella/). The web site will offer a
showcase and a virtual workshop for the week's work, Johnson
describes it as "a window for the world to look over our shoulders and
a great opportunity for people to see artists as they create their work."
Most of the artists in the CyberStudio are using Lifeforms, a piece
of software containing a realistic model of the human body. When it
was developed in 1989 by engineers at Simon Eraser University in
California, it allowed human figures on the screen to move from one
set position to another, like a series of still photographs. Now, the
latest version moves with the fluidity of film and the digital dancer can
be viewed in three dimensions from any angle. One of the first people
to use this software for choreography was Merce Cunningham,
described as the 'iconic grand master of American modern dance'. You
can see his work at two performances at Sadler's Wells this month.
One of the artists I encountered in the CyberStudio was Mark
Baldwin, a leading British choreographer who uses Lifeforms to create
his own unique style of dance. Baldwin has in effect re-invented
himself as a digital choreographer. His dance company are currently
performing "Dances from Cyberspace" a selection of works created
using this new technology. I asked him how he had found the
transition.
"Anyone who has ever played a video game can use this
technology" he said, "This also means that anyone can choreograph." I
was surprised that somebody who was used to crafting his work on real
dancers could take so easily to a keyboard, a mouse and 120MHz of
Mac power. Surely this must remove some of the creativity and
emotion from his work?
"No, just the opposite. With Lifeforms you can change the speed
or rhythm of the dancer without restriction. Its a visual thing. You try
something, it may not work with real dancers as you envisaged but
what you produce can suggest something else... The images and
movement have this
power of suggestion."
Moving on to the next
work station, I came
across Amos Winikoff, an
artist who had trained as a
software engineer but had
recently started working in
performance. His
approach to using the
software was slightly
different: " I like to
choreograph things as well
as people. You can take all
the idiosyncrasies of the
computer program and
turn them into
performance. In this way,
the action never occurs on
the screen as you would
see it in real life." He then
showed me a sample of his work involving dance and juggling balls
which was too fantastic to describe in mere words. For Amos, the end
product is more than just people moving around, it can be composed
of several sources: "You couldn't possibly look at it all at once, so the
audience has to make a choice... its not going to be just a dance."
The Digital Dance project is well worth checking out via the
Dance Umbrella web site (until mid-November) or if you want to go
along to see the setup for yourself, there are two seminars being held
this weekend at the Lillian Baylis Theatre. The first seminar is on
Friday 27 Oct at 7.30pm and is a chance to explore the CyberStudio
and raise issues of artistic vision in a live forum and debate. The second
seminar is on Sunday 29 Oct 4.00pm. Chaired by Terry Braun, it will
cover more practical issues concerning the support of similar projects
in the future.
Merce Cunningham's Dance Company: Sadler's Wells 28 & 29 Oct.
Mark Baldwin "Dances from Cyberspace" Riverside Studios Oct 31
& Novl. For further details contact Clare Lovett Tel: 0171 636 7312.
By Ben Wilkins

