politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
12 felix Friday 11 January 2008
Politics
Politics Editor – Omar Hashmi
The late former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto returned to the country only late last year
Bhutto dead – a conspiracy is born
Benazir Bhutto, ex Prime Minister of
Pakistan, has been killed. Her death,
perhaps the most significant death of
the 21st century so far, has thrown the
country into turmoil and made the path
to democracy extremely uncertain.
Given the tremendous significance of
her death, one might suppose that the
all the parties involved in Pakistan’s po-
litical process would go to every length
to avoid any uncertainty or ambiguity
around her death. Unfortunately this
has not been the case.
There were conflicting accounts of
her death from the start. A government
spokesman said her head was slammed
against her vehicle by the blast from a
bomb – but her colleagues said she
died from bullet wounds. However
President Musharraf said, “One should
not give a statement that’s 100% final.
That’s the flaw that we suffer from”
adding that fresh evidence had come to
light and also admitting that she might
have been shot. Despite this, the lack
of a proper autopsy means that all the
government has is its word, and unfor-
tunately for Musharraf’s government,
this counts for little. The government’s
original line was seen as an attempt
to rid itself of responsibility for her
security. Bruce Riedel, an expert on
Pakistan at the Brookings Institution
in Washington said “If there is a gun-
shot wound, the security was abysmal”.
The government did not want to be
exposed on its careless approach to
security, he added. President Mushar-
raf has responded to these concerns
stating that there had been no lapse
in security and that Ms Bhutto was
responsible for her death by standing
up through the car’s sun roof. This line
has provoked anger amongst Bhutto’s
supporters. PPP (Bhutto’s Party) Sena-
tor Babar Awan said. “Benazir Bhutto
was martyred in a political conspiracy.
The entire government is now involved
in a save-the-culprit campaign. As the
Independent put it “They [Pakistanis]
don’t blame Al-Qaeda, they blame the
government”.
Athar Minallah, a board member
of the hospital where Ms. Bhutto was
treated, said the doctors felt an autopsy
was needed to discover how she actu-
ally died. The official medical report
does not specifically mention a bullet,
the actual cause of the head wound was
to be left to an autopsy which did not
materialise. Ms. Bhutto’s husband Mr.
Zardari refused to allow an autopsy to
take place. “It was an insult to my wife,
an insult to the sister of the nation, an
insult to the mother of the nation,” he
said. “I know their forensic reports are
useless. I refuse to give them her last
remains.” Doctors treating her had
stressed that “without an autopsy it is
not at all possible to determine as to
what had caused the injury”.
An inquiry has been launched into
the circumstances surrounding her
death as well as the cause of her death.
UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown
is sending a team of detectives from
London to aid in the inquiry. Pakistan’s
President Pervez Musharraf has said he
is “not fully satisfied” with the current
investigation. Referring to the team of
detectives being sent by the UK, he
said: “We needed more experience,
maybe more forensic and technical
experience that our people don’t have”.
For Musharraf’s government, ending
the ambiguity about Bhutto’s death is
more of a priority than for the PPP (her
former party) who are benefiting from
the anti-government sympathy result-
ing from the assassination. The FBI
was not asked to aid the investigations
due to the negative repercussions of di-
rect U.S. involvement in Pakistan.
It does not seem likely that she was
assassinated by Musharraf’s govern-
ment, the consequences of such an at-
tack were easy to predict and the gov-
ernment certainly has not benefited
from the turmoil and anger that has
followed her death. Despite this, low-
level collaboration by the intelligence
services is a possibility because of Is-
lamist infiltration. Musharraf has pub-
licly denied involvement, when asked if
he had played any part in the assassina-
tion, the president said: “My family by
any imagination is not a family which
believes in killing people, assassinat-
ing, intriguing.” However he did admit
The ex-Prime Minister’s precise cause of death becomes the centre of controversy after an autopsy is denied
that mistakes were made following
her death and that evidence had been
lost at the crime scene. “I am sure that
they did not do it with an intention of
hiding some secrets or that the intel-
ligence agencies instructed them to
hide secrets,” Mr Musharraf told re-
porters. “If you are meaning that it was
by design to hide evidence, no, it was
inefficiency.”
Islamic militants who have taken
increasing control of Pakistan’s tribal
areas along the Afghan border are
the likely perpetrators. Ms. Bhutto
spoke out many times against Islamic
militants and they have made no se-
cret of their determination to kill Ms
Bhutto since her return to the country.
She had already survived an attack by
militants; a double suicide attack on
her motor cavalcade left 130 dead in
October. The style of her killing, a sui-
cide attack, points to Islamic militants
while the result of her death coincide
Kadhim Shubber
with their interests, damaging stability
in Pakistan.
Islamists in Pakistan have proved
how dangerous they are and how clear-
ly their beliefs run counter to those of
the Pakistani people. In assassinating
Bhutto, the Islamists have dashed the
hopes of the Pakistani people by en-
dangering Pakistan’s progress towards
a stable democratic government.
While the Pakistani people have rioted
in anger since Bhutto’s death (resulting
in over 50 deaths), I sometimes won-
der if this anger is disproportionately
directed towards Musharraf. These so
called Islamists need to be removed as
a threat before Pakistan can move to-
wards a democratic future. They label
all those that try and bring develop-
ment to Pakistan as enemies and are
indiscriminate in their attacks. During
the Muslim holiday Eid, these ‘Islam-
ists’ carried out a suicide bombing in-
side a mosque, during prayers, killing
50. The real threat for Pakistani de-
mocracy comes not from Musharraf,
but these irrational killers who imagine
themselves as defenders of Islam.
Elections that were planned for the
8th of January have been delayed until
February 18th. The reason cited by the
electoral commission was civil unrest
in Pakistan. A more plausible reason is
that the ruling party fears that an elec-
tion soon after Bhutto’s assassination
would prove to be a foregone conclu-
sion. PPP senator Babar Awan warned
of dire consequences, “If elections are
delayed, the constitution is violated,
then this would amount (to an) open-
ing of a floodgate of violence through-
out the country,” he said. Despite these
apocalyptic predictions, the country
has been relatively stable after the ini-
tial rioting. This is down in part to a
massive effort from the army and the
government to restore law and order
in the country. Also the major political
parties decided not to protest the delay.
“Incidents of violence have gone down,
in that sense one can say the situation
is better,” said former government min-
ister and political analyst Shafqat Mah-
mood. In some areas of Pakistan a de-
lay was inevitable, There had been real
damage to Pakistan’s electoral process
during the rioting. 10 election offices
were burned down. Due to the delay
former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif’s
party PML-N has decided to stand for
election, making it a three-horse race.
By delaying the elections and allow-
ing sentiments to settle, Pakistan has a
much greater chance of holding mean-
ingful elections that will help move the
country forward.
The PPP is hoping for a large sympa-
thy vote and are attempting to exploit
this by choosing her son Bilawal Bhutto
Zardari as the new leader of the party.
Critics have denounced this as dynas-
tic and undemocratic, but the Bhutto
brand remains strong and represents
the PPP’s best hopes for the upcoming
elections. However at only 19, Bilawal
Bhutto is too young to stand for elec-
tion and until he finishes his studies
at Oxford, his father Asif Ali Zardari
will become the de facto leader of the
PPP. However many within the party
are unhappy with his ascendancy due
to his 11 years in prison on corruption
charges.
The death of Benazir Bhutto has
raised the stakes and the tension in
Pakistan. Political stability must be
achieved before a meaningful de-
mocracy can be established. An over-
whelming victory for either the secu-
lar parties (the PPP and PML-N) or
for Musharraf’s party (PML-Q) in the
February elections will fuel violence. A
more sober result favouring the demo-
cratic forces will be more conducive
to progress by allaying fears of elec-
toral rigging and reducing the likeli-
hood of a military backlash. However
I believe that 2008 is unlikely to be a
year of change for Pakistan; few will
concentrate their anger towards Islam-
ists who will continue to attack indis-
criminately and despite an inquiry into
Bhutto’s death, the people of Pakistan
will blame Musharraf’s government,
letting the true enemies of the Paki-
stani people off the hook.
Ms Bhutto’s son Bilawal Zardari is being called upon to lead the PPP

