politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 11 January 2008 felix
Politics
Li-Teck Lau
Politics Editor
World news summary in under 1/3 page
Assassination and election rigging
stops for no one, not even santa. The
Politics page brings you a summary of
the highlights from the last month or
so.
Nick Clegg is new LibDem leader
The Liberal Democrats, the third larg-
est political party in the UK, elected a
new leader in December in the form of
Nick Clegg, winning by the smallest of
margins in a tight race against Chris
Huhne. Many dismiss the LibDems’
chances of electoral success with the
‘First Past the Post’ voting system for
the British Parliament, but they may
well hold the key to power should no
overall majority be achieved by Labour
or the Tories at the next General Elec-
tion, a distinct possibility.
South Korea’s elections
Alongside the controversial and trou-
bled elections in Kenya and Pakistan,
South Korea also ran elections for pres-
ident. The landslide victor, Lee Myung
Bak, a conservative and businessman
who once ran one of the country’s larg-
est construction firms and who has
It was always going to be a historic
election. Following the 2nd liberation
of 2002 which saw the fall of the op-
pressive 24 year regime established by
President Daniel Moi, the country had
come away with a renewed belief in it-
self, in democracy. Would 2007 be the
year Kenya proved beyond any shadow
of doubt that true democracy stands
a chance in Africa? Sitting President
Mwai Kibaki’s re-election bid faced
a credible threat in the person of the
charismatic Mr Raila Odinga, an ex-
member of President Kibaki’s cabi-
net who had led a veritable rebellion
against the government mid-term for
its alleged failure to deliver the radi-
cal change it had promised Kenyans in
2002. Opinion polls predicted a close
victory for Mr Odinga, making Kibaki
the first sitting president in Kenyan
history to be voted out of office. Both
sides, however, remained confident of
victory.
Mr Kibaki had an impressive track
record to call upon. Coming into
power in 2002, his had been the chal-
lenge of reviving an economy ravaged
by decades of chronic mismanage-
ment. The LSE alumnus and former
academic proved himself equal to the
task. By privatizing industry, providing
free primary education, cutting overall
spending, creating business incentives
and investing in IT, he helped build a
knowledge-based economy that is fast
becoming a regional hub for outsourc-
ing, call centers and banking. In 2007
alone General Electric, Young & Rubi-
cam, Google, Coca Cola and telecom-
municationsgiantCeltelrelocatedtheir
African headquarters to the country’s
capital. Exports reached record highs
for coffee, tea and flowers, a $600 mil-
lion industry. And since 2002, 1.8 mil-
lion new jobs have been created and
per capita income has increased from
$400 to $630, according to government
figures. Kenya’s economy, the biggest
in the East Africa region, has shown
a booming average growth of 5% per
annum since 2002. The democratic
space also improved dramatically. In
November 2005, the Kenyan electorate
resoundingly defeated a new draft con-
stitution proposed by parliament and
endorsed by the President himself.
Given his achievements, one could
be forgiven for assuming Mr Kibaki’s
re-election was a given. Not so. Enter
Kenyan elections stir violence
pledged to focus on economic growth,
will be sworn in on February 25th. Mr
Lee also wants to take a tougher stance
on its northern neighbour, reducing
aid and punishing it for its weapons
programs.
More trouble in Sudan
Sudanese forces opened fire on a clear-
ly marked UN / African Union convoy
late on Monday night. “The secretary-
general condemns this attack in the
strongest possible terms,” a spokes-
person said on behalf of Ban Ki Moon.
The UN initiated a new peace keep-
ing mission at the beginning of 2008,
replacing an overburdened AU force
with 20,000 troops. The government
in Khartoum insists that claims by the
UN and ‘Western media’ that 200,000
people have died and several million
have been displaced in Darfur are an
exaggeration aimed at undermining it
for other political goals.
Clinton survives New Hampshire
vote
Democrats have begun the process of
choosing their candidate to stand in
this year’s upcoming Presidential elec-
tions in the US. Kenyans set aside their
own civil strife to celebrate their ‘son’
Barrack Obama’s victory in the first
caucus held in Iowa. The front-runner,
New York Senator Hillary Clinton,
looked shaken on Monday after com-
ing third and then slipping 10 points in
the opinion polls for New Hampshire.
However, her teary eyed interview
appeared to help her campaign, com-
ing first on Tuesday’s poll. John Mc-
Cain was the surprise winner on the
Republican front after a summer of
poor fundraising and little media at-
tention. Rudy Giuliani, Mitt Romney
and Mike Huckabee are the other main
contenders.
Detainees released
And finally, 3 British residents were
freed in December after several years
in custody at the notorious Guan-
tanamo Bay detention camp on Cuba.
Jamil el-Banna, Omar Deghayes and
Abdennour Sameur have been labelled
extremely dangerous by US security
services, but they were not charged for
any specific crimes. Bana faces extra-
dition to Spain after authorities there
want him in connection with the Ma-
drid bombings of 2004.
The closely fought election which returned President Kibaki to power has sparked allegations of rigging
Raila Odinga, the self-styled ‘People’s
President’. A key factor in Mr Odinga’s
favour was the failure of Kenya’s eco-
nomic renaissance to reach the com-
mon mwananchi (Swahili for citizen).
Odinga argues that Kenya’s economic
gains of the past few years are only be-
ing felt by a select group of Kenyans,
with heads of business and the already-
rich the main beneficiaries. In a coun-
try where the poverty rate stands at 46
per cent, it is easy to see where Odinga
found an audience. Describing him-
self as a social democrat, he promised
to spend considerably to improve the
situation in Nairobi’s notorious slums
(Kibera, in the outskirts of the city,
is Africa’s largest), provide low-cost
housing and give cash transfers to the
very poor. Key also to Mr Odinga’s
campaign was Mr Kibaki’s failure to
comprehensively deal with corrup-
tion in his own cabinet, which saw the
country lose millions of dollars in the
form of shady government contracts.
Sadly though, politics in Kenya is
decidedly tribal. Consider for instance
the fact that in Central Province, an-
cestral home of members of the Presi-
dent’s Kikuyu tribe, Kibaki won 98% of
all votes cast. Or the fact that in parts
of western Kenya, where Mr Odinga’s
Luo tribe are the majority, Kikuyus
and known supporters of Kibaki were
denied access to polling stations, with
threats made upon their lives should
they show up. The fact is that, espe-
cially in rural Kenya, the tribal identity
precedes the national. And while the
country’s 43 tribes have learned to co-
exist as Kenyans, a healthy amount of
mistrust still exists between different
tribes, which politicians freely exploit
to achieve their own ends. A character-
istic of the Kibaki administration was
the prominence of members of central
Kenya tribes in the cabinet and in the
President’s inner circle. Although it
can be argued that they were all ap-
pointed on merit and demonstrated
performance, this threw the field open
to accusations of tribalism. Members
of smaller tribes felt threatened, and
when Odinga’s voice promised them
protection and a voice in a new gov-
ernment they were only too glad to
jump aboard.
Given this kind of political climate,
a close election was always going to
spell trouble. Few however, could have
predicted the scale of what happened
when Mr Odinga controversially lost
the poll. Fear of the majority Kikuyu
tribe turned to hatred and outright
violence on a scale never before wit-
nessed. Over 300 have now been killed,
with as many as 250,000 displaced
from their homes by tribal tensions.
Talks between both sides towards
peace are due to begin but whatever
the outcome, an ugly scar has been left
in the pages of Kenyan history and has
seriously set back the development of
a national identity in this young and
fragile democracy.
Anthony Maina
Allegations of vote rigging in the ethnically divided country have left hundreds dead

