14 felix Friday 11 January 2008
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight and David Paw
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Caz Knight
Arts Editor
H
appy New Year...al-
though January is prob-
ably the least joyous of
all the months, espe-
cially if one lives in the
British Isles and is an Imperial student
with a shit load of coursework or ex-
ams. To all those burdened with ace-
demic worries, good luck to you all and
fret not; if you managed to get into this
fine institution in the first place, you
shall do fine. Now, enough talk about
the more depressing things in life and
onto ART! I am feeling particularly op-
timistic for 2008, having had my dose
of potenitally harmful UV rays and
awe-inducing beautiful scenery when I
went back to the city of my birth, Cape
Town. Merely being in such an aesthet-
ically pleasing environment is enough
to while away the most azure of blues
and if you can’t afford a ticket or the
time, then try Google images followed
by a trip to the sunbed for that year-
round tan.
I had any erudite urges satisfied with
the myriad of offerings, even from a
miniscule part of such a diverse con-
tinent. And a continent it is. NOT a
country, as one of my friends thought
it to be. I cringe upon hearing the ig-
norant refer to Africa as if it were one
huge country rife with children with
swollen bellies and flies in their eyes,
lions and zebra prowling the streets
and a permanent soundtrack of bongo
drums resonating through the jungle
as said lions sleep. No, “Africa” is far
too diverse a place for one not to be
specific, when referring to it.
Despite a horribly cliche and stupid-
ly misspelt name (evoking unwanted
thoughts of the Afrikaans language),
a show that must be seen is Afrika,
Afrika, the magical circus adventure
from the amazing continent , which is
coming to the O2 arena in a few weeks.
With a bit of luck I shall wrangle some
press tickets and have it all nicely re-
viewed for you, complete with pictures,
in a later issue.
However, until then distract your-
selves with these pages; procrastinate
with the excuse that you are furthering
your artistic education as we bring you
plays, poets and one hell of an inno-
vator: Carl Djerassi, who destroys the
stereotype of the culturally unaware
scientist confined to a lab. Here is a
man who embraces science and art and
intertwines them. Besides, girls, if it
were not for him, we would be without
The Pill and Lord knows where we’d be
by now!
I delve into the weird and wonderful
world of William Blake, another man of
many talents, who celebrated his 250th
birthday in November. The poem of
the week is officially a Christmas-
themed one but has an optimistic feel,
which would help as we slog through
this dreary month. And you can’t go
wrong with Lord Alfred Tennyson. If
you do find yourself reading this col-
umn, which I have taken great mirth
is creating, please do let me/us know
what you think. Until we meet again,
chins up for the week head! Mwah.
Scientists don’t swear? Well
we all know that ain’t true...
Carl Djerassi is a scientist like no other, bringing us the contraceptive pill and a whole
host of plays to boot. Emily Steel had the privilege to meet him. Here’s how she got on
T
here is a wall in Carl
Djerassi’s flat that is en-
tirely covered with framed
posters from productions
of his plays. The posters
are in Portugese, German, Japanese
and Bulgarian. Djerassi likes them
very much. They represent, for him,
the collaborative nature of the theatre,
the excitement of re-interpretation. He
points out some posters for the first
play he wrote, An Immaculate Mis-
conception, about a form of in-vitro
fertilisation and the questions it raises
for reproduction and sexuality. The ti-
tle, with its play on words, is difficult
to translate into languages other than
English. In one, it has become ‘This
sperm is mine’, in another, simply ‘Im-
maculate’. Djerassi is pleased by this,
and pleased by the range of images.
“Look at this,” he says, of a poster of
showing a woman in a pencil skirt,
“Singapore, which is a pretty conserva-
tive place, [but] when you look at it,
you think, in some respects, it’s the
sexiest one, you know, sexy legs and
stuff like this. What’s she doing? Well,
she’s standing in front of a dispenser.
Do you see what the dispenser is? You
think, oh, that it’s cigarettes or some-
thing – it’s babies.”
Carl Djerassi is best known for the
invention of the Pill. He began his
working life as a research chemist, and
in 1951 his team synthesised the first
oral contraceptive. He received the Na-
tional Medal of Science for that work,
and the National Medal of Technology
for his later work on insect control. He
is currently an emeritus Professor of
Chemistry at Stanford University. In
the last twenty years, however, he has
become a writer, first of fiction and
more recently of plays. Interviewers
regularly ask Djerassi about his scien-
tific work. They rarely ask him about
the theatre. And that, he says, is what
he’s interested in now.
My first sight of Djerassi is at the
Royal Society on 14th November,
where he is giving a talk about the
treatment of science in fiction and on
stage. When he gets up to the podium,
there is something of the actor about
him. He has a headfull of white hair.
His white beard comes to a neat point.
He is wearing a long, brown jacket that
looks, from a distance, almost like Eliz-
abethan costume. He would pass for a
Shakespearean lord, a duke, a king –
Prospero perhaps, even Lear. He talks
Emergency contraceptive pill advertisment....Thank you Carl Djerassi
about his desire to portray the tribal
behaviour of scientists in his novels
and plays, to represent it accurately, as
only an insider can. He insists that we
should not put scientists on pedestals,
that “if you work in a white lab coat,
you’re bound to get dirty”. He wants to
teach this to his readers and audiences,
to hide proper scientific details in an
entertaining work, to be, in his words,
“an intellectual smuggler”. He is not
ashamed of being didactic, and when
his writing style is criticised he de-
clares that he is willing to pay the price
of ‘bad’ writing in order to address
people who might otherwise know
nothing. When the talk is over and he
steps down from the podium, like an
actor he looks smaller in the flesh.
Some days later, I go round to see
him at his home in Maida Vale. We
talk about a distinction he has made
between science and the theatre. Sci-
entific writing, he has said, is a mono-
logue. Playwriting allows him to work
in dialogue. It also means a loss of
control. As Djerassi tells me, the sci-
entist who publishes a paper has abso-
lute authorial power. A play is another
matter. “I’ll write a play,” Djerassi says,
“and I’m happy with it and I’ll send it
to theatres, and they will take it or not
take it, the way a publisher does and
that’s that. And of course, completely
wrong, that’s where the process starts.”
Initially he was nervous and resentful,
but he came to enjoy it enormously. He
likes working with directors. He likes
working with actors. And when your
first play gets translated into thirteen
languages and is performed all over
the world, you can’t cling too tightly
to what you think it ought to be. “You
have given birth to a baby,” he says,
“and instead of being extraordinar-
ily possessive about that baby, you are
pleased that you have given it your
genes, and you don’t mind if people
dress your baby up differently, and
have it, I don’t know, sometimes stand
on its head, because it shows what you
are able to do for them that the same
thing meant very different things to
different people.”
He tells me, however, that he also
wants his plays to exist as books so that
they can be read, as a play can only be
produced every so often. He thinks the
ephemeral nature of the theatre can be
marvellous, but he is too ambitious as
an author to accept that for his work.
His newest work, Four Jews on Parnas-
sus, is not intended as a play infact,
but as a book written in dialogue. It’s
a form, he says, that was more or less
dropped in the seventeenth century
but he wants to revive it. He shows
me the manuscript, and tells me how
it was rejected by a series of academ-
ic publishers because they said they
didn’t publish plays. “And I said, it isn’t
a play!” It will be published by Colum-
bia University Press next year.
We talk about his belief that only a
scientist can portray the behaviour of
scientists accurately. He is quite insist-
ent that this is the case, because one
must fully experience a culture before
one can write well about it. He tells me
that in one of his first short stories the
central character was a Carmelite nun.
He managed to interview one, but he
is sure that the story was full of sim-
plifications and misrepresentations.
He talks about the time his first novel,
Cantor’s Dilemma, was optioned by
a Hollywood studio. They wanted to
liven up the script by having scien-
tists swearing in the lab. Djerassi was
horrified, not because he’s a prude,
but because scientists don’t do that.
“The critic, or the audience, is not pre-
pared to accept that there is another
world, that behaviour is quite different
there.” Fortunately, the film was never
produced.
Djerassi’s concern is to tell the truth
about science, to reveal the true nature
of scientists. He is particularly proud
of his third play, Calculus, which deals
with the controversy surrounding
Newton’s claim to have discovered
it (the other contender was Leibniz).
Newton, says Djerassi, “was a very
great scientist, but he was a terrible
human being.” He thinks it’s impor-
tant to discuss that, because horrible
behaviour and good science are, unfor-
tunately, not incompatible. His aim is
to humanise great scientists and great
thinkers. The theatre is, of course, the
perfect place to do so.
BythetimeIleave,Djerassihastalked
to me for a full hour. He has been in and
out of his chair, showing me posters,
manuscripts, websites. He is eighty-
four years old, and he has more energy
than I do. I rethink my idea of him as a
Prospero or a Lear. They both give up
their power. Carl Djerassi – scientist,
novelist, playwright – is in full posses-
sion of his.
Think of all the trouble these tiny pills have saved us from

