arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 11 January 2008 felix
Arts
Thought provoking office banter
Meera Ladwa experiences A Statement of Regret at the National Theatre and predicts a star in the making
A
fter the success of his
previous works, Elmina’s
Kitchen and Fix Up, up-
and-coming playwright
Kwame Kwei-Armah
turns his sharp eye on the bitterness
and resentment that divides communi-
ties from each other in modern Britain.
Statement of Regret is set in the shiny
offices of the Institute for Black Policy
Research, led by the blundering, larger-
than-life figure of Kwaku Mackenzie (a
convincing Don Warrington). Work-
ing to improve the situation and rep-
resentation of black people in the UK,
the team’s fragile harmony is shattered
by the arrival of a new intern.
Managing to avoid being either self-
righteous or polemical, this play is an
interesting exploration of how a com-
munity deals with perceived victimi-
sation. Whatever your own personal
views, the tightly written script is sure
to provoke debate. Yet in seeking to
pack in so many big ideas, the charac-
ters inevitably become ciphers for vari-
ous political and social viewpoints and
the audience’s involvement suffers as a
result.
Kwaku’s King Lear-like mental dis-
integration does not quite achieve the
emotional resonance it aims for, and we
never feel enough sympathy towards
him for this to be a truly great drama.
Nevertheless, the acting from Colin
McFarlane (Michael) and Chu Omam-
bala (Idrissa) in particular is excellent,
and the dialogue has plenty of wit and
humour. Kwame Kwei-Armah clearly
has lots to say - this lively and sparky
production means that his future work
will be awaited with interest.
Statement of Regret runs until Feb-
ruary 6th 2008, Cotteslowe Theatre at
the National Theatre, Southbank.
Don Warrington plays a convincing Kwaku Mackenzie Life’s a hoot in the office of the Institute for Black Policy
Audience taken on a trip to Troy
Emily Steel perseveres despite the flu but is disappointed with what the Greeks have captured
T
he National’s production
of Women of Troy got five
stars in The Independent.
Time Out made it ‘Critic’s
Choice’. I tell you this be-
cause the night I went to see it, I had
flu and was dosed up to the eyeballs
on Lemsip Max, which means it’s pos-
sible (although unlikely) that my judge-
ment was impaired. I tell you this be-
cause I am about to call it pretentious
rubbish.
The original play by Euripides is the
shocking and powerful story of the
women who are enslaved when the
Greeks conquer Troy. It sees Hecu-
ba, the queen of Troy, taken with her
daughters and her gentlewomen as
spoils of war, to be shared out among
the Greek victors. Most horrifically,
it features Andromache, Hecuba’s
daughter-in-law and the wife of Hector,
handing over her baby son so that the
Greeks can throw him from the battle-
ments. If she resists, the child will be
taken by force, and the women will not
be allowed to bury him. She gives him
up, and at the end of the play the baby’s
body is brought to Hecuba so she may
dress it for the grave.
It’s fairly difficult to make a story like
that unmoving, but this production
manages it. Directed by Katie Mitchell,
from a version of the play by Don Tay-
lor, this Women of Troy is all gimmicks
and no heart.
The play is set in a dockside ware-
house. You hear the noise of seagulls,
and a big metal door leads out to the
ships. The warehouse is stark, dismal
and cold. The women imprisoned
there wear elegant evening dresses.
They swish, they sparkle. They are very
clearly out of place, snatched from the
world they know and thrown into this
one. It’s a point that’s made as soon as
the curtain is raised, and the remaining
eighty minutes add very little to it.
The characterisations of the women
are jarring. They twitch and galumph
about the stage. They give no sense
that they are noblewomen, in their
deportment or in their speech. Even
Hecuba, played by Kate Duchene, only
conveys her authority by booming and
raving, and as such is unconvincing as
a queen whose throne has lately been
stolen from her. A queen doesn’t need
to boom and rave.
These women fail to go on any kind
of emotional journey. They start out at
a high pitch of hysteria and they stay
there. At one point, Hecuba declares
“There is no agony we don’t already
feel, no abyss of pain to discover.” And
this is the problem. Lack of discovery
makes for dull storytelling. We ought
to see them plumbing new depths,
particularly Hecuba, finally presented
with her dead grandson. But we do not.
Which isn’t just inhuman; it’s boring.
I don’t blame the actors. I blame the
director. I blame the director for hav-
ing them speak the text without feel-
ing. I blame the director for choosing
style over substance, for repeatedly
inserting useless and annoying inter-
ludes in which the women dance. I
blame the director for the bad details
- the ladder at the side of the stage that
goes precisely nowhere when one of
the women scampers up it, the sound-
ing of the ships’ horns as they leave
port all of three seconds after a woman
has been led out to be taken on board.
When Andromache tells Hecuba her
daughter Polyxena has been killed, she
brings Polyxena’s shoes in plastic bag
from Costcutter. It’s meant, I imagine,
to be tragic. It just looks stupid. And
worse, it’s funny.
A few simple moments of human-
ity seem to have slipped through the
net. Michael Gould, who plays Talt-
hybius, the Greek guard who tells
Andromache that if she gives up her
child willingly she might be allowed to
bury him, manages against the odds to
speak awful words with kindness. For
an instant the play is moving, and that
instant only serves to throw the rest of
it into relief.
When the curtain came down, I was
surprised to hear some of the audience
around me whoop. Perhaps they were
cheering because it was over. Other-
wise, I will have to assume they were
on better drugs than I was.
Women of Troy runs until 27th Feb-
ruary 2008.
Didn’t they teach you anything at Drama school: gorgeous dresses don’t make good theatre!

