16 felix Friday 11 January 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
Happy 250th Birthday Bill Blakey
Caz Knight is treated to a soiree of stand-up poetry, famous authors and the oeuvres of her favourite poet,
William Blake, in an enchanting talk celebrating his life, works and all in the Mech Eng Building
L
ecture theatre 220 in the
Mechanical Engineering
Building – not the first place
one would think of to hold
an event of poetry and art
in commemoration of William Blake’s
250th birthday, given Blake’s prolific
contribution to Britain’s artistic reser-
voir. Blake was a true Londoner, born
on 28th November 1757; he lived only
four years away from the confines of the
city and in his lifetime gave us a host
of vivid poems and magnificent paint-
ings, as well as his engravings. We were
treated to a sample of Blake’s powerful
paintings in the form of a slide show
throughout the talks. It is clear from
the solid and muscular characters in
the paintings that Blake was influenced
by his time spent drawing the statues
in Westminster Abbey. “Dark, satanic”
springs to mind upon looking at some
of the paintings and it is hard not to
think of Hieronymus Bosch’s Garden
of Earthly Delights. However, his work
has an escapist, fantastical feel to it and
many of his works incorporate scenes
of a more uplifting nature. Artist, poet,
engraver and prophet, he is highly
lauded today, achieving the fame and
following he deserves only after his
death.
Hosted by Poet in the City and The
Blake Society, the evening was a de-
lightful event where one was given an
insight into the character, life, poetry
and paintings of William Blake as well
as being treated to enlightening talks
The Ancient of Days (God as an Architect) by William Blake (1794)
and performances from notable au-
thors, poets and actors. Poet in the City
is a charity striving to bring poetry to
new audiences as well as raising money
to support poetry education. The char-
ity’s chairman introduced the talk with
some of Blake’s own thoughts on the
matter of science versus art. At first
glance it seemed that Blake regarded
scientists with a slight disdain, “They
mock inspiration and vision” – two
things which Blake thought of as his
elements: “his eternal dwelling place”.
He was also opposed to the “single
vision” of scientific materialism. The
poet certainly was a character. Suffer-
ing from numerous nervous disorders,
he was ever the contrarian in many
things he did and would have shocked
many with his radical views. Had it not
Death on a Pale Horse (1800)
been for these attributes, his original-
ity and his vibrant imagination, per-
haps we would not have been blessed
with such an array of talent and beauty.
Rather like Poet in the City, Blake was
extremely keen to bring poetry to the
forefront of the arts.
Tim Heath, chairman of the Blake
Society, echoed the thoughts which
would have been in the minds of many
–Is Imperial College, scientific leader,
an appropriate place to hold such an
event? Blake, it seemed, was not en-
tirely adverse to our discipline. New-
ton’s ‘particles of light’ are referred to
as ‘sands upon Israel’s shore’ in Mock
on, mock on, Voltaire, Rousseau, read
with great energy by Peter Forbes who
initiated the evening with a reading
of And Did Those Feet which did the
“See Mr and Mrs
Blake re-enacting
Adam and Eve
in the Garden of
Eden”
Mr William Blake himself The Great Red Dragon and the Woman Clothed with the Sun (1805)

