arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 11 January 2008 felix
Arts
17
Optimistic poetry to start ‘08
Ring out, Wild Bells
Ring out, wild bells, to the wild sky,
The flying cloud, the frosty light;
The year is dying in the night;
Ring out, wild bells, and let him die.
Ring out the old, ring in the new,
Ring, happy bells, across the snow;
The year is going, let him go;
Ring out the false, ring in the true.
Ring out the grief that saps the mind,
For those that here we see no more,
Ring out the feud of rich and poor,
Ring in redress to all mankind.
Ring out a slowly dying cause,
And ancient forms of party strife;
Ring in the nobler modes of life,
With sweeter manners, purer laws.
Ring out the want, the care the sin,
The faithless coldness of the times;
Ring out, ring out my mournful rhymes,
But ring the fuller minstrel in.
Ring out false pride in place and blood,
The civic slander and the spite;
Ring in the love of truth and right,
Ring in the common love of good.
Ring out old shapes of foul disease,
Ring out the narrowing lust of gold;
Ring out the thousand wars of old,
Ring in the thousand years of peace.
Ring in the valiant man and free,
The larger heart, the kindlier hand;
Ring out the darkness of the land,
Ring in the Christ that is to be.
by Alfred Tennyson
L
ord Alfred Tennyson, born
1809 in Lincolnshire, is one
of Britain best loved poets
and is the most quoted one,
after Shakespeare. Not only
was he a Poet Laureate, but he was a
descendant of King Edward the Third.
Although that may not be looked on as
a good thing given the rising amount
of anti-monarchal feeling in this coun-
try. One of his more famous quota-
tions is one which anyone who has suf-
fered heartbreak will have heard- “Tis
better to have loved and lost, than to
never have loved at all.” Whether this is
true or not, I shall leave you to discuss
amongst yourselves.
Tennyson wrote this poem in 1850
and although it may be a Christmas-
themed poem, it certainly has a ca-
thartic, ‘New year’-sy feel to it as well.
The prospect of New Year’s resolutions
is always a daunting one, especially
when our heads are also swamped with
coursework and exams. Or maybe you
have no clue as to what you will re-
solve to do for 2008. Look no further
than the poem and heed Lord Alfred’s
advice. ‘Ring out with the old and in
with the new; ring in the true.’ Indeed,
truth and honesty are important and
two faced-ness should be avoided at all
costs.
‘Ring out the grief!’ I know its cold
and miserable, but come on Britain
has always been like this- so stop com-
plaining and imagine yourself some-
where else!
Lord Alfred also offers some po-
litically and socially applicable advice;
‘ring out the feud of rich and poor.’
Class difference is a terrible thing,
although I think at Imperial we are a
good example of integrated diversity.
Gordon Brown take note!
‘Ring out war, ring in peace’... world
peace, a great notion but will it ever
happen? Let us hope so.
If this poem has done little to lift your
spirits, then console yourself with the
knowledge that you have indulged in
some great English Literature. Hmmm
William Blake’s depiction of Newton
Left, The Ghost of a Flea (1819). Right, Jacob’s Ladder (1800)
poem every justice. Forbes is current-
ly on tour with the play Blackwatch
which has received much acclaim after
appearing at the Edinburgh Festival in
Summer 2006.
Tracy Chevalier is most famous for
her novel Girl With A Pearl Earring,
but her latest book (Burning Bright)
is set in Blake’s London and is the
story told through the eyes of Blake’s
neighbour, who would have been very
shocked indeed if he had looked over
the garden fence to see Mr. and Mrs.
Blake re-enacting Adam and Eve in
their own “Garden of Eden”! Chevalier
spent a year researching the eccentric
Blake before writing a word and so was
very well informed in giving us nine
other interesting and important facts
about the poet’s life which would have
had a marked effect on his work. Her
fascinating and well presented speech
was followed by a reading of Blake’s
London; judging by his depiction of the
19th century capital some things have
not changed! (“…in every face I meet /
Marks of weakness, marks of woe”).
The next speaker, epic poet Aidan
Andrew Dun, I had never heard of but
I bought a book of his poetry, attracted
largely by its enticing name – Salvia
Divinorum. What I found in it was
beautiful poetry, powerful and vivid
and not completely different to Blake’s
in some ways. Creating his own per-
ception of Blake’s London, he did not
so much as speak but bring his poem to
life, echoing many themes and images
from across Blake’s poetic repertoire,
beginning with the opening lines of
Blake’s London. His performance was
captivating and meaningful; to best de-
scribe him I shall appropriate a phrase
used by another: “dub troubadour”.
David J, a “poetic pugilist”, who is one
of country’s most talented and notori-
ous performance poets, treated us to
more performance poetry. At first it
is unclear which character David J had
taken on − Blake’s neighbour? Blake’s
brain? Half-way through his perform-
ance I thought that David might have
taken on the role of himself as if he
were Blake’s friend. That is the beauty
of Art – completely open to interpre-
tation, one can let the mind run free,
there are no right or wrong answers,
it can be what you want it to be. It is
hard to put into words the nature of his
stunning performance, it is in a genre
all of its own (“stand up poetry” per-
haps) and goes beyond the realms of
traditional acting.
As well as his skill in realising his dia-
logue, he exhibits an insight into Blake
and his poetry which makes it all the
more special. Similar to Dun, he echoes
images and themes from Blake’s poems
as well as interjecting a bit of random-
ness (sound effects and Spanish).
The talk, sadly, had to come to an
end and what better way to finish than
with The Tiger. It is a shame that there
seems to be a slight divide between the
arts and the sciences; they are linked in
so many instances. As Blake said, “Art
and science cannot exist but with na-
ked beauty displayed.”

