21
Friday 11 January 2008 felix
Strange and Svarmod: it’s Sweden
The Xenophobe’s Guide to the Swedes
states that ‘a common trait among
Swedish people is a deeply felt svår-
mod, a dark melancholy born out of
long winters, high taxes, and a sense
of being stuck out on a geo-political
and socio-economic limb. They brood
a lot over the meaning of life in a self-
absorbed sort of way without ever ar-
riving at satisfactory answers.’
I have been to Sweden twice, and I
could tell you all about what there is
to see in Malmo and Lund, and how
they have a nice town hall and so forth
but I think a far more interesting arti-
cle would be to justify the statement
from the Xenophobe’s Guide, and to
spread the word about the oddities of
the Swedes and Sweden. But, as this
is the travel section, allow me to write
a few words about Malmo so that you
cannot complain that I have not done
my duty.
Malmo is the third largest city in
Sweden. Let me just warn you that the
way Sweden is squished at the top of
the World Map makes it seem decep-
tively small, when it is actually the third
largest country in Europe – if you were
to travel the same distance Sweden
stretches from its most northern tip
to the most southern, you would end
up in Rome! (I would therefore recom-
mend travelling southwards). Con-
sidering that Sweden has such a large
area, I would have expected Malmo to
be a busy, bustling, metropolitan city.
Travels without my Aunt – part six: A journey to Epping
Theo Georgeiou Delisle “Where did you go?”
“You took too long, Sir, I’m afraid, the
package will be returned to your local
Post Office delivery depot.”
“What?”
“You can collect it in 5-7 days,
depending.”
“Depending on what?”
“Just depending, goodbye Sir.”
Now I have got that off my chest it
is time to go down to the woods, Ep-
ping Forest to be precise, where there
may or may not be a surprise waiting
for you.
The forest once sprawled across
much of the South-east of England but
now has been tamed and beaten back
into submission. That is not to say
that you cannot get lost in the forest,
as I have, twice. Some might say that
I couldn’t see the wood for the trees
but it was more of a case of not being
able to see the trees for the driving hail
and lack of available light source at the
time.
Perhaps the best way to enjoy the full
grandeur of Epping Forest is to pack
a light lunch, grab your best walking
boots and head off into the unknown.
Unless of course if you know where
you are going, in which case just follow
the path that you usually use and you
have nothing to fear. It would be true to
say that the forest is abundant in trees,
specifically oak trees, from which the
popular saying “You know you are in
“Ring ring, ring ring,”
“Hello?”
“Hello, Sir,”
“Ah, hello,”
“I have your package outside for you,
Sir, just pop downstairs and open the
door and I can give it to you.”
“Oh, that is good, the package I have
been waiting for, for all this time, and
now it’s here!”
“You understand the situation per-
fectly, Sir.”
“Ok, I’m coming down to answer the
door then.”
“Very good, Sir.”
“….”
Nadine Richards
Travel Editor
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
Travel Editors – Ahran Arnold and Nadine Richards
The problem with Sweden is that it has
the population almost the equivalent to
that of London, about 9 million people,
but this is spread throughout an area
infinitely larger. Therefore, Malmo
is more reminiscent in stature of Sid-
cup in Kent than Liverpool, which is
England’s equivalent as the third larg-
est city. Which may be good thing to
be honest, depending on your affinity
for chavs. Sightseeing in Malmo will
bring you the exciting pleasures of The
City Hall, Lilla Torg (the main square),
Folkets Park, Western Harbor, the City
Library, and its most famous attraction
– the Turning Torso. No, this is not a
display of a Viking being turned con-
stantly at a stake – the Turning Torso
is a twisted skyscraper where the up-
permost floor is at 90 degrees to the
ground. Engineers of Imperial- go
crazy!
So, yes, we have established that Swe-
den is indeed isolated and I would like
to suggest the hypothesis that oddities
seem to develop in people who do not
have enough human contact. Just take
a look at the Welsh.
Politically, the country just gets
weirder. They say that Sweden is a so-
cialistic utopia. They also say that all
Swedish people are born free but get
taxed to death. In Sweden, taxes are
generally 50-70% of your income (of
course, your employer already pays
the full amount of your salary to the
government in taxes before you even
get anything), so we really should stop
complaining about the 17.5% VAT here
in the UK. At least they have made the
process of filling out tax forms easy; as
of 2004 you can pay your Swedish taxes
by sending an SMS message from your
mobile phone. If this is too much has-
sle, then try an alternative system- the
government sends out a completely
filled-in tax form and if it looks good,
you can just go online and click ‘okay’
to pay your taxes.
This begs the question, to what good
cause do these earnestly paid taxes go
towards? Well, Sweden boasts many
bonuses that you could not receive
here. For example, you can take sick
leave during your vacation if you are ill.
In addition, all employees get 5 weeks
of paid vacation a year (which explains
why for such a small population, there
are always Swedes to be met abroad),
and most appealing of all is that, as
of 2004, all employers are required to
provide a free massage.
The Swedes are also the most en-
vironmentally-friendly people in the
world. And with all that gloriously
green land spare to look after, why
shouldn’t they be? Taxes are therefore
put to use to help maintain the Swed-
ish obsession with recycling. Obses-
sion is no exaggeration. In fact, re-
cycling is taken so seriously that one
company (FTI) has been trying to put
up video cameras to make sure people
sort their recyclables correctly. Now
recycling is all very well, but it is also
quite a time-consuming process when
there are 39 different types of bins in
which to sort out every type of mate-
rial you own. Thankfully, the ‘pant’
system is employed in Sweden, where
one is compensated for your time by
receiving money as a reward for recy-
cling cans and bottles. I have, however,
heard that recycled toilet paper can be
an unpleasant experience: not quite
Charmin, but more reminiscent of us-
ing cardboard.
Perhaps all this might explain why
I have never encountered a normal
Swedish person. This might be an un-
fair judgement considering that I have
not met loads of Swedes, but with the
population of Sweden being equivalent
to that of London, I’d like to think that
this judgement is well founded on the
grounds that thinking in terms of pro-
portion, I have met an (almost) equiva-
lent number of Swedes representing
Sweden to the English representing
England. Certainly, the Swedes I have
met have been rather odd - or a self-
confessed “very unique” as one friend
put it. On that note, I leave you with
the tale of Pippi Longstocking, which
is not all that relevant; except that this
is the only Swedish cultural reference I
can point you in the direction of with
the exception of Abba. Longstock-
ing is a freckled brat with intractable
braids and is also Sweden’s biggest lit-
erary hit. With nobody to supervise
her, she leads a life of carefree, barefoot
abandon, breaking every rule possible.
She is therefore the opposite represen-
tation to a society governed by very
particular conventions. I like to think
that every Swedish person has a Pippi
within them longing to break free, but
the pressures of social convention force
them to restrain themselves. Repres-
sion is not always healthy, and so re-
sults in their strange behaviour, along
with the accompanying gloomy sense
of svarmod that they are not allowed
to release their inner Pippi’s (except
to PeePee). Well, that’s just my theory
anyway.
Epping Forest when you see an oak
tree, and you are also standing in Ep-
ping Forest” arises. It is not the trees
however that contrive to spoil the wild,
rugged, wilderness of Epping Forest, it
is the people who visit it. Specifically,
I wish to highlight the younger tree
dwelling communities who believe that
Friday night was solely designed for
accompanying a large bottle of extra
strong cider on a date into the bowels
of the undergrowth. The aftermath of
these drink-fuelled excursions leaves
whole patches of the forest bare, where
a combination of lighter fuel, fire and
regret consumes all plant forms in a
ten-metre radius.
It is said, however, that there are dark
powerful forces at work within the
depths of Epping Forest – a man made
of mud, some murmur under hushed,
breathless gasps. The Mudman of the
Bush is said to act in order to preserve
the forest for future generations and
awakens only when hoodies enter the
hallowed moonlit clearings and mess
it up. Local villagers now look to the
fabled mud-man, who calls out “I am
Mudman not Beowulf!” at midnight
every other Thursday, in hope that he
might rid them of the plague of youths
who blight their lives. The police, how-
ever, consider Mudman to be more of
a rapist hiding in the woods. Only Ep-
ping Forrest knows the truth, and that
is that Mudman is indeed a rapist.
Pippi Longstocking’s influences have spred far and wide
The hills are aliiiive, with the Sound of Muuuusic... No wait, that was Austria

