fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
22 felix Friday 11 January 2008
Fashion
Fashion Editor – Sarah Skeete
Another year, another look
E
veryone at the Felix has just
about recovered from New
Year, dragged themselves
down into the office, and are
now groggily typing out the
first issue of 2008. Exam period is upon
all at Imperial, and our beloved Sarah
has sacrificed Felix Fashion for the sake
of her degree. The cheek! Being a first
year (and a Biologist), I’ll be stepping
in for the next few weeks. However,
Sarah will be back once she’s finished
scrawling maths equations onto bits of
paper in silence.
When a new year comes round, every
publication across the globe puts out
the obligatory “What’s In and What’s
Out” feature for the upcoming year.
You’ll be glad to know I’m going to do
something different this time; “What’s
Out and What’s In” for 2008.
The Spring 2008 collections bring
up nothing that you’d run to the shops
for the moment you read this, but the
“Outs” of this year are ones I personal-
ly wholly agree with. Astrobright Foot-
wear have had far too long in the spot-
light during 2007. If you’re not familiar
with the brand, they are responsible
for the ground-laden eyesores that are
“Crocs”. This year, no more should we
see B-list celebrities prancing around in
these fluorescent slipper-welly things,
trying to gain some quirky recognition
that they couldn’t get without wear-
ing ridiculous footwear. To be honest,
I’m not sure Crocs were even ‘in’. They
have nothing going for them. “They’re
comfortable” I hear you scream. When
has being fashionable ever mean being
comfortable? “But they’re so versatile!”
you sob in desperation. Do they look
good with formal wear? No. Do they
look good with casual wear? No. Do
they look good when you’re naked?
No, unless you’re Heidi Klum. Point
Daniel Wan envisages what trends are going to be big, and which bad, this new year
have a slight schoolboy charm about
them. Sadly, you’re probably going to
have to wait till May at the very earliest
not to look like a complete lunatic in
near sub-zero temperatures.
My pick of the new concepts for
2008 though, is the shawl collar on
men’s blazers. The casual blazer will
be transformed with new lapels usually
found on a classic tuxedo jacket. A fit-
ted grey suit with a glossy black shawl
collar, black fitted shirt and skinny tie
is the look to go for this year. Nowhere
to put your Poppy come Remembrance
Day though.
Finally, we get to the shiny stuff. Brass
buttons are making their way back. I
have a feeling a degree of naval fash-
ion will appear this year. Don’t worry
though, we won’t all be walking around
looking like sailors, stripes and all, but
solid brass buttons, possibly on a dou-
ble breasted navy blue jacket, could be
the new look for pseudo-formal men’s
wear.
Women’s accessory-wise, chunky
jewellery takes the lead over subtle and
dainty jewellery. Larger bracelet bands
and earrings, with care, can finish your
outfit and leave everyone breathless.
Word on the street, if you count
finding stray pages from Vogue littered
across Exhibition Road, is that stars are
going to be very much part of the aes-
thetic of 2008. Star-shaped accessories
will make an appearance on the high
street. A mix of 2008 vibrancy and this
new motif should cut a sharp image.
Prada’s range of suede watches add
another aspect of colour to the new
season. With a range of assorted child-
like colours, and at £125 each, these
could make a perfect New Year’s treat.
You definitely deserve one after all that
revising (procrasinating, giving up and
going out) you did over Christmas.
proven.
With what you’ve got on your feet on
your mind, you might want to avoid
the other ‘no-no’ of 2008; logos and
labels. Showing off what you’re wear-
ing is not acceptable this year, which
is great news for Primark fanatics and
bad for high-end clothes labels.
2008 may bring subtlety in branding,
but not in colour. It’s all about dashes
of vibrancy in your wear; whether it
be a bright but solid jumper and tie
underneath your otherwise dull grey
work-suit, or pair of vivid jazz shoes
with your usual casual wear. Vibrancy
January Sales
You’ve hit the post-Christmas
sales hard, and your bank
balance is now comfortably in
the red. Your new top and skirt
were both 50% off, and you
look stunning in them; your
overdraft is there for a reason.
I love the sales!
Urban Outfitters UK
After a visit to the US, the
UK’s plain and preppy men’s
section stands limp beside
its American counterpart.
There’s a serious lack of real
standout style for the price
you’re paying at Urban Outfit-
ters UK. Screw Oxford Street,
head over to 42nd Street,
Manhattan.
Amy Winehouse
We get it, you’re off your face,
and your husband’s in jail,
you’re rock-and-roll; Go you!
Her ever-enlarging beehive
monstrosity is so 2007. If
she spent the time grooming
herself in rehab, she might
actually be famous for more
than being a complete wreck.
Make use of 2008, love.
COOL
LAME
means print dresses are definitely in,
especially featuring flowers or abstract
prints. A hint of holiday-in-the-Carib-
bean might well brighten up London’s
cold winter evenings. Nevertheless,
this isn’t an excuse to go out dressed as
a nu-rave Hadouken! fan anymore.
Men, prepare to getting used to look-
ing a little bit silly this year. Cropped
trousers are set to be completely raped
and ruined by Topman, so get in early
and let those ankles freeze in British
mid-winter. They are slightly longer
than three-quarter lengths, and when
worn with a pair of smart leather shoes
New for 2008: Vivid print dresses are the new must-have, whilst shawl
collars on men’s formalwear makes a suitable change. Geddit?
IN
In the sales bin: (Clockwise from top left) Astrobright’s Crocs, pseudo-
formal waistcoat and ties, and blatant Abercrombie & Fitch style
branding.
Great for two thousand and eight: (Clockwise from left) Cropped
trousers come coupled with slender bare ankles, wonderfully bright
shoes, plus stars, stars and more stars...
OUT

