film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film
Film Editor – Alex Casey
23
Friday 11 January 2008 felix
He may not be there, but he oozes through every frame
Ang on a sec
Lust goes limp towards end
Ang Lee is as capable of whipping up
media attention as he is at defying
typecasting himself as a genre director.
From period dramas to oriental mar-
tial arts, from gay cowboys to, erm, the
Incredible Hulk, Lee has constantly
defied expectations with his film
choices. But in terms of sheer pub-
licity, there is always something that
brings his films to the fore. Whether
it be the purely enchanting cinema-
tography of Crouching Tiger, Hidden
Dragon or Jake Gyllenhaal and Heath
Ledger sharing more than just a tent in
Brokeback Mountain, there’s always a
good press hook he can tap into. Here,
it’s just some graphic sex.
Perhaps the anticipation of Lust,
Caution was just too great. It won the
Golden Lion at Venice last year ahead
of Atonement, The Assassination of
Jesse James and I’m Not There, but has
failed to maintain the momentum that
Brokeback did after winning the same
prize two years previously. The festi-
val took place in late August and early
September, meaning that four months
down the line, the sparks had started
to die.
Lust is not a bad film; it simply fails to
maximise on its potential. Its common
description as a Hitchcockian thriller,
the death knell of many films, is ironic
Ang Lee’s tale of Chinese resistance fighters peaks long before its climax
in that it is low on the one thing that
made Hitchcock so popular - suspense.
The story of a group of young Chinese
resistance fighters targeting a trai-
tor during the early years of the Japa-
nese occupation certainly gets off to a
promising start. An interesting bunch
of characters, they seem to each have a
story to follow, yet this is ejected in ex-
change for the main story, the wooing
of said target by Wong Chia Chi (Wei
Tang).
Could this be the most heavily pub-
licised arthouse film ever? Sweeping
statements aside, Todd Haynes’ Bob
Dylan-inspired movie I’m Not There
has gathered astonishing publicity giv-
en its limited release. Why? Because
Cate Blanchett plays the man himself.
And so does Christian Bale. And Heath
Ledger. And a few others.
The casting puts six actors into the
shoes of Dylan at different stages of his
life, each with a different name, and in-
tercuts them throughout the film in a
multilayered tapestry of 60s rebellion,
disillusionment and artistic expression.
With each sector having a completely
distinct feel, Haynes is emphatic in his
appraisal of all the different sides of the
legend, but one of them can’t help but
seize the centre stage.
Cate Blanchett is the reason for the
excessive hype about the film. As one
of the best actresses working today,
Blanchett wins plaudits wherever she
goes and I can imagine it was a great
coup for her to be offered the role of
“Jude Quinn” (i.e. Dylan in a drug-
infused swinging London). It certainly
seems to be a great achievement for
Haynes who expands her part greatly
while a few of the others are reduced -
significantly and regrettably. Blanchett
is convincing and nuanced but the
stunt casting detracts from the mate-
rial at hand.
The awards buzz for I’m Not There
seems to focus entirely on her per-
formance, an unfortunate occurrence
as the film itself is far more interest-
ing than the derivative trite that has
perpetuated most shortlists so far. It
is undoubtedly arthouse, with cinema-
tography deeply influenced by the likes
of Italian master Federico Fellini, but
the sheer beauty of the picture doesn’t
detract from the artistic debate that in-
fused both the picture and Dylan’s life.
To make a film in the most simplistic
sense of this most complex man would
have been a disservice to his genius.
Haynes has created an ode in I’m Not
There, not always complementary (as
would be expected from his glam rock
tale Velvet Goldmine), but with great
reverence for an artist who was always
faithful to himself. Whether you are a
fan of Dylan or not, the vivacity of the
sixties’ society portrayed here is a sad
reminder of the apathy that has infused
the new millennium. Long live Bob.
Alex Casey
Y
ou can see them on the
starting line now: The
Coen brothers jostling
each other in the mid-
dle; Julie Christie on the
inside track; Keira Knightley pouting
while perched side-saddle; and Daniel
Day Lewis over the final fence before
the starting whistle’s even been blown.
Alas, if only the awards season was
over as quickly as the Grand National.
This year it seems that, once again,
a race that was initially as wide open
as Britney Spears’ legs on exiting a taxi
has started to narrow, reducing the fun
for all concerned. Julie Christie will no
doubt fill the shoes of Helen Mirren’s
sweep last year for little seen Alzhe-
imer’s flick Away From Her (although
Christie is less likely to do so in what
Mirren referred to as her ‘stripper
shoes’ to appear taller) while Daniel
Day-Lewis has earned rave reviews and
good odds for There Will Be Blood.
Sure, this isn’t exactly going to be a
Titanic-esque open book as far as Best
Picture or Director go, but gone are the
days when Halle Berry had to fight real
competition from Sissy Spacek, Judi
Dench and Nicole Kidman to clutch
the coveted Oscar statuette. Now it
only works if you have every other ma-
jor award behind it in the cabinet.
The supporting categories seem to be
where the real competition lies these
days (unless you were Rachel Weisz or
Jennifer Hudson). The rumour of Ed-
die Murphy storming out of the Ko-
dak Theatre last year after Alan Arkin
was named Best Supporting Actor by
the Academy for Little Miss Sunshine
brought a particularly large smile to my
face at a time when Leicester Square
was being overshadowed by gigantic
Norbit posters with Murphy in his fat
suit. This year we’d set our money on
Casey Affleck (Jesse James) and Cate
Blanchett (I’m Not There, see right) to
do well here, although both are liable
for upset.
The award for Best Foreign Film
is more difficult as each ceremony
has different rules for entry. For the
Globes, it just has to be non-English
language; for the Oscars, it has stupid
restrictions about international collab-
orations that often squeeze out worthy
entrants. Cannes supremo 4 Months, 3
Weeks, 2 Days is an early frontrunner
although the Palme D’Or isn’t always a
selling point for the Academy who feel
Cannes has a habit of mocking the stu-
dios. You think? The Diving Bell and
the Butterfly could overtake on the fi-
nal stretch here.
As for the Best Picture race, it’s pret-
ty open. The Globes have increased
Drama nominations from five to seven
strangely, but No Country For Old Men
would be my (unseen) bet. Squeeze out
second rate rubbish like Atonement,
Michael Clayton and American Gang-
ster and the Coens could even get Best
Director. It could however, just be an-
other decline in form for the brothers,
leaving it open to wide speculation.
Whatever happens, it seems that the
biggest question is whether there will
even be any ceremonies with the WGA
strikes. The Golden Globes are gone.
Are the Oscars next?
Alex Casey
Film Editor
For all the controversy it has caused
(Lee has refused to cut it to gain a
lower certificate in the US), the sex in
Lust, Caution is used to far greater ef-
fect than most films where disrobing
is said to be purely for “artistic pur-
poses” but is really just a way to get in
some teenage boys. The contrasting
sex scenes throughout (of which there
aren’t THAT many) lend real emotion-
al power to the relationships in the film
and possibly the most original piece of
filmmaking, at least for a mainstream
film, that Lee has brought to the fore
here.
The rest, however, doesn’t quite have
the same intensity. For a filmmaker
renowned for his ability portray raw
emotion, the black and white charac-
ters here only rarely give in to grey.
This is more of a visual feast than a
philosophical or intellectual one, but a
treat that grows old long before it ends.
Sounds a lot like lust.
Lust, Caution ★★★✫✫
Director: Ang Lee
Writer: James Schamus
Cast: Tony Leung Chiu Wai
Wei Tang
Joan Chen
Alex Casey
I’m Not There ★★★★✫
Director: Todd Haynes
Writer: Todd Haynes,
Oren Moverman
Cast: Cate Blanchett,
Christian Bale,
Heath Ledger
You heard the man/lady, do it...

