Oh, is that the new Ratchet? You just can’t help but feel this tiny yet cruel
twinge of disappointment as you look at Insomniac’s latest for the first time.
It still looks like the same, old Ratchet. However, worry ye not Ratchet aficio-
nados because this game is the same, old Ratchet.
Except if Ratchet and Clank: ToD were the title of the newest Pixar film. It’s
probably going to cut into hyperbole territory but this must be said: Ratchet’s
PS3 outing is simply gorgeous and up there with the best of 3D animated films.
It’s sumptuously detailed, velvet smooth and the art style still has that warm
cartoony appeal that’ll melt your heart. It’s also a special effects tour de force
with all manner of sparkling lights, shiny surfaces, glorious explosions and an
overabundance of destruction courtesy of Ratchet’s arsenal. The new enemies, headed by
the Napoleon-esque Emperor Tachyon end up being a bunch of hapless little aliens (much
like their glorious leader) strapped up into fish-bowls atop giant metallic armoured suits.
Upon bashing their exoskeletons can you choose to laugh/pity at their insignificant coun-
tenance. Voiced to perfection yet again, this is a story that will amuse you to no end.
The classic Ratchet humour is back and permeates into all levels of this rollicking ad-
venture full of melee bashing and truly marvellous weapons. The best of the lot are the
Groovitron (below) and the Transmorpher. The former makes enemies stop in their
tracks and bust out a variety of moves to groovy disco beats whereas the latter just
zaps them into cute penguins replete with winter clothing. Best part? Get them
dancin’ and then turn them into penguins. Dancing penguins: Priceless.
Innovation be damned, relentless fun is what it’s all about!
A downed airplane. A mysterious island abound with lush greenery, trech-
erous ruins and sinister denizens. And a cocky treasure hunter who’s never
far away from any sort of trouble.
These ingredients make for some great pulp action material and that’s ex-
actly what developers Naughty Dog have concocted. Uncharted follows the
tale of Nathan Drake who believes himself to be the heir of the purportedly
childless Sir Francis Drake. He sets out seeking his ancient treasure and lands
face-first into a rollicking adventure full of mystery, intrigue and danger.
Seguing together the best of exploration, platforming and shooting me-
chanics from established titles, Uncharted creates a truly addicting amalgam
of intense action and daring escapades. It feels familiar in a sort of warm, fuzzy
way all the while possessing a strong sense of identity. While the somewhat generic en-
emies are more defined by the weapons they carry, they’re still formidable opponents in
numbers and you’ll have to duck, weave and roll your way through their hails of bullets
to survive. The cover-based shooting mechanism, culled and steamlined from Gears
of War, creates a palpitating sense of contention. Squeezing in headshots with a pistol
has rarely felt this rewarding. The only strange aspect is that enemies require a fixed
amount of body shots to down them regardless of where you’re shooting them.
The adventuring aspects are equally engaging with the quiet sounds of nature im-
mersing you as you concentrate in making death-defying leaps of faith.
All this is presented with radiant visuals and stellar animation. The sound-
scape is equally mercurial, offering a range of melodies that serve to further
engross. Besides the eye candy, there are startingly human characters that
draw you into the narrative and offer a tangible conviction to embark on this
epic adventure.
26 felix Friday 11 January 2008
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Games
As some of you will know the first three Call of
Duty games have been set in WWII and have re-
ally been about fighting in those historical bat-
tles but Infinity Ward has decided to take it out
of WWII and put it into the present. The story
is completely fictional but still fairly plausible.
It also makes a very nice change from almost
every military shooter out there by having a
much darker plot in that even though you go
fight and do what you can to save it, the world
still kind of sucks at the end of it all. This mes-
sage is pretty much summed up in one of the
levels in which you can’t really do anything other
than look around at absolute destruction around you. It’s really bit jarring.
You play the single player game mostly as two people: a US marine and an SAS opera-
tive and you visit a variety of locations from a cargo ship at sea to the abandoned city of
Chernobyl. The campaign is very sort of straight-forward in that you’re always going to
know what you’re doing and where you’re supposed to be heading - helped
on your way by your compass which always points you the right way.
It usually isn’t quite as simple as running from point A
to point B though and there’s quite a lot of variety from
house to house - for example, in the Middle East you are
killing hordes of enemy troops, sneaking by enemy patrols
in Russia and in the last level which is completely unrelated
to the story in every way possible, you are slaughtering an
entire airplane full of terrorists (I actually got asked why I
don’t throw a grenade by someone; last time I checked,
throwing a frag grenade when you’re 10 km in the air isn’t
the smartest of ideas but neither is gunfire so whatever). All
of this makes for some really intense gameplay which brings
me to pretty much the only complaint about it and that the
single player is just incredibly short and you’ll probably fin-
ish the game in about 5 to 6 hours. You can up the difficulty
if you really feel like a challenge but at the highest difficulty
setting your enemies are insanely deadly which can get
incredibly annoying and somewhat less fun.
However, the game more than makes up for it by hav-
ing some excellent multiplayer. Most of the maps are taken
from the single player campaign and just kind of changed
up a bit to actually turn into multiplay-
er maps, I know that actually sounds
horrible but out of all of the 16 maps
only one or two of them are actually
bad maps (I dislike a couple more than
that but only that many are actually
just bad). And the maps pretty much
run the gauntlet of having wide open
spaces where a good sniper just laughs
at the unsuspecting victims down to re-
ally tight maps where grenades, shot-
guns and people just randomly firing
hoping they’ll hit something all over the
place. There are six modes of play free-for- all
and team deathmatch both of are which your standard kill or be killed game type while
the others are more objective based either around capturing and holding control points
around the map or planting a bomb to destroy an objective that your opponent have to
defend.
The multiplayer also rewards you for playing smartly, if you can get a three kill streak you
get to call down a UAV which makes your opponents show up on your radar. If you can get
up to five you can call in an airstrike which you can drop anywhere on the map and watch jets
fly in and just kill anything in the area and if you manage to get up to seven you can call in a
helicopter which on some maps can be devastating (on some it might as well do nothing). Also
everything useful that you do in the multiplayer you get experience and all those go towards your
rank and when you gain ranks you get access to more equipment and classes. The class system
is fairly interesting in that they all have strengths and weaknesses with their different load outs and
eventually you’ll unlock the ability to create your own class which allows you to pick your own weap-
ons, attachments, grenades and perks. Perks are split into three groups the first of which is mostly
explosives and the other two are slightly more random, you have perks that gives your more health or
damage and then you have cool things like martyrdom which every time you’re killed you drop a live
grenade at your feet for all those annoying people that find teabagging fun.
The presentation of the game is really good, the textures are detailed, there’s great use of lighting
and bloom effects and if there’s really any complaint its
that you’ll find some of the models aren’t all that good
but only if you’re really looking for it. The game also
has some great music in it and has some really excel-
lent sound effects for the weapons which when you
fire them they sound like stuff that really is going to
kill people which is awesome.
Even though single player is incredibly short it’s
still loads of fun to play and the game more than
makes up for it by having some great multiplayer
action, making this a game definitely worth pick-
ing up.
UNCHARTED: DRAKE’S FORTUNE
RATCHET & CLANK: TOOLS OF DESTRUCTION
Trying to stay alive despite coming down with a fever on a Saturday night
CALL OF DUTY 4: MODERN WARFARE

