I know what you’re thinking right now. Why, oh God, why waste space on a piece
of detritus like KillZone. Fair point. KillZone was pooptacular. It was shit.
However, KillZone II (or KillZone PS3, whatever makes you happy) wants to be
the shit. Shyeah, right. What with Guerilla’s first attempt at a “Halo-slayer” and
the CGI debacle of E3
2005, there’s no way they’re capable of making a decent
game.
Or are they. Guerilla came out of the closet and did the unthinkable and
showed off real gameplay footage and video that cheekily included the afore-
mentioned CGI trailer, except, it was actually rendered in real-time. And you
know what, it honestly looks good. The gritty, charcoal vibes - one of the few
highlights of the original - has been retained. Otherwise, the game is almost
unrecogniseable. Boasting an all-out assault on all the
senses, this revitalised title seems to pull off every
graphical trick in the trade. The character models in
particular impressed with life-like animations, ges-
tures and facial expressions.
What remains to be seen, though, is the real sub-
stance: the gameplay elements. The FPS genre is
one that doesn’t lend itself to much innovation,
rather relying on finding the ‘right’ formula and
building upon it. KillZone, to be brutally honest,
had no such formula so it’s interesting to see how
the developers will approach their first serious at-
tempt at quality.
What’s included into the mix is a cover system
that allows one to latch onto any part of solid scen-
ery and then hide behind it while pop-
ping out to risk shots at the enemy. It’s certainly not the newest mechanic around
but it does promise to be an entertaining addition that the stellar Call of Duty 4
did not possess. There’s a thought.
Plotwise, there doesn’t seem to be anything particularly remarkable of-
fered. The ISA (Interplanetary Strategic Alliance) forces have now
been directly landed on Planet Helghan (home of the Helghast)
in order to take the fight to them. On the way they not only en-
counter eery-eyed transgressors but also a hostile planet that the
Helghast seem to be harnessing directly against you. It’s some-
what interesting but I wouldn’t really expect anything particularly
epic or immersive.
KillZone II finds itself in an intriguing position. If it can succeed and
bring forth the solid gameplay and fantastic visuals it promises
then it will be a true hit. Otherwise, it stands to flounder and
simply die like its predecessor.
The previous year’s Games Developers Convention
in San Francisco witnessed the birth of something
special by newly founded British games studio,
Media Molecule. This something is LittleBigPlanet,
the first truly co-operative multi-player platform
game that could be the first jewel set into Sony’s
PS3 crown.
The characters of the game are a set of player-
controlled plush toys traversing a human-sized envi-
ronment pushing the PlayStation into an area of the mar-
ket ruthlessly defended by Nintendo, that is aptly dubbed
“non-gamers” and young ones. This could be seen as a
risk but it could bring variety to a much neglected area
of this platform’s library sparsely populated by games like
Ratatouille, another great game overlooked by the majority.
Although the content of the game would insinuate its target audience to be the
young, the challenges still provide a high level of entertainment to force the tradi-
tional gamer into finding solutions to non-traditional problems ala Portal.
Players are encouraged to create their own levels and craft their own puzzles from
the game’s expansive library of obstances. This game isn’t oriented for the lone gamer
either: it’s objective is to bring together a group of challengers and get them to collaborate
to complete greater achievements than a mere individual could accomplish. Some sec-
tions of the game actually require multiple players as a single player often cannot do what’s
required.
From a technical aspect the beauty of the game is an astounding step towards Sony’s vi-
sion. It utilises the PlayStation’s
huge potential for physics to
make the challenges that face the
players far more dynamic and
formidable.
The first public demo is planned
to appear on the PlayStation Net-
work sometime during the year
and the full game should be re-
leased towards the holiday sea-
son, but the question stands: will
this be the PlayStation 3’s killer
app?
Guns. Swords. Two guys bedecked in tight leather. Need any more innuendo?
Capcom’s intensely stylish Devil May Cry makes a triumphant return. DMC4 is set some years
after the events of the original DMC, which saw the spunky rockstar of gaming, Dante, send the
Devil bawling back to Hell yet again. However, he concedes his status this time to one Nero.
Dante’s father, the Legendary Dark Knight Sparda, originally fought against the Devil. It turns out
that this little action earned him quite a few fanboys. The game will start off presenting this group as
the Order of the Sword, with Nero as one of its members. Although, his presence as part of the cult
seems more driven by his affection for a girl named Kyrie. During a sermon by the Order, the peace
is suddenly disrupted by the appearance of a stranger coiffed with silver locks and enshrouded in a
blood-red trench coat. He wastes no time in slaughtering the priests. Thus begins DMC4.
Besides the romantic connotations of the plot and Dante’s shocking actions, what really mat-
ters is the gameplay. And this game seems to deliver. Combining fast-paced, frenetic swordplay
with a staccato of gun attacks, DMC meshes together proximal and distance combat rather de-
liciously. Nero introduces a new mechanic: the Devil Bringer. His right arm happens
to be possessed by a demon of sorts and he can use its power into
a powerful ectoplasmic manifestation that allows
him to perform all sorts of insane tricks. He’ll need
all the help he can get as the Order members seem
to have ulterior motives. And he won’t be alone:
Dante is there to guide him.
Augmented by some absolutely stunning
art and visuals, DMC4
promises to be the
balls-out action
event of the
year.
Waiting isn’t usually the most fun of
activities, but sometimes that little
bit of patience can lead to some-
thing special. Metal Gear Solid 4
is poised to be such an event.
Purportedly the last of the great
MGS series and personally, the
game I’ve been waiting for (since
the last one, of course), MGS4 em-
bodies expectations that are inter-
stellar in proportion and not just from
an avid fanbase as well. Sony have yet to release
their own magnum opus and there are doubts that
they are capable of such. Thus, it falls on Snake’s ag-
ing shoulders to bear the burden of not only a world
ravaged by war but yet another one full of hope.
Years after the chilling events onboard Arsenal Gear, everything has
changed. War has been transformed into a profitable business, one
where soldiers find a constant home. However, this vision of a war-
riors’ sanctuary has been hollowed and debauched by Snake’s twin
brother, Liquid Snake. If he isn’t stopped, the entire planet will slowly
be reduced to naught but blood, rubble and distant memories.
The premise is definitely far more grim that in any Metal Gear in that the scale
of the status quo is significantly larger. Similarly, the gameplay must progress to
compensate.
The traditional stealth gameplay that MGS pioneered has now been augmented
and prepared to enter a modern era of combat where there is no place to hide.
Demos reveal the core gameplay to be unchanged but with myriad additions in
order to streamline it. The introduction of the OctoCam means that Snake can
blend into any environment (like a chameleon); context-sensitive actions offer
the ability to interact more with a malleable, spontaneous environment. The
promise of a more organic CQC (Close Quarters Combat) techniques and an
enhanced roster of weaponry is fervently anticipated in equal measure.
Metal Gear has always been about an astounding, immersive and yes, rather
abstruse, narrative and this game will probably be no different. With multiple
threads coalescing to an ultimate purpose and old faces returning for the last
great adventure, MGS4 promises to be an emotional journey for the ages.
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
Friday 11 January 2008 felix
Games
LITTLEBIGPLANET DEVELOPER MEDIA MOLECULE PUBLISHER SONY
METAL GEAR SOLID 4: GUNS OF THE PATRIOTS
DEVELOPER KONAMI PUBLISHER KONAMI
DEVIL MAY CRY 4 DEVELOPER CAPCOM PUBLISHER CAPCOM KILLZONE II DEVELOPER GUERILLA STUDIOS PUBLISHER SONY
Insert a random Queer Eye for the Straight Guy reference... it’s begging for one!

