28 felix Friday 11 January 2008
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Games
ASSASSIN’S CREED (ALSO ON PS3, PC)
Assassin’s Creed at-
tempts to segue manifold
features from canonical ti-
tles past. The Middle-Eastern
atmosphere and lithe acrobat-
ics of Prince of Persia, the swirl-
ing conspiracies about the correlation
of genetics and information ala Metal Gear
Solid and the proximal stealth tactics of Hitman all
come to mind whilst traversing the distinctly khaki-
saturated environments.
The melange of such established mechanics and
atmospheric, indigenous art style do well to capti-
vate the gamer for the overture. Al-ta’ir is capable
of some deft parkour and these portions often feel
exhilirating. Similarly, the sense of tension as you
track your quarries amongst a bustling, cognizant
crowd is quite palpable. The sword combat, de-
spite being quite linear, offers visceral thrills in the
form of brutality by the blade. There’s a strongly
evocative sense of actual detective work even if the situations tend to be mimetic after
the initial few. The visuals are astounding at their best with delicate nuances, solid ani-
mation and an admirable sense of architecture. Overall, it starts off rather brilliantly.
Despite a riveting introduction, there are myriad cracks that show with time. Wor-
ryingly, an increasinging bit of ennui sets in early on. While it borrows some fantas-
tic elements, Creed plays safe with them and refuses to go the extra distance. The
story will seem clever and thought-provoking, but a few brushes with literature and the
aforementioned Metal Gear Solid reveal it to be a bit plain and rather unexciting. There
are certain graphical errors and despite excellent vocal localisation, Al-ta’ir’s strong
American accent is grating and breaks an otherwise spellbinding illusion.
While flawed, the game manages to be highly entertaining. Plus, Assassins pwn.
Guitar Hero III: Leg-
ends of Rock is the latest
in the Guitar Hero series.
The game’s had a graphics
makeover, the gameplay’s been
tightened (a bit) as well some new
features being added in the form of a
good co-op carrier mode and not so good
guitar battles in which you compete with another
guitarist (NPC or player) in a rock off.
It’s a good idea but in practise it does not work
well. But don’t let this put you off; Guitar Hero 3 it
is probably the strongest Guitar Hero so far mostly
due to the tracklist which features over 70 master
tracks from across the rock spectrum from the
Kaiser Chiefs’ “Ruby” to “Through the Fire and
Flames” by Dragonforce (and yes, it is very, very
difficult).
The game is the most difficult in the series so far,
so it’s probably not best start for you newbies out
there, but it is well worth a play and still remains one of the best party games out there.
(I can only vouch for the Xbox 360 version) but with online play and new download-
able songs becoming available stands to keep the game fresh for a good few months
yet.
There is even a rock version of “We Three Kings” performed by Steve Ouimette for
free download. If you are still feeling Christmassy, that is.
GUITAR HERO III (ALSO ON PS3, WII, PS2)
MASS EFFECT your avatar’s sex, appearance,
class and back-story. Once
that’s over with you’re ready to
jump into the action.
The combat system is nothing
amazing. In fact, if you were to
base your opinion of the game
on it, it would be no where near
as good of a game as it is. AI
is weak on both the enemy and
ally sides. Your guys will shoot
at walls or into your back 70%
of the time, and you can back
up and bottle neck 30 enemies
into a hallway to be slaughtered
like cattle. The shotgun is also
possibly the most unbalanced,
unstoppable weapon in gam-
ing history. I was able to snipe
100 yards with the shotgun, and
when they got close the blast
strength knocked them on their
backs leaving them helpless for
a good five seconds.
But that doesn’t mean it wasn’t
fun being a one man wrecking
crew. And by no means was it
always a breeze. There was one
point that I can’t go into details
about without spoiling anything
that took me 45 minutes of dy-
ing to beat.
Mass Effect sports an awe-
some lineup of characters you
will fall in love with immedi-
ately, ranging from the sassy
and spunky Ashley Williams
to the badass, “I don’t give a
crap” Urdnot Wrex. With that
in mind though, the way your
squad-mates are developed in
this game can often make them
seem underwhelming com-
pared with their previous
sci-fi epic and spiritual
predecessor, Knights of
the Old Republic. Gone
are the moments of
Carth Onassi stop-
ping you for a chat
in the streets, re-
placed by the new method
of Shepard running over to
his/her squad in between
missions for a chat. This can
sometimes feel like more of
an effort than it should, and
having such a small amount
of interaction with your
squad outside of the ship can
often make them seem a bit
lifeless.
Bottom-line? As an RPG,
Mass Effect will blow you
away. You’ll find yourself so
engrossed in the massive
(pardon the pun) universe
that even if you don’t usu-
ally role play, you’ll be doing
it anyway. Whatever you do,
don’t judge it as a shooter.
Mass Effect isn’t just a game,
it’s an experience and is a
prime example of why games
are being recognised as liter-
ary art forms. It’s a must-play
game if you own an Xbox
360. Don’t be that guy who
misses out, because it’ll be
your loss. Game of the Year,
hands down.
Before its release, Mass Effect was
anointed as a can’t-miss prospect
by practically anyone who saw or
read about it. BioWare’s gargan-
tuan action-RPG had been at the
top of my 2007 wish-list for
some time and I was eager
to see whether it lived up
to the mammoth hype
it carried. After play-
ing through about 25
hours of the game I can
safely say, Mass Effect
lives up to the BioWare
name. This is nothing short
of a revolutionary title, one that
brings together the disparate el-
ements of role-playing game and
shooter for a compelling, story-driv-
en experience.
Overall, the storyline is a great
one, bordering on brilliant. Mass
Effect is set roughly 200 years into
the future, when alien technology
has advanced humans to faster-
than-light travelling speeds, and
has put us into contact with a host of
aliens in a struggle to fit in with this
intergalactic community. A rogue
agent named Saren who’s working
for The Council (the “always needed”
trio that runs the show) threatens
the safety of the universe, and it’s
your job to stop him.
Enter the protagonist,
Commander Shepard.
This being an RPG,
character creation is
rather important. Mass
Effect allows you to choose

