games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
29
Friday 11 January 2008 felix
Games
Carving out its name in the hall of fame of the original Xbox
and PS3, Ninja Gaiden and its later re-released Sigma edition
redefined platform gaming with its fast-paced combat system
and extensive combo list.
With such a history Ninja Gaiden II brings with it a certain
Pedigree amongst its fellow platforming peers. For those that
haven’t been graced with playing the original, Ninja Gaiden
II is an Xbox 360 exclusive platform game with a heavy em-
phasis on combat in a near-future setting with fantasy ele-
ments, and so the game revolves around running between
fights against a combination of fiends, samurai and sci-fi
troopers.
The defining characteristics that made the original what
it was look set to remain intact in the sequel, including the
challenging level of play and the almost poetic nature of
combat.
Currently released trailers show locales based upon recognisable
real-world locations including the likes of Venice, New York and Ja-
pan. Current info regarding weapon selection shows the usual sin-
gle sword, twin swords as well as more exotic weapons such as a
set of claws (think Wolverine) and a scythe.
The developers have chosen to increase the age rating from a 15
to 18, allowing them increase the depth in combat by dismembering
opponents limbs while giving the fights a far more visceral feel.
The game is currently set to be released this spring, so human-
ity will have to look for its scythe-wielding Ninja fix elsewhere for
the time being.
Splinter Cell has always been
the other stealth series, offer-
ing a slower, more deliberate
type of gameplay over Metal
Gear’s more spontaneous,
stylised sneaking.
After toying around with a
rather rigid formula for three
titles, UbiSoft has finally de-
cided to try something a little
different - but not too much. In-
spired by the intelligent crowd
mentality established in Assas-
sin’s Creed, they have looked
towards the likes of the Bourne trilogy and The Fugitive to offer a more evanescent,
capricious version of stealth. This time, series stalwart Sam Fisher is in contention
with the very organisation that had raised him. With the Third Echelon a shadow of its
former self, Fisher only has his wits and his ingenuity to survive. In essence, Conviction
is playing catch-up with MGS4’s ‘nowhere to hide’ mantra.
The game is set in urban areas that are populated by a bevy of civilians, police offic-
ers and Government agents. It’s upto Sam to complete his recon activities all the while
remaining hidden within the crowd, flowing with them without disruption. When the
situation calls for action, however, he is able to utilise the environment around
him to his advantage. This ties in with a natural animation system de-
signed for Sam to interact organically with his surroundings.
These are certainly moves in a rather interesting new direction
that is quite far from the light-and-shadows stealth mechanic of
Splinter Cells yore. Gameplay videos, despite being work in
progress, reveal a title that is much akin to an Assassin’s
Creed set in the present day sans the parkour acrobat-
ics. The graphics look rather impressive and
Sam Fisher is sporting a rather George
Clooney-esque beard that makes
him look a bit more human.
Rumours have it that develop-
ment of the game has been
troubled and restarted two
times already. One hopes
that these issues are
sorted out for this rather
promising title.
Coming from the creators of the original Legacy of Kain my-
thos and the eerie Eternal Darkness, Too Human promises a
melange of epic, high-fantasy storytelling and intense GunXS-
word combat popularised by the one and only Devil May Cry.
In a futuristic rendition of Norse Mythology, you find yourself in
the heavy metallic boots of Baldur - the god of all things green, figu-
ratively not literally. The interesting aspect here is that Norse gods are not
immortals. Rather, they are warriors and personifications of utmost respect and
prodigious ability; in this game, these beings further distance themselves from weaker
humans through the augmentation of cybernetic implants. So far the plot whispers of
vestiges of great depth and moral pondering as it presents these evermore mecha-
nistic gods and their enemies: a machine army that slaughters humans in order to
incorporate flesh and blood into their being. The irony here being that the reason is for
the machines to become more akin with that they perceive as ‘human’, while the gods
move further towards embracing a metallic future.
Baldur is an exception. Among all the gods, he alone possesses the least upgrades
and this action is viewed with suspicion. Like the other legendary game about power-
ful deities, God of War, there seem to be a lot of internal politics and struggle within
the hierarchy. It’s always an interesting concept and moreso in the light of humanising
these characters despite their attempts to convince otherwise.
While the plot has me significantly intrigued, the gameplay revealed thus far doesn’t
inspire much confidence. It looks airy and rigid; easily outclassed by the impending
release of it’s combat forebear: Devil May Cry 4.
Still there is much to hope from this title on an aesthetic level since the art is highly
stylised and the sense of a futuristic atmosphere is impressively palpable.
Fable was an extraordinarily ambitious game and coming
from the creator of the hallowed Black & White (and not-so-
good sequel), such was to be expected. While the original wasn’t
able to meet Peter Molyneux’s divinely lofty goals, Fable 2 takes its
chance at reaching for the stars
Set in the world of Albion yet again, Fable 2 allows you to truly em-
body your chosen character and live out a span of fifty years of his or her
life. This time, the emphasis on a truly pervasive, consequential experience
seems to be the ultimate goal. Once you’ve begun your journey, the choices laid in
front of you range from the mundane to the great.
Morality in terms of good and evil was the lynchpin of character development in
the previous game. This time, such a balance is important but no longer the focus.
Rather, money happens to be the representation of morality; rather perspicacious, no?
The combination of your alignment with the forces of light and/or dark and
your financial status will now have bearing on how other
characters treat you and how you will be able to conduct
yourself in the game world.
The overarching plotline has something to do with an
individual called Lucien whose goal it is to build a fifty-
storey tower - interestingly, this is in tandem with
your gameplay time of a similar number of years.
Beyond this lies the seemingly infinite amount
of choice offered, as Mr Molyneux waxes lyrical
about his game. One can get married, become
pregnant (or get someone else pregnant) and
have children. These characters remain and inter-
act with you realistically. Similarly, you can even
have a pet who’ll come running back to you
even if you spurn it away. Aww. You can also
undertake any profession ranging from a
mere barmen to a more risque activity such
as prostitution. Err...
The underlying combat principle is being based
on timing and context-sensivity via the use of
a single button. How this will work is yet to be
seen, but there are worries that combat depth is
being sacrificed for accessibility.
Regardless, Fable 2 stands as an energetic,
zealous project that has the potential of of-
fering an multifarious experience of epic
proportions. Or at the least, a highly en-
tertaining, fun one.
TOO HUMAN
NINJA GAIDEN II SPLINTER CELL: CONVICTION
FABLE 2

