news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 11 January 2008 felix
News
Operation go for Beit phase two
The Union secures funding for the second part of its Masterplan. Improvements to the Union building will
include a brand new Student Activities Centre and a new gymnasium due to be completed in January 2009
Railcard Oyster discounts
Tom Roberts
& Andrew Somerville
Tom Roberts
Editor-in-Chief
As 2007 bowed out, Transport for Lon-
don’s (TfL) fare packages for the New
Year came into effect. Single fares were
frozen on all tube journeys, including
when paying by cash, whilst Oyster
card bus journeys fell in price by 10%
to 90p.
It also transpires that students have
been given a further bonus: railcard
users can now “combine” their Young
Person’s Railcard with their Oyster
pre-pay card, giving them a discounted
daily price cap.
The most an Underground Oyster
card user can spend within a single day
is £4.80 when travelling throughout
zones 1 and 2. Students with a Young
Person’s Railcard can now get a third
off, reducing their daily cap to £3.10.
The discount also applies to Disabled
Persons Railcards as well as HM Forces
and Senior ones.
Finding more information on TfL’s
website has proven to be a very pain-
ful process, however some information
can be gleaned at www.tfl.gov.uk/tick-
ets/faresandtickets/singlefares/6769.
aspx along with a table of the new daily
caps for all the zones.
The offer is in effect now. Students
Science Challenge is coming
Daniel Burrows
& Alex Guite
The Science Challenge, which last
year gave away £4,500 of prize money
for short essays guessing the scien-
tific breakthroughs that will shape the
future, is back again in 2008. The or-
ganisers are promising bigger prizes
this year and have already raised a pot
of £25,000 sponsorship, mostly from
Shell and the College.
Any student, including postgradu-
ates, at Imperial College can enter an
800 word essay. This year’s challenge
will be revealed by the Rector at the
launch event on Tuesday January 22 in
MechEng 220 at 6.30pm. More details
about the challenge, the prizes, along
with a few surprises, will also be an-
nounced in Felix next week.
In 2007 Naaman Tammuz from
physics scooped a top prize of £2,500
at an awards ceremony held in The
Ritz hotel for his prediction that bionic
implants will be the most significant
scientific development of the next 100
years.
A parallel competition is also open to
all high schools in the UK and students
can invite their old school by down-
loading the information pack from the
Science Challenge website at www.
rcsu.org.uk/sciencechallenge. A Nin-
tendo Wii is also up for grabs, chosen
randomly from anyone who registers
for the mailing list.
Win yourself a Wii just by
registering for the mailing list
can head to their nearest tube station
with their Oyster card and Railcard
where the staff will apply the update.
Reports have come through that Un-
derground staff are unaware of the
entitlement but this reporter encoun-
tered no such difficulties.
Artistic impression of the Student Activities Centre
Floor plans for the new Student Activities Centre on the second mezzanine floor. There will be a new gym on the floor above too
During the final days of last term, the
Union announced that it had finally
secured funding to proceed with phase
two of the Beit Masterplan redevelop-
ment scheme, following the approval of
a grant from College of £1.93m, bring-
ing the total funds raised to £3.322m.
The Beit Masterplan is the Union’s
much needed strategy for rejuvenating
and updating its current aging facili-
ties. The 2nd phase of the Masterplan
aims to update parts of the West side
of the Union building, upgrade the
ancient electrical and mechanical in-
frastructure, and prepare the building
for the final phase. Work is planned to
begin in March once the current ten-
dering process has been completed
and it is due to be completed in Janu-
ary 2009.
The Student Activities Centre (SAC),
currently located in the East Basement,
is due to move to the second floor mez-
zanine of the main Union building. The
SAC will be completely redesigned to
become a more centralised element of
the Union, a hub for all student clubs
and societies.
The third floor will be converted
into a brand new gym with a sprung,
mirrored dance floor replacing the
one currently on the second floor, in
order to give clubs and societies a flex-
ible space that is free for them to use
(Ethos charges societies approximately
£45 per hour to use its facilities). The
meeting rooms that are currently on
the 3rd floor are planned to move down
into the East Basement, occupying the
space where the SAC used to be.
The gym will be accompanied by
new female and male changing rooms
in the central core of the 3rd and 2nd
floor mezzanine, respectively. The
renovation of the central core (the
stairwell and lift) will be completed
and energy efficiency measures will be
implemented throughout the building.
The financial support will be com-
ing from a number of sources. College
has given the Union a £1.93m grant.
Grants of £500k and £300k have also
come from the Harlington and IC
Trusts, with the remainder to come
from the Union itself. Reclaimed VAT
from phase one makes up £396k whilst
£196k must be taken from the Union’s
General Reserve.
As readers may remember the Gen-
eral Reserve (a large pot of money in-
tended for use in the event of an emer-
gency) was discovered to be in great
difficulties in the early part of last
term, but following a full audit it has
been restored to healthy levels. It cur-
rently stands at £1.2m and the planned
expenditure of £196k is considerably
less than the £750k+ that the Union
feared it may have to spend.
Speculation over the progress of
phase two has been rife for roughly
nine months after the poor reception
of phase one which as Felix readers may
recall overran and prevented use of the
central core for approximately four
months. Phase one has been dogged by
controversy over its dubious success
even after doubling its completion time
with complaints about the lack of sig-
nificant change in the central core, and
a lift that often breaks down apparently
costing the best part of £1.8m.
Some of the improvements in phase
two are in preparation for the third
and final phase, in which it is planned
to totally renovate daVinci’s and dB’s,
replace the old gym with a games
room and move the Union offices to
the third floor and settle on a use for
the space left behind. After the long
and protracted financial negotiations
during the preparation for phase two,
it remains to be seen when, or if it will
begin, who will fund it and how much
it will actually cost.
Cost: £3.322m
Project start/finish: March 2008/January 2009
2nd floor mezzanine changes: New Student Activities Centre, male
changing rooms
3rd floor changes: New gymnasium with sprung, mirrored dance
floor
Further improvements: New energy efficiency measures, upgraded
electrical and mechanical infrastructure
Phase two at a glance
Oyster + Railcard = £3.10 daily price cap

