30 felix Friday 11 January 2008
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Games
Everyone should have heard of Crysis by now due to the sheer volume of hype this game was
given by previewers. In many ways it lives up to, and even surpasses, the expectations, but in
others it fell far short of the mark.
Before I move on to the way this game plays out lets talk about why this game was been so
awaited. It’s pretty. Very pretty. Bring a £2,000 top-of-the-line computer to its knees begging for
mercy pretty. Now on one hand, this seems great but on the other there’s no point in a game
being released if no one can actually play the thing. To handle this, Crytek did a fantastic job
making this title very scalable; running this game on my own mediocre machine still brought
forth a spectacle of foliage and coast lines that I was more than satisfied with.
Now let’s step back from the superficial and take a look at whether you will actually want to
play Crysis rather than stare at it. The game is split into two major sections. Firstly, there’s the
half before you fight a swarm of more or less identical aliens that leads to a series of repetitive
gameplay and then the second half, where you’re fighting a swarm of aforementioned generic
aliens. Okay okay, I’m hinting just a bit at what bugs me about this shooter.
For breakfast and lunch you tackle a dynamic and tactically intelligent guerrilla army that uti-
lizes cover and will even out-flank you. You can tackle every encounter using your vast set of
tools to suit your favourite style of combat. Lurk around as a sniper with high powered rifles,
James Bond it with silenced pistols or go all Governor of California with an Uzi: its up to you.
This truly adds a huge element of re-playability to the single player.
Brace yourself for the let down: aliens are overrated. After battling the very well-designed
guerrilla AI for the first half, the second species of opponents is a dismal way to end your experi-
ence. They float around slowly and you plug away with the Gauss Rifle (basically a rail gun). Tak-
ing them out becomes a very repetitive three-shot game, although there is a bit of a perk where
you get to fly in a helicopter and take on the extraterrestrials at their own game.
An- other let down is the multiplayer, not because of what the developers pro-
duced, but how the users have exploited a few features of the games
Nano Suit (does the same things the predator can do: run fast, become
invisible, etc.). Join an online game and you will be swarmed with half
a dozen people running up behind you, while invisible, and
then punching you in the back knocking you out in one
hit. Lame.
There is some solace to be found in the hope that
patches will balance aspects of the multiplayer
to minimize some of possible exploits.
To conclude, I feel this game was a bit
of a victim of its own hype and it re-
ally had to reach an impossible set
of standards. Brush these pre-
conceptions aside, however,
and you still have what is
by anyone’s standard, a
fantastic shooter.
CRYSIS
So, The Witcher, eh? Hell, I don’t blame you, I hadn’t heard
about it either until a friend shoved his copy of it in my hand
and told me to play it. And now that I have, I’m a bit disap-
pointed that others haven’t heard of this excellent traditional
RPG from new Polish developers CDProjekt. The Witcher is a
brilliant game with oodles of atmosphere, charm and action. It’s
different enough to feel like a step
forwards from the same old, same
old of Western RPGs with a load of new
improbable-sounding features that mesh
into a well-polished whole.
But aside from the streamlined real-time com-
bat, the interesting alchemy elements and meaning-
ful character progression, the most significant trait of The
Witcher is its writing. In a year when Portal showed the world
that writing can raise a game from good to mind-blowingly
amazing, this game has raised the bar for RPG writing. For a
good 50 hours, the writers sidestep the cliches - this game
isn’t about winning, saving the world or getting the princess
(well, it is, but not all the time). The Witcher’s decisions are
far more subtle than that, delving deeply into themes of love,
loyalty, drugs, politics, marriage, racism, rape and trust. NPCs
have histories and very real human motivations and, like real
people, they all believe they’re doing The Right Thing. It’s up
to the player to read through the rich dialogue (all of which
is voice-acted to a high standard) and pick their own path
through it.
But perhaps best of all, The Witcher never outright punishes
you for any of your decisions, instilling you with an odd sort of
self-doubt about your actions. And for that alone, The Witcher
is a game that deserves to be played - because there are very
few forms of media that make you sincerely ask yourself “Am
I doing The Right Thing?”.
(The retail version of The Witcher suffers from long loading screens and occasional crash
bugs, all of which are solved by a recent patch. With these technical difficulties out of the way,
the game is much easier to recommend to everyone.)
The Unreal Tournament series has been around for a
long time and has been made into a formula that rare-
ly fails to entertain with frantic, fast paced combat.
When I started to play, I was very surprised to
see long cut scenes and even an attempt to give
what was previously mindless, gladiatorial
style combat, some semblance of a plot.
I can only imagine that the development
team has caved under the pressure on the
nanny state to make the violence soundly
motivated. On the other hand, who really
cares? I don’t think anyone ever bought a
UT game because it had a good storyline.
Regardless, the game play is still classic UT.
Running around maps that vary in size from quite
small industrial areas to enormous expanses of
forest or sprawling space stations. The graphics
are absolutely stunning and, to their credit, the
UT team refrained from using DX10 which allows
mid-level systems to still play the game com-
fortably (however you only really notice how
much the graphics have been improved on a
relatively new system). This also means the en-
vironments have the expected UT trait of being... sol-
id. There’s simply no other word to describe it. Even
small trees and bins are impervious to a hail of rockets.
The only objects that are destructible are the vehicles and
your enemies!
A new addition is the hover board
which replaces the Translocator in
any maps that contain vehicles.
This is a fantastic addition to
the game that really chang-
es the strategies and en-
courages teamwork,
especially in CTF
games as you can
latch onto the back
of vehicles while
on your board
and be dragged
along at high
speed, getting
you and the
flag back safe.
UT3 says
goodbye to
the Ion Painter
and the Light-
ning Gun but
we see a wel-
come return of
the sniper rifle.
All the weapons,
as with everything
else in the game
have had a nice up-
grade and I finally feel
that the weapons actu-
ally look like they were
made in the future rather
than knocked up in some live
action gamer’s garage.
The multiplayer element of this
game, which is really the main selling
point, is a little disappointing. The use of
aimbots etc. can become ridiculous (some players liter-
ally cannot be killed unless you’re 2 feet away and behind them)
and I’m certain it will continue as there do not appear to be any
plans for an anti-cheat system. One area of multiplayer that I really
missed was the Bombing Run game which has been replaced with
a tug-of-war style match named Onslaught, where you attempt
capture a number of power sources sequentially until you can at-
tack your enemy’s main power node. It does produce longer and
more intense games but Bombing Run was a unique gem in mul-
tiplayer FPS.
Overall UT3 is an excellent addition to the series but with games
like Crysis and Bioshock competing in the market,
it really should attempt more and not just be
satisfied with a well-implemented makeover.
Unless you’re a real hardcore UT fan and
have bought a new computer recently I
would stick with one of the older
incar- nations as they offer
just as much entertain-
ment and still look
better on older
systems.
UNREAL TOURNAMENT III
THE WITCHER

