32 felix Friday 11 January 2008
The little guy that’ll win your love
The teen-eeepc with a teeny price. James Finnerty finds out exactly what is on offer for your cash
I
reckon that not very many peo-
ple reading this will have heard
of this easy-to-overlook new
product, which I feel should
be given a lot more attention,
especially within the student demo-
graphic. To cut what could be a long
story short, the eeepc (pronounced as
a single e) is a new laptop from the es-
tablished motherboard and notebook
manufacturer ASUS. Now i know what
you’re thinking: whats so special about
another laptop? Its not a Mac so I'm
not going to buy it. Well I'll explain.
The big selling point of the eee is the
fact that it is one of the smallest fully
functional laptops ever produced; it's
so portable I'm stuck as to whether to
class it as a laptop or a palmtop.
Before going any further I'll lay out
all the facts and figures so you can get
a better idea of what this device has to
offer. Its dimensions are 225mm wide ×
165mm deep × 35mm thick and its very
low mass pulls in at an anorexic 920g.
So it’s not going to break your back like
every other 'portable' machine brought
to you by the other big manufacturers.
Its screen can be a bit limiting at 7”,
but it pulls off a reasonable resolution,
for its size, of 800x480 pixels. It uses
a 900Mhz Intel celeron M processor
with its clock speed tamed down to
630Mhz to save on battery and heat,
but there are some warranty-voiding
ways of getting it to run at full whack.
At the Celeron's disposal is 512mb of
RAM and behind this is 4Gb of Solid
State memory, fulfilling the role nor-
mally occupied by the faithful hard
disk. In place of your usual Vista/XP or
OSX, you get supplied with a reason-
ably mainstream Linux variant called
Xandros. The eee also has a decent
battery life of 3-4 hours and is supplied
with a wall-wart style charger, as op-
posed to a normal laptop charger with
a huge brick midway down the cable.
Now to get onto the eee's pros and
cons. It's small; this is good and bad.
The keyboard, track pad and screen
can be hard to use at first, producing
typing errors and frustration at trying
to click the correct icon, but this is the
cost associated with having this level of
carry-around-all-day portability.
A big consideration for many is the
small storage capacity. After the oper-
ating system and applications you’re
left with a mere 1.4Gb space that you
can use. This isn't a lot for your mu-
sic and films but it’s plenty for all the
documents and other work you want
to store on it.
People may or may not be put off by
Linux (comes with free socks and san-
dals these days y'know) but as of late
it’s started stepping into the domain
of the big boys, even Dell now supply
it as an option. The eee comes setup
with a simplified Linux desktop called
“easy-mode” which can be swapped for
a standard full desktop. If you’re really
not interested in dipping your toes in
the Linux ocean the manual provided
gives a full set of simple instructions
on how to install Windows XP and
some recommended adjustments to
optimize the machine.
B
y now I’m sure you’ve all
had a chance to play about
with a Wii and found that
it’s easy to use and (mostly)
does what you want. Today
we’re going to delve a bit into how the
Wiimote works and just how Nintendo
got it to tick ever so perfectly.
In contrast to a regular light gun
which operates off the light emitted
by the TV, the Wii sensor bar contains
two banks of five infra-red LEDs. The
Wiimote has an image sensor which
focuses these into two bright points
and measures the distance between
them. By using this, compared to the
fixed distance of the LED banks in the
sensor bar, the Wii can use triangula-
tion (that’s some fancy form of maths
to you medics) to work out how far
away from the screen you are and
where you’re pointing. It can also use
the offset from horizontal to work out
the angle you’re holding the Wiimote
at, fancy eh?
The Wiimote has a few more tricks
up inside the indestructible shell to
work out what you’re doing with it.
Whilst you’re swinging it with enough
force to break that expensive HDTV
that you bought a few weeks ago you’re
actually moving a silicon weight of
less than one millionth of a gram at-
tached to a few springs. A current runs
through the weight which is measured
by silicon plates all around, distribut-
ing it equally at rest. With that glori-
ous backhand you move the weight
no more than a whopping five nano-
metres, changing how the current is
distributed. The Wii calculates how
smooth, long and powerful your shot
was based upon the voltage change,
matches it to a swing in its database
and decides you were actually aiming
at the guy with an afro in the crowd!
The Wii doesn’t know all this info via
some kind of voodoo or black magic; it
actually uses Bluetooth to talk to your
Wiimote. Now I’ve not tried using my
phone to play the Wii but it’s the same
technology and does have a built-in
limit of up to eight active devices, lim-
iting the Wii to a maximum of seven
players. There’s also a few other nifty
devices hidden away in there including
a 3300μF capacitor in case the batteries
come loose during a frantic stick-wag-
gling moment, a speaker that’s bloody
useful as it’ll bleep within a range of
up to ten meters to remind you it’s
you’re go (even if you’re in the loo) and
a 16KiB EEPROM chip that can store
your Mii, Pokémon and controller set-
up. Now that’s a useful feature!
Finally, as you probably noticed,
there’s a huge port on the bottom of
the Wiimote too. Currently you can
hook the Nunchuk in there and get
worryingly tangled playing Boxing,
but Nintendo does have plans for extra
connectivity.
Expect to get a light gun attachment
that mounts the Wiimote along the
barrel, a steering wheel and a whole
host of other bizarre add-ons. Un-
fortunately there won’t be a charging
dock based upon the port as it has lim-
ited connectivity. So next time you’re
frantically waggling your Wiimote or
making a perfect serve, just remember
that you’re moving a block of silicon of
less than a millionth of a gram no more
than five nanometers, aiming with
some LEDs and a bit of IR radiation
when all the while the King of Demark
& Norway oversees that your Wiimote
talks fair with your Wii.
What’s inside this magic wand?
Like taking expensive things apart? Well Andrew Slater will save you some time and money
One’s big, one’s small. One’s light, one’s heavy. One’s fiddly, one’s clunky. You’d think with all this crap to worry about, people wouldn’t say ‘size
doesn’t matter’ any more
Okay, Andrew, if you can’t put it back together what will you do then hmmm?
You may look at the power of this
machine and think: this is a little retro
isn't it? My phone has got more grunt.
Well the fact is, for day to day tasks
such as web browsing (Facebook, web-
mail etc.) and taking notes in lectures
(Facebook, webmail etc.) you really
don't need much more power than this
little guy puts at your disposal. It could
be considered the definitive student
tool, especially at the loan-friendly
£220.
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Technology
Technology Editor – James Finnerty

