sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
34 Friday 11 January 2008
felix
Sport
Rugby
Imperial Medicals 1st 14
Reading Men’s 1st 12
Buoyed by the previous week’s victory
over Oxford Brookes, the Medicals
1st XV went into the first of two cru-
cial pre-Christmas home games with
a sense of camaraderie and belief that
has not always been present this sea-
son. Non-playing captain Cameron
Sullivan was forced into three changes
with Austin Dekker coming into the
back-row and Harry Thompson re-
placing Tom Maynard at scrum-half.
Finally, due to Xander Ancock’s late
arrival, Jeremy Bartosiak-Jentys came
into the starting XV.
The game’s early stages were largely
scrappy, not helped by a strong breeze
which blew into the Medicals’s faces
throughout the first half. However, as
the match developed two clear patterns
of play emerged. As usual the Medicals
enjoyed a fair amount of supremacy up
front and looked to keep the ball tight
around the rucks and mauls. Reading
on the other hand looked to spread
the ball wide searching for space on
the Medicals’ wings. Unfortunately for
the assembled spectators both styles
seemed to cancel each other out for
much of the game.
With the match so finely poised, in-
dividual errors were always going to
provide the best opportunity for ei-
ther side to score. Lamentably, it was
the Medicals who cracked first. Young
winger Chidi Nzekwue received the
ball in his own twenty-two. Backing
his sensational step and lightning pace,
Chidi looked to beat the cover tack-
lers on the outside but ended up be-
ing bundled towards touch. Looking
to keep the ball alive the flying Fresher
turned over possession which allowed
Reading to break through and score.
The conversion was missed.
Unsettled by the Reading score, the
Medicals were to concede a further try
soon after. Looking to counter, Simon
Bellringer hoisted a high ball into the
Reading half. Despite the good chase,
Reading were able to exploit the bro-
ken play to slice through the home
sides defence and touch down under
the posts. The conversion was added
to give the visitors a 12-0 lead. Thank-
fully, these were Reading’s last points
of the day.
With time expired in the first-half,
the Medicals were awarded a pen-
alty on halfway. Being the last play,
the home side took a quick tap and
putting good phases together worked
their way into the Cardiff twenty-two.
Here Reading conceded yet another,
far more kickable, penalty. Fly-half
Dan Neville strode up confidently and
stroked over the penalty thus bringing
the first half to a close.
During the interval Keith Green
pulled no punches and left the Medi-
cals under no illusions as to what was
required in the second half. Bartosiak-
Jentys and Rory Hutchinson were
for the guillotine as Xander Ancock
and Guy Martin entered the fray. The
home side took the advice to heart and
started the second half brightly. Soon
Neville was adding a further 3 points
to the Medicals’ tally with another su-
perbly struck penalty. Riding the crest
of a wave, the Medicals were to get
themselves right back in the game with
a superbly worked try. After Dan Nev-
ille and James Sharples had combined
well in midfield Craig Nightingale took
the ball on the Reading twenty-two.
Breaking a tackle, Nightingale was able
to feed full-back Bellringer who hit a
great line to dive in spectacularly in the
corner. Neville was unable to add the
extras.
Nowonlytrailingby1point,thehome
side looked to take control of the game
and calmly score the points required
for victory. By contrast, Reading began
to try more imaginative moves, which,
IC Medics topple Reading after 12-0 deficit
Jeremy Bartosiak-Jentys
whilst looking well conceived, never
really threatened the Medicals line. In
fact, rather against the run of play, the
Medicals were awarded a penalty in
front of the posts. Once again Neville
made no mistake and with 15 minutes
remaining the home side were in the
lead for the first time. After 65 minutes
Gary Woodsford and Richard Nowicki
came on to replace Chris Hallewell and
Austin Dekker respectively.
The closing stanza closely resembled
the game’s opening period as the match
descended into a scrappy affair, partly
due to a serious-looking injury to Si-
mon Bellringer which left both sides
trying to keep warm for a number of
minutes. With all substitutes used the
Medicals had to play out the closing
minutes with only 14 men. Neverthe-
less, aided by some fortuitous referee-
ing decisions, the home side was able
to hang on.
BUSA Rugby Union
PREM South B
P W D L Diff Pts
1 Cardiff Med 8 6 1 1 66 19
2 Swansea 8 5 0 3 77 15
3 W. England 8 4 0 4 -17 12
4 Reading 9 3 0 6 -85 9
5 Greyhounds8 5 0 3 39 9
6 Brookes 8 2 1 5 -19 7
7 IC Medics 7 2 0 5 -61 6
In conditions better suited to egg chas-
ing, IC Homophobic Society 4th XI
(IC Football’s infamous Wednesday
ULU Flagship Team) took on Queen
Mary’s 3rds in their final game before
the Christmas break. Unlike women’s
football, the 4s went with the age-old
tradition of 11 players, despite 2 late
withdrawals from the squad, which led
to a new formation and new personnel.
James “The Shadow” Skeen was forced
to don the keeper’s gloves rather than
take up his usual role as the weak link
in defence, and Sam Rickards and El
Perry came in at centre mid and right
wing respectively.
IC started typically slowly, and went
behind within 10 minutes. A great
through ball from the QM midfield
was latched onto by their striker, who
outpaced the IC defence to slot home.
IC came back into the game and were
ridiculously denied an equaliser by a
linesman more corrupt than Robert
Mugabe. Sam penetrated the defend-
Imperial steal a draw as Queen Mary’s get lairy
Football
Imperial Men’s 4ths 3
Queen Mary’s Men’s 3rds 3
Ed Lobb
er to score between his legs, only to
somehow be given offside. It’s possible
that the linesman was so impressed
by this attacking master class that he
waved his flag in celebration, a gesture
misinterpreted by the ref to be an off-
side flag. This only served to fire up
the home side and their pressure was
made to count when Jeremy “J-Bruv”
Lovett, playing as part of an effective 3
man midfield with Rickards and Matty
Smith, picked up the ball 20 yards out
and lashed it into the bottom corner.
Skeen was called into action soon
after, displaying uncharacteristic alert-
ness and reflexes to keep out a close
range effort from QM’s rotund striker,
Flex QC, and then again to put him
off after a clearance ran all the way
through. IC however went behind
again when a corner wasn’t properly
cleared, and the ball was floated into
the top corner, leaving Skeeno strand-
ed. 2-1 at half time.
Early in the 2nd half IC centre backs
Aubergine and Lobster picked up
heavy knocks, leaving the already slow
IC defence about as mobile as Jon Hill.
IC conceded again when a QM mid-
fielder kidnapped the ball from Sam
and waltzed through the defence to
score, making it 3-1. IC could have
hit the wall, a beaten team, but got a
much needed shot in the arm when a
walkover for the 6s provided the op-
portunity for some substitutions. Sim
Similisimisim replaced Perry giving
some much needed energy to the right
side and support for the Gut Phelan up
front. Almost immediately left-winger
Jon Hill picked up a nasty shin injury
and had to be replaced by another 6s
player, Mike Turrell.
Captain Aubergine was struggling
with injury and spent the last half hour
in the centre circle, where he was cau-
tioned for a 2 footed, late sliding tackle
in an attempt to stop their centre mid
playing football... Ever again. This
forced Toby and makeshift left back
You’d think they were jumping for a gold bar or something judging by
the desperation in their expressions
“Take those socks back to Debenhams now! Go on! Shove off!”
Tarik inside to form a back 3, but Lob-
ster and co., a la the great AC Milan de-
fence of the early 90s, held firm. With
2 minutes left, IC pulled one back with
an acrobatic effort from Sim following
a corner. A great finish from the Sri
Lankan, Garo was over the moon that
IC football were displaying their char-
acteristic racial diversity.
With 30 seconds to go the 4s won
a free kick on the halfway line. After
kicking the ball away, QM’s centre mid
tookoffenceatsomecolourfullanguage
from the Lobster. Both men waded
into each other and the QM midfielder
threw a punch that was dodged by Ed
with footwork Ricky Hatton should
make note of. The aggressor was sent
off and, from the free kick, Toby swung
in a cross that fell to Matty who, with
the ball on a platter, passed it in from
the edge of the box. 3-3. Final whistle
and a great point for the 4s.
The story of the match was not over,
however, as QM’s red-carded player
went on a manhunt for the ref and
planted a cracking headbutt onto his
nose. Before the ref could get tooled up
or summon IC’s favourite public serv-
ice, the police, the QM player had leg-
ged it, but it was IC who pulled off the
greater escape providing a platform for
the greatest ULU Division 1 ascension
in the league history.
Ed Lobb (right) promoting his latest piece of literature with one of his
many fans, when he’s not dodging punches

