felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Déjà vu
Except it wasn’t Zidane and it wasn’t Materazzi.
Find out who was involved on page 34
On Friday 16th December 19 intrepid
Hockey club members set sail down
the M40 towards Oxford. Most of the
group went with DR on the minibus,
but four adventurous members were
elected(/forced by Sieve) to take the
Oxford tube. This turned out to be
much better as we had lots of room
and were able to consume large quan-
tities of Haribo! The adventurous four
bumped into the rest just outside our
hostel in the centre.
After getting everyone booked in,
we headed into the town centre for
our first night out. We stopped off
at Pizza Hut on the way in, but some
people took exception to having to
beg/shout/cajole the waiters into serv-
ing us food and went up the road for
a much cheaper and tastier pub meal.
Hockey freshers tour to Oxford(’s nightclubs)
Hockey
Oxford University 4
Imperial College 2
Ian Lawrence
We met up with them in the Goose
and the drinking games commenced.
After one too many “masters” (includ-
ing spider man master, thumb master,
head master, air-raid master and Jack
master!) there was a bit too much
chaotic behaviour and we bid a hasty
retreat! Round the corner our guide
for the weekend, Fourplay, led us to a
pokey little club that we quickly made
our own. The rest of the evening was
spent dancing, drinking crap sugary
drinks, stopping the crazy guy fighting
with everyone in our club and laugh-
ing at the copious amounts of sharking
taking place!
On Saturday morning everyone
blearily stumbled out of bed in time
for the hostel’s breakfast. After some
shuttling in the minibus, everyone got
to St Edward’s school in time. We met
up with Moonie, Jammy Dodger and
Toadfish, who were too cool to come
on Friday night and had a little tourna-
ment amongst ourselves. The captains
of the sides were all freshers and the
winning one would captain us against
the Oxford Blues side on Sunday (I
think this is why Star Trek threw the
game!). With Jess the eventual winning
captain and looking forward to the next
day we had the afternoon to go shop-
ping. Specifically for white shirts from
Primark which were graffitied with ap-
propriate slogans and comments from
other club members…
These artistic shirts were worn to
the curry house for the start of the
evening’s entertainment. By this time
our numbers had swelled to 31 and the
curry house looked a bit shocked when
we turned up. Despite having obvi-
ously laid out long tables for us, they
were still unsure if we had booked or
not! The food was pretty good, and as
the booze was bring your own, the Tes-
co’s down the road did a roaring trade
that night! We decamped to a local
pub for an impromptu fine circle led
by the night’s fine master Cotton-Eyed
Joe. While we didn’t have enough time
for everyone’s fines, all important par-
ticipants in the previous night’s misde-
meanours got their punishments!
It was a short walk from here to the
night club, in somebody’s basement!
(or so it seemed!) Some people didn’t
feel like clubbing two nights in a row
and went off and played cards back at
the hostel (mostly guys, so not strip
poker, I hope!). For those of us it was
a pretty carnage-filled night, with lots
more sharking and drinking! I also
bumped into the Oxford Blues captain
who were going to play us the next
day, good to see they prepare for their
matches as thoroughly as we do!
We had a fairly relaxed start to the
Sunday morning, cleared out of the
hostel and got a cooked breakfast and
coffee from a nearby pub, just the thing
to wake you up! We went to the Oxford
Brookes pitch to play the Oxford Blues
at 2pm. Yours truly was umpiring and
while it started off as a friendly, both
teams quickly got very competitive!
We were worried we would get sound-
ly destroyed by a club whose first team
plays in BUSA premier league, but that
wasn’t the case. It was very competitive
the whole way through, but the differ-
ence between the teams did prove to be
a couple of Oxford first teamers link-
ing up well. We started well by scoring
the first goal, and soon led 2-1 thanks
to an awesome run by Shipman. In the
end it was 4-2 to Oxford, but consider-
ing the number of freshers and the lack
of sleep from the night before, it was a
pretty good result. Everyone got show-
ered and changed and then we tried to
head off, though there was one detour
to the hostel to pick up a wallet, and
then back to the pitch to pick some left
kit; freshers, eh? Eventually everyone
got home: tired, hungover and broke!
It’s been a great season so far for the
1st XV rugby team and they were ea-
ger to maintain their form in their last
away match in 2007 against University
of Hertfordshire 1st. Having arrived at
their ground, which also serves as the
Saracens Academy training facility,
everyonewantedtoshowwhodeserved
to be top of the table. Our opponents
were also out for revenge, however, af-
ter their narrow 20-19 loss at Fortress
Harlington earlier this term.
The wanna-be Saracens players
didn’t look so fit during their warm-
up, though, and that proved to be det-
rimental to their game.
Although Imperial dominated from
the off, the score didn’t change imme-
diately. Imperial got a catch-and-drive
try after another amazing line-out but
that was about it. Herts fought back
with a penalty but that was as close as
they could get to Imperial’s try-line.
They never looked like pressuring for a
try. Then, Flannan O’Mahoney got his
first try of the season on the left-hand
corner after some great phases. Alex-
ander Johnstone seemed frightened
of reaching his 100 point-mark for the
term and missed both conversions. Im-
perial then eased off and didn’t score
for the rest of the half.
The opponents almost got back into
the game with turnovers at rucks and
mauls but it was great fitness and sup-
port play that got Imperial back on the
scoreboard.
Alex Johnstone finished off a try un-
der the posts after a great break by Joe
Brown. The conversion was good and
the team then started to put on some
very nice attacking rugby. This result-
ed in another stunning try by James
Fletcher, literally a millimeter away
from the left touch-line after some
great phases. Equally important was a
draw pass from Man of the Match Tom
Zeal, who did what he had done the
whole game, arriving in support at the
right time. Another penalty from Alex
Johnstone brought the final result to
27-3 and the feeling of a great term for
Imperial 1st XV.
Imperial dominated from the first
kick-off with a very strong pack and
excellent line-outs. In addition, fly-half
Joe Brown again controlled the game
remarkably well. The only Herts player
who showed a glimpse of what he was
capable of was their fly-half but flank-
ers Nick Johnstone and James Pettit
put so much pressure on him that he
could never deliver any good balls.
However, the season is far from over,
and with the upcoming Varsity match
there’s still plenty to shoot for.
Rugby 1sts finish
2007 on a high
Rugby
Hertfordshire Men’s 1st XV 3
Imperial Men’s 1st XV 27
Max Joachim
BUSA Rugby Union
South East 1A
P W D L Diff Pts
1 Imperial 10 8 0 2 135 24
2 Brunel 9 6 0 3 63 18
3 Portsmouth 10 6 0 4 130 18
4 RUMS 10 5 1 4 7 16
5 BUCKS 9 4 0 5 -99 12
6 GKT 9 4 0 5 26 12
7 Hert’shire 9 3 1 5 -70 10
8 Middlesex 10 1 0 9 -192 3
4 parts debauchery, 1 part hockey
in dreamy Oxfored

