science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
4 felix Friday 11 January 2008
Science
Science Editor – Ed Henley
Monopolar disorder for Maxwell II
B = 0. This equation,
one of Maxwell’s Famous
Four, is writ in stone for
many physicists, who of-
ten remember it as being
equivalent to the statement “there are
no magnetic monopoles”. However, a
recent letter to Nature verges on the
iconoclastic, as it suggests that monop-
oles may in fact be found in a type of
magnetic material known as spin ice.
To understand what a monopole
means, and tackling what Castelnovo
et al. have found, it’s worth having a
closer look at the equation above. This
states that the divergence of the mag-
netic field is zero, meaning that isolat-
ed sources (or sinks) of magnetic field
do not exist – they must always come
in pairs, a source and a sink. In day-to-
day language, this tells you that a mag-
net always has a north and a south pole
– it isn’t possible to find a magnet with
only a north (or south) pole.
If one imagines a box around an or-
dinary magnet, the number of mag-
netic field lines coming out of the box
from the north pole of the magnet will
be exactly balanced by the number of
field lines entering the box and going
to the south pole. Attempts to break
this magnet and separate the two poles
will be thwarted. Where the break oc-
curs, a new pair of poles will be cre-
ated, leading to two smaller magnets,
each with a north and a south pole.
The total number of field lines emerg-
ing from the original box (or indeed
from smaller boxes around each of the
smaller magnets) will still be zero. This
inability to separate the sources and
sinks of magnetic field – effectively
positive and negative magnetic charge
– is in contrast to the sources and sinks
of electric field, electrons and protons,
which can be isolated. Indeed, the first
of Maxwell’s equations tells you this –
the divergence of the electric field is
non-zero; the total number of electric
field lines coming out of a box enclos-
ing electric charge is proportional to
the amount of charge in the box.
However, although monopoles ap-
pear to be absent at all scales from
the macroscopic to the subatomic, the
statement that they do not exist is ex-
perimental – they have never been ob-
served. Yet some theories, such as the
Grand Unified Theories (GUT) which
try to link all the forces in nature, pre-
dict that they should exist. Accord-
ingly, various experiments have been
run to try to look for them, but thus
far have borne little in the way of fruit,
certainly nothing universally believed.
Magnetic monopoles, if they exist, ap-
pear to be exceedingly rare.
Yet, the observant reader may ask, if
one puts two smaller magnets end-to-
end, the adjacent north and south pole
Classically forbidden, magnetic monopoles may in fact be allowed in certain types of "spin ice". Pretty cool...
cancel, leaving the north and south
poles at the further ends. If one contin-
ues to add magnets to each end, creat-
ing a string of dipoles (north and south
pole pairs), does one not get a magnet
long enough that locally (imagine a
small box almost encompassing each
end) one effectively has a monopole
at each end of the string? It turns out
that separating the monopoles by add-
ing dipoles in this fashion requires en-
ergy. Castelnovo et al. point out that in
a vacuum, one has to expend a lot to
conjure up the required dipoles in be-
tween, and even in an ordinary magnet
(effectively made up of many dipoles,
predominantly aligned in one direc-
tion), one has to expend energy form-
ing domain walls (boundaries separat-
ing regions of perfectly aligned dipoles)
along the length of the string.
A team of researchers from the Uni-
versities of Warwick, Edinburgh, Dun-
dee and the Czech Republic’s Institute
of Biophysics have discovered a new
light-activated platinum-based com-
pound that is 80 times more powerful
than similar cancer treatments.
While commonly used platinum-
based anticancer compounds such
as cisplatin are successful cytotoxic
agents - they are poisonous to cells -
their use is limited due to the frequent
development of resistance to treatment
and side-effects. Such side-effects arise
when healthy tissues are killed along-
side the cancer cells. Light-activated
cancer therapy offers the potential for
doctors to target treatments at tumours
with great precision and is already used
with some success for the treatment of
non-melanoma skin cancers and other
cancers such as tumors of the brain,
lung and bladder.
The team, headed by Professor Pe-
ter Sadler at Warwick, has shown that
the compound, also known by the
catchy name of “trans, trans, trans-
[Pt(N3)2(OH)2(NH3)(py)]”, is highly
stable and non-toxic if left in the dark.
But if light falls on it, it becomes much
less stable and highly toxic to cancer
cells. In fact, in tests conducted on
various human cancer cell lines, once
activated by exposure to UV light the
compound was 13-80 times more cyto-
toxic than cisplatin and was also able to
kill cisplatin-resistant cancer cells.
What makes this compound remark-
able is its high stability in the dark
(important for a photochemothera-
peutic agent as this allows it to reach
target sites before photoactivation) and
unique mechanism of action, which
enables it to kill cancer cells resistant
to other drugs. Professor Peter Sadler
said of their discovery: “Light activa-
tion provides its massive toxic power
and also allows treatment to be tar-
geted much more accurately against
cancer cells.”
The compound has the potential for
use in the treatment of surface cancers.
Patients would be treated in a darkened
environment with light directed at the
cancer cells containing the compound,
thus activating the compound and se-
lectively killing those cells. Normal
cells exposed to the compound would
be protected by keeping the patient
in darkness until the compound has
passed out of the patient.
Speaking to the Guardian, Josephine
Querido, of Cancer Research UK, said:
“Developing treatments that attack
cancer cells but leave healthy tissue
unharmed is the holy grail of cancer
research.”
Professor Martin Glennie, of South-
ampton University, said the approach
was promising, but was more cautious
about its life-saving potential. “It is
very rarely the primary cancer that kills
you. Usually it’s the cancers that form
after it spreads, because they get to the
lungs, or the brain and everywhere else.
It’s impossible to target those because
often you don’t know where they are.”
Nevertheless, although in the earliest
stages of development, the research-
ers are hopeful that in a few years their
compound will offer a glimmer of hope
to some cancer patients.
In summary, in order to separate a
pair of monopoles to infinity (a sce-
nario in which each end of the string
could certainly be considered locally
as a monopole), one would require an
infinite amount of energy. Since this is
energy is not available, the energy cost
of creating a string means it can only
reach a finite length (about a thou-
sandth of a millimetre in an ordinary
magnet) – the monopoles at each end
are “confined”.
However, the authors, led by Clau-
dio Castelnovo from Oxford’s Rudolf
Peierls Centre for Theoretical Phys-
ics, have shown that in certain types
of spin-ice, it is theoretically possible
to create dipole strings of any length
– the energy cost does not diverge to
infinity as the string is lengthened, so
deconfined monopoles are possible.
These spin-ice compounds, which
contain the rare-earth elements Dys-
prosium and Holmium (10 points to
the reader who’s ever heard of these
before) have a unique structure, which
lead to a residual disorder in the di-
poles at very low temperatures, where
normal ferromagnetic materials are or-
dered. This structure imposes an “ice
rule”, governing the orientation of the
dipoles at each vertex of the structure
– 2 pairs of dipoles must point into
the dipole, and 2 out. Local violations
can occur (3 in at one vertex) provided
they are balanced (by 3 out at a neigh-
bouring vertex). These imbalances are
not monopoles in the classical sense of
fundamental particles with a net mag-
netic charge, being instead examples of
what is known as an emergent quasip-
article – effective particles which arise
due to the bulk interactions within
elements of a system, and which act
as if they were real particles. Notably,
Castelnovo et al have shown that they
exhibit a phase-change, going from a
monopole gas to a liquid, behaviour
which may explain the residual disor-
der in spin ices at low temperatures.
These spin ices exhibit many other
interesting properties: amongst oth-
ers, the monopoles have a tuneable
magnetic charge, and are a rare exam-
ple of what is known as “fractionalisa-
tion” in 3 dimensions. Oleg Tcherny-
shyov, reviewing the letter in the same
Nature issue, notes that the only other
example which comes close is the frac-
tional quantum Hall effect, which is
has only been confirmed in 2 dimen-
sional systems. And these monopoles
may turn out to be of practical interest
too: Tchernyshyov notes that though
spin ice will not be able to sustain a di-
rect current of magnetic monopoles, it
may be possible to generate an alter-
nating magnetic current, and that if
work progresses on directly detecting
and manipulating monopoles, as Cas-
telnovo et al. hope, technologies such
as atomic-scale magnetic memories
may be in the offing.
Artificial spin ice, apparently. Looks a bit like that Easter Egg in the old version of Excel. Happy days...
Competition Winners
Congratulations to the winners of last term’s competition! Ben-
jamin Lux, from Electrical Engineering, walked off with the 6-month
New Scientist subscription, while Heather Jackson (Materials) and
Jessica Lo (Maths) got some New Scientist books & USB sticks.
Thanks to all others who took part. In case you were wondering,
correct answers were: 1-B, 2-C, 3-A, 4-C, 5-A, 6-B, 7-A.
Sally Leon
Light: the last thing a cancer cell containing the new compound sees
A shot in the dark? New light-activated anti-cancer compound offers more
Δ Edmund Henley
Science Editor
GILBERTO
MORANDO
AND
CRISTIANO
NISOLI

