6 felix Friday 11 January 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Another theory
Obadah Ghannam
Y
our last edition of the Felix
featured a 3-page dedica-
tion to the opinions of Pi-
etro Aronica regarding the
AB-Soc event with Harun
Yahya. Putting to one side Babuna’s
ability to give a decent speech, I felt
disappointed that Felix failed to publish
the brighter elements of the talk itself.
This would have made Aronica’s opin-
ions easier to understand; and, surely,
this neutral standpoint would have
been the best one for Felix to take?
However, this is not the reason why
I write today. After I read Aronica’s
viewpoint, I wanted to highlight a few
points regarding the understanding
he puts forward. ‘Creationism’ has be-
come a stigmatised word, enshrouded
in thoughts of superstition and unsci-
entific conclusions. Let me put for-
ward, plainly and simply, the thoughts
that have led me to accept the idea of
creationism. I believe in the existence
of a ‘designer’, someone above and
beyond the realms of matter, whose
existence is bound not by the laws of
time or physics, nor even by the laws
of the universe. The ‘designer’ can-
not be given the image of man, nor
any other conceptualised image that
may come to mind – giving him an
eye like ours for example, must mean
that he needs to blink, and is there-
fore dependant on blinking to be able
to see properly. I therefore don’t know
what form this ‘designer’ takes, but I
know that he must be out there. Why
do I know he exists? Firstly, we must
question the origins of this universe.
Originally, scientists believed in the
Steady State Theory, suggesting the
universe has always existed. This was
all right, until Edward Hubble came up
with his Big Bang theory. He observed
things like red shift, and cosmic radia-
tion that suggested an explosion as the
possible start of our universe. Current
science still stands by this. This is im-
portant. Why? Well, logically speaking,
an expansion must mean that the uni-
verse was smaller yesterday, and even
smaller the day before. Take this back
many years, just before the ‘Big Bang’,
and you would find a point of zero vol-
ume, when there was simply a state of
nothingness. What does this mean?
Well, simply, it raises the question of
how something, comes from nothing.
Many theories have emerged. I looked
into these – the Oscillating Universe
Model being one – and found some
scientific and logical inconsistencies
with the ideas. I then came across this
idea of a designer, defined in the way
I described above, and I found that on
many spheres it made sense. He wasn’t
created, because he does not have
a beginning (a law of this universe),
and could, therefore, easily have been
behind the transition from nothing-
ness to something. There may not be
a scientific means to find out how. But
there may never be a scientific way to
measure what happened during this
state of nothingness. And my belief in
this ‘designer’ is congruent with my ob-
servations of ‘design’ in this universe.
So – after all this – all I want to say
is: explore before you deplore. Don’t
brush these ideas away before fully un-
derstanding them. Things are deeper
than a speech and a supposedly poor
presentation may indicate.
Science and theology
I
have not been a reader of the
Felix since my early undergrad
days, but a copy of the Felix I
picked up last term shocked and
saddened me. Now, don’t get
me wrong, I have heard that the Felix
of today is one of the best student pa-
pers around, which is why I was quite
disappointed to read Pietro Aronica’s
treatise on the Ahlul-Bayt Society’s
controversial event on ‘evolutionism’.
I am in a position that perhaps many
others share, which is one of shame.
Although the event was born of good
intentions to promote dialogue, I
found myself quite embarrassed on
one hand by the way in which some of
the contentious arguments were put
across, but, on the other, I was equally
ashamed of the way it was responded
to by the emotionally-charged A-level
biology graduates, which led to the
likes of last edition’s article (you know,
the one with Darwin’s picture next to
Hitler’s. Tsk tsk).
I have come to realise that this stems
from a deeper problem which has ap-
peared amongst the general public,
which I think, threatens to pull us back
to the wrong side of the Renaissance.
The western world was lured out of
its dark ages by a movement in which
learning and thought were injected
into society, but there now exist peo-
ple who abuse this beautiful ancient
logic to push their beliefs on to oth-
ers, under the banner of ‘science’. This
is a plea to all those who hold science
dear to not jump on the bandwagon of
mixing science with their theological
beliefs. Whether you believe the uni-
verse was created from nothingness/
timelessness, whether you believe al-
iens came down from planet X to give
us their DNA, or whether you believe
there is no ‘God’ at all, please do not al-
low these beliefs to restrict your mind.
Of course I respect people’s beliefs,
whatever they are, but I hope we can
all agree that science has nothing to
do with theology. Science is about this
universe we live in, it is about what we
can measure, observe or at least infer;
most of all, it is about results. Science
does not claim to deal with the exist-
ence or non-existence of a creator;
science pertains to this four dimen-
sional box we are all in. Please do not
be fooled into following popularisers
(read hijackers) of science, no matter
how eloquent their words. After all, we
are at Imperial; so we should promote
responsible science, and not some sort
of religious-‘scientism’ alternative.
Coming back to the point, there was
an understandable backlash at the evo-
lutionism event, because many athe-
ists’ beliefs were challenged, and differ-
ent people respond to this in different
ways. As I mentioned earlier, I do not
agree with some of the material used
to attack atheism, because atheism,
like theism, cannot be challenged us-
ing science. However, I must voice my
protest at Mr Aronica doing the exact
same thing, only in a ruder way. An
hour or so after I read the offensive ar-
ticle, I was invited to a Christmas carol
concert by a cheerful, smiling Mormon
in the street. Now although I do not
agree with the Mormons’ theology, the
good manners with which he conduct-
ed himself made me think well of Mor-
monism (if that’s what you call it); now
imagine what someone would think
of science after reading an article in
which someone uses it to defend their
beliefs by speaking vulgarly of oth-
ers’. As much as it pains me to admit
it, there are self-righteous ‘scientists’
among us who are more indoctrinated
than those whom they seek to humili-
ate. Of course, I do not mean to put
down the discussion of theology, but
rather I want to stimulate responsible
discussions in the correct arenas, and
I look forward to ICU Islamic Society’s
annual Islam Awareness Week in week
6 of this term, to clear up some mis-
conceptions. It is only if we prevent
our personal beliefs (atheistic or theis-
tic) from affecting our science, that we
can remove these mental handbrakes
that restrict our learning, and bring
back the pace of human thought to
match that of eras past.
Salman Butt
interfaith@imperial
5pm
thurs
17th Jan
in the Chaplaincy Centre
for anyone interested in
promoting dialogue
between faiths.
more details on website
open meeting
Darwinism lecture controversy
Readers take umbrage at Pietro Aronica’s article on Ahlul Bayt Society’s Darwinism lecture in issue 1390
Deputy Editor, Andrew Somerville,
who attended the Creationism lec-
ture responds:
Felix apologises that the article cited
above was not clearly marked as being
part of the comment section, as it was
intended. In publishing said article,
however, we did so in a fairly well bal-
anced fashion, with not one, but three
separate articles covering the lecture.
The first was a purely factual summary
appearing in the News section, with
two contrasting views in the Comment
section, the second of which the Messrs
Ghannam and Butt appear to have
missed, giving two different views of the
same lecture. Mr. Aronica’s piece was
the larger, but the quantity of the sub-
mission is left up to the contributor, and
in no way reflects the views of Felix, nor
the weight that we give to the opinions
of others.
However, I feel I must address some
of the points raised by the above writers
with my own opinion-riddled response.
I believe that the above articles misrep-
resent members of the audience, label-
ling those who were less than enthused
by the speaker as “Atheists.
” In an event
such as this, provocation is rife, and it
was certainly not the audience that cast
the first theo-scient-ism stone. Many
people in the audience that evening, of
all types of spirituality, were offended
by the speaker’s attitude towards sci-
ence, and towards the subject in gener-
al. The placement of Hitler’s image next
to Dawkins’ was not our own: the pres-
entation itself accused Darwin of being
responsible for Hitler, Stalin, Fascism,
Anarchism and Terrorism. To be angry
with such emotive links being drawn
into a “scienctific” debate in such dubi-
ous fashion is understandable.
Felix represents many views, and
on such controversial subjects we can
never please all people, but we strive to
bring balance to all subjects, as Azfarul
Islam’s wonderfully eloquent piece in
the issue concerned shows.
We’ve had enough of the religious
controversy now, though. Please stop
sending us angry theological letters.
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix

