comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
Friday 11 January 2008 felix
Comment
Person of the year 2007
T
he most important per-
son of the 2007, as voted
by TIME magazine, was
Vladimir Putin. And while
I commend his conserva-
tion work with bunnies and his regular
visits to see deprived orphans, it seems
that someone truly deserving has been
overlooked in the selection process. I
feel it’s my duty to give him his due,
ladies and gentlemen Chef… urh…
President Pervez Musharraf.
In 1999 he became leader of Pakistan
through a supposed coup d’etat, but
in reality Musharraf, rather like Presi-
dent Bush, found himself in a job that
he wasn’t qualified for. He was a mili-
tary chef, assigned to work for Prime
Minister Nawaz Sharif and at the time
of the coup d’etat was on an unoffi-
cial holiday in Java. Desperate not be
discovered off duty he rushed back to
Pakistan and through an unfortunate
set of circumstances involving a bowl
of hot soup and Kylie Minogue, found
himself at the head of the military
coup. By no means a power-hungry
maniac, Musharraf spends most of his
time annoyed that running the country
constantly eats into his kitchen time.
He remembers better times when all
he had to do was cook and try to ignore
the monotonous good governance by
playing practical jokes on the other
generals, like putting too much sugar
in their tea. The President sometimes
wonders if they don’t grow suspicious
at the growing incidence of diabetes
amongst high-ranking generals.
It is no secret that Musharraf has
been an enemy of Islamic extremists
and that in this respect he has been a
valuable ally of the West. This can be
traced back to 1990 when his former
boss Nawaz Sharif met with Osama bin
Laden. Musharraf was given the hon-
our of cooking for the gathering. Ap-
parently bin Laden described the goat
served at the meeting as “salty”. Mush-
arraf has not forgotten this stinging
barb and has tried to protect Pakistan
from these culinary philistines.
While he may appear a calculating
individual, manipulating events to his
Person of the year: Guess who
Samuel Black
New year’s resolution: a haircut
I
was miffed by the news from De-
cember’s climate change confer-
ence in Bali that carbon credits
from ‘avoided deforestation’ will
become eligible under the Kyoto
protocol. No longer was this chance
to save wildlife, carbon and money all
together just my little project, because
the grown-ups understood too. I au-
tomatically began to convince myself
that Bali was clearly too little too late,
and was seriously upgrading the de-
mands I wanted to lay before humanity
when it struck me: I am a ninny. And
you are too.
We are like Kevin and Perry (who
went large), you and I, when we insist
that the world is a terrible and doomed
place. It’s always adolescents locked in
their own rooms that think that only
they can see the big picture. The Kevins
inside us are saying that progress in
Bali is not enough, but Kevin cannot
see past his own fringe. This is because
his beliefs are actually just expressions
of psychological, hormone-dependent
need. Reason following passion. The
deconstruction is slightly disconcert-
ing, but worthwhile, because what is
the opposing view to teenage discon-
tent? It is the view presumably held by
the heroes of that fantastic film, Mr
and Mrs Patterson, Kevin’s parents
(who are seen gloriously copulating on
a big screen in Manumission).
This view is optimism about the fu-
ture of humanity, and of course there’s
little point caring about the environ-
ment if you aren’t fundamentally op-
timistic. This implies a belief that as
science divests the world of its magic,
and as we come to a better understand-
ing of our mind, we don’t expect to di-
minish the quality of life. I agree, very
little can diminish the wonder of Jes-
sica Alba’s posterior; certainly not the
scientific fact that it is perfect, with a
waist to hip ratio of 0.69. If you are
striving for future people to be okay,
then why not be okay today yourself?
Because it’s not so bad. I awoke to
Gordon Brown’s appearance on the
Today programme this morning, and
he was so very irritating it helped me
get out of bed! I turned off the radio
immediately, by which stage he had
stressed seventy times that he had to
make “tough choices”. But I’m not
worried, because he will choose badly,
and will be replaced by a man with very
clear skin, who realises that I don’t un-
derstand why everything in this coun-
try except the fox is allowed to go to the
dogs, but is decent enough to arrange a
photo opportunity demonstrating that
he does understand, and doesn’t like it
either. And I saw another photograph,
of Nicolas Sarkozy wearing silver avia-
tors. Brilliant!
All I’m saying is, try being content
for a change. Don’t make a solo charge
on a machine-gun post when your
comrades in arms are back in Blighty,
lying in the long grass by the river sip-
ping ginger beer and rolling around
in haystacks with Mary-Lou from the
farm. Get back on the landing craft
and go for a potter around the harbour,
because the sun’s out. And get a hair
cut.
Fatness
own ends, he is in fact much more
down to earth. When asked to allow
free and fair elections he usually re-
plies by asking for the salt.
His suspension of the Pakistani con-
stitution last year had little to do with
Machiavellian manoeuvrings; rather
he had mistakenly swapped it for the
recipe to his apple stew. He feared
that if he allowed normal public life
to continue someone might notice
that the right to public assembly had
suddenly become the right to simmer
for 20 minutes. It was only when the
Supreme Justice Iftikhar Chaudhry,
insulted his soufflé that Musharraf
got mad and undermined the judicial
system, but give the man a break. He
spent hours on that soufflé.
President Musharraf has not been
afraid to fight extremists in Pakistan
and for this, as well as his delicious
chicken jalfrezi, he should be com-
mended. Admittedly he has tried only
half-heartedly to bring democracy to
Pakistan, but for a man whose primary
skill is chopping carrots, he hasn’t done
all that badly. If this doesn’t convince
you then just remember that without
Musharraf, my Person of the Year for
2007, you wouldn’t be able to get de-
cent naan bread this side of the Rad-
cliffe line.
S
o I’ve been told my last article
was ‘controversial’. Because
everyone knows whenever
someone says one of those
evil four letter words a fairy
dies. Well fuck. I was never a big fan
of fairies anyway, so I don’t really care
much if Peter Pan loses his Tinkerbell.
I’m pretty sure those kids would’ve
started experimenting with that faerie
dust after they got into high school.
For the PC police: I’m not going to
shove garden rakes up your ass. Not
even if you say please. This is a univer-
sity where the union toilets have vend-
ing machines that sell sex toys; use one
of those. Also, I only have one rake and
I need it to scoop up leaves.
Onto the article: Fat people (mor-
bidly obese in PC, though I don’t know
why you’re still reading since I won’t be
translating everything). They’re easy
to make fun of, and you know you’re
relatively safe because unless you get
cornered you can always outwalk them
if they try to sit on you. Britain is sup-
posedly so full of lard by now that the
tube should be full of it; filling up two
seats with the armrest comfortably
wedged somewhere far up between
the two halves of their asscheeks. Yet
when I finish the sudoku in my free pa-
per and look around, I don’t find my-
self swimming in fat folds. My powers
of deduction thus tell me that either
the ones skewing the data are all too
huge to get out of their homes or we’re
being lied to.
Of course there are still some read-
ing Heat magazine and wearing loose
black clothes to try and hide their love
handles, but it’s hardly a crisis (btw –
black really stops being slimming when
waist circumference > chest circumfer-
ence). There are two opposing views
regarding the issue. On one hand, it’s
the latest fashionable epidemic for
politicians (and Jamie Oliver) to worry
about, how in evolutionary terms our
blood is slowly turning into gravy and
our shadows start gaining mass. On
the other side of the equation there are
doctors and feminists slating size zero
models on the catwalk. These mixed
messages of which way your curves
should go is probably the cause of bad
things in the world such as bird flu and
the credit crunch.
Stick-thin models really do take the
piss, though, living off a diet of 3 lettuce
leaves and half a carrot a day. That’s
less than what a starving African or-
phan gets. And even then their meal is
supplemented by a glass of milk from
an Oxfam goat. The fashion industry is
all fucked up. We should boycott them
by burning all our clothes to speed up
global warming to make it hot enough
for everyone to walk around naked.
I understand your fear that humans
will go the way of the Morlocks and
the Eloi, turning into a population of
fatties and thinnies. But worry not,
for at some point fat men will neither
be able to fish their genitals from be-
tween their fatfolds nor be able to tell
whether it’s thick thighs or vagina
they’re humping. And the stick wom-
en won’t want to get preggers because
it’d ruin their perfect body. Eventually
both extremes would hit an evolution-
ary dead end and die out, leaving only
Chinese and Indians to overpopulate
the world.
Now go vote me as year rep; I’m
friendly and approachable.
Do fat people really exist or did Jamie Oliver just make them up?
Noel Forrest
James Wang

