8 felix Friday 11 January 2008
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment
It feels good to be back
A
h, it’s so good to be back;
and how nice to see you
all again. Please, please,
have a seat, take a load
off, make yourselves
more comfortable. Now can I get you
anything, anything at all? May I suggest
the 2008? It looks set to be a good year,
a little bit delicate around the edges,
perhaps, but with a strong body and a
smooth yet delightfully fleshy texture.
It’s very popular at the moment, and
looks set to rival some of the great vin-
tages of recent years.
I’d heartily recommend it with an Ol-
ympiad à la Pekinois with its Do-Ping
sauce, the highlight of our summer
menu. You could, of course, always try
the prime cut 12-ounce American Elec-
tion; which I think deserves to be well-
done, for a change. Perhaps you would
prefer something a little less common?
Something more suited to the refined
palate? A highlight of our winter menu
is the spicy South Asian or Pakistani
chicken, so tender and so well-cooked
that it literally falls to pieces.
Perhaps I could tempt you with a
Creationist hotpot? A delightful mish-
mash of lightly battered arguments,
cooked evidence and half-baked con-
jectures covered with a savoury puff
pastry filled with hot air. Delicious
with a pinch of salt. No? Quite frankly
I don’t blame you – rather too difficult
to swallow.
Maybe I could interest you with a
starter, then? One of the old favourites
is the Middle Eastern soup; especially
popular at this time of year, it’s a dense,
murky and nutritious mix exploding
with flavour. It’s been a classic for so
long that I really can’t see it ever falling
from the public eye. If you’re looking
for something a little lighter, perhaps
I could suggest our signature salad:
the “Putin”, a Caesar with Russian
dressing?
A new addition to our menu is the
LHC alphabet soup, with a rich help-
ing of elementary particles cooked at
high temperatures on the side. For an
additional 1.7 billion Euros, the chef
will garnish it with a delicate Higgs Bo-
son gratin. I would advise that particu-
lar item for the more educated palate,
though I’m sure anyone could feel its
benefits.
How about a dessert? I’m afraid that
the choice of sweets we offer is a little
bit uncertain, due to creative differenc-
es in the kitchen. At the moment there
is a small misunderstanding between
our pastry chef and our sommelier as
to whether or not a Bombe Surprise
would set the tone for the new 2008.
We might, however, have a baked
Alaska ready for you sometime this
year, though the chefs seem to be in
disagreement as to how realistic a
prediction that is. So I would advise
against making preparations for such
an eventuality, although anything could
happen – I’m not a cuisine sceptic, you
know, far from it.
Would you care for a hot drink? No?
Maybe a soft drink, then – a glass of
Afghani Coke? How about some fresh,
clear sub-Saharan water? No? Nothing
at all? Are you quite sure? Absolutely
positive? All right then, I’ll leave you to
keep reading your paper in peace. Just
allow me to wish you a Happy New
Year, compliments of the chef – the
very least we could do for our regular
customers.
Something to look forward to in ‘08: The US circus, I mean, elections
Gilead Amit
A
merica is going to change
hands this year, and after
eight fucking years the
only thing people can
muster is more Bush
jokes. More of them. Hundreds of the
fuckers, like it’s an End Of Line sale at
Harrods’ Old Internet Jokes depart-
ment. George Bush became President
of the United States before I could fac-
torise quadratics – he represents my
entire memory of American govern-
mental policy. He has defined a huge
chapter in our teenage and not-so-
teenage years, and the best most of you
can manage is to jeer and spit at both
him and those contending to replace
him. It really is a case of same shit, dif-
ferent year, isn’t it?
This year, America will choose some-
one else. That’s big, to me. That’s prob-
ably the biggest event of 2008 right
there, no matter what else might hap-
pen in the next twelve months. What
I’m sure is going to happen is that the
papers are going to demand something
of the American people, they’re going
to use History as a personified noun
and make allusions to it being the ‘last
chance’ and maybe include a photo of
a sad child in front of an American flag
for good measure.
And that’s fine, because everyone
knows that people who write comment
columns are idiots who get enjoyment
out of displaying their genitalia via
the medium of the English language.
Perhaps, in fact, you’re with them in
standing behind the rippling stars-
and-stripes, a single tear rolling down
your cheek as you look up and slightly
to the left as Frank Sinatra crackles in
the background – Oh beautiful, for
spacious skies…
Give me a break. America doesn’t
need your condescending banter and it
sure as shit doesn’t need you spitting on
the mistakes of their leaders. If there’s
one thing it could do with – it and the
rest of this planet’s population – is for
this green and pleasant land to get on
with life. Because while everyone the
world over gawps at a black man and
a bigot banging their heads together
on soapboxes, and news agencies from
here to Shanghai drone on for hours
about the fecklessness of the American
people and the hypocrisy of their for-
LOL Bush. Am I right folks?
A. Geek
eign policy, no-one at all mentions us.
Not a single, solitary peep.
In 1957 a whole bunch of countries
thought it would be a fine idea to band
together and be a bit jollier with each
other than they had been previously.
Although since meetings before then
had largely involved chlorine gas and
genocide, the bar was set fairly low, and
the fact that it had taken them nearly
two centuries to realise that America
had the right idea all along wasn’t a
great indicator of intelligence either.
Nevertheless, the foundations for the
European Union were laid, with a mere
six countries on the member list. Fifty
years on, and like a primary school
craze it’s gone from an elite clique of
the cool and revolutionary to being a
really rubbish distraction that every-
one’s gotten a bit bored of and is only
exciting to the social outcasts that just
figured out how it works.
I confess I’m not a huge fan of Europe
– I’m English, and so at some level I
hate any country whose language has
male and female nouns. But since, ap-
parently, the world is on the verge of
collapse, I thought the idea was to do
the honourable, Hollywood-disaster-
movie thing and band together to fight
the forthcoming Armageddon. Possi-
bly with Bruce Willis playing the part
of Gordon Brown.
In its place we have two groups of
idiots – the ‘Euro Sceptics’ that make
the BNP look well thought-out and or-
ganised by comparison, and the ‘Euro
Maniacs’ who spend their days calming
down the French and practicing being
anal.
I mean, sure – America invaded
Iraq, refused to sign the Kyoto agree-
ment and threatened to abduct Brit-
ish citizens without due process. But
at least they did something. Can you
imagine the EU invading somewhere?
Although, to their credit, the EU are
fairly useless when it comes to getting
treaties signed, too. We wouldn’t know
organisation if it led us into the House
of Commons and gave us an enema
with a short length of hosepipe and
some sulphuric acid.
Ignoring Goldman Sachs’ list of ris-
ing countries, there are three major su-
perpowers ready to rise and the United
States doesn’t show any sign of slowing
down either. Yet in Europe, we seem to
be quietly bemused, like the one guy
in your Year 11 class who didn’t have
the internet and didn’t really get what
the fuss was about. Maybe if we ignore
world events they’ll sort of go away
and we can return to the age of colo-
nies and orgies.
Well, we can’t. It’s 2008 and it’s time
to bloody get on with it. Who cares if
you want the single currency? Does
it really matter if Turkey isn’t part of
Europe? Are hard-working and enthu-
siastic migrants really that much of a
burden? It’s time to ignore the minor
issues, because quite frankly we don’t
have the luxury of being picky any
more. In the disaster movie, we’re ap-
proaching that fateful scene where the
boring and expendable characters are
violently killed off and if we don’t do
something about it it’s going to be us.
So whether you’re a supporter or
not, at least voice your opinion this
year. At least try to push the debate,
to force some progress. 2008 could be
your last chance. It could be the year
History judges us by. All together now,
God save our gracious Queen…
It’s official. Bush jokes are no longer funny. So behave
“
I confess
I’m not a huge
fan of Europe –
I’m English, and
so I hate any
country whose
language has
male and female
nouns

