Page <
> FELIX Tuesday, October 10, 1972
FOLKESTONE
CENTRE O
F
SAFE REVIVAL
Once again Folkestone leads the motoring world. Al-
ready it has acknowledged the growing interest in safes
by displaying welcome signs to the drivers of those
cumbersome vehicles: "FOLKESTONE WELCOMES
SAFE DRIVERS."
I spoke to one enthusiastic owner of a steel-grey
combination model: "Yes, Eve had this Chubbs for a
good three weeks now. It's very reliable and so quiet.
"Of course, the wife didn't like it at first—'What will
the neighbours say?' she said — but once she'd been
inside it a few times she soon came around to my way
of thinking.
"You have to be careful enough — I've heard of some
hooligans who go around blowing up safes. Can't un-
derstand it myself . . . "
Now to the practical side. Where can you buy a safe?
1 went to see a South London dealer who prefers to re-
main anonymous.
"Safes? There's good money in them. You have to
choose your time carefully — middle of the night is
best.
"No, I don't have one here — you could try the bank
round the corner though."
Driving a safe is a simple technique to master. One
hand on the steering handle, the other to turn the dial.
It does help having a good memory for figures.
One final word of warning — while most people now
accept and even welcome safe drivers, several well-
known safebreakers have had unfortunate brushes with
the law.
Lost and Found
On Wednesday afternoon, as a change to all the
mundane and unimaginative sports, such as rugby and
football, a few dedicated (and twisted) Guildsmen de-
cided to right one of the faults of last year's exec. At
the beginning of last year a motion was passed to set in
concrete an anchor, believed to be UC's mascot. This
was never done until these intrepid artists decided to
sculpture the work in Beit Quadrangle.
As it happened an odd bag of cement was in the
Union Store and sand was procured after a trip to the
W2 site. Then our dynamic heroes, each armed with a
; >ol, set forth to complete this righteous adventure,
before closing time that afternoon, the anchor had been
duly set in concrete and our workers retired to slake
their thirsts at a local hostelry.
The sad (?) ending to this true-to-life drama is that
the anchor disappeared before the concrete had hard-
ened. Was this dastardly crime committed by UC, re-
trieving their unsightly object, or was it coincidence
that Beit Hall dinner was on Thursday night??
Films
"TEN DAYS WONDER"
(Director: Claude Chabrol) (Academy 1)
What would it be like for a man to play God?
In his adaptation of Ellery Queen's novel Claude
Chabrol gives us a chilling insight of the inevitable
consequences of such an action.
Charles (played by Anthony Perkins with all the
intensity which made him so perfect in Psycho)
wakes from a nightmare to find himself alone in a
strange hotel room in Paris with blood on his
hands. He begs for help from his philosophy pro-
fessor Paul (Michael Piccoli) and persuades him to
pay a visit to his step-father's estate to find a log-
ical solution to his problems. Paul arrives at the
estate to discover that it is out of step with time:
the car which collects him from the station, the
furniture, the fashions, all belong in 1925, for Theo
Van Horn, the stepfather (Orson Welles) has
decreed that time, at least on his estate, will stand
still at autumn 1925. The other inhabitants of Van
Horn's "world" are Theo's child bride (Marlene
Jobert) who worships him and Theo's brother
Ludovic (Guido Alberti) who is the only person
capable of withstanding his overwhelming pres-
ence. Charles and Helene confess to Paul that they
are lovers and are being blackmailed. Paul allows
himself to become implicated in Charles's clumsy
attempts to buy off the blackmailer and eventually
is forced to return home by Theo.
During the journey the significance of the past
nine days' events dawn on him and he returns to
the estate provoking tragedy to death. Even at this
stage the story hasn't ended and the final reckon-
ing, on the tenth day, is not played out until months
later.
With this film Chabrol has continued to develop
his beautifully atmospheric style which he used to
such effect in "The Butcher" (still at Academy 2).
Chabrol's vision is that of Paul's professor, master
of logic, overcoming the passions of Van Horn to
his puppets by reason alone. Chabrol opens up his
Classical Music
and You
Within a few paces of the Union Building stand
two of London's important musical centres—the
Royal College of Music and the Albert Hall. R.C.M.,
the training ground of tomorrow's maestros, occa-
sionally hold free concerts which are often worth
going to while the Albert Hall maintains the high
musical reputation of London with its many con-
certs (unfortuantely not free unless you happen to
have tails and a violin case handy).
One of the ever popular events which are staged
at the Albert Hall is the Sunday night series of con-
certs as presented by Victor Hochhauser. These
concerts usually provide good performances of
popular works and the one on 2nd October proved
to be no exception. Conducting the Royal Philhar-
monic Orchestra in an all Beethoven evening was
28 year old Andrew Davis.
The programme started with the Egmont Over-
ture and it was soon clear that the conductor was
generating an exciting response from his orchestra.
Next came the 5th Piano Concerto with Miss Moura
Lympany, a frequent performer at the Albert Hall,
as soloist. This was certainly a competent perfor-
mance, both the orchestra and soloist playing well
together and reaching its peak in Miss Lympany's
truly beautiful interpretation of the second move-
ment.
Following the interval the Leonora No. 3 Overture
was played and as the evening progressed there was
no doubt that Andrew Davis was very much in con-
trol. This was particularly evident in his conducting
of the 5th Symphony which terminated the evening.
With the great number of top class performances of
symphonies available on record it is often easy to
be disappointed in the concert hall. Mr. Davis' con-
ducting, however, managed to pass on just that bit
more than a technically correct performance of such
a well known work. Both the intellectual and drama-
tic power of the symphony came across to the audi-
ence and I am sure that much more will be heard of
Andrew Davis in the future.
Sunday, October 15th, at the Albert Hall is an
evening entitled 'A Night in Vienna', mainly music
of Johann Strauss. Details of concerts in both the
Festival and Albert Halls can be found on the notice
board in the college record library together with
other information. If you can't make it to the live
performances there is a good selection of music
on record in the record library.
As mentioned in the last Felix, there will be a
series of lectures on the symphony by Michael Hurd.
Happy listening.
Helene (MARLENE JOBERT) and Theo
(ORSON WELLES) in a scene from " T E N
DAYS W O N D E R " which also stars
Anthony Perkins and Michel Piccoli. Pro-
duced by Andre Genoves and directed by
Claude Chabrol.
intellectual game even further introducing elements
of witchcraft (through a meeting with Van Horn's
mother) and with all manner of theological sym-
bolisms each element finally fitting into the place
decreed it by fate.
Chabrol's associates excel themselves through-
out. Jean Rabier's camera work is excellent from
the carefully angled shots of Charles waking, giv-
ing an intense feeling of disorientation to the dyn-
amics of a car chase. The musical score by Pierre
Jansen is superbly menacing, making excellent
use of electronics.
Chabrol is rapidly developing a style of film-
making which is unique. "Ten Days Wonder" is
just a step towards Chabrol's ideal film—whatever
it may be, but a great one all the same.
ABOVE. Manfred Mann's Earthband, who went
down very well in the Great Hall on Saturday. Ents
would like to apologise for the non-appearance of
Fairport Convention who pulled out on us at very
short notice. With any luck Dick Heckstall-Smith's
band should be appearing in the Great Hall this
Saturday, followed by Lou Reed on the 21st Octo-
ber. Tickets are available now.
Records
(continued from Page 7)
an example. Apart from Cat Stevens' "Portobello
Road", Buddy Holly's "I'm Gonna Love You Too",
very similar to the original, and "I'm Late" by Hil-
liard/Fain, whoever they are, all the songs are
Alun Davies' originals with wistful social comment
and sentimental stuff about poverty, drunks, small
animals and love. Alun's voice, which sounds
uncannily like that of his boss, doesn't help in
establishing this album as an original piece of work,
but if you like Cat Stevens, Neil Young, Jackson
Brown, Jonie Mitchell, Melanie, etc., etc., give this
album a try. I
f you don't . . . forget it.

