Feature
For more than 40 years the refectories A moving story of unfulfilled dreams and empty
at Imperial College have been the , I - F - F I V I_ I • 1 i • » *
targe*/or m«cA criticism.For more stomachs as ttUX goes behind the scenes to spill the
than 30 years Mr Victor Mooney has
been in charge of the refectories. As
Mr Mooney begins his final year in
office, FELIX reporter Hugh Southey
has been behind the scenes in the
refectory system to find out what
really goes on.
Feature
beans on the torrid and steamy events in the
REFECTORY(L-R) Victor Mooney, Refectory Manager—leads from the
front, Martin Parsons, Deputy Refectory
Manager—incompetent. Hugh Southey, Reporter—
gullible.
The day can begin as early as 6:30am for
some refectory staff. Twice a week, on
Tuesdays and Thursdays, there is a
pilgrimage to London's Covent Garden
market where M r Mooney buys salad
vegetables and fruit. Most of the other food
such as vegetables and meat is delivered to
College by wholesalers; students get through
£5.000 worth of food every week!
By 8:00am the full time cooks have arrived
in the Sherfield Building. They start work
immediately, preparing for the day's meals.
At 9:00am they have breakfast—but this is
the last break that they are likely to have until
2:30 or 3:00pm.
After breakfast, begins the long slog
preparing lunch. For the next five hours the
cooks will be working non-stop chopping
vegetables, preparing the food and lifting
heavy pots and pans full of food. And all this
goes on in an increasingly hot and sweaty
atmosphere.
In the past, the refectory has been accused
of being unhygienic. FELIX has regularly
reported cockroaches in College kitchens.
However my experience was that the staff
follow the health acts scrupulously. Work
surfaces are cleaned at least twice a day, no
one is allowed to smoke and store rooms are
cleaned once a day. Anyone who disobeys
this is likely to lose their job.
At 2:30pm after the last students have had
their meal, the refectory staff have to clean
the kitchens before they have their lunch.
The hour's break seems short after five hours
solid work.
After lunch the staff come back to work for
another one and a half hours, preparing food
for the next day. Often, though, there maybe
a formal dinner in the evening in which case
the cooks can expect to work until 8:00 or
9:00pm.
As well as the Sherfield kitchens there is
another large kitchen in Southside. Most of
Southside food consists of food cooked in
Sherfield which is then frozen and
transported to Southside. The staff in
Southside have less work to do than those in
Sherfield since they only have to re-heat the
food.
The food in Southside may sometimes not
be as well cooked as that in Sherfield when
the frozen meals have not been heated
properly.
The work that Mr Mooney's kitchen staff
put in is impressive. The raw materials
bought in are of the highest quality; the coo <s
put in many hours hard slog, working harder
Preparations for a formal dinner in Southside.
Page 6 • • • • • • ^ • • • • • • • • • • M H B
than most industrial workers. What, then, is
the reason for the sometimes poor quality of
the finished product?
The food that leaves the kitchens is not ideal.
This is because the number of staff in the
kitchens means that, by their own admission,
they can not always put on the finishing
touches that can make the difference
between an average meal and a really good
meal.
This problem is compounded by the fact
that at the same time that most members of
staff are working on the lunches for students,
some will be preparing food for formal
dinners, and some for 170 Queensgate, the
Rector's residence. The money made from
formal meals subsidise students' refectory
meals.
Another major problem is the way that the
food is served, and the way that it is stored
before serving. Many of the serving staff are
friendly—however some are downright rude
and seem to have no idea of how to make
food look attractive on a plate.
As in most catering operations, there is a
high turnover of serving staff in the refectory,
which makes it difficult for M r Mooney to
organise a proper training scheme. In the
past, the staff selection procedure has been
poor (resulting in many of his staff coming
from one family in Fulham!). However in
recent years M r Mooney has made a positive
move in improving selection procedures.
Many of his younger members of staff are on
day release catering and management
courses and are of a very high standard.
Mr Mooney is generally agreed by his staff
to be a very good refectory manager. They
respect him because of his willingness to 'lead
from the front'. He quite often rolls up his
sleeves and mucks in with his staff. Many of
his staff would not consider working for
anyone else. His major shortcoming is in his
financial administration of the refectories.
There is a feeling within the Union and
College Block that his a c c o u n t i n g
procedures are unbusinesslike and still in the
financial stone age.
Mr Mooney has been criticised for refusing
to take the advice of College's finance
section. The reasons are complex, but are
said to originate from the College expansion
in the sixties and seventies.
In the fifties Mr Mooney ran an extremely
popular refectory. However Imperial College
expanded and the system was not able to
cope with the increased demand. Thequality
of food suffered and M r Mooney simply lost
track of the financial workings of the enlarged
refectory system.
To help revitalise the refectory system
College brought in Captain Lindley,
domestic secretary at the time. However
there was a clash of personalities between
Captain Lindley and M r Mooney. To prevent
Captain Lindley meddling in the refectories
Mr Mooney fudged and said there was no
proper financial information to act on. M r
' Mooney is said to have been on the defensive
ever since, fending off all suggestions on how
he should bring his financial house in order.
It was suggested to Mr Mooney that using
up to date computer stock control methods it
would be possible to monitor the cost of
individual items of food and price them
accordingly rather than price them in the
current 'guestimate mark-up system'.
Mr Mooney is dragging his heels in
computerising the refectories. Deputy
President Christine Teller succeeded in
persuading refectories to adopt a stock
monitoring system in the bars resulting in a
reduction in the price of a pint. To quote from
Miss Teller's annual report:
"The advantages (in adopting a
computerised stock monitoring system) for
the refectories as a whole could be immense.
However despite the fact that apparently all
parties agreed to the value of this element of
control, the thoroughness with which this
has been prevented has lead me to two
rather unsavoury conclusions, either
College is so incompetent that it cannot set
up one localised financial management/
stock control system or this project is being
deliberately hindered for some reason."
Others feel that the College did not fully
support the refectories as much as they
should. The argument is that College should
have provided the necessary back-up when
the refectory system expanded, rather than
expecting Mr Mooney to cope with a vast and
sudden increase in the capacity of the
refectories.
Other management staff come in for
a great deal of criticism from kitchen staff.
They are felt by the staff to be over-paid and
incompetent. Martin Parsons, M r Mooney's
deputy, is the target for some of the fiercest
criticism. M r Parsons is said to have lost
10,000 cigarettes last year and to leave sums
of money unattended. Many staff have no
respect for him at all. They certainly don't
want him to take over as refectory manager.
The Verdict
I hope this article has presented a balanced view of the refectory system. Undoubtedly in
recent years a great deal of effort and hard work has been put in by Mr Mooney and the
refectory staff to improve the food and service in the refectories. The Sherfield Refectory in
particular compares favourably to any commercial refectory outlets.
Mr Mooney has faced considerable problems in dealing with the expansion of the
refectory system. Other universities facing the same problem reduced their outlets and
settled for a skeleton service (most of which lose money).
Mr Mooney has faced a great deal of criticism in the past, often unfair criticism. Irrational,
personal attacks on him have resulted only in Mr Mooney closing his ears to any
constructive comments or suggestions. Mr Mooney quite firmly believes that he is the
catering manager and he knows best.
An area in which things could quite definitely be improved is in the financial running of the
refectories. There is no reason at all why the College should not have a sensible accounting
system for the refectories.
Mr Mooney retires next year and College will have to consider carefully who replaces
him. Mr Mooney's successor must have wide experience of traditional catering methods,
because Mr Mooney does know a lot about this. However they must also be prepared to
find out about fast food, something Mr Mooney knows little about. They must be able to
lead his staff as well as Mr Mooney. However they must be able to take constructive
criticism in a way Mr Mooney sometimes seems unable to.
Hugh Southey
Friday, June 8, 1984
Cooks from the Sherfield Refectory.
I Page 7

