THE GAS PEOPLE
UORKING FOR TOMORROW'S
WORLD TODAY A
If your home uses gas — and the chances are it
will, since British Gas is the largest single supplier
of heat in Britain — then you are benefiting from
yesterday's planning and investment in advanced
technology by the gas people.
Yesterday's research anticipated the needs of
today's customers, and some of the developments
produced by the gas people were revolutionary.
Did you know, for instance, that the gas people
helped to pioneer the technology for transporting
gas across the world's oceans — gas which would
otherwise be wastefully flared-off? This was done
by cooling the gas into liquid form at minus 160°C
and carrying it in specially designed tankers. The
transportation of L N G is now a major world trade.
The gas people also saw opportunities in newly-
available gas-making feedstocks and developed the
Catalytic Rich Gas process for making gas from oil,
rather than coal. Advances like these underpinned
the transformation of an ageing industry into a
highly competitive and rapidly expanding modern
business.
The gas people went on to exploit the natural gas
which they had helped to discover around our
shores. To achieve this they constructed a network of
underground high pressure steel pipelines to the
highest standards. A great deal of money and tech-
nical expertise were expended in devising a means of
inspecting these pipelines, and a sophisticated
electronic and mechanical device called an
'intelligent pig' was developed. It works inside the
pipeline while the gas is still flowing.
TOMORROW'S WORLD
Yesterday, the gas people solved what would
have been today's problems, and we've given you
just a few examples. But you may be more interested
in the work we're doing today to solve tomorrow's.
For instance, in readiness for the time when
Britain's indigenous supplies of natural gas begin to
decline, and nobody knows when that will be, the gas
people have already developed the technology for
producing substitute natural gas from coal. The
results of this pioneering work are being viewed with
great interest i n many parts of the world. Whichever
feedstock is available al a competitive price, however,
the gas people intend to have the technology to
produce a substitute natural gas from it.
A n d because gas will still be there for
tomorrow's customers, the gas people are helping to
develop a new generation of appliances for to-
morrow's low-energy homes. They are starting to
apply ways of recuperating waste heat in industrial
and commercial applications by using gas engine-
driven heat p u m p s . These reverse the n o r m a l
process by which heat flows from a high temperature
to a lower and so can consume less energy than they
deliver! The gas people are even looking at new ways
to avoid traffic congestion — by replacing
underground gas pipes without the need for digging
up the road!
M u c h more is going on besides, so if you'd like to
find out about today's high-tech gas industry, write
to the Public Relations Department, British Gas,
Rivermill House, 152 Grosvenor Road, London
S W 1 V 3 J L .
WONDERFUEL GAS FROM THE GAS PEOPLE-
WORKING FOR TOMORROW'S WORLD TODAY

