Postgraduate Handbook
A handbook for postgraduates is long overdue and certainly good news. If it
succeeds it will allow students to make a more informed choice as to which
postgraduate courses or research to undertake and to get a flavour of what
life as a postgraduate is like. Comments about the content of the handbook
from staff, students and anyone interested in postgraduate study should be
sent to Hugh Stiles, c/o the Union Office. There is an open meeting about the
handbook on Tuesday at 1:00pm in the Union Upper Lounge for anyone
interested.
FELIX Motor Rally
The fabulous F E L I X Motor Rally will be held on Sunday 24 of June so keep
that date free in your diaries. The F E L I X rally is a treasure hunt and involves
careering around London collecting various items from a list, for which
points are awarded. The only requirements are a vehicle, a crew (four
maximum) and plenty of cunning. A good timeis usually had by all and the
winners have their names inscribed on the F E L I X rally pot in the Union Bar.
Entry forms can be picked up in the F E L I X Office from Monday.
Last Issue
There won't be a F E L I X next week, the final issue will be a fun packed
bumper edition on Wednesday 20 June. This will contain all those things we
dared not print earlier this year, so don't all rush home till you've read it!
Keep sending in letters, small ads, etc, copy deadline is 1:00pm Tuesday. Help
and ideas for the last issue will be welcome, especially needed are people to
help collate on Tuesday evening.
A Memory That Lasts A Life Time
Just a reminder that you can have your copies of F E L I X bound in beautiful
black leather, tastefully embossed in gold. Just bring your copies of F E L I X
into the F E L I X Office before the end of term. Don't worry if you have gaps in
your collection they can be made up from our file copies.
Free Film Tickets
There are about 100 free tickets for Rutger Hauer's new film The Osterman
Weekend which are now available from the Union Office.
Credits
Peter Rodgers, Hugh Southey, David Rowe, J Martin Taylor, Hugh Stiles,
Ulysses, Len Moulder, Jon Jones, Diane Love, Martin Atwell, Dave Parry, Maz
a n d P e , e
- Pallab Ghosh
Since it's exam time, you're probably too busy to
try difficult puzzles, and I'm too busy to set them, so
here's an old chestnut which isn't too difficult.
I went into Primelia College bar last night tc find
out if the rumours were true that some Queen's
College students were drinking there. A l l Primelia
College students, of course, are wonderful, honest
people and always tell the truth. All Queen's College
students, on the other hand, are nasty, despicable
sorts and always lie.
I found three people sitting at a table, and asked
thefirst one "Are you from PrimeliaorQueens?"His
answer was slurred and unintelligible so I asked him
again 'Are you from Primelia or Queens?" This time,
the second one said "He said he was from Primelia,
and he is, and so am I." The third person then said
"The two people you asked are from Queen's and I
am from Primelia."
From what they said, which College does each
belong to?
G o o d luck everyone.
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the
FELIX Office by 1:00pm on Wednesday please. £5
cheque, courtesy of Mend-a-Bike for the randomly
selected winner.
Last week's solution
Whoops! Having written a puzzle to advertise the
date of the FELIX Car Rally and made it pretty easy, I
made iteasierthan I thought because there were two
solutions:
'20 June, meet FELIX Office, 10:30am, maximum
of five in a team, car not needed' A N D
'24 June, meet FELIX Office, 10:30am, maximum
of four in a team, car not needed.'
The answer was meant to be the second one. The
FELIX Car Rally will take place on Sunday 24 June,
starting at 10:30am at the FELIX Office, with a
maximum of four in a team; you will need a car as
Pallab and I will send you off around London to
collect various information and treasure. If you're
interested, please give your names in to the FELIX
Office soon.
The randomly selected winner was W G Morley of
Chemistry 1, who can collect the £ 5 cheque,
courtesy of Mend-a-Bike, from the FELIX Office
after 1:30pm on Monday.
MEND A BIKE
Sub-Wardenships and Assistant Sub-
Wardenships, Tizard and Selkirk Halls
Applications are invited for two posts of sub-warden and two of
assistant sub-warden effective from September 1984. For the posts of
sub-warden, preference will be given to postgraduate or post-
doctoral staff who intend remaining at Imperial College for a period of
at least two years. The function of sub-wardens and assistant sub-
wardens is to assist the warden in the organisation of the halls andto
take an active role in the promotion of social activities. The successful
applicants will receive free accommodation. Applications with details
of relevant experience and referees should be sent to Dr M H R
Hutchinson, Tizard Hall, before 29 June 1984.
1
MEND A BIKE
Sub-Wardenships and Assistant Sub-
Wardenships, Tizard and Selkirk Halls
Applications are invited for two posts of sub-warden and two of
assistant sub-warden effective from September 1984. For the posts of
sub-warden, preference will be given to postgraduate or post-
doctoral staff who intend remaining at Imperial College for a period of
at least two years. The function of sub-wardens and assistant sub-
wardens is to assist the warden in the organisation of the halls andto
take an active role in the promotion of social activities. The successful
applicants will receive free accommodation. Applications with details
of relevant experience and referees should be sent to Dr M H R
Hutchinson, Tizard Hall, before 29 June 1984.
917-921 Fulham Road, *§
London SW6, 01-736 8655
Sub-Wardenships and Assistant Sub-
Wardenships, Tizard and Selkirk Halls
Applications are invited for two posts of sub-warden and two of
assistant sub-warden effective from September 1984. For the posts of
sub-warden, preference will be given to postgraduate or post-
doctoral staff who intend remaining at Imperial College for a period of
at least two years. The function of sub-wardens and assistant sub-
wardens is to assist the warden in the organisation of the halls andto
take an active role in the promotion of social activities. The successful
applicants will receive free accommodation. Applications with details
of relevant experience and referees should be sent to Dr M H R
Hutchinson, Tizard Hall, before 29 June 1984. FULHAM CYCLE STORE
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Rd, SW7
Tel 01-589 5111 extn 1048 or internal 2881. Editor: Pallab K Ghosh; Business Manager: Peter Rodgers: AdvertisingManager: Hugh Southey Copyright FELIX 1984

