Union Page
Welcome Back Fair
Complete the National Student Survey
The National Student Survey gives you an opportunity to share your
thoughts of your time at Imperial. We need your feedback so we can
work even harder to deliver the world-class experience that all Imperial
students deserve.
By having your say and answering the National Student Survey, you’ll
play a role in shaping the decisions and experiences of future students
at Imperial.
You will remain completely anonymous, and can share as much or as
little as you desire.
Take the survey now at www.thestudentsurvey.com
Are you ready for Varsity 2020?
Varsity 2019 is nearly upon us and this is your chance to let us know
who you think deserves the title of Headline and Showcase matches!
The winner of the vote will be titled Headline and the runner-up
Showcase.
Make sure you vote for the team you believe is most deserving in the
VarsityFest poll.
Vote for your headliners by midnight on Sunday 19 January at
imperialcollegeunion.org/varsity.
Tickets for Varsity will be on sale from Monday 3 February.
The Welcome Back Fair is around the corner, so get ready to meet
some amazing organisations and some of your Clubs, Societies &
Projects on Wednesday 22 January, 11:00-16:00, inThe Great Hall and
Queen’s Tower Rooms.
Find out about some great opportunities, meet grad recruiters, get
student deals and join a CSP
. We’re welcoming the likes of travel tour
company, Contiki, as well as TargetJobs, InterExchange Camp USA,
The Economist and more. You can also expect free pizza from Papa
John’s and free mochi balls from Little Moons.
This is also your chance to sign up to one of the fifty CSPs that will
also be attending. Come and meet the Belly Dancing, Hip Hop,
Debating and Sign Language societies and many more. Find out more
at imperialcollegeunion.org/wbf
Comedy Night
Comedy Night is back in 2020 with bigger and better acts! Tickets are
now on sale for Monday 3 February in The Union Bar, where you can
catch our headlining act, Abandoman.
Abandoman is famous for taking audience suggestions and
interactions, and turning them into hilarious hit songs and captivating
tales. Winner of multiple awards and having previously toured with Ed
Sheeran, this is a show you do not want to miss.
The rest of the lineup will be announced in the coming days, so stay
tuned on the event on the Imperial College Union Facebook page.
To get your ticket now for £6 (which includes a drink!), head to
imperialcollegeunion.org/comedy-night

