FELIX
F O O D S U P V E Y
Over 300 people took the trouble to f i l l i s our Queatien-
nA.tr* forms of last iaaue. This represents about one third
of our airoulation and ana fifth of tha Collage population.
It is probable that many people who do not use College Raf-
eotoriea figured among those not returning forms, so that our
ooverage of people who eat in must have been high. Equal
proportions of returns ware obtained from R.C.S, Mines St Guilds.
The first four questions we asked were purely statistical,
so that we oan show the results in typical statistical fwanion:-
Question I.
Our first question was to find out whether people used
College facilities for sating and i f so, whioh ones.
The diagram shows how students from the three Colleges
use existing Refectories.
KIT
Queeniea
Union (U.D.H. & L.D.H.)
Snack Bar
Bring sandwiches
Eat elsewhere
Don't- eat
The horizontal scale i s proportional to the total number
of students i n each College, so that the areas are proportion-
al to the actual numbers from each College who lunoh in that
particular way.
Question 2.
The seoond question was to find out at what time In the
lunoh hour most people went for their lunoh. These results
oan be summarised in straightforward percentages :-
GUILDS R.C.S. MIKES
Lunch before lectures finish 41 1
*
1
Lunch immediately after
lectures finish
Lunoh some time after
lectures finish
46 49
13 10
40
32
28
GUILDS R.C.S. m
h
o
s
s
20 23 32
56 42 41
24 35 27
Question 3.
The third question was:- "
H
»
j
w long do you usually queue?"
Again the results oan be summarised as straightforward per-
centages :-
Queue not at all
Queue up to 10 mins.
Queue up to 20 rains, or
longer
These results oan be analysed with those for the eerlie.
questions. The larger percentage of Guildsnen, who eat in
Queeniss, are those who usually queue far 10 minutes or long-
er; ana those hardy people who queue for seme tine are gen-
erally those who gofer lunoh just before or just after lec-
tures finish. Most people who are prepared to wait, and
have their lunch later, do not have to queue far their meal;
however, in jaweral these late-lunohers patronise the Union
Refeotexy.
Question 4.
"If more dining accommodation were available would you
use it?". The answers to this question were practioally un-
animous; people would use extra aooommodation i f i t were
provided. With the new refeotory opening on March 1st the
problem i s partly solved. Those people who would not use
extra dining space appear to be those people who either bring
sandwiches or eat elsewhere at present.
Thus i t appears that extra dining space will serve to
make things more oomfortable for those who already eat in
College, rather than to oope with extra numbers.
This i s all the information we have room to print
thia week.
Next week we hope to inolude a summary of the gen-
eral oomplaints against the present arrangemrats, and a
few suggestions as to how they might be improved.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Cassandra wishes to thank her many admirers for the kinc
thoughts and valuable presents despatched in her direction;
she wishes to express her disapproval of the FELIX reporter
who noticed half of her on the bar at a recent social occas-
ion; and she is really much too pleasantly occupied to wast
tine writing vitriolic tripe for FELIX. „
Ayrton Hall Refectory.
Dear Sir,
As my duties as manageress of the Refectory will end u
March 25th 1955, I should like to express tc the staff and
students who have used the Refectory my very sincere than.'.t
to all who have made my work such a pleasure. I owe much
to the co-operati„n of the students who have always iielped
to make the work of the Refectory go smoothly.
I should like also to thank Mr. D.W. Hopkin for the
great help and encouragement he has always given me. I
could not say how much I regret leaving the dear old City
and Guilds Refeotory after so many years.
Yours sincerely
^ueenie.
I.C. Union,
February 15 >
Dear Sir,
Considerable attention has been drawn of late to the
harmful effect upon children of their reading, as called,
"horror oomios". I enclose a leaflet published by the
National Union of Teachers as I feel sure that you will
wish to publicise the surprising fact that "Felix" is one
of the publications listed therein as being harmless.
You will note that these publications are not "recommended",
nor i s the list unalterable, but even so, i t should prove
a relief to many anxious parents of students at I.C.
No doubt you oould have "Felix" deleted from this list
i f you feel tales will be adversely affected by its presence
thereon.
I am, Sir,
Your faithful reader,
Roger Fisher.
Sir,
In and around the Union one frequently hears comment
on the lack of support given to certain college societies.
Indeed the opinion is often expressed that I. C. is nothing
more than a degree factory turning out uneducated sausages
with B.Sc. stamped on the skin.
Unfortunately the U.G.C.'s policy is not to provide
noney for building student hostels. Further the oost of
building suoh hostels is.roughly • £1,000 per resident, so
that the ohanoe of finding a benefactor to provide the
required funds is very small.
As another solution we feel that extending the lunoh
break to 2 hour*, for the whole week, would give some of the
smaller olubs a ohanoe to attract more members. At the
nonent the majority of students spend a considerable time
travelling between home or digs and I.C. and so think twice
before spending an hour or two here in the evenings, which
often involves them in Biasing supper. However confronted
with a 2-hour lunah break they would probably go along to
find what these olusa do, and discover that they were inter-
ested. Surely for all oonoerned i t is better to start at
a fixed tine every day ao that we nay hear no more the phrase:
"Oh, I forgot i t was a 9.30 day."
Years,
P.L.L.
A.H.G.

