FELIX
APT E X H I B I T I O N
Trout Stream Bernard Parker.
Art as a hobby is very popular at I.C. - as witnessed
by the reoent exhibitions, and more important, by the large
numbers visiting them.
The founder of the I.C. Art Club, Mr. Bernard Parker,
is largely responsible for the increasing interest and so i t
was most fitting that he should give an Exhibition of his own
work - no small task.
The Exhibition was a fair selection of his work - oboeots,
line and ordering clearly outline his interests.
His painting makes a straight-forward statement, i t s
simplicity comes from a direct and strong feeling, most
evident in his s t i l l - l i f e groups. He has a rapid and
sweeping technique, is capable and enthusiastic
Both oi± and water-colour were used, the latter being
used with a clean, clear freedom particularly pleasing in the
landscapes. Outstanding among these were "Porthtowen",
"Saltwood Castle, Kent" and "Trout Stream".
With s t i l l - l i f e groups in oils, there was a tendenoy to
see the original realities as optical effeots, failing to
impress the deeper reality intangibly underlying the scenio.
But to quote the artist himself, he prefers a rioher, stronger
effect than nature, and the use of pure bright colours.
Perhaps i t should be that where a visual art is con-
cerned a critic should try to subordinate his interpretative
to his descriptive faculties - leaving the former to the
individual.
The treatment of "seascapes" - mostly small boats around
Chelsea - has a charm whioh shows the artists the under-
standing and feeling for his subject. Among these was a
personal choice "Boats" (No. JO) - whose delicately soft
tones differ so markedly from the other works.
It was an Exhibition well worth visiting - truly repres-
enting the high standards in Art at I.C.
E.I.S.
C O M I N G E V E N T S .
There's no time like the present-
Get your Saster Bell ticket today.
G O I N G D O W N .
ihirty-nine stalwarts from Guilds and R.C.S. assembled
in Exhibition Road at the unearthly hour of 6.45 last
Saturday week to discover what the "Miners" see in their
chasen profession.
Their destination was Betteshanger Colliery, near Deal,
'iV.lioh was reached at 10 o'clock. The stalwarts then
changed into a variety of "old clothes" ranging from boiler
s. dts to a very nice line in Gent1
s Natty Suiting.
After being supplied with lamps they desoended 2,000
i'set into the warmth below. A half-mile walk, a mile
train ride, and a farther very long walk along dark, dusty,
and seemingly dangerous tunnels brought the party to the
coal face.
Then followed a 100 yard crawl along the faoe whose
height never exceeded 4 feet and was in plaoes less than 2
feet.
Some interest was aroused by the knowledge that
within an hour of the arrival of the party some of the
wooden props suoporting the roof had failed allowing i t
to collapse Into the working space.
The coal-cutting machinery and conveyer belts were
inspected, and then the long walk back to the train
On returning to the bottom of the shaft the party
looked at a modem eleotrio loco, in a newer part of the
pit. Then up into the cold again for a shower and belated
lunoh (on the N.C.B.).
General impressions of the visit were that the miners
earn all the money they get, and that no-one would be doing
their National Servioe "down under".
H.E.P.
HCDAT MARCH ikth.
1.1O
p
.
w
w in Botany Leoture Theatre. I.C.S.CM.
"The Easter •essage-I" by the Rev. Salmon,
Congregation Chaplain to O.L.
1.15p.m. in Committee Room 'A'. Rover Crew Meeting.
Ropes and Knotting—more developenents.
SATURDAY MARCH 5th.
8.00p.m. in Ayrton Hall. Hockey Club Dsnoe.
band. 2/-single; 3/6double.
Bar &
SUNDAY MARCH 6th.
* 7.00p.m. In the Sew Lounge. Film Soc. presents
"Citisen Kane" and "Method end Madness". Tiokets V9d.
on sale at 6.30p.m. in Onion Bntranoe Hall.
MONDAY MARCH 7th.
5.10p.m. in the Botany Laoture Theatre. I.C.S.C.M.
talk cn "The World Student Christian Federation" by Rev.
Malcolm Duncan. All welcome.
TUESDAY MARCHBth.
5.30p,m. in Room 15, C.AG. Railway Soo. Film Show.
Programme on notice-board. All welcome.
5.30p.m. in R.C.S. Chem. Soo. lecture and demonstration.
"Fused Silioa" by Mr. J.A.Prost, U.C.
7.30p.m. at Q.B.C.for three nights. I.C.Dram. Soo.
"Antigone"-Anouilh and "The Proposal"-Chekov. Tiokets
l/-,2/-,2/6,and 4/-
WEDNESDAY MARCH 9th.
Maths, and Physical Soo, visit to the Institute of
Canoer Research. Details on notice-board.
THURSDAY MARCH 10th.
. 5*45 p.m. in Zoology Leoture Theatre. I.C. Photo Soo.
"High Speed Photography" by R.A. Chippendale.
FRIDAY MARCH 11th.
1.10 p.m. in Botany Lecture Theatre.
. I.C.S.C.M. Rev. MoClellan on on "The Easter Message - II".
All welcome.
7.0 p.m. Mount. Club Dinner, preceded by talk at 5.45pja-
by Dr. B. Scott-Russell.
11 p.m. - 5 a.m. in Royal Festival Hall. D.L.O. "March
Hare's Ball'. Sid Phillips. Double Ticket 39/-.
Bmrlng Match versus Vets and Barts;S»iaok Bar, 7.30.
SATURDAY MARCH 12th.
8 p.m. in Queenie's. Rugby Club Dance.
Bryan Spooner's Band. Bar. 2/-.
Rover Crew Freshers Hike. All Rovers welcome.
For details aee Notioe Board.
SUNDAY MARCH 13th.
I.C. Railway Society 4 C & G Engineering Sooiety:-
Spedal Diesel Rail Car excursion from Kensington
Olympia to Swindon Locomotive Works 4 M.P.D. Details
on notioe "boards. Accomodation limited.
TUESDAY MARCH 15th.
5.35 p.m. i n Room 161 C <jb G. I.C. Railway Society:-
W.O. Skeat Esq. will speak on "The G.E.R. Decapod Loco-
motive". All are welcome.
THURSDAY MARCH 17th.
8 pm. i n Q.A.H. I.C. Choir Concert. "Acis 4 Galatea"
by Handel and "Blest Pair of Sirens" by Parry. Tiokete
2/6d. and 3/6d.
5,30 p.m. in R.C.S. Chen. Soc. Lecture - "Hormones of
the Adrenal Cortex", by Prof. C.W. Shoppee (Swansea).
To be followed by Annual Dinner.
Conservative Soo. Speaker Mies Popham, exheadmistress
of Cheltenham Ladies College, Bomber of the Independent
Television Panel: "The Value of a University Education
for Women". Place and time to be announced later.
FRIDAY MARCH 18th.
1.15 p.m. in Ccmittee Room A. Rover Crew Meeting.
'Discussion on Training Methods' led by J. Andrews.
5.15 p.m. In Zoo. Theatre. I.C. Photo. Soc. Kodak
Ltd. (Manuscript). "Tormsdng Troubles*.
Mr. G.C. Mercer "Dry Mounting with a Domestic Iron*.
7*30 p.m. - plaoe to be announced. International
Relations Club - "Student Evening*. Look out for detailsi
WJtOtgSaAY MARCH 23 rd,
I.C. Railway Society - Visit to Gloucester Road Signal
Box S.R. Details on Notioe Board.
On. Mar oh 20th. the Motor Club are arranging
t h e i r annual r a l l y . Preparations are already
far adssuioed. Some o r i g i n a l speoial p l o t s have
been evolved, and i t i s hoped that a half-mile
sprint over a private drive ( which i s f a r from
straight ) w i l l be one of them.
For entry l i s t , and further d e t a i l s , see
Guilds Motor Club notioe-board.

