10 felix FRIDAY 29 JANUARY 2010
BUSINESS
Business Editor
Business Editor Sina Ataherian
Sina Ataherian
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
IC Business School climbs FT rankings
As Imperial College Business School continues to gain international acclaim for the quality of its academic
teaching and research, and the success of its alumni, felix interviews its Principal, Professor David Begg
ture, Professor Begg said, “we pursue
improvement through having a clear
strategy - to focus on Imperial’s areas
of strength, drawing on engineering,
medicine, and science - and by creat-
ing a culture in which our faculty enjoy
creating excellence in education and
research. In addition to our teaching
strengths, we also beat both Oxford
and Cambridge in the last assessment
of research excellence. Students gain
a distinctive edge in the marketplace,
and Imperial is a worldwide brand.”
The higher education sector across
the world has been criticised in recent
years for focusing too much on league
tables at the expense of less measur-
able marks of quality. Professor Begg
explained that the Business School has
avoided this: “We continue to enjoy
forward momentum, and the spread
of our reputation, but rankings are
not the whole story. For example, if we
specialised in investment banking, our
students would get even higher salaries
and our education ranking would rise
as a result. But successful strategy en-
tails being true to one’s roots. We will
always have a strong role for innova-
tion and entrepreneurship, even if this
prevents us getting to the very top of
the MBA rankings.”
Given the School’s commitment
to enterprise, it is ironic that like all
universities, it depends on the Gov-
ernment for much of its funding. Pro-
fessor Begg claimed to recognise the
T
he Financial Times World
Rankings is one of the
most respected interna-
tional league tables for
Business Schools. In their
latest annual assessment, released
this week, Imperial College Business
School has moved up seven places to
32nd place in the world. Its Principal,
Professor David Begg, has given felix
Business his thoughts on the School
and its future plans.
Although ICBS’s overall FT rank-
ing for 2010 is 32nd, Professor Begg
points out that, “within the last two
months, the Business School’s Masters
in Management has been ranked the
best Masters programme in the world
for entrepreneurship. Last Monday,
the Financial Times ranked our MBA
programme the third best MBA in the
world for entrepreneurship - and also
the sixth best for economics and the
seventh best for marketing.”
It is clear that applying entrepre-
neurship to Imperial College’s aca-
demic strengths across science, tech-
nology and medicine is central to the
Business School’s vision. Professor
Begg believes that its main commit-
ment is to “creating a world-class
business school that is as distinctive
as Imperial itself. This means three
things - rigour, translation of scientific
thinking into managerial applications,
and acknowledged excellence.”
Of the School’s plans for the fu-
advantages of working with the private
sector: “Imperial’s avowed policy is
to build other funding sources [than
the state] as quickly as possible, and
the Business School is at the forefont
of development of deep commercial
relationships.”
Another issue that many prospective
students have with business schools is
their high cost. Many studies have sug-
gested that with so called ‘degree infla-
tion’ caused by increasing numbers of
students at universities, they may no
longer be a good investment. The ICBS
Principal, however, begged to differ,
describing the Imperial MBA’s £34,000
price tag as “tremendous value” and
countered the idea that the degree only
makes sense if someone else pays for
it: “Few of our full-time MBA students
are sponsored. Most work for a few
years, then come back to achieve a step
change in their subsequent career.”
He added that he is looking forward
to greater achievements in the future
for the Business School by aiming to
take advantage of, and supporting,
Imperial College’s existing areas of
expertise: “The Business School has
been growing at 15 to 20% a year, and
we intend to continue to build on our
recent success.” By 2020 he sees the
Business School “working much more
closely with other faculties - on dig-
ital business, on risk, on sustainable
energy, and on advances in healthcare
management.”
ICBS Principal, Professor Begg, who is frequently commissioned to advise national and supranational governmental
organisations such as the Bank of England and the IMF, is pictured here meeting UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown.
Imperial College Business School:
FACTS AND FIGURES
TheSchoolismainlyactiveinfourareasofresearch-entrepreneurship
and innovation, organisations and management, finance and
accounting and healthcare management. Of these, it is particularly
renowned across the world as a leading academic center for
entrepreneurship and innovation. ICBS maintains strong international
links and has especially strong connections with India, whose 7th
Prime Minister, Rajiv Ghandi, is a notable alumnus of the College. The
School takes particular pride in its diversity and international outlook:
Women faculty 19%
Women students 16%
Women board 36%
International faculty 74%
International students 72%
International board 55%
International mobility rank 47
International experience rank 75
Of course there are many problems with facilitating so many students
from so many countiries (and one in particular). But Professor Begg is
confident that the School is right to expose its members to this level of
international diversity, “our students will have to survive in a world of
increasing cultural diversity and we cannot shield them artificially. We
have however embedded more pedagogical technqiues - recording
of lectures, web-based environments, that allow students to review
lecture material in what may not be their first language.” Despite the
School’s committment to maintaining its bredth of expertise rather
than specialising in investment banking, its students still have fairly
good career prospects:
Average salary US$120,306
Salary percentage increase 107
Value for money rank 17
Career progress rank 35
Aims achieved rank 71
Placement success rank 51
Employed at three months 85%
Alumni recommend rank 67
Some departments such as Electrical Engineering include compulsory
management modules delivered by the Business School. The School
also offers a range of optional courses on management, finance,
accounting, enterprise and innovation to third and forth year

