imperialcollegeunion.org/oneworldweek
one world
What if an object had a gender? After all,
‘male’ and ‘female’ electrical components
are commonplace. Say we’re in a lab. If we’re
going purely on appearance, then a pipette
would be, for obvious reasons, male, and
a test tube would be female. Similarly, a
laser could be masculine, whilst a telescope
could be considered to be more feminine.
But is this right? Have I made assumptions
about the gender of the equipment based on
stereotypical gender-defined roles? Would
the objects wish to be primarily viewed as
male or female, or would they rather be
considered first and foremost just as people?
This is the focus of a documentary created
for Gender Equality Day, part of One World
Week, by Women in Science, Engineering and
Technology, a group run by female students
for female students at Imperial. In the semi-
comic documentary, WSET use the idea of
gender possessing lab equipment to tackle
the issue of sexism in the lab, an ever present
issue given that the laboratory is a traditionally
male dominated workplace. Billed as being
‘light-hearted yet thought provoking’, it aims
to challenge preconceptions about the roles
of male and female scientists in the lab, and
questions whether the lab is currently truly a
gender neutral environment in which to work.
Women in Science, Engineering and
Technology is an Imperial College Union
society dedicated to supporting the growth
and development of female students at
Imperial. Created in 2007 by Eirini Spentza,
Ellin Saunders and Milena Peric, three Imperial
graduate students, its aim is to encourage
female students from secondary school to
graduate level to pursue careers in science,
engineering and technology.
The activities of the group are multifaceted,
and include teaching, challenging
preconceived gender-based notions about
scientists and engineers, and inspiring by
providing identifiable, successful female role
models in the scientific field. Regular events
include networking events with leading female
scientists as guest speakers, workshops
tailored for female scientists focusing on
developing Curriculum Vitae, application and
interview skills, and open days for schools.
One WSET created initiative, ‘Robogals’, is
specifically designed to encourage female
school students to pursue a degree in science.
Female Imperial students, trained in using
LEGO robot technology, go into schools and
teach the female students to use the robotics.
As well as fostering a sense of scientific
achievement, the workshops encourage
female students to view a scientific career as
being both attainable and interesting.
Another project, entitled ‘100 Women, 100
Visions, saw British Professional Photographer
of the Year Jackie King taking portrait photos
of 100 female students and staff members
to produce a series which celebrates the
diversity and talent of female scientists at
Imperial. An exhibition of these portraits will
be held in London City Hall in March and
February, and an online exhibition of the
photos is available at imperialcollegeunion.
org/100women100visions. This year, as part
of International Women’s Day on the 8th
of March, WSET are encouraging Imperial
students and staff to get behind the lens to
take pictures representing women at Imperial,
as part of a photographic competition and
exhibition run in collaboration with PhotoSoc.
The documentary produced by WSET for
Gender Equality Day will be shown on the
day (1st Feb) on televisions around campus
and projected onto the Queen’s Tower. To get
involved, or for more information about WSET
activities, contact women.set@imperial.ac.uk.
Event Tasks Theme
Monday 1 February • Silent Documentary light-hearted yet thought provoking documentary broadcast round
campus tackling sexism in the lab
• Interfaith Interactive 1200-1400 JCR Slightly out of context on the Monday; come along
and find out about different faiths at Imperial. Hosted by the Chaplaincy.
Gender Equality
Tuesday 2 February • Film: Milk 1200-1420 Meeting Room 3 Union, FREE POPCORN!!
• Quiz: 2000, da vincis, Union
Sexual Orientation
Wednesday 3 February • Forum: ‘Religion and Science Question time?’ 1800-2000 SAF LT1 Religion
Thursday 4 February • Film: A Beautiful Mind 1630-1900 Meeting Room 5 Union, FREE POPCORN!! Disability
Friday 5 February • International Night 1930 £5 Students, £8 Non-students, Great Hall
• After party 2200 Union, ½ price with iNight ticket, free for performers/society members.
Race Equality /
Internationalism
Gender
This New Year, the media’s focus was back
on Northern Ireland. Only this time it wasn’t
about bombings, shootings or kidnappings,
but the extra-marital affair of NI’s own First
Lady, Iris Robinson. Good old normal politics,
it seemed, had finally returned to Northern
Ireland. But while an affair between a 59
year old and a teenager could have happened
anywhere, the response to the affair was
uniquely Northern Irish. In nowhere else
could so isolated an incident ever have
triggered threats of increasing sectarian
tension. And yet this is exactly what is at
stake in a frighteningly fragile peace process;
the slightest hiccup could bring the whole
house of cards crashing down, leaving in
its wake the threat of restarting the longest
civil war in world history which claimed over
3,500 lives during the last 40 years and has
left many living in segregation, still viewing
‘the other side’ through a prism of suspicion
and fear. The causes of the Northern Ireland
‘Troubles’ are many and complex but in
a province divided between Catholic and
Protestant, religious intolerance is clearly a
large culprit.
Ireland has had a painful history of religious
intolerance dating back to the infamous
Penal Laws, banning or attacking anything
Catholic in predominantly Catholic Ireland,
the denial of soup to those who would not
convert to Protestantism during the Famine
which was to claim a million lives and
vicious retaliations leading to the slaughter
of innocent Protestants. And yet there is
nothing, nothing whatsoever in the teachings
of either Christian denomination that justifies
this; nothing that should have lead to such
violence. Rather, it has been ignorance and
political opportunism that has caused so
many of these tragedies; and continues to
threaten them today. Religious difference
need never to turn into religious intolerance,
but does so when groups misrepresent
differing opinions while alluding to political
and social prejudice. I remember a ten year
old Catholic boy telling me that of course
he knew Protestant beliefs, “Don’t they
believe in God the dog and God the cow
and all that?” Reverend Ian Paisley himself
denounced the Pope as the antichrist to his
face. It is when religion ceases to be about
God and simply turns tribal that religious
intolerance thrives. Catholicism means being
a Republican and Protestantism means
wanting British rule; these are hijackings
of religion. There was never a petrol bomb
thrown in the name of the Sacrament of
Confession or a bomb in defiance of papal
authority; rather it was people abusing
religion for their own ends.
This is not just an Irish problem; it is
evidenced in Britain as well. Increasingly,
being a Muslim can be seen to mean simply
being against ‘American Imperialism’;
a thought that is no doubt insulting to
true believers in Islam and yet Islam
was so clearly abused in the case of the
failed December bomber Umar Farouk
Abdulmutallab, who had been president of
the UCL Islamic Society. It is against such
people that all religions must unite. We
cannot deny the immense and powerful
beliefs held in common between our faiths.
We cannot allow prejudice to cloud our view
of other religions. And yet it is people such
as Abdulmutallab who claim centre stage,
whose voices are shouted from the mountain
tops- just as with Northern Ireland it has
often been the extremists whose bombs
spoke louder than the prayers of others. As
the great Irishman W B Yeats said, “The best
lack all conviction, while the worst are full of
passionate intensity”.
But the ‘best’ are out there; challenging
religious intolerance and promoting
interreligious understanding. That’s why
Religion
by Charlotte Ivison
imperialcollegeunion.org/oneworldweek
more articles and information at
by Rory Fenton & Obadah Ghannam
d

