d week
1-5 February 2010
It’s all too easy to associate wheelchairs
and hearing aids with the word disability, as
they are so visible. However the majority of
disabilities in the young are ‘hidden’, including
things like specific learning disabilities, mental
health disorders and chronic health disorders.
Disability is defined as any physical or mental
impairment that has a substantial, adverse
and long-term effect on his/her ability to carry
out normal day to day activities. For example,
conditions that are classified as a disability
can include:
• Mobility difficulties
• Aspergers and autism
• Chronic health conditions, for
example asthma, diabetes and
epilepsy
• Deafness or blindness
• Depression, schizophrenia and
eating disorders
It’s not about labelling- if someone with
chronic depression doesn’t want to
call it a disability, that’s fine. However,
acknowledging it as a disability means you
may be eligible for additional support. It’s
about knowing your rights, and specifically
that you are not discriminated against
because of your condition and that you have
equal opportunities to resources that your
peers do.
Things that may be available to disabled
students at Imperial, depending on their
circumstances, include:
• access to lecture notes in advance
• special examination arrangements
• financial support from the Disabled
Students Allowance
• continued eligibility for
accommodation in halls
Things like depression and specific learning
disabilities are surprisingly common in the
student population and it’s a shame that
few people will talk about their experiences
of it and admit they may need help. There
are a number of services available but
the first point of contact should be the
College’s Disability Advisor. Every person’s
requirements are unique so support will
be tailored to you, and they will be able to
suggest other services which may be of
benefit and advocate on your behalf.
Having a disability shouldn’t hold you back!
Below are some famous people and their
disabilities.
Do you each of their disabilities?
The answers are underneath.
Disability
this year saw the birth of Imperial College
Interfaith; a new committee, comprised
entirely of students, set up to do just that.
Uniting Christians, Muslims, Jews, Baha’is
, Jains, Hindus, Sikhs and Buddhists, the
society is taking apart misunderstandings
between faiths by encouraging dialogue.
The fantastic opening event in November
(Unifaith: Road to Dialogue) was a perfect
example of interfaith dialogue, bringing
together prominent speakers from eight
different religions under the one banner of
understanding, and coincided with the UK’s
first ever National Interfaith Week. Rodney
Eastwood, the College Secretary, was also
present on the day on behalf of the Rector.
He gave testament to the religious and
cultural diversity of the college community,
which thus necessitated the endorsement
of such events. We can only truly learn the
reality of others religions by speaking to
those who practice them.
This coming week marks the Union’s One
World week, at which Interfaith is set to
have a large presence with stalls on Monday
and a massive Question Time style event
on Religion and Science. The aim is to
bring different faith perspectives together
to address the clashing notions of faith and
science: do they conflict or complement
each other? Can the morality we derive
through religion also be drawn from science,
or is religion exclusive in providing this?
Can we be scientific about spirituality,
prayer, consciousness, good works, God
and our intrinsic beliefs? Regardless of our
conclusions, we will still be able to work
together towards common objectives.
This is Imperial students standing against
religious intolerance, creating not just
tolerance but dialogue and understanding.
This is Imperial College Interfaith.
by Hannah Theodorou
1 Heather Mills - Amputee 2 Michael J Fox - Parkinson’s Disease 3 John Prescott - Bulimia Nervosa
4 Billy Connolly - ADHD 5 Stevie Wonder - Blind 6 Stephen Fry - Bipolar Disorder
7 Richard Branson - Dyslexia 8 Steven Spielberg - Aspergers 9 Halle Berry - Diabetes

