14
CULTURE &
THE ARTS
Arts Editors
Arts Editors Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 29 JANUARY 2010
Bloggin’
on a sunny
afternoon
LucyHarrold
LucyHarrold Arts Editor
I
t’s a rather miserable Tuesday
luncthime. Yep it’s January,
its bloody freezing and this
is your first arts section since
Christmas.
How was your Christmas? Mine was
alright, strangely my favourite present
was a pair of red ballet shoes from my
parents. I don’t do ballet but they will
be put to good use scrambling around
the floor pretending to be a hippy for
our spring show Hair.
I also finally got to update my blog
over Christmas as exams tend to get
me thinking about anything other than
Chemistry. Yes, I have a blog and yes
it is about theatre (what else did you
expect?) Its mainly a chance for me
to vent my anger over things like John
Barrowman’s sorry excuse for a Satur-
day evening show “Tonight’s the Night”
and the plight of British Musical Thea-
tre thanks to Andrew Lloyd Webber
and co. I also tend to put reviews for
shows I’ve paid for on there which tend
to be the more obscure choices. I love
looking on Google analytics to see who
actually looks at my blog, although it
is, of course mainly my friends.
My little sister has now decided she
wants one too, this time about art and
craft, so I’ve had her asking how to do
the coding for it. Finally a reason to be
a geek who can do html!
So if you like theatre, you’re welcome
to check the blog out at http://the-
atregirlinascienceworld.blogspot.com
and if you don’t, you should still check
out the arts section as you might find
something you do like.
This week, Christopher has been im-
mersing himself in Russian Literature
and the life of Mikhail Blugakov and
his mate Stalin. This takes me back to
A Level history, studying Stalin and
“consolidating our notes” (my teacher’s
favourite phrase).
Rox Middleton takes us on a magical
journey through the world of comedy
songs and shows us how they can be
used to pass Chemistry exams (umm,
bit late for me Rox) and I’ve been out to
see Legally Blonde the musical. Finally.
A new musical!
Comedy Comedy Comedy...Tonight!
Well, comedy songs. Rox Middleton shares some of her favourite examples from Lehrer to Minchin.
From Russia with Satire
Christopher Self explores Russian Literature... and Stalin
I
s comedy art? There’s a certain
snobbishness, I think, which
says no. There’s a tendency to
consider comedy merely cheap-
ly scoring laughs, compared to
the magnificent themes of True Art.
But is this so fair? Everybody likes to
be made to laugh; dramas are praised
for their ability to joke whilst heaving
towards their epic goal. Sculptural or
graphic jokes are common; the idea
is that they make you laugh, but then
make you stand around to really think
about what the artist is really trying
to do. Because heaven forbid the art-
ist should be really trying to make you
giggle. Comedy has such physical and
emotional power that it is absurd not to
admit that it has artistic merit. In fact,
brilliant jokes take such originality and
skill that the best are surely some of the
world’s most beautiful things.
Well, some hyperbole perhaps, but
a particularly exquisite specimen of
comedy is a subject dear to me; the
comic song. Although nominally mu-
sic, the tune can vary from catchy
melody to a repetitive riff for the lyr-
ics. Ideal to sing or to listen to, perfect
for the musical and non-musical alike,
they are more than the tameness and
cringey innuendoes of George Form-
by’s Little Stick of Blackpool Rock (or
is he just pleased to see you type…) or
even my Granny’s favourite, Bernard
Cribbins, who said Right Said Fred.
Good comic songs are a rare substance
because their creators tread a fine line
between edgy and obscene, whimsical
and twee. So for this purpose, as so of-
ten is the case, Youtube is your friend
(especially if you like your friends
slightly fuzzy and with low quality
slide-shows).
I plan to make the following a pleas-
ant potter through the genre of co-
medic song with absolutely no sense of
objectivity or rigour. So let’s start with
The Best. I don’t want to make this
ramble through comic songs to be all
about Tom Lehrer, so it won’t be; but
it’ll be tough. Tom Lehrer is a math-
ematician whose songs you may have
heard, what chemist worth their salt
could have missed The Elements Song,
which lists every element of the peri-
odic table (of the time) to a galloping
jingle? Most of his songs are still fresh
as ever, although he left the public eye
to return to mathematics and teaching
- having written only 37 songs, in 1960.
His subjects range from STDs to soci-
ology, bombs, scouts, plagiarism and
masochism besides much more. The
lamer ones can’t take much repetition,
but in general they are miles ahead of
most comic songs in originality and
energy, and are still setting the stand-
ard for the next generation.
For more musical whimsy there is
also Flanders and Swann, very much
more old-fashioned and wordy with
some slightly outdated topics. Al-
though a few have not stood the test of
time, others are addictive, even catchy;
amusing songs are the Song of the Re-
luctant Cannibal (If the JuJu had meant
us not to eat people, he wouldn’t have
made us of meat), and the brilliant First
and Second Law of Thermodynamics
(Heat won’t pass from the cooler to
the hotter, you can try it if you like but
you far better notter). Try Have Some
Madeira M’dear for the bizarre sound
of two very quaint men singing abut
date-rape.
For something a little more mod-
ern, you probably already know The
Flight Of The Conchords, whose in-
genious flashes, like the binary solo,
or hip-hop-opotamus, make up for the
sometimes rather tediously adolescent
sentiments. For something more excit-
ing, Weird Al’ Yankovic is pretty good;
I love Amish Paradise, a parody of
Gangsta’s paradise but with an excel-
lent video of an Amish town (Tonight
we’re gonna party like it’s 1699). Tim
Minchin is a rising star with some re-
ally good material, like a song in which
he points out to his girlfriend that
while he thinks she’s special she obvi-
ously falls within a bell-curve. Mitch
Benn is another comedian songwriter
with pleasantly weird imaginings, but
surpassing most others by singing
about topical news as well. There are
also Imperial graduates The Amateur
Transplants, with very funny medi-
cally themed songs in their repertoire
and their Black and White Menstrual
Show. And these acts nestle amongst
gazillions of funny musicians, ready to
be discovered or perhaps discarded.
I haven’t mentioned comedians like
Bill Bailey, Victor Borge or Kit and
The Widow, whose comedy is focused
more on the music itself than the lyr-
ics, and are all definitely worth a watch.
Then there are also so many comedi-
ans who have dipped into comic songs
now and then, notably Victoria Wood,
Hugh Laurie and also Monty Python,
whose Every Sperm Is Sacred, and The
Lumberjack Song are gems from their
smallish offering of humorous tunes.
This article is futile in attempting to
convey the brilliance of these comedi-
ans without their music, so I say go and
get some culture down you today.
A
rtists are fascinating
creatures, the drive and
natural ability to create
something in which oth-
ers find genuine meaning
is an incredible power. And one that
seems to attract characters whose own
lives are as noteworthy as any of their
great works.
There’s a Stalinist era Russian author
called Mikhail Bulgakov who exempli-
fies this phenomenon, a young doctor
with a bourgeois intellectual back-
ground whose life became embroiled in
the turmoil of the Russian Revolution.
Unable to escape the new soviet nation
and having been forced into combat
as a frontline medic in the civil war he
eventually found himself in commu-
nist Moscow writing reports and satire
for some of the leading publications.
The state was new, just finding its feet,
and censorship was not the all pow-
erful controller it would become. He
eventually began to write books suc-
cessfully, publishing a few that, though
well received, began to earn him a
reputation as a counter revolutionary,
something particularly dangerous for
a person with his background. While
writing his fourth satirical work The
Heart of a Dog, the censor cracked
down, confiscating the manuscript be-
fore he could publish it. He never got
another book published during his life
time, falling with his wife into a state
of poverty. This unimaginable sense of
entrapment eventually led him to write
to Stalin himself begging to be allowed
to leave the country.
Bulgakov’s relationship with Sta-
lin is truly surreal. Stalin was the first
reader, the censor in chief, and at this
time was probably well acquainted
with Bulgakov’s works. Following his
letter the first citizen personally called
the author and Bulgakov talked frankly
with the autocrat about his personal
and political problems, a conservation
that ended with Stalin arranging work
for him as a director. He publicly criti-
cized Bulgakov’s works but never de-
nounced him as an enemy of the state;
Bulgakov was never threatened with
the gulags. Indeed when he penned a
play that depicted Stalin as a kind and
gentle wartime leader in the civil war,
that too was banned as an executive
decree from the leader himself, who
declared that Bulgakov was just trying
to win him over. But satire is a subtle
thing that is often done with a heavy
hand; just because a book has a message
doesn’t make it a good read, and this
is one of the reasons I particularly love
Bulgakov’s books. Written as they were
under the oppressive atmosphere of the
Soviet Union, the satire in The Heart of
a Dog and The Master and Margarita is
always veiled. There is an added depth
to a good story that genuinely leaves you
sitting back thinking “Well I bet that
character symbolises…”
. More than just
a critique of Soviet life his books reflect
his own existence and are genuinely im-
bued with a fantastical sense of magical
absurdity.
The Master and Margarita in par-
ticular has become one of my favourite
books, an incredible tale that Bulgakov
never finished re-writing that draws on
all of his experiences and frustrations
and is packed with satire so cleverly
interwoven into the story that it can
be read entirely in abstraction from
it. It always seems odd to talk about
how well written one finds a translated
foreign novel. But let me just say that
this is one of two foreign books I’ve
read that have actually made me want
to learn the parent language, just to
see if the author’s prose were really as
breathtakingly good as they appeared.
Minchin, the new God of comedy song
Grandad of cringe Cribbins, I just put
him in because I love Doctor Who.
THE ARTS

