15
felix FRIDAY 29 JANUARY 2010
ARTS
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Y
ou know how it is, you
wait all term for a new
musical to open and fi-
nally one does. Two days
before my exam. See what
I sacrifice for you dear reader; who am
I kidding? I needed a break and Legal-
ly Blonde the Musical was the perfect
excuse.
The Savoy theatre places host to
the show and is possibly one of the
ugliest theatres in London, built in a
tribute to Art Deco it is more a lesson
in dodgy concrete and tired looking
velvet curtains. I was hoping that the
show would be good enough to make
up for the eyesore it played in and
luckily I was right and even the many
crusty old critics around me agreed!
If you’ve seen the film of Legally
Blonde, the general storyline is the
same; Elle Woods, a sorority queen
from Malibu strives to get into Har-
vard Law School in an attempt to
win back her ex-boyfriend Warner
Huntington III but instead finds her-
self fighting to fit in and be taken se-
riously. She is helped in her quest to
become a lawyer by the dowdy but
sweet Emmett and love-lorn Paulette.
The play takes this storyline and bulks
it out a bit, adding a back-story for
Emmett and expanding Paulette’s love
life. This makes for a much more satis-
fying book and well-rounded charac-
terisations lifting the story from shal-
low and girly to smart and funny.
The movie really suits musicalisa-
tion, certain scenes were just scream-
ing out to become large production
numbers and luckily the creative team
have chosen the right situations to
receive this treatment. The Bend and
Snap has naturally become a hip-
hop inspired anthem with additional
dance breaks and Elle’s discovery of a
key witness’s perjury is now empha-
sised in “There Right There” (guess
what that’s about).
Laurence O’Keefe and Nell Ben-
jamins’ score is catchy and captures the
fun of the show without being superfi-
cial and the lyrics are very witty with a
sense that they are in on the jokes too.
Music wise, highlights for me were the
ballad “Legally Blonde” which I must
admit nearly made me cry and “So
Much Better”, the act one finale that,
in the hands of Sheridan Smith, gives
Wicked’s “Defying Gravity” a run for
its money. I must give a little shout out
to O’Keefe’s orchestrations, full and
brassy is how I like my shows and full
and brassy is what he gave me.
Jerry Mitchell’s direction is fun and
bouncy and makes great use of some
brilliantly designed mechanised sets,
including a dormhouse frontage and a
very cleverly designed judge’s podium
cum toilet suite! His choreography
is vibrant and incredible intricate, a
stand out being “Whipped into Shape”.
This was a complex number involving
some amazing jump rope (or skipping
rope for us Brits) stunts and a strong
performance by Aoife Mullholandow
to the matter of the cast. I must ad-
mit that when first announced, I was
incredibly sceptical- three TV person-
alities, two reality TV hopefuls and a
popstar does not fill one with much
hope. For some reason in England a
musical cannot be successful with-
out having a *star name* to entice Joe
Public in. Why can’t a musical be sold
on the merit of its book and songs!?
Rant over. On the whole I was very
impressed with the casting and should
learn to be less sceptical. Sheridan
Smith stole the show as Elle Woods,
Omigod You Guys, like a New Musical!
Lucy Harrold finally gets to see a new show after a long theatre draught and luckily it’s a rather awesome choice
she was phenomenal and even better
than Laura Bell Bundy on my well worn
out cast recording. Her comic timing
was perfect yet did not hamper any of
the more serious moments and boy has
that lady got a voice! I loved Alex Gau-
mond as Emmett; his high note and lit-
tle dance at the end of “Chip on Your
Shoulder” sent me into a frenzied mo-
ment of “awww, he’s so cute”. Another
revelation for me was Peter Davison
as Professor Callahan, who I’d never
seen in any other role other than the
fifth Doctor Who. “Blood in the Wa-
ter”, a song I would normally skip on
the album was well executed by Davi-
son who even added a jazzy lilt to this
patter song.
My cynical predispositions were not
entirely unrealised as I felt Jill Halfpen-
ny, although a fine actress, was totally
miscast as Paulette. The part can be
taken in two ways- sassy yet vulnerable
or playing for laughs. Halfpenny didn’t
do either and didn’t really have the belt
to pull off Paulette’s showstopper “Ire-
land”. Duncan James, although he well
suited the part and sings very well, just
didn’t seem right in the cast- whether
this was because he looks too old to
be at Harvard or that James isn’t yet
comfortable in the theatre surround-
ings is yet to be seen. It doesn’t help
that he has one of the weakest songs
in the show and little else to do yet
has been the main feature of publicity
campaigns.
Despite these few niggles I was re-
ally impressed with Legally Blonde, the
cast were full of energy and genuinely
appeared to be having a good time.
The play stays faithful to the fabulous
film yet adds a new dimension and
the music is infectious without being
grating.
The show’s unexpected draw was its
heart. I truly did feel all warm inside
by the end and this is a testament to
the entire package- writers, produc-
tion team and cast. Perhaps a winter
opening was a bonus to entice freezing
shoppers off the streets and into the
theatre and I say good on them!
If you only have the opportunity to
see one movie musical this season,
make sure it is Legally Blonde, you’ll
feel better for it. Plus it offers a lottery
system where by turning up two hours
before the show your name is entered
into a lottery. If you are pulled out you
can bag yourself some very cheap front
row seats. Yay for cheapness!
Want to go to a show but its too pricey?
Every winter the Get Into London Theatre Initiative offers tickets
to top shows for under 26s for bargain prices- £10, £15, £25 or £35!
And these aren’t just any old shows, these are top West End Shows.
Current offer include £60 Legally Blonde tickets for £35 and £50
Hairspray tickets now at £25. For this you’ll get a nice stalls seat and
an awesome view. www.getintolondontheatre.co.uk
Don’t forget the “A Night Less Ordinary” Scheme where you can
get free (yes free!) tickets to shows at selected theatres including
the National and the Donmar Warehouse. Again, all need to be is
under 26.
www.anightlessordinary.org.uk. Or we’ll get you tickets if you
want to review a show, email us at arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Lets play “One of these things is not like the others”, any ideas? I’ll give you a clue: Duncan from Blue doesn’t count.
The incomparable Sheridan Smith as Elle Woods bags herself possibly the cutest guy ever in Alex Gaumond as Emmett

