19
felix FRIDAY 29 JANUARY 2010
CAT-NIP
Text in to
Text in to 07832670472
07832670472
Email in at
Email in at catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Drop us a message at
Drop us a message at felixonline.co.uk
felixonline.co.uk
Drunken-mate photo of the week
xkcd.com
I’m not sure whether this person is actually drunk or not but they must have a
very good reason for turning this course guide into a colouring book. Maybe.
Got a picture of
your mate being
an absolute waste
of oxygen? Well,
get your camera
out and email your
drunken-mate
photos to catnip.
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Senders must have permission to use submitted photos and
accept full responsibility for them
The Best And Worst
Of Your Science Jokes
Catnip: Apparently no one knows any good science jokes.
Either that, or your taste is just awful! These made us cry!
A neutron walks into a bar and asks, “how much for a pint?”
Barman says, “For you, no charge.”
Physicist
In the pub, a man asks for a pint of adenosine triphosphate.
Barman says, “That’ll be 80p”
First Year Medic
Why do chemists like nitrates so much? They’re cheaper than
day rates!
Second-Year Medic
How many guacs are there in a bowl of guacamole? Avocado’s
number.
Union Bar Staff
What is the fastest way to tell the sex of a chromosome? Pull
down its genes!
First Year Biologist
A student comes to a young professor’s office hours. She
glances down the hall, closes his door, kneels pleadingly. “I
would do anything to pass this exam.” She leans closer to him,
flips back her hair, gazes meaningfully into his eyes. “I mean...”
she whispers, “... I would do... anything.” He returns her gaze.
“Anything?” “Anything.” His voice turns to a whisper. “Would
you... study?”
Third Year Engineering Student
CAT GOT YOUR TONGUE?
THE LIBRARY: LOVE IT OR HATE IT?
JOKES, LETTERS, OPINIONS – WE WANT THEM ALL!
Email: catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk Text:07832670472
Facebook: Felix Fan Page Twitter: @felixcatnip
felix is a student newspaper. Specifically, it’s your student
newspaper. It can’t go on without your support. And nowhere
is this more true than Catnip. Without you, this page would be
just be blank. Now this means less work for me but it’s boring.
Boring doesn’t belong in felix. Lectures are boring. Tutorials
are boring. Coursework is boring. Exams are...terrifying! But
felix will never be boring! But we can only continue to liven up
your Friday afternoons and beyond with your help. We need
your jokes, your letters and your opinions. And we certainly
need the photos of your totally gazeboed mates in all their
digital glory. And more than that, we want them!
So write in today!
We Need You!
(Call Me!)

