FOOD
Food Editors
Food Editors Chris Sim & Holly Cumbers
Chris Sim & Holly Cumbers
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
felix FRIDAY 29 JANUARY 2010
Som tam, sticky rice and grilled chicken, Bangkok style. Try it at Thai Taste.
Thai food has one too many choices
T
he following waffle is my
typical thought process
upon scanning a Thai
restaurant menu, and the
confusingly colossal co-
nundrum of choices which engulf my
brain. ‘I want something light, refresh-
ing, and a bit spicy. Perhaps a salad.
Actually I could go for something a tad
heavier, so I’ll go for something more
rich and unctuous, packed full of her-
baceous flavours. A curry fits the bill.
On second thought, something more
simple and punchy will do it for me,
perhaps a stir fry. Ah, but I want that
ubiquitous soup which encompasses
sweet, sour, hot and salty flavours.
Oh but that noodle dish always hits
the spot… But they’ve got those crab
cakes…’
I’m normally a bit disoriented at this
point so I just make my decision based
on my gut feeling. Nine times out of
ten, upon receipt of my delicacy, I’m
pretty happy with it. But there is that
odd occasion where I peer across at the
delights on a neighbouring table and
think that perhaps my decision wasn’t
the best one after all; a thought which
is really hammered home when a whiff
of those hot-off-the-wok scents me-
ander their way into my nose. I don’t
like this feeling of leaving the restau-
rant wishing I’d chosen an even more
mouth-watering alternative, or that I’d
loosened my belt, emptied my wallet
and tried a bit of everything. So I write
this article with a view to helping make
choosing the right dishes that tad eas-
ier, and to help others avoid that feel-
ing of gastronomic regret. I’m going
to keep it simple by picking out some
noteworthy dishes at the two best lo-
cally-based mid-ranged Thai eateries,
Addie’s Thai Café and Thai Taste.
Neither restaurant has a particularly
striking décor nor unique ambience,
but both are pretty effective at do-
ing what they set out to do. I like the
chic-ness and informality of Addie’s
Chris Sim visits Addie’s Thai Cafe and Thai Taste and found many treats were awaiting. But how did they compare?
and it’s definitely the better of the two
for gathering a lively group for some
banter or as a pit-stop before a night
out. Thai Taste appears more formal
to the eye with its all-white interior,
yet somehow feels more laid back. No
matter which restaurant your foodie
sixth sense has led you into, the arrival
of the menu signals the commence-
ment of that daunting challenge of
choosing your tummy-fillers. Both
restaurants have the spectrum of Thai-
land’s culinary masterpieces pretty
comprehensively covered, but for me,
each had one standout dish.
Som tam (papaya salad), sticky coco-
nut rice and grilled chicken is just one
of those combinations which makes
you think that they should create a
Nobel Prize for Gastronomy for the
genius who conceived this immacu-
late trinity of joy. Since trying it on
the streets on Bangkok I have craved
to find a source of this pleasure closer
to home, and fortunately for me, Thai
Taste does a pretty good rendition of
it. The slight crunch of the papaya and
its spicy yet subtly sweet sauce, com-
bined which the meaty chicken flesh
and its beautifully caramelised skin is
married with the mellow richness of
the rice to create an uplifting flavour
combination. True comfort food. Ad-
die’s star act isn’t too bad either. The
english translation of this dish’s name
doesn’t quite do it justice. ‘Grilled
neck end pork with special sauce’. But
it could be called anything to be hon-
est, and it wouldn’t take anything away
from the tender pork with its distinctly
barbeque-esque overtones, accompa-
nied by a sweet sauce containing lively
chilli and refreshing coriander.
Both do the classics pretty well too
and whilst these dishes weren’t quite
up to the standard found in the Land
of Smiles, they weren’t too far off. Thai
Taste’s Pad Thai had an appropri-
ate injection of tamarind, a touch of
sweetness and was pleasingly comple-
mented with generously-sized prawns.
At the same time, Addie’s Roast Duck
Curry comprised juicy duck pieces
embalmed in a fragrant coconut sauce,
created with an optimal amount of
lemongrass and sweet basil.
You might’ve guessed from the above
that the overall level of skillsmanship
of both restaurants’ culinary creations
means that Thai Taste and Addie’s are
pretty much level pegging in the food
department. Service is pleasantly ef-
ficient at both, and portion sizes are
pretty agreeable considering most
main dishes cost between £7-9. To
conclude, whilst it is normally my job
to name which restaurant triumphs
over the other, on this rare occasion,
it’s too close to call. But at the very
least, I do hope that this article has
provided you with gastronomic guid-
ance when paying a visit to either of
these fine establishments.
Food: Equally Tasty: 9.0
Value: Equally Priced: 8.0
Service: Equally Efficient: 7.0
Ambience: Equally Average:
7.0
Overall: 8.0/10
A great way to beat the winter blues... indulge in some chocolate
Holly Cumbers shows that a bit of care and thought can go a long way in discovering the right chocolate
I
have been making a promise
to myself for the last couple of
weeks now, to eat extremely
healthily and to start going to
the gym regularly to make up
for all the fatty foods I have eaten over
Christmas. But then I realised that
not only was this impossible but also
going to be extremely boring. So this
week I have decided to write an article
all about chocolate, (well to be more
precise, about ways you can select the
most mouth watering chocolate – even
without blowing your budget at Hotel
Chocolat) as a protest to the amount
of articles in popular magazines at the
moment about dieting! Articles which
I personally think are a lot more boring
than any revision we all have to endure
over the following weeks!
The most important thing about en-
suring you buy a chocolate to be proud
of is to carefully examine its ingredi-
ents; these are the only things which
determine whether a chocolate is to be
left on the shelf or lovingly consumed.
Dark chocolate is, I believe, the one you
really have to get right; buying a horri-
ble dark chocolate really isn’t very nice
and leaves you with a sour taste in your
mouth. A good dark chocolate should
include; plenty of cocoa, (bear in mind
that cocoa gives a strong flavour and
therefore the more the cocoa, the
stronger the flavour) sugar or other
natural sweeteners and cocoa butter.
Make sure you avoid buying any dark
chocolate which includes vanillin, or
artificial flavourings. Also, for all you
health fanatics out there (and I am
sure you will already know this) dark
chocolate is by far the healthiest.
Getting a good milk
chocolate is also very
satisfying and there is a
lot of difference between
a good milk chocolate
and the most basic you
can get. The ingredients
should include all those
that are in dark choco-
late and, obviously, milk.
I personally prefer milk
chocolate with cream, as I
find this has a richer and
smoother taste, however,
it can also be in the form of
milk powder or whole milk;
it might be worth experi-
menting with different milk
chocolates to see which one you
prefer.
I have decided not to discuss
the best ingredients for white
chocolate – after all, it can be disputed
whether it is actually chocolate at all
due to its lack of cocoa – in my mind
the essential ingredient of chocolate. I
have also found that most chocoholics
I have met also tend to dislike white
chocolate, claiming it is far too sweet.
I am sorry if I have offended you in my
neglect of white chocolate!
For all the fellow chocoholics out
there, you can now buy a
chocolate pizza on the internet, which
will surely help you through dooming
weeks of revision and the depressing
January blues! The pizza is available in
five chocolaty flavours; dark chocolate
with cranberries; smarties mixed with
jelly beans and white chocolate; hon-
eycomb; chocolate brownie and finally
marshmallows mixed with Belgium
chocolate.
Trust me, the pictures alone are
enough to get your mouth to water,
let alone the taste. On a closing note,
you shouldn’t feel guilty when scoffing
your face with chocolate – I think we
all do deserve it!

