felix
SCIENCE
Science Editors
Science Editors Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
FRIDAY 29 JANUARY 2010
Reversing the arrow of time
In
brief
Climate panel
credibility in question
The head of the Internation-
al Panel for Climate Change
(IPCC), Prajendra Pachauri,
has told critics he does not
intend to step down follow-
ing a mistake made in the
fourth annual IPCC report
released in 2007.
The error which sparked
the row is the date of 2035 being set in the report as the
milestone for when the Himalayan glaicers could have disap-
peared. In an interview with the BBC he stressed that despite
the data in the report being questionable, it “does not detract
from the fact that the glaciers are melting.” This news comes
at a time when the credibility of climate science is still uncer-
tain following the leaked emails from the UEA Climate Unit
late last year.
Arjun Hassard
Arjun Hassard
This may end up in the bullshit grave-
yard of sensationalist physics specula-
tion, but seemingly impossible occur-
rences – such as a shattered pane of
glass returning instantaneously to its
original form, a Latte separating back
into pure coffee and milk, or Megan
Fox replying to my emails – are not as
conceptually absurd as they may ap-
pear at first glance.
Take the Starbucks Skinny Cinnamon
Dolce Latte for example. Intuition tells
us that once you have mixed the key in-
gredients of coffee, milk, cinnamon and
pretentiousness, you can never recover
them in their pure form. Yet the laws of
physics that we worship and occasion-
ally tattoo on ourselves are for the most
part ‘time-invariant’ – in lay-douche
terms, that means they work just as well
going forwards and backwards in time.
They are fundamentally symmetrical
equations. So why can’t the chav un-
break a library window and un-verdict
himself an ASBO?
The reason is that in the real world
(i.e. the one where Mr T is not allowed
to randomly murder warlocks) – the
majority of physical processes are ‘ir-
reversible’. This is governed by the
super-exciting ‘Second Law of Thermo-
dynamics’
, which states that the change
in entropy of a system is always posi-
tive. The entropy of a physical system
is its extent of disarray, essentially the
number of ways in which the system
can be arranged. Windows can be shat-
tered, which increases disorder, but
will never spontaneously un-shatter.
Gases disperse naturally (especially in
crowded elevators), but will not spon-
taneously compress themselves. There-
fore the ‘entropy of the universe’ always
increases. (Disclaimer: for every macro-
scopic system there IS a finite possibili-
ty that the entropy can decrease, but the
probability of this happening is so small
that it is unlikely to have occurred once
since the beginning of the universe.
Even if you had a million baboons con-
ducting thermodynamics experiments
all day since the dawn of time. No toilet
breaks. I’m serious.)
So what this clown Lorenzo Maccone
reckons is that counter-intuitive de-
creases in entropy happen all the time,
the snag is that we just fail to remember
them! Before you sigh and flick to the
centre page (I’ve seen it already and I can
quite sincerely say unless you are bulim-
ic it’s not worth it), Maccone claims his
findings do not violate any laws of quan-
tum physics. Plus he went to MIT, so he
can’t be a complete head case (MIT is
almost as good as Imperial right?).
His argument is based on the premise
that according to quantum mechanics,
if anyone does observe an entropy-
decreasing event, their memories of
the event “will be erased by necessity”.
Your memories will form and then
be subsequently erased. Witnessing
a system or process means you enter
into a “quantum entanglement” with
it (there’s scope for yet another dorky
chat-up line here). In other words, you
and the system are entangled and can-
not truly be described independently.
The entanglement, according to our
amico Lorenzo, is between your mem-
ory and the system. The crucial step is
the removal of this entanglement, and
“the disentangling operation will erase
this entanglement, namely the observ-
er’s memory”.
This all sounds a bit like something
Morpheus would say to Neo, before
re-adjusting his ridiculous specs and
scratching his ass. Nevertheless the
thought experiment Maccone uses to
elucidate his idea is fairly easy to under-
stand (Medics...don’t worry about it):
‘An experimenter, Alice, measures
the spin state of an atom sent by her
friend Bob, who is otherwise isolated
from Alice’s laboratory. The atom is
in a combined state (superposition)
of spin-up and spin-down until Alice
measures it as either up or down.
From Alice’s perspective, her lab gains
a single bit of information from outside,
and it’s then copied and recorded in her
memory and on her computer’s hard
drive. That information flow from atom
to lab increases entropy, according to
Alice. Because Bob doesn’t see the re-
sult, from his perspective the spin state
of the atom never resolves itself into up
or down. Instead it becomes quantum
mechanically correlated, or “entangled,”
with the quantum state of the lab. He
sees no information flow and no change
in entropy.
Bob has total control of the quantum
state of her lab. To reduce the entropy
of the lab from Alice’s point-of-view,
Bob reverses the flow of that one bit of
information by removing any record of
the atom’s spin from Alice’s hard drive
and her brain. He does so by perform-
ing a complicated transformation that
disentangles the lab’s quantum state
from that of the atom.
From Bob’s perspective, the quan-
tum information of the atom plus Al-
ice’s lab is the same whether or not the
two are entangled – there is no change
in entropy as viewed from the outside.
Such reversals could happen in real life
but because the Universe – like Alice –
would retain no memory of them, they
would have no effect on how we per-
ceive the world.’
You might say that since this thought
experiment is attempting to portray
Maccone’s ideas as viable in the real
world, he’s is doing himself no favours
by pretending one of the physicists is
actually a girl. Alice? More like Alan.
Either way, my opinion is that his logic
seems to hold. Whether it applies to our
universe is incontestably another ques-
tion altogether. But, like a cup of coffee
getting cold while you argue with the
Library cafe staff about the necessity
of a tray, or a pint glass shattering into
hundreds of pieces due to reasons un-
related to Snakebite, it would be ‘sick-
mansick’ if these things did happen in
reverse. And memories of events being
erased by necessity, especially if that
event is Sports night, is something you
are all familiar with.
Bioterrorism
and Botox
NathanLey
NathanLey Science Editor
I
t’s pretty much February now
so understandably you may be
reading this whilst depressed
and/or fed up with life, espe-
cially in light of how much
work you claim to have to do. But
you should see it as a positive thing.
It's not unfair to say that the times
where the going gets tough define
our character. England cricket players
don't have their greatness measured
by how many test match double cen-
turies they pile up on a concrete road
against Bangladesh, nor is a football
team’s success for the year determined
by how far they go in a domestic cup
competition. Nope, nothing good
ever came easily. So get your head
down, stick at it, and don't give up. If
you do bottle it, it says a lot about you.
Anyway that was just a point I wanted
to get across.
Topically speaking, "Bioterrorism"
was an official line spouted by gov-
ernments for a fair while, although
it has died down recently (in light of,
you know, nuclear stuff). This is the
threat that we may all die at any given
moment as a result of terrorists using
germs or other biomaterial as weap-
ons of mass destruction. To this day
no such thing has quite materialised.
2001 brought the US anthrax attacks,
wherein letters containing anthrax
spores were sent to various news of-
fices, killing 5 people. But even this
is considered by many to have been
nothing other than an inside job, rath-
er than the work of a terrorist threat.
This week, however, New Scientist
reported on a new threat from none
other than our favourite facial en-
hancer – Botox. It stands for the Botu-
linum toxin produced by Clostridium
bacteria, and it is the most poisonous
known natural substance. It paralyses
muscles, and can kill you in minute
quantities (80 mg). If carefully regulat-
ed between a few licensed companies
it doesn’t pose a threat to our safety,
but a cheap unlicensed version has al-
legedly been produced in Chechnya,
an area frequently associated with
Muslim extremism. Put two and two
together, and we have the next epi-
sode in the story of “Bioterror”.
In a tenuous but not totally unre-
lated link to this, the news came last
week that Heidi Montag recently un-
derwent 10 plastic surgery treatments
(including botox) within one day, at
the age of 23. On the one hand we
have here a sad story about an Ameri-
can celebrity that is totally insignifi-
cant; on the other we have a remark-
ably dangerous precedent. Consider
not only the irreparable damage to
her young body that she's inflicted,
but also the knock-on mental and so-
cial effects. You think she'll be happy
with these looks forever? Not likely.
It is just the thin end of the wedge, a
wedge which commits her to a life-
time of regular cosmetic alterations.
The worst thing is that as these
things occur more frequently, they’ll
become seen as more acceptable,
and will be catered for by a more ac-
cessible industry. How long until we
reach a stage where it will no longer
matter if you are born with something
you don’t like, because you can just
change it with a commercially avail-
able product? Before you dismiss
this idea, you cannot say that socie-
ties don’t change and embrace liberal
ideas. You only need to look at the
change in public opinion on topics
such as abortion, homosexuality and
the voting rights of women. Unlike in
these cases though, change will not
be for the better. These are worrying
times for society, on one front more
so than on the other.
Ambidexterity linked
to hyperactivity
In a talk entitled “The de-
tection of extra-terrestrial
life and the consequences
for science and society”, Dr
Frank Drake has warned
that our technological de-
velopment may hinder our
progress to find extra-ter-
restrial life. During the ana-
logue TV age, transmitters surrounded the Earth with a 50
light-year-wide ‘shell’ of radiation. The digital signals used to
transmit information now would be virtually indistinguish-
able from background level radiation.
Dr Drake of “Drake Equation” fame believes that there
could be up to 10,000 detectable civilisations within our
galaxy. However, 50 years of scanning the skies has failed to
confirm their existence.
Hidden by the digital
revolution
A new study at Imperial Col-
lege London has revealed that
ambidextrous children are
twice as likely to be hyperac-
tive and struggle at school.
Dr Alina Rodreguez, who
led the investigation, said that
“differencesinthebrainmight
explain these difficulties, but
there needs to be more re-
search.” Not only were the ambidextrous children found to be
more prone to learning difficulties such as ADHD, but the se-
verity of any such condition was increased amongst this group.
Dr Rodriguez stressed however that the results “should not
be taken to mean that all children who are mixed-handed will
have problems at school.”
Forgotten what happened last night? Now you know why

