8
COMMENT
Comment Editor
Comment Editor Ravi Pall
Ravi Pall
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 29 JANUARY 2010
T
his New Year, the media’s
focus was back on North-
ern Ireland, my home coun-
try. Only this time it wasn’t
about bombings, shootings
or kidnappings, but the extra- marital
affair of NI’s First Lady, Iris Robinson.
Good old normal politics had finally
returned to Northern Ireland. But
while an affair between a 59 year old
and a teenager could happen anywhere,
the response to the affair was uniquely
Northern Irish. Nowhere else could
such an incident have triggered the
threat of increased sectarian tension.
And yet this is exactly what is at stake
in a frighteningly fragile peace process.
The slightest hiccup could bring the
whole house of cards crashing down
and threaten to restart the longest civil
war in world history which claimed
over 3,500 lives during the last 40 years
and has left many living in segregation,
still viewing ‘the other side’ through a
prism of suspicion and fear. The causes
of the ‘Troubles’ are complex but re-
ligious intolerance is clearly the main
culprit.
Ireland has had a painful history of
religious intolerance dating back to
the infamous Penal Laws, banning or
attacking anything Catholic in pre-
dominantly Catholic Ireland, the de-
nial of soup to those who would not
convert to Protestantism during the
Famine which was to claim a million
lives and vicious retaliations leading to
the slaughter of innocent Protestants.
And yet there is nothing whatsoever
in the teachings of either Christian de-
nomination that justifies this; nothing
that should have lead to such violence.
Rather, it has been ignorance and po-
litical opportunism that has caused so
many of these tragedies; and continues
to threaten them today. The ability to
turn religious difference into religious
intolerance relies on the ability to mis-
represent differing opinions while al-
luding to political and social prejudice.
I remember a ten year old Catholic
child boy telling me that of course he
knew Protestant beliefs, “Don’t they
believe in God the dog and God the
cow and all that?” Reverend Ian Pais-
ley himself denounced the Pope as the
antichrist to his face. It is when reli-
gion ceases to be about God and turns
tribal that religious intolerance thrives.
Catholicism means being a Republi-
can and Protestantism means wanting
British rule; these are hijackings of re-
ligion. There was never a petrol bomb
thrown in the name of the Sacrament
of Confession or a bomb in defiance of
papal authority; rather it was people
abusing religion for their own ends.
This is not just an Irish problem. In-
creasingly, being a Muslim can be seen
to mean simply being against ‘Ameri-
can Imperialism’. A no doubt insulting
thought for true Islamic believers and
yet Islam was so clearly abused in the
case of the failed December bomber
Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, ex-pres-
ident of the UCL Islamic Society. It is
against such people that all religions
must unite. We cannot deny the im-
mense and powerful beliefs common
to all our faiths. We cannot allow prej-
udice to cloud our view of other reli-
gions. Yet it is people such as Abdul-
mutallab who claim centre stage- just
as with Northern Ireland it has often
been the extremists whose bombs
spoke louder than the prayers of oth-
ers. As the great Irishman W B Yeats
said, “The best lack all conviction,
while the worst are full of passionate
intensity”.
But the ‘best’ are out there; challeng-
ing religious intolerance and promot-
ing interreligious understanding. This
year saw the birth of Imperial College
Interfaith; a new society, comprised
entirely of students, set up to do just
that. Uniting Christians, Muslims,
Baha’is, Jains, Hindus, Jews, Sikhs and
Buddhists, the society is taking apart
misunderstandings between faiths by
encouraging dialogue. The fantastic
opening event in November (Unifaith)
was a perfect example of this, bringing
together speakers from six different
religions under the one banner of un-
derstanding. This coming week marks
the Union’s One World week, at which
Interfaith is set to have a large presence
with stalls on Monday and a massive
Question Time style event on science
and religion. This is Imperial students
standing against religious intolerance,
creating not just passive tolerance but
dialogue and understanding. This is
Imperial College Interfaith.
DavidStewarthasdiettipsforthefatandlazy
“Ireland has a
painful history
of religious
intolerance”
S
uppose you’re worried about
your weight. Perhaps you feel
you could lose a few pounds.
The modern way to deal with
these feelings is to smother
them with anti-depressants, so you
could take a fistful of Prozac washed
down with a tub of Ben and Jerry’s and
call it irony.
Still, some people are picky and may
entertain certain objections with this
advice. If you’re one of these people,
you will have to investigate other med-
ications. There is a panoply of sub-
stances you can take these days, which
might seem daunting to the prospec-
tive pill-junkie, so I’ve reviewed a few
of the current offerings on the market.
Alli is the latest drug to be released,
and unusually, it’s actually legal as well,
which is of course a bonus. Alli is a li-
pid-absorption blocker. In other words
it’s a Fat-Shitting Drug (FSD). Because
fats aren’t absorbed by the digestive
system, they will appear in your faeces.
This means that you will be curling out
oily turds, which, depending on the
amount of fat you’ve eaten, can make
them so greasy and loose that they can
actually slip out during the day. Eat
enough KFC and your rectum can get
so full of grease that a fart will splatter
oil all over your underwear. In combi-
nation with white shorts, this is a great
idea for a dare.
2,4-Dinitrophenol (DNP) was one of
the first to be invented and remains the
most effective, some consider it a ‘won-
der drug’. Your cellular currency for
energy is called ATP. Once it is spent,
it becomes ADP, which must then be
recharged again. The process for doing
this, ‘chemiosmosis’, involves a huge
cylindrical molecule, rotated about by
the passage of hydrogen ions across
an electrical potential. As the mol-
ecule spins round it adds a phosphate
group onto the ADP molecule, turn-
ing it back to ATP again. DNP blocks
this process, allowing protons to flow
unhindered across the potential, doing
no work and simply generating heat.
Your body then burns more food to re-
place this energy. Upshot: you get hot,
you lose weight. This might make you
sweat like a pig. In fact it was banned
when people took so much of it that
they died of a fatal fever. Also associ-
ated with cataracts in women.
Next, there’s Ephedrine. Your nerve
cells can’t tell the difference between
this drug and adrenaline. However,
Ephedrine causes your nerve cells to
fire much more rapidly. Upshot: ephe-
drine makes you hyper, suppresses
your appetite and helps you concen-
trate. Sounds good except you might
be busting for a piss which you can’t
squeeze out and paranoid that people
are laughing at your inability to uri-
nate. Also you can get acne. Or die. Of-
ten mixed with caffeine and aspirin to
form an ‘ECA stack’.
Get a tapeworm. (Warning: Don’t
read this while eating). A Big Mac
shared is a Big Mac halved. Imagine
you have a tapeworm, whom for sake
of argument we’ll call Terry. Terry is
like a mate who follows you around all
day with a fork picking at your plate
of food. The only difference is that
he lets you eat it first. He gets fat so
you don’t have to. Terry can grow to a
metre in length inside your guts soak-
ing up all your Snickers’ and stuffed
crust pizzas. The only trouble is that
you’ll need to abort Terry before he
gets too long because otherwise you
might find him burrowing his way
out of your abdomen or the walls of
your anus. If this happens, wave a ba-
nana around your bum-hole, grab him
when he comes out to investigate and
then slowly wrap him around a pencil.
You can decide how lavish to make the
funeral.
Try the Atkins diet. The idea is to
cut all carbohydrates out of your diet,
thereby teaching your body to me-
tabolise fat and protein. So you can
eat as much meat as you like. Have the
burger, not the bun; the sausages, not
the mash. Kebab vendors can be very
helpful, and there’s nothing quite like
ordering a box of meat. Also, as it’s a
carbohydrate, this also means you can’t
drink alcohol, which is probably the
main reason you actually lose weight.
Unfortunately, since your diet will be
essentially that of a desert jackal, you
can expect to smell like one.
Now, the real boon comes from com-
bining all these at once. Get yourself in-
fected with a tapeworm, start swallow-
ing your FSD, DNP and ECA and don’t
even look at a potato. Then you can ex-
pect to find yourself pimple-covered,
taking a sweaty winter stroll through
Hyde Park in your underwear, while
you munch your way through a can of
Prince’s hotdogs, farting grease into
your increasingly transparent briefs so
that the seething mass of worm heads
poking out of your rectum are on view
to passers-by, who will be vomiting in
horror and calling the police to have
you taken away and sectioned.
But of course, if you find such a pros-
pect horrifically depressing we have a
solution for that…
RoryFentonworriesforIrishpolitics
“Imagine you have
a tapeworm, whom
for the sake of
argument we’ll call
Terry”

