GileadAmitandtheabuseofsympathy
9
felix FRIDAY 29 JANUARY 2010
T
his has been a busy week on
campus. Imperial Christian
Union have been hosting
their free thinking week,
and the Palestinian Society
have organised a Gaza awareness week.
And being a conscientious, participat-
ing member of the Union, I’ve tried to
get involved with all these conflicting
activities as best I can. I came to some of
the Christian Union events, ready for an
argument and the free doughnuts, with
my fists clenched and my cheeks turned.
I even went to some of my lectures.
But I haven’t gotten involved with
Gaza awareness week, even though it’s
a subject closer to my heart than Rich-
ard Dawkins or even the Foundations
of Quantum Mechanics. And the rea-
son for my silence is there hasn’t been
anything for me to say. One year ago,
hundreds of people were dying in a
horrendous and avoidable war. Thou-
sands of others suffered and the cause
of peace has been irreparably harmed.
There should be time to grieve.
But grief cannot be isolated. Tragedy
does not occur in a vacuum. We must
learnfromhorrorandatrocity,anddoour
utmosttoensureitisneverrepeated.And
when it comes to the Middle East, I think
the world is learning the wrong lessons.
Israel is far from irreproachable. It
makes political, strategic and humani-
tarian mistakes, and in my opinion it
needs to accept its share of the respon-
sibility. But when we discuss the human
rights situation in Gaza, we need to di-
rect our criticism appropriately, and not
be blinded to the central issues at hand.
Sympathy with suffering, and indeed
even suffering itself, are not certificates
that guarantee one is telling the truth.
One must try to look beyond emotions
and beyond the feelings of sorrow we
automatically and instinctively extend
to those who have been abused.
Those who style themselves as pro-
Palestinian speak very eloquently, and
in great detail, of the human rights vio-
lations Israel inflicts upon the residents
of Gaza. We constantly hear how the
Gazan population must endure Israeli
security checkpoints and searches, Is-
raeli blockades on necessary goods and
services, and the constant threat of Is-
raeli bombardment.
We rarely hear of the ongoing feuds
between adherents of Hamas and fol-
lowers of Fatah, feuds which in the
duration of Operation Cast Lead alone
killed dozens and wounded many
more. We are seldom told of the plight
of the Palestinian families who wait
in terror lest militants commandeer
their property or use their children as
human shields to protect themselves
from Israeli reprisals. Few stories reach
us of the Palestinians whose buildings
explode when a next-door neighbour
makes a mistake in calibrating an explo-
sive device; a device intended for deto-
nation among Israeli schoolchildren.
Over the past twenty seven years,
over 6 billion dollars in aid have been
poured into Gaza and the West Bank.
Even during the Gaza war, Israel im-
ported thousands of tons of medi-
cal supplies, fuel and grain into Gaza.
Even when the ceasefires convoked to
allow the safe passage of medical sup-
plies were broken by Hamas militants.
Even when aid lorries and ambulances
were hijacked and hospitals used as
safe zones by gunmen. Even when the
tunnels leading out of Gaza were used
to import weapons and explosives in-
stead of medicine and food. The total
aid received by the Gazan population
is over five times as much per capita
as post-war Europe received under the
Marshall Plan. And the Palestinians
need it. They deserve enough money
to build the finest schools, maintain the
most advanced hospitals, and develop a
flourishing Palestinian economy.
So why hasn’t this happened? Why,
in the years since Israel pulled its set-
tlers out of every square inch of Gaza,
has the region not developed the best
schools in the Middle East? Why are
there no hospitals in Gaza to rival those
across the border in Israel? Why have
gardens left behind by the Israelis not
been urged to give fruit to new masters?
The simple and depressing answer is
that munitions are expensive. One can-
not build up an arsenal of rockets and
explosives while at the same time im-
proving the education of one’s children.
If the choice is guns or better living, we
know from experience which way the
Palestinian leadership always swings.
And why should they choose any dif-
ferently? The less well-educated their
people’s children are, the easier it will be
to fill their heads with extremist, anti-
Israeli dogma. The fewer hospitals are
functional, the more obvious it will be to
all in the sensitive, caring West that the
Israelis are irredeemably in the wrong.
There are thousands upon thousands
of innocent Palestinians whose suffer-
ing is so great as to make description
impotent. But they have been callously,
cynically and relentlessly abused at the
hands of their supposed leaders. But if
the self-proclaimed Palestinian advo-
cates are to be believed, it is the sole
responsibility of the Israelis to ensure
the well-being of those living in Gaza.
Their suffering is Israel’s failing.
But why? Gaza does not only share a
border with Israel; it shares one almost
a fifth as long with Egypt: another Ar-
abic-speaking, Muslim region. Surely,
then, the assistance across that border
must exceed anything received from
Israel? Surely the welcome received at
the Egyptian border is one of sympathy
and even brotherhood?
One need only look at the way in which
ethnic Palestinians have been treated
in Egypt, Jordan and Lebanon to get an
understanding of how the Arab world
regards the people of Palestine. It is all
too easily forgotten that areas of Gaza
were under Egyptian control for nearly
19 years, during which time the Palestin-
ians were subjected to brutal oppression
and appalling conditions in the refugee
camps were allowed to perpetuate. If
only the flow of genuine assistance were
as bountiful as the flow of anti-Israeli
rhetoric. At least, then, people would not
be dying for the sake of hypocrisy.
The systematic abuse of the Pales-
tinians by their leadership and the rest
of the Arab world has to end, and this
can only be achieved by removing the
joker from the pack. The instinctive,
ritualised demonisation of Israel must
cease, or else the motivation to provide
aid to the suffering will drop, and the
manipulation of the weak will continue.
“One must try
to look beyond
emotions and
beyond the
feelings of sorrow”
A
nyone who has lived in
the new Eastside/South-
side complex of halls
in Princes Gardens (of
which I am one!) would
know that every kitchen comes with a
flat screen plasma TV. To achieve su-
periority, this fact would be bragged
about countless times in conversations
with friends of other universities or
even with the older years at Imperial.
I think having a plasma TV is a lot
less impressive than it sounds. Many,
if not most of my fellow friends shar-
ing the same kitchen as me would
humorously mention that the envious
TV would only ever show a mixture of
Friends, Scrubs, The Simpsons or Top
Gear repeats on either E4, Channel 4
or Dave (or E4+1, Channel 4+1, Dave
ja vu). Occasionally BBC Breakfast,
as its name suggests, is shown in the
mornings, serving more as a waking
up mechanism than anything else. Al-
though this circadian pattern has been
disrupted by the Australian Open in
the past week or so, I am certain that
once Roger Federer has won that, all
will return to normal again.
Even though I am massive fans of
all 4 programmes, I find this peculi-
arity very depressing. I would have
thought British television could con-
jure up some form of mass entertain-
ment appealing to the lazy, procras-
tination-prone university students of
today. I was wrong. Briefly scanning
the “Favourite TV Programmes” of my
Facebook friends, I noticed a distinct
pattern: people either liked the Ameri-
can programmes of the present or the
British comedies of the past, myself
included.
Having also had a look ahead to
what will be on the main TV channels
(BBC1/2, ITV, C4/5) in the following
week, things didn’t look any better.
Being an Imperial student I will bring
some mathematics into this. If prime-
time is defined as the period between
7pm and 11pm, it would give 28 hours
of supposedly worthwhile TV to watch.
Excluding films, I have managed to
find 5 hours of quality TV I would
watch, most of it being comedy and in-
cluding an hour of the aforementioned
Top Gear. This is a poor reflection of
British TV and it is hardly a surprise.
With Saturday prime time dominated
by so called “Talent” shows, it is no
wonder the quality of TV drama has
deteriorated so badly over the last dec-
ade, catalysed by the conception of Big
Brother whose life will shortly end and
will serve as a massive relief for many
people who literally “couldn’t care less”.
Soaps, which in their wonder years
could pull in more than a third of the
population of Britain are increasingly
diluted by eye-candy and improb-
able reincarnations of old characters.
The only genre worth watching has
been the comedy programs, and even
though I still find the classics such
as Blackadder better, the comedies
of today are still compelling enough
to watch. I do often wonder, with the
money from the licence payers, why
Britain cannot produce good quality
TV. Maybe it is true that Jonathan Ross
has pocketed all of it!
It may seem unfair to compare the
British television industry to the mili-
tary might of Hollywood who seems
to effortlessly churn out the law, crime
and medical dramas that we know so
well. It may be down to the fact that the
American TV season is normally 24
episodes long where as our TV season
is only 8-10 episodes long.
Extending the TV season could mean
that good programs such as Spooks or
Hustle can last longer and attract more
of an audience but there is still a lack
of quality programmes. I had hoped,
when I was about 12, that when I get
to university I would finally be able to
escape the parents shouting for me to
tear myself away from the TV and get
to bed. Well the day has come and how
frustrating is it that there is no good
TV to watch in defiance! I hope, with
the economy now out of recession, that
the BBC can actually use some money
to make some good programmes so
that students can use the plasma TV
to good effect rather than relying on
a laptop screen. But for now, I really
couldn’t care less: my 7-season West
Wing Box Set arrived in the post today!
“I have managed
to find 5 hours of
quality TV I would
watch, most of it
being comedy ”
KenWu onhowrubbishTVisthesedays...

