FELIX
10
POLITICS
Politics Editors: Rory Fenton
Joseph Letts
Rajat Jain
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 13 May 2011
Massacre in Kenya
She didn’t stand a chance. Carrying underarm
the small goat she was hoping to trade, Akiru
could only join the other traders as they were
rounded up in a small village along Ethiopia’s
border with Kenya. The following morning she
was one of twenty Kenyans carried away in bin
bags by Catholic missionaries in a tractor. She
was shot at close range.
Her twenty companions joined a total of 40
killed on a day of unforeseen and unprecedent-
ed violence between the northern Kenyan Tur-
kana people and the southern Ethiopian Mer-
ille. What started with the unprovoked murder
of two Turkana fishermen exploded through a
spiral of revenge into the massacre of these un-
armed traders just hours later.
Like the rest of the Turkana dead, Akiru was
from Todonyang, a small village turned refu-
gee camp just a few kilometres from the bor-
der. The people of Todonyang are no strangers
to suffering since conflict flared up with the
Merille during a severe drought in 2009. Both
communities rely heavily on keeping goats and
when grass became scarce, conflict arose over
the remaining patches, which happened to be
on Turkana land. Merille attacks, taking ani-
mals and land, would kill several Turkana each
month. On top of this, HIV prevalence is 25%
among the 500 or so herdsmen and fishermen
in Todonyang and police, stationed nearby to
protect against conflict with the Merille, had
brought the problems of drugs, alcohol and
prostitution to the village. A proud nomadic
people, the Turkana had been forced by the
trouble with the Merille to seek safety in num-
bers, gathering at Todonyang.
In recent months, however, real hope had
been building. Efforts at peace talks sponsored
by Steven Ochieng, a Catholic priest, seemed
to be paying off as Turkana and Merille started
tentatively to visit each others villages to trade.
There hadn’t been violence for months. A new
school had just been built to teach Turkana and
Merille children together. For Akiru, the oppor-
tunity to trade with her former enemies present-
ed a real chance to break out of poverty. As the
wife of a fisherman, Akiru and her family of 6
would have earned around £300 per year; even
the smallest amount of extra income would
make a substantial difference to this young
family’s meagre earnings.
But the Turkana and Merille were still a des-
perately poor people living from day to day,
and endemic poverty can lead to panicked,
short term decision making. Last Tuesday
morning, while Akiru set out for the Merille
village, a group of young Merille men left that
same village for the shores of Lake Turkana.
It is not certain what motivated them, but the
prospect of returning as war heroes, as young
men everywhere fantasise, was likely one of
them. They ambushed a group of Turkana fish-
ermen, killing two of them. When word spread
to Todonyang, five unarmed Merille traders
were killed in cold blood.
There is a terrible inevitability about the
conflict. Desperate poverty is entrenched by
corrupt government. The failure to provide
decent schools and law enforcement is lead-
ing to murder over mere grazing land. Poverty
and the threat of violence devalue life for both
Turkana and Merille. As Yeats said, “too long
a sacrifice makes a stone of the heart”. Akiru
reached the Merille village just minutes before
the news of the murder in Todonyang reached
there too. Not knowing the Merille language,
she probably didn’t know what was happening
when she was taken away from the village with
the other Turkana.
But even had she spoken their language, the
wheel had been long set in turn, leading to an
unarmed mother, goat in hand, dying for tradi-
tion and a patch of grass. She didn’t stand a
chance.
Rory Fenton
The world beyond
College walls
Syria
U
ganda’s lawmakers have begun debate on the
controversial Anti-Homosexuality Bill and could
vote on it as early as this week. The bill is cur-
rently in its second Parliamentary reading. One
of the bill’s main backers, Pastor Martin Ssempa
urged the Government to pass the bill but says that
he no longer supports the death penalty for homo-
sexual acts. Critics of the bill which includes foreign
government and some local pastors have said that
it would not stop homosexuality and will adversely
impact the nation’s fight against HIV. Uganda is con-
sidered to be a conservative nation.
Uganda
Syria has started
moving columns
of tanks to the
restive city
of Hama after
weeks of anti-
Government pro-
tests. Reports
from Syria have
said that water,
electricity and telephone lines have been cut off to
the city of Baniyas and troops are busy rounding up
and interrogating youths as part of the crackdown
against the protests. The European Union has an-
nounced an arms and personnel embargo on Syria
in response to the crackdown. However, President
Assad is not on the sanction list following objections
from Germany and Spain.
Japan
Japan has announced that it will reconsider its en-
ergy policy following the accident at Fukushima
plant. The plant has been leaking radiation since
the March 11 earthquake and subsequent tsunami
damaged cooling systems to the reactors. The ac-
cident is expected to cost TEPCO up to £62 billion
in compensation claims. Nuclear power currently
provides about 1/3 of Japan’s energy needs and
will continue playing a significant role in the future
according to Japan’s
Prime Minister. How-
ever, Japan will in-
vest more in renew-
ables following the
accident and expects
20% of its energy
needs to come from
renewables by 2030.
The Turkana people of northern Kenya
40 unarmed people killed as tribal violence escalates
A Turkana herdsman watches his flock

