FELIX 11
POLITICS
FRIDAY 13 MAY 2011
I
’m looking at the Canadian elec-
tion results and can’t help but
feel slightly jealous. This time
last year, after the debates, the
Lib Dems were looking at a surge
similar to the New Democratic Party’s
(NDP) surge, and Labour looked like
it was heading towards electoral obliv-
ion. The NDP has pulled off what the
Lib Dems, and before that, the (British)
Liberals, have dreamed of for almost a
century – of destroying the comfortable
two-party system (which, granted, was
always weaker in Canada because of
the Bloc Quebecois), and throwing the
country’s electoral system wide open.
There were, of course, many subtle
differences that meant that what the
NDP managed in Canada could never
have been replicated in the UK last
spring. For a start, the (Canadian) Lib-
erals were sick – infighting and uncer-
tainty had churned through four party
leaders since 2006, and the Liberals had
been tarred by scandals from their last
time in office. The once “Natural Party
of Government” has been left with a rut
of 30 or so seats, mostly in the maritime
provinces, from their previous 120.
Canada has also been a country where
voters have long had a tradition of com-
pletely wrecking unpopular parties – the
present Canadian Conservative party
rose from the ashes of the Progressive
Conservatives in the 1990s, which was
ignominiously thrown out of power in
1993, winning only 2 seats in the Lower
House, and the Progressive Conserva-
tives had in turn arisen from the ashes of
the old Conservative Party in the 1940s.
Finally, the NDP had easy, low hang-
ing fruit – Quebec, Canada’s 2nd most
populous state, which had been poison-
ous ground for the Liberals, and too
social democratic for the Tories, and
therefore usually elected representa-
tives from the Bloc Quebecois – a broad
coalition united only by support for
Québécois sovereignty. When a cred-
ible, 3rd (well, 4th) party alternative
emerged, one that actually had views
which resonated with the population,
the voters deserted the separatist bloc
and plumped for the NDP – more than
half of the NDP’s gains this election
came at the Bloc’s expense.
The NDP is not the equivalent of the
Lib Dems – it is the Canadian equiva-
lent of Old Labour and still firmly
rooted in social democratic traditions.
It is the defeated Liberals who occupy
the political ground most similar to the
Lib Dems. The Liberals faced a squeeze
from both sides of the spectrum – the
right was buoyed by Harper’s compe-
tent economic management – Canada
escaped the worst of the financial crisis,
mostly due to the tighter regulations
of banks that were brought in during
the last Liberal government, and the
resource boom that is fuelling China’s
growth. The rise of the NDP in Quebec
caused many left-leaning Liberals to re-
consider their votes and plump for the
NDP instead.
And yet, despite the hope and opti-
mism of NDP supporters today, there
are several potential problems on the
horizon. Most prominent is the gov-
ernment itself – it important to keep
in mind that despite the NDP’s suc-
cess, Stephen Harper won the elec-
tion. Harper has proved himself to be
willing to use “dirty” constitutional
tricks. He avoided an earlier vote of
no-confidence by asking the Governor-
General to suspend parliament. The
Conservatives have shown scant regard
for the environment, opting to continue
producing oil from Albertan tar sands
– an environmental catastrophe, both
in terms of the waste from the extrac-
tion process and the dirtiness of the fuel
itself. Harper has also pushed forward
a conservative domestic agenda – get-
ting “tough on crime”, and promising to
build more prisons despite crime rates in
Canada being the lowest in many years.
This is also the first election in almost
a decade that has produced a majority
government – since 2003, every Cana-
dian election (all under FPTP, I might
add) has resulted in a hung parliament.
Harper can now rule without cross-party
support for its policies – in his previous
two terms, Harper has had to act in a
more restrained manner in order to se-
cure cross party support to get his bills
passed in the Commons.
And in the end, Canada might just
have turned into the UK – a country
Breaking a two-party system
“[…] Naturally the majority did notice
his criminal activity […] unfortunately,
Italian People, if they have to choose
between their duty and personal ad-
vantage, always chose the latter. He, a
mediocre, rough man with vulgar but
effective eloquence was and is a perfect
specimen of his coevals. In an honest
country he would have been at most the
leader of a modest party, the not-too-
brilliant author of verbose articles in his
party newspaper, he would have been
considered a ridiculous character for his
manners, his megalomania, his offense
to common sense due to his emphatic
and shameless style.
[…] In Italy he became head of the
government. It is hard to find a better
example of an Italian.
He is weak but he admires the use of
force, he tries to appear strong against
his nature. He is venal, corruptible, adu-
lator, catholic without believing in God,
corruptor, presumptuous, conceited,
jovial, […], good family man but with
numerous lovers.
[…] He uses those he despises and he
despises (and sometimes fears) those
who are honest, sincere, intelligent, be-
cause he does not need them. He laughs
at them, he withdraws them. He sur-
rounds himself of dishonest people and
when these make him fall into ruin, they
betray him (as their nature dictates), he
whimpers to be innocent and cheated
[…]. ”
The passage above describes
Berlusconi impeccably. When
in 1994 he was first elected ,he
represented the change from
40 years of ‘politicians by pro-
fession’ to ‘professionals
into politics’: he intro-
duced economists, law-
yers and entrepreneurs
into his cabinet and he
prioritised the interests of
the middle-high bourgeoi-
sie with his low-tax liberal
politics. He used his popular
support and political power to
save himself from his many
judicial problems. He decriminalised
fraud making it impossible to convict
entrepreneurs who falsify company’s
budgets, he tried in many ways to obtain
immunity from prosecution and now he
has paralysed the parliament in order to
pass a retroactive law to decrease dra-
matically the statue of limitation if the
defendant is a first offender and save
himself from a corruption trial.
With his able use of the media (he
owns an exten- sive network
of media outlets), a populist media cam-
paign made of resounding declarations,
video messages to the nation speaking
of prosperity and efficiency that ig-
nored reality, and with an alliance with
the ‘Northern League’ who give a voice
to the discontent of the rural population
of the north, he managed to broaden his
appeal to the lower classes.
At first his family newspapers and
televisions started limiting the voice of
the opposition, now they openly peddle
propaganda and the trend is moving to
state television too: the direc-
tor of the first national news is
so lined up with the govern-
ment that when the latest in
Berlusconi string of sex scan-
dals arose, there was no men-
tion on state news: no
reference to the phone
interceptions, the cars,
apartments hundreds
of thousands of Euros,
public placements that
Berlusconi gave to tens
of soubrettes and show-
girls, some of whom were underage, as
‘charity gifts’.
The sex scandal did, finally, crack his
immense popularity. Nevertheless he
has not resigned and many still defend
him, especially the old Catholic block:
those that were so easily disgusted by
greater rights for unmarried couples
and homosexuals are now the toughest
defenders of ‘Bunga Bunga’ (evidently
Catholics are used to delegating to oth-
ers the use of their brains).
I did vote for him, it was for interest
and because the alternative was weak
but now I have realised my mistake:
while Berlusconi is stepping over the
values of the Republic, transforming
the parliament into a goat market, Ital-
ians have to open their eyes and find
a credible alternative. The situation is
becoming dangerously similar to some-
thing that in this country we all fear,
something that we all studied in history
books and heard from the tales of our
grand parents. By the way, the passage
was written in 1945 by Elsa Morante, it
talks about Mussolini…
where a centre-right party is in power
for much of the time because of the split
in the vote of the centre-left between two
large, credible parties resulting in many
wasted votes under FPTP. In many seats
(such as Etobicoke-Lakeshore, the seat
of defeated Liberal leader Michael Igna-
tieff), the combined Liberal-NDP vote
would have been more than enough for
a candidate to secure a comfortable ma-
jority, but the Tories snuck in because of
the ideological unity of the right.
So Bravo, Jack Layton, because he
has achieved the dream of every third
party leader in many first past the post
countries for many a year, for destroy-
ing the old comfortable consensus be-
tween the Tories and the Liberals, and
for almost tripling the number of seats
held by his party in a single election.
This is a tectonic shift in the shape of
Canadian politics, not only had the Lib-
erals been crushed on home ground, but
the destruction of the Bloc is a blow
for Quebecois independence – not that
it was a realistic possibility in the first
place. For all that, the NDP still has
some way to go before it finds itself in
government, and I wouldn’t discount
the Liberals just yet. The third party
dream might prove all too fleeting.
Blasta from the pasta?
Marcello Colombino
Berlusconi’s disregard for democracy is reminiscent of another Italian strongman
Canada’s NDP has done what the Lib Dems couldn’t says Tagore Nakornchai
“The NDP has pulled
off what the Lib
Dems have dreamed
of for almost a cen-
tury – destroying the
two-party system”

