FELIX
12
COM M ENT
Comment Editors: Anna Perman
Jan Piotrowski
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 13 may 2011
I
try not to get too interested in
politics. It leads to disappoint-
ment and raised blood pressure,
and I get enough of that during
exam season as it is. I raised an
eyebrow at the NHS reform debate, but
even that managed to cool down after a
week of whining from pressure groups,
and my eyebrow repositioned itself on
my face in its classic, slanted, hateful
place, knotted between my eyes.
But this week, news reached my eye-
brows and other body parts that made
me sit up and pay marginally more at-
tention that I do normally. The gov-
ernment has a new plan for university
places. It’s the political equivalent of a
cockslap.
It’s almost as if the Tories woke up on
the Saturday after the AV referendum
and realised that the feckless electorate
and the breathtaking incapability of the
Liberal Democrats has rendered them
all but bulletproof until the next elec-
tion, and that they can now do basically
whatever they want. First on the list: if
you’re rich, you can now purchase a
university place for yourself. Hooray!
Now let’s see what we can do about this
‘women having the vote’ problem…
In fairness, I should really expand
on the policy before I melt down com-
pletely into an incomprehensible stream
of swear words. Currently, university
tuition fees are going to triple. For some
reason, the government thought that
most universities wouldn’t increase
their fees to the full amount when given
the opportunity, thereby repeating the
classic mistake of the Sunnyfields Day-
care Centre’s Paedophile Rehabilitation
Program of 1998. But never mind that.
In principle, I believe that education
should cost, and the support of loans
and grants mean that most of people
will be able to make it through.
However, now it seems that there’ll be
another way in. If you’re willing to pay
even higher fees – more than double the
£9000 barrier for engineering or medi-
cal degrees – then the government may
be able to create extra, magical univer-
sity places for you. The claim is that this
is to enable charities and businesses to
sponsor students, and will thereby im-
prove social mobility. The reality is that
they’ve always been able to do this by
offering grants and other support, and
that this is really a way to bypass the ap-
plications process.
You see, although the government
proposals insist that students will have
to pass the admission standards, it does
not make any claims about interviews,
or whether they will be measured
against similar applicants. In essence, if
you enter university via this route, your
only competitors will be the other kids
sufficiently rich to bargain their way
in. While the rest of the student body
competes for dwindling places and tries
their hardest to differentiate themselves
from the thousands of other hopefuls,
those with money will simply have to
walk in with the bare minimum of exam
results and take their place.
It takes a lot to wake me up from my
dazed state of margarita-sipping and
sunbathing around this time of year, but
this is beyond unacceptable. The admis-
sions process is already a horrendous
mess of poor interviewers, muddled pa-
Money matters
perwork and luck. Allowing those with
money to skip the queue so they can fill
up lecture halls with their soul-sapping
sense of entitlement while talented stu-
dents are told to ‘fuck off and try again
next year’ is the absolute epitome of
disgusting, indecent politics. It is im-
possible to justify this; it goes beyond
petty left and right ideologies – we are
fucking with a nation’s education, when
it should be sacrosanct.
It looks like Scotland will have a ref-
erendum in a few years to decide wheth-
er or not to leave the Union. My advice,
if any Imperial College students have a
vote in that referendum, is to implore
everyone you know to get out while you
still can. I don’t understand patriotism at
the best of times, but lately the news has
been giving me every reason to actively
avoid it.
If you’ve got a safehouse near the
English border and can help me to
flee the country, get in touch at
anangrygeek@gmail.com.
If the rich get to pay their way into uni, I’m emigrating
Angry Geek
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
Poor guy, doesn’t even have enough money for a cockslap...
y
y
e
e
-
“
“
money for a cockslap
”
While the rest of the student
body competes, those with
money will simply have to walk
in with the bare minimum
Ben Kennedy
“It’s the political
equivalent of a
cockslap”
A common declaration amongst many peo-
ple in publishing is that ‘print is dead’. By
which they mean the idea that the public
will continue to read content on paper in
the future is laughably ignorant. While the
print edition of this cat probably has quite
a few years in it yet, we would be foolish to
try and resist the inexorable push and pull
towards web-based content.
So you may have noticed that Felix’s
website has been recently redesigned,
increasing our potential to finally get se-
rious about online journalism. The design
is much more user-friendly and there are
many more additional features. But now
that we’ve reached this point, let’s take a
look back at where we started and where
we might hope to get to.
When many of Felix’s senior staff began
at this university, it was impossible to read
Felix online. This situation continued for two
years – which is not to deride the editors
at the time, quite simply the infrastructure
didn’t exist to deliver the content online. A
useable website was constructed last year,
along with a complete online archive of (al-
most) every issue of Felix. What we have
seen since then is that our online reader-
ship has grown week-on-week as students
and staff become more accustomed to
reading the newspaper online.
So where do we go from here? Let’s be
bold. The online edition far surpasses the
print edition in every measure except senti-
mentality and profitability. Felix can access
a far wider audience online and it allows
us to better understand what topics are
interesting to our readers. We are able to
provide multi-layered content: video, audio,
and links to relevant or interesting informa-
tion on other sites. The reader is able to
directly query the author, and reader discus-
sions can sometimes be as informative as
the article that sparks the debate.
Which does not mean that there is no ar-
gument for the print edition. Profitability is
no trifling factor; the advertising prices that
a small website like Felix would command
pale in comparison to the print edition. The
reason for this, indirectly, is sentimentality,
again not a factor to be waved aside. The
print edition of Felix is an institution. The
weekly ritual of thousands of Imperial stu-
dents and staff leafing through the pages of
this newspaper is something that connects
us all. For as long as Felix is financially able
to do a print version, for this powerful senti-
mental reason, we would urge future Editors
to continue to do so.
But facts are facts. It is not possible to
maintain the print version at its current
standard and run a Guardian-esque news
website – there are simply not enough
hours in the day. One day, we hope in the
distant future, the students of this univer-
sity will have to decide which they prefer.
FELIX
What is the website for?

