FELIX
14
The Review
A R T S
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 13 MAY 2011
When a cast is given the name of the musical they
will perform 24 hours before curtain-up, no-one
should expect anything particularly special. When
that cast is from the glorious Musical Theatre Soci-
ety, the tables are turned. This rendition of ‘We Will
Rock You’ was absolutely phenomenal. With a cast
of 22, plus technical crew, choreographer, director,
musical director, and a band, they kept the Union
Concert Hall enthralled for nearly three hours.
‘We Will Rock You’ is a strange musical, and not
one that I really believed everyone could appreciate.
It’s a showcase of the music of Queen, held together
by a storyline which was created to do just that. Un-
fortunately, even seen amongst the plots of its fel-
low musicals, this one for me is pretty tenuous, it’s
all part of the fun but I’ve never thought there was
something that could make you forget its artificiality.
It turns out there is something that can make you
forget though. I don’t know if it’s because they hadn’t
slept, but the raw energy of the cast kept the show
moving like a bullet-train. A huge number of Queen’s
songs are showstoppers, think ‘Killer Queen’, ‘An-
other One Bites the Dust’, ‘Don’t Stop Me Now’, ‘We
Will Rock You’, ‘We are the Champions’… etc. etc.
etc.) but this show didn’t stop. With each song more
visceral than the last, the audience’s Sunday-night
lethargy was blasted out of them by the lungs and
muscles of people who should have been recovering
from inhuman exhaustion.
Being pushed to their physical limits didn’t stop
the cast from keeping control of their highly choreo-
graphed movement and singing. There were some
lines which hadn’t been learnt and it is to their credit
that they managed not to break the illusion whilst
prompting themselves with notes written on just
about every prop they had. Some cast carried off
these manoeuvres with musical hall aplomb while a
couple were self-consciously happy to point out their
failings. Although apparently at odds with the gusto
of the genre, it worked to keep everyone laughing.
On a weekend when most of us were lamely push-
ing ahead with the revision schedule, these students
created something spectacular. From a society that
has proven time and again just what dedication and
rehearsal can do for a performance came a show-
case of the part that pure talent and energy play as
well. It was genuinely brilliant regardless of the time
taken to put on. If this exercise is repeated, I advise
you not to miss out. Rox Middleton
Cast List
Galileo Robert Felstead
Scaramouche Katie Clemence
Killer Queen Shamini Bundell
Pop Sebastian Junemann
Khashoggi Al Norman
Meat Rebecca Jones
Brit Phil Raymond
Ensemble: Charlotte Ivison, Sanee Patel, Owain
Jones, Christine Simpson, Oluwatosin Ajayi, Sophie
Campen, Lucy Harrold, Michael Willmott, Barry White-
side, Felix Millne, Holly Russell-Allison, John Wheatley,
Philip Jackson, Tony Bannister, Yun William Yu.
Director: David Swain
Musical Director: Zoe Humphries
Choreographer: James Perry
1
9:25 The triumvirate at the
head of this incredible under-
taking have just announced
the name of the show. David
Swain nonchalantly goes over
to his laptop to press play on what he
calls: “One of the most famous numbers
of the show, and indeed of all time”. Si-
lence falls among the cast as the open-
ing notes of Queen’s ‘Bohemian Rhap-
sody’fill the hall. Cheers are heard from
some, silence from others, as they re-
alise this means they will be performing
Ben Elton’s musical of Queen songs:
‘We Will Rock You’.
21:10 Seb Junemann, a society veter-
an and director of this summer’s produc-
tion of Guys and Dolls, pointed out to
me earlier that ‘We Will Rock You’was
a surprising but great choice for a
project like this. Not only would most
people know the music, he claimed, but
the naturally chaotic, Bohemian show
could only benefit from the exuberant
disorganisation this 24-hour musical
was certain to display. Those optimistic
words came at 19:40 – before the first
musical sing-through and well before
the first dance rehearsal.
22:05 Slices of Red Leicester on
Cream Crackers are an ideal substitute
for dinner. Hey-ho: off to look for a
copy of Ben Elton’s script.
00:15 So, we’re a sixth of the way
through this ordeal, and I think the onset
of the late-night-high can be felt. Mo-
rale is high and appetites are low after
a midnight gorging on Domino’s Pizza
and Lucy Harrold’s jelly.
The cast are now attempting their first
run of ‘Radio GaGa’ on the Concert
Hall stage, and the amount of wiggling
going on in the cast’s hips is causing the
jelly to turn green with envy. Or maybe
that’s the food colouring. Director Da-
vid Swain has returned to his hiding
place upstairs, consoling himself with
visions of a 4am power nap. And his
half of a meat feast pizza.
00:36 I still haven’t seen a copy of
this blasted script. There are about
three copies of same making the rounds
among 24 cast members, so I rank pretty
low on the guest list.
Sitting next to the window, looking
out at the stars above the Royal Albert
Hall (too late for stars in the Royal Al-
bert Hall, I’m afraid), this seems like
an opportune time to mention Queen’s
specific relevance to the Imperial com-
munity. The guitarist Brian May, almost
universally considered to be among the
best living exponents of that instrument,
is an Imperial alumnus. Since graduat-
ing in 2007, Brian May CBE has re-
ceived a disproportionate amount of
coverage from Imperial’s Communica-
tions Centre as one of the university’s
few presentable graduates. Call me bit-
ter, but I hardly think that David Irving
would make as good a poster child. And
the plot of his rock musical is, quite
frankly, just plain silly.
11:36 Having listened to more Queen
in the past 14 hours than in the rest of
my life combined, it strikes me that
there is something powerfully earthy
in what I’ve heard so far. Music of a
breathtakingly epic quality which ex-
plicitly names objects, fears and desires
that ordinary human beings would en-
counter. I don’t know if I’m making
myself as clear on this point as I would
like – let me get back to you once my
philosophy of rock has some more time
to develop.
12:00 The technical crew have now
arrived, in the persons of James Galla-
gher and the suicidally competent Fran-
cis Clegg. Lights are going up, keys
are being rattled and ladders are being
moved around at frightening velocities.
Having been involved with a number of
technical set-ups over the past few years
at Imperial, these are all good signs.
15:15 I’m realising that I haven’t
given enough credit to the amount of
preparatory work this operation must
have involved. The choice of show was
made less than three weeks ago, and the
secrecy surrounding it must have made
any planning well-nigh impossible.
And yet, at 19:30 last night, copies of
the score and script (though admittedly
not enough!) were printed and ready for
distribution, a detailed rehearsal sched-
ule was taped to the wall, and James
Perry arrived with enough energy cours-
ing through him to electrocute a mead-
ow full of Duracell bunnies.
So far, at least, this preparation has
paid off in an astonishing way.
17:01 One aspect of this performance
which is brought into sharp focus by the
short rehearsal period allotted it is the
raw vocal power possessed by so many
of its cast. When Katie Clemence sings
‘Somebody to Love’ over the hall’s
speakers, the walls seem to bend under
the force of her voice. The awkward-
ness which the cast must feel they are
displaying comes across as beautifully
edgy realism. Which, I need scarcely
point out, suits the music of Queen to
a T.
“Sure, it’s a little loose around
the edges, but not significantly
more than most other dress
rehearsals I’ve been involved
with. Awesome. Just awesome”
WE WILL
ROCK YOU
Photos by Simon Worthington
Read the full
liveblog at
felixonline.co.uk

