FELIX Friday 13 MAY 2011 15
ARTS
Musical Theatre Society
rehearse and perform
Ben Elton’s smash hit in
only 24 hours
Read highlights from
Gilead Amit’s liveblog
17:43 As Rebecca Jones prepares to
lead the ensemble through: ‘Only the
Good Die Young’, I have to keep re-
minding myself that these guys and
dolls have only been doing this for 22
hours. Sure, it’s rough, ready, and a little
loose around the edges, but not signifi-
cantly more than most other dress re-
hearsals I’ve been involved with. Awe-
some. Just awesome.
18:24 Act II of the dress rehearsal is
well underway here, and everyone must
be keenly aware of how little time there
is before the audience is scheduled to ar-
rive. Hopefully, however, they are also
keenly aware of how massively impres-
sive their work has been, and, according
to the liveblog stats, how much interest
this project is garnering from the wider
Imperial community.
The wonderful truth is that by far
the most important audience for each
of these performers will be each other.
This is a project for them. They entered
into it together, and what will get them
through these final hours is the knowl-
edge that they are all still together.
18:35 Whoop! This is now officially
the most popular article on the Felix
website. I would do a little celebratory
dance, but after watching these guys for
so long I’d feel inadequate. That and
my left thigh has gone to sleep for the
eighth time today.
19:32 One final song bites the dust as
the cast sings ‘We are the Champions
of the World’. Which, to my mind, they
most definitely are.
19:38 All right. It’s been 24 hours of
constant rehearsals, and not-so-constant
liveblogging. I’ve expended nearly
6,000 words in an attempt to convey the
awesomeness of this cast, and I don’t
think 60,000 could do them justice. I
don’t have much more to say, or indeed
much more time in which to say it, as I
need to help the exhausted David Swain
clear the hall. I’ve been struggling with
the right words to describe this adven-
ture all day, and I think I’ve finally
come up with a description which sat-
isfies me, if not anybody else For all
the talk of tonight’s audience, the real
performance is just finishing. These past
24 hours haven’t been a rehearsal period
– they’ve been a constant, frenetic, eu-
phoric, emotional, exhausting, intense
and unbelievable performance.
They don’t need you half as much as
you need them. They will rock you. “Before I met you, I had a girlfriend who was this big!” I hope Brian May doesn’t see this
Why the clipboard, Al?
Why he won’t just throw that sock away, I’ll never know...
“I think we’re finally alone. Except for the band. And the audience... Dammit!”

