FELIX
18
MUSIC
Friday 13 may 2011
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Stephen Smith
music.felix@gmail.com
Album of The Week
Tyler, The Creator
Goblin
XL
2011
By now Odd Future are pretty much the biggest new
thing in music, having just finished their first full-
fledged European tour. They incited a bit of a riot at
the Camden Crawl, where they outshined every other
band present, and have an established and dedicat-
ed fanbase that just keeps on growing. Goblin marks
a clear musical progression for the leader of the Wolf
Gang, as he pushes his Neptunes-influenced mini-
malistic indie hip-hop to brave weird worlds. Tracks
like ‘Yonkers’ and ‘Troncat’ retain the same visceral
anger and insanity that fans know and love, but it is
on the heavily R&B-tinged ‘She’, the manic and funky
‘Transylvania’ (produced by Left Brain), and in the
strange beauty of ‘Analog’, that Tyler really outdoes
himself. On this album more than ever before Tyler
separates the different sides of his musical persona
(Wolf Haley, Ace Creator and Troncat) onto distinct
tracks, resulting in what could be considered a con-
cept album: Tyler discovers the pitfalls of becoming
an instant celebrity, questions his abilities, falls prey
to his weaknesses and ends up shooting every mem-
ber of the Golf Wang (metaphorically?) before finally
discovering himself. Bring on Wolf. Greg Power
Most
listened to
this week by
Felix Music
members
on last.fm
Make sure not to miss
Stag and Dagger
Several venues in Shoreditch
Thursday, 19th May 2011
Stag and Dagger is an annual festival of new music
which takes place in and around Old Street in East
London. It promises to be an amazing night with
act such as D/R/U/G/S, James Yuill, New Young
Pony Club, Star Slinger, Toro Y Moi, Wire and many
more. Buy your ticket online, then head to XOYO af-
ter 6pm to exchange it for a wristband which grants
you access to all participating venues for the entire
night. The principal venues are CAMP Basement,
The Macbeth, Hoxton Bar & Kitchen and 93 Feet
East, amongst others. The nearest tube stations
are Aldgate East and Old Street. Take the night bus
back home if you stay after 1am.
Veronika McQuade
Join in at: http://www.last.fm/group/Felix+Music
1. Radiohead
2. Muse
3. Daft Punk
4. The Strokes
5. Gorillaz
6. Arcade Fire
7. The Killers
8. Arctic Monkeys
9. Red Hot Chili Peppers
10. LCD Soundsystem
www.staganddagger.com
A
bove The Relentless Garage
in Islington lies a small hall
signposted from the outside as
“Upstairs”. The quirky mystery
of this sign gives every hint of
what lies beyond, namely a small 150-capacity
hall with all the trimmings of the perfect hipster
hideout. The music was an oddly mismatched
combination of folk, electronica, and pop. Per-
haps it would be best described as a folktronica
gig but some of the acts certainly didn’t fit this
description. This night was part of HMV’s Next
Big Thing series of concerts, and all of these
artists have a great deal of promise, though I
hesitate to patronise the main act, James Yuill,
in such a way, since he has already settled into
a fine niche in the folktronica scene (if such a
scene could be said to exist at all).
The first act was boy/girl combo Visions of
Trees. Amongst the slew of Bat For Lashes
copycats, few have managed to match Natasha
Khan in any way. Only Florence Welch comes
to mind as a possibility, but in Visions of Trees
there is perhaps a new band to eventually take
the title of creepy, fairy-like, female, electron-
ic-folk artist of the moment. Their songs follow
a well trodden path of ghostly whispered vocals
over a sparse yet heavy harmony of strings/pi-
ano/noise, a path that was first walked by Kate
Bush in the 80s, and a style that has apparently
not been bettered since then. In that sense, Vi-
sions of Trees are completely mediocre, but
they have some catchy songs and they play one
of the most enjoyable genres around so they are
definitely worth a listen.
The second band were Trophy Wife, a band
that I had seen before and liked a lot – mostly
due to their simultaneously disturbing and en-
thralling cover of Joanna Newsom’s ‘Book of
Right-On’ (Look for it on Myspace, Newsom
fans will be amazed at how well it works). This
time, they were even better, perhaps the musi-
cal highlight of the evening. They are a band
very similar in musical style to Holy Fuck – a
A night at the Garage
James Yuill: the epitomy of pure musical geekery. An inspiration to many
quartet of musicians stood around an island of
wires, keyboards and guitars while each one
danced vigorously and still managed to play
his part effortlessly well. One of the most strik-
ing aspects of Trophy Wife’s setup was their
home-made drum kit: a wooden frame housed
a mixing desk and a large number of regularly
and violently beaten polystyrene pads. As with
Holy Fuck, Trophy Wife’s appeal lies in their
very humble take on dance music; it is very re-
freshing, and interesting, to find a band making
dance music with traditional, non-computer-
ised instruments.
Third on stage, and after a painfully long gap,
was the one pop act of the evening, Cockn-
BullKid. She is an indecisive songwriter who
performs a variety of styles, but whereas other
genre-spanning artists (Animal Collective
immediately comes to mind) give off an air
of well-rounded musical knowledge drawing
links between otherwise distant genres, Cock-
nBullKid simply seems confused and unsure of
her position in the very wide and complex spec-
trum of modern music. New single ‘Hold on
to Your Misery’ is extremely reminiscient of S
Club 7, whereas ‘One Eye Closed’ could easily
be Britney’s next single. On the other hand, the
superb eponymous track Cocknbullkid is per-
haps best described as experimental 80s dance-
rock, a welcome break from the trashy 90s pop
that made up the rest of her set
Adequately disheartened, I very eagerly
awaited JamesYuill who came on stage dressed
like the definition of a music geek in a Lyle &
Scott shirt and thickly rimmed nerd glasses,
his Macbook on prominent display. I had seen
James Yuill once before at XOYO on Old Street
and his lovely mixture of folktronica and rave
music was entrancing. This night was very
similar, the undisputed highlight being the folky
‘This Sweet Love’, beautifully accompanied by
an animated video of balloons, boats and mous-
taches. The occasional rave moments dimmed
the lights into a club atmosphere, but these were
intelligent songs with a rare combination of
complexity and danceability. Yuill is a fantas-
tic musician who deftly and intelligently stole
the show with simple, assured maturity, but the
younger Trophy Wife impressed everyone with
an effortless and supremely enjoyable set.
Gregory Power
Imperial’s own blues maestros, The Tin Can
44s, have released their first studio recording: a
five-track gem called The Speak Easy EP. Ev-
eryone who attended the first Felix Music Night
on the 19th of February will remember The Tin
Cans as “that wild bunch of whiskey-swiggers”
that kept us grooving during the totality of
their tight, raw set. Pretty damn classy, indeed.
Their EP was recorded over two day sessions
at Alchemea Studios in Angel, Islington, and is
available for free up on their Bandcamp.
All songs were written by bandleader Phil
Overton, who possesses a God-given grace on
the guitar, recalling the technical, Jazz-influ-
enced guitar work of acts such as The Yard-
birds. Whereas in concert their goal is clearly
to make you dance till your feet fall off, on
record the intricate level of their musicianship
and the tightness of their act really becomes ap-
parent: they chug through these five tracks like
a well-oiled machine, fueled on whiskey.
Don’t get me wrong, tracks like ‘Bad Crazi-
ness’ and ‘Three Coats’ will make you boogie
like a wookie, but it is in the softer moments of
‘Now They Know’ the band really shows how
interesting their compositions and teamwork
are. Overton’s Knopfler-esque riffing comple-
ments his end-of-the-line vocals – reminding
this humble reviewer of early Dylan – whilst
drummer Aaron Berk shows skillful restraint.
Berk then tips the song into more rocky territo-
ry, leading into a crescendo of wild harmonica
tomfoolery by the brilliant Box Car Joe.
‘Picket Song’ feels like the intro to a good
old-fashioned Cowboy-bar brawl. ‘After The
Show’ will make all the ladies want a piece
of the action (“Get Laid Easy” tip number 34:
learn to play this on the guitar).
All in all, an extremely solid debut, and a
pleasure on the ears of anyone with a taste for
bluesy folk.
Get the free EP on the band’s bandcamp:
http://thetincan44s.bandcamp.com
The Tin Can 44s perform at an “acoustic
circus” every Sunday in Whitechapel. Fol-
low them on Facebook for more details.
The Tin Can 44s
The Speak Easy EP
Unsigned
★★★★★
Give a warm welcome to our new Editor Stephen Smith, as he kicks off his
career with a review of HMV’s Next Big Thing at the Relentless Garage

