FELIX Friday 13 may 2011 19
FILM
I
’ll be honest, I’m not the biggest
comic book fan. Sure, I used to
watch X-Men and Spiderman
cartoons in my pajamas during
the now distant nineties but as
far as turning the pages of actual com-
ics, my only memories are of the occa-
sional Beano – if I had enough change
from my pocket money. Many people
take the DC and Marvel canons very se-
riously and the zeal of fans has changed
the nature of blockbusters over the past
decade. The once action movie staple
of the Hollywood summer schedule has
very quickly been replaced by the now
familiar parade of lycra-cladded super-
heroes. If you browse through the major
film websites and magazines , you very
quickly start to get a sense of déjà vu at
the bombardment of comic book adap-
tions that dominate the features and
eventually the cinema screens. Are stu-
dios scraping the barrel to find obscure
characters to spin money from? Will
audiences eventually become bored?
And how many more flops will it take
for the comic book phenomenon to im-
plode and make filmmakers realize that
maybe the market is oversaturated.
To make myself clear I have no preju-
dice against comic book films in them-
selves. It’s easy to come across as a
pretentious snob who only deems that
high brow art-house cinema is worthy
of our attention and acclaim when hav-
ing a rant against comic book films. I,
like every other person on this planet,
loved both Christopher Nolan’s Bat-
man films. However, in rebooting the
Batman franchise, Nolan removed any
supernatural elements and silliness and
in its place dolloped a heavy dose of
existentialism. In a similar vein to Cop-
pola’s serious interpretation of the pulp
novel The Godfather, Batman Begins
was constructed in a realistic manner
as opposed to the ridiculous Joel Schu-
macher versions which ruined the fran-
chise (two words: bat nipples). Such is
the operatic scope of the recent Batman
films, you look over the fact that Bruce
Wayne dresses up as a bat to fight crime.
My problem with comic book films
is that they all follow the same for-
mula. We have our hero, who is typi-
cally shown performing an appropriate
heroic act until an evil villain appears
to perform some evil deeds. Our hero
eventually defeats the villain but only
after nearly being defeated in an epic
fight. It’s simple, it’s popular, it’s bor-
ing. Look at the first two Iron Man
films for example. In both films Tony
Stark has to fight a villain with a big-
ger better version of an Iron Man suit
and he only wins by sheer luck. In Ang
Lee’s Hulk, Bruce Banner emerges vic-
On The Waterfront
The Italians dominated social commen-
tary cinema in the fifties and with the
British kitchen sink dramas and French
New Wave in their infancies, this gritty
genre of cinema was their playground
until the Americans caught up a couple
of decades later. However, amongst the
gaudy visuals of Technicolor musicals
and melodramatic epics of the Golden
Hollywood era, On the Waterfront
bucked against the trend with a classic
tale of corruption and working class re-
bellion against oppression. Elia Kazan’s
highly regarded classic was based upon
a series of exposé articles about mafia
controlled extortion and racketeering
on the docks of New York. After being
reluctantly involved in the murder of
dockworker who is preparing to testify
against the Mob, Terry Malloy (Marlon
Brando) finds himself questioning his
conscience about his actions (or lack of)
as he becomes romantically involved
with the dead man’s beautiful sister
(Eva Marie Saint) who is determined
to discover the truth about her brother’s
untimely death.
Terry is a gentle man, a failed boxer
who took a dive for the Mob and lives
a complacent but unfulfilling life un-
der the protection of his brother, the
gangsters’ lawyer. Spurred on to ques-
tion his morals by a crusading priest
(Karl Malden), Terry decides to break
the unspoken code of silence and fight
for better treatment of his fellow down-
trodden longshoremen. Marlon Brando
steals the film in his Oscar-winning
performance; every twitch and stare
along with his trademark chin scratch
masterfully convey all the emotions of
man reflecting on his own exploitation
by his Mafioso brother. The scenes be-
tween Brando and Marie Saint are es-
pecially touching as the specter of her
brother’s death hangs over their blos-
soming relationship. The script is vivid
and passionate including the immor-
tal ‘I wish I coulda’ bin a contender!’
speech.
Most importantly On the Waterfront
was a turning point in American cinema;
afterwards the classic dramatic style of
acting began to wane and the natural
Method acting of Brando and Malden
gradually became the norm. Ed Knock
torious over his demented father who
,guess what, is a bigger better green
Hulk.
The four big films this summer are
Thor, X-Men: First Class, Captain
America, and The Green Lantern. Now
I can’t pass judgment over Thor as I
haven’t seen it but the general vibe I
got off reviewers was although it was
entertaining, they had seen all it before.
X-Men: First Class has a disappointing
trailer; it appears to be a feast of CGI
wizardry against a thinly constructed
political background. The Green Lan-
tern looks truly awful and I can’t see au-
diences flocking to see Ryan Reynolds
play a galactic policeman who wears a
magic ring to fight aliens resembling
Star Trek rejects.
Captain America has a more interest-
ing premise as it’s set during WW2 but
a comic equivalent of The Red Line is
unlikely. Cyberpunk Nazis may be a
refreshing change from armoured au-
tomatons but a hero decked in the Stars
and Stripes looks a little bit ridiculous.
I guarantee the script will contain some
deep mumbo jumbo about the responsi-
bility of power or something similar but
it’s inevitable that Captain America will
result in a manic face off between Hero
and Villain.
The trend for comic book adaptions
does not look like slowing at all, in fact
it’s accelerating at a scary pace. But al-
though the supply of superhero movies
will continue as long as there is a de-
mand for it, there are plenty of people
in the movie business with big original
ideas and I think it’s time that the major
studios stop patronising their audiences
and give them something new to watch.
The success of Inception proves that the
tried and tested formula of Superhero
verses Supervillain is not the only rec-
ipe for a blockbuster.
Superhero overload
Ed Knock laments the rise and rise of the comic book genre
Classic Cinema
Film Editors: Jade Hoffman
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
This summer we can ‘look forward’ to Ryan Reynolds as The Green Lantern (seriously), Anthony Hopkins undoing a
career of great acting, another X-Men film, and the chant “USA! USA! USA!” in film form, I mean, Captain America
In the pipeline
X-Men: Deadpool
X-Men: The Wolverine
Iron Man 3
The Avengers
Another Superman reboot
A Spiderman reboot
The Dark Knight Rises
In case you missed it, that’s
another two X-Men films. Who
in Magento’s name watching
these things?

