FELIX
2
HIGHLIGHTS
Friday 13 may 2011
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2011.
On campus
Avoiding climate change
‘Carbon Capture &
Storage: our only hope
to avoid dangerous
climate change?’
marks the launch of the
Grantham Institute’s
Briefing Papers.
Professor Martin Blunt
and Dr Nicholas Florin
will speak. Contact
Gosia Gayer – g.gayer@
imperial.ac.uk – to
register (required).
How butterflies stay dry
Professor Serafim Kalliadasis cross the divide
between engineering and natural sciences to show
‘how raindrops form patterns on glass and why
butterfly wings don’t get wet’. The lecture will show
why chemical engineering is more than simply the
use of chemical processes in large-scale industry.
Registration in advance. Contact Kathleen Weeks
– k.weeks@imperial.ac.uk – to register.
Clore Lecture Theatre, Huxley
20 May 17:30–18:30
Lecture Theatre 1, Acex Building
19 May 18:00–20:00
Resisting Earthquakes
Designing buildings to resist earthquakes, fires, and
explosions is the focus of this lecture by Professor
Ahmed Elghazouli. These situations, known as
loading conditions, present complex engineering
challenges and require structural engineers to
come up with unconventional design philosophies.
Registration in advance. Contact Kathleen Weeks
– k.weeks@imperial.ac.uk – to register.
Clore Lecture Theatre, Huxley
17 May 17:30–18:30
Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Copy Chief Lizzy Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editors Alex Karapetian Matt Colvin Reporters Katherine Bettany Charles
Betts Sophia David Maciej Matuszewski Deepka Rana Aemun Reza Ian Wei Umair Aasem Genevieve Pugh Haralambos Dayantis Madhura Ghosh Victoria Druce Catherine Lu Design Editor Veronika
McQuadeova Features Editor Lizzie Crouch Sports Editors Jovan Nedic David Wilson Science Editors Kelly Oakes Charlie Harvey Thea Cunningham Business Editors Sina Ataherian Afonso Campos
Politics Editors Rory Fenton Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs Feroz Salam Comment Editors Anna Perman Jan Piotrowski Arts Editor Rox Middleton Music Editors Greg Power
Christopher Walmsley Luke Turner Stephen Smith Film Editors Jade Hoffman Ed Knock TV Editors Matt Allinson Veronika McQuadeova Food Editors Dana Li Vicky Jeyaprakash Fashion Editor
Saskia Verhagen Games Editor Simon Worthington Online Editors Niharika Midha Dakshaa Rai Chris Birkett Jonathan Kim International Editor Kenneth Lee Puzzles Captains Polly Bennett
James Hook Aman Nahar Books Editor Guo Heng Chin Photo Editors Miles Robertson Thomas Welch Travel Editor Chris Richardson Copy Editors Alex Nowbar Hannah Thomas Sharanya
Subbu Ritika Gupta Zainab Ali Shruti Mishra Sophia Man Tim Arbabzadah Jamie Fraser Veli Akiner Illustrators Luca de Benedetti Hamish Muir Benjamin Kennedy Amanda Diez Joshua Yerrell
Volunteering with
special needs children
Notice
Are you interested in volunteering with children
with special needs? Do you want to give back to
your community? Would you like to meet students
and staff at Imperial with similar interests? If
so, a new project, Activities for Children with
Disabilities (ACD), has recently been set up to help
you volunteer. ACD is linked to a charity called
KEEN London which runs playgroups for children
with special needs. It gives disadvantaged children
access to fun recreational opportunities in a safe
environment, giving their parents much deserved
respite. Their first event is an autism awareness and
information evening on Monday 16th of May from
19:00-20:00 at R3 at the Reynolds building.
For more information email Kaush at kkt07@
imperial.ac.uk
Union Awards
Do you know someone who has been such a bad-ass, I
mean, selfless contributor to the student experience at
Imperial, that they surely deserve some recognition? If
so, here’s your chance to make sure they get some love,
in the Union Awards sense, not in that other sense you
filthy reprobate! The Union Awards are given to students
who have made significant and repeated contributions to
the student experience at Imperial. The standard award is
a Union Colour, going up to an Imperial College Union Fel-
lowship with Distinction, which is given to students who
have made “an innovative development to the work of the
Union such as to leave a positive legacy that will make
a lasting impression for future members”. Head over to
www.imperialcollegeunion.org for more information and
remember that nominations close on the 24th of May.
Nominations open now
Correction
In the article entitled “£40 million shortfall in
Imperial NHS budget” (Issue 1487 – 06/05/11),
Stephen Smith was incorrectly named the CEO of
the Trust. He has left the position. Editor

