FELIX
20
GAMES
Games Editor: Simon Worthington
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 13 MAy 2011
Each week we’re going to bring you a selection of
fresh, free and fun web games that you can play right
away in your browser. Unless otherwise specified,
you’re going to need the Adobe Flash Player plug-in
which can be installed from http://get.adobe.com/
flashplayer/.
Web Games
Each week we’re going to bring you a selection of
fresh, free and fun web games that you can play right
away in your browser. Unless otherwise specified,
you’re going to need the Adobe Flash Player plug-in
which can be installed from http://get.adobe.com/
flashplayer/.
T
he year is 2020 and climate
change has reached critical levels.
The global temperature is rising,
the Maldives are being evacuated,
and countries have realised that
their individual efforts are no longer enough.
2018 brought what scientists called the world’s
first ever “hypercane”, and the serious possibil-
ity of dangerously high temperatures by 2100,
along with growing economic uncertainty, is
leading to growing civil unrest.
Something must be done, and so the Global
Environment Organisation (GEO) is formed
– an independent, but slightly controversial
organisation with the goal of countering the
increasing effects of climate change. And with
them they bring a newly elected President –
you. Your first order of business is to decide
how you would like to be addressed (ranging
from Darling and Dude, to Learned One and
Your Excellency), then it’s straight into saving
the world.
The way you go about it is to hire repre-
sentatives in major regions around the world
(Europe, Russia, Middle East etc.) to carry out
your bidding. Once hired, you can play one
‘card’ per representative from a set currently
available in that region. Each of these cards
represents a project that the representative will
carry out over the next five years, leading to
long-term positive and/or negative effects in
that region, such as a change in GDP or carbon
emissions, or even global mega-death.
It does all sound a bit like a dictatorship, and
to that end the GEO and its representatives
can be kicked out and banned from a region
if its population doesn’t think you’re acting
in their best interests. This is one of the ways
Fate of the World manages win and loss condi-
tions – lose control of too many regions and
you fail the level. Most win conditions must
be achieved by a specific year (and there are
bonus ones for extra points), and your funds
are generally very limited, so there’s real pres-
sure to play the right cards in the right places.
The system is conceptually rather simple –
play cards and click next – but developer Red
Redemption have added a great deal of com-
plexity really quite well. In addition to the
sleuth of statistics available for each individual
region – and on a global scale – every ‘turn’ of
five years you get major news stories from that
region. These headlines provide you with even
more insight into public opinion, and the gen-
eral state of things, and it’s from here that you
will probably be harvesting most of the infor-
mation that you need to plan your next move.
It’s easy to see that this game requires a lot
of thought. You are guided in with only two
regions, and a large number of cards to play
with, but you should enjoy the simplicity while
it lasts. Once you’ve finished the first level,
you get chucked in at the deep end – the whole
world is yours to look after (or control, if you
prefer, Your Excellency) with a tight budget
and only a handful of cards in play.
It’s a steep learning curve, and with so many
different strategy paths to try out, it’ll probably
take a few attempts to get it right. But once
you get going, it’s quite satisfying to see your
plans unfolding before your eyes. The whole
system makes sense – there is clear logic to
the cards mechanism, requiring you to set up
each region’s infrastructure first. From here,
you can begin shaping that region’s future – be
it an unpopular, highly-taxed one to get funds,
or a flourishing technologically advanced one.
With all these decisions to make and imple-
ment, it’s important that the interface is helpful
and unobtrusive, and Fate of the World does this
well. It’s quite clean and navigating through the
game is simple, with no more than a few clicks
to get to any of your resources. There are little,
finishing touches – like playing region-themed
background music when you’re making deci-
sion in that area – that let you know the front-
end has had attention too. There’s even a heat
map of the entire Earth so you can keep track
of which countries are contributing the most to
global warming, but the emphasis here is defi-
nitely on the detailed underlying mechanics.
With so much of the premise relying on the
core gameplay, it’s so important that it feels
strong and offers a good experience, and Fate
of the World certainly delivers on that front.
Not only that, but it manages to deliver a game
based on a really interesting concept – one that
links well to our own, current conditions, and
is possibly even trying to make a point about a
future that our actions could take us.
I really would recommend FotW, even if this
genre isn’t your usual tipple. Having to think
about your various strategies and the solid
gameplay makes this game one to look out for.
Fate Of The World is available now from
www.fateoftheworld.net, for about £10.
Who knew climate change
could be so much fun?
Chris Bowers becomes a global dictator while reviewing Fate of the World
All you need to be a world leader is to be able to use Google Earth
Hypercane? More like hyper-LAME! For those drowning guys, I mean
Nyan Cat Fly!
nyancatfly.com
There are two groups of people in the world: those
that know what Nyan Cat is, and those that do not.
For the former, this game is a dream come true:
guide the titular kitty on it’s journey through space,
nomming treats as you go. For the latter, it’s the
start of a hellish nightmare of Japanese music and
animated GIFs from which there is no real escape.
Treats get you bonus points, whereas slurping
down vegetables loses you a life. Really, it’s no
wonder kids are getting obese these days. Apart
from the inexcuseable soundtrack, Nyan Cat FLY!
is actually very good at what it does and there’s a
good amount of fun to be had as the game speeds
up and dodging rogue leeks gets more and more
challenging.
Reimagine :The Game:
tinyurl.com/67bvapx
If my gran ever comes out of her irreversible coma,
I won’t show her the BBC News website, or give her
a copy of today’s paper, I’ll just sit her down in front
of this old-style platformer. The past few years of
popular culture, from Lady Gaga to Julian Assange,
have been compressed down into bitsize gaming
nuggets, each with their unique flair.
For example, pictured above is a level about the
BP oil spill, where pelicans must be used to sponge
up oil and are then burnt in furnaces to allow the
player to jump higher. Lots of good humour and sat-
ire here, and plenty of fun levels to keep you going.

