FELIX Friday 13 may 2011 21
GAMES
I guess – Laurence Pope Never! – Omar Hafeez-Bore
With games now enjoying their official status as
art, whilst worming their way onto every device we
own, Felix asks:
T
his was always going to be a difficult
piece to write, since the answer to the
above question could be summed up
succinctly in a single syllable – yes.
Unfortunately, my editor isn’t particu-
larly happy with one word articles, so I suppose
I’d better make something out of this question.
Apparently I’m going head-to-head with Omar on
this issue, but because I’m a good sport I’m going
to avoid digging up dirt to discredit his argument,
irreversibly wreck his reputation, and shame his
family for generations to come.
The first thing I’d have to ask is what people con-
sider a ‘non-waste’ of time. If it is something that
is considered fun, then one can hardly label video
games as wastes of such time – unless you’re the
kind of weirdo who plays them to increase their
sense of crushing boredom, o’course. After all, in
the words of Bertrand Russell: “The time you enjoy
wasting is not wasted time.” If something is enjoy-
able, it can hardly be said to be wasteful (whether
it is moral or not is another question entirely, and
not entirely relevant to the matter at hand). If old
Berty agrees with me on this issue, who are you to
dare argue back?
If something has to be productive to be a non-
time waster, then one has to ask themselves what
ISN’T a pointless time sink. Films come instantly
to mind – last time I checked, movie-goers didn’t
quite get the same flak for seeing films as gamers
do playing video games. There is a line of thought
that says films can educate and games cannot, and I
hate it every bloody time someone opens their gob
to spout it out.
However corny it may sound, many modern
games have storylines and plots comparable to
that of a movie, the difference being you don’t
normally sit through a movie with a mouse/con-
troller in your hand. Hell, only recently the US
National Endowment for the Arts declared video
games, among other associated media, ‘officially-
sanctioned art forms’. To proclaim video games a
waste of time is to do the same to films and every
other form of traditional art, and also brings into
question why one activity should be better than
another. Yes, this is imperfect logic, shut up. I’m
a video gamer, not a logician with a PhD in being
smart.
Look folks, let’s face the facts here. You can cut
up the argument however you want, but at the end
of the day, games do suck up time – anyone who’s
played World of Warcraft can testify to this (just
ask down at Blackett Labs). They are specifically
designed to draw you in and a game that does, one
that is capable of sapping away hours from your
life, is considered successful. But that’s no reason
to feel guilty about playing them, and I’m not just
saying that so you’ll continue to read the Games
page.
Having fun in life is important, and if you draw
pleasure from video gaming then more power to
you. Yes, I consider them wastes of time at the end
of the day, but you should feel no guiltier indulg-
ing in them than a person who watches films, reads
fiction or listens Justin Bieber.
Actually, scratch that last one.
W
e’d need a whole year of Fe-
lix to crack this issue. At least.
Even then, after discussing the
importance of play and wheth-
er we actually deserve to have
so much entertainment at our fingertips, we’d still
come up short. This is Big Philosophy; a discus-
sion of how Man Should Spend His Time, no less.
Yes, time. The very currency of our lives and
we choose to spend it playing games? And then
have the nerve to celebrate how much of this pre-
cious currency games cost us? ‘It’s very addictive!’
That’s it! The jackpot. The bullseye. The highest
accolade a game can get. But why?
If people reviewed sweets – and if they did, I’d
give the mega-sour balls from Mr Simm’s sweet
shop 5/5 – ‘addictive’would be the last thing people
would praise about them. The Daily Mail headlines
would write themselves: ‘Kids go crazy for crack
candy’, ‘Lollipop lady lamped by lolly-loving Lo-
lita’, ‘Immigrants stole my sherbert!’ et cetera.
Because too much of anything is bad for you.
Think of the best thing for you in the world. Water,
right? Well, even that is bad for you if you drink
too much! No joke. I checked. And unless you’re
really crap at, you know, basic actions of human
instinct, drinking water takes up way less time to
drink than games do to play.
So let’s make one big fat assumption right now.
Let’s assume we are not good-for-nothing students
who feel that spending a few hours each day in lec-
tures listening (puff, pant) is strenuous enough an
activity to justify frittering our free time on hard-
earned-cotching. On streaming endless movies,
watching 24 box-sets in real time or playing COD
until we are the leanest, meanest button-presser-to-
ever-press-a-button-to-pretend-to-kill-a-complete-
ly-digital-person-on-screen.
Let’s instead pretend that we are balanced in-
dividuals who work, play sport, contribute to the
community and help old ladies and the occasional
chicken across the road. Individuals who have
satisfied their Good Human quota and have a few
hours a week to spend on a hobby. Even in that
(improbable) case, would games be a good use of
time, when we could watch a film, or read a book,
or tinker with model trains or something?
The smart readers will have already spotted the
fundamental flaw in the previous sentence: that it
was retarded. You know that feeling you get when
you really fancy watching a horror film, but then
decide that you’ll just read Bridget Jones instead?
No, nor me.
Games are great because they are as different to
film as books are. As playing guitar is to collecting
stamps. They are games, and only they can satisfy
that itch for a headshot or a pixel-perfect jump. No,
they are not some geek’s substitute for real life. No
one sticks on FIFA when they fancy a game of footy
in the park. They play FIFA when they fancy press-
ing some buttons and waggling a couple of sticks
until a screen pronounces them better at doing it
than their mate. They stick FIFA on when they fancy
a game of FIFA. And if I fancy exploring a hazy,
sun-dappled world of surrealist melancholy I’ll play
Ico and not just admire a De Chirico painting.
Should people try to balance their life so they
don’t spend massive chunks of it in front of a
screen? Should they ensure they don’t sacrifice
social contact, going out, keeping healthy, work-
ing hard and all that in the name of raising digital
digits in a digital world? Yes, probably.
But can people really dismiss a whole medium
as a waste of time any more than another? I agree
with Laurence on one point: maybe people should
feel guilty about spending too much time on pure
sedentary entertainment, on the pursuit of its own
pleasure. But not specifically games. They’ve
taught me as much as other, ‘worthier’ art forms,
and given me plenty of things the others never
could.
ARE VIDEO GAMES
A WASTE OF TIME?
“[But] last time I checked,
movie-goers didn’t quite
get the same flak for
seeing films as gamers do
playing video games”
Have your say on this article
on felixonline.co.uk
Simon Worthington

