hunting dogs; the history of English food is in
every aspect of this restaurant, so is its present,
and undoubtedly its future.
Our mains arrive. I have the Roast Turbot,
a revelation, and the boyfriend has the Spiced
Pigeon: both amply exceed our expectations.
We eat in contented half-sentences, punctu-
ated with morsels on forks proffered across
the table and with whole explosions, every fla-
vour in one bite, consumed slowly. The Roast
Turbot is served with cockle ketchup and leaf
chicory and makes me think of holidays, the
sea, the English countryside. It is firm but
embraces the tongue. As for the chicory and
cockle ketchup, it hardly seems fair to describe
these as “accompanying” the roast turbot, or to
demote them to “served with”. On his menu,
Blumenthal avoids these words: initially this
seems to be for minimalist, aesthetic reasons,
but it seems clear that in fact, these are not
sides, or flavours: the dish is composed of all
three and may not miss a note.
Dessert is Tipsy Cake, a sort of soufflé-bread
pudding concoction, served with the infamous
roast pineapple, which is caramelised and adds
a boozy edge to the fluffy cake, as well as Taf-
fety Tart, served with rose, fennel, lemon and
blackcurrant sorbet, with a crispy caramelised
top. Again, it is perfectly balanced, perfectly
complemented, perfectly Dinner.
When we leave, it is with the certainty that
this is the best place we have ever eaten. As
Heston himself says, “If nothing else, I hope
it’s easy to remember”. He was talking about
the name, but he couldn’t have been more
right.
Dinner by Heston Blumenthal, Mandarin
Oriental Hyde Park, 66 Knightsbridge, Lon-
don, SW1X 7LA
FELIX
22
FOOD
Food Editors: Dana Li
Vicky Jeyaprakash
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 13 may 2011
Gastronomical Musings
Summer is here and the skirts and sunglasses are
out. Well for us girls at least, sorry boys – unless
that’s your kind of thing, no judgement here). It also
heralds the return of Pimms, ice lollies and the all
important Frappuccino. Life is good. If pesky exams
do have to take over your life then let it be now,
when large icy glasses of Fruli in the pub and Twister
Lollies in the park are acceptable revision breaks.
Well, sort of. I think that’s how other people feel.
I won’t lie and pretend all this sun is my thing.
Everything in moderation and all that. The excuse to
eat enormous amounts of gelato is appreciated and
a sneaky trip to Oddono’s in South Kensington is a
must for me. Two-for-one on waffles with ice cream
and sauce, all for the same price as one scoop; bar-
gain! I’m all for making the most out of what there
is on offer even while mourning the loss of my scarf
and the need for hot cups of tea. If gelato is the only
way, then so be it.
Summer food lacks the utter comfort that winter
grub intrinsically has but the abundance of colour
and variety makes the whole thing a far cheerier ex-
perience. Salads, quiche, and the odd Eton mess
certainly ease the pain of the passing of parsnip
chips until the end of the year. As does Pimms – oh
wonderful ruby red Pimms, with your perfect timing
and leaves of mint.
Of course the ultimate in summer cuisine is the
meal that is an event in its self: the barbecue. BBQ
and all it’s accompaniments make the next couple
of months exciting what with all the worry and dra-
ma over the potential for rain and the possibility of
meat being set on fire due to the drunken chef at
the grill, while hosting a lot of hungry people.
It’s the only meal that never really starts when you
get there but never seems to end; with lunch turning
into supper and the neighbour’s angry yelling end-
ing the night. I have yet to attend one this year that
has been successfully held outside but as someone
who is allergic to everything outdoors I can’t say I’ve
been unhappy at this state of affairs. Don’t even get
me started on picnics. Ants and grass and often a
frisbee aimed at your head. Joy.
Before all of you label me the summer curmudgeon
(a sort of ice queen scrooge-like figure if you will) I
remind you that it is my duty as a British person to
complain about the weather and all the annoyances
it throws up. Can you imagine what I’d have to say
if I hadn’t caught any sun today? Welcome summer.
Dinner at Heston’s
Vicky says: Laura Huckins visits the fabled new restaurant sensation
H
eston Blumenthal: the molecu-
lar gastronomist, the chef or
perhaps the genius? Having
burst onto our screens only a
few years ago, he has fasci-
nated us with his original recipe ideas which
come complete with their own crazy experi-
ences; birds flying out of a pie being one mem-
orable highlight. A self-taught chef, Heston’s
original restaurant ‘The Fat Duck’ boasts
three Michelin stars, is consistently ranked
one of the world’s best places to dine, and is
afforded the luxury of unregulated prices. His
most recent addition to the family, ‘Dinner’ in
the Mandarin Oriental Hotel, ignited a frenzy
amongst food critics months before its open-
ing in January this year, taking 6,000 bookings
within its first day of opening the phone lines.
Laura Huckins was lucky enough to visit.
Long before I enter Dinner, I have done my
research. After four years at Imperial I am
an engineer worth my salt: alongside my Lit
Review I have menus and quotes, and the
date pencilled into Outlook three months in
advance. Less than two weeks before we are
due to go, Dinner opens and the reviews come
streaming in: Giles calls it “the best restaurant
in the world”. AA Gill is in raptures. Suddenly,
with two days to go, our reservations are worth
more than that week’s rent: a few hours later, a
pair of reservations are selling for £300. Luck-
ily, it does not occur to us to sell them despite
the fact that we may not make rent this month,
or that we only have two aubergines and some
rice left. I cannot say I will ever regret it.
We told ourselves, to begin with, that we
would stick to the set menu: three courses,
cooked by Heston (who had chief residency
for the first two weeks after opening): how
could we go wrong?. And then. Giles Coren
had the meat fruit. There are photos. Chicken
liver parfaits, wrapped in mandarin flavoured
jelly. It even has a leaf... we are not, I realise,
sticking to the set menu. We are going to have
the meat fruit, and the spit-roasted pineapple.
There are photos, snippets, read and re-read:
the meat fruit becomes, for the next few days,
our Bettie Page, our Gyspy Rose Lee, our pin-
up.
I have however never peeled the soft outer
layer of a pin-up before, or bit in to find her
sharp, soft, firm. We removed the leaf first and
spread, gently almost, the sweet pate: every
bite superb, a revelation. The boyfriend, I re-
alise, is in love, and is not sharing. Good job
then that as well as this, we order the Salama-
gundy. Described as ‘Chicken Oysters, Bone
Marrow and Horseradish Cream’, it strikes me
as fuller, less coquettish, than meat dressed
as a mandarin. It arrives, tiny melting slivers
of meat with strong, fruity marrow and the
perfectly complementing oh-so-fashionable
puree/cream. We are, in short, enchanted, so
much so that we barely notice Heston himself
to our left, chatting to two men we recognise
but cannot name. He has new glasses, tortoise-
shell, rather Victorian-deep-sea-diver-esque,
and makes me wish that I had worn my own
labcoat to match.
At this point we pause, take in the scenery.
We recline, smile; starters over, we believe the
hype, and begin appreciating the surroundings.
To the left, the kitchen, with its glass walls and
gently spit-roasting pineapples: it puts one in
mind of a more benign, charismatic Henry
VIII settingw. Cog-like mobiles hang from
the ceiling and avoid any accidental forays
into the twee: the decor is sleek and reserved,
no mock-tudor lamps or plush rugs depicting
The mighty meat fruit. A strange beast it is true but tasty and succulent and orange. We welcome it to our table. Hello
flickr/laissez faire
flickr/darcie

