FELIX Friday 13 may 2011 23
TELEVISION
Television Editors: Matt Allinson
Veronika McQuadeova
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Mildred Pierce
didate. But the Depression is affecting
his business, and soon Mildred finds
that his material needs are also being
covered by her. Pearce is an effectively
boozy, aimless boyfriend whose pride
is severely hurt by how Mildred starts
treating him as a dependant. Being a
man, his ego is a sizable and it becomes
more and more difficult for him to ac-
cept that he is not the millionaire he
used to be.
The technical accomplishments are
also worth mentioning – the set, cos-
tumes and music all perfectly evoke the
30s grim but hopeful mood of a strug-
gling but slowly recovering America.
Like its core plot development, the mu-
sic is never overdone nor does it ever
feel manipulative. Careful attention is
also given to the wardrobe, as Mildred’s
financial status constantly changes
from episode to episode. The extrava-
gance of its various supporting charac-
ters gives Haynes the chance to splash
some bright colours and shiny dresses
on screen, providing a clear, noticeable
contrast from its usual restricted use of
darker tones.
Has HBO’s gamble paid off? It cer-
tainly wasn’t a ratings grabber, but will
the quality behind this masterful work
be recognised come September when
the Emmys announce their winners?
Granted, five hours is not easy to sit
through in one go, but Mildred Pierce
is a quietly absorbing drama with many
effective touching moments that care-
fully treats its fiery emotional scenes
so as to not make them overly melodra-
matic.
and older (Morgan Turner and Evan Ra-
chel Wood respectively) are terrifyingly
monstrous in every scene. Watching the
young Turner slap her own mother so
proudly and naturally is one of the film’s
biggest shockers. She seems sweet and
obedient at times, but this is all a part
of her act. Filled with greed and hatred,
their performances are disturbingly real,
and the character of Veda instantly be-
comes someone whose head you want
to put through a wall.
Mildred doesn’t have many friends, as
she is so distracted by focusing on be-
coming the perfect mother, as well as a
successful businesswoman. But the two
reliable women she can always count
on her Ida and Lucy (Melissa Leo),
her neighbour. Ida is the more straight-
talking, professional working woman,
whereas Lucky provides a warm voice
and a shoulder for Mildred to cry on.
Both supporting stars, mature and pol-
ished in their craft, deliver finely tuned
performances that fit in convincingly
with the period mood.
Love does seem to find Mildred again,
with Monty Beragon (Guy Pearce), a
rich, lazy burn-out being the main can-
A
dapted once again from
JamesA. Cain’s celebrat-
ed novel, this time as a
5-part HBO mini-series,
Mildred Pierce must
have been a tricky one to map out. Its
first adaptation in 1945 won Joan Craw-
ford her much-deserved Oscar and was
furthermore nominated for Best Picture.
So naturally the pressure is on, both for
the director and cast, especially Kate
Winslet who takes on the title role, but
the film’s restrained, patient approach is
more than satisfying to warrant a seal of
approval on this remake. Todd Haynes
(director) follows the book more closely
as it portrays almost every single aspect
of the book in sequence, and can afford
to take its time. After all, Haynes has
over five hours to spread around.
Mildred Pierce (Winslet) is the tra-
ditional 30s middle-class housewife
whose sole job is to please her family,
in this case, her husband and two young
daughters. When her cheating husband
takes it a step too far though, she feels
enough is enough. After kicking him
out of the house, she feels the finan-
cial restraint The Great Depression has
brought about. Struggling to balance
her desire for a job and her pride that
doesn’t let her work in what she consid-
ers a demeaning profession, she finally
lands a job as a waitress. Under the
tough guidance of Ida (Mare Winning-
ham), the head waitress, Mildred finds
her life’s calling and decides to prop-
erly enter the restaurant business. And
so “Mildred’s Chicken and Waffles”
opens, to overwhelmingly good recep-
tion. Soon she expands all over Los An-
geles and it appears things are starting
to look up. But this is until her eldest
daughter Veda starts causing trouble. A
materialist sociopath, Veda’s evil nature
surfaces even when she’s a small child.
Her angelic looks are devilishly decep-
tive, as her own ambitions for an extrav-
agant lifestyle take over.
So why should we pay attention for
five hours? The presence of Winslet is
a good enough reason. From the mo-
ment she appears, she commands your
attention and her intense performance
is difficult to ignore. That she can so
effortlessly slip into the role of a strug-
gling housewife is impressive enough,
but throughout the five separate parts
her character is forced to evolve, and
is hit with unthinkable challenges. All
these changes are captured brilliantly by
Winslet, whose relentless energy shines
through with dialogue and is just as ef-
fective in the many silent close-ups.
In the equally challenging role of
Veda, the two actresses, both younger
If you’re going to buy the rights to The Big C, then damn well advertise it!
Omg, I just argued for more advertising... Kill me, kill me now
Nothing like a summer road trip with a man who, if you squint hard
enough, looks like Johnny Depp
“Veda instantly
becomes someone
whose head you want
to put through a
wall.”
All terrestrial TV networks have their
unique strengths: the BBC makes stun-
ning period-dramas and unique shows
like Dr Who. When it airs other net-
works’ productions they are often
stolen by Rupert Murdoch e.g. Sky 1
acquiring 24 after its second season.
When we look at ITV the word “soaps”
must be used whilst Channel 5 is the
land of CIS, NICS and any-other-let-
ters-IS. But when we get to Channel 4
it’s a fun mix of originals, adaptations
and great American shows that they
seem intent on killing.
It seems that when C4 adapts an
American show, they do well. Sure with
Deal or No Deal they took off the 26
leggy models holding suitcases in small
dresses and replaced them with the gen-
eral public and boxes (sorry guys) but it
still worked.
They can even come up with good
ideas like The Million Pound Drop,
a game show where people bet £1mil-
lion cash on what they feel is the right
answer. It makes good TV, although
the contestants’ choices do make
you scream at the TV – someone put
£375,000 on Karaoke not being a Japa-
nese word when I last saw it.
But the issue I have the C4 is its long-
standing habit of buying some of the
finest TV shows from the US and giv-
ing them a thoroughly undeserved UK
TV death.
The best example of this is The Big
C, a comedy with the tag line ‘Grab life
by the balls’ that wanted to make cancer
funny. Now I know what your thinking,
comedy and cancer sounds like the field
of South Park and Family Guy, but
this non-animated piece of televisual
gold worked staggeringly well.
It follows a run-of-the-middle sub-
urban wife and mother who discovers
she has terminal cancer and decides to
live life to the max. She withdraws her
pension and goes on wild and fun ex-
periences, doing the things she always
wanted to do. Never before has a show
managed to make me laugh so much
about so serious an issue. The icing on
the cake came from the final episode
of the where the show crossed that fa-
mously difficult boundary of any com-
edy: seriousness. I suspect no person
who watched it had a dry eye when the
credits rolled; even I struggled!
What C4 did with this show instead
was their standard ‘this could be a re-
ally good show’ strategy: Air it for a
bit of C4 at a weird time (11pm); use
minimal advertising; then shove it onto
More4 when the ratings are low. Now
More4 is still easily accessible, so you
may question why I actually care. But
firstly this strategy has been an annoy-
ing part of C4 for years and secondly
the Americans have a habit of switching
off amazing shows, we don’t need the
Brits doing it too. I am sure with enough
UK pressure we wouldn’t have lost Ar-
rested Development.
So who else has suffered from Chan-
nel 4s touch of death? The list is most
definitely long: Aaron Sorkin has dou-
bly felt it with both The West Wing
and Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip;
ABC’s Brothers and Sisters may
have won 10 awards but it apparently
doesn’t deserve any prime time slots;
HBOs Curb your Enthusiasm is a
solid More4 fixture and I think its fair
to say the magic of Friends has gone
after non-stop showings on E4.
So what do I think Channel 4 should
do? Clearly its strength is not in show-
ing good American shows and the au-
dience doesn’t expect them to provide
them. Maybe they should allow ITV,
which needs as much help as it can
possibly get, to take a few or at least
rebrand More4 to 4USA (US4 would
work too). Either way they need to
stop preventing people from seeing
shows like The Big C otherwise the
world of TV lovers, myself included,
will never forgive them.
My plea to Channel 4:
stop ruining good TV
Scott Heath
John Park reviews the latest adaptation of James
A. Cain’s novel, this time by HBO

