FELIX
24
TRAVEL
TravelEditor: Chris Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 13 MAY 2011
Want to see your travel photograph featured here?
Send it to travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Planning a trip? Want some quick advice from ex-
perienced travellers? Have a travelling tale to share
with Imperial?
Drop us an email at travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk, or
send us a tweet using #FelixTravel
Some Santiagan satisfaction
After finally recovering from my bout of food
poisoning, we ventured out of the suburbs of
Santiago and up through the drastically arid
bush to the national park. Here we were able
to see the Santiagans relaxing and socialising
in typical South American fashion – as always,
every day and night is a party.
Avoiding two wild horses careering through
the park we went to relax beside the stream.
There were numerous Chilean families parked
up beside it with barbeques and cooler boxes,
blasting English rock music. Apparently this
afternoon piss-up was an after-party of a wed-
ding the night before. As is customary, every
person we met greeted us with an affectionate
kiss on the cheek and a handshake.
We also wandered through the quiet streets
of Bellavista, home of the late Chilean poet
Neruda. Despite not appearing on any Chillian
banknotes on account of his radical communist
views, he is on posters and pictures all over
tional figurehead Arturo Prat. He was a naval
officer who died rather than let his Chilean
ship surrender to its enemies and now is lauded
everywhere as the inspiration for such phrases
as “never give up”. His statue stands proud in
Valparaiso’s grandest plaza.
Our last day was spent in the sprawling met-
ropolitan city centre of Santiago. As you move
out from the skyscrapers and rows of little
houses, you eventually reach hills with the
most incredible views. The heart of the city is
in the Plaza D´Armis, modern glass buildings
reflecting the archaic imposing monuments
and luscious old buildings (even if one does
just house a rather peculiar event of a table ten-
nis competition for elderly men).
You are constantly surrounded by noise and
people, whether it be nut sellers, dried wheat
and peach juice vendors, or protestors being
scrambled into police vans. The men in our
group yearned to be taken to the infamous ‘cof-
fee with legs’ cafés, where customers are treat-
ed to coffee served by beautiful women bearing
endlessly long legs. In some Santiagan versions
of this shop, the managers pick a ‘happy min-
ute’where music blasts, shutters roll down, and
waitresses climb onto tables and strip for the
patrons. Then the minute ends, the shutters roll
up and business continues as usual.
Rather than joining the crowd at the ‘café
with legs,’ we joined the crowds outside the
grand palace of the President, where school-
children running amok were singing and
chanting “Chi Chi Chi-le!”, as TV cameras
tried to capture the image. In the centre of all
this was a large white capsule with the Chilean
flag upon it. The red stands for the blood of the
people, blue for the clear (ish – Santiago has a
lot of smog) skies, white for the snow-peaked
mountains of the Andes, and the star for the
hearts of the Chilean people.
At that moment, the hearts of the Chilean
people were singing with joy for the release
of the miners and the crowds were baying for
sight of these heroes. The white capsule out-
side the presidential palace was the very one
which had released the miners from the dark-
ness down below the earth to the light of the
Santiagan sun, and we were honoured to be
able to see it.
The main lesson learnt here was to ‘do it the
Chilean way’. Do what you believe in with all
of your might and all of your heart, just like
Arturo Prat. Do it like a prat.
Priya Garg
See, there’s always a party. Umm, if you squint really hard and look really closely...
‘Fireworks over Mount Herzl’ by Menahem Kahana
Get there: Northern line, to Camden Town
See: The markets (and the lock!)
Eat: Street food
Cost: £2-5 for a meal
A true mecca of cheap T-shirts and genuine Roy
Bons, Camden is well worth a day trip. Grab a frosty
drink in a rooftop garden overlooking the lock, then
head to one of the countless clubs for some eve-
ning entertainment. The drunken Boris bike home is
optional but certainly advised. (Except for the drunk
bit).
Wishing you were here
Travel on your doorstep
Camden Lock, chock-a-block, electric shock, cockblock?
Ricardo Baeza-Yates
flickr/pedrokid
“As always, every day
and night is a party”
Ah! There’s the party! I knew we’d find it!
Santiago. He often wrote of love and despera-
tion, highly appealing to his audience – Chil-
eans love ‘love’, and everywhere you walk
you will see couples intertwined.
The next day we were taken to Valparaiso, a
place young Chileans love, a city of huge French
inspired chateaus, grand naval buildings, big
statues and the centre of the Chilean judicial
system. Bohemian heaven is just a stone’s throw
through some windy passageways. An unstable
wooden elevator took us up to a cobbled street
with brightly painted tin houses and carved bal-
conies overlooking the beach and the sea. We
wandered down the streets, lost in the broken
myriad of rainbow colours.
From our Chilean friends we found out about
the strong Chilean admiration for fighting for
what you believe in, through tales of their na-
CaughtOffside.com

