FELIX Friday 13 may 2011 27
Scorpio
This week, you’re all up in some chav’s
‘grill’ ‘chatting shit’ and all dat ‘bruv’.
He doesn’t appreciate the inverted
commas and bitchslaps you. You cower
on the pavement when suddenly the
‘po po’ turn up and ‘save your bacon’.
Chavs say that right?
Horoscopes
Aries
This week, there is no Twatter. Literally
tens of students across Imperial feel
slightly disappointed. A national
emergency is declared and David
Cameron tells news reporters, “this
is worse than that time I was caught
fingering Clegg in cabinet...”
Taurus
This week, you’re pretending to pay
attention to NHS reforms in cabinet
while secretly fingering Nick Clegg.
Chris Huhne notices and says loudly,
“what are you doing!” “Nothing” you
quickly say. Sniffing your finger gives
you away. Damn lack of self-control.
Gemini
This week, you’re running. Running
away from a pack of rabid dogs. You
don’t know how you arrived at this point
in time. All you know is that wall ahead
looks awful high. Will you make it over?
You’ll never know, you trip and fall... and
yes some things are worse than exams...
Cancer
This week, you finish your exams. Joy!
The sun is shining, the summer stretch-
es into the distance ahead of you, and
hey, that girl is totally checking you out.
Nothing could ruin this moment. You
check the news on your phone. Aliens
have invaded. DAMMIT!
Leo
This week, you’re distracted in exams
by the hot guy next to you. His soft
hair. His stern expression. The way his
arm tenses when he does calculus. With
five minutes to go, you realise you’ve
answered every question with “You can
bash on my calculator any day”.
Virgo
This week, you fall asleep on the
Queens Lawn. The heat is too much and
you can’t keep you’re eyes open. When
you wake up ten minutes later, you’re at
a conference, wearing a suit with a lan-
yard around your neck. Damn they’ve
got good at putting the marquee up.
Libra
This week, you’re walking through a
market in India, complaining loudly
about those exams you did a few weeks
ago. A young Indian boy stops you and
says “Sir I would gladly take a thousand
exams!” You offer him 100 rupees to do
a handstand. Oh wealth...
Sagittarius
This week, you walk into a bar with
someone from Haiti, Japan, Spain,
Alabama, Libya, and Osama bin
Laden’s compound...
I’ll be honest, I got nothing that can live
up to that set up...
Capricorn
This week, you’re sitting on your
balcony (yeah bitches) late at night,
looking up at the stars when they start
moving. Holy shit. They slowly arrange
themselves into some sort of shape...
oh it’s a penis. You win this time, God
*shakes fist.
Aquarius
This week, you oversleep for your
exams. Luckily it was just a dream.
Unfortunately that realisation was also
a dream. A dream within a dream. You
wakeup. 7am, thank god! You begin
to suspect you’re still dreaming when
Leonardo diCaprio serves you breakfast.
Pisces
This week, you lay your hands on the
questions to tomorrow morning’s exam.
Shit fucking yeah bitches! 100%. BOO-
YAH! This is going to be the easiest
exam of your life. You sit down and try
to figure out the answers in preparation.
You can’t. The notes don’t help. FAIL.
Hangman’s Finest College News Source
the turnip
Blunder in Maths department
A
n investigation is currently un-
derway to determine how and
why the walls of the Huxley
building were recently repainted with
green paint when the colour scheme ex-
plicitly called for lilac, or lavender at a
push. The project is estimated to have
cost the College about £500 given cur-
rent market prices for aesthetic opinions
and Dulux, but the exact figure is not
yet certain, since mass spectrometry
of wall scrapings suggests that B&Q’s
own brand may have been used.
Renovations of the department were
carried out over the Easter break, af-
ter a group of hoodlums sprayed bogus
proofs to the ‘P versus NP’ all over the
walls on level three; redecoration was
scheduled for completion by mid-April
but was delayed until boffins in the de-
partment could examine and ultimately
disprove the the proofs.
The interior designer leading the
project commissioned the use of green
paint, but had “no idea where the purple
stuff came from, nor why anyone would
think purple goes well with the drab
DRUNKEN MATE
OF THE WEEK
OMG! They have one of those bunk-beds with the desk beneath it!!! I always wanted one of those when I was a
kid, but my room was too big and I had to be content with a desk beside my massive king-sized bed...
Wrong colour paint used
grey carpets because they totally clash”.
He added: “One of my guys has trouble
working out what flavour his skittles
are before eating them. Whoever did
this could’ve been colour-blind. Quid
pro quo, or whatever those mathemati-
cians say.”
Whether or not Imperial College will
foot part of the bill to re-redecorate
remains to be seen; until plans are re-
drawn, wallpapering is being consid-
ered to prevent a re-occurrence.
An ‘artists’ impression of how the mixup could have occured

