The Imperial College branch of Nat-
West in the Sherfield building closed
its doors for the final time last Thurs-
day. The reason for the closure, which
was first reported in Felix in February,
is unknown as NatWest has repeatedly
declined to comment.
Since being notified of the closure in
February, Imperial has been working on
mitigating the impact of the closure of
the branch, which is used by many stu-
dents, staff and College services.
In a memo sent out to senior staff on
the 6th of May, Malcolm Aldridge, the
College Financial Controller, set out the
plans that have been put in place to deal
with the situation. Cash from College
shops and services will now be pro-
cessed through a dedicated secure room
in the Sherfield building. Loomis (UK)
3
FELIX Friday 13 may 2011
NEWS
The government is considering propos-
als to allow universities to offer extra
places on their courses at market prices,
outside the government loans system.
Students entering university in this way
could pay fees similar to that of over-
seas students without any public fund-
ing and they would also have to meet
the entry requirements of the course.
The development came on Radio 4’s
Today programme when universities
minister David Willetts suggested that
charities or businesses may wish to spon-
sor places for students. For example, the
accountancy firm KPMG has unveiled a
plan to pay fees for students at univer-
sities including Durham, in a training
program leading to an honours degree in
accounting. He also suggested that rich
parents might be able to pay too.
The suggestion quickly drew con-
demnation as many accused him of al-
lowing rich students to pay their way
into university. Willetts insists that the
government will only consider “allow-
ing off-quota places where it contributes
to the coalition commitment to improve
social mobility and increase fair access”
and stressed that “There is no question
of wealthy students being able to buy a
place at university”.
However, his reassurances were not
enough and the Prime Minister was
forced to wade into the furore and repeat
the universities minister’s statement,
telling the BBC “There is no question of
people being able to buy their way into
university”.
This latest development in the student
fees saga comes as the government tries
to balance its books after three quarters
of universities have decided to introduce
the maximum £9000 fees. This means
the government is now faced with pay-
ing out considerably more money in
loans than they had budgeted for, with no
return for a significant number of years.
Les Ebdon, chair of the university think-
tank Million+, said: “There is one very
obvious pro, and that is, it’s a source of
additional money at a time when the sec-
tor is being squeezed very hard.” NUS
president Aaron Porter said the govern-
ment was trying to “disguise the chaos it
has created in university funding”.
The policy will now be modified and
it will be interesting to see what version
of the idea appears in the white paper on
higher education, due to be published
next month, setting out further details of
the governments proposals.
In the mean time the government is
launching an advertising campaign to
convince students that even with higher
fees they can still go to university. The
aim is to “Make it clear to young stu-
dents that no one pays upfront”. This
campaign will be run through radio,
press and social media.
Angry Geek: The government’s plans
are “the political equivalent of a
cockslap” – Page 12
Extra uni places for
rich students?
NatWest shuts its doors for last time
Maciej Matuszewski
Genevieve Pugh
More student cuts
More student cuts for Imperial
students at South Kensington’s
FRESH Hairdressers.
Men’s cuts £22
Women’s shampoo and cut and
shake dry £28
Women’s shampoo, cut and
blow-dry £38
All of our cuts are done by highly
experienced stylists.
Tuesday to Fridays 9.30 to
4.30 (sorry no discounts on
Saturdays).
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington tube station
To book an appointment, call
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
0207 823 8968. Ask for a
student discount and bring your
Imperial ID.
Cash only.
Limited has been contracted to deliver
money to and from this room. Renova-
tion work was carried out to ensure that
the room is secure enough to hold sig-
nificant amounts of money.
One of the major concerns raised at
the time the closure was announced was
the effect that it would have on inter-
national students. Sorting out bank ac-
counts is a major concern for interna-
tional students and they benefited from
having a bank on campus with experi-
ence in dealing with international stu-
dent issues.
The College is planning to allow pay-
ments to newly-arrived international
students who don’t have UK accounts
(previously made by College cheques
which could be cashed at the branch)
to be made to foreign accounts by wire
transfer, or a UK-resident’s account, al-
though the College say that they cannot
of the architects involved in the SEQ
project, Foster and Partners and Shep-
pard Robson, responded to requests for
comment. Several efforts to contact Dr
Martin Knight were unsuccessful at the
time of writing.
In addition to last week’s news that a
£3 million exhaust system for test en-
gines was built with galvanised steel
instead of stainless steel – an error that
meant the exhaust wouldn’t “stand up to
long-term use”, as the College described
it – a number of other errors have de-
layed the renovation process. The most
embarrassing is the news that sensitive
measuring devices in a materials test-
ing lab are disrupted by vibrations from
researchers walking in the lab because
the floor is too thin. Additionally the lab
in which the test engines are situated
has not been adequately sound-proofed,
with questions raised about whether
sound-proofing was in the original
recommendations, and the ventilation
space below the floor has been blocked
off, meaning that researchers will be un-
able clean up fuel spillages or retrieve
equipment if they drop it through grilles
in the floor.
The College are currently involved
in an investigation on the cause of the
blunder with the £3 million exhaust sys-
tem as well negotiations about the final
cost of the refurbishment and did not
wish to comment specifically on the is-
sues raised in this article. Steve Howe,
Director of Capital Projects and Plan-
ning at Imperial, previously stressed
that the liability for the exhaust mistake
was still unknown and didn’t rule out
the possibility that Imperial would have
to meet some of the extra costs.
A College spokesperson issued this
statement: “The College is taking seri-
ously the remaining issues involved in
the completion of the Mechanical Engi-
neering refurbishment, and is working
with the Department and the contrac-
tors to address them. The priority is to
minimise further disruption to the work
of students and staff as these issues are
resolved. The majority of the contract
works should be completed in June and
users will then move in over the follow-
ing months. On completion staff and
students will receive the full benefit of
the refurbishment work, which will de-
liver world-class teaching and research
facilities.”
A section of one of the labs currently being refurbished. Each ‘cell’ will
contain one or more test engines when the work is finished
be held responsible for any such agree-
ments.
Dr Sharon Bolton, Head of Interna-
tional Student Support, says that the
College will provide international stu-
dents with more information about oth-
er banks in the existing area, including
“details of accounts that can be opened
before travelling to the UK”. Many of
these banks will also be invited to the
International Students Welcome event
at the start of the new academic year.
Dr Bolton believes it is unlikely that
another bank will take up the vacated
space. Nicholas Roalfe, Director of Fa-
cilities Management, said that he antici-
pated that a decision on how to use the
area would be reached by the end of the
month by the Space Executive Commit-
tee. He said that the decision would be
made “as part of the overall strategy for
[the] Sherfield [building]”.
Mech Eng refurbishment
The contractors ISG Plc did not return
requests for comment. A spokesperson
for Arup said: “The programme man-
agement work we have been involved
in to date is unrelated to the choice of
materials for the exhaust [...] Our work
was completed in accordance with the
original programme and we aren’t party
to any dispute with the client on this.”
If you have information about the
ongoing refurbishment then please
contact the Editor at felix@imperial.
ac.uk. We will never disclose
your details if you wish to remain
anonymous.
...Continued from Front Page

