Felix Sport sponsored by
COMMENT
“The political
equivalent of a
cockslap”: Page 12
FILM
Another superhero
film, how ‘original’:
Page 19
POLITICS
Deaths as tribal
conflict sparks in
Kenya: Page 10
TELEVISION
Dammit Channel 4,
stop ruining TV!
Page 23
TRAVEL
Partying with Priya
in Santiago:
Page 24
Sticks, balls,
and deepest
darkest Bristol
SPORT
13.05.11
ISSUE 1488
Riding and Polo
Arena Polo Nationals
Alex Savell
The problem with starting a tournament on a
Thursday during reading week is that we don’t get
a reading week. As such it was a somewhat slap-
dash crew that converged on Clevedon for the Uni-
versity Polo Nationals. Despite what might charita-
bly be described as an exuberant driving style from
one of our players we all made it to the rural side of
Bristol more or less intact, though one of our two
train goers got a bit of a dent to his wallet when he
realised that booking his tickets in advance would
have been four times cheaper.
With, as it turned out, neither of our teams set to
play until Friday morning all of us set about mak-
ing the most of our free time. All, that is, except
Jon ‘there’s a snake in ma boots’ Matthews who
had managed to get himself a job doing what he
loves best… shouting at people. The rest of us
were more interested in booze, polo and the rapidly
growing number of people planning on coming to
dinner with us.
As play continued into the night (not set to fin-
ish till about 10pm!) we eventually managed to
bundle everyone in the car and high tail it back to
the hotel for dinner. There, I suspect, the hotel staff
weren’t best pleased to see a group of close to fifty
hungry students swarm shortly before shifts were
supposed to end and the kitchen was supposed to
close. It’s not often you get that many students
from half a dozen different universities congregat-
ing and socialising round a table and we were all
pretty impressed that Thijs had managed to get so
many people there. Actually he was developing
something of a rep by then though dubbing him
‘the Dutch Sleaze’ was probably a bit harsh, still
it was definitely not the worst nickname coined for
the first time that weekend.
Everyone, well everyone from Imperial, was
pretty sedate that night, probably due to the Nov-
ices having their first two matches at 9 and 10 the
following morning against Reading and then Ex-
eter. The Reading game came and went in a bit of
a blur, horses the guys were meeting for the first
time were something of a worry and we were pretty
lucky that two out of three really got on well with
their allotted mounts. In any equestrian sport the
horse beneath you is just as important as the rider
on top and the lack of a good partnership unfortu-
nately made for a frustrating game for Henry un-
able to quite make his presence felt on the pitch.
However, a lot of positives came out of that match,
not least the fact that the guys managed to get a
victory and Sverré and Huey really showed how
you can step up your game when the pressure is on.
With a change of horse for his second chukka we
...Continued on Page 30
Men’s Lacrosse
narrowly miss out
on first silverware
BUCS Lacrosse Trophy Final
Imperial 10 - 12 Leeds Met
David Thompson
Following a hard fought victory over Swansea
in the semis, Imperial Men’s Lacrosse faced up
against Leeds Met Carnegie in the BUCS Trophy
final in Sheffield on the 17th March. Leeds had
narrowly beaten Birmingham in their semi and,
having lost against Birmingham 20-0 two years
previously, Imperial knew that this would be the
most difficult match of the season. However, in the
two years since that crushing defeat the team has
improved vastly and confidence was high on the
long trip up North.
The pre-match talk was focused on avoiding pen-
alties as there were to be four officials rather than
the usual one but this did not stop Imperial giving
away a number of soft early penalties. Leeds failed
...Continued on Page 31
Ed Phillips Images

