7
FELIX Friday 13 MAY 2011
FEATURE
the highly expensive payloads, which
must come into play. Of course, one
could argue that paying private com-
panies to take astronauts into space is
simply the natural, logical extension of
these companies’ work sending various
satellites into orbit. However, if NASA’s
shuttle programme is ultimately being
scrapped on account of concerns sur-
rounding its safety, it is only fair to ap-
ply these same stringent standards when
assessing the shuttle’s likely successors.
In March, a Taurus XL rocket, built by
the Orbital Sciences Corporation, plum-
meted to Earth after its final stage failed
to separate properly. And it wasn’t the
first time the Taurus XL rockets have
failed to launch successfully. Back in
2009, the same problem occurred dur-
ing separation of the rocket’s final stage,
resulting in the loss of the new orbiting
carbon observatory, which for the first
time would have shown scientists the
geographical distribution of carbon di-
oxide sources and sinks on a regional
scale. In total, Taurus rockets have been
launched nine times since their debut in
1994. Only six of these nine missions
have successfully made it into orbit.
So, with private companies having suc-
cess rates as low as these, the amount of
money lost due to payload destruction
also quickly becomes a factor.
However, as well as issues of safety
and finance, there are also political mo-
tives to consider. The decision to trans-
fer a large portion of NASA’s space
operation into the hands of private com-
panies seems to be part of a wider vogue
for decreasing federal expenditure. Of
course, there is the necessity to reduce
the US budget deficit, but, in accusa-
tions similar to those being made on this
side of the Atlantic, there are those who
would argue that the Republican-con-
trolled House of Representatives is keen
to make cuts for ideological reasons.
Stalwart economic liberals argue
that it is only through competition that
one can hope to drive the innovation
required for developing the future of
spaceflight. They often point to the
space race, which ultimately ended
with US triumph in 1969, as proof of
the necessity of competition. In many
ways, Americans see this triumph as a
victory for US capitalism over Soviet
communism; as proof that the big state
cannot drive innovation in the way that
private enterprise can. However, what
advocates of this argument seem quick
to forget is that, at the height of the
Apollo programme, the US was spend-
ing a staggering 4.5% of its total fed-
eral budget on the space programme.
With federal funding levels as high
as this, one can hardly claim US suc-
cess in the space race as proof of the
superior driving power of liberal free
markets.
Of course, it is understandable that
NASA no longer receives federal fund-
ing as high as 4.5%, particularly in light
of the global financial crisis. Today,
NASA receives around 0.5% of the fed-
eral budget, and from this they carry out
a whole host of research activities in ad-
dition to spaceflight. Yet, this 0.5% still
amounts to $18.7bn per year. So, with
spaceflight as expensive as this, perhaps
it’s time to abandon the idea of interna-
tional competition as a driver for future
exploration of space, whether that’s
competition between competing com-
panies or between competing nations.
It is no-longer fair for nations like ours
to expect the US to bear the brunt of the
burden in pushing the boundaries of
space exploration forward. Perhaps we
should see the shuttle fleet’s retirement
this year as an opportunity to increase
international collaboration for the fu-
ture of spaceflight. The US and Russian
Space agencies are already working
together on a range of projects, and the
European Space Agency is increasingly
becoming a key player. But perhaps
the future of manned spaceflight, par-
ticularly in terms of going back to the
Moon and on to Mars, will rely on col-
laborations between the superpowers of
old and the new rising big players in the
space industry, such as China, India and
even Brazil. Instead of the shuttle fleet’s
retirement spelling the end of an era,
perhaps it can be used to signal the start
of a new beginning, when national in-
terests are cast aside in favour of greater
humanitarian goals.
Of course, there are those who would
argue that the entire concept of manned
spaceflight is a waste of time and mon-
ey, particularly when there are large
numbers of people living without basic
resources here on Earth. Yet, in light
of the mounting list of threats which
endanger us all, regardless of nation-
ality or political persuasion, there has
perhaps never been a time when it has
been more pressing for us to push for-
ward with the exploration of our solar
system. On this subject, Stephen Hawk-
ing has had this to say: “Life on Earth
is at the ever-increasing risk of being
wiped out by a disaster such as sudden
global warming, nuclear war, a geneti-
cally engineered virus or other dangers
[...] I think the human race has no future
if it doesn’t go into space.”
In many ways, despite the Challenger
and Columbia tragedies, the shuttle pro-
gramme can be seen as a victim of its
own success. For the US, the shuttle
was a way of showing that it had well
and truly won the space race. It was
supposed to show that spaceflight had
become easy, that it was a routine part
of everyday American life. This idea
was even reflected in the name:‘the
shuttle’, as well as the frequency with
which launches took place. However, as
spaceflight has become routine, it has
also lost its glamour. So, perhaps the
future of manned spaceflight is not only
dependent on getting the technology
right, but also the PR. Perhaps space
exploration once more needs the great
idealistic goals which drove it in the
sixties, if we are to expand humanity’s
horizons in space. Personally, I could
think of no greater motivation for this
than the prospect of all nations working
together to explore deeper into our solar
system. If we are capable of doing this,
then perhaps our horizons will have
been expanded before we even take off.
Last month, NASA announced it
was awarding a total of $270m to
private companies currently devel-
oping the next generation of low
Earth-orbit spacecraft. Eventually,
these companies will sell seats in
their vehicles to NASA and other
space agencies seeking to put as-
tronauts into orbit.
The $270m award was split
between four US companies:
SpaceX, Blue Origin, Boeing and
Sierra Nevada Corporation. The
largest individual award went to
Boeing, who hope to have their
CST-100 capsule ready to trans-
port astronauts by 2015. This, like
the other companies’ vehicles, will
not be capable of launching into
space. Instead, it will simply serve
as a crew capsule, which can be
mounted on top of current rocket
designs, such as those frequently
used to put commercial satellites
into space.
By contrast, Richard Bran-
son’s Virgin Galactic is planning
a whole new way of getting into
space. Unlike the four companies
which NASA has awarded money
to, Virgin Galactic is not about
putting astronauts into space.
Instead, it’s all about putting or-
dinary people (albeit ‘ordinary
people’ with a spare £100,000)
into space. Last week, success-
ful tests of this spacecraft,
named ‘SpaceShipTwo’, brought
the dream of space tourism yet
another step closer to reality. Vir-
gin Galactic hopes to start taking
passengers into space within the
next two years.
Who will win the new space race?

