FELIX
8
You won’t believe it..
SCIENCE
Science Editors: Charlie Harvey
Kelly Oakes
Thea Cunningham
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 13 may 2011
Residents of Rome flee earthquake
predicted in 1915...
Urban myth or not, rumours of a possible earthquake
predicted over 90 years ago sparked mass panic in
Rome this week, with residents vacating the Eternal
City for fear of a large tremor. The prediction was
made in 1915 by Italian-born seismologist Raffaele
Bendandi, who forecast Rome would be devastated
by a quake on 11 May 2011. Despite officials stress-
ing the unpredictable nature of quakes, hundreds
of workers requested leave and families chose to
keep their children away from school amid fears that
Bendandi’s forecast may become true.
With scenes of devastation left by the recent
earthquake in Japan and memories of the 2009
quake in the Italian city of L’Aquila, the concerns
circulating amongst Italians this week were un-
derstandable. A prediction made by Bendandi has
become true in the past. In 1923, he forecast an
earthquake would strike on January 2 the following
year. On 4 January 1924, the Italian province of Le
Marche was struck by a quake.
Despite his apparent knack for forecasting, scep-
tics this week downplayed Bendandi’s prediction of
an earthquake in Rome, saying they had no record
of a specific date and place. The potential for pre-
dicting earthquakes has been the focus of much
controversy. Bernandi based his quake predictions
on the movement of the moon, sun and planets,
yet some scientists argue it is impossible for us to
predict such an event, namely because they often
tend to strike in a random fashion, without warning.
To date, there are no examples of forecasts that
have successfully predicted the exact date, place
and size of an earthquake. Felix was still waiting for
news of a quake at the time of print...
Thea Cunningham
Scientists at Imperial and the University of
Washington have taken an important new step
towards controlling malaria by genetically
modifying mosquitoes.
Malaria affects 300 million people every year
and, as it is one of the infamous ‘Big Three’ in-
fectious diseases, eradication is a global goal.
Scientists have already succeeded in creating
‘malaria-resistant mosquitoes’, which are modi-
fied in ways that target the mosquito’s ability
to transmit the disease. But until now the main
sticking point has been trying to find a way to
ensure that this trait is maintained in wild popu-
lations. As they do not offer the mosquito an
advantage, the modified traits tend to disappear
shortly after the mosquitoes are released.
These most recent developments tackle this
problem by inserting a gene called I-Scel,
which is a homing endonuclease, into the
mosquito genome. This sequence produces an
enzyme which deactivates a target gene and re-
places it with a copy of itself. As this occurs in
the mosquito’s sperm cells, the I-Scel sequence
is inherited by nearly all its offspring. In this
study the gene targeted for inactivation by I-
Scel was simply a green fluorescent marker for
ease of observation, but further research will
now aim to target genes needed by the mos-
quito for reproduction or transmission of the
malaria parasite.
It is hoped that this will result in a low cost,
highly effective malaria control strategy,
though much further research is required. Pro-
fessor Andrea Crisanti, a senior author of the
study said: “We expect to conduct many more
experiments to determine its safety and reli-
ability.”
Managing malaria with modified mozzies
Chloe McIvor
Ever looked at the squandered energy shim-
mering off hundreds of idling, traffic-jammed
cars and wondered, “couldn’t we do something
with that?”
The waste heat problem has puzzled scien-
tists for decades. Some researchers predict that
waste heat from wind turbines could have a
small global warming effect, leaving us with
an ever greater need for a solution. However,
scientists from China and America may have
the answer – thermoelectric generators.
The generators – which convert heat into
electricity – have been around for a while. But
the materials they are based on are inefficient
and have only found use in niche applications
like powering space probes. The team has un-
covered a talented alloy of lead and tellurium
that could change all that.
When electricity flows between conductors,
the moving electrons carry heat with them,
causing one conductor to heat up and the other
to cool down. The reverse is also true – if you
heat a circuit containing two different conduc-
tors, electricity will start to flow. This is known
as the Seebeck effect, after physicist Thomas
Johann Seebeck who discovered it in 1821.
The thermoelectric problem lies in finding
materials with a high zT value. A material’s zT
value is the relationship between its Seebeck
value, its conductivity, and the temperature.
To make a useful thermoelectric generator, zT
should be at least 1.5 – for this it needs a high
Seebeck value, high electric conductivity, and
low thermal conductivity.
By carefully adding sodium and selenium to
their alloy, and by manipulating its structure
at the nano scale, the researchers were able to
create a material with ‘valleys’ that conducted
electricity more readily, while keeping thermal
conductivity low. When heated to 577°C, the
material has a zT value of 1.8, an achievement
the team has labelled “extraordinary”. The
research, published in Nature, could soon be
transforming thermoelectric generators from
niche nobodies into heroes – delivering extra
power whilst effortlessly cooling our world.
James Pope
Device reaches the final heat
The Romans earthquake-
proofed this, right?
As the temperature soared, the heat was on to make use of it
Scientists create generator to make use of waste heat
It’s been so hot lately even the mosquitoes have been dropping like flies
20 May 2011 6.30pm
Architectural Association School of Architecture, 36
Bedford Sq, London
As part of a new collaborative energy exhibition ‘Feel
the force’, Imperial cosmologist Professor Andrew
Jaffe, architect Shin Egashira and photographer Go-
swin Schwedinger explore the human desire to alter
our past and future, and question whether science
fiction is any closer to becoming science fact.
Time Travel –
Shamanism to the Space Age

