FELIX 9
SCIENCE
Friday 13 may 2011
In a pioneering step towards achieving food secu-
rity a team of American and French scientists, in-
cluding members from Harvard and the University
of Minnesota, have unveiled the first sequenced
rust fungi genomes.
Rust fungi infect the cells of their host plants, tak-
ing nutrients from the plant and causing losses in
yield that are often devastating to a harvest. Selec-
tive breeding and genetic engineering have created
many rust resistant varieties of the crops we use to-
day but the rust evolves quickly and there are strains
we have not been able to control. The scientists hope
that unravelling the genomes of the poplar leaf rust
fungus (Melampsora larici-populina) and wheat
stem rust fungus (Puccinia graminis) will lead to
more successful attempts to control these strains
which are damaging both economically and in terms
of biofuel production and food security.
Wheat stem rust has long been a threat to food
security. The fungus can reproduce asexually in
the wheat plant during the whole summer, produc-
ing spores that can spread over vast distances in a
single year. Infected plants suffer from a reduced
yield and, if severe, can result in an early death.
The effect on the food production of a country
can be devastating. So much so, that in the 1950s
the US developed a biological bomb designed to
spread wheat stem rust and cause havoc in the in-
fected country.
Poplar leaf rust threatens the use of fast grow-
ing poplar trees as biofuel as well their value in the
wood industry. The rust fungus affects the general
health of the trees, limiting their growth and result-
ing in a reduced profit for the plantation.
The team of scientists have predicted several pro-
teins similar to known proteins in other pathogens.
Some of these are expected to be involved in the
actual infection of the plant and the way in which
the fungi enter the cells. Others are transport pro-
teins which enable the fungi to steal nutrients from
their hosts. There are, however, some missing pro-
teins which suggest the reasons that the fungi rely
on their hosts is related to them being unable to take
up some nutrients in the forms found outside the
plants. This also partly explains why the rust fungi
could not be grown in vitro in the lab, a challenge
that the team had to overcome during the project.
One of the great successes of the Green Revolu-
tion was the development of rust resistant wheat
varieties. Currently, a new, highly virulent strain,
Ug99, threatens global wheat production, particu-
larly in many African countries. The identification
of proteins resulting from the genome sequencing
will aid understanding of the way in which the rust
fungi infect their hosts, obtain nutrients from them,
and overcome plant defences. This will in turn help
to develop new resistant strains of wheat and pop-
lar plants and restore yield levels.
Rusty fungi genome gets a polish off
Alex Jenkin
Researchers have found a component of gut mu-
cus that is toxic to parasitic worms. The discovery
could help one billion people worldwide.
The research, published in the Journal of Experi-
mental Medicine, found that just one component of
the mucus, a mucin known as Muc5ac, is needed
for the efficient expulsion of worms from the body.
Parasitic worms living in the gut are a major
cause of disease. The gut is protected by a thick
layer of mucus that is a mixture of salts, water and
large proteins called mucins. Muc5ac mucin is
rarely found in the gut, but when it is it physically
changes the properties of the mucus barrier.
Scientists from the University of Manchester
studied whipworm infections in the guts of mice.
They discovered that mice that could not produce
the mucin Muc5ac were unable to expel the worms
from their guts and suffered long term parasitic
infections. Professor Richard Grencis, one of the
lead authors on the study, explained that Muc5ac
is so important because “it is ‘toxic’ for the worms
and damages their health.”
The researchers went on to find that Muc5ac is
harmful to several worms including human para-
sites such as hookworm and spiral threadworm.
Together these two worms affect up to one billion
people worldwide. The research may help identify
people who are more vulnerable to infection.
Dr Sumaira Hasnain, the lead experimentalist
on the project, added: “For the first time, we have
discovered that a single component of the mucus
barrier, the Muc5ac mucin, is essential for worm
expulsion. Our research may help to identify who
is and who isn’t susceptible to parasitic worms, and
it may eventually lead to new treatments for people
with chronic worm infections.”
Gut reaction kills worms
Camilla Ruz
These parasitic worms didn’t have the backbone to stand up to the toxic Muc5ac mucin
Sci-fi Column
This week I’d like to talk about ‘Source Code’, a
science fiction film released over the Easter break
directed by Duncan Jones, who had previously
worked on the film ‘Moon’. Though I gave ‘Moon’
a scathing review my main problem was with the
screenplay. That film had a brilliant atmosphere for
which Jones was in a large part responsible, so I
had great hopes ‘Source Code’.
The film focuses on Captain Colter Stephens
who, after the helicopter he was piloting crashes
during a mission in Afghanistan, finds himself
forced to participate in a secret military program
called Source Code. He is made to repeatedly re-
lieve the last eight minutes in the life of a train pas-
senger so he can discover the identity of the man
who planted the bomb that destroyed the train and
who is now threatening to attack Chicago. At the
same time Stephens, who has no memories of what
happened after his crash, tries to figure out why he
was recruited for Source Code.
This is certainly an interesting premise and ini-
tially it is handled very well. Unfortunately it is not
long before problems with the film’s pacing appear.
The secret of the Source Code becomes quite obvi-
ous early on and indeed is explicitly revealed about
halfway through, removing one of the main driving
forces of story. The identity of the bomber itself is
revealed some ten minutes before the end of the
film, after which we get an unnecessary and some-
what tedious coda. Some critics have compared
‘Source Code’ favourably to ‘Inception’. While
there are obvious similarities between the two, ‘In-
ception’is clearly the superior film. It keeps raising
the stakes and never loses the feel of an epic. In
‘Source Code’ though the stakes initially appear to
be much higher, the whole of Chicago is threatened
with destruction, the film’s atmosphere doesn’t
succeed in conveying the appropriate feeling of
importance and we seem to lose some tension al-
most every other scene. ‘Source Code’also doesn’t
explore its premise to the same depth as ‘Inception’
did: even with its poor pacing it feels terribly short.
I also wasn’t very happy about some of the char-
acterisation. Captain Stephens shows a strange re-
luctance to participate in the Source Code program,
even when told of the lives in danger. His confu-
sion at suddenly being thrust into the program is
understandable but I would have thought that a
highly professional soldier would put aside any
personal concerns until the mission was over. It’s
also strange that the director of the Source Code
program, Dr. Rutledge, is set up as somewhat of
an antagonist because Stephens’ welfare isn’t his
first concern. Again, however, with so many lives
at stake those who oppose him later on in the film
seem a bit shortsighted.
This certainly wasn’t a bad movie and there were
several good scenes. It just could have been a lot
better and it seems to have been overrated in the
press.
Maciej Matuszewski
Another step towards food security
Research could aid global fight against parasitic infections

