Union Page
Winter at the Union
Come and celebrate the last day of term at the Union! On Friday 13
Decemberfrom15:00,we’llbetransformingBeitintoafestivefunhouse.
You can enjoy a boozy hot chocolate from our exclusive Baileys Winter
Bar, pick up delicious food truck treats, and take a ride on the Rodeo
Reindeer!
From 20:00, Winter Carnival will be kicking off across all of the Beit
Bars, where you can catch the incredible Patrick Nazmi headlining.
Early bird tickets to Winter Carnival are sold out, however you can still
pick up Standard Release tickets for just £4 at:
imperialcollegeunion.org/wintercarnival19
Welcome Back Week
In January, the Union will be bringing the very first Welcome Back
Week to Imperial. During this week, you can expect a range of
activities and events to kick off the start of the new term, and to say
goodbye to exams.
From SpanishWineTasting, to Burns Night food and drinks promotions
at FiveSixEight, there’s a little something each day. On Wednesday
22 January, 11:00-16:00, we will be holding our Welcome Back Fair.
Come down and meet a selection of your Clubs, Societies & Projects,
as well as some of our commercial partners, incuding Papa John’s
(free pizza), Little Moon’s (free mochi), Contiki and Target Jobs, and
see what they have to offer.
Keep up with what we have in store for you all at:
imperialcollegeunion.org/wbw
General Election Hustings
With the UK general election onThursday 12 December being described
as the most important election of our generation, Imperial College
Union and Imperial College Ahlul-Bayt Society have come together to
host a general election hustings at Imperial.
There will be representatives from the major parties for the areas
around Imperial. The debate will begin by the candidates first making
their case after which we will open to questions. There will also be a
chance for open questions from the floor at the end.
To find out how to submit a question in advance and to register your
attendance, go to imperialcollegeunion.org/general-election.
How do you experience Imperial?
The Student Experience Survey is your opportunity to tell us about
your experiences at Imperial. Whether you are a non-final year
Undergraduate or a first year taught Postgraduate student, we want
to hear from you.
Your responses will give College and the Union a better idea about what
we’re doing well, what can be improved and what else can be done to
enrich student life and your experience here at Imperial.
In the past years, we’ve used the data collected to make real
change. Ethos was refurbished and replaced all gym equipment, and
the Library received funding to improve ventilation and aid cooling
during the hot summer months - this was all due to your responses.
Complete the survey now and enter a prize draw to win of the 22
vouchers up for grabs at imperial.ac.uk/student-experience-survey.

