GAMES
MONDAY, 9TH
DECEMBER, 2019 FELIX
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
64
TheMostInfluentialGamesoftheDecade:FelixGames
GAMES
Henry Alman
Editor-in-Chief
Freddie Ugo
Games Editor
Shaping the Industry with Indie Genius: Minecraft
What is there to say about Minecraft? It effectively took LEGO and made a game
out of it. Minecraft introduced gaming to an entire generation, while also in-
troducing so many staple aspects of games to the industry. The ability to craft
a plethora of items, explore the almost endless (randomly generated) map and
build complex architecture were all huge innovations that pushed the entire
industry to think differently about how they made games. It was also an indie
game – one that shifted the perspective on how wildly successful they could be.
Not only this, but the constant support both from Mojang, in the form of up-
dates, and from the fan base, in the form of mods, created a rich and ever grow-
ing game that had never been seen before and will likely not be seen in the same
Redefining Open World Adventures: The Legend of Zelda Breath of the
Wild
Despite being one of a long list of amazing Zelda games, Breath of the Wild is set
apart by its unique method of story-telling and its risky gameplay choices that
definitely payed off. Breath of the Wild is unlike other Zelda games, or games in
general, in that it lets you do whatever you want, whenever you want. If you were
so inclined (as many speed-runners are) you can go immediately from the start-
ing area straight to the final boss and beat the game. Of course, this is extremely
difficult, but the very fact that you have that option, and that the difficulty of the
game is self-imposed, makes for a brilliant game that no 2 people will play the
same. However, everyone who does play Breath of the Wild can still bond over the
beautiful story of the 4 heroes, the incredible scenery of a post-apocalyptic Hyrule
and the plethora of shrines that really get your brain working. Even the somewhat
questionable choices such as weapon durability can be praised for the way it makes
you adapt to every new situation, such that the game always feels fresh – whether
you’re 2 hours in or 200.
Honourable mentions: The Witcher 3 and Mass Effect 2 both also contributed to the
explosion of open-world games, and pushed the boundary in terms of immersion
and scale of video game worlds.
Genre-creator and Difficulty-definer: Dark Souls
Dark Souls is one of those games that does not come around often.
It basically created an entire genre (or at least popularised it… sorry
demon souls). Souls-like games are massive at the moment and it’s all
thanks to this gem. Putting aside the convention of modern games
– being too easy – Dark Souls was BRUTALLY difficult. It honestly did
require players to (sorry) Git Gud. Obviously, there is progression in the
game story wise, but the real progression of the game does not come
from your character becoming more powerful, but instead you, the
player, becoming more powerful. As you play through Dark Souls you
learn the ins and outs of the gameplay. Repetition is your best friends
as you familiarise yourself with various boss’patterns and finally get
that final blow. Even though the sequels are arguably better games, the
original must be appreciated for the impact it had on people, the games
industry and, of course, memes. Dark Souls is truly the Dark Souls of
Dark Souls games.
Honourable mentions: Super Meat Boy, Bloodborne, and Cuphead all
also contributed to reintroducing the concept of highly-challenging,
single-player games to the gaming sphere.
// Mojang
// Nintendo // From Software
way for a very long time. Minecraft is the biggest selling game ever, selling over
176 million copies worldwide. I would challenge you to find anybody that does
not know of the game, let alone played it… whether on phone, Xbox, Switch,
PC… the list goes on!
Honourable mentions: Rocket League, Hellblade: Senua’s Sacrifice, Undertale,
and Celeste all also had a massive impact on the indie scene and helped to rede-
fine what indie – and really, all – games could achieve, whether by breaking into
the esports scene, addressing mental health competently, reaching AAA-quality
high-fidelity graphics, or innovating gameplay mechanics.

