ISSUE 1737
FELIX
GAMES games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
65
Breaks it Down
Big $$$: Fortnite
Look, I’m sorry, I don’t like Fortnite either. But its impact on the gaming industry cannot
be understated. Firstly, it has popularised the Battle Royale genre leagues beyond what
PUBG ever did. Secondly, it (similarly to Minecraft) encapsulated an entire generation
to such an extent that simply uttering the word“Fortnite”will have 10 year olds flocking
around you like an army of angry seagulls. It was influential not just for having millions
of concurrent players, but also for the way it changed game monetisation. It popularised
the use of a‘Battle-pass’system, where the game is free, but to get all the cosmetics you
need to pay for a seasonal battle pass that can be levelled up, and as you level it up you
gain rewards. This gives a sense of progression present in normal games, whilst also con-
tinually raking in cash. This is not a great thing for anyone but its influence on the indus-
try is very noticeable, with games like Call of Duty, Destiny 2 and Apex Legends all using
a very similar monetisation technique.
Honourable mentions: EA’s Star Wars Battlefront, Candy Crush Saga, GTA V, and services
such as Humble Bundle or the Xbox Game Pass have all – for better or for worse – drasti-
cally impacted discussions around and methods of monetising games in the last decade.
Video Games as a Storytelling Medium: Portal 2
How could a game be better than one of my favourite games of the 2000s? Well, being
the sequel to one of my favourite games of the 2000s is a good start! Portal 2 exceeds in
all ways, not only as a puzzle game, or a platformer game, but also as a narrative mas-
terpiece. A key element of Portal 2’s narrative success is in its premise. With the help of
Wheatly, one of the funniest characters in gaming, you try to navigate yourself out of the
clutches of GLaDOS and out of Apeture laboratories. It is one of the most sharply written
games ever, which is not commonplace for puzzle platformers. It was so influential that
there are many, many games which take clear inspiration from Portal 2, so much so that
it could now even be seen as its own genre. Games such as The Talos Principle and The
Turing Test would not exist if it weren’t for Portal, and I think that that is truly amazing.
Even putting all of this aside the gameplay is so unique and addictive that I completed
the whole thing in one day, then again, the next day in multiplayer with my brother!
Unlike many other games, Portal 2 is such a unique gem in its genre that you really can’t
play anything else like it.
Honourable mentions: too many to count. Video game narratives and themes have so
wildly changed in scope, and prioritisation, in the last decade that it is impossible to
isolate just a few examples of exemplary writing. Personal favourites include The Talos
Principle, The Turing Test, The Last of Us, and Spec Ops: The Line.
Defining Esports, Video Games’‘Secondary Industry’: League of Legends
It is hard to understate how massive League of Legends is and has been for the past
decade, with player numbers and hours played maintaining industry-leading heights
for longer than most games are even remembered. It single-handedly turned the MOBA
genre into one of the most popular worldwide, and managed to appeal to players from
every continent in a way that most prior games had abjectly failed to do. It’s biggest
impact, however, has been in driving the explosion of esports as an industry – one that
has begun to emulate traditional sports leagues, with regulations, thousands of employ-
ees, high paychecks, franchising, and companies fighting for broadcast rights. None of
it would have been possible without the fever-pitch of excitement that organically grew
around League in its early years. League did not birth a genre, it birthed an industry.
Honourable mentions: Overwatch and DotA 2 also significantly contributed to the
current shape of the esports market, in popularising a franchising system and venture
capitalism investment, and in driving up prize pools respectively.
// Valve
// Epic Games
// Riot Games

