Imperial Awardees:
A Summary
N
ow that you’ve seen the past
70 years worth of noteworthy
awards, in recognition of our
aﬃliated Imperial scientists,
here’s a summary of our awardees & what
they achieved:
1956: Cyril Norman Hinshelwood;
Chemistry; for his research into the mechanism
of chemical reactions
1958: Klaus Roth; Mathematics; solved
the famous Thue-Siegel problem concerning
the approximation to algebraic numbers by
rational numbers and proved that a sequence
with no three numbers in arithmetic progres-
sion has zero density
1963: Andrew Huxley; Physiology/
Medicine; for his discovery concerning the
ionic mechanisms involved in excitation and in-
hibition in the peripheral and central portions
of the nerve cell membrane
1967: George Porter; Chemistry; for his
study of extremely fast chemical reactions
aﬀected by disturbing the equilibrium by
means of very short pulses of energy
1969: Derek Barton; Chemistry; for
his contribution to the development of the
concept of conformation and its application in
chemistry
1971: Dennis Gabor; Physics; for his
invention and development of the holographic
method
1972: Rodney Robert Porter; Physiolo-
gy/Medicine; for his discovery concerning the
chemical structure of antibodies
1973: GeoffreyWilkinson; Chemistry; for
his pioneering work on the chemistry of the or-
ganometallic, so called sandwich compounds
1979: Abdus Salam, Sheldon; Physics;
for his contributions to the theory of the
unified weak and electromagnetic interaction
between elementary particles, including, inter
alia, the prediction of the weak neutral current
1986: Simon Donaldson; Mathematics;
for his work on topology of four-manifolds,
especially for showing that there is a diﬀeren-
tial structure on euclidean four-space which is
diﬀerent from the usual structure
2014: Martin Hairer; Mathematics; for
his contributions to the theory of stochastic
partial diﬀerential equations, in particular for
the creation of a theory of regularity structures
for such equations
SCIENCE
Christine Parry & Julia Dabrowska
Science Writers
ISSUE 1737
FELIX
tecfelix@imperial.ac.uk
SCIENCE
1992: Edmond H. Fischer & Edwin G. Krebs;
Physiology/Medicine; for describing how reversible
phosphorylation works as a switch to activate proteins
and regulate various cellular processes 1993: Kary
Mullis; Chemistry; for his invention of the polymerase
chain reaction (PCR) technique
1994: Alfred G. Gilman & Martin Rodbell; Physi-
ology/Medicine; for their discovery of G-proteins and
the role of these proteins in signal transduction in cells
1995: Martin Lewis Perl; Physics; for his discovery
of the tau lepton
1996: Robert F. Curl Jr, Harry Kroto & Richard
Smalley; Chemistry; for the discovery of a new nano-
material form of carbon, buckminsterfullerene
1998: Richard Borcherds; Mathematics (Fields
Medal); for his work on the introduction of vertex
algebras, the proof of the Moonshine conjecture and
for his discovery of a new class of automorphic infinite
products.
1999: Gerard ‘t Hooft & Martinus J. G. Veltman;
Physics; for elucidating the quantum structure of elec-
troweak interactions
2000: Arvid Carlsson, Paul Greengard & Eric
Kandel; Physiology/Medicine; for their discoveries
concerning signal transduction in the nervous system,
in particular dopamine
2001: Eric Allin Cornell, Wolfgang Ketterle &
Carl Wieman; Physics; for synthesis of the first Bose–
Einstein condensate
2002: Laurent Laffourgue; Mathematics (Fields
medal); for his proof of the Langlands correspondence
for the full linear groups GLr (r≥1) over function fields.
2003: Paul Lauterbur & Peter Mansfield; Physiol-
ogy/Medicine; for their work which made magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) possible
2004: Aaron Ciechanover, Avram Hershko & Irwin
Rose; Chemistry; for the discovery of ubiquitin-mediat-
ed protein degradation
2005: John L. Hall & Theodor W. Hänsch; Physics;
for contributions to the development of laser-based
precision spectroscopy, including the optical frequency
comb technique
2006: Andrew Fire & Craig Mello; Physiology/
Medicine; for the discovery of RNA interference
(RNAi)
2007: Albert Fert & Peter Grünberg; Physics; for
their discovery of giant magnetoresistance, which
brought about a breakthrough in gigabyte hard disks
2008: Osamu Shimomura, Martin Chalfie & Roger
Y. Tsien; Chemistry; for the discovery and development
of green fluorescent protein (GFP)
2009: Elizabeth Blackburn & Carol W. Greider;
Physiology/Medicine; for the discovery of telomerase,
the enzyme that replenishes the telomere
2010: Robert G. Edwards; Physiology/Medicine;
for the development of in vitro fertilization
2011: Saul Perlmutter, Adam G. Riess & Brian
Schmidt; Physics; for providing evidence that the ex-
pansion of the universe is accelerating
2012: John B. Gurdon & Shinya Yamanaka; Physi-
ology/Medicine; for the discovery that mature cells can
be converted to stem cells, creating iPS cells
2013: James E. Rothman, Randy W. Schekman &
Thomas C. Südhof; Physiology/Medicine; for their
groundbreaking work on cell membrane vesicle traf-
ficking
2014: Martin Hairer; Mathematics (Fields
Medal); for his contributions to the theory
of stochastic partial differential equations,
in particular for the creation of a theory of
regularity structures for such equations
2015: Tomas Lindahl, Paul L. Modrich & Aziz
Sancar; Chemistry; for mechanistic studies of DNA
repair
2016: David J. Thouless, Duncan Haldane & John
M. Kosterlitz; Physics; for theoretical discoveries of
topological phase transitions and topological phases of
matter
2017: Jacques Dubochet, Joachim Frank & Richard
Henderson; Chemistry; for the development of sin-
gle-particle cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM)
2018: James P. Allison & Tasuku Honjo; Physiolo-
gy/Medicine; for their discovery of cancer therapy by
inhibition of negative immune regulation
2019: Michel Mayor & Didier Queloz; Physics; for
the discovery of an exoplanet orbiting a solar-type star
71
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk

