WELFARE
MONDAY, 9TH
DECEMBER, 2019 FELIX
88
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Meet your Liberation officers
LIBERATION
Freya Hepworth
Lloyd
LGBT+ Officer
icu-lgbt@imperial.ac.uk
I’m Freya, your LGBT+ Officer. I represent LBGT+ students in council and I
collaborate with the LGBT+ student and staff networks on campaigns and events. I
started off this year with an HIV awareness and fundraising campaign, which you
can read about on the next page. This year my big campaign is to introduce trans
healthcare training to our medical school curriculum. I believe it is vital that all
doctors should be able to deliver the best care to the trans community. At the moment
we are failing our trans patients due to lack of understanding and knowledge on
care pathways, hormone therapy and communication skills. I hope to introduce this
training later this academic year together with the Inclusivity in the Learning and
Teaching Strategy team. Lastly, I’m currently working on events and campaigns for
LGBT+ History Month in February. Feel free to contact me by email about any
LGBT+ related issues at Imperial and I’ll do what I can to resolve them.
Hi, I’m Hilliam, the current ICU Disabilities Officer! I represent students with
disabilities across campus, and their views on the Disability Advisory Service and
College support, alongside holding and assisting with inclusive events to bring
awareness of success past disability. You may have seen me tending to the Faces of
Engineering event with the CGCU of which we’ve brought in diverse speakers from
companies such as Bloomberg, Cisco, Qualcomm and American Express, which I
hope everyone enjoyed! I’ve also been assisting with the marketing of the Disability
History Month events going on right now up until the 22nd. Having been catching
on top of previous Union Council and faculty decisions related to accessibility for
students with disabilities, I’m driven towards reviewing these policies and liaising
with the Disability Advisory Service and Able@Imperial to see how students can
better access these networks and services this year.
I’m Debbie, a 2nd year Bioengineering student and your B&ME Officer! I repre-
sent those who identify as an ethnic minority- if you don’t see enough people who
look like you on campus (both students and faculty) I represent you! There’s an
attitude that talking about race is irrelevant- I’m focusing on transparency between
the College and the students to change this mindset. I’m hoping to implement some
things this year: learning about Imperial’s history and meanings behind building
names; events celebrating other cultures (through the art of entertainment & gastron-
omy); a safe space for students to discuss with peers and the College; alleviate the
strain on Mental Health Service with alternative services catered to BAME students.
My name is Vinzenz Freigassner and I study mechanical engineering in my second
year and am originally from Austria. As Gender Equality Officer I want to reinforce
the values that students and academics should carry regarding gender equality.
Women have gone a far way to reach the current state, however, now is not the time
to rely on the past progress but to continue to worry about how men and women can
both live in an equal world with equal opportunities for everyone. During the spring
term International Women’s day will be celebrated so watch out for any information
on that! Being part of the liberation and community officers means that I have a
very supportive network even outside Gender equality. I am open to talk to anyone
wanting to raise issues about gender inequality at Imperial or elsewhere. I am also
happy for you to share your opinion on gender equality.
LIBERATION
Hilliam Tung
Disabilities Officer
icu-disabilities@imperial.
ac.uk
LIBERATION
Debbie Adegoke
BME Officer
icu-bme@imperial.ac.uk
LIBERATION
Vinzenz Freigassner
Disabilities Officer
icu-gender-equality@impe-
rial.ac.uk

