ISSUE 1737
FELIX
89
WELFARE felix@imperial.ac.uk
Meet your Community officers
COMMUNITY
Amr Alwishah
International Officer
international.students@
imperial.ac.uk
COMMUNITY
Amna Ahmed
Interfaith Officer
icu-interfaith@imperial.
ac.uk
COMMUNITY
Ambika Bharadwaj
Mental Health Officer
icu-mentalhealth@imperial.
ac.uk
COMMUNITY
Francesca Siracusa
Environmental Officer
icu-environmental@imperi-
al.ac.uk
I was born in Amman, Jordan where I lived for my whole life before moving to
Egypt for a couple of years in 2009. I then returned to Jordan to complete my IB
Diploma and then came to Cardiff University on a scholarship for my Undergrad.
In my final year at Cardiff, I was elected as Vice President Welfare and Campaigns
so spent another year in Cardiff to represent and advocate for over 32,000 students.
I’m now at Imperial to complete my Master’s in Sustainable energy Futures and
represent all international students at Imperial College – over half the student body.
This year I want to: expand the introduction of the post-study work visa to include
those of us graduating in the year 2020 and beyond; fight for the rights of EU
students post Brexit; create a more connected international community and promote
more cross-cultural events; increase support for international students and hold the
College to account e.g. more transparency in tuition fees.
As Interfaith Officer, I’m passionate about creating an environment at Imperial
in which people of faith feel welcome. With over 125 countries represented at the
College, it is difficult to conceive the number of faiths practised by students and even
more difficult to imagine Imperial without these differences. Our various STEM dis-
ciplines constantly require us to learn from each other to facilitate effective discourse
and, yet, this principle is rarely applied to other aspects of our lives. I’m sure that if
we spent just as long trying to see things from other people’s points of view in our
spiritual lives we’d all be much better off! I hope to spend the coming year serving
as both a representative of your individual faith needs and as a bridge linking faith
groups to each other. Please don’t hesitate to reach out via email or in person if you
see me on campus and sign up to the InterfWaith Network on the Union!
The idea behind my campaign was a simple one. With hard work & passion,
a group of people can bring positive change. I have been working along a team
of very enthusiastic & supportive people and have mainly focused on improving
mental health awareness for this term. My immediate plans for 2020 are: to increase
the involvement of Clubs & Societies in mental health related activities; indoor &
Outdoor activities targeting mental health awareness; get necessary information
(like well-being advisor’s details, counselling details, etc.) on the Imperial College
App; start a social media page to set up communication & increase transparency.
Democracy is insane, and sometimes ideas end up being just a .doc, but I promise
that slowly & steadily, I will deliver on everything I promised, and to quote the very
famous musical, “There’s a million things I haven’t done, but just you wait”.
Hi everyone! My name is Francesca Siracusa and I am your Ethics & Environment
Officer, as well as a year 5 medical student. I represent the student body on environ-
mental and sustainability matters here at Imperial. I work closely with CSPs such
as the Environmental Society and Divest Imperial as well as staff-led groups like
Greening Imperial and Imperial Against Climate Change. My main aims this year
are to: improve communication between the students/staff and the College on envi-
ronment and sustainability matters; increase student engagement in environmental
issues through events and campaigns - e.g. Climate Assembly, Greening Imperial
Week; work with Campus Services and the Union to improve sustainability of food
outlets and reduce waste; represent the student body in the College’s new Socially
Responsible Investment Policy working group… and more! Follow me on my social
networks to keep up to date, have your voice heard, and get involved!

