Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB. Tel 020 7594 8072.
Fax 020 7594 8065. Printed by The Northcliffe Press, Northcliffe House,
Meadow Road, Derby DE1 2DW. No 1,357, Thursday 28 September 2006.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711. Copyright © Felix 2006.
Editor-in-chief Andy Sykes | Managing Editor Alex
Antonov | Science Editor Krystyna Larkham | Politics
Editor Matthew Hartfield | Business Editor Michael
Olymbios | Music Editors Matthew Hoban, Jenny
Gibson, Tom Whitson | Film Editor Angela Lee | Arts
Editor Emily Lines | Food & Drink Editor Hannah
Theodorou | Fashion Editor Dolly Delaney | Nightlife
Editor Gregory Mead | Comment Editor Stephen
Brown | Coffee Break Editor Alex Cameron-Smith
| TV Editor Tomo Roberts | Environment Editor
João Vitor Serra | Clubs & Societies Editor Kirsty
Patterson | Copy Editor Andy Mason
felix
Wielding the
mighty organ
F
irst things first: while I was a-wandering
the streets of South Kensington on Sat-
urday night after a long day in the office
fiddling with my mighty organ’s design
with my very capable Managing Editor,
Alex Antonov, I was stopped by three
beautiful young ladies wearing rather
stunning dresses. “Lo, young travel-
ler”, they shouted unto me, “tarry a while and talk to
us.” Not wishing to seem impolite, I engaged in some
hearty banter with them; they’d been to a wedding ear-
lier, you see, and the shame of being 23 and unmarried
had forced them to imbibe a significant proportion of
their body weight in alcohol. They wanted directions to
a local late-night drinking establishment that I have fre-
quented with disastrous consequences, and I was happy
to show them the way. They were called Peta (no, I didn’t
get it either), Philippa, and the beautiful young lady to
their right, I could not remember her name; the only fact
that sticks in my memory was that she was a secondary
school teacher of mathematics. Anyway, they invited me
to drink with them in said establishment, and I declined,
as your editor was rather fatigued from a long night of
staring at screens. In return for wussing out, I promised
to mention them within the pages of this very newspa-
per. Consider yourself mentioned, my dear troika (look
it up), and should you be in the Union bar in the near fu-
ture, I will be happy to consume a beverage or two with
you.
And so I lead on to more serious things. If you were
one of the nearly one thousand that voted for me, I thank
you. If not, well, you had your reasons. I’ve worked for
Felix since pretty much the day I arrived at the College,
naïve, optimistic, and with zero alcohol tolerance. I’ve
studied under such legendary editors as Will Dugdale,
Alex Coby, and Dave Edwards, and consider myself one
of the last of the old guard of Felix, having cut my teeth
on the rather hellish music section and lengthy “editorial
meetings” (read: bar nights). I’ve inherited a Felix that
has been thoroughly disliked by staff and students alike,
and one that has descended into petty name-calling and
poor quality tabloid journalism. I’ve seen more strife
within the Felix staff in the last year than I have seen in
the previous four editors’ terms. I’ve seen what I saw as
the spirit of Felix get lost somewhere in the accusations
and recrimination. Felix has a long and proud tradition;
where we’ve held the College and Union to account in
the past, we’ve done so with reason and balance. Our
tone never used to be admonishing, but rather, a won-
derful blend of irreverence and asshattery. I’ve wanted
to hold this position all my College life, and I hope you
enjoy my tenure. If not, well, I’ll wreck up the place. I
know where you live.
Andy Sykes
Editor-in-chief
L
ife is strange. In my final col-
umn as Sports Editor last year
I was rather rude about some
of the contributors to these
hallowed pages and now I am
charged with the responsibility of edit-
ing Felix’s comment section. Do I regret
my intemperate words? Not a jot, is the
answer.
Some of the content in Felix last year
was absolutely lamentable. Considering
we are allegedly a world-class academic
institution the standard of writing in Fe-
lix left a lot to be desired. Instead of ob-
jective, balanced journalism our column
inches were littered with sensationalist
Your newspaper needs you!
Stephen Brown
Comment Editor
junk, paranoid grievance-mongering
and terribly dogmatic pieces written by
single-issue fanatics.
Several of my acquaintances agree
with this rather uncharitable view of
our publication last year. Where I would
disagree with them was when they
blamed our Editor for all of the faults.
If some of the people last year put the
same energy into writing news stories
or columns as they did into bitching
about Rupert, then Felix would have
been a whole lot better.
I recall several occasions last year
where I got rather animated when I had
been sent sports reports that read like
they had been put together by a partic-
ularly inarticulate eight year old. The
sad thing was that more often than not
they had been submitted by students
who would claim that English (or some
bastardised version of it) was their first
language. At the end of the day editors
only edit. Perhaps we could have been
a bit more proactive in recruiting more
writers but it is rather unfair to try and
blame poor content on one individual.
It is on this note that I urge you all
to get writing. Imperial is unique in
that it dosen’t run any courses which
traditionally dominate campus media.
We should see this as an opportunity
for us scientists to present our inher-
ently superior view of the world. I’m
sure I’m not the only one round these
parts who tires of the same formulaic
articles that keep appearing in the na-
tional press. I believe scientists would
make better, more objective writers by
the nature of the topics we study. We
don’t get away with pretentiously fluff-
ing out essays with obscure literary and
philosophical quotes to mask the fact
that we don’t know very much about a
given topic. Our ability to call a spade a
fucking shovel should make us perfect
for reporting the world around us. Why
on earth is the media and politics domi-
ated by the arts? Perhaps it’s just be-
cause scientists are too clever to bother
with either.
In order for us to present a more di-
verse set of opinions we need your help.
I’ve met several people at Imperial who
would make excellent writers. It would
be nice if some more of you could com-
mit your thoughts to print for us. There
are not many benefits about writing for
Felix. It’s a thankless task and you only
really hear from people when you’ve
offended someone, but I still would
recommend it. On the upside, the bar
nights are quite good fun, so please get
writing!
The Land of the Free
Until this week, I had a very low opinion
of Americans. Having never been there
before now, my only real experience of
them was in the news, in works of fiction
or simply through received wisdom. The
upshot of this was that I had an image
of Americans as self-centred, unfriend-
ly and stupid, and yet this is entirely at
odds with how I have found them to be
in my recent experience.
In fact, even before visit-
ing, I had met a great many
pleasant, friendly Americans
– the occasional tourist or
expat – in Britain. Yet many
of these were keen to further
propogate a negative view
of their fellow countrymen
– decrying the extremist lean-
ings of many, or taking a dig
at the insular mindset of the
eighty-odd percent who have
never owned a passport. Be-
ing a trusting chap, I took
their word for it on the basis
that they should know, of all
people. But I did not consider
that, since they had chosen to
leave the country, for however
long, they might be somewhat
biased. After all, it would be
unwise to base an assessment
of the British character on ex-
pats in the Spanish Riviera, so
why should America be any
different?
In the few days I have spent in Ameri-
ca, everyone I have met has been polite,
friendly and a good conversationalist.
Even at customs, where I had expected
even a low level of intolerance given
the events of recent years, there was a
noticeable lack of the officious air that
constant tales of high-handed officials
would suggest. Of course, I do not for
one moment assume that the whole
country is like this by any means, but
in all my travels around Britain I have
never experienced an atmosphere
where bus-drivers will give impromptu
commentaries of places of interest, fel-
low passengers on the train will strike
up a conversation upon overhearing
your own, and so on. Despite all my
northern friends’ claims, that sort of
thing just does not happen even in their
neck of the woods. However, I have
been told that despite any good experi-
ences I might have had of America, if
ever I went to New York I would find
them to be every bit as unpleasant as
I had been led to believe. And yet the
descriptions I hear of the iniquities of
New York are identical to those that I
hear levelled at London and know to be
untrue here and am frankly no longer
prepared to believe it about there ei-
ther, no matter how many films seem
to back it up, or how often the news
suggests it – once again, if my outlook
of Britain were based on nothing more
than that, it would appear all but unin-
habitable, since news and drama only
exist where there is conflict of a sort.
All of this is obvious. Yet I have been
wilfully ignorant of it, since it confirms
my prejudices regarding Americans to
do so and there is something deeply
comforting in that. And I know
I am certainly not alone in this
– almost everyone I know has an
unflattering outlook on America
and of Americans, even amongst
the most liberal-minded of them
– those who would otherwise
flinch at the prospect of being in
any way discriminatory.
There seems to be a sense
that you are not actually being
racist if you are only being rac-
ist about Americans – that they
are a powerful enough nation
that a bit of slander here and there will
do them no harm (after all, they have
repeatedly made it clear that they are
more than than capable of looking after
themselves). Or perhaps it is simply
a protracted sulk over their latterday
success since kicking the British out.
Either way, it is a deeply unsettling and
misanthropic notion, but no-one seems
to think twice about it. But they are, af-
ter all, only Americans – so who cares?
“Everyone I
know has an
unflattering
outlook on
America”
Does our scorn for Americans have any basis in reality? After a brief
visit to the new continent Hugh Stickley-Mansfield is not convinced
Got anything you would like to
share with our readers? Please send
all contributions to comment.felix@
imperial.ac.uk
10
felix
Thursday 28 September 2006
COMMENT & OPINION comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk

