The Health Centre welcomes you
to Imperial College!
Registering
It is important you register with an NHS General Practitioner as soon as possible.
The Imperial College Health Centre is situated in the temporary building oppo-
site Weeks Hall. You can obtain registration forms from our reception team at the
Health Centre if you have not received them on arrival in hall. All Imperial College
Students are eligible to use our services during the working day. However, only
those living within our NHS registration area may register with us under the NHS.
Please ask our reception staff for advice on NHS registration.
Chronic health problems
If you have any chronic health problems (such as diabetes or asthma) or take regu-
lar medication (but not the contraceptive pill) please come and have brief medical
with one of the doctors to discuss your health needs and arrange for your medica-
tion to be continued.
Vaccination
We also strongly recommend that you are vaccinated against meningococcal infec-
tion (meningitis) and mumps. Both illnesses, although rare, occur more commonly
amongst university students and are both serious. Meningococcal meningitis
can kill and mumps can damage fertility. If you have not been immunised against
these, it is very important that you attend the Health Centre as soon as possible.
Existing patients
If you are an existing patient of the Health Centre and you have changed address
over the summer, please email your new details to us, stating you name, date of
birth, full new address and your contact telephone numbers. It is important you
keep us up to date with your new addresses. The NHS may remove you from our
list of patients if we cannot provide them with a current address. Our email ad-
dress is: healthcentre@imperial.ac.uk
Booking online
We now offer an online appointment booking program called EMIS Access. With
our new service, gone are the days of not being able to get through to us via tel-
ephone. You don’t need the practice to be open to make an appointment. You can
do it on-line; it also enables you to update your contact details, such as new ad-
dress, telephone numbers. For further details please email us at healthcentre@
imperial.ac.uk and quote “EMIS Access”.
You can find out more about
all the services we provide by
visiting our website at
www.imperialcollegehealthcentre.co.uk

