3
felix
Thursday 28 September 2006
NEWS news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Union Governance Review
The new Union President, John Collins, has prepared a
100-page report on changing the way the Union is run
The new Union President, John
Collins, has used the Summer pe-
riod to launch the Union’s largest-
ever governance review, involving
current and former Sabbatical Of-
ficers, other officers of the Union
and alumni.
The proposals include some ma-
jor changes to the way the Union is
run, along with some more minor
amendments. First and foremost
in Mr Collin’s Governance Review,
which totals more than one hun-
dred pages, is the introduction of a
“Union Court”. The Court’s role is
to ensure that the Union Constitu-
tion is obeyed by Exec, the Presi-
dent and Council, to investigate
election disputes, and to act as an
ultimate authority for media com-
plaints. In the past, election com-
plaints have been investigated by
Council, which can lead to political
voting on candidates. Who would sit
on the Court is still being debated,
though initial proposals suggested
ex-Union Officers and alumni with
a suitably ‘hacky’ interest in the
Union; no currently serving officers
would be eligible to stand.
Council is also on the President’s
hitlist, with the stated aim of mak-
ing it more of a “Representatives’
Assembly”. This includes the re-
moval of all non Executive “manag-
ers”; namely the Clubs & Societies
Chairs, the RAG, CAG, Welfare and
Equal Opportunities officers. These
seats will be replaced with Ordinary
Members elected from the student
population. Though some ques-
tions have been raised concerning
the make-up of Ordinary Members,
with the possibility of hacks stack-
ing in Council, in the past the Ordi-
nary Members have come mostly
from members of clubs and socie-
ties, ensuring that the clubs will
retain significant representative
power in Council.
The Student Activities Commit-
tee (SAC) will be broken into two
halves: the first half, the Clubs
Activities Board (CAB), would be
responsible for running the ‘club
stuff’ of the SAC, and be attended
by CSCs and Faculty Union officers;
the second half, the Representation
and Welfare Board (RWB), would
take up the SAC’s welfare role. The
aim is to move the “management”
officers from Council to what the
review refers to as “doing commit-
tees”. Some are unhappy with this
arrangement, suggesting that this
will shift the balance of power sig-
nificantly to welfare as opposed to
clubs and societies. With around
80% of Imperial students participat-
ing in clubs and societies, they are
often the most visible and impor-
tant aspect of the Union’s services
to its members. The worry is that
the SAC’s budget will be divided
amongst the CAB and the RWB,
with more money being allocated
to welfare than in previous years,
resulting in more cuts to the clubs
budget. Mr Collins has assured this
reporter that “there will be no cuts
to clubs” should the proposals to
break up the SAC be accepted at
Council.
Among the more controversial
suggestions are a battery of meas-
ures to ensure the accountability of
the Sabbaticals to the student body.
These suggestions are no doubt
prompted by the farcical behaviour
of the Union Officers and Felix to-
wards the previous incumbent of
the Deputy President (Graduate
Services) post, Luis Hui, after he
went on record stating that “there
are no welfare issues facing post-
graduates”. The issue of remov-
ing two-year Sabbaticals has been
raised yet again, though the it will
likely be debated at Council early
this year.
The initial, “phase one” propos-
als, including the formation of the
Court and the SAC break-up, will be
presented before Council as indi-
vidual packages, and the consensu-
al recommendations presented as
a package. The changes to Council
will not be debated until next year.
Wye development halted
Work on Imperial College’s planned
development of a Science Park at
Wye has been halted, according to
a statement made by the Deputy
Rector, Sir Leszek Borysiewicz, on
September 15th.
The statement says that Sir
Leszek would be recommending
that the College does not continue
any further investigation into “de-
livering a world-class research
centre, science hub and associated
housing” at the Wye Campus.
The story has been followed close-
ly by the protest website save-wye.
org. The site was founded by two
residents of Wye: David Hewson, a
journalist who has worked for The
Times, The Independent, and the
Sunday Telegraph, and Justin Wil-
liams, the assistant editor at the
Sunday Telegraph. Their statement
was slightly less restrained than Sir
Leszek’s:
“Wye Park is dead, our job is
done” read their front page.
The statement gave the reason
for abandoning the development,
which would have provided more
than 12,500 jobs to the local area, as
none of the scenarios for the cam-
pus presenting a “wise, viable or de-
Safer Neighbourhood Team
to be sited at the College
Imperial College is to house the
Safer Neighbourhood Team for the
local election ward in the basement
of the Sherfield Building.
The Safer Neighbourhood Teams
are part of a countrywide initiative
to provide community-level polic-
ing, with the teams consisting of six
officers and community service of-
ficers. They provide a visible police
presence in a local area, and allow
local people to talk to the Team to
let them know the day-to-day issues
that are bothering them.
The officers will man the office in
College some of the day, and will be
walking a beat between the College
and up to Belgravia and the sur-
rounding area. Neil Denney, one of
the officers, stressed that the Team
are not there to police students, and
that there will be no stopping and
searching of students on campus.
Having a close feedback with police
will aid College Security in mat-
ters such as bike theft from around
campus. You can contact them at
police@imperial.ac.uk. The Team
are also helping co-ordinate extra
security for freshers arriving over
the weekend. Terry Branch, Chief
Security Officer, said: “our aim is
zero early thefts from around halls
of residences”. They plan to run
regular ‘surgeries’ where students
can talk to the officers about any
crime issues, as well as pick up
crime prevention leaflets.
Left to right: PC John Roberts, Tony Beckett (Civic Watch), PCSO
Sarah Levitt, PCSO Martin Robson, Naomi Simpson (Civic Watch),
Sgt Gary Herrett, Terry Branch (IC Security), Leroy Adedji (Civic
Watch), PC Neil Denney, Tony Mwaitenda (IC Security)
Union building project
faces several setbacks
sirable investment of public funds
for Imperial College and Wye”.
In July, BP began running ad-
verts in a number of publications
that said that they were planning
to build a £500m biofuels research
institute in partnership with a uni-
versity, with Imperial College be-
ing one of those approached by the
fuel giant. This cast a shadow over
the continued development of Wye
Park; should BP choose to build
their institute in partnership with a
British University, it would be very
difficult to convince the govern-
ment that another major biofuels
research centre would be required.
Save-wye reported that Imperial
College was on BP’s shortlist.
When suggestions about BP fund-
ing part of the Wye project were
floated at a meeting of Wye elected
representatives, Sir Leszek re-
ferred to BP as requiring to start
the project by early 2007, far too
early for Wye Park’s planning stage
to be complete. They also reported
that the project was in “deep freeze”
back in July, with contractors being
pulled off the site, which was denied
by the College at the time.
Sir Leszek thanked to the Wye
residents, the Parish Council, and
elected representatives in his state-
ment, saying that he had “appreci-
ated the responses that have been
received”.
The future of Wye Campus as part
of Imperial College is solid for the
foreseeable future. Sir Leszek said
that the College would continue to
strongly support the courses being
taught at Wye, especially the suc-
cessful Business course, and rene-
gotiate the Campus’ status with the
University of Kent in 2011 as stated
in 2005.
The Rector, Sir Richard Sykes, at the signing of the Wye Concordat
The Union redevelopment project
has hit a number of setbacks over
the summer vacation; though da
Vinci’s will be complete for Fresh-
ers’ Fair, providing somewhere for
freshers to drink, there are doubts
over whether food can be served
from the kitchens.
While excavating a large hole
in the central core of the building
for the new lift, contractors found
asbestos. Specialist workers were
called in to deal with the asbestos,
and air tests were performed that
confirmed the absence of airborne
asbestos.
The age of the building has been
providing other challenges to the
project. The main two floors of the
building were built in 1910, and as
such, no plans exist showing the lo-
cation of water pipes and electrical
cabling. Workers managed to dig
into a large water pipe, flooding the
core, and there was a power cut to
the building when another excava-
tion cut power cables.
As there has been a large excava-
tion in the kitchen area of the build-
ing which has not yet been filled it,
it is doubtful the Union will be able
to serve food for the first week.
Concerns have been raised over
the stones artfully placed outside
the new glass doors to da Vinci’s.
As they are not cemented in, they
provide ready window-breaking or
Security-hitting ammunition should
inbriated students become infuri-
ated with the Union.
The core of the Union building, showing the lift excavation

