Students suspected
in terror scare
Does “ethnic profiling” help catch terrorists?
On the evening of August 9 this year
counter-terrorist officers arrested
24 people amid accusations of an
al-Qaida plot to blow up 10 planes
heading for the US. Although it
appeared that all of the suspected
terrorists were safely behind bars,
airport security was still massively
increased as an extra precaution.
Items such as bottled drinks, mois-
turiser and baby food were confis-
cated; even those purchased in the
airport duty-free shops were seen
as a possible new kind of weapon
of mass destruction. Only essential
items of hand luggage were allowed
on long-haul flights. People’s fears,
however, were fuelled by the threat
of “mass murder on an unimagi-
nable scale”. They were told they
might have been blown out of the
sky.
Chaos at the check-in desk, espe-
cially at Heathrow, led to the deploy-
ment of an “ethnic profiling” sys-
tem, a time-saving method in which
only the passengers that looked
most like potential terrorists were
subjected to the most thorough se-
curity checks. Young Asian males
were on the top of the list of poten-
tial targets for scrutiny; they are
seen as statistically more likely to
The attempted terrorist attack this summer has lead to the
introduction of ‘people-profiling’ to catch suspected terrorists
In depth: Gordon Brown at conference
Over the past week Manchester has
played host to the Labour party con-
ference, the traditional warm-up for
political parties before the main po-
litical season. Before it started we
had already been told that this con-
ference would be the last one under
Tony Blair’s premiership. All eyes
are on his right-hand man, Gordon
Social Democrat or Democratic Socialist? Not much difference now
Camilla Royle become suicide bombers based on
the evidence of the five years since
9/11. Even Claude Moraes, Labour
MEP for London, was stopped and
searched twice over the summer.
The profiling scheme was criticised
by Chief Superintendent Ali Dizael,
saying that it created a new offence
of “travelling while Asian”. He ob-
jected to the scheme, saying that
it was not only unfair to innocent
Asians and Muslims but also that
the scheme “does not work or can
be counter-productive”, detract-
ing the focus away from real ter-
rorists that don’t fit the profile and
making those that do the target for
racist abuse. The case was quietly
dropped after the arrested people
were cleared of charges. None of
them had booked flights and some
did not even have passports.
Since the scare, a number of in-
dividuals have been treated as sus-
pect. In Malaga two Pakistani stu-
dents were removed from a plane
on a flight to Manchester where
they both study at Manchester Uni-
versity. The men alerted the suspi-
cions of other passengers by speak-
ing what one person assumed was
Arabic and keeping themselves
covered up so that they stood out in
a crowd of holiday-makers in shorts
and T-shirts. The same instincts
that alerted people to the presence
of suicide bomber Hasib Hussain
fiddling with his rucksack on a bus
on July 7 last year caused the stu-
dents to be taken away. They were
held back for security checks as
the plane left without them. How-
ever, this time, when those instincts
were acted on, they proved to be
false. Another flight from Gatwick
to Hurghada in Egypt ended with
an emergency landing in Italy after
a passenger said that he had found
a note in his seat pocket saying that
there was a bomb on the plane.
Ethnic profiling overtly associates
terrorism in the 21st century with
some religious groups more than
others and applies different rules
to different people. It therefore em-
phasises perceived differences be-
tween cultures in the same way as
the pope’s recent comments about
Islam have been seen as a sincere
attempt to break the bridges built
by his predecessor, John Paul II, by
some Vatican commentators.
Whether justified or not, Islamo-
phobia could become just as much
a part of flying as claustrophobia
and aviatophobia. Acts of terrorism
are intended to influence and cause
distress within a society rather
than merely kill civilians. It seems
that in this case that goal has been
achieved even if no real terrorists
were ever involved.
Brown, the man tipped to succeed
Blair for the leadership. Gordon
gave his keynote speech on Monday
regarding the state of the economy,
but it also revealed what some of
Gordon Brown’s key policies would
be if he became leader.
His main direction became crys-
tal-clearearlyoninthespeech,how-
ever, when he praised Tony Blair for
running a party for “all of society”.
The “all” in this case, however, is
not the working-class it tradition-
ally supports, but, as Gordon put it,
“We can’t just be pro Labour, we’ve
got to be pro business too”. This is
a worrying precedent, considering
he’s following a leader who claims
to be the leader of the party of the
people, yet who invited Thatcher
around to Number 10 for policy dis-
cussion. Recently we have seen the
proposed selling off of NHS logis-
tics to private companies and the
creation of ‘Trust Schools’ where
an outside organisation, including
companies, can dictate what ethos
the school takes. It seems that with
all these plans to be ‘pro-business’
he’s putting the rest of society at
risk; a lot of people are still angry at
the failure of rail privatisation and
such a continuation of this ethic
can have disastrous consequences,
despite Gordon’s reassurances that
he wants to end “a Britain of ‘no
such thing as society’”, reversing
Thatcher’s famous comments.
Gordon Brown actively wants
to follow the line set by Tony Blair
on the world-famous “War on Ter-
ror”, supporting identity cards and
an extension of 28 days detention
for terrorist suspects ‘if evidence
shows it necessary’. Both policies
were widely criticised for being
heavy-handed and counterproduc-
tive. He also supported the ‘glo-
bal-cooperation’ in the war against
terrorism and called for a stop in
‘anti-Americanism’, showing a con-
tinuing willingness to toe America’s
line on global policy.
Further into his speech, Gordon
Brown did give ideas of how to im-
prove social security and build on
what can be seen as some of La-
bour’s main achievements during
its tenure. Gordon championed the
immediateincreaseoftheminimum
wage and the legislation of ‘corpo-
rate manslaughter’ where compa-
nies can be liable if poor regulations
cause the death of their workers.
The latter piece of legislation has
been discussed for ages but has yet
to be created, so any serious laws
formed under Gordon Brown would
be widely received; this is one of his
main challenges he should attempt
to overcome. There are also calls
to “champion youth councils and
youth budgets”, where young peo-
ple get a major say in how money
is spent on them in their local area.
Those who think that this is a move
away from issuing ASBO’s should
think again, as there is a rally to “be
tough” on youth crime.
Education has been one of Gordon
Brown’s more controversial areas,
with the introduction of tuition fees
(and then top-up fees) to cover the
costs of increased higher education
intake. Although Gordon aims to
increase government spending on
state schools (from £5.5K per pu-
pil to £8K, to match “today’s level
for private school pupils”), which
is more than welcome if it goes
ahead, he also has a vision of ensur-
ing that everyone is educated up to
the age of 18 (whether “part-time
or “full-time”). Along with touting
Alan Johnson’s proposal to “give
vocational qualifications parity of
esteem with academic qualifica-
tions”, he runs the risk of stretch-
ing the educational system for fur-
ther education and denying money
to where it is needed most; which
was one of the contributing factors
to the introduction to tuition fees.
On a global scale Gordon Brown
introduces some progressive plans
with the outcome of making Brit-
ain a leading force in international
relations. The UN must “urgently”
act on Darfur (again, action which
is long overdue) and asks for fur-
ther international cooperation
when it comes to combating cli-
mate change. However, he warns,
this should not lead to “environ-
mental colonialism” where richer
countries dominate poorer coun-
terparts by providing all the relvent
infrastructure. Instead he proposes
that the World Bank set up a $20
billion fund for poorer countries,
to encourage their own societies to
combat climate change.
Gordon Brown’s speech to the
Labour conference highlights his
plans to increase global and social
security; whilst these are an impor-
tant and major step forward which
improve on Labour successes, the
fact that being keen on pushing
forward with controversial (and un-
welcome) policies such as continu-
ing the current line on the war on
terror (which isn’t helped by keep-
ing quiet on Trident in this speech)
runs the risk of losing the next
election, especially in the face of
a Conservative resurgance under
David Cameron. The main ques-
tion for Gordon Brown now is will
he listen to those who opposed the
Iraq war and private finance initia-
tives? Otherwise he’ll find out that
his new reign will be a very short
one indeed.
Matthew Hartfield
Politics Editor
4
felix
Thursday 28 September 2006
POLITICS politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk

