ssoaaipnqL^
UNIVERSITY C H A L L E N G E
Which partnership
was selected to advise
on the flotations of
British Gas, the British
Airports Authority
and Rolls Royce?
Correct. The answer is Touche Ross.
As one of the fastest growing of The Big
Eight' firms with 23 offices covering the UK and
over 450 offices in 90 countries world-wide, our
advice is sought for a very wide variety of
projects, including some of the biggest
flotations ever.
One of the reasons for our success is that
we believe in recruiting graduates of the
highest calibre. And, having recruited them, we
encourage them to exercise their skills to the
full. Next year, we would like to attract even
more.
Ifyou're one of them, you will start with the
benefit of our training programme. This is
carefully structured to achieve the maximum
result in the minimum time; to make sure you
know all you need to know but no more - we
won't clutter your mind with useless
information. The programme is geared as much
to management as it is to accountancy
because, unless you understand the former,
you'll never be outstanding at the latter.
You'll quickly find yourself working with a
very broad range of businesses, covering most
industries and ranging from international
corporations to start-ups. And, once your
training is complete, you'll have the opportunity
to develop your career as fast as we're
developing our business: the road to a
partnership could be shorter than you think.
For further details on becoming an
accountant with Touche Ross, just fill in the
coupon.
' To: James Phillips, Touche Ross, Hill House,
1 Little New Street, London EC4A 3TR.
Telephone: 01 353 8011.
Please send me further details on becoming
an accountant with Touche Ross.
Name_ _Faculty_
University_ _/VJdress_
& ToucheRoss
CHRISTMAS VACATION COURSES
FROM ICI
FOR CONTROL AND ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL ENGINEERS,
MATHEMATICIANS, PHYSICISTS
This is a chance for you to discover
the wide range of Engineering
opportunities typically available
within a large industrial
organisation.
Come and see us either at the Careers
Fair from 10am-4pm, or at an evening
presentation - 6pm on 27th October
at the Read Lecture Theatre, 5th Floor,
Sherfield Building. (Buffet provided).
—
CONTROL & ELECTRICAL ~ MECHANICAL

