Ik
Genesis
The opinion article on genesis, life,
the universe and everything in last
week's F E L I X would have been more
interesting if its facts were accurate.
The opinions expressed on the
relationship between religion and
science are commonly held, but are,
nevertheless, based on erroneous
information.
A sort of anti-religious mythology
has been built up among scientists.
This was started by T H Huxley (as
in Huxley Building) who, i n his
memoirs, gave an account of his
famous debate with the then Bishop
of Oxford. The Bishop opposed the
truth o f Darwin's idea and lost.
Huxley was the only person to record
his memories of the debate, and, in
the manner of autobiographies written
years after the event, vastly
exaggerated his side of the story. He
made the Bishop out to be a villain
of unreason, while he, of course, was
a knight in shining armour fighting
only for the truth. In reality evolution,
in one form or another, had been a
popular idea for years (the Greeks
thought it up, but the Victorians liked
it because it gave credence to the idea
that the world was slowly getting
better). Darwin was just the first
person to attempt to give it scientific
credence. His theory, however, had
big holes in it and some people were
bound to question it on scientific
grounds alone. The conflict is not
between irrational religion and
rational science, but between
individuals who disagree about the
interpretation of the evidence.
The supposed suppression o f
evolution in the U S A has also
attracted its own obscuring mass of
mythology. The Tennessee anti-
evolution law was only passed, in the
first place, because of a serious
political cock-up. The State assembly
only voted for it to please the voters,
in the calm assurance that the state
governor would veto it. In some
muddle o f political ineptitude
(probably because he thought the bill
would be ruled unconstitutional by
someone else) he passed it. It is clear
from the records of the time that no
politician took it seriously (the
governor said that the law would
never be used). The Scopes trial,
where a teacher was tried under the
law (for teaching evolution), was
staged to gain publicity for a small
town that needed the business. This
ploy worked well, and incidentally the
creationists were humiliated even
F E L I X
though they won the case at first (and
the verdict was later overturned on a
technicality). Again there was no
great confrontation between the forces
of reason and superstition. (The
background to the Scopes trial is
discussed in Stephen Jay Gould's
book Hen's Teeth and Horse's Toes.)
Even the suppression of Galileo's
ideas was more to do with politics
than any actual conflict between
science and religion. Galileo was an
undiplomatic character who insisted
on taking the piss out of the Pope in
some o f his publications. The
mythology surrounding his trial has
more to do with the (possibly
subconscious) desire o f some
relationists to demonstrate the
irrationality of religion, than it has to
do with any actual conflict between
science and religion.
Only extremists believe that every
word of the Bible was dictated by God
and has to be taken literally. Most
others accept that the Bible is a
collection o f different works by
different people with different insights
into truth. It claims no special degree
of historial accuracy, and it is full of
images and symbolism. To demand
literal interpretation of all parts (even
the visionary acid-trips of Revelation)
and then to reject the ridiculous
implications, says more about the
mind of the sceptic than it does about
the likely truth o f anything in
Christianity.
Another conflict that is more
contrived than real is the supposed
Christian belief of the existence of the
soul as an entity independent of the
body. Lots of people, Christian and
otherwise, still believe that the soul
and body are separate, but the idea is
not a Christian one. The idea is Greek
in origin and derives from platonic
dualism. The biblical concept of soul
is more sophisticated and in no way
conflicts with science (though some
distinguished neuroscientists have
wanted to believe that the mind is
independent of the brain in the
platonic sense, but this is impossible
to refute or check). In Hebrew
thought, people do not have souls they
are souls: the word is a description
of the nature of our existence; we
would say we were conscious,
sentient beings capable of free will
(the Bible is more concise because
paper was short when it was written).
In scientific terminology, the soul is
a product of the complexity of the
human brian and the way it is
organised. If you believe in God,
there is no problem in believing that
he could recreate a soul by repeating
the way a particular brain was
organised. So individuality could
survive death without there being an
independent thing called soul.
Biblically speaking, the important
thing about people is that they can
make moral decisions and choose
between good and evil. Life after
death is almost a side issue to this
choice. It only becomes a big issue
when churches try to sell a happy
eternity for money or obedience now.
Mainstream Christianity has mostly
concentrated on encouraging people
to make the correct moral choice in
this life. Deathbed conversions are
regarded as cynical, insincere and
superstitious.
Most popular debate on the truth of
Christianity seems to happen in
complete ignorance o f what
Christians actually believe. Literalist
parodies (only 144,000 peoplefitin
heaven, for example) o f what the
Bible says or of what people believe,
are set up to be clearly ridiculous. If
any religion contained such nonsense
then we would have to reject it.
But, if you disbelieve because of the
parody, then you are deluding
yourself. If you care about the truth,
then you will find out what a religion
really says, before you reject it as
ridiculous. If religions are a l l
superstitious junk, then we do not
need parodies of them to show that
they are untrue.
Steve Black, Chem PG.
Still soul searching...
Man's search for his soul (and
woman's for hers) is too widespread
and long-standing to be abandoned for
the materialistic and rationalistic
arguments of R G Fincher's article
Soul Searching. Most of the human
race for most of history has believed
in survival after death so strongly that
they have developed elaborate
procedures to make sure dead soul go
to their appointed place and don't get
lost, or worse, hang around making
trouble for the living. Sceptics are a
tiny monority in the human concensus
on this matter. That doesn't mean they
must be wrong, but they might pause
to consider that the rest of humankind
might be aware of something they
have overlooked.
The existence of souls, like the
existence of God, cannot be proved
or disproved. We can only weigh the
evidence and make a judgement on
the balance of probability. There is
some evidence around to suggest that
human personality can exist and be
aware of itself apart from the body.
There is a whole literature on the 'out-
of-body' experiences of people who
have been very i l l , resuscitated after
'dying' on the operating table, or after
drowning. The impression o f the
'self leaving the body and looking
down on it in these circumstances
seems to be common. That doesn't
prove anything either, but it might
make us question whether personality
is as closely tied to physical molecules
as the materialists think. I did have
one student from mainland China, a
party member and dyed in the wool
communist, who came to me with a
strange story. While he was studying
here, his mother died in China. He
told me how his mother came to his
room in England and talked with him
for about half an hour. Everything in
his beliefs and upbringing told him
that was impossible, yet it had
happened. He was forced to consider
that i f dialectical materialism was
wrong about something so important,
it might also be wrong about a whole
lot else.
Why are we so hung up about the
particular set of molecules we happen
to be carrying around at the moment
anyway? They are in constant flux
and exchange. While you are reading
this, part of your breakfast today is
now part of the brain with which you
understand these words. We replace
every cell in our body in a seven year
cycle, so you have already undergone
total atomic translocation three times
since you were born—some of us
more.
I am not my molecules, I am a
pattern o f information carried by
molecules which are constantly being
picked up and discarded. In this
College we are fully aware that
information can be stored in a vareity
of ways, on magnetic tape, optical
disc, bubble memories, or as words
in a book, and can be transferred from
one medium to another. St Paul said
of the body before and after death, "It
is sown a natural body and it is raised
a spiritual body" or to put it in our
jargon rather than his, the set o f
information which is me is expressed
in a new medium with further
potential for development when the
molecular storage system crashes. It
is an interesting possibility I rather
hope to explore for myself
David Ashforth
FELIX Friday October 23rd 1987 29

