KENSINGTON
GORE SW7
• A L A N R O S E , hapless I C U
Deputy President, has been
complaining in the bar recently that
he hasn't been getting enough bad
press in F E L I X . Sorry to disappoint
you, Alan! We've been racking our
brians and can't think of a single thing
you've done recently!
• ' C U T E ' R O B E R T G E E , Athletics
Clubs Committee (ACC) Chairman,
didn't think very much of his five star
rating in last week's Kensington
Gore. Number one fan, Chris Martin,
meanwhile was undaunted and has set
up a Robert Gee is Cute Society. The
new club has 25 signatures including
the Top 3. It is still unclear whether
this new club will be part of A C C ,
R C C or S C C .
• That's all for this week folks, Chris
Jones...
PRE
V I E W S
There seems to be a lot of Soviet
material on the box this week: two
films and an arts review on the Beeb
and documentaries on I T V and C4.
Saturday evening on B B C 2
(9.45-12.45pm) sees a film double-
bill, opening with The Swimmer,a
humorous allegory of life under three
political regimes, only released in its
(C4, Thursday, 10.15pm) Ochen
Glasnost!
Those old enough to remember
Columbo, that wonderfully clever 70s
US detective series with Peter Falk
in the grubby raincoat, will find the
1971 pilot film Ransom for a Dead
Man ( I T V , Saturday, 8.30pm)
unmissable.
Unlikeliest scheduling of the week
goes to C4 for Equinox: Command &
Control at 10am Sunday. A repeat of
yesterday's programme which looks
at how nuclear missiles arefired,and
what stops them going off by mistake.
The excellent South Bank Show
(ITV, Sunday, 10.30pm) follows last
week's brilliant programme on The
Smiths (shame on you if you missed
it!) with a celebration of the life and
work of pop art legend Andy Warhol,
who died earlier this year.
uncensored form because o f
Gorbachev's reforms. Following this
is Plumbum, or a Dangerous Game;
the story of ace scholar, Ruslan, who
dreams of being a supercop, and
infiltrates criminal gangs to pull off
some amazing coups.
Review (BBC2, Sunday, 5.30pm)
asks how far has the openness of the
Gorbachev regime allowed the
popular arts to flourish. The
Guardian's Martin Walker reports
from Moscow on fashion, cars,
theatre, rock music, architecture and
breakdancing!
The Soviet theme continues over on
ITV on Tuesday at 10.30pm with a
look at the work of Pravda journalists
all over the USSR. The final
contribution to the week is another
documentary, taking the lid off Soviet
youth; punks, hippies and war
veterans, called Is it Easy to be Young
The C 4 documentary series The
Eleventh Hour continues on Monday
at 11pm (when else?) with The First
Betrayal; tracing the history of the
British working class and socialist
movement from 1914-1931.
M y personal highlight of the week
is another episode of that classic
cartoon series Wacky Races (BBC1,
Wednesday, 4.10pm). Not to be
missed at any cost!
Libel
THE BARON
'Hurry up, Baron!' called John Secretary
to Derek Dash as he passed Derek's
office, 'or you'll be late to say goodbye
to another group of citizens'.
Derek was getting ready to attend the
citizens' leaving ceremony, held at the
Royal Alan Ball. Today w a s the day
when lots of citizens moved from
Cheapskate to take up their jobs as
money counters. Nearly all the citizens
became money counters when they left
Cheapskate; the only one who had not
yet got-a money counting job was still
working in the citizens' bar.
DereK was trying to work out why all
the citizens wanted to become money
counters. The best explanation that he could come up with was that they
were all to unimaginative to do anything else. It was certainly true that
Cheapskate citizens were mostly very dull. In fact, if they had been any
duller, Derek reflected, they would only be able to get jobs in Cheapskate
itself. Expanding this argument in his usual logical manner, Derek was
just working out h o w long it would be before there was only enough
standing room for all the incredibly tedious people in Cheapskate, when
John Secretary called to him to hurry up.
Derek sighed, put on his silly cloak and left his office, picking up a copy
of the Cheapskate Annual on his way out. Derek enjoyed reading the new
Cheapskate Annual, which had only just been delivered. A s usual it
contained lots of articles about what a wonderful place Cheapskate was
and lots of pictures of people smiling a lot as well as three photo-love
stories and a Dennis the Menace cartoon strip. Derek had particularly liked
his own introduction to the Annual. 'I am continually amazed', he had
written, 'at how wonderful Cheapskate is. There is no doubt that it was
really wonderful before I became Baron, and, if indeed it is possible, I think
it is becoming even more wonderful. There are bound to be huge numbers
of people wanting to become Cheapskate citizens when they see how
good the pictures are in our Annual'.
Derek admired his work for a few minutes whilst on his way to the Royal
Alan Ball, and then put the Annual inside his cloak so that he would be
able to read the Dennis the Menace cartoon during the goodbye ceremony.
Meanwhile, while Derek was reading the Dennis the Menace cartoon,
there was lots of rushing about going on elsewhere in Cheapskate. All
the important members of the citizens' Factories Club were getting ready
for next week's fun-packed 'how to become a money counter' fair. There
would be lots of exciting things going on; the citizen's would be able to
play 'try to get the 1 Op piece out of the chief money counter's hand' and
lots of other jolly games. The citizens in the Factories Club tried to convince
all the other citizens that they were helping them to get jobs as money
counters; in fact, everyone in Factories Club was being very very nice
to all the important money counters who were visiting Cheapskate so that
they could get better paid jobs counting money. (Everyone at Cheapskate
was very dull, but members of the Factories Club enjoyed being dull).
This year, a few citizens had decided that they did not really want to
be money counters after all. One of these was the head citizen, Whygate,
who enjoyed his job so much that he was trying make it last longer than
the usual one year. At the last meeting of the citizens' committee Whygate
had swept into the room very proudly (all 2000 sequins perfectly in position
on his new dress) and announced 'we have decided to carry on running
the citizens' office for an extra month'. The rest of the citizen's could not
work out whether he had actually asked anyone else about it, or if he was
using the royal 'we'....
Is Whygate going to marry Prince Edward?
Will the PHALIX Editor print a nasty article about the Factories Club
this year?
What happened to Dennis the Menace?
Why wasn't Arthur Michael mentioned?
Find out in the next episode of 'The Baron of Cheapskate'.
F E L I X Friday October 23rd 1987 31

