Rag pissed
off
Last Saturday the Union Building was
damaged at the Mencap 'thank you'
party attended by students from all
over the U K who had helped in the
Mencap London-wide collection. A t
about 10pm the organisers were
informed that a wash basin had been
pulled off the wall in the gents toilets,
rupturing water pipes which led to
flooding. A s the drains were not
working the 'passed water' seeped
into Norman's store room and into the
F E L I X Print Room.
The Union Building was being used
free of charge by Mencap through the
Imperial College Rag Committee who
were responsible for the party, and so
brought the matter of the damage to
the attention of Monday's Council
meeting. The question of who would
pay the bill has not yet arisen,
although he did express to F E L I X that
he hoped that Mehcap rather than IC
Rag would pay. Letters are being sent
to all the universities whose students
participated expressing the
displeasure of the Union at such
damage being perpetrated.
One on
Radio 1 will start transmitting on
V H F / F M from 6am on Saturday, 31
October. The first transmitter will
cover the London area only, on 104.8
K H z , but other major conurbations
are due to be added. The existing
shared Radio 2/Radio 1 frequency
will continue until airspace is made
available to transmit Radio 1 on F M
nationwide.
Wind swept
Staff and students were washed into the sea at a field trip in Dorset last
week. The incident took place in the wake of Thursday's hurricane, when
students from Mineral Resources and Petroleum Engineering visited BP's
Wytch Farm onshore oilfield, Dorset. Those receiving a dunking included
Prof J Archer, Neilah Ghonia, John McNeill and Robert Ambrose. Mr
Hatamian said that it had not been felt necessary to issue life jackets. Dr
G Hargreaves, Imperal College Safety Director said, in view of the visit
taking place shortly after the storms, 'given the exceptional circumstances,
perhaps they should not have taken the risk'.
Fishy story
M r K H Fisher Safety Administrator
at Silwood Park has strongly denied
that there was a serious leak from the
Silwood Park Reactor Station
yesterday. When F E L I X approached
him concerning the issue he laughed
and exclaimed that it was 'totally
erroneous'. Professor Peter Grant
was absent from Silwood Park
yesterday afternoon when F E L I X
tried to contact him, but his secretary
confirmed that there had been a leak.
Almost everyone approached by
F E L I X denied any knowledge of the
incident. M r H A D e w i t L
Departmental Superintendent at
Silwood, conceded that he didn't
'think' it had happened. Alan Rose,
ICU Deputy President, said T hadn't
heard actually. Maybe Ian Howgate
knows but he's poncing about in the
Albert Hall at the moment. You could
ask the safety people but I've just put
back the next meeting.'
Dr G Hargreaves, the Safety
Director, said he couldn't tell us
anything as it was outside his
jurisdiction.
N e w s
The longest
year
Union Council approved a motion on
Monday to change the Sabbatical
Year from 1st July—30th June to 1st
August—31st July. This could
become official policy by March,
subject to approval by a U G M and the
College Governing Body. Part of this
motion, although not compulsory,
would be an informal training period
for incoming sabbaticals which would
involve them spending July on the
dole and working in the Union Office.
The idea, originally proposed by
Jackie Peirce, last year's Union
Deputy President, is intended to make
the Sabbatical Year conincide with the
College financial year. Union
President Ian Howgate feels that i f
incoming officers 'are not prepared
to spend a month on the dole then they
are not dedicated enough' and that
sabbaticals are likely to be better off
on supplementary benefit with rent
rebate than on a sabbatical salary with
free accommodation. He denies any
ulterior motive in his gaining an extra
month in office, claiming that he
would prefer to spend July writing up
academic work than sorting out Union
finances.
Lie in
Clocks go back one hour on Sunday.
A spokesman from Geology said that
considering the age of the Earth, one
hour was insignificant and so the
clocks were not really changing at all.
The change is unlikely to affect many
IC students.
FELIX Friday October 23rd 1987 5

