FRIDAY 9TH OCTOBER 2020
13
Comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
COMMENT
2020 has a been *a lot*, but there are
still things to look forward to in the
remaining months.
A lot of us look forward to October,
the *spooky* month; the ghouls and
goblins. What’s also scary is how insti-
tutions believe it’s enough to acknowl-
edge Black history for one month of the
year, and ignore them for the rest (in the
US, Black History Month is celebrated
in February - the shortest month of the
year).
It’s not enough. But it’s a start.
This month is a time for reflection.
Not only is it an opportunity to cele-
brate Black contributions to society in
history, film, art, sports and… politics,
it’s also an opportunity to develop our
understanding of African & Caribbean
culture. Black British history is impor-
tant because it matters to everyone - it’s
a crucial part of this country’s story. The
Windrush generation - people arriving
in the UK between 1948 and 1971 from
Caribbean countries - were transported
on the ship HMT Empire Windrush as
the British Empire were filling shortag-
es in the labour market due to WWII.
Black people fought for this nation, dur-
ing and after the war. The mass migra-
tion and following events led to major
culturalshifts,buildingthecommunities
we have today (although there’s always
room for improvement).
We’re all too aware of America’s Black
history regarding the slave trade, but
Black history is much more than just
that. Few have heard about how the
Ethiopian Krar Harp is the earliest form
of guitar, or how Liberia was founded as
a settlement for free Black people, be-
lieving they would face better chances
for freedom and prosperity there than in
the United States.
There’sBlackhistorywhenitcomesto
STEM too: Otis Boykin, the Black man
whoimprovedpacemakercircuitry;how
you’re five times more likely to die dur-
ing pregnancy if you’re a Black woman,
and Henrietta Lacks, whose ‘immortal’
cells have been used at the forefront of
virus, cancer and radiation research (the
ethics of obtaining these cell samples are
very questionable).
It’s important - arguably now more
thanever-totalkabouttheseBlackpeo-
ple and the system that was against them
in the past and the system against us in
the present.
October comes to you with an op-
portunity to both learn and remember.
Thereflections,research,support&con-
versations don’t need to end on the 1st
November- this month just gives you a
nudge to get started.
Please visit the Union web-
site for upcoming Black His-
tory Month events: https://
www.imperialcollegeunion.
org/campaigns/black-histo-
ry-month-2020
Black History Month is here!
Liberation Officer Deborah Adegoke highlights the importance of Black History Month
DeborahAdegoke
BMEOfficer*
People March at the Black Lives Matter Protest in Washington DC 6/6/2020
Photo credits: Unsplash - Clay Banks
Credits: Oladimeji Odunsi
This month and every other month we must fight against racist injust

