KEEP THE CAT FREE
Comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
14
COMMENT
F
or the past few months, thanks
to Covid-19, students across the
country have faced unprecedent-
ed changes to their educational
journeys. Here at Imperial, we saw the introduction of the safety net policy and re-
mote exams. A-Level students, on the other hand, had summer exams cancelled. I
remember hearing this news and feeling slightly envious of what I, wrongly, assumed
would be a smooth ride to university for some. However, the challenge of fairly as-
signing grades to over 700,000 students for exams they didn’t sit, meant a controver-
sial grading system was introduced.
The difficulty of this challenge was made apparent when, on 13th
August, 39% of
students in England saw their A-Level results downgraded from their CAGs (Cen-
tre Assessment Grades), which were their teacher’s predictions. At the time, students
with downgraded results were given three main options; appeal their grades, re-sit in
Autumn or accept their grades. However, the ensuing backlash was so intense that
just 4 days after results day, the UK government took a U-turn and allowed CAGs
to be used as final A-Level grades, if they were higher than those awarded by the
grading system.
A guide published by Ofqual (The Office of Qualifications and Examinations
Regulation) on results day, explained that the grading system was meant to mod-
erate and standardise grades across England and maintain a grade distribution like
that of previous years in order to avoid grade inflation. Ofqual stated: “We had 2
broad aims: to make sure as many students as possible could get grades so they could
move on to the next stage of their lives and to do that in as fair a way as possible”.
According to Ofqual, without intervention, there would have been a 12.5% in-
crease in A*-A grades since 2019. Upon introducing the grading algorithm; 78% of
students scored A*-C, up 2.6% since 2019, and 27.6% of students scored A*-A, up
only 2.4% since 2019. A success in numbers it seemed but for 39% of students on
results day, their plans beyond A-Levels suddenly became very unclear.
Below are testimonies shared by some 1st
year students, exploring how A-Level re-
sults day went for them and how their admissions journey to Imperial was affected.
‘I didn’t meet my firm (Imperial) or my insurance
(Manchester)’
“The IB used a similar algorithm to determine their grades which
downgraded me from a 766 (a level equivalent A*AA) to a 665 (AAB)
which meant I didn’t meet my firm (Imperial) or my insurance (Man-
chester). Both eventually took me, however, my grades were never al-
tered. The IB introduced a series of appeal processes which were appli-
cable to few people. Then they said schools could appeal on the behalf
of a candidate (which mine did for me), however , I still haven’t heard
back.
There is another process to re-mark our coursework however you
can only have one process at a time (either appeal or re-mark) which
meant while waiting for an appeal to come back I missed my re-mark
deadline. And I mean, yes, I’m grateful because I’m so much better
off than some other IB students because they were turned away from
universities after the A-Levels all got in from CAGs”
‘I can’t describe to you the meltdown that I had
the morning of results day’
“I was predicted A*AA and I needed AAA for Imperial and AAB
for my insurance. But I got A*A*C. So, I didn’t get into any university.
I can’t describe to you the meltdown that I had the morning of results
day. The main issue was that I needed to wait for an appeal for my math
C grade, but as I didn’t know when or if my grade would be changed,
I couldn’t take any places through clearing. They just kept filling up
which was horrible because you wake up and see half the places than
there were originally only 24 hours prior.
In the end when there was the U-turn, I thought everything finally
fixed itself and I’d be able to go to university because I got my grades.
However, I got told after I celebrated that I wasn’t guaranteed entry
and had to wait another 2 weeks to finally find out if I’d go to univer-
sity at all. I made plans for what to do if I don’t go to university. My
big fear was the Brexit situation and the massive fee hike from 9k to
25k which I couldn’t afford. I can’t tell you how horrible I felt for the
whole of August”
‘I feel like coming to Imperial, I need to prove
to myself and the university, that I deserve to be
there’
“I felt like I had no idea what to expect because I was being assigned
a grade rather than sort of knowing how well I’d done in an exam. I
needed AAA to get into my course at Imperial, but I was mainly wor-
ried that I wouldn’t get my A in math. My results loaded first, and I
was so happy that I’d got A*A*A (A in maths) so I knew I’d made my
offer. Although I was happy, I did kind of feel a bit of imposter syn-
drome, like I hadn’t really earned those grades. After the U-turn my
results went up to 3A*s which anyone would be over the moon with,
but I just don’t really see them as my own grades.
I feel like coming to Imperial, I need to prove to myself and the uni-
versity, that I deserve to be there, and I deserve my grades. I know that
a lot of people didn’t make their offers, so I almost feel like I need to
work harder so that I know they didn’t lose their places for someone
who doesn’t deserve it!”
From A-Level results day to
Imperial
KhamaGunde
CommentEditor
1st year students share how a controversial grading system affected their journey to Imperial

