FRIDAY 9TH OCTOBER 2020
15
Comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
COMMENT
‘I got lower than I expected’
“At least for me I got lower than I expected, all 3 grades were down-
graded from my UCAS predictions overall! Also, with everyone else
getting moved up after the U-turn, my grades looked even lower as
mine didn’t move. My teachers told me that they wanted to play it safe,
but obviously overall it didn’t work. I went from 3A*s to 3As”
‘I got exactly what I needed’
“I was actually quite lucky in the sense that I got exactly what I need-
ed and what I thought I deserved the first time. As I’d worked consist-
ently hard since year 12, I feel my mocks (which were past papers) were
a good representation (A*A*A in math, physics and chemistry respec-
tively). When they were upgraded (from A to A* in chemistry) I felt
kind of guilty since I knew I didn’t need it or would’ve achieved the
higher grade, although I’m obviously happy that so many people finally
got what they deserved. I don’t know if it’s a bit of imposter syndrome
sneaking in. Although it helps knowing that of course I must have done
well enough on the selection day and in my personal statement to still
be selected.
Most of my friends also had the grades they needed. I assume it’s be-
cause our school has a history of doing well. A couple of my friends
didn’tgetwhattheyshouldhavesoarere-sittingexams.However,since
they are both taking gap years it hasn’t affected their university plans.
It’d be much worse if they hadn’t planned to take gap years. It’s great
that the government is letting people take actual exams but it’s just too
late in the year for people who were planning to go to university since
that’ll set them back a whole year”
‘I think my situation was quite rare’
“I had an offer from Imperial to study Medicine, and the grades I
needed were A*AA with the A* in biology or chemistry specifically. I’d
been predicted A*A*A in biology, math and chemistry respectively.
I’d been told for the past two years, by my teachers, that my predicted
grades were what I would get, and my school has a reputation for mak-
ing accurate predictions, so I knew that I was somewhat deserving of
those grades.
On results day, I opened my emails to see I was given 3A’s and I was
so shocked. I wasn’t expecting it. Honestly, I cried my eyes out because
Imperial is my dream university; I’d been aiming for it for two years. I
knew it was where I wanted to go, I knew it was where I would fit in.
But in that moment, I also knew I didn’t meet my offer. I thought Im-
perial would never be lenient and prepared myself for rejection.
UCAS Track had crashed for 40 minutes but when it finally worked
and I opened the page, I saw that I was accepted by both my firm
(Imperial) and my insurance (KCL). Both let me in despite the fact I
hadn’t met my offers. My confirmation from Imperial meant the world
to me so I was ecstatic. Unfortunately, I think my situation was quite
rare since none of my friends who applied to Imperial and missed their
grades got in on results day.
I think I was accepted because Imperial had said before results day
that they would look at the grades and even if you had missed your of-
fer, they would look at your application holistically e.g. looking at your
interview score. Then they would make a judgement based on the rest
of your application to see whether they would still let you come in. So, I
think it was my interview score that got me in, I think I did might have
done well on my interview.
In the end everyone got their CAGs, but when I received mine it
turned out that my teachers had submitted A*AA for me. Even though
they had consistently told me I could achieve A*A*A and I had felt real-
ly supported by them. As frustrating as that was, I got the A* in the end
and it was nice to have some recognition for my hard work over the past
2 years, plus I’ve now officially met my offer conditions.
Somepeoplehadtowaitagesafterbeingdowngradedtoknowifthey
got in, so they thought they were rejected, then got accepted through
CAGs, then had accommodation issues. Compared to others, I feel
lucky and grateful for how things worked out for me. But I think it was
a difficult and unfair situation for most of us.
Also, some schools were very strict with predicted grades, like mine.
I went to a grammar school which was very stingy with top grades and
they didn’t give loads of pupils A*’s even if they were deserving of it. A
lot of my friends were high achievers but didn’t get A*’s or A’s from the
teachers, so it felt very unfair. Whereas I know for all my private school
friends, they got upgraded. So, the whole system was unfair because
some schools were upgrading, and others were downgrading.
I understand that it was a challenging task for the government to do,
but the way they went about it didn’t make any sense to me.”
Credits: Nicolas Geiseler-Toran

