Union Page
Celebrate Black History Month
Become a Representative
Catch up on the Union Brunch
Watch TGBBO and join our competition
Nominations are now open for course representatives and other student positions
at Imperial. Take charge of your Imperial experience and stand for any of these
positions:
Academic Representatives
Wellbeing Representatives
Council Representatives
Liberation & Community Network Committees
Constituent Union Leaders
Clubs, Societies & Projects Leaders
Nominations are open until noon,Tuesday 13 October. For more information and
to stand for a role: imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
Do you enjoy The Great British Bake Off a bit too much, like we do? Join us in
FiveSixEight every Tuesday, and let’s watch it together! FiveSixEight is bake (see
what we did there?) and it’s open every day of the week from 16:00 to 22:00 and
we’re still serving our amazing (fully loaded!) curly fries.
Want to show off your baking skills? We might be three weeks in, but it’s not
too late to take part in our very own Union Bake Off! Simply send us a photo of
your bake via direct message to our Instagram (@icunion) for a chance to win
a voucher worth £10, to redeem at FiveSixEight. Every week we choose our
favourite and in the end you get to vote for the winner! Exciting, isn’t it?
#icuBakeOff
Missed our Union Brunch this week? Don’t worry, you can still watch them on
our Facebook andYouTube. Inspired by Channel 4’s Sunday Brunch show, we
came together every morning this week for our daily Union Brunch. Head over
to Facebook (@imperialcollegeunion) orYouTube to catch up.
If our services are a mystery to you, this is a great place to hear about them
directly from our Officer Trustees. Every day we introduced you to a selection
of our over 380 Clubs, Societies & Projects, our services, Constituent Unions,
Liberation & Community Networks and answered student questions live.
If you haven’t already, have a look at our VirtualWelcome Fair as well - it’s on
until Sunday, 11 October! (digitalwelcome.imperialcollegeunion.org/register)
It’s October, so we’re celebrating Black History Month!This is a time to look
back at our shared black history that shaped the society, heritage and culture we
enjoy today. It’s also a time to celebrate the here and now, bringing communities
together and glancing into future possibilities.
In partnership with our African Caribbean Society and our BME Officer,
we have a range of events planned this month that you can join in. From a
BAME Poetry Corner, to a Colonial DiscourseTalk by DrTerri Ochiaga or a
Games Night with the African Carribean Society - we’ve got you covered. Visit
imperialcollegeunion.org/bhm for a full list of events.
Whoever you are, we recommend diving into our resource page
(imperialcollegeunion.org/campaigns/black-lives-matter) to learn more about
the #blacklivesmatter movement, how you can help, and how to be an ally.

