FRIDAY 9TH OCTOBER 2020
ARTS
37
Arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
Exhibition
Eastern Esotericism Done Right
Violence, sex and gore — seems like the ingredi-
ents for the making of a poor Game of Thrones
episode. But these elements in 6th century medie-
val India, manifested through Tantra, played a huge
role in shaking up orthodoxy and redefining not just
Hinduism or Buddhism, but the cultural and tradi-
tional practices of the subcontinent and South-East
Asia for centuries to come.
Tantra, meaning ‘to weave’, is probably the most
misunderstood aspect of Eastern religiosity in the
West. Spanning a history of over 15 centuries, and
still quite active as a distinct practice among various
sects in India, Tantra is a cross-cultural and mul-
ti-religious spiritual philosophy, espousing spirit-
uality through the material world. A philosophy
stripped of the rampant patriarchy and hierarchies
of power prevalent in the erstwhile traditions of the
Subcontinent.
Theexhibitiontracesthehistoryof Tantrathough
the ages, beginning with its origins in challenging
Hindu orthodoxy, its adoption by Buddhism and
later by the Mughal rulers (giving the philosophy an
Islamic touch), and finally viewed from the perspec-
tive of the British Empire, at which point — around
the wake of the independence movement in the sub-
continent, Tantra as a practice became politically
charged.
At the turn of the 6th century, Hinduism offered
a codified religious landscape. It was around this
time that by subverting this strict orthodoxy, Tantra
offered/promised power through ritualistic practic-
es, and in doing so found sanctuary and widespread
acceptance in the political turbulence of the era. Sex
and death, often seen with disgust and considered
impure, were adopted and embraced deeply within
the practice.
The exhibition traces the origins of this tradition
with sculptures of Tantric deities and yoginis (shape
shifting goddesses), ritualistic Sanskrit verses on
palm leaves and audio enchantments giving the ex-
hibition an eerie feeling. A key tenet of Tantra was
to free oneself of limiting attachments such as fear
and disgust, and this principle can be clearly seen
and appreciated in the exhibits. There is an impos-
ing 10th century granite relief of Bhairava, a deity in
Hinduism, with his guard dog who scours the grave-
yards and feasts on the flesh of the corpses. This vi-
olence or gore is present throughout — skull caps
used to feast on blood, statues of yoginis devouring
tantric practitioners who showed fear, and of course
sculptures depicting ritualistic sexual intercourse.
The exhibition boasts a well-crafted audio-visual
recreation of a ritualistic practice in a 10th century
temple from Eastern India dedicated to Yoginis.
Tantric rituals viewed the body as a tool, and just
as with ritualistic sex, yoga was seen a conduit to at-
taining power. Although Tantra was born out a will
to subvert the orthodoxy of medieval Hinduism, it
was shaped as much by Buddhism. Strikingly, a ma-
jority of the shock and awe exhibits in the exhibi-
tion belong to this period of its history. Buddhists
monks donning aprons made of human bones and
skull caps is in-
deed a sight too
difficult to visu-
alize and recon-
cile with, given
modern main-
stream percep-
tions on the reli-
gion. The exhibit
also touches on
the Islamic inter-
pretations of the
subject, predom-
inantly through
paintings from
the Mughal
court.
Arguably the
latter parts of
the exhibition,
tracing Tantra
around the inde-
pendence move-
ment in the sub-
continent in late
19th and early
20th century are
much easier to
follow. Posters
from this era pre-
senting goddess
Kali (pic inset)
as a rallying cry
to the movement
are juxtaposed
Tantra: Enlightenment to
Revolution
Until 24th Jan 2021
£15 (£13 Students)
britishmuseum.org.uk
Reviewed by Vaidhiswaran Ramesh Arts Editor
Kali Striding over Shiva
Credit: The Trustees of the British Museum
quite beautifully with the British counter narrative from
the time — branding the movement and the practice as
arcane, demonic and uncivilized.
The modern take on the subject, and the shifting tides
in favoring western attitudes for the tradition with the 60s
isdocumentedwellwithpostersandexhibitionpamphlets
from the era.
As with many practices and traditions of the East, the
lack of proper documentation and cultural translation
lends itself to misrepresentation in the West. Tantra is a
prime example of this, being often misinterpreted. and as-
sociated solely with exoticism and sexuality. But it’s much
morethanthat,andBritishmuseuminitslatestexhibition,
it’s first one after the pandemic shuttered the 281-year-old
institution, casts a wide net trying to answer it all. It may
not have all the answers, but it will give you an overall per-
spective on its evolution and might even quell some mis-
conceptions about this ‘arcane’ practice along the way.

