tack on individuality and without the necessary struc-
tures to allow discordant ideologies to be showcased,
the landscape of art became increasingly polarised.
“Hatred of popular
culture was also to
define a generation of
American intellectuals,
and their claim to a
superior sensibility,”
Mishra writes, “Politi-
cal defeat, isolation and
irrelevance had devas-
tated their old presup-
positions about art and
its relation to human
beings”. And perhaps
they had a reason to be
fearful. If the focus of
Art shifted from the
aesthetic to the mimetic
in the past, our new
direction seems to be
towards the “relatable”.
Relatable content,
such as the widespread
popularity of memes,
self-insert fanfics, and viral TikTok videos only serve
to impersonate a form of contrived togetherness like
the Barnum-effect of horoscopes. It is reflexive rather
than reflective, reactionary rather than revelatory. But
while mainstream media with its inseparable ties to
capitalism and a senseless drive to sell may have stifled
creativity and expression, to reject all mass media as a
class distinct and beneath is to conflate an entire genre
with specific examples of bad art, and only introduces
an unnecessary barrier to the audience that art seeks
to serve. There are cases of outstanding art in common
media just as there are examples of appalling works in
the most esteemed galleries.
To many, what really sets the two worlds apart isn’t
so much the product of the artist’s imagination but
rather the seed from which the idea itself grows.
Highbrow artists, they maintain, will often reach
downwards towards the bawdy and the commonplace
for inspiration while your typical graphic designer
lacks the necessary understanding and
intellect to pluck fruit from the higher
branches of artistry. They believe their
true talent lies in the ability to elevate
the normal and transfigure the mundane
into the extraordinary. But if a highbrow
artist thinks that they are special for
turning whores into Madonnas, then you
only have to watch an episode of Rupaul’s
Drag Race to see the effect in reverse. In
fact, the layers of subversion only increase
the more you look at the premise and the
execution of the programme. In theory, a
heavily-edited reality competition show
where drag queens compete to out-dress,
out-sing, and out-innuendo each other
should be the antithesis of good art and
yet it is acclaimed by even the harshest of
critics for subverting a wild array of televi-
sion tropes and chal-
lenging the worldview
of millions. And it
does that while being
irreverent, fun and absurdly camp.
Graphic novels have also started to
see its own blossoming as a medi-
um to be taken seriously. Gone are
the days when comics were either
aimed just at children or relegated
to the back of a newspaper. Perse-
polis, Marjane Satrapi’s graphic
novel memoir detailing her child-
hood in Tehran, lived through the
Islamic revolution, exemplifies how
cross-cultural representation can
be both challenging and digestible,
important and accessible. Even
stand-up comedy, often thought
of as a glorified Christmas cracker
joke-telling, bears examples of masterful work such
as Hannah Gadsby’s Nanette (viewable on Netflix, a
platform some see as the enemy of good taste). For
anime, you have the Madoka franchise which pairs
powerful and reference-rich narrative with disturb-
ingly alluring artwork by Gekidan Inu Curry. Good
art is everywhere if you’re looking for it, and to be
pigeon-holed by labels is to blind yourself to the very
experiences that inform great art.
And here lies the true problem at the heart of artistic
evaluation. To question how art should or could be
judged is to question the very definition of art. Loathe
to say it but Art is a social construct - with no inherent
value, art is intrinsically tied to institutions and power
structures of the time and a slave to the dominating
worldview. Art divorced from institutions risks not
being seen and art that is unseen is by virtue not art
at all. In a time when judgement and criticism comes
swiftly and without pause, maybe it’s time we all just
sit back, relax, and enjoy art for ourselves, without
deferring to notions of sacred or mundane, highbrow
or lowbrow, and woke or broke.
FRIDAY 9TH OCTOBER 2020
ARTS
39
Arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
Credits: Mr Bean The Movie
Okay! It’s time to show off on Tik Tok now. I wonder how Mono Lisa is doing.
TRACEY EMIN’S ‘MY
BED’ IS LAUDED
AS GROUND-
BREAKING FINE
ART AND MY
UNMADE BED IS
REPORTED TO
PUBLIC HEALTH
ENGLAND AS A
PUBLIC HEALTH
HAZARD
“
CurrentlyOn
Tantra: enlightenment to
revolution @
British Museum
“Explore the radical force that transformed the
religious, cultural and political landscape of India
and beyond in this landmark exhibition.”
Check our review of the exhibition in this issue.
3rd Oct 2020 – 24th Jan 2021
Kimono: Kyoto to Catwalk @
Victoria & Albert Museum
“This exhibition presents the kimono as a dynamic
and constantly evolving icon of fashion, revealing
the sartorial, aesthetic and social significance of
the garment from the 1660s to the present day,
both in Japan and the rest of the world.”
You can find our review in Felix Issue 1672.
Until 25th Oct 2020
“A new look at the extraordinary life and work of
the pop art superstar”
You can find our review in Felix Issue 1749.
Until 15th Nov 2020
Andy Warhol @
Tate Modern

