When did you first hear this song?
During my first year of uni, would’ve been Jan 2019. I
was introducing myself to the David Bowie discogra-
phy and fell in love with this track straight away. The
dramatic and cinematic storytelling, I fuck with
it heavily.
What initially drew you to the song?
I was in the kitchen, not really paying atten-
tion. The singing progresses from spoken to me-
lodic to emotional, it really drew me in. Five
minutes later I was already going back for
seconds.
In a sentence or two, describe the song.
It introduces the concept of the album, that
the earth will cease to exist in five years due
to lack of resources. At the time of its re-
lease the Cold War was in full swing.
What about the performance do you love?
Bowie starts half singing half talking, kind of like Lou
Reed and the Velvet Underground. As it goes on, it be-
comes more emotional, he becomes more involved, cli-
maxing when he screams and cries. Bowie actually cries
at the end and it was all one take.
How often do you listen to the song?
Rarely.
Is there a great lyric?
When he speaks directly to the listener, making
them aware that the song is about them too. “I
thinkIsawyouinanice-creamparlour/Drink-
ing milkshakes cold and long/ Smiling and
waving and looking so fine/ Don’t think
you knew you were in this song”.
When do you listen to this song?
After listening to a lot of popular mu-
sic and I’m tired of that bullshit, then I
go back to the classics.
Where do you listen to this song?
Basically, anywhere where I know I won’t be bothered
for about fifteen minutes, mostly just my room lying in
bed.
Is there another sense you associate strongly with
this song?
Because of the descriptive imagery I can taste ice cream
or milkshakes on a nice sunny day.
How did this song affect your musical habits?
Itdidvalidatemyreasoningforwantingtoventureinto
new gernes of music.
Final Comments?
You should check out the conspiracy around this song
(see below).
While interviewing the lovely Imperialite Jakub
Hanczak about the song “Five Years” by David
Bowie I was introduced to a con-
spiracy theory. The theory has ex-
isted since 2007 and ties the leg-
endary artists David Bowie and
Kanye West together, claiming
that Bowie predicted the coming
of Kanye West.
It starts with Bowie’s album
The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Star-
dust and the Spiders from Mars.
On the album cover we see
David Bowie posing under a sign
that reads “K.WEST”. Appar-
ently, this was simply the sign of
a fur store in London, though I
think we all know it really means
“Kanye West”. Opening the
album is the track “Five Years”,
which tells that the world will
run out of resources and come to an end in just five
years. Later in the album, David Bowie tells of a “Star-
man” who comes to earth to save humanity. How long
after the release of the album was Kanye West born?
Five years (and two days)!
Clearly a link has been es-
tablished here. Though, it’s not
until around the time of David
Bowie’s unfortunate passing that
more conspiracy grows. David
Bowie’s final album Blackstar
contains the lyrics “I’m a Black-
star, I’m a Blackstar, I’m not a
gangstar”. People have tied this
in as obviously Kanye West is
a “black star”. Some may even
consider Kanye West as the
biggest “star”. Additionally,
when he emerged onto the scene
in 2003, Kanye West positioned
his music as an alternative to the
popular sub-genre gangster rap.
People started drawing in
clues from Kanye West’s albums too. The third track
of West’s Yezus is “I AM A GOD” and respectively
in David Bowie’s Blackstar it’s “Lazarus”. The biblical
figure Lazarus was resurrected by Christ three days
after his entombment. Some have tied these “clues”
together as a metaphor for Kanye West being David
Bowie’s successor, being sure to resurrect/continue
their collective musical genius.
The reamining parts of this conspiracy are even
more far fetched than the points presented already
and most of this can be dismissed with one simple
word – coincidence. Both artists have denied that any
of this was intentional. Though, if you were some sort
of ethereal musical being would you disclose it to the
general population?
The only question I have remaining is that if Kanye
West was David Bowie’s successor, who will be Kanye
West’s?
Passing the Aux to Jakub Hanczak
The Bowie-West Conspiracy
Photo credits:
Feature
Feature
Each week an Imperial student will be intereviewed about a song they love and want to share with Felix readers. If you have a song you
wish to share, follow the QR code and complete the form!
David Bowie - Five Years
Interview by Guthrie Ruby Music Editor
Jakub - Year 3 biochemistry
THE ONLY
REMAINING
QUESTION: IF
KANYE WEST WAS
DAVID BOWIE’S
SUCCESSOR, WHO
WILL BE KANYE
WEST’S?
“ The Bowie album comver that started it all
Music.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
40
MUSIC
KEEP THE CAT FREE

