“I do what I please and you do what I
ask/He love my confidence and that’s
what you lack” drawls Flo Milli on Beef
Flomix, the 20 year old’s breakthrough
(thanks tik tok) single . The track has
been sitting at the top of my workout
playlist for the last year, so I was happy
to find that the rest of the Alabama na-
tive’s debut could join it. Built on sim-
ple, catchy beats, surprisingly technical
flows and a lethal dose of attitude Ho,
why is you here? puts Flo on par – or in
my opinion perhaps a little better than
the tidal wave of female talent flooding
the rap scene.
From buoyant instrumentals like
‘19’ to ‘May I’ ‘s driving groove - it has
been one-liners like “Put a hoe in her
place like she movin’ in” which keep me
coming back.
Having earned the “what’s this?”
accolade from friends and fami-
ly, this treacle smooth venture into the
more traditional (read modal/spiritual)
side of jazz is one I can confidently rec-
ommend to novices and aficionados to
the genre alike.
The classic rhythm section (drums,
double bass, piano) and Halsall’s trum-
pet are augmented and enhanced by
tasteful flute and harp contributions,
blending deliciously into the record’s
subtle composition and spacious pro-
duction. The result is a rather timeless
listen that will leave you floating above
your desk/bed/sofa in a cocoon of mu-
sical rapture.
When the World was One’s listenabili-
ty is in a large part thanks to it’s produc-
tion. Cut in one room in whole takes, as
jazz tunes were in the genre’s golden age,
a single listen should leave listeners with
a subtle sense of the technical progress
audio recording has made in the inter-
vening fiftysomething years.
Delicate mixing and deep reverb al-
low the harmonically harsh geometries
of each instrument to blur together in a
manner evocative of the album’s mystical
cover.
The album peaks with it’s concluding
track ‘Tribute to Alice Coltrane’, where
Rachel Gladwin’s harp work weaves an
enchanting backdrop for Halsall and
the rest of the Gondwana orchestra to
improvise over. The track’s simple, lilt-
ing chord progression ebbs and flows
to match the intesity of each soloist in a
manner only seasoned musicians in the
same room at the same time can truly
achieve. Here and throughout Halsall’s
septet harnesstheir well honed musicali-
ty, creating an hour of velvet serenity.
Last issue, inspired by the variety of songs and gen-
res respondents to the Imperial sex survey listed as
their ‘sex jams’ I endeavoured to offer a few recommen-
dations in a variety of genres that readers might find
well suited to the bedroom. This week, in conjunction
with the publication of the sex survey results (see page
25 for these in full) I am continuing to recommend
music from across the spectrum that might help you
set the mood.
New Jazz: Christian Scott aTunde Adjuah - The
Emancipation Procrastination
Christian Scott’s self-anointed ‘stretch music’ is one
of the most laid-back modern takes on jazz. On the
third record of the New Orleanian’s centennial trilogy
(celebrating the centenary of the first recorded jazz
song), Scott’s languid, breathy and often multi-tracked
trumpet lines are a delight upon the ear. The Emanci-
pation Procrastination’s dark, spacious electronic and
hip-hop tinged instrumentals built upon skittering
drums and warped guitar create a sublime darkness,
which intertwine perfectly with Scott’s innocent
melodies. Personal favourites include ‘AvengHer’ and
‘Ashes of Our Forever’.
R&B: D’Angelo – Voodoo
Considered by many to be the ‘greatest neo-soul
record of all time’, and from sex symbol D’Angelo
himself, there should be little doubt in reader’s minds
that this record is dangerously sexy. Here I would be
praising the singer-songwriter’s breathy and often
multi-tracked vocal lines if I had not already used that
exact phrasing earlier this article, suffice to say D’An-
gelo’s voice is sweet and sticky in equal measure.
D’Angelo’s song writing here makes a conscious
effort to homage classic soul with the addition of a
more hip-hop focused approach to groove (thanks in
no small part to Questlove’s innovative drum work).
The result is an intricate set of tracks distilling the es-
sence of ballads from soul icons like Marvin Gaye with
more rhythmic intrigue, moulding a perfectly sensual
atmosphere. I find myself enthralled by almost every
track but would suggest avoiding ‘Left and Right’ due
to its aggresive features courtesey of the Wu-Tang clan.
Rap: 108 – Mission Infinite
This obscure gem has seen a recent resurgence in
popularity thanks to a repressing from NBN Archives.
Mission Infinite’s distinctly lo-fi, woozy beats and en-
joyable but never show stealing or overwhelming flows
make it about as good a rap album for the bedroom as
one could imagine. I was personally a little surprised
by the number of people that listed hip-hop tracks as
their go to in the sack, but to each their own – give
this one a spin too.
Rock: T-Rex – Electric Warrior
Having heard T-Rex frontman Marc Bolan’s name
in the same sentence as Bowie’s more times than I
would care to mention, I was quite surprised at the
low-key nature sound of Electric Warrior. While
lyrical themes of sexuality and a blurred gender are
here in spades, the instrumentals are decidedly low-
key. Prominent bass and drums imbue each tune here
with smooth grooves; however, Bolan’s vocals and lead
guitar are low enough in the mix to add flavour with-
out overwhelming the listener. This makes this LP the
perfect rock choice for an intimate evening.
Music for Two Part 2
Miles Gulliford Music Editor
When the World was One
Artist: Mathew Halsall and the
Gondwana Orchestra
Forfansof: Miles Davis, Dorothy
Ashby
TopTracks: Tribute to Alice Coltrane
Runtime: 63 mins
Felix Recommends
Ho, why is you here?
Artist: Flo Milli
Forfansof:Megan Thee Stallion,
Rico Nasty
TopTracks:Like That Bitch, In The
Party, 19, May I
Runtime: 30 mins
Miles Gulliford Music Editor
THIS RECORD IS
DANGEROUSLY SEXY.
“
Sex survey
FRIDAY 9TH OCTOBER 2020
41
MUSIC
Music.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk

