In a recent interview Sofia Coppola said she wanted
to “capture what she loves about New York” and
pair that with a father daughter story. She cites con-
versations she used to have with her own father—the
great Francis Ford—about relationships and male psy-
chology. On the Rocks does a stellar job at showing the
funny side of these conversations, but also in showing
the subtle adaptations fathers have to make, in order
to stay a part of their daughter’s life as they grow up.
The plot is simple and singular, though it tries to
work on two emotional fronts: the
relationship between Laura (Rashi-
da Jones) and her father Felix (Bill
Murray), and Laura and her hus-
band Dean (Marlon Wayans). Lau-
ra, a novelist suffering from writer’s
block, notices that her marriage has
lost the spark it had long ago, and
that her husband appears to take
more and more business trips with
a female colleague. She attempts to
find in her father an ear to listen,
but instead she gets an ambitious
detective who, feeling starved of
her attention, is determined to
protect her. Where Laura considers
‘maybe just asking Dean’, Felix calls
for ‘following Dean’ and ‘tracking
his credit card transactions’. Cop-
pola’s great sense for conversational
dialogue lends even more warmth to
already great performances by Jones
and Murray. Like in Lost in Transla-
tion, Murray strikes the right balance
between assured exterior and yearn-
ing interior. The issue with the movie
arises in the second relationship,
between Laura and Dean. They feel
unintentionally artificial, and a little
wooden at times. Despite the sump-
tuous cinematography, and deadpan
brilliance of Bill Murray, the movie’s
final act is disappointingly bland.
Latest movie from Sofia Coppola
Now on Netflix
Reviews
To create the capital-A Art that Kaufman so
obviously relishes, his writing needs to be har-
assed, not left in peace. His finest work, as writer
or director, has always been subject to some sort of
intellectual audit—for example Spike Jonze as the
‘auditor’ of his writing in Being John Malkovich,
Adaptation, and Synecdoche, New York. With I’m
Thinking of Ending Things, Netflix have given him
free rein, with very polarising consequences. On
one hand, the first and final acts are brilliantly cre-
ative—looking down the barrel of the capital-A Art
that Kaufman wants. The house sequence with Jessie
Buckley and Jesse Plemons as the new couple, and
Toni Collette and David Thewlis as the bizarre but
lovable parents, is both delicate and terrifying. On
the other hand, there are aspects of this movie, such
as the second long car scene, that are a shade more
self-indulgent than is bearable, despite the great cin-
ematography. Kaufman die-hards will explain that
it’s ‘cerebral’ (as they like to say), but I think that’s a
sly pretext—Kaufman can do better.
Not being too familiar with Antonio Campos’
catalogue—except for his uninspiring 2016 mov-
ie Christine—and seeing the star-studded cast, I
wasn’t quite sure what to expect from The Devil All
the Time. It follows a handful of initially disparate
residents of the small and deeply religious village of
Knockemstiff, Ohio. Then, using a sort of ‘Taran-
tinian grease’, it attempts to slot everything together
as tensions flare, and lusts for reprisal come face-to-
face with religious propriety. Bill Skarsgård knocks
it out of the park as the caring father to protagonist
Arvin Russell (played by Tom Holland, whose per-
formance is serviceable, though not remarkable). As
Arvin discovers the abuse of his sister at the hands
of the school bullies and the new priest (Robert Pat-
tinson), we feel the weight of his decision to either
descend into violence and go to jail, or be rational
and hold together a family already under the cosh of
life’s misfortunes. It perhaps overstays its welcome at
138 minutes, but The Devil All the Time is an alto-
gether fairly entertaining thriller.
“If you’re not paying for the product, you are the
product”. This documentary-drama features inter-
views with former engineers and managers from the
world’s biggest tech companies, warning of the dan-
gers of social media, often condemning the systems
they helped to create. In tandem with these inter-
views, the film weaves in a drama about how social
media can inveigle and entrap vulnerable young
adults. Tristan Harris—the film’s central expert—
lays out the problems and their consequences very
eloquently, showing a strong desire to steer us into
calmer seas. The dramatic interludes could be en-
tirely dispensed with, but the film succeeds in rais-
ing awareness of the predatorial designs of even the
most seemingly banal inventions. As the credits roll,
the movie does not end—the message endures in the
form of a healthy guilt, for all the times we’ve acted
unknowingly as pawns.
Enola Holmes is yet another movie so concentrat-
ed on its end that it neglects its means. It is ‘message
first, movie second’. By fixating on telling the tale of
a young woman rising above her societal constric-
tions, the movie hurts both its plot and its message.
Movies made to ‘make a point’ are most successful
when they find an object to act as a formula for the
emotion. The final message is made powerful by
it being earned—as opposed to just being thrown
out there lazily. Through a combination of Helena
Bonham Carter’s poorly integrated character, Sam
Claflin’s poorly written character, annoying 4th wall
breaks, and Henry Cavill’s clear mis-casting as Sher-
lock Holmes, the film trips up—drawing too much
attention to its aim. Millie Bobby Brown’s perfor-
mance as the titular Enola Holmes is energetic, and
her rapport with Louis Partridge’s Lord Tewkes-
bury is, at times, entertaining; however, taken in its
entirety, the film comes off as fairly middling and
slightly strained.
Reviewed by Oliver Weir Film Editor
Oliver Weir Film Editor
Directedby: Sofia Coppola
Starring: Rashida Jones; Bill Murray; Marlon
Wayans
On the Rocks
KEEP THE CAT FREE
FILM
Film.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
42
I’m Thinking of Ending
Things
Directedby: Charlie Kaufman
Starring: Jessie Buckley; Jesse Plemons; Toni Collette;
David Thewlis
Enola Holmes
Directedby: Harry Bradbeer
Starring: Millie Bobby Brown; Henry Cavill; Sam Claf-
lin; Helena Bonham Carter
The Devil All The Time
Directedby: Antonio Campos
Starring: Tom Holland; Bill Skarsgård; Riley Keough;
Jason Clarke; Robert Pattinson
The Social Dilemma
Directedby: Jeff orlowski
Starring: Tristan Harris; Aza Raskin; Justin Rosenstein
Unfortunately lost in execution

