The General is 7100 feet
of Buster’s finest film.
Entering the public domain
in 1954, it represents what
is best about the silent era:
testing the limits of a new art-form, with a healthy
disregard for health and safety. The film follows
Johnnie Gray (played by Keaton), a train engineer
who, being ineligible for the Confederate army,
decides to take matters into his own hands in a
bid to rescue his fiancée Annabelle Lee (Marion
Mack) from a Union faction, and simultaneously
thwart the advances of the Northern army. The
film is all about the chase: Keaton on one train
(the Texas), chasing the Union army on another
(The General) (and later Keaton on The General,
being chased by the Union army on the Texas!).
If you think you’ve seen stunts before, think
again. During filming: Buster was knocked out;
a director was shot in the head with a blank; the
wood-burning engines caused numerous fires;
dams were erected; railroads were built; some poor
sod had his foot run over and began legal action.
For sheer spectacle, the train wreck scene is the
most expensive single shot of the entire silent era
at $42,000 (the surrounding town declared a local
holiday just to witness it). From the comfortable
confines of the 21st century, I’d
say the mayhem was all worth it:
The General is a landmark in film
history. It’s been almost 100 years
since it came out, and I do not
doubt that its delights will persist
for 100 more.
Free Film of the Week: The General (1926)
Classic of the Week: The Shining
Editor Recommends
While the idea of conscious deliberation in Art
is popular, it is not supreme. The editorial
mechanism feels predominant because it’s explaina-
ble, but edits and rewrites are driven by impulses that
are never understood. That an artist sees one phrase
as more fitting than another, or one fabric a more
suitable shade of violet, is impossible to satisfactorily
explain. The artist relies on the unconscious miasma
of nurture and nature to spit out artistic truth. Even
the most refined editorial know-how is incapable of
entertaining an idea that never springs to mind. Great
directors need no more than these mechanisms. Their
artistic intuition so closely coincides with ‘artistic fact’
(i.e. those things that make us think and make us feel),
that few external tools are necessary.
In the case of Stanley Kubrick, the divine intui-
tion is for ‘orchestrated terror’. Being an instinct, this
sensibility is naturally genreless, and as such we find a
calculated, rhythmic fear coursing through the veins
of his entire filmography. We can feel it in 2001: A
Space Odyssey, Full Metal Jacket, A Clockwork Orange,
and Eyes Wide Shut, but it finds its most evocative
shape in The Shining. Amid an almost faultless canon,
The Shining stands out for its algorithmic potency. Its
cogs are positioned and oiled in such a way as to exact
precise responses from the audience. What emotions
we attribute to circumstance, are in fact as predestined
as the characters we’re watching. We may not notice
the knives looming over Danny’s head in every kitch-
en scene, nor do we notice the changing layout of the
Overlook Hotel, but these details are not wasted on
our unconscious minds—they fester and build a cloud
of portent and deception. In The Shining, the stately
poise of Barry Lyndon harmonises with the fright-
ening ceremony of A Clockwork Orange, amounting
to what I think is Kubrick’s finest film, the greatest
example of his craftsmanship. (Incidentally, it is of no
surprise that HAL 9000’s callous duplicity, or feigned
contrition, is directed so naturally in 2001—HAL is
the incarnation of Kubrick’s practice.) All too often,
the horror genre is dumbed down in, look to the
dumb gore of the Saw franchise, or token jump-scares.
The Shining separates itself from dull conventions—
every speck of blood is deliberate, necessary, and
considered.
Yet The Shining’s true history can easily become
distorted. It was in fact the only one of Kubrick’s last
nine films not to receive a nomination for an Oscar or
a Golden Globe. Rather embarrassingly, it did inspire
Kubrick’s only Razzie nomination. However, its neg-
ative reception was nowhere more apparent than in
the words of Stephen King, who reportedly said that
the film was the only adaptation of his work that he
could “remember hating”. At first it seems that King
thought of Kubrick’s film less as an adaptation and
more of a ransacking. Ultimately, the idea of a faith-
ful adaptation necessarily translating into quality on
the screen is a mirage. Indeed, King’s own forays into
TV/Film prove this. The 1997 miniseries The Shining
(written by King, and starring Rebecca De Mornay) is
a more faithful take on the novel, but it’s universally
seen to have fallen short of Kubrick’s 1980 standard.
King evidently respected
Kubrick’s instinct and
the need for artistic liber-
ties to be taken, since he
wrote in his 1981 book
Danse Macabre that The
Shining had “contributed
something of value to
the [horror] genre”, and
stated that it was one of
his “personal favourites”.
It must be noted that,
with regard to seeing The
Shining as praiseworthy, King was ahead of the game.
The cultural re-evaluation of The Shining took much
longer than a year. Perhaps the movie needed its own
space—after all, it did open on the same weekend as
The Empire Strikes Back. While this may account for
its slightly low box office takings, it does not account
for the notably negative critiques of its quality. Per-
haps Kubrick simply pushed the envelope so boldly (as
in 2001) that contemporary tastes were unable to keep
up. In any case, when we compare it to other movies
that have received similar re-evaluations, and also
shared opening weekends with Star Wars movies—I’m
thinking of Friedkin’s Sorcerer in 1977— The Shining
has fared extremely well. It now stands as a cinematic
monument to what is possible in the hands of genius
directors, in whom works the most divinely unex-
plainable intuition. As we mark The Shining’s 40th
anniversary, we should look at it not as something
merely to be remembered, but rather as a monolith on
some distant hill, the path to which modern horror
should strive to retrace.
Reviewed by Oliver Weir
Oliver Weir Film Editor
The General
FRIDAY 9TH OCTOBER 2020
FILM
Film.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.com 43
Directedby: Stanley Kubrick
Yearof Release: 1980
Starring: Jack Nicholson; Shelley Duvall; Danny Lloyd;
Scatman Crothers
Directedby: Clyde Bruckman; Bust-
er Keaton
Yearof Release: 1926
Starring: Buster Keaton; Marion
Mack
The Shining
“I was more proud of that picture than any I ever made” —
Keaton
Scan to watch!

