The Battle of Sitcoms
Program review
Brooklyn Nine Nine
Maegan Spiteri Television Writer
Credits: Imgur/ Fox
Friends v s US Office v s Brooklyn 99 v s How I Met Your Mother
FRIDAY 9TH OCTOBER 2020
TELEVISION
45
Television.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
1
Thegenreofsituationalcomedy,orsitcom,hasbeen
a well-loved one. And in light of recent events, we
areinneedofsomelaughtermoresothanever.Wheth-
er you need something to remind you of what life used
to be when you could visit your friend(s), a reason to
procrastinate revision, or simply some background
noise to keep the loneliness at bay while scrolling the
internet, I present the battle of the sit-coms!
As a home student, I have a huge amount of pride
for the great British telly, and while we have our own
great sitcoms (read: Outnumbered, The Office UK,
The Inbetweeners and Plebs), our expertise seems to lie
more in the realms of drama. Don’t get me wrong, dra-
ma series are great, but while the world is a dystopian
horror reality, light and cheerful sitcoms are the way to
go. More specifically, American sitcoms. Their endless
seasons with more than 8 episodes, each make these
shows perfect for a long-term binging commitment.
But which one should you devote so, so many hours of
your life to? Fear not, for I have the answer.
Between Netflix, Amazon Prime and Disney+,
there are countless series to binge, but for the sake of
crowning the best sitcom, let’s consider the most pop-
ular four: Brooklyn Nine Nine, Friends, How I Met
Your Mother and The Office US. Disclaimer: I have
watched all these shows at least twice through each, so
I feel pretty well informed, but these are just my opin-
ions trying to help you pick your next binging obses-
sion, so don’t at me.
Firstly, let’s talk about Friends. This is probably one
of the most infamous American sitcoms ever. With 10
seasons and a total of 236 episodes, this will take over
3 ¼ days to binge. Set predominately in 90s, this show
is great for reminiscing a simpler time of landlines and
momjeans,andforthoseintheearthscience,Ross’pal-
aeontology lectures count as revision, right? Friends is
one of the best American sitcoms, however, taking it
out of its contemporary context, some characters views
be quite problematic. Despite the occasional fat-sham-
ing and homophobia, the show is light-hearted and
not too rough on your brain. Each episode is stan-
dalone and requires next to no concentration to enjoy.
The characters are relatable which can be a downside if
you get emotionally invested so take this as a warning:
whilestuckathomeinlockdown,youwillfindyourself
living vicariously because though your actual friends
may not be able to, Friends will be there for you.
Next there’s How I Met Your Mother. This is anoth-
er hefty series with 9 seasons and 206 episodes to get
stuck into, which will take you just short of 3 days to
complete. The show follows Ted Mosby telling his chil-
dren the story of how he met their mother (obviously),
and his life with his friends Robin, Marshall, Lily and
Barney. These characters, though great, are less relata-
ble and a bit more annoying. The episodes follow the
general chronology of how Ted met Mrs Mosby, but
again, each episode is quite standalone, perfect for
when you’ve fallen asleep in front of the telly. HIMYM
is a lot more about the journey than the destination.
Without giving anything away, when you FINALLY
get to the end, it’s somewhat of a cop out. You’ve been
on this whole roundabout for hours and hours, follow-
ing all the characters’ lives, for not much of a payoff.
That’s not to say each episode individually isn’t enjoya-
ble, but if you’re watching it to find out who the moth-
er is - don’t, just google it instead.
Then there’s The Office US. Based on the Ricky Ger-
vais show in the UK of the same name (but better), the
mockumentary follows the workers at Dunder Mifflin
PaperCompany.Anotherserieswith9seasonsand201
episodes means it will keep you busy for a while or a
hardcore 67 hours. The characters are a lovable band
of misfits, often winding each other up in the office,
though due to the paper company setting, the episodes
can have a bit of monotony which can make it difficult
to consume in large quantities. Having said that, it is
great way to turn your brain off and relax after a hard
days work… or not.
Finally, there’s Brooklyn Nine Nine, the youngest of
the series and the only one still making new episodes.
Therearecurrently7seasonsandatotalof143episodes
which gives it a reasonable viewing time of just under
2 days. From the writers that gave you Parks and Rec-
reation, Brooklyn Nine Nine follows the detectives in
the 99th Precinct of the NYPD. The characters are the
most diverse group of protagonists out of any sitcom,
allowing the show to delicately address serious issues
such as homophobia, sexual assault and racism, in such
a way it doesn’t compromise the comedy of the show or
become ‘preachy’. Despite being yet another workplace
sitcom, each episode follows a different case as well as
the long running relationships between the characters,
giving it a more substantial plot and making it great to
binge or to watch casually during a break. This is an-
other show of relatable characters, who are genuinely
funny so there needs to be another warning here about
getting too emotionally invested, but at least they’re
still making more episodes so you don’t have to feel
that empty void for too long after watching it.
All of these shows are fab, and everyone has their
own favourite, but if I had to crown a winner (I don’t
have to but I’m going to anyway), it would have to
be Brooklyn Nine Nine. The police setting allows for
loads of wild stories, the characters feel real and have
their own strengths and flaws, making it more enjoya-
ble all round to watch. The 99 work as a team and have
agreatsenseofcommunitywhichwemaybemissingin
our own lives at the moment. If you’re in need of a pick
me up, this is the show for you.

