When it comes to finance, rele-
vant university courses tend to
be more quantitative than qualitative.
Students hoping to work in financial
services are required to develop some
professional experience through expo-
sure to the workplace, most importantly
internships to build interpersonal skills
as necessary. A job in financial services
cannot be dissected to a set of specifics –
and yet however, there are a few popular
careers at an entry-level in the industry.
These could be suggested to be account-
ing & advisory, investment banking,
operations, compliance and the boom-
ing FinTech for which London is widely
considered a quintessential hub. The ca-
reers are made available at firms split up
into two sides of finance – buy-side and
sell-side.
Within the financial market, buy-side
refers to the side that buys and invests
significant portions of securities in or-
der to carry out portfolio management.
Given that buy-side is revolved around
purchasing huge chunks of securities at a
time, the top tier managers tend to own
hold an extensive deal of market power
in the industry at hand.
The sell-side, in fact, has far more op-
portunities for aspiring young people
entering the workforce armed with a de-
gree in finance, or even STEM and liber-
al arts which have also well prepared stu-
dents to break into finance, as we have
witnessed in the past decade. This side
is opposite of the buy-side given that it
deals with the issuing, selling and trad-
ing of securities to the capital markets.
Popular sell-side firms include Citibank
and Goldman Sachs, the latter of which
has led the ‘sell-side empowers the buy-
side’ movement in recent years. Howev-
er, what truly matters is the institutions
allowing for integration of all trade cy-
cle parts, so these terms are expected to
dwindle in significance over time. How
about the buy-side competitors?
Still, there are a number of firms
which dominate buy-side activities in
the financial services industry and these
tend to be leading exchange-traded fund
and mutual fund managers, including
Vanguard, Fidelity and BlackRock, all
of which have unsurprisingly bright
outlooks even through this challenging
period, backed by unwavering optimism
revolving around asset management.
Many of such investment manage-
ment firms heavily depend risk manage-
ment teams that lead protective efforts
via both bottom-up and top-down strat-
egies which allow for the identification
of the 2 main categories of risk which
are enterprise and fiduciary. From these,
many entry level careers including finan-
cial modelling and quantitative analytics
are available for graduates.
In addition to carrying out quantita-
tive analysis to support a firm in manag-
ing its fiduciary and enterprise risks, risk
management teams ensure that port-
folio risks are consistent across man-
dates, reflect current investment themes
within its strategies, and comply with
client-specific risk guidelines. Develop-
ing analytics and standards for risk and
performance measurement has become
especially paramount in recent years so
there has been a surge in demand jobs
related to this.
During your time at university, an
internship opportunity would certainly
broaden your horizons and potential-
ly propel you into your dream job in
financial services. An insightful expe-
rience when handled correctly could
set you up for success after graduation.
Some expectations to have going into a
finance internship are things that stu-
dents would be better off brainstorming
when making applications. This way, in-
terviewers will have an improved chance
of seeing sincerity and passion during
conversations.
When you spend a summer at some
firm in the relevant industry, you would
be applying the more technical skills
learnt and developed at university, all
whilst honing those essential soft skills
to professionalism. Naturally, the in-
ternship will be centred around you
bettering the way to handle professional
duties such as analysis and team discus-
sions. You will, however, also be spend-
ing lots of time trying to pick things
up as there will be a very steep learning
curve going in so making sure to con-
sistently demonstrate eagerness to learn
new concepts and ask relevant questions
are imperative to apply and further in-
crease knowledge.
Longer period internships are typi-
cally called industry placements which
students sometimes do if their universi-
ty course permits it, thereby allowing for
these to be treated as credit for comple-
tion of the degree. These placements are
an optimal way to develop skills in the
professional environment, having that
extended characteristic. In particular,
your employability will shoot up and
you will obtain an international perspec-
tive. However, internships tend to be
exclusive to those in their penultimate
year of study. What if you still want to
get ahead early in a cut-throat industry?
Spring Weeks are available for stu-
dents going into their penultimate year,
and are usually taken placement before
Summer Term at university. The availa-
bility of such placements has permeated
throughout the industry in the past cou-
ple of years, allowing for firms to identi-
fy an early batch of students. Thus, the
program is treated as a pipeline for sum-
mer internship programs and in turn,
for full-time roles. Even without intern
to full-time conversion, you would have
still enhanced networking skills and
connected with people on LinkedIn so
that it is possible to stay in touch with
those who have similar career interests.
Fierce competitiveness in financial
services at an entry-level is without
doubt the norm in 2020 and with vi-
rus concerns and an expected economic
bubble burst, this does not seem to be
stagnating as we move further into the
decade. With the right amount of ambi-
tion and resilience, incoming university
graduates can face adversity and opti-
mistically strive for an acceptable career.
A guide to breaking into finance
Geoff Sang Investment editor
Welcome to financial services. This is your life
Credits:Markus Spiske
KEEP THE CAT FREE
INVESTMENT
Investment.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
52

