Back in 2010 my brother introduced me to my
first souls-like which just happened to be the
first ever souls-like, Demon’s Souls. It was pun-
ishing, especially for my juvenile mind. What sort
of a psychopath makes a game which gets harder
the more you fail? However, the first time I felt the
warm squelch of the phalanx under the boots of
my fluted armour, I knew why they’d done it and it
was a masterpiece.
Ever since then, like a junky with a limitless over-
draft, I’ve sought greater challenges to recapture the
high that only Demon’s Souls could give me. New
game +7 on Dark Souls – the sun praises me. The Last
of Us on grounded – baby food picked out of my teeth
with a flick knife. Metro 2033 on Ranger Hardcore –
you don’t need ball bearings when you’ve got balls of
steel.
Nothing has come
close to recapturing
the sense of achieve-
ment my 13-year-
old self felt when I
lulled the old one
back to sleep. So you
can imagine my ex-
citement when Sony
announced a De-
mon’s Souls remaster
at their PS5 reveal
event. A wise Ubi-
soft script writer once
said “Did I ever tell
you what the defini-
tion of insanity is? Insanity is doing the exact... same
fucking thing... over and over again expecting... shit to
change...” what they didn’t realise though is that I’m
not expecting shit to change – I’m an addict and that
feeling I got from Demon’s Souls is my drug.
But what does it mean for folk who never got the
chance to play Demon’s Souls the first time
around? Well, for starters you’ll get to see
where one of the most popular and punish-
ing franchises (and genres) started. Demon’s
Souls blend of show don’t tell storytelling,
challenging combat and sprinkling of Love-
craftian horror made it a joy to play and
guarantees that if you can “git gud” (admit-
tedly, not a trvial propositions) you’ll have a
great time. On top of that, you’ll get to ex-
perience true hardship. Souls games are the
only experience worse than living through
an economic collapse, global pandemic and
a race war simultaneously – once you’ve en-
countered your first archdemon you’ll won-
der why you
ever wor-
ried about
the impacts
of 2020 on
your career plans and
future life prospects.
The most ex-
citing element of the
remake though is the
potential for expan-
sion on the original
project. The PS3 re-
lease featured five dis-
tinctly themed levels
accessed through five
“Arch-stones” found
in the game’s hub-world. There was however, a sixth.
This stone has been desecrated in game – a memori-
al to the cut sixth world which still exists within the
game’s code. The stone would have provided access to
the land of giants in the cold north. It is likely that
this realm, its demons and their archdemon, may just
make it into the remake of the game. Us veterans of
the Soul’s series are sustained by hope alone and the
sixth Arch-stone has long been a source of sustenance.
Most importantly this remake gives the next gen-
eration of gamers the chance to play a diamond in
the rough, polished to perfection, and to experience
one of the greatest feelings in gaming. Approaching
a challenge and getting kicked into the dirt over and
over again until eventually, through sheer force of will
and a bit of luck, you scrape past that challenge in the
nick of time only to have to do it another 20 times. It’s
a bit like doing a degree at Imperial.
RELEASES
Sega Game Gear Micro Releases.
The games gear has been shrunk even
smaller than the gameboy micro from
back in the day!
GAMING NEWS
Cyberpunk 2077 Goes gold
Pleasing fans of CD Projekt Red. After
the announcement of them going into
crunch, this is a welcome news drop
Xbox Series X Overheating. While
not making any noise, the console re-
leases heat like crazy... leading to some
testers burning themselves.
Minecraft Steve is the newest addi-
tion to the Smash Bros. roster. Can it
get any weirder than this?
NEW RELEASES
Remothered: Broken Porcelain
StormindGames
Sequel to the Original Remothered
game, this survival horror, adventure
treat should be a great addition to
the games to play this Spooktober.
Fifa 21
EA
Everyone and their mum knows Fifa. If
you like football, check it out!
G.I. Joe: Operation Blackout
Game MillEntertainment
Third person shooter based on the
famous comic book/tv series.
What Demon Souls Remake
means for Souls Fans
Sam McKay Games Writer
The only creature capable of doing as dirty as 2020
Credits: Gamespot
Heading into the junkies Den...
Credits: usgamer
FRIDAY 9TH OCTOBER 2020
GAMES
55
Games.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk

