imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
Should students care about the EU? Debate next week
For the first time in 40 years, we will choose whether or not to remain in the
European Union. Following the referendum announcement by the Prime Minister,
the deciding date is set for the 23 June 2016.
There are nearly two and a half million students in the UK who could play a decisive
role in this referendum debate.
To explore these crucial issues for students Universities UK is hosting a major
national event, a Question Time style debate on Tuesday 8th March in partnership
with the National Union of Students titled ‘Should students care about the EU?’ The event, which will feature speakers from both sides of the debate,
will take place in at The Church House, Westminster, London from 19:45-21:00. The event will be chaired by Javier Espinoza, Education Editor, Daily
Telegraph. It’s free to attend, but booking is necessary. For more information and to book, go to:
imperialcollegeunion.org/eu-referendum
Many of us have had issues with poor quality housing or rogue landlords
(or both if you’ve been really unlucky!), and it is time to put that to an end.
As part of the Union’s campaign to tackle housing issues, we are thrilled
to be collaborating with Move’m!
Move’m is essentially a TripAdvisor for student housing. Similar to how
you would rate a hotel or restaurant, you can now rate your student
houses too. You can review and advise on properties that you loved and properties that you hated. Other students at Imperial are then able to benefit
from this inside knowledge, by knowing which properties are pleasant to live in and which should be avoided.
In the past Move’m has been able to pre-warn students due to move in to a negatively reviewed house and has even got them out of their contract
and got their non-refundable money back. It has also put pressure on landlords local to other Universities to ensure houses are of the best quality.
To kick things off we would like as many of you as possible to review accommodation you’ve lived in within the past 5 years. As a reward, after
reviewing your property (and confirming your Imperial email address) you will be sent a £5 e-voucher for Amazon! Go to the Move’m website and
submit your review easily via: www.movem.co.uk/listing-submit
Fridays in the h-bar - bar food on till 22:00 from 4 March
From Friday 4 March, the h-bar will be extending its bar food service until 22:00. Grab an h-bar burger for
yourself or tapas to share with friends and colleagues with your drink for a little bit longer!
Coming soon at the h-bar:
Pub Quiz - every second and fourth Thursday
Wine Tasting, Friday 4 March
PGI Friday, every Friday from 16:00
imperialcollegeunion.org/h-bar
Grab yourself a £5 Amazon Voucher courtesy of move’m

