A M N E S T Y
Human
rights
Mark Thursday December 10 on your
calendars! It is Human Rights Day—
an offically sponsored U N Day which
started in 1950 to celebrate the signing
of the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights. The IC Amnesty
group will have a stall in the J C R at
lunchtime so do come along.
What does Amnesty International
do? It is a worldwide1
movement,
independent of any government,
political faction, ideology, economic
interest or religious creed. The
activities focus strictly on prisoners.
At IC we have adopted Ivan Starovoit
of the USSR, imprisoned for the mere
wish to practice his religion as a
Jehovah's Witness. We take part in
campaigns, eg the current focus on
torture in Syria (FELIX Nov 13). We
also have an Urgent Action scheme:
when a person is in imminent danger
of being tortured or executed, needs
urgent medical help, has
'disappeared' or any case where
his/her human rights are threatened,
we quickly send off letters and
telegrams to the relevant authorities.
Letter writing is really easy! A l l
you have to do is show your concern
about the prisoner and make a simple
request. It is very important to be
polite and respectful and never
advance any political/religious ideas.
It is preferable to give an indication
of who and what you are. By all
means write in your own language.
A short, simple letter is better than
none at all.
Even if you are not a member of
our group, please send letters for
prisoners mentioned in F E L I X and
contact Guy Sims or Monique Yeo
(both Maths 2) for further
information.
Show you care! Do something—
you are so lucky to be free to choose
what you believe in—help those who
can't.
O R C H E S T R A
Endangered
The Planets, Friday December 4, '
8pm, Great Hall.
'One egg or two?' shouted Isobel
Hoist up the stairs to her husband.
'One, and there's no need to shout,'
he rebuked as he descended the stairs.
It was a normal Monday morning
chez Hoist in January 1930. The
world was still taking in the Wall
Street crash but had not yet suffered
the real crisis of the pre-war era—
bodyline bowling. Gustav picked up
the Times as he attacked his breakfast.
A smile came to his face as he noticed
that Surrey had won again.
At that moment the calm was
broken by a whirlwind coming
through the door in the form of the
luscious Imogen, a 23 year old beauty
and devoted daughter.
'Why are you smiling, dad? Have
you got the sixth form today?'
(It is an interesting fact that Gustav
Hoist spent all his life teaching at
girls' schools.)
'Imogen! Don't speak to your
father like that; you know why they
won't let him teach little boys.'
'Oh, shit!'
'Gustav! Language!' cried the
exasperated Isobel.
'That bastard Lowell was right after
all.'
'What are you talking about?'
'They've found Pluto. Another
planet. Some smart arse professor at
that brain factory behind the Albert
Hall. M y music's ruined. What am I
going to do?'
'There, there, dear, it's all right,
no one will notice. Perhaps you could
add a bit on the end.'
Come to the Great Hall tonight at
8pm to find out. Also on the
programme is Debussy's Iberia (bring
your sombreros) and Saint-Saen's
cello concerto.
QT: the official history
Continued from last week...
The time was ripe. One dark night,
the Kama-Sutra and its, by now,
numerous offspring emerged from
under their rock, assumed human
form and infiltrated the decadent
society that had evolved around them.
Within days they had acquired the
reputation of throwing great parties,
being great lovers and greatly
irritating humanity with crazy
stunts...
To be continued.
We meet at 1300hrs every.Tuesday
in Southside Upper Lounge or
Belushi's depending on how hungry
I am. Everybody is welcome. Be
there!
jsiiiifiill
Jit*
Admission
Dear Judith,
I was interested to read Nigel Whitfield's views on my
opinion article Is FELIX Biased?, and particularly his
comments on the news story Irresponsible Ian. lam forced
to concede that on this occasion I did not have time to
listen to the tapes personally, mainly because printing
problems in FELLX demanded the completion of two fairly
hefty features by Wednesday. However in this case the
facts were confirmed by two separate sources, one of
whom is a prominent member of IC Radio. I regard their
account as totally reliable and I have no reason to believe
that the two sources had collaborated in some way to tell
me a porky pie.
I do not think that M r Whitfield actually disagrees with
my interpretation of the interview, but the issue can easily
be resolved if M r Whitfield feels strongly about it. A l l
M r Whitfield has to do is rebroadcast the interview on
IC Radio, or to print an accurate transcript in F E L I X .
I acknowledge, however, that in an ideal world I should
have listened to the tapes myself, and in fact I had made
arrangements with M r Whitfield to do so. Having worked
in F E L I X himself, M r Whitfield must realise that when
things go wrong one has to do the best one can in the time
available. Nevertheless I would not have included the
section in question had I not been entirely convinced of
its authenticity.
I do not think that any of M r Whitfield's comments are
relevant to the point of the article, namely that there is
a lack of communication between F E L I X and Ian
Howgate, that this is a bad thing, and that it is in
everyone's interest to see the situation resolved.
Yours,
Bill Goodwin.
It seems that poor old Bill is still under the
misapprehension that we don't communicate. We try
to communicate but communication is a two-way thing
dear!
Dreadful
Dear Judith,
Regarding your letter (issue no ?) from Bryan Adams,
the dreadful Canadian folk singer, I'd like to mention that
while I was sitting in the Holland Club recently, someone
came up to me and asked if I was Roger Serpell. Roger
Serpell is, of course, the well-known chairman of the
Holland Club, and also possibly better known as a great
admirer of 'Stagefright', the greatest band in the whole
history of the whole world, the only band capable of
making their audience chant in unison: 'Don't Bogart the
sick bag my friend, pass it over to me'. I suggest you start
a competition for your readers to see if anyone can point
to someone in the College bar and catering world whom
I do actually resemble. Having checked with my mother,
passport and birth certificate, I am Moore Lyttle, little
known ex-manager of those radical organisations.
The Breakaway Union Bar &
People's Republic of Stan's Bar.
FELIX Friday 4th December 1987 25

