e r s
Pro flans...
Dear Judith,
As a member of Mech Eng 1 and Guilds Hitsquad I
found M r Dyson's letter fascinating. The whole idea of
flanning is that a friend can demonstrate friendship or an
enemy despite (I decline to classify M r Dyson's case) by
paying £1 to charity. One assumes that all students wish
to contribute, whether actively hitting or passively being
hit, to the Rag effort. If they do not wish to be hit for
whatever reason (whether it is on grounds of health, ability
to cope with the experience, being a humourless bastard
etc) they can purchase immunity. For those sporting
characters who wish to join in the game but fear for their
contact lenses, badges were also available which would
prevent the Hitsquadders from going for the face. The
same holds true for glasses. So, when the time comes for
the hit to be executed wearers of glasses and contacts are
safe as are people with immunity. If the victim hasn't
bought immunity then it is both superfluous and fun-
destroying to have to ask him beforehand whether he is
getting flanned.
'But I didn't know', cries M r Dyson to which my reply
is that there were posters all over College, announcements
in F E L I X and Guildsheet and little people in masks,
scarves and white coats trotting around College flanning
nine people in Mech Eng 1 before M r Dyson's turn came
round. The other 4,500 students in College knew that it
was going on, why not M r Dyson? Is he totally oblivious
of what goes on around him? ('Yes' scream those who
know him!) I do sympathise with his anxiety about his
eyesight and it would indeed be tragic if anything should
happen to him. But that's what immunity is for and with
the best will in the world one can only do so much in the
way of enlightening and warning the general populace
without sending every student a personal message
announcing the fact. (Our Dep Rep did in fact make an
announcement before one of our lectures so, in effect,
everybody did get a personal message!) I regret any
inconvenience caused to M r Dyson and hope that next year
he'll be better informed. This letter should help him
remember if he bothers to read it.
Yours sincerely,
Manthos 'Max' Kallios, Mech Eng 1.
...Anti Igor...
Dear Judith,
I wish to clarify a few points raised by M r Dyson in
last week's issue, regarding the flanning of poor
defenceless students such as himself.
First of all, it seems ludicrous to me that he did not know
anything about the Hitsquad, since it had been advertised
greatly during the previous weeks. I am a member of M r
Dyson's Mech Eng class, and I know of ten people in this
group who were members of the Hitsquad and who freely
let people know what was going on. There was also a clear
poster on the noticeboard outside M E 2 2 0 , where most of
his lectures are held. If M r Dyson wanted to partake in
any university life then it was his responsibility to read
the noticeboard—no one elses. This, allied with previous
publicity in U G M s , the Freshers' video, Guildsheet and
F E L I X show that M r Dyson has a blinkered and totally
naive life.
Secondly, I would like to point out that I was a member
of the Hitsquad, taking out many hits during the week,
but unfortunately not M r Dyson's. He writes of medical
problems, and I do sympathise with him. I would like you
to know, however, that three years ago I had 'major'
surgery to my nose which means that I quite often have
nosebleeds if it is knocked, as could quite easily happen
when carrying out a hit. This can be a 'traumatic
experience'. Due to the fact that the operation also
involved plastic surgery, the skin around my nose is
allergic to shaving foam. This proved to be quite
uncomfortable when wearing a shaving foam covered scarf
across my face. So, M r Dyson, why are you so uptight?
I can only assume you have an inferiority complex. I can't
imagine what you would be like if your doctor told you
that you wouldn't breathe through your nose again if it
was broken. That's what my doctor told me.
If M r Dyson had come out of hibernation to notice all
the Hitsquad publicity, then he could have obtained a
warning badge from the Guilds Office and we would take
care when hitting you not to get the foam in your eyes,
as I'm sure the many victims with contact lenses will
confirm. Neither do we hit anyone hard intentionally. It
may only happen by accident if the student retaliates.
Lastly, I am one of your fellow residents at International
Hall, and I do not mind going back every day, smelling
of shaving foam and sweat after hits. After all, it is for
charity, and a lot of people have some good laughs about
it, especially the people who paid for the hit (usually
friends), and usually the victims themselves. It is not just
the people in the Hitsquad who have the fun.
So come on M r Dyson, how about joining in with life
for a change. University life is not all work and no play.
These are my own opinions and nothing to do with the
Union.
What a pity you don't know who paid for the hit. Not
mentioning any names, if you had any common sense you
may work out that your laboratory group had something
to do with it.
Yours,
An Official Guilds Hitsquadder.
In a good cause?
Dear Igor,
I was deeply hurt and almost fear-stricken by your cold
and cutting letter in last week's F E L I X . Its content was
both factually inaccurate and heartbreaking.
I, for one, should know exactly what occurred as I
actually carried out the hit. Firstly, you were obviously
aware that the Hitsquad were 'on manoeuvres' since you
shouted, T can see you down there waiting for me' when
you first sighted me. The fact that I replied, 'Don't worry
we're not waiting for you', is irrelevant!
On your arrival at the ambush point, my partner and
I approached you and flanned you on the top and back
of your head. You had actually be^t over and covered your
face before we made the hit so 1 can honestly say that the
only time you had foam on your face was when you last
had a shave—you do shave, don't you?
On a less technical note, it sounds like you can't take
a joke, you've got one hell of an imagination and you're
incredibly square. It's no wonder that someone took out
a contract on you.
Finally, if you were the slightest bit interested in Guilds
you would know about the hard work that we and the other
C C U ' s put into Rag to raise money for some very worthy
charities.
Yours,
KMcC.
S m a l l A d s
ANNOUNCEMENTS
• Restringing of squash and tennis rackets.
Contact P Skipworth via Chem Eng 2 letter
racks.
• Party? Party? Hire the professional disco
with the power, experience and prices to
satisfy. Budget systems and up to 4 k w sound
and 5kw lighting effects. Hans Beier 8 7 0 8112.
• Queen convention at Southampton, April
22-24. Contact Lisa Ingram, LSII asap if you're
interested.
• DocSoc Xmas Party—Wednesday
December 4, 7.30pm, jazz band, disco and
refreshments available Holland Club Function
Room. £1.50 from Mark Taylor, D O C 2.
• Mines Ball: Tickets now available from R S M
Union. Do not miss this end of term
extravaganza.
• Guilds Motor Club rally jackets available
now from Guilds Office for only £28. See
Adrian Bourne or Jon Stout.
LOST
• Clangers video in region of Union Bar last
term. Contact A l Birch c/o Union Offica
FOR SALE
• '96—A history of sexual frustration'. Pre-
publication copies available, £15 from QTSoc
• BBC B' Computer with DDFS, O S 1.2,
Basic 2, View, Mega Rom, software, books,
etc-£180. 400K, 40/80 track disc drive in
metal case with own PSU—£90, Grafpad 2 for
B B C - £ 3 5 . Contact G Payne, Physics 3.
• Ford Cortina 1600, N reg, tax, MOT,
mechanically sound, good runner. £175. Phone
int 6002 or 7 4 8 5039
• Rega Planar 3 turntable with RB300 arm.
£140 ono. Demonstration available in South
Ken. Apply to George bock, Mining 3, through
MRE pigeonholes or R S M room 150.
PERSONAL
• First IC Radio had the gang of four. Now
SFSoc brings you the gang of three They
should form a company—a very limited one of
course
• Nigel—So what does 6 9 taste like or should
we ask Tonia?
• What do you call 120 monkeys in a lecture
theatre that holds 2 0 0 — a 2nd year Physics
EM lecture
• Does Simon Turner still attend Imperial
College? The boys from Bishop's demand to
know.
• Simon, a 9 week hangover ain't bad, but
don't you think it's time you sobered up for
the Christmas parties. Guy and Richard.
• If you sit a monkey at a typewriter for an
infinite length of time what do you g e t - 2 n d
year Physics E M notes.
• Safe lectures are here—put a condom on
your !
ecturers head.
• Dear Norman, please can I order a cheese
and mushroom omelette for next Wednesday.
• Get off your backside and listen to
Uranus - ISCO tonight, Great Hall, 8pm.
• Dai, following your temporary residence last
week we have decided to grant you associate
membership only, the Committee the
Rsnthouse Club
26 Friday 4th December 1987 FELIX

