• Girls don't believe everything the survey
says. Relationships available as platonic or
physical as you like. No fees except for
equipment. Most weekends, the Penthouse
Club
•130 HG is the Penthouse Club.
• Ladies, we are currently auditioning for our
Christmas fairy. Applicants must be female,
bring your own tutu, we'll provide the trunks.
The Penthouse Club
• Mike recommends the ribbed ones.
• Lorraine (or Lorainel when you've finished
letting your fingers do the walking, why not
run them through my hair. Ladies Liaison
Officer, the Penthouse Club
• Do you get bored on Sundays? If so you
can't be listening to IC Radio between 7-9pm.
'The Show with no listeners'—with incidental
chat and blah from James (horny onel & Linzi
(orange hairl.
• Linzi I love you Piggy.
• 'I will have to get you drunk and seduce
you'—quote from Angie
• In preparation for Christmas get into the
spirit of things and come to port tasting.
• Mags, only 4 more days.
• What happens on the 8th?
• C.U.V.P.20.08.12.1987.
• Is 20 past it or will she cope?
• Dr Fazbender says 'I know the road turns
left, but let's try a bit of cross-country driving'.
• Q. What's the difference between Dave
Tyler's brain and Wormwood Scrubs?
A. Wormwood Scrubs has lots of cells!
• Ann reckons 7's easy making love to Chas'
piano marathon music
• Rag Quiz scores (contdl: Irfan 17, Jeremy
20, Kate 38, Ann 56.
• Wanted: girlfriend for lonely chemistry
fresher. Apply Sean, Room 13, Beit Old Hostel.
• Dr Fazbender says, '110mph is the most
economical speed for a Sierra'.
• We hear that there's more than one nancy
boy in S F S o c
• Why is cuboid waiting till after Christmas?
Cuboid is square
• What is worse than a spying cube? A
cuboid in love
• The Caped Avenger offers FELIX an X-rated
xclusive, xmas, xtra-special, xxx xxx, Judith,
the Caped Avenger.
• Mr D J Nokes or anyone who knows his
whereabouts, please contact S Kilmurray c/o
Underwater Club urgently.
• Dr Fazbender says, 'don't dent the van,
that's my job'.
• Xxxxmas, see you in Sydney, a.m.I. Chris.
• Need a wheelclamp removed? Need to get
that troublesome chastity belt removed? See
Andy, Level 7.
• I'm really enjoying reading FELIX now,
Chris.
• Chris (I t h i n k - t h e guy with the braces
anyway!). I was wondering if_ you'd like to
come out to Sydney or Bali some time Give
me a ring or drop me a line S.x.
• Adieu (aurevoir?) to all on level 8. Oh, and
the funny lot on level 7. Off to warmer climes.
Special thanks to Indy for services rendered
and Mike 'hot-stuff' lair anywayl CSam.x.
• Kebab, Kebab, my lift home for a kebab
Down the drain
Dear Judith
Last week The London Student mentioned IC again.
Under the headline 'Imperial louts wreak havoc' the report
gave an account, from U L U ' s point of view, of IC Rag's
'drink-a-pub-dry'. Luckily for us they didn't mention Rag.
What they did mention was that, among other things, IC
students stripped the walls of signs, let off a fire
extinguisher and were found urinating in corridors.
According to T L S , IC caused over £1000 worth of
damage.
Of course, their report was exaggerated, but even so,
what good does this do IC? When I enquired as to why
the U L U Bar was chosen for this event I was informed
that it was because ' U L U are a bunch of commie lefties
and we hate them'. I was also told that Tan wanted us
to trash U L U ' , although I find this hard to believe.
I admit that when U L U was first chosen I put up no
fight. But when another pub offered Rag 50% of their
profits if we chose to drink them dry and U L U was still
insisted upon I began to wonder about the point of having
such an event for Rag. The argument is that any pub that
knew we were coming would 'stock up' and we wouldn't
have a chance of drinking it dry. But how much chance
did we have of draining Mergers?
It's not just the fact that Rag gave up the chance of
raising a considerable amount of money, nor the fact that
Imperial students are once again condemned as 'louts' that
really saddens and depresses me, but the fact that no one
seems to care about IC's reputation.
Perhaps it is something to be proud of that more and
more colleges want to ban us. Perhaps we should go on
until we are totally isolated—that would really show them
wouldn't it? Then we could all have a jolly good laugh
when no one wants to apply here anymore and Mines
closes due to lack of students. Perhaps we could celebrate
by going to Mergers.
Yours sincerely,
Emma Barrett, Rag Secretary (April—December 1987).
Serious and sorry
Dear Judith
At last—a serious letter from me (how boring!).
Firstly, I am not pleased with whoever pulls down my
posters. If you are heterosexual then it should not effect
you. Don't flatter yourself that a homosexual is likely to
'make a pass at you'—I for sure do not fancy anyone just
because they are male, any more than you fancy anyone
who is female—well except maybe in C & G , where there
are only four or five females so you can't be choosy (I
should know—I'm in Mech Eng!). If you are bisexual/gay,
then I feel sorry for you if you are so insecure and scared
to be yourself that you feel the need to destroy anything
that reminds you of your own sexuality.
Secondly, W O W ! ! !
Some people have actually contacted me and I have met
them and talked to them. They said they were gay, but
were terrified that their friends would find out. To me
that says something about their friends. Do you realise
tnai your bad attitude may be making one of your friends
very, very unhappy?
PS. Sorry if this letter is directed mainly at men—there
are more of thpm amd they are generally more intolerant
than women. Please write and tell me if you disagree/agree
with what I have written.
James Papa (Mech Eng 2),
Lesbian & Gay Welfare Officer
NUS radicals
Dear Judith,
I am writing this letter with a view to publicising the
rebirth of IC's more radical societies. Pro-NUS. I have
no wish to provoke major debate at this stage as plans
to relaunch the society are still in a state of flux, but I
would ask any undergraduates or postgraduates who have
any interest in this area, regardless of political persuasion,
to contact me via the Physics pigeonholes in the Blackett
Building. Views from people who may have had held
previous N U S positions prior to coming to IC would be
especially welcome.
Yours sincerely,
Philip Gribbon, Physics 1.
Space trap
Dear Madam,
Thanks for a great SciTech column on 20.11.87 but
Steve seems to have fallen into the same trap that has been
carefully, I must say, prepared for our so-called liberal
press, by the Military Industrial Complex (MIC) of the
U S A . The M I C are pleased with attacks on SDI as being
dangerous and unrealistic; at least they give the programme
space and legitimacy that it certainly does not deserve.
The main issue is simply whether the largest debt-ridden
nation in the world today, can afford such a massive
mismanagement of resources in the face of its present
financial unhealthiness.
Yours sincerely,
D C Azubike, PG3.
Hard times
Dear Judith,
Times must be hard in the Physics Department when
one of its students considers himself unusual in having
spoken to members of the opposite sex (Steve Mercer,
F E L I X 785). Maybe M r Mercer should consider joining
P A T A . However, he was not asked to explain why he is
uniquely qualified to talk about abortion. What he was
asked to explain is why 'a woman can choose to end the
life of her child simply because it is still in the womb'
(Hugh McKenzie, F E L I X 784). He tried to do this on the
grounds of the 'unwanted complications' caused by the
unborn. He didn't seem to notice that the born can bring
about 'unwanted complications' too. Does he support
infanticide as well? B u : for some theory about 'hypnotic
regression' he says litJe else.
Surely he has a better argument than this.
Yours faithfully,
Matthew Soane (Maths 2), PATA Chairman.
FELIX Friday 4th December 1987 27

