Li bel
• I N T E R H A L L rivallry has raised
its ugly head again. Falmouth-Keogh
are having a bitter battle with
Southside Housekeeper Kate Rudlin
over— toilet paper! Residents
became angered when they
discovered that both Selkirk and
Tizard Halls had soft paper whereas
they had to make do with harder loo
paper. The delicate bottoms of F - K
are revolting! Leading the campaign
for soft loo paper is Lloyd Ruddock,
who edits the F—K Newsletter. Lloyd
is determined that F-K bottoms should
not be discriminated against.
• C H A S ' A N O D ' S as good as a
wink' Brereton never seems to give
up. Not put down by his failures to
attract members of the opposite sex
at the Guilds dinners, M r Brereton
thought he would have another bash
during his piano playing marathon.
He instructed Rupert Clayton (who
was collecting money while Chas
played) to write the name of any
female contributors in large letters
and to jot down their vital statistics.
We asked Chas whether this ploy had
any success. Chas replied 'ah no, not
again, you won't get anything out of
me this time.'
TNG ADVENTUUKS OT CHK1B AND MIKE
iiijWI
FELIX
T H E B A R O N
'Release me, you beastly people', said Whygate, doing his best to look mean
and menacing. 'I demand to be taken back to Cheapskate immediately. The
citizens can't manage without me.'
'Silence!', thundered six huge Sorryland rugger buggers in unison. 'You're not
going anywhere until Cheapskate has paid the ransom.'
Whygate was in a bit of a fix. At the weekend he had been captured by a mob
of citizens from nearby Sorryland. All the Sorryland citizens were still very cross
that the rugger buggers from Cheapskate had caused so much damage in their
citizens' bar, and so had decided to exact revenge on Cheapskate. They had
crept up on Whygate, thrown a blanket over his head, and bundled him into their
getaway van.
Whygate had had a very rough journey to Sorryland. By the time he was let
out of the van he was in a very bad mood indeed. The head citizen of Sorryland
had greeted him in a very slimy manner.
'Mr Whygate, I presume', said the Sorryland head citizen.
'The scum of the earth, I presume', said Whygate, not wanting to be drawn
into small talk with his captors.
'I see', said the Sorryland head citizen. 'Take him away and throw him into
the deepest dungeon in the Sorryland castle', he commanded his rugger buggers.
Whygate had been confident that all the Cheapskate citizens would be arriving
soon in large numbers to rescue him. Unfortunately, nobody had noticed that
he had dissappeared. In fact, it was not until the following day, when the
Sorryland head citizen sent his ransom demand to the Cheapskate citizens' office,
that the rest of the Cheapskate citizens realised he had gone. When the head
citizen of Sorryland telephoned Cheapskate it was Chas Takeiteasy who answered
the call, so it took quite some time for the message to get across.
'Hello, citizen of Cheapskate', said the Sorryland citizen. 'I am calling to let
you know that we have Whygate'.
'I'm sorry, he's not in at the moment', said Takeiteasy. As usual he had only
just got out of bed, and so was not quite with it.
'No, he's here', broke in the Sorryland citizen. 'And you're not getting him
back until you give us one hundred pounds for our Rug collection'.
'Perhaps you could phone back after lunch', said Takeiteasy. 'I'm sure he'll
be back then'.
Takeiteasy put the phone down, confident that he had dealt with another
persistent caller in an effective manner. He was just about to crawl back under
his pile of insurance claim forms when the phone rang again. It was the head
citizen of Sorryland once more, and this time he sounded very cross.
'Now listen, meathead', said the Sorryland citizen. 'Either you get collecting
or he stays in our dungeon. What are you going to do about it?'
Takeiteasy was still not quite sure what the caller was getting so upset about,
but he was certain that he had heard the word 'meathead' so decided the call
must be for Ego, the deputy head citizen.
'I think this is for you, Ego' called Takeiteasy. With that, he went back to his
nest of papers and went to sleep.
'Hello, Alan Ego speaking, can I help you?' said Ego, picking up the phone.
'For the last time', shouted the Sorryland citizen, audibly foaming at the mouth,
'We've got Whygate here in Sorryland and you're not getting him back until we
get one hundred pounds for our Rug collection'.
'You're just saying that to please me', chuckled Ego, always ready to play
along with a practical joke.
'You don't believe me?', screamed the Sorryland citizen. 'Okay, have it your
way. We'll send you some proof within the hour'.
Ego was still not too concerned. In fact he thought it was quite pleasant not
to have to put up with Whygate's usual frenzied antics. Only an hour later,
however, Mrs Jolly Hockey Sticks got the fright of her life when she discoverd
a ransom note wrapped around half of Whygate's moustache in an envelope
from Sorryland.
'It's disgusting', she shuddered.
'Yes, but at least he'll have to shave the whole thing off now', quipped Ego.
'But how are we going to raise the money. I don't think the citizens will give
a hundred pounds just to have Wygate back.'
'I know', said Mrs Jolly Hockey Sticks. 'Tell everyone that they'll keep him
if we raise the money. That's bound to work....
Will anyone see Whygate again?
What does he look like with only half a moustache?
Which bit of him will be sent back next?
Find out in the next episode of 'The Baron of Cheapskate'.
Friday 4th December 1987

