Figure 2
Dodecanol and tetradecanol (12 and 14 carbons atoms long respectively)
can only cover up the same surface area (shaded) by binding to a
protein pocket. This may explain the 'cut-off' effect.
'flOTEIN
Q O H
D O D E C A N O L -
A N A E S T H E T I C
T E T R A D E C A N O L -
N O N - A N A E S T H E T I C
1984 all that began to change. Nick
Franks and Bill Lieb of Imperial
College found a protein that was
inhibited directly by a wide range of
anaesthetics. This was a striking
result. It overturned previous notions
about the nature of proteins.
Compared to the lipid bilayer protein
molecules are rigid constructions; it
came as a great surprise to see a
protein pocket, which was designed
to fit one particular compound,
binding a whole variety of
compounds, namely anaesthetics.
This remarkable protein is firefly
luciferase, an enzyme which catalyses
the light emitting reaction of luciferin,
A T P and oxygen (fireflies use the
light to recognise each other in the
dark). It showed a sensitivity to the
presence of anaesthetics not seen with
lipid bilayers: at concentrations of
anaesthetic which normally induce
unconsciousness the light output of
the reaction is reduced by fifty
percent. Franks and Lieb showed that
anaesthetics block the reaction by
binding to the hydrophobic pocket on
the protein normally reserved for
luciferin.
Of course firefly luciferase is not
the site of anaesthetic action since it
is not found in the brain. However it
does not seem unlikely that a protein
pocket like the one on luciferase could
be found one or several of the
thousands of proteins known to be
operational in the brain.
Cut-off
The concept of the protein pocket of
finite size as the site of anaesthetic
action is proving useful. It can be used
to account for the phenomenon 'cut-
off. This is observed, for example,
with long chain alcohols: dodecanol
is a very potent anaesthetic (only a
tiny concentration is needed to
anaesthetize) but tetradecanol, which
is actually more hydrophobic, is not
an anaesthetic at all. The anaesthetic
potency of long chain alcohols
therefore 'cuts o f f for molecules
greater than 12 carbon atoms in
length.
A n anaesthetic is driven into a
protein pocket mainly in order to
remove its hydrophobic surface from
contact with water (or the aqueous
environment of blood). The strength
or tightness of this binding is
determined largely by the surface area
which is removed. This interaction is
a reversible, dynamic one; molecules
constandy enter and exit the pocket
but at any given moment a certain,
fixed proportion of the available
anaesthetic molecules is bound. The
tighter the binding, the greater the
proportion bound.
If one assumes that dodecanol fills
the pocket then tetradecanol will not
bind any tighter since it can only
remove the same surface from water;
the rest sticks out of the pocket (see
Fig 2). Therefore the same proportion
of molecules is bound to the protein.
However the total number of
tetradecanol molecules available is
less because it is sixteen times less
soluble in water than dodecanol.
Consequently a much smaller fraction
of the protein molecules is
inactivated—not enough to shut down
the cell. Lipid theories have yet to
successfully account for 'cut-off
because tetradecanol is actually more
soluble in lipid than dodecanol.
Nonetheless the debate goes on.
For example, anaesthetized laboratory
animals wake up if they are subjected
to high pressures: will protein
theories be able to account for this so-
called pressure reversal? Luciferase
may provide the answer. One thing
is certain though: protein theories
have dramatically altered the
landscape of anaesthesia research and
although the true mechanism of
anaesthesia has not yet been sighted,
we are probably much closer to it.
Stephen Curry, Physics PG.
U N D E R
MICRO
T H E
by Steve Black
I would like to thank Stephen Curry, who is a postgraduate in Biophysics,
for the article on anaesthetics. He works in the group that has done the work
on Luciferase and is currently pursuing other useful ways to explore how
anaesthetics work. I am willing to bet, though, that no theory of anaesthetic
action explains how some Imperial College lectures can induce selective
unconsciousness in the higher reaches of the brains of their students.
Anyone else out there who is doing interesting work, is welcome to write
about it; I am always happy to receive contributions. I can be contacted on
int 4642, via the F E L I X Office or the Chemistry postgraduate letter racks.
British science and CERN
Last week's New Scientist contained an editorial opposing any moves to pull
out of C E R N , the European Particle Physics laboratory. There were very few
good arguments in it. Personally I'm against it, and here are my reasons.
The reason why some people are considering pulling out is simple: S E R C ,
which has to pay the subscription, no longer has the money. Last year, exchange
rate fluctuations increased the sterling cost of the C E R N subscription by rather
more than S E R C had left in the bank. The government only stepped in at
the last minute to make up the difference: if they had not, then S E R C would
have been unable to fund any other new science in the U K this year. Even
apart from such crises, many people think that there is simply so little money
available for science that something big has to go; the quality of all our science
will suffer if it does not.
So what excuses are there for giving C E R N priority over the rest of British
science? First there is the political argument: international cooperation is good
for us; prestigious international collaborative projects promote world peace
and harmony etc... If this is true then the Foreign Office ought to be paying
for it, after all, that is where the money from other countries often comes from.
The other main argument is based on the popular appeal of Particle Physics.
The fascination with fundamental things is supposed to be one of those primal
urges driving people into science in the first place. Good Horizon programmes
are made about Particle Physics, and lots of people watch them. Supposedly,
if we abandon a popular area of science, then fewer people will want to do
science. To me, £65 million seems rather a lot for the scientific equivalent
of the sex symbol.
A less and less frequentiy used argument is the one that says: Particle Physics
is bound to discover something useful someday. Nobody believes this any more.
Historically, high energy Physics gets the money because it is an offshoot
of the nuclear weapons programme, and because so many of the people in
a position to make decisions were involved with the programme. But it now
consumes far too much and is giving nothing back in return. There are plenty
of other areas of science where the same amount of money would yield very
considerable returns. Chemistry, Electronics and Geology, for example, are
all critically short of money now. A l l these put together probably don't spend
as much as C E R N ; all would show large returns of useful science for small
increases in money spent.
It will be bad if Britain has to pull out of C E R N : Particle Physics may be
useless, but it is fun and it is good for scientists to work in multi-national
groups. It is also a lot better than spending the money on Star Wars. It would
be embarrassing to the country, and to the Government if S E R C decide to
pull out. But if the Government refuses to give S E R C enough money they
will have no choice: banging particles together may be fun, but it's not worth
destroying the rest of British science for.
FELIX Friday 4th December 1987 7

