KEEP THE CAT FREE
Comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.com
14
COMMENT
Let me preface this by saying that I
want as much as anyone for Impe-
rial Athletes (IA) to succeed. And by
that, I mean that IA needs to work for
every single club, in its own unique way,
so that everyone reaps the long-term
benefits. Sport at Imperial has operat-
ed in a pretty weird way for as long as
anyone can remember, with committee
members bearing the brunt of the work
managing teams, sessions and compe-
tition entries. Having the Union and
Move Imperial as two separate entities
dealing with club sport is confusing,
and there isn’t a centralised athletics
union that just ‘sorts it’ unlike other
universities.
IA aims to solve this and be a one-
stop shop for enabling sport to happen.
The key word here is ‘enabling’ – IA
should never be a barrier to entry for
sport, or an obstacle preventing activ-
ities from happening. Ideally, a club
should just be able to say, “We have 4
teams, train twice a week, have games
every week – we need umpires, pitches
and equipment”, and it will all be sort-
ed by IA. Committee members won’t
have to sacrifice their degrees to run
their clubs, and the workload would be
transferred to full-time staff members
who would be running the operational
side of sport.
This vision is set out in James Me-
dler’s document submitted to Council
in 2018, searchable with “Imperial Col-
lege Union Sports Hub”, and has been
ratified by clubs and students over the
years. However, the launch not been
smooth, to say the least – the rollout to
TeamFieldandTeamCourtwasdelayed
last year, and the rollout to all clubs this
year has been fraught with issues. Part
ofthisstemsfrompoorcommunication
between Move Imperial, the Union and
students, something that is still a huge
issue now. I have personally been frus-
trated when decisions have been made
that have not been communicated to
students in a timely manner, leading to
everyone having a ton of questions and
not knowing why their membership
has suddenly been fixed at £25, for ex-
ample. This is something that has been
highlighted in meetings and is some-
thing that staff have acknowledged that
needs improving.
Theothermainproblemthathasaris-
enisthatwhileIAisgreatforsportsthat
fit into the training-matches-competi-
tions model, using Move Imperial facil-
ities and having a predictable schedule,
making it work for other clubs like Surf,
PoloandSailing,tonameafew,requires
detailed conversations between all par-
ties involved. Many of these have frank-
ly just not happened, leading to com-
mittees not knowing how to administer
their cash flow, or knowing what to tell
their casual members, or just knowing
why IA should even be for them.
I appreciate that I haven’t gone into
the details of why there should be a
tiered system, or how £25 will fund
the activities that clubs want to run, or
anything about Imperial Leagues, and
if anyone wants more clarity, they’re
more than welcome to reach out. I want
to make it clear that we know there are
issues, and it hasn’t been good enough
so far, but we are working to rectify it.
I have seen the amount of work that
Move Imperial and the Union have put
into it, and with proper communica-
tion with everyone involved, it’s going
to be a success.
If you want to share your club’s
opinions on Imperial Athletes, get in
touch at: fcomment@ic.ac.uk.
Another year gone, another Felix
sex survey. Another opportuni-
ty to find out how many people have
had sex in the library or to check if your
department is getting it on the most.
One thing that impresses me each
year is the variety of experiences, which
consistently serves as a reminder that
This year, it was interesting to see that
67% of the 24.67% of virgins who took
the survey were asexual. To be asexual
does not mean to concretely abstain
from sex; some asexual people just have
little to no interest in sex and some
may have more interest. Emphasising
that the idea of virgins as people who
‘just can’t get laid’, fails to capture the
autonomy and diverse preferences that
many have. Whilst I hope that people
are losing their virginity when they feel
comfortable to do so, there has always
beensocietalpressurestohave‘theright
amount of sex’. Couple this with a very
myopic view on those who choose to
deviate from that narrow standard and
it becomes clear that the first time may
not be a good time for many. Further-
more, I think it’s important to note
that while there has slowly been more
understanding over time about the
problematic nature and consequences
of slut-shaming (judging women for
having ‘too much’ sex), there is a lot of
ignorance around virginity, especial-
ly for university students. We should
be mindful that the pendulum doesn’t
swing from one extreme to the other.
Student relationships among Impe-
rial students were surprisingly high to
me. Logistically, it makes sense but I
have heard discussions about how one
should under no circumstance date
another Imperial student. Let alone
someone in the same course or, heaven
forbid, someone in the same halls. Yet
the survey has revealed 66.3% of those
in relationships are with somebody
who is either a current student or an
alumnus. It doesn’t stop there though,
it seems that inter-department dating is
themostlikelyoptionformany,andthe
likelihood of that love story beginning
in student halls is very high (for hetero-
sexual couples specifically). So, despite
the cautionary proverb to not soil in
your own nest, it seems Imperial stu-
dents are willing to risk potential future
awkwardness for someone who may be
‘The One’, which is quite sweet to me.
Iwouldliketoemphasisethatregard-
less of how you view sex, it is something
that can affect and connect people in
positive ways, but certain experiences
can also do the opposite. It is concern-
ing to see that only 8.88% of sexual har-
assment cases are reported. With 2.42%
of males, 11.08% of females and 6.67%
of non-binary individuals saying they
had been sexually harassed at least once.
Sexual harassment is something that
only the perpetrator is at blame for, and
the emotional weight the experience
may leave on a student is not a burden
thathastobecarriedalone.Beingmind-
ful of sexual health is also important for
wellbeing, so the fact that 51.45% of re-
spondents have never tested themselves
for STIs is quite worrying. Information
on STIs and sexual health services are
widely available to students, NHS and
SHL (Sexual Health London) are good
sites to visit.
Finally, it may be tempting to look
at all the data and compare yourself to
othersinanegativeway,butIthinkthat
this survey provides a unique opportu-
nity to see that you may not be the only
one who likes things the way you do.
For help in different scenarios:
https://www.imperial.ac.uk/human-re-
sources/procedures/sexual-harassment-sex-
ual-misconduct-and-sexual-violence-/
Thoughts on the 2020 Felix Sex Survey
Imperial Athletes
Nobody asked, but Khama Gunde has shared her opinions regardless
KhamaGunde
CommentEditor
GeoffreySheir
SportsChair
Sports Chair Geoffrey Sheir gives his opinions on Imperial Athletes: the new one-stop shop for sport for Imperial students

