In support of the disproportionate wheeze for surviv-
al faced by the oft-maligned Cough Society, Hang-
man has this week offered to assist with a peaceful re-
gime change by printing the manifestos of committee
hopefuls.
Last week, Cough Soc faced a sharp blow to their
finances when their flagship event was suddenly can-
celled. The event was expected to be the largest yet due
to the recent craze sweeping the nation, seeing many
take up the hobby for perhaps the first time.
CoughSoc’s membership has exploded in part due
to a new policy which grants membership to anyone
who has spent more than 15 minutes in close contact
with an existing member. The society’s AGM will be
heldnextweek,sobesuretoreadthemanifestosbefore
casting a vote.
President
Cofin Malungsup: As president I would move to rec-
ognise throat clearing as a valid form of coughing, and
look to strengthen relations with FeverSoc, whose mem-
bership has significant overlap with our own. Further to
this, I would table a motion to collaborate with IC Radio
on a new ‘CoughCast’, where each week we highlight a
different sub-genre of coughs. In this manner I hope to re-
pair our recent poor public relations.
Head of Lung Capacity
Callum ‘Cal’ Pol: Having played deputy to last year’s
Head of LC, I am already familiar with the ventricles
of the society. As Head I would aim to expand the lung
CoughSoc Committee Manifestos
Credits: wikimedia
Coughs McGee Cough Writer
KEEP THE CAT FREE
Felix@ic.ac.uk
16
HANGMAN
capacity of all members by at least 20% by next AGM.
As a result, this society could challenge as a forerunner of
coughs in the UK.
Assistant Phlegm Director
L. Em Sipp: As well as continuing the progress I made
last year in my role as Assisstant Phlegm Director, I am
running to increase the diversity of phlegm colours and
types available to CoughSoc members. While coughing
classics such as “Autumnal Mist” and “Gobshite Gold”
have served many a cougher well, more exotic phlegms are
needed to ensure coughing remains a competetive sport.
That is why I will introduce ‘Spring Splutter’ and ‘Is
That Blood?’ as two new phlegm candidates for CoughSoc
coughing staples.
‘Cough in My Mouth’ Events Manager
John Splutterman: Despite the disappointing Health
and Safety ruling by the overly cautious Union last week,
Last year’s runner up for “Wettest Cough”
the annual ‘Cough in my Mouth’ social has become a
mainstay of our members’ calendars. I would therefore
capitalise on the recent explosion in popularity and allow
the Cough Craze to spread indiscriminantly. Additional-
ly, I would organise a sister event entitled ‘Spit Down my
Ears’ to be held biannually. I believe that this additional
revenue stream will more than cover the deficit created by
Hot-Toddy spending.
Treasurer
Lauren‘Loz’Inge:CoughSocisindireneedofabudget
review. Last year’s extravagant Hot-Toddy expendature
leftuswithfartoolittlecashforchickensoup.AsTreasurer
I would reorganise the structure of the society and intro-
duce a new committee position ,‘ Head of Soothing’, to take
charge on all throat lubricant aquisitions.
Inaccordancewiththesociety’sconstituion,anyand
all ties will be decided by a Cough-Off.
Credits: Pixnio / James Gathany, Brian Judd

