KEEP THE CAT FREE
Arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
18
ARTS
Not all exhibitions allow the curator to… well,
‘curate’. Often a curators’ vision is encum-
bered by financial decisions, logistics, and,
as in most cases with an exhibition of an artist’s work,
his/her repertoire. In that sense — exhibitions focus-
sing on a theme as opposed to an artist, particularly
one that sources from different eras, artists, and medi-
ums, are truly a curator’s playground.
‘Sin’, The National Gallery’s latest exhibition, is one
suchattempttotacklethehighlyphilosophicalsubject.
Theological interpretations of sin and penance, to a
considerable extent, shape our customs and traditions.
Western Judaeo-Christian theology is scattered with
definitions and examples of sin; and Art, uncomforta-
bly married with religion for most its life since Grecian
times, has broadly aimed to espouse this.
The exhibition brings forth a diverse sampling of ex-
hibits to structure this narrative. We see works by Ag-
nolo Bronzino, Lucas Cranach the Elder, Andy War-
hol, and Tracy Emin… indeed the whole spectrum, and
they all ask one question - what is your sin?
Andy Warhol greets us with his canvases crying out
— ‘Repent and sin no more’. And indeed, before you
get to claim innocence, Cranach’s ‘Adam and Eve’ re-
minds us of our eternal guilt, with the first sin. There
are also multiple versions of this in the exhibition lest
we forget.
What follows is an unrelenting exposition of the hy-
pocrisy of theological judgement manifested through
art within this tiny room. Lust as sin — check. Gate
passes to heaven handed out by clergy in return for
confessions — check. However, the exhibition is scant
of any sort of judge-
ment, leaving that to us,
and traces the outlines
of evolving morality
through these selective
exhibits.
The centre piece of the
exhibition is a ‘strange’
juxtaposition of Tracy
Emin’s ‘It was just a kiss’,
and Bronzino’s ‘Venus
and Cupid’ (inset). The
latter, a masterpiece of
the mannerism school,
is the highlight of the
exhibition. The mosa-
ic painting depicts the
mother-son duo, Venus
and Cupid. In stunning
and ‘explicit’ detail, it
shows the two in a lovers’
embrace, and is a com-
mentary in itself about
the morality of the ages.
This contrast with the
contextual suggestiveness
of Tracy Emins’s artwork
really does work.
But it is tough recon-
ciliation to witness Tracy
Emin’s work hang beside Bronzino’s, or even share the
samehallsasVelazquez’s‘TheImmaculateConception’.
Maybe to judge the former’s work as lesser is my sin.
On second thoughts, I will stand by that judgement
and live with it.
ItisinterestingtonotetheprevalenceofRoman-Gre-
cian mythology in Art, despite it fundamentally sub-
verting any notion of Judaeo-Christian conservatives
or notions of sin, with its ubiquitous promiscuity of
gods, rapes, and incest.
But amidst all this, the message is clear; through the
years, Art strived as much to be a medium of message
as it was craft. At the end of the day, sin, or one’s per-
sonal definition of it is, ahem… personal. And that is
truly what the exhibition seeks to convey. Whether it
presented the best case for that? Well, I would not be
doing justice if I imposed my opinion on you, would I?
Afterall,it’safreeexhibition.So,giveitatry,confessto
these tableaux, and you just might come out the other
side — sin free.
Reviewed by Vaidhiswaran Arts Editor
Sin
Where? The National Gallery
When? Until 3rd Jan 2021
Howmuch? Free
Exhibition
Confess and you may enter Credits: © The National Gallery, London
An Allegory with Venus and Cupid, Bronzino, about 1545
Credits: © Tracey Emin
Tell us the truth... Is it ever really?
Whileyouarethere
The Old Masters
Poesies are reunited
after over 400 years
in this once in a life-
time exhibition that
shouldn’t be missed.
Read our review in
Issue 1749.
Until 17th Jan, 2021
Titian: Love, Desire Death @
The National Gallery

