FRIDAY 23RD OCTOBER 2020
19
ARTS
Arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
The curtain opens, revealing a dark stage, and
from the shadows, five rows of dancers appear,
brought slowly into focus by a foggy cold light
in typical theatrical fashion. The show has finally be-
gun in Covent Garden. Or, better yet, re-begun. This
ballet is the first reunion of the whole Company of
the Royal Ballet and the Orchestra of the Royal Op-
era House after a seven months break brought upon by
the pandemic. Owing to current restrictions, the live
show was streamed online and is on demand on their
website. Featuring the entire company and principal
dancers, the performance showcases highlights of sev-
eraltopbillingsincludingSwanLake,DonQuixote,La
Fille mal gardee, Medusa, and Romeo and Juliet.
Right from the get go, it is quite clear that even
though this is designed primarily for an online audi-
ence, this is a professional performance. There is no ex-
pense spared, and the subtle aspects that make up the
ballet, such as the omnipresent lighting, stage design,
and coordination are as good as ever. The lockdown
and furlough don’t seem to have fazed the artists much.
Themovementsareconfidentandprecise,thechoreog-
raphies brilliant and engaging.
Natalina Osipova particularly shines as Medusa,
but again it is tough to pick favourites in such a cel-
ebrated line-up. Each performance by itself would be
reason enough during normal times. The assorted per-
formances and highlights serve as a taster for ballet, of-
fering snippets of some of the most well-known pieces,
brought forth by a company that shows no sign of lock-
down fatigue, and is at the top of their craft.
Nevertheless, I won’t lie. It doesn’t entirely recre-
ate the experience of physically witnessing a ballet. A
ballet is not just watching people dancing gracefully
to the rhythm of an orchestra. The experience is more
nuanced - It is also catching glances of the decoration
of the theatre, and slowly have our eyes and minds ac-
custom to the dimmed lights and backdrop, without
the distractions of modern-day technology, and finally
finding coherence with the reactions of a live audience
to the performance. However, this is not possible dur-
ing these times. So, until then, “The Royal Ballet: Back
onStage”onlineshowisagreatalternative,offeringthe
next best thing, Amazing talent, unfazed by the pan-
demic, eager to entertain you. This is a show not to be
missed.
Back without missing a beat
Reviewed by Beatrice Matteo Arts Editor
Royal Ballet: Back on Stage
Where? Royal Opera House
When? Until 8th Nov, 2020
Howmuch? £16
Ballet
It’s all in the footwork, isn’t it?
Explore the mystical
philosophy of Tantra,
one that we have all heard
about and vaguely asso-
ciate with sex, through
a series of well curated
exhibits which delve
deep into its genesis and
permeance through the
years in the subcontinents’ many religions and
customs. Read our review in Issue 1750.
Until 24th Jan, 2021
The upcoming exhibition brings together much
of the celebrated British artist’s work, including
highlights such as the ‘The Fighting Temeraire’,
seeking to shine light on the impact of the turbu-
lence of the artist’s milieu, social and technologi-
cal, on his work.
Find our review in next week’s issue.
From 28th Oct, 2020 - 7th Mar, 2021
Tantra @ British Museum
CurrentlyOn...
ComingSoon...
Credits: © The Royal Opera House
Turner’s Modern World @
Tate Britain

