KEEP THE CAT FREE
Arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
20
ARTS
The Blyth centre - Imperial arts oasis
The Blyth Centre is a creative hub for Music and
Visual Arts. Comprising both gallery space
and teaching rooms the centre runs both class-
es and exhibitions.
Felix spoke to Mindy Lee, the curator and artist in resi-
dence at the Blyth centre to discuss the role of the cen-
tre at Imperial.
Lee told Felix that she believed that the Blyth Centre
was here to inspire and to support via exploring cre-
ativity. She told us that “We are an oasis; offer[ing]
precious time away from the everyday demands, which
is vital for well-being. Especially in this strange time,
art and music are medicine for the soul. It can be used
as a tool for self-expression and or bring you together
with other like-minded people for a collective, stress
releasing experience. This is enormously beneficial and
nourishing for both students and staff.”
Lee told Felix about the changes that had had to occur
toallowtheBlythcentretocontinuetofunctionwhilst
still following social distancing requirements. While
normally The Blyth Centre would see exhibitions in
the Blyth Gallery and Art events in the Blyth Art Stu-
dio these areas have had to remain closed. However,
the Visual Arts education and exhibition programme
has been moved and continued robustly online. In ad-
dition, The Blyth Art Fellowships and Arts Awards are
still taking place with remote support. Music practice
rooms can be booked, allowing students to practice in
peace and quiet and lunchtime concerts are still going
ahead, which students can attend in person.
Lee told Felix that one of the upsides of responding
to the pandemic was that the Blyth Centre now has
its own You Tube channel, meaning that if you miss a
class,orconcertyoucanaccesstheirarchiveatatimeto
suit you. Not only can the archive be accessed online.
Art classes themselves have also moved online and are
going ahead via Teams and Zoom. According to Lee,
the best way to join them is to sign up to the Blyth cen-
tre mailing list to receive a weekly update with all the
web-links to take part. The mailing list can be signed
up to at: https://mailman.ic.ac.uk/mailman/listinfo/
blyth-art-centre
Lee also explained why the Blyth centre was relevant
to non-artistic people as well as those that are more
experienced. She explained that art is for everyone to
explore, enjoy and respond to. Just as you do not have
to be a musician to listen to a concert, or an artist to see
an exhibition, you can enjoy enjoy watching an artist
make.
Shewentontosay“Intermsofcreativelydoing,Ithink
we can be overly self-critical. You do not have to label
yourself as a singer to enjoy singing in the shower or
label yourself as an artist to enjoy doodling on a page. I
say give it a go, try something different, you might just
surprise yourself and find something new for you.”
WhoisMindyLee?
Head of Art in the Blyth centre, Mindy Lee is a
tutor and curator, running workshops, classes
and tutorials to students. However, few students
realise the talent and pedigree of Imperial’s own
artist in residence. Having graduated from the
Royal College of Art in 2004 with a Masters in
Painting she now exhibits and curates projects
regularly in London, nationally and interna-
tionally with shows at Danielle Arnaud Gallery,
London, the Jerwood Project Space, London,
Pump House Gallery, London, GaleriaOFF Pi-
otrwska, Łódź, Poland and the Sichuan Acade-
my of Fine Arts Museum, China.
Lee has also been featured in recent publications
including Women in the Arts and Assemblage
Magazine, Ghost Changing Room Catalogue
by Matt Price, Mindy Lee & J.A.L-B by Joanne
Morra for the Journal of Contemporary Paint-
ing and On Innards, a collaborative artist’s
book/multidisciplinary project, published by
bookRoom Press.
Calum Drysdale Editor in Chief
Timetable
Open art classes/ drop in 12-2
28th
October
11th
November
25th November
9th
December
Art classes/workshops 12:30-1:30
Open art classes/ drop in 1:40-3
28th October
11th November
25th November
9th December
4th
Nov Watercolour Mindy Lee
18th
Nov Collage Sarah Gillham
2nd
Dec Sgraffito Thomas Hylander
To get involved with any of the events
run by the Blyth Centre, sign up to the
Blyth mailing list at https://mailman.
ic.ac.uk/mailman/listinfo/blyth-art-
centre
Credits: Mindy Lee and Imperial College

