With a cast as talented as this, and a screenwriter
as experienced as Sorkin (the progenitor of
“You can’t handle the truth” in A Few Good Men), I
went in expecting good things from this movie. De-
spite the hiccups caused by COVID-19—which pre-
vented it having a large cinema release, causing Netflix
to step in to distribute—the film is thoroughly enter-
taining. It tells the story of the Chicago 7, a group of
anti-Vietnam War protestors charged with crossing
state lines and inciting violence at the 1968 Dem-
ocratic National Convention. Eddie Redmayne as
Tom Hayden (leader of the SDS), Mark Rylance and
Joseph Gordon-Levitt as the heads
of the defence and prosecution re-
spectively, and Yahya Abdul-Mateen
II as Bobby Seale were enthralling—
bringing even more colour to an
already colourful trial. (Sacha Baron
Cohen’s performance often took me
out of the action. His role as Yippie
leader, Abbie Hoffman, appeared to
amount to saying very cliched hippie
things, making him come off as a bit
humdrum.)
Sorkin lets the trial unfold in flashes,
utilising both jumps ahead in time
and flashbacks narrated by mem-
bers of the Chicago 7. This gives us
an all-access look at the cracks in
the legal system—from particular
jurors being suspiciously discharged
(much to the convenience of the
prosecution), to the defence coun-
sel squabbling with the Chicago 7
(when they were not busy squab-
bling with themselves). As the trial’s
publicity builds, the politics and
temperament of each participant
becomes less extractable from what
is seen as right and wrong. The
nature of protest and the fallibility
of the justice system are shown at
their extremes; and, up until the
very end, we sit questioning what
rewards are worth contending for
if they have to be collected through
violence.
A Captivating Courtroom Drama
Free Film of the Week: The Deer Hunter
Editor Recommends
After hunting, five
friends head to
Welshy’s Bar in the steel-mill
town of Clairton, Pennsylva-
nia, to celebrate the imminent
deployment of two of them
to Vietnam—Mike and Nick.
Another member of the group,
John, begins to play Chopin’s
Nocturne No. 6 on a piano
in the corner of the room. Nobody speaks, nobody
looks at anything in particular. As the piece ends,
there is a momentary silence. The camera pans to
Mike: in his face there is a sobriety, a gratitude for his
little town and for his friends—an appreciation for
the relative banality of his life. Then the regular beat
of a helicopter sounds, and the film cuts to carpet
bombs obliterating a Vietnamese village. Civilians are
massacred. An injured woman is gunned down by the
Viet Cong, along with her child. Mike is drenched in
blood. We are a long way from Chopin now.
The Deer Hunter’s successes are all present in
this exquisite transition. Life and death, and war
and peace, are presented in the most undecorated
manner, and the starkness of their contrast is made
apparent by the tenuity of the membrane separating
them. Indeed the larger plot—of Mike (Robert De
Niro), Nick (Christopher Walken), and Steven (John
Savage) integrating back into society—exhibits the
very same interplay of opposites. Dualities are present
throughout. For example, when Mike goes on his first
hunt since coming home, he hikes up into the clouds,
and as he ascends some rock formation, gun in-hand,
a reflection follows him in the placid lake below.
These scenes, as impeccable as they may be, are
surrounded by unending gristle. I don’t know how
Cimino would justify the 40 minute long wedding
sequence. Perhaps he’d say to the detractors that the
film ‘just wouldn’t be the same without it’—I sus-
pect many would reply: ‘good’. A long movie is not, a
priori, a good movie, and it can be easy for directors
to mistake self-indulgence or ill-discipline for vision.
So what unites all the great long movies? Well, it is
an encompassing quality; they entirely arrest a time,
emotion or idea. I’m not convinced The Deer Hunt-
er fully succeeds in that regard. While the game of
Russian roulette serves as an effective symbol for the
nature of killing in war, and the final scene serves as
a nice ironic jab at the nature of war, the soul of the
movie is missing, and it doesn’t give you a whole lot
to chew on as the great epics of cinema do.
The Deer Hunter’s problems by no means lessen
the scenes I lauded before. On top of those scenes,
Vilmos Zsigmond’s cinematography is faultless, and
the Cavatina theme by Stanley Myers is beautifully
apt. Then there are the performances—all coalesc-
ing into effectively one character: the common man
from Clairton. Each performance feeds into the
next: Christopher Walken’s Academy Award winning
performance being complemented by the equally en-
gaging Robert De Niro, who is in turn made better by
Meryl Streep’s enigmatic presence as Linda and John
Savage’s emotional performance as Steven. The great-
ness of the performances are certainly not limited by
the screen time of the actors; you need only watch
John Cazale as Stan. Cazale filmed while he was living
with terminal cancer, and never got to see the work in
its final form. In the few scenes he has, as the runt of
the group—never fully fitting in, always chasing girls,
often being the butt of a joke or the target of a slap—
his acting is spellbinding, the work of a man who
knows it will be his last. Is The Deer Hunter without
faults? No. Is it one of the great American epics? I’d
say no. But if you can withstand
these flaws, along with the film’s
obvious bloatedness, The Deer
Hunter will be sure to reward
you with flashes of sheer mag-
nificence.
Reviewed by Oliver Weir
Oliver Weir Film Editor
The Trial of the Chicago 7
Directedby: Michael Cimino
Yearof Release: 1978
Starring: Robert De Niro; Christopher Walken; John Ca-
zale; John Savage; Meryl Streep
Directedby: Aaron Sorkin
Starring: Eddie Redmayne; Sacha Baron Cohen; Mark Ry-
lance; Yahya Abdul-Mateen II; Joseph Gordon-Levitt
The Deer Hunter
Classic of the Week...
Three Colours: Blue
The first of
Kieślowski’s Three
Colours trilogy. It is
the story of a woman’s
grief following the
death of her husband
and child in a car ac-
cident. Juliette Bino-
che’s acting is like the
film’s cinematography:
effortless and sublime.
A true masterpiece.
Watch on MUBI
Credit: Universal Pictures
Credit: Netflix
KEEP THE CAT FREE
FILM
Film.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
24

