FRIDAY 23RD OCTOBER 2020
25
Fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
FASHION
Caught outside Beit and heading
to the library, Lucy was killing it on
Monday when we snapped her. We
here at Felix Fashion appreciate a
confident look and Lucy was putting it
out in spades with an alternating print
block colour look. She told us that she
“couldn’t tell” us who her style icon
was, which only made us want to know
even more!
Despite term having started a week
ago, this was her first time going into
the library and she freely admitted
that she might only “look around and
see how it is”. She also said that she
didn’t know “if she was allowed into
the library” but that couldn’t stop her
- her chosen power outfit adding the
confidence to cross boundaries and
break some rules!
Having been here for two years al-
ready, Lucy is a major figure at Imperi-
al, a third year Medical Bioscience stu-
dent, she is even better known on the
rugby pitch. President of the Women’s
Rugby team she is packing serious
punch. Avoid making her angry!
Her jumper was from Goose and
Gander, a small indie fashion label set
up by two primary school friends that
specialises in unisex hoodies, shirts,
and sweatshirts, and was a birthday
present. Clearly we all need friends
and relatives like Lucy’s to buy us
presents!
Her trousers are from Urban Outfit-
ters, a neat straight leg trouser, easy
to look smart in with a nice top or
stylishly casual when paired with a
jumper.
Her bag contained a laptop “in case
[she] get[s] into the library” and her
rugby kit. Her shoes were classic New
Balance, well-worn and fun.
Her blonde hair was scrapped back
into a fun mid ponytail that gave her
a casual yet chic look that the average
Imperial student struggles to embody.
How to look like me
The brands:
Sweater: Goose and Gander
IMPERIAL’S BEST DRESSED
It’s become apparent that protective face masks are
staying with us for the long run. Could they become
the new must-have fashion accessory? Face masks are
now an everyday essential, in addition to your phone,
keys and wallet. You can never leave the house without
the all-important face mask. Giving us access to enter
shops and use public transport, face masks
are there to protect ourselves and oth-
ers. However, there is perhaps po-
tential to express ourselves beyond
conventional clothing items. De-
signer brands such as Off-White,
Tory Burch, and Missoni have all
released their latest face mask de-
signs. Not to mention the appearance
of Billie Eilish in a Gucci face covering at the
Grammy Awards earlier this year.
(It is important to add that these masks are probably
not CDC approved! So always check before you buy!)
Where does this lead us? Could it become the norm
to start matching your face mask to your outfit? Or
even base your entire outfit off the initial face mask?
I’d like to think that the anti-maskers out there will
stop viewing face masks as an inconvenience, and rath-
er view them with the potential they have. It
may feel unimaginable, but masks may
become the next functional fash-
ion accessory. There is, however,
a fine line that the ‘fashion mask’
treads on. Should luxury brands be
able to make a profit from what is
deemed a necessity to survival?
Earlier this year, the fast fashion brand
Boohoo was slammed by NHS staff for selling
£5 ‘useless’ fashion masks, and the Union of Shop,
Distributive and Allied Workers (Usdaw) deemed the
masks as ‘scandalous’. In response, Boohoo donated
thousands of scrubs, masks and gowns to NHS staff.
There are independent retailers selling masks with a
moreconsciousapproach.Forexample,London-based
Florence Bridge is donating her profits to the Fuel Our
Frontline charity, and British brand, Lavender Hill
Clothing, donates masks to the Katherine Low Set-
tlement charity, helping those vulnerable in Battersea.
Both brands have made it clear that they do not wish
to profit from the COVID pandemic and have instead
taken a charitable approach. I’d like to think that many
other brands will follow this initiative, in order to con-
tribute to those affected and help provide affordable
but also protective face masks.
Future – Mask ON
Elizabeth Tong Fashion Editor
Lucy Hamer
Spotted by Calum Drysdale Felix Editor-in-chief
wearing:
Nonchalance is the new
black
Calum Drysdale Felix Editor-in-chief
Trousers: Urban Outfitters
Shoes: New Balance
Credits: Original Photo/Calum D
Credits: Wikimedia Commons

