Union Page
Twitch or Treat: Halloween Special
Grab a Meal Deal from the Shop
Union Bake Off Grab your bundle!
Sad Shop Extra’s gone? Don’t you worry, we just moved our fridges into
the Shop, so you can still get your delicious, sustainable and cheap meal
deals. Simply Lunch have a great sustainability policy, and we want to let you
know we’re doing our best to ensure our products are ethically sourced and
sustainable. Someone (cool) from our team did the math, and you’ve got about
53,474 possible meal deal combinations to try out, so we suggest starting soon!
If you don’t know where the Shop is - we’re just in front of the Senior Common
Room, on the Sherfield Walkway. Next to bringing you tasty food, we also offer
a wide range of Imperial branded apparel, accessories, stationery and even
sustainable products like reusable cups.
Shop also takes online orders: imperialcollegeunion.org/shop
Wow! Who knew Imperial had so many talented bakers? It’s incredibly hard to
choose our favourites each week, you all are creating some amazing bakes.
We’re still meeting up in FiveSixEight every Tuesday, to watch The Great British
Bake of together, so please join us!
Haven’t showed off your baking skills yet? Our very own Union Bake Off is in
full swing and we’re really enjoying it. Send us a photo of your bake via direct
message to our Instagram (@icunion) for a chance to win a voucher worth £10, to
redeem at FiveSixEight. Every week we choose our favourite and in the end you
get to vote for the winner! Ready, set... bake!
#icuBakeOff
It’s (supposedly) that spooky time of the year, and this time we feel slightly
more scared of reality than ghosts... Fear not,TWITCH has the perfect event on
Wednesday 28 October, from 21:00 to 22:00, to send all our worries back where
they came from: Twitch or Treat! Hosted by Max Fosh, the king of StreetSmart,
Twitch orTreat is the lockdown quiz you don’t want to invite your family to (sorry
mum!).
Enjoy live interactive games and quiz (time to brush up on your Halloween trivia);
win live prize tricks and treats delivered to your door on livestream; watch your
friends compete inTrick andTreat challenges from your university.
More info and how to join the live event:
imperialcollegeunion.org/twitchortreat

