FRIDAY 23RD OCTOBER 2020
NEWS
3
Felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
Studentsevacuatedfromfiretraphall
Student residents of the Paragon com-
plex in Brentford, west London were
told on Monday 19th that they would
have a week to move out.
Students were told that they had un-
til Sunday 25th to leave as the building’s
fire prevention was substandard and
they were in danger in the event of a fire
breaking out in halls.
Located in Brentford, a 35 minute
commute away from South Kensington,
the Paragon complex is composed of
around 1000 units in 6 towers that usu-
ally house students from the University
of West London (UWL) as well as lease
holders and key workers.
In response to oversubscribed cours-
es Imperial rented space from UWL in
order to be able to provide accommoda-
tion to every first-year student. Approx-
imately 150 Imperial students have been
affected by the news.
Imperial students will be moved to
Chapter housing in Islington, from
Thursday, using a professional removals
company paid for by NHG and taxis
provided by Imperial. They will, how-
ever, be separated from UWL students
who will be moved to Wembley and resi-
dents that will be moved into hotels.
The building was completed in a mere
21 months in 2007 by the Berkeley First,
part of the luxury developer Berkeley
Homes group. The £100 million project
won awards including the Major hous-
ing project of the year 2007 award for
its innovative construction that saw a
6-story building be constructed in only
5 days.
This was a major undertaking for the
company that had previously never con-
structed a building taller than 9 stories.
The Paragon complex incorporates a
17-story tower.
The construction process was also
very rapid with a modular construction
technique employed that shaved a whole
year of the building process in compari-
son to traditional techniques. However,
questions are raised as articles from the
time recount how the company did not
have time to let the concrete core of the
building completely dry before bolting
connecting steelwork to it. Additionally,
at the time the 17-story tower was be-
lieved to be the tallest modular building
in the world.
The complex is now owned by Not-
ting Hill Genesis (NHG) a housing
association whose stated purpose is “to
provide decent and affordable homes for
lower-income households”.
Following the deaths of 72 people in
the Grenfell fire tragedy flaws in the de-
sign of the Paragon complex were iden-
tified and measures to bring the building
back into fire compliance were begun in
2017. NHG also began legal action in
2018 against 4 companies involved in
the construction of the building to re-
coup the cost of the £8 million cladding
replacement and fire break installation
job, including the architects.
Katie Bond, group director of sales
and building safety at NHG, said: “This
is not solely a cladding issue.” The results
of surveys, the most recent in the past
two weeks, were “like peeling an onion”
of layer upon layer of fire defects. She
would not say which issue exactly had
prompted the evacuation.
While defects were known about in
2017 more recent surveys and updated
advice from consultants working with
NHG stated that interim measures such
as ‘waking watches’, a 24/7 fire warden,
and special evacuation procedures were
no longer sufficient and that the prob-
lems in the building were so bad that
evacuation was necessary.
A college spokesperson has told Fe-
lix that “We sought and received robust
assurances about the building’s safety
before securing this student accommo-
dation.”
Felix has been told that evacuation
will also allow the taking out of bath-
rooms, wall and appliances in order to
identify the full extent of the problems
and demolition has not been ruled out.
Students will remain in Islington for
the forseeable future with no plans to
move back to Brentford.
UWL, Churchmore, Caledonian
modular, CJCT have not responded to
requests to comment.
Calum Drysdale Editor in Chief
The exterior of the Paragon Complex in Brentford. Questions have been raised as the stability and safety of the building and why the College felt it was
appropriate to house students in halls with known fire safety shortcomings
Credits: Imperial College
Editorial
The evacuation of students from
the Paragon complex made nation-
al newspapers and the College has
reacted very quickly moving students
to another halls. However, questions
should be asked as to why the College
was willing to place first year students
in halls with a known safety prob-
lem. Students will also have formed
connections with UWL students that
they will now not be able to see. This
should not have occured.

