KEEP THE CAT FREE
SUSTAINABILITY
Sustainability.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
31
Indigenous leader in the TIME 100 List
Nemonte Nemquino, leader of
the Waorani in Ecuador, has
been named by Time Magazine in the
2020 list of the Top 100 Most Influen-
tial People in the world.
Raised in the traditional Waorani
community of Nemonpare, with a brief
periodatamissionaryschool,Nemonte
went on to become the first-ever female
leader of the indigenous group (the
Waorani of Pastaza) and co-founder
of the organisation Ceibo Alliance.
Her leadership is helping to protect
the lands of her community against ex-
ploitation from oil extraction, and she
is showing what true guardianship of
our ecosystems is.
In 2012, the Ecuadorian government
carried out a consultation of lands in-
cluding those of the Waorani territory.
Yet, they only presented the potential
local economic benefits of the planned
oil extractions to the local communi-
ties, and they did not ask for consent
from the local people. It is required in
Ecuadorian and international law that
they ask for consent from the com-
munity and make explicit the possible
negative consequences of the extrac-
tion. However, post-consultation, the
government started to split up sections
of the Amazon (including the Waorani
territory) which would be put up for
auctiontotheinternationalcommunity
for auction with aims of oil extraction.
In 2018, the Ecuadorian govern-
ment reduced the amount of Amazo-
nian land up for oil auction, removing
the Waorani territory. However, this
does not mean that the community is
safe from future extractive activities
according to the community’s lawyer,
Lina Maria Espinosa; ‘this territory is
threatened by extractive activities, and
the perspective of a Western world that
ignores and denies interculturality and
the relationship of these peoples with
their territory’.
The Waorani people have respond-
ed to this severe lack of protection of
Indigenous lands by starting a petition
to gather international support and by
taking the government to court to sue
them for not properly consulting with
them before. This action is not just for
the Waorani people and their lands,
but for the whole Amazonia; an over-
whelmingly rich ecosystem of inter-
twined networks of life that are every
day contaminated by industry purely
for economic gain, causing detrimental
health impacts and displacements of lo-
cal communities.
On April 26th 2019, the Waorani
won their case. The court ruled that the
Ecuadorian government could not use
their territory for oil exploration with-
out the prior consent of the communi-
ty. In an interview with The New York-
er,Nemontesays,‘Thecourtrecognised
that the government violated our right
to live free and make our own decisions
about our territory and self-determina-
tion’.
The Waorani are not the first Indig-
enous group to win a case against the
government of Ecuador. In 2018 the
Indigenous Kofan community won
their case against fraudulent mining
activities in their territory. These wins
are a win for all. For life and beings and
ecosystems.
Under Nemonte’s leadership, her
community managed to protect hun-
dreds of thousands of acres of rainfor-
est. Yet, we must not expect this work
to be done by those who suffer the
most from the Western industry and
exploitation. We must step up and sup-
port these communities to reject the
exploitative nature of the extractive
industry that our Western cultures con-
tinue to demand and invest in.
I urge you all to read Nemonte’s let-
ter to the Western world. It is accessible
on: www.amazonfrontlines.org.
Being an environmentalist is a death
sentence depending on where you are
Environmental activists all over the
world stand and fight for the future
of the planet, in a most courageous and
selfless act, putting themselves at risk of
threats, imprisonment, and even death.
The number of incidents is particularly
worrying in South America where there
is such high biodiversity but the people
protecting this and their lands are often
violently attacked.
A report from ‘Tierra de Resistentes’
in 2019 highlights that Indigenous
people face a higher risk of violent at-
tack for opposing extractive industries
such as mining and logging. This re-
port also states that over 10 years, there
have been more than 1300 attacks on
environmental advocates across seven
countries in South America and those
targeted are considered to be ‘anti-de-
velopment’ or ‘unpatriotic’.
In addition to these stark figures,
the 2018 report from the organisation
Global Witness found that 3 people per
week were killed for being environmen-
tal guardians, activists or protectors.
Furthermore, this organisation high-
lights that not every case is reported, so
the number could be much higher.
The most dangerous region for envi-
ronmentalists is South America, but in
2018 the country with the most deaths
of environmentalists was the Philip-
pines. According to the national envi-
ronmentalist coalition in the Philip-
pines, the mining sector is particularly
dangerous. Those who are openly criti-
cal of the operations of mining compa-
nies are often bullied and threatened.
The Philippine army has listed various
environmentalists as insurgent commu-
nists, and with this categorisation, the
army can detain, interrogate or arrest
them. Additionally, the Philippines has
a law in which businesses can request
support from the government if they
feel threatened. Industry uses this to
criminalise and intimidate the defend-
ers of the environment.
The global trend is that the planet’s
ecosystemsanditspeopleprotectorsare
under severe threat. We are seeing more
and more interventions of environmen-
talist action by police or armed forces
as more environmental protections are
removed from legislation around the
world.
You can support the indigenous peo-
ple and their territories too by making
donations to organisations such as the
Rainforest Action Network, Amazon
Frontlines, the Ceibo Alliance, and
Wahana Lingkungan Hidup Indonesia.
You can also advocate for climate and
environmental justice by joining Ex-
tinction Rebellion and Divest Imperial.
Flora Dickie Sustainability Editor
Flora Dickie Sustainability Editor
Nemonte Nemquino, leader of the Waorani in Ecuador
Credit: Amazonfrontlines

