KEEP THE CAT FREE
6 Felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
NEWS
Imperial Athletes launch: can one size fit all?
What are your clubs saying?
Speaking to different clubs has shown
that there are huge differences be-
tween the way different clubs have re-
ceived support to adapt to the new
structure that they were all enrolled in.
IC Hockey
Wereyou preparedforthetransition
into the Imperial Athletes system?
Yes, we’d been aware of the work done
over the past few years concerning the
launch and knew it would come at some
point. It was confirmed during last year
thatwewouldmoveintoIAthistermand
we were given confirmation during the
summer, so we had time to prepare our
activities to run within the IA structure.
Does the Imperial Athletes struc-
ture appeal to you in the long term?
Definitely, even though the transition
hasn’t been perfectly smooth and we are
still learning about the details and these
are updated regularly, we are optimistic
that in the long term this will provide
a one-stop shop to get support to deal
with club finances, club admin and to
talk to staff or sport executives that can
give us more advice when we need it.
The exact details of how finances will
work this term aren’t perfectly clear
yet but we’re confident that in the long
term the Imperial Athletes structure
will provide a cheaper overall experience
for our members and will make it easi-
er to run the club throughout the year.
Has Imperial Athletes provided
valuable support to your teams?
Imperial Athletes so far have been great
at supporting our teams. We’ve had
transport for our team trainings sorted
and training has been running smooth-
ly. The launch of Imperial Leagues is
also very beneficial for our members as
it will keep our members active and the
matches will promote the club for an-
yone wishing to join Hockey. Getting
people training together was a concern
for us, especially for our Mens’ 1st team:
we’re glad Imperial Athletes have made
it possible for them to train together as
a team with their coach. Whilst we’re
hoping their competitions resume in
Winter term we’re currently focused on
ensuring the team remains bonded.
Harry Reynolds Hockey Chair
Caitlin Edgar Hockey Honorary Secretaty
Illustration by: Yingying Fang
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
sports were supposed to integrate the
structure.
Once this phase had been complet-
ed the Sports Hub (now Imperial Ath-
letes)wouldexpandandwouldbeopen
to other clubs, namely Individual and
Martial Arts clubs in 2020-2021. Due
to the pandemic and a reorganising of
the ICU team, the transition fell be-
hind schedule last academic year. With
staff being furloughed and many ac-
tivities at a standstill, less progress was
achieved than desired towards the end
of the academic year meaning that Im-
perial Athletes was not ready to launch
and had to be postponed.
Out of concern for some clubs’
ability to cope financially and deliver
activities to their members in this pe-
riod, Imperial Athletes decided to dis-
regard the initial timeline and include
additional clubs in the structure with
very little notice and guidance. This
has put clubs under a lot of stress and
has created a void between the two par-
ties, which is the opposite of what was
hoped to be achieved by all the hard
workfrombothsidesoverthepastyears
and months. Talking to DPCS Ross
Unwin, the main considerations were
that BUCS might not be running and
that in-person sports activities would
look very different due to restrictions.
As government guidelines are likely to
change frequently, Imperial Athletes
wanted to be able to offer all students
the best sports experience attainable
during this period. Unwin admitted
that the scheme was not yet ready but
told Felix that he felt it was the best to
launch the incomplete version and to
jump in with “both feet”.
Imperial athletes have had some
successes with the launch of intramu-
ral leagues led by Will Hollyer’s team
at Move Imperial. With matches on
Wednesdays this replaces BUCS and
LUSL league matches for the time be-
ing, providing a competitive and sports
atmosphere for students.
However, the policy that has drawn
criticism from students is the change to
how club membership is purchased. In
previous years, clubs were free to set the
price of their own
membership and
to spend mem-
bership income
as they wished.
Clubs also re-
ceived a Union
grant to support
core activities.
Smaller clubs
also do not have
regular fixtures
or expensive and
distant training
sessions meaning
that they feel they
willloseoutunder
the new model as
their normal membership price is far
below the £25 of Imperial Athletes.
They feel in effect that this acts as a sub-
sidy of the larger team sports by smaller
individual clubs and will dissuade stu-
dents from joining their clubs.
Another frustration with the new
system is that some committees feel
that the new model takes power out of
their hands. Ross Unwin and Imperial
Athletes have argued, however, that the
structure is there to support the clubs
in their activities and contribute to the
development of the clubs. The sports
executive, ie. club committees, ACC
committee, the DPCS and DPFS are
still there to decide how activities are
run and overall the Imperial Athletes
structure is there to make the manag-
ing of the finances and organisation of
these activities easier.
Unwin told Felix that even though
Imperial Athletes might not have got
thebehindthescenescorrect,theywant
to work with everyone, they want the
project to work and most importantly
they want clubs to want it to work.
Unwin also promised that he would
meet in person with all dissatisfied
clubs and would make them see how
the new model benefited them.

