KEEP THE CAT FREE
SCIENCE
Science.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
8
The European Space Agency and
NASA signed a historic agree-
ment on Tuesday 13th October, which
includes a large expansion of the con-
tribution that Europe is already making
to NASA’s Artemis programme. The
agreement also contains longer-term
plans for exploration of Mars.
Project Artemis is aptly named after
the Greek goddess Artemis, twin sister
of Apollo and goddess of the Moon. The
Apollo programme sent the first man to
the moon in 1969, and the Artemis pro-
gramme similarly plans to send the first
woman to the moon by 2024 (along
with the next man). The programme
was authorised in 2017, when President
Donald Trump signed the Space Policy
Directive 1.
The plans for Project Artemis are
broken down into three stages. The first
phase, Artemis-I, will be an unmanned
test flight around the moon in autumn
2021. The second, Artemis-II, will
repeat this trip with a crew onboard
in 2023. Finally, Artemis-III will land
Lily Shepherd Science Writer
European Space Agency gets on board
with NASA’s exploration of the moon
The ESA has announced almost €3 billion of investment into “the robotic and human exploration of the Solar System”
On Tuesday evening at 23:12 BST,
NASA’s OSIRIS-REx probe
made brief contact with the near-Earth
asteroid Bennu to successfully collect a
sample of rocks and dust for study upon
its return to Earth.
Launched in 2016, OSIRIS-REx
reached Bennu in late 2018 and has
spent the last couple years orbiting and
surveying the 490m diameter asteroid.
The probe identified suitable sampling
sites that would cause the least difficul-
ty for the probe, while also providing
a sample rich with information for
scientists to study. Four of these were
identified and named, with sample site
Nightingale being designated the prima-
ry site and the one that the probe made
contact with this week.
Using a 3.3-metre-long arm, the
probe released a burst of pressured ni-
trogen gas to kick up and capture loose
regolith at the sample site. Nitrogen
was chosen as it is relatively inert and
thus unlikely to react with and affect the
sample. Currently, the exact details of
the sample are yet to be communicated
to the researchers, however they hope
that around 60g of material was scooped
up. If substantially less material was col-
lected, the probe will be sent to backup
site Osprey in a few months’ time in
order to collect more material.
It is hoped that the sample will reveal
the story of the infant Solar System;
many asteroids are remnants from the
planet formation phase and could reveal
a great amount of information about
the formation of our own planet. They
could also enlighten us about the origin
of life; organic molecules such as amino
acids, the building blocks of proteins,
have been found in meteorite samples
from Earth. However, meteorites that
crash onto our planet are subject to ex-
treme temperatures as well as additional
reactions with gases in our atmosphere,
so a sample taken directly from an aster-
oid may be able to shed more light on
the answers we are looking for.
This isn’t the first time that humanity
has managed to scoop up an asteroid
sample for return to Earth; Japan’s
Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA)
beat NASA to it by a year. Hayabu-
sa2 launched in 2014 and last year it
grabbed a sample of a different near-
Earth asteroid, Ryugu. It is scheduled to
arrive back on Earth at the end of this
year, meaning there is not long left until
scientists can study a pristine asteroid
sample.
OSIRIS-REx, meanwhile, is sched-
uled to depart Bennu’s orbit in March
2021 and will return with its sample in
2023. After Tuesday’s successful sam-
pling, NASA Administrator Jim Briden-
stine said “we are on the way to return-
ing the largest sample brought home
from space since Apollo. If all goes well,
this sample will be studied by scientists
for generations to come.”
An additional objective of this
mission is to study the Yarkovsky effect
on Bennu. The Yarkovsky effect is the
name given to the effect of thermal
radiation on a body’s orbit. As photons
carry momentum, when heat is radiat-
ed away from a body anisotropically, it
can alter the trajectory of the body due
to the imbalance of force imparted on
the object. Scientists are particularly
interested to study this effect on Bennu,
an asteroid that has a very low chance
of cataclysmically impacting Earth in
around 150 years’ time. This means that
the research could allow us to figure out
the best methods for diverting any aster-
oids heading our way, thereby ensuring
humanity’s continued survival.
OSIRIS-REx is part of NASA’s New
Frontiers programme, which includes
Pluto probe New Horizons, Jupiter
probe Juno, and Dragonfly, an upcom-
ing project to explore Saturn’s moon
Titan.
Ansh Bhatnagar Science Editor
NASA probe successfully collects
asteroid sample for Earth return Photo credits: NASA
An artistic depiction of OSIRIS-REx near asteroid Bennu

