12 Reviews
• i l l !
Shhhhh...no one's looking and I won't tell if
you won't. I've slipped my column in over
Tintin's; not easy as it's 15" (and the result is
already more juvenile innuendo than you can
shake a stick at). What you lose in quantity was
all the quality you had...Anyway, what's he got
in his bag then, eh? Sweets, puppies, a handful
of marbles? Some singles perchance?
There must be fresh air blowing by 'cos
instead of the Aunts and Snowy panting we have
a new single by Sting: 'Nothing 'bout Me'. Moo
says of it: "Sting meets Seal in these funked-up
remixes...but really not one fit for mellow tracks
like 'Lose M y Faith'. Is Sting short of
imagination, dosh or are A & M desperate to turn
him into M C Sting?" Err...yes, yes and isn't he?
Camille's been revving up her fanzine but
she still has time to tell us that Omnivore's 12"
is "easily overlooked biomusic from Mars. A
myriad of organomorphic textures at times with
chunky beats." Coming down, she says of Sub
Sub's 'Respect': "Slapstick, happy-go-lucky
inanity." That's an eeehh-uhhhh then?
In case you're not familiar with the system,
you come in, choose your single, review it and
keep it. So why didn't Guy trust me? His My
Life Story affection was becoming more than
eccentric and now he's got his desserts. 'Funny
Ha Ha' it is, apparently - in fact he elaborates:
"After the gorgeous swaggering Kinks-with-
orchestra pop that was 'Girl A , Girl B, Boy C ,
they unleash a terrible disappointment. The
formula is the same and yet the punch and
sparkle of the first single is lost...Avoid."
How much is cheese worth anyway? Freddie,
you're worth more than a pound of Cheddar to
us! Who else could sum up the above Baby
Chaos' 'Buzz' as succinctly? "One of the rare
instances where to categorise something is to
adequately describe it. This is 'Indie Rock' -
very good." Cool.
My sister's band was called M y Spiral Mind.
Only fifteen, she sold the name to a welsh Lee
Roth like-the-look-of at school. Dunno what the
Inspiral Carpets would have made of it - soul
sister or sue-the-mother? Anyway, The Pear
says of 7 Want You': "Another double single
which differs from the forthcoming L P with
Mark E. Smiths backing vocals adding a strange
twist to a very good song. Hints at 'Devil
Hopping' being a bit good." Gasp for air!
The Carpets a bit good? It is all change! "See
you," said Owain, as he scarpered to the door.
Senseless Things
Peel Sessions
Right methinks, it's time for a bit of history. In
1987 a group of four Twickenham lads, literally
burst out of their garage into the London clubs.
They were clearly infatuated with the Buzzcocks
and the Clash, and this led to some joyous
punked-out blasts. Fortunately John Peel had the
worldly wisdom to record their first session in
March 1988.
By 1990, the 'Things had moved on with
frontsman, Marks Keds, listening more closely
to his Replacements and Hiisker Dii records,
finding an increased level of pop sensibility.
Thankfully Mr Peel was there again so golden
trash-pop nuggets like 'Is It Too Late?' were
added to the already impressive collection.
Early 1993 and the band had matured
immeasurably. Lyrical matter had progressed
from teen-angst to homophobia and racism,
while musically they'd finally discovered those
missing metal edge. Result: the jaw-droppingly
good 'Empire Of The Senseless' album...but
where was M r Peel? Nevermind 'cos he
eventually invited them in for another turn. They
didn't want to play metal anymore and opted for
balanced pop-rock ditties like 'Jerk' instead.
What's more they still sounded good. So who
needs history, here's to the future. (8) Vik
Thinking Fellers Union Local 282
Sausage Machine at Russell Arms
On a bitterly cold Valentine's day, the Sausage
Machine club reopened at a new venue. Hail the
Russell Arms...here's a pint for the future.
The relationship between music and film has
often been symbiotic; whether parasitic is
arguable. With Barry Adamson, and now the
Tindersticks, soundtracks for unseen films have
become an interesting prospect. Native to San
Francisco, TFUL282 st(r)ay well-off the beaten
track with their avant-noise experimentation,
acknowledging different film genres and
basically having a laugh.
Their surreal and hypnotic guitar antics
create a Can-like drone: a menagerie of distorted
fragments; while the galloping guitars of 'The
Color of Morricone' stir up the gunslingers'n'
deserts of the western. The balancing of the
bass-heavy Cop Shoot Cop sound with intercut
guitar punctuations and warped fairy tale
lullabies bring to mind the contrast of Y o La
Tengo. Ultimately creating the sound of heaven
and hell overlapping.
TFUL282 have an endless list of influences
from the audio-visual mediums, but are
ultimately their own bosses; a collective
powerhouse of ideas using music to draw out
our subjectively flavoured but objective images.
Vivid and entertaining. Camille
Uzi
Sleep Asylum
It wasn't so long ago that my world first heard
Thalia Zedeck - Come's 'Eleven:Eleven' is now
a recognised (although criminally underplayed)
classic artifact from the grunge generation.
Rolling Stones style blues played with the
rampant incessancy of the new guitar re-
revolution. A shame they're so appaling live.
Uzi are dead, however, and this re-issuing
clearly hopes that with Thalia's new infamy it
can achieve a second coming. Or perhaps, less
cynically, somebody decided that for posterity it
should be taken from word-of-mouth and
treasured bootleg to CD eternity. A six track
mini album, it features the same harrowed
vocals, plundering the lyrics for all the soul their
worth, but guitars more Rollins then Richard's.
Oddest of all is the back-beat. Electronic
drums lend a Berlin (remember 'Take M y
Breath Away'?) feel to the proceedings. Well,
this was 1985. The walls come down, nothing's
changed. Excellent. Owain
...freedom's just another word for nothing left to lose...

