Reviews 13
The songbird and the pillar of strength (photo: John Haynes)
A Doll's House
"Social conditions may change, but the human
soul does not." - Henrik Ibsen
This play, written over a century ago, though
very much a period piece, is concerned with
issues that are still relevant to today's audiences.
Nora, the perfect wife and mother, is happily
married to her successful husband Torvald. To
Torvald, the wife is his song-bird, his toy that he
thinks he is deeply in love with. Torvald sees
himself as the provider, the pillar of strength and
the high-principled judge. Nora is happy to be
the dutiful wife, though all the time nursing a
dark secret, the ramifications of which being
quite beyond her, concerning how she com-
promised herself, for the sake of her husband.
Nora uses her femininity to manipulate people
but is ultimately seen to be as naive as she
portrays herself.
The drama begins on Christmas Eve, with the
seasonal promises of goodwill and peace;
illusions soon to be shattered.
The play is concerned with people, their
failings and their frailty. Though not addressing
women's lib directly or the feminist movement
per se, A Doll's House deals extensively with the
changing perceptions of women, their various
roles and duties within society, chauvinism, the
differences between the sexes and the
weaknesses of both.
The drama has a small cast of seven well
developed characters. Minimal props are used
Samuel Beckett
with great effect and the acting was very
physical and expressive. There are ninety
auditorium seats, so there is a closeness to the
actors on the small platform stage, that works
well with what is, after all an intimate domestic
piece.
The applause at the end was genuine and
sustained. We thoroughly enjoyed ourselves and
I would recommend the play to anyone wanting
a thought provoking evening out. I would
- Endgame
"Finished, it's finished, nearly finished, it must
be nearly finished" - so starts Samuel Beckett's
Endgame. Just as this echoes Christ's last words,
so immediately we are placed in a scene of dark
apocalypse. As the universe finishes with a grey
whimper, we watch on.
On a stage dominated by an ad hoc throne,
there sits a paper king. Hamm is a blind cripple,
more of a piece himself than a player. Shuffling
to fulfil his every wish is Clov. Together, they
complete a meaningless existence. Just as Hamm
remains uncomfortable in his immobility so
Clov is forever moving. They are in an endless
marriage, set times, set conversions.
"What time is it?" "The same as usual." "Is it
time for my painkillers yet?" "No."
Their teethgrinding condition is condensed
by this dialogue:
H: "Why do you stay with me?"
C: "Why do you keep me?"
H: "There's no one else."
C: "There's nowhere else."
Completing the happy family are Nell and
Nagg, Hamm's parents. They live in dustbins
and the past. Seemingly comic in their disregard
suggest going with somebody from a different
background, preferably of the opposite sex, who
one is not seriously involved with. Then
finishing the evening with a chat about the issues
raised at one of the many coffee shops that
proliferate around Hampstead Village.
Michael Factor.
The New End Theatre, 27 New End (off Heath
Street). 071 794 0022. Train: Hampstead.
Student cones £6 (not Saturday). Until 27th Feb.
I!
for their present lives, they are ultimately tragic;
toothless gums sucking on the bones of what
was. In their dustbins they cannot kiss, only
scratch each others backs. As Nell wakes up she
says "What time is it my pet?...Time for love?"
Yes it's a momentary laugh but one which is not
funny, like most of his humour Beckett gets us
to laugh at emotions sinking into a stagnant sea.
This is a stage empty of life, signifying
nothing; these are characters who play against
time hoping to lose, to win is only to continue.
And so it does continue until in the wasteland
that was earth, Clov spots a child. Something
new, something alive. Could this be the renewal
of meaning? Beckett doesn't tell us, the play
ends, maybe more hopeful but not necessarily
so. We are forced to examine ourselves, why do
we live the way we do? This is a play worth
every second, every atom you breathe.
"The end is in the beginning and yet you go on."
Tintin
Battersea Arts Centre, Lavender Hill. 071 223
5063. Rail: Clapham Junction. Until 13th
March. Tickets £5 or £6, pay what you can on
Tuesdays.
This week's opera reviews are on page 9

