14 Reviews
...Q.fl:. O
i i i i i l i
1i i l f 78
Picasso And Eye
Like everybody else these days, I knew about
Picasso. I knew he had painted the Guernica,
that he had made a bull's head from the saddle
and handlebars of a bicycle. Like everybody else
I had never bothered to ask myself if I under-
stood his works - after all, he was a genius
wasn't he? Because of this when I trundled off
to the Tate the other day to see their 'Exhibition
of the year', I didn't even have any preconcep-
tions. I just assumed that I would be awestruck
by everything I saw, that the relevance of it all
would shout out at me from first glance.
How wrong I could be. I didn't understand it
at all. The exhibition itself is a logistical master-
piece - over 160 works by 'The Maestro' have
been borrowed from all over the world, an
undertaking which took over four years to
organise, a display so rare that the hordes of
keen viewers will be herded in and out like cattle
at half hourly intervals. It is unusual in the fact
that the display concentrates on Picasso's
sculptures, most of them rarely displayed in
public, and attempts to demonstrate the impor-
tance of sculpture in the development of his work.
So, what was my problem? I walked into the
first room of the exhibition to see Picasso's early
work, dating from 1906 onwards. The paintings
were crude, rough, bold, some almost child-like
in their simplicity. They weren't accurate rendi-
tions, they weren't especially attractive. One
painting was different - the figure was turned
into a series of planes, as if cut out of cardboard.
This was one of his earliest forays into Cubism.
The basic idea behind Cubism was to reduce
forms into simple, geometric patterns, and it is
for this that Picasso first gained his notoriety.
This development is shown by his sculpture
'Guitar' - revolutionary in the concept and the
construction methods used. It was fashioned
from string, wood and cardboard and it had
holes where there should have been solidity. But
still I didn't really see its importance.
As I walked through the artist's life, the
games changed. Figures were sliced or distorted,
reduced to shapes and stretched curvaceously
beyond the boundaries of reality. A pregnant
woman became a stick with a bulging belly, a
portrait became a jumble of eyes and mouths.
Another room was a menagery of metamorphic
animals, sculptures made of old baskets, toy cars
and cloth. They were witty, but were they the
work of a prodigy?
It was only at the end of the exhibition,
enshrouded by Picasso's death, that it made
The Studio 1927-28.
An example of Picasso's Cubism period.
sense. I was staring at the sliced up faces and the
misplaced mouths, and then I looked up at the
viewers. At that point I realised the paintings
weren't distortions, they were representations of
what the eyes really saw before the mind took
over. All around were the lips, the profiled eyes
and changing planes. They laughed and frowned,
they were two dimensional. All his life, Picasso
had been searching for something. Throughout
the changing styles, the experimentation, he was
trying to paint reality as it really was.
Eventually, unlike anyone else, he succeeded.
For this at least, he deserves the title of genius.
M . A .
The Tate Gallery, Milbank. Tube: Pimlico. 16th
FebSth May. Open every day. £3 (cones) for the
exhibition. (The rest of the Tate isfree.)
Free Willy
Starring: Michael Madson, Jason James Richter
Director: Simon Wincer
For anyone who's fed up with the boy-and-his-
animal-best-friend movies that Disney have
been pumping out since Noah's time, Free Willy
is a welcome antidote. The utterly predictable
plot concerns a juvenile delinquent ordered to
clean up the graffiti he was caught spraying on a
whale tank. Surprise, surprise, he befriends the
whale and saves it from the machinations of the
money-grabbing evil aquarium owner (Michael
Ironside), who inevitably wears Italian designer
suits and drives a big, black Corvette (Camp
City, I'm afraid). All while the kid Jesse 'bonds'
(puke now) with his potential foster parents.
Michael Madsen (Mr Blonde in Reservoir
Dogs) plays the boy's would-be foster father,
and the fit Lori Petty is the aquarium animal
trainer. Performances are pretty good, especially
from new kid Jason James Richter as Jesse.
Although cliche-ridden (much like this
review, really) and a tad contrived, the movie
avoids going overboard in its slushiness and is a
lot better than many allegedly 'feelgood'
movies. A great film for all you big kids out there.
jk
Perestroika
Eavesdropping, I learned that a fair few of this
evening's audience had seen Millennium
Approaches at today's matinee and were in
desperate need for the final fix of Tony
Kushner's Angels in America double-bill. But
for those of limited time and finances, a
knowledge of Millennium Approaches is by no
means essential, although a quick glance at
Perestroika's programme might be advisable.
I'm going to run through the plot so you can
appreciate the important aspects. So, in a single
breath if-you-please: former McCarthy-ite
stooge has relationship with Mormon - married
Republican clerk who loves Leftie - reactionary
type who has just jilted the sensitive yet sardonic
Prior Dillane. Now if I tell you that all of the
above are male and that the first and last have
AIDS you might think you'd died and gone to
Soap-Opera Hell. Forget it. Although you're
going to get a glimpse at Heaven, feet are
planted on terra firma, circa 1985-90. A healthy
dose of fantasy allowed Kushner to chronicle
our decade better than fact alone could manage.
Allegory between the personal nitty-gritties
of life and Universal Truths often seems clever-
yet-contrived. Not tonight. The AIDS patient,
too scared to consider a future, and the obstinate
Bolshevik, clinging on to tried-and-failed
ideologies of yesteryear, show movingly that
change and progress, although vital, ain't half
hard for us mere mortals. Divine assistance isn't
the solution because Heaven is a place where the
sole pastime is playing cards. In a stagnant
afterlife, it provides "the only pleasure of
Paradise: indeterminacy".
Who could disagree? Today we see a
rudderless Britain, with Cap'n Major at the helm
telling the nation to get back to basics that
probably never were.
From slow beginnings where the distinction
between fact and fantasy is sometimes
confusing, alliteratively-blessed director Declan
Donnellan manages to make Kushner's personal
vision accessible. I don't doubt that there will be
future productions of Perestroika that just don't
click. The Company assembled at the National is
near-faultless and your grandchildren just won't
believe you didn't see this 20th century classic,
first time around.
Rahul
National Theatre, South Bank. 071 633 0880.
Tube: Waterloo. Until 5th March.
Part 5 of Cracking Cryptic Crosswords is on the back page

