Reviews 15
OK, who put superglue all over these phones ?
Pelican Brief
Starring: Julia Roberts, Denzel Washington,
Sam Shepard
Director: Alan J Pakula
Julia Roberts is back in her first movie since
Hook three years ago. She plays Darby Shaw, a
law student who has written a speculative legal
brief (the Pelican Brief ) giving a theory as to
why two supreme court justices from opposite
ends of the political spectrum have been killed.
Darby shows the brief to her law teacher/
boyfriend Thomas Callahan (Sam Shepard) who
shows it to the F B I . Then begins a cat and
mouse chase with lots of cats and just one mouse.
Darby doesn't know where to go or what to
do, so she decides to confide in journalist Gray
Grantham (Denzel Washington). Enter the
second mouse. Gray wants a story and Darby
wants to be left alone. So they begin the task of
proving the Pelican Brief true.
There was a lot packed into the 141 minutes:
politics, action, suspense, romance and occa-
sional light-hearted humour. But by trying to be
Philadelphia
Starring: Tom Hanks, Denzel Washington
Director: Jonathan Demme
There's a killer loose in Hollywood. It lurks
behind the neon signs on Sunset Strip, plays the
shadows in every club and bar. It's a slow death,
a timebomb ticking in your veins, and no one's
immune. Its victims include Rock Hudson and
Anthony Perkins, and everyday another junkie
plays Russian roulette with a dirty needle.
Everyone's afraid of the killer called AIDS. Yet
for all the rhetoric and red ribbons, Hollywood
has shied away from making film's about AIDS.
Until now, that is. Jonathan Demme's
Philadelphia brings AIDS into the mainstream
of American culture, intelligently highlighting
the discrimination sufferers can face. Tom
Hanks gives a fine performance as Andrew
Beckett, a high-flying gay lawyer who's fired
when his bosses discover he has AIDS. Was he
fired for losing vital papers, or was it wrongful
dismissal? Beckett decides to sue, persuading
attorney Joe Miller (Denzel Washington) to take
his case, despite Miller's homophobic feelings.
In the courtroom battle that follows Beckett's
ex-employees are not shown as outright villains,
since the point is not to castigate anyone afraid
of AIDS. Philadelphia shows AIDS victims as
people, who deserve the same rights and consid-
eration as anyone else.
Demme bravely omits showing Beckett's
death and all the other (melo)dramatic scenes
you might expect, so we never feel our emotions
a bit of everything it failed to be anything. I
couldn't get used to Julia Roberts playing a
lawyer - she seemed too flighty and weak, but
Denzel Washington was much more convincing
and carried the film through to its almost too
predictable climax.
The political aspect of the plot got more
Tom Hanks as Hollywood's first gay hero
are being manipulated by flashy direction. A l l
the emotional effect comes from the story itself.
In other respects the film is predictably safe:
we don't see Beckett in a physical relationship
with his partner; they hardly seem like a couple
at all (though the film avoids any camp cliches).
But given the limitations of mainstream films,
Philadelphia is an important and balanced
contribution to the AIDS debate, and a well-
crafted, thought-provoking film.
Joe
Opens at Odeon Leicester Square from today.
Cones £4, £5, £6 before 5pm Mon-Fri.
confusing as the film went on, but if you can
spare the cash and have a free evening, it's worth
going to see. Don't expect too much from it.
Toot
On general release today. Fulham Rd cones
£3.50 before 6pm Mon-Fri. Warner West End
cones £4 Mon-Fri before 5pm.
Kafka
Starring: Jeremy Irons, Ian Holm, Alec Guinness
Directed: Steven Soderbergh
Kafka: by day a clerk for a faceless insurance
company in the twisted city of Prague, by night
a writer in search of truth. One day a colleague
fails to appear for work and Kafka investigates,
only to be drawn into a conspiracy of anarchists.
What geometric insanities lurk within the
sinister castle?
This is not a biography of Franz Kafka who
led a rather dull life, but a tale of a writer, inci-
dentally named Kafka, plunged into a fiction
worthy of his namesake. This Kafka is a man of
action, driven to unlock the secrets of the evil
Dr Murnau's terrifying research, unafraid to
creep through midnight graveyards after a
wagon full of bodies. Shot mostly in black and
white, the film evokes a mood of shadows and
fog, recalling the German Expressionist feel of
claustrophobic terror.
Irons shines as Kafka, supported strongly by
an eccentric range of characters such as the
slimy office spy, the anarchists in their
windowed garret and the self-professed identical
twins (who look nothing alike). Despite its often
harrowing chase sequences and downbeat
ending, the cast add an immense sense of
humour to the film, unsurprising from the
director of Sex, Lies and Videotape. Excellent.
Luke Gietzen
Opens at MGM Shaftesbury Ave from today.
Cones £3.50 with student ID.
Next Week: Short Cuts is reviewed in all its 3 hour long glory

