16 Imperial College Union
Three Wise Monkeys Speak Again
Deputy President (Finance & Services) President
Money
As I said in my last report, budgets are a big
thing in my life right now (it's a sad job, but
someone's got to do it). This means balancing
clubs & societies requests for funding with what
money is likely to be available to pay for it. Not
an easy task. I am working on getting the
funding to further improve the services which
we offer.
Trading
The bar cellar has recently been refurbished,
with new-fangled equipment for storing and
serving the real ales being installed (for free!) by
the breweries. The bar manager is very proud of
all this and suggests that everyone should come
down and try it out. We are also working on a
number of other things behind the bar, mainly to
improve safety.
While I'm on the subject of blowing our own
trumpet, Da Vinci's is still selling freshly made
baps and baguettes to order from only 90p at
lunchtimes.
The Bookstore is, as ever, doing well.
If you have any comments on our trading
outlets (ranging from the price and quality of
Sport
Many of you may not be aware, but the Sports
and Leisure Manager of College, Carolyne
Osner, has left. I would like to take this
opportunity to say that the Students' Union is
very sorry to see her go. Carolyne always had
the students' interest at heart and maintained a
very important communication link between
College and the Union.
I am yet to hear what College intend to do in
replacing this position. I will be suggesting to
them that sports are underrated by College and
that there should be a separate sports department
with a Director of Physical Education
controlling it. I do not feel that Imperial is rated
by other establishments as good in either
facilities or quality of teams. This is a situation
that could easily be put right as the two are
integrally linked.
Room Booking Problems
Some societies have been booking rooms and
not tidying up after themselves. This leads to
what we sell to our standards of service), please
let me know - either by coming into the Union
Office or by dropping me a note. We are here to
serve the students, so all feedback is welcomed.
New Minibus
Our new minibus should arrive sometime next
month, as soon as they've finished building it.
Unfortunately, the IC Trust decided not to give
us any money towards a second new one (boo
hiss), so we won't be ordering that just yet.
Our Transport Officer, Hans Rutlin, is
retiring soon (something to do with finishing his
PhD I think), so we will need a successor soon.
The job involves looking after our fleet of
minibuses, which is mainly taking them down to
the garage when necessary and getting irritated
about people who crash them. It requires a
reasonable amount of commitment, but one of
the perks is free use of the minibuses when they
are not being hired out to clubs. You have to be
over 21 (so you are insured to drive the
minibuses), so the post is normally held by a
postgrad. If anyone is interested, contact Hans or
myself via the Union Office to find out more.
extra cleaning costs being incurred and this will
be charged to the society responsible. I must
stress that any society using a room must leave it
in the same condition that they found it. In the
case of College rooms I cannot argue for
societies to get priority booking if they abuse the
rooms and thoroughly irritate College staff. Any
offenders from now on will have their right to
book rooms removed.
Sabbatical Candidates
I have spoken to three potential candidates for
the post of Deputy President (Clubs & Societies).
International Nite
I have attended several meetings concerning the
organisation of International Nite. This is a
major cultural event and always attracts a very
large audience. It involves a cultural show, a
food fair, disco and a band. There has been an
immense amount of work put in by the Overseas
Students' Committee Executive and thanks must
go to them for all their hard work.
Elections
These are well underway, dates are set and
candidates are standing. Times and dates for
your diary: Hustings at South Kensington are on
8th March, 6pm, Union Lounge. At St Mary's,
they will be at 6pm, 10th March in the bar.
Remember that this is your chance to question
the candidates on any part of their election
campaign, be it policy, intentions, plans or
views. Make sure you see them in action.
Voting will be in departments on the 14th
and 15th March. It lasts from 9.30am to 5.30pm
each day. You only get this chance once a year,
so make it count. As stated last week, you have
to have a valid, working Union/College or
College Swipe card. If you haven't or aren't
sure that yours is working, go and see Security
in the entrance of the Sherfield building.
If anyone is thinking of standing, you have
until 6pm today to get yourself fully proposed
and seconded. Currently at the date of writing
(18/2/94), there are three candidates standing for
President, one for Deputy President (Finance &
Services) and two for Felix Editor. Although a
number of candidates have expressed an interest
in Deputy President (Clubs & Societies), no-one
has yet to sign up their intention.
Basic Medical Sciences
Currently there are plans in the offing to look
into a possible merger between St Mary's
Medical School and Charing Cross Medical
School. The pre-clinical teaching could be based
on the South Kensington campus. This would
mean changes to existing medical arrangements
and to the South Kensington campus. I have
been a member of a working group looking into
the optimum size of any possible medical school
and it's implications on the college as a whole.
This I will report on in detail, at the meeting.
Projects nearing completion:
Memorandum of Understanding
We are hopefully in the last round of negotiation
with College in this 'Heads of Agreement'
document. It sets out what the Union is respon-
sible for, lines of communication, areas of
authority and generally clears away grey areas
that have caused misunderstanding in the past.
Constitution
This should be completed by the meeting and a
full report can be made there.
Employment Bureau
I have brought this up in the past. During this
month, I have visited Kings 'Unistaff, an
agency system that has been running for the best
part of a year. At the earliest opportunity, I
would like to put a proposal to the Union to see
if this would be beneficial to IC students.
Reports by other Union Officers will
be available at the UGM
Deputy President (Clubs & Societies)
The UGM will be held at 1pm this Friday in the Union Lounge

