Opinion 17
It was one of those inane evening conversations.
The journey from the pub to our flat, clasping
handfuls of Kentucky Fried Chicken in the cold
air. We sometimes stood admiring ourselves in
the darkened shop windows or the parked cars
that lined the pavement. And greedily stuffed
our faces, laughing as we sent.
"Hey Guys!" said a beaming face, walking
towards us. "You want to know how to get to
heaven?"
"Does this involve illegal substances?" Matt
mocked him, certain, as we all were, that this
was a sales pitch.
"No, I'm talking about the saviour."
I laughed. We stopped - so as not to appear
threatening by walking past him. He may after
all have had a knife or something being a black
guy off the estate. I smiled and nodded as Matt
continued to mock him, trying to distance
himself.
"I don't think we want any thanks" said Matt
grinning. Our new acquaintance looked
disappointed. The hat that he wore bore the
legend 'Blunt' under a picture of a hash leaf and
his whole rude-boy garb washed out any chance
of my believing him to be serious in his
evangelism. This was a dealer like any you may
find in the world. Why else would he come up
and talk to two white boys on a deserted street
corner in the middle of the night?
He asked our names. "Sid" I said with one of
those petulant handshakes. He was Chris. He
knew I was lying; I wanted him to. I walked on,
hoping that he would get the message and go
away. He came with me, so I began relating my
atheism at him dismissively; he would realise
soon enough I thought. But perhaps he has a
gang around the corner in the estate. He frowned
and gestured to Ralph, who was still munching
his 14 herbs and spices.
"Where do you guys like to hang out around
here?" I told him the truth, which was safe.
"We don't 'hang out' around here at all
really" I said, drawing out the words. Chris
looked at his shoes.
"Look don't judge me. People always judge
me," he repeated to himself. I stared at him. Matt
and Ralph turned away walking. He looked up.
"Look, we'll see you around Chris," I said.
He smiled sadly, almost to himself. I left him
there, and I didn't look back. He was sad, and
lonely, maybe lost and in trouble. I knew then,
but I still didn't trust him because he was black
and dressed like a mugger.
I had judged him and dismissed him. Racist,
snob. Both my insults, both me, the hypocrite
and the coward.
I will never see him around.
Glyph.
C A R E E R S INFORMATION
Milkround. Don't panic if you are too late to
apply for the Milkrond, we shall be writing to
several hundred employers in May and you can
apply for thier remaining vacancies when you
have completed you finals.
Summer Vacation Training Opportunities are
now available on the new Databse in the Careers
Office. Apply to U R O P for research
opportunities.
Penultimate Years. Start thinking about your
future now. If you don't know what you want to
do, come the the Careers Office and try our
computer careers guidance system, Prospect.
Asssessment Centre and Technical Interviews
is a short courst for all on Wednesday 2nd
March in Huxley 344 form 2pm-4pm. Sign up
int he Careers Office.
For Further Information come to the Careers
Office, Room 310 Sherfield - open from 10am
to 5.15pm Monday to Friday.
A Duty Careers Adviser is available for quick
queries from lpm-2pm daily.
Introducing...
Jill!
Dear Beccy,
I wrote an article for Felix 989 entitled 'Hull,
Hell and Hall' - detailing the work ICU does
supporting students living in halls of residences.
Unfortunately, my name was omitted from
the article, leading to some confusion.
So I'd like to take this second opportunity to
inform all IC students that my name is Jill Dove
and I'm the ICU Accommodation Officer.
I'd also like to reiterate that every hall has a
housing representative who attends Union
accommodation meetings and feeds us
information about their hall. If you don't know
who your hall rep is, find out from a Subwarden
or me, and then make sure you go and harass
them with comments and complaints.
Alternatively, don't hesitate to contact me,
either through my pigeonhole in the Union
Office, Dave Goddard in the Union Office (ext
3500/2) or at home in Falmouth-Keogh
(Southside ext 722).
Yours sincerely,
Jill Dove,
ICU Accommodation Officer.
Ignorance is
Bliss
Dear Beccy,
Many of us have been entertained in recent
weeks by the likes of Marcus Alexander and the
plethora of letters in the last issue. I was truly
shocked to learn that, in this modern day and age,
and in defiance of all moral codes, some people
quite flagrantly eat and relax in the JCR! Guilt
cascaded down on me when I realised that I was
a willing participant in this offense against
nature. Retrograde! Recidivist! Message received.
For verily, it is written and it has come to pass
that "in a place which lays claim to 7000 of the
highest IQs in the country this is purely absurd."
So what if nobody seems interested in the
intelligent circulation of ideas or exchange of
intellect? Although there is more intelligence
inside IC than is to be found in other areas of
society, most of us are not and probably never
will be great intellectuals. There is everything to
be said for the active participation of students so
earnestly sought by recent letter writers, but
opportunities are opportunities not obligations.
I'm not saying "vacuous is good!" but it isn't
inherently evil.
Sorry!
James Mitchinson
Biology 1
More letters can be found on page 19

