Opinion 19
The Case for Arranged Marriage...
Dear Felix,
I read with great enjoyment each week's dose
of post-teenage angst that is The Cat's Tale, for
they represent so perfectly the disaster area that
is 20th Century life. If certain theorists are
correct and the purpose of culture is purely to
facilitate reproduction, then I'm afraid Homo
Anglo-Sapiens won't last long. Whereas once
there were culturally structured routines for mate
seeking, we are left in this 'post-sixties-sexual-
revolution-world' with the pathetic shenanigans
that Glyph revealed. The accepted modern
'mating game' involves getting totally plastered,
bumping into somebody who is a) equally
pissed, b) equally desperate and c) (hopefully) of
the opposite sex and attempting to cut through
the hangover the next day to remember what
their name was/whether you liked them.
Everybody seems to acknowledge the
ridiculousness of this behaviour and yet it
persists. Why? Well, as Glyph so eloquently put
it, everyone wants their 'regular dosage'. He
chose to reject the cultural choice and hang
around gay bars, I chose to abandon the allure of
these drunken games to lead an ascetic life
(thermodynamics problem sheets may not have
the instant appeal of sex, but I'm sure they are
ultimately more fulfiling - the permanent smile
worn by the average Thermo lecturer will attest
to this).
There must be better ways of ensuring the
continuation of the species and there are.
Though I was brought up to believe that
arranged marriages were a bad thing, I can now
see their worth - relationships are brought about
in a structured, rigorous manner and are based
on economics rather than anything as fickle as
love. After all, is 'love' really that common? The
majority of people seem to be far more
interested in five minutes of pleasure than real
emotions and many students readily admit that
they are going out with someone 'for the shags'.
Marriages based on love and sex have left us
with a world of divorces, one parent families and
financial insecurity. Surely it is better to think of
sex as the by-product of marriage, rather than
the purpose?
The sad fact is that all around the world
people are abandoning cultures which have
remained successful for hundreds of years in
order to adopt the amorphous non-values of the
western society - a society which permanently
has one finger on the self-destruct button. Surely
it's time we realised that 'ancient' values and
attitudes are not necessarily 'primitive', but have
remained in place due to their inherent success?
Surely it's time to look at the true worth of
foreign ideas such as arranged marriage and stop
turning a blind eye to our own self-obsessed
cultural failings.
Yours,
Marcus Alexander,
Mech Eng UG2
Facts of Life
Welcome to the
Dear Beccy,
I apologise for writing about a subject that
comes up nearly every year but if everybody
else is going to have their say then I don't see
why I shouldn't! I read Mr Davies' recent letter
castigating your Editorial approach and style,
and I believe that he did raise some valid points.
However, without wishing to be dragged down
to his level, I can honestly say that I have not
read so much that says so little, for a very long
time. M r Davies arguments are lost in poorly
masked self-praise and undermined by a blatant
lack of knowledge as to how a student
newspaper runs. Not just Felix, but any student
newspaper.
I do not want to drag over ground that has
already been covered but I would recommend to
Mr Davies that if he is knocked back when he
tries to get involved in Felix, he should keep
hammering away. Felix may not always be a
welcoming place but it is one of the few places
at Imperial College where you can meet a good
cross-section of IC students.
S M A L L A D S
Wanted: Cello and Violin to accompany
singer/songwriter for occasional gigs on London
circuit. Must have good ear and imagination and
be slightly less than the full quid. A N D like pop
music with a jazz feel. Contact Andy c/o Felix
ext 3515.
Desperately wanted! Absolutely anything
(pictures/articles/interviews) to do with horror
film maker Sam Raimi and/or his brother Ted.
All donations gratefully received. Contact Eliana
on 081-202 1668.
Real World
The media at IC have launched more students
into journalism and related professions than I
can remember. They all had controversial
opinions which they wanted people to hear and
they all had deadlines to meet. Equally I know
of many ex-'hacks' who now have successful
scientific careers, though sadly also having to
meet deadlines.
Felix is certainly not the same as it was when
I first became involved, and it certainly will not
be the same next year. I regret that the same
cannot be said of every Union club, society and
organisation. I am N O T standing for any
sabbatical post, but I would say that apathy is
IC's biggest problem. It is sadder still that those
motivated enough to do something about this do
not think a little longer before they act. M r
Davies must have other comments on student
life - let's hear them if he can be patient and
follow a few simple rules.
Yours sincerely,
Richard Eyers
Geology PG
Lost/Stolen: Bright purple ski hat. If found
please return to Felix Office, lost in Sherfield
Building.
Stop Smoking Group
Starts Tuesday 1st March, 5.15pm.
Lasts five weeks.
Designed to help people to stop smoking.
Contact Margaret Reddoch ext 3099 for
further information or to book a place.
Dear Madam,
It seems that Mr Davies, a man of seemingly
vast editorial experience, needs the difficulties
of organising the weekly publication of a
student newspaper explaining to him in words
of one syllable. No, surely he must have more
intelligence than that.
Maybe he needs to refresh his memory of
events some years ago, when childish students
submitted letters to Felix in other people's
names, thereby creating the necessity for the
provision of Union cards with letters - a
practice which has continued. But no, a media
man of Mr Davies' standing will understand the
possible legal problems here.
And Mr Davies, who seems so keen on news,
must remember that until this year a major
portion of Felix news was written by one man,
who sacrificed two degrees in the process.
Mr Davies, every now and then there will be
exceptional editors and exceptional journalists
but these are few and far between. Most,
however, have limited experience in the fields
of management and decision making that Felix
requires. That is why they are doing the fifty
hour a week job for a tiny salary - to make
themselves better people.
Madam Editor, I respect the work you are
doing immensely, as do most of the students at
Imperial College, if past feelings are anything to
go by. I will continue to follow the publication
with such interest.
To M r Davies, I am sorry if my sarcastic
comments offend you, but maybe it is time you
opened your eyes and realised that we are not
living in the idyllic world in which you still
reside.
Yours sincerely,
David Henderson-Begg,
ICU Publications Board Chairman 1992.
Your last chance to see Aladdin on the big screen! See page 7

