20 Puzzle Page
Elimination by Sophocles
Eliminate two words from the right hand columns for each clue on the left.
Which word is left over?
a Labour's remaining annex ? 1 Man 22 Grass
b Two linked with time 2 Nun 23 Kayak
c Immediately 3 Sum 24 Smack
d Two suggesting Thames 4 Away 25 Teach
e The eleventh hour 5 Best 26 Words
f Two synonyms 6 Born 27 Cheese
g Deceitful from the start ? 7 Date 28 Common
h Two anagrams 8 Deal 29 Minute
i Involuntary point of view ? 9 Dire 30 Failure
J Two drugs 10 Flop 31 Ground
k Villagers found agreeing here ? 11 Liar 32 Legion
1 Two going with foreign 12 Last 33 Reflex
m A band in big trouble 13 Left 34 Valley
n Two with low 14 Part 35 Affairs
0 Why doesn't the bride marry this one ? 15 Some 36 Barrier
P Two palindromes 16 Tide 37 Chances
q "... bisexuality immediately doubles your for 17 Wing 38 Company
a on Saturdav night." (W. Allen) 18 Zone 39 Profile
r Two words with big 19 Angle 40 Straits
s Firm split ? 20 Cheat 41 Straight
t Two homophones 21 Extra
Cracking Cryptic Crosswords
Lesson 8. Crossword Jargon
There are some quirky word definitions which
crop up frequently in cryptic clues. The name of
the game in compiling clues is deception, so the
more cunning the reference to a word, the
better. For instance, take the word ANT: it can
be referred to as a six-footer, a crawler or, more
commonly, a (social/hard/industrious) worker.
Then there are the many different words for
a sailor: a TAR, JACK, (old) SALT as well as
the abbreviations AB and OB. The word MAIN
is an old word meaning the sea which has been
adopted by cryptic clue compilers for its mis-
leading potential. DEEP can also refer to the sea.
There now follows a list of some of the more
common quirky (and not so quirky) definitions.
They would be called up by the clue compiler
as a building block for the answer.
A, B, C, D, E, F or G = note, key (music)
A, AN, THE = article
DIS = Pluto, hell, underworld
ER or U M = a little hesitation
GO = green light
GG = horse (Gee-Gee)
IF = poem (Kipling)
IN = at home, fashionable, batting etc.
IT = sex-appeal
MI = motorway
O = zero, duck, love, circle, ring,
round, nil etc.
OP = work (opus), operation
TT = teetotal(ler), abstaining, dry etc.
as well as race (Isle of Man)
X, Y = unknown
GABRIELLE ANWAR = sex kitten
Names of famous people are legitimate and
some crop up more often than others:
ABE = Lincoln
ED, TED = Heath
AL = Capone
AGA = ruler (Khan)
RAB = Butler (R. A. Butler)
Occasionally, lateral thinking is called for in a
big way:
FLOWER may not be a rose or a daffodil but a
river or stream.
NB. Therefore, PO could be an Italian flower.
However, a rose or daffodil could be described
as a BLOOMER.
BUTTER may not be what you spread onto
your toast but a goat or a ram.
Any snake can be referred to as a GLIDER.
Any fish can be described as a SWIMMER.
The word WATER may be any body of water:
a sea, an ocean, a lake etc.
EAR = listener
EYE = looker, viewer, spectator
LEG or ARM = member
MOUTH = talker, speaker
PEN = write(r)
1. Time he wrote an article (3)
2. Sharp talker from Devon (9)
3. Blooming climbing frame! (7)
4. Rodent comes back to sailor (3)
5. Animal! You love one who doesn't drink
with hesitation (5)
Cracking Cryptic Crosswords Page 5
W™ Wmt • • Felix is produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College
Warn mm I !
: Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB (Tel: 071 225 8672).
! mwm mmt I # \ Editor: Rebecca Land, Business Manager: Simon Govier, Advertising Manager: Steven Newhouse.
The Student Newspaper of Imperial College Copyright Felix 1994. ISSN 1040-0711

