There's no hanging about at Imperial College Union, and that's because There's more for you at ICU!!!! Groovy catchphrase
huh? Well, perhaps not but there is a whole lot going right up until the end of term, here's just a taster:
Fri 25th Atmosphere Retro Night, dress 60s/70s/80s to get in cheap, otherwise it's £1 and goes on until 2am. Bar Extension
until lam...groovy lights and bubble machines.
Sun 27th Jamiefromthe Frikin tickles invories in the Traditional Bar, this is going to be a regular event, so get over the stresses
of the weekend with a few tunes and the odd bevvy!
Tue 1st St. David's Day - watch out for Welsh people brandishing daffs and leeks, specials in DaVinci's check posters for details]
Wed 2nd Club Libido, the exotic sensual sounds of Club Libido...it's FREE with a Bar Extension until Midnight. Starts 9pm.
Fri 4th International Night, for more details please see over the page.
Tue 8th Bar Quiz, 50p per person, teams of 4-6, top prize is a crate of beer, other prizes include whatever other weird and
wonderful things we can find behind the bar!! Free bowl of nibbles for each team entering.
Wed 9th Club Libido, the exotic sensual sounds of Club Libido...it's FREE with a Bar Extension until Midnight. Starts 9pm.
Fri 11th Battle of the Bands comes to Atmosphere, £1 to get in plus lots of promotional thingies going on, hear the best of
college music, see posters for details
Wed 16th Club Libido, the exotic sensual sounds of Club Libido...it's FREE with a Bar Extension until Midnight. Starts 9pm. 1
Thu 17th St. Patrick's Day - Irish nosh and best of all Irish Stout at superb prices all night in DaVinci's...hopefully some Irishjig!
type tunes later on.
Fri 18th Atmosphere Comedy Night featuring Alan Parker 'Urban Warrior' plus Scot Fuller. Tickets TBA.
Don't forget Happy Hours every weekday from 7-8pm, except Fridays 8-9pm, with 20% off all
drinks. Plus liven up your Sunday evening, come to the traiditonal bar and hear Jamie play all
your favourite tunes on the old Joanna! Look out for the end of term carnival and special offers
involving coffee and creme eggs towards the end ofterm...
KHHHSmfi«»B

