8) 0)
Imperial College is host to the most active and diverse international student
community in the country. There are 25 overseas societies ranging from the
Afro-Caribbean to China, represented on the Overseas Students' Committee
(OSC). The OSC is a major sub-committee of the Imperial College Union and
serves the specialist needs of the 2500-strong international students.
Besides supervising and funding the overseas societies, it also co-ordinates
its own large scale events like "Freshers' Night", "Overseas Week" and the
OSC Indoor Soccer Tournament.
On Friday March 4th, comes the biggest event in the college calendar
-"International Nite '94". This year, we have more societies than ever taking
part in the largest scale event yet organised. International Nite '94 kicks off
with the ever-popular International Food Fair at 6:00 pm in the Main Dining
Hall, where food from as diverse countries as Japan to Lebanon will be
served. The Food Fair will last from 6:00 to 7:30 pm providing the food
doesn't run out first! The Fair proved enormously successful last year so
we'd advise you to go early!
After that, you can settle down to the highlight of the event, the Cultural
Show. Several societies will be taking part this year and their performances
will show the extraordinary range of cultures that exist here in Imperial. The
Cultural Show has always been enthusiastically received and it has proven
to be highly enjoyable for the audience and cast alike. The show will run
from 8:15 to 11:00 pm in the Great Hall where seating will be maximised.
However the tickets for the Cultural Show are limited and have always sold
out well in advance, so purchase yours early to avoid disappointment.
While the Cultural Show is on, there will be two additional events going on.
The first is the disco by the legendary DJs, the Underground Movement who
will be spinning from 8:00 pm to 2:00 am in the Junior Common Room
(JCR). At 9:00 pm, we have an excellent Afro-Caribbean band performing in
the Senior Common Room (SCR). Throughout this time, the bars will be
open till late to give you yet another excuse to stay up and party the night
away.
The price? There are two types of tickets available this year. For £5, the
Food Fair, Disco and the Live Band are yours to enjoy and for £8, you get
the Cultural Show thrown in too! This event has been heavily subsidised and
we guarantee that you will never again experience so much for so little.
Tickets are available from the Sherfield foyer and the Union Office and are
always sold out, so DO make sure you get yours early. See you there!

