4 Feature
A Classless Crossing For All
There is a most beautiful thing, handsomely dictatorial on the highways of
our pleasant land. The pedestrian crossing remains one of the few objects
which reminds us that the automobile's purpose is the convenience of
mankind, not the means without end it often appears to be. Let me explain...
Laced across the muscular routes which
characterise the progressive speed of the
Twentieth Century are the threads of our self
determination. We all have the power to stop the
traffic. Here comes a wrinkled walnut of a
granny, loaded down with the heavy
accumulated shopping of life. She presses the
button and for a second the world stops turning.
Magic. Just as if those dreams had come true and
all motion revolved around her head.
My parents had the
indignity to hoist on my
playground credibility
the millstone of a
Morris 1500...
As a kid, a well brought up child it must be
said, the most anarchanistic act I habitually
engaged in was to 'arm' the crossing as I walked
by, with no notion of crossing over myself. Just
to see the lines of braking cars, watching as a
line of invisible men stepped lightly to the other
side. Actually it was my potentiality crossing the
road and blowing raspberries as it went.
Cars weren't nice in those days. The closest
you got to affordable style were the rounded
lines of the Cortina Mk2. M y parents had the
indignity to hoist my playground credibility the
millstone of a Morris 1500. In fact two 1500s
sequentially. My desire was for the sharkish line
of the Capri. Sad in hindsight I now realise but
the seeming injustice was enough to build a
heady joy in seeing all cars come to a halt in the
wake of my juvenile attack. Morrises, because
we had one, Capris because we didn't. ,
An added bonus was the cry of the then
immature environmentalists. "Think of all that
wasted petrol" they would scold me, the oil
crisis of the Seventies being within short
memory. But although this type of argument
encouraged some in the phantom crossing
fraternal, for me the anger of the drivers was far
superior. Who cared about the damage to the
unrenewable fuel resources of the world when
you could see Mr Jenkins go a slight shade of
purple as he waited impotent in his tan Allegro
as the lights went red? To a small boy that was
power worth having.
If that wasn't a sufficiently Freudian reason
for my attitude to the people's wagon, my
experience with the only car I had the misfortune
to own punctured all my remaining joy. Not
content to need major financial reconstruction
every M O T , the red beast, alas a Renault 18,
(brute) died in a most inconvenient manner. The
ghost was given up one August Saturday, in the
heart, and I mean the lonely heart, of Norfolk.
Bursts of water rose from the crippled engine
and fell like black rain. The four friends I was
driving home after our holiday took it calmly.
They squatted down in a nearby field and
amused themselves by hurling turnips across the
road. I felt just like Graham Taylor on the back
page of the Sun, a turniphead.
And yet to return windingly to the title, the
pedestrian crossing also reminds us of the
equality of all individuals. Everyone with a
protuberant has the capacity to stop the traffic,
even the blind. Especially the blind. I live in the
same road as a Royal Society For the Blind
building and the crossing next to that has an
excellent feature. To aid the white stick's road
safety the lights change immediately. As
empowerment for a minority this approaches
Stalinist proportions and allows you to wait for a
speeding car before depressing the button, thus
gaining the most enjoyment for yourself and
causing the most annoyance for the alloy-
wheeled XR3i driver. Hear Kevin shriek!
Of more concern though is the problem of the
zebra crossing. Ours is still a mainly subdued
society, when a policeman clears his throat
everyone feels guilty. When there are red lights
drivers behave, but in the freedom of the zebra
they're on our own. In fact to legally use the
zebra crossing the pedestrian is required to
actually step out into the road. This is a measure
When there are red
lights drivers behave,
but in the freedom of
the zebra they 're on
their own...
of the active spirit. Unsurprisingly though, in
London at least, such behaviour is not practiced.
If it were the London taxi service would be on
constantly heading off to casualty. Although in
the privatised Health Service this could be seen
as efficiency of the highest order. First the
pedestrian steps onto the crossing. The
oncoming taxi, as is his want, accelerates and
hits the aforementioned. The now unconscious
crosser is rushed to hospital within the
ambulance time guidelines of twenty five
minutes. Everyone is happy.
Maybe the days of the crossing are
numbered. It is not something within our present
wheelbound psyche, the male must always get
through. How much more brutal is the
underground tunnel which quickly becomes
urine stained and neon smashed? Or the
overhead walkway which places the pedestrian
high into the elements? Battered by winds and
the ground down by the slow zig-zagging of the
steps, it is us pedestrians who are put out. Why
should we be inconvenienced, or hidden away?
No, stand up for the symbol of Utopia in our
broken society. A world where the Rolls Royce
stops for the man in the dirty hush puppies.
Jon
Don't try this one at home kids! Go play on Queen's Gate.

