Feature 5';
An Irishman By Any Other Name
Tony Grew examines Hollywood's penchantfor Honorary Irishmen.
'In the Name of the Father' is one of those films
which practically courts controversy. The more
cynical among you may imagine this to be a
deliberate move by the film makers, or more
correctly the film's backers, to help raise its
profile and consequently its box office takings.
If this is the motive then it has certainly worked;
'In the Name of the Father' has taken a very
healthy $22m in the US since its release there a
few months ago.
The story of the Guildford Four should be
straightforward enough and many of you are
probably aware of the details of this undeniably
scandalous miscarriage of justice. After the
horrendous pub bombings in the commuter town
of Guildford, the police were determined to
catch the terrorists responsible as soon as
possible. The press and public were, as Emma
Thompson's character bellows so histrionically
in the movie, 'baying for blood'.
Gerry Conlon, surely one of the most unlucky
people on the planet, is arrested on suspicion of
the massacre and confesses under intense mental
torture by the police. On top of all this his whole
family in England, including his father who had
come over to try to secure his release, are
arrested on conspiracy charges. Despite the
tenuous nature of the key forensic evidence they,
along with three of Conlon's friends, are
convicted. Only after fifteen years of tireless
campaigning and the investigations of one
determined lawyer are their convictions
overturned.
You can imagine how the American studios
reacted to a story like this. Its got everything:
humour, human tragedy, family togetherness and
solidarity in the face of adversity, humour, bad
guys, good guys and bad guys becoming good
guys.
I think some people in this country are under
the impression that in the 'In the Name of the
Father' is an Irish film or a British film. You
have to take into account where the money is
coming from - although it has been directed by
an Irishman and features absolutely no
Americans whatsoever. What it does have is two
major British stars with an immensely high
profile in the States. Both Day Lewis and
Thompson have been recent Oscar winners and
are considered by some people to be attractive.
They are good compromise choices from an
American point of view because although they
are not Irish at least they come from near there.
They also both possess that type of sympathetic
attitude towards the 'Irish problem' unique to
luvvies: the whole thing is just so tragic and
horrible and of course we are all to blame really.
If J.M. Sheridan was totally committed to
making an authentic documentation of the story
of the Guildford Four then there are dozens of
very talented Irish actors and actresses who
would have been able to convey the pain and
conflicting emotions without the method
posturing of Day Lewis. I have to confess
complete bewilderment at the praise heaped
upon this consistently average performer. But, to
get back to the point, the Yanks seem to like
him.
There have been rumblings from the
Macguires, Conlon's family in England who
were convicted on conspiracy charges, and other
people have complained that the numerous
inaccuracies in the film detract from its force as
an indictment of British justice and a document
of the struggle of the four. Bollocks. 'In the
Name Of the Father' is a Hollywood movie; you
may just as well expect 'Pretty Woman' to be a
searing expose of life on the streets as a call girl.
It is not even clear is whether the artistic license
taken in the film is the work of Conlon, who has
a bit of a reputation for changing his story, or of
the film makers.
What these inaccuracies do is change 'In the
Name Of the Father' from a slightly overlong
but essentially worthy boring little film into a
classic piece of movie making. You have to
respect the work Sheridan has done here. It is
representative of a trend in movies about Ireland
over the last fifty years. That is that the story is
better if you tell it this way rather that the way it
was. So the fact that the Four and the Macguires
are tried together makes for a much more
arresting image that if we had to watch two
separate trial scenes. Putting Gerry and his father
in the same cell makes it easier for the father/son
relationship to develop. We know that solicitors
have no right of appearance at the high court, yet
the whole emotional core of the film would be
ruined if the climactic speech was given by an
extra playing a barrister rather than Emma
Thompson.
I detect a pattern here. Remember the way
Tom Cruise chose to portray the Irish in his
1991 effort 'Far and Away'; all shawls and over
done accents. Yet he got away with it. So did
John Wayne in 'The Quiet M a n ' . But when
Kevin Costner, who, like it or not, is one of the
most bankable stars of the decade, tried the same
artistic and factual license with 'Robin Hood',
he was stamped on from a great height by
everybody. It is interesting to note that the
charismatic Kevin's next project is a biopic
about the 1920s Irish revolutionary leader
Michael Collins. Will he get away with it this
time? Probably, because the subject matter is
Irish and that seems to make it alright.
This is not meant to be a criticism of 'In the
Name of the Father', but rather an attempt to
stop people coming up to me and expressing
wonder at the way things really happened for
those poor people, and then go on to refer to the
three things in the movie that didn't actually
happen.
I really enjoyed 'In the Name Of the Father',
as my review in FELiX 989 should prove. I even
cried at the end. But then I got up, surrep-
titiously dried my tears and left. It was a film,
don't have such high expectations of it. It was a
Hollywood film in terms of its funding and the
audience it was being made for, so you, as
intelligent people, should even be able to predict
events and the order in which they happened.
Remember that.
This week's cinema reviews are on pages 18 and 19

