6 Information
Calling all MSc Students and
Final Year Undergrads
Imperial College is taking part in a nationwide
survey looking at attitudes to postgraduate
education, both from the point of view of
postgraduates themselves, and final year
undergraduates.
We are setting up two groups of eight
students to discuss the issues involved. Each
session will last between 45 and 60 minutes, and
we need to recruit students in the following:
Group 1: Postgraduates
Eight students, men and women (preferably a
50:50 split); U K domicile; again from all areas
of the College.
One night in the Union Building I was out
drinking with some friends from halls. We had a
few pints and were having a really good time.
One of my friends let off a fire extinguisher and
squirted it at us. It was fun, and when that
extinguisher stopped working we looked for
other ones. Once all the extinguishers we could
find had been used we went home laughing.
One night in the Union Building there was a
meeting of my society on the top floor. I was
late, so I hurried up the stairs. Halfway up the
fire alarm went off. I know you are supposed to
evacuate the building, but I wanted to see if my
friends were alright. I quickly reached the top
floor to find it ablaze. I could hear screams and I
realised my friends were trapped in one of the
rooms. I grabbed a nearby fire extinguisher, but
it would not work. I found another one and this
didn't work either. I thought I wasn't using it
properly and I wasted a lot of time before I
realised that someone had let it off and it was
empty. I could still hear the cries of my friends
as they were burnt by the flames and I was
Group 2: Final year undergraduates
Eight students, men and women (preferably a
50:50 split); U K domicile; again from all areas
of the College.
In return for your views, we will offer you a
financial incentive and refreshments.
The sessions will be held on Wednesday 16th
March; postgraduates in morning, under-
graduates in the afternoon.
If you are interested, please call Liz Carr,
Public Relations Office, ext 8638 or go and see
her in Sherfield Room 553. Students will be
recruited on a first come, first served basis.
powerless to do anything. I have never felt so
helpless in my life.
•Fact: Letting off fire extinguishers for fun
could cost lives.
•Fact: Should there be a fire in the Union
Building the fire extinguishers are our
only way of helping people before the
fire brigade arrive.
•Fact: Letting off the extinguishers not only
risks lives, it costs money.
•Fact: It could be you who is trapped on the
top floor of the building.
It is very important that the Union Building is
always equipped with working fire extinguish-
ers. The story above is thankfully fiction, but it
could be reality if we continue to do as much
damage to the fire extinguishers as we are at the
moment. If you see anyone messing with extin-
guishers or fire hoses, please stop them. What
started off as a bit of fun could turn into your
worst nightmare should a fire ever break out.
Postgraduate
Scholarships
and Awards
Closing dates are fast approaching for some
awards for postgraduate study at IC - they are
limited in number and applicability. See your
Departmental noticeboards for adverts or the PG
prospectus for details.
13th March R T Z Bursaries (for P G study in
RSM).
31st March Arab-British Chamber Charitable
Foundation Scholarship (for a
student of Arab nationality; one
new award only in 1994, possibly
to cover fees or maintenance but
not both).
31st March Concrete Structures Bursaries (for
MSc Concrete Structures).
30th April Beit Fellowship: for lst-Class
degree holders; PhD studies.
30th April ORS Awards fee-support scheme;
(but closing date is 1st April for
applicants not already accepted for
PhD).
20th June Rees Jeffreys Road Fund Bursaries
(Transport studies).
27th June William Selkirk Scholarship (for
study in M R E Dept).
Application forms available at the Scholarships
Office, Room 314 Sherfield.
Exchange Scholarships
If you have a good command of the German
language, we have these for PG study at E T Z
Zurich (1st March) and R W T H Aachen (23rd
March); any nationality for Zurich, but British
nationals only for Aachen. Details from the
Scholarships Office.
Fire: Fact Or Fiction?
V O T E !
If you are on the South Kensington Campus, you must have a working SWIPE Card in order to vote in the
soon-to-arrive Sabbatical Elections. The Elections are on the 14th and 15th March across IC. If you want to
vote, make sure you test your card in your department.
If you haven't got a SWIPE CARD or the card that you do have doesn't work, just nip over to Security, Level
One, Sherfield. They'll order a new one for you or re-encode yours if it doesn't work. Simple really.
If you are at St Mary's, don't worry, you don't need the Swipe cards to vote. The same goes for all students who
will vote at Silwood Park.
Note: Voting is open to Undergraduates and Postgraduates ONLY.

