Clubs and Societies I)
lllllli9W%
lllllliHI
Neon Nights in
Windsor
Forest
Verdi's Falstaff is the autumnal comic
masterpiece that crowned the collaboration
between the composer and the poet Arrigo
Boito. The libretto is based on Shakespeare's
Merry Wives of Windsor, and also draws
sketches of the lecherous knight from Henry IV
Parts I and II. It is an opera of extraordinary
delicacy, the music and drama in fragile but
ideal balance. Subtle and acute treatment is
required and all too frequently lacking, as
interpreters are seduced into inflating the comic
aspects into crudity, or underlining the pathos
and stifling the work's vitality.
A tall order then, but great works survive and
flourish through great exponents. On the present
evidence Andrew Litton, making his debut with
the English National Opera, has a way to go
before he can claim mastery of this score. His
conducting was unrelievedly brash and solid,
showing a surprising lack of sensitivity to the
airy deftness so essential in this most intimate of
musical portraits.
This also had the unfortunate consequence of
compromising the performances of the lively
and talented cast assembled for this revival of
David Pountney's orginal 1989 production.
However, Benjamin Luxon's corpulent, wingless
cupid, painted with bright if rather broad strokes,
' 'By Jove, it's lucky I've got six pillows under this doublet!''
Benjamin Luxon thwarts Janice Cairns' self-defence skills. (Photo: Sue Adler)
is a difficult creature to submerge for long, and
appropriately dominated the stage.
Despite this, my abiding memory of the
evening will be of the magnificently super-
natural evocation of Windsor Forest in the final
act. As the moonlight steals over the aged limbs
of Heme's massive oak, and Falstaff anxiously
waits beneath its foreboding bulk, a green
fluorescence courses slowly into every branch
making it almost throb with life! A thrilling
moment perfectly echoing the musical imagery.
iqqy
The Coliseum, St Martin's Lane, WC2. 071 836
3161. Tube: Leicester Square. Until 29th March.
'Degenerate' Masterpieces
Decca's Degenerate Music series features works
banned by the Third Reich. In Nazi Germany the
label 'degenerate' was applied to any music
displaying the influences of serialism or jazz,
and also anything written by Jewish composers.
The latest opera in Decca's series belongs to the
latter category. Berthold Goldschmidt's Der
Gewaltige Hahnrei (The Magnificent Cuckold),
in its premiere recording conducted by Lothar
Zagrosek, tells the bizarre, tragicomic story of
Bruno, who becomes so obsessed with the
thought that his wife might be unfaithful that he
forces her into adultery to end his uncertainty.
The accompanying booklet forgoes the listing of
influences ("the cheapest branch of musical
criticism") but prospective listeners might like
to know there are echoes of Kurt Weill,
Prokofiev and Richard Strauss. There is also an
abundance of first-rate tunes and memorable
ideas—try the beginning of track 5 and track 6
on the first disc. This is one of those gratifying
works that delight at first acquaintance yet
reveal more with each subsequent hearing. M y
advice is, go to e.g. Covent Garden Records, ask
to sample Der Gewaltige Hahnrei ("as featured
in Felix") on the headphones, and hope they
forget about you.
Goldschmidt, in his nineties, is not only still
around to enjoy the renewed interest in his
music, but is still composing. Far less fortunate
were the Czech composers Pavel Haas and Hans
Krasa, who both went to the Auschwitz gas
chambers on the same day in 1944. On the other
recent Entartete Musik disc, the Hawthorne
Quartet play Kr&sa's string quartet, and the
second and third string quartets by Haas. The
Krasa is somewhat elusive, but both works by
Haas are full of invention: try the captivating
opening of his second quartet, or the first
movement of the third, with its wonderful
second subject. The playing is beautiful and the
recording near-ideal.
A much better-known Czech composer is
Bohuslav Martinu. I admire his symphonies very
much, but unfortunately can only give a
lukewarm welcome to an intriguing selection of
his vocal music from Supraphon. The main item,
The Spectre's Bride, gives the impression of
having been composed in a hurry by a master
technician. There are a few flashes of
inspiration, but little that stays in the memory,
despite the commitment of conductor Jiri
Belohlavek and the idiomatic Prague Symphony
Orchestra. The soprano and bass soloists have
pleasant voices, but manage to put almost no
expression at all into what is (or should be) a
ghoulish tale of zombie abduction. The silver
lining on this disc is the delightful opening
work, the early Magic Nights.
Patrick Wood
This week's theatre reviews are on page 13

