6th March, 1969 FELIX Page 5
The function of the University
Following the large expansion in the last decade of the numbers of students attending University, the present structure of our universitie
criticised from many angles. At one extreme is the group of academics who suggest the idea of a University completely independent of the
ment, at the other are the students of the left who feel that industry already controls our courses.
To discuss the whole problem of the function of the University, in the light of the present situation, Felix has invited a number of peopl
contribute articles on the subject. In this issue Matthew Duncan-Jones suggests ways of improving Imperial College, and Matthew Carring
suggests solutions to problems facing universities in general.
What is Imperial College anyway? b y Matthew Duncan-Jones
" Crap ", " a mind-sausage machine " are commonplace
answers among students here and elsewhere to the question
stated in the title. This open failure on the part of the insti-
tution can be simply and correctly analysed. IC is the most
glorified college of technology in Britain and as a tech. of
course has no Arts or Social Science faculties. This means
that the ratio of men to women is very out of balance and
that the students are more narrowly educated than elsewhere.
The techniques of criticism and understanding of anything
not involving mathematics remain abysmally low from
beginning to end of College life. IC's lack of creativity is
partly demonstrated by the fact that the new informal arts
society " Henry " finds it very difficult to get off the ground
and also by the shortage of material of any standard for
FELIX and PHOENIX. Social life very often centres on the
bar. Women aren't allowed in the Union Bar and conversely
with the ICWA lounge. A motion calling for an end to this
ridiculous state of affairs was recently rejected by ICU,
much to the derision of the RCA.
Manifestations of the immaturity of the structures of IC
are many and obvious: Morphy day (from which RCSU
has at last withdrawn), the President's Ball, and pots pre-
sented to few and sundry, the dinosaur nature of the Union
and the childish use of standing orders at Union meetings.
Another is the Joint Committee of the Union, the Rector
and the Governors (JURGO), Jurgo is, as Council members
freely admit, a pantomime of " student participation" as
can be seen from the ' double punishment' issue and the
Rector's avoidance of real discussion.
Of course, many are proud to be at Imperial College. But
there must be some alternative to institutions which define
themselves in the following way:
" The purposes of the Imperial College are to provide
the fullest equipment for the most advanced training
and research in various branches of science, especially
in its application to industry . . . "
(Article II of the Charter of Incorporation, 1907). IC doesn't
even claim to educate and broaden the minds of its students,
but stifles and narrows its members to one academic dis-
cipline. Through its lack of stimulation of any opposite
opinions, it implies that science (as narrowly described
above) is the only discipline in which thought is required.
Students arrive from school with a proven exam-passing
ability and this is about all this system ever asks them to
exercise. The students pass through in ever decreasing num-
bers to supply to country's need for scientists and are by
their nature separate from and raw material for the
" national technology " as Lord Penny puts it in the ICU
Handbook. IC's products may be first class experts but,
as H. G. Wells said (and I say now), they are all too often
visionless, inwardlooking and narrow-minded.
What are the alternatives? A drastic overhaul is of course
necessary, but this will not come unless there are people
(students are people who know what student life is) in
decision-making positions at least up to the Governing Body
level, who are convinced of the necessity for change. This
means students with full speaking and voting rights, not
only " participators " but representatives who can be man-
dated and report back to General Union meetings; it also
means that there must be fewer industrialists, to whom a
University is a production-line of experts, on the Governing
Body, and more of both academic staff and representatives
of organised labour of the shop-floor variety rather than
tame Trade Union officials who sold their souls to the
establishment years ago (e.g. Les Cannon, General President
of the Electrical Trades Unions).
As regards the courses themselves, there must be rapid
expansion in the teaching of the social sciences, economics,
sociology, politics, philosophy, languages, etc. Scientists must
understand society to be able to use their science responsi-
bility and not be blind to the applications of their work;
this responsibility must be to humanity rather than to pri-
vate enterprise. Such courses must be of a critical nature —
examining society as a complex process, not as a series of
water-tight compartments. This means not merely industrial
relations or management studies, which provide another set
of courses to develop expertise in handling the problems of
industry, but fundamental analyses of the evolution of
society. The concept of " courses " should be discarded for
that of discussions between " staff " and " students ".
It is important to realise the very great differences between
making IC more general, by expanding the courses which
seek to train rather than educate, and increasing the real
scope of study allowed in and around IC Incorporating
arts subjects into the IC campus would mean that they
would be under the same financial control and hence
become mere extensions of the national technology rather
than areas of self-expression and genuine diversity.
I assert my right as an individual to have a say in what
I am taught — that means more than choosing between a
series of third year options; to have a say in what my life's
occupation is to be, beyond receiving careers advice as to
"what is the best job for me?" The University must be a
constructively critical institution and not a training-ground
for " experts ".
Who controls IC? The Governing Body appoints the
Rector, who is the de facto head of IC though his decisions
have to be rubber-stamped by the Governing Body after
being taken by the Finance and Executive Committee of
the Governing Body. The Governing Body is therefore the
ultimate authority and is composed of representatives from
the Crown, Dept. of Education and Science, University of
London, Inner London Education Authority, the various
professional institutions and the major Commonwealth Gov-
ernments, plus a few representatives from a few more
sources. They are mostly industrialists.
Research in the universities is sponsored by the research
councils, Ministry of Technology and Ministry of Defence
together with the obvious Universities Grants Committee
financed by the Government. According to a rather guarded
article in Science Journal (Jan. '69) . . . " the UGC does have
the power — if not the authority —- to suggest what fields
of learning might profit most from investment; or to call a
halt, as it has done recently, to new building projects in time
of economic difficulty ".
On Wednesday, January 29th, Mr. Short, Secretary of
State for Education and Science, developed this theme in a
less carefully worded way: " . . . universities should become
increasingly aware of the demands of the economy and it is
difficult to see how they could maintain their autonomy
without doing so " (Times, Jan. 30th). i.e. either the univer-
sities voluntarily do as they are told or they will be forced
to do as they are told. The universities are not, then, auto-
nomous institutions guided by principles of " academic
freedom " and " intellectual tolerance " but of profit. They
have to be cost-effective, which means becoming more
thoroughly integrated with industry both for research and
development projects, which also determines the course
content (i.e. training not education) meaning that university
lecturers talk more about their " teaching load " and less of
the educational aspects of university courses.
In this way the student becomes more and more like the
worker in a factory; both are controlled by the same people,
except for some very important differences that enable the
authorities (of the state and the universities, with the aid
of the national press) to usually split co-operation between
students and workers. Students are on the winning side in the
educational rat-race and receive grants, a form of charity,
instead of wages, which emphasises the point. They are the
" intellectual elite " who will get what pickings capitalism
can offer. But they are constrained by the same primitive
structure throughout society like everyone else.
Therefore students can only move forward effectively with
the rest of the workers and such a struggle will be long
and hard, but student politics, if dealt with in isolation, are
next to irrelevant anyway, and completely separated organ-
isationally, from other progressive movements.
The changes needed following expansion
Violence has always been an accepted form of political
protest; it showed itself as much in the Birmingham riots of
the 1880's as in the brawl on the floor of the House of
Commons in the 1890's. It was only in the fuzzy pre-war
years of the 1930's that pacifism, fashionable for a short
time, made political violence not only deplored, as it had
always been, but almost redundant, except with a small
lunatic fringe. But as a general rule it has always been the
case that those people who feel themselves incapable of
either convincing others, or of being convinced in logical
argument resort to battering their opponents into bloody
submission. It is not, therefore, surprising that Universities
are at last getting their share of this political action. When
they used to exist for a select few it was only to be expected
that violence did not erupt—now it is only surprising that
it did not follow sooner on the vast expansion of University
places. This is not to deplore the expansion, only to point out
that the result was inevitable, given that University students
now come from different backgrounds, with vastly different
traditions and that Universities themselves have failed to
change to accommodate them.
It is therefore apparent that change is necessary, but
before considering what change, it is worthwhile consider-
ing what a University is supposed to do. It must primarily
educate, or as I am now talking about scientific establish-
ments, it must primarily train. This is not because of some
dark bear lurking outside the campus who requires regular
sacrifices of trained technologists, but because in science and
engineering it is impossible to progress without having first
absorbed the required amount of knowledge; and the amount
of knowledge required before the student can be allowed
to think for himself is rapidly expanding to fill the three
years available. So the problem is how best to get students
to absorb all the necessary facts. Once this has been worked
out, it is necessary for the University to give a certain con-
tact with the outside world; most students on entering the
hallowed portals of our more famous research colleges have
only had that contact with the world about them afforded
by the school or the family life. Just as the Grand Tour in
the 18th and 19th centures fitted the young gentlemen for
life—so the University must equip the young technocrat. Of
course this is already done to a certain extent by the stu-
dents themselves, principally in the Union, although not
every student is prepared to be bothered with the Union and
risk his degree. A University should also be a place where
the student can think, and form his own opinions, and
this is why the idea of a University as a factory for ready-
made ideas is so ridiculous. Although democracy should be
paramount, there should be as many opinions as there are
students, and so it is not very flattering to the majority to
have its opinion put forward as the college's, for it shows
the students as being able to agree with glib statements on
complicated issues.
The University is at present set up with the purpose of
by Matthew Carrington
giving people degrees, and unfortunately not just a degree
but also a class of degrees. This is all very well if one
accepts that examinations are the best way of assessing
someones ability—but in that case Universities should, like
schools, be geared to the passing of examinations, with
mock exams and all the rest of the paraphanalia of the best
modern teaching techniques. But examinations are in them-
selves highly dubious, at best they are an indication of the
students memory and stamina, and at worst a useless guide
to his state of health. Of course, if examinations were abol-
ished a lot else would have to change, for instance lectures—
which are largely redundant already owing to the poor
quality of the lecturers—would have to cease, and then the
lecturer could distribute what he wanted to say in duplica-
ted form, and spend the time he would normally spend lec-
turing in seeing students privately. The next thing is that a
lot more emphasis would have to be put on the tutors, who
would then do the teaching the lecturers don't do. This
would have the advantage of bringing back the personal
contact between the teacher and the taught, and at the
same time would leave plenty of scope for modern teaching
methods, such as teaching machines. Of course, as the tutors
would be doing the assessing, each student would have
several tutors. This is only a sketch outline of the changes
I think are necessary, but it shows the direction in which I
think the changes are bound to come, particularly away from
the impersonal towards the personal.

