6th March, 1969 FELIX Page 7
CARNIVAL CONCERT: A FAILURE, BUT WHY
Following the failure of the Albert Hall Carnival con-
cert, which lost in the region of £800, the National Council
for the Unmarried Mother and her Child have no chance
of receiving the talked of £12,000 from I.C. charity appeal
this year. The figure suggested by Carnival Co-ordinator
Ian Jarvis after the concert was £2,500, which makes a
total of £3,700 (together with the sum already handed over
to the National Council). With just two weeks to go until
the end of term, which will virtually be the end of Carnival
for this session, the Carnival committee are pinning their
remaining hopes on the raffle, which should bring in £1,000,
and the fete to be held next term.
On being asked by Felix to explain the abysmal failure
of the concert, Ian Jarvis felt that the reasons were many,
but basically the failure was caused by the delay in electing
the Carnival co-ordinator. It wasn't until early November
that he had been able to form his committee, and none
of those who expressed a willingness to work for Carnival
had had any previous experience of the task in hand.
Following the precedence of previous years, the commit-
tee booked the Albert Hall for a concert on February 20th.
As in previous years no bill had been arranged for the
concert, and it was assumed that the concert would auto-
matically benefit the charity appeal to the tune of £1,000,
(Keith Guy, Chairman of Ents, stated to Council that from
past experience there was no reason to doubt that a concert
in the Albert automatically meant a profit). However, when
Jim George, Carnival committee member in charge of the
concert, started formulating ideas for the bill, and began
contacting professional agents, it was realised that getting
star attractions capable of filling the hall would be no easy
job.
American Artiste
As in previous years, the idea of paying an American
artiste a fee and expenses to come over just for the concert
was put forward (Simon and Garfunkel, Joan Baez and
Salena Jones were among those being suggested at this time).
Acting on investigations made by last year's committee into
the probability of such a move being a success, especially
in view of the large sum of money involved, it was decided
that this idea was not feasible. The committee were thus
restricted to British or Continental attractions. On consult-
ing their agent as to the availability of major European
artistes such as Mireille Mathieu, they were informed that
none were available on the date in question.
Thus, at this stage, British groups were the only remain-
ing possibilities, and in this sphere it was not long before
the committee realised that they were amateurs playing in
a professional market. On consulting their agent as to
whether Jimi Hendrix was available, the committee were
told that he was not interested in appearing at the concert.
After many withdrawals and replacements, the bill was not
finalised until three weeks before February 20th (even after
that date one group dropped out).
During this time Hendrix had arranged to play two con-
certs in the Albert Hall during the same week as the Carnival
concert, and this really put paid to any hopes the commit-
tee may have had in filling the Hall. The box office attrac-
tion of every bill, including boxing, following the Hendrix
concerts was considerably decreased. Ian Jarvis estimates
that the concert would more than have broken even without
the counter attraction of Hendrix; the result of the counter
attraction was that takings were just £350. as against £1,150
expenditure.
The concert itself was a continuation of the same theme
of failure: at the last moment the Nashville Teens backed
out, and on the night one group (the Status Quo) spent 20
minutes tuning up and left the stage 2\ numbers later fol-
lowing the collapse of their base-guitarist. The continuity
of the concert was so bad that the compere Pete Drummond
had to frequently leave the stage to wait for groups to get
ready. The only two successes were the East of Eden and
the top of bill Spencer Davis.
As to the remainder of this year's carnival, Jarvis denied
that the adoption of the National Council has had any
bearing whatsoever on the amount of money taken in street
collections; in his opinion the letter sent by Council to The
Times, expressing concern that people were showing their
feelings on the Charity in the way they treated collectors,
was not really justified (he was not consulted on the subject).
Collections have not brought in as much as last year how-
ever, and he is especially critical of the effort one constituent
College Vice-President has put into the job of organising
collections.
•
Walk a success
The organisation of the walk was, in bis opinion, rather
rushed, but even so the potential benefit to Carnival is in
the region of £1,500, although only £400 of this has so far
arrived in the Union office. This stunt is an obvious money
drawer, and with tighter control of the ensuing funds, should
prove just as successful in the future.
The failure of Carnival week to make any impact was
due basically to the fact that none of the committee had
organised any previous Carnival weeks. The discotheque
on the Tuesday coincided with one of Hendrix's concerts,
and was completely run by just two people (one of whom
was Ian Jarvis). This proved inadequate to cover all the
issues involved. A number of girls had entered the Carnival
Queen contest merely as a joke, and it wasn't until they were
supposed to be parading their talents that the organisers
found this out. When Sir Gerald Nabarro turned up to
judge the contest, everything had to be rushed through in
the 30 minutes he had available. The running of the even-
ing was not helped by students attending Steve Moffat's 21st
in Southside Bar pouring into the discotheque and calling
those present by a name which appears to be the drunkards
phrase of the moment. The financial profit of the evening
was a mere £6.
Events lined up for the future, besides the aforementioned
Fete, are a swim of the English Channel by Physics 1 (who
are at present experiencing difficulty in getting sponsors); a
number of concerts in the R.C.M. and a one week arts festi-
val next term.
FILM REVIEW: 'CANDY IN WONDERLAND' by John Spence
It's one of those films which must give the distributing
company's fees section nightmares. And it's a daring director
who convenes no less than Burton, Coburn, Matthau, Brando
and Aznavour for the execution of his contract — and a
clever one to boot who brings it off. " What's new Pussy-
cat " probably kicked off the idea, " Those Magnificent
Men . . . " succeeded well too, — " Shalako " deployed its
million dollars worth of " talent" about as effectively as a
suckling brat deploys toilet paper.
In " Candy " (X, Kensington Odeon) the simplest formula
possible has been used to reconcile the different talents of
the afforementioned ' Top Five '. You just film your action
and screen it as a montage—each chapter being given to one
of your stars to use to his own gratification. For continuity
you use a plot, theme, ' thing', idea (delete whichever does
not appeal) or the approximate story of the original book
and, of course, the heroine whose acting qualifications must
be minimal, so as not to get Liz Taylor jealous, but whose
body must be such so as to get every bloke in the place a
good ten inches from his eyeballs—frequently! Then, you
have a big-deal finale, which everyone's in and where you
don't really know what the hell's going on although you
reckon it's all quite relevant. The film ends with the same
sequence it begun with—full circle—game over.
The fact is, however, that, far from being a hamfisted,
Jerry-built affair, "Candy" has ended up a very funny
evening's entertainment. I'm told the book by Terry
Southern and Mason Hoffenberg is a big send up of porno-
graphy — (is it possible?) but the film uses pornography
in turn to massacre just about every demagogue and big-
screen type hero to which Society is addicted. The send-up
of some of the images might be more aptly termed a
' throw-up' but the Freudian theme whereby the hip poet,
the combat commando, the neuro-surgeon and the mystic
are all toppled from their lofty heights by the sight of a
pink nipple, holds everything together. A hand on the wheel
of destiny is noble but a finger on Candy's crotch is good-
times a fitting epitaph, even a judgment, and the real life
personnages which make-up and waffle no more than thinly
disguise, will no doubt wince at the sight of their alter-egos
flickering before them.
First there's the poet—Macphisto—into whose character
Richard Burton manages to instill the more ludicrous
aspects of the Henrys, the Bonds, the Posters and the Gins-
bergs of this earth. Macphisto—with hair and sash streaming
in an ambient hurricane, is the idol of every high-school kid
who's dumb enough to dote on the drivel he propagates.
Having waxed ominous in all manner of psychedelic verbage,
he entices Candy into his cavernous Mercedes, gets sloshed
and attempts to ravage her on the vehicle's glass floor—
great photography! " Need, need " he moans as the poor
kid's dress becomes delectably shredded and it takes his
driver—a negro called Zero—to extricate her from certain
defloration. Put another way, her defloration is certain but
it takes none other than Ringo Starr, feebly playing Candy's
Mexican gardener (hmmmm)—to accomplish it. This done,
Candy's Dad and Uncle, both played by Charles Aznavour,
see fit to banish her and here we meet image no. 2.
Walter Matthau is Brigadier Al Smight of U.S. Sup. Tech.
Paracom. Int. Ltd. (or something) who has, for six years,
been flying about in an old Dakota with 24 " All-American
Boys" dressed as soldiers ready to " strike " when instruc-
ted. Where, who, why, what or when, we do not know, but
if Walt's spoof of an inane John Wayne type hero doesn't
have you doubled up there's no hope for you.
Next, it's Coburn's turn. He is the neuro-surgeon with
more degrees than a thermometer—Dr. Kronkeit—whose
brain-surgery is conducted only after a matadors entrance
to an assembled multitude issued with programmes, and a
battery of T.V. cameras and who gets a kick out of announ-
cing with demur that, with his fingers three inches inside
his patient's skull, a sneeze could seriously impair the man's
capacity for — digit-dialling! Needless to say he gets a few
kicks out of Candy at the " post-operative party ".
Next comes a photographer whose current vocation is
photographing people saying " No " — and with 120 No's
to date in his cassette he naturally gets the rest from Candy.
In between he has time to capture for posterity " Man
going out of door" and, having been beaten to oblivion
by a wicked caricature of an American Cop, he snaps his
own epitaph by turning the lens on himself — " Man
passing out".
More adventures, more assaults — then, the climax.
Brando does a hilarious job as a nomadic (in a ten ton
truck) Guru. The seduction this time is more protracted,
more subtle and more funny than the rest. The undertones
of the Kama-Sutra (convincing acting!) is never left out and
the " mystic goal, the final discovery " is, for Candy, exhaus-
tion on the mat and for the Guru—salami and cold beer
and an admission to being a reformed mystic!
The finale drags the whole bunch onto the set and to beat
music on a " Haight-Ashbury " hillside Candy walks (God
knows how) in a transcendent trance to where and for why
—nobody tells us.
The idea for Candy, on film at any rate, was born as soon
as Lewis Carroll applied quill to parchment and wrote "Alice
in Wonderland". The heroines bear little comparison save a
pervading air of innocence and sustained exploitation but
I surmise Candy to be a more readily discernible comment
on the times. As a role in the film, she does bear some
scrutiny since, having been called a slut, a tart, a whore, a
lecher and a seducer there follows the ultimate ignominy—
" and a Teenager ". If director Charles Marquand hopes to
instigate a move to protect this particular age-group from
our perverted culture, a film which is very funny but base
and implicitly perverted itself won't do the trick. By its un-
doubted popularity it will merely show that we, the com-
munity, are a lot like the characters in the film—without
being so very funny.

