Page 8 FELIX 6th March, 1969
Many students, apparently at IC a great minority, feel that life at univer-
sity should provide an education, as well as, or rather than, just schooling. It
was with this in mind that after general publicity of the idea 20 or so people
met in Committee Room A to discuss the formation of a completely informal
General Arts Group. The discussion was fairly successful and resulted in
the group being called Henry (for non-commital purposes) and that there
would not be the normal society structure i.e. no membership list, subscrip-
tion, etc. This was put to S.C.C. who granted Henry £5 for this term to see
how successful it became, realising that there was a necessity at IC for an in-
formal "Arts" association where people, inside and outside the College, could
come and display their own or others' "art-forms" whether literary, "musi-
cal" or visual and to take part in free discussion on any subject that comes
under the very general heading of "Art".
HENRY
So far this term Henry has met every Wednesday in the Union Upper
Lounge and the following art forms have been presented and discussed:
poetry, community painting, free, expressive movement to modern and clas-
sical music, experimental colour photography and experimental publicity
(which by the results can be said to be a failure). All these, apart from the
poetry, have been only partially successful and on a small scale due to limi-
ted facilities and lack of participants. The poetry, however, has been quite suc-
cessful ranging from synthetic McGonagal through to an extension even of
William Burroughs including some sonic poems using tape recordings, etc.,
and a jazz-and-poetry evening has been attempted with some members of the
Jazz Club.
It has also been decided to publish a "magazine", (run on similar lines
to the R.C.S. Broadsheet), called BEE NO which, of course, is limited to liter-
ary and pictorial presentations, but is unedited and as much material is put
in as space (and money) allows and if sold in sufficient quantities should grad-
ually increase its scope and content. It should be on sale now.
At the moment Henry has several problems most of which would be re-
solved if more people came to the Wednesday evening meetings so that (a)
there would not need to be such emphasis on standard literary art forms,
(b) there would be less of an inhibiting atmosphere (which has only been
lacking at two or three meetings), (c) the likelihood of gaining permanent
premises (admittedly extremely slight), which is very necessary if anything
other than simple creations are to be produced, will be increased the more
popular Henry becomes. At the moment Henry is in danger of becoming a
clique, this must be avoided; if more people (writers, artists, photographers,
actors, etc.) come, Henry will be the success it should be.
SYMPATHY
Empathy is everything
People are different
Everything is subjective
Objectivity is non-existant
Everybody is prejudiced
Sometimes against prejudice itself
The whole population of the world would fit on the
Isle of Wight
27 White polar bears died last December
or was it more
or less
or not.
ANAESTHESIA
When the box
stops screaming
its obscene
banalities
and the queen
fades from view
and the screen
regains the air
of the jungle at night
I am afraid
to put out the light
afraid to look behind me
lest I am standing there
a man going blind
afraid of the dark
in the land of night
a spark was struck
in the country of sadness
a child laughed
in the realms of winter
a zephyr blew
in a desert of stone
a sweet flower bloomed
in IMPERIAL COLLEGE
HENRY was born.
HAIKU
Ash on the floor dies
Go back onto the toadstool
It is all soap flakes
Opening a pilchard tin
A live one pops out
Onto the wet floor.

