Athena discusses the pros and cons of religion.
W h y F o r A r t T h o u ?
Is there a God? and w h i c h religion is
best? are questions that, in my opinion
cannot be answered. But the effect that
religion has had, and the uses to which it
has been put can be shown through the
course of history.
In the events of the Christian O l d
Testament, people were united to escape
the slavery of the Egyptians. It gave
people hope, something to live for. Be
good in life and you will be rewarded in
Heaven. In English history, under Richard
I, it persuaded knights to leave their
homes and destroy whole nations of
'Godless heathens', so providing a
convenient w a y to rid the country of
violent men, bored after the wars in
Europe, and dump them somewhere else
where they would be m u c h less trouble.
Later, in Europe, there were many rival
Popes, the Church being the ruling body.
The Popes were rival dictators, using
their positions for greed and personal
gain. Religion gave them the power to do
as they wanted.
F r o m the very beginning of Christianity,
up until only a few years ago, it has been
taught that w o m e n are to be subservient,
almost second class citizens. Now, in the
recent years of AIDS and promiscuity, the
head of the Catholic church tells us not to
use condoms. Kids fuck; its genetic. W h y
not accept the fact, and give them some
protection? 'But if they were good
catholics they wouldn't have sex.' you
say, but in the sixteenth (I think) century,
there was a tax imposed on priests for
their illegitimate children! In Britain
Christianity is the official religion. This is
not racist, but it certainly discriminates
against people who hold other beliefs, or
none at all.
M o h a m m e d was born in 570AD and his
teachings are recorded in the Koran.
Practicing Muslim parents ensure that
their male children learn Arabic at the
Mosque schools in order to read it.
M o h a m m e d is the most important in a
long line of prophets, which include
A b r a h a m , Moses and Jesus. In the
mosques w o m e n pray separately from the
men. Again, like Christianity, w o m e n are
second class citizens; only recently in an
article on Asian businessmen, the head of
a family business stated that only sons
and sons-of-sons were invited into the
business. I k n o w of many Asian w o m e n
who do not have the same freedom as
their brothers. Many are not bothered by
this, but there are many w h o are, and
they rely on their fathers for financial
support through university. It has been
suggested to me that since, under British
law, sexism is illegal, these w o m e n could
'tape' their fathers 'threats' and sue them!
But we are talking about loving parents
and their religious beliefs, and children
who dearly love them. The solution, of at
least one girl I know, is to play along
until one has sufficient financial security
(a degree) to refuse the parents. Another
similarity with Christianity is the concept
of a holy war and martyrdom. Just like
Richard I, the Iranian theocracy has
demanded the death of Salman Rushdie
for crimes against Allah, and President
Hussein has called for a holy war against
the US.
In Hinduism, the body is like a 'suit' for
an immortal soul, and what we do in one
life affects our status in our new life: i.e.
if one is a devoted and obedient servant,
then in the next life, one might come
back as a master. But not in ones o w n
lifetime. Apart from this strict caste
system (currently a subject of major
controversy in India) Hinduism is the
most liberal of religions. It encompasses
many different beliefs and forms of
worship, and it is the least tolerant of
violence, indeed many Hindus are
vegetarian. H o w e v e r , in the caste system
lawyers and soldiers are rated above
traders and industrialists.
There is not the space to discuss (nor
time to research) all religions, or
variations (eg Mormons), but as a cynic I
would like to make some conclusions
about the purpose of religion, and the
uses to which it has been put:
1. Religion is/has been used by lesser
developed countries to enforce necessary
social moralities, eg all involve a
mandatory donation of income,
theoretically for the poor. It is the
ultimate government. He w h o speaks for
God has the ultimate power.
2. They impose marriage; sex only
within the family. This is vital in small
communities to ensure that genetic
brothers and sisters do not marry. This is
more important than who will raise and
educate the children, w h o are also aided
by the family group.
3. W o m e n are totally dependent on
man, and should obey him. M a n is very
protective of the producer of his children,
his genetic future. In a primitive society
(English pre-20 century) they cannot do
the hard w o r k that men need to, so they
can stay at home, cookin^ and
reproducing.
4. Hope and strength to survive in the
face of adversity. In places where there is
a low standard of living, the hope of life
after death will persuade people to suffer
in life rather than turn to crime or
challenge the system: 'the meek shall
inherit the earth.'
Religion is simply a form of social
government, w h i c h relies on the belief in
a God or Gods. Because of the age of
these religions they impose the social
necessities of the family unit, and the
dependency of women. In a modern
'civilised' country, there exists the welfare
state to provide (theoretically) for the
poor.There is 'common law' marriage.
Most importantly the invention of
machines means that mans superior
strength is no longer important, and there
are civil laws to protect men and women.
We are in an intellectually dominated
society, and sadly for men, w o m e n are
on average more intelligent than men.
Christianity is adopting a sexually equal
stance. The same cannot be said for most
other religions, since the leaders of these
religions are based in countries where
such sexism could, perhaps, be justified;
where the majority of the people believe
that their leader talks for God, and would
die or kill at his word. A s long as the
children believe what they are taught by
their parents, the religion persists. In
Britain, the children are m a k i n g the
choice not to teach religion to their
children, and have been doing so for so
long now that the population would not
kill in God's name. The same is
happening to British Asian people.
In conclusion, Religions are inherently
sexist, and can appear to be racist. In the
perfect future, all people can choose what
to believe, and the state will ensure the
absence of racism, sexism, poverty,
crime. In the future we may be able to
decide on the genetic make-up of our
children, perhaps give them 'racial traits'.
But will we have the right to choose for
them? Similarly, do we have the right to
teach them one religion? If you have such
faith in your religion, can you not teach
your children all religions k n o w i n g that
they will eventually choose yours?
Athena.
10
Michael Newman on the right to be blasphemous.
Blasphemy!
Many people reject institutional religions
because of their long history of
intolerance and the resulting violence.
The intolerance is expressed in the
concepts of heresy and blasphemy, w h e n
religious groups have resorted to law and
punishment to defend their ideologies
against criticism.
Most religions are blasphemies to other
religions and the resulting conflicts have
resulted in imprisonment, torture and
millions of deaths. The Bible (Levitious
X X I V , 16) states 'He that blasphemeth the
name of the Lord, he shall surely be put
to death, and all the congregation shall
surely stone him'. Yet if you believe in a
wise and just G o d the Bible itself can be
considered a blasphemy!
W h e n Richard Carlisle was tried in
October 1819 for the blasphemy of
republishing Thomas Paine's 'The A g e of
Reason' he read out to the court the
whole of Paine's book. He was not
allowed to read out objectionable pieces
of the Bible. Paine, as a Deist, found the
Bible truly offensive, as he states in 'The
Age of Reason.'
'Whenever we read the obscene stories,
the voluptuous debaucheries, the cruel
and tortuous executions, the unrelenting
vindictiveness, with which more than half
the Bible is filled, it would be more
consistent that we called it the w o r d of a
demon than the W o r d of God. It is a
history of wickedness, that has served to
corrupt and brutalise mankind; and for
my o w n part, I sincerely detest it, as I
detest everything that is cruel...'
Due to the continued fight led by the
free-thought and Secularist movements,
people like Carlisle and Bradlaugh, the
blasphemy laws in this country were
made ineffective. For over fifty years
they were no longer applied, though the
threat was always there. T h e n in July
1977 Mary Whitehouse successfully
brought a blasphemy libel case against
'Gay News' for a poem depicting
homosexual images of Christ's body. In
September last year the film 'Visions of
Ecstacy' was refused a certificate for
public showing in this country because it
was considered blasphemous. It portrayed
a nun's erotic dreams of her 'marriage' to
Christ.
The problem with the modern debate is
that it revolves around free speech and
expression, whether people should have
the right to blaspheme. Y e t the act of
committing blasphemy is not simply one
of insulting religion. It can be seen as a
necessary part of defending our
humanity.
'One of the main impetuses behind the
book was to make some kind of secular
confrontation with the idea of
revelation.'—Salmon Rushdie on 'The
Satanic Verses'.
If we are to defend the human nature of
knowledge, the concept of truth relying
upon evidence and reason, with the ever
present risk of error, we must attack
revelation. W e must portray the words of
all prophets, and men w h o deify
themselves, as words of human beings, to
be judged as such. To admit revelation is
to corrupt truth, to lose the test of fact in
what things are. A s D r Jacob Bronowski,
scientist and Humanist, points out a
consequence of this is losing the sense of
fact in what a human being is. He walked
though Auschwitz concentration camp,
where his family were killed, and made a
plea for the human nature of knowledge:
'When people believe they have absolute
knowledge, with no test in reality, this is
how they behave. This is what men do
when they aspire to the knowledge of
gods.'
A new campaign, based on Bronowski's
words is starting at this College,
encouraging people to support and
commit blasphemy. Religions are not just
a political excuse for violence, revelation
gives them the conceptual foundations to
build the gallows, torture chambers and
the gassing showers.
Shelley's blasphemous poem sums up
what is really at stake:
Earth groans beneath religion's iron age,
And priests dare babbel of a God of
peace,
Even whilst their hands are red with
guiltless blood,
Murdering the while, uprooting every
gem of truth, exterminating, spoiling all,
Making the earth a slaughterhouse!
Let's start knocking down the foundations
of that slaughterhouse.
Information for this article comes from
'Blasphemy—Ancient and Modern' by
Nicholas Walter (£3.95) and ' W h y is it
Good to be Blasphemous?' by Huxley
Society (free leaflet). Both of which can
be obtained from the T H H u x l e y Society
Soc.
Religious
Survey
Imperial College as a major science
college in Britain has been chosen for a
survey on attitudes of scientific people
towards Christianity. In many of today's
copies of F E L I X you will find a copy of
the questionnaire being used. Y o u are
invited to fill it in as best you can and
post it back in the boxes provided near
department porters desks. It does not
matter what your attitude is towards
religion—agnostic, hostile or friendly—for
all opinions are required. There is ample
room on the questionnaire too for more
detailed comments if you wish to make
them, and these will all be welcomed.
The survey is being conducted by
David Copestake, a psychoiogist near
Oxford whose son is a student at IC. He
is a member of the Society for the
Scientific Study of Religion, the Institute
for Religion in an Age of Science (both
American) and the Sir Alister Hardy
Research Centre Oxford. In America
(where perhaps many IC students will
want to work), there is a lot more
interest and understanding as regards
science and religion than in Britain. Many
colleges have specific courses entiteld
'science and religion' and textbooks are
published with these in mind.
Mr Copestake hopes to foster this kind
of interest in this country and to write a
book that could perhaps serve as a
textbook on science and Christianity for
students. Y o u r help and cooperation will
be most appreciated. If y o u are very
busy, it need only take a few minutes,
please help us to get a balanced picture
of peoples' views.
There will be boxes in most
departments and in the JCR. If you
cannot find a box, then please put the
questionnaire in the Z pigeonhole of your
department undergraduate pigeonholes,
or sent it to Stephen Copestake,
Chemistry 2, via the pigeonholes.
11

