ENVIRO
Chris Riley reports on a talk by Stephen Bristow of SOS Sahel.
O u r C o m m o n F u t u r e
Within the developed world, factories,
cars and homes pump out 'greenhouse'
gases into the atmosphere. Many people
now believe that the global warming is
causing a contraction of the Tropical
rainfall zone which reaches into central
North Africa. Before the rains, the air is
thick with fine sand, b l o w n up by the hot
'Harmattan' winds. Sand covers fields,
clogs irrigation channels and ruins crops.
W i n d blows soil from unprotected fields,
and millions of tonnes of African earth is
swept up into the atmosphere, to rain
d o w n on the northern hemisphere.
The environmental problems we face
are global, and need to be treated
accordingly in our path towards a
c o m m o n future. However, in our shared
present, the people of sub-Saharan Africa
remain the worst off and most in need.
The geographic region of Sahel lies in a
broad strip across central Africa, between
18 and 12 degrees north, spanning almost
ten countries from Senegal to Somalia.
Strictly speaking, its borders are defined
by annual rainfall figures of between
150-600 m m per year. Thus in a given
year, such boundaries can advance or
retreat up to 300 k m north and south.
Rainfall in the Sahel, although
comparable with southeast England, is
both unreliable and erratic. Water, the
key natural resource of any arid zone, is
provided by hand-dug wells up to 100 m
deep. Unfortunately, water resource
management is still in its infancy, and
water output from aquifers is not
matched by natural replenishment. A s
much as 90% of the rain is lost, cascading
off the hard baked earth. In Mali, SOS
Sahel has responded to local requests to
protect soil from rain and wind erosion,
planting micro-catchments and
constructing small, shallow pits to trap
rain water.
Sahel is inhabited by some 50-60
million people, 25% of w h o m live in
towns. Such demography is constantly
changing, with large scale migration from
rural areas towards the bright lights and
false promises of the towns.
The rural population, made up of
settled farmers and nomads, has survived
successfully for thousands of years with
their self-balancing agricultural practice.
In the post-war years, politics,
economics and World Bank intervention
have combined to restrict farming activity
to the point where government cash
crops have replaced community
agricultural programmes. During the
colonial period, land was nationalised and
the state took up responsibility for trees.
Before this, the community as a whole
had to approve the felling of a tree.
Under state control, tree felling was not
policed properly, and large-scale
uncontrolled deforestation took place.
In the whole of Africa, only one tree is
planted for every thirty cut down. Of
those planted, perhaps 5 in 100 survive.
Growth rates of woodland are 0.2-0.3 m
per hectare per year, compared to 40-50
m in the U K . With such slow growth, it is
essential to forge a link between the
planting of trees and the long-term
environmental and economic benefits.
The trees are vital, providing protection
for crops from scouring winds. Their
roots bind the soil and help stop sand
movement, controlling the irreversible
process of desertification. In the northern
region (an area the size of France), desert
encroachment has destroyed entire
villages and is eating at productive,
irrigated land. SOS Sahel is helping Nile-
side villages protect their lands by
planting shelter belts. To encourage locals
to help with such forestry projects,
personal incentives are offered in the
form of trees for their o w n farms.
> Trees are a crop in themselves,
providing fuel, fodder, fruit and shade in
a region critically short of vegetation.
This programme of forestry also provides
regular supplies of fuel and fodder for the
future.
W o o d to be used as fuel is meant to be
collected in the form of dead wood, not
living trees. People do not always adhere
to such laws, and as a consequence the
woodlands do not survive. B y careful
forestry management, selected cutting
and thinning can be balanced with forest
growth to maintain and enhance annual
woodland enlargement. Ceramically-
insulated fuel-efficient stoves are being
introduced to save wood.
For generations, the necessity to have
as many children as physically possible
has been instilled in the people of the
Sahel. With low survival rates after birth
in the past, it was essential to secure the
future of the community. However,
recent improvements in health care,
water facilities and standards of living
have prolonged life. UNICEF
immunisation programmes have increased
the number of people surviving
childhood. However, family planning has
not evolved to take into account these
higher survival rates. Consequently, the
populations in the region are growing at
frightening rates: the population of
Ethiopia is currently 50 million, but is
increasing at 3% per year. Such growth
offsets the improvements in agricultural
practices.
So is the answer to enforce strict family
planning? Stephen Bristow thinks not.
"When local w o m e n are asked how they
will feed any further children, they reply
that the state will always feed them."
These attitudes clearly need changing. "If
education is improved, the family
planning problem will solve itself."
Bristow believes that if living standards
increase, birth rates will naturally subside.
"But all this takes time", he explains.
Time is perhaps the only thing we have
not got, for until the population growth
rate is controlled, and 'greenhouse' gas
emissions are cut, there will always be
famine and starvation. Without these cuts,
SOS Sahel's aid programmes will be
merely playing King Canute with the
desert and its people.

