Opinion:
Charles Nasser, President of Friends of Palestine, presents a review of the
Barbican Exhibition of 'Israel, State of the Art' FELIX
It is clear that the Barbican exhibition is
meant to provide the public with
information about Israel a n d its art. F o r a
Palestinian, however, a great deal of the
information only serves to increase the
deep rooted sense of denial and injustice.
I have here selected certain comments
released by the Barbican, followed by m y
response to them.
Israel has a population of only just over
four million, living on a twenty thousand
square kilometre strip of land.
In addition, since 1967, Israel occupies
6,400 sq k m of the West Bank, 362 sq k m
of the Gaza Strip, as well as parts of the
Syrian Golan Heights, and parts of
southern Lebanon. In the West Band and
Gaza Strip, nearly two million Palestinians
live under the longest military occupation
of a country in modern history.
Israel publishes more books per head of
population than any other country in the
world.
Israel also censors more books per head
of population than many other countries
in the world.
Beit Shean in the Galilee has the
world's biggest Roman amphitheatre.
Beit Shean in the Galilee also has one
of the biggest refugee populations. In
1948, the Israeli army ordered the
expulsion of the entire Palestinian
population of the Bisan. T h e y and their
descendants have been stateless refugees
for over four decades.
The annual 10-day Jerusalem Film
Festival shows over 100 films from over
forty countries in the Jerusalem
Cinemateque, oppostie Mount Zion.
Palestinian theatres a n d cultural
establishments, however, are repeatedly
ordered to shut b y the Israeli occupation
authorities and many artists harassed and
imprisoned.
The Dead Sea Scrolls, Bethlehem, the
Garden of Gethsemane, the Sea of
Galilee, the Wailing Wail and King
Solomon's Mines are all alive and well in
Israel!
Are you a budding
David
Attenborough,
Bellemy or
Jonathan Porrit?
We need Environmental articles.
Can you justify working in the
chemical, mining or oil
industries when they have such
horrific environmental records?
Is your industry and the
environment compatible?
The Dead Sea Scrolls were not found in
Israel; Bethlehem is not in Israel; nor the
Garden of Gethsemane; nor the Wailing
Wall; nor Jericho. Legally, they are all
located in occupied Palestinian territories.
Israel's many exports include flowers to
the Netherlands, chocolate to Switzerland
and citrus to the USA.
Israel's many exports also include
bodyguards to Nicaragua's toppled
dictator Somoza, intelligence advisors to
Panama's toppled dictator Noriega;
nuclear know-how, arms, electronics and
intelligence training to Apartheid South
Africa.
Israel's citizens hail from over 80
countries across the globe.
A n d settled there on lands expropriated
from Palestinians, as well as in the houses
of Palestinians w h o were forcibly expelled
in 1948 and 1967 and live in refugee
camps or are exiled to over 80 countries
throughout the world.
The Machtesh Ramon Crater in
Southern Israel is 300m deep and 8km
wide. It is one of the world's biggest
crater-canyons with rock strata and fossils
dating back 200 million years.
It is also adjacent to the illegal Israel
Dimonah Reactor. Israel is the only
country in the Middle East that is not a
signatory to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty (1968) and refused to open its
Dimonah nuclear plant to international
inspection b y the International Atomic
Energy A g e n c y (IAEA).
It is k n o w n to have an illegal arsenal of
over 200 atomic warheads and probably
thermo-nuclear warheads as revealed by
the Mordechai Vanunu, serving an
18-year prison sentence for doing so.
The huge immigration of Russian
Jewish doctors, scientists and engineers
spells a better future for Israel's
economy—increasing the number of
Israel's engineers from 30,000 to 160,000.
While the Israeli government opens its
doors to Soviet Jewish immigrants, many
Palestinians are focibly 'transferred'
permanently out of the country to join
the thousands already in exile. Their
properties a n d lands are confiscated and
expropriated for further exclusively
Jewish settlements.
Israel is a country with a distinct
Mediterranean flavour and a vibrant
outdoor life, but where streets are empty
when Dallas is on TV.
The Occupied Palestinian Territories
have a distinct Mediterranean flvour and
a vibrant outdoor life, but their streets
empty when the Israeli occupation army
imposes entire curfews over entire cities
and neighbourhoods often for periods of
many weeks at a time.
Jericho, whose first fortifications were
built 9000 years ago, is the oldest and
lowest city on earth.
Jericho is not in Israel. Jericho is a city
in the Occupied Palestinian Territories.
70% of Palestinians are under the age
of 30 years.
More than 70% of Palestinians under
the age of 30 are denied education
because of closure of Kindergartens,
schools and universities b y the Israeli
occupation authorities. Thousands of
Palestinians (many babies in cots) have
been killed by the Israeli army.
In the Jewish Mea Shearim quarter of
Jerusalem, the ultra orthodox residents
will wear the fur hats and silk kaftans of
the 16th century Polish middle class.
Many of them also regard Zionism and
the establishment of the Jewish state of
Israel as the worst form of Jewish
apostasy; they refuse to p a y taxes to the
Zionist state, to serve in the Israeli army
or to carry Israeli passports. O n the
official day of the establishment of the
state of Israel (15 May), they stage annual
protest demonstrations, where they burn
the Israeli flag as an expression of their
opposition to Zionism and to the
establishment of the state of Israel as a
Jewish state.
VAN
BOOKINGS
The deadline for
Christmas and New
Year van bookings is
5.30pm on Monday
3rd December. Apply
to Michelle in the
Union Office.

