FELIX
This is the man who put his money on red and it came up black,
this is the man who drives a C5.
S i n c l a i r ' s s p e c t r u m
On Wednesday next week, Sir Clive
Sinclair is expected to give a lecture in
the Physics department, lecture theatre 1
at 1.15 pm.
Sir Clive is the man w h o brought into
the world such delights as the digital
watch, the pocket calculator, the home
computer and the infamous C5 electric
vehicle. But where did all this start?
Clive Sinclair came across the world of
electronics w h e n he was 13 years old,
and started constructing radios. He soon
managed to build a radio that was
smaller than a matchbox, which was
declared by experts to be unworkable. A t
the time he had his o w n company,
Sinclair Radionics, selling transistors for
radio enthusiasts. However, it was his
miniature radio, sold as a kit, that caused
his business to flourish.
Sinclair turned his attention to the
calculator. A t the time, the only
electronic calculators were desktop
models that consumed lar^e amounts of
power. Experiments showed that the
silicon chip used in these machines did
not need to be supplied with power
continuously, so he designed circuitry that
switched the power rapidly on and off.
With this advance, he was able to launch
a pocket-sized calculator, because the
batteries required could be much smaller.
The calculator, like his miniature radios,
was very successful, and was sold all
round the world.
It was in the late 1970s that Sinclair
turned his attention to microcomputers,
that were just beginning to be used in
businesses. He reckoned that there might
be a market for such devices in peoples'
homes as well as their offices. He formed
a new company, Sinclair Research, in
1979, and in 1980 the Z X 8 0 was
launched. This was a small black box
with a rubber keyboard, that used the
domestic television as the visual display
unit, and a standard cassette recorder as
the method for storing data. This was
followed in 1981 by an upgraded version,
the Z X 8 1 . This was the first computer
that many people experienced and used.
As with the Z X 8 0 , it was cheap and very
powerful by the then-current standard.
In 1982 the Sinclair Spectrum was
introduced. The name 'Spectrum' came
from the fact that it was capable of
producing colour images, as opposed to
the black-and-white of the Z X series. This
computer, in upgraded form, is still on
sale today.
A fourth computer, the Sinclair Q L ,
went on sale in 1984, targeted primarily
at small business users. However, it was
not particularly successful, probably
because it was incompatible with the IBM
PC. A s with his other computers, the
keyboard was not like that of an electric
typewriter, and this was another possible
reason w h y it did not sell well.
The next major project of Sinclair was
the development of electric vehicles, the
first (and last?) of which was the infamous
C5. Whereas other people were
attempting to improve battery technology
before building electric cars, Sinclair
decided to use available batteries, but to
concentrate o n the design of the car.
Instead of using a powerful motor for
good acceleration, he aimed to minimise
the weight and so on.
However, w h e n the C5 was launched, it
failed to meet the claimed performance:
instead of having a range of 100 miles
per battery charge, owners were lucky to
get 30, and only that if it was pedalled up
any hill in the offing. There were
problems about whether owners needed
to be licensed to used it on roads, and
whether children would be allowed to
'drive' them. Most people came to the
conclusion that a bicycle was cheaper,
faster and safer.
Since the failure of the C5, Sir Clive has
sunk out of the public eye, although he is
still working on new ideas. H e retains
interest in the prospects for electrical
vehicles, claiming that they will produce
less pollution than petrol-driven vehicles.
Many find this difficult to believe, because
the pollution is only transferred from
towns to the surrounds of power stations.
Despite the greater efficiency of power
stations, energy is lost along transmission
lines, and in the charging of batteries to
power the vehicles. In addition there is
the weight of the batteries, w h i c h limits
the performance of such vehicles. If more
cells are used to provide a better range,
then energy is used to transport that
extra weight, so reducing overall
efficiency: a vicious circle.
More recently, Sinclair has been
working on light, foldable bicycles.
According to New Scientist, these bicycles
will be made entirely of fibrous materials
(such as Kevlar) instead of the traditional
steel or alloy frame and components. It
was not k n o w n whether a traditional
chain drive or pneumatic tyres would be
used, although the riding position will be
conventional. One problem that he must
have is making the frame strong enough
to resist the twisting forces of hard
pedalling.
14

