realised that they owed a duty to their
country, a n d believed in a right a n d just
cause. There were many respected people
at the Cenotaph as Matthew says. But
that was not what I was condemning. I
condemned the future K i n g of the U K ' s
lack of tact in going to Japan on
Rememberance day.
I am flattered that Matthew did
research on me but unfortunately (like his
so called facts) he is wrong to say I have
a 'Hang Nelson Mandela' T-Shirt. I do not.
In answer to his question, 1 can explain
the fact that there have been 3
consecutive Conservative governments. It
has nothing to do with deceiving the
population. It is because of sensible and
correct policies aswell as having a
wonderful Prime Minister in Margaret
Thatcher.
The person w h o was to blame for
Hiroshima and Nagasaki is Hirohito. H e
was on the council that agreed to (and he
personally authorised, the records
showing this still exist) the attack on
Pearl Harbour, thus bringing the US into
the war.
Matthew says that I don't live in the
real world. W e l l I k n o w that I'm more in
tune with the British people than a
condescending, stuck up person like you.
By the w a y unlike most people at
Imperial I have an S-level in modern
history which included South East Asia in
W o r l d War II. So I'm not as ignorant as
Matthew likes to think. M y letter was not
racist. I called the late Emperor a 'nasty
little Nip' not any other Jap.
Nasty—because he was head of state
and allowed atrocities to happen.
Little—well he wasn't very big!
Nip—shortened from Nippon. If anyone
called me a Brit I would be offended.
W h e n Matthew ever leaves College,
after his P h D , (if he ever does. H e strikes
me as one of those eternal students), he
will see what the real world is really like,
Dace
Dear Chris,
I heard yesterday about another deviant
who is trying to prosecute the British
Government over alleged human rights
abuse.
The scumbag in question is a convicted
murderer. He has served three years of a
life sentence for killing a y o u n g girl. H e
was married in prison, three months after
being gaoled, to a w o m a n he met while
on remand. H e wants permission to
consumate the marriage, w h i c h has
constantly been refused.
His argument is that bonking is such a
basic human right that it is illegal to
prevent an inmate from doing so. What is
the world coming to? This country's
criminals are treated like spoilt children.
They eat better than many honest
citizens. If they smash up their rooms
they are given n e w ones. 'Model' prisons
are planned, with a T V a n d fridge in
every room. They go shopping, have day
trips, they get plenty of visits, and regular
exercise. Others study for Open
University degrees, bettering themselves
at the expense of their victims.
away from the protective educational
environment. It is only then he will see
how condescending and isolated, views
like his, really are.
Yours,
Alan Bailey.
P.S. Please print m y reply this time!!
W e have prisons primarily to protect us
from evil and dangerous individuals. The
second purpose of prison is to punish
convicts for the nuisance they have been
to society. I advocate treating prisoners
like the scum they are. If they destory
their cells then they go without furniture
until they pay for the damage. If they
smear their excrement on the walls—the
'dirty protests' c o m m o n in Peterhead and
other m a x i m u m security establishments-
then they live i n their o w n filth until they
clean it up. Corporal punishment must be
reintroduced, a n d made compulsory for
assault on staff. 'Life' should mean just
that—murderers must never be freed.
Facilities for prisoners to commit suicide
should be more readily available; their
assistance in reducing overcrowding
would be gratefully received.
Let our poor sex-starved inmate
consumate his marriage w h e n he gets out
in 2001, if he c a n still get it up. I find
against the plaintiff.
Yours,
Ultan McCarthy, Physics 3.
What's O n
AN UP-TO-THE-MINUTE GUIDE TO EVENTS IN AND AROUND IMPERIAL COLLEGE
Rock Soc Gig 8.00pm
Union Lounge. Heartbreak Angels plus support
and rock disco.
Latin American 8.00pm
JCR. Gold medal class.
Southside Disco 8.30pm
Southside Bar.
ICCAG Soup Run 9.15pm
Meet Weeks Hall Basement to take food to
London's homeless.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
• SEND A LETTER save a life at the Amnesty
letter writing stall, Thursday, 12.30, JCR.
• THANKS A LOT for helping out on Saturday
Pete, and Lucy and John for Friday night.
Cheers Zayeed.
• POSTGRADUATE Womens Group. Women in
Music 1990. Trip to the jazz night at the Shaw
Theatre. Friday 7 December. £4, sign up on
SCR (Sherfield) noticeboard. Further details
from Sam ext 5156 or Kaye ext 6894. -
• IC RADIO would like to thank the customers
of Southside last Friday for donating £162.08 to
Children in Need.
ACCOMMODATION
•TWIN bedrooms, £45 pw each and single
rooms, £53 pw available in Hamlet Gardens
flats. Contact M Bridgewater on 081-746 3205
(eves).
• V E G NON-SMOKER wanted to share flat in
Clapham Junction. Single room £41 pw plus
bills. Bike 20 mins, bus 40 mins. Tel 071-228
0187.
FOR SALE
• FOLK GUITAR-Yamaha FG400A. As new
£100. B Flat Clarinet-Buffet Grampon £150.
Contact John Maskall on 5521.
LOST & FOUND
• LOST: One RCS rugby shirt 'striped' with
number 7 on the back. If found please return
to RCSU Office.
• LOST: Green sweatshirt with 'Eastern Region
Ski Association' on it. Contact P Wickens, Life
Sci 3 or tel: 081-994 8522.
PERSONAL
•FLUFFYBUM...who are you anyway?
•YIANNIS Y. (the great tsifteteli dancer) needs
help to join the Spanish AND Japanese Society.
Please help him.
• PLEASE help me, Yiannis Y, Mech Eng 1.
• PHALL1XSWORD: Sophie: A message from
JBG via GT: T feel like a French tourist in Neh-
neh-na-narnia! Ocasion! Ocasion! Party Up!
Donkeyless forever! Hugs 'cos—true love must
burn!' And from me: Hippo birdies & many of
the day. Don't despair, but be glad it's one step
nearer to that day—no more worries!
•CHRIS Dawber & Gina Marquess wish to
announce their engagement, a formal date has
not been set.
18

