IiM QMW Departments Slashed
Queen Mary and Westfield College is to
lose at least one, and probably two
departments. To alleviate an ongoing and
unspecified deficit, their 'Cuts Group' have
put forward four suggestions to save SI.5
Million. The cuts are m u c h worse than
expected. A l l four options involve the
closure of Mediterranean Studies, the only
department of its type in Europe.
The options are:-
A - Make the cuts across all 15 loss-
making departments.
B - Cut Biology and Engineering severely,
and make smaller cuts across the other
departments.
C - A s above, except Russian, Drama and
German are excluded from cuts.
D - Close Biology completely, cut
Engineering severely.
Q M W College is opposed to A as it
would seriously damage many
departments, and destroy Russian. B and
C would probably lead to the closure
of Biology anyway, and so option D
seems most likely.
The options will be put to Universities
Funding Council (UFC) on December 13.
The Q M W Student's Union Executive
Committee ( Q M W S U Exec) believe that
option D has already been decided upon
by Professor George Zellick, acting
Principal of Q M W , and the 'Cuts Group',
and claim that U F C will act as a 'rubber
stamp to that decision'.
No time scale has yet been announced
for the cuts, but it is rumored that cuts
would have to take place almost
immediately to be effective. A l l students
will be able to finish their degrees, but
not necessarily at Q M W . The closure of
Biology will affect 700 students and 300
staff. Staff reductions across other
departments are likely. There will be no
overall drop in student numbers, as Q M W
will increase the numbers on cheaper
Arts courses.
Q M W S U E x e c believe that the crisis is
the result of 'years of underfunding and
mismanagement' and maintain that 'cuts
of any kind are unacceptable'. They are
encouraging students to write to their
MPs over the cuts, and have started a
petition. A march is being held on
Wednesday, starting at 2.00pm outside
U L U and going on to U F C . Students from
any college are encouraged to come
along and support the march.
Paul Shanley, ICU president said that it
was 'sad that Q M W were putting financial
considerations before academic ones', but
that the Mediterranean Studies closure
was 'no great loss, SOAS is the only one
of its type in Europe, but it should be
burnt down!'.
Print Unit Moves To Mary's
The College Print Unit will be moving to
St.Mary's early next year, merging with
the facilities that exist there already. M r
Keith Fisher, Senior Assistant Secretary,
Servicing of Governing B o d y and
Committees, said that the increased cost
of sending print work over to Mary's
would be offset by labour savings as one
printer was leaving to do social work.
Mr Fisher admitted that no system for
collecting print work to be sent to Mary's
had been produced yet, though this
would be dealt with. A lot of College
print work was sent to outside
contractors, M r Fisher said. This is unlike
Mary's where a lot of printing is done
internally.
Clayponds
Loretta O'Callaghan, College
Accommodation Officer, complained
yesterday about students going to visit
the new Clayponds residential site. Still
under construction, she said that 'it's a
building site, they shouldn't be there',
adding that at the moment it was
dangerous and that their actions were
'ridiculous.'
Miss O'Callaghan said that she was very
pleased though with the number of
applications resulting from the article in
FELIX last week and the promotional
handouts for the site. The application
forms were coming 'in droves' and that to
date they have received 'well over 200
application forms'. This she described as
an 'excellent response.'
W h e n asked about replies and
acceptances of applications she said that
these would be done as soon as possible,
'hopefully before the end of the term.'
He said that the main advantage of the
move was to create a free room, the
College being 'strapped for space',
although there are no plans for the room
at the moment. This, he said, was
because a combination of circumstances
had lead to the move occurring in a short
space of time.
M r Fisher said that the newer of the
two off-set litho printers in College will be
m o v e d to Mary's, replacing the 'ancient'
unit there. He also said that the Print
Unit's photocopier would be staying in
Sherfield and would be run by a junior
member of staff.
Of the current Print Unit staff, Gary
Humphries, (Photocopy and Finishing
Supervisor) has handed in his notice
whilst M r . Steve Davis, (Off-set Litho
Supervisor) has been offered a placement
at the Mary's site. Both of them said that
they were 'not very happy' with the
plans.
W h e n asked if he had any involvement
in the plan to move, M r . Davis answered
'none at all'. He said that he had received
a call a week a go from M r Fisher who
offered him a job at Mary's, starting on
the 1st of January.
Mr. Davis sees the main problem with
the move will be the customers. Many, he
said, require print work straight away,
and this will not be possible during the
move.
Montpelier Confusion
A 'positive decision' over the residents of
Montpelier will be made on Friday said
Mr Gordan Marshall, Director of IC. He
had originally told Dr Richard Clarke,
warden of Montpelier, that the residents
would have to leave by the 16th
December w h e n their current contracts
expire.
After reporting the original leaving date
to residents, Dr Clarke, in a meeting on
the 11th November, told them that they
would be able to stay on until the end of
March, a message he had received from
Accommodation. Dr Clarke told Felix that
he had presumed that this meant until the
end of the first term next year. He also
said that he was receiving more
information via Felix and the
Accommodation office than from M r
Marshall.
Mr Clarke was told by Angus Fraser,
Managing Director of Imperial College,
this Monday that he could not give any
assurance that the residents could stay
over Christmas and that a decision would
be made today, dependant o n decisions
by Westminster Council. M r Marshall,
however, said that it was proving difficult
to get hold of Westminster and that
various factors 'all seem to come out of
the w o o d w o r k together'.
Dr Clarke further said that it was
'essential to plan over Christmas' for the
possible lack of accommodation and that
he thought that students were 'not being
considered' in the current plans.

