Southwell Ceiling Collapse
T w o weeks ago a ceiling in Southwell
House, Evelyn Gardens, collapsed while
one of the residents was in the room. She
had just stood up from her desk and
turned to walk across the r o o m when the
plaster 'fell d o w n in front of m y eyes'.
She said that if her r o o m mate had either
been working at her desk, getting
something from the wardrobe or entering
the room then she would have been hit
by the falling plaster.
The area of ceiling that fell had just
recently been painted to match in with
the rest of the room as only two years
ago a similar incident occured. A t that
time the problem was solved b y patching
the lost area of plaster and not replacing
the whole ceiling of the r o o m . This
operation will again be employed as the
cost for patching the area is only about
£130, under a quarter of the cost of a full
repair job.
Joe Dines, from Estates, w h o is dealing
with the situation said that the problem
had arisen because of water leaking
through the floor from the kitchen above
the room. He had been informed that
cleaners were leaving the freezers turned
off at night to defrost them. Water
poured out of the freezers a n d passed
through the unsound v i n y l floor, soaking
the ceiling below. M r Dines has written to
Peter Leeson about the situation and
asked him to stop the cleaners from
defrosting the fridges in this manner.
Mr Dines believes that the solution to
the problem has n o w been found and
that repairs to the kitchen floor will start
this morning. After the weekend, when
the ceiling of the r o o m will have had
time to dry, w o r k will begin on the patch.
A l l o w i n g for the plaster and then the
paint to dry, M r Dines said that the
residents would be able to move back in
next weekend 'for definite'.
A contractor from the builders Alick
Whittle, on inspecting the ceiling said that
the whole area should be replaced. M r
Dines however said that he was not going
to spend £ 6 0 0 o n a job that can be done
for around £ 1 3 0 . The warden of
Southwell House, K e n Young, said that 'I
a m not in a position to judge Joe Dines
professional opinion' about the ceiling but
that he would be very keen to see an
independent contractors opinion. H e also
stated that he thought that this would put
the minds of the residents at rest.
Mr Y o u n g was also worried that the
reason given for the incident m a y be
valid on this occasion but that no reasons
had been given for the problem in the
same room two years ago. Even if the
trouble was recurring this does not
explain a similar but far more serious
event that happened in the r o o m opposite
which also occured two years ago. The
resident of that room went to the toilet at
2.00am and o n returning two minutes
later found a mass of debris spread over
the floor of the room and his bed. He
added that he felt the 'excuses do seem
to wearing a bit thin.'
Security Round Up P a v o u t
A case of indecent exposure in the
Physics Library has been reported. The
incident took place at 2.00pm by a m a n
described as 'white, well built, 5' 9", in
his late 20's with dark b r o w n hair, a very
smart b r o w n leather jacket a n d blue
jeans'. A n y information should be given
to Terry Briley, Security Officer, on 3370.
T w o more cycles have been stolen this
week, again not coded. T h e police are
interested in setting up another coding
session next term if there is any demand.
Please ring Security on 3370 if y o u are
interested in safeguarding your
possessions in this w a y .
F r o m next Monday, Security will be
enforcing parking regulations more
strictly due to increased building work.
Departments are asked to arrange
temporary authorisation for any visitors
by phoning Security 24 hours in advance.
Mr Briley commented that he had 'just
bought four more clamps.'
Fall Out
The Harlington Trustees have decided
that £50,000 a year will be released to
sports clubs. O n Wednesday they decided
that £17,000 would be given to the
Sailing Club to buy six new boats and
£15,000 to Gliding Club to go towards a
new two seater glider.
Nick Lay, Captain of the Gliding Club,
said that the new glider would cost
£45,000, 'improving Gliding club facilities
no end' and m a k i n g gliding 'more
accessible to more students.'
The Nude Kamikaze Parachute Jump last
Saturday raised over £390. A n d r e w from
Maths raised £ 1 7 0 , Chub from Mech E n g
raised £ 8 0 and Steve and James, also
from Mech Eng, raised over £ 7 0 each.
The Mines Dirty Disco last Monday was
enjoyed b y all involved. Steve Farrant,
Rag Organiser, said that the event had
raised approximately £ 2 5 0 , adding that
this was '£250 more than last year'.
Guild's Carnival last Friday made a
small loss, though the two bands, T h e
Bogus Brothers and Friends of Harry,
went d o w n well. Warwick Mullen, Guild's
Treasurer, said that the loss was due to a
poor turnout a n d the Rugby Club not
selling out of cocktails. He said that the
loss would only amount to tens of pounds
and added that Guilds w o u l d not be going
to Rag for any money.
imperial college ents. presents
live in the union lounge
f riday 3 0 t h november
doors open 9pm
bar till lam disco till 2am
tickets available from i.e. union office
£1.50 with ents card
£2.50 advance,£3.00 door
imperial college,prince consort road,londort,sw7

