All you wanted to know about Alumnus Day but were afraid
to ask.
A l u m n u s D a y
'What day?' I hear you say. Well Alumnus
Day is a day when the College welcomes
back former students and staff who come
to see how the College, their department
and friends are faring. A n opportunity to
visit laboratories, see current research
and talk to y o u , the current studejit
population.
The festivities continue into the evening
with the A l u m n i Dinner, the College
Choir Concert. Links are holding their
Christmas Dinner and all Tie Clubs are
staging a reunion in the evening. This
year a special invite has been extended
to alumni from the years 1930, 40, 50,
60, 70, 80 and 90. So if you have a free
moment on Friday afternoon and see a
bewildered alumnus, w h y not give he or
she a hand (after all for many of our
alumni the campus has changed
physically beyond all recognition). Y o u
are also very welcome to visit areas of
your department you may not yet have
seen or even other departments which
open from 2.00pm.
But w h y are we doing all this? Well it's
part of a wider programme of A l u m n i
Relations. Once, upon graduation that
was the last y o u heard of your College.
Now twice a year you can get updates of
news, research and events at Imperial
from the A n n u a l Report and the alumni
newsletter IC Matters. What else do the
alumni get from this relationship?
The speed of development in science
and technology means that most of what
is learnt during your degree is out of date
within 10 years of graduation. It is a wise
graduate who remains in contact with his
College which is after all a pioneer in
many of these fields.
Networking with fellow alumni can also
keep you abreast of developments in
your field, solve technical problems,
strike up partnerships, enable you to
break into new fields. Our recently
published Address Books along with our
comprehensive database can help you
contact other A l u m n i .
Visiting H o n g Kong, Zambia, Bulgaria?
We re in contact with alumni in 184
countries. Some have their o w n alumni
associations and more are being set up.
So if you're going to work, live or travel
to far flung corners of the planet we can
put you in touch with some friendly
faces.
Reunions is perhaps the traditional role
of alumni relations and is still one of the
most important. If after 5, 10 or more
years you're wondering what has
happened to old friends we can not only
provide up to date addresses but also
help you organise it.
Well what about the College. H o w does
she benefit? Newspapers are full of stories
of restrictions on higher education, staff-
student ratio, student loans,...Your
equipment is becoming out dated. Y o u
may be worried that the reaction you get
when introducing yourself as an Imperial
graduate will become less glorious if new
resources aren't found to continue the
College's reputation for excellence. To
help alleviate some of these problems all
alumni are given the opportunity to
contribute to the A l u m n i fund which will
go towards student accommodation,
grants and y o u n g lectureships. The
Chemical Engineering Department has
also just launched its Jubilee Appeal the
funds of w h i c h will go towards
undergraduate teaching facilities.
This is an update of the work of the
Alumnus Office in brief. One day you too
will be one of our alumni, so if you want
to find out more feel free to visit us in
R o o m 354 Sherfield. W e may even be
able to help you while you are still in
College.
Trainee Actuaries
With your
head for
figures,
you figure
highly in
the way
ahead.
What goes on inside your head is important to
us. Not just the theories, strategems and hypoth-
eses, but how all those things get put into practice.
Your ideas are tomorrow's innovations. You have the
power and the potential not only to change the way
ahead for yourself, but also to change the way
ahead for the European Community's largest mutual
life assurance company.
Standard Life is a progressive place. We are
always adding to our strengths and taking away all
the honours in the business of financial services.
Our structured training programmes, dynamic work-
ing environment and exceptional rewards are a
formula for success on anyone's blackboard, which
is why we succeed in attracting some of the best
actuarial trainees in the UK {relatively speaking).
We like-the individual thinker. The maverick.
The graduate with creative flair and an eye for the
unusual. We want you to experiment and we want
to set tasks that, at first, you think are impossible,
but in the end you are able to work out.
The way ahead is never easy. But, all things
being equal, having good people with good heads
on their shoulders, we'll figure out the best route.
Standard Life will be visiting your university in
the near future, for more information and a graduate
brochure, call in at your careers office.
StandardLife
We don't follow standards.We set them.

