Don Adlington invites expedition proposals for next year.
E x p l o r a t i o n ' 9 1 9
FELIX
It's easy to forget that the long
vacation—a clear three months of
freedom to do what you will—is a highly
finite resource. Few people ever again
have such opportunities, once the
demands and responsibility of career and
family become major factors in life. For
thirty-five years, the IC Exploration Board
has encouraged students to think about a
particularly rewarding—not to say exotic,
way of using this time—by participation
in expedition activity, and there is
scarcely a region on the earth's surface
which has not been traversed by Imperial
College expeditions, by one means or
another. Many hundreds of students have
taken part, in an enormous variety of
activities.
Wht sort of things do people do? Some
examples from the past two years! There
have been two, separate, life sciences
expeditions to Papua New Guinea, with
projects on ants, rats, cockroaches and
wood-rotting fungi. Three other groups
undertook a variety of ecological projects
in the rain-forests of Ecuador, Bolivia, and
Guyana. There have been four
mountaineering expeditions to the
Karakoram, the Andes and to Mount
Kenya, three of them combining climbing
with a variety of scientific projects. T w o
other projects involved very demanding
trekking and running over difficult terrain
in Nepal and the Karakoram. A Caving
Club expedition carried out cave
exploration in the Dominican Republic.
The possibilities, clearly, are endless.
There is no reason, of course, w h y
students should not go off and do exciting
things in far-flung corners of the world
entirely without reference to the College,
and very many do so. If the intention is
to have an expedition, however, as
opposed to an adventurous holiday, there
are we believe some big advantages in
using the Exploration Board. In the first
place expeditions gaining the Board's
formal recognition have the status of
official College ventures, and many use
the College's name and considerable
reputation in this field in their approaches
to other organisations for help. They will
have easy access to the body of expertise
available in the College, and to eminent
authorities in a wide variety of settings
outside the College. The Board's approval
almost invariably carries with it a
monetary grant, and many expeditions
borrow equipment from the Board's
stock. The Board also ensures proper
insurance cover, at no cost to the
students themselves.
The disadvantage—if such it be—of
seeking Exploration Board support is that
there is a certain degree of formality
involved. Expeditions are expected to
submit coherent proposals, with well
defined objectives, and on return, a
comprehensive report. The Board's
Treasurer maintains a degree of control
over expeditions' financial accounts, and
over insurance matters.
If you have the germ of an idea—you
don't need m u c h more than that to begin
with—we would be very glad to discuss it
with you at an early stage. Simply ring
Dr Schroter (Chairman) on int 4083, or
me on int 3041. The Board has the first
of its two formal meetings, at which
members of proposed expeditions are
interviewed, on Wednesday December
5—but we need to have proposals before
then, so that they can be circulated to
members beforehand.
D o n A d l i n g t o n .
College D a y
Imperial College, perhaps the greatest
concentration of small businesses in West
London, is now coming to terms with its
greatest malaise, students. Finding that
the 'academics' are finding that there is
little time for the more lucrative research
or private-venture markets, they are now
trying to find more time to fit the kids
into an already expensive schedule.
There are so many arguments against
this proposal, you could be forgiven in
thinking that the cumulative feelings
dictate a severe waste of man-hours in
considering it in the first place. Y o u have
already considered the inconveniences;
tiredness; lack of time of extra-curricular
activities; an earlier entry into the
London rush-hour etc. I hope to bring to
your attention a few that may have
already escaped your attention.
It will be difficult to imagine how four
morning lectures are not going to be
scheduled. Even if all the precautions are
taken, students will still be left with
spurious gaps in their day. These will be
difficult to fill, since the real w o r k i n g time
available will be short after students
move from the theatre and settle down
again to study. In addition, with the
education of one's mind being a strenuous
and tiring exercise especially with the
increased knowledge that is put upon
science students as technology advances.
Surely, this warrants an increase in
Spenser Lane presents a student's view. The Rector,
who convened the working party on changes to the
College day, felt it inappropriate to write an article at
this time.
produce.
Two final comments on the anatomy
and terms of reference of the working
party. I should have thought the inclusion
of reps from the humanities department
and the management school would have
been invaluable. Their experience on
non-scientific and time-management issues
seemed to be overlooked! In addition,
shouldn't the issue of the forth-coming
entry into Europe of the degree courses
have been a prime consideration, with
that year becoming an ideal opportunity
to realise the education of the student so
far!
practical leisure time to recuperate.
Clubs will be severely affected by the
proposal of staggering lunches. It will be
nigh impossible for the clubs that have to
meet in lunchtime for administration
purposes, if half of their committee
members are not there! If Imperial
College feels an obligation to further the
humanities options (as it should), should it
not feel equally obliged to assist the
clubs, which provide the most enjoyable
way for science students to diversify.
Personally, I perceive the problem to be
the fault of the departments for the
organisation of their degree courses, if it
feels that there is not enough time. Some
departments repeat material, not
specifically to refresh a student's
education, but more importantly because
the material covered was badly taught
originally, or due to a breakdown in
communications between option lecturers.
The total lecture hours lost over a three
year degree must be colossal. Therefore,
when the degrees change to four year
courses, this will only make the problem
worse. Some of the blame must also lie
within College, or not giving the
departments effective guidelines. Maybe
suggesting that all departments should not
aim to finish at 12.30pm, will assist that
great bastion of the catering world,
College Refectories, in coping with the
extraordinary demand it has with its
CHRISTMAS CAROL
SERVICE
Come and join in the Christmas spirit,
Thursday 6th December at 5.45pm in
Holy Trinity Church, Prince Consort
Road (next door to Beit Quad).
Everyone is most warmly welcome.
Organised jointly by the West London
Chaplaincy and the West London
Catholic Chaplaincy. All proceeds to
the 'cornerstone community' in West
Belfast.

