L o b o
Hopefully by now everybody with
an 1Q higher than A l a n Bailey has
realised that not all comics are just
for kids, and just in case anybody still
had any doubts a new title from good ol'
DC (Detective Comics - the publishers of
Batman, et al) should convince those non-
converts amongst you. The new(ish) title
is Lobo. Currently only scheduled to be a
four-parter it is a loose tie-in with D C s
L.E.G.I.O.N. 90 titles. Chronicling a small
part of the rather large life of the
aforementioned Lobo person it's a truly
excellent strip. D C have pulled off
something of a genius move, having got
their hands on the hugely talented Simon
Bisley, of Slaine-The Horned God fame.
Bisley is one of the most talented artists
around, and what's more he's British!
Lobo isn't your average everyday kind of
hero. He's a pathological psychotic who
enjoys killing people. A n d maiming
people. A n d generally not being very
nice. In fact he's not a hero at all, or to
use his o w n words 'I'm the Hit M a n , see,
Assassin to Royalty, Executioner to the
Lobo's school photo
Stars'. His only redeeming features are his
refusal to ever break his w o r d , and his
affection for a pack of space dolphins that
he takes care of. In short, my kind of
guy. The plot revolves around Lobo
performing a job for L.E.G.I.O.N. which
takes the form of delivering a prisoner
alive to their base. Things start to go
wrong as soon as it turns out the prisoner
is Miss Tribb, Lobo's 4th grade teacher
who somehow survived when Lobo killed
the entire population of his home world,
and then wrote an unofficial biography of
him. By the third issue Lobo is being
pursued by a band of space truckers, a
S W A T team, a chainsaw dance company,
the Legion of Decency's paramilitary
wing and The Sons of Lobo, a bunch of
groupies who worship "The 'Bo"! The
story is mad, the plot intricate, the
humour very black and v e r y satirical, and
the art is very, very, very good. Buy it
now before Forbidden Planet run out of
stock. Then write to D C and force them
to make it a regular series.
Alien Sex Fiend.
L o v e H u r t s
A very A m e r i c a n tale of Paul
Weaver (Jeff Daniels); the kind of
guy who married y o u n g and had
kids straight away. Got himself a routine
job as an insurance salesman, felt he was
missing out i n life and began to cheat and
sleep around.
W h e n his wife Nancy (Cynthia Sikes—St
Elsewhere) walks out on h i m with their
two kids, he's more upset about the
divorce settlement than the divorce itself
(wouldn't you be if you had to give away
your $40,000 country farmhouse?).
His life of meaningless one-night-stands
(meaningless??) comes to a sharp turn
when, on the eve of his sister's wedding,
he travels to the small town in which he
grew up, hoping for a w a r m reunion with
his family. He finds his ex-wife is living
there because the farmhouse is under one
foot of water. The action then begins
with him rekindling the passion with his
ex-wife, extinguishing the passion with his
ex-wife, seducing one of the bridesmaids
and winning his way back into his
kleptomaniac daughter's good books.
This is a w a r m bitter-sweet comedy
along the lines of Terms of Endearment,
excellently produced and directed by B u d
Yorkin (Arthur 2, Twice in a Lifetime). It
shows you don't need gratuitous violence
or bad language to make for a good
evening's entertainment. The film also
has some very funny moments and
brilliant one-liners, but don't be too
surprised if it brings a lump to your
throat.
Dipak Poria.
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
ISEX! V I O L E N C E ! R O C K ' N ' ROLL!
NINJITZU! PIZZA! Everything you
ever wanted from a movie—except,
perhaps, plot, acting and coherent
sentences. A merry gang of reptiles has
inhabited the sewers of N Y for fifteen
years without attracting undue attention
(possibly because they wear masks so that
no one knows who they are) until
inevitably they come into conflict with
the forces of evil, hereafter k n o w n as
'The Baddies' (except of course the one
Who Is Just Confused and Is A Good Guy
Really). Y o u can guess the rest.
En route the Fantastic Four pick up a
small retinue; to wit: April O'Neill (Plucky
NewsGal Extraordinaire W h o Just
Happens To Have Nice Legs). Casey
Jones (Hero In A Hockey-Mask), and
Splinter the Rat (Guru A n d Father-Figure).
For the Baddies, we have the Shredder
(Baddie F r o m the Past) and Misled Youths
(who are okay really inside), of the
sinister (titter titter) Foot Clan.
Naturally, each Turtle has its own
personality (thus merchandising of plastic
figures is born) although all of them
appear to consist of getting frenetically
overexcited about cheesy bread and
experiencing strange trans-species pangs
of teenage lust. A t this point it is best to
mention that those who find the term
'fox' annoying, a) juvenile or b) American
will not enjoy this film.
Violence is rife, although bloodless, on
a scale comparable with the greater
moments of the A-Team and about as
realistically unstaged as T J Hooker with
the exception of the aforementioned M r
Jones, who appears to share the same
philosophy as the other great Hockey-clad
figure of the movies, Jason from Friday
13th.
To conclude: This film is wonderful for
the under-15s. T h e majority of humour is
Turtle-based and either crass or Not V e r y
Funny. There is one superbly eccentric
adult gag thrown in (thankfully) and
much well-choreographed fighting. The
language is quite intolerable, being only
semi-comprehensible at the best of times
(the w o r d 'bodacious' is one of the few
which assaulted our ears) and to augment
this there is gratuitous skateboarding and
rap music. To finish things off there are
several intolerably cute baby turtles and a
tittersome ninja rat sequence.
(To fend off accusations of sexism (re.
April's legs) T A F G M would like to add
that Casey Jones is what we believe is
referred to as a 'hunk' and all the Turtles
are short, bald and sexy.
The Amazing Flying Turtle...no,
Gerbil Machine.

