Blur, young and pretty are definitely the
music press darlings of the moment, with
descriptions ranging from 'four knowing
bowl-heads' to 'tediously good-looking and
pointlessly brilliant.' O n it's release, their
first single, She's So High was Single Of
The W e e k in both Sounds and NME, and
they have had several favourable
interviews in most of the music papers.
Blur are D a m a n A l b u r n (vocals),
Graham Green (guitar, backing vocals)
A l e x James (bass) and Dave Rowntree
(drums), and have been together for
about a year and a half. Daman, Graham
and Dave met at school in Colchester,
while A l e x met Graham at Goldsmith's
College where he was studying French
(and looking for a band to join) and
Graham was studying Fine Art. Needless
to say, due to the band's sudden success
they have dropped out. A l e x did have
ambitions to study Physics, but these
were put to an end when he failed his
A ' L e v e l .
O n being asked about their musical
influences they replied '60s', but wouldn't
actually name any artists, and their views
on the current music scene were almost
as vague. 'There's a lot of good bands
around at the moment.' Eventually,
Graham did admit to looking forward to
the new MBV L P ('What new LP?' we
asked - '1 dunno!').
Later at the bar, as the band consumed
their favourite drink - Pernod with lots of
water - A l e x did tell us that he used to
like The Pixies, but wasn't impressed by
the new album. He also appeared to be a
bit of a Lush fan and told us how he had
once proposed to Miki when he was a bit
pissed. Not surprisingly her reply is
unprintable.
They were signed to F o o d in March,
after playing several high profile London
gigs - no sending off demo tapes to
millions of record companies for this lot.
W e had heard that they give riotous live
performances, which we later found to be
more athletic than riotous. Daman's stage
antics have nearly broken his nose, and
have given h i m a bad neck - which he
moaned about throughout the interview.
Graham (who studied Fine Arts) has
done some artwork which may or may
not be used in the future, but he seemed
quite happy w i t h the arrangements at
Food. 'Basically two blokes sit down with
us, and we tell them exactly what we
want and they get it done.' However, the
artwork for She's So High (a naked
w o m a n straddling a hippopotamous) has
caused controversy at various University
gigs around the country - with W a r w i c k
actually banning all sales of their
merchandise. They expressed surprise
that U L U had not made any complaints.
Reported in Sounds to be a bit of a
drug band, they denied this, but giggled
something about A l e x having hassles with
his mother after she had read that
particular article. They are a bit taken
aback by the auspicious attention they've
been getting recently, but say they are
prepared for the future slaggings off.
Daman pondered that if they continued
with their present standard, he couldn't
see w h y the music press w o u l d turn
nasty. A l e x also felt that they hadn't
received enough coverage yet. 'We've
appeared in the music papers, now we
want to be o n the covers!'
Blur are recording their new (and
second) single next week, although they
havn't decided on it yet - it is due to be
released on January 22nd, closely
followed by an album in February or
March.
O n admitting this was our first attempt
at an interview (and yes, we were shit
scared) the conversation led on to other
interviews they've had. Most were
conducted by older journalists in the pub,
where they've felt at an advantage, but
they found being interviewed by a 19
year-old girl from Smash Hits
'frightening'.And talking of Smash Hits,
they were looking forward to the Smash
Hits Party later on that night.
A n d now to the gig - their set of 13
songs included their single She's So High
Know which sounded so m u c h beter live
(you may remember that we weren't too
complimentary about it a few weeks
back). Another song, Retention sounded
so mush like She's So High that it should
have been called Repetition (but less of
the bitchiness!).
Daman sang bittersweet lyrics over the
grungy guitar and bass, while the strobes
flickered wildly behind him. They finished
with Come Together (not a cover of The
Beatles or Primal Scream) w h i c h was
probably our favourite of the night - and
as Graham on guitar played the last
notes, A l e x threw his bass down and the
rest of the band disappeared into
backstage land - and no doubt onto the
The Smast Hits Party.
Pinky and Perky
8

