M i g h t y F o r c e Dive 12"
The influence of the dancefloor has
finally permeated to a stronghold of
hardcore punk. It is, in fact, a very
strange record to come from Earache, a
label renowned for its inability to sign
any acts whose roots are not deep seated
in the reign of hardcore thrash.
Do Mighty Force come from
Manchester? If so their attempt to jump
on the bandwagon of 'Indie' related chart
success has failed. They have instead
created a club monster. The A side is
uninspired, boring, dance orientated,
toneless sludge.
It consists of a spineless backbeat
covered loosely by a splattering of
samples of dubious origin. (It went down
well at the Union disco.)
The B side— Thrashing a Dead House—
(Thrashdots/Adams edit) is, in fact, fairly
sound. It shows the ability to break old
ground. It is an attempt (a fairly poor
one) at what the Swiss trio, the Young
Gods, do so well. The samples are solider
and begin to break up the monotony of
the beat as well as adding rythmn and an
approach to a tone. The samples include
cuts from Napalm Death (Lee Dorrian's
grunts) and other slabby riffs/feedback
from other sources—including other
Earache bands.
Despite the relatively good B side the
record is wholly unoriginal, besides the
Young Gods do it better.
Seb
Happy
Mondays
T n e
Sisters Of Mercy
Wembley Arena
Shaun was pissed off. Shaun 'I'm always
pissed off Ryder was more pissed off
than usual. Shaun was pissed off because
he couldn't hear himself. Shaun was not
alone because me and a few thousand
others couldn't hear him either. His voice
was buried somewhere beneath the well
of sound created by:
a) the pulsating bass and drums that is
the Mondays' trademark. A sound that
will make even the most involuntary feet
move solely because everything within a
fifteen mile radius, be it animal, mineral
or vegetable, is moving as well.
b) the awful acoustics within the arena.
Bez was happy. Bez the non-playing,
non-singing carnvial clown, the self-styled
Mondays' cheerleader was happy because
he is worshipped by a million baggies.
Bez raises his left hand and they scream.
Bez raises his right hand and they
scream. Bez shakes his left testacle and
the first fifteen rows of the arena cream
themselves in unadourned adulation.
It is Bez w h o keeps the show rolling
between songs whilst Shaun lights
another pissed off cigarette by shaking his
maracas. He is assisted in this
occasionally by the plasto-rubber clad girl
singer, who one minute 'is' sitting on the
drum riser, delving into her handbag for
lipstick and powder puff, the next, she is
bent in front of Bez with cheeks thrust at
the audience licking his erect percussion.
The set lasted roughly an hour. Quite
enough time to leave me deaf in one ear.
All the faves were there, finishing with
the monstrously brilliant Wrote for Luck.
For an encore we were treated to
Shaun decking the keyboard player and
being held back by his father (part of the
crew). They played, one more song,
Shaun said 'See Y a ' the only words he'd
said to the audience all night, picked up
his A r m a n i jacket and left.
For Manchester Rave O n ' read 'Mad
Ryder walks off.
Debagged.
Wembley Arena, 24.11.90
This review arrives despite every effort of
the record company, East West, to bar us
from this momentous occasion (the first
UK Sisters' dates in over five years
cannot merely be named a gig). It was
also, inevitably, 'beneath them' to dain to
grant me an interview, being now so
'prestigious', to quote the afore
mentioned, bigotted record label, and so I
am unable to inform you of just how far
Shelley and other Eighteenth Century
poets influence the elusive Eldritch
(sample Shelley's Ozymandius alongside
the pop-famed Dominion, or Marian). I
am also unable to convey His views on
George Bush's Vision Thing, which
incidently coincides with the latest
album's title, an L P expression of
Americanism and its mythology.
To compound this farce, Eldritch, now
teamed with Sigue Sigue Sputnik
prankster, T o n y James (and his 'silly
hats'), was to have The Mothers in
support. This harsh but broad sectioned
group appeared more for a stage act than
listenability and would be more at home
at the mercy of Archaos than the mercy
of the Sisters' onslaught.
A n y doubts about sell-out diversions
were blighted from the first notes,
Alterhours, and the A r e n a was
quadspaced back to 1985, and the fabled
last night at the Albert Hall. Eldritch
Himself, the self-styled deity, hung thin
and frail from the stand, exactly
encapsulated as in the live video Wake,
but still egotistic to the fore with forced
lowness of voice seeming so out of place
against his mean form.
The Sisters have always been a cult
band, revelled by the few but secretly
admired by the masses. It seems sad that
so many have missed the joke. I saw one
white faced lady carrying a coffin!
The spectacle was epic, with an
iridescent purple haze wafting between
the immense, rusted iron chains and
endless classics, dating from Alice,
through the drowning desparation of
Marian, the pounding monotony of
Lucretia ending with the r o c k y
monstrosity of Vision Thing.
More of a greatest hits parade, with no
More, than the traditional album
advertisement, the greats could not be
marred in their first airing since the
group's dramatic split. Eldritch gave full
demonstration of his recently w o n rights
to that shattering early material . Of
minor disappointment were the anthems
from Floodland which seemed drowned in
blandness tonight.
Those who were there will talk of this
to their grand-children.
SJH

