6
The Phoenix 7 winter 2015
What was once whole and defined now blurs. Its edges
diffused, thinning, becoming frail breaths through which
the ghost of a time before time beats faintly. Back then
its chest heaved with vigour and in mute splendour the
spirit thrived in all things. Now, tremulous, its voice
fades, yet remains unbent by those who march and trample
over it. Over that to which they are bound. Over what
spawned them, but which they believe themselves masters
of.
As one, their cores palpitate, enslaved by the pulse
to a course written in empyrean blood. To timeless and
indelible codes carved from a language of gods. And they,
in false reclusion, hidden atop ivory towers raised over
open tombs, too anesthetised to see the evident: It is
dwindling. The flame chokes and flickers. Sighing under
siege by poison and greed. We wither, not with it, but
as it.
Through the lens of delusion, with arrogance as fuel,
they feel the demise as a surging. A confirmation of their
strength, of their status as sole bearers of reason in
the midst of mystery and chaos.
And their name for this downfall, this crumbling of the
atavistic order that governs us, that endows us with
true power, is progress.
topsy +
bondo
art by Rafail Kokkinos
words by Alberto Alicca
Through this plane we roam, wandering in solitude amidst the masses. Our
spines bent and a thousand eyes fixed on the barren earth in search of our
becoming, the one riveted to the faith we place in will.
Here we lift a stone and peer beneath. There we dig a pit and gape into
its hole. Naught is what we find. And yet we carry on. Scraping at the
surface of what has no depth but in which our fate is contained.
If only you raised your gaze unto the warping vault. If only devotion
to the altar of your resolution finally caved in, its vacuous substance
unveiled. Then perhaps you would see, without comprehending, that for
which you crawl, for which you search. That for which you draw the next
breath.
Towering, a shapeless thing. Casting its familiar shadow across the land
and ages. A penumbra that is light in your blindness. It stands infinite,
as its weight on all who dwell under its chains.
Under them no eyes are raised. No backs unbent. And all false creeds drag
on through the waste.
GOD (el jefe)

