20
The Phoenix 21 winter 2015
8AM. Thursday 7th December. 2011.
Cold slippers, black coffee, a spritz of oil in the pan—two eggs, fried sunny-side up—a rustle of newspapers,
slurp and burp. Domestic sounds once strange and foreign to my ears now easing into familiarity with the
slow decay of time. They become no more than white noise, a quiet requiem to the stolid routine of winter
mornings. Sometimes I’m caught off guard by how abruptly my senses have deadened; bright colours are
offset with grey, bright sounds muffled by distance. The world has become thin, overstretched—like butter
spread across too much bread. Yet I can’t scrape the ash from my tongue; its burnt scent lingers on the verge
somewhere just out of reach, quilting my meals in a bitter lather, unmoved by even the strongest of spirits.
And don’t ask, because I’ve tried them all. Everclear, absinthe, neutral grain, cocoroco, arak. There’s no poison
strong enough.
There are nights when I feel as if my entire person is subdued, tied down by apathy, by a vague sense of loss,
by the cosmic weight of years passing by.
Thirty three fucking years.
Every single one etched on my face.
Oh Tak, you would barely recognise me now. I’m a poorly shaved Neanderthal with questionable sideburns.
My armpits exude a faintly sweet smell: damp sweat, cigarette, and a hint of something tangy and nostalgic,
like old wasabi. Those tarry eyes that confounded you so much have since been corrupted by a line of white—a
halo around my irises, constricting them, confining them. My lips are dry from a simple lack of speech, their
corners so permanently downturned they’ve become gravity’s plaything. The only word I use now is the
deathless, interminable “sorry”. I think I’ll be saying sorry right up to my grave. Sorry, sorry, sorry.
I don’t sleep so well now. It seems this dollhouse I live in isn’t built for lengthy dwelling. Its walls give me the
vague impression of a dam caving in. I’ve shrunk to fit inside; it’s greedily accepted my pound of flesh and
hungers for more, stripping me from random places—the fleshy concave of my belly, pulpy rings around the
neck, mid-thigh, buttocks.
These nights, Ambien is my friend. Round, pink pills with shallow notches like hieroglyphs, keeper of my
dreamless sleep. Don’t sulk; I know it’s bad. Ambien is a fickle temptress. On the nights she doesn’t deliver
you invariably appear, Takumi, drifting in between the sheets, and I don’t quite know if I should be scared or
relieved.
1AM. Monday 9th
January. 2012.
I’m sitting in front of a secretary’s desk in a nondescript room of a nondescript building—the matte, faceless
kind you always hated. Its walls are drenched in a faded bisque, interrupted by obnoxious “art” prints—bold
slaps of colour across a white canvass—hung in tactical locations that hit you squarely in the eye whenever you
look up. I keep my head bowed as I twist the business card around in my fingers: WILLIAM HUNT. A solid
name; strong, full-bodied. Brings to mind suntans, full-fat milk, a thick bulk of muscle beneath a skimpy shirt.
But I digress; his full name is Dr. William Hunt. I’d cut his ad out of a local paper this Christmas, his name
blazoned in Britannic Bold across a stock photo of a woman with her head cupped in her hands. COME TALK
IT OUT, the script screamed, WE’RE HERE TO HELP. And as is that hapless end-of-year custom, I drank my
way through two full bottles of 2009 Sauvignon blanc before thinking, fuck it! I knew you’d disapprove. You’d
put on that quizzical frown and say, “Why are you paying for some thinly veiled Freudian bullshit? Are you
crazy?”
Maybe that’s why I’m so keen to try it out. Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
“Mr. Kaito Abe?”
That’s my cue.
A fitting word for Dr. William Hunt might be clean. His expressions are transparent enough, lucid and open;
his smile seems to permeate every sinew on his face, smooth tendons buoyed up in a glorious contortion that
compels your lips to reply. There are no dark shadows on his face, no baggage beneath the eyes, a baby-smooth
glabrous jaw. Yes, I know you’d scoff at my description, Tak. Your first response might well be a deadpan “Botox.
Brow lift. Fillers. And that’s just for starters.” But let me backtrack a little. When I first entered the room I had
to stifle a gasp that formed like a canker in my throat.
Because he reminded me so much of you.
It was really you sitting there, wasn’t it? Fountain pen suspended two inches from your pad, one leg crossed over
the other in its usual slapdash way, your steely eyes boring into mine.
Dr. Hunt beckons me in with genuine concern. “Are you alright, Mr. Abe?”
“I—I’m fine.”
“Please take a seat.” He gestures to the cup of water on the coffee table. “Or would you prefer something a little
stronger? Tea perhaps?”
A whiskey on the rocks would be nice. “Tea sounds great.”
He smiles knowingly.
“So. What’s been bothering you?”
Straight to the point. Like a bullet.

