22
The Phoenix 23 winter 2015
3PM. Friday 27th
January. 2012.
I’ve been seeing William for a few weeks now, long enough to be on first name terms.
On the fifth visit, he beckons me in with a wave. This is new.
“Sit, sit.”
He bumbles about, dropping sencha leaves into mugs.
“Drink, drink.”
I sip from the hot brew. Once again he assumes a predatory position in the swivel chair, legs crossed, pen
hovering over his writing pad.
“If I recall correctly, we were talking about your parents?”
Freudian tactics. Start with the grassroots. Somehow it always comes back to those who brought us life.
“My father was a cell biologist. Spent more time culturing bacteria than he did with his wife and kid. Straight
talking no-nonsense bloke. Shy. Bit of a goatee.”
“Was he good to you, growing up?”
“If you mean did he buy me Lego and model racing cars, then yes, he owned that part of the parenting
agenda. But did he take me bowling or teach me how to fix a bust tyre? Never. And what’s good supposed
to mean? He was the kind of parent who ignores you for most of the year, and then tries to make up for it
in the holidays. Someone who thinks that time can be bought out with money.”
“And did he ever buy you out?”
“In the beginning, yes. What five-year-old isn’t won over by shiny new things? But then I grew up.”
“And?”
“Toy trucks just didn’t cut it anymore.”
“You mentioned Lego, trucks and racing cars. Did he ever give you any, say, gender non-conforming toys?”
“Like what... Barbies?”
“For example.”
I snort. “No, he was adamant I stayed well within the XY pool. When it came to girls and boys it was black
or white, there was no middle ground.”
“And how did he feel about Takumi?”
Bingo. The stumper.
“He hated Takumi’s guts.”
Winter fifteen is cold.
A thin glaze of frost coats almost everything in sight—lampposts, street-signs, the tips of traveller’s noses.
It seems nobody is immune, apart from you. Are you even human?
We’re circling the Museum of Western Art now, tracing familiar steps down to Le Corbusier’s square. You
tangle your arm in mine, the crooks of our elbows meeting at perpendiculars—it’s snug, a tight fit, it’s like
we’re meant to be. You’re pointing at something in the far distance. You say, “You know, it used to give me
the creeps. But these days I just like standing there. A kind of morbid fascination. Is that weird? Aren’t we
all sinners in some way or other?”
We walk up to it, the so-called “Gates of Hell”. Rodin, circa 1890. Cast in bronze, it’s a towering structure
standing six metres tall, its characters flaying and writhing at the site of hope’s abandonment. There is
Rodin’s Thinker in centre, his head bowed down, brow furrowed in deep, impenetrable thought.
“I want to see him in the flesh. In Paris.” You smile at me. “With you.”
6PM. Saturday 4th February. 2012.
I’m almost there now, Tak.
I’m in London, the Swinging City. Not so far from Paris. Not so far from the Gates. Granted, it’s not exactly
walking distance, more like a three-hour train ride away. But it’s a milestone. Baby steps.
People-watching has become my sport now. I have a birds-eye view of the streets, seeing without being
seen. The little flyspecks on the playground below buzz with purpose, with direction. They have A and
B points, goals and destinations, people to meet, things to do. And then there are the drifters, lone souls
that haunt the dusk and dawn—the homeless, the drunk, the wretched and pathetic. Where do I fit in?
Maybe I’m Meursault, that stranger on the outside looking in. He stood on the outskirts of his city too,
with his mask of solitude, his numbness. Perhaps that’s wise; to shield yourself from pain and anguish and
hurt, you must first learn not to feel at all. The art of indifference. Of de-humanising. Strip away your fatty
emotional layers, your hot-blooded cloak, be cold, inert.
I cannot do it.
Though I tried once. I stayed till early morning in a filthy nightclub, slowly gagging myself in spirits. In
truth I was looking for a mindless fuck, to steep in someone else’s warmth for however long, however
meaningless—to feel numb. She came onto me, pressed her body against mine, stuck her tongue down my
throat. What else could I do but give in? We did it a few times against the dank walls out back; it was short,

