24
The Phoenix 25 winter 2015
9AM. Monday 6th February. 2012.
William’s finally hit the jackpot. He’s found my weak point. He’s found you. I let him delve into my
memories—of you, of us, the before and after. First slowly, and then all at once, the floodgates opened.
“So they sent you away?”
“They watched me pack my suitcase. I didn’t bring anything with me, just some clothes, a few books and—
and—“
“And?” he prompts gently.
“And the cigarette case.”
The one you gave me for New Year’s that winter, on the steps beneath the Gates. You’d hushed up about
Rodin for a second, and pulled the case out from inside your jacket. It had a Thinker figurine carved on its
surface. “Open it,” you muttered breathlessly. You’d laid out a note over the first row of cigarettes.
It simply read—For Paris.
“Did you see Takumi before you left?”
“No. I was grounded for weeks before leaving, not allowed to leave my room, no phone calls, no visitors.
He knew something was wrong, but we didn’t manage to see each other in the end.”
“Where did they send you to?”
“Somewhere by the sea. A small fishing town off the Tsushima Basin. They wouldn’t even let me see the
ticket.”
“And what did they send you there for?”
A pause. I look him straight in the eye, see his face contorted in a storm of emotion: pity, sorrow, affection.
“For cleansing.” I admit, head bowed. “They wanted to snuff out the homosexuality.”
“I stayed with my uncle in his cabin. My father’s side. He was an odd man, sullen, few words, cold. He
made me—he made me do things.”
“What sort of things?”
“He took me to a whore house on the first night. He locked me in a room with this—this girl. Young, kind
of dazed looking, like she’d given up on herself. He told me ‘You better have her fucked before morning’
and then left.”
“Did you?”
“Of course not. We ended up talking about childhood, about loss... about Takumi.”
drunk, angry. She smelled of sweat, spicy shavings and cheap perfume. I didn’t even catch her name. I
think we both needed it.
Afterwards, I could only think of you. I couldn’t get you out of my head. Your hands, your eyes, your lips,
your tongue. You really do screw with people, Takumi.
When you meet my parents for the first time, you wear eyeliner. You have long hair, purple nail varnish,
a gem in your ear. Why? Did you think you could smash their bigotry to pieces by arriving as the very
impersonation of their fears? Did you think they would be shocked into acceptance? Did you ever think
about how I could stomach living with them after your whirlwind appearance? Was it all a joke to you?
At dinner, you try to make small talk. Banal comments about the layout of the house, my mother’s cooking,
the weather. You’re nervous, I can tell from the vein on your forehead, the slight tremor of your fingers, the
soft vibrato in your voice. I want to touch you, to hide you, to shield you from their acid glares.
When we’re finally alone, you drop the wig, the make-up, the redundant embellishments and you wink at
me. “Didn’t that go well?”
“Why’d you do it?” I can’t hide the disappointment in my voice.
“Just to see their reactions. Your dad is such a stiff.”
“They’ll never want to see you again.”
“Fine by me. We don’t need them.”
“But there’s talk of sending me away.”
“Where to?”
“Kobe. Osaka. Fukuoka. Anywhere. Away from you.”
You look up, a clownish glint in your eye. “Come on, am I such a bad influence?”
You’re Mephistopheles reincarnated. Satan in yellow. You’re sin and greed and lust. And I just can’t seem
to get enough.
Then suddenly you stand, grab my hand and lift it up into the air. “I solemnly swear on Lucifer’s furry
wings that I will be your leech. Your personal bloodsucking leech. Wherever you jump, I jump, okay?”
Then you kiss me, hard and fast on the lips, as if to seal the deal.

