26
The Phoenix 27 winter 2015
I remember the cool kiss she planted on my forehead the morning after, just before we said our goodbyes.
“You’ll be alright,” she whispered.
“What else did your uncle do?”
“He forced my eyes open and made me watch porn. Made me sit through hours and hours of homophobic
sermons. I can still hear them sometimes, those voices telling me I’m rotten... that I’m bad on the inside.”
“Did he ever try to touch you?”
I bring my voice down to a whisper. “He brought in a copy of Badi once. Five hundred pages, filled with
pictures of naked men. Then he told me to strip. He held the magazine in front of my face and flicked
through it while—while whipping me. Over and over for what seemed like hours.”
A sharp intake of breath. William looks shattered.
“I think that’s enough for today, don’t you?” He says kindly.
11AM. Thursday 9th February. 2012.
William drops his pen and pad. He sits closer to me now, our hands are within touching range, our
knees almost cobbled together. He looks at me in the way a weary traveller might watch a caged animal.
“You can tell me what happened, Kaito. You’re safe here.”
“He led me to The Warehouse.” I stammer a little, my voice breaking. “A huge dark building they used
to stock sake before it’s packaged and shipped abroad. He showed me to this wooden chair, made me sit
down and—and—tied me to it. I couldn’t get away in time.”
There is a silence we let fester for a while.
“There were five of them.”
Five shadows in the darkness. Huge, brooding figures with broad backs and shoulders. They speak in
sneers.
Then suddenly you appear.
You with your familiar silhouette; everything I had loved and missed and wanted. The slope of your
shoulders, your lanky limbs, your stupid, stupid face. And you only have eyes for me.
You don’t see them lurking in the corner.
“Takumi, RUN! RUN NOW!”
“Kai-”
THWACK. Something hits the side of your head and you are knocked down, pummelled onto the
concrete below. They ambush you, those fucking cowards; they kick the wind out of your lungs, the
sense out of your skull. One of them unbuckles his trousers, while the others hold you down, their feet
pinning you against the floor in a horizontal crucifixion.
I’m screaming. I’m screaming your name over and over and over while he corrupts you, he sticks his tiny
dick inside you, and I retch. I taste blood in my mouth. My voice has bled dry.
Your face will haunt me forever. It’s the look of bruised and battered grief. Of disappointment.
Takumi, forgive me.
You kill yourself on Thursday 7th December 1995.
A gunshot. Sirens.
Bleeding, bleeding, bleeding.
The winds were still on that day. Holding its last breath.
Do you remember the first time we met?
Outside the Gates of Hell, you were reading Yukio Mishima beneath the last sakura tree of summer.
We made eye contact, and in that briefest of moments, I think our stars crossed.
Illustrations: Indira Mallik and Jingjie Cheng

