10 Clubs and Societies
ICU Rugby Win The Gutteridge Cup
ICU Rugby 1st X V battled to a hard fought 12-0
victory over Charing Cross Hospital to win the
Gutteridge Cup Final.
Playing with the wind in the 1st half, IC
established the 12-0 lead through tries by
Alexander Sell and Mike Hall, with the latter
adding a conversion.
Turning around after half-time, the IC pack
weathered the Charing Cross fight-back and
took a firm grip on the match. The tackling and
effort throughout was immense, with everyone
giving 110% until the final whistle.
John Cassidy could have sealed an emphatic
victory but dropped the ball over the line. Mark
Wishart led by example and victory was a fitting
reward for his effort throughout the season.
The team was: P.Grumett, R.Carr, M.Baker,
L.Marquis, K.Drage, J.Cassidy, M.Wishart,
S.Townsend, A.Montgomery, M.Hall, A.Sell,
N.Flinn, E.Gilchrist, T.Oldham, S.DaVall,
T.Townend, M.Toolan, A.Stormer, G.Williams
ICU Rugby 1st XV - the winning team and G.Mullett.
SpIotSoc Go Cruising
Life in the
Shadowlands
Perhaps you are one of those lucky students
with some spare cash for a well-deserved movie
at the end of the term. Richard Attenborough's
latest film Shadowlands is a moving portrayal of
the great writer C.S.Lewis' struggle with pain,
suffering, love and death; issues he had known
only in 'theory' but which then deeply touched
his life through experience. To Lewis, death
meant separation from a woman he loved.
This is one side of death, the one many have
seen and perhaps experienced. But then the age-
old questions: What about the other side? Is
there 'life' after death? Which 'theory' will be
fact? What awaits us in the 'Shadowland'? Do
we ever glimpse what is 'beyond the veil'?
Well, apparently some people do, one such
being New Zealander Ian McCormack. He was
declared clinically dead after being stung by
bluefish while scuba-diving, but miraculously
came back to life. Since then, he has shared the
moving tale of his life-changing experience all
over the world - a story well worth hearing,
especially during exams!
Some Christian groups at IC will be hosting
a talk by Ian on Thursday 28th April in Huxley
308 at 6pm for 6.30pm. Everyone is welcome -
perhaps Ian's story can help you put together
some of your own Shadowlands puzzle.
Budding Artists
If you want to put any artwork into the IC Staff-
Student Exhibition (starting 17th May), bring it
to the Ante Room (Sherfield) by noon on 16th
May. Work must be framed (LeoSoc can help,
contact them beforehand). For more info contact
LeoSoc through the ICU Pigeonholes.
On Saturday 5th March SpIotSoc decided to
boldly go where no paintball club had gone
before...well, not many anyway! It was decided
to return to the urban paintball site at Greenham
Common and this time it was the newbies' turn
to rock and roll in confined spaces!
We got up at an ungodly hour of the morning
and, after braving London traffic in a Union
minibus and getting onto the M4 in one piece,
we thought nothing would stop us getting to
Greenham Common on time...but we forgot
about traffic cones, which someone had put
across two lanes of the M4 for no reason giving
a three mile tail back.
Suitably stressed, we arrived half an hour late
to find the first game had already started and
that a lot of the best guns had been taken. After a
brief kitting up session and pre-game tactic
discussion it was decided that:
a) we would try and obtain good guns by
whatever means possible, and
b) we had no tactics at all and would go into
headless chicken mode whenever shot at.
So, out we went for some tactical repainting of a
USAF airbase...and some of us came back again
even quicker after realising that there were
better players than even us on the red team.
After a brief wipe down and attempts to hide
our embarrassment about being shot out thirty
seconds into the game, it was a case of back into
the firing line to try again. This time the yellows
put up a good fight but alas were beaten again,
despite heroic play from all concerned.
By now, it was obvious something else was
needed, so out came thunderflashes and smoke
grenades, with the reasoning being that if we
can't shoot them we can scare them! Net result...
ten minutes later we were multicoloured again
and needed yet another re-think!
Our next game plan had the hallmarks of
genius: One gullible person running for the
centre flag whilst everyone else covered him.
The game was tense, with the flag grabber
taking incoming from all directions, but he got
the flag and ran it back to a friendly building.
Suitably spurred on by this triumph the
yellows proceeded to sweep the area clear of
reds in a mass paintstorm before going on to
hang the flag for their first win of the day.
Two more suitably inspiring wins followed,
with the last game leaving both sides about
equal on points, which is how it deserved to be.
Such an enjoyable day left everyone looking
forward to next term when more trips are
planned including the National Student
Championships, which we have won for the past
two years, so watch for posters.
The new Goya exhibition is reviewed on page 19

