Reviews 19
i l l
l o l l
F i l l Iflr!
i l l
Francisco Goya was an iconoclast, an individual
strapped into the regulated canvas of 18th
Century court painting. Like Blake in England,
Goya became an isolated figure, a man who saw
his life become littered with catastrophes: an
illness which left him deaf at 46, an increasing
irreligiousness, the deaths of all but one of his
children and the ripping askew of Spain during
the Napoleonic Wars of 1793-1814.
And so it is that the highlights of London's
first major Goya exhibition for thirty years are
seen in the macabre. Yet a large segment of the
exhibition is taken up with the sketches he
carried out prior to his full scale work. While
these are scholarly they remain sketches, pieces
of ephemera at worst, and strangely lifeless.
The raw scenes are pretty blood curdling,
though. The first hint of impending fantasy is the
sketch to St Francis Borja at the deathbed of an
Impenitent. As gloating devils wait for the man
to die, the cross wielded by St Francis spurts
blood, thus saving the Impenitent from hell.
A series of works on witchcraft display
Goya's shrieking imagination. In The Spell, a
crazed hag reaches out for a victim, whilst
behind her, the other cronies clutch at babies and
stick pins into a voodoo doll. Above, owls and
bats swoop down from the darkness. And so it
goes on. In front of the cannibal pictures a sturdy
old lady remarked, "disgusting". On moving to
the next picture all she could add was
"absolutely disgusting".
The satire on the vicious Inquisition was also
part of Goya's concern. He himself was indicted
in 1815 for an obscene picture. The parade of
gory flagellates and the hopelessness of those
condemned to death remind us of the times of
religious brutality. There is more. Scenes of
lunatics, lots of lunatics, a shipwreck, robberies
and bullfighting, more gored victims.
It would give a false impression to say that
such works make up the majority of this
exhibition, for there are rural settings, portraits
and miniatures. But nothing can compare to the
imagination of a deaf man set wild. His Self
Portrait in the Studio has the painter steeped in
an oversized square edged hat, looking outwards
as if you are the subject of his brush. Goya was
nothing if not a social realist, he based his
paintings on what he saw. His momentous
etchings, The Disasters of War, (not displayed)
show that show powerfully. His works of
darkness did not just involve fantasy.
Goya didn't need to twist things much to
create his eye churning monsters. All he needed
to do was look. Just as the cannibal reached inside
the chest cavity for lunch, so Goya had his finger
Francisco Goya The Spell 1797-98
on the pulse of a fragmenting Spain. The painter
in a silent world could still hear the cry of his age.
Jon
Royal Academy of Arts, Burlington House,
Piccadilly, Wl. Tube: Piccadilly. Admission: £5
(cones £3.50). Until 12th June.
Please Note
From the start of next
term, could articles
submitted to FELiX be
supplied on PC disks.
If you would like to help
type up articles and gain
experience of Desktop
Publishing, drop into the
FELiX Office any time.
( A n d t h e r e ' s free t e a o r c o f f e e , t o o )
245 L A V E N D E R HILL • L O N D O N SW'l 1 1 l\V

