20 Reviews
Townes Van Zandt
OK so this is blatant advertising, but for a great
man. Townes has been there since before the
beginning of the folk outbreak which started
with the certain Zimmerman (aka Dylan). From
classic albums like 'Delta Momma Blues' to
versions of his songs covered by the likes of
Janis Joplin and Willie Nelson, he has been
around to see it all.
Townes plays his only British date for two
years at the Union Chapel on Saturday 23 April.
Box Office 071 4773812, 071 3881394
Tube: Angel and Islington, Ticket £10
l i t i f § f f f i i r p j i i
Inspiral Carpets
Devil Hopping
Hot on the heels of their smart chart hits,
'Saturn 5' and 'I Want Y o u ' , comes the
Inspiral's spankingly new and gorgeously
packaged album, 'Devil Hopping'. And it's a
class act. Less obviously commercial than either
of the singles but full of little gems of songs and
nuggets of feeling crystallised into lyrics.
'Plutoman' for example, has indecipherable
phrases which seem to make some kind of
power chorus to satisfy the hardest of song-
structure technique.
And they're all like this, none really stand
out as they are all so perfectly formed as to be
infallible. From the slow and delicate 'I Don't
Want To Go Blind' to the more aggressive
'Lovegrove', a range of pace and style is
demonstrated. The Inspirals have created a rare
thing - a good, hyped album. (7) The Pear
Mil111
iff
11!!!!!!!
Lotion
Full Isaac
By now I'm almost getting sick of it; another
album, another band from New York, another
mix of heartland guitars, stretched vocals,
spunky speed chords, weird titles, more plaudits
to handout. Back home in the U K we can only
scrap around inventing scenes so the fag-end of
punk wasted downstarts can release the odd
single. Personally I'd vote for 53rd Statehood.
Only Morrissey, Costello and Richard
Thompson restrain my mad urge.
Lotion just wander aimless as a band. The
occasional strings of cello or the crack of the
tablas mix over the deep base of a two man
guitar team. Some tracks have strange intros
with outworldly voices talking mischief, "Last
year at Malibu, only Jim was a fag" as on the
classically balanced 'Dock Ellis'. And yes it
ijiiilllil
Senser - 'Switch' They
effortlessly fuse Kerstin's dub-
pop chanting with Heitham's
angry rapping to produce
another classic. Ridley Dash
Echobelly - 'Insomnia' Catchy
melodies, tripped out interludes and Sonya
Madan. Excellent. Camille
Transglobal Underground - 'Earth Tribe' The
Drum club mix is strangely reminiscent of
Diddy's 'Give M e Love' but has sparser,
skeletal beats, and the brilliant voice of Natacha
Atlas. Is anyone listening? Camille
Possum Dixon - 'Nerves' Wow! I haven't heard
something this weird in a long time. Kicking drams,
chugging bass, dissonant piano. Entertaining. Vik
Sidi Bou Said - 'Thing' ' A l l These Things'
stands out from the others, gently lulling before
the guitar and vocals explode. Ridley Dash
Nick Cave - 'Do You Love Me' Nick Cave's
world weary voice weaves through a barrage of
military style drums, waxing cynical about love
and various sorrows. Good stuff. Joe
These Animal Men - 'Speed
King' "Amphetamines are
where it's at." Yeah, right.
Perhaps if they actually took
the drugs they're trying to
glorify, they'd be able to play
this kind of post-punk pop
music with the vigour it deserves. Second hand
enthusiasm is no enthusiasm at all. Guy
Paw - 'Jessie' The track begins like a Nirvana
'Bleach' out-take before quickly progressing to
sub Alice in Chains territory. This lack of
identity is their fundamental problem. Ridley Dash
Terrorvision - 'Oblivion' I've liked everything
they have done to date, so I guess it was about time
they let me down. Here abounding doo-wops take
their '60s fascination a bit too far. Vik
• S H I
If
probably did only cost $570 to record. Lotion give
a private viewing, they draw the curtains and are
intensely languid, faintly head nodding. The
tempo at times just smiles itself into action.
Once, I though that Pavement were the only
US band worthy of Atlantic salt and now 2 years
later I'm sounding like Everett True - stars and
stripes tattooed across my mind. God bless the
Queen mum. Pah! (8) Tintin
Raging Slab
London Astoria 2
Headswim play the first slot. In many ways like
a trippier Soundgarden, what sets them apart is
the use of keyboards; atmospheric swathes of
synth texture or Rhodes piano as the
circumstances dictate. Sanity does not appear to
abound. The band lose themselves in an onstage
frenzy that proves irresistible to the crowd.
"Boogie rock, schmoogie rock," announces
Slab singer/guitarist Greg Strzempka. "What the
kids want to hear these days is rap music."
Maybe, but Raging Slab follow no fads.
Their brand of honest rock music will always be
welcome. They're serious about what they do
without losing their sense of humour. A happy
medium that's hard to find in a time when bands
seem to be either chronically depressed or
taking the piss. Contrary to popular belief, the
Slab aren't full-on, deep-fried Southern boogie
merchants like Lynyrd Skynyrd, although the
influence is there, especially in the slide work of
third guitarist Elyse Steinman. (When she hasn't
put the guitar aside to concentrate on singing,
dancing around dressed like a Marshall cabinet,
or taking over on bass whilst Alec Morton plays
mandolin.)
Musicianship abounds; Greg also plays
fiddle and Paul Sheehan knows that drum solos
have to be stupid and above all short. Guitarist
Mark Middleton takes over on vocals for a
redneck version of 'Don't Bogart That Joint', by
which time we know that there's still a band
capable of putting on a great show with a good
time to be had by all. Angst isn't everything you
know. Freddy Cheeseworth
Has anyone followed the erratic behaviour of the music page strips? Here's where the lyrics came from tummy, chronologically. " A Bear..."
is from A.A.Milne's Pooh of course. Matthew Sweet's "Everything..." was next from 'Someone To Pull Hie TrlR«w'. Kristin Hersh was a give away 'cos I told you
"Never was a baritone..." from 'Hips and Makers'. Pavement's "mistakes..", misquoted slightly, were from 'Zurich Is Stained'.

