22 Reviews
Beethoven's 2nd
Director: Ivan Reitman
Starring: Charles Grodin
The success of the first film to star that loveable
1501b rough-coat St Bernard called Beethoven
has proved to be irresistible to director Ivan
Reitman. It's sequel time again folks...
"He could almost be intelligent the way he looks at you.
"Yeah. And the dog looks pretty smart too."
This film introduces x lbs of a fetching smooth-
coat St Bernard, Missy (Beethoven's love). This
combined with four beautiful bouncing puppies,
has made this another sweet film.
But a nightmare is brewing for dad (Charles
Grodin) who has only just started to bond with
Beethoven. His children are determined to turn
the Newton household into a quivering six St
Bernard family, insisting on keeping Beethoven,
Missy and their offspring together. To make
matters worse a money hungry Regina (Missy's
owner) tries to steal the puppies from Missy and
drown/sell them (boo, hiss...).
A simple film in which the doggies triumph,
this should be popular with younger audiences
and any accompanying not so young ones -
though it may be hard to make adults admit it. In
the making of the film, America's supply of St
Bernard puppies is reputed to have been
exhausted as they tend to grow a pound a day.
The only unfortunate aspect of this canine bliss
is the revolting pink bow on Missy.
R.N.
Out today in London. MGM Fulham Rd, cones
£3.50 Mon-Fri before 6pm. UCI Whitelys
Queensway, cones £3.50 before 3pm.
REEL^REAL
It's the end of the spring term and the Easter
break beckons. Of course, you could spend the
next four weeks feverously revising for exams,
but all work and no play makes Jack (or Jill) a
very dull person indeed. Avoid that nervous
breakdown and catch some of the latest releases
at the flicks over the holidays, using this handy
guide to the best and the rest...
Joe Public
Tom Hanks in Philadelphia
Already Out
Short Cuts is over three hours of sheer
brilliance. Robert Altman (The Player) weaves
together twenty two different characters in the
sweltering heat of an L A summer. The large cast
are all impressive, but the real stars are the
stories of Raymond Carver on which the film is
based. It's difficult to describe how amazing this
is, so just see it - you won't be disappointed.
Schindler's List hardly needs any introduction
after winning seven Oscars, including best
picture. This harrowing tale of the Holocaust is
Spielberg's masterpiece and deserves to be seen
by everyone as both a lesson and as a great piece
of art.
Philadelphia has already won Tom Hanks an
Oscar for best actor, portraying a lawyer with
AIDS. Jonathan Demme's sensitive direction
avoids any cheap emotional tricks and fine
performances are forthcoming from the rest of
the cast, especially Denzel Washington as the
homophobic attorney who takes Hanks' case.
For once, a movie that is both 'worthy' and
worthwhile.
Waynes World 2 is worth seeing just for the
concert scene and, although it doesn't do much
different from the first film, it does have the
added attraction of K i m Basinger as the
babelicious Miss Honey. Predictable, but fun in
a pretty brainless way.
New Releases
Fearless sees Max Klein (Jeff Bridges) coming
to terms with the aftermath of a traumatic plane
crash in a 'spiritual' love story directed by Peter
Weir (Dead Poet's Society). Rosie Perez
received an Oscar nomination for her role in this
film. Released in the West End on 15th April,
and across the country on 22nd April.
Backbeat is the true story of the fifth Beatle,
Stuart Sutcliffe, and his menage a trois with
John Lennon and Astrid Kirchherr in the sombre
city of Hamburg. The hotly tipped Stephen Dorff
stars and you can see it from lst April.
Kalifornia has been touted as a cross between
Thelma and Louise and The Hitcher. It got
heavily slated in the US, but I've heard some
favourable murmurings from people who saw it
at the London Film Festival, so it might be
worth a look. Again, it's released on lst April.
Sister Act 2 is released today. Whoopie
Goldberg is back in harness (or should that be
habit?) as the cabaret singer turned angel of
mercy. Mercifully enough, it looks as if there
won't be any more sequels after this one...
The Scent of Green Papaya was nominated for
an Oscar as best foreign film and is said to be a
moving and intelligent portrait of Vietnamese
village life in the 50s. Watch out for a review at
the start of next term, but if you can't wait 'til
then, it's released in London on Friday April lst.
Read about this year's Oscars on page 24

