Reviews 23
/ want $1 million dollars a plane, and a toupee...or the mannequin gets it.
Striking
Distance
Director: Rowdy Herrington
Starring: Bruce Willis, Sarah Jessica Parker,
Denis Farina
The plot of Striking Distance is much easier to
predict while watching the film than to describe
afterwards. Bruce Willis plays a Pittsburgh cop
relegated to the river rescue patrol after grassing
on his former partner and questioning his
department's investigative techniques.
Who are we kidding? The plot is one of the
oldest in the book: There's a good cop; he has
some bad experiences; he spends two years in a
dead-end job drinking too much Southern
Comfort; a babe shows up; his past catches up
with him; he shags the babe; he confronts his
past; he saves the day; credits roll.
Speaking of credits, there is one worth
mentioning: M r Paul Abascal who put in a
splendid performance as Mr Willis' hair-stylist.
This should not be underrated, especially
considering the scenes when both of the hairs get
wet as Mr Willis plunges into the water with
death-defying determination and awe-inspiring
enterprise. Don't get us wrong, Bruce Willis
does show acting potential when he is put into
the right environment, namely a high-speed
comedy (let's have another repeat of
liiiiiiiiiiiil
Grief
Director: Richard Glatzer
Starring: Alexis Arquette
Another normal week at the office of 'The Love
Judge', a frivolous daytime courtroom drama
featuring circus lesbians, schizophrenic opera
divas, and Tourettes victims.
Behind all this is Jo's crew: Mark, B i l l ,
Jeremy and Leslie, Jo's assistant. This week is
the anniversary of Mark's lover's death by
AIDS, leaving him feeling suicidal; and the fact
that he doesn't know whether Bill, to whom
he's attracted, is interested in him worries him
too. B i l l broke up with his girlfriend three
weeks ago and Jeremy's advice to forget Bill
might have a baser motive. Also, who is leaving
condoms and lubricant on Jo's new leather sofa?
This is a marvellous 'Hollywood' comedy,
warmly and sensitively depicting its characters,
except those of 'The Love Judge' of course,
who are as absurd as they can be...
Go and see it if you can.
Kristine J Vaaler
Opens at the ICA Cinema on 1st April. Shown
at the National Film Theatre on 31st March.
Moonlighting) or else an implausible mindless
action movie (the Die Hards). Unfortunately,
Striking Distance is neither and you are left
lamenting the tragic waste of a good concept.
The, er...film, is not directed badly, it's not
shot badly and even the acting is passable. So
what if the fact that it's being set on the water is
made no use of. What really lets it down is the
screenplay. It's got the feel of a good intriguing
story, but by the time it reached the studio, it
was nothing more than a badly assembled pile of
interesting five minute sequences with little or
no continuity. You never feel that you can get
into the characters and you get from the scenes
of great revelation no more than you would from
Cool Runnings
Director: Jon Turteltaub
Starring: Leon, Doug E. Doug, John Candy
Cool Runnings has been out a while now and
during that time its star, John Candy, has died. I
remember thinking when I saw the trailers: "Oh
no, a vehicle for John Candy, in which an ageing
comedian indulges himself in what will probably
be just a mediocre film." People can only live off
previous successes for so long.
But now I've seen the film, I realise that this
wasn't the case. Don't get me wrong; John
Candy doesn't shine comically in this movie.
Instead, he plays the serious part and he does it
brilliantly. It's not the performance of a Geilgud
or any other 'luvvie', but it's right for this role.
The film is based on the true story of the first
Jamaican bobsled team to compete in the Winter
Olympics in Canada, 1987. It follows the four
intrepid Jamaicans and their coach, Irving
Blitzen, a disgraced previous gold medalist,
played by Candy. There's also Derice Bannock
(Leon), an Olympic class sprinter following in
his father's Olympian footsteps, and Sanka
Coffie, played by a wickedly humorous Doug E.
watching a TV through a shop window.
In all, there was as much corn popping in our
big bucket as there was on the big screen. There
is one thing that still puzzles us though - the
title. Striking Distance, we think to ourselves.
What could it mean? To what does it refer? Did
we see the right film? We think not. At least the
film's catchy phrase is almost right: 'They
shouldn't have put him in the water, if they
didn't want him to make waves'. With a film
like this they shouldn't have put him in the water
at all!
SphenX
Opens at Odeon Leicester Square. 15th April.
No student cones, admission from £7.
Doug, who provides a constant flow of rich and
spontaneous humour.
Cool Runnings is itself a bobsled ride with
many twists and turns. It's one of those 'coming
to terms with the person you really are' stories,
but dealt with in a lighthearted humorous way.
The laughs come thick and fast; no digs and
gibes, but just the sort of belly laughs to make
you feel smiley and happy. A couple of serious
points are made, like being who you are and
going after what you want, but the casual
Jamaican style of the movie manages to avoid
things getting too sickly. Another plus is the
score, a good balance of typically commercially
viable reggae and instrumentals by Hans
(Thelma & Louise) Zimmer.
Other reviewers have complained about
insulting stereotypes in the film, but this is
ridiculous as the movie just doesn't take itself
that seriously. Cool Runnings is suprisingly great
and should be given a chance by everyone.
A fitting end to John Candy's career.
Little Blue
Now showing at Warner West End, Leicester
Square. Cones £4 before 5pm.
This week's Cat's Tale is on the back page

