24 Feature
"I'd Like To Thank My Plumber..."
Tony Grew sheds some light on the glitter and the dazzle of the Oscars.
The Oscars. What the bloody hell is all
that about, I hear you cry. The annual
back-slapping and bitching of the world's
best known film awards is legendary and
for movie professionals there is the
chance to possess what Mae West once
cheekily called "the most sought after
thirteen inches in Hollywood". Or was
that Errol Flynn? Anyway, the point is
that in its 66 year history the Academy
Awards have had some famous and
equally infamous moments. So we here at
Felix have decided to answer all the
questions that keep you awake at night or
at least the ones about the Oscars.
The first one that springs to mind is:
Why call them Oscars anyway? This is
an easy one actually, depending on who
you believe. Most likely is an academy
employee called Margaret Herrick who,
in 1935, exclaimed that the award looked
like her Uncle Oscar. The proper title of
Academy Awards doesn't have the same
ring to it somehow. Bette Davis claimed
that she named it because of the
similarity to the behind of one of her
husbands but, frankly, no-one believes
her. It is, in fact, supposed to represent a
nude knight holding a sword where his
cricket box should be and standing on a
reel of film. Why anybody would claim
this to be the behaviour of anyone they
knew (even a Tory MP) is beyond me but
there you go. If I had an uncle who
behaved like this, I certainly wouldn't tell
anyone. The actual award is worth about
$200, weighs a little over eight pounds
and is gold plated bronze.
The next obvious question is: What
Academy? Well, it is the Academy of
Motion Picture Arts and Sciences and it
was founded in 1927. Lots of very famous
people are in it, as well as the people that make
it all possible. There are about 4,000 members
and it costs $175 a year but you really do have to
be asked. Anyone nominated to receive an Oscar
is offered membership immediately. If you have
powerful friends and major screen credits, you
also have a goodish chance.
So how does a film get nominated? The
process is pretty simple really. The Academy is
divided into twelve branches, such as actors,
writers and directors. The members of each
group send in their top five recommendations in
their particular field of expertise and everyone
makes recommendations for Best Picture and
Best Foreign Language Film. The five most
popular choices in each category are then the
nominations and the whole Academy then votes
on these. Simple. This explains why a
nomination is so important; it is recognition
from your peers that you do good work. The
Academy as a whole may not agree though, the
case of Steven Spielberg being a notable
Spielberg's List: His films claimed a grand total often Oscars.
example. Previous to his awards this year he had
been nominated on three occasions but never
managed to carry it off. This means that the
directors valued him more than everyone else. The
votes are counted by the accountancy firm, Price
Waterhouse, who are the only ones who know
who has won before the envelopes are opened.
Why the tacky ceremony then? T V
possibly has a lot to do with the present form of
the awards. Whoopi Goldberg had the supreme
honour of hosting the proceedings this year,
thereby becoming the first African-American to
do so. The gold envelope bit is interspersed with
various dire song and dance routines starring the
likes of Jerry Lewis. It always runs over time,
usually because of the...
Speeches. These are always the most
amusing aspect of the ceremony and there have
been some memorable gaffs. Cher, as well as
having the dress sense of a retarded yak, also
managed to give one of the least comprehensive
thank you speeches in history, remembering
only to mention her hairdresser and make-up
artist. She subsequently had to take out a
three page ad in the trade papers the next
day thanking everyone she forgot. The
deranged babblings of Sally Field ("You
like me! You cannot deny that you actually
like me at this moment!") are recalled with
groans. She really should have learned from
the Great One, Jack Nicholson, who oozed
charm from every pore behind his
sunglasses when picking up his 1975 nod
for One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest. "I
guess this proves there are as many nuts in
the Academy as anywhere else," he
mumbled, before ambling off in the wrong
direction. What a guy. Many believe the
1982 sweep by Ghandi is what led to the
now traditional Dickie Attenborough cry-in.
Hankies out, too, for Sylvester Stallone
who was overcome with emotion when
Rocky won best picture in 1976. Which
leads very neatly on to the topic of...
Unexpected winners and indeed losers.
Whilst Rocky may seem like a prime
example of the innate nuttiness of the
voting patterns of the Academy, there has
been worse over the years, not least Julie
Andrews for Mary Poppins. Incidentally,
Dick Van Dyke was nominated for his role
in that modern classic, probably single-
handedly responsible for the introduction of
dialect coaches for all Americans.
This year, it has been very much an
Oscars ceremony for remembering people
the Academy have passed over in the past.
This year's winners have really yielded no
surprises, with the long deserved
recognition of Spielberg as a modern day
god of directing. After the appaling snub of
The Color Purple in 1988 (nominated for
ten and won none) it has just been a matter
of time, but of course Hook really wasn't
the film to honour. The Best Film Oscar for
Schindler's List is a powerful vindication of
Universal's courage in financing and supporting
what must have seemed such a dodgy
proposition at the time and I feel personally
vindicated at the Best Actress award for Holly
Hunter. Ever since Broadcast News I have been
trying to convince people of her brilliance and
now they have finally seen the light. Tom
Hanks, a firm favourite with the Academy, is no
surprise either, especially in his first serious role.
The cinematography was, of course, worthy of
its award; I have always felt they should give
one to everyone in this category, but I do feel on
this occasion Schindler's List had to be
recognised yet again. The chillingly bright black
and white added immeasurably to the horror of
the story. With Spielberg's films collecting ten
awards in total, the competition stood no chance
really. It's unfortunate that Robert Altman had to
be nominated in the same year as Spielberg. We
can only hope that his next piece will be half as
good as Short Cuts.
The annual Felix Easter Egg survey is on pages 6 and 7

