Reviews 25
Futon And Daruma
Despite it's techno-smart modern exterior, Japan
has often been stagnant when it comes to female
emancipation (yes, still). As chronicled in films
like 'Ripples of Change', any mould-breaking
energy seems to have faded; previously bra-
burning feminists of the 70s lib movement
appear a tragic shadow of their former selves;
now only bitter cynicism and Catch-22
resignation remain. Why? Weakness or
ignorance is not the problem; more likely is the
tenacious hold of traditional feudal values -
epitomised by the conformity of mainstream
society and it's resentment to 'rogue' elements.
Such is the unseen background context to
Ryo Iwamatsu's 'Futon and Daruma', presented
here by WaVe. Set in a room with two futons,
the farcial (and often sexual) comings-and-
goings of the characters form the backbone of
the play. The evening after his daughter's
wedding, Nomura's mid-life crisis worsens
when his young second-wife suggests they
seperate. Complications ensue as in-law couples,
girl/boyfriend pairs interact in a very sharp
Shavian-like satire. But there is a pressure
cooker of emotions underpinning the play.
Dramatic tension bubbles to boiling point in
prolonged silences and makes it almost
unbearable at times. This is in fact never
completely released and the embracing of a new
day, right at the end, perpetuates the whole
situation to poignant intensity.
The set layout is essentially Japanese, and the
content of the dialogue, a satire on said-culture.
But with English characters speaking familiar
vernacular, it could also work as a satire on a
more recognisable level.
The daruma is particularly intriguing; it is a
small doll used to embody wishes and derives
it's name from Zen Buddhist founder Dharma.
Unbelievably coherent, it is also representative
of (wo)man's essential resilience to the identity-
jarring incidents that occur in life - the doll is
weighted so once knocked over, it bounces back
up again.
Maximum credit goes to Edmund Dehn
whose articulate Nomura is compelling through-
out. Kazuya, played by Alex Harland, is
unnervingly funny, and not because there's a
scene involving a romp with his wife and a
silver vibrator. Esta Jakobs as Nomura's wife is
a little too restrained even for Japanese
standards and perhaps needs more charisma.
Tim Keenan's direction is incredibly
dynamic and it's not hard to see why his WaVe
company are 'committed to producing unusual
and visually stimulating theatre'. The opening
few minutes with Stuart Bedford's film
backdrop and Jonathen Allen's 'ambient' station
soundbites feel like a surreal kaleidoscopic
hallucination and is almost like a cinematic clip
from 'Mishima'.
In the play, the adage that appearances can be
deceiving rings very true. Indeed, you can't
judge a theatre by looking at it's doorway.
Camille
Attic Theatre, 103 The Broadway, SW19. 081
542 6141. Tube: Wimbledon. Ends 9th April.
Mon £5, Tue-Thu £6, Fri & Sat £7 cones £5.
Paddywack
Paddywack - the name did not appeal. The
barman at the Cockpit Theatre didn't help much
either: "It's about a paddy who gets whacked,"
he muttered. Expectations were rapidly sinking
- nearly as quickly as the level of Guinness in
my plastic pint cup. But then again, I was
always told never judge a theatre by its barstaff.
Paddywack deals with one of the most ugly
scourges of the modern cosmopolitan world
many of us now inhabit: racism. Damien, a
young Irishman starting work in London, is
transformed and projected by each and every
character he meets into what they want him to
be, not what he really is.
The motives are all very different - for
Brian, the token A l f Garnet character, it is
insecurity - for Damien's girlfriend, it is the
thrill of danger. But the projection is the same:
Damien must be, has got to be...an IRA terrorist.
And you will have probably guessed the fate
of our poor Damien - the innocent paddy, who
in an enthralling last scene, finally meets his
whack.
It is a stirring play indeed, and a poignant
reminder that we should all be careful of false
expectations - for, in the end, it is so easy to
blame others when you own truth is so hard to
find. Get a ticket, and make you own
judgement...
The Judge and Duke
The Cockpit Theatre, Gateforth St, NW8. 071
402 5081. Tube: Marylebone/Edgware Rd. Ends
26th March. Mon £5, Tue-Fri £8, £6 cones, Sat
£9, £7 cones.
(UNION GENERAL MEETING)
lpm, Union Ents Lounge
Business:
Passing of new ICU Constitution
Election of next year's Student Officers
Ratification of new Sabbaticals
Reports from Union Officers

