26 Opinion
Editorial
• Election Coverage
Question: For someone being paid
over £6,000 a year (and getting
free accommodation), is Andy
Wensley (ICU President) really earning his
money? Is he doing his job and, more
importantly, is he doing it properly!
If you read the news story on page three, you
will see that he's screwed up over the sabbatical
elections. There was late publicity for the
hustings, virtually no publicity for new election,
fewer voting stations because of too few swipe
card readers, a non-secret secret ballot, no proxy
voting, no flyers to all the students as
promised...the list could go on.
But this non-secret ballot. How can someone
be that stupid? Under no circumstances should
you say who's paper it is if you happen to know.
All you have to say is: "Yes, that paper is OK."
Does he not think before he does things? Does
he not appreciate the seriousness of the position
he is in and the responsibility that goes with it?
There are a number of things other than the
election screw-up that I could mention, but I
don't have the space to highlight them all. One
that I could mention is his lack of common
courtesy and professionalism. On a number of
occasions he has arranged meetings with
students and then turned up late.
One example is an election interview for
Felix. It was originally arranged for an afternoon,
but Andy postponed it until 9am the following
morning. He had to be phoned at 9:15am
because he was still in bed and he eventually
turned up at 10:20am, over an hour late.
Maybe he oversleeps after arranging
meetings with College management as well. But
if he can't make the effort to arrive on time for
meetings he has arranged himself, I think it's
disgraceful.
Add this to everything else this year and it
comes as no surprise that comments such as
'horse's arse' and 'fuckwit' are being made
about Andy Wensley.
Tick Tock
The clocks go forward one hour
this Sunday morning. We'll be in
British Summer Time at last and,
looking at the weather, I can almost believe it.
Don't forget to reset your watches.
On the subject of time, according to the New
Scientist, we'll be gaining some time this June.
The International Earth Rotation Society has
decided that we will all have an extra second
added to our lives between 23:59:59 and
00:00:00 on 30th June. Don't forget to reset your
watches for this too and use this extra time
wisely!
gmk Poison
The cause of death of Whiskas is still
unclear, but contrary to the letter from
Andy Clark, we were not feeding it
dry roasted peanuts; it was surviving quite
happily on a diet of Basics pizza bases and
chocolate, with the occasional handfuls of
proper mouse food or muesli.
Claims have been made, though, that
Whiskas wasn't the original mouse that escaped
from Biology two and a half years ago. Certain
members of the Felix Office staff have
suggested that they have been replacing the
mice as they die off. Two and a half years seems
quite old for a lab mouse, but I guess we'll
never know the truth
Second Class Citizens
m- In reply to the letter below, I suggest
that you talk to Jill Dove, the Union's
Accommodation Officer. She will be able to
suggest the best course of action to take and
who the best people are to talk to. She might
even be able to approach some of them on your
behalf. Y o u can contact her through her
pigeonhole in the Union Office or through Dave
Goddard, Deputy President (Finance and
Services) on ext 3502.
Second Class Citizens
Dear Felix,
You are our last resort.
We are students from Holbein and Willis
Jackson houses (Evelyn Gardens) and we have
had numerous problems with accommodation
facilities which have not been dealt with
satisfactorily, despite repeated complaints to the
housekeeper (House 44, Evelyn Gardens)
alerting him to the situation.
The most serious problem concerns safety.
For example, several weeks ago, two stoves in
Holbein and Willis Jackson houses broke.
Despite assurances from the housekeeper that the
stoves would be mended, they are still dangerous
to use, resulting in the near electrocution of a
student while innocently trying to cook his
dinner. This is just one of many incidents; to
catalogue them all would take up an entire page.
The above example illustrates perfectly the
unwillingness of the housekeeper to deal
efficiently with problems with student defects
etc only aggravates our situation as opposed to
alieviating it.
Surely rent of nearly £50 per week entitles us
to a safe hall environment with appliances which
function properly.
We feel that we are treated as second class
citizens, not as rent payers with tenants' rights.
In our belief, our accommodation contract
has been broken. Does this therefore entitle us to
a rebate for rent we have paid.
Can you advise us what to do in order that we
may rectify this situation?
This letter has been signed by 20 people
including: Veronica Beswick, Paul Thomason,
Rachel Muller, Kasper Juel Eriksen.
Answers to last week's
Elimination
a Round Off 27,3
b Flee, Escape 8, 36
c Cut Across 2, 32
d Pop, Solos 4,29
e Time Bomb 18,5
f Ash, Pine 1,12
g Integrity, Maxim 41,26
h Slay, Sleigh 14, 39
i Take Stock 17, 30
J Step, Faced 15,22
k Human Race 24,13
1 Dynamo, Monday 35,38
m Light Year 25,19
n Lamb, Suey 9,16
0 Short List " 28,10
P Court, Jewels 21,37
q Cancer, Aquarius 33,40
r Moon, House 11,23
s Face Value 7,31
t Door, Bench 6,20
The word left over was Crafty
Credits
Typesetter: Music:
Rose Atkins Jon Jordan
Printer: Theatre:
Andy Thompson Rekha Nayak
Business Managers: Features:
Simon Govier Owain Bennallack
Steve Newhouse Tony Grew
Mike Ingram (and all
Layout & Proofing: the Easter Egg eaters)
Kin Wei Lee
News:
Puzzles: Mike Ingram
Sphinx, Penguin, Lynn Bravey
Catfish et al Penguin
Joe McFadden
Photography:
Simon Govier Collators Last Week:
Ivan Chan Mike Ingram
Tim St Clair
Cinema: Andrew Tseng
Joe McFadden Patrick Wood
Poetry Corner
Dear Beccy,
Would you please allow me to take some
space - away from enlightened and constructive
debate - with a humble poem:
Bendin' bowin'
Seepin' sowin'
The Comin's and goin's
of oligarch
Thank you,
Eitaroh Arakawa, Materials 3
The deadline for letters is 6pm on the Monday before publication

