Opinion 27
Poisoned? From Innocence To Cynicism
Dear Felix,
I wish to send my condolences to you for the
death of dearly departed Whiskas. I am sure that
Whiskas' departure from this world was nothing
to do with the dry roasted peanuts you were
feeding him.
Andy Clark, EE3
P.S. Can I have my rat poison back yet? It's in
the bag labelled dry roasted peanuts or
something similar.
Hebron
Dear Felix,
Saibri Saidam, in his letter to Felix of 18th
March 1994 concerning the incident at Hebron
makes no reference to the many other '"lone
incidents' committed by 'lone deranged
people'". No mention of the almost daily 'lone
incidents' in which innocent women and
children are attacked without discrimination. It
is perhaps worth pointing out that the 1929
massacre by a mob of 'lone deranged people'
left Hebron Judenrein for the only time in
thousands of years.
It would be well to reflect that although this
incident has received well publicised
condemnation by Jewish leaders, secular and
religious, both here and abroad, the silence from
other communities when their 'lone deranged
people' act is quite deafening.
Yours faithfully,
A. N. Burton, Computing
Dear Beccy,
I think that your attention should be drawn to
a serious attempt to restrict the editorial freedom
of one of the C C U newsletters, namely Pit of the
Royal School of Mines (RSM).
Their last editorial, published on the fifth
anniversary of the fatwa imposed on Salman
Rushdie mused on how unjust it is that he is in
hiding for writing a book offering a different
opinion on aspects of Islam, whilst nearly every
week, Islam Soc produce copy for Felix attacking
many aspects of the British way of life.
Dear Felix,
Firstly, clarification: I do not believe that Jon
Jordan is a fascist nor a bigot, and I thank
Marcus Alexander for being astute enough to
question whether I really hold this opinion. I
will admit that my letter last week was
formulated on the basis of a superficial
impression, and only after I had re-read it, did I
realise that I had taken the very aggressive end
of the stick. But I feel justified in doing this
because if I got this impression by a first glance,
I'm sure there were others who, skimming
briefly through the letters pages may have
thought similarly, so my words were of well-
meaning caution, not of accusation.
In my final message of the term to any
humanity which still exists at IC I would like to
suggest a definition of tolerance. All of us are
prejudiced to an extent, most of us resting
somewhere comfortably between the extremes of
intolerant suspicious bigot and naive trusting
fool. Now I believe that peoples' characters are a
true reflection of their environment: if our
environment makes us hostile and cynical, we
tend to behave in this way to others, and thus the
process is self-perpetuating, but it need not be:
The cycle can be broken.
What I think is important for us to find are
the points in our lives where our ch-ch-changes
from childhood innocence to cynicism occur,
and identify if possible, the reasons for them.
Certainly from his rhetoric, it would appear that
Marcus has passed beyond this point of no-
return and become the battle-hardened cynic that
he is. But whilst he might "hold little faith in the
future of the world" I have faith in his (and
every individual at IC's) potential to do a lot of
I have since heard that the editors and the
staff of the RSMU office have been subjected to
considerable verbal abuse and intimidation by
several large groups of Islam Soc members,
protesting about the content of the last Pit
editorial.
It is my view that this sort of behaviour only
goes to prove that the editors were correct to
remind their readers that there is a significant
minority in this country and this College, who
openly advocate murder, and have scant regard
for the law.
good with his life, rather than to spread gloom
and doom as he is doing currently.
In response to his suggestion that I remove my
blinkers, I should like to tell Marcus that my eyes
have never been open so widely. I have lived in
Warrington and walked the very street on which
John Ball and Tim Parry were killed and each day
in the media I see and hear of the most terrible
atrocities committed by people against each other
in the name of nationalism, greed or pure malice.
But I am not going to throw up my hands in
the air and say: "Well, that's life and there's
nothing I can do about it." Because there is
something we can all do about it, which doesn't
involve marching through streets or shouting
into the wind: Simply to think a little about
ourselves and about others.
So I approach the end of this letter, and
hopefully the end of this vigorously and on the
whole intelligently fought debate, which began
so many aeons ago when Marcus started the ball
rolling with his cry that despite IC supposedly
laying claim to the top x% of the population of
this country, it has degenerated into a
"wasteland of mindlessness". I too find it tragic
to know that we are amongst some of the finest
brains in the country, who may become
tomorrow's managers and leaders with the
power to influence people's lives and futures,
yet many of us will, by the time we have left
college, have truly become detached from the
reality of our one life on this planet. If we, as
students do not think about these issues now,
once we embark on our career-oriented lives
proper it will be too late.
Yours sincerely,
Sagar Das, Chem Eng 3
I sincerely hope that the new Government
rules on Student Union expenditure on clubs and
societies exclude groups such as Islam Soc, who
so blatantly abuse the freedoms guaranteed them
by democratic constitutions; freedoms that
would not be available to, for instance, a
Christian Society at a university in an Islamic
country.
Yoursfrom a safe house in South Kensington,
Anthony France, Civ Eng III.
P.S. Please do N O T withhold my name and
department.
Censorship Of The Press
The following people have been awarded colours by City and Guilds College Union:
Full Colours Nick Morgans Tammy Atkins Subhashis Chowdhury Tom Howell Amand Sinha
Eric Allsop Ian Parish Shazia Afzal Ralph Clague Soraya Ismail Ivan Tan
The Barbershop Quartet Helen Roberts Bulbul Basu James Cooper Tesneem Kaderkutty J Tank
Mr Terry Briley Prof Bob Spence Kelda Bratley Freddie Coutinho Gavin Kenny Matt Toolan
Prof Julia Higgins Matt Turner Alison Butt Tim Dulley Kieran McCullough Adrian Treverton
Gabbi Hilu Stephen Waite Gavin Chow Nathan East Masoud Modarresi Heather Turner
Colin Johnson Steve Wilkinson Jez Clayton John Evans Richard Oussedik James Weekes
Prof Eric Laithwaite David Cohen Shirley Franklin James Peng Raymond Wong
Pauli Markannen Half Colours David Coleman Paul Gowling Rob Prior Carol Whitworth
Dick Morgenroth Ebenezer Adenmosun Beccy Cotton Fiona Grandison Helen Randall
Certificates will be available from the Guilds Office early next term. Please let us know any spelling errors
before then.

