28 Feature
The Other Prisoner:
Autumn Through Mirrorshades
- Where am I?
- In the village.
- Ooh, that sounds nice.
- Information - what?
- Oh yes, I'm sure I'll enjoy my time here.
-Eh?
- Did you say you wanted information? Well
here goes. First when I was ten I...
A A A A A R R R G G G H H H H H !
In 1967, a Government Secret Agent resigned
from his post, only to wake up hours later in a
strange community known only as the Village.
Its location: Unknown. Its inhabitants: Known
only by their number. Our hero, No. 6,
persistently attempted to escape, whilst those in
charge endeavoured to obtain vital information
from him. For copyright reasons, this is not his
story. With apologies to ITC entertainments, it is
the story of one of his fellow prisoners, No. 9...
The year is 1994. No. 9 did not resign his top
Government post. He was sacked. For being an
irritating git. His employers arranged for him to
be taken to the Village, persuading the
authorities to let him stay there, despite the fact
that his job had nothing to do with the Secret
Service. In short, they lied.
Several months later...
No. 9 woke up, stretched and yawned. It was
an hour before the official wake-up call. This
was not unusual. He got up, waved at the
surveillance camera planted in the upper wall
and began his morning walk. This was not
unusual. He entered the official building, with a
cheerful smile - No. 9 really enjoyed the
morning. And his meetings with No. 2. In fact,
No. 9 really enjoyed the Village.
"Hello, No. 2. How are you this fine
morning?" he greeted.
"Oh, morning John, how's yourself? Up early
again, I see," the older man replied.
"Oh, no, NO! How many more times! I am
not a name, I am a number! No. 9! Get it?!"
"Well, as you will, old chap, now what can
we do for you today?"
"I've come to confess. To tell more things -
everything I know. All the reasons. Everything."
"Right, er, I don't think that'll be necessary.
After all, you did all that yesterday. And the day
before. And the day before that, too. Now, why
don't you run along and try and join in with
some of the other villagers?" the Chief
Supervisor suggested.
"But I've done all that already. Only
yesterday, I arranged four human-chess matches
and two No. 2 commemorative concerts and
exhibitions."
"Well, then, just push off, there's a good
chap, will you." With that, No. 2 swung round
his chair, turning to his back to indicate that the
interview was over. You will not be surprised to
learn that none of this was unusual either.
The next day, John, sorry No. 9, woke up,
stretched and yawned. And then blinked because
the Village was unearthly silent. Even though
he'd woken early, there was not a single sound
to be heard. This was very unusual. Foregoing
his usual routine, he left his house and stepped
into the everpresent cool sunshine. A pair of
rowing oars had been left, propped against his
wall. This was very unusual. Next to them, a
telescope was perched, pointing out to sea. He
examined it, looked through and saw, drawn up
onto the beach, a small one-man boat. Complete
with mast and sail. This, too, was unusual.
Indeed, today would be very, very strange.
Curious, he picked up the oars and set off in the
direction of the shore.
A few minutes later, No. 9 stood beside the
sturdy little craft and began to examine it, to try
and ascertain from where and from whom it had
come. It was certainly very seaworthy, almost
brand new and, partially covered in the stern,
there appeared to be about a months worth of
provisions, carefully wrapped and packaged to
protect them from a potentially long and arduous
sea voyage. Very strange indeed. It was then that
he heard the first sound of the day, as a gull flew
overhead, heading inland. Following it with his
eyes, No. 9 observed another curious fact.
Although he could see his house and a few other
buildings of the Village, he could not see the
imposing Green Dome, the nerve centre for the
authorities. The boat had been left in such a
position so that it could be seen from his house
and yet remained invisible to the eyes of No. 2's
residence.
Quickly he ran back up to the Village, racing
through its deserted streets until, breathless, he
stood panting by the front door of the Dome. To
this portal a note was pinned which read:
Have gone off all day. Won't be back till late.
Have taken Rover (the Village guardian) with
me. Signed No. 2.
PS There's a map and compass under the seat.
No. 9 read this, considered it for a moment
and then removed the note from the door and
tore it up. Then he stalked back to his own
house. The door, for once, did not open
automatically, so No. 9 had to pull hard to get it
open. Once inside, he sat down for a moment
and then busied himself making some tea.
The next thing he knew, four thugs, the kind
employed by No. 2, barged into his home and
proceeded to beat him up. For a noncompliant
Prisoner, this was common practice, but No. 9
hadn't experienced anything like it before. He
did not resist, therefore, until they began to drag
him towards the door. By then, resistance was
useless and, knocking him out, they bundled him
outside and into the waiting small car. This then
drove them down to the beach where the four
manhandled his limp body into the waiting boat
and then slowly launched the craft into the sea.
The strong current and wind soon carried the
little boat into the distance and, satisfied, the
thugs returned to the now strangely active
Village. From the observation room a smiling
No. 2 watched the boat disappear over the
horizon.
No. 9 didn't know how long he'd been at sea
but it seemed like many days and the food
supply was beginning to get low. Despite this,
he continued to use the map and compass
intently, steering to his own highly accurate
course. He was resting today after the exertions
of yesterday - a fishing trawler had spotted his
boat and had tried to offer him a ride. It had
taken all his remaining strength to row
frantically in the opposite direction, so that now
he lay exhausted in the bow of the small sea-
vehicle. He thoughtfully rubbed his new grown
beard and gazed off into the middle distance at
the far-off coast. He rubbed his eyes with
astonishment but there was no denying that, after
so long, he had finally sighted land. Quickly, he
grabbed the oars and began to furiously row for
shore.
After landing, he grimly used the remainder
of a paraffin stove to douse the boat and then lit
a match. As the burning craft slipped back into
the sea, No. 9 wearily began to climb back up
the beach to the dry land. Another twenty
minutes had passed before he finally stood
triumphantly atop the cliff. Looking inland, laid
before him were the many houses of the Village.
No. 9 smiled and swiftly began to descend the
slope.
With a cheery smile and a jaunty step, he
marched through the door of the Green Dome
and into the office of No. 2.
"Hello, No. 2, it's me again, sir, I'm back!"
No. 2's face fell and he collapsed onto the
floor. Weakly he grabbed his phone and sobbed,
"It's no good. I can't take it. I need a
replacement."
An end...
Remember - we're all prisoners - it's just
that not all of us live in strange village
communities in remote parts of Wales, peopled
by men and women known only by their number
and who follow strange and rigid rules and...
FELiX
Felix is produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College
Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB (Tel: 071 225 8672).
Editor: Rebecca Land, Business Managers: Simon Govier, Steven Newhouse.
^sxJ^uZ^^t^^\coiled Copyright Felix 1994. ISSN 1040-0711

