4 Feature
The Many Moods of Mahler's Fifth
The evening of 11th March saw the second
concert this academic year by the Imperial
College Symphony Orchestra (ICSO). The
orchestra, conducted by the College's Musician
in Residence, Richard Dickins, represents some
of the best instrumental talent that Imperial has
to offer. Their programme consisted of Mahler's
Fifth Symphony, a large and demanding work -
there were nearly ninety performers on stage.
As to the music, ICSO played with style and
vigour. The symphony consists of many mood
swings, from mourning through wild despair to
jubilation, all carefully controlled and executed
by Richard and the players. Occasionally the
brass had a tendency to overplay during the
joyful chorale sections, bringing an unwanted
harsh edge to the sound; though this was mainly
due to the poor musical acoustic of the Great
Hall. The fourth movement Adagietto, for strings
only, was played beautifully with well sustained
melodic lines, while the last movement stormed
to a close with great panache.
The principal trumpet is heard many times
during the piece, including at the start, and
Stephen Hicks must be congratulated for his
playing. Amongst others, Paul Gowling should
be mentioned for some good obbligato horn
playing in the third movement, and Ann Turner
for the angelic touches of harp in the Adagietto.
This was also a special concert for ICSO, as
it marked two events. Firstly it was Richard's
fifteenth year with the orchestra, for which he
received various presents, including a score of
Mahler's Fifth. Also, it marks the first concert
for the new leader, Edward Bale. ICSO's former
leader, Heather McCann, was thanked for all her
work over the previous years with the orchestra.
The evening was a great success. The drama
of Mahler's score was well portrayed, with only
a few imperfect moments. I look forward to
their next concert.
Paul Gowling (secondfrom right), ICSO's principal horn Frank Taylor
Well-Drilled Choirin Verdi's Requiem
The Great Hall was filled to overflowing last
Friday evening, with over 600 people in the
audience for the College Choir's performance of
Verdi's Requiem mass. Eric Brown, the Choir's
everlasting conductor (he was the Choir's first
accompanist and has conducted their every
performance since the '50s) remains a choir
trainer of the very highest order. Every member
of the Choir seemed confident of what he or she
was doing, and each part was clearly audible in
the complex sections where the Choir splits into
eight very separate parts.
Another hallmark of their meticulous drilling
is the ability to stand up or sit down together
silently; many more famous choirs would do
well to take note! Unfortunately 108 student
voices simply didn't have the power to cut
through heavy brass (it is brave to do this work
with anything less than 150 mature voices), and
it was amusing at times to see them clearly
singing at the tops of their voices to little audible
effect!
The accompaniment is often the weak link in
IC Choir's performances, because the orchestra
is made up of individuals who, although in the
main very good players, are not used to playing
as an orchestra; add to this a conductor who is
not always entirely clear (at one point he decided
to conduct three consecutive bars at three
completely different speeds for no reason that I
could fathom!) and a tendency to raggedness is
the result. Prof Brown also seemed to be taking
the occasional rest, sitting on the small
balustrade at the back of his podium, but I think
this was just to give him a better idea of what the
soloists were doing! In addition in this particular
performance the brass playing was not always
up to the rest and arguably should at times have
been more sensitive to the needs of the
comparatively small choir.
Soloists are often a problem for the Choir,
due at least in part to its limited resources, but
on this occasion the standard was unusually
high. The tenor in particular shone radiantly, and
the soprano (despite a rather fast vibrato which
some found annoying) was also well up to the
part - her top C came over the full choir and
orchestra with all the power required, yet she
was sensitive where necessary too. The mezzo
and bass could each have done with more power
at times, but nobody could complain about the
quality of their tone.
Chris Purvis
The first issue of Felix next term will be on 29th April

