Feature 5
3D Crossword Competition II ~
15x15x15
It's back, bigger than ever and with great prizes.
About the Crossword
The FELiX Christmas edition saw the birth of
the first ever F E L i X 3D crossword. Now it's
back, bigger than ever and in a new format, a
centre page pull-out.
Putting the booklet together as indicated on
the pull-out pages, you will notice that there are
15 consecutive 15x15 crosswords. These make up
a 15x15x15 layered cube...our crossword grid.
The puzzle is solved in exactly the same way
as a standard cryptic crossword (see the series of
Cracking Cryptic Crosswords that has been
running in the last eight issues of FELiX, copies
still available) with the addition of a set of
'through' clues as well as the usual 'across' and
'down'.
For the Solver's Convenience...
...squares containing a 'through' word have been
shaded in grey and, for long through words (any
of nine letters or over), we have included a series
of dashes (of the number of letters in the word)
for you to fill in any letters provided by crossing
with another word on any particular level.
Why it is Easier to Solve than its
2-Dimensional Cousin
It will soon become apparent that due to the
increased checking (crossing of any two words)
this crossword is actually easier to solve than its
2D cousin! This is because, after answering the
easier clues, you will find that most of the
remaining words will have a higher proportion
of their letters already filled in. But don't just
take our word, try it and find out for yourself.
Why it is a Real 3D Crossword
Many 3D crosswords that have existed so far
have been of the type shown here (left). These
are, in our opinion, not true 3D
crosswords as they are merely six
sets of 2D crosswords linked at
the edges. The one shown here
(right) is our
format, a 'true' 3D crossword,
as any given square can be
part of an across, down and
through word simultaneously.
In keeping with 2D
standards, our crossword is
not only 15x15x15 (an extension of the
broadsheet standard 15x15), but it is also 4-way
rotationally symmetrical on each level and the
whole stack is 2-way rotationally symmetric in
the other two planes.
Competition and Separate Clue
Writing Competition
Competition details are given in the assembled
booklet, along with details of an additional clue
writing competition. They can be entered
independently of each other and for both
competitions we have managed to obtain a top
prize of a Chambers dictionary - the Bible of the
crossword world.
Final Erratum
In addition to the one erratum in the booklet,
another was discovered before going to press:
1. Level 15, 7-t. (12) should be (14) and thus
you also need to add a couple more dashes.
P.S.
There's a long stapler available in the F E L i X
Office for stapling you booklet together.
April sees the introduction of the
College's new telephone system.
Do you need your stationery reprinted
with your new telephone numbers?
Then contact:
ICU Print Unit, Felix Office,
Beit Quad or phone ext. 8672
Prices from £26.00 (+ VAT)
(for 250 Letterheads, black ink printed on high quality watermarked paper)
Other options available on request.

