Feature
The FELiX Easter Egg Survey
Many people maintain that chocolate is an effective substitutefor sex. So, as winter
recedes and the nights become shorter, what could be nicer than curling up on a rug
with a large pile of rampant easier eggs? By Mike Ingram.
Flintstones Mug Egg
£1.95
It seems that there are fewer eggs with mugs in
the shops this year. If they are all of the same
quality as this one, then it is a great shame as we
were all impressed with this product.
The packaging for this egg is minimal: it sits
on top of a "really cool" Flintstones mug (there
is a choice of designs) in a rather cheap piece of
plastic which was apparently injection blow
moulded (according to our resident mechanical
engineer). The mug itself is of much higher
quality and was unanimously praised by the
panel.
Unfortunately, the chocolate doesn't match
the build-up it is given. It is of rather a low
standard and was described as "very sugary",
with a "horrible aftertaste". One reviewer was
inspired into using somewhat more forthright
language that I shan't trouble you with. The
shell has an uneven "rippled effect" giving
"bulges in places" which are quite pleasantly
dinosaur-like.
This egg is definitely recommended if you
want a fantastic new mug and are able to find
either a pet or a gullible victim to feed the
chocolate to.
Packaging 6
Value for Money 8
Taste 6
Elizabeth Shaw(TM)
£5.99
This egg sets out to intimidate you right from
the start. It costs nearly six quid and comes with
a drum-kit arrangement of "mint biscuits inside
a welding helmet". The general consensus was
that the box goes "way over the top" trying to
impress. Looking at the outside, we expected to
find "oeuf trop cher" written somewhere (in that
lovely gold-leaf handwriting, of course.)
The manufacturers have also adopted the
'kung fu action movie' technique of telling you
what they are going to do to you before they
actually do it. Two paragraphs on the back of
the box warn you of the company's fame,
lowering your guard for the final showdown.
The chocolate itself is a different story
entirely. If you have ever liked dark chocolate,
this will blow your mind. The smooth minted
taste reduced our reviewers to comments like
"orgasmic", "cosmic" or "good quality internal
finish". The individually packaged supporting
mints are also excellent.
All in all, this is an egg that is best either to
give or receive as a present. If it is at all
possible, we recommend eating it all yourself
and being sick.
Packaging 7
Value for Money 7
Taste 9
The Verdict
Eggies (Mr Bendy) 8
Elizabeth Shaw( T M )
7
Flintstones Mug 7
Quality Street 6
Dairy Box 6
Galaxy Truffles 6
Pingu 6
Smarries Egg 5
Flake Egg 4
Flake Egg
£2.65
The tension as this box was brought into view
was palpable. The other eggs had been mere
foreplay. This was the big one. Donning their
lingerie, the reviewers delved in.
The packaging was almost universally
unpopular. Comments ranged from "blatantly
yellow" and "asymmetric" to "I like it". The
heterosexuals, agreeing that the box was probably
designed for women, suggested putting some of
them on the box. Busy executives and people in a
hurry should note that this box was by far the
easiest of all to open. The egg itself shows class:
it comes pre-halved and is printed with
Cadbury's traditional duck. The chocolate tastes
much the same as that in a Flake, but "loses the
texture" - some were just "not impressed."
Another surprise was the inclusion of two
bog-standard Flakes in the packaging. Most of
the reviewers had expected specially designed
smaller Flakes, but were thankful that this meant
there was no danger of a repeat of the Smarties
fiasco (see other page).
Finally the panel agreed that it would be
much better to "go and buy a box of Flakes
instead" unless you're courting a topologist.
Packaging 4
Value for Money 3
Taste 6
All the eggs featured were bought from Sainsbury'

