Clubs and Societies
Boat Club
Following an unprecedented run of success this
term the Boat Club is gearing up for the climax
of the winter season: the Eights' Head of the
River competition on 26th March. Following
their best-ever results at Reading Head, the
College's top two mens' eights were asked by
Oxford University to participate in some
sharpening work on Wednesday 16th. The Blue
Boat got cold feet and shamefacedly pulled out
on the day but the ISIS (Oxford's reserves) - IC
II match remained 'on' despite virtual North Sea
conditions. The first two three-minute rows
provided such emphatic margins of victory for
Imperial's young crew that the scheduled third
row was declined by the Oxford camp, while IC
were sent straight to their makeshift boathouse
gym by coach Bill Mason to complete a weights
session!
A good result for the College oarsmen, but
also a reminder that whilst they can now expect
to compete with a beat such famous teams, the
latter receive daily press coverage and millions
of pounds of sponsorship in comparison with the
very welcome but hopelessly inadequate funds
their lower profile brings them. The club was
very grateful for the new minibus it desperately
needed but those rowers who w i l l be
representing the College at a regatta in
Barcelona in April before their training camp on
the '92 Olympic rowing course have to find the
money for this almost entirely from their own
pockets.
This will be brought again into stark focus
next weekend - the Boat Race will be watched
by hundreds of millions worldwide, but it is only
coincidentally because of this event, essentially
irrelevant to the rowing world, that the far more
important Head will be televised. Yet the
standard of this 420-boat race belies its paltry
coverage: Imperial's first boat is aiming to retain
its Top Five position but this must be put into
perspective: The probable winners and No. One
crew are Hansa Dortmund, the World
Champions from Germany and the next four
slots will be filled by boats with reigning
Olympic and World Champions on board. IC's
second eight look set for a Top 15 placing which
would secure them the U A U Championship -
surely the only college club second team capable
of claiming a U A U title?
At the moment, student rowing in general is
so far ahead of all but the top three or four clubs
that this represents a real achievement. The Boat
Club also has a real chance to better the record it
set in 1992 of four separate titles and to have
four eights in the Top 50 finishers. So expect to
see your College heavily featured on
Grandstand: The rowers w i l l be giving
everything and hoping for some tangible results
for their efforts.
Student
Accommodation Office
Vacancies in College Residences
as at 21/3/94
Ref Hall Type Sex UG/PG From Licence
1. Southwell Twins M UG Now 34-Week
2. 8 Earls Ct Sq Twin M PG Now 51-Week
3. Bernard Sunley Twin F UG Now 38-Week
4. Bernard Sunley Twin M UG Now 38-Week
5. Fisher Twin M UG Now 38-Week
6. Holbein Twin M UG Now 38-Week
7. Olave Twin M/F PG Now BES Let
8. Willis Jackson Twin M UG Now 34-Week
9. Garden Triple M UG Now 38-Week
10. Olave Triple M PG Now BES Let
11. Clayponds Singles M/F UG/PG Now BES Let
12. Holbein Single M UG 28 Mar 38-Week
For further information, please call in at
Ground Floor, 15 Princes Gardens
application forms for College flats available NOW!
ICCAG
Imperial College Community Action Group
The Soup Run
Can you help us? We are looking for extra volunteers,
especially over the Easter holiday. Contact us via the
ICCAG pigeonhole in the Union Office.
Volunteers
See the other side of life.
Help us distribute food and drink to the homeless.
Van Drivers
Can you drive a Union minibus?
Can you spare us an occasional Thursday evening?
Thursdays 9pm
Weeks Hall Basement

