Clubs and Societies i
A New Day For The Iranians
One of the best examples of centuries old Iranian architecture
Sunday saw the beginning of spring and with it
the arrival of Norooz (literally, new day), the
Iranian New Year.
The Iranian calendar, being solar, consists of
365 days (366 every 4 years) divided into twelve
months, each of them corresponding exactly to
one of the houses of the horoscope.
This is no simple coincidence, since the
rather dubious 'science' of astrology dates back
to the astronomical practices of ancient
Mesopotamians whose knowledge was inherited
by Iranians when the region was conquered by
Cyrus the Great and became part of the Iranian
Empire. This was expanded upon by Iranians
and made into a practical calendar based
accurately on the movements of the Earth
around the Sun.
In view of the ancient origins of our calendar,
it may seem strange that this weekend we will be
celebrating the end of the year 1372, 1372 years
having passed since the prophet moved from
Mecca to Medina the event which is the starting
point for both the Iranian and the Arab/Islamic
calendars. The modern Iranian calendar was
drawn up and fixed by the great astronomer and
mathematician Omar Khyram (the translation of
his poetry made fame and fortune for Colonel
Fitzgerald) in the 13th Century. The New Year
ceremonies, however, are a very ancient and
wholly Iranian affair, dating back to the days
before the Arab invasion and the resultant
conversion to Islam. Unlike most other Muslims,
Iranians have held firmly on to their separate
culture and the tradition of these ceremonies has
been handed down to us by our Zoroastrian
ancestors.
The celebrations begin on the last Wednesday
of the year with fireworks, usually home-made
and rather dangerous and bonfires over which
people jump, signifying the life-giving powers
of fire as like other ancient people, Iranians
thought the Sun was made of fire.
On the day of Norooz, the whole family
gathers around a table to await the exact moment
Men's Hockey
For some unknown reason, 1993-94 has been the
season for Imperial College Hockey. Ours is not
to ask why, ours is just to keep receiving
medals.
The Men's lst X I won the University of
London Premier League for the first time in
memory with an unbeaten run of games. Led by
the fearless, if slight, figure of Eddy Penfold, the
team looked like they would do the double until
stopped by King's College in the University of
London Cup semi-finals.
Perhaps the absence of our German maestro,
Andrea was the biggest blow in that game, as we
found out the hard way what an integral part of
the team he had become. Both as an awesomely
lanky sweeper and a sharp short corner striker,
Andrea was the find of the season although now
back in his native land - ah, the cruelties of the
short-term MSc.
of the arrival of the new year, to be announced
by army guns and broadcasting media, before
exchanging presents. Seven items are placed on
the table for which the Persian terms have the
initial letter's' (The Seven S's): Apples signify
resistance to worldly temptations and sins,
young wheat shoots signify new life, coins stand
for wealth, Sumac (a spice) and vinegar signify
the bitter and sour taste of the trials of life,
Samanoa (a specially cooked paste of wheat and
sugar) stands for patience and gratefulness
towards the creator and finally Senjeds (a nut)
signifies purity.
The introduction of the formidable West
London Institute team into our U A U group also
created problems as we sealed our doom losing
1-6. That Brunei only lost 4-1 meant they went
through to the next round on goal difference.
Our Saturday form was enimatic in the
extreme. The attendance of some figures,
notably the weekend weary freshers, Beatty and
Jabour, combined with the northerly attractions
experienced by our captain-elect, Ian Haines, in
allowing a frequently depleted team to play
some pretty rank hockey.
The determination of our wayward keeper,
Simon Curwood, to try to score a goal also
contributed to the melting pot of our disgrace.
Happily, Simon never scored, although he's now
not quite as fat as he once was. Yet he remains a
nice bloke despite his tendency to jump into
doorframes.
Norooz is the biggest, most important event
of the year for all Iranians. It is a time for rest
and recouperation and for family and friends to
get together and heal any rift or wound that may
have been caused in the previous year.
By the time this article is printed, the IC
Iranian Society will have held a celebration so
that those of us away from home can get
together. We would like to wish everyone a very
happy new year and hope that we all return to
our beloved country as soon as possible.
The team, left to right:
Back row: J.Furlong, D.Parkinson, J.Marshall,
J.Jordan, Andrea, E.Penfold (cpt), S.Curwood,
Front row: K.Jabour, I.Haines, S.Ishtiaq, S.Lam
Cool Runnings is reviewed on page 23

