Bookshop News
With Christmas in mind, we can get any of
the pewter mugs engraved with or without IC
Crest. It usually takes about a week. Keep
your eyes on the window for new titles.
There are a wide range of desk and pocket
diaries for 1985.
NEW TITLES
The Avocado C o o k b o o k Jill Graham
Lansdowne Press £4.95
Life at the Court of Queen Victoria Barry
St John Nevill Webb & Bower £12.95.
Magimix C o o k e r y Marika Hanbury
Tenison ICTC £9.95
The Diary of a Nobody George &
Weedow Grossmith Elm Tree Books £10.95
The English House through Seven
Centuries Oliver Cook Penguin £9.95
Besley's Britain Souvenir Press £3.95
Chinese C o o k e r y Ken Horn B B C £5.25
O n the Fiddle Ged Neary Blandford £1.95
The Love YouMakeBroix>n&GaimesPan
Books £2.95
1000 Photo Tips John Farndow Pan Books
Birdwatchers Britain John Parslow Pan
Books £4.95
The Chandler Collection V 3 Picador
£4.95
Vegetarian Kitchen Sarah Brown B B C
£4.50
Charcuterie & French Pork C o o k e r y
Jane Grigson Penguin £3.95
Burning Leaves Don Bannister Picador
£2.50
Gravity's Rainbow Thomas Pynchon
Picador £4.95
Teaching a Stone to Talk Annie Dillard
Picadoe £2.50
Shame Salman Rushdie Picador £2.95
So Long & Thanks for A l l the Fish —
Douglas Adams Pan books £6.95.
01
Fat B
Ladies and Gentlemen, it gives us great
pleasure to announce that we have arranged
a number of speaker meetings: Melvyn
Bragg (Feb 5), Barry Cryer (December 4)
and first Terry Quirk (TQ — or QT??), the
well-known Redbridge poet, who will give us
a reading from his various books (with sherry
and biscuits provided, subject to availability).
His reading will start at 1pm on Thursday
(see FELIX Diary). A n example of this talent
is shown on this page.
Basil Bumble was too fat
a bee should be much thinner
His stomach striped all smooth and flat
and not stuffed up with dinner
But one early summer's morn .
or was it early spring?
He slipped upon a dew drenched lawn
and bent his little sting
Now a sting's no good, when it's all squashed up
it hurts...(not just your pride)
So he crept inside a buttercup
and committed INSECTICIDE
ICCND
Artists for
peace
This year is a busy one for the College C N D
group and to make it a success we need
support not only from those who agree with
us but from all of you. All our events have
been concerned with the communication of
ideas of peace in different media, via film,
poetry, poppies, speakers, art and music. On
Thursday 29 November at 1pm David
Morris, chairman of 'Artists for Peace', and
hopefully Ralph Steadman, will launch an art
competition open to all students at IC, RCA,
and R C M . The closing date for art of any sort
(painting, drawings, cartoons, photographs,
sculpture etc) on the theme of peace is the
second week in January. Please hand your
entries into the Union Office with your name
and dept. Best entries will be put on
exhibition and the winner will receive a Ralph
Steadman original. I emphasize that anyone
can enter whatever their views of C N D or
peace.
Why not be inspired on Thursday night by
Peter Sellers in 'Being There', his last and
best film.
JEWISH SOCIETY
Chanukah party
When someone says they are anti-Zionist,
what do they really mean? O n Thursday
November 29 you can hear Dr J Gewirtz,
Executive Director of the Defence and
Group Relations department of the Board of
Deputies of British Jews, discuss this subject
in a talk entitled: 'Anti-semitism and Anti-
Zionism — Is there a difference? 1.15pm
Union Senior Common Room.
An integral part of the Jewish Diary is the
Friday night meals. There will be two more
this term, the first on the 30 of November.
The second will be a special trip to Hillel
House on November 7, where Professor
Manny Lehmann, of the Computing
Department at IC, will be the guest speaker.
For both, meet at Beit Arch at 6.00pm.
For those who have still not sampled the
delights of the traditional 'Bagels 'n'
Chocolate spread' at famous Jewish Society
parties, there is yet another chance coming
up. O n Tuesday, December 11, we will be
having a C h a n u k a h party, albeit
prematurely, where you can now find 'Bagels
and absolutely everything '. Chemistry 231
6.00pm.
For the answers to all your problems,
except Mathematical ones, and A L L
enquiries about Jewish Society events,
contact Josie Glausiusz, Life Sci 2.
CLUBS.
AUDIO SOCIETY
Music Night
We meet on Tuesday's around 7pm in the
Union Upper Lounge, as informally as
possible. Top manufactureres and dealers
are regularly invited to talk about and
demonstrate their wares.
On Tuesday 27 at 7pm, in the Quiet Room,
Sherfield, Subjective Audio, a top London
dealer, will be demonstrating a S H * T H O T
SYSTEM (Their words! See if you agree),
and some more affordable items. There will
be a friendly question and answers session,
for those little things you were always afraid
to ask about Hi Fi. They have also offered a
substantial 15% discount on any orders
taken (Spend next term's grant now!), but
only on the night!
Bull's bit
National Coaches
The S T A travel office in the J C R is now
selling National Express tickets as well as the
ISIC cards (which entitle you to one third
off). The travel office is open each day from
9.30am to 5.30pm for coach tickets and
many other travel facilities.
Days off
The Engineering Studies Committee has
agreed that all scheduled classes in
Departments, Centres and Units within the
City & Guilds College should be cancelled
on 27, 28 February and 1 March 1985 to
enable students to partake in the Centenary
Celebrtions.
Textbooks
The Government is examining proposals to
impose V A T on books and journals. This
means that it will cost you more (up to 15%)
for your textbooks. Should the demand for
books fall, then print runs will be smaller and
this usually results in increased unit costs for
text books, which makes the situation
worse.
Please write to your M P and complain.
There is a list of all MPs and their addresses
in the Union Office, and a standard letter if
you don't want to write one of your own.
Grants Cut
As you may have heard, the Government
intends to abolish the minimum grant, make
some families pay some or all of the fees and
increase the amount that parents must pay
to make up the full grant. In some cases, this
can mean an extra £725 per year that parents
must find. This comes into effect from the
start of next session and it will affect many of
you.
For your own sake as much as anyone
else's, write to your M P and complain.
There will be a demonstration and rally in
London in Jubilee Gardens at 3.30pm on
Wednesday 28 November. If anyone wishes
to attend, please meet there or at Beit Arch
at 2.30pm.
FELIX Friday 23 November 1984 11

