ELETTERS
O U R
Carnivalpoos
Dear Fe/ixipoos,
Darling, just a quick note to let you know
about the Guilds Carnival. Rumour has it
that it's taking place tonight, not that I want
to get you all excited for nothing, knowing
your little ways. I did hear, dearest
honeypuff, that a little bandywandy called
Mud are going to be playing, and that dear
little group Rent Party that we bothjust loved
so much at the Freshers' Ball, and even more,
gosh I'm all out of breath, you shouldn't
tickle so, yes, now do you remember those
delightful girls called the Gymslips singing
songs about drinking, and those awful boys
the Milkshakes?
Of course this is all pure supposition, I
mean it all sounds too good to me. I mean we
both know, don't we darling, that Mud are all
in hospital having major surgery to try and
remove their sunglasses, which haven't been
moved in four hundred years. And the
Milkshakes are probably too tired having just
released four albums in one week.
Oh so do come, dearest Felixipoos, it
sounds ever so much fun, what with two
discos and their cute little DJs, Andy Pandy
and Freddy Weddy, and such a lovely little
barbeque, and all those cocktails made by
those gorgeous hunky Links boys, and dear
sweet little Brianipoos with his coloured
lights flashing all over the place, and all those
wonderful people wandering about having
such a good time, oh it will be such fun.
Oh and by the way, the doors open at 8pm,
the bar stays open until 2am and at the end of
the night two films, 'Altered States' and
'Love and Death' will be shown for those of
you who manage to stay up for that long, and
the whole event only costs you £3.50, which
sounds like a good deal indeed, eh Dad? Yes
son.
Love from
Charlywarly, Daviepoos, and all their little
playmates.
Wellsoc Bores
Dear Sir,
We, the remaining members of the Wellsoc
committee would like to reply to an item
published in last week's F E L I X , regarding
the resignations of the society's vice-
chairman, W Hooper, social secretary, F
Alii, and publicity officer, Dave Clements.
First it should be pointed out that Miss Alii
and M r Clements had already made it known
to the rest of the committee for some time
that they would be resigning thier positions
towards the end of this term due to'pressures
of work' and 'other commitments'. The vice
chairman, W Hooper, however gave no
notice of his resignation, either to the
chairman N Maxwell, or to the rest of the
committee, who were not informed of this
turn of events prior to reading the article in
F E L I X . The letter on which this article was
based, I might add, was dated November 16
1984, and not delivered to the chairman until
after F E L I X had been issued. F E L I X must
have received this letter some time before.
(Sigh. Another scoop, Ed.)
For the former vice-chairman to embark
on such a course of action, he obviously
considers himself to be exempt from his own
demand that any proposed activity by a
committee member should be discussed in
detail and approved by the committee; even
though the ideal opportunity arose at the last
meeting for him to declare his intentions in
the regretted absence of the chairman.
With reference to the contents of the letter,
the three protagonists claimed that they were
the victims of an 'unconstitutional vendetta'
directed by the rest of the committee. Perhaps
if Messrs Hooper and Clements had not
adopted such self-righteous attitudes in
addressing the rest of the committee they
would not have given us cause forcomplaint.
The chairman is always willing to enter
into 'sensible discussion' on any aspect
concerning the society; discussion which the
resigning vice chairman persistently tried to
curb, in order to reduce the duration of
committee meetings. We wonder which of
these two attitudes our members consider to
be more beneficial to the functioning of the
society.
We also find it hard to believe the further
claim that 'the society is being mismanaged
by the chairman', when only one week
previously the publicity officer congratulated
the committee on its efforts, which have
made Wellsoc the second largest society in
College, with a membership already
exceeding that amassed in total last year.
Success of this magnitude seems
incompatible with this claim.
We would like to ensure (sic) our members
that the remaining committee is perfectly
strong and sound, and that the running of
Wellsoc will in no way be impaired by the loss
of the three people in question. We already
have a potential replacement publicity
officer, and interest has been shown in the
other posts; although formal elections will be
held. M O N D A Y N I G H T IS STILL
W E L L S O C N I G H T !
The action taken by the former committee
members is viewed as being extremely
irresponsible, and harmful to the society that
they supposedly had in their best interests
(sic). At the least (sic) it epitomizes the
thoroughly negative attitude shown by them
(the former social secretary excluded) to the
work of the rest of the committee, who have
every confidence in the chairman.
Yours faithfully
Michael P Newman
C Warral (Ordinary Member)
Peter J Chase (Membership Sec)
M Preen (Treasurer)
H Parry (Audio Visual)
J Curtis
F E L I X
'In Sir Keith Joseph we once again have U
Secretary of State for Education who as a
man thinks deeply about the purposes of
education, and as a politician is determined
to improve its quality'.
Thus spoke the Rector at Commemoration
Day last month. In the light of the grants cuts
recently announced by Sir Keith, these, in
hindsight, seem strange words from the
Rector.
In theory, at least, the essence of the
proposed change is this: richer parents will be
expected to pay more for their children's
education than poorer parents.
The money saved by these cuts will be used
to increase the university equipment grant for
research, and in the science vote itself.
At first sight this seems an equitable way of
achieving the change, and it seems out of
character for the NUS to be the champion of
hugely wealthy parents. The Government
must be rubbing its hands in glee.
But there is a serious problem with placing
an increased burden on parents; some of
them, perhaps even most of them, won't pay-
up their full contribution.
This makes the means-tested grant a
nonsense. The hundreds of bureaucratic
hours spent 'testing our parents means' are
wasted if our parents don't have any
intention of paying-up.
This is not to point to parents as the villains
of the piece. The means-test is notoriously
inequitable and many parents simply can't
afford their full contribution.
The means-tested grant, whether before or
after Sir Keith's changes, is a monstrous
dinosaur, indefensible despite the attempts of
the NUS.
The Government realise this, and they will
abolish the means-tested grant before long.
They see the student grant as the least
defensible part of their education spending.
And if the NUS persist in defending the
present system the cuts will continue
unabated. Let them rather come up with a
credible alternative.
Aeknowledgemnts: Special thanks this week to
the photographers Nigel and Pete, Hugh,
Hugh, Martin, Grenville, Richard, Andy,
Diana ,Ajah, Patrick, Finian, Rosemary, Tony,
all the collators and anyone else who has
helped.
Felix is published by the Editor for and on behalf of
Imperial College Union Publications Board and is printed
by the Union Print Unit, Imperial College, PrinceConsort
Road, London SW7.
Telephone 01-589 511 1 Ext 3515
Editor: David Rowe, Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright F E L I X 1984. ISSN 10140-0711.
Friday 23 November 1984 FELIX

