FEATURED
IC Symphony Orchestra
On Friday 30 November, at 8.00pm in the Great Hall, Imperial College
Symphony Orchestra will perform what is undoubtedly its most ambitious
concert to date. The programme will consist of Stravinsky's Rite of Spring,
Rachmaninov's Piano Concerto No 2 in C minor and Karelia Suite by Sibelius.
A performance of The Rite of Spring has always
been an ambition of the conductor of the
orchestra, as well as a great number of the players,
including some who have played with the
orchestra for many years.
It is very difficult to pinpoint the year when the
orchestra was formed. The person who has played
with the orchestra longest, Don Munro, a lecturer
in the Computing Department, remembers first
hearing IC Orchestra in 1966 {'Oh it was so bad!').
In those days the orchestra was more like a wind
band and consisted of a few very dedicated
players. ('The soul was there, but the notes just
weren't in the right place.') There was no Great
Hall to perform and rehearse in, and some
concerts were even held in Southside.
Conductors
Over the years IC Orchestra has had many
conductors, including two professionals in the
1970s. The first of these, James Stobart, was an
excellent conductor but extremely strict. Under
him the orchestra reached a peak. Although it
declined somewhat when he left, it was revived
when the late Gavin Park, a member of the Physics
Department, took over.
It was just over five years ago that the orchestra
really took off, when the present professional
conductor Richard Dickins joined. At that time
Richard was fresh from the Royal College of Music
and his enthusiasm and ambition (neither of which
has ever waned) gave the orchestra a new lease of
life. It rapidly expanded to its present size with
over 80 members, and the standard of players has
also vastly improved. There are now so many good
woodwind players at IC that auditions are
necessary. The brass and horn sections are
second to none and the standard of the string
playing is improving steadily.
The orchestra performs three major concerts a
year and rehearses for three hours every
Wednesday in the Great Hall. It has now become
an established event to go away to Silwood Park
for a weekend in the Autumn term. This is
intended to help the players to get to know each
other and the playing is strictly for fun. During the
day the orchestra sight-read their way through
vast amounts of repertoire and play chamber
music in small groups. Every other spare moment
is spent in true IC fashion supporting local pubs
and the Silwood bar. There are also numerous
cheese and wine parties throughout the year when
players have the opportunity to perform solo or
chamber items.
Committee
Like every other society in the College, the
orchestra is run by a committee which is
responsible for organising such diverse activities
soloist
WILLIAM HOWARD was born in 1953. At sixteen he gained his ARCO and for some years
studied with Joyce Rathbone in London. After four years at New College, Oxford, he
studied with Vlado Perlemuter in Paris and with Peter Feuchtwanger in London. He has
given solo recitals and concerto performances throughout Britain and has appeared
frequently in the IVigmore Hall and on the South Bank in London. He has performed and
broadcast in Italy and Switzerland and has twice visited Hong Kong to broadcast, perform
and give master classes.
He is founder of the Schubert Ensemble of London and has played for many years with
the violinist Paul Barritt with whom he won the Greater London Arts Association's Young
Musicians Award (1980). Together they have toured extensively in England and Northern
Ireland and made several recordings for the BBC.
conductor
RICHARD DICKINS started his musical
training as a chorister. He began playing
the clarinet at the age of thirteen, making
his solo debut eighteen months later. He
entered the Royal College of Music in 1975
where he studied the clarinet with Colin
Bradbury as well as studying for a London
University music degree. He was awarded
an exhibition at the end of his first year at
the college and it was at this time that he
began his conducting studies with
Norman Del Mar. Leaving the college in
1979 having won a number of prizes for
both conducting and clarinet playing he
made his Royal Albert hall debut the next
year conducting a performance of The
Pirates of Penzance with a chorus of 2000.
as room bookings for concerts and rehearsals,
professional soloists, publicity for the concert and
making sure that the grand piano is tuned on the
day. At the end of every year the committee meets
the conductor to decide on the works to be played
in the following year. In the past this has lead to
p e r f o r m a n c e s of R i m s k y - K o r s a k t v's
Sheherazade, the Fifth Symphonies of Beethoven,
Tchaikovsky, Glazunov and Shostakovitch,
Hoist's The Planets and Gershwin's Rhapsody in
Blue.
This year they have finally summoned-up the
courage to play The Rite of Spring. This is the
music from Stravinsky's ballet representing a
pagan rite when a 'frenzied young virgin' is
sacrificed to bring about the return of spring. It is a
very difficult work to play but it is very exciting to
listen to and leaves the audience exhilarated and
the orchestra shattered.
A total contrast to this is Rachmaninov's Piano
Concerto No 2 in C minor with soloist William
Howard (see inset). This piece, with its famous
lyrical and passionate themes is far more romantic,
and if you think you've never heard it before you'll
be amazed at how many of the themes you will
recognize.
The future
As for the future, it can only be expected that the
orchestra will go from strength to strength. The
standard of playing continues to improve and
there is now a far more ambitious group of
musicians than ever before. Come and hear The
Rite of Spring next Friday, and you are promised a
concert you won't forget.
FELIX Friday 23 November 1984 5

