12 INTERVIEWS 7 November 1997 7 November 1997 INTERVIEWS 13 gfejj
In case you had not noticed, election
campaigns are well under way for
ICU President and Deputy President
for Clubs and Societies. To help you to decide
who to vote for, we interviewed the candi-
dates live on IC Radio. Read, decide, and
VOTE!
CHARLIE JOYNT - STAND-
ING FOR DEPUTY PRESI-
DENT (CLUBS A N D SOCS)
Jeremy Thomson: Tell us about your previ-
ous experience - what makes you think you're
up to the job?
Charlie Joynt: I have been a member of the
rugby club for two-and-a-bit years now. 1 am
now running the third fifteen and the fourth fif-
teen on my own. I have personally managed to
arrange to get a fourth fifteen out for the first
time in recent history for the College. I am also
an academic representative in my department
so I am well used to sitting on really boring com-
mittees all day long. Quite frankly. 1 think my
best qualification for the job is that I am enthu-
siastic and 1 want to do this thing.
JT: What are your three biggest strengths?
CJ: My ability to work with people; I am fair-
ly outgoing and quite approachable. 1 don't take
things too seriously; if someone comes along
and tries to take the piss out of what 1 am doing,
I am not going to go over the top about that. 1
am well organised; my flat mates can vouch for
this, as they always moan about how my room
is actually tidy!
JT: And your three worst weaknesses?
CJ: My weaknesses? A pint of beer. That will
get me out of the office at any opportunity.
Ooh, dear... you've dug out all the real cliche
questions, haven't you? Maybe I don't know
what my weaknesses are... could that be a
weakness?
JT: The Christian Union has recently been
refused official society status in ICU because
they require all members of the committee to be
Christian. How will you handle a similar situa-
tion?
CJ: All our societies should be open to any
member of the College, no matter what their
beliefs and backgrounds are. Many of our clubs
require participation, the sports particularly. You
can't really expect to be a member of a sports
club without turning up to the games and such-
like. However, in religious clubs or societies I
would say that it is perfectly all right to have
someone who isn't of your religion as a member.
1 mean, they are quite able to have an interest in
your religion even if they don't subscribe to the
beliefs.
JT: Are you aware of the conflict between
the IC and the ICSM BUSA entries, and how are
you going to resolve it?
CJ: Oh, yes, this is a bit of a big one really.
BUSA will allow the medics to play their own fix-
tures as ICSM. However I have just been
informed today that BUSA will not allow any
medic to play for Imperial, which causes a bit of
strife on some of the teams, where 1CSM do not
put forward a team, for example fencing. This
would mean that people at Saint Mary's, Charing
Cross, or the other two schools of medicine,
would have a lot of trouble to partake in the
activity as under ICSM. I think really we should
tackle BUSA and tell them that they have to take
each sport individually. Some sports, fine; ICSM
can put out their own team. I am quite happy
for that tradition to go on; I don't want to stop
it. However, where BUSA are starting to get a bit
shirty about entries and suchlike, then 1 think we
will have to get on to them.
JT: Do you think you have a good chance of
getting BUSA to change their policy on this one?
CJ: Changing BUSA policy? They're a bit
intractable really. However I wouldn't like to say
that we will turn a blind eye to BUSA regulations.
If BUSA try to split up our rowing team, for
example, which is excellent and has many
medics among its ranks, then we cannot stand
for that.
JT: You come from a sporting background.
How are you going to overcome your personal
leanings and promote all clubs equally?
CJ: 1 am not sure that 1 have any personal
leanings particularly to the sports. I have more
experience of sports, but I am not a one-sided
character. I have much interest in music; my
flat-mates would sneer at me if I said I was
interested in art; but I am perfectly able to
appreciate other clubs and societies and their
interests.
JT: In your manifesto, you promise ACC and
RCC dinners and balls. Explain further...
CJ: This college is really quite dire as far as
socialising goes. We have reasonable atten-
dance at our Friday ents nights, but we are a bit
lacking when it comes to a good knees-up.
Anyone who has seen Southside Bar on
Wednesday night would agree that a ball with all
the sports clubs would be an amusing event.
What is more, the other clubs, the ones that are
not competitive sports, the recreational clubs,
and possibly the social clubs, would also be able
to put on a good do. The most social people in
this college are members of clubs and societies.
Aiming an annual do at these people would be a
success.
JT: And your short questions: Number one.
How many clubs are there at the St Mary's cam-
pus?
CJ: I am not exactly sure. There is probably
in the range of about twenty.
JT: What's the maximum funding a club may
receive from the Union?
CJ: I am not sure. I could tell you within five
minutes of being in the job though.
JT: Do you think that the IC Rugby team
firsts can beat the ICSM team?
CJ: I would like to see them have a go.
JT: What's your favourite sporting joke?
CJ: Jeremy Guscott in fishnet stockings!
MARK BAKER A N D
ANDREW HEEPS - BOTH
STANDING FOR
PRESIDENT OF ICU
JT: Tell us about your previous experience -
what makes you think you're up to the job?
Andrew Heeps: I'm currently vice-president
of the Charing Cross Union. I lead the largest
delegation to the British Youth Parliament,
which is a sub-organisation of the Home Office.
I've been involved in representing people of
both my own age group and elsewhere, for a
total of ten years now. I think that my actual
experience of being a people's representative is
quite high and I don't see my lack of past ICU
involvement being a problem.
they will lose a considerable number of clubs
and the loss of accommodation for non-first
years. How are you going to break the bad news
and deal with the inevitable backlash?
MB: I think the way to "break the bad news"
is to make sure that they are involved and that
they understand what is going to happen. I will
be telling all the constituent college unions and
all the clubs exactly how we are going to allo-
cate the money and how things will be done,
and the better prepared and more involved peo-
ple are in the process, the fairer it will seem and
JT: Okay,
Mark, can you come
in on that?
Mark Baker: Yes. I'm currently Publications
Board chair; I oversee the running of all the
media and help out with any of their problems.
I was also a member of UFC last year. I was on
the budgets' advisory group which is a very long
and boring meeting going through every single
budget of all of the clubs at ICU; there are a
large number of those; I tried to sort them out
and I looked at them fairly. I have also been to
quite a few council meetings and executive
meetings, so I am well used to how ICU runs,
and I think 1 understand enough about it to be
its President.
JT: The Medical students are facing massive
cuts in their union funding, the probability that
the less complaints people will have. As for
dealing with the backlash; I will be trying to min-
imise it, but I would be there to be yelled at as
President and I would try to make people see
that we are reasonable.
JT: Andy, being honest or being nice; can
you do both?
AH: Well, you can always try to work in the
best interests of the majority of the member-
ship. That is perhaps where this issue goes in.
There are one thousand five hundred medics
who are there at the moment who didn't actual-
ly apply to Imperial; people who, although they
are very keen on the merger, do not want to see
their history and traditions going. Over the next
six years any backlash that is going to come out
will fade away, and I think that is how we should
be working. As to the allocation of funding,
there is a distinct need to keep services that
already exist there in some cases. Yes, medics
are going to have to lose some clubs and soci-
eties. It is the same on the main campus. The
clubs and societies that are not performing, that
are not providing the services, well, they may
have to lose out. The money must be allocated
where it is needed. Following that policy through
to its logical conclusion, I think there will be less
tear-shedding than is currently predicted.
JT: What action are you going to take to get
rid of tuition fees?
MB: Well, I actually went on a march this
weekend against tuition fees, which demon-
strated my support. I will also be campaigning
wherever possible against the introduction of
tuition fees, but I am not planning to bomb the
Houses of Parliament or anything!
JT: Any direct policy on that, Andy?
AH: I think the most important thing to do is
to distance ourselves from anything the NUS
has been saying. The ICU response to Dearing is
coming up quite soon; it is currently being writ-
ten and 1 want to see a full and frank debate
there. I want to know what people think. 1 am
fundamentally against tuition fees being intro-
duced. 1 don't see how you can have education
based upon the ability of people to pay as
opposed to the ability to learn. It is fundamen-
tally wrong.
JT: I would like to give you both an oppor-
tunity to criticise each other, starting with Mark.
Do you have anything to say against Andy?
MB: No, surprisingly not! I think Andy is a
very nice bloke. My one criticism would be that,
through no fault of his own, Charing Cross has
only just recently merged with IC so he has not
had that much experience of Imperial College
Union.
JT: And Andy?
AH: Well, of course, leaving the hair aside,
Mark...
MB:.Oh, thanks...
AH: No, 1 completely agree with that; I think
Mark's a great bloke. We went for lunch some-
where last week and we keep bumping into each
other and chatting. The reason I am standing and
not giving way to him is that I feel that this new
impetus of fresh air, this fresh person at the top
of the Union, will provide the momentum
required to prepare ICU for the next century.
JT: A question specifically for Andy: Your
face is not particularly familiar at South
Kensington. With the lack of a hand-over period,
surely you are not going to have time to get to
know all the union officers and college figures?
AH: As far as the Union is concerned, I have
already given that a lot of thought, and my pri-
ority over the first two weeks in office would be
to meet as many people as possible. Obviously
people would have to work with me on that,
although I am sure that people would be quite
keen to meet the new ICU President. It is also
valid knowing that there is a very competent
team at the top already and we are just filling a
few gaps in that competent team. So 1 have no
worries that they will pull me up if I am not
speaking to the right people or doing whatever.
If anything it could be a benefit because it is not
the same old tired faces and approaches com-
ing forward and seeing people.
JT: And one for Mark: Student numbers are
due to rise by at least 25% next year
with the arrival of the medical pre-clin-
ical students. What are you going to do
to enlarge and improve social space, other than
the Beit Hall basement already offered?
MB: I would quite like to see us getting more
space from College, if possible, because Biology
are vacating their area, so 1 think we should be
able to get some more space from that. I would
like to see the JCR improved, because that's an
existing space which is very poorly used at the
moment.
JT: And now I have some short answer ques-
tions. Starting with Andy:
How many signatures of ICU are required to
call an Emergency General Meeting?
AH: Off the top of my head, fifty. [Correct
answer: one hundred.]
JT: Mark recently did a quad run; would you
take off all your clothes in the interests of the
union?
AH: I was actually asked to, and I think it is
credit to me that I was clever enough to find
someone else to do it for me!
JT:A student is caught smoking cannabis in
halls. Is this a matter for the Union, the College
or the Police?
AH: 1 cannot condone breaking the law.
JT: So you think it is a matter for the Police?
AH: Yes. I am not saying that it is the Union's
place to report it, but I cannot condone break-
ing the law.
JT: Do you know how much you will be paid,
and do you care?
AH: No. 1 don't know how much at all. 1
know accommodation is provided, which would
suit me down to the ground. Eric [Allsop] does-
n't seem to have lost any weight over the last
year, so I am sure there is enough money there
to be able to eat!
JT: What are the last two Union events you
attended?
AH: I was in on the Wednesday of Fresher's
week, and 1 visited the Royal School of Mines
Halloween party on Thursday.
JT: Thank you very much, Andy. And now
Mark's questions: What is the address of the
Hammersmith Royal Postgraduate Medical
School?
MB: I don't know.
JT: Good! What is the annual turnover of the
Union?
MB: I believe it is nearly a million pounds.
[Correct answer: £999,400.]
JT: As required by Regulation 7.5.6 pertain-
ing to "Standing Orders For Council And General
Meetings", what must a Council member do
before voting?
MB: Oh, think!
JT: That's right! Question four: Do you take
illegal substances?
MB: No comment!
JT: Last question: briefly, what is the
Governing body, and when does it meet?
MB: Well, that's pretty self-explanatory: it is
the governing body of Imperial College! 1 don't
actually know when it meets, because, funnily
enough, students don't actually get invited along
to it. As President, I would find out when it
meets.

