BackChat
question
mm *
reality
of
Servan Keondjian did not follow the usual
career path for a Physics graduate. After
leaving Imperial College in 1990, he first
spent a year working at a small computer
games company, and then went on tour as a
pianist with a rock band. To mark the end of
his first three years out of university, he
founded a computer graphics company.
However, you shouldn't get the
impression that Servan didn't know what he
wanted to do. It would, in fact, be more
accurate to say that he knew what he didn't
want to do, which was to head out into the
world, BSc in hand, and stumble straight into
a nice, sensible, boring job at a nice, sensible,
boring company.
The company that he founded,
RenderMorphics, is now at the forefront of a
3D graphics revolution which is sweeping the
personal computer world. RenderMorphics'
product, called RealityLab, is one of three
high performance 3D graphics systems which
have recently appeared on the market (the
others being Criterion's RenderWare and
Argonaut Software's BRender).
The Product
The best place to start the tale is back here at
Imperial. Servan unenthusiastically recalls
memories of his days as an
undergrad: "I thought it was
OK, but I did get quite fed up
sometimes because it was all
very serious and most of the
people were pretty serious.
That I found was a bit of a
drag."
RealityLab sprung from
work Servan did in his spare
time while at Imperial: "I
wrote a simple 3D system at
the end of my first year, and
really that's where all this stuff
came from."
Servan was certain that
he wanted to make money out
of his 3D obsession. He got a
job with Magnetic Scrolls, a
software company specialising
in adventure games. After a
year there, Servan left because they didn't
want to do any 3D stuff. So he joined a band
instead.
"I don't like working for people, I've
always had a problem with it," he explains. "I
didn't even go to any of the Careers Fairs,
because I just wasn't really interested in that.
I was pretty interested in playing in a band,
actually. I did that for two years. I did about
110 gigs, touring all over the country. That
was alright, good for a break. And it also
meant I could write graphics code during the
day."
It was Servan's friend, Kate Seekings,
who finally got him to start a company to do
something with his graphics, as she explains:
"He kept whingeing about wanting to
start a company, and every time I saw him he
hadn't done it. I even bought him a book
about how to start your own company, and it
still didn't work. So I ended up doing it for
him."
Says Servan: "It was something I really
wanted to do, but I wasn't sure about exactly
how to direct it to begin with. It started off
with us going to write a massive 3D game, bu
it turned out that the 3D was so good that we
could make something of that."
Servan and Kate pulled in Doug
Rabson, who he had met at Magnetic Scrolls,
and together the three of them started
RenderMorphics in Kate's back bedroom.
"We set up the company at just about
the time we'd finished the first version of
RealityLab. So we were in the really
advantageous position of having a nearly
finished product when we started. Most
people would set up a company, and get
venture capital to develop the product. That
puts them into debt, because it all takes a
long time to develop."
The Marketing
So RenderMorphics had their product. The
problem was that no-one knew about it. Kate,
RenderMorphics' sales and marketing
director, leaps in and takes up the story: "We
tried to approach key strategic people, and we
hoped that the word would trickle down, and
that's basically what happened.
"We made some mistakes initially. We
drove all the way to Autodesk in Switzerland
in a Renault 5 and then they weren't the right
people. And we went all the way to Paris to
see Microsoft, and saw some guy who tried to
sell us Windows NT. So that trip was a waste
of time too.
"Then in November last year we did
our first trip to America. I had to literally
pick the phone and cold call companies, and
in nine days we saw thirteen different
companies. Our first graphics trade show was
SIGRAPH last August. When we went to the
show we were able to announce relationships
with Matrox, Autodesk and Kaleida (an
Apple/IBM consortium). So we arrived with a
bit of a bang."
The key to success at this early stage
was not to give up, says Kate: "We just had to
be persistent. I didn't always get to the right
people, I'd just phone people up and ask for
their person who was into 3D and talk to
them. We also got ourselves a press agency,
which was really expensive but was well
worth it in America, and we got
quite a lot of press coverage
there."
The Present
Big Time: The three founders of RenderMorphics, (from left to right)
Doug Rabson, Kate Seekings and Servan Keondjian. Photo: Mark Baker
In the last twelve months,
interest in RealityLab has really
taken off.
"It's been really hard
work, it's just mad," says
Servan. "We can't cope with the
demand and everything that
we'ie getting at the moment.
We still need to expand and get
more people. So we're getting
another person from Imperial."
That makes a total of five
ex-Imperial students now
working for RenderMorphics.
"Imperial must have a
F E L I X

