BackChat
Department four short y&ars ago. The journey towards graphical
good computing department," ponders
Servan. "The students seem to come out with
the right skills. They seem to know what
they're doing when it comes to coding. I
know they teach you Modula-2 but that's
probably a good thing. Most people in
Industry would say 'Hold on, what's the use
of Modula-2, we don't use it!' We believe the
most important thing is for somebody to have
a good coding background, and know how to
structure and set out code, which most people
can't do very well. That is really important."
RealityLab is finding itself being used
for a large number of applications.
"There's load of VR stuff happening,
Internet-based Virtual Reality things so you
can walk around worlds on the Internet,
which is very cool - going through doors
actually goes to new sites on the Internet.
V R M L is based on our software. There's a
whole load of 'world building' software being
done too. Of course, games is the biggest
application - there are loads of people doing
games."
The Future
RenderMorphics are currently concentrating
on further developing RealityLab and porting
it to as many different platforms as possible.
"One of our strong beliefs on the
software side is that we want to be completely
platform independent, we don't believe the
box you're running on matters," explains
Servan. "Two things we had in mind when we
designed the system: the most important
thing was speed and following that was
portability. So it's been designed from the
ground up to port very rapidly. So we can
drive a PlayStation or a DEC Alpha through
it, and the API is the same."
Servan also sees the Internet as an
important area for the application of 3D
graphics technology:
"We're all very interested in the
Internet, and stuff to do with linking 3D and
the Internet. 3D is about the best
compression scheme you could come up with
for images. The World Wide Web is
expanding at a phenomenal rate. What things
like VRML do is provide a 3D extension to
that. They're dying to use it from what we've
seen. Because it's great - you can have a
virtual foyer, so that as you connect to some
business' 2D page, up comes a 3D window
with a 3D entrance hall, and you can wander
around and look at stuff. I think there will
also be a whole bunch of games like that.
Basically Doom over the Internet, but that
will need a bit more speed."
Eggtastic: This still greyscale image does not do justice to RealityLab's abilites. The lattice structure is
a static bitmap, which also has a z-value stored for each pixel. The egg-shaped objects weave in
and out of the lattice in smooth real-time lightsource-shaded Gouraud-shaded gorgeousness.
T
G
C
H I
H
F
0
RealityLab is an advanced Application
Programming Interface (API) for high-
performance, real-time software 3D
rendering. It brings game developers
workstation-class graphics on the desktop at
a fraction of the cost. RenderMorphics'
powerful, object-oriented C-based API is easy
to use and dramatically simplifies the
incorporation of real-time 3D in a wide
variety of interactive applications. RealityLab
can render interactive 3D entirely in software
with an ordinary graphics controller, but the
engine also transparently takes advantage of
hardware acceleration at any stage of its
rendering pipeline.
[RenderMorphics press release]
Yes, it sounds very nice... but does it live up
to the hype? After seeing several demos of
the system, I can only say YES! I could have
easily been watching the output from a
£100,000 Silicon Graphics' monster, rather
than a £2500 Pentium PC. All of the demos
were very smooth - the frame rate only
dropped once the images began to look
distinctly ray-traced. The biggest treat was a
soon-to-be-released graphics board with
hardware 3D acceleration, giving a huge
performance boost - a simple 'fly around
and shoot everything' game was used as a
demo, and it was very fast - if you've seen
the recent Sega Star Wars coin-op, imagine
it with smooth shading, lighting and
transparency effects, 16 million colours,
higher resolution display, much better
explosions, and EVEN FASTER. Once the
games for this system start appearing, I
think I'll sell my liver and buy a PC. Wow.
Platforms supported by RealityLab
MS-DOS, Windows, Windows NT (on PC and
DEC Alpha), Unix and Motif on RS/6000,
Sun SPARCstations, Silicon Graphics
workstation, Apple Mac and PowerMac, port
in progress to Sony PlayStation
RenderMorphics have partnerships with
3Dlabs (Hardware 3D accel.), Alliance
Semiconductor (Hardware 3D accel.),
Creative Technology (Graphics cards with
3D accel.), Matrox (Graphics cards with 3D
accel.), Autodesk (Cyberspace Developer's
Kit), Gemini Technology (VR software
toolkit), Kaleida Labs (Script X), Virgin
Interactive Entertainment (Games)
Mark Baker
I4DEC94 F E L I X •QD

