l i r a Curricular
Suspense: An IC Snooker player silently aims for his next shot
who Iranian Soc
What: Yalda Night
Keys: Solstice, Roman, Xmas
The 21st of December sees the arrival of the
Winter Solstice which is one of the most
important events in the Iranian Calendar.
In ancient times, the Winter Solstice was
celebrated by most Indo-Europeans as the
day that heralded the arrival of longer days, a
sign of the increasing power of the Sun, the
force that sustains all life on our planet.
Iranians already attached great impor-
tance to this day, and we continue to cele-
brate it today as our ancestors have done for
over thirty five centuries. According to the
teachings of the prophet Zartosht,
Zarathustrian being the dominant religion in
Iran before the arrival of Islam, we are all
affected by the constant struggle between
good (light) and evil (darkness). Hence the
importance of the Sun, light and fire in many
Iranian ceremonies.
The night of the solstice is the longest
night of the year and the time when the devil,
Ahriman, is at its most powerful. To protect
against and thwart evil, we celebrate the
arrival of longer days as a sign of the ever
growing power of the Zarathustrian God,
Ahuramazda. As a way of thanking God for
what they had been given, and to pray for a
plentiful season ahead, dried fruits and nuts,
that were kept over from the summer, were
served.
Such elaborate celebrations of the sol-
stice were not restricted to the Iranian
Empire, but were also passed on to the
Romans; Natalis (literally 'birth') became one
of the most important events of the Roman
calendar, large celebrations being held well
into the fourth century AD. Up until then the
birth of Christ was celebrated on the fifth of
January; but the church decided to combine
the event with Natalis, which by now was
being mistakenly held on the twenty fifth day
of December. Christmas came to be celebrat-
ed on this date with ceremonies very similar
to the Iranian celebration of Yalda.
Iranian culture is extremely rich and we
all do our best to continue and promote our
national identity and the traditions of our
ancestors.
Yalda celebrations will be held by the
Iranian Society of Imperial College in the
JCR on Saturday 17 December. There will be
live music and traditional fruits and nuts will
be served.
The factual information for this piece was
obtained from the book "Ancient Ceremonies of
Iran" by H Zahedi.
who IC Snooker
What: Southern Comfort
Keys: Ceiling, Spirit, Legion
Sunday 20 November saw a new chapter in
the IC Snooker Club. Southampton hosted a
friendly match against our brave boys who
had to play against a string of unfavourable
odds... train delays, closed station, no taxis,
low ceilings, large legion of home supporters
and empty stomachs.
The format of the friendly was that every
team player in the IC Team A plays a single
frame with the opposing team and similarly
for Team B. Therefore, a best of 25 frames
decides the winner.
Team A showed grit, determination and
brilliance as the ploughed through
Southampton to win convincingly. Notably
Jon won all of his games. Team B, though
displaying similar fighting spirit, was less
successful. Team spirit was the order of the
day as they fought ceaselessly, always sup-
porting each other. As the day progressed
frame after frame proved a painful battle, the
team finally succumbed and failed to achieve
the number of frames required to win.
This is not the only friendly match the
snooker club have planned. There will be
others and on 3-5 March there is the Annual
Inter-University Snooker Championships in
Cardiff. If you are interested in any of these
events or just want to play the game, come up
to the Snooker rooms (3rd floor union) any
lunch time. Membership is £8 for unlimited
use of the tables with no other charges
throughout the year.
Team A were P Kellet, V Ly, J Fulcher,
S Baugh and A Robinson. Team B were B
Drinkwater, P Chew, N Samsathi, A Hassan
and R Godbole.
who Euro Youth
What: BEST Summer Course
Keys: Distributed, Excellence
For those of you that haven't yet realised the
Board of European Students of Technology is
represented by the Society for European
Youth at Imperial College. We are the local
BEST group for the London area, and for the
first time this year we decided to undertake
the organisation of a major BEST project; a
summer course of 2 weeks co-organised with
the university of Newcastle, oriented towards
Distributed Computing, a field of excellence
at IC. A special subcommittee has been creat-
ed to monitor the progress of the project and
to deal with all aspects of organisation. The
programme of the course will encompass all
aspects of Distributed Computing and the
timetabled lectures will be given by high-pro-
file expert lecturers; we are ambitious enough
to be thinking of inviting lecturers from
other European countries and the U.S.. In
any case the course will be international in
the sense that it will be part of the BEST
summer programme for 1995 and will thus be
attendable by BEST members of other local
groups around Europe. If your are interested
of becoming a part of a great effort and a
dynamic team you should act now! Contact
either Emil Lupu (ecll@doc), who is the co-
ordinator of the project, or Kyriakos Hatzaras
(kh@ee, EuroYouth chairman).
Watch this space after Christmas for mor
information. The meetings for the project are ev
Friday at 1.00pm, Huxley 305 (Computing
JCR).
MM F E L I X I4DEC94

