Standby
"as a man thinketh in his heart so is he"
Perpetual motion machines may
be unfeasible from a scientific
point of view but in reality the
rumour mill never stops
grinding. Will pearl jam's third
album, vitahgy, be a return to
the ethereal strains of 'ten'?
No, it will be their punk rock
album. No, Eddie Vedder has
gone mad and this will be their
finale, etc etc. Yet, as usual all
the rumours are wrong...
Well, sort of anyway. There
are many moments, particularly
in the latter half of the album,
that do hark back to the gentle,
caressing face of the
aforementioned classic debut.
'Better man' and 'immortality'
both take harsh and agonising
subject matter and wrap them
up in haunting soundscapes.
The latter sees Vedder wearing
his heart on his sleeve and
poignantly captures his struggle
to come to terms with Kurt
Cobain's search for true
nirvana: "scrawl dissolved, cigar
box on the floor / a truant finds
home / and a wish to hold on ...
truants move on / cannot stay
long ... some die just to live."
However, there are also angry,
bruising tirades in the likes of recent
single 'spin the black circle', 'last
exit' and 'whipping'. The former
comes as a bit of a shock. A paean
to the declining use of vinyl (vifalogy
was released on vinyl a week before
it emerged on cd) and with a riff
that could have come from the sex
pistols at their most savage, this is
genuine 'punk rock'. And I don't
mean 'punk' as a tag mistakenly
attached to the likes of energetic
pop acts like green day. No, this is
uncompromising, heartfelt and
more importantly superb - a fitting
return to Vedder's roots in bands
such as bad radio and the
minutemen.
At the end of the day, it doesn't
really matter what the rumours say.
Vitalogy is not perfect (tracks such
as 'bugs' are too weird even for
weirdness's sake) but it is
challenging, honest and an organic
progression. Not bad for a band
with a mad frontman who are about
to split up. (8)
Die toten h o s e n are
apparently Germany's biggest band
and after hearing their new album,
love, peace and money, I know why.
It consists of their 13 favourite
songs translated into English "to
give everyone outside Germany
some idea of what we're singing
about" and a Johnny Thunders
cover. This latter track hints at their
and roll
musical heritage - punky sleazy
sleaze of new york dolls crossed
with the riffs of the wildhearts. After
listening to this once I found myself
singing along clearly a sign of how
catchy the songs are.
Their name means 'the dead
trousers' and sadly it appears their
trousers have died if the cover's
anything to go by. But ignore the
cover, the music's brilliant! I can't
find words to describe how
wonderful they are. Shame they
don't look good too! (9)
Can you really blame Joni
Mitchell for having only one idea
for her new album turbulent indigo?
I mean, people do it all the time
and seem to get away with it.
Unfortunately, Joni doesn't quite
seem to have master that knack yet.
Each of the songs begins with a
gently strumming guitar (except
'nothing to blame' which has a
piano bit first, then a gently
strumming guitar). Each song starts
quietly, has a quiet middle and, well
- I'll leave you to guess what the
endings are like. The whole album
has a very sedate, laid-back feel
which would have been fine, if only
the songs themselves were
identifiably different. I forced
myself to listen to the whole album
in the hope that maybe, just maybe,
there was something in it that would
make me interested. In the end, I
was left feeling quite, quite bored. (4)
Rock has its fair share of loud-
mouthed frontmen and Kory Clarke,
lead singer of American art
metallers warrior soul, is up
there with the best of them.
Their latest album, 'space age
playboys', takes a less overtly
political stance than their four
previous concoctions and this
has subsequently led to more
relaxed live performances. Not
that they are any less intense
or heavy than before. If
anything, choosing to perform
the whole of the new opus in
its punk-fuelled, galloping
state gave the Brixton Academy
crowd more of a pummelling
than they were probably
expecting. No, it's just that the
band's ease and sense of
enjoyment was patently
obvious for all to see. The
wonders that removing the
shackles of a major label
record deal can do...
Headliners the almighty
have also been doing a touch
of record company swapping
of late, resulting in their
angriest, heaviest and best
album to date, 'crank'. They
too chose to spew out the
whole of their new creation, a
move which might have
backfired if they hadn't slipped in a
few old classics such as the
anthemic 'wild and wonderful'. ©
S highways revisited
I'm not saying there's nothing else about Imperial, or London, but the
number 10 bus route is the main feature of college I'll be nostalgic
about. I used to live in Hammersmith, at one end of the route, and
now I'm in Tufnell Park, at the other end. I particularly liked the way
some 10s used to terminate on Prince Consort Road, just outside my
department. These little luxuries are important to a girl. Admittedly, I
didn't catch the 10 all the time when we were in Hammersmith,
mainly because there were a lot more 9s and we caught taxis when
we were late (taxis into college - the dedication).
Now, I'd have to beat the larks to get the 10 all along the back
roads behind King's Cross, Oxford Street, Hyde Park Corner,
Knightsbridge and to the Royal Albert Hall in time for morning
lectures. No, I just dream home on the 10, out of peak hours of
course. My favourite bit's Kings Cross, which has the wildest scenery -
desolate canals and railway tracks - and the maddest passengers, if
you were the pompous one explaining bits of Tristram Shandy, could
you just go through that again? The scruffy grandeur of the three-
storey Camden Road houses comes just before the tat and takeaways
of Brecknock Road, and my stop. Oh I love this area, especially by bus.
And the 10's nearly always empty by this time, and the conductor
chats.
Once I got on a stationary 10, and the driver told me about how
he'd almost become a hearse-driver, except the money wasn't good.
The 10 was parked outside the Royal Albert Hall waiting for a rogue
number 10 driver, Stokesy (Stokesy?), who goes too fast and leaves a
backlog of passengers for the next 10, so that they could follow him
for a change. This isn't the sort of thing that happens on the 74, for
example, a route I loathe. I'll be nostalgic for the hours on the number
10 - fantasising, dozing, scorning Oxford Street, reaching home
territory in the dark - for years. 0
f F E L I X

