News
News Review
BY L Y N N BRAVEY
October
Leaks, lungs and leagues were amongst the
highlights of the news. Term began with the usual
hedonism but the revelries of some upset college
catering staff. Mergers were proposed and
Imperial College looked set to swell in size. The
threat of the college conspiring with other
Universities to form a break-away group caused
much discussion.
F E L I X 1QQ6
Panic! Da Vinci's Bar flooded and there were fears that it would be
unable to open for Freshers' Week. But with an impressive feat of
organisation the damage was completely repaired within 24 hours.
Freshers' Week was a typically drunken affair, the only major incident
being a stage charge by over zealous students. Meanwhile St Mary's
Hospital Medical School was the focus of a financial scandal. Cyril
D'Souza, a cashier at the Medical School, was alleged to have stolen
over £650,000 and the case received national news coverage. Back at
South Kensington, commitment to clubs and societies is cited as one
of the reasons for academic failure. The article prompted an indignant
response from the club highlighted. And Imperial College's
compulsive equestrianites were jumping for joy at the announcement
of a new prize for a scholarship in horse racing.
F E L I X 1QQ7
It was announced that Imperial College was to acquire a new organ in
the form of the National Heart and Lung institute. The merger, due to
go ahead within a year, was seen as the first phase of the plan to make
Imperial a medical 'super-school'. Great interest was taken in the
revelation that Imperial was one of ten universities possibly planning
to form a 'superleague'. On a lighter note, the Three Handled Pot
belonging to the Royal College of Science Union was stolen in a
suspected mascotry raid. As the two pint pewter pot is not a violate
mascot it was requested that it be returned. The pot was later located
in the Royal School of Mines Union office. Rag performed their
annual tiddlywinking efforts along Oxford Street and raised nearly
£400 for Action Aid.
F E L I X 1QQ8
It was revealed that during summer a hacker had broken into Imperial
College's computer network and from there caused disruption to the
Finnish University network. The hacker, from the United States,
managed to gain access to Imperial's computers via the Internet. The
Royal College of Science Union faced eviction following the plans for a
new Biomedical Centre at Imperial. Others saw their property
Bomb: Police close roads in potentially explosive drama
Reggie Snatched
BY ANDY SINHARAY
"Reggie Snatched by RCS
Mascotry in surprise early
morning raid" yelled the head-
line (complete with mis-spelling)
of the Christmas edition of the
Royal College of Science Union's
newsletter, 'Broadsheet'. The
Royal College of Science Union
has removed 'Reggie', a 6001bs
stone lion, from the Kensington
campus of King's College.
A RCSU source said that the
raid had taken place on Thursday
with remarkable ease, the
location having been known in
advance. When asked if they had
been tipped-off by KCL students,
F E L I X was told: "It wasn't really
a tip-off... the information was
conned out of them."
Apparently, RCS mascoters
were able to get K C L students to
unwittingly divulge the location
of the stone mascot, which was
'liberated' from KCL premises on
Thursday morning, at around
8.00am. RCS students, posing as
stonemasons who had come to
repair the lion, were let in by
security staff who took them to be
legitimate after they had
displayed an calling card, an
invoice and an imitation letter
apparently signed by the KCLSU
president. "We walked away with
it," said the source. "We were all
back in time for nine o'clock
lectures...six people were required
to carry [Reggie] and a trolley
came in handy."
F E L I X has been told that
Reggie has been moved to a
'safehouse', and that a ransom
demand has been made to KCL:
Reggie will be returned, says the
RCSU, when K C L have sold
1000 copies of the IC Rag Mag,
which has been banned from
King's.
According to King's College,
Reggie had been found missing
later that Thursday Morning by
the Manager at the Bar. "Imperial
rung us and said they had [taken
Reggie]", said Tara Jefferson,
Vice President of the KCLSU, "It
wasn't a very impressive raid, I've
seen more ingenuity...it's quite
well known that Reggie was
needing repairing." However, she
admitted that the K C L security
staff had seen no identification
from the Imperial students that
morning and had simply taken
them at face value.
When asked about the
ransom she said: "As far as we're
concerned we've had no ransom
demands...they seem to have lost
the plot of mascotry." She was
uncertain over whether or not
there would be any mascotry
'reprisals', saying there had been
little interest in Mascotry at
KCL. "King's aren't really into
that this year," she commented.
flM FELIX m
n
e
c
g
i

