Museum Drama
Halts Traffic
BY MATT PARKES
Explosives experts closed off
Exhibition Road last Wednesday
after a chemical on display in the
Science Museum was found to be
in danger of exploding.
At 6.30pm, shortly after
closing time, staff noticed that a
container on display was
deformed and heating up. After
closer inspection by a museum
expert, it was realised that it was
in danger of exploding. The
emergency services were called
and by 7.00pm around ten police
vehicles had cordoned the area
off. Four fire crews, including
dangerous substances officers,
were at the scene within
minutes.
Assistant Divisional Officer
Paul Turner, in charge of the
operation, arrived in the Fire
Brigade 'Incident Control
Vehicle'. "At first we were there
purely as a precautionary
measure", he said. "Fire Brigade
and Police explosives officers
entered the building wearing
blast-proof clothing and
breathing apparatus, to assess the
danger. They found a bucket
sized spherical container full of a
powdered substance that was
above a safe temperature."
He was unable to disclose
the name of the chemical
involved. However, a reliable
source has indicated that it was a
substance called sodium azide. A
'Hazards in the Chemistry
Laboratory' manual states that it
'decomposes somewhat exp-
losively if heated above its
melting point'. If water is added
when it is above a certain
temperature, it will also explode.
It is highly toxic, poisonous if
taken by mouth or breathed in,
and causes blistering when in
contact with skin.
"It was decided that dilution
in water was still possible",
continued A D O Turner.
Dangerous substances officers
proceeded to decontaminate the
area and by 8.30pm Exhibition
Road was reopened to traffic and
pedestrians.
At the scene, the museum
Curator was unwilling to
comment on the incident and it
was the next day before a
statement was issued. Rachael
Edmonds, Press Officer for the
museum, disclosed that the
chemical had been on display in
the 'Glass Gallery'. "There are a
number of chemicals such as this
on display", she said. "They are
examined regularly, but on this
occasion the substance had
begun to degrade. It was
disposed of safely. The
emergency services were there
just in case."
(Millionaire Miner continues from page one)
Imperial were much harder than
what I did for my MBa at LBS".
He said that studying here gave
him his logical and quantitative
ability, with an analytical attitude
to problem solving. He feels that
learning how to use computers
effectively was particularly
helpful.
Instead of using traditional
methods to predict stock market
trends, 'quant teams', such as the
one that Mr Alamouti heads, use
derivatives. "Using quantitative
techniques in marketing is very
big right now," he said.
Normally, trading is based on
analysis of a company's past
performance, and on general
market trends. From these charts,
dealers work out what range of
values shares will be most likely
to have. Quanta techniques use
partial differential equations to
determine these ranges and seem
to be considerably more
successful.
When questioned about his
huge earnings, Mr Alamouti said:
"I really couldn't comment on
that." Using the combined
mathematical skills of FELIX, it
is estimated that we received
about £750 worth of his time.
disappear more rapidly as a spate of bizarre thefts swept Imperial
College. Two visiting students were caught when they found
themselves locked inside the Department of Electrical and Electronic
Engineering. Further thefts of the brass Imperial College Union
plaque and FELIX Sign were blamed on Rag collectors. The 'Raggies'
represented Universities all over the country and had come to London
to participate in the Live Monopoly event.
F E L I X 1 Q Q 9
Walk out! College caterers abandoned 150 diners attending the Royal
School of Mines Union (RSMU) Freshers' Dinner. The catering staff
complained about student drunkenness and vomiting. Vinod
Fernandez, RSMU President, declared that the dinner "was far tamer
than in previous years". Muslim extremists provoked uproar when
they distributed leaflets of an anti-homosexual and anti-Semitic nature
in and around the University of London Union (ULU) premises.
Interest came to a head in the 'university superleague'. Sir Ronald
Oxburgh, Rector of Imperial College, dismissed claims of a breakaway
and suggested 'sensational journalism' had exaggerated the story.
November
The news this month focussed on Islamic
extremeists, idiotic Union General Meetings
(UGM) and insulting rag mags. New
developments in and around college posed all sor
of problems to students, staff and student news
reporters. St Mary's Hospital Medical School
made their feelings known when they attended
UGM en masse.
F E L I X 1 Q 1 Q
A million pound development project was planned for Imperial
College Boat House. The Putney based development will provide
improved training facilities and changing rooms, a larger area for the
storage of boats, a workshop and a small hall of residence for Boat
Club students. Staff and students mourned the death of Elaine Taylor,
Administer in the Kobler Unit. Mrs Taylor died of cancer on 16th of
October. Further trouble was caused at London college's by Islamic
extremist group Hizb ut-Tahrir. Meanwhile, five of the proposed
Superleague universities were announced. Sir Ronald Oxburgh,
Rector, admitted that Vice-Chancellors of Imperial, Oxford,
Cambridge, UCL and Warwick had met. He again scoffed at the
rumours of an elite group being formed as he celebrated his 60th
birthday. David Trimble, Ulster Unionist MP for Upper Bann, spoke
pessimistically at a meeting of the Conservative Society about the
Northern Ireland peace process. ,
I1DEC94 F E L I X MM

