News
News Review
F E L I X 1 O 1 1
There was uproar over the vetting of overseas students by the Foreign
Office. Students from India, Pakistan, Israel, Libya, Iran, Iraq, Syria,
Egypt, Cuba and North Korea will soon be vetted before they can
accept posts in Britain. The move results after concern over the
possible proliferation of militarily dangerous technologies. Students
began to worry following an announcement in a national newspaper of
the governments plans to privatise the Student Loans Company. Lucy
Chothia, President of Imperial College Union, condemned the move as
"completely appalling". At St Mary's, students were apprehensive
when informed of their position in the move to the proposed new
Biomedical Science building. It was also announced that HEFCE
would not fund the entire cost of the new building, with the shortfall
of £11 million to be found by the college.
F E L I X l O I 2
The release of this year's Rag Mag caused a mixed reception. Imperial
College Union made no moves to ban it despite its offensive nature.
The cover of the magazine showed a picture of the Moor's murderers
collecting money for the National Society for the Protection of Cruelty
to Children with the slogan 'Doing it for the kids'. The literature also
featured pictures of pierced male genitals. Elsewhere, the plans for the
Biomedical Sciences building caused yet more headaches when it was
discovered that the Chemistry department faced the loss of two lecture
theatres if it went ahead. Alone amongst such college momentum, a
student lobbied his department for 24 hour access to computing
facilities. He was soon joined by 100 petitioners.
F E L I X 1 0 1 3
Students from St Mary's Hospital Medical School swamped the Union
General Meeting. Over 450 people packed into the Union Ents lounge,
the largest attendance in many years. The Mary's students were
attempting to retain their financial independence until they moved to
the South Kensington site. And this wasn't the only mark Mary's
students left on Imperial it was discovered. Students sprayed 'Mary's
Forever' in white paint on the roof of the walkway. Also at the UGM, a
student suffered head injuries in a freak accident. Sam Scotcher, Vice-
President of Royal College of Science Union, was hit on the head by a
falling tripod. The tripod was dropped by a member of the STOIC
team who were trying to film the meeting. Miss Scotcher was taken to
St Mary's Hospital but informed that the injuries were not serious.
Hopes of free Friday nights at the Union were dashed at the UGM.
The motion calling for the entrance charge to be scrapped was thrown
out. Also the University of London Union banned the sale of Imperial
College Rag Mag on their premises and over 30 IC students appeared
on BBC's Children in Need. All members of Imperial College Dance
Club, they presented a cheque of money raised during a sponsored
24hour dance.
The News Editor would like to especially thank the following people...
Merry Christmas and have a Happy New Year.
Rachel Walters, Lynn Bravey, Dave Cohen, Declan Curry, Ian Davey,
Andrew Dorman-Smith, Mike Ingram, Peter Lantgan, Andrew Long, Michael
Ludlam, Joe McFadden, Rebecca Mileham, Andy Sinharay, John Sinner.
Nuclear Jones
BY ANDY SINHARAY
Dr Gareth Jones, college tutor
and senior lecturer, has received
the Nuclear Electric Prize 1994
for Education in Physics.
The prize has been awarded
in recognition of the work done
by Dr Jones in establishing the
Physics Department's Year in
Europe course. It is part of the
annual partnership awards which
are sponsored by industry and
identify innovation and
development in Higher
Education across various
academic fields.
The Physics'Department's
year in Europe course, one of the
first to be set up at Imperial
College, evolved from a scheme
started by Dr Jones in the late
1980s. Speaking to F E L I X ,
Gareth Jones said, "It was started
by contacts I had with colleagues,
and it grew into an arrangement
for summer research projects."
Dr Jones was director of
undergraduate studies at the
time. He added that it was
intended to allow undergraduates
the chance to experience research
as postgraduates were able to.
A scheme was subsequently
set up, allowing undergraduate
students to travel to other
European universities during the
summer. The first group went
across in 1987, and the
department now has established
links with about ten universities,
including Hamburg in Germany,
Padua in Italy and Grenoble in
France. The programme was
later extended to the whole year.
It is now part of the department's
year in Europe scheme, which
allows students the chance to
spend their third year at a host
university abroad.
The last few years have seen
around 20 students going abroad
annually, with seventy students
completing research projects
overseas during the last seven
years. Many students have since
said that the European element
of their course has proved useful
in obtaining employment or PhD
places. "I have been very
impressed by the work the
students have accomplished, and
the beneficial effect the scheme
has had on their professional
development," said Dr Jones.
The Final UGM
BY MICHAEL L U D L A M
The very last Union General
Meeting (UGM) was held last
Friday. Under the new Imperial
College Union constitution
which is set to be introduced at
the beginning of the next term,
the UGM will be replaced by a
Council Meeting of
Representatives.
Despite the imminent
demise of the UGM the interest
in Union affairs remained
confined to a tiny minority of
students. Less than 70 people
turned up to discuss the motions
and elect next year's committee
members. It had been hoped by
some that there would be a
revival in interest in UGM's
following the huge numbers who
packed out the Ents Lounge at
last month's meeting.
In a motion proposed by
John Durrell, the UGM decided
that Lucy Chothia, Imperial
College Union (ICU) President,
should try to gain a place on the
college committee called the
Management Planning Group.
At present this is the only
committee in college not to have
some form of student
representation.
The committee discusses the
major moves and changes in
College and recently discussed
the move of ICU to the Sherfield
building. It was argued by Mr
Durrell that if a student
representative had been present
at the time of these discussions
them, "it wouldn't have taken us
so much by surprise."
1 1 F E L I X I4DEC91

