Feature
HIV, controversy and a lot of money
man describes the dissenting voices in AIDS research
December lst was National
AIDS Day. This came at the end
of a year full of public debate and
controversy about the disease.
The tenth International
Conference on AIDS was held
last August in Japan.
It's about 10 years since we
started research into AIDS and
the big questions surrounding it.
That's a long time and a lot of
money - over $3 billion in the
USA alone. That's a hell of a lot
of money. So how much infor-
mation does $3 billion buy?
Depressingly little. The T V
adverts, the billboards and the
magazine spreads have been
shouting for years about what to
do, what not to do, who to sleep
with, what not to inject, how you
get AIDS, what causes it.... Hold
on; stop right there.
What causes AIDS? HIV,
of course. Of course? Says who?
Most of the experts do, but are
they right? We're all scientists
here - we all know the process.
Hypothesis, experiment, proof.
If HIV causes AIDS there must
be proof. With $3 billion's worth
of loose change jangling in
somebody's pockets, the phen-
omenal amount of experimentation must have
proved what causes AIDS? Sadly, this isn't
the case.
Dr Kary Mullis, a chemist who was
awarded a Nobel prize in 1993 for his
pioneering techniques on the large-scale
amplification of DNA, was asked to prepare a
paper on AIDS for a conference. Like every
well-trained scientist, Mullis qualifies every
statement he makes with a reference. The
opening sentence of his introduction stated
that HIV is thought to be the virus that causes
AIDS. He thought he'd better reference this,
and consequently sifted through every paper
he had on the subject to find out who had
originally discovered this. He drew a blank.
There was no original source.
So why do we assume that HIV causes
AIDS? This would be a fair assumption if
every case of HIV resulted in AIDS, and every
case of AIDS was caused by HIV. Is this true?
Yes and no.
Take the first statement. Every case of
HIV results in AIDS. Cause and effect. But
how long are we giving HIV to produce
AIDS? Two years, 5 years, 10 years? What if
HIV has been present for 20 years before there
is any sign of AIDS? Can we still be sure that
it is involved ?
Researchers at the Royal Free Hospital
in London are studying a group of 111 people
with haemophilia who received blood
contaminated with HIV 13 years ago. The
time taken for them to develop AIDS has been
monitored. Statistics show that about a
quarter of them will not develop symptoms for
20 years. Up to a fifth won't get them for 25
years. Of those who were under 15 years at
the time of infection, one in eight could
remain symptomless for over 30 years. Thirty
years is a long time. Anything could happen
in a long time.
Maybe something else that causes AIDS
will come along. HIV would still be present,
but its presence could be irrelevant; merely
coincidental. If the onset of AIDS could
occur any time after infection with HIV, how
long shall we give it, exactly? Fifty years?
So what about the other way around?
What if we can find a case of AIDS where the
person isn't infected with HIV? That would
be pretty conclusive, wouldn't it? So, is HIV
always there in every case of
AIDS? Well, it is and it isn't. It's
not that clear-cut.
The problem isn't
epidemiological, it's linguistic. At
the moment, if a person who is
HIV-negative develops problems
with their immune system then it's
not strictly called AIDS. The
presence of H I V has been
incorporated into the definition of
AIDS. This makes the high
correlation between them taut-
ologically contrived. It is
impossible to falsify the theory
that HIV causes AIDS because
each is inherent in the definition
of the other. So it's impossible to
have AIDS and not HIV, because
of the way HIV has been defined.
We're going round in circles.
People do acquire deficient or
impaired immune systems,
though. This renders them very
susceptible to infectious diseases
and normally harmless bugs. The
symptoms sound suspiciously
similar to those of AIDS. It's
AIDS in everything but name. So,
it appears that we do have cases of
AIDS without HIV. Can we then
decide that HIV does not cause
AIDS? We're on dodgy ground
here. Our case isn't strong enough to make
any assumptions. The facts point to the idea
that HIV is not involved, but that's all it is: an
indication.
It's becoming more than that. A
handful of eminent scientists from all over the
world now share the dissenting view that HIV
is not the cause of AIDS. Their rationale and
opinions on why they don't subscribe to the
universal HIV-AIDS theory is not widely
communicated.
This is because they don't have a forum
in which to do so. Most leading scientific and
medical journals refuse to publish these
dissident arguments. They are worried that if
they publish such contradictory views then
people will ignore advice on changing sexual
habits. The editor of Nature, John Maddox,
actively dissuades his journal from reporting
any unorthodox views on AIDS.
The rebels have many interesting views
on what causes AIDS. They differ in the
extent to which they reject the HIV theory.
Dr Peter Duesberg of the University of San
Francisco at Berkeley argues that-AIDS is not
caused by an infectious disease, but occurs as a
EH F E L I X

