Battle Of The Bands
The idea of a sleazy night out in a smokey room with
live entertainment appealed, so yours truly.braved the
elements and took a trip to the glamourous setting of
the UCH to find out what exactly this cabaret was all
about. After one or two misadvantures on route, I
arrived to be greeted by the sight of a not-so-smokey
room, with the promised crush bar, and even chairs
and tables to sit at/fall off, depending on the stage
of the night's proceedings.
The Splendid were just taking the stage as I entered,
and proceeded to play a set of punkish indie rock. The
songs were played well, and a few brave souls were
encouraged to take to the dance floor immediately in
front of the stage. The final song of the set, apparently
about Rolo's received a mixed response, but the
Splendid left a good overall impression on the crowd,
who were pretty good-natured all night.
After a brief interval during which the Operatic
Society donated a bit of culture to the evening with
a few 'proper' songs, the Fractals came on and gave
us an excellent mixture of music, with covers of the
Greens, The B52's, The Doors' Light My Fire and
ending with a good rowdy verson of the Troggs' Wild
Fractals
Thing, with vocalist Andy Poole performing with only
a plastic crocodile on his person! No prizes awarded
for guessing where he wore this article! I A really good
set, and a name to remember, if only for the style of
their exit!
The gap between bands was this time filled with
an act entitled Faking Ecstacy, in the guise of solo
The Bible + The
Four of Us
-T&CC 6.3.90
Firstly there were five of them, explained by the fact,
according to their vocalist that they were Irish. They
were indeed very Irish, very noisy and very keen. A
bit too keen, all five of them being so eager that the
songs which sounded so tight on the album declined
into a morass of sound under which the vocals were
often buried. The sound itself was somewhere
between the Stranglers, the Stones and The
Psychedelic Furs. I think when they grow up they're
going to be very big.
Three songs (each a perfect, clinical, note for note
rendering) into The Bible I was wondering why I hadn't
stayed at home and listened to the LP (or better still
the C D - i t was the sort of music to play when Dire
Straits feels too rocky). Then something wonderful
happened; the guitarist found his wah-wah, the
rhythm section slipped up a gear, shirts were flowery
and everything was groovy (Man!). A string of old
songs, new songs and the almost hits (Graceland,
Crystal Palace, Honey be Good) were zipped through
with passion and a good time was had by all.
ROG.
y-^liSI:
The Splendid
female vocalist Becka. Highlight of her show was a
rending of Tears on my Pillow, performed with the
Simon Hartley Backing Dancers. It was a lot more
interesting than Kylie, believe me!
The crowd were expectant following her departutre,
and were soon satisfied with the appearance of The
Rest of Us. They played a combined set of well-known
rock 'n' roll covers, including excellent versons of Led
Zeppelin's Rock and Roll, Johnny B Goode and U2's
Where the Streets and some of their own songs. The
Rest of Us were the most popular band of the night
amongst the dancers at least, mainly due to the
familiarity of the material, and the audience were
impressed enough for them to encore at the end of
the set.
The next 'in-between' act turned out to be a juggler,
who kept us suitably amused until the arrival of Pale
Horse. They were also one of the more popular acts
of the evening with their mixture of indie rock songs,
including the moody Abstract Empathy, The Anti Song
and ending with the absolutely mega Purple Haze.
Some of the dancers were again encouraged to take
to the floor, and Pale Horse received a good response
from the crowd despite their inability to supply an
encore at the end of their show, apparently due to
equipment failure.
Next person on to provide a filler was Simon
Hartley, who, upon admitting to being a long-time fan
of Bros, played a song dedicated to the gruesome
twosome entitled Fuck Us We're Famous. Enough
said!!
The Mysterons came on next, and left posing one
of the great questions of the universe. How can a band
perform so well together, play decent songs, and
receive such a bad response from the crowd? My
suggestion is that the audience in question were not
too keen on the punk/thrash of the Mysterons, which
was maybe not all that suitable considering the
setting, and as a result a decent band did not receive
the recognition of their efforts that they deserved.
Better luck next time lads!
The hour greweth late and the UCH had emptied
somewhat by the time the last act of the night, The
Crystal Field, appeared. They played some great songs
in the heavy rock/HM mould. With some excellent
guitar work, the trio performed well on a stage that,
like the floor, was rather empty looking with only the
three of them on there. However, they played on
undeterred to the last remnants of the crowd,
including a jam with Simon H on lead guitar, with the
inevitable solo. Altogether a very good show, and it
was rather sad that so few people stayed to see it.
And so the evening finally came to a close.
Phil
Mixed
Opinions
Depeche Mode
-Violator LP
Violator is the seventh studio album from Depeche
Mode, following their recent long-awaited chart
success with the singles Personal Jesus and Enjoy the
Silence which grazed the Top Ten and drove into it
respectively. The Mode have always suffered in the
press from their early days as showbiz baboons and
for not using 'real' instruments. Some critics have
never been able to accept a group who write 'real'
songs but choose to perform them without resorting
to the easy course of the six-string. With the rise of
House and its mutant offspring, the Mode have found
themselves in the unlikely roles of gurus for electronic
music.
For Violator the group have discarded the increasing
complexity and theatrical crescendos of their last
effort, Music for the Masses and returned to very
simple themes, backed with impressively crafted
instrumentation. The album opens with World in my
Eyes, which would be dark disco were it not for the
choral vocals and the orchestral sweep of the
background. The Sweetest Perfection follows, an
obsessive love paen with David Gahan passing the
vocals to Martin Gore; next up is Personal Jesus, in
a shorter version of its Pump Mix incarnation,
Bolanesque and pounding. Halo is possibly the
epitome of the Mode's career, a confused black song
which effortlessly glides into Waiting for the Night,
a quiet hymn featuring the famous Depeche religious
icons. Enjoy the Silence needs no further introduction
except to say that it is oddly out of place here; The
Policy of Truth is a bizarre tribute to the joy of
falsehood with almost sly vocals over a traditional
beat. Blue Dress rolls in with Gore's fixation with
perversity and a stinging keyboard refrain. The final
track, Clean, is a vast spiralling thing that swirls
unstoppably to the album's close.
Violator is dark, sweet and clean. In the shops from
the 19th.
Stone
Page 11

