Quireboys
Red Dogs
+
-T&CC 22.2.90
Getting off the tube at Kentish Town last Thursday
was an interesting experience. I've been to any
number of gigs where the audience is predominantly
hairy, or swathed in vast quantities of leather and
spandex, but this was the first time I've seen head-
bands present in such profusion and variety. They
came in all sizes, shapes and colours, and seemed to
correlate to the dedication of the fans to a 'new'
band-The Quireboys.
The headbands are something of a trademark for
the band who, for most people, the only contact with
which has been through their two singles to date Hey
You and 7O'clock. The band has actually been around
for a couple of years, but clinched a recording deal
after supporting Aerosmith on their recent British tour.
For those who haven't heard the singles, The
Quireboys (who incidentally include UFO singer Phil
Mogg's nephew Nigel on bass) have a style that
incorporates the Georgia Satellites, Aerosmith, AC/DC
and lots more into a sound that is currently unique.
The band is a six piece, with the unusual presence
of piano which gives the music a definite variety often
lacking in the Satellites.
The gig on the 22nd was kicked off by Red Dogs,
who did a good job in warming up a crowd who were
really only interested in the headliners. They play a
style of bouncing, heavy rhythm and blues that's both
professional and fun to listen to, with a selection of
good melodies that bodes well for a recording deal in
the near future.
After the stage had been cleared for the Quireboys,
a bar room set was revealed, albeit with a slightly
distressing lack of amps or speakers of any sort. By
the theme of It Ain't Half Hot Mum began to play as
intro, the crowd was literally at fever ptich, and as
soon as the band came on stage, all hell broke loose
and the lack of visible amps gave the band all the more
room for the show. They played with an infectious
enthusiasm that caught up everyone present and
swept them along for an hour of continuous rock 'n'
roll.
A combination of really good tunes (like what you
thought had gone out of fashion with the advent of
Bros and Kylie), excellent performances and a crystal
clear (but loud!) sound made it a night to remember.
Even after playing the majority of songs from their
debut A Bit of What You Fancy album, they still had
good, if not better material to play.
Al Manthias.
The Blue Aeroplanes
—Swagger LP
Bristol is the home of Concorde. Concorde is not blue.
The great mystery is, can Gerard Layley (frontman)
sing? If he can I hope he won't, as Rodney Allen
(guitarist) could survive alone. The lyrics often sound
like an after-thought to a guitar that literally sweats
REM, but with the imagination of a breadcrumb. The
chorus of Orange Crush fits beautifully to nearly every
track, especially Your Ages.
What it is on side two (if you get that far) features
Michael Stipe of REM so expect an effort to be
original. Not a chance. Take any track off Reckoning,
carefully remove the vocals and all instruments that
aren't guitars, play at one speed and get a guy called
Gerard to babble mindlessly over it in a pathetic
American accent and you too can create the same
endless boredom of Swagger.
This album should be dedicated to the REM fan who
records Harbercoat sixteen times on one tape. In fact,
in a scientific experiment we invited the backing of
Reckoning with Blue Aeroplanes and saw if YOU could
tell the difference. The climax comes with Jacket
Hangs which is a shame, since it's the first track.
REM have officially learnt how to write more than
one song. Why couldn't they give some lessons to this
guy on tour last year? Have they ever heard the word
'originality'? Careful Boy is totally typical: full of
powdery cliches and so forgettable, I forgot I was
listening to it.
To make this LP The Blue Aeroplanes took their EP,
separated each phrase of the middle tracks, repeated
it and after thirty minutes at gas mark 3, came out
with an album. Except for Jacket Hangs it's totally
forgettable. Stick to the EP unless you want to commit
suicide by major coronary boredom.
SJH.
Johnny Clegg + Savuka
Due to the media, one assumes that all Black South
Africans spend their lives dancing. Every news report
shows the oppressed masses doing the tribal two-step
in protest or celebration. It was a surprise that Nelson
Mandela actually walked from prison and has so far
resisted the urge to shimmy shammy to the world.
Johnny Clegg, white but effectively a Zulu, showed
that this compunction to boogie is not restricted to
ethnic majorities when he turned Hammersmith
Odeon into a party last Saturday night.
One of the unfortunates caught up in the cultural
boycott of South Africa, he was banned by the
musicians' union for having the affrontry to sell
records in his adopted homeland despite his multiracial
band and political stand-point. However, he is now
back in the fold and promoting a new LP, Cruel, Crazy
World on the back of his success in providing the
soundtrack for Rainman. There was a strong bias
towards the newer material in the show but little
evidence that its amalgamation of the Western and
African styles is unpopular with his fans despite such
—Hammersmith Odeon
criticism in the press.
It was the older familiar songs that really generated
the atmospere and elicited most noise from the large
South African contingent at the back. Highlights were
Third World Child, The Berlin Wall, Skies of South
Africa and / Call Your Name, the last from his African
Shadowman album which really broke him in the rest
of Europe. In addition to their flamboyant stage garb,
colour was also provided by the traditional Zulu
dancing by Clegg and, in particular, vocalist Mandissa
Dlanga, the large 'fire at the heart of Savuka'.
Clegg's songs are political but joyous in comparison
with the protest songs of Western musicians.
Counterpoint was accurately provided by his own
choral Mandela song in memory of those for whom
the struggle has cost them their lives. The man who
can effectively transmit that message without ruining
the carnival atmosphere he had created showed that
he is leading the way in breaking down the barriers
rather than just riding the Anti-Apartheid bandwagon.
CDL.
Pale Saints + Real People + Ride ULU 8.3.90
Oh no-another set of boring supports to endure
before Pale Saints. But no-Ride, warming-up for the
next day, were our entre.
Ride were simply beautiful. The two guitars are
even more scorching than on vinyl and Mark's boyish,
serene vocals add to perfection. Anoraks flapped in
unison and grown men swooned as Mark gazed over,
lost in a smooth hurricane of bliss. The eternal half-
hour gushed with old and new. They played from their
forthcoming EP, but these were greeted as favourites
learnt back in November when Ride and Pale Saints
last stormed through ULU. Bowl-tops and goths
pulsed to Drive Blind and melted to Chelsea Girl, and
then Ride were gone with their dream.
The reality of tedious indie-pop returned via some
Real People. In the crowd, one read the paper, one
did his computing and one just looked like a goldfish.
They should be dragged off to Scallie-land with the
two Trevors who danced along.
Then we fell back to fantasy with 40 minutes of
unstoppable sound from Pale Saints. The lyrical bass
floats through a mist of guitar and syncopated rhythm,
guided by another hazy stare and boyish vocals from
Ian. The songs are more complex and melodic than
Ride and reminiscent of a harmonic My Bloody
Valentine.
They re-enacted (they cannot merely play) mostly
their recent LP which is still mainly unknown. The first
roar rose for Time Thief from the EP, and the fever
grew to the climax and finale, and their finest, She
Rides The Waves. An Inspiral Carpets girl (obviously
following lan's haircut) crazed on the speaker stack
which rattled and buzzed at the limit, as two Jaguars
were pounded thrashing and screaming to their
extreme. They couldn't leave forever after that, so
encored with the calmer Sight Of You, leaving us
satisfied and sweaty, floating on a stream of ecstasy.
Must we wait another 4 months for the priveledge
of seeing Ride and Pale Saints together again? Totally
momentous.
SJH
Page 12

