Day Nursery is a health hazard
Parents who use the Imperial College Day Nursery
may be risking their childrens' health, it was claimed
this week. The nursery, which occupies the basement
and ground floor at 8 Princes Gardens, suffers from
peeling paint and damp plaster work. There is mould
growing in some of the corners and there have been
unconfirmed reports of silverfish and cockroach
infestations.
The basement is in the worst state of repair and
houses the nursery kitchen and several play rooms.
Because of a lack of space, children have to sleep on
mattresses on the kitchen floor, sometimes as little
as a quarter of an hour after dinner.
The nursery caters for both college staff and
students and employs ten people looking after around
45 babies and toddlers. The nursery staff complain
that the staffing level is inadequate and that absences
are not always covered. During the lunch break there
could be just one person on duty.
Worried parents have written several letters to
college officials but, until recently, they have had little
response.
When FELIX visited the building earlier this
month, there was a single fire blanket and just three
obvious fire extinguishers; others were apparently
kept in an alcove out of the way of the children. When
contacted, college health and safety officer M r Ian
Gillet immediately inspected the building and has
agreed to install better fire equipment.
Mr Gillet was also asked about the fire exits. The
basement has two such exits, one which leads straight
out onto the street and a second which passes through
several corridors, the Islamic society prayer room,
a court yard and up a flight of steps to emerge next
door. This second exit is not used in the escape drill
and, Mr Gillet told FELIX, the entire nursery can
still be evacuated within a few minutes.
Westminster council is required to regularly inspect
the building for health hazards and has repeatedly
passed the nursery as safe. Mr Gillet expresses
surprise that the council inspectors had failed to notice
the damp and the mould. Managing Surveyor of
Residences, Mr Peter Hallworth, who is responsible
for maintenance and repair in Princes Gardens, was
unavailable for comment.
Parents are charged £260 per month, although
Imperial College Union does provide a subsidy of
around £130 for students. The Rector, Professor Sir
Eric Ash, told FELIX that it is illegal for the college
to use public funds to finance such a scheme and the
nursery has to be entirely self financing.
Sir Eric recently visited the nursery and admits that
conditions there have to be improved and said that
the college already helped by letting the building rent
free. He suggested that the parents should show some
'team spirit' by spending some time doing repairs
themselves. Lady Ash is on the committee responsible
for the nursery.
Ms Sue Thornett who is directly responsible for
the nursery also admitted that despite the fact that the
nursery complied with all safety rules and that all
equipment is regularly checked and serviced, the
conditions were not very good 'by today's standards.'
This is largely the fault of the building which is far
from ideal and Ms Thornett js currently trying to have
the basement nursery moved to drier and healthier
ground floor accommodation.
Southside left out B a d l a d s
Security in Southside halls has not been improved
despite the forwarding of a plan eighteen months ago.
The plan involves moving security officers from the
entrance under the arch to the direct entrances to the
halls.
Mr Geoff Reeves, chief security officer at IC, said
that the plan was for a nightguard at the Falmouth-
Keogh entrance. He said that there are usually two
men on duty in Southside, and for the two of them
to keep in contact would entail buying £4,000 to
£5,000 of equipment. This was up to Mr Peter
Hallworth, Manager of Residences, who was
unavailable for comment.
Mr Reeves added that at weekends security
manpower was stretched fully. He also said that to
keep both security men at 'The Gardens' entrance
under the arch 'seems illogical' considering this
entrance to the halls is closed after six o'clock.
He said that he appreciated the anxiety caused by
the recent spate of student hall based rapes in the south
east of the country. So far the Universities of Sussex
and Kent have suffered, and an intruder was
discovered in a room at Wilson House, a student hall
belonging to St. Mary's Hospital Medical School. Mr
Reeves said that the security situation at St Mary's
had been improved as many of the rooms' windows
open directly onto the street. Locks had been installed
and challenging facilities implemented.
Southside has the lowest crime record of halls of
residence at IC, and has more security guards than
Evelyn gardens which has more students.
The security improvemet proposal was put forward
by Dr John Hassard and Professor New, wardens of
Southside halls. Dr Hassard said that everybody had
agreed to it at the time, including Sherfield
administration though 'there had been practically no
progress over a year' even though he saw 'no technical
difficulties'.
At the moment the main entrances to Southside halls
are not guarded by anyone, and rely on the security
imparted by the magnetic keys.
Two men were detained by the police on Friday 9th
March after a confrontation in Beit quad during a disco
organised by ICU Entertainments.
The trouble started when the two unnamed men
tried to enter the disco without paying. The five door
attendants attempted to refuse them entry. This
resulted in an attempt to push through, and one of
the gate crashers started to assault people.
The drunk were removed by Mr Nicholas Marley,
Duty Officer, and Mr Stephen (BJ) McCabe. As they
resisted, violence flared. The security men in the quad
called the police, who came in three cars and a van,
with a police dog. They offered to clear the building,
but this was deemed unnnecessary by Mr Marley.
Everybody else left quietly and the disco was closed
fifty minutes early at 1.10 am
Stop Press
The winners of last night's Guilds interdepartmental
pool and darts contest were the Mechanical
Engineering team.
Page 3

