The Knight of Cheapskate
The Baron was so happy. After all these years of
bumbling buffoonery he had been made a knight of
the OBN. After years of being snubbed by his friends
on the Committee of Very Clever People he'had made
the big time. He could hear the words now, 'Arise Sir
Derek, Knight of Cheapskate.'
His eyes misted over as he remembered the night
of the announcement. Drunk with joy, he had cycled
home to Cheapskate, only for some fool to knock him
flying. Didn't the law of Gravity KNOW he was a
Knight. So it was that Derek Dash, not-quite-so-noble-
as-he-would-have-really-liked Knight of the OBN,
found himself on crutches. All he was was a simple
Knight-Bachelor, saggy and a bit loose at the seams,
but Mad Dash loved him, now she was a 'reaul
genuwhine Inglish Laydey.'
Things were going well. Now that John Secretary
had left there was no one to stand in his way. With
his friends in the Manic Planning Group he had the
power, he had the authority, he had the ego, he could
do what he wanted. With House of Fraser by his side,
the citizens were powerless. That Neil McCrafty was
just a pawn. All he needed to do was sidestep
McCrafty and deal with Dai Incompetent, the deputy
pawn. The question now stood, with a pawn and a
knight, who was the queen?
Welcome OldRidge was sitting in his office,
planning the new rents for the citizens. 'If I subtract
three apples from six bananas and custard, in the
Expensive Hall meals budget, I should only have to
charge four pears and a pomegranate per week,' he
thought. 'How fruity!'
The citizens were outraged: 'Four Pears and a
pomegranate! 'shrieked Neil McCrafty. 'I want the
citizens' opinion on this one. We must let everyone
know. After years of outrageously citrus rent
increases, we should call for a freezing of rents. I shall
write a rude letter to the Knight and call for frozen
fruits. Sir Derek can sling his hook, there are plenty
more fish in the sea after all.'
Derek just laughed. 'Their calls will fall upon deaf
ears,' he said. 'I have had enough of fruitful
discussions. I shall fight them on the beaches, I shall
fight them on the shingle pits, I shall...' he mumbled
on, realising that his political ambitions were all for
naught. 'Shingle pits,' he thought, 'what a fine idea.
Mad Dash has wanted a new lighting system for the
downstairs toilet in 710 for some time. This could be
the chance for a profitable bit of negotiating. I shall
tell McCrafty that citizens will be allowed to use the
toilet as a facility on Fridays during April in a leap year.
He'll realise that the money from the shingle pits
should pay for it. I'll tell him it's for a new set of
citizens' living quarters.'
The Shingle Pits, now there was an issue (bless
you). Alas! All was not well. Hooker Club were
defiant. 'We refuse to play on a cabbage patch,'
screamed Benj Trainers. 'The College has enough
vegetables already. If anyone suggests a fruit patch
as well, I shall scream.'
'Your Astroturd is far too expensive,' House of
Fraser replied. 'You can make do with an orange peel
foundation. I want value for money. I'm not seeing
you wasting good Cheapskate money on an Astroturd
pitch based on Pineapples when there are plenty of
good oranges left over from last year.'
Meanwhile, in the Phallix Office, Adrain 'Fruity'
Heathen was sobbing. 'I'm sick of these allusions to
fruit,' he cried.
i l l
m
'I agree,' said Smuggly, turning from lighting the last
blackcandle in his office. 'Fruit has figured far too
much in Phallix recently. Here, have an apple and
console yourself.' Smuggly looked up from his
pentagram, wiped the blood from his hands and
moaned 'that's the last time I print Guiltsheet.'
Suddenly (as if by magic), the telephone rang (and
a shopkeeper appeared). It was Mike Gravestone,
manager of the Citizens Comic Shop. 'Strewth,' said
the man in a very Kiwi fruit styled voice as he
disappeared almost as quickly has he had appeared.
'Look's like the pentagram's still working,' said
Smuggly, as he traced a train shaped sigil upon the
floor of the Phallix Office.
'Where am I, what am I,' groaned the apparition as
it solidified. The image became as clear as day and
continued to solidify. It was Wing Commander
Trainspotter and he was not chuffed. Suddenly steam
started to pour from all of the Wing Commander's
orifices,' This time, Smuggly,' he screamed, 'you've
gone too far. With these fruity comments and your
Pricocon misprints, you've gone totally off the rails.
I've had enough, I'm off to Clapham Junction for a
quiet bit of shunting,' he complained. Smuggly smiled
and traced the number 462 on the floor as the Wing
Commander started to fade.
Meanwhile, in the Dirtdiggers' office, Rob Paddle,
the chief Dirtdigger, was voting for the new head
Dirtdiggers. 'Biroknee Moses she's a girly. We can't
have that.' Biroknee, the Dirtdiggers' Pornsheet editor
knew that she had little or no chance in the Very
Secret Ballot, held by the Dirtdiggers. The Dirtdigger
elections were never fair. The problem was that none
of the Dirtdiggers could count. Every year, they were
forced to make the numbers up. Smuggly was sure
that he was not going to use Rob Paddle for anything
intellectual, when he slaved for a day. The
Rocktappers didn't care anyway.
Dai Incompetent was sitting in his office, playing
with his balls. He had made so many ballsups recently,
he had started a collection. 'All I wanted was a quiet
life,' he moaned. 'Just me and my gal and a barrel of
Brakespears. If things don't improve I shall be forced
to start drinking all day with Ugg Hagan.'
'Stop complaining,' said Fiona Knickerless, as she
wandered in with Jacob Marley. 'You're working this
weekend. I'm off for some more events with Jacob,
bye!'
As the chief citizens moaned and mumbled Smuggly
plotted. 'The end of the world is nigh,' he screamed
with a manic grin on his face, as he turned to his four
friends from the riding club. 'Get those black rags
smartened up, it's time for a party. 'Famine, get in the
Hack Bar and start on those portion sizes, they're far
too big. Pestilence, Professor Anderson wants a word,
and War, you can stay down here for now.' Death
grinned, he was good at it.
'The end of the world?' said Jason Cynic, looking
up from his cup of coffee,' that's the first good news
I've heard all day.'
'News?' shrieked the Fairystories Editor, Adam
Hassling'em. 'Oh my ears and whiskers, where?'
Page 23

