Roland Flowerdew reports on the airshows around London this year.
1990:50th Anniversary of
Britain probably has the highest number of airshows
per head of any country in the world, and London is
a good centre to get to many of them. Listed in this
feature are some of the major displays in the South
of England; dates for other displays can be found in
magazines such as Air Display International. There are
many RAF open days around the country, and there
are few parts of the country that are not within
striking distance of one of these. Even if your interest
in aircraft is minimal, it can be well worth attending
one of these events, because most are geared to cater
for 'all the family', with plenty of other attractions..
Airshows tend to fall into two categories, military
and civilian. Military airshows are staged by air forces,
but in many cases there are private aircraft on display.
The reverse also applies; at many civilian airshows
there is a military presence, for example, the Red
Arrows. As might be expected, civilian airshows tend
to have more historic aircraft, both types have
advantages and disadvantages. Given below are
details of three different types of airshow: civilian,
military and trade.
Most people consider the aerobatic display teams
to be the highlight of any airshow. Military air display
teams usually fly advanced jet trainers, because front-
line fighters are extremely expensive to run, while
civilian aerobatic display teams fly aircraft such as the
Pitts Special, a piston-engined biplane. The difference
is one of speed and scale; the BAe Hawk that the Red
Arrows fly is capable of up to 1000 km/hr at sea level,
but a Pitts Special can loop in not much more than
its own length. Jet aircraft are visually more
impressive however: at any airshow, when the Red
Arrows are announced, the beer tents clear, the
hangers empty and everyone looks around and into
the distance for the nine headlights that portend their
arrival. Flying over 100 displays per season, the Red
Arrows are Britain's premier aerobatic team (and
many would argue that they are the world's best).
They were formed in 1965, originally flying Gnats, and
quickly established a reputation for formation flying
of absolute precision. The skill involved in performing,
for example, a formation roll is phenomenal, because
not only do the outer craft have to roll, they have to
'corkscrew' around the axis of the roll to maintain the
impression of the rolling formation. The Red Arrows
converted to Hawks for the 1980 season, after Gnats
were withdrawn from general RAF use. The Hawk
offered an improved performance envelope, with a
better fuel consumption, and better serviceability, and
this meant improved displays. The Red Arrows usage
of the Hawk has led to a large number of sales of the
type to other air arms, and good publicity for the UK
aerospace and defence industries.
• Arrive very early to beat the queues, and aim to be
at your selected vantage point at least an hour before
the flying display begins.
• Use some form of sun-burn protection. Even on a
dull day you can end up with a very red face.
• Never leave litter around-it can cause lethal
accidents.
• Take something else to do in case there is a lull in
activity.
North Weald: Fighter Meet 1990
This airshow has the distinction of being the only one
with an underground station (North Weald, Central
Line) a short walk away, and this is probably the best
way of getting there. When buying your ticket, you
may have to contend with London Transport staff
who do not believe the station exists! If you buy a
travelcard you may have to queue to pay a
supplement at North Weald station as it is outside
travelcard zone 5. LT usually provide admission
inclusive fares. The airshow itself is a mixture, with
some representation from the RAF and other air
forces, but much of the display consists of older
aircraft. A favourite theme consists of mock dog-
fights, complete with explosive effects, which are
usually very good.
Mildenhall: Air Fete '90
The largest (and best) airshow in Britain, Mildenhall
regularly attracts over 300,000 visitors over the
weekend, approximately equivalent to 14% of the
population of the UK. Run by the USAF, Mildenhall
has a large number and variety of military aircraft from
most NATO members, and usually boasts over six
hours of flying display per day. In the past, the
Lockheed SR-71A (Blackbird) has flown here, and
other types include Rockwell B-1B, Boeing AWACS,
Lockheed Galaxy (larger than a Boeing 747).
Mildenhall often manages to get foreign aerobatic
display teams such as the Patrouille de France, as well
as the Red Arrows. If you do think of going to this
airshow, it is possible to go by rail, but it would
probably be much cheaper to go by car with friends,
since there is a flat car parking/entry charge regardless
of the number of occupants. It is best to aim to arrive
before 9am, because huge traffic jams form, and you
can spend three hours stuck outside.
Farnborough: Farnborough International '90
This airshow is primarily a trade airshow, with
manufacturers from all over the world attempting to
sell their products. This means that the aircraft on
display here are frequently the latest types, and are
displayed by pilots who are attempting to 'sell' them
to the VIPs beneath. Quite a few aircraft are rarely
or never seen in the UK in the usual way-remember
the Mig-29s in 1988? The disadvantage of this is that
some of the display consists of aeroplanes that,
although new, are fundamentally boring for show
purposes. Farnborough can be reached by train from
Waterloo, and this could well be the cheapest way to
go, as car parking and general admission is very
expensive.
Boeing EC-3A Sentry (AWACS). Mildenhall 1989
Page 24
the Battle of Britain
Photo Tips
• Take plenty of reasonably fast film: although film
can be bought at large airshows, you may have to
walk a long way to get more.
• Compact cameras: it is usually a waste of film to
take photos of aircraft in flight as they are only a speck
in the resulting picture.
• Use a high shutter speed for flying aircraft, always
pan and follow through to get a sharp image.
• Use a lens hood to stop flare, and always use a
protective filter on the lens-you may be showered
with tiny oil droplets.
• Use a telephoto zoom lens if possible, and don't be
Alphajets of the Patrouille de France, Mildenhall 1989
afraid of using the maximum aperture available.
• Take pictures when the subject is approaching: rear
views, rarely come out well.
• Unless you have spot or very advanced metering,
try setting your camera by metering on grass/concrete
in front of you or on your hand, then using exposure
lock. Frequently re-check the setting, especially if
there is cloud cover. Automatic cameras tend to
produce well-exposed skies, but the aircraft are
silhouettes.
• Alternatively, compare meter readings taken on the
grass, and on a passing aeroplane, then set the
difference on the exposure + / - setting.
• Try and stand so that you have a good view,
otherwise heads will intrude into your shots.
• Auto-focus cameras: the lens may not focus fast
enough, so try switching to manual, and setting it to
infinity.
• Take spare batteries.
• Formation teams: let the formation fill the
viewfinder. Don't waste film on large and loose
formations, the aircraft only appear as specks.
• Smoke trails left behind aircraft can make effective
pictures.
• It is extremely difficult to get a good shot of the Red
Arrows' syncro pair because of the time delay
between pressing the shutter release and the shutter
action occurring.
• Don't assume everyone around you is an expert:
photographic poseurs abound at airshows. Stunning
pictures can be obtained on basic SLRs.
• It can be helpful to write down aircraft types as you
take photos, otherwise you may end up with a pile
of unidentified aircraft pictures.
A GUIDE TO AIRSHOWS DURING THE SUMMER
MEETING COST OF ADMISSION (approx)
12/13 May-North Weald
Fighter Meet 1990
£ 7 at gate on foot
£ 4 in advance
26/27 May-Mildenhall
Air Fete '90
£ 1 0 per car (regardless
of number of occupants)
16/17 June-Biggin Hill
International Air Fair
Car Parking
£ 7 at gate
£ 5 in advance
£ 0 Saturday, £ 3 Sunday
(discount for 12 or more especially in advance)
27 August —West Mailing, Kent
Great Warbirds
No prices available yet
7-9 September —Farnborough
Farnborough International '90
£ 1 1 adult
£ 3 car
Keith Prowse give discount for 20 people or more
Page 25

