The Calumny Column ST
Felicitus
It's curious what you can see simply by hanging
around Beit Quad these days. The oddest sight was
current President Neil McCluskey and President-elect
Paul Shanley attempting to avoid someone who had
walked into the FELIX office. Trapped in the back
office, their only exit was via the ground floor
window. The difference was that Mr Shanley was not
wearing a suit at the time.
Two applicants in a Southside hall will receive a
surprise in a few days time when next year's re-apps
are announced. They have been struck off the list
because they flanned their subwarden at the hall
dinner.
Two weeks ago Union President Neil McCluskey
was coming home with two members of the dance
club. The taxi driver, eager to abide by the law,
refused to allow Mr McCluskey to pay by cheque.
Despite the president's protestations, the driver
stopped the cab on the Hanger Lane gyratory system.
Mr McCluskey spent half an hour in the taxi before
the driver would let him go.
Last week, a huge party was due to be held in the
lounge. Labelled the 'Acid Rave', it was advertised in
other London colleges. On the night in question, there
was no lighting in the quad due to a fault in the timer
switches. The duty officer, Doug King, realising that
there was a problem, promptly appointed another duty
officer and made arrangements to get emergency
lighting installed. At considerable expense the
Dramsoc lights were used-all 2kW of them. The shift
engineer was also telephoned to arrange emergency
lights for the entrance to the quad to enable card
checks to be done. He eventually turned up with a
60W light bulb on a piece of extension cord.
Eventually, when all the preparations had been made,
the party could begin. 12 people turned up.
A brief question : Why did Union Deputy President
Dave Williams spend the entire weekend hiding in his
room from David Cornwall, Chairman of Afro-
Caribbean Society?
Approximately eighteen months ago, the Sherfield
Main Dining Hall was refitted at a cost rumoured to
be in the region of £20K. The plans were designed not
by the College estates section nor the refectories
section, but by the Rector's wife, Lady Clare Ash. It
now seems that the MDH is to undergo another refit.
This time the cost is rumoured to be as much as £30K.
The architect? Lady Clare Ash.
Lots of swear words were heard in the corridors
near Catering Manager Rob Northey's office last
Monday. This followed an event held in the JCR the
previous weekend by our very own Indian Society.
Following the mess left by the Chem Eng dinner the
weekend before, Honest Rob's nerves were left even
more frayed by having to clear up gallons of red paint
from the walls and floor of the JCR. Perhaps its time
for Rob to reconsider the job offer that he is holding...
There are two loopholes in Union bye-laws that are
about to be made open. One states that a sabbatical
can take a second term in office provided that they
finance themselves. This presumably enables anyone
to run again if they can obtain sponsorship. The
second loophole enables anyone to run if they are an
occasional student (a la Howgate). How fitting then,
that an ex-sabbatical is about to enrol on an MBA
course with a view to running for Deputy President
this term.
Friday's Stagefright gig saw Ents Chairman, 'BJ'
McCabe, in fine form. With the entire union tannoy
system at his disposal, Mr McCabe announced the
Page 26
by Caroline Toynbee
support band 'The Hogfuckers.' The guests at the
gliding club dinner in the union dining hall probably
didn't see the funny side; the average age of the
diners was 50.
Meanwhile the RCS are bumbling along with their
plans for the Silwood ball, which won't be held at
Silwood park. Tradition dictates, of course, that we
should all still refer to it as the Silwood ball, despite
the most likely venue suggested, the Queen's Lawn.
Rumours indicate that RCS Ents Chairman and future
RCS president, Sid Hiiemae hopes to have a band in
the Queen's Tower, food in the main dining hall and
dancing on the lawn. Tres Chic, Sid, but you won't
be getting many takers at £50 for that.
With an imminent change in the accommodation
office approaching the knifes are being sharpened.
The residence finance group are to be transferred from
the Sherfield building to 15, Princes Gardens, to aid
communications between them and the
accommodaton office. Are there any secrets to hide?
Who knows. The shredding machine in the
accommodation office ran into overdrive last week,
however. Rumours that Loretto O'Callaghan spent her
two week break attempting to find a new job are
totally unfounded.
Odds for future president, Paul Shanley, passing his
finals now stand at 6-4 on, in the Holbein House
betting consortium. Mr Stapleton, FELIX Editor-elect,
stands somewhat lower at 10-1 against.
Rob Northey is clearly worried about the success
of the newly-vamped Union Snack Bar. On Monday,
along with the Sherfield Supremo, Angus 'House of
Fraser, he carried out a reconnaisance operation on
this outlet. Rumours that their entourage included a
video cameraman are said to be strongly denied. FELIX
telephoned the refectories office to discover if there
was a connection between the raid and Rob's plans
to turn the outlet into a Taco Bar. The reply was 'Rob
Who?'.
Finally, Paul Shanley bared all last week when he
was stripped naked in the union bar. Avid
photographers were on the spot to catch a rare sight
of Mr Shanley's oratory end as it was shown to the
world. The pictures should be appearing in Pig Farmers
Weekly soon.
And it came to pass in the land of Imperi'al that the
rulers of the people had become tired and the time did
approach for new rulers to come forth. And lo there
was much indifference. And the people of Imperi'al
did rend their clothes for it was trendy so to do, and
the Japanese did flagrantly ignore wildlife treaties and
there was much whaling and gnashing of teeth.
And a great darkness did fall upon the land and the
people of Imperi'al did hide themselves away for a
terrible blight was visited upon them. And the plague
of posters did last for forty days and forty nights. Or
at least it seemed like it. And the people would not
walk without for fear of someone saying unto them
'Hi, I'm Paul Shanley, let me tell you about my plans
for IC Union next year...'
And lo, the time did come when new rulers did
come forth from the people and many of those who
did covet the thrones did break the eleventh
commandment which sayeth 'thou shalt not break
election rules unless Fiona be too lazy to say anything
about it.' And Ritsperis did say unto the people 'I
knoweth the word of God' and lo, it was a shame that
no one would listen to him. And Doug who could
speak no bullsh*t did go unto the people and the
people did say unto him, 'if thou can bullsh*t not why
on Earth are you standing for President for is it not
a requirement of the job?' And from the left did come
Orrow-Whiting but, lo, I can not think of anything
funny to say about him.
And from the office of FELIX did come a cry, for
Wyatt of the tribe of Margaret who believeth in the
Poll Tax and Student Loans and who are indeed
responsible for landing the people of Imperi'al in the
shit, did covet the throne of Smedley. And Wyatt did
say unto the tribe of FELIX 'I know how to run a
newspaper better than you do so nah-nah-ni-nah-nah.'
But the people of Imperi'al were not quite that stupid.
And Stapleton who did also covet the throne of
Smedley, did say unto the people of Imperi'al, 'let me
have the throne of Smedley and I will smite the
diabolical Ash with my velvety epee'. And the people
of Imperi'al did look in a dictionary and did discover
that 'excellant' was not spelt like that.
And the people did chose Shanley of the out of date
rail ticket and they did also choose Williamson of the
pullover and Stapleton of the purple prose. And yet
the throne of Williams did remain empty for the people
had look'd and said 'who the hell is new election
anyway?'. And there was still much indifference.

