F e l i X
Retraction
FELIX Issue 863 contained references to the Union
permanent staff and Ken Young which suggested that
they had enquired into the registry and finance records
of Paul Shanley. After further research it appears that
this was not the case. I apologise for any damage this
may have caused and withdraw the allegations made
concerning this matter. The comments were based
upon the words of someone who has now changed
their view of circumstances as they took place.
The Sabbaticals
The rector's querying of the Union sabbaticals as
representatives of the students leaves a grave
question to be answered. Do the sabbaticals represent
the students or 'The Union'? By suggesting to the
College's governors that the president of IC Union
does not represent the students the rector has placed
a trump card on the table which threatens the
students' negotiating powers with the College. Sir Eric
knows that Union General Meetings are badly
attended and he knows that this would seem to
suggest a large indifference to the Union on the part
of the students. If he pushes the point he could well
win his case over the Harlington Gravel funds. After
all, if the Union president does not represent the
students, why should the College's governors listen
to him?
At present, the students' Union is the only form of
student representation to the College. If the rector
refuses to acknowledge it as such, where does that
leave you, the students? The rector has suggested
that IC Union hold a referendum on the question of
how we spend the money from the Harlington gravel
extraction. Since the rector wants to see more views
from the students in this area, why not let him know
how you feel in other areas? Sir Eric represents the
College on the Committee of Vice Chancellors and
Principals. Do you think he is representing you as
students? If the rector wishes to test the students'
faith in the Union sabbaticals as student
representatives, I suggest he should test their faith
in him as well. If we do have a referendum on the
question of Harlington, we should also run a question
concerning students' faith in the way the rector is
running the college.
The Jazz Festival
Dave Williams was wrong to drag out the question of
Afro-Caribbean Society's room booking for last night.
His refusal to act promptly has wasted a great deal
of Afroc Chairman, Dave Cornwall's time and a lot of
the Union's money. Mr Williams knew about the
College Bar Committee decision a month before he
informed Afroc that they could not have their room
booking. He told Fiona Nicholas, when she confirmed
the room booking in February, that he did not believe
the College Bar Committee decision would affect the
union. He says he did not think that the committee
had decided to ban Afroc, Unfortunately, Dave was
in a minority of one in thinking this.
Dave could have informed Afroc as soon as the
actual decision was brought to his notice. All he had
to do was write a letter to Afroc and Fiona, informing
them of the committee's decision. He was asked to
do this on several occasions by the Union Manager
and the Union Bar Manager. He carried on regardless.
Either Mr Williams has a memory like a seive or he is
incompetent. Here's to next year's DP, whoever he
or she may be.
Print Unit
The Print Unit will be closed from 1,30pm today for
a staff trip to Streatham Bowls. Anybody who has put
their name down for bowling should meet at the FELIX
office by 2pm today.
Credits
A lot of people have put a lot of work into this issue.
Many thanks firstly to Andy Thompson who has
worked late to complete the printing on time and to
covergirl, Rose Atkins for typesetting at lightning
speed. Thanks to Adrian Pagan, Toby Jones, Adam
Tinworth, Joe Wright, Michael Wapplehorst, Phil, Del,
Stone, Chris Leahy, Sarah, Edna Welthorpe, Anna
Bodge, Paul Shanley, Roland Flowerdew, Adam
Harrington, Jason Lander, Dave Millard, STA, Tom
Yates, Caroline Toynbee, Jeremy Burnell, Chris
Adams, Liz Warren, Ian Hodge, Richard Eyers, Adrian
Johnson, Briefly Su, all Clubs & Sports contributors,
Caterpillar Cafe staff for food, Streets Ahead, Liz
Rickwood, and anybody else I might have forgotten.
Last week's collators: Liz Warren, Nick Merriam, Nick
Lay, Andy Bell, Paula Turner (IC Gliding Club), J
Batson (IC S&WP Club), Rufus, Gwyn, Emma, BJ (IC
Ents), Ian Hodge, Sunny Ghaie, Richard, Chris Adams,
Nomtha Gawe (ICDS), Phil Done, Bruce Parker (ICDS).
Thanks to Guilds for collating this issue.
FELIX is published by the editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union
Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit,
Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel. 01-589 5111 ext 35151.
Editor: Dave Smedley. Business Manager: Jeremy Burnell. Advertising
Manager; Chris Adams. Copyright FELIX 1990. ISSN 1040-0711
WIN
Videos and Records
Your faithful FELIX, courtesy of Streets Ahead, is
giving away loads of fabulous freebies from those
psychedelic popsters, Jesus Jones.
You could win one of the following:
* 3 copies of Jesus Jones new 12" single, Real,
Real, Real.
•k 3 copies of the promotional video for Real, Real,
Real.
* 3 copies of their debut album. Liquidizer
(including the single Info Freako).
* Jesus Jones posters, postcards and photo-
graphs.
Any of this could be yours for the answer to this
question:
NAME ONE OF THE OTHER BRITISH BANDS
THAT JOINED JESUS JONES IN THE RECENT
BRITISH ROCK FOR ROMANIA' TOUR.
Get your answer to the FELIX Office by Wednesday
April 25. The winners will be the first correct answers
pulled from the shopping trolley on this date, and you
too could be bopping to the electro-guitar frenzy.
Get those answers in NOW.
Page 17

