Student reply Union reply Mole
Dear Dave,
I was saddened to see more attacks on the Union
permanent staff in recent issues. Far from receiving
a 'miserable grudging reception', I have always found
Michelle, her predecessor Kathy, and Jen polite and
helpful in my dealings with them over the last six
years.
Unfortunately, there are far too many people at IC
who seem to think they deserve better treatment than
everyone else, from the snotty fascist fresher who
couldn't be bothered to get a Union Card when
everyone else did, yet has a 'right' to demand one
instantly when he sees fit, through to the guy who
couldn't fill a van with petrol as he was 'too ill',
despite being able to drive back from Wales on his
own.
Given the large number of such people that they
have to deal with, I am surprised the Permanent Staff
manage to stick it at all. In fact, the few occasions
when I have seen any of them lose their temper is
when trying to deal with the above kind of person,
who apparently thinks treating people like servants is
the way to get the best service. Well, it isn't, and
hopefully people like this will soon learn that those
who go looking for confrontation usually find it,
whereas if you're pleasant to someone, even if you
think they're in the wrong, you usually get a better
response.
In this light, I fail to see how vitriolic attacks on the
Permanent Staff can do anything but aggravate the
problem you claim to be having with them, so how
about being a bit more positive? It can't do any harm,
and you could even get to like it.
Yours,
Dave Wilson, Comp PG.
Quite frankly..
Dear Dave,
I have heard Liz Warren's explanation of how the
Union office staff reacted to the large amount of
franking done. Further, I have heard directly how the
office staff reacted to Liz's letter, and both sides feel
that there are principles at stake.
Sadly, there are, and more. Anyone who has
worked with the Union in any of its aspects will have
seen how many people work harder and longer than
they should to get the job done-permanent staff,
sabbaticals, Union officers, people who design and
distribute publicity, van drivers, Rag collectors and so
on and so forth.
The Union cannot possibly afford to pay for all the
manpower it uses-it lurches along, as it must, on a
knife-edge of goodwill and co-operation, and neither
of these qualities can be written into a job description.
When this precarious system breaks down, as it has
here, no purpose is served by chasing principles. By
the time they are caught, all the goodwill is lost and
the Union cannot run without it. As a sincere request
to all those who might be caught in such a situation,
please don't precipitate crises just for the sake of
feeling right.
Tom Yates, Space Physics PG
(ICU Council Chairman)
Page 28
Dear Dave,
In reply to comments made about Union staff in
recent editions of FELIX, I have the following to say:
In printing what you have done in FELIX, I can only
class you as totally irresponsible.
1. In printing speculative allegations, then what you
have done could well be libel. As far as I am concerned
none of the Union staff have deliberately tampered
with election procedure and on behalf of the Union
staff I request a full retraction.
2. In being a sabbatical elected by students you
have a responsibility to those students whilst
maintaining your Editorial freedom. By writing what
you did you created a disharmony amongst the staff
ruining the relations that have existed between FELIX
and the Union and within the Union so far this year.
This in turn, without a lot of work on my behalf, is
potentially detrimental to the students. The allegations
you made were very serious and should have been
investigated before printing, not afterwards. Surely
it is detrimental to the Union as a whole for its staff
to be put on trial through its media!
3. In respect of criticisms of individual staff and their
work ethics then surely it is better to lay those
criticisms before the people that can do something
about them rather than inform 5,000 students of one
person's opinion without even trying to get two sides
of the story.
I normally try to avoid the use of cliches but the
following seem very appropriate:
'Don't wash your dirty washing in public'
'Don't bite the hand that feeds you.'
And on behalf of the students; think before you print
because it's us you answer to.
Neil McCluskey,
P.S. Sorry to disappoint the readers but this is not
the start of an age long battle between the FELIX
Editor and the Union President since at the time of
writing all the staff and sabbaticals have sat down and
discussed openly and maturely the matters at hand.
Recommendations will arise from further meetings to
promote the future good relations that David Smedley
and I have enjoyed this year.
Really Callous
Dear Sir,
I am writing in response to last week's letter entitled
'The Callous Conservatives Again', where N Royall
recounts the incident he/she saw in Kensington High
Street.
Surely he is not suggesting that it's best for
ambulancemen to strike and collect money on our
streets, just in case someone falls ill. I totally adhere
to ConSoc's poster 'Support the ambulancemen, let
the patients die', because patients are dying everyday
due to the ambulancemen withdrawing their labour.
You never see the nurses behaving so irresponsibly.
I therefore think instead of 'Callous Conservatives',
the article should have read 'Callous Ambulancemen'.
I also have my own message for these people 'put
away your begging bowls and get back to work!'.
Yours,
A Bailey, Chem,
Dear Dave,
I think you ought to know: you have a mole in your
office who is selling your column 'Science This Week'
to New Scientist nearly a week before it is published
in FELIX. New Scientist are then following up your
scoops and extending them into serious articles. The
cheats! What a way to fill their spare column inches!
I trust you will sue...
Yours litigiously,
Adrian Redgers, PG Neural Systems, Elec Eng.
Offensive
twaddle
Dear Dave,
I must take up cudgels with you and Mr Shanley for
his disgusting delator column. Miss Jackie Welfare is
absolutely right, a distinct feeling of nausea comes
over me when I read Mr Shanley's twaddle and
frequently I am forced to flee the room and inhale
some fresh wholesome Exhibition Road air.
Especially offensive to me as a modern mother was
his attempt to persuade young, impressionable
students into fare evasion on the District Line.
My son Sydney was fined £400 by LRT and branded
for life with a criminal record. When he was caught
he cried. What would his friends say? His sales
manager wasn't too pleased either...
Please take it upon yourself to protect IC students
from people like Mr Shanley. Journalistic freedom is
one thing but anarchic propoganda is quite a different
ball game.
Dr Edna Broadbent, Biotech.

