ce
I am writing to bring your attention to an annual
farce that takes place -n the Biochemistry department,
otherwise called the allocation of final year projects.
Unfortunately Biochemistry (unlike Bioli
them. As a consequence a system of so-catted
member allocates the project titles. As happens every
projects to all their 'favourite' students, and then
shares out the dregs amongst the others, preferably
those projects students did not want, and in a field
they are not going to pursue if going on to do an MSc
or PhD next year. On the other hand students leaving
science altogether get given projects they did want
and in the most over-subscribed fields. As a
consequence many students who are to stay on in
science to work
with literature projects whereas those destined for the
City are working 'at the bench'. One only hopes that
the sort of preferences certain members of staff in the
Department of Biochemistry, have shown towards
certain students as illustrated in the allocation of
projects are not to be mirrored in the allocation of
marks in the examinations and subsequently in the
wait until July to find out.
Yours sincerely,
A number of very a-, • ? »s yet'
't$.
Bio con
Dear Dave,
Biochemistry students in their final year have to
undertake a project, lasting the entire summer term.
The lec"-i'prs for the course print a list of projects, of
which the students have three choices; first, second
and third. I fitted in the forms for my three choices and
also stated if I was not assigned any of these, I would
prefer to do a project on proteins and enzymes. The
project coordinator, Dr Wilkin, assured us the projects
assigned would be given in the order of choices alone.
When the lists of designated projects were put up
I found I'd received none of my choices but stilt had
a project studying proteins. 1 later found out that my
first choice was given to a another student, who had
only put the project down as his third choice, I asked
Dr Wilkin about the situation, stating it's unfairness,
and he replied it was the only way the project could
be assigned. I've also seen about half a dozen other
lecturers and they've generally agreed it's unfair, but
didn't offer me any support.
out the form, I've had a project dumped on me which
no one else wants. Now the projects have been
assigned, however unfairly, no one in the department
Msti'i! .;
te/".'
O K , get
the message
Dear Dave,
' .vi:'- ];'. ii!w;'.fii¥-.:i.>;fi»l>ii;';:
' /<<•• •:•••'>:•; iff-- ..!;•;>*;,>';>•
Before we chose the projects we were assured by
•
assigned simply by the preferences expressed by the
students. Since the allocation it appears that such
factors as the project supervisors choice of student,
and whether they are definitely going on to do a PhD
have also influenced the process.
Some people have said that it is right for those going
to do PhDs to get the best projects. What about those
people who are unsure whether to go intoresearch
or not-and will make that decision based on their
experience in the lab in this project.
I, like several other people, received none of my
preferences and then had to rush around finding
another one. Luckily I have managed to organise one
myself at St Mary's, thanks to Dr Hardy, but at least
one other person is still to find one. I hope next year
the organisation of the allocation will be slightly better.
C Talbot.
Dubious
Dear Dave,
The recent wave of popular revolts against the Pott
Tax have arisen purely out of a deep seated anger.
The fundamental reason is patently obvious -this tax
constitutes an enormous shift of wealth from the poor
to the rich.
Not surprisingly, media attention has focussed on
the so-called 'rent-a-mob' activities of far left groups.
However, simple consideration of the numbers
involved in these uprisings indicate a far larger
participation: Militant, one of the groups indicted has
an entire membership of about 10,000; only a
thousand more than Gloucestershire Anti-Poll Tax
Federation, and certainly far less than the numbers
involved in demonstrations nationwide.
Nevertheless, it is true that there have been dubious
elements present. Groups of outside political
agitators, hell bent on violence, have lit the fuse that
' has ignited the anger and rage of the masses. If
possible, stay well clear of these well-heeled
professional thugs. They are from outside of the
community, heavily armed with shields and
truncheons, and can be easily recognised by their blue
uniforms and black helmets.
Kinnock expects the people simply to put up with
the Poll Tax until the next general election. However,
we don't have to wait; demonstrators around the
country certainly aren't prepared to! Many people
have no choice; they can't pay, won't pay and will
do their utmost to stop the tax.
Thatcher's attitude to this undemocratically
enforced tax has been nothing less than sickening.
The Poll Tax will be beaten by a campaign of mass
non-payment,
E Denny (Aeronautics PG}, C Wong (Physics 31, I
Widdows (Physics 3), R Banerjee (MSE 2).
Hypocrisy
Dear Dave,
An interesting point was raised at Prime Minister's
Question Time (Thurs 8th): would the people
advocating breaking the law by not paying their Poll
Tax be prepared to break any other laws or not pay
any other taxes? I don't remember anyone protesting
about rates-a ridiculous system whereby property
mattered more than people, and half the adult
population paid nothing at all towards the upkeep of
their community. Why not protest against income
tax -a cruel and evil system that punishes hard workd
and stifles enterprise? Most people pay far more
income tax than Poll Tax, so why is the former
tolerated?
No one likes rates, but what are the alternatives?
Labour favours a 'Roof Tax'. Details are rather non-
existent, but it seems to be a tax on your house, not
dissimilar to rates. (This is mostly speculation, since
the Labour Party hasn't formally decided on its
scheme.) Why tax a house? Does a house use the
roads? Go to the park? The library? Swimming?
• M o u s l y a credible system must concentrate on
flpple, not where they live.
The smaller parties favour a li ••. ni income tax. I don't
like this prospect. Apart from having no bearing on
sj^e amount you spend, there is a danger of wage
earners moving out of areas where the local tax is
high, meaning increased financial burdens on people
who remain.
The Con i lunity Charge isn't popular among people
who have to pay more m w than through rates
(Including the 17 million people who didn't pay any
rates). This isn't surpris i u although most people's
bills are artificially high bi 'use of extravagance and
inefficiency in their local cojncil. Is it really wrong that
people should pay for what the council they elected
spends? If you want to pay kss, elect a more efficient
council, Labour or Conservative.
Back to the original point. Thiitv or
so Labour MPs
say they aren't going to pay their Poll Tax. What
would they say if Tory MPs ised to pay Labour's
Roof Tax? The sheer hypocrisy is damning.
We students as responsible adults must pay our fair
share of local community spi 'i g If you don't like
the Community Charge, vote for an alternative next
general election. Violence and notn .,j achieves nothing
but sadistic gratification for members cf Militant.
Yours sincerely,
Ultan McCarthy, Physics 2.
Harbouring a
grudge
Dear Dave,
I have just been reading your manifesto of last year.
I quote: 'The first cause to which any FELIX Editor
must devote himself is the accurate reporting of
news at IC, with the backing of fair editorial
comment.'
How things change!
Yours sincerely,
J M Scott.
Page 29

