Fantastic... Murphy's law
Sir,
The Policy and Resources Committee of St Mary's
has recommended to the Delegacy (the body which
has delegated authority from the Governing Body of
Imperial to run St Mary's) that part of the proceeds
of the sale of a tennis court area on the St Mary's
ground at Teddington, should be used to help build
or buy a new IC Hall of Residence under the umbrella
of the St Mary's/Imperial Appeal and that the balance
should be used to rebuild the stand for spectators and
to improve the facilities at the Teddington Sports
Ground. The sale was arranged before the merger.
The condition under which we personally would
support the proposal would be that IC matches the
contribution appropriately. We have reason to believe
that if the College in this way raised, for example,
£1M from its resources, a charitable trust might
double our money, in the same way that it did for the
renovation of Wilson House a few years ago. We
believe that this would be a fantastic deal for the
students of Imperial, including St Mary's.
Yours sincerely,
Professor Peter Richards, Pro Rector (Medicine) and
Dean of St Mary's H.M.S.
Mr Rhydian Hapgood, President, Students Union.
Dear Dave,
I am writing to provide some factual information on
the letting of the College Flats in the basements of
Fisher Hall. This is in order to correct the inaccuracies
and assumptions confined in a letter in last week's
FELIX (issue 864, Friday March 9). In particular, I am
concerned that the statements made by your
correspondent could discourage many students from
applying for places in these flats.
The Fisher Hall flats are a part of the so-called
College Flats which are available for renting by groups
of IC students. The arrangements for the lettings are
made through the Accommodation Office in Prince's
Gardens. The availability of the flats and details of
how to apply are advertised by the Accommodation
Office and are displayed on posters throughout
College at the appropriate time. The tenants for
College Flats are chosen by the Wardens of the Halls
in questions in conjunction with the Accommodation
Office.
The Fisher Hall flats have now been available for
two years. In their first year one flat had to be let as
rooms due to a shortage of applicants. About 50%
of the current population of the Fisher Hall flats are
ex-residents, in contrast with the statement by your
correspondent that 'all the students in the flats,
almost without exception are indeed ex-Fisher Hall
residents'. This proportion reflects the number of
applications made by Fisher Hall residents, which last
year was about half of the total received (there were
about twice as many applications as flats). An
increase in the total number of applications for the
flats is anticipated this year.
Applications for the flats are welcomed from any
groups of students who are eligible to apply. Neither
positive nor negative discrimination has been or will
be shown towards Fisher Hall residents. As a further
point of information it should be noted that the Evelyn
Gardens Superintendent and the Fisher Hall Re-
applicants or Sub-wardens are not responsible for the
choice of tenants for these flats.
It is very unfortunate that, without bothering to
ascertain the facts, your correspondent chose to
express his or her views in public. Both myself and
the Accommodation Office hope that the information
presented here will prevent students being misled by
last week's letter. The Accommodation Office will be
pleased to provide further information on these flats
or any matter relating to College accommodation for
students.
Yours sincerely,
Dr R J Murphy, Warden, Fisher Hall.
Child's play—just not cricket
Dear Dave,
Our children attend the IC day nursery, and although
we are very happy about the warm and caring
atmosphere there, we are extremely worried about the
premises:
•
a. the children have very limited access to the
gardens.
b. the children and staff in the basement rooms
have limited natural light
c. good hygiene is difficult to implement
d. building maintenance is poor
We take the above points in detail again:
Access to the garden is restricted to twice a day
(from 10.00 to 11.30 and from 13.00 to 15.15) and
these times are inconvenient to the children's
schedules. They have their lunch at 11.30, and then
they take a nap until 15.00. This situation restricts
our children's use of the garden. Because of the stairs
leading to the garden, the effort involved in putting
on the children's clothes, and leading them up the
stairs safely, they have at most 45 minutes per day
use of the garden, and this when British weather
permits. The result is that most children, whose
parents work full time, spend all of their time indoors
without the benefit of fresh air, sun, and a place to
exercise and run about.
The basement rooms cause us great concern. The
nursery nurses and children in the basement depend
on artificial light throughout the daylight hours. Very
little natural light can reach these rooms, so little in
fact, to be almost non-existent. We are concerned
Page 30
that neon/fluorescent light can be damaging to the
eyes, especially if it is the only light source available.
Also children as well as adults need several hours'
exposure to natural light for health as well
psychological reasons.
We know of no other employees at Imperial College
who work under such appalling lighting conditions.
Also, we feel guilty and unhappy that our children and
the nursery nurses are obliged to play and work under
such poor conditions, that we, ourselves would refuse
if offered to us as working conditions.
The premises are run down. The basement needs
a damp course, paint is peeling off the walls, and the
rugs are dirty. As a result, children and nursery nurses
are put in a health threatening situation. The kitchen
is used as a sleeping area after lunch and the nursery
nurses have to rush to clean the place and make the
beds for the children. The floor is damp from mopping,
and the toddlers have to walk barefoot on this floor
to reach their beds. There is only one window to a light
shaft which provides poor ventilation for the twenty
sleeping children. They do not have a suitable place
for rest when they are very tired or ill. Also, the
nursery nurses do not have a proper staff room for
themselves, and thus they can never take a proper
rest during their break periods.
We are very happy with and grateful to the nursery
nurses, for their commitment and kindness to our
children. They are responsive to our children's needs
and our worries, despite the burden of disgusting
working conditions. We support the nursery nurses
and want to do all we can to improve the conditions
where they work. They provide a high standard of
care; it is a shame that the premises do not reflect
this. We feel that the nursery nurses labour under
conditions worthy of a Victorian sweatshop. There is
a high turnover in nursery nurses at the Nursery,
especially those in the basement rooms, which is
detrimental to the children's welfare. In addition, this
causes a higher administrative burden to Mrs Thornett
whose time would be better spent caring for the
children in here charge. Lastly, the high staff turnover
increases the costs of running the nursery, which in
turn, causes the rise in Nursery fees.
In conclusion, we realise that things do not change
overnight; but we are worried over our children's and
the nursery nurses' welfare. We need to know what
steps the College will take to improve this desperate
situation. We believe the best remedy would be new
premises and unrestricted garden access. We will
support the Imperial College Day Nursery nurses and
the Nursery Committee in their efforts to obtain these
goals.
Yours sincerely,
Andrew Curley (student, Flee Eng), Simon Essery
(student, Life Sci), Ali Dariani (student, Elec Eng),
lliyaus Maisanda (student, Min Res Eng), Margaret
Cunningham (Senior Lecturer, Senior Tutor,
Computing), Sophia Drossopoulou (Lecturer,
Computing), Susan Eisenbach (Lecturer, Computing),
Ellen Haigh (Librarian, Computing and Elec Eng), Kim
Harrison (Admin Officer, Computing), Peter Harrison
(Reader, Computing), Steve Vickers (Lecturer,
Computing).

