Hacked off, ripped off
Fishy
Dear Dave,
With references to the letter concerning Fisher Hall
in last week's FELIX (issue 864), the re-apps would
like to correct a few points made by Mr/Ms Name
Withheld by Request.
Firstly it is important to realise that outgoing,
sociable people are not necessarily those who do no
work: the reverse is in fact true, as it woud not help
the Hall to select people who will subsequently fail
their exams.
Secondly, it is a malicious suggestion that we
bought our places by 'plying the subwardens with
drinks'. In Fisher Hall the re-app selection process is
far more stringent, by a panel comprised of elected
members of the Hall committee, giving the
subwardens little say in the matter.
Yours sincerely,
Philip Horner, Lee Griffin, Andrew Toone, Simon
Parker {re-apps, Fisher Hall).
Let's all live
in peace
Dear Dave,
I am f*****»g p*ssed off with the recent (last few
months) spates of violence that have been occuring
around 'College events. I now find myself in the
position that the friendly and safe campus that I've
bragged about to my mother (vice president for
research and graduate studies of a major American
university) is now a place in which an inoffensive and
quiet friend of mine gets violently beaten up by five
youths on the walkway on a Saturday evening. There
is a side effect of this that most of you are not aware
of; late bar licences rely on the good will of the police,
as does the granting of Rag collecting licences etc.
Last Saturday's incident has almost certainly cost the
RCS May Ball it's hoped for 3am licence and has
probably screwed up some future IC ents events for
you all.
OK there is the problem, now for the solution. This
will be highly unpopular among certain societies but
I would suggest that any student bodies with a bad
record at their events and all external bodies holding
parties on College property be forced to pay the wages
of extra College security guards to nursemaid their
events until they become, in Council's view,
responsible enough to take their own precautions
again.
IC holds a good reputation in the public eye, don't
allow a few irresponsible arseholes to screw it all up
for us.
Claude should have his stitches removed in a few
weeks, but what if next time it's a flickknife and your
girlfriend's face?
Sid, RCS Ents Chairman and Pres Elect.
Dear Dave,
After observing C&GU taking delivery of a nice
spanking new laser printer and an over the top
Appletalk network to support their excessive number
of computers, I was somewhat relieved at Mr
McCluskey sharing some of my concerns on the
matter. To some, this seemingly joyous event is of
little significance but it caused me to sit back and think
about the use of CCU's and some aspects of College
policy regarding finance.
Do the CCUs really represent the students any
more, or are they just archaic institutions held onto
by a few individuals for their self-gratification and CVs
all in the name of tradition? Do these people latch
themselves onto these safe little niches because they
couldn't face the pressure of running a proper student
union? I'm not saying that the union officers do not
work hard at their posts, because I know they do, but
do they really supply what is demanded in the Imperial
College of today?
Regarding the £8,000 earned from the Careers Fair.
Having one's own laser printer would be all very well,
for the good of the union, but it doesn't half come in
handy for printing one's third year project reports, CVs
and the like. On asking Chris Home about who is
allowed to use the union computers, he replied; 'Any
person in Guilds who takes a specific interest in the
union.' It only came to my notice at the beginning of
this academic year that Guilds takes daily papers and
the Beano, 'to encourage other people to come into
the union office and get involved.' It's only taken me
three years to find out that they exist, but then I prefer
to partake of a paper in the general quietness and
tidiness of the library.
Talking about papers; Broadsheet, Guildsheet and
Pit should be considered. These are little read, due to
their cliquey nature and their general usage as a
vehicle for slagging off the other CCUs in an extremely
childish manner. The antagonism between the unions
Fruity
Dear Dave,
I used to enjoy reading the FELIX letters page; witty
repostes interspersed with the occasional genuine
pleas from the heart; but now the egotists and ranters
have got hold of it, no more.
Why can't people who wish to present arguments
present them in a concise no-nonsense style and not
litterary diarrhoea sprawling over nearly a side of A4?
How can they expect people to digest their point of
view when presented so dismally?
A screaming example of this is Bhartendu Vyas's
thesis last week. Not only did Mr Vyas's 'self-
justification' bore me stupid, it did nothing to refute
the allegation made in the previous FELIX that he was
on one big ego-trip. How can someone who writes ca.
700 words when 200 are sufficient not claim to be
on an ego-trip? Own goal.
In the meantime, while your correspondents get
their acts together, may I suggest the REVIEWS page
as a far better read?
Here's power to your elbow!
Adrian Pagan, Chem 3.
is perhaps their greatest failing and the biggest cause
of lack of interest in them. Regarding the above
mentioned publications, wouldn't it be far more
economical for the unions to have their own page in
FELIX (a fine publication) and hence increase the
chance of someone actually bothering to read what
they have to say. Over the years that I have read
FELIX, the issue of not enough articles to print seems
to come up. Is this an answer?
Another matter that intrigues me is the issue of
financing the inviolate mascots. Both Jez and Bo have
budgets of about £5,000 to keep them running this
year (I'm not aware of the budget for the Mines-
mobile), and this is justified due to the returns for Rag.
I'm not saying that Rag is not a deserving cause, but
if they do indeed bring in a good return for Rag,
shouldn't they be self-financing. I'm sure College
could do with £ 10,000 + a year, to be able to afford
a careers librarian, for instance. For a College that is
feeling the financial squeeze, doesn't charity start at
home?
Finally, I would like to quote Mr S.G Barton, who
wrote an article for Broadsheet: 'If you aren't into
what the RCSU does, then suggest something that
it can do you are into...or carry on whingeing and
watch 100 years of tradition slowly die.' I would like
to suggest this; amalgamate the good parts of the
CCUs into IC Union to produce one corporate body
that all the students can relate to. If it is really desired,
the traditon could be clung onto if the College can
really afford it. The College finance committee
wouldn't believe how much money it would have to
spend on services to help all the students, instead of
giving far too much for the benefit of a few union
hacks. I'm not the only person at this College that is
of this opinion.
Yours, soon to receive a tirade of abuse,
Craig Holmes, 3M.
Squash
Dear Dave,
I write in response to comments by the Squash Club
captain which may have led your readers to think that
there have been cut-backs in the Sports Centre.
On the contrary, the centre now opens earlier than
previously, and the Ladies changing room and the
multigym have both been improved and expanded.
The latest development is a ladies exercise class
using the multigym and with qualified instruction.
(Wednesday evenings 7.15-8.15pm, newcomers
welcome.)
The South Ken Sports Committee and especially the
Sports Centre staff, often under difficult
circumstances, try to maintain and run the Centre for
the maximum enjoyment of all users. The modified
arrangements for the Squash Club are to correct an
over allocation of courts and to ensure that courts
which are booked by club members are subsequently
played upon.
Yours sincerely,
Mr K A Stevens, Chairman S Ken Sports
Committee.
Page 31

