Tennis
After qualification as group runners-up in windswept
Norwich the IC side travelled to Exeter to play the
semi-final group against Exeter (the holders), Cardiff
and Sussex. The winter format consists of two level
pairs and two mixed pairs but, due to a variety of
partially extenuating circumstances. We could only
field a single ladies pair and were thus 2-0 down
before a ball was struck. Hardly the best of starts, we
put this behind us and in beating Sussex 9-3 the ladies
pair of Sara Harwell and Antonia Gracie performed
splendidly to win 6-1, 6-0. This was apparently the
conclusion of the day's play and the beer flowed.
However, within an hour we were informed that we
had to begin our match with Cardiff. Despite the
ladies' predictable sterling effort the men only took
one set from four, that won by the second pairing of
Stefan Fischer and Richard Pereira. The top pair of
Julian Jones and Carl Edwards continued their dismal
individual display with a 7-5, 6-4 loss and Cardiff thus
lead 5-3 overnight. Our accommodation arrived at the
last moment in the form of a floor, hardly ideal
preparation compared to the other side's guest house
arrangements but we battled on.
The morning arrived and Julian and Sara, despite
the latter's approaching illness, prepared to play the
the crucial match at 9am. As time passed with no
arrival of the Cardiff side talk was of claiming the
match but finally they arrived and played to. a 6-6
finish. This meant a victory over unbeaten Exeter
would allow progress to the final stages but Exeter
ladies, all nationally ranked, proved too strong for Sara
and Antonia's best efforts. Richard and Stefan, with
the former swamping the net with admirable skill,
again dominated to win comfortably but Carl and
Julian continued their pathetic, uninspired
performance to only draw leaving the score at 3-5 to
Exeter. Julian and Sara played faultlessly to win easily.
Some dubious pairs seeding by Exeter saw Antonia
and Stefan lose to a very strong Exeter pair. This left
the final match score at 7-5 and Exeter to qualify for
the final stages.
Sailing
Rugby Results 1989-90 Season
IC 1st XV IC 2nd XV
Played 26Played 17
Won 20Won 9
Lost 6Lost 8
Pts for 693Pts for 275
Pts against 215Pts against 168
Top point scorer 134 Richard Walters
Top try scorer 25 Simon Eiicknell
Saturday March 10th saw the valiant IC mob stroll
into action at the Wembley Open Team Trophy.
Clearly undaunted by the high winds and absence of
half the regular team, our chaps flew from the line at
great pace, except Liam Moloney, who completely
failed to start. Our fortunes declined further during the
next race when, owing to our recurring wind
problems, all our boats capsized-much to our mirth.
Some boiled Pedigree Chum for lunch and a helm
change later we returned to the fray, but a
surreptitious course change by the organisers and a
convincing U-boat impression marred our winning
form, and we returned once more unto the beach joint
second-from last with two of six races won-in the
sailing, only to storm to victory in the 'scoff the
sandwiches' competition.
ICESC
Earlier in the year there was an article in FELIX about
the ICESC (Imperial College European Sailing
Challenge), which was seeking industrial sponsorship
to take part in the Spi Dauphinne Regatta, which takes
place in the South of France during the second week
of April. The syndicate has now raised sponsorship
worth £15,000. Project documents in two languages
was only one part of the very strong campaign, in
which over fifty companies were approached. Most
likely, sponsorship has been secured for next year as
well, with another sponsor, which for now has to be
unnamed. This sponsorship will be worth about three
times as much as the amount raised for this race! This
year the syndicate will participate in the race with
Symbol MIS, a high tech, computer company, as the
main sponsor for their syndicate. Many thanks to
them for working with us, and we will not disappoint
them! The photo below is of the famous % tonner By
The Way, on which one of the syndicate members
Rory Barrett, one of the UK's and Ireland's best
bowmen, has raced.
IC and local councils
Imperial College has a residence problem. Fair enough,
so does every other college in London. But ours is
especially pressing, because, let's face it, we don't
get on well with the locals. When Southside was built,
there was serious opposition to the top five floors
from the mews behind it-it is possible that only the
way that the boundary between two council wards
lies between Southside and those mews prevented
the protests of the residents from stopping planning
permission.
Come to think of it, there are problems with a lot
of the interactions between local government and IC.
Planning is a clear one; so is licensing. When it comes
down to it, the Council is probably unwilling to back
College against the wishes of the local residents;
given that the Council is made up of those very
residents, it's not difficult to see why.
Well, there's the problem. What to do?
All the halls in Prince's Gardens,and Beit, and
Montpelier, lie within the Knightsbridge ward of
Page 32
Westminster, and contain a total of about 900
students, all of whom are registered as electors by
College. In the last local elections, the two
Conservative councillors returned polled 627 and 612
votes respectively. You don't need a Cray to see that
if the students in those halls turn out to vote, we could
install two councillors of our choice.
Mind you, why bother, when the choice is between
a load of candidates who don't care about college and
a load of candidates who don't care about college?
On the other hand, if college people, academics, or
wardens were willing to stand, would you turn out and
vote for them? I hope so. In local government
elections, such as those which will be held just after
Easter, there's really no point voting for a particular
political party, because local Councils have no effect
on the way central Government acts-in fact, it's very
much the reverse. Instead, the wise vote goes to the
candidate with most local interest, whatever his other
alliegances.
If College people are willing to stand on a College
platform, you should turn out and vote. It would be
foolish not to, and miss the chance of getting college
a voice.
Mind you, it doesn't stop there. There are 650
residents in Evelyn Gardens, and the three councillors
that ward can elect were returned with 499, 346 and
67 votes respectively. 67 votes! All Evelyn residents
will be registered to vote by College. If there are IC
candidates standing there also, don't waste the
opportunity to add your voice to the cry to get College
taken seriously. Vote IC on May 3rd.
And if there are any other students who are local
residents, ask the Union whether you fall within these
two wards. If you do, register to vote, and vote
wisely.
The poll tax starts in April; the government will be
making you pay for your vote. Use it, and use it to
effect.

