Tax poll Afroc to sue DP?
After a lot of in-depth research, the results of the 'Poll
Tax Poll' (Felix 855, 19 January) can be published.
For all of you who were too lazy to send in the
information requested, you will have to persuade your
landlords yourself.
All landlords were asked the question 'Will you be
reducing the rents for your residents in April when
rates are replaced by the poll tax? ' This was often
followed by 'Why not?'
For student halls of residence belonging to Imperial
College or Intercollegiate halls belonging to the
University of London there will be no reduction as
no rates are payed anyway.
'More House' on Cromwell road said that rents
would have to be raised in any case, so no reduction.
Mr Christian of 'Dachstock A . G . ' said that rents
would go down, as did Mrs Kozlowski of
Cricklewood, and Mr Jimmy Joury of Hammersmith.
Mr Mohammed Bashir of Hounslow was
consistently unavailable for comment. Nearly all the
landlords said that rents would go up in the near future
due to increases in general expenditure.
Strike!
The IC branch of the Manufacturing, Science and
Finance trade union (MSF) have held a strike ballot
in which 176 members supported the proposal to strike
and 63 opposed it. 76% of the members at IC voted.
The issue is over the college's intention to make
compulsory redundancies in the Biochemistry
department. A delegation including members of the
MSF and representatives from other Universities
picketed the meeting of the Governing Body of the
college this Friday, and were invited in to talk over
the matter. The Governing Body was then left to
discuss it amongst themselves. The results of the
deliberations are not yet known.
The MSF's case is that, in the words of Mr Harry
Fairbrother, president of the M S F , 'the governing
body could offer a solution to the problem by
accepting no compulsory redundancies and offering
a retraining programme'. He said that 'the money
involved is trivial these are skilled people whose
jobs have disappeared. It seems obvious to retrain.'
He added 'We've had many strikes - we know what
to do. They are very painful for all concerned and
are more destructive than constructive. The ballot says
that we are prepared to take the sharpest possible
action.'
Hay fever
Hay fever sufferers are in demand from the Centre
of Environmental Technology. They are studying the
symptoms of the allergy over the summer and need
students who will be living in London over the
summer vacation to act as subjects.
There is no problem if you are taking medication
for the condition . All interested parties should contact
Geoff Gunner at the Centre for Environmental
Technology, 48 Princes Gardens.
Page 4
Afro-caribbean (Afroc) society chairman, Dave
Cornwall, has threatened to sue I C U Deputy
President, Dave Williams for negligence, breach of
contract and libel over a party planned for last night.
Mr Cornwall told FELIX that Afroc's Jazz Festival
had been cancelled at short notice after a decision by
the College's Bar Committee to ban their events on
licensed premises.
The cancellation has cost IC Union an estimated
£1200 to pay for bands booked and publicity
produced. Mr Cornwall said that Dave Williams had
known about the College Bar Committee decision for
a month and had not informed him until 10 days
before the event. He was unable to cancel the bands
at such short notice and has now asked for written
confirmation that the Union will pay for any costs
incurred. The Union is now looking into insurance
for cancelling room bookings.
Mr Williams told FELIX that he had not thought
the college bar committee had decided to ban future
Afroc events on licensed premises. He was later
informed by the Union Manager and Bar Manager,
who were present at the meeting, that a ban had been
agreed.
Union Honorary Secretary, Fiona Nicholas, told
FELIX that she had checked with Mr Williams before
confirming the room booking for the event on 21st
February, a week after the meeting which banned
Afroc events in licensed areas. The event was also
confirmed at an executive committee meeting, which
agreed to overrule a ban imposed by the Union's
House committee.
The college bar committee's decision to ban Afroc
events has been condemned as 'racist' by M r
Cornwall, who told FELIX that the ban was made
on the basis of 'selective evidence,' without allowing
the society to present its case. He suggested that
problems at an Afroc event earlier this year were
caused by an 'unfortunate co-incidence,' of the crowd
that was attracted. He now intends to take the matter
to the Race Relations Board and the Citizens Advice
Bureau, whilst contacting 'The Voice,' a national
black magazine.
Mr Williams has now taken professional advice on
Mr Cornwall's potential legal action.
M A K E A
Flying S T A R T T O T H E
N I N E T I E S
from
o/w rtn
PARIS £40 £65
BERLIN £60 £89
MADRID £65 £108
NEW YORK £106 £198
LOS A N G E L E S £150 £300
T E L AVIV £89 £149
HONG KONG £264 £528
SINGAPORE £240 £480
SKI - ONE W E E K from only £79
W E E K E N D BREAKS from £65
Don't MISS O U T THIS SUMMER -
Seats TO ASIA AND AUSTRALASIA SELLING FAST
Book NOW TO SECURE Y O U R SEAT
ULU TRAVEL
S H E R F I E L D BUILDING
IMPERIAL C O L L E G E
ULU TRAVEL

