Grapevine
For Tuesday's Bordeaux White Wine Tasting we were
fortunate to have a tutor well known to bother
Imperial and the wine trade. Dave Rowe, former Editor
of FELIX, is currently Editor of Decanter which is
regarded as one of the world's best wine journals. This
was Dave's third visit to the society but his first as
our new Honorafy President and we were delighted
to present him with an engraved tasting glass as a
token of our appreciation.
Bordeaux is better known for its red wines than its
whites. However, the Entre-Deux-Mers and Graves
appelations produce some very fine dry white wine
and Sauternes & Barsac is the source of the world's
best sweet whites-though the Germans might
dispute this last point. Surprisingly, both the sweet
and dry wines are made from the same grapes:
Sauvignon Blanc, Semillon and Muscadelle (not to be
confused with Muscat, Muscadet or Muscadel).
Blending proportions do however vary considerably,
the rule of thumb being that in dry wines the
Sauvignon Blanc dominates whereas Semillon is the
major constituent in the sweet wines.
Bordeaux' amazing sweet white wines are produced
when a special mould called Botrytis attacks the
Semillon grape shrivelling the grape and concentrating
the sugars and aromatic compounds in it. When the
grapes are harvested, crushed and fermented they
produce an intensely flavoured and sweet wine which
is naturally high in alcohol.
We tasted three dry white wines from Andre Lurton,
who perhaps more than anyone else has been
responsible for the recently improved image and
On March 1 st a group of ten people flew out to France
for a visit to Ecole Centrale de Lyon (ECL). Imperial
has established a link with ECL so students can go
on an exchange in their third year. This year we have
five of their students studying here and one of our
students, Neil Steer, at ECL. Neil is enjoying French
life and said that given the choice again he would most
definitely go.
ECL is situated on a 36 acre wooded site in Ecully,
a small suburb to the west of Lyon. With just 750
undergraduates and 250 postgraduates the campus
is earily quiet for much of the time. The four halls of
residence show the greatest signs of life. Here the first
and second years are accommodated; most third
years rent flats at a nearby apartment complex, which
is considered inconvenient by the students owing to
the ten minute walk to the school-they'd have a
shock at IC. The buildings are similar to Imperial —
another architect with an obsession for rectangles has
been at large.
One of the many attractions of studying in France
has to be the food. The university restaurant was a
little disappointing with not much choice and
unexciting stodgy food. However, the well organised
students' union has had the price of the whole three
course meal reduced to a flat fee of just one pound,
which rather disgraces the prices at the MDH. The
restaurant is closed on alternate weekends; the union
has sprung into action once again and negotiated a
15% discount at the local supermarket's excellent
restaurant. A large plate of smoked salmon cost me
just 85p. Breakfast is taken in the kitchens on each
floor of the halls, and consists of bread and coffee.
Page 34
reputation of Bordeaux' dry whites. The standard of
the wines was consistently high, from his bargain
£2.39 easy drinking and attractive 1987 Ch. Bonnet
to the impressive £6.99 1987 Ch. La Louviere from
the Graves which had a lovely marriage of honeyed
oak flavours and leafy currant flavours.
The sweet wines, however, stole the show. At no
charge to the society Dave managed to bring along
two different Premier Grand Cru Sauternes costing
over £20 each. Predictably, perhaps, the favourite
sweet wine and also the most expensive. Ch.
Rieussec is a neighbour of the legendary Ch. D'Yquem
and the 1982 which we tasted had a deep
golden/orange colour and an intensely sweet but
balanced flavour with a long finish tasting slightly of
marmalade. Most people felt that the 1984 Cypres de
Climens offered the best value for money. The
excellent Ch. Climens, which we also tasted, didn't
release their classed grown wine in '84 and produced
only under their 2nd label: Cypres de Climens at
considerable financial loss. For £5.99 a bottle this
golden coloured and intensely musty and syrupy wine
was worth more than every penny it cost. Rumour has
it that Sainsbury are selling it, under their own label
half-bottles, for the same price!
By the time you read this I hope you will have
enjoyed this term's last tasting of Alsace wines. Don't
miss the couple of events we're planning for next
term: an enlightening tasting of Austrian wines and,
possibly, a trip to an English vineyard.
Happy Easter!
The French education system is quite different to
ours. To get to ECL, France's best engineering school
outside Paris, a student would have to do well in the
French equivalent of 'A' Levels, the Bacalaureate, and
then progress to the Classes Preparatoires where
maths and physics are studied intensively for two
years. The only real problem facing exchange students
is surprisingly not the French, but the maths. Not only
do the French know a lot more but they have also been
taught to think about maths in a more theoretical way.
Careful selection of courses helps to ease this
problem. The exchange is not just for super students,
it is open to any engineer who can obtain a 2/1 at the
end of part II and speaks reasonably fluent French.
We were hosted by the French students
themselves, to give us a real taste of life at ECL. Our
itinerary was most impressive, we met their Director
of Studies, toured the labs, attended a lecture, saw
a student production of Sartre's Huis Clos, listened
to a rock concert on campus, ate crepes, dined in a
Lyon restaurant and toured Lyon twice in just three
days. We all wished we could stay on longer on
Sunday night as we were driven back to the airport.
The students have very formal relationships with the
teaching staff, but amongst themselves there is a
great camaraderie, with only 750 student everyone
seems to know everyone else.
Two hours is the time of the best and worse
features of ECL. The lectures last a heavy two hours,
but the Alps are just two hours away. Besides 1992
and all that, I would like to study there for it would
be a refreshing contrast after two years of inner city
Imperial.
Enviro
Soc
On Thursday March 22 at 12.45pm in Mech Eng 542,
the Environmental Society (ICU EATS) will be holding
a lecture entitled 'Transport in the 3rd World'. Given
by Alan Smith of Intermediate Technology Transport,
the lecture will concentrate on local, appropriate
technology that can be applied to transport in the
developing countries, designing specific transport
solutions for them rather than giving them yesterday's
designs from the West.
Following this lecture at 1.45pm, the Society will
be holding it's Annual General Meeting to elect a new
committee for next year. Envirosoc is a high profile,
politically neutral society orientated around lectures
and campaigns. This is your chance to get involved
not only in the running, but also hopefully influence
the way the Environment and Appropriate Technology
are seen and presented around College. There are
many posts available ranging from publicity through
to information collation, lecture organisation and
campaigning. More information will be given at the
meeting.
Rock gig
If you missed this, be sorry. Even the support band,
the Green Meanies, although they hadn't bothered to
dress up, played a really enjoyable frantic, noisy set
reminiscent of much of the heavy metal of the late
70s and early 80s. The Meanies can't sing, but they
played well in a style that allows shouted lyrics to
sound alright. They were called upon to give a couple
of encores, which seemed to surprise them. We were
only the third audience ever to hear them live.
A couple of records were played, and then E.T.A.
began in a blaze of guitar-lashing, which they
commenced before walking onto the stage. Recently
they have been supporting major acts in larger venues,
and some of those who had already seen them
cheered expectantly. Their tight jeans, studded belts
and fancy shirts suggested either Glam Rock or Power
Metal. They would have to be good not to seem like
an anti-climax after the Meanies. Not only were they
good; they were great. They began with some original
Power material and soon shifted into a Glam/Power
blend that pleased almost everyone. Even their few
covers were played with enough skill and flare to be
improvements on the originals, although not a patch
on the bands own songs. The vocals were good,
although the vocalist had the embarrassing babit of
touching his dick and cheering louder than the
audience. The instrumentation was excellent. If you
like Thin Lizzy, Guns 'n' Roses, Judas Priest, Iron
Maiden and Faster Pussycat, watch out for E. T.A. in
future.
The evening's entertainment finished with a disco
and everyone had a really good time; it was a shame
only about 100 people turned up. It would have been
nice to see more unfamiliar faces, to be part of a
bigger crowd. This was the best evening's
entertainment I can clearly remember, if the next
RockSoc event is only one tenth as good, you'd have
to be a dick head not to come.
Jason Pike.
French Exchange

