Bazoft demonstration
There have been demonstrations outside the Iraqi
embassy in Queen's Gate for over a week. The
peaceful demonstrations were organized by the
National Union of Journalists in response to the death
sentence imposed and carried out on M r Farzad
Bazoft, a journalist working for 'The Observer' in
Iraq.
Mr Bazoft was executed by the Iraqi authorities last
Thursday on charges of spying for Britain and Israel.
This is denied by the Government and M r Bazoft's
associates. The sentence was carried out despite
appeals for clemency to the President of Iraq, Saddam
Hussein.
B S i l H n i l
Fingers Barber cut Zoophilia
Mr Terry Briley, security officer at I C, has issued
a warning about continued wallet thefts in the college.
There were six such thefts reported last week. A man
was apprehended last Friday in Notting Hill who was
in possession of three credit cards belonging to IC
students. He had no connection with the college.
A thief who was discovered at City College escaped
leaving a number of wallets belonging to members
of the Royal School of Mines.
Mr Briley said that he thought that the thieves
considered the college a soft touch.
Two Apple Mac computers collectively worth about
£3,500 were stolen soon after they were delivered to
the basement of Mechanical Engineering last Friday
morning. An electric generator, weighing several
hundredweight was also stolen from the college.
Well received
The Rector's Reception, traditionally the start to a
new year, has been cancelled for the 1990/91 session.
It will be replaced by three separate C C U receptions
at which the respective Dean and a representative from
IC Union will speak. It is not yet known if the Rector
will speak at the meetings. The arrangements have
been changed due to concern over crowding in the
Great Hall in previous years.
The new Dean of the Royal College of Science will
be Professor J. T. Stuart FRS of the Mathematics
Department. He will be taking over from Professor
J. Barber on September 1st this year, and his term
of office will last three years.
Professor Barber was elected eighteen months ago
to complete the term of office of Professor Albery,
who left the college before his three years were up.
No contest
Southwell Hall drinking club, Diggers, have been
banned from using union facilities after a dinner last
Friday. One member vomited during the first course
of the dinner and another urinated on a table. A £100
bill for broken crockery has been sent to the club,
as well as a bill for 48 broken glasses.
The dinner saw the initiation of ex-union president,
Sydney Harbour-Bridge as an honorary member of
the club. M r Harbour-Bridge was required to stand
on a chair and drink a pint of beer in one. After this,
one member called for M r Harbour-Bridge to strip,
which he refused to do. The member proceeded to
stand on the table and urinate before challenging M r
Harbour-Bridge to a masturbating contest, which he
declined.
PRIVATISATION! • POLLUTION, PAN IMIWKKS rue f u w 7\ » ,
Imperial College Union rag raised £892.55 for
M E N C A P last Wednesday. The money was collected
in a city wide pub crawl. Top collector was Laurie
McNamee, with £182.89, followed by A led Fenner
with £151.72.
Students from ICU rag will take part in a zoo break
from London next term. Volunteers will be sponsored
to travel as far as possible in 24 hours, whilst dressed
as animals. The event will take place on May 19.
Anyone interested should attend the rag meeting on
Friday.
Referendum
Continuing negotiations over the profits from the
Harlington sports ground excavations between the
Governing Body and Imperial College Union have
resulted in the Rector, Sir Eric Ash, asking the Union
to hold a referendum amongst students on the matter.
Mr Neil McCluskey, president of ICU, maintains
that the profits ought to go into improving athletics
facilities. The Harlington ground has been out of
action for about three years and is still not suitable
for playing on.
Sherfield administration believes the profits should
go into a general fund. Sir Eric forwarded a suggestion
that the union should hold a referendum on the issue.
The Rector said that the 'common ground' was that
the profits should go towards student facilities.
'Student housing is one of the great problems facing
our students' he added.
He told Felix that the idea of a referendum was not
unthinkable, at least once a year. When asked if the
lack of interest in sabbatical elections might indicate
that even fewer students would take interest in a
referendum, he responded by saying that perhaps
greater participation in college politics may stimulate
more interest in the sabbaticals. He said that a
referendum must be on a simple 'yes-or-no' issue.
This meant, in his view, that the proposed careers
service cutbacks could not be put to students in the
same way. He said that he 'couldn't detect any
enthusiasm on the issue (the referendum) in the
Governing body.'
At the moment, all decisions concerning the sports
ground must go through ICU. Both the Rector and
Professor Peter Richards, the Dean of St. Mary's,
thought that this was too restrictive and should be
changed so that the Union is just consulted in the
decision making process. Eight members of the
Governing body voted for this amendment against the
rest who abstained. Mr McCluskey is now looking
into the Union's legal position.
Page 5

