Racing Demon
The twentieth century has been chipping away at the
rock of the Church of England. David Hare's latest play
reveals a Church at near crisis point; Faced with such
objects of contention as women priests and
homosexual tolerance plus dwindling attendance;
down to less than 1%, there are no easy answers.
The Reverend Lionel Espy, who resides over a
typical deprived inner-city parish, is beginning to
question his faith. But with such a crisis, now is not
the time to doubt. He is highly involved in work in the
community and tends to preach humanity rather than
religious sincerity. However, according to Tony, his
fire and brimstone curate and the conservative
bishops above him.this is not the way to pull the
crowds. Tough, Thatcheresque, Anglican
'fundamentalism' is the tonic they prescribe.
Their uncompromising stance is however
contradicted when it comes to policy making at the
General Synod where they produce a form of wishy-
washy liberalism with no genuine conviction. Two of
Lionel's friends, eccentric but lovable 'Streaky' and
homosexually leaning Harry, battle with Lionel against
this formidable opponent whilst Frances, Tony's ex-
girlfriend, exposes in a heartfelt tone the Chruch's
apparent lack of humanity.
This all makes for a piece of extremely absorbing
and exhilarating drama, also endowed with a vibrant
Book
With Passport
and Parasol
by Julia Keay
All the famous explorers of the Victorian age were
male, or so they were portrayed by a very sexist and
elitist society.
While Livingstone was hacking through the jungles
of Africa searching for the source of the Nile, women,
all of 'good stock', were only a few years behind.
The book contains seven travel-logs, each a brief
narration of a ladies travels in a world far removed
from the present day's package holidays, with the
associated delays and worries. Each was an
independent traveller, looking down at the people who
were on one of Cook's early tours, there was a great
deal of snobbery involved in foreign travel.
One pre-requisite of going on any such journey was
to have a very comfortable standard of living, indeed
being filthy rich was the norm, not the exception. The
money for the trip need not be your own, being the
wife of the effective ruler of India always helps.
Travel was extravagant in Victorian times, even an
'independent' traveller would have some companions,
a friend and perhaps some sort of protector but
12,000 people is a bit excessive!
Each story is different from the last, although they
do tend to be a bit boring in places, going into mindless
details that do not make a good story. Extract of each
of the traveller's own logs are contained in with the
main text; showing the old style of writing, particularly
of supposed 'upper class' people.
The book is from a radio series broadcast on radio
4 but self-contained.
As an overall comment I would say that it is
reasonable, not compelling but also not deadly boring.
Ian Hodge.
Page 6
Theatre
sense of humour, interesting staging and outstanding
acting. Hare's acute observations are numerous and
relevant to both secular and religious society-through
them he doesn't so much moralise about the Church
as offer constructive advice-compassion, tolerance
and clear-sightedness should all be watchwords for
the Nineties. The one problem is that this superb
production is sold out until April (at least) so there will
be no student standbys: Pray for tickets!
The National Theatre box office is on 928 2033.
Adrian Pagan
Joe Turner's 7 1
Come and Gone
Seth and Bertha Holly's quiet life is disturbed by the
arrival of a new boarder, Herald Loomis. He has a
problem and it looks like Bynum, regarded as slightly
mad by most, is the only one that can help...
Joe Turners' Come and Gone is by August Wilson, the
author of the highly acclaimed Ma Rainy's Black
Bottom and deals with similar themes. Set in a black
boarding house after the Emancipation Proclamation,
it tells of the way all its residents' lives intermesh and
especially of one particular boarder's quest to bury the
past by finding his wife. The play is superbly
written-the dialouge is extremely convincing and
there is a wonderful use of symbolism the whole way
through. The cast are all superb down even to the
children and with the imaginative lighting effects one
is transferred Pittsburgh for the course of the play.
Totally engrossing it is a gem that is not to be missed
at any cost.
It is playing at The Tricycle Theatre, 269 Kilburn
High Road, NW6. Nearest tube is Kilburn (surprise,
surprise) and concessionary tickets cost £1.50 Mon-
Wen and Sat matinee, £5.00 Thu, Fri. On Mondays
the first 50 people who turn up pay what they c a n -
turn up around 7 O'clock.
Adam T.
New Anatomies
Theatre
The last in the trio of plays directed by women,
running at the Man in the Moon Theatre Club, New
Anatomies, tells the story .of the life of Isabelle
Eberhandt-a female Lawrence of Arabia.
Born in Switzerland at the turn of the century
Eberhandt fled convention and, disguised as a man,
lived as a nomad in the desert of Algeria.
The play spans her whole life, from an unhappy
childhood in Geneva, the daughter of a Russian
Revolutionary, through the fulfillment of her dream to
travel in the desert, to her tragic and bizarre death at
an early age.
The plays begins with Eberhandt delirious with fever
at the start of her tragic downfall which sets the mood
for the play and arouses interest.
She was a highly imaginative and widely read child
and with her background revealed to us we can easily
understand the course of her life.
How factual this modern play by Timberlake
Westenbahen is, I don't know but, especially with the
interpretation by the director, it seems to be more
concerned with symbolism than realism.
There are nineteen roles, both male and female, in
this play, and they are divided between six actresses.
The director obviously believes it emphasises certain
points-to do with symbolism, but I do not see that
this is necessary. Both this and the homosexual or
rather anti-conventionalist theme that seems to run
through this play due to the director's interpretation,
in my opinion, detract from the value of the play as
a testimony to Eberhandt. With men in male roles and
a more masculine looking actress as Eberhandt the
reality of the play would be greatly enhanced and any
point that needed to be made could equally well have
been emphasised. Unusual production is very
effective when necessary, but with over use it can
become bland and lose all its impact.
The Man in the Moon Theatre Club, 392 Kings
Road, Chelsea, London SW3. New Anatomies is
running in rep until April 28, Tuesday-Sunday,
8.30pm. Concessionary tickets cost £4. Ring the box
office on 351 2876 for more details.
JLW.

