Steel Magnolias
'As somebody always said... if you can't say anything
nice about anybody, sit by me.'
'Louie brought his girlfriend home... the nicest thing
I can say about her is that her tattoos are spelt
correctly.'
'Men are the most horrible creature honey, they'll
ruin your life, mark my word.'
These bitter-sweet one-liners come so fast and
furious that you've hardly recovered from one when
you're on to the next. But rather like a rasher of
streaky bacon, the humour alternates with a
touchingly human story.
Six southern women (played by such silver screen
gems as Sally Field, Julia Roberts, Shirley Maclaine,
Olympia Dukakis, Daryl Hannah and last but not least
Dolly Parton) find it nigh impossible to hide anything
from each other. Shelby (Sally Field) is a serious
diabetic. She decides against the wishes of her mother
(Julia Roberts) to have a child despite doctors'
categorical warnings not to. It's obvious right from the
very beginning that there's a life support machine with
her name on it, so there's no surprise when after
charting several years of Shelby's thirst for the best
in life the film closes with her untimely demise.
The meat of the film though is Shelby's and the rest
of the unlikely stories determination and will to
survive. Men on the other hand play little part in the
proceedings, this doesn't necessarily mean that the
film's unrepresentative, it's just about female
friendship rather than 'male bonding' (as in Family
Magnum
This memorial photograph of a young Palestinian is
one of almost 400 on display in a new exhibition
entitled 'The world as seen by Magnum
photographers'. Englishman Chris Steele-Perkins, one
of the'younger members of the photographers'
consortium, shot it in Beirut in 1982.
The Hayward Gallery is currently presenting the
work of 52 photographers, among them the top
photojournalists of the age. The collection 'In Our
Time' marks the first group retrospective and
contrasts documentary images of the past 50 years.
You will find Robert Capa's controversial Death of
a Loyalist Soldier (Spain 1936) among the pictorial
reports from such places of war and unrest as the
Spanish Civil War, Algeria, Hungary, Vietnam, Ulster,
Iran, Nicaragua and, most recently, Tiananmen Square
in China.
But there are also the more human and even
humoresque images of life. Watch out for the portrait
of Henri Matisse among white doves in his studio
(taken by Henri Cartier-Bresson in 1944) or Bernard
Berenson flirting with marble in the Borghese Gallery,
Rome (David Seymour (Chim), 1955).
The international collective Magnum was founded
in April 1947 by Robert Capa, Henri Cartier-Bresson,
George Rodge, David Seymour (Chim), Maria Eisner
and Rita and William Vandivert. Their common desire
was to retain professional autonomy for the
photographers and freedom from editorial control for
individual and artistic views.
Today the archives of Magnum (offices in New
York, Paris and London) contain remarkable pieces of
photojournalism (but no fashion or advertisement
shots).
Business for example).
Steel Magnolias could so easily fall into the traps
that so many soap operas do: but it doesn't moralise
nor does it sentimentalise; it observes events based
on the real life experiences of the author leaving most
Exhibition
This carefully selected exhibition at the South Bank
presents an image of life in recent times. It shows how
photojournalism can tell stories, in a way that televion
has never been able to accomplish.
Michael H Wapelhorst.
Hayward Gallery, South Bank Centre, open daily
10am-6pm (Tuesday & Wednesday until 8pm), until
May 6, £2.00 for students.
people with a distinctive sniffle. Ladels of piquant,
chocolatety wit poured over a recipe of refreshing
realism have this film currently served up at Number
5 in the film charts. Yum Yum.
Adrian Pagan.
The Fabulous*
Baker Boys
Jack and Frank (Jeff and Beau Bridges) are The
Fabulous Baker Boys. Unfortunately these days
they're not so fabulous. After being sacked from
regular venues, they decide to try out a female singer
to bring some life into the act. A truly appalling set
of auditions ensue from which they pick Susie
Diamond (Michelle Pfeiffer). Getting off to a shaky
start, she soon revitalises the act with her own unique
brand of performance. Then a relationship starts to
develop between Jack and Susie, much to Frank's
later displeasure.
This is not a film for the lover of intricate plots. The
plot is there, but is extremely rudimentary. Instead we
have one of those relationship movies that are so in
vogue these days. Jeff Bridges and Michelle Pfeiffer
provide the necessary 'drool factor' for Box Office
success while the small supporting cast are adequate
(especially the dog). Unfortunately, despite the actors'
best efforts we never really start to care for the
characters and the whole thing ambles pointlessly but
effortlessly.
The ending is inconclusive and leaves one feeling
that the last reel has been misplaced. The only
unequivocally memorable scene is the one where Ms
Pfeiffer sings 'Makin' Whoopee' while cavorting
around on a piano. Cold shower time for the males,
extreme boredom (or jealousy) for the women.
Incidently, this is a much better performance from Ms.
Pfeiffer than her last singing effort, the unspeakably
dreadfull and horribly overlong Grease II. Otherwise
an unexceptional film that isn't really worth the
London entrance price.
Adam T.
Page 7

