The Vanek Plays
Theatre
Vaclav Havel, the first democratic president of
Czechoslovakia in fifty years, is rapidly becoming a
true international statesman. Yet after an
announcement last week, which said he was not to
patronise the European stage company's latest
production of his three one-act plays during a
forthcoming visit to Britain, he seems to be playing
down his position as an international dramatist.
The Vanek plays as such were originally written by
and for a group of Havel's friends in the mid-1970s;
a time when such political theatre was banned in their
native Czechoslovakia. The three that Havel wrote
himself: Audience, Protest and Private View share a
common character, Ferdinand Vanek, with those
penned by his friends are currently being performed
in pairs at the Lyric Studios, Hammersmith.
Vanek's inscrutable docility and politeness to his
friends and colleagues frustrates them and pushes
them into exhasperated moral self-justifications. In
Audience, the head maltster in a brewery becomes
increasingly fearful of factory floor worker Vanek's
cordial silence which he misconceives to be 'a
playwright's moral superiority'. In between frequent
glasses of beer and trips to the loo, this darkly comic
portrait of the maltsters dead-end life shows us what
it's like to be a victim of the system.
An intriguing moral and political confrontation is
developed in Protest, where a television writer who
'accommodates' the stystem and is himself
accommodated by the system tries using a variety of
absurd arguments to worm his way out of signing a
political petition. And in the third play A Private View,
Vanek is invited round by a couple of Americanised
social climbing friends to admire their newly furnished
flat. There is much humour in this piece as Michael
and Vera attempt to show Vanek just what he might
be missing. They even go as far as passionately
snogging in front of him saying 'After we've finished
our little chat with you, we'll show you some more-
we'll only be too happy to show you how things are
done in this respect.' But in refusing their
entreatments to join their lifestyle Vanek frustrates
them to both epic and comic proportions.
QED has several meanings, 'quod erat demonstranum'
being the latin version, 'quite easily done' is another
if you believe the television programme of the same
name, but it also has a meaning you would not of
heard of, unless you happen to be a physicist.
Quantum elecrodyanmics is as close to a unified
theory that has been achieved, putting all physical
phenomenon, except gravitational effects and nuclear
physics, in terms of three rules. These rules are as
follows:
1. A photon moves from one place to another.
2. An electron moves from one place to another.
3. An electron absorbed or emits a photon.
You may well ask, 'how does that explain anything
?', well as most things that happen are so complex
and involve innumerable applications of these rules
their individual effect cannot be detected easily.
Even these rule are not as simple as they seem. An
electron moving form one place to another may emit
an electron, and at a latter stage re-absorb its own
photon. It can do this any number of times in its
Page 8
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
With strong skillful performances and sensitive
direction there is much to be enjoyed in this
production: people usually shy away when a play is
labelled 'political theatre', but this political theatre is
truly accessible.
An interesting postscript:
'Everything's happening at a mad pace, there are no
ready-made politicians of tomorrow able to step in
today. So, for a short period at least, people will have
to do with symbols-and they are taking me for one,
though God knows why. I am on supply, an amateur
standing in for a professional politician. I hope that
soon, I will be allowed to step down and be a
playwright again. '-Vaclav Havel, a few weeks before
he was elected president of Czechoslovakia.
The Lyric box office is on 741 2311.
Adrian Pagan.
journey and can even absorb the photon before it
emits it!
The book is a transcript of four lectures given by
Richard Feyman in which he explains how such
supposedly basic facts like light goes in a straight line,
light 'bounces' off of a mirror at the same angle it
comes in and light goes at a constant speed are not
actually true.
The style of explanation is such that it is fairly
simple to understand, the first two chapters are simple
enough for even me to understand. In the third chapter
things get slightly more complicated but not
excessively so, but in the final one he shoots off at
a tangent, going on about sub-atomic particles and
things that are beyond my interests and
understanding. This last chapter does not seem to
belong to the rest of the book, it is almost like an after
thought, a list of things he wanted to say could not
fit in.
This then calls into question who this book is aimed
for. Physicists will get bored with the first half (being
Film
The House of
Bernada Alba
The House of Bernada Alba has been adapted from
the play by Federico Lorca. Among with other Spanish
artists, he argued against the totalitarianism which
abounded in early twentieth century Spain. This story
is a powerful one in its own right, but there are clearly
greater ideas to which he alludes.
The plot concerns the family of Bernada Alba, who
recently widowed, commits her family to a period of
eight years to mourn the death of her husband. But
her five daughters are already into womanhood, and
the thought of isolation from society, and especially
men is too hard for them to bear. The one male figure
is Pepe el Romano. He is attracted by the wealth of
the eldest daughter, Augustias, and comes to court
her. However, the situation that Bernada has created
is an explosive one.
Bernada is undoubtedly the key to the story. It is
her power that lays the rules by which everyone must
live. Tragically the morals that she upholds have little
to do with fairness or justice, they are those of a male
society, constucted to their favour. None the less, she
is merciless in her aims, and any truth that may
contradict them, is simply re-written in her mind. It
is an amusing point to note that some of the most
telling and truthful comments are uttered by the
grandmother, who is otherwise completely senile.
Whilst it often lacks the immediacy of theatre, film
is an excellent conveyor of emotion. Cinema allows
us to witness the gentler accents of intonation and
facial expression that would be lost on stage, alough
it may sometimes miss the compulsiveness of live
performance. The credit for this must fall equally on
both director, Mario Camus, and the actresses, who
bring the piece alive. It is also a rare thing that the
images of a film can stand alone in their own right,
and it is a great credit to the director of photography,
Fernando Arribas to have achieved this. This is a
powerful drama and it makes compulsive viewing.
Matthew G. Johnson
Book
too simple for them), and understand the second while
the rest of us will do the reverse but get bored for the
opposite reason. Sub-atomic particles such as quarks
do not seem to effect everyday life so why should we
worry about them?
I wondered at several stages 'why bother', all of the
theories that have been pulled together using QED can
be perfectly well understood using the theory that
already exists. What do we gain from the unification
of theories that appear to be unrelated? Some pure
research does produce results that are of practical
use, however most of it does not. Scientist are always
trying to find faults in theories, pushing boundaries
back, making amazing new discoveries, but why?
Priced at five pounds and only one hundred and fifty
pages it is not very good value for money but if you
are interested in the subject and are not a physicist
them it could be worth reading.
Ian Hodge.
QED by Richard Feynman

