Black Rain
Film
No, this is not a re-run of the highly successful Black
Rain starring Micheal Douglas.
Shohei Imamure is renowned for good quality films
with an eye to realism and documentaries. His latest
film Black Rain is a drama chronicling the life of a
family who walk through Hiroshima just after the first
atom bomb has been dropped on the city. At the time
they are unaware of the dangers or even the existence
of high radioactivity.
The story soon slips on to 1950. Yasuko, the young
girl, has not yet found a husband because as soon as
any suitor hears that she was in Hiroshima soon after
the bomb was detonated they don't want to marry
her-health is important in a wife. Even in post-war
Japan the arrangement of a marriage was a very
formal affair and to have failed to find a husband by
the time you were 25 was a shame. Her uncle and
aunt, with whom she lives, try to do their best for her
but to no avail.
Many people in the village where they live have
been affected by the bomb and the war. Yasuko's
uncle sees many of his friends die from radiation
sickness-he too has many symptoms but they do not
progress very quickly.
The film is shot in black and white with the original
soundtrack and English subtitles. That is really my only
complaint about the film-l don't like subtitles
because you can't watch the film properly when you
have to keep on reading the subtitles. The black and
white adds to the starkness of some of the scenes
in Hiroshima and also to the period feel of the film.
I'm glad it was in black and white as I don't think I
could have stomached some of the scenes in colour-
people, their bodies burnt all over walking around
crying in pain, just waiting to die; charred corpses in
various attitudes of tortured death; bodies lying or
sitting on the ground twitching slightly; stiff corpses
floating down the river, bumping over stones on the
beds of streams; people trapped under rubble
clutching out at passers by imploring their help. And
then you think people actually had to endure all this,
and worse, and in full colour, and 3-D as well.
A marvellous attention to detail characterises this
film-a dog frolics just before the blast, a clock blasted
out of a train is found in the river later when Yasuko
and her aunt ferry across to Hiroshima. This detail is
even, perhaps more so, shown in the scenes of horror
in the city. A woman nurses her charred baby, a man
leans out of a window and shouts, 'Hiroshima! Where
is Hiroshima?', a man does not recognise his brother
who runs up to him because he is badly burned all over
and insists on proof of his identity.
Some Confusion in the
Law About Love
This is the seventh bizarre production from the small
Sheffield based touring company, Forced
Entertainment. For six years this cooperative has been
breaking new ground with its exciting productions and
their latest is no exception.
'A whole load of confusion about the plot', might
have been a more apt title, for the work is contorted.
The playwright has tried to expose the way we relate
to the world, think and generally function. Our lives
are complex, our minds are disorganised so how can
a true representation be compartmentalised into
conventional scenes and acts? The play leaves
conformity behind to explore the subject unhindered.
Thus there is little in the way of plot to describe.
The play is a result of much 'three in the morning
Nescafe philosophy' beloved of students. To convey
these rambling abstract concepts in just two hours
calls for unusual devices. Fragments of sex acts, love
suicides and tales of Presley coming back from the
grave. To ease the ideas along, the play is amply
topped up with humour, which relies on superb dead
pan delivery of the lines. The actors' performances are
as polished as is the whole play. In our age where
literary theatre has a stranglehold on respectability
and power, it is good to see some confusion breaking
through.
Please note that half way through the play the three
main characters take most of their clothes off and the
women put on false breasts and the man a false penis.
This is a necessary part of the play although it may
Theatre
cause offense to some people.
The average ICA goer has a propensity to wear
magenta lipstick, wear magenta clothes and be called
Magenta, this quirkiness lends the place an
atmosphere which enhances enjoyment of the play.
This very alternative production is certainly not for the
proverbial maiden aunt, but should please most open-
minded people.
Charles Tomkins.
As Yasuko and her uncle and aunt travel across the
city they meet a man who tells them of how he found
his son trapped under rubble and tried to free him.
Finding he couldn't however, and with the fires
beginning to spread, he ran away and left him despite
his son's pleas. Yasuko and her family are disgusted,
but how many would have done the same?
The film also explores the agonies of why the
Americans dropped the atom bombs when they were
winning-one of the men felt he couldn't die until he
knew.
Black Rain gives a powerful insight into the lives of
long surviving victims of the Bomb. It chronicles with
stark realism the horrors and agonies of the memory
and how they cope with trying to go back to a normal
life afterwards. Unlike so many films and plays the
ending is as strong as the rest and makes a great
impact on the viewer.
JLW
Film
Roger and Me
Michael Moore grew up in Fiint, Michigan, birthplace
of Gigacorporation General Motors, at a time when
America was still the most powerful trading nation on
Earth. All of his relations worked in one or other of
the gaint GM plants that dominated the local
economy. Times were good for the well paid workers.
Moore did not, however, find the thought of a life
spent on an assembly line appealing, so he left for San
Francisco to be a magazine editor.
He was moved to return to his home town by the
news of plant closures and huge job losses, as well
as the fact that he was sacked from his magazine job.
The film he made there is about a town that has no
reason to exist anymore. Shops closed down, crime
soared, and attempts at replacing industry with
tourism failed miserably. Money magazine voted Flint
the least loved city in the whole country.
Moore tries repeatedly to get an interview with
Roger Smith, chairman of GM and the person Moore
feels is responsible for this misery.
He also takes a camera to numerous interviews with
the people of Flint to get their reactions. This forms
the body of the film, and very strange people they are
too. The situations and characters could have come
from David Byrne's True Stories, but they are for real.
Most of the events shown in the film are tragic, but
it is also very funny in places.
Roger and Me is not a run of the mill American film,
but definately worth a look if you can find it.
Jim Loaf.
Page 9

