Senseless Things + Carter
T.U.S.M. + Nutmeg ULU 2.3.90
Nutmeg were purely a visual experience. The lead
singer seemed to possess the energy of the whole
band and could well have been the bastard son of
Mick Jagger. Evident from the way he prowled so
agily around the stage; a cross between an Egyptian
on E and a headless ostrich! As a support band with
no possibiltiy of an encore they made their own
alternative; instead of leaving the stage, the stage
lights were turned off until there were enough shouts
to turn them back on again, and so they continued.
Farcically funny, who cares about the music?
Next came... Carter the Unstoppable Sex Machine
(Jimbob and Fruitbat), with their uncanny mix of
vocals, guitars and backing tracks of drums, bass,
synth and various samplers. They are presently riding
high, victims of a recent music media frenzy.
What was decipherable through the crap sound
system was excellent, but it was only the general
momentum which carried, with the cutting vocals and
lyrics ritually massacred. The guitars, which create a
'foreground' or 'backdrop' to each track were reduced
to an inconsequential 'fuzz.' Still unperturbed, they
played a set leading us by the scruff of the neck,
through the life and attitudes of the 80's, and on to
the 90's. Beginning with Everytime the Churchbell
rings they continued with Midnight on the murder mile
and Sheriff Fatman amongst others, and concluded
with A perfect day to drop the bomb.
Replacing such serious music with a far more
frivolous attitude were the Senseless Things, who
Jesus Jones
—Real Real Real 12 "
The new single from the Joneses comes as rather a
disappointment. After the early promise they showed
with singles like Info Freako with its eclectic mix of
sample and guitar noise they appear to have run low
on initiative.
This record still has the odd little electronic
eructations but rather than flaunting themselves over
the more traditional instruments they are incorporated
into the mix at a deeper level, losing some of their
charm. The exuberant vocals sound out of place
against the almost pedestrian backing. On the plus
side, one side of the 12" is a competent (but not
brilliant) mini-anthem; the other sounds like a slightly
tripped-out House number. Too polished for their own
good.
Stone.
played a near non-stop forty-five minute set. Each
song bounded merrily into the next with the energy
of four hyperactive youths, but carrying the same lack
of maturity in their material. They sound like The
Primitives, though far faster plus extra guitarist, male
vocalist and much more vitality.
Still the lemmings were out in force, seemingly
oblivious to the stifling sweafbox atmosphere.
Most of the material was from their relatively
successful Postcard CV LP, plus new work from their
mini-LP, Andy in a Karmann, to be released this
month. The catchy songs which stick in the mind
were Girlfriend, Trevor and Too much kissing,
although there were many more forgettable tunes.
With all that vigour and time on their hands, they
have every chance of doing something less superficial,
if they want to. Until then they will remain fast, fun
and furious.
DEL.
The Soup Dragons
—Mother Universe 12"
Clouds roll by, the sun shines and the love mix ebbs
across the room. The Summer of Love '90 is finally
here; with more records like this it may be a long and
joyous one. Cosmic man.
Solar and 7" mixes have a more dancey sound, but
still don't escape the enchanting simplicity. Never
have discos been so cosmic.
Venturing so far from their indie pop roots of the
mid-eighties, they have found new inspiration.
Hopefully this will carry onto their forthcoming album,
Love God, and keep the Summer of Love '90 thriving.
13Q
THE EASTER GUIDE TO
RESURRECTION
Wednesday 21 March
The Fall Kilburn National
Thursday 22 March
The Stranglers Brixton Academy
Blue Aeroplanes Astoria
Nutmeg Opera on the Green, Shep. Bush
Friday 23 March
(on the first day...)
The Mission Wembley Arena
Neds Atomic Dustbin Marquee
Public Enemy Brixton Academy
Saturday 24 March
Bomb Disneyland Marquee
Every New Dead
Ghost The Robey, Finsbury Pk.
Monday 25 March
House of Love Kilburn National
Cowboy Junkies Dominion
That Petrol Emotion Subterrania
David Bowie Docklands Arena
Thursday 29 March
Senseless Things The Venue, New Cross
Friday 30 March
Claytown Troupe Astoria
Saturday 31 March
(but then on the second day...)
Birdland + Carter T.U.S.M +
Cud + Silverfish +
The Cateran Brixton Academy
Monday 2 April
The Icicle Works T&CC
Tuesday 3 April
(on the third day it came to pass...)
Cut Cut Emma Kennington Cricketers
Carter T.U.S.M Camden Palace
Friday 6 April
Ride ULU
Saturday 7 April
Happy Mondays Wembley
Sunday 8 April
All About Eve RAH
Lloyd Cole Brixton Academy
Del Amitri T&CC
Saturday 14 April
The Church T&CC
Monday 16 April
Mandela Concert Wembley
Felo-de-se Hastings Crypt
Tuesday 24 April
Sinead O'Connor Hammersmith Odeon
The Screaming Trees
—Chance Has Come EP
For a band of the Sub-Pop label, renowned for its hard-
core and thrash bands, such as Tad, Nirvana and
Mudhoney, this comes as a disappointing and
weightless attempt at trashy rock. Rock guitars drag
them into being an American version of Queen for the
90's, related to the English Queen of the 70's and
80's.
Harmless enough, some people even like this sort
of thing.
DEL.
Briggin
An average guitarist/singer, singing average love
songs.
Briefly Su.
Page 10

