22 MAY 1968 FELIX
The brass section of the Boston
Symphony Orchestra comprises
the first assault on the senses.
Three mighty chords batter the
ear-drums. Vision next. A cine-
matic " first" unfolds as we see
the rising of the sun over the
crescent of the earth, viewed from
a point in space somewhere be-
yond the moon—in Cinerama!
The eyes succumb. Mouths agape
and eyes a-goggle, the audience is
totally involved and the rapture is
maintained as a wide-angle lens
homes on our planet to scan
endless vistas in the first-light. It
is the Grand Canyon, the Sierra
Nevada and the Great Sahara it-
self—all in one and all drenched
•with flaring flamingo, crimson
and orange, bursting over the
horizon from the central orb
which is our sun. The effect is
total. But this is no ordinary
dawn. This, we are told, is the
jjawn of Man.
Skull Smashers
And there he is! Stooped,
hairy, uncouth and grunting may-
be but noticeably on his way up
on the evolutionary ladder. (In-
deed, the general impression of a
kindergarten's " Let's all pretend
we're Monkeys " session plus the
This film, apparently,—long ear-
marked by leaks from the industry
as a mile-stone in the art of
science fiction on the screen,—has
been in the enterprising mind of
director Stanley Kubrick ever
since the gigantic nuclear holo-
caust at the end of " Dr. Strange-
love " appeared to impress the
public. " If they like it big, then
we'll give it 'em big " is his policy
—a policy which in this case de-
voured 10 million dollars before
fruition! Made at M.G.M's.
Borehamwood Studios, the film
was earning dollars even before
it was released. Vickers Arm-
strong got 750,000 of them for
making a centrifuge to supply
Kubrick's voracious appetite for
artificial gravity. Sets bristle with
IBM's embryo 3-D variable-atti-
tude, line-drawing reproducer
and one doesn't have to see the
auto-gyros, the lasers, the holo-
graphic apparatus or the strobo-
scopes behind the banks of wink-
ing lights to know that they are
there. Fantasy—I think not. For
eo-scripting with Kubrick was
Arthur C. Clarke, an author of
great repute who surprises every-
one with the accuracy of his pre-
dictions, and who, we are in-
formed, got it all from NASA
anyway. There are nice, human
touches too. A nonreravity loo
sports a list of instructions long
Astronaut pieparea
contact lenses peering from be-
neath the thick eyebrows indicate
that he is a good deal further up
the ladder than we are meant to
realise). We find a large member
of the tribe grovelling amongst a
carcass. He spies a potent-look-
ing leg bone, "thinks" about it for
a full two minutes and straight-
way proceeds to smash the skull
of a rival primate. One can al-
most detect a " Eureka " through
his apish chortlings as he joyously1
hurls the weapon aloft. The brass I
of the Boston Symphony bows
out to the strings of the Berlin
Philharmonic and ous epic chords
are lost to the soaring intro of
"The Beautiful Blue Danube."
The spinning bone is now a rotat-
ing space-station as the film leaves
the Earth for ever and we are
again in space.
Non-gravity Loo
" 2001—A Space Odyssey"
(Casino Cinerama, A) for whose
West End Premiere Wells Soc.
(who was Sinclair Goodlad any-
way?) were sent two tickets, thus
begins with a murder which pre-
dates the Old Testament's version
of the same event by some 1\
million years. If this be a revela-
tion, it is nothing to what follows.
to leave space-ship
PktWeby courtesy of M.G.M.
enough to give the less capacious
members of the " Chaps" Club
nightmares and it is comforting to
note that even when you can
video-phone the family on earth
from the moon, you still have to
shout to be heard. And natur-
ally, there is the Computer,— a
completely reliable (of is it?),
omnipresent leviathan which not
only monitors every circuit in the
i ship but finds time off to beat the
crew at chess and to keep them
from boredom by chatting with
them in albeit condescending
tones.
while the rest of the crew " hiber-
nates " at a computer-controlled
4 degrees centigrade. Four
months out from Earth trouble
starts when the Computer, in the
film and hereafter affectionately
known as " Hal," appears to
boob badly. Hal vociferously
denies the error—logically point-
ing out to Dave and Frank that
they are more likely responsible.
Conspiracy ensues as the human
element debates on the sanity of
Hal. Mortified, the latter, having
committed Frank to float help-
lessly for ever among the stars,
forbids Dave's re-entry into the
main craft after a futile rescue
attempt, tactfully pointing out on
the way that he had better not try
walking it since he is wihout his
helmet. Undaunted, the astro-
naut, with two Ph.Ds and Adonis-
like fitness to his credit,works out
the solution and, in from the cold,
resolutely seeks revenge. There
follows a touching death scene
when he gets it by sadistically
disembowelling Hal by methodi-
cally breaking his vital circuits.
Oblivious to the computer's
pathetic mercy-pleas, Dave grants
it one last wish—to sing its first
song which it recalls during its
moribund review of its life. Thus,
to the knell of " Daisy, Daisy give
me . . . " etc. a great character
of the series expires and, without
even his three somnolent col-
leagues whose state Hal step-by-
step changed from " hibernating'
to "mouldering," Dave is alone.
Psychedelia
There follows the finale—help-
fully titled "Jupiter and Beyond."
To many, slightly bored by the
" pop " science fiction which has
so far kept the eyes enthralled but
has left the intellect unstirred, this
is the meat of the pie. Fifteen
minutes of unmitigated psyche-
delia with enough light to com-
pare with Piccadilly Circus as the
Universe to a grain of sand, plus
enough sound to prompt some of
the more sensitive of the specta-
tors to leave, bends the mind into
some kind of appreciation of the
final scenes. To describe these
would be pointless and meaning-
less to anyone who has not seen
the film. Actions and gestures
appear to be crazy—the lone sur-
vivor, gruesomely aged, finishes
his days in a seventeenth century
French boudoir! Deduce what
you will, for that is precisely what
the authors want of you. One
suspects that even Clarke Would
be pushed to rationalise Kubrick's
final f)ing but whatever conclu-
sions you reach, if they don't in-
volve man's Destiny, they're
probably no good!
Your very own star
And then there
was one • • •
The plot—like the artefacts—
is predictable. There is this per-
fectly rectangular, inert metal
monolith which causes great em-
barrassment to the " nothing-
before-us " league by cropping up
in a lunar crater. Prompted by
the thing's odd habit of beaming
an ear-splittingly high (you have
been warned) radio signal toward
Jupiter, an organisation approxi-
mating to an interplanetary U N
despatches the space-ship " Dis-
covery " to investigate. The ac-
tion concerns the two astronauts,
Dave and Frank, who run things
The film is a must, however, If
only because an average of one
fresh Special Effect for every 40
seconds of the film's 160 minute
duration is a tally surely without
equal in the annals of the In-
dustry. If this be an excuse for
somewhat creaking 'screenplay
then I for one will gladly go along
with it. And, as the programme
emotionally informs us,. " for
every man and woman who has
ever lived, in the Universe there
shines a star" who knows you
might see yours amongst the
myriads which are presented. Of
one thing you can be certain,
however, . . . it is not the Boston
Symphony which plays " God
Save the Queen " at the end
J. C. SPENCE.
\ 0 l o t ban
column.
At the end of a year, a number of people get the push. I had
a scaffold put up around my column the other day but fortunately
they only cleaned me up. The vitriol I've been told passes as ink
was drained from my pen and I turned a blind eye.
Sabbatical Year?
This> year's experience has tended to highlight the need for a
sabbatical year for the President. With academic work to do, it is
highly impracticable for the President to be in touch with students.
With no academic work, he would have the time to go the rounds
meeting his fellow students. Far from being a professional President,
he could be in better contact with student opinion.
But after
all that has been said and written about Ray Phillips,
he did a good job considering the disadvantages he laboured under.
His main disadvantage seems to have been that he has not had a well-
considered approach to his job. Many members of the Union and of
Council have thought out carefully a basis for their approach to
Union affairs. It is a kind of ideology though it is a personal one and
rarely Marxist or dogmatic. Ray does not appear to have had this
kind of approach, with the result that some of his decisions seem to
have been taken in isolation from other facts. So it was really inevit-
able that his pragmatic liberalism should have led to bad feeling when
it was felt he was being inconsistent.
"
I did," said Ray
A good example of this has just come to light. At last week's
Council meeting, someone asked Ray how student house wardens
had been selected. " By myself and the Rector," he said. " And who
decided that?" " I did," said Ray. This seems inconsistent with
his constant pressure for further student representation on College
committees. It is hard unless one has been specifically mandated, to
represent by one-self all shades of student opinion. It would there-
fore seem logical that if there are student representatives on com-
mittees, they should be adequately informed of student opinion. In
some matters, this general opinion may be that of a Union meeting, in
others that of Council: Council is after all constituted in a way
thought to be fairly representative of the student body. So it seems
bad for one student alone to select wardens for student houses. Any-
one who has had any experience of job selection will know that it is
usually done by a panel—otherwise personal prejudice can only too
easily enter into it. This is especially the case where candidates are
personally known to the selectors. Council decided eventually to
allow the President to select while giving itself the power to veto :
in addition, it stipulated that the jobs should be advertised within the
the College, something not done previously. What Council omitted to
observe was that it is awkward to veto a selection after it has been
done. The selection should be done by a panel of between three and
five students.
The sense of consensus
This incident seems typical of Ray's attitude. In the first year of
a new Rector striking changes have been brought about in bringing
students into the making of decisions. Much of the credit for this
must go to Ray. In addition, he has sh6wn himself quite able to
chair Union meetings and even Council meetings—no mean feat,
when many of Council have had much to say on a multitude of sub-
jects. But he also seems to have taken the view that because he was
elected President, he automatically represents the student view. This is
wrong because, first, each election is essentially a compromise and,
second, student opinion can only be gathered through consultation.
Government by concensus may appear to be inefficiently slow, but
for there to be cooperation, it is ultimately the only way.
Lowins Lesson
It look* at the moment as if Rex Lowin will be next year's
President He shall have learnt from this year that one can be in
tijany ways a, good and fair President but still incur the dislike of
some. That is not conducive to a successful Union.
1968-69
POSTAL SUBSCRIPTIONS
•
L E A V I N G I . e . T H I S Y E A R ? ?
Gef You, Felixes Q / (pj
t o r Nexr Session, %J • r
FILL I N T H I S F O * m flKJO S E M D U l T M
m o N E Y T O "FELIK" ^ m ^ R i f l L COLLEGE
U N I O N , L O N D O N S . W . 7 . or "FELIX"
L E T T E R R A C K . (Cheque or ?. O.)
Nflf>E: . . . .
ADDRESS:I

