10 FRIDAY 31 JAN
Editors: Philippa Skett,
Keir Little, Fiona Hartley
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
SCIENCE
A trip down memory lane
Utsav Radia on why and when you stop remembering your early years
In 2003, the Human Genome Project
was declared complete. At a cost of
around $3 billion and taking 13 years,
for the first time we had a sequence of
around 99% of the human genome.
On January 14, Illumina, the
market leader for genome sequencing
technology, revealed their HiSeq
X Ten Sequencing System, which
they claim will be able to sequence
a human genome for just $1000 and
with the potential to sequence 16
human genomes in three days.
Just five years ago, the same
company was offering whole genome
sequencing for around $50,000
per genome, showing how far the
technology has developed in this time.
In fact, for many applications the rate-
limiting step is no longer sequencing
the genome but in analysis of the large
amount of data generated.
Unfortunately, the figure of $1000
per genome only applies if you buy
a set of at least ten sequencers at a
cost of around $10 million. This is
outside the reach of many academic
labs, although the Broad Institute in
Cambridge, Massachusetts is amongst
the first customers.
This development could also bring
down the cost to labs that outsource
their sequencing, undercutting the
price offered by competing company
Complete Genomics by around 80%.
Another sequencing company,
Oxford Nanopore (ONT), does not yet
have a sequencer on the market, but
caused a stir last year by announcing
plans for the GridION, an affordable
desktop sequencer that would deliver
the $1000 genome.
They also described the possibility
of MinION sequencers that could
fit into USB sticks. Using nanopore
technology, a fundamentally different
system from those currently available
methods, these sequencers have been
released on a trial basis but have error
rates of around 1%, making them
unsuitable for most applications.
As this is improved, however, it
seems likely that ONT could become
a rival to Illumina, who are developing
their own nanopore-based method
after selling their shares in ONT last
November.
In 2012, David Cameron announced
the100kGenomeProject,anambitious
project to sequence the genomes
tony piro, calamitiesofnature.com
NASA, ESA, J. Lotz Space Telescope Science Institute (STScI)
H
ave you ever wondered
why we tend to
remember some things
more than others? Our
nervous system is a
highly organised, complex system of
neurones (units that communicate
via electrical signals), their dendrites
(highly branched outgrowths) and
support cells called glia (involved in
processes such as maintenance and
protection). It is estimated that the
human brain contains around 86.1
billion neurones, with some capable
of having up to 400,000 dendrites.
In the developing embryo,
undifferentiated precursor cells
develop to form the neurones and
glia. What is fascinating about
these processes is what follows the
differentiation phase: up to 50-70% of
neurones can undergo programmed
self-destruction – apoptosis. This
concept of neurones being remodelled
and constantly forming new synaptic
connections is known as synaptic
plasticity – it is speculated that this
occurs to fine-tune the connectivity in
the nervous system.
This process is believed to slow
down immediately after birth (and
then on throughout life) and is
supposed to be crucially important
for memory development in infants.
Children use their memories to learn
new information; however, very few
adults can recall events that occurred
before the age of three. Sigmund Freud
coined the term “childhood amnesia”
to describe this observed loss of recall
of events in the infant years.
An experiment run by a team of
psychologists at the Emory University,
led by Professor Patricia Bauer,
documented early autobiographical
memory formation in children
(starting at the age of three and then
successive years) to determine the age
at which these events were forgotten.
Their findings, published in the
journal Memory, show that children
between ages of five and seven could
recall more than 60% of early-life
events, whereas children who were
eight to nine years old remembered
less than 40% of early-life events.
Interestingly, they also found that
although children aged five to six could
remember a greater percentage of
early-life events, their narratives were
less complete. However, older children
– despite remembering fewer events –
were able to describe the events they
did remember in more detail. Several
possible explanations have been put
forward to explain this observation,
such as improved language skills and
reinforcing of synaptic connections
with each subsequent recollection of
these memories.
The analogy used by Professor
Bauer was that of pasta draining in
a colander: “Memories are like orzo
[rice-sized pasta]... as the water rushes
out, so do many of the grains of orzo”
whereas adults use a “fine net instead
of a colander” to retain many of their
memories.
Although we may be closer to
knowing the changes that occur
between early childhood and adult
memories, the precise timing of this
change is yet unknown. Professor
Bauer ended her interview by saying,
“We’d like to know more about when
we trade in our colanders for a net.”
DOI: 10.1080/09658211.2013.854806
Agrandgenome:thenewcostofgenomesequencing
of 100,000 individuals, many with
genetic diseases, by the end of 2017.
A total of £100 million was pledged to
deliver this goal, meaning the falling
cost of whole genome sequencing is
a step in the right direction for this
project. While Genomes England,
the company set up to bring the 100k
Genome Project to fruition, is not on
the list of customers to have already
ordered a HiSeq X Ten, the promise
of $1000 genomes at a fast rate seems
tailor-made for them.
The decrease in sequencing cost
is also promising for the field of
personalised medicine. The risk of
developing many diseases, such as
cancer and diabetes, is to some extent
determined by your genetics.
Additionally, some drugs only
work in patients with certain genetic
variants, while some variants are
associated with increased risk of side
effects with some drugs, including
statins, a widely-used group of anti-
cholesterol drugs.
In the future, your GP could use
your genome sequence to help decide
which medications to use, as well as to
help determine whether you are likely
to be at risk of developing a genetic
disease.
EnCor Biotechnology Inc.
businesswire.com
Chris Yates
Science Writer
Rat neurons stained with a green chicken antibody

