13
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 31 JAN
WELLBEING
Marissa Lewis
Wellbeing Editor
Top Tips for Cycle Safety
Many students pick up cycling on moving to Imperial, usually when they realise that there aren’t many affordable student flats in South
Kensington. The tips below are aimed at students who have recently started out cycling in London, so seasoned cyclists may want to look
Practice makes perfect
Getting a bike for the first time as a Londoner can be exciting – you’ve just graduated into the lycra-clad elite. However,
before you hasten out into rush hour in central London, it’s a good idea to just have a quick practice around a quiet
suburban area or park first. Make sure you don’t venture out until you’re comfortable raising either arm for a turning
signal and you can look over your shoulder while still cycling in a straight line..
Suit up
Ok, lycra isn’t a necessity but it is true that cycling in winter can be rough – it’s cold, it rains and the wind can be a
nightmare. At a bare minimum you can make do with a lightweight waterproof you can stuff into a bag and a decent
pair of gloves. A helmet and reflective clothing are both very good ideas from a safety standpoint although not legally
mandatory.
Beware the lorry
Lorries and other heavy good vehicles (HGVs) pose a significant danger to cyclists, mainly due to the size of their
blind spot. For a really good demonstration, check this out: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y9E1_1M-qhU. The
advice around HGVs is ‘stay safe, stay back’ and be particularly wary about passing on the left even if they are stopped
at junctions.
Be assertive
You may have seen the signs advising cyclists to ride a door’s width from parked cars at bus stops around the Union.
This seems like pretty sensible advice but on the narrow roads around South Ken, I’m sure I’m not the only one who’s
faced the odd impatient driver coming up behind you and making their presence known. Although it can be tempting
to move right over to the left so they can try and squeeze past you, this is wrong. Cars should not be passing you if it is
unsafe to do so - on narrow roads, you are within your rights to move into the centre of the road to prevent dangerous
overtaking if you think it’s necessary.
Keep safe, be seen
Lights are a legal requirement for cycling in the dark and should also be used in the rain or when it is overcast. Good
practice seems to be a steady front (white) light and either a steady or flashing (red) light with accompanying red
reflector. Wearing light-coloured or reflective clothing also helps.
Find your way
If you’re new to cycling and are used to getting the tube or bus, you might not be aware of the most cycle-friendly way
into College from your house. The site www.cyclestreets.net allows you to plug in your start and end address and it will
generate routes for you based on your need for speed or the quietest roads which is really valuable when you’re starting
out or travelling somewhere new.
This week’s wellbeing section is going to focus on
cycling safety. In recent months, cycling has been in
the news following a spate of deaths in London, many
of which involved incidents between cyclists and heavy
goods vehicles (HGVs). At the last meeting of the Union
Council, the Union adopted a stance to lobby for improved
cycling infrastructure as the lack of safe cycle routes is a
problem for many of our students.
As a cyclist myself, I can say with confidence that cycling
into College has a great number of benefits, not only
for your physical and mental health but also your bank
balance as you avoid the (ever-rising) TfL fares. However,
it doesn’t come without its drawbacks as, although I’ve
been fortunate to have not been involved in any serious
accidents myself, I can’t say the same for my friends. I
think one of the most difficult realisations that I’ve had
since starting cycling is that no matter how competent
you become on a bike, you can’t control other people’s
actions and ultimately in a competition between a cyclist
and a motorist, the motorist will always win.
Still, there are a few steps we can take, especially if we’re
just starting out, to help ensure our safety on the roads.
Weathering the Storm
What’s On This Week in
Stress Less
Mindfulness Meditation - 4th & 11th Feb
An introduction to meditation not connected to religious tradition. Gives
simple ways to practice meditation in daily life. Run by the Imperial College
Chaplaincy team. All Stress Less events are free. There’s no need to book -
just turn up!
13.00 - 14.00 in Chplaincy multi-faith centre
Meditation Made Easy Workshop - 5th Feb
De-clutter your head space with a meditation skill you can use at your desk,
at home or before an exam. This session is run by Inner Space (meditation
and personal development centre). It is anticipated to be popular so please
arrive early to avoid disappointment12.00-12.45
12.00-12.45 in Meeting Room 3 (Union Building)
Stress Less workshop - 5th Feb
This quick session explores strategies to slow down, have more of a work-
life balance and strengthen your stress response. This session is run by In-
ner Space (meditation and personal development centre). Keep calm and
rise above it all. This session is anticipated to be popular so please arrive
early to avoid disappointment.
13.00-13.45 in Meeting Room 3 (Union Building)
Free massages in the Zen Lounge - 6th Feb
Drop in for a free massage, kick back and relax with our chill-out music.
This is a work free zone. Massages are available between 12:00 - 16:00.
11.00-17.00 in Metric (Union Building)
Drop-in Arts and Crafts session 12.00-14.30 UDH
Release your inner child with our fun arts & crafts session. Have a go creat-
ing fun thumb-print characters, a Valentine ‘s Day card or a funky robot.
Mathematical colouring-in will also be available. No artistic talent required
(imagination optional).
12.00-14.30 in the Union Dining Hall (Union Building)
Get the BUG
Imperial College Union’s Bike User Group is a project that represents and runs events for cyclists. You can check them
out here: https://www.union.ic.ac.uk/presidents/icbug/. As well as providing advice, you can sign up to their mailing
lists to hear about events such as the bike auction, Dr Bike sessions (mechanics that provide free checking and repair
of bikes) and police marking when they take place on campus.
PA
Cycling can make you look as cool as these guys

