14 FRIDAY 31 JAN
COMMENT
Editors: Eoghan J.
Totten, Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
International Developments
I
love Justin Bieber. There, I said it,
I outed myself as a Belieber. I am
a self-confessed fan of The Biebs.
I know that this proclamation
generally elicits a fairly strong
reaction, but let me defend this view
before you cast me out to the place
where Directioners go to die.
So I’ll start with his music. This is
probably his weakest point, let’s be
honest. It’s mostly pretty terrible,
designed to draw out those girlish
squeals from teenage girls. The vast
majority of the songs that he releases
in the States do fairly badly here;
you never hear them on the radio or
played in public places (except maybe
TammyGirl, or wherever these just-
about-pre-pubescent girls shop these
days). Despite this, it’s hard not to
admit that some of his songs are
distressingly catchy. You might find
the vocals grating, but who doesn’t
love a bit of Baby (baby baby oh) now
and again? The horrendously cheesy
video to Beauty and a Beat mars it
a bit, but the inappropriate use of
Nicki Minaj brings it back, and I’m
pretty sure that his music triggers my
seratonin production, it makes me
happy. While I’m sure that conclusive
proof is not priority research, I’m sure
it’s not just me that feels this way. Yes,
it’s painfully cheesy, but that’s why it’s
so wonderful!
His merchandise is a demonstration
of some of the most successful
marketing in history. He’s made
millions from the ability to get little
girls to fawn over his products.
Every single item that bears his name
is arguably horrible, but what it
represents is magnificent. I can’t help
but admire someone who’s managing
to make a fortune and take over the
world, purely based on the parental
persuasion powers of little girls.
Extending from that, he’s so polarising
that he’s somehow managed to target
the ironic market without damaging
his success within it. Serious props to
whoever managed to do that!
Yes, these things are part of the
Bieber brand, not The Biebster himself.
So what about him? The hardcore
Beliebers might love him because he’s
such a good person, but he’s evidently
not a great demonstration of good
behaviour. He’s been filmed with a
Brazillian prostitute, arrested for
racing supercars through the centre
of Miami while under the influence
of drink, drugs and prescription
pharmaceuticals, and had a capuchin
monkey confiscated at the German
border. His fans regularly threaten and
intimidate anyone who they perceive
as a threat, and despite their obvious
hysteria (at least calling it Bieber Fever
sounds vaguely sinister), he hasn’t
taken any and all necessary steps to
staunch his idolaters. Obviously he’s
not someone you should hold up as
a shining example, but what nineteen
year old is? Few teenagers ever come
close to experiencing the levels of
fame, money and power that he has.
He’s ignorant and completely removed
from reality, and any mistakes he
makes are magnified a thousand times.
He exists in a world where everything
he does is publicised immensely, but
he is ultimately faultless. Everyone
does stupid things when they’re
nineteen, but for most people the
range of shame extends at most to a
couple of degrees of separation.
T
here is little doubt that
when development involves
the empowerment of
communities and spread
of innovative ideas, lives
will be changed. From the poorest of
the poor to the war-torn regions of
the globe, issues concerning people’s
needs and rights interlink each and
every one of us. When the standard
of living and quality of life suffers in
the face of issues such as healthcare,
food scarcity and education, then
onlookers beyond borders must
act. Contributing to international
development is of paramount
importance as we head into mid 21st
century. From technology to policy or
social movements, progressive reform
cantakemanyguises.Theintroduction
of large-scale, low cost vaccination
to lower infant mortality, or strains
of crop designed to survive harsh
conditions to provide agricultural
livelihoods both exemplify actions
that have lessened huge health and
environmental burdens on developing
countries. Yet, these reforms make the
news for their scale and involvement
of international governments. Dig
below the surface and you’ll find a
whole host of progressive movements
that are revolutionising the face of
development. And most of the time
these can be identified by three key
features: community, technology and
the presence of youth.
On average, 60% of the population
in the world’s poorest countries are
under 25 years old and are persistently
affected by the problems that stem
from poverty. From unemployment
to HIV risk to poor governance, the
problems that young people face are
only exacerbated further by the fact
that young people are frequently
overlooked or excluded from the
decision making practices that directly
impact on their lives. Corruption
within schools often means quality
education is only available in exchange
for a sex act, or a back hander, and for
many young women there is often no
otheroptionthanengaginginriskyand
exploitative activities.But when given
the opportunity, young people can and
young people do. Which is why, at the
Imperial International Development
Conference 2014 we want to turn
the focus to the amazing things
young people are doing globally to be
recognised as the solution to many of
the world’s problems, and how young
people are paving the way for change.
Technology is also a huge driving force
for change. From instant messaging,
to mobile-phone based sexual health
lessons and solar drive technology
for refrigerating vaccinations, tech
based solutions are helping to address
some of the problems frequently
encountered in developing countries.
Not only this but they are providing
a tool to empower youth to be active
participants in developing their
country, to voice their opinions and
ideas about economic growth, and to
promote social stability.
On the 15th February, highly
acclaimed academics in the
international development arena,
from leading universities, institutes
and NGOs, will offer up an incredible
Hugo Paquet explores international development
In defence of Justin Bieber
I’m not saying you should love him
for the same reasons that a besotted
fourteen year old girl does; he loves his
mom, he’s proud of where he comes
from, oh he’s just like me, he loves
candy too! But don’t hate him because
he does stupid things. His purpose is
ultimately to entertain, and whether
it’s because you’re fawning over him or
ripping him to shreds, you’re probably
enjoying it. Even if you don’t declare
it outwardly, let him have that little
warm spot in your heart.
And face it; he’s just damn cute!
Look at that little face! Like a foolish,
hapless puppy that keeps running into
a window or barking at a mirror, I
think he’s adorable. I can’t wait to see
what ridiculous thing he gets up to
next.
Tessa Davey
Comment Editor
yeahwallpaper.com
insight into the dynamic change that
can result when youth, science and
technology intersect. Centred on
’Harnessing Youth Power and Science
& Technology for Global Change’,
a series of talks and panels will aim
to reveal the true worth of youth
empowerment and technological
growth in developing countries.
Prepare yourself for no holds barred
question sessions, heated debates
and inspirational speakers and expect
no less than to gain a huge amount
of knowledge and to be swept up in
the youth led revolution. You do not
have long to wait either, as early bird
tickets (until this Sunday!) are flying
off the shelves. This is one event in
the Imperial calendar that you do not
want to miss out on!
Details of tickets and speakers at
www.imperialidc.org, facebook.com/
ICIDC, twitter @ic_idc.

