26 FRIDAY 31 JAN
MUSIC
Editor: Simon Hunter,
Riaz Agahi, Stuart
Masson
music.felix@gmail.com
I
have managed to catch
Providence based alt-country
act Deer Tick a couple of times
at festivals before. I allegedly
first caught them back in 2010,
although the performance was
unmemorable to the point where
I actually have no memory of the
set. Of course, this could well not
be indicative of the quality of the
performance; I have forgotten any
number of mid-afternoon festival sets
over the years.
The second time I caught them was
a few years later, and at an even more
ridiculous time. They were doing a se-
cret set at 3am in the smallest tent. To
describe them as drunk would be an
understatement, for which, given the
time they started, I really can’t blame
them for. I was stewarding at the time,
so I was (fairly close to) sober dur-
ing the set. This means I remember
with 100% clarity the end of the set,
where singer John McCauley played
Deer Tick (but no Lyme Disease)
AMS album of the week
Ed: OK, so technically this week it’s
EP of the week rather than album.
Sorry.
Since releasing Kingdom of Dogs
in 2009 and Island Living in 2010,
Welsh four piece Bastions have
showcased a talent for writing bleak,
arty and desperate songs, a talent
they expanded on for their 2011
full length release Hospital Corners.
Whilst previous releases have been
conceptually driven (Island Living is
based on living in a small town and
Hospital Corners is based on Bastions’ vocalist’s experiences working in a
mental asylum), none have been as bold as their two part Bedfellows series.
Released in two parts (started with 2013’s The Bastard Son), it tells a story
of two siblings unable to cope with being abandoned by their father. Partially
based on the institutionalisation of vocalist Jamie Burne’s grandmother, the
two EP’s delve into the mental health issues faced by the siblings. Despite
being released a whole year apart the two parts work well together, both
conceptually and musically, with the ep’s arguably representing Bastions
finest work.
The Forgotten Daughter shows a grittier side to Bastions sound. Beginning
with the brooding and swaggering Empty Vessels, contrasting Burne’s
poetic lyrics with bluesy guitars building to shouted climax. Foreign Bodies,
Mothers Ruin and The Water Tower follow showing a nastier side to Bastions
sound with Foreign Bodies and The Water Tower featuring drumming that
wouldn’t be out of place in a Converge or a Cursed record. Mothers Ruin
plays verses featuring almost droning guitar lines against choruses which
feature Burne’s thin vocal style at its most desperate.
The EP doesn’t slow down until the fifth and final acoustic led track.
Featuring a slow distorted guitar riff and again building to a climax before
dying down to close the EP.
While no means a perfect EP, Bedfellows Part 2 showcases a band not
content with writing lazy drone riffs and utilising predictable beatdowns
to satisfy mosh bros but willing to push the artistic limits of the hardcore
genre.
Bastions – Bedfellows Part 2: The Forgotten Daughter
the guitar with his penis. Not even
slightly kidding. Genitals aside, the set
was incredibly good fun. I would say
I’ve never enjoyed sobriety at 3am so
much in my life.
I was therefore really excited to catch
them again at the Garage in Islington
last week. I should probably put a dis-
claimer here that I am by no means an
alt-country expert. My knowledge is
limited to about three bands I’ve seen
at festivals and thought were pretty
good. This meant that the crowd for
this gig was not quite what I’m used
to. The average age was definitely a
lot higher than my own, and the per-
centage of men with beards and plaid
shirts was mind-boggling. This meant
that the bar was a lot busier than at the
majority of gigs (apparently old people
have lots of money to spend on drinks
for themselves and Jägermeister shots
for strangers), and so, after a painfully
long wait, my friend and I finally man-
aged to get ourselves a pint and settle
in for Deer Tick.
The crowd were definitely pretty
drunk again, but the band seemed
to be a lot more sober. This is most
obviously attributed to their more
sensible stage time, but they do have
a reputation. It might not be cocks
slapping strings every show, but they
are well known for rowdiness. The
more subdued set might be down to
the presence of John’s wife, pop-singer
Vanessa Carlton, who even came on
to perform her duet with the band, In
Our Time, although I admit that meant
very little to me until I googled her.
The two got married last December
with Stevie Nicks of Fleetwood Mac
officiating the ceremony. I couldn’t
think of a way of seamlessly dropping
that in, but come on, Stevie fucking
Nicks. That is knowledge worth hav-
ing awkwardly shoehorned in.
The actual music was up to its usual
quality. Renditions of early fan fa-
vourites Dirty Dishes and Ashamed
went down an absolute treat. The
newer tracks were also generally well
received, including excellent perfor-
mances of The Dream’s in the Ditch
and The Rock. It was definitely further
incentive for me to give the new al-
bum a proper listen.
The undoubted highlight for me was
a performance of These Old Shoes.
Taken from their 2007 debut album,
War Elephant, it has long been my
favourite Deer Tick track, and live it’s
even better.
The whole thing just felt like some-
thing was missing. I mean, it was a
good show, but I can’t help but com-
pare it to the brilliance of the last
time I saw them, but this felt a little
flat. Maybe it was the more subdued
nature of the band, maybe it was the
atmosphere, maybe it was the new al-
bum, maybe it was me. Whatever the
case, this time the stars didn’t align,
and I couldn’t help but feel slightly
disappointed.
Stuart Masson reviews the alt-country band’s Garage performance
R
ave is not a word I would
ever have associated with
the music of Mogwai. As
people, it makes a bit more
sense. They has always
been a certain distance between them
and the more pretentious attitudes
most post-rock bands employ. On a
Mogwai album, you won’t find made-
up languages (I’m looking at you Sigur
Rós), songs about bizarrely specific
historical events (iLiKETRAiNS,
and I could have picked on the
stupid typesetting as well) or any of
the myriad of pretentious bullshit
Godspeed You! Black Emperor do.
Mogwai have always insisted they
just make rock music. During live
performances, they talk about football
and other bloke stuff in between
songs. The idea of them going to raves
doesn’t sound completely nonsensical.
Either they don’t go to raves, they are
so out of it at said raves that they
don’t know what happened or they
just didn’t put that much thought into
their album title, because this isn’t
suitable music for raves. This is the
same post-rock they’ve been chugging
out for years.
Mogwai’s first three records, Young
Team, Come on Die Young and Rock
Action were all fantastic slices of
innovative exciting post-rock. Their
fourth, Happy Songs for Happy People,
is an absolutely beautiful record, and
stands as one of my all time favourite
post-rock records. It was here that
things took an inevitable down turn.
2006’s Mr. Beast features most of
the bands best known tracks, and is
certainly a really good listen. It’s not
exactly groundbreaking though, and
marked the point at which Mogwai
seemed to stop caring about being
ahead of the scene. Their albums up
to this point stood in contrast to the
vast majority of post-rock, but from
Mr. Beast onwards that stopped being
the case.
In the years following that we’ve had
The Hawk is Howling and Hardcore
Will Never Die, But You Will and
now this one, Rave Tapes. They are all
servicable albums, but they’re all quite
post-rock by numbers. Once you’ve
listened to Mr. Beast, or you know,
God is an Astronaut, you’ve kind of
covered the territory. I’m not a fan
of bands who just keep releasing the
same material but slightly worse each
time. If you’re going to start releasing
poor albums, at least take a risk, and
that’s something Mogwai don’t seem
willing to do any more.
I suppose I should say something
about the music on Rave Tapes.
It’s adequate. In fact, the opener,
Heard About You Last Night is a
really nice track. With some ambient
leanings, it reminds me slightly of the
aforementioned Happy Songs which is
a great thing (I appreciate how bitter
I’m starting to sound, I’ve no intention
of keeping it in check). The spoken
word sample in Repelish makes for a
fairly refreshing listen, whilst Hexon
Bogon is legitimately a pretty tasty
Raving on About Mogwai Going to Shit
Stuart Masson
Music Editor
post-rock number.
The rest of the songs here aren’t
really anything to write home about.
The main innovation that came with
Mr. Beast was the addition of vocals
on a few tracks. They kind of worked
there. Sadly, that is no longer the case.
The only track here that has singing,
Blues Hour, is a dreary pile of shit. The
rest of the tracks are just forgettable.
It’s a shame, because I still have quite
a bit of space to fill, but there’s really
nothing I have to say about them. I
mean it’s also a shame because this is a
band who I have loved for many years,
and this has just bored me.
Mogwai are still a credit to
British music. I would certainly still
recommend going to see them live.
They are always loud as fuck, which
makes even their most mundane
material sound a bit more exciting.
They also still play loads of their old
stuff. On record, it’s getting to the
point where me recommending them
is going to have to come with the
standard hipster caveat: start with the
early stuff.
Rob Garside
Deer Tick’s latest album, Negativity
Unfortunately I couldn’t find any knob pics

