27
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 31 JAN
BOOKS
Neil Gaiman’s Sandman
Comic books and graphic novels have a,
not entirely undeserved, reputation for
not being the finest example of modern
literature. Poor plotting, tired characters
and woeful dialogue still continue to
plague the medium. However, there have
always been a small number of creators –
such as Alan Moore, Warren Ellis and Neil
Gaiman – who have been held in much
higher regard than their compatriots and
who have managed to elevate the medium
into a respectable art from. Of these, I
have always admired Gaiman the most.
This is partly due to his versatility – as well
as working on comics he is an acclaimed
novelist and screenwriter – but mainly the
because of his amazing writing talent. This
talent is on fine display in one his earliest
and most enduringly popular works, The
Sandman series.
Nominally set in the standard DC uni-
verse, The Sandman graphic novels expand
its mythology by creating the Endless – im-
mortal anthropomorphic personifications
of the seven basic driving forces of life and
the universe. These are Destiny, Death,
Destruction, Despair, Desire, Delirium
and our protagonist, Dream, also known
as Morpheus. The story begins with our
protagonist captured by human magician
Roderick Burgess. The first sections of the
story deal with Morpheus’ eventual escape
and the consequences the consequences of
the imprisonment of the Lord of Dreams
on the universe. As the story progresses,
however, Gaiman gets the chance to ex-
plore the world of The Sandman further.
World building is one of Gaiman’s great
strengths. As in several of his other works
he draws heavy inspiration from many dif-
ferent mythologies and cultural traditions.
He takes great pleasure in mashing to-
gether ideas as diverse as Judeo-Christian
mysticism, Egyptian mythology and Eng-
lish folklore. This is a world in which dif-
ferent divine pantheons compete for wor-
shippers and fairies coexist with ancient
Greek witches and eastern djins and ifrits.
Building on an existing foundation allows
Gaiman’s creation to be far deeper than
would otherwise have been possible and
the combination of the various disparate
elements gives lends it colour and a bizarre
uniqueness.
One might think that, with so many
competing influences, the result might
be big mess. However, this is certainly
not the case here. Morpheus is the Lord
of Dreams, and therefore also the Lord of
Stories. On a certain level the entire series
is an exploration of humanity’s fascination
with stories. It therefore seems natural
that to explore such a wide range of ideas.
The main reason, however, why all of this
works, is that Gaiman is such a brilliant
writer. He skilfully juggles multiple plots
and – thanks to his crisp, witty dialogue
and complex characters – manages to make
every one of them individually interesting.
While many of these plots initially start out
disconnected, Gaiman’s great achievement
is eventually drawing them all together in a
way that provides a satisfactory resolution
to all of them. I won’t spoil the ending but
I will say that its focuses centrally on the
characters of the Endless. While they are,
Send your submissions for
our newest regular fea-
tures!
FLASH FICTION: Ultrashort
fiction up to 200 characters
STUDENT PICKS: Send us up
to 250 words on your favour-
ite book and how it changed
you
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Maciej Matuszewski explores one of the
best and most influential graphic novels
Student Picks
The White Review publishes a selection of new, ex-
perimental fiction and poetry as well as interviews
with writers, visual artists and musicians. I must ad-
mit that I was initially drawn to the magazine itself
as merely an object: the style integrates beauty and
simplicity and… oh the paper! Yes, the design would
almost make up for boring, commonplace pieces.
Not that it needs to.
The first piece in the first copy I picked up was pre-
ceded by a black-and-white photograph of a man,
dead in the snow, with arms outstretched and hat ly-
ing several feet away from him. The semi-fictional
account that followed, on the death-moments of the
writer Robert Walser interspersed with thoughts
about hats on heads that would soon be rolling, was
written with a tenderness and pathos that stayed with
me as little twenty-first century fiction had before.
I have since read in The White Review many insight-
ful, searching interviews that go beyond the scope
of what one might find in newspapers or even in the
slew of ‘pretty’, modern magazines. I am by no means
in love with every piece of fiction and every poem
in the magazine, but their experimental nature and
the way they surpass in thought the mundanity and
dullness of most contemporary fiction makes them
worth the effort.
The White Review: a literary magazine
Eva Rosenthal picks:
“Destiny, Death, De-
struction, Despair, De-
sire, Delirium and our
protagonist, Dream...
Morpheus”
quite rightly, strange and otherworldly,
over the course of the series we begin
to get to know and care for them. Their
growth and development, and how this
links to the growth and development of
the forces that they are personifications
of, is at the heart of The Sandman – and
this is the series’ greatest strength.
The Sandman is one of the best and
most influential graphic novels out
there. It has spawned many of spin
offs and influenced countless fantasy
works. Even the list of fans of the se-
ries who have contributed introduc-
tions to the collected editions of The
Sandman – among the Samuel Delany,
Gene Wolfe and Stephen King – reads
like a who’s-who of the best modern
speculative fiction authors. This is a
must read.

