28 FRIDAY 31 JAN
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Brothers Grim
Out of the Furnace
Director: Scott Cooper
Writers: Bret Ingelsby, Scott Cooper
Starring: Christian Bale, Casey
Affleck, Zoe Saldana, Woody
Harrelson, Willem Dafoe, Forest
Whitaker, Sam Shepard
Runtime: 116 minutes
Certification: 15
John Park
Film Editor
Shocked to see how Christian Bale
was a ‘fatman’ in American Hustle?
The clearly dedicated actor is back
to a healthier looking shape in Scott
Cooper’s highly depressing thriller
that highlights that not all of America
is a land of opportunity. No protago-
nist here can catch a break in this
grim, bleak look at what it’s like when
money is tight and jobs are scarce.
Russell Baze (Bale) is managing to
make ends meet with his blue-col-
lar factory job in Rust Belt, a part of
America that doesn’t appear in the
usual flashy, glamorous depiction.
With his sick, dying father to look
after from home (a sure dig at the
ever-so-criticised American health-
care system, or the lack thereof), his
dream for a better life seems to be
slipping away. His younger brother
Rodney (Casey Affleck) is a soldier
about to be deployed to fight for his
country (again, something that hints
at the government’s failure to take
care of its citizens). The only positive
aspect here is his girlfriend Lena (Zoe
Saldana), who is eager to start a fam-
ily with him, although he’s hesitant for
obvious reasons.
The set-up alone is dark and depress-
ing enough. And it truly is a shock to
see such desperate individuals stuck in
a perpetual cycle of hardship. But then
what happens? Something to make it
all worse for everyone involved. A fa-
tal DUI lands Russell in jail, and whilst
serving his time, Lena has moved on
with Sheriff Wesley Barnes (Forest
Whitaker), his father passes away, and
Rodney, returned from war, is suffer-
ing from post traumatic stress disor-
der, not quite settling into civilian life,
participating in illegal underground
street fights and getting mixed up
with some very unpleasant characters
who don’t take kindly to unpaid debts.
Director Scott Cooper is nowhere
near done yet. For the film’s major
source of conflict, something that
kicks our protagonist into gear is
the mysterious disappearance of his
brother. The brutal fist-fights Rodney
has gotten himself mixed up in are
run by Harlan DeGroat (Woody Har-
relson), who is a nasty piece of work
played so disturbingly brilliantly by
Harrelson. There is most certainly a
real sense of danger whenever this
unpredictable, trigger-happy villain
appears, and that he’s lurking around
the tightly-knit community of the
Ramapo mountains which virtually
shields him from the law, is an even
more troubling prospect.
His father and girlfriend gone, and
now his brother missing, Russell ig-
nores the advice of Sheriff Wesley to
stay away and let law enforcement do
their job. Teamed up with his uncle
Gerald Baze (Sam Shepard), Russell is
out for answers and possibly for blood,
given the uncertainty surrounding
Rodney’s circumstances.
The glacial pace at which it moves
works to the film’s advantage in its
build-up, setting the general scenery,
but when it comes to actually getting
on with the important crime-solving,
thrilling part, Russell starts taking
charge, gets his hunting rifle out, and
starts to do some vigilante crime-
fighting of his own. Despite Bale’s
typically strong, convincing lead per-
formance, there is too much back and
forth meandering of the narrative, and
too much relies on contrived plot de-
velopments to move forward.
Plus there are far too many wasted
characters and actors to mention. Zoe
Saldana’s role is completely thankless
and somewhat unnecessary, given
how quickly she’s written off, it’s con-
fusing to see why Forest Whitaker was
cast in a role that doesn’t end up being
at all crucial, the same goes for Willem
Dafoe and Sam Shepard.
Out of the Furnace finds its best
scenes when it pairs up the siblings.
Affleck is outstanding in the wound-
ed, traumatised role, and with Bale,
the two embody the difficulties and
hardship of an everyday working man
and their relationship provides some
heart-breaking insight into how it’s
not a wonderful life they lead.
The latest entry in the Jack Ryan fran-
chise (a character who shares with
James Bond and The Doctor the habit
of being played by multiple different
actors with varying degrees of respect
for previous iterations) punches the
big red ‘reboot’ button – for the second
time, with The Sum of All Fears tak-
ing the same road over a decade ago,
only this time it doesn’t even bother to
use one of Tom Clancy’s many novels
as inspiration. Nope, for the second
reboot in a row (which should really
be telling Hollywood something, but
whatever – money talks, and The Sum
of All Fears made a lot of it), we’re
treated to a brand spanking new, orig-
inal story. Oh, how I wish they’d used
one of the books.
There’s little point in beating around
the bush, and Shadow Recruit cer-
tainly doesn’t, so here goes: the story
here is terrible. There are almost no
redeeming features. It’s dull, it’s un-
inspired, it’s so patently predictable
and by-the-numbers it’s just (pain-
fully) funny. The script features some
of the most painfully on-the-nose dia-
logue since pretty much forever. The
Jack Ryan: Shadow
Recruit
Director: Kenneth Branagh
Writers: Adam Cozad, David Koepp,
Tom Clancy (characters)
Starring: Chris Pine, Keira Knightley,
Kevin Costner, Kenneth Branagh
Runtime: 105 minutes
Certification: 12A
Jack Steadman
Treasured Writer
opening line, the opening line, I tell
you, comes from a student who says,
quite simply: “You’re American, aren’t
you? I’m sorry, mate.” HE’S TALKING
ABOUT 9/11. I MEAN SERIOUSLY,
COME ON. WHO LET THAT ONE
THROUGH? It’s certainly no “As far
back as I could remember, I always
wanted to be a gangster”, is it? No,
it is not. But I digress, and I digress
thoroughly and in block capitals.
The script’s terrible, let’s just leave it
there. Or not – one last jab. It tries
so hard to be cool, to be the kind of
breezy, effortlessly suave film that it
probably should be, but the one liners
are forced and the characterisation is
thinner than a slice of Sainsbury’s ba-
sics processed ham (for those of you
fortunate enough to be able to afford
‘actual’ ham, that’s thin).
Everything about the first half of
the film screams ‘I am terrible’. It
feels almost impossible to care about
any of the characters. The first bout
of violence does at least seem to be
given some form of consequences in
terms of its impact on Ryan, but after
a couple of scenes of addressing this
(extremely bluntly) that’s it, it’s done.
And even then that glimmer of some-
thing deeper gets wiped out by the
fact the choppy editing almost makes
the fight unwatchable. The sole re-
deeming feature is that it’s bad enough
to be funny, not just bad enough to be
bad. So you can at least laugh at how
terrible it is.
And yet, after that first half, some-
how, Shadow Recruit redeems itself.
The story remains utterly appalling,
but by that point, if you’ve got any
sense, you’ve stopped caring. Fortu-
nately, so do the writers. The far too
wordy setup gives way to the payoff,
and it’s almost worth it. A restaurant
scene that mixes in with Ryan break-
ing into the baddie’s headquarters is
nicely tense and almost engaging, be-
fore the action finally kicks off. And
with your brain firmly in ‘whatever,
I don’t even care anymore’ mode, it’s
actually pretty fun. The sins of the
past hour fade away, and the kicks of
decent tension manipulation (even if
this is obviously a film where the hero
always wins) and neatly-handled ac-
tion take over. It’s nothing spectacular,
and it certainly won’t win any awards,
but it works. It does exactly what it’s
meant to and nothing more.
The real saving grace for the film
comes from Chris Pine’s earnest per-
formance. He doesn’t quite own the
role, not like Harrison Ford did, but
there’s room for growth, and with a
better script the franchise might ac-
tually take off again. Kevin Costner’s
a complete badass, of course, but he’s
let down by an otherwise boring role,
as is pretty much everyone else. Keira
Knightley gets completely shafted
with hers, while Kenneth Branagh’s
villain just isn’t scary. His motivation
feels somewhat lacklustre (side effect
of that damned script), and his plan…
whatever. I gave up at that point. It’s
rubbish, is the long and short of it.
The direction is competent (which
is a pity – Branagh passed on Thor
2 for this, and it really feels like a
missed opportunity on that front), the
soundtrack is generic and the visuals
are… functional, so calling Shadow
Recruit somehow greater than the
sum of its parts isn’t saying much. But
it is, it really is. It relies far too heav-
ily on you possessing the dual ability
of laughing at terrible films and then
switching off into a mindless pop-
corn entertainment mode, but if you
do have that capacity, then it’s decent,
and worth a watch if you have two
hours to waste and haven’t seen The
Wolf of Wall Street or Inside Llewyn
Davis (or pretty much any other big
film on at the cinema) yet. I really wish
I could pay it higher praise than that.
A decent action flick let down by a ter-
rible script.
Jack Steadman vs. Jack Ryan

