30 FRIDAY 31 JAN
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Director masterclass: Joel & Ethan Coen
Peter Brook
Star Writer
The Coen Brothers have been able to
create such strong, individual voices
for their characters for so long now
it’s hard to imagine a small town life
in America without thinking about
it in terms of Coen Brothers movie.
They have consistently been able to
create complex and compelling narra-
tives throughout their 16-film career
and everyone of them brimming with
dark, dark comedy. They have created
a very cohesive body of work which
shares the use of many themes, tropes
and stylistic choices to the point that
it is blatantly obvious when you are
watching one of their films. They have
made a particularly strong use of mu-
sical and dance numbers that have
come to head in their latest work In-
side Llewyn Davis.
Blood Simple (1984)
Opening with a situation found
throughout the Coens’ work, a con-
versation taking place in a car on a
long straight road. The conversation is
between a married woman and a man
who is not her husband as they drive
to a motel for a liaison. The husband
finds out from a Private Investigator
who he subsequently hires to kill them
both. However with double crossing
and chaotic misunderstandings we are
left with a darkly comedic piece with
wonderful thriller edges. The killer is
also an archetype who we see again
and again in the Coens’ work; cold and
calculating often with psychopathic
tendencies. Specifically in No Country
for Old Men where the duo have been
praised by forensic psychiatrist Sam-
uel Leistedt for portraying one of the
most true to life depictions of a psy-
chopath in any movie.
Barton Fink (1991)
This film is wonderful; it is the per-
fect combination of the Coen Bro’s
wonderful writing, dark humour and
strangeness with the brilliant produc-
tion design of a Wes Anderson film. It
follows a very political playwright who
sells out by moving to Hollywood to
write for a studio. It follows his writ-
ers block and his almost literal descent
into hell. There is also a favourite Coen
actor here too – the gabbling John
Goodman. We quickly realise that
John Turturro’s character, the writer
Barton Fink, is unable to write any-
thing on demand and is a very closed
minded person, but by the end of the
film we wonder whether he deserves
his twisted comeuppance. The film is
littered with symbols, references and
the cult following that it built up sets
the scene for the incredible cult fol-
lowing of The Big Lebowski. But first
my personal favourite of the bunch….
Fargo (1996)
Fargo tells the story of a man (Wil-
liam H. Macy) who wants his wife kid-
napped so that he can take the ransom
money that his wife’s wealthy father
will pay. However, as is the norm with
Coen Brothers’ films, it does not go to
plan. The bungling kidnappers carry
out the kidnapping in a sort of violent
slapstick routine, which is as horrible
as it is hilarious. It opens with the title
card and then this message
“THIS IS A TRUE STORY. The
events depicted in this film took place
in Minnesota in 1987. At the request
of the survivors, the names have been
changed. Out of respect for the dead,
the rest has been told exactly as it oc-
curred.” Now I actually think this is a
total fabrication and at the time in an
interview and the real reason this title
card is there is explained by the this
quote from Ethan:
“If an audience believes that some-
thing’s based on a real event, it gives
you permission to do things they
might otherwise not accept.”
There are some terrible cold-blood-
ed killings in this film by the typical
psychopath archetype and his bum-
bling talking kidnapper buddy Steve
Buscemi, they almost have a J and Si-
lent Bob repartee, except they both kill
people. The big star of this movie has
to be the yocal pregnant cop, played
by Frances McDormand. She has
been written wonderful dialogue for
her comedic Minnesota accent and is
the character we sympathise with the
most and just puts in an utterly stellar
performance. This film also deserves
specific mention for its cinematogra-
phy by the Coens’ long time collabora-
tor Rodger Deakins. Who makes these
desolate snowy backdrops infinitely
beautiful and as such the violence that
occurs in them all the more perverse.
The Big Lebowski (1998)
This is the cult movie of our genera-
tion. There is so much hidden joy in
every scene and so many quotable
lines, it’s no surprise that this is still on
heavy rotation at the Prince Charles
Cinema where you can go to drink
white Russians, wear a dressing gown
and say repeatedly “Shut the fuck up
Donnie!”, “That rug really tied the
room together.” and “That’s just like,
your opinion, maaaan.”. It has some of
my favourite hallucination scenes as
well, there is nothing like a large scale
bowling themed 1940s Hollywood
Musical with all the dancers in amaz-
ing costumes set to Kenny Rodgers.
This is arguably the Coens’ most
famous and deserves all the praise it
gets.
Inside Llewyn Davis (2013)
Inside Llewyn Davis is a film that fol-
lows the life of a musician struggling
to get by in the Folk Revival Scene in
New York circa 1960. It follows him
through an awful few days, start-
ing him with locking himself out of a
flat that he was staying with the cat.
Which he can’t return. It turns out he
has burnt many bridges and is gener-
ally disliked in the community.
The first thing to mention is that
Oscar Issac’s portrayal of Llewyn
Davis was fantastic; on top of this al-
most all of the songs were recorded
live on-set and are each played out
in their entirety. Issac is clearly a very
talented musician. Alongside this the
music is produced and writer T-Bone
Barnett who created a litany of songs
that could just as easily been found on
a 1960s vinyl as in a the writings of a
modern film and includes one hilari-
ous ‘space race novelty song’ that is so
silly and so of the time.
Unfortunately, despite many inter-
esting facets it turns out that Llewyn
Davis is quite an unlikeable guy and
spending this much time with wasn’t
always very fun. Unlike last week’s The
Wolf of Wall Street, where we spent
time with the unlikeable Jason Belfort,
there was a strong didacticism and the
point was clear that his behaviour was
unacceptable. Here there didn’t seem
to be any strong message or point, and
though the Coens are known for put-
ting deep hidden meanings in their
movies, this was being irritatingly
obfuscating. Also the narrative arc
wasn’t just confusing but seemed to
totally lack cohesion. Though there is
a lot to enjoy, I would argue that this
isn’t one of the brothers’ best.

