31
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 31 JAN
FILM
2014 at the Oscars - we were robbed
Tom Hanks
First everyone thought a double-
nomination was well in the works for
Hanks, Best Lead Actor for Captain
Phillips and Best Supporting Actor
for Saving Mr Banks (he did play Walt
Disney). Then they thought nah... a
double nomination could be too gen-
erous. So just the one for Captain
Phillips will be an easy score. Right?
But no, the Academy shut him out
completely. So much for being a dou-
ble-nominee eh? The miss for Captain
Phillips is a real upset and surprise
however, since his breakdown in the
film’s final moments alone should at
least have warranted a nomination.
The Butler
Early on in the race, Oprah Winfrey
was a sure front-runner to be nomi-
nated for and ultimately win the Best
Supporting Actress award. Then 12
Years a Slave came out when Lupita
Nyong’o practically stole the limelight
off of Winfrey. Forest Whitaker was
also a favourite when the film was re-
leased. Best Film, Best Director, Best
Screenplay, were all up for grabs but
alas, Lee Daniels’ The Butler walked
away with nothing. That’s right, not a
single nomination for this inspired-by-
a-true-story biopic of a White House
butler. Shows even ticking all the right
boxes doesn’t work sometimes.
Robert Redford
Yes, that’s Robert Redford. Robert
Redford a few decades ago but Rob-
ert Redford nonetheless. Redford has
in fact publically spoken out about
his lack of Best Actor nomination,
blaming the studio for not spending
enough on marketing and promoting
his performance in All is Lost, a one-
man survival thriller at sea. Is he just
being a sore loser? Perhaps, but he
does also have a point. All is Lost was
practically dumped by Roadside At-
tractions, its distributor, as it started
to perform less than ideally at the box
office. A real blow to the veteran who
clearly deserved a nod.
Inside Llewyn Davis
There are some years when the Acad-
emy cannot get enough of the Coen
brothers (just look at how they swept
the board in 2008 with No Country for
Old Men). The same however, could
not be repeated for 2014, when their
latest folk-music drama Inside Llewyn
Davis only managed two nominations
in technical categories (i.e. the ones no
one outside the movie industry really
remembers or cares about). Not even
Oscar Isaac’s singing voice of an angel
could sway the voters, and to be hon-
est, if that couldn’t do it, no film magic
the Coens could conjure up would
have scored anything.
Fruitvale Station
The critical success at 2013 Sundance
Film Festival was all but forgotten as
the dramatic retelling of the tragic
killing of Oscar Grant was completely
overlooked. Not even a Best Sup-
porting Actress nod to the deserving
Octavia Spencer. Seems the hype and
attention surrounding the film fiz-
zled out and couldn’t sustain its buzz
facing competition from strong De-
cember films. It would have been a
triumphant rags-to-riches story had
this been given some sort of recogni-
tion, but Ryan Coogler’s debut feature
will have to settle for a handful of Best
Breakthrough awards.
Rush
Absolutely nothing for Ron Howard’s
critically-acclaimed Formula 1 biopic
Rush. It was never going to be in for
the big awards, but some nominations
in the technical categories (cinema-
tography, sound, production design
in particular) were certainly expected
and deserved. Plus some were hoping
for Daniel Bruhl to squeeze his way
in to the Best Supporting Actor race.
Sadly, nothing came to fruition, and
the gripping James Hunt-Niki Lauda
rivalry drama walked away empty-
handed. Doesn’t mean the film isn’t
any good – your pulse will be racing
from start to finish.
Joaquin Phoenix
There was love for Spike Jonze’s futur-
istic science-fiction romantic-comedy
Her, but none for the leading actor
who made it all the more touching and
gave it the much-needed human spin,
deeper connection and understanding
to a plot that initially comes off as be-
ing too quirky and unrelatable. Was
the Academy put off by his negative
attitude towards the awards season?
Or was the competition really that stiff
this year? I say get rid of Christian Bale
of American Hustle and replace him
with Phoenix for the absolute best of
the best of 2013. So far no Oscar wins
for Phoenix which is sacrilege.
Emma Thompson
Perhaps the most shocking of all act-
ing snubs, Emma Thompson, putting
on an icy but incredibly moving and
layered performance as P. L. Travers
in Saving Mr Banks, was outrageously
ignored by the Academy. Sure the
Best Actress award is definitely go-
ing to Cate Blanchett, but Thompson
was sure to be a more than worthy
nominee. So who stole her spot huh?
Amy Adams? Sandra Bullock? Meryl
Streep? Dame Judi Dench? The least
deserving on the list (though it breaks
my heart to say it) is Adams. Trying to
compare Adams to Thompson is just a
laughable, unbelievable insult.

