32 FRIDAY 31 JAN
TELEVISION
Editors: John Park,
Emily Fulham
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sherlock’s success: It’s Elementary?
Emily Fulham considers a competitor to Sherlock’s crown
S
herlock’s third series
debuted on New Year’s Day
to tremendous hype. After
two years of being off-air,
fans were hoping that it
would match their high expectations.
Now that the dust has settled on the
last of the three episodes, what was
the final verdict?
As with anything, it depends who
you ask. Sherlock seems to inspire
mass hysteria in its fans: IMDB
gives it a rating of 9.3/10 from its
users and critical opinion, making it
apparently better than The Shawshank
Redemption (9.2), The Godfather (9.2),
andCasablanca(8.6).UnlessI’mliving
in an alternate universe and watching
a vastly different show to everyone
else, I don’t think it’s so controversial
to posit that Sherlock might – just
might – be a tad overhyped.
The three episodes of the latest
series met with generally favourable
reviews from critics, but divided
opinions among fans. The Guardian
described the final episode as ‘perfect’,
but some viewers felt that the show’s
writers were trying too hard to please
the hardcore fans of tumblr and the
like - the second episode was more
reminiscent of some kind of bizarre
fanfiction than a detective show -
while more casual viewers were left
baffled at what the point to the ninety
minute episode had been.
Then there was a third opinion
offered up: Sherlock might have lost
its touch because, in its long two
year hiatus, a better successor had
come along. There have been no
shortage of adaptations of Sherlock
Holmes since Arthur Conan Doyle
published his novels: in the past
five years alone, we’ve had the films
starring Robert Downey Jr. and
Jude Law, BBC’s Sherlock, and now
Elementary. Sherlock was novel
in that it transported the crime-
solving detective to the present day.
Elementary takes things one step
further, with an alcoholic Sherlock
Holmes,playedbyJonnyLeeMiller,up
and moving to New York, where Lucy
Liu is Joan Watson, his sober - and
female - companion. When Holmes
decides that the best way to spend
his recovery is to assist NYPD with
solving crimes, Watson reluctantly
accompanies him to provide support
for the recovering addict.
The initial casting of Watson as a
woman was met with controversy,
not least of which came from angry
Sherlock fans. Steven Moffat himself,
writer and producer of the BBC
show, said he was ‘annoyed’ and
worried about it ‘debasing’ the brand
- presumably choosing to ignore the
many, many adaptations that had gone
before his, including a 1986 Disney
film in which Holmes was portrayed
by a mouse. This provoked retaliation
from those who felt that Sherlock had
lost its touch, or indeed had always
been overrated, with the result that
before the first episode of Elementary
had even aired, it already had both a
loyal fanbase and dedicated haters.
So who was right? At the risk of
pissing off the legions of Sherlock fans,
I’m inclined to say that Elementary
has the edge over its predecessor. It’s
by no means a perfect show, but is, in
my opinion, far better than the try-
hard, self-indulgent mess that thinks
it’s cleverer than it is, which is what
Sherlock has become in recent years.
One of the big differences between
the two shows is the character of
Sherlock Holmes himself. The oft-
repeated ‘high-functioning sociopath’
of the BBC adaptation is callous, cruel,
and seemingly incapable of forming a
meaningful relationship with anyone
except John Watson - who, even then,
he still treats with a disturbing lack of
disregard. The partnership between
Holmes and Watson in Elementary
is far more equal, with Joan Watson’s
compassion and resilience providing
a balance to the thornier personality
of Holmes, who demonstrates
repeatedly that he can learn from
others and is even occasionally –
shockingly – nice. While this may be
hard to imagine for anyone familiar
with Cumberbatch’s portrayal, it
actually bears far closer resemblance
to the Holmes of the Doyle’s original
novels who, although dispassionate
and sometimes arrogant, is still
capable of sympathising with his
clients and treating Watson with the
care and respect of a friend.
Elementary’s main weakness lies in
its format: Owing to it being a crime
procedural, episodes can seem at
times formulaic, with each following
a fairly standard ‘crime of the week’
storyline. This is somewhat offset
by the way that the victims are very
rarely faceless bodies, and the help of
a strong supporting cast.
Another initial concern with the
show was that the decision to have
Watson played by a woman was made
to facilitate a romantic relationship
between her and Holmes. Thankfully,
the show’s creators have already said
outright that a romance between
the pair is not on the cards and
never will be. Joan Watson is a well-
rounded, sympathetic character,
in sharp contrast to virtually all of
Sherlock’s female characters, who are
defined entirely by their relationships
to the two main (male) characters.
Steven Moffat has been criticised
for his writing of women on several
occasions, both in Sherlock and the
new Doctor Who. Sherlock’s Irene
Adler was a often-naked lesbian
dominatrix who inexplicably falls
in love with sloth-faced Benedict
Cumberbatch, culminating in her
being rescued by him at the end of her
storyline. Elementary’s Irene Adler,
played by the brilliantly cast Game of
Thrones’ Natalie Dormer, is, without
giving anything away, an ingenious
take on the character.
I realise that there are those who’ll
remain unconvinced, not least big
fans of Benedict Cumberbatch; I’m
prepared to admit that Elementary
isn’t for everyone. (Although,
incidentally, both Holmes actors -
Benedict Cumberbatch and Jonny Lee
Miller - starred together in a recent
theatre adaptation of Frankenstein in
which the actors alternated between
playing the doctor and his monster
on different nights, so they have more
common ground than you might at
first realise.) However, for those others
who found themselves watching
Sherlock and wondering if they were
maybe missing something, it might be
worth a try.
Five things we learned from the
new ‘Game of Thrones’ trailer
1. Joffrey is still a little shit
He may be lacking a certain something in the limb department, but the
Prince Charming of the Lannisters is still capable of wooing the ladies even
without his golden mane. Shame he’s got eyes for no one except his sister.
3. Jaime Lannister looks damn fine with
short hair
Now reunited with his fellow brothers of the Night’s Watch, Jon Snow is us-
ing the insight he gained during his time with the wildlings to help prepare
the Wall for an impending attack.
2. Jon Snow knows something
Get ready for some new characters, including Oberyn Martell (nicknamed
the Red Viper) who is set on revenge for his sister’s death at the hands of
Gregor Clegane.
4. There’ll be some unfamiliar faces
With his marriage to Margaery Tyrell looming on the horizon, everyone’s
most hated character still has no idea of any of the responsibilities involved
in ruling Westeros. We can’t help but feel that Margaery might be more
than a match for him, though.
The first episode is set to premiere on HBO on the 6th April, and will air
the following day on Sky Atlantic. Get ready... winter is coming.
5. When it’s on
Heartthrob Benedict Cumberbatch demonstrates why the ladies love him bbc
cbs

