35
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 31 JAN
FOOD
(Chinese New) Year of the Horse is here
Don’t worry - no horse meat involved in the production of this issue...
Mandarin Orange Creme Brulee
East Meets West in this delectable dessert. Makes x8 small/x4 large
Where to go for a Taste of China
If easy home cooking is not really for
you, then you’re blessed that we are
in one of the most culturally diversed
cities in the world, but Chinatown
is not your only option either!
SCR & QTR
TasteImperial is serving Chinese
specialities at their outlets on Friday.
In SCR, the classic five spice chicken
and crispy pork is available in the SCR,
along with coconut cake and sponge
cake. You can also get stir-fry and chow
mein at the QTR. Free fortune cookies
are offered there and also when you
get the meal deal at F-East in the JCR.
Yam Yam! Festival
Yam Yam! is a 15-day festival (the
duration of Chinese New Year
celebration) at south-east London
which consists of workshops
and food around the world!
All ingredients used in the food
served are sourced locally and all
waste is recycled on site since they
aim to become zero waste to landfill
by the end of 2014. So definitely a
place to go for a fun weekend while
enjoying some guilt-free yummy food!
www.thealbany.org.uk
Tasted some amazing food this week?
Share it with us:
#FelixFood on Instagram
K
ung Hei Fat Choi! The
year of the horse has once
again arrived and if you
feel like having something
festive, but find Chopstix
slightly too greasy, here’s a healthy
recipe for you!
If people tell you Chinese food is
hard to cook, they are lying to you.
There is an Chinese idiom “People
rank food heavenly high”, so the
cuisine has developed itself to be as
accessible as possible, while keeping
the good taste.
Festive Treat
A good example is dumplings - or
jiaozi. They came from the Ming
Dynasty, when its name and looks
resembled the money used at the time,
so serving them is believed to bring
prosperity - especially at midnight on
Chinese New Year’s Eve. And since
then, it has become one of the most
popular foods of the nation, with
variations served at breakfast, lunch
and dinner - the same can’t be said for
fish and chips!
Ingredients:
- 500g of minced pork
- 100g of prawns
- 4 dried shiitake mushrooms,
reconstituted with some hot water
- 2 cloves of garlic
- 2 spring onions
- 1 thumb sized chunk ginger
- 1 tablespoon of soy sauce
- Some salt, pepper and sesame oil
- Dumpling/Wanton skin (available
in Asian supermarkets)
1. Finely chop the garlic, ginger, spring
onions, mushrooms and prawns. Add
them to a big bowl with the mince
pork, a bit of soaking liquid from
the mushrooms, soy sauce, salt and
pepper. Mix it up with your hand.
2. Put a tablespoon of filling onto the
centre of the skin, then put a little bit
of water around the edges and squeeze
it into the “dumpling shape”. Here is
where your creativity can kick in, any
form is fine as long as it is sealed.
3. Put it in boiling water for around
5-10 minutes, or until they start to
float. Usually served with noodles,
but it’s up to you!
The brilliance of dumplings is the
flexibility it provides. You can
essentially put any filling - chicken,
beef, mixed vegetables - as long as
it is sealed properly (don’t overfill!)
You can also steam and pan fry
these dumplings to give it a different
texture and flavour. To pan fry them,
put a tablespoon of oil and once
hot, fry the dumplings for around
3 minutes, until the base is golden.
Add boiling water just around
half way up, cover and let it steam
away. You can serve it with different
dipping sauces - my favourites
are sweet chilli sauce or soy sauce
and worcestershire sauce mixed
together!
The recipe above does make
quite a big batch but dumplings
are freezer-friendly (freeze raw.) So
make them over the weekend, then
just take a few out when you want
them. No thawing needed - just cook
from frozen for a little longer.
Okay, apart from your local Chinese takeaway and Chinatown...
Before we begin, a disclaimer: Satsumas, clementines, tangerines - basically
any easy-peel citrus orange with easy to separate segments you can think
of falls under the category of mandarin oranges. Think of it this way - all
clementines are mandarin oranges, but not all mandarin oranges are
clementines. (Mandarins are usually bigger in Asia...but these will do.)
If you must/insist there’s no diff, feel free to substitute with your standard non-
easy-peel (Navel) oranges. You may feel the pernickety wrath of some Asians
in the process (myself possibly included)...but hey, all citrus deserves some
love! Also, recycle Gu dessert pots for ramekins. You’re welcome.
3 large eggs
5 large egg yolks
200g light brown sugar
600ml double cream
zest and flesh segments from 6 mandarins (or 2-3 normal oranges)
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Preheat oven to 175C. Mix (do not whip) the egg yolks, eggs, mandarin juice,
and 110g of brown sugar (remainder is for topping!) until fully combined.
Over medium heat, warm cream and mandarin zest in saucepan to scalding
point - stir occasionally. Gradually pour the egg mixture into cream, stirring
constantly (too quickly and you get scrambled egg.) Add salt and vanilla.
Strain custard using a fine mesh strainer into a jug (it will still be liquidy.)
Place a tea towel on the bottom of a deep roasting tin, then arrange ramekins
on top and put 2-3 mandarin segments in ramekins. Pour hot water from a
kettle until it reaches halfway up the ramekins, then divvy up your custard mix
between the ramekins until they are about 3/4 full.
Bake custards for about 25 mins, or until they are set with a slight wobble
in centre when shaken. (Or get geeky and make sure your food probe reads)
Remove from the water bath and allow to cool, then refrigerate until they
thoroughly chilled. Can be made ahead 4-5 days in advance, just keep them
well-covered to stop other fridge smells seeping in!
For topping: Preheat oven to 150C. Line a baking tray with parchment, spread
out remaining sugar into an even, thin layer. Put in oven until it starts to dry
out (around 3-5 min.). Remove, allow to cool, then crunch with a rolling pin
to break up into granules again. Reserve until serving time.
To serve: Sprinkle an even layer of the dried sugar on the custards. Torch with
quick swirling motions, or bung under a hot grill until bubbly. Let cool (very
briefly) to allow topping to solidify (gives you that satisfying crack when hit
with your spoon.) Top with mandarin segments - dig in rightaway!
thewi.org

