37
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 31 JAN
CATNIP
Ask Annie, your friendly Agony Aunt
Help! I’m the only girl in my group
of friends, which means that I’m
constantly surrounded by guys. This
sounds great, but it’s a massive pain as
other guys never dare to approach me.
What can I do to get around this?
Cockblocked in Cockfosters
Have you considered that one of
your male friends might actually be
the way to go? If you really want to
branch out, why not try manning up
and approaching the guys yourself? It
really isn’t as scary as it sounds. If you
think a guy is eyeing you up from afar,
just go and say hi. If that’s too brave for
you, why not separate yourself from
your friends and make yourself more
approachable?
Help! I have a massive crush on my
lecturer. I can’t pay any attention in his
lectures, and when we’re alone during
office hours, I swear he feels the same!
What should I do?
Besotted in Baron’s Court
I’m gonna be honest with you, babe,
you’re young. He’s probably old. Why
don’t you go for someone your own
age? Imperial is a goldmine of fresh
young men. And he probably doesn’t
think of you that way, that’s just wishful
thinking. Whatever you do, don’t
risk any embarrassment by making
a move. He might be entertaining a
fantasy of the hot young student, but
making fantasy a reality doesn’t always
live up to your expectations…
Help! I was too shy to make any
friends during Freshers week, and now
everyone’s formed groups of friends
in Halls and on my course, and I’m
always left out. How can I make friends
this late in the year?
Lonely in Ladbroke Grove
This is a really easy trap to fall into
for the introverted Imperialite. But
don’t worry, it’s still easy to make
friends! It’s not too late to join a
club or society, which is a really easy
way to meet a bunch of new people.
In Halls, you can just hang around
common areas and occasionally try
and join conversations, and people
will automatically start incorporating
you. On your course, you can hang out
with people after tutorials and lectures
– drag out any social interactions and
people will start including you.
Help! I’m a plus size guy, and I want to
change, I want to start getting healthy,
but I’m scared that if I go to the gym,
people will laugh at me. What can I
do?
Overweight in Oval
Most people at the gym will have
serious respect for anyone who wants
to make a positive change in their
life, and will, if anything, be helpful.
Anyone who’s a douche is probably a
douche to everyone, probably because
they have a tiny penis. Anything they
say isn’t personal, don’t worry about
it. However, if you really don’t want
to face the gym, there are plenty of
other ways. For the ultimate people
avoidance, late night jogging is easy,
and the powers of little things like
walking instead of taking the bus
shouldn’t be underestimated.
Help! My girlfriend’s moving away for
six months in March, and we haven’t
talked about what’s going to happen
when she leaves. We haven’t been
together that long, is it too soon to try
and make it work long distance?
Worried in Waterloo
Maintaining it over long distance
will put an extra strain on your
relationship, that is more likely to
make it break. It’s hard to keep that
kind of trust, especially if you haven’t
been together for long. If you really
love each other, you can easily get
back together when she comes back,
and you might even find that neither
of you want to get with anyone else
when you’re apart. It is possible to do
long distance though, so have a really
honest conversation about it before
she leaves.
1. Be confident
If you always act confident, you’ll look confident. If you look
confident, people will think you’re confident. And believe it
or not, that’s hot. Anyone, male or female, loves to be asked
out. If you find someone attractive and ask them to go for a
drink, you stand as much chance as any of them saying yes.
If you don’t know them it’ll be a purely physical decision, but
at least that takes the pressure off in terms of being rejected.
After all, you’re much more than a pretty face.
2. Be friends
It’s unusual for a romantic connection to develop without
some sort of friendship forming first. When you first meet
someone, be flirtatious, but not to the point that they’re
intimidated by you. It’s a lot easier to see if you like them,
and get to a point where it’s easy to ask them out. After all,
is it weird between friends to suggest that you do something
together?
3. Be sneaky
You don’t have to go up to someone and say, “Will you go
out with me?” If you’re really nervous, you don’t even have
to directly ask them to hang out with you. If you’re already
friends, you can arrange to hang out as a group, and
“accidentally” tell them to arrive earlier, or “coincidentally”
have everyone else cancel. If you get caught out, you can
always pretend that you made a mistake. The key is to make
it easy for them. Let them see how you get on when you’re
alone. Once this idea is in their head, they’re more like to
make a move. But remember, you can take a horse to water,
but you can’t make him drink.
4. Be bold
If you do it with confidence, you can pull off anything. Make
it seem like it’s no big deal. Ask someone out with enough
swag and if they turn you down you can strut away with your
head held high and leave them feeling rejected. Don’t be
afraid to turn it back on them if it goes wrong, “You thought
I was asking you out? What’s wrong with you?”
Annie’s advice that
Imperial sorely needs
How to ask someone out: A
guide for girls (or boys)
Send Annie your problems and suggestions at catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A
gony Aunt Annie
Whiteley is the woman
whofoughtforwomen’s
cloakroom facilities at
Imperial, and thus is
qualified to solve all your problems.
What
important
advice
should
Annie
dish out
next
week?
Email
any ideas
to the
address
below!
Like us on
			#AllTheSocialMedia
/FelixImperial
@FelixImperial

