imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
The Big Elections 2014
Rep Conference On 19 February 2014, Imperial College Union will host
its first ever Rep Conference.
Themed around the question What Is Excellence?,
this free half-day event will bring together Academic
Representatives and College staff to discuss the
future of staff-student interaction at Imperial College
London. Delegates will hear keynote speeches from
senior College and Union speakers, and take part in
workshops designed around four sub-themes:
Delivering Excellence
Campaigning for Excellence
Rewarding Excellence
Measuring Excellence
To register or find out more, please visit
imperialcollegeunion.org/repconference.
imperialcollegeunion.org/repconference
After a successful launch last year, the Student
Academic Choice Awards are back!
The Student Academic Choice Awards – or SACAs –
enable students to celebrate and reward excellence
and innovation amongst Imperial’s academic
and professional staff. We believe teaching and
supervision are skills of equal worth and value to
research, and we aim to build a community in which
academics, staff and students all feel empowered to
bring forth new ideas.
Nominations are open now until 28 February. For
more details visit imperialcollegeunion.org/sacas.
SACAs
imperialcollegeunion.org/sacas
The Big Elections 2014 are coming! Launching next
month, the Big Elections are approaching and we
are running a series of information sessions that will
help you to understand what positions are available
and how to put together a successful campaign and
winning manifesto.
Every information session is open to all students and
they are a great way to get an idea about each role
and find out which might be suitable for you to run
for. They are not compulsory but will certainly give
you a head-start in The Big Elections 2014. Don’t
worry if you can’t make one of the sessions, we will
be making the slides available online for all to see.
Have a look at imperialcollegeunion.org/elections to
find out more! EVENTSTHISWEEK
imperialcollegeunion.org/stressless
MEDITATION MADE EASY
Wednesday 5 February, 12:00 -
12:50
Free
Meeting Room 3
De-clutter your head space with a
meditation skill you can use at your
desk, at home or before an exam.
STRESS LESSWORKSHOP
Wednesday 5 February, 13:00 -
13:50
Free
Meeting Room 3
This quick session explores
strategies to slow down, have
more of a work-life balance and
strengthen your stress response.
Keep calm and rise above it all.
MINDFULNESS MEDITATION
Tuesday 4 February, 13:00 - 13:50
Free
Chaplaincy Multi-Faith Centre
An introduction to meditation not
connected to religious tradition.
Gives simple ways to practice
meditation in daily life. Run by the
Imperial College Chaplaincy team.
ZEN LOUNGE
Thursday 6 February, 11:00 -
17:00
Free
Metric
Drop in for a free massage, kick
back and relax with our chill-out
music. This is a work free zone.
spring2014

