6 FRIDAY 31 JAN
FEATURES
Editor: Shiladitya
Ghosh
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Interview with Matthew, Lord
Carrington of Fulham.
8th January 2014
Alexander Morton: Thank you very
much for your time this afternoon
Matthew. If I recall correctly, in
1967 you were the Chairman of
the Imperial College Conservative
Society?
Matthew Carrington: That’s right,
1967-1968, I don’t think I did it in my
final year which was 1968 - 1969, so yes
it would have been that. It was quite
an active society at that time, although
I can’t for the life of me remember
how many members we had. We had
a lot more signed up members than
were active members.
AM: So why did you get involved in
politics as a student?
MC: Well you know I’m one of these
rather sad individuals who has always
been involved in politics. I was
involved in politics at school, and I
was very political, and my late mother
used to maintain when she was talking
to people that I was passionate about
politics at the age of eleven, but I don’t
quite remember it being that early.
However, it was certainly a natural
progression going from school to
university to getting involved with
the Conservative politics. Frankly the
passionate has never left me, so I’ve
always been involved in Conservative
politics.
AM: How do you feel Conservative
politics has changed from when you
were a student to where you are now
in the House of Lords?
MC: When I was a student, politics
generally was much more patrician,
the Conservative party infinitely more
patrician. We used to have things
like, what’s now CCHQ, but in those
days was Central Office, send around
excellent ladies (and they were ladies,
the ones we had) and do public
speaking courses for students and
things like that, which you know, were
really quite useful. However, the Party
doesn’t do things like that anymore
and it is very different now. In fact,
they don’t provide much support to
anything these days. Back then it was
the Party of Ted Heath, obviously,
having just been the Party of Sir Alec
Douglas-Home. I remember sitting
in Beit, in the Union Building, on the
first floor, where they had a television
set, which was very unusual in the
building or in any part of Imperial at
that time, and watching Harold Wilson
making his television broadcast about
the Pound in your pocket not being
devalued. So that dates me a bit! [He
laughs]
AM: I was thinking that one of the
things that has changed is that we
haven’t lived through the era where
socialism was really Socialism …
MC: … and we did live through it!
And we lived through a time, dare
I say it, the Conservative Party was
prepared to go along with a lot of
the socialist assumptions about the
way the economy should be run and
that of course changed with Margaret
Thatcher. And it desperately needed
to change. I graduated in 1969 and
fought my first election in 1979. I
fought Fulham in 1987, having fought
it a by-election in ’86 after Martin
Stevens died, and then lost the by-
election for a lot of very good reasons.
Governments lose by-elections and
that was no exception. Various crises
come up during the election, but we
didn’t lose it that badly and I won
it back convincingly during ’87 and
stayed on and won it in 1992 with
increased majority and sadly went
down the great crash of 1997 with
Tony Blair’s victory.
AM: Entering the Commons during
the latter part of Lady Thatcher’s
time in office, could you tell us what
she was like?
MC:Shewasanamaz…anastonishing
lady as everyone knows, but she had
no interpersonal skills at all. It’s one of
these sad things about people who are
very, very good and very driven and
know exactly what they are trying to
do and can force their views through
a great deal of opposition …. but she
was extremely difficult in dealing
with groups and she had none of the
natural personal charm which you
might assume that a great political
leader would have. For instance, just
to give you a silly little story which is
so silly, but is fairly typical of her. She
would be in a receiving line of MP’s,
so she knew us all, and we’d be going
up and shaking her by the hand for a
reception at 10 Downing Street. And
what her way of operating in that
was to grab you by the hand, pull
you straight through past her by her
hand, while looking at the next person
coming up. Laughs. So no eye contact,
absolutely no personal tosh at all, and
she vaguely knew who you were, but
did she even do that really …
AM: You were just lobby-fodder?
MC: We were just something she had
to get through, and she got through it
in an efficient way and who is to say
getting through these things in an
efficient way isn’t the right way to do it
if you are a very busy lady? It did mean
though that some of my colleagues,
not me as it happens as I thought
very highly of her, did swallow once
or twice before proclaiming that she
was a wonderful leader. Which is of
course one of the reasons why she had
the problems she did in 1990 when the
leadership contest came up.
AM: What was it like being in the
Party during the leadership crisis?
MC: It was frenetic! There were
cabals of people getting together and
discussing what they were going to do
and how they were going to do it and
all sorts of rumours about who was
going to vote for Mrs Thatcher and
who was going to vote the … “Other
Candidate” [Michael Heseltine]… It
was one of those, if you like politics,
one of those, dare I say, exciting times.
In retrospect it was a beastly time, but
at the time it was all very exciting.
AM: After Mrs Thatcher, you had
the surprise of John Major winning
the 1992 election …
MC: It wasn’t a surprise, it was a
surprise on the opinion polls. Having
said that though, my old constituency
[Fulham] had been very marginal.
It was less marginal after the 1992
election because I got over 50% of
the vote, but we always had fought it
and canvassed it very closely, and so
we had a very detailed record of what
people’s opinions were on the doorstep
from the general election in 1987, the
by-election in 1986, from the election
in 1983, and indeed the election in
1979. As such, we could match the
present canvass returns against the
past canvass returns. And we did. We
would do this on a daily basis and then
on polling day we would do it on an
hourly basis as people were turning
out. Our results, consistently, all the
way through the 1992 election were
better than they had been in 1987 and
1983, so it wasn’t a surprise to us at
all as our canvass returns were much
better [than the general media polls].
So when we increased the majority
and got a very good result, we were
not the least bit surprised.
John Major is very underrated. In fact,
part of his great problem was that
as Prime Minister, and it’s the same
as Ken Clarke as Chancellor of the
Exchequer in the latter part of John
Major’s Government, is that they did
a fabulous job, almost too good a job
for the politics as they were very, very
good at running the country, but they
weren’t very good at making people
realise they were doing a good job of
running the country and then saying
to people, “now we have the economy
straight, this is our vision for what we
are now going to do with it”. As such
people felt, I think, in 1997 that they
wanted someone a bit more exciting
than John Major on television and
they thought the economy was in
good shape and so they thought that
someone could come and spend some
money. Which they couldn’t of course
… in hindsight it was a disaster. … One
of the strong messages coming out of
the Treasury is that the economy is
improving, and actually is improving
quite rapidly, but isn’t improving to
the extent that we can ever relax about
it. Certainly not for the next four to
five years, which takes us well through
the next election.
AM: What would you say were the
main failings of the Conservative
Party, and why it has not been
able to win a majority at a General
Election for 17 years?
MC: It’s been a puzzle to a lot of us. I
think it comes down to looking back
on the 13 years we were practically
out of power, and I think we were seen
as a Party which didn’t do what the
Conservative Party always been very
good at – being very conservative on
the economy, being very rigorous on
the economy, but socially being really
quite liberal. We lost that feel. People
felt we were telling them how to run
their lives, rather than moving with
the flow of the way people wanted to
live their own lives and encouraging
them to be able to do what they
wanted to do, rather than doing what
we thought what they should do. I
think we lost a bit of that, and then
of course a party which can’t agree
amongst itself on things like Europe,
and tears itself apart, which we did in
the Maastricht debate and continued
through practically to the present
day, faces a real uphill struggle to
convince people that we are a unified
force which could change things. I
think we are much better at it now, I
think that David Cameron has done
a phenomenal job in that, in what are
nightmare circumstances of having
the Liberals in Coalition.
AM: On the subject of the Lords how
can you sell the idea of an unelected,
undemocratic chamber?
MC: I think there are a lot of
mythologies about the Lords these
days. People who are used to having a
Senate with a bicameral system have
to understand that we don’t have a
bicameral system. What we have is
one chamber, which is the Commons,
which is not only paramount, but is
the only real elected chamber, which
has the ability to make laws. The
Lords is an advisory chamber, and it
is really no more than that. We don’t
really even have a delaying power
anymore. We can vote against things,
they get sent back to the Commons,
the Commons overturns our vote
and sends it straight back to us. What
we are however, being an advisory
chamber, is full of people who are
hugely experienced in what they do.
We have High Court Judges, we have
very senior surgeons, we have very
senior academics, we have very senior
people from industry here – the sort
of people who would not get elected
to any chamber in the world and many
would certainly not stand for election
and never put up with it. They come
here and put in a lot of time. They
spend time with their colleagues
debating things in the Chamber, but
also more informal places around the
Lords. So – hugely influential.
For example, I was in a debate a few
days ago where we were discussing
a rather obscure part of Children’s
legislation, where we had six very
senior judges stand up one after the
other, discussing how this clause in
the bill would actually work in practice
in the courts. You wouldn’t get that
anywhere else and so it does have an
advantage. It gives the Government
the ability to be able to tap into a
depth of experience which they would
find very difficult to marshal, and
they also have to take account of such
experience. It also means that there
is a debate, there is a structure, and
there are 800 members of the House
of Lords, and it means while in a
Committee you would have maybe 20
people at most, here you can have very
senior judges, you can have very junior
barristers, and you can have solicitors
standing up on the same thing in a
structured environment, having to
make their points, and having to argue
it, and having to stand it up against
other people’s criticisms in public,
on the record. So it has advantages.
It is a very peculiar system, I think
everyone would recognise that, but
the way it has evolved, it probably has
some strengths as well as clearly some
weaknesses.
AM: When you were a student at
Imperial College your tuition costs
were provided for by the State.
What are your views on tuition fees?
MC: I got a grant even! I got a
maintenance/living grant, the sort of
thing which is unheard of these days.
I think it is very sad. I would like not
to have student tuition fees, but on the
Interview with Lord Carrington of Fulham
The alumnus discusses the Conservative Party, tuition fees and student housing.
Lord Carrington
DodOnline.com

