7
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 31 JAN
FEATURES
other hand when I went to University,
between 10-15% of people coming
out of 6th Forms went to University,
now it getting close to 45-50%. That
is a huge change. Universities were
underfunded then and are probably
underfunded now, but the amounts
of money involved were much smaller
then than now. Having said that, I
think you have to make sure that the
ability of students to fund their way
through and the terms of which the
student loans are made are sufficiently,
in banking jargon, ‘soft’ – that they are
affordable and aren’t something that
is going to make people who should
go to University feel they can’t afford
to for financial reasons. So I think
there is a balance to be drawn. I’m
not sure that the balance we have at
the moment is right, but there is a
necessity to make sure that people do
pay for their education a bit more than
they did just purely on the numbers
going into education.
AM: It is becoming increasingly
difficult for young people to get
onto the housing market, let alone
the fact that students in London
don’t have access to student housing
that students in at other institutions
have. What are your views on this
issue?
MC: I think housing in London is in
crisis, and I think it is not just confined
to students – it’s confined to anybody
who isn’t extremely rich or qualified
for social housing. We desperately
need to build housing in London, we
need to rethink densities, and we need
to rethink the use of brownfield sites.
So there is a general problem. There is
a lot to be said for building upwards,
which comes down to density. Our
density ratios, which for all the right
reasons we’ve wanted to keep low
densities, are unsustainable and that
has to change. I think Boris Johnson
has said effectively the same thing,
and I think that is probably right.
Students are a particular problem, and
it was as bad, I can tell you, when I was
at Imperial because we had very little
student housing at Imperial. There was
Beit Hall, which has been there a long
time, and there was the old Southside
building, Southside Hall, and apart
from that there was very little student
accommodation. Imperial went out
and bought a few houses in Earls
Court when I was there, but it was all
pretty basic, there is more now than
there was then.
It is real problem, and there has been
a lot of money put in, there has been a
lot of effort into getting private money
to finance student housing, which I
think Imperial has built some halls of
residence with that, but it isn’t an easy
one to solve in London. Some of it is
in North Acton I hear … which is not
clever … It is all part of, dare I say it,
the housing crisis in London which no
Government has successfully tackled.
I think the Mayor is making the right
noises, but I think the problem is that
it is hugely difficult, which is why
nobody has come up with a solution
to it. It does mean major changes to
planning laws, to be then accepted by
local authorities, because planning
is one of those things which central
Government puts the framework in
and local Government puts the details
in. And then, you are up against people
who say, well I quite like my part of
town not “being full of high-rise blocks
and not being high density”. If you go
to other cities though, Paris is much
more densely developed and so is New
York, just to take two examples.
AM: Naturally this wouldn’t
be a complete interview with a
Conservative if I didn’t mention
Europe, especially given that
the media attention to the EU
Referendum Bill …
MC: ...I think we need to start getting
that right. I think we face a real
challenge in getting allies in Europe
and if we can’t find allies for change
in Europe, we will probably need to
take some tough decisions. They will
be forced on us in any case, regardless
of what we want to do, by the clear
determination to persist the Euro in
the other counties. There is only one
future for the Euro … actually there
are two: one is that it collapses, which
politically they are not allowed to
do, the other one is that it becomes
effectively another State and we will
be outside it because we are not going
to join the Euro.
I think that if we can negotiate
sensible terms to be outside the Euro,
but inside what would be effectively
the free trade element of Europe,
that would be the best solution. Free
movement of people is very difficult,
because the people we want to stop
having free movement are the people
who are the people going to come
and not contribute to the country. If
we have got people who are coming
in who are highly skilled, we want to
bring them in. So you have got to get
the right balance. I’m not sure that
bringing in even lots of skilled Polish
builders was terribly good for British
builders and I think it is a real shame
for them.
AM: Why did you decide to accept
a Peerage?
MC: I decided to accept because
when you are offered something like
this you don’t refuse. Being a political
animal, just getting back onto the
front lines of politics, or close to it was
reason enough. Why was I offered it?
I think a variety of reasons, although
the short answer is I don’t know! They
don’t tell you why you are going in.
You don’t get a citation which says
“Dear Mr Carrington, we would like
to join the House of Lords for the
following six good reasons …”. I would
guess the reason include having been a
Member of Parliament, I’ve been also
been very active in the voluntary part
of the political party, been London
regional Chairman and I am currently
an Association Chairman. I’ve also
done a lot of other things, for example
I chair the Party’s appeal board. So,
I guess it’s a combination of those
things. And of course because I’m a
brilliant chap and they love me to bits!
AM: Well naturally! Finally, why
should the students of today care
about politics and why should it
be Conservative politics, given the
traditional student image of it being
full of old boys, big business, rather
socially dispassionate and uncaring.
MC: That often is the view. It comes
down to, what is certainly is one of
the driving forces of the Conservative
Party, although sometimes we lose
sight of it, is that the only way of
paying for all the support we want
to give to people who are less able
to look after themselves is to have a
very strong economy. The only way
to have a very strong economy is to
have a free economy. The difference
between the parties always used to be
between central planning and private
enterprise – people having the right
to succeed and the right to fail in the
businesses. The 50 years after the war,
I think, proved pretty conclusively that
central planning doesn’t work. We
are now getting back to an economy
where we are seeing businesses able
to grow and being rewarded for their
efforts, people being able to pay to tax
which allows us to finance the things
we need to finance.
Students should get involved because
all of you are going to be working, all of
you are going are going to have a stake
in this country or the country you
come from or are going back to, and
I would hope that you are going to be
passionate about making this country,
or indeed any country, better for your
children than it was for your parents.
The only way you are going to be able
to do that is by making sure that you
are driving that change and stopping
other people driving the change in the
wrong direction.
AM: Lord Carrington, thank you
very much.
MC: Pleasure.
F
ollowing the success of the
first TEDxImperialCollege
conference held at Imperial
College two years ago, and
TEDMEDLive last March,
students from Imperial can now
look forward to yet another thought-
provoking, mind-engaging TEDx
conference to be held on 29 March.
TED conferences rose to fame
globally by spreading innovative and
inspirational ideas. TEDx events are
organised independently but adhere
to the TED format, and are licensed by
the organisation in the spirit of their
mission Ideas Worth Spreading.
This TEDxImperialCollege confer-
ence promises something more fu-
turistic and forward looking than the
first TEDxImperialCollege which was
centred around the theme the Great
Exhibition. With the bold theme ‘One
Step Ahead’, you can expect this to be
a conference filled with the great ideas
of tomorrow. This conference prom-
ises to explore ideas that are breaking
new ground and revolutionising the
human experience.
TEDxImperialCollege 2014 will be
moving back to campus after last year’s
TEDMEDLive popped across the road
to the Royal Geographic society to
entertain and inspire 450 Imperial
students and staff. This time, however,
the event has been moved from
the Great Hall, the venue of 2012′s
runaway success, to the Business
School. This means attendees will
have to secure places more quickly
than ever as the new venue is smaller
and there will only be approximately
one hundred tickets going on sale this
time round.
Ticket details haven’t be announced
just yet, but if previous years of TEDx
and TEDMEDLive at Imperial are
anything to go by, they’ll be some of
the hottest tickets in town.
In the coming weeks, the full list
of hand-picked speakers will be
released and Felix will report on
these announcements as they are
made. You will find updates as well
on the website and social media
pages. A lot of excitement is building
up as the countdown towards the
next TEDxImperialCollege begins.
And indeed, to become part of
TEDxImperialCollege and all
the exciting ideas that define our
tomorrow, be sure to keep an eye on
the TEDxImperialCollege website at
tedximperialcollege.co.uk
TEDxImperialCollege is also
on Facebook (facebook.com/
tedximperialcollege) and you can
follow TEDxImperialCollege on
twitter @TEDxIC.
Chen Yann Qi
TEDxIC Organising Team
tedximperialcollege
Introducing TEDxImperialCollege 2014
terry Moore, Parliamentary copyright images are reproduced with the permission of Parliament

