8 FRIDAY 31 JAN
POLITICS
Editor: Kartikeya
Rana, Jash Rughani
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
I
n January 2011, when Egypt’s
political landscape was marred
by widespread distrust in
President Hosni Mubarak’s
regime the citizens of Egypt
took to the streets with zeal for new
hope and better governance. Protests
were bolstered by the involvement
of youth and there was a unanimous
demand for transfer of power. Today,
in 2014 young secular Eqyptians
voicing opinions against the military
are languishing in jails at the mercy
of a coup which once enjoyed their
outright support.
On August 2012, When President
Mohammed Morsi appointed
Gen Sisi as general commander of
Egypt’s armed forces and defence
minister; it was seen as an attempt
to reclaim political power from the
military, which had seized control
after President Hosni Mubarak was
ousted. However, Gen Sisi publicly
warned Mr Morsi of another army
intervention if the government failed
to respond to “the will of the people.”
Following on from that date, Mr Morsi
of the Muslim Brotherhood assumed
power as the head of state until its
first anniversary marked with show of
extreme discontentment by different
factions of the society. This time round
the army issued an ultimatum to Mr
Morsi, instructing him to respond to
people’s demands or step down within
48 hours. When he failed to do so, it
removed him from power and placed
him under house arrest. The army
appointed an interim civilian leader
in Gen Sisi and issued a roadmap
leading to fresh elections. This was
viewed by anti-Morsi protesters as the
saviour of democracy, rather than the
perpetrators of a coup.
It was announced that Mr Morsi and
more than 30 others in the Muslim
Brotherhood’s leadership were to
stand trial for “conspiring with foreign
organisations to commit terrorist
acts”, with prosecutors alleging that
Mr Morsi formed an alliance with the
Palestinian militant group Hamas and
Lebanon’s Hezbollah. Mr Morsi is also
facing fraud charges in connection
with the Muslim Brotherhood’s
economic and social programme for
Egypt’s recovery, called Renaissance
(al-Nahda). Separately, Mr Morsi
is facing a third trial relating into
his escape from jail during the 2011
uprising against former President
Hosni Mubarak
The military intervention was not
well received by many who had to
bear the brunt of their atrocities in
the turbulent period following Mr
Mubarak’s ouster. Women were
subjected to brutal virginity tests
under false claims of safety measures.
In order to appease the masses Gen
Sisi released statements stressing
the importance of ensuring social
equality.
On 3 July, Gen al-Sisi, known to
enjoy “strong ties with US officials on
both diplomatic and military levels”,
suspended Egypt’s constitution and
called for new elections. He was
backed by liberal opposition forces
and the main religious leaders.
Known to be a religious man, Gen
Sisi has enjoyed perpetual support
from religious bodies across the
nation. Mr ElBaradei, a former Morsi
loyalist and coordinator of the main
alliance of liberal parties known as
the National Salvation Front, was
appointed interim vice-president with
responsibility for foreign affairs as a
means to win his consent. Tamarod, a
new group that organised nationwide
protests against Mr. Morsi, gave the
president an ultimatum to resign or
face an open-ended campaign of civil
disobedience and it was also backed
by the army.
Under the military’s pressure a
referendum was held on January 14th,
2014 to draft a new constitution and
pave the way for another general
election. The terms of the new
constitution provide for a President
to be elected for a maximum of 2
terms of four years each. The defence
minister, however, would continue to
be from the military.
A respectable 38% turnout at the
referendum was a tell-tale sign of
people’s disgruntlement with constant
violence and instability in their
country.Egypt’swearypublicisfearful,
having learned through three years of
turmoil how protests can evolve into
weeks-long cycles of violence. Clearly,
the participants in the referendum
mainly included Gen Sisi’s supporters.
While Morsi’s supporters boycotted
it, a large proportion of the country’s
youth refrained from voting as well.
Such discrepancies reflect not only the
hardening of a dangerous polarization
between Islamists and their foes, but
widespread dissatisfaction among
Egypt’s youth. Harsh prison sentences
have recently been served on youths
for such crimes as illegal assembly
and vandalism. Prosecutors recently
slapped travel bans on a score of
people, pending charges against them
for “insulting the judiciary”. A number
of journalists remain in prison
under vague charges of “falsifying
information” and news channels that
broadcast a different point of view
from the military coups’ are banned.
All steps are taken to keep the once
elected President from garnering
the support of his countrymen or
even the ability to explain his stance
and in return question his people’s
impressionable minds.
Egypt’s New Constitution
Jash Rughani
Politics Editor
The metamorphosis of an Arab state from autocracy to anarchy
epithinktank
Care Data: Live saving tool or
invasion of privacy?
T
he NHS has recently
dispatched a leaflet titled
“Better information means
better care” to everyone
in England. The leaflet
describes a new initiative, care data, in
which patient’s data from GP records
will be extracted and shared with the
Health and Social Care Information
Centre. The NHS hopes to roll out
care data in the summer and for the
first time in British medical history
there will be an anonymised medical
database which will include details of
every NHS patient – unless you opt
out. The database is hoped to achieve
better patient care and efficiency, but
a recent risk assessment published
by NHS England shows that Patients
“may lose trust” in the confidential
nature of the health service.
The risk assessment claims if the
care data scheme is to go ahead
then this runs the risk of damaging
patient trust in the NHS and making
information vulnerable to hacking.
There is also a “small residual risk”
that patients will be re-identified.
The assessment states that these
risks can be mitigated by allowing
patients to opt out by contacting their
GP. The risk assessment concludes
that the benefits outweigh the risk.
The care data initiative will support
economic growth by turning the UK
into a “global centre for life sciences
and health research” and creating a
“vibrant App marketplace.”
“The most valuable thing we have
in health and social care is data,” said
executive medical director of the
NHS Information Centre for health
and social care, Dr Mark Davies, at
the healthcare efficiency through
technology conference in October.
Supporters of care data insist that
this kind of technology is essential
in order to provide an excellent
standard of healthcare. Large volumes
of health records can transform the
way in which diseases are treated and
managed. This is hoped to ultimately
save lives because it will allow
researchers to track the impact of
drugs and surgery on patients.
Privacy experts warn the trouble
lies with the data being sold off to
drug and insurance companies, with
patients not being able to tell who has
their medical records or to what use
their data will be put. Organisations
can apply to the new Health and Social
Care Information Centre (HSCIC)
to gain access to the database and
if an application is approved then
the organisation will have to pay to
access the data. A process known as
“pseudonymisation” occurs where
some personal identifiers will be
removed, but not enough to make the
information completely anonymous.
The English database of medical
data will also include NHS numbers,
date of birth, postcode, ethnicity and
gender. Critics fear that this data can
be pieced together with insurers,
pharmaceutical groups and other
health sector companies own medical
data, essentially re-identifying certain
patients.
A Pulse survey conducted last week
with nearly 400 GP respondents
found a deep divide between those
who support the care data scheme
and those who don’t, with 41% saying
they intend to opt-out, 43% saying
they would not opt-out and 16%
undecided.
Aamna Mohdin
News Editor
Guardian

