Whereas the tennis consisted
solely of motion detection, bowling
required you to use the buttons to
position yourself pre-roll. Once po-
sitioned to take into account the
natural spin due to left or right-
handedness, you were set to roll.
Motioning your hand in a clean
sweep from back to front was im-
mediately familiar as well. After
my initial shot straight down the
left hand gutter, I was scoring well
even managing the first strike of
the morning.
I managed to sneak in a quick par
on Wii Sports golf later on in the
day, which was instantly playable
even with my limited experience of
the real thing. Boxing also received
high praise from two fellow gam-
ers who duked it out. Wii Sports
was so entertaining we could have
happily spent all morning compet-
ing. Nintendo have packaged the
title with the Wii itself and whilst
it’s questionable whether this was
a ploy created to set the console’s
higher than expected price, I would
have recommended you buy Wii
Sports at launch regardless of this
anyway.
As much as I wanted to continue
bowling, I asked to sneak off down-
stairs to the burgundy lounge where
Zelda: The Twilight Princess was
on display. I jumped straight into
somebody else’s saved games. Once
again, the combination of Wiimote
and nunchaku felt as recognisable
as Link’s green garb. Visually how-
ever, Zelda was very jaggy – with
mountainsides and walls looking
as smooth as bread knives. One
gamer observed that the graphics
were washed out and I agreed to
an extent. Nintendo have reverted
back to a more mature Ocarina
Of Time appearance but there has
never been a more beautiful Zelda
to explore and conquer.
However, I had still yet to test
Link’s archery skills – the biggest
issue I wanted answering during
the day’s play. A spider was climb-
ing a rope ladder. Immediately I
whipped out a bow and arrow. My
view was thrown to the dangling
dungeon stalactites. After a period
of hand waving adjustment, I began
to find my aim and successfully shot
the ugly arachnids. Playing Zelda
brought a sense of relief. With prac-
tice, I feel the game will be as play-
able any of the previous titles, but it
remains to be seen whether it can
top the rest in the series.
Before leaving for the Radio 1 of-
fice and PS3 play test, I was lucky
enough to play on Ubisoft’s first
person shooter, Red Steel. Previews
and video footage that I’d seen
were incredibly disappointing with
dull, blocky graphics and an erratic
aiming system. Since my favourite
genre is the FPS, I was interested
in picking this up at launch. To my
surprise and also the other gamers
present, Red Steel was enjoyable.
Adjusting to the highly sensitive
controls took some time and whilst
I didn’t manage to perfect my aim
during the time I spent with the
title, I believe this will come with
practice again. The sword combat
was especially entertaining and
with a classic Japanese Yakuza
plot, I am still coloured interested
by Red Steel.
Quick games on Need For Speed
Carbon and Call Of Duty 3 were not
extensive enough to give a detailed
opinion, but I would suggest avoid-
ing Carbon. The controls feel hor-
ribly shoehorned onto the console
and there will likely be better-adapt-
ed racers such as ExciteTruck in-
stead. The Call Of Duty series has
always left me colder than a soldier
fighting in the Battle of the Bulge,
but I’d suggest it was a worthy al-
ternative to Red Steel if that’s not
your bag.
Here’s what boxing looks like in Wii Sports
From left to right: Radio 1 technology reporter Iain Mackenzie and the other lucky lads Kay, David and Phil putting the PS3 through its paces in the 1Xtra meeting lounge
And here’s what ‘boxers’ look like playing Wii Sports. Watch out, you may ‘accidently’ whack your mates
15
felix
Friday 24 November 2006
GAMES games.felix@imperial.ac.uk

