A
short taxi journey later
and we were sitting on
the sofas in the Radio
1Xtra meeting lounge.
A massive 40” plus flat
screen television was hooked up
the PlayStation 3. Unfortunately,
the HDMI cable hadn’t arrived so
the games wouldn’t be running
in complete high definition glory.
Upon initial inspection, the console
was smaller than I expected. Whilst
slightly larger than the Xbox 360, it
was deadly silent even when churn-
ing out the graphics of some seri-
ously good-looking games.
Motorstorm was up first. Eventu-
ally, that is. The PS3 was one of the
debugunitssenttopresscompanies
and as such, the games frequently
took longer than five minutes to
load. Once we were in the driving
seat of a massive truck, it was reaf-
firmed that the Wii would never be
nearing these visuals. Even without
an HD cable Motorstorm looked
next-gen. Racing against ten or
more computer controller vehicles,
with mud flying everywhere, huge
draw distances and highly realistic
physics, the PS3 hadn’t even shifted
into second gear. It remained con-
fidently silent – I could see Sony
Computer Entertainment’s CEO
Ken Kutaragi’s smug smile inside
the shiny black casing.
Motorstorm also utilised the tilt
sensitivity that the new SIXAXIS
controller possesses. Interestingly,
it functioned well as an alternative
to the analogue sticks. It’s doubtful
that you would use it instead, but it
played better than Carbon on the
Wii. All in all, the SIXAXIS remains
very faithful to the original PlaySta-
tion controller. The new L2 and R2
buttons are depressible, similarly
to the GameCube’s shoulder but-
tons. Overall it feels slightly lighter
without the cord and rumble fea-
ture inside. The other gamers be-
lieved it felt like a rushed piece of
kit, but I failed to comprehend this
– after all, if it ain’t broke...
Back into FPS territory, we fired
up Resistance: Fall Of Man. Taking
elements from world war shooters,
Gears Of War, Half Life many other
successful FPS games, I was most
excited about this compared to the
other PS3 titles. Whereas Zelda had
appeared washed out, Resistance
was plainly lacking in colour. The
monochrome backdrop was hark-
ing back to the days of pig-stickers
and Carbines, but felt pointless in
a world repeatedly recreated, only
now it was populated with aliens.
Once again though, the PS3 didn’t
struggle in the slightest when
churning out the detailed graph-
ics. Everything ran smoothly and
not a signal incident of tearing was
spotted by my eagle-eyed acquaint-
ances. Whilst the game play was
solid, I was reminded of EA’s Black,
a game that I became very bored of
once I got over the fact I could blow
the shit out of almost anything on
screen. Resistance lacked destruc-
tive environments too, so by com-
parison I should have been greatly
disappointed. However, the story
was appealing and if the developers
have nailed the narrative and cre-
ated exciting set pieces, Resistance
could certainly be a must have.
The rest of the afternoon was
spent playing Ridge Racer 7, Genji:
Days Of The Blade and Formula
1 Championship Edition. RR7
was exactly as expected – more of
the same, but at blisteringly high
speeds with slightly shiner graph-
ics. I’d rather wait for the coconuts
to fall from the palm trees in the
background than play any more
of the games in the series, but for
fans, this version should be no less
essential than the others. After a
ten-minute unskippable cutscene,
Genji wowed us with some fierce
fire effects, but after mashing the X
button for a thousandth time, we’d
had enough of pummelling useless
samurai enemies. Formula 1 was a
pleasant surprise once it entered
the PS3’s Blu-ray drive, recreating
the sport to a precision that has
never been seen before. The cars
roared round the bends, you could
feel the smooth carbon fibre bod-
ies and taste the petrol fumes in
the roof of your mouth. I never ex-
pected to be so impressed by such
a launch friendly title.
On our journey to the nearest
tube station after leaving the Ra-
dio 1 towers, we shared our views
and tried to draw some conclu-
sions. It was agreed that the PS3
was stunning visually, but it’s argu-
able whether the launch titles are
next-gen. Motorstorm impressed
the others more than myself, but
my apathy for racing games is the
likely explanation for this. Whilst
this and Resistance had potential,
the launch line up appears vastly
underwhelming. However, the PS3
has so much more to offer than just
games including a Blu-ray player,
Linux compatibility and a whole
host of multimedia features. But,
the touchy issue about price cannot
be avoided. At a minimum of £425
without games, controllers and an
HD television, the PS3 is an expen-
sive acquisition. Come Spring 2007,
we should expect to see Singstar
available in the launch window
along with a few other excellent
Sony exclusives, but even then I
could never justify buying a PS3.
Another 12 – 18 months down the
line and the story may be complete-
ly different. Final Fantasy XIII and
Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns Of The
Patriots are killer-apps that many,
including myself, will be gagging
for. But until mid 2008, resist the
temptation to queue when you see a
long line of people outside GAME in
March. Besides, you might get shot
in a drive-by if the American launch
is anything to go by.
In the meantime, if you really
need a truly next-gen fix, Bill Gates
is the man whose pension fund you
need to donate too. Personally, I’ve
gone for a Wii. [Ed - 2300 words be-
fore for the first piss joke! Not bad!]
The remote controller is a revela-
tion – it is precise, intuitive and a
genuinely successful alternative to
conventional game pads. My pre-
order is submitted and although
you’d be lucky to find a place still
taking them, I suggest you beg,
steal or sell your gran to grab one.
Go on, it’ll put a smile on your face.
PS3 exclusive Motorstorm looking stunning even without running in high definition Unfortunately, £425 will only get you a PS3 in March and not the girl
PHOTOGRAPHS OF LADY WITH PS3 PROVIDED BY EUROGAMER.NET
16 felix Friday 24 November 2006
GAMES games.felix@imperial.ac.uk

