Barbed wire, lesbians, and poetry
Peter Dominiczak and a man known only as Big Iain explore England’s near-mythical hills, the Quantocks
A
s a Scotsman, I had
always been of the
opinion that England’s
landscapes were no
more than the unwant-
ed bastard children of the High-
lands; the lands which the glaciers
felt too beneath them to twist and
trample beneath their icy mass,
leaving them flat and pointless,
useful only for daffodils and Little
Chefs. I always thought of Scot-
land as Zeus atop Olympus; violent,
magnificent and powerful, hurling
bolts of lightning down at inferior
England below – mere mortals at
the foot of the mountain, having a
good think, nibbling feta, and bend-
ing over.
But a couple of years living with an
Englishman who gets teary at the
very thought of an oak tree has sof-
tened my heart and, bags packed, I
decided it was time to venture forth
into Albion; leaving preconceptions
behind in jagged glens and crys-
tal-clear lochs. Compete, England,
compete. Deciding where to go was
problematical, like choosing be-
tween the various shades of brown
paint at B&Q. There were dales and
moors, coves, caves, meadows and
marsh. But out of nowhere, from
the very depths of my soul, poured
the word that would change eve-
rything: Quantocks. Now virtually
nobody in England knows where
the Quantocks are, or if in fact they
exist at all. They are a void, a fable;
like Narnia, or the Midlands. Big
Iain – travelling companion, giant,
and English patriot – suggested
that the Quantocks were possibly
a distant galaxy visited on occasion
by television’s own Lycra-clad fools,
trekking the stars, seeking out
knowledge and females that would
finally touch them. Inspection of a
cartographer’s magical produce re-
vealed that the Quantocks exist in
Somerset, just over the water from
Cardiff, in that area of the world
where people insist on worshipping
large stones and oftentimes apples.
We were off.
Getting to the Quantocks is a kind
of township-filtration process, tak-
ing one through more and more tri-
fling places, until you finally arrive
in ‘nowhere’ – the wondrous centre
of absolutely, bloody nowhere - and
fall to the ground, writhing in rural
ecstasy. First the bus rolls through
Bristol – giving me just enough
time to caress civilisation once
more – and then onwards to unin-
spiring Taunton, the ‘hub’ of Som-
erset. For a hub, Taunton contains
little more than a few idiot youths
clad in garish sportswear, inhaling
spray meant only for their grubby,
miscreant underarms. Taunton
also contains one or two pubs sell-
ing oddly fruity beer to idiot adults
who clearly misspent their own
youths inhaling the same sprays as
their inglorious progeny. We sit and
watch these semi-vegetative goons,
now able only to slump awkwardly,
beer clenched tight, exclaiming
four-lettered examples of finest
Saxon lingo, and occasionally cre-
ating a unique sort of art atop the
mahogany bar with their dribble.
All hail Taunton!
Trundling further into unknown
England, we are distilled to our pe-
nultimate destination: an unspoilt,
perfectly formed piece of total aim-
lessness. When the directions to a
place are given by the phrase: ‘get
off the bus at the smell,’ one knows
the jackpot has been well and truly
hit. Welcome to Watchet, Somerset:
a shatteringly pointless seaside
retreat that does indeed exist in
an otherworldly scent-bubble that
nestles comfortably between sew-
age and the long-neglected gusset
of a darts player. Save for the smell,
a pub, and loose connections with
Coleridge’s ‘Rime of the Ancient
Mariner’, Watchet has almost no
redeeming qualities. Its postcards
claim points of interest, but these
are lies invented by the presum-
ably now-suicidal tourist board.
Our happiest discovery was that
of the ‘Gay Archer’: a rather large
gunship cloistered in the dock that
explained a great deal about why
the Iraq war has descended into
such catastrophe. Much discussion
as to who this homophobic mariner
was or is obviously ensued, but no
answers which would vindicate the
funding of this floating hate-crime
could be reached. Mr. Blair has a
lot to answer for.
A
fter a final bus journey
up-wind of the stench,
we neared our desti-
nation: Holford. It has
to be said that quite
suddenly on that bus everything
became incredibly beautiful. I was
experiencing a kind of pastoral
Stendhal syndrome. All at once, I
was hit by the astounding wonder-
fulness that rolling England has
to offer. The surroundings – finally
panoramic rather than glimpsed in
snatches from a grubby coach hur-
tling along a motorway – took on a
new sharpness and significance;
hills lolling as far as the eye could
see. Kites, hovering delicately,
scouted for prey and great lum-
bering sentry-like trees guarded
some gargantuan secret garden - it
was all quite startling. My bucolic
revelations were confirmed to me
by Big Iain, who – I’m not joking
– began singing ‘Jerusalem’ to the
majority of the bus with the kind of
genuine emotion reserved for fu-
nerals or stubbed toes. I asked him
what he was doing and with a tear
in his eye he merely sighed: ‘Ahh-
hhh… England. Sweet England. Oh
look, A copse!’ and with that Jeru-
salem rang out once again. I tried
to imbibe the spirit of England, rev-
elling in the atmosphere Iain was
creating in his portable Albert Hall:
the rickety number nine to Holford,
driven by a cold-hearted man who
I could only presume had suffered
all of this many times before in the
past.
We stepped off the bus to a cluster
of cottages and a defunct pub. The
pub had been bought by two smiling
Americans who were in the proc-
ess of renovating it in order to cre-
ate – one can only assume – some
nightmarish calamity of Yankee
histrionic décor. We trudged off,
thinking about the arduous walk
we would be forced to make to the
next pub, but maintaining good
spirits, safe in the knowledge that
within the year those grinning
buffoons would either be back in
Florida, aghast and confused as to
why farmers wouldn’t want to drink
in a Mickey Mouse-themed Olde
English Pube (sic), or – we can but
dream – peppered with Olde Eng-
lish bullets. Having no real concept
of where our accommodation was,
we proceeded to wander aimlessly
up hills, dense with woodland and
sheep. Having done our Holford
homework, we recognised Hodders
Combe (a combe being one of Eng-
land’s more spurious geographi-
cal features. Where I come from,
we don’t register ‘narrow valleys’,
only calamitous glens), and the red-
brick dog pound where, a few hun-
dred years ago, the absent-minded
huntsman got eaten by his once-
faithful beasts. Staring at that scene
of grizzly death, I expressed deep
regret that Otis Ferry and company
clearly have their hounds under
control. Past elegant thatched cot-
tages - one which boasts of housing
Wordsworth for about three days in
1798 - we trekked onwards; allow-
ing ourselves a moment to recre-
ate a scene from Robin Hood that
was filmed here. I was a magnifi-
cent Kevin Costner, whilst Iain per-
formed admirably as Little John;
fighting with big sticks and shooting
invisible arrows brought us closer
to nature than ever before. It was a
heart warming event.
Suddenly, through a crowd of
trees, the hostel appeared like
manna from heaven, offering tired
souls sanctuary from all the fresh
air. The hostel was an architec-
tural phenomenon: an enormous
magnolia shack at the top of a hill,
porches and balconies jutting out
willy-nilly, seemingly disrespecting
gravity and engineering conven-
tion. It didn’t seem to suit Somerset
so much as Tennessee Williams’
deep south of the U.S.; if Marlon
Brando had stumbled out of the
front door, screaming about ‘damn
broads’ and swigging from a bottle
of canned heat, I would have ex-
pressed only mild surprise. Once
inside the hostel, our zeal soon
gave way to woe and trepidation.
For, you see, hostels are frequented
by a truly alarming bunch. They are
a refuge for the great pantheon of
the globe’s oddities and cranks.
The Gay Archer. I feel that this picture doesn’t really need a caption, in the interests of correctness
Our intrepid duo, Peter (left) and Iain (right), swapping Lithuania for, uhm, the glamour of Somerset
4 felix Friday 24 November 2006
TRAVEL felix@imperial.ac.uk

