After thirty years in the wilderness, the students of
Imperial College London have voted to rejoin the
National Union of Students.
Although the perceived wisdom was that Imperial
students would never vote to join the NUS, I was
conﬁdent that a sizeable cohort of Imperial students
believed that the beneﬁts of aﬃliation outweighed
the beneﬁts of isolation. I think that the message
our members are sending is that theyʼre not 100%
sure if the NUS is right for us, but seeing as weʼre
leaving the University of London Union, theyʼre
willing to give it a go. I also believe that the majority
of our students are open-minded about what NUS
can do for us but they expect to see results soon.
Whilst I am delighted at this result and, more
importantly, the record breaking turnout we
registered last week, I must acknowledge that
a signiﬁcant number of our students oppose
aﬃliation to the NUS and these students will be
understandably disappointed. To those who voted
“no”, I urge you not to panic or feel too despondent;
the Union isnʼt going to burn down tomorrow and
our clubs will still be as well funded next year as
they are now. Now letʼs move forward together and
try to make the NUS work for all of our students.
When will we start to see benefits of NUS
membership?
Some of the beneﬁts of NUS aﬃliation will be
realisable very soon – support services for our
staﬀ and senior oﬃcers are now available and our
representatives will soon be invited to contribute
to regional conferences, policy forums and
seminars. As we have simply swapped one federal
organisation (ULU) for another (NUS), problems
relating to reciprocal agreements with other
Studentsʼ Unions and additional University of
London Union withdrawal matters have now been
instantly resolved without extra cost or fuss.
The beneﬁts of the NUS discount card will take a
little longer to kick in. As our membership will not
be ratiﬁed until February 13th 2007, our Union
will not be allowed to sell NUS Extra Cards until
Valentines Day.
In terms of participating in the democratic processes
of the NUS, you can expect to see developments here
soon. We will be running cross campus elections for
delegates to next yearʼs national conference in the
New Year, so if youʼre interested in standing then
look out for further publicity this January.
The next step
Now that we have chosen to join the NUS, I believe
that we need to be proactive within it. Our members
didnʼt vote us in to sit on the sidelines - they expect
us to work with those within the NUS who support
reform.
During the referendum campaign I spoke to many
students who told me that they would like the Union
to push for the expansion of electronic voting, the
establishment of a science and engineering network,
and stronger representation for international
students within the NUS. These are great ideas that
I believe we should pursue. However, we need time
to prepare these proposals, seek allies and build
support for the reforms we want to implement.
This is why I think calls to hold another referendum
in twelve months time are misplaced. Our students
have told our Union to give the NUS half a chance
to prove itself. How can we tell out members that
we have tried to work with the NUS and reform it
before we have even had the opportunity to draft a
motion for consideration by national conference?
So letʼs give the NUS a chance. In around 18 months
time we can reassess the situation, but for now
I suggest that we go with the will of the majority
of students who voted in the record breaking
referendum last week, and support our National
Union.
unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
Imperial says “yes” to NUS
So what happens now?
Well boys and girls,
Hope youʼve had an eventful term and as it comes
to a close I thought I would advertise the GSA
Christmas Ball on Monday the 11th of December.
Please buy tickets online at imperialcollegeunion.org.
This event promises to be a lavish aﬀair with 3
course meals, complimentary drinks, live band,
hookah, luges and an “invisible” guest-speaker!
Tickets are £25 all inclusive (vegetarian options
available) and will be on sale for the next 2 weeks.
If you have any problems, donʼt hesitate to email
me at dpgs@imperial.ac.uk
GSA Update
John Collins
President
president@imperial.ac.uk
Shama Rahman
Deputy President
(Graduate Students)
dpgs@imperial.ac.uk
The “3 Colleges Night” was
very successful with more
flamboyance than a GSA
night has seen for a while!
All agreed that this should
become a regular event
and weʼre even looking for
a GSA-RCA representative,
so if youʼre interested
please do contact me!

