buy books at the cover price, instead
choosing to buy them for a fraction of
the price on sites such as Amazon or
to wait for a few years and pick up a
second-hand copy from one of the less
cut-throat bookshops, of which fewer
and fewer remain. In fact, it is rare to
find a book older than I am whose price
does not exceed its original RRP by a
few times.
As an avid reader, I find myself re-
sorting to buying any even remotely
interesting books I find at remaindered
bookshops, which leaves me with piles
of books with intriguing titles but little
else to recommend them. The inevita-
ble upshot of this is that my enthusiasm
for reading deteriorates, so I read less
occurred during the NUS disaffiliation
referendum in the late 1970s with sev-
eral volunteers expressing irreconcil-
able views on the subject. This resulted
in the only example of an open battle
between the factions and the only time
in living memory that trench warfare
has occurred on Queens Lawn. Both
sides suffered massive casualties and
have learned from their mistakes with
both vowing to continue their struggle
underground. Even to this day PICU
members against the NUS are still
willing to lay down their lives, with 3 of
them currently on hunger strike since
the “yes” result was announced on Fri-
day evening. This was too much for one
member who cried “not only was our
defeat announced in the bar, there were
also women drinking snakebite. This is
one insult too far and I have no other
method of protest but to starve myself
to death.”
PICU fractured further during the
early 1990’s with the establishment of
the C&G Martyrs Brigade who battled
against the RCSU faction for control of
the disputed Department of Computing
territories. Brothers who once fought
together for the bar to return to all male
status now wrangled with each other
over the status of a dank, dark corner of
the Huxley building. The C&G Martyrs
demanded that Computing was com-
pletely under their control while RCSU
insisted on the right to defend the mi-
nority interests of JMC students who
are in the no-mans land position, strad-
dling both faculties. A bitter conflict
was fought but after a JMC-brokered
ceasefire they re-united to oppose the
establishment of ICSM. “First drinks
for women, now votes for medics. We’re
going to hell in a handcart” shrieked the
newly appointed leader Ben, a 4th year
JMC student who asked both faculties
to put their sectarian differences to one
side and fight the medics. “The medics
have caused nothing but trouble at IC.
They still think that they are a separate
entity from ICU and keep demanding
more and more freedom. If they won’t
learn to love ICU, then they will have to
fear ICU” says Ben.
Naturally, faced with such aggressive
language ICSM have responded in turn
by forming the ICSM Freedom Fight-
ers (ICSMFF). The ICSMFF have been
denounced as terrorists by PICU on
several occasions. “Not all medics are
terrorists, but all terrorists are med-
ics. When will ICSM get their house in
order?” demanded Ben.” The newly re-
formed PICU will not compromise over
the existence of ICSMFF. This war can-
not end until they have disbanded and
admitted themselves proud members
of ICU.”
So there we have it. We all thought
everyone in this place was apathetic
but it turns out hundreds of people de-
vote their existence to mounting guer-
rilla wars against fellow students fight-
ing for what they believe is right. Felix
has tried to talk directly to PICU but we
were unable to contact them. We be-
lieve the entrance to their underground
bunker is hidden somewhere in the Sci-
Fi library although at the time of going
to press this is unconfirmed.
Wielding the
mighty organ
W
hat the hell am I going to say here, now
that all the drama of the NUS campaign
has died down? I could rant on about the
Islam article in last week’s comment
section, or I could tell a story about
someone I consider an idol.
Edgbert Roscoe Murrow (Ed Murrow to his friends)
was a broadcaster who worked for the Columbia Broad-
casting System, or CBS, in the 1950s. Murrow was an odd
character; on the one hand, he was a journalist of the
highest order, and on the other, he was an entertainer at
the head of the hugely popular “Person to Person” shows,
a forerunner of celebrity chat show.
Murrow pursued the truth, with little regard for the elab-
orate network of advertisers, television executives, and
shareholders that controlled TV then and now. He is best
known, though still not well known enough, for his “See
It Now” show, which tackled issues other broadcasters
were afraid to face in the cloistered atmosphere of 1950s
America. Of course, this was the era of McCarthyism, and
of “reds under the bed”. McCarthy had yoked the nation
with fear; fear that “card-carrying” communists had infil-
trated the government, the movie industry, and the me-
dia. It seems laughable now, but the junior senator from
Wisconsin held almost as much power as the President,
calling people before the Un-American Activities Commit-
tee and accusing them of, basically, treason without giving
them the chance to answer the charges against them.
Ed Murrow was the first to stand against McCarthy,
when the media mainly ignored the subject, or toed the
line. His show of March 9, 1954, took McCarthy’s words
and speeches and questioned how valid the Senator’s
tactics were, and how he contradicted himself. This was
an extraordinarily brave thing to do, knowing that anyone
who had stood against McCarthy before faced accusa-
tions of being a communist,. He knew full well what he
was doing; using his medium to expose the hypocrisy and
untruths perpertrated in the people’s name by attacking
a single man.
McCarthy was offered the chance to reply, and used it,
predictably, to accuse Murrow of communist sympathies
and membership. Murrow’s reply was succint and to the
point, clearly refuting each of McCarthy’s points. In the
end, these broadcasts were enough to bring down the gi-
ant, and McCarthy was censured by the Senate.
What was Murrow’s reward as a tireless champion of
truth, for holding public officials to be held to account?
He was shuffled to a Sunday afternoon graveyard slot,
and quietly forgotten. Murrow was, to my mind, the last
man to be able to hold the title “journalist” in its truest
sense. I’ll use his glorious sign-off here, though it makes
no sense, and I make no pretence of being Murrow’s peer:
good night, and good luck.
Extremism on campus?
I
n a shock expose, Felix has
learned of a dark side to ICU.
Some of you may previously have
seen the Union as a benign or-
ganisation that run your bars
and look after your clubs. All is not as it
seems my friends. Undercover journal-
ists have spent the last 3 years infiltrat-
ing a part of ICU that few know about
and even fewer will dare speak of. Op-
erating out of their secret headquarters
located deep underneath Beit Quad are
PICU, the Paramilitary Wing of Impe-
rial College Union and the most feared
organisation in South Kensington.
PICU was originally formed by a
group of students back in the 1970s who
objected to women being allowed in the
Union Bar, a move they described as
“political correctness gone mad”. Their
faith in the democratic system was deci-
mated and members were compelled to
take matters into their own hands. They
resolved to continue their struggle un-
til their uncompromising demand that
our bar was again a bastion of misogyny
was met. Their guerrilla campaign has
caused over 300 injuries, mostly in the
form of leaving tripping hazards for the
lady drinkers they so detest. As the say-
ing says, violence begets violence and
PICU have suffered themselves due
to revenge attacks from irate lesbians
who naturally are staunchly opposed to
the aims and values of PICU.
After their formation it looked like
they might just succeed in their goal
of returning the bar to male jurisdic-
tion. An early victory was won when
they organised a farting competition
which turned away many of the new
women customers. Their movement
soon fractured and as a result of their
infighting over the past 30 years they
are not looking like succeeding anytime
soon. The first spilt in their movement
The Flaming Rat tells of the dark forces at work deep in the Beit Quad
“First drinks for
women, now votes
for medics. We’re
going to hell in a
handcart”
I
was browsing through the books
in a charity shop on Gloucester
Road the o ther day and marvel-
ling at how unaffordable most of
them were. In fact, the only book
that seemed to be at a reasonable price
was a copy of Ulysses for an astonishing
fifty pence. It was only later that I dis-
covered this suspiciously low price to be
down to the book being in Norwegian,
rendering it almost as incomprehen-
sible as an untranslated edition would
be.
It has come to something when even
second-hand books are unaffordable
in anything other than an entirely use-
less form. Since I started buying books
around a decade and a half ago, the av-
erage price of a novel has roughly tri-
pled and continues to increase. It has
reached the point where I will no longer
You do not get what you pay for
and less as time goes by. While this does
admittedly give more free time in which
to solve crosswords, it highlights a wor-
rying consequence beyond being slight-
ly more out of pocket after a purchase
- that excessive increases in price deter
even the most ardent of readers.
Given the proliferation of schemes
designed to encourage literacy and in-
creased readership, it seems bizarre,
not to mention irresponsible, that book
prices should be so high, which can
only serve to alienate those on lower
incomes, toward whom much of the lit-
eracy initiatives are inevitably aimed.
Since opera is able to receive gov-
ernment funding and subsidies on the
ground that it qualifies as art, it would
hardly be unreasonable to deny such
funding in support of a more accessible,
enduring and, arguably, worthy form of
art, in the shape of literature. Less rea-
sonably, but still wholly justifiable would
be removing any such funding from op-
era and instead channel it all into books
- to subsidise publishers in order to low-
er their prices or even to provide grants
to struggling authors torn between ne-
glecting their art or failing to make a
minimum wage, amongst other things.
Incidentally, if any Norwegian-speak-
ers would like a copy of Joyce’s mag-
num opus, don’t hesitate to email me
and I can provide you with a good con-
dition copy for free. If my experiences
are anything to go by, you’re unlikely to
get such a bargain elsewhere.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB. Tel 020 7594 8072.
Fax 020 7594 8065. Printed by The Northcliffe Press, Northcliffe House,
Meadow Road, Derby DE1 2DW. No 1,365, Friday 24 November 2006.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711. Copyright © Felix 2006.
Editor-in-chief Andy Sykes | Managing Editor Alex
Antonov | Deputy Editor Tom Roberts | Science
Editor Krystyna Larkham | Politics Editor Omar
Hashmi | Music Editors Matthew Hoban, Jenny
Gibson, Tom Whitson | Film Editor Angela Lee |
Food & Drink Editor Hannah Theodorou | Fashion
Editor Sarah Skeete | Nightlife Editor Alex Baldwin |
Comment Editor Stephen Brown | Environment
Editor João Vitor Serra | Clubs & Socs Editor Kirsty
Patterson | Sports Editors Alice Rowlands & Mona
Haghani | Copy Editor Andrew Somerville
felix
Andy Sykes
Editor-in-chief
Hugh Mansfield
9
felix
Friday 24 November 2006
COMMENT & OPINION comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
“It has come to
something when
even second-
hand books are
unaffordable in
anything other
than an entirely
useless form.“

