simon baker
Jarvis Cocker. Jarvis Cocker. Ah,
the mere mention of the man's
name fills the heart with joy! His
actions at the Brits, the most insipid
back-slapping jolly of the year, may
not have been seen by many people
thanks to the gutless folk of TTV,
but have done more to raise him to P
cult status than even the truly bril-1
liant'Different Class.'I said a con- ' ?
pie of weeks ago that the most dis- I B ? lP*'V~f
tasteful piece of television likely to be screened
this decade was that concerning the American
toddler beauty pageants. Mais non, mes amis.
Michael Jackson's 'performance' was truly sick.
It was cheap, tacky, blasphemous and deeply
offensive. Portraying himself as the second
Messiah, healing by the laying on of hands was
disgusting, and the children's presence was
almost as distasteful as the citation of unparal-
leled sycophancy read out by Bob Geldof, a man
of whom we all expect better. What made it
truly hilarious however, was the way that the
man Cocker stole all the headlines from this
nasty piece of transatlantic mediocrity by jump-
ing on stage. As for Jackson moaning' about the
children that were injured, apparently by securi-
ty guards, it is the best case of the pot calling the
kettle black (or should that be white?) I have
ever seen. Allegedly.
The Scott Report has generated almost its
own weight in newspaper articles and despite
the fact Sir Richard, who must have shares in a
papier company, wrote bis detailed conclusions
over 1806 pages (plus an appendix of about 500
pages and a large index), everyone seems to have
come to a completely different one. Having
actually trawled through the five volumes that
make the London phone book seem like
GuiUsheet (in length not content, you under-
stand), I'm afraid that a couple of heads must
roll. To precis the report would take
the whole issue of Felix, so I'll get to
the point. Sir Nicholas Lyell, the
Attorney-General, was either
incompetent or deliberately misled
ministers by advising them wrongly
over the use of Public Interest
Immunity Certificates. Further , he
did not involve himself personally
when Michael Heseltine expressed
grave doubts about the actions he
was effectively forced to take. As a
awyer, Lyell should have got
involved, and for this reason he should resign.
The case of William Waldegrave is a little
less clear. Scott says that 'Mr Waldegrave knew,
first hand, the facts that, in my opinion, rendered
the "no change in policy [over defence equip-
ment exports]" statement untrue' yet 'I did not
receive the impression of any insincerity on his
part giving me the evidence he did.' The impli-
cation is of incompetence rather than deception.
Whether this is a case for resignation is a difficult
one that should be decided by him and the
Prime Minister. But I don't fancy his chances.
I have restrained myself for a few weeks,
not saying a thing, but I cannot go on. The BMS
fiasco goes from strength to strength. One won-
ders what is keeping the poor dears at the bor-
ough council so busy. The solution is, in exchange
for approval, to offer to make Imperial College
Road a public highway and let them stick park-
ing meters along it. Do that and it'll be sorted by
tea time. Of Ian Caldwell, who is still not 'wor-
ried about this latest setback', I am in awe. What
would worry this man? Imperial is very lucky to
have such a cool, level-headed man working for
us. If I had his job, I would be on tranquillisers by
now. And then there is Schal Project
Management. Less charitable souls than myself
will begin to wonder if this is a contradiction in
terms. Somebody somewhere must be very
uncomfortable.
book - rebel h e a r t S b a x , , R , t —
This book examines the Northern Ireland trou-
bles and the thinking behind the IRA. Kevin
Toolis is a journalist who has researched his sub-
ject over many years, gaining the confidence of
the upper echelons of the IRA, speaking to its
leader and an IRA informer, amongst others. The
contacts have enabled Toolis to produce a per-
ceptive and fascinating work.
He starts by outlining the republican back-
ground from which the IRA grew, and then
works deeper and deeper into the structure of
the organisation. We see the disdain for the
Protestants who "get all the jobs" and the huge
hate for the R U C and British crown "oppres-
sors". It is felt (and is probably true) that the
"occupying" British Army have cold-bloodedly
murdered suspected enemies - "They try to use
the civilian population as shields...You do not
have to be a Republican or even a Nationalist to
be murdered. There is no such thing as impar
tiality of law and order in this area."
The most revealing and chilling parts of this
book come when Toolis is interviewing the IRA
leaders: within their own little world, they seem
perfectly rational. However, their world is so iso-
lated that to most others their actions seem
anathema. Toolis is also allowed to hear the last
taped confession of an IRA informer, recorded
minutes before he was killed. After a while Toolis
admits that the thousands of deaths inflicted
become a blur - no one person is remembered
and it feels as if they died for nothing.
Toolis writes an incredibly revealing account
which flows surprisingly well and is an excellent
read. He has explored the subject in such depth
and has such contacts that this could well be
described as an authoritative masterwork. If you
always wondered what the IRA were about, this
book is superbly enkghtening. With the recent
collapse of the ceasefire and the IRA back in the
news, it is more relevant than ever.

