Russian crystal technology has been used in a joint research effort at •
Imperial College to develop an ingenious laser with eye surgery potential. > 1 "VS
James Porteous reports on some focused work in the Blackett Laboratory. —
Crystal Laser Vision
I
t is often the case in science that
researchers inadvertently 'discover'
important new ideas and techniques
while searching for the answers to ques-
tions about something entirely different. In fact,
we owe much of the growth and diversification
of teclinology to such accidental revelations. A
case in point is an on-going collaboration
between Russian and Imperial College scien-
tists. While looking at the properties of new
semi-conducting materials they realised that a
unique Russian crystal and a sliver of semi-con-
ductor can be used to build an unusually cheap
and compact laser with the potential to be used
in corrective eye surgery.
The focus of the excitement is an extreme-
ly pure garnet crystal, grown meticulously in a
laboratory at the General Physics Institute in
Moscow and brought to London to be harnessed
to the equipment of the Solid State
Experimental Research Group at Imperial
College. Made up of the elements erbium and
chromium, the crystal is special because it
absorbs and emits near infra red light at the
unique wavelength of about 2.98 microns. Using
the crystal as a light 'generator', the combined
team developed a laser to test the light emitting
properties of semi-conducting material at
Imperial College. The happy spin-off from
their research was the realisation that they
had engineered a laser which, with its
particular wavelength and short, accu-
rate pulses, would be idealforuse in
delicate eye surgery.
At nearly three microns, the
laser's near infra red wavelength
corresponds to the pea
water's light absorptior
spectrum. Because humar
tissue is mostly water, it
means the laser does
not penetrate deeply
into tissue, but is
instead absorbed
almost immediate-
ly at a very thin depth.
"It's quite amazing to watch" said Dr. Chris
Phillips of the Department of Physics at Imperial
College. "If you put your hand in front of the
laser, it will burn a tiny hole in your hand, but
you can't actually feel that hole
because the penetration depth is w v - - «
about five microns and the nerves in ^k. 1
your hand are deeper than that. You
can effectively tattoo your hand and
not feel a thing. Consequently healing
occurs in just a couple of days." In eye
surgery, where precision and minimal
damage are imperative, this new
Russian crystal laser has ideal proper-
ties and very exciting potential.
Although laser technology is now
widely applied in eye surgery, the crys-
tal laser has some special bonuses that
should make both technology compa-
nies and opthalmologists itchy with
expectation. An ultra violet laser has
already been developed in the U.S.
for an eye surgery technique called
photo-refractive keratectomy, or
PRK, which treats mild degrees of
nearsightedness by shaving micro-
scopic layers off the cornea to change
its shape and, therefore, alter the focal
point of light on the retina.
The PRK technique removes thin
layers of the cornea by dismpting the
chemical bonds between tissue mole-
cules, but the new crystal laser can
potentially do the same job, better.
With its very short (80 milkon-mil-
lionths of a second) and very intense
(10 million watts) pulses of light, the laser
can remove tissue just a few microns thick
without affecting the chemical structure
of surrounding tissue or damaging
nerves. The real magic of the crystal
aser light is its unusually shallow
penetration of the eye compared to
other ultra violet and infra red
lasers which require local anaes-
thesia. There is a possibility
that surgery with this new
shallow' laser may not
even need anaesthetic
help, but aside from
that potential innova-
tion, the laser's special
characteristics mean it
could be easily employed in eye surgery other
thanforcorneal shaping.
But where does the sliver of semi-conduc-
tor come into the story? Answer: as an extra
piece of clever innovation which not only gives
the new laser its impressive pulses, but which
could actually revolutionise how lasers are engi-
Chris Phillips (above) and Kostya Vodopyanov are part of
the Solid State Experimental Research Group in the
Blackett Laboratory, Department of Physics.
neered. The Russian and Imperial College
research team developing the laser technology
have patented the use of a semi-conductor
'wafer', just a few atoms thick, which is a substi-
tute for the expensive and bulky electronic
equipment currently used to pulse laser beams.
The wafer which is made from indium and
arsenic, and grown atom by atom at Imperial
College, acts as a kind of light 'valve' or shutter,
by only emitting light of a certain wavelength. As
light of increasing intensity is shone through the
crystal and onto the wafer, it suddenly becomes
transparent and emits light for just 80 million-
millionths of a second before 'shutting' again,
creating a pulse of intense, near infra red light.
Trains of these pulses make up the beam which
is then amplified by mirrors to laser intensity.
According to Dr. Chris Phillips the crystal
and semi-conductor wafer combination is beau-
tifully simple conceptually and very efficient in
practice. It means a potential end to very expen-
sive "garage-sized" lasers, and because it is all
solid state material rather than gas or liquid tech-
nology, consistency and reliability are built in.

