play: 1 9 5 3 d
lire sarniiel
It's not a new story: Craig Raine has updated
Racine's Andromaque, which in turn was adapt-
ed from Andromache by Euripides. However
this version is set in a world in which England
surrendered the second World War. Hitler is still
alive and Mussolini's son is King of Italy.
The sumptuous Art Deco palace of the
Italian King is the setting for this tragedy. One of
Vittorio Mussolini's spoils of the war is Annette
LeSkye, the Jewish English Queen, whom he
has installed in the palace, but with her young
son also present placed under lock and key.
Elitler's envoy, Orestes, arrives in Rome to
retrieve the boy for the Fiihrer, but Orestes is in
love with the German Princess Ira who loves
Vittorio. Vittorio is betrothed to Ira for the good
of the Axis Powers, but he's really in love with
LeSkye.
Emma Fielding is distinguished as the
manipulative and spoilt Princess Ira and Jason
Isaacs' boxing and pool playing Vittorio is played
with an aggression which would make him feel
at home in the East End gangland.
The play is not quite as gripping as it could
be, this is not a fault of the director, Patrick
Marber (writer of Dealers Choice, and collabora-
tor with Steve Coogan) or the writer,
who introduced some very interest-
ing metaphors in the modem English
verse, but of Racine's original. Over
one half of the play is used in setting
the background whereas the tragic
ending is almost brushed over. One
possibility could be to play without an
interval so keeping the dramatic con-
tinuity. Otherwise this is a finely cast
play with an interesting interpretation
of how the second half of the twenti-
eth century may have evolved.
play - les enfants du
paradis :Iaire Samuel
There has been much criticism of Simon
Callow's adaptation of the classic French film,
Les Enfants du Paradis, managing to create a four
hour stage production from a three hour movie.
Having not seen he original, which has been
voted the best French film ever made, by the
French Film Academy, I can not comment on
whether the spirit of the film has been captured
on the stage but only on the play itself.
This is a complex love story, definitely not a
boy meets girl, all in love, live happily ever after
scenario, but considers the many forms which
love can take and means of acquiring it. The nar-
rative is centred around Garance, the beautiful
young actress and the theatre where she, the
ebullient actor Frederick Lemaitre and the
mime artist Baptiste work, and how their lives
are intertwined with that of an assassin
Lacenaire.
The difficulties on transposing a film to the
stage have been mostly overcome by a giant
I a
i
m
e
i
d
a 0171 3594404
: mlXSfcjtl;
hpf
:99!
wvndliams theatre 0171 369
skylipt
nipn in Vn. ^ P " »**-
:
revolving stage as the central theatre, which
unfortunately did tend to squeak and rattle a bit,
and with the atmospheric music and lighting,
provided a dark backdrop of early nineteenth
century Paris.
The initial scene setting was a bit slow, but
the play soon came to life with the confrontation
between the innocent Baptiste and evil
Lacenaire over possession of Garance. Rupert
Graves is not quite the great Pierrot he is meant
to portray but admirably acquits himself in the
theatre mime shows that interspersed the play,
their own theme complementing the plot.
Including, in the only spoken play-within-play, a
memorable performance of how not to perform
Othello. The dark, subversive Lacenaire, played
superbly by Joseph Fiennes (Ralph's younger
brother) with aristocratic poise in a long black
flock coat and top hat is the star player, but
beware of walking canes. Although this is not a
truly great production, it still remains a beautiful
story, so do not be deterred by its length, and it
definitely does not deserve all the slating it has
received in the press.
.. . .
an ideal husband
/ 71 369'
7 -f^pstJ ik^f
}171 92S 7616
: ufd;Hllll

