With a fair quantity of alcohol inside us both a
two month "adventure" during the summer
seemed like a fantastic idea. Meet new people,
see new sights, sample foreign culture and cui-
sine, be threatened with deportation, get driven
round Hungary by an Austrian art smuggler,
and discover you suffer from vertigo halfway
up the highest mountain in Poland. Travel. It
broadens the mind. It also makes you smell.
We decided on Eastern Europe largely
because it was cheap (where else can you get top
quality wine for 7p a glass served by the man
who made it, or "THE-BEST-ICE-CREAM-IN-
THE-WORLD" for 8p a scoop?). It's also close
to home. Close, but still far enough away to
require a 24 hour coach journey: the coach jour-
ney from hell. Our coach proclaimed itself to be
the property of the Czech National Hockey
team, but it apparently also moonlights as the
National Express service from Victoria to
Prague. Judging by the rather fetching uphol-
stered chairs, I suspect the Czechs play in pur-
ple, and that the average player is around 3ft 6in
in order to be seated comfortably in the "luxuri-
ous reclining seats". It was only an extra 20 quid
to fly, but we were on a budget.
The plan was to work our way up through
Poland and the Baltic States, then head back
down to Hungary, up to Slovakia before making
our way back to Prague. We saw a lot in those
two months. Much of what was formely Soviet
Block is still relatively untouched by capitalism
and stereotypes of grim, industrial landscapes are
complimented by unspoilt towns and villages
where people seem genuinely intrigued by west-
em visitors. "You just want to look around the
country and then go home?" asked one bemused
Ukranian we met on a train.
Some events stick out in the mind more
than others. Refusal to pay a bill in a Lithuanian
restaurant which tried to charge us 100 Lits (a
third of a months wages for a Lithuanian -
enough to buy 50kg of bananas. Lithuanians are
obsessed by bananas) for a salad we hadn't even
gets deported
from Lithuania
ordered resulted in armed members of the local
constabulary informing us that if we didn't pay
up immediately we would be deported that
evening. That was in the first week.
Memories of the three days spent in the
Polish Tartras will be with me for ever. I really
should have taken a change of T-shirt. After 72
hours in the same clothes, day and night (we did-
n't realise that half of Poland's youth come to the
Tartras every year and the chances of a bed or
shower are non existent) things were a tad
unpleasant. My companion's discovery, made at
several thousand feet above sea-level, that she
has a disabling fear of heights was an interesting
addition to the "experience", but the sheer beau-
ty of the landscape, the fresh air, and the satis-
faction of looking back and saying "I did it" more
than compensated.
Then there were the people: we met an
Austrian in a pizza restaurant who offered to take
us to our next destination. He later confessed he
smuggled rare postcards to sell back home for an
outrageous profit, producing a holdall stuffed full
of forged dollar bills. Then there was the elderly
Lithuanian lady who stopped to tell us, in sign
language, about the night the Soviet troops
stormed the parliament at the start of the revo-
lution. As we examined the remains of the bara-
cades the citizens of Vilnius had erected, it
emerged that she had been there. And I mustn't
forget the restauranteur who spoke dodgy
English and in translating the menu offered us
"bollocks" and "breasts". Quite.
Two months were spent in fairly random
wandering through the unknown, not knowing
where we were going to sleep, unsure of what
exactly we were eating, being confused by the
rantings of ticket collecters, customs officers and
armed policemen, and loving every minute of it.
Graham Trevitt

