DIARY FELIX FRIDAY FEBRUARY 23RD 1 9 9 6 . SEVENTEEN
friday
1
march
Amateur Radio Society (HamSoc)
lpm. Meeting in the shack. Top floor of
union building. (R)
Rag Meeting
1.10pm Ents Lounge. (R)
Pakistan Society
3 - 5pm. Basketball, union gym. Contact
Kashif, Aero II, k.ahmed(«:
ae.ic.ac.uk. (R)
Wing Chun Kung Fu
5-7pm. Union G y m , 2nd Floor I C U .
Beginners welcome. 1 st lesson free. (R)
Fitness Club
5.30pm. Advanced Step. Southside . (R)
Ents
Battling on regardless, I C U Ents is still here
with the penultimate Bust-A-Gut Comedy
Club (see below). This week's acts are Dave
Gorman, "This year's one to watch" accord-
ing to the Guardian, and a stalwart of
Saturday Zoo and the Mrs Merton Show.
Support comes from Rainer Hersch and Lucy
Porter plus the Open Mic slot. Four acts can
be yours for just £2.50 or £2 with Entscards.
Although the bars are only open until
midnight, the Pop Tarts will be doing their
fabulous pop thing until 2am, and there's the
return of the chill out room and Cocktail Bar,
Free before 9pm, £1 after.
Free minibus service
Taking lone female students home from the
union to anywhere in central London. First
run midnight, last run 2am. See Beit Security
for times. (R)
f r i d a y
Bust-a-gut
Below: Lucy Porter. 22 years old and 5 feet
no inches tall, she's only been on the stand-
up circuit for nine months, so is a babe in
more ways than one.
Right: Dave Gorman. He already got a plug.
Saturday
2
march
Gliding Club
Gliding at Lasham Airfield. For more infor-
mation contact gliding@ic.ac.uk. Come to
Thursday meeting first. (R)
Ents
5 Nations Rugby - the biggest match of the
season, Scotland v England, live on
DaVinci's BIG screen. Bar open from lpm.
S a t u r d a y
Boardsailing
Trip to Anglesey.
Everybody turned up to pack the bus with
some trepidation, as we'd taken the time to
get a reliable weather forecast for the week-
end: a low pressure system that brought with
it a force 11 gale warning in our area. This
meant serious wind, so did we have sails small
enough for everyone?
After arriving at our rented house on the
beach, we ran across the sand dunes to the
nearest pub to meet up with Nottingham
University's windsurfing club. The
Nottingham lot had arrived on Thursday
night and had already had a chance to size up
the conditions. Our hearts sank as we heard
stories of the nearby lake being frozen.
Thankfully the warm front that came in
overnight quickly sorted out that problem,
and Saturday saw most of the club drag rac-
ing each other on the lake in near-perfect 5m2
sail weather.
Mention must be made of the poor guy
from Nottingham who ripped the fin box out
of his board on rocks, and similar credit goes
to Richard T for his impressive catapult fall,
brought on by snagging his fin on the buoy
line. Another noteworthy kit trash was Stew
from Nottingham's, who snapped his mast as
he blasted through an enormous gust of wind.
One of our top sailors did attempt the
Irish Sea waves but was viciously munched by
a 4.5m swell (above mast height). He was
soon washed up absolutely knackered and
sunday
3
march
Gliding Club
Gliding at Lasham Airfield. (R)
Wa rgames
lpm. Table Tennis room. (R)
Fitness Club
2pm. Southside gym. Intermediate aerobics.
(R)
s u n d a y
hardly able to carry his board and rig up the
beach, but a few chocolate bars restored just
enough energy to pack up and head back for
a well-earned shower. Thoroughly knackered
after a full day's sailing, we met up in the pub
for a few swift pints, then it was off to the
nearest curry house (a mere 10 miles away)
for a slap-up dinner.
The winds were less ferocious on Sunday
morning, allowing a few sailors to try out the
waves in the bay, but this was cut short by the
dying wind and a slight accident with a mast.
All in all, the weekend provided testing con-
ditions but was a great learning experience for
everyone. Thanks must go to Rob, who drove
a fair portion of the way home.
The club has some racing events organ-
ised for the future and would like to get in
contact with people who can race a long and
short board in the top division (those who
have sound water starting abilities and can
hold down big sails). There are also places in
the intermediate classes, so if you fancy hav-
ing a go at racing then come along to a meet-
ing in the Southside upper lounge every
Tuesday between 1-1.45pm.
A reminder to all club members - we
only sail on Wednesdays up to the end of this
term, but the reservoir is currently closed due
to terrorist activities so if you want to go
you'd better turn up on Tuesday to see if the
trips are back on. There'll also be useful
details about forth coming weekend trips and
social events like the elections and the end-
of-year dinners.

