P r e s i d e n t i a l P a t r o n a g e
The Union President has once again filled the posts of Warden and Sub-
warden at the Fremantle without going through the normal procedure of
advertising the vacancies and interviewing the applicants. Her reasons for
not going through the normal procedure was that 'No suitable candidates
were found from previous residence interviews and there was no time to
advertise and carry out interviews.'
I don't know whether this is lazyness or stupidity on Gaynor's part. More
likely a case of meglomania on Michael Arthur's part, who recommends
such appointments. Gaynor's action is not only unfair to the numerous
people who want wardenships or subwardenships but bad management too.
Better candidates will be found by interviewing from a larger number of
applicants.
What has been happening is that appointments have all been made by the
Union President on the recommendation of Michael Arthur. As a result
there have been several people appointed to positions for which they have
been clearly unsuitable and there have been a number of personality clashes
resulting in unpleasantness at the Fremantle.
As it is, the new warden Nick James was the obvious candidate for the job
and will probably make a very good warden. Nevertheless a proper
appointments procedure should be followed in which all posts must be
automatically advertised and all candidates should be interviewed by a
proper interview panel.
F E L I X B l u e s
This is my 13th issue on Friday the 13th and at the time of writing 1 have no
idea when this issue is going to come out. The regular printer has fallen ill.
Apologies then if this issue is not out on time. I really do think I've picked the
wrong sabbatical at times. As FELIX Editor I am constantly plagued with
production problems, mechanical difficulties and have to endure sixty hour
weeks and all I get are complaints and gripes. I should have gone tor a nice
cushy number in the Union Office sipping sherry and eating pate all day.
F e a t u r e s
At Imperial we can boast some of the best clubs and societies in the country.
I feel it is a shame that they do not receive the coverage they deserve, an
article on the clubs page is hardly sufficient. I would therefore like to do a
series of features on the clubs at IC each week. I would therefore like to see
any club captains or society chairmen who are interested in having their club
featured.
I would also like to do a series of features on topics which are not directly
related to College but are nevertheless of interest to students. Peter Burt has
started a series on education cuts. Next week there will be something on the
January sales, the week after there will be a feature on underwater
photography. If you have any ideas for features (that you could write even?)
then please come and see me. Monday or Tuesday afternoons are the best
times.
C a l e n d a r
All submissions for the FELIX calendar should be handed in to the FELIX
Office by 5:30pm Monday.
C r e d i t s
J Martin Taylor, David Rowe, Jon Jones, Diane Love, Hugh Southey, John
Scott, Ulysses, Adam Rose, Carolyn Gammon, Dave Parry, Adam Rose,
Matt Fawcett, Maz and Tony the Temp.
P a l l a b G h o s h
No puzzle this week, just the solutions to those in the
last issue of last term.
Chess Puzzle
Pawn on B2
B2-B1, promote to a knight
Pawn on C2
C 2 - C 1 , promote to a rook
Pawn on D2
D2-D1, promote to a queen
Pawn on E2
E2-E1, promote to a bishop.
After promoting, the rest follows quite easily.
Of seven correct solutions, Michael Dillamore of
Elec Eng 3 was the randomly selected winner.
A Code in the Head
If you were confused by the fact that there were 26
different numbers, good! If you happened to spot the
key, it was easy. If not, you could have been going
round in circles for ever. Simply divide the nth num-
ber by n, and substitute each number for its corres-
ponding letter in the alphabet and the answer is
'How much does a Union freebie cost?' Of the eight
correct solutions, P M Fisher, a Mech Eng P G was
the randomly selected winner.
Prize Long Division
In order to get my eternal admiration, and £10,
people took this puzzle incredibly seriously. Some-
one took eight days to do it, another stayed up
all one night to do it, another took two days and
programmable calculator to do it, and those are just
the ones who got it right. Apologies if you spent all
your Christmas holiday doing it. A s a result of by
building it up so much, it became the most entered
puzzle, and of the nine correct entries, Vernon
Gaskell of Civ Eng 2 can collect his £10 after Monday
afternoon.
The solution is too long to print, but the answer is to
divide 667334 into 7752341.
Square-wheeled bicycle
If the length of the side of a wheel is 2a, the largest
difference in potential energy that the bicycle can
have is the difference between a wheel standing
corner over corner and lying flat, and equals (J2-
1)mga. This is equal to the change in vertical K E .
Since the vertical K E iszero atthetop, then when the
wheel is on the ground, it must be (72-1 )mga.
So Vy =/2a(V2-1)g.
Since the wheel axle is moving in a direction at 45
degrees to the horizontal, Vx = Vy
Therefore the maximum speed before its wheels
start to leave the ground is/2a («/2-1)g. Only two
correction solutions, and Phillip Milne of Physics 2
was the randomly selected winner.
Crossword Clues
1. Scrambled eggs
2. Water (H to G)
3. Talcum powder
4. Hasn't got a clue
5. Backward boy
Well done to anyone who got any of the puzzles
right, particularly Philip Milne of Physics 2 and
Michael Dillamore of Elec Eng who got all four prize
puzzles right.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Rd,SW7
Tel 01-589 5111 extn 1048 or internal 2881. Editor: Pallab K Ghosh; Business Manager:PeterRodgers;AdvertisingManager:HughSoutheyCopyrightFEUX1983

