C l u b s
W E S T L O N D O N
NIGHTLINE
0 1 - 5 8 1 2 4 6 8
Sex, Drugs and V D
And other attention-grabbing headlines. I
hope everybody out there had a marvelous
Christmas and New Year and that you're
going to have a wonderul rest of term. If you
think you are, do you think that you could
spare one night every three or four weeks to
help other people? Nightline training sessions
for prospective volunteers begin during the
second week of term, and if you think you
would like to help, please phone in any
evening on 581 2468 or internal 2468 (add an
0 first if phoning from a staircase phone).
Will it make you go blind?
Contrary to popular belief, Nightline volun-
teers do not spend their nights talking to
people standing on 10th floor window ledges
with a rope around their neck and a bottle of
cyanide tablets in their hand. Most of our
calls are simple information calls—what time
is the last tube to Russell Square? Can you tell
me if there's a Chinese restaurant in
Bayswater? What's the phone number of
Garden Hall? Although there is about one
'serious' call each night, on average.
A load of old cobblers
Far too many people assume Nightline is only
for depressed people. It isn't! We have
extensive information files and although,
obviously some volunteers are more adept at
using them than others, we can still usually at
least attempt to answer any query you can
throw at us (although we do get a bit tired of
the midnight call, with giggling in the
backgroud and a false voice asking for the
address of secondhand contraceptive sales-
men).
In conclusion
Please use our service more—it makes us feel
wanted! If you want to help, phone or drop in
soon—we're in the basement of 9 Princes
Gardens (Northside), 6pm-8am.
Chris Brannick
Nightline Director
Dramsoc
The major production this term is 'The Life
and Time of Gallileo' by Bertholt Brecht
translated by Howard Brenton (of 'Romans
in Britain' fame). Auditions will be on
Sunday (meet at 2:30pm in the Dramsoc
Store, up the stairs past the Union Office).
Parts are open to anyone so if you acted last
term or want to this term then please attend;
the play has a large cast of both males and
females.
Concerning other matters, the Wednesday
afternoon workshops will continue this term
under the guidance of Dave Simmons—all
are welcome. There will be some more theatre
trips during the term too. Finally, the lighting
of ENTS events and parties continues apace
and if this interests you at all—experienced or
not—then pop up to the Storeroom and have
a chat.
Debsoc
Firstly, there is an important meeting on
Monday at 1:00pm in Union SCR. We intend
to finalise the term's programme of events so
if anyone is interested in speaking then they
must attend. Also, the society is to enter a
team into the Observer Mace competition; if
anyone—preferably with some experience is
interested then come along on Monday. If
anyone is interested in helping with the
organistion of the society or arranging
speakers then they would be most welcome.
By Easter we start writing to potential
speakers and we need ideas for motions and
the speakers. So if you have any ideas, are
interested in meeting the personalities the
society gets to debate then come along and
have a chat on Monday.
Just as an appetiser to events coming up,
I'll mention the debate on trade and cultural
links with South Africa. Supporting South
Africa will be John Carlisle M P with a former
IC Union and N U S President Trevor Phillips
opposing. Trevor Phillips currently produces
Channel 4's Black On Black programme. This
event is in a couple of weeks time. There will
be full details in the preceeding week's
F E L I X .
Page 8
Glad to see you make it back for this term.
Several things are in the offing, not least the
Annual Dinner on 3 Feb at the International
Hotel. This is bound to make Mooney
dinners look like British Rail on a particularly
poor day. Tickets for this cost £ 12.50 and are
available from the office or officers.
Some time next week there will be an Ents
theatre trip so keep your ears and eyes peeled.
On tomorrow evening there is to be the
great, traditional, 3-legged R C S U Rag pub-
crawl, where we go round (in pairs—shock!)
and collect in the pubs and then attempt to
count the money afterwards. (What happens if
one ofa mixedpair wants to go to the loo?-Ed.)
On Tuesday 17 we have a joint Rag/Ents
Committee at 1pm above Southside Bar to
discuss this term's events. Anyone is welcome
but it is imperitive that all Soc Reps attend.
Start training for the 22nd when the beer
bursts forth from the New Year Barnight.
7:30—God knows when. (Union Bar.)
Some things which ought to be present
somewhere in your mind are the R C S U
elections of President, Vice President, Honor-
rary Secretary, Honorary Junior Treasurer
and Assistant Honorary Secretary which take
place in the latter half of February; also the
famed Ents trip to Amsterdam after the end
of term. See Dave Watson for more details.
Finally, M r Gareth Fish tells me that if the
weather is clement then Jez will be going
pumping on the 15th. Meet round the garage
or find him first in the office; and also Simon
Banton our Broadsheet editor would adore
help in the office on the 18th to prepare the
next issue.
DP the VP
Friday. 13 January,
AstroSoc
Next Tuesday is our second lecture this term
and as usual free entry to members (30p to
non-members). A l l are welcome to attend at
6:30pm in Physics LT2 (please arrive before
this!). Dr I Wilson will talk on 'The
interaction of OB stars with the interstellar
medium' (phew). Any suggestions are wel-
come (polite ones preferable) for future
events.
P Moore
Liberal Club
Does Imperial College need NUS? D o
students need representation by a national
body? Does N U S fulfill this representational
role? If it doesn't, what can we do to make it?
(Does anyone care?-Ed.)
Confused? You will be if you come to the
Lounge above Southside Bar, this Tuesday at
7:30pm where these and other questions will
be discussed.
Singapore
Happy New Year to all. We have lined up an
ice-skating trip on Wednesday 18 January at
the Queen's in Bayswater. All those interested
please meet outside the F E L I X Office at
1:00pm on that day.
If you have not received our newsletter,
please be informed that we have 20 places (on
1st come 1st served basis) for our Chinese
New Year Dinner on Friday 3 February. All
cheques (£4) asap to Peter Gwee (Physics 2).
We require players for the coming six-a-
side football competition on 4 February
against other universities. A l l levels of skills
welcomed, names to Peter Gwee (Physics 2).
There will also be a Chinese New Year
Party at the J C R on 4 February. Food, disco
and a chance to meet Singapore students in
U K . £1 cheque only asap to Ming Tan
(Met/Mat 2).
¥ 0 )
T w a s brillig & the slithy toves
Did gyre & gimble in the wabe
All mimsy were the borogroves
& the m o m e raths outgrabe.
Beware the jabberwock, my son
The jaws that snatch, the claws that
catch
Beware the jubjub bird & shun
The furious bandersnatch.
J Wocky
[FELIX

