E D I T O R I A L
I'm living to turn the Sports Page into
something more like the sports page of a
iii'wsfibtpcr, as I have received overwhelming
evidence lhat people only read articles from
their own clubs! So, here are a few guidelines:
1. The result and brief summary of the
match should be in the first paragraph.
2. lull names and positions should be
included when referring to a person. (No
Icam lists though!)
3. There arc to be no 'in' references or
accounts of alter match piss-ups.
4. Read a paper's sports pages (eg the
Dai/v Mirror) to see how reports should be
written. Read The Sun to see how they
shouldn't be written.
Any reports not in the above form will be
thrown away! (Unless I've written them!)
Outright silliness is still very welcome,
provided it's funny.
There is a new weight training facility in
Southside consisting of 'free weights'. Any
student wishing to make use of this please go
and see Ian Bull this lunchtime, or on
Monday lunchtime, in the Union Office, so
that some instruction can be arranged.
Now for this week's rubbish.
U A U SE Regional Volleyball
Championships
The day began at an unearthly 7:00am at S
Ken tube station where the conscientious
members of Imperial Mens and Ladies
Volleyball teams assembled. Certain mem-
bers of the teams who decided this was far too
early (or more likely slept in) met up at
Liverpool Street at 8:20 and still managed to
arrive at Univ of Essex (Colchester) before
the majority of the early birds.
The newly formed Ladies Team, present at
their first major competition and playing
against more experienced and skillful opposi-
tion started nervously losing their first two
games quite easily. However, in their final
game of a tournament reclined in length by
withdrawals the team put up stiff resistance
(aided by vociferous support from the men)
before going down to*eventual winners: the
Univ of Kent, 15-6, 15-10.
The men on the other hand had a much
more successful day. Playing in a group of
only 3 teams Imperial qualified for the semi-
finals (to be held the following day) by
beating Essex 15-6/16-4 and Sussex 15-8/15-
2.
Awards for 'best performances' during the
day go to:
1. Andy for the undivided attention he
gave to the No 2 of the Kent Ladies team
(more of her next week).
2. Christos for his impression of a ballet
dancer ie splits and dying swan impersona-
tion.
3. The mens team for their impersonation
of Hot Gossip.
Day two of this exciting saga (with piccies
of No 2) will appear next week!
Mens 1 vs U C won 9-0
Mixed 1 vs Kings won 5-4
K O Cup vs R H C won 11-0
The men's match was ridiculously easy. Even
Ian and John won all three games comfor-
tably. This was quite an achievment as they
spent the whole time insulting each other,
which is exactly what they do off court in
there other roles as A C C Chairman and Vice
Chairman.
Dominic Demento, the Club nutter, terror-
ised the opposition with his on-court war
dance routine, and this, I feel, played a major
part in their downfall.
Mixed 1 can't seem to win convincingly,
probably because I haven't played for them
yet. A heroic performance from Miranda won
the day, apparently that's what she tells me
anyway.
IC v Kings won 5-4
A n excellent game of badders at Elephant and
Castle, what old chap? Negotiated the
tube—one change somewhere on the blue
coloured line and under the silver Tardis box
to the red coloured amenities centre. Jane
equipped with silver baubles in her hair,
Miranda not drunk from wine tasting for a
change, and Janet, as ever, in full battle
combat of purple legwarmers and blue
eyeshadow. The three guys also came. So we
met our opposition from Kings College—
Hengis the Horrible (the one who was 6ft lin,
built like a Weetabix kid and 10 tons of fuzzy
hair) was there with her partner Ivan the
Terrible, a nondescript pair plus their number
one pair who weren't bad—they play at U L U
and County level sometimes. Both Janet and
Nigel and Jane and Lee lost against the
latter—but Miranda admirably partnered by
Stephen, although losing the first game,
managed to claw their way to 13 all in the
second, where they played to 5 and won 18-
14. Unfortunately they lost the third and final
game, but we won't mention that! So, in
allgemeinen, ein sehr gutes Spiel, viel SpaB,
und hoffentlich konnen wir, daB heifJt IC,
alles winnen, nicht wahr? Wunderbar, Ja!
Viel Dank an Janet, Jane, Miranda, Stephen,
Nigel und Lee! Sehen wir uns noch ein mal.
Tchiiss
(This is thefirst badminton article not written
by me in a long time. Thanks Miranda! The rest
of you are all lazy getsl-Sports Ed)
We've had a pretty dodgy first term really,
with things not looking as good as last season.
Still, we're in the knockout cup semi-finals,
and should win four or five of the six leagues
that we're in. There's still not much
enthusiasm for playing in matches, though,
and those who have been enthusiastic have
been rewarded by getting injured, or bored
with playing too much.
Now for the good news: the badminton
tour to Dublin is on for the weekend of 11
February. Names to one of the committee as
soon as possible if you're vaguely interested.
It doesn't matter what standard you are as it
should be possible for them to raise teams of
matching standards.
Football
Several friendly matches, some against U C
will be played tomorrow (14th). Any players
who have not yet ticked off please do so asap.
3rd XI
First the good news: IC3 are third in Top
Division 1R.
Now the bad news: Training for all players
interested restarts next Tuesday (17th). Any
of the thirds squad who wish to possess a
league or cup winners medal (including me)
will increase this possibility by turning up to
as many 'sessions' as possible. Several post
Christmas pots have been sighted already
amongst former sporting gentlemen of the
thirds. This can not continue—you have been
war
Finally I would like to thank all the many
people who played for (and supported) the
thirds last season especially John Barden,
Torsten Behling and Dave Griffiths whose
collective organisational assistance was in-
valuable.
The season's remaining league fixtures are
as follows:
Wed 18 Jan A Bed 2
Sat 21 Jan A R F H
Wed 1 Feb H Golds 3
Sat 4 Feb A Q M C IV
Wed 8 Feb H R F H
Wed 15 Feb A Guys
Sat 25 H Bed 2
Cup Fixtures
Sat 11 Feb N Kings 2 or U C IV (Semi)
Sat 10 March N ? (Final)
LSE 20 IC 16
Imperial maintained their abysmal away re-
cord on Wednesday by losing to another
strong but ????? side.
The afternoon started surprisingly well
with Biggies the Navigator successfully
tracking down the elusive L S E ground. The
LSE's tactic of wearing the same colour as the
opposition was also thwarted as Imperial
were recognisable partly because of their
expensive new socks and partly because they
were the team consistently receiving bad
lineout ball and being pushed off their own
ball in the scrum. Despite the setbacks
Imperial scored the first try but in the second
half LSE gained a strong lead (being naturally
strong on their left wing) and it was only sheer
grit, determination and fluke which enabled
Imperial to get back into the game when
Mark Hassel kicked two penalties in
succession and Jan Wiur scored under the
posts after a well timed interception by John
Gillees. Thus motivated, Imperial four up a
strong show in the last ten minutes but time
was not on their side and the disappionting
performance ended with an unnecessary
defeat.
FELIX Friday, 13 January, 1984 Page 9

