16 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
15.05.2015
Music
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk Music Editors Grace Rahman & Amna Askari
Jamie Thomas gives us the lowdown on this year’s favourites
Eurovision Fever: Your Guide to the top
Dating back to 1956, this year is the 60th
anniversary of one of the largest and most watched television events in the world; the Eurovision Song Contest.
Following Conchita Wurst’s victory for Austria last year in Copenhagen, the contest will be hosted this year live from Vienna. And with Serbia, Cyprus and
the Czech Republic returning to the contest along with Australia debuting as a guest entrant, this year is gearing up to be the biggest in the competition’s
history, with 40 nations competing and an unprecedented 27 performing in the Grand Final on 23rd
May. Here’s my top 10 songs to keep an eye out for,
including some of the most likely to win and a few of my personal favourites.
With what can only be described as a techo mash-up of ‘Cotton Eyed Joe’ and the Birdseye
Potato Waffles song, this year we are sending Electrovelvet with their song ‘Still In Love
With You’. I’ll admit my first reaction to this song was one of dread and ‘wow, we’ve
really given up this year’. However the song has since grown on me immensely. Most of Europe has
taken a detour from zany, quintessentially ‘Eurovision-y’ songs this year in favour of more serious,
often melancholy numbers. This means our song could really stand out as a fun and silly entry,
hopefully sticking in peoples’ minds as they cast their votes.
With pop music being one of their biggest exports, Sweden takes Eurovision very seriously.
They vote nationally for who will represent them in an X-Factor-like, immensely popular
series of live shows named Melodifestivalen. This year it was won by Måns Zelmerlöw
and he will sing ‘Heroes’. It’s a catchy, high-energy song, but I feel like it doesn’t particularly stand
out. However, it’s actually favourite to win and will undoubtedly place in the top 5.
In 2006 Lordi took Europe by storm with ‘Hard Rock Hallelujah’, which became the first and
only hard rock song to ever win the contest. This year they’re hoping for success with punk rock
band Pertti Kurikan Nimipäivät and their song ‘Aina Mun Pitää’. All 4 members of the band
have learning disabilities and are hoping to raise awareness of people with learning disabilities and,
as they put it, ‘have a fucking good time’.
Estonia’s song, ‘Goodbye To Yesterday’ by Elina Born and Stig Rästa, is my personal favourite
this year. A duet about a couple going through a breakup, it’s a bit like Gotye’s ‘Somebody
That I Used To Know’ with hints of Amy Winehouse. Trust me, it works. Estonia failed to
qualify for the final last year, but this year they’re sure to be there and I think we’ll see them place in
the top 5. They’ve got my vote!
Italy are part of the Big Five, meaning they automatically qualify for the final, where we’ll see Il
Volo sing ‘Grande Amore’. A modern-day Three Tenors, Il Volo is a young, operatic pop trio
that was formed on an Italian TV singing contest in 2010. ‘Grande Amore’ is a dark, brooding,
powerful operatic ballad and I love it. It really stands out and will surely stay in the minds of the
voters as they reach for their phones.
Finland
Nil points! The British entry are practising their game faces. Credit: BBC
Måns has better eyebrows than me. Credit: esctoday.com
They’ve performed with previous winners, Lordi. Credit: sonymusic.fi
Will they? Won’t they? Who cares. Credit: Stina Kase Photography
Will they still be this chummy when their Eurovision dream comes crashing down? Credit:
escunited.com
Italy
United Kingdom
Sweden
Estonia

