THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 17
FELIX 15.05.2015
Music
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk Music Editors Grace Rahman & Amna Askari
10 acts of the 60th annual song contest
Before you ask, no, that’s not a misspelling of Austria. It’s simply that Australia’s love of
Eurovision transcends the 14,000km and 10 hour time difference between us so much that
the European Broadcasting Union has allowed our friends from down under to be honourary
Europeans this year as part of the 60th
Eurovision anniversary celebrations. For this extra special
entry, Australia is sending Guy Sebastian with ‘Tonight Again’, a fantastically upbeat declaration
of how happy Australia are to be allowed to compete that is sure to go down very well. The EBU
has announced that should Australia win, they will be invited back next year. The pressure is on
Australia to impress, and I have a feeling Guy will do just that.
Debrah Scarlett and Mørland will sing ‘A Monster Like Me for Norway’. A melancholy, slow
yet pretty duet with a nice piano part, it resembles Norway’s entry from last year, ‘Silent
Storm’, which placed 8th
in the final. Its opening is a little boring, but it really gets going half
way through and turns into what should be a big crowd-pleaser.
This year Belarus are sending Uzari & Maimuna with their song ‘Time’. This is not one of the
favourites to win, but I included it because of it’s one of my favourites due to a strong dance
anthem beat, catchy tune and the big violin part. Uzari, the singer/songwriter is no stranger
to the Eurovision stage after appearing in 2011 as a backing vocalist in Belarus’ unsuccessful entry ‘I
Love Belarus.’
Ican’t believe this isn’t one of the favourites to win. ‘Black Smoke’ by Ann Sophie will represent
Germany this year and in my opinion it’s one of the best songs this year. With a powerful,
simple, driving drumbeat throughout, an incredibly catchy tune and Ann Sophie’s great voice,
I think this song deserves to do very well. Germany being one of the Big Five, it automatically
qualifies for the final.
Montenegro probably aren’t going to win. In fact, the current odds of them placing first are
100/1, indicating they may not even qualify for the final. I’m including them because I
really, really like their song. ‘Adio’ by Knez makes extensive use of traditional Balkan
instruments, is sung in its nation’s main language (Montenegrin) and is very reminiscent of my
favourite Eurovision song of all time, Serbia’s 2012 entry ‘Nije Ljubav Stvar’ by Željko Joksimović.
Turns out this year’s entry was composed by him so all the more reason to love it!
And Guy didn’t think his life could get any better after he won Pop Idol in 2003. Credit:
escuinted.com
They’ve still got a week to work out which camera they’re meant to be looking at. Credit:
NRK
The laughing will stop when they touch down in Venice. Credit: wowstars.ru
Sources say she will be forced to perform in the live shows fully clothed. Credit: eurovision.tv
Eurovision stress is setting in. Knez, are you ok hun? Credit: Bojan Stanic
And that’s not all! These are just 10 of the 40 entries this year; the biggest Eurovision ever. Of these, 16 will compete in the first semi-final on 19th
May and
another 17 will compete in the second semi-final on the 21st. 10 countries qualify from each of the semi-finals, joining the Big Five, the host country Austria
and special guest nation Australia to battle it out in the final on Saturday 23rd
of May. Don’t miss it!
The Eurovision Song Contest Final will be shown on BBC One on the 23rd
of May, with the first semi-finals on Tuesday the 16th
on BBC Three.
Australia
Belarus
Montenegro
Norway
Germany

