24 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
15.05.2015
Editor Cécile Borkhataria
Fashion
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Cécile Borkhataria visits the exhibition at London’s Design
Museum, discovering a unique shoe brand which prioritizes
comfort first
‘Life on Foot’: Discovering Spanish
shoe brand Camper
After arriving at the Design
Museum soaking wet from
London’s pelting rain, I
joined a group of journalists ready
to be guided through the Museum’s
latest exhibition entitled Life on
Foot: Camper at the Design Museum.
The exhibition marks the 40th
anniversary of the Spanish footwear
Brand Camper, which is well known
for its casual styles, many of which
are unisex. The exhibition guides
visitors through the process of how a
shoe collection is researched, created,
manufactured and presented –
from initial sketches to the detailed
graphics on the shoebox.
I was amongst a group of journalists
greeted by the director of the
design museum, Deyan Sudjic. He
explained that the museum, along
with an exhibition design company,
had worked closely with Camper
brand representatives to develop the
exhibition. The introduction was
followed by some words from the
brands CEO, Miguel Fluxá. Miguel’s
great grandfather, Antonio Fluxá,
founded the first shoe factory in
Spain in 1877. He was a farmer
who went to France and England
to learn the craft of shoe making,
after which he came back to Spain
with the equipment he needed to set
up a shoe-making factory. In 1975,
Miguel’s father Lorenzo joined the
family business and so the brand
‘Camper’ was born. The brands
name pays homage to Miguel’s great
grandfather, as the word means
‘farmer’ in the language of Mallorca
(Mallorquí) where the company was
founded.
Camper places a strong emphasis
on individuality to create a brand
that is different and has its own
identity. This sense of individuality
is reflected in Camper stores across
the world, where no one store design
is the same. Miguel Fluxá thinks that
the world today is becoming a little
boring and uniform, so he thought it
would be interesting for the stores to
be different. For instance, Camper’s
Milan store is famed for having
dedicated a single blank wall solely
for its stores visitors to decorate
with graffiti. Recognizing this fun
gimmick, the design museum has
replicated this idea for the exhibition,
and visitors are welcome to graffiti
the blank wall space next to an
impressive wall display of white
camper trainers.
The exhibition guides the viewer
through six of the brand’s key styles,
for example Pelotas – the brands
bestseller for the past 20 years,
Himalayan, Twins and Wabi, whilst
exploring the design, manufacturing
and history of the family-run
business whose designs are iconic
and purchased in their millions
worldwide.
The process of designing and
Pelotas shoes aligned at ‘Life on Foot’ at the Design Museum. Credit: Jill Tate

