THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 25
15.05.2015
FELIX
Editor Cécile Borkhataria
Fashion
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
creating a Camper shoe begins at the
company’s design studios in Mallorca,
Spain. Manufacturing then takes
place in one of its factories in China,
Indonesia or Vietnam. Although
the brand used to manufacture its
shoes on site in Mallorca, like many
product-based businesses, it seized
the opportunity of manufacturing
its shoes at a much lower cost in East
Asia.
The opening of the exhibition
features a video illustrating the
painstakingly detailed precision
required to make a Camper
shoe. Whilst some aspects of
manufacturing are mechanized, such
as sewing the sole of the shoe onto
its base, many others, such as cutting
out individual pieces of leather for
constructing the shoe, are done by
hand. Contrary to what I expected
from a mass production factory in
Asia, this video made the process look
like it was taking place in an artisanal
shoe shop in Spain. Interestingly,
whilst making a pair of Camper shoes
usually only takes a few hours in the
factory, up to 300 people may be
involved in the making of one single
shoe.
Two seasonal collections of Camper
shoes are designed every year, with
each collection containing around
500 shoes which are produced by
many of the companies designers,
as well as external collaborators, in
response to a design brief set by the
company’s creative director, now
French designer Romain Kremer.
These briefs usually specify the
style, mood and colour palette for
that season, whilst also predicting
"No one
store
design is
the same ."
"Up to 300
people may
be involved
in the
making of
one single
shoe."
Protocell trainers. Credit: Cecile Bokhataria
trends for the coming year. What
makes Camper unique is that at the
design stage, and all the way through
manufacturing, the design of a shoe
is based on ‘the last’, a model of the
human foot. The lasts are made by
a team of technicians at Camper,
advising the design team on comfort
for the wearer. The same last used
during design is also used during
manufacturing, to ensure that
the actual shoe fits the foot in the
intended way.
The flagship product of the brand
remains the Pelotas, the company’s
most distinctive shoe design. Over
ten million pairs of Pelotas have been
sold since they were first launched
by Camper in 1995. The design was
inspired by vintage American sports
trainers, and its name means ‘balls’ in
Spanish, referencing the 87 indented
balls on the sole of a Pelota shoe
Another of Camper’s most famous
designs is arguably the ‘Wabi’,
meaning ‘peasant’ or ‘rustic’ in
Japanese. It is meant in a sense
of simplicity, a modesty with no
pretension. Wabi shoes are made for
indoor use, placing an emphasis on
sustainability in the materials they’re
made of. They are directed to all
ages, for use throughout all seasons
of the year. The first prototypes of
the Wabi were made using hemp and
coconut, but now, a standard Wabi’s
sole is composed of recycled rubber
and its upper is usually made of wool.
Following the Wabi’s, the next iconic
design showcased are the ‘Twins’.
These shoes, first introduced in the
early 90’s, were unique in that they
were non-identical pairs of shoes,
which were revolutionary at the time.
Across its product range, Camper has
collaborated with many different
designers, including celebrated
Spanish artist Joan Miró on a pair of
graphic ‘twins’.
The exhibition forays into Camper’s
various advertising campaigns, past
and present. The company uses
adverts in a humorous way, whilst
also questioning mass consumerism.
Many of its adverts avoid using
direct images of shoes, and most use
English instead of Spanish, appealing
to a global audience. One famous
advertising poster, created by Guixé
in 2002, bore the slogan “No los
compres si no los necesitas”, meaning
“Don’t buy it if you don’t need it”.
This paradoxical take on advertising
emphasizes that Camper is different,
and is as much a maverick lifestyle
brand as it is a global shoe retailer.
In line with Campers position
as a lifestyle brand, the company
launched their ‘walking society’
advertising campaign in 2001. The
campaign’s slogan “Walk, Don’t Run”,
emphasizing the conflict between the
slow pace of the rural world and the
fast pace of urban reality, bringing
them together.
Finally, the exhibition explores the
potential future of walking, looking
at the ways in which technological
and sociological developments might
change the landscape for everyday
pedestrians. An array of speculative
design ideas look at new directions
and possibilities for pedestrians.
For example, researcher Shamees
Aden studies protocells, an area of
synthetic biology that may offer new
approaches to footwear design in the
future. Protocells become semi-living
substances through the manipulation
of their chemical structures, and an
‘amoeba trainer’ designed by Aden
suggests that these cells could mould
around the foot, creating a type of
second skin shoe. As this part of the
exhibition focuses on ‘life on foot’ as a
whole, it looks at innovation in space
suit design. It showcases images of
newly developed space suits that look
like a wetsuit rather than a traditional
bulky space suit, allowing a more
seamless walking experience in Space.
The final parts of the exhibitions take
a look at changing city landscapes as
a result of technological innovation
and changing walking habits. The
exhibit displays an interactive screen
showing the number of average daily
steps taken in cities around the world.
It shows that Tokyo is one of the
world’s most active cities in terms of
average steps per day, due in part, no
doubt, to the lack of efficient public
transportation and the reliance on
cars for displacement. By contrast,
Los Angeles has some of the lowest
levels of steps taken. Such insights
have led city planners to investigate
the possibility of widespread ‘express
walkways’ becoming mainstream
in cities, similar to flat moving
walkways in airports. These could
resemble motorways for pedestrians,
with shoe repair stations, food shops
and other amenities along the way.
These ideas may change the landscape
of cities as we know them in the near
future, whilst redefining the footwear
fashion sphere.
The exhibition is open to the public at
London’s Design Museum from the 13th
of May till the 1st
of November, located
at123 Shad Thames. Student tickets cost
£9.75 and adult tickets are £13. Tickets
give access to three exhibitions in the
museum, which is located just south of
the river. The closest tube stations are
Tower Hill and London Bridge.
Camper has been in business for 40 years. Credit: Jill Tate
Fat or muscle?
We are inviting healthy volunteers to take part in a research study comparing body fat and metabolism in young adults. It will
involve a single visit to Chelsea & Westminster Hospital for 3-4 hours. You will have a full body Magnetic Resonance scan, which is
safe, and does not involve x-rays. You will also be asked for a blood, and urine sample and a buccal swab taken from the inside of
the mouth. This study is open to people aged 19-27 years; we would particularly welcome interest if you were born prematurely.
For	  more	  information	  please	  email	  James	  Parkinson,	  Research	  Associate,	  jrcp@imperial.ac.uk	  or	  text	  07814	  296596	  

