28 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
15.05.2015
Arts Editors Fred Fyles & Kamil McClelland
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Indira Mallik guides us through the proposed changes to funding for
culture under the Conservative majority
Slash and Burn: The Future of
British Arts under the Tories
Last Friday, Britain woke up to
an entirely changed political
landscape. Instead of days
of coalition talks, or discussing
the constitutional ins and outs of
a minority government, we were
faced with a Conservative majority.
Within the space of hours, the
commentators went from discussing
the probability of the vote share to
the probability of who would end
up in the cabinet. On Monday we
found out that David Cameron had
appointed John Whittingdale as
Secretary of State for Culture, Media
and Sport. Already the tabloids have
claimed this as “declaring war on the
BBC”. Whittingdale has a history of
being notoriously anti-licence fee,
proclaiming it as “worse than the poll
tax”. Despite no doubt ruffling a few
feathers at Broadcasting House, the
choice of John Whittingdale, who
was Shadow Culture secretary and
later Chairman of the Media Select
Committee, certainly seems to makes
more sense than his predecessor Sajid
Javid, who by all accounts struggled to
convince journalists and the art world
alike that we was interested in the
performances it was his job to attend.
The Conservatives have pledged to
deliver their manifesto in full now
they are unhindered by coalition
partners, but what does this mean for
the arts? Throughout the election
campaign, the arts barely got a look
in, as the discourse was dominated
by immigration and the economy.
Likewise, the arts feature in a fraction
of the Conservative manifesto, in
which the Tories promise to “keep
our major national museums and
galleries free to enter, support school
sport, support our creative industries
and defend a free media”. So far, so
vague.
The details of this pledge pertain
mostly to investing in a “Great
Exhibition in the North”, particularly
the building of the The Factory, a
new theatre in Manchester to which
Chancellor George Osborne has
already promised £78m. Whilst this
is a welcome step towards addressing
the long standing bias towards
funding London-based projects at the
expense of the rest of the country,
it worryingly suggests that the The
Factory is being pushed as the face
of investment into the arts whilst
savage cuts are made into the overall
arts budget as part of reducing the
deficit. In the last government,
£168.5m in real terms was cut from
the English arts as a whole since
2010, representing 36% of the total
arts budget. The funding cuts have
forced the main arts funding body in
England – Arts Council England –
to rely completely on Lottery funds
from April 2015 to fund some of its
core portfolio. National Campaign
for the Arts (NCA) say in their Arts
Index – the ‘health check’ on arts
in England – that over-reliance on
Lottery fund will “leave the sector
vulnerable [because] lottery income
John Whittingdale, the new Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport, in a valiant attempt to try and appear normal outside Number 10. Photo: Creative Commons
can vary hugely depending on the
mood of the people”.
In order to fulfil their pledge
of cutting a further £12bn from
departmental budgets, the Treasury
would have to commit to cuts at the
same scale for the next 5 years. In all
likelihood, this will lead to the closing
of local museums and libraries,
cutting off the grass roots level
investment that is so vital in allowing
the arts to sustain themselves in
the future. In November last year,
protesters took to the street when the
local council in Liverpool announced
plans to close 11 out of its 19 libraries.
Newcastle-upon-Tyne published
a draft three-year budget in 2012,
which projected a cut to funding for
arts organisations of 100% effective
from April 2015. Soon, other councils
may follow suit with similarly drastic
proposals.
The arts in England are on the
cusp of “serious and irreversible
damage” caused by cuts to funding,
the findings of the 2015 Arts Index
have revealed. It further reports that
in order to sustain themselves, arts
institutions have been forced to raise
prices to raise the earned income
generated. The NCA says that income
raised in this way is soon to saturate
“the amount people are prepared to
pay for a ticket is limited, and so is
the number of seats”, and that higher
ticket prices are creating a barrier
to access to the arts; a recent study
found that though engagement in
the arts was higher in the 2013/2014
period, those participating were
from higher socioeconomic
backgrounds. Reducing access to
lower socioeconomic groups creates a
barrier towards ethnic diversity too,
and in light of the recent proposals
to cut funding to arts organisations
that fail to increase diversity in
their programmes and audiences,
the funding shortage risks driving
a vicious cycle of exclusion and
financial shortfall.

