34 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
20.03.2015
What is going on inside
the Blue Cube this week
This week’s staff events are all Festival-
themed, so make sure to keep your
delightful Festival t-shirts to hand!
Advice On: Exercise
Our “Advice on” series continues with this
session on keeping fit and active, and
discovering the joys of a good exercise
regime!
Whether it’s running away from pesky
student “journalists” (their words) asking
irritating questions, or making the daily trip
along the Sherfield Walkway while dodging
the unwashed masses (a true obstacle
course), exercise is a vital part of life in the
Faculty Building, so come along and get
ahead of the game!
International Diplomacy Course
On Wednesday at 1pm, we’re having a
debrief session on Imperial Festival, to
discuss what went well, and what went
even better!
We’ll be talking through the big highlights
from the Festival, as well as making plans
for next year’s Festival. There are rumours
of doing two in one year – how exciting!
Don’t forget to bring your yoga mat as
usual, and green tea will (of course) be
provided.
All-Staff Briefing Cancelled
Our weekly staff briefing has been
cancelled by the Vice Provost (Arbitrary
Excuses) and replaced with an All-Staff
Party on Friday night from 7pm.
Join us in the Board Room to raise a
glass (or three!) to the success of Imperial
Festival, and party the night away with our
usual glorious view over Dalby Court.
We’ll be providing a bar, and we’re putting
a tab behind it to help express our thanks
to all of you who helped make the Festival
a success. Thanks go to the lovely boys in
Finance for finding the funds “down the
back of the sofa” for this party – how they
do it, we’ll never know!
What is going on outside the
Blue Cube this week
With Imperial Festival now over, the
marquee is coming off Queen’s Lawn, the
tents are coming down, and life is slowly
turning back to normal.
Nothing else of any interest whatsoever is
taking place.
Alice Gast: Thought of the Week
“I’m delighted to see that Imperial Festival
was such a success this weekend. A truly
collaborative effort, this showed the depth
and breadth of the wonderful work staff are
doing at this world-leading institution. It was
a genuine treat to see so many staff members
collaborating to bring science to the masses, as
well as removing that bloody rag Felix from the
campus. Good riddance.”
The weekly newsletter of the Faculty Building
Blue News
Provost Post
of the Week
Every week, a member of
our esteemed Provost board
shares their thoughts with
our collaborative, cohesive
community. This week, we
welcome back Al Pologies,
Vice Provost (Arbitrary
Excuses)!
Unfortunately, Al was too busy
making plans for our upcoming
All-Staff Party to celebrate
Imperial Festival, so he wasn’t
able to write his column this
week either.
We’ll get hold of him one day,
I promise!
In place of Al’s column this
week, we’ve invited Emma
Perial, Vice Provost (Marketing)
to give us a few words about
Imperial Festival!
Hi everyone, Em here!
I just wanted to say a massive
thanks to everyone who helped
out at Imperial Festival, anyone
who came along over the
weekend, and all of you who
sent us positive thoughts and
encouragement throughout the
stressful preparation time.
I’m so delighted at how
successful the Festival turned
out to be – there were happy,
smiling children all over the
campus at the weekend, and
it was wonderful seeing the joy
and enthusiasm for science on
their little faces.
There were adults around
too – obviously, haha! – and
it was just as brilliant seeing
those of us with a few more
years experience still learning
something new.
Imperial’s cutting-edge
research gives us an enormous
edge, and it was a privilege to
be able to lead the charge of
showing all of our work to the
masses.
To borrow a famous phrase,
I think our mission statement
could be summed up as:
“Give me your young, your
old, your huddled masses
yearning to learn more about
world-leading science.”
And with great delight, I
feel confident in saying we
succeeded. Imperial Festival
was an impossibly vast success,
from our brilliant marketing
campaign to the Festival itself.
Thank you again, one and all
– until next year!
Hello all,
Welcome, welcome, welcome to this week’s Blue News! After the
resounding success of Imperial Festival, it’s a week of celebration here in
the Faculty Building!
We’ve got all sorts of events planned, but I’m most excited for this week’s
All-Staff Briefing Party, which is an excellent excuse for everyone to let
their hair down after a hard week’s celebration.
As part of the celebrations, I went for a jubilatory meal with Emma Perial,
the Vice Provost (Marketing), and we paid a visit to the rather delightful
Nando’s restaurant on Gloucester Road! As a newcomer to the world of
Nando’s, I have to admit I was a little confused by Em’s referring to our
lunchtime trip as “taking the Pres for a cheeky Nando’s”.
When I asked her what was so “cheeky” about our outing, she had to
explain to me what was going on. A bit of internet research later, and
I must confess I’m still slightly confused by you “cheeky” Brits! Just an
entertaining anecdote to liven up your day!
Finally, I think it’s worth addressing quite possibly the only issue to have
come up at Imperial Festival: the noisy complaints from the student
“newspaper” (their words, not ours) that we removed their bins.
Firstly: I don’t quite understand their complaints, as no garbage
receptacles were moved anywhere over the weekend. Secondly, I wish to
reiterate our support for student media in all its forms (and regardless of
quality). Imperial’s status as a world-leading institution is confirmed by
our highly active body of students, and their engagements with a wide
variety of hobbies outside of their degrees. We firmly believe in ensuring
that our students get value for money leave this university feeling like
fully-rounded human beings with a wide skill-set.
Besides, would we publish Blue News here if we didn’t think a student
“newspaper” (again, their words) was worthwhile? Of course not. We’d
have to pay for it, for a start!
Have a productive, cohesive, collaborative and happy day!

