THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 37
15.05.2015
FELIX
C & S Editor Ben Howitt
Clubs and Societies
felix.clubsandsocieties@imperial.ac.uk
It’s almost the end of the academic
year. Have you thought about
what you are doing in the future?
Knowing which career to pursue can
be daunting for many students, but
did you know that graduating with
a STEM or business degree sets you
up for a wide range of careers beyond
scientific research or finance?
The Imperial College Law Society
is proud to present a careers event
on 21st
May, open to all students at
College. The event is designed to
answer all those burning questions
you’ve been thinking about as
you consider your future career
and employment. It has been
planned as an interactive panel
discussion, in which three leading
legal professionals will talk about
the routes they took to get into the
profession, discuss what life is like
as a lawyer or patent attorney at a
big pharmaceutical company or law
firms, and answer any questions that
you might have.
We are being joined by Dawn
Goff, a patent attorney at
GlaxoSmithKline, Funke Abimbola,
an in-house lawyer at Roche, and
Saufung Ma, a lawyer at UK law firm
Taylor Wessing. These three lawyers
represent three major forms of legal
expertise in science and industry.
Saufung is a senior associate
in Taylor Wessing’s Intellectual
Property department. He works
on both contentious and non-
contentious intellectual property
matters, including patent litigation
and trade mark prosecutions.
Saufung spent six months in Taylor
Wessing’s Cambridge office where
he assisted with a number of venture
capital, inward investment and
acquisition projects, particularly
in relation to technology-rich
businesses. Saufung has a degree
in Biochemistry from Oxford
University, a PhD in Molecular
Biology and Medicine from Imperial
College and was awarded a distinction
from BPP Law School. Saufung is
a member of Taylor Wessing’s pro
bono committee. He speaks fluent
Cantonese.
Dawn Goff is a patent attorney
at GlaxoSmithKline, working in
highly interesting areas such as
anti-counterfeiting. All patent
attorneys need a scientific or
technical background, making
STEM students at Imperial College
very suitable candidates. A patent
attorney must have the ability to
acquire, and enjoy exercising, legal
skills of drafting, analysis and logical
thought, and, particularly the skill to
use the English language aptly and
accurately, in written work. Patent
attorneys act at an exciting interface
between disciplines of law, language
and science.
Funke Amimbola is Managing
Counsel (UK & Ireland) for Roche,
leading the legal team that supports
Roche’s pharmaceutical operations in
the UK, Ireland, Malta and Gibraltar.
A recognised legal expert working
within the life sciences sector, Funke
is also a notable diversity champion
within the UK legal industry and
has received multiple awards and
other recognition for both her
legal work and her diversity work.
She speaks regularly at legal and
diversity conferences both in the UK
and abroad. As a working mother,
Funke juggles the demands of her
career with home life and regularly
supports working mothers on how
best to achieve the elusive work/
life balance. She is passionate about
the law, diversity, education and
the healthcare sector. In addition,
she is an expert mentor and regular
fundraiser for charities including
Cancer Research UK.
This event gives Imperial students
a useful opportunity to speak to
someone with a similar background
to theirs and who was once in the
same position as they are now. The
discussion itself is intended to explore
the intersections between the legal
industry and other industries such as
finance or biotechnology. Students
interested in a career in business, law
or science will have the opportunity
to gain extremely useful information,
including how to develop their
commercial awareness. The panel
interview has been designed to answer
whatever questions the audience may
have, whether relating to science,
industry or commerce, which means
that you do not need to be interested
in a career in law to be interested in
this event!
If you’re interested in attending the
event,all you needto do is email lawsoc@
imperial.ac.uk with your name and
course.
The talk is to be held in G34 (SAF
building), and will start at 13:00.
It’s not all about rape and murder
Funke Amimbola leads the legal team that supports Roche’s UK pharmaceutical operations
Alex Beaghton on the Law Society’s intersectional discussion this May
Ladz on tour in record numbers
At Imperial probably one of my favourite things that we
get to support Clubs,Societies and Projects with is tours.
If I mention it to anyone at other Students’Unions they
can’t believe that we not only support students going on
tour but also fund it.Though I guess that in a lot of other
places‘tour’is often more synonymous with‘drinking
tour’rather than“we’re going to go do our club activity
somewhere new that lets us experience it in a different,
exciting way”.
All of our funding for tours comes from the ICTrust,
and as part of this we have to send them a report of
how we’ve spent the money.To do this I request tour
reports from any society that we’ve funded,and compile
them all together.Getting to read these tour reports is,
to be honest,really freaking cool.I love hearing about
what you guys have been up to and the pictures almost
always fill me with a huge amount of envy–literally,get
skydiving to send you some photos if you’ve ever wanted
to feel like you’ve missed out on an incredible trip.I’ve
got a fear of heights but there’s now nothing I’ve ever
wanted to try so much!
We’ve already had an incredible number of tour
applications from clubs this year,and [rathersurprisingly!
-ed] still been able to support a huge number of them.
Skydiving went out to Portugal,Cycling popped over
to the French Alps,and Cheerleading took the entire
society to a National competition,bringing home one
first and two third places–and that was just over the
Spring Break!
We’re right in the middle of sorting out budgets with
clubs for the summer tours and it’s looking like there
is going to be another great batch during the sumemr
holiday.If you’re a student on the edge of deciding on
whether to go on tour with your club this summer I’d
definitely recommend it!
ABI DE BRUIN
DEPUTY PRESIDENT (CLUBS AND SOCIETIES)
I. Am. Envy. Photo: IC Skydiving

