6 F E L I X
Jezette
at
speed
Guilds noA3 & R.C.S. no.20
R.C.S. ENTER BRISTOL PEDAL CAR MARATHON
For many weeks past the men of Physics III and II have been
labouring behind locked doors to build the R.C.S. reply to the
B.R.M. The result of their efforts could be seen in Bristol at noon
on Friday, March 1st, drawn up on the starting grid of the 24 hour
Pedal Car Race, held annually by Bristol University as part of Rag
week. Her name was "Jezette," and as the first few laps showed,
she was one of the fastest of the entry of 50; an assorted group of
cars, varying from tiny kiddie cars driven by teams of women, to
monsters weighing hundreds of pounds. There was even an un-
official Guilds entry, built the night before.
For the first two hours each of
the'R.C.S. "Thetans" pedalled 3
laps each at a stretch at an aver-
age lap time of 1 min. 30 sees.,
easily one of the fastest times.
At 2.15 the first disaster struck.
Whilst Johnny Hall was rounding
the pit's bend one of the back
wheel's spindles snapped. He
made a truly valiant effort to
continue driving with one back
wheel, but the car was taken out
of the race. Team Manager Kirit
Patel with drivers Vic. Julyan
and Clive McCann eventually
found a brazing, torch in Bristol
to repair the car.
By 5.30 p.m. R.C.S. were back
in the race but the brazing had
caused one of the axle bearings
to seize, making the going really
tough: lap times were now 2mins.
30 sees. At 7 p.m. the drivers
While few of ui wish to know the future, many hope-
reasonably—to have a hand In shaping It; and this
requires acquaintance with what may lie ahead. But
traditional methods of probing the future are no longer
In favour. Crystal-gazing has obvious limitations.
Witches are prophets only of ultimate doom. So today
one turns, in the first Instance, to the appointments
officer for the pathways to the future. We, for
our part, would like to elaborate what lies along
one of them—Unilever Research.
L
" I P T P
L * i C 3
• ESQ
Research In Unilever means Industrial research:
research directed to specific ends: research with a
practical outcome. But not only that. No industrial
project or problem stands In isolation. Its'roots rarely
lie In Industry. So, research In Unilever also means
research In a number of contrasting fields—detergents,
edible fats, foods, cosmetics—and It means, further,
research in surface chemistry, glycerlde chemistry,
protein chemistry, and a host of equally fundamental
topics. It means a community of scientific Interest within
Unilever, and continuity of academic contact outside it.
It can mean research as a career, or as an Introduction
to the technical and commercial sides of Unilever.
It can provide satisfaction In the pursuit of it and
financial reward In the success of It. There Is only one.
minor hazard. Our standards of acceptance are high.
We Invite you to write to Dr. A. CROSSLEY, Staff Officer,
Research Dlv., Unilever Ltd., Unilever House, London, E.C.4
U N I L E V E R R E S E A R C H
divided into two 3 hr. shifts. At
the beginning of the 3rd shift at
1.0 a.m. Saturday "Wrecker" Hall
punctured one of the back tyres;
in the pits it was discovered that
the other back wheel spindle had
broken. This was eventually suc-
cessfully repaired but all through
the night the tale of disaster con-
tinued. Wheel spokes were broken
in a collision, others snapped as
the race continued. Nine punc-
tures were repaired before Dave
Johnson, who had taken over at
short notice from 'flu-ridden Keith
Hocking, continued the race.
Seven hours were lost during the
night and it was only due to the
Guilds team (that had dropped
out temporarily with a broken
back axle) that the R.C.S. car
was kept going, with two 6 inch
front wheels off a pram, replacing
the original R.C.S. wheels.
From then- until the end of the
race the team hammered round,
engaging in duels with the lead-
ing cars and pushing the rest out
of the way. Although we could
not win we felt we could provide
the thousands of spectators, who
had turned out to see the end
of the race, something to talk
about; and I'm sure they will
remember the sight of Emlyn
Jones lapping at speed with
beard flying behind him and Steve
Colgan's brilliant attack on the
lap record which failed by only
3 5 sees •
R.C.S. finished 13th out of the
field of 50 after 13\ hours pedal-
ling, and as the Guilds and
R.C.S. cars completed their last
lap, the combined teams rocked
the pits with a mammoth " Hey
Vivo ! "
C. McCANN.
F I L M SOCIETY
On Friday, 15th March, at 7.0
p.m. in Physics Lecture Theatre
2, the society is showing two
films, " The Navigator" and
"Destiny of a Man," and these
will be followed by the A.G.M.
" The Navigator," starring and
co-directed by Buster Keaton,
must surely rate as a classic of
the silent cinema. It is notable
for its elaborate staging, novel
mechanical effects and con-
tinuous flow of humour (such as
his attempt to shuffle a pack of
wet playing cards) which is just
as funny to-day as in the mid-
twenties when the film was a
box-office success. The measure
of Keaton's genius can never be
better asssessed than in this
cleverly made comedy, where he
gets the laughs without appar-
ently moving a single facial
muscle. Only once did he smile
in one of his films but so effec-
tively did this kill the joke that he
never tried it again. The piano
accompaniment will be by Mr.
Arthur Dulay, resident pianist at
the National Film Theatre, who
will also introduce the film.
" Destiny of a Man " is one of
the best films to come out of the
USSR in recent years. Directed
and produced by Sergei Bondar-
chuk, who also plays the leading
role, the film tells the life story
of a village carpenter, but is
mostly concerned with war and
his experiences in Nazi concen-
tration camps. It is intensely
dramatic and imbued with pro-
found philosophical reflections
—what is man's place in life and
what is happiness in the noblest
sense of the word ? Without
being sentimental, " Destiny of a
Man " shows the true meaning of
the traditional manly virtues of
courage, endurance and love, and
reminds us of what the world of
human beings is really like.
Members are reminded that
nominations for next year's com-
mittee are due by March 14th.
Also every consideration will be
given to suggestions for future
programmes, both for shorts and
features, so please bring them
along to the A.G.M. A question
to be discussed then is the aims
and objects of the society. In
past years, the programmes
tended to be of a specialised
nature whereas now they cover
a wide range of film making.
If there is sufficient demand, it
may be possible next year to
arrange a series of films and dis-
cussion groups on the work of,
say, Eisenstein or Bergman on
Wednesday afternoons and to
show popular entertainment films
on Friday evenings. It is hoped
that as many members as pos-
sible will come to this meeting to
discuss this.
On Thursday, March 21st, the
society is arranging a General
Studies lecture by Stuart Hall of
the British Film Institute. The
subject will be " War Films " and
the lecture will be illustrated with
film extracts.
R. S. ROBERTSHAW.

