Founded in 1949 The Newspaper of Imperial College Union
Ex-editor Colin Palmer slams CND movement and
NUS in surprise bid for national Tory leadership
IMPERIAL COLLEGE delegate, Colin Palmer (last year's
FELIX Editor) was one of the three candidates to stand for the
post of Chairman of the Federation of Conservative Students
at the FCS Conference held at Sheffield University over the
Easter vacation. Former Chairmen include Edward Heath,
Mark Carlisle and John Biffen.
Colin was given a tremendous reception as lie slammed home his
speech which is now reprinted below:
" A s a student journalist I have had to write many reports ol I nion
meetings and Conferences but this has been my first F C S Conference. I
was shocked at the events that took place in this hall, yesterday.
" There was sloppy behaviour from the floor and from the platform.
The attitude of the National Committee was poor. Several members
casually wandered oil the platform when M P s were speaking. W e need
to improve the image of the A n n u a l F C S Conference.
N o w I briefly discuss my views of the X L ' S . Those Colleges who have
disaffiliated from the N U S should start a new National U n i o n . Other
Colleges will be encouraged to disaffiliate as they will at last have the
opportunity to be members ol a more representative National U n i o n .
"Imperial College is not a member ol the X L ' S and I have actively
campaigned to keep it out ol N T ' S .
" W e are winning the nuclear debate. Nuclear power can be safely
controlled. I believe most people at this conference are pro-nuclear
except of course lor those members of the C X I ) . These are misguided
idealists whose actions, if realised, would lead to the Russian Occupation
of this country.
continued on page 3
MINES MUST
RCS Union is demanding jive hundred pounds for
the safe return of Mines mascot "Davy", which
RCSU violated at the end of last term. In a letter
delivered last night to the RSMU President, Keith
Maynard, details of the ransom demands were
revealed.
In addition to the sum of money, which will be
paid towards RCS Union's charity collection.
Mines executive and others will have to perform
some amusing tasks. The first of these, outlined
in the letter involves the executive and "at least
two complete rugby teams" who will have to
spend this evening standing in front of Big Ben,
holding a copy of this FELIX and today's New
Standard. They must produce by 9.00am
tomorrow morning, a set of photographs taken
"every hour on the hour" showing themselves
holding the papers and with the clock in the
background.
If Mines refuse to acceed to the demands
FIND BRASS
RCSU have threatened to sell Davy (which they
regard as an oversized replica of a Davey lamp)
to Cambourne School of Mines, long-standing
rivals of the Royal School of Mines.
In the past, the unfortunate losers of mascots
have had to follow a "treasure hunt", paying a
sum of money for each "clue". In a statement,
Paul Johnson, the VP of RCSU, who is
responsible for the Union's mascotry, and it is
rumoured, mastermined the whole plot to kidnap
the lamp, said "We will be organising a treasure
hunt as usual, but of course we have had to allow
for inflation and today's high price of brass, 1
mean, Davy's worth £500 for scrap".
The only hope now for the bereaved Miners is
to steal RCSU's as yet unviolated mascot
"Theta" (a large thermometer), but that doesn't
appear to be an easy task, especially as a large
number of Miners will be committed to a photo-
session at Westminster tonight, when RCSU will
be bringing Theta to their annual dinner.
No. 582 Friday May 1,1981 Free!

