Fight
World Poverty
S I N C E its publication last year, the Brandt
Report has already sold over 100,000 copies in
Britain, and the response from the general public
has been widespread. Several lectures have been
given to capacity audiences in London colleges,
for instance Imperial College held a series of four
lectures on the report last term; two of the
speakers were Shirley Williams and the Director
of Christian Aid, Dr Kenneth Slack.
The report is subtitled: ' N o r t h - S o u t h : a
program for survival" and examines the global
issues of poverty, hunger, and the threat to world
peace facing both the industrial countries of the
" N o r t h " and the developing nations of the
"South". It calls for a summit of world leaders and
the implementation of an emergency program
based on a global energy strategy, a world food
program, monetary reform and an immediate
increase in aid.
The summit is to be held in Mexico in October,
and a lobby of Parliament is being organised by
the churches and major aid agencies to try and
change the Government's attitude to these
issues, characterised by the overseas students
fees policy, the overseas aid cuts, and the massive
increase in arms spending. Already thousands of
people, including many students, are coming to
the lobby, which shows the overwhelming conern
generated by the Brandt Report. If you would like
to join them in attending the lobby meeting,
where the speakers will include Michael Foot,
Douglas Hurd and Shirley Williams, send your
name, address and home constituency to Fight
World Poverty Lobby, c/o W D M , Bedford
Chambers, Covent Garden, London W C 2 E 8HA,
or just turn up at the St Stephen's entrace to the
House of Commons between 3:00 and 9:00pm on
Tuesday, May 5.
Jonathan Tame
Easter Puzzles
Weeks of planning and puzzle writing, two full
nights of typesetting, and several hours of
proof-reading with my finest t o o t h c o m b .
(Toothcomb? H o w often do you comb your
teeth?) A n d still a misprint got t h r o u g h .
Apologies all round, especially to JAIT in
w h o s e s u p e r b c r o s s - n u m b e r t h e e r r o r
appeared. A s lots of you pointed out, the clue
for R should have read R =/(P2
+ (N - H - U)2
).
Because of the mistake, the closing date for
the»prize puzzles has been extended to 1:00pm
next Wednesday.
A message for those of y o u w h o have
bought a copy of the Phoenix: clue 4 D o w n is
missing from L e o Easynob's crossword. (Nice
to know I'm not the only one who cocks things
up.) The (rather appropriate) wording of the
missing clue is as follows:
Reprinted with lost continuity (11).
A n d now a message for those of you who
haven't bought a copy of the Phoenix: buy a
c o p y of the P h o e n i x . A p a r t from p o e t r y ,
photographs, stories, other articles of great
cultural worth, and a piece of music composed
and written by our deputy president elect,
there is a superb crossword by L e o Easynob
(work it out like I had to) and a Scaramouche
puzzle based on one of the most ingenious
ideas Grey Spider has ever showed me. A n d
each of the competitions carries a prize of £10.
Strongly recommended.
A n d so to the answers of the swordless
puzzles in the Easter FELIX.
Compiled by Phil Webb
Batavieren
Race
FOR the fourth consecutive year, a bunch of
misfits namely the "Impalas", this year led by
Mark Thwaites, left London, early last Thursday
morning to compete in the Batavieren Race,
through Holland and Germany.
The race is a twenty-five stage relay for teams
of nineteen men and six ladies; run from
Nuymeger in Holland, crossing the Rhine into
Germany then back into Holland to the finish in
Enschede. The field consisted of one hundred and
fifty teams from all over Europe.
Our entrance to Europe was in traditional style
with a push start off the ferry. But surprisingly
Nijomegan was reached on schedule; the two new
drivers Richard Smith and Gavin Virk managed
remarkably well.
The race started at midnight on Friday. Despite
stiff opposition, particularly from old rivals
S u r r e y , the team q u i c k l y m o v e d into a
comfortable position, finishing seventh after the
ten night stages. Noteable performances were
given by Richard Smith, Geoff Sherwood, Bryan
Alford and Ann Conlan.
The morning section saw the team's best
performance: Hugh Dixon and Karen Harget had
fine runs. Hugh producing the second fastest time
for his stage. The stage was completed by our
Dutch Hostess in great style; out sprinting Surrey
Pirate Radio
Yes, the General is correct to assume that
there are no suitable sites for the transmitters.
For suppose there are suitable sites. Draw a
line from each transmitter to the National
Radio Headquarters; then two of these lines
must make an angle of less than or equal to
60°. Consider now the two transmitters on
these lines. Whichever is nearer to the N R H
will be able to receive signals from the other.
Chance Chess
Bumble should play a conservative game if he
is winning, and a daring game otherwise. This
strategy gives him a surprising 53% chance of
winning the championship.
Magic Square
Of course, there are infinitely many ways of
filling the square, but the simplest is to raise 2
to the power of the numbers in the example,
so that the numbers in the first row become
256, 8 and 16, the numbers in the middle row
become 2, 32 and 512 and the numbers in the
bottom row become 64, 128 and 4.
Object In Motion
The object is in orbit. F r i c t i o n with the
atmosphere causes it to drop to a lower orbit
w h e r e t h e o r b i t a l s p e e d is h i g h e r . T h e
decrease in potential energy compensates for
the increase in speed as well as the energy lost
in friction.
Planets
Usually Pluto is furthest from the sun. But
Pluto's eccentric orbit sometimes takes it
inside the orbit of Neptune, and that is where it
happens to be at the moment. So the answer
to the question as 1 worded it is Neptune.
at the line to finish second; thus with six stages to
run after a second re-start we lay fifth.
D u r i n g the afternoon the quality of the
opposition improved. After the twenty-second
stage we lay only tenth, despite valient efforts
from all members of the team. The highlight of the
afternoon was the twenty third stage, run by
Geoff Sherwood; his was the fastest time, by
nearly a minute, on the 8.2km stage (27min Olsec)
gaining four places. Dave Beeson ran the final and
most competitive stage finishing strongly in
seventh place.
Our overall position was also seventh, down on
last years second place, however the standard
improves every year so we were well pleased with
the result.
Traditionally the host university puts on a
superb party on the Saturday evening continuing
through until the early hours of Sunday morning.
As a result, most of the team suffered from a
somewhat dazed journey home through Holland
and Belgium, which was not helped at all by
sickness and windscreen wiper trouble.
W e arrived back in London at midnight on
Sunday, all resolved to return next year to
compete in the tenth anniversary of the event.
T E A M : Marion Murphy, Maurice Wilson,
Richard Ashworth, Mark Thwaites, Bryan
Alford, Richard Smith, Karen Harget, Phil Hayes,
Russ Weston. A Harrington, Alf Garnett, Ann
Conlon, Geoff Sherwood, Pete Holdsworth,
Hugh Dixon. Kelvin Alford, Jon Frost, lan
Isherwood. Gavin Virk, Geoff Jerwood. Pete
Johnson, Dave Beeson.
Snooker
W E L C O M E back all snooker fanatics, there
won't be a lot to report this term as the season
has nearly finished. We have had the elections for
next year's posts and I wish everyone in a position
of responsibility a successful year. The President
will be J White (Maths 2) supported by C Tripp as
V'' •
>
. President, also from Maths 2.
I'd like to thank all out-going committee
members w h o have laboured relentlessly
throughout the year. Special recognition must be
paid to S Bennet and M Proudlove.
There are just two remaining matches to be
played to complete this year's fixtures. They will
decide the second and third positions of the
league when the B team and C team play
opposition outside to College. A s this last match
is so important to the B team they will expect
their usual crowd of supporters and well-wishers
to attend.
There are some unfinished competitions and all
persons concerned should try to complete their
matches before exams start.
Hockey
R C S entered this game hopeful of their first
victory in two seasons, despite having lost 2-0 to
Guilds in the penultimate league game of the
season. The first half, although keenly contested
as usual, was goal-less with most of the pressure
coming from Guilds but with neither side making
any clear-cut chances. The second half continued
along the same lines for twenty minutes when
RCS won their first penalty corner. Cope stopped
the ball, and shot, but the ball was deflected by
the keeper to Steve Parker whose waist-high shot
towards the far post was never going to be
stopped. Unused to this situation (ie being in the
lead) R C S relaxed and, within two minutes,
Guilds equalized from a penalty corner. This only
seemed to inspire R C S who pushed forward with
increasing confidence, winning a free hit just to
the left of the D. Mike Cope followed in to flick
the ball past his marker and into the goal. With
only four minutes to go, Guilds protested
vehemently but the goal stood and R C S held on
to gain a deserved victory.
T E A M : Williams, Parker, Reilly, Hughes,
Moon, Hutchings, Ayers, Taylor, Leinster, Cope,
Farrington.
FELIX, May 1, 1981 Page 11

