Give Blood
Tues 5
and
Wed 6
The Blood Transfusion Service is returning to
College on the above dates. The need for blood,
for treating accident victims, for those with blood
diseases, and for many other uses, is far greater
than the supply. It is now six months since the
Blood Transfusion Service came to IC, so, if you
last gave blood then, you can do so again this
time. If you haven't given blood before, please do
come along. Thinking about it is by far the worst
bit — actually doing so is very quick, easy and
painless, and for the good it does it is surely worth
the effort. Anyone at College who is generally in
good health is eligible.
Come to the Union Dining Hall (First Floor,
Union Building) anytime between 9:30am and
12:00 or 2:00 and 4:00pm on Tuesday or
Wednesday. If it is full when you try, please come
back later. Remember
GIVE B L O O D - N O T EXCUSES!
Red Cross Week
N E X T W E E K is Red Cross Week when we
collect in all the Kensington and Chelsea pubs
and Saturday, May 9 is Red Cross Day when we
have a full street-collecting licence.
We need you to help with 'pubbing' in the
evenings and street collecting all day on the
Saturday.
Please spare an hour, we will issue you with a
licence to collect and stickers to hand out.
Contact Roger Serpell, Aeronautics department,
(3707), Simon Chandler, Maths 3 or Ian Cairns,
Computer Centre (2620).
And don't forget
The British Red Cross Society
FIRST AID C O U R S E
commences
Thursday, May 7
at 6:00pm in the Bot/Zoo Common Room
It is a six week course leading to a standard first
aid certificate.
All staff and students welcome!
Bookshop News
T H E M O S T IMPORTANT book published in the'
past few weeks must surely be Their Trade Is
Treachery by Chapman Pincher, published by
Sidwick and Jackson, £7.95. After the serialisation
in the Daily Mail and a massive publicity
campaign, this book deserves its place at the
head of this week's Bestseller List. Copies are still
available in the Bookshop.
Have you seen the new postcards from.
Pictura? This is a Scandinavian company that
specialises in colourful cards suitable for all tastes
and occasions, all at 16p.
This week we have a selection of titles in the
window, published by Charles Griffin, Scientific
and Technical Publishers. If you wish to see any
of their books, please ask my counter staff, full
catalogues are available and any title can be
ordered.
B o o k Sale: T h e r e will be a sale in the
Bookshop beginning Friday, May 1. All books in
the sale will have at least 25% off their original
price, and this year's diaries will be reduced to at
least 50% off original price. Imperial College pens
are down to 9p.
TMSoc
Are you coping with exams? Would you like
to work more efficiently, think more clearly
and cope better?
If you have ever felt that there's more to
life, then transcendental meditation could be
for you.
T M is a technique for self-development which is
practised by over three million people in all parts
of the world. It is not a religion, a philosophy or a
way of life.
In order to learn to meditate you don't have to
give up anything or to have any particular beliefs.
Transcendental meditation is a simple, natural
mental technique which is practised twice daily
for twenty minutes in a comfortable position. The
process is one of direct experience rather than
intellectual analysis and does not involve
concentration. Meditating is a very pleasant and
effortless experience. It is easily learnt by anyone
regardless of background. The instruction is only
a matter of a few hours and afterwards there are
no obligations. T M is not a cult or a belief system
and there are no contradictions with religion.
We have said a little about what the technique
is but what benefits can this give you. Regular
practise of T M essentially brings about a greater
enjoyment and enrichment of daily life. The deep
refreshing rest that accompanies meditation leads
to greater energy and to more efficient and
dynamic activity. A feeling of well-being and
happiness spontaneously grows resulting in easier
communications with others and more loving and
fulfilling relationships.
Through clearer thinking the ability to learn
easily and to appreciate studying is greatly
improved. Stresses and anxieties in the system
which inibit normal and healthy functioning are
gradually thrown off resulting in a dramatic
improvement in health and brighter perception.
The benefits that come from the practise are
automatic and cumalitive, profoundly enriching all
aspects of life.
Even if you feel sceptical and that you have no
need for this or that it's a bit strange, the
possibilities are so great that it's at least worth
finding out about.
If you are interested, you are welcome to
attend an introductory talk in Huxley 341 at 12:45
or 5:30pm on Thursday, May 7. Refreshments
will be provided, or contact Bernard Canetti,
Maths P G , int 4380 or Oliver Kleyn, Chem Eng
P G , int 3818.
Liberal Club
A s many people will be aware, the local
government elections take place on May 7. Many-
Liberal constituencies in London have contacted
our club asking for assistance in leafleting and
canvassing. If you are interested in taking part in
practical politics please drop a line to the Liberal
Club via the Union Office and we will put you in
touch with Liberals in the area.
Labour Club
The Greater London Council elections on
Thursday should provide a massive vote in favour
of socialist policies. The L a b o u r Party is
promising to cut public transport fares by 25%,
more housing to reduce London's chronic
shortage of accommodation, to create jobs by-
investment in industry and to maintain and
improve the education system.
Any assistance with the election campaign will
be most welcome. Contact your local labour
party (under 'Political Organisations' in the
Yellow Pages) or the Greater London Regional
Labour Party, 01 703 6511. Lastly, if you have a
vote use it!
ICYHA
The Annual General Meeting took place on
Thursday, March 12 and was well attended. The
meeting included elections for committee posts
for next year, the Treasurer's and President's
reports, future destinations and further details
about the Easter trip.
Nominations were made for all committee
posts and the results were: President, Chris
Jones; Secretary, Steve Clarke; Treasurer, Steve
Brown; Publicity Officer, G o r d o n Folkard;
Transport Officer, Andy Smith; Equipment
Officer, Ian Jones.
The present Treasurer, Steve Brown, then
made his report, commenting on the present high
member subscription rate imposed upon the
group and how the price of an average weekend
had still been kept low, compared with recent
increases in hostel fees.
The rise in the cost of petrol would raise prices,
he continued and where possible non-VAT and
standard hostels should be booked to reduce
prices.
In the President's report, C h r i s Jones
announced it had been a prosperous year for the
group with weekend trips very well supported, a
full Autumn and New Year programme, which
included the Lake District, Snowdonia and the
Peak District, at fortnightly intervals. Finally the
President confirmed plans to produce a full third
term programme of weekends.
Since the meeting, we've had an excellent
holiday in the Cairngorms where we camped for
one week. Leaving early from L o n d o n , we
managed to pitch the tents in the afternoon at-
Glenmore campsite. A m o n g the more pro-
nouncable mountains we climbed are Cairngorm
and Ben Macdni (over 4,000ft) and the weather
the whole week was hot and sunny.
There is the possibility of going on a weekend
trip next weekend (May 8 to 10) and again at the
end of term. Meanwhile we stay active with our
regular butty meetings at 12:30pm in Southside
on Thursdays, where future destinations are
discussed and advice is on hand for buying
equipment.
Steve Clarke
London to
Brighton
Cycle Ride
THIS Y E A R cyclists will again be setting off to
Brighton from Hyde Park on the sixth annual
London to Brighton cycle ride which this year will
be on Saturday, May 9, with a 7:30am start. This
year the sixty mile ride will be starting from
Serpentine Road near Hyde Park Corner due to
the large numbers of people expected. For most
of the cyclists the return will be by special trains
on the Saturday night although accommodation
will be available for those wishing to join the social
in the evening in Brighton.
Only thirty people were on the first London to
Brighton Ride in 1976, but last year over five
thousand left Speaker's Corner. This year we
reckon there'll be eight thousand, so come along
and make it eight thousand and one! All types of
rider and machine take part, from children to
clubmen, and tandem trikes to unicycles. Don't
worry if you've never cycled sixty miles in a day,
as it's not a race — everybody goes at her/his
own speed and at the hills a lot of us get off and
walk, so there's a good feeling of togetherness. As
usual there'll be street theatre and bands to
entertain, food for the inner man, and bicycle
repair vans and breakdown vehicles. For further
information about the route contact Bill
Alexander or Ronan McDonald, both in Maths 1
or the London Cycling Campaign, telephone 928-
7220.
Page 10 FELIX, May 1, 1981

