10 Clubs and Societies
The Overseas Students
Committee Page
OSC Notices: Welfare for Overseas Students
Volunteers required, experience essential. A l l
costs will be covered by the OSC. Places are
limited so place apply by 18th February.
Photographers, Artists for stage backdrop
Contact S. Ratnam via OSC Exec pigeonhole in
the Union Office.
Two comperes (male and female) are needed to
host International Nite '94 on Friday 4th March.
Members of any OSC society interested should
contact the O S C Exec via the O S C Exec
pigeonhole in the Union Office. Applications
must include name, department, society and
experience. Deadline: Friday 11th February.
A full Overseas Students Committee meeting
will be held on Monday 14th February at 1pm in
the SCR, Union Building. All presidents of OSC
societies and the OSC Exec must attend.
Meetings for all OSC society treasurers will
be run at 1pm, Tuesdays in the Brown
Committee Room, Union Building. A l l OSC
society treasurers must attend.
Results - Group 3
Pakistan 7 - 3 Lebanese
Lebanese 12 - 0 Japan
Japan 0-13 Pakistan
If you are an overseas student at IC, then the
OSC represents you. Members of the OSC Exec
sit on various committees in order to safeguard
your interests. If you, as an overseas student, are
worried about any aspect of College life and you
think that we could help by voicing your
concerns on the relevant committee, please
contact the OSC Welfare Officer via the OSC
Exec pigeonhole in the Union Office. Also, the
Union Adviser offers free confidential advice.
Committees with an OSC presence:
Union: Executive Committee
Finance Committee
Accommodation Committee
College: International Committee
Welfare Committee
External: Executive Committee (Kensington
Committee of Friendship for Overseas
Students)
Soccer Tournament
Last week, the Cypriots and Iranians qualified
for the next round of the O S C Soccer
Tournament. Both sides looked very strong and
played impressive football.
In their game, the Cypriots took control of
the match, overpowering the Iranians and
scoring five goals in the first eight minutes. The
game looked as if it was over, but the Iranians
started to play as a team and came back strongly.
There was a time in the second half when the
match could have gone either way, but the
Cypriots managed to hang on and win 9-6.
Both the Cypriots and the Iranians beat the
Mauritian team, but the Mauritians did put up a
fight. Against the Cypriots, they were only a
goal down at half-time and were causing quite a
few problems for the Cypriots. But they
collapsed in the second half and lost 9-1.
The Iranians beat the Mauritians 8-0, but the
score could have been worse if it wasn't for the
excellent saves by the Mauritians' goal keeper.
It was very nice to see some support this
week and I would encourage more supporters to
come down to the football court on Sydney
Street as the football played is of a very high
standard and enjoyable to watch.
Wednesday 16th February
3.00pm African Caribbean vs Sri Lankan
3.45pm Sri Lankan vs Singapore
4.15pm Singapore vs African Caribbean
Teams are required to be at the football court on
Sydney Street at the times stated.
Football Editor Wanted
IC 2nds 2 - 6 RFH
It drizzles, and when it doesn't, it rains on the
Imperial College 2nd XI this season. Yet last
Saturday's glorious sunshine provided a sense of
spring like optimism before the league match
against Royal Free Hospital (RFH). However, it
takes only one second to score a goal, and after
just two minutes, R F H had scored two, in the
style of Bryan Robson in 1982 and San Marino
somewhat more recently.
With cool heads and brave hearts, IC 2nds
started to spin a cobweb of passing around the
hapless medics. They were soon rewarded with a
goal by a orderly header by Dennis Nadarajah
off a precisely delivered corner kick by the still
unshaven Abs Said. A few minutes later Billal
Al-Quitab, playing with a six million dollar
knee, equalised for Imperial in a carbon copy
move of the preceding goal, opening the
floodgates of memory to Brazil's first two in the
1958 World Cup final.
It was a tough afternoon at Harlington. Rob
Franolic, imported from Wimbledon, battled
hard in defence; East End hard-man Nadarajah
jumped into all potentially volatile con-
frontations with the opposition, in the fashion of
the excitable Stelike who played for Real
Madrid and West Germany; and Matteo Farina
tried his best to be sent off, in an attempt to
emulate his childhood hero, the notorious
Claudio Gentile of Italy. Disgusted at the
referee's lack of attention, Farina eventually
walked off the pitch voluntarily.
Despite their continued efforts, IC were
unable to score and frustration, tired limbs, and
fading concentration soon merged to form a
disastrous cocktail of vulnerability. R F H scored
four more goals. However, as Socrates explained
to his colleagues after he missed a vital penalty
against France in 1986; life is like an April day,
a little sun, a little rain, and the night steals
across the plain.
We want Y O U to stand for the prestigious post
of Rag Mag Editor 1994. The elected person(s)
will have the sought after task of putting
together jokes and cartoons for our Rag Mag,
keeping up its infamous reputation throughout
British Universities! If you think you would like
to do this job, come and talk to Jane or Helen at
one of our meetings or in the Rag Office.
On the events side, we have a collection at
Covent Garden for those of you in City &
Guilds. This is the second part of the C C U
challenge, so if you are a member of C & G and
would like to try and win a hamper of condoms
plus another unnamed prize, join the collection
on Sunday. Also there is Rag Tour happening
next weekend, along with a collection at the
Mission concert at the Forum on the 18th
February with guaranteed entry for six people.
To find out more then come along to our
meeting today at 1.10pm in the Ents Lounge or
pay a visit to our office during the lunch hour.
Fancy editing a Rag Mag? See Jane or Helen in the Rag Office

