Clubs and Societies 11
MathSoc
On 22nd November 1993, a new departmental
society sprang into life. The Mathematics
Society (Maths Soc) was born, heir to the late
MOPSoc and promising to promote Maths and
its applications to the best of its abilities.
Now, a quarter of a year on, we welcome the
Head of Department, Prof Adrian Smith, in a
pseudo-maths talk entitled 'Statistics, Money
and Sex - How to make decisions about the
really important things in life.' As with all
Maths Soc lectures, anyone is welcome and the
talk, on Thursday 17th February in Huxley room
340, starts at 1pm. Make sure you don't miss
this rare opportunity to see the mystical master
of Mathematics at work!
Previous lectures have included the as-seen-
m-Felix 'Afterglow of Creation' by Marcus
Chown, 'Colouring Maps' featuring the Four
Colour Map Problem, 'Connections (?) between
Maths and Chess' and a tutorial on Euclid's
Algorithm. More talks are planned featuring
both guest 'outside' lecturers and departmental
staff displaying their unique talents. All these
lectures are open to anyone in College and we
are taking suggestions for speakers.
But that's not all. We're also involved in
activities ranging from chess to football to darts
to a quiz and even a newsletter, Epsilon.
Unfortunately these events are open to just
Maths Soc members but we're willing to take on
any teams in College! If you're interested in
more details, contact Sai Hong Lee, Maths 3.
Remember, 'Statistics, Money and Sex',
Thursday 17th February, Huxley room 340,
lpm.
Identity Crisis
or Personality
Clash?
Is that Prince Charles, Peter Beardsley or Dame
Edna? No, hang on it's, now don't tell me, it's
Jo Brand, no, Trevor Brooking or is it Simon
Bates. Surely you couldn't get Ronald Reagan
and Julian Clary in the same room. Well,
perhaps not in real life but Alistair McGowan
will do his best to bring them all together.
Alistair is one of a new breed of
impressionists. He provides many of the voices
for Spitting Image, the football fanzine
programme Standing Room Only and the list of
radio appearances is truly impressive, trust me, I
couldn't fit it on this page. Not only can he mix
it with the best of the impressionists but he is
also a very funny stand- up comedian as well.
He should be really; since 1989 he has
worked extensively at all the major London
comedy venues including the Comedy Store,
Red Rose Club and the Chuckle Club. Building
on this success he had two successful shows at
the Edinburgh Fringe Festival, firstly with 'Two
Girls Wot Sing', then with Harry Hill in 'When
Harry Met Ally' which later became a four part
series on Radio 4. Alistair can be caught once a
week on the Diana Luke show on G L R
previewing the week's comedy in the capital,
not a bad idea if you're in the game yourself!
He's popping into Da Vinci's Bar at Imperial
College Union along with his voicebox full of
Alistair McGowan - the man of a million voices
friends ready to entertain you. Just think about
some of the personalities in his repertoire, there
is the potential for the intellectual might of The
Word's Terry Christian pitting wits against
Newsnight's Jeremy Paxman or Henry Kelly
coming face to face with Chris Eubank (now
there's a prospect). So, come along, watch and
listen; this bloke is going to be big, huge even,
and this is possibly your last chance to see him
before you won't see any change out of £10 at
some teeny London venue with 400,000 other
people.
Silent Bladerunning
Next Monday's ICSF video projected double bill
consists of the New Zealandish The Quiet Earth
(6pm) and the environmentally sound Silent
Running (8pm). Both films are being shown in
Chem Eng LT1 and are free to members of
ICSF, Third World First, EATS and EnviroSoc
(who will be giving a brief talk before the film
and giving you the chance to join their societies)
Silent Running is 'effects man' Douglas
Trumbull's first attempt at direction. The story
concerns three star arks containing the last plant
life from the now ravaged Earth. When the crew
are ordered to jettison the geodesic domes
holding their previous cargo and return to Earth,
one of them rebels, kills the others and sets off
into space with only three robot drones for
company. The film is very moving and Freedom
Lowell is one of the most complex SF cinema
characters yet.
More strong characterisation features in The
Quiet Earth, the story of how a man tries to cope
when he attempts suicide then wakes to find
himself alone on an Earth seemingly devoid of
all other life. The study of this relationship first
with his own self and later with two other
survivors of 'the effect' is sharp and often
uncomfortable. Entry to both films is free to
ICSF members. Membership costs just £3 and
gets you in free to our full programme of video
double bills, gives the chance to borrow over
3,000 books, videos and graphic novels from our
library in the corner of Beit Quad and offers
reduced entry to our 35mm presentations,
including your first film free.
On Tuesday at 7pm in the Concert Hall we're
just thrilled to present Bladerunner: The
Director's Cut in glorious panavision. Far
superior to the original cinematic release, this
version features a darker ending and is more
atmospheric without the embarrassingly Mickey
Spillane-style voiceovers. The powerful story
concerns a special unit police officer, a
Bladerunner, called in to hunt down real humans.
As the plot unfolds, the Bladerunner begins to
questions his own humanity as he tracks the
steadily more human replicants until a kind of
parity is achieved between himself and the
replicant leader after a nailbiting cat and mouse
chase through a wrecked tenement. Brilliant
performances, an intense script and Ridley
Scott's stunning visual hand combine to make
this a true SF classic.
Entry is £1.50 to ICSF members (member-
ship £3, details above) and £2 to non-members.
New Music
For Haldane
As some of you may have noticed, the shelves
in the Jazz, Folk and Pop music recordings
section of the Haldane Library are looking quite
bare. Despite the efforts of last year's record
buyer, Dave Goddard, who boosted the size of
the collection by 70 odd (and not so odd) titles,
these are on loan virtually all the time. Acting as
this year's buyer I shall expand the collection,
buying new titles with the £1,000 Union budget.
I envisage a large portion of the titles to be
new releases from the nine months since the last
bout of buying in July. In addition, since the
Haldane sold off its vinyl collection at the end
of last year, I will attempt to replace some of the
'classic' titles with CDs. Cassettes will still be
bought, but only in the ratio of one cassette for
every four CDs.
Suggestions are welcomed - the library is
representative of the tastes of the entire College.
Simply fill in a form at the Central Libraries
Issue Desk and watch out for lists of latest
purchases to be posted regularly in Felix or on
the library notice board.
Sagar Das, Chem Eng 3
See Alistair McGowan next Friday evening in Da Vinci's

