14 Reviews
Lush Tunes, Bland Interiors
After the exposed nipples of the Barbican's Bill
Brandt/Alphonse Mucha exhibition posters, it
must have come as something of a surprise to
the E N O marketing department to learn that
their Rosenkavalier poster had fallen victim to
London Transport's blue pencil. No doubt the
latest London Underground Charter pledges to
protect its passengers - or rather, customers -
from the sleaze and depravity of the un-basic
street-level world. To see the original, benippled
version of the poster, you'll have to go to the
Coliseum in St Martin's Lane.
However, after careful scrutiny of Jonathan
Miller's actual production, your critic is able to
report that this is one E N O staging to which
even the most prudish of London Transport
officials could safely take his granny. Act I can
be summed up in one word: bland. (Not an
adjective often applied to the products of this
house.) The set is straight from the National
Trust School of Interior Design, the decor
dominated by what looks like the hybrid
offspring of a Doric column and a dustbin. Act
II, with its elegant, windowed corridor, looked
much better. But after Act III, in which the plot
allows the designer's imagination freer reign,
one was left wondering what Stefanos Lazaridis
might have done, had he not been lured away to
design Duran Duran's current tour.
What really matter of course are Strauss's
wonderfully lush and tuneful music and the
characters of Hofmannsthal's giddy plot, and
here too there are pros and cons. John
Tomlinson relishes the part of the oleaginous
Ochs, the bawdy Baron who must be thwarted
before his intended bride, the young heiress
Sophie, can find true love with the eponymous
Count Octavian. Tomlinson's voice is stretched
by the lowest notes of the Baron's music and he
sometimes adopts a parlando-style, delivery in
rapid passages, but the lyrical music is
gracefully delivered. And from Act II onwards,
his portrayal is genuinely funny: a bandy-legged,
amiable (but thick) Don Giovanni. The silvery-
voiced Rosemary Joshua is very attractive as
Sophie, particularly in the opening love-duet of
Act II - surely one of the most ravishing pieces
of music ever written. Elsewhere she tends to
become submerged and indeed muddled and
indistinct ensemble singing was a problem
throughout the evening. Minor roles too were on
the whole underprojected.
It certainly wasn't all the fault of the
orchestra under Yakov Kreizberg. It's no bad
thing, in this sometimes overpoweringly rich
music, to opt for a lean sound and the consis-
tently beautiful, flowing phrases were a
highlight of the performance. And there was
The oleaginous Baron Ochs (John Tomlinson)
and Annina (Claire Powell).
much characterful wind-playing, such as the
vulgar squawks that accompanied the entrance
of Octavian disguised as eegorblimey servant-
girl Mariandel.
Patrick Wood
In rep at the Coliseum, St Martin's Lane WC2N.
(071) 836 3161. Tube: Leicester Square. Until
March 16th. Starts 6.30pm.
ICU Ents presents ALIS
T
A
I
R
atmosphere0 mcgowan
X star of Spitting Image,
^ Edinburgh Festival,
0^ & Acclaimed Impressionist
*S & support
• \ | ' I f W f f / / • • A | € 1 (disco after show )
Numbers limited...
available from Union Office
Fri 18th Feb D i s c o t i | 2 a m ,
Doors 9pm Bar 'til lam

