Reviews 15
Accustomed to
Her Face
Hilarious, raucous, crude and highly enjoyable.
The play is set in Scotland and centres around
the visit of an American student, Erin, to the
house of two down-and-out Scottish lasses,
Basher and Maxy. Welcome, she is not. As she
tries to fit in, you don't know who to feel sorry
for but end up laughing at all of them.
It soon transpires that Erin is a lesbian and
the rest of the play concerns her seduction of
the, hereto, very straight, Basher and Maxy's
feelings of loss of her best friend.
The romance that follows is sweet and funny,
until Erin's holiday ends. Heart breaking and
cruel, this play, with all its humour, has such a
sad ending. A play that proves that all a woman
really needs is a good shag to sort her out. We
highly recommend it.
Rach and Jane
Drill Hall, 16 Chenies St, WC1. 071 637 8270.
Tube: Goodge St. Until 19th February.
lifi I111S1
Soft Vengeance
Graeae (Grey-Eye), Britain's most distinguished
theatre company of disabled people, sets their
latest play in Maputo, Mozambique. On 7th
April 1988, Albie Sachs, exiled South African
Civil Rights lawyer and prominent member of
the African National Congress (ANC) opened
his car door to begin a trip to the beach for a
leisurely jog. A massive explosion destroyed
Sachs's right arm, embedding shrapnel in his
body and causing him to lose the sight in one
eye. That's how his new battle starts, a fight to
overhaul his body and mind.
As Sachs heals physically, he struggles
mentally to adjust to his injuries and disabilities
and renews his political battle. His altered ego
questions his beliefs and ideas, making his fight
even more difficult. Necessity to learn to do
things from scratch makes him rephrase
Descartes' famous statement to 'Joke, therefore
I am', or even 'Shit, therefore I am'. At the end
it was declaration of faith in the power of the
spirit that won and which made him, seven
months after the bomb went off, reach the beach
and continues his interrupted jog.
Graeae brings special intelligence, authen-
ticity and power to the story and makes Soft
Vengeance an unusual play worth seeing.
Elena
Battersea Arts Centre, 176 Lavender Hill,
SW11. 071 223 2223. Train: Clapham junction
BR. Cones £5. Until 13th February.
Gormenghast
Imagine a castle vast as mountains, its ancient
towers reaching high above the clouds, its
cancerous roots buried deep in the wounds of the
world. Within, a tangled knot of rough-hewn
corridors carry the kingdom's blood to every
part of the ruined castle, from the Earl of
Groan's library to Swelter's hellish kitchen. The
blood of the kingdom is bittersweet and steeped
in webs of ritual. It is a world to itself and the
stench of decay hangs heavy in the air.
Gormenghast.
The world of Gormenghast is the creation of
Mervyn Peake, whose classic trilogy of novels
tells the story of Titus, the 77th Earl of Groan
and reluctant Master of Gormenghast (although
he isn't actually born until the end of the first
book). In bringing Peake's sprawling fantasy to
the stage director David Glass and writer John
Constable have taken on a mammoth task - and
succeeded brilliantly.
This acclaimed adaptation takes the first two
parts of the trilogy and distills the essence of
Peake's rich and evocative style into two hours
of enthralling physical theatre. Every moment
provides a new delight for the audience:
challenging and inventive stage effects,
impressive performances from a strong cast and
stunning music which fits the action perfectly.
Glass makes intelligent use of simple props
and creative stage design to transport us into a
strange and fascinating world, where madness
and death lurk in the shadows. The cast is more
than equal to his vision, combining physical
virtuosity with a sure grasp of character. Ewen
Bremner takes over the role of Titus, doing a
solid job of protraying the reluctant heir.
In short: Fiery Fast and Dynamic. New York's
pace and aggression is captured using loud
music, frequent set changes and scenes acted in
tandem. I found this confusing at the start but
soon got caught up in the excitement.
Kushner's play is about Mormons, Ray Cohn
and AIDS. Cohn is the ruthless right wing
extremist who worked for the McCarthy witch
hunt to root out communism in America. For
Cohn to be successful in his 'work' it is
imperative that he hides his homosexuality.
Bitter yet ruthless his character is to be pitied.
(In fact, his sexual orientation prevented him
running for the Senate.)
AIDS touches almost all the characters. One
exception is Harper, a junky housewife who
Barquentine, Master of Ritual and undisputed
Gurning Champion of Gormenghast
The Lyric is perhaps not the best venue for a
play of this type, since the theatre gives an
impression of distance between the stage and the
audience. Otherwise, Gormenghast is an
immensely enjoyable play - even if you haven't
read the books. Go see it!
Joe
Lyric Hammersmith, King Street W6. 081 741
2311. Tube: Hammersmith. Tickets from £7.50.
Until 19th February.
hallucinates. Certain scenes, really bring home
the reality of this disease, the difficulties facing
homosexuals, their families and their relation-
ships. The frailty of human relationships and the
pain involved when we fail those we love are
well illustrated.
All this is heavy stuff, packed with punches
but the play's wit and humour makes it easy to
take it all on board. The end is dramatic.
I was fascinated and look forward to seeing
the second part of this epic, Perestroika.
Ailish
Cottesloe Theatre of the Royal National Theatre,
Southbank, SE1. 071 633 0880. Tube: Waterloo.
Until 5th March.
Angels in America
Part One: Millennium Approaches
A Doll's House at the New End Theatre is reviewed next week

