Reviews 17
The Three
Musketeers
Starring: Charlie Sheen, Kiefer Sutherland
Director: Stephen Herek
Nice concept - shame about the movie! That
really sums up the latest would-be blockbuster
from the Walt Disney stable - a fairly straight
adaptation of the classic novel by Alexandre
Dumas. With such a basis you'd think it is
difficult to go far wrong, but director Stephen
Herek handles the film with a sloppy touch. Not
too surprising considering his other films
include Critters and ...Mom, the Babysitter's
Dead.
If there is a major fault, it is that the film
really tries too hard to be another Robin Hood:
Prince of Thieves. It gets blase to the extent that
purely profit expectant sequels do. In fact you
can almost imagine producer Joe Roth saying to
his team: "Well it's bound to be great anyway,
so we'll take it easy on the filming, OK."
The main actors aren't as strong as you'd
hope, with Kiefer Sutherland's Athos being too
moody and Charlie Sheen's Aramus not heroic
enough. The young hero, D'Artagnan played by
Chris (Scent of a Woman) O'Donnell is weak
and hardly worth a mention.
If anyone stands out at all it's Oliver Piatt as
the fat Porthos, who's been in the background of
loads of good films for far too long and is now
coming to the fore. He gets all the good one-
liners and classic scenes. Ironically, though, his
character comes across closer to that of the
book's suave Aramus than the lumbering
Porthos, which does beg the question, if the
story and characterisations are as good as they
In The Name Of The Father
Starring: Daniel Day-Lewis, Emma Thompson
Director: Jim Sheriden
As the lights went down, I relished the panning I
was going to give In The Name Of The Father.
Daniel Day-Lewis, public school educated, RSC
trained and under the sad delusion that he's
Irish, couldn't possibly do justice to the
Guildford Four story. Particularly when his
partner in pretension was Emma Thompson, the
most detested luvvie of her generation. An ultra-
pretentious score by pop poseur Bono seemed to
confirm my worst fears. But such is the power of
the story and the supporting acting that The
Name Of The Father overcomes these terrible
obstacles and succeeds as a genuinely moving
film.
In 1974, the Guildford Four were beaten into
confessing to the horrific pub bombings in
which five people died and 75 were seriously
injured. Under pressure to find the bombers, the
police arrest a young immigrant from Belfast,
Gerry Conlon, and his friends Paul Hill, Paddy
Armstrong and Carol Richardson. They also
arrest the whole of Conlon's family in England,
the McGuires, on conspiracy to murder charges,
as well as Gerry's father Guiseppe. They are all
convicted, despite the tenuous evidence, and
sentenced to life. The rest of the film focuses on
Gerry and his father's struggles in prison. At
first they face hostility from the other prisoners,
but through constantly proclaiming their
innocence they gain their fellow inmates'
respect. Meanwhile, a young lawyer called
Gareth Peirce (Thompson) starts to expose the
inconsistencies in the prosecutor's case.
In The Name Of The Father succeeds both as
a critique of mob justice and a touching portrait
of a sometimes difficult father-son relationship.
It avoids the sloppiness and over-simplification
one expects in a movie so obviously pitched at
an American market. Day-Lewis and Thompson
manage to control their innate smarminess, but
the film belongs to Pete Postlethwaite, whose
quiet, understated portrayal of Guiseppe Conlon
blows the posturing 'method' of the stars out of
the water. Special mention also for Britta Smith
as Annie Macguire, whose quiet dignity in the
face of such odds is one of the film's most
moving aspects.
Although a 'feel-good' movie at heart, there
are enough hard lessons and even harder
disappointments to make even the most cynical
think twice before condemning anyone without
looking at the evidence. For this alone In The
Name Of The Father deserves to be seen.
Tony
On general release today
are in the original novel, why change them?
Joe Roth said: "We struggled to finally do it
right on screen" and I couldn't agree with him
more, though I don't think he meant it quite the
way I took it. There really isn't enough humour
and not enough suspense to make up for it. The
action scenes are mild at best and yes, you've
guessed it, the funniest bits are all in the trailer.
Come back Dogtanian, all is forgiven.
Bonnie (& Clyde)
On general release today
Win The Prize
of Your
Dreams!
...provided your nights are filled with a
haunting desire to own the soundtrack for
The Three Musketeers, that is. The good
people at A & M records have given us a
copy of this small but perfectly formed
musical extravaganza, and it is our duty -
nay, our pleasure - to run a competition so
you can win it. The soundtrack features the
recent 'hit single' by those purveyors of
fine musical taste, Messrs Sting, Bryan
Adams, and Rod Stewart (but don't let that
put you off).
In order to win this highly desirable
CD, simply cast your eyes up the page to
the Three Musketeers review and ponder
the photo contained therein. The lack of
caption is not a sad reflection of the
declining standards of the Felix Cinema Ed,
but instead provides you with the chance to
flex your creative muscle, and win the
soundtrack. Scribble down a caption for
the photo (no more than fifteen words,
please) along with your name and dept and
get it to the Felix Office by next Friday.
The most original and witty caption wins,
the final decision being left in the
eminently capable hands of the Editor. No
Felix-type people need apply (so there!).
Next Week: Reviews of Schindler's List and A Bronx Tale

