18 Reviews
Tori Amos
Under The Pink
This is the story of a little girl who got lost in the
sky. She liked to sit and watch the stars, in all
their perpetual, frozen grandeur. One night she
forgot to look away; forgot the teeming,
overripe, gloriously human world around her
and was borne up by the music of the spheres to
became a star. And of course, stars take no
notice of those who stare up in rapt wonder...
The first thing you notice is the sense of
distance; Tori no longer needs an audience,
she'd carry on making celestial music whether
we listened or not. Epics like 'Yes, Anastasia'
take your breath away, but give nothing back.
We miss the playfulness which rescued 'Little
Earthquakes' from mordant angst. For all their
beauty these songs seem unfinished, an empty
room housing a collection of aborted ideas.
And yet...I listened again, in the lees of the
night; tasted the melancholy strings of 'Pretty
Good Year', became enveloped by the numbed
heartache of 'Past the Mission', the clattering
menace of 'Waitress'. For a moment I danced
amongst the stars and understood; then back to
earth, with a bump. There were too many stars,
and not enough sky. (7)
Joe
PI
PI usuuu
Mark Lanegan
Whiskeyfor the Holy Ghost
Mark Lanegan is the singer with the Screaming
Trees, one of the longest lived and most
underrated bands on the Seattle label, Sub Pop.
Their trademark is a much imitated wall of
guitar, probably best illustrated on their last
album, 'Sweet Oblivion'. But their secret was
Mark's nicotine stained voice. Telling tales of
loves lost and sorrow drowned. Alcohol,
cigarettes and other drugs have played a large
part in his life, alternately threatening his career
and inspiring it.
His first solo album, 'The Winding Sheet',
took the press by surprise. The sparseness of the
music allowed his vocals to lead rather than
compete with the guitars. 'Whiskey' continues
in this vein while being more instrumental.
There is an impressive list of of guests
playing in the background. Kurt Cobain
strummed on the first album. This time
drumming duties are shared by Tad's Tad
Doyle, Mudhoney's Dan Peters and Dinosaur
Jr's J Mascis.
The style of the songs veers from Nick Cave
to Neil Young and back again. The standout
track is 'Carnival', where Mark ponders the
similarity between his life on the road and the
freakshows that used to visit his childhood town.
As for the rest, the song titles say it all -
'Kingdom of Rain', 'Dead on You', 'Beggars
Blues' and so on - all tales of ghosts from the
past, regret and guilt. Like Nick Cave, he can
make it seem so rivetting and you find yourself
absorbed in his tales of woe. If you can stomach
it then this is the record for you. (9)
Ridley Dash
Magnapop
Hot Boxing
The blurb that came with this album calls it
'truly firesome', which isn't altogether true. It
starts off with a song called 'Slowly, Slowly',
also their current single. The title describes it
rather well which doesn't bode well for the rest
of the album. However, once you get to the third
track, 'Lay It Down', the producer Bob Mould
comes into effect (although it sounds more like
the Breeders than Hiisker Dii).
Things start to liven up and this continues for
most of the album, with 'Piece Of Cake', 'Free
Mud' and 'Idiot Song' being the best.
There are exceptions, though, one of the
most obvious being the seventh track, 'Leo',
which starts off with the producer playing with
the level and speed of the recording. It's
pretentious, stupid and the worst on the album.
A l l in all, if you can cope with the songs
sounding pretty similar, it is a fairly good first
album. If you can't, wait for 'Lay It Down' on
single, 'cos it's smart! (5)
Timsi
There's a fallowness in the air, even the 12"s
come packaged in clinical white sleeves, as if
they are afraid to own themselves. I'm still
recovering from a nightful of Madder Rose, a
band who have touched me like a rainy dusk at
the edge of the world. And yet still I have to lay
before you all the fruits from the loins of what is
sometimes laughingly referred to as 'the Biz'.
I've always hated 'Take the Weather With
Y o u ' but there again I'm not reviewing
Crowded House's new single, 'Locked Out',
that pleasure goes to Vik. "These Antipodeans
specialise in well-crafted, honest pop songs.
'Locked Out' is another lively example, but
throws in some '80s indie guitar to create an
unorthodox Smiths-meets-Squeeze sound."
Sleeper, on the other hand, are one of the
dubious recipients of the New Wave of the New
Wave millstone. A grinning Mr Happy takes to
the stage and in his best voice projects on their
'Swallow' EP..."Despite the fact that the Pixies
are sadly missed, there is no need for such a
blatant rip-off. I even had to check the sleeve to
make sure I hadn't put 'Doolittle' on."
And above, we see Sleeper, fresh faced,
pouting and incarcerated in leather. The future's
so bright...
If only the packaging on Rose Chronicle's
amazonianly named 'Dead And Gone To
Heaven (awaiting eternity)' were a portent of
what lay inside. Swiftly did Owain grasp the
lovely object that arrived one day. Now he can
only scrawl: "Can you chart the course of the
soul with the voice of the beautiful but earthy
All about Eve? Only the last track, nine minutes
of thunderstorms, speeding cars and aboriginal
pipes, lends gravitas to the question. Still,
promising."
Camille is a-knocking on my door, ready to
rattle off a hit or two, well, maybe. With a skip
and a hop enter the Loop Gurus clutching a
copy of 'Sus-san-tics'. "They cherish dreams of
a musical Utopia. Revolving around the antics of
avant-garde singer Sussan Derhim, they bring
together sounds from all over the globe."
Ho humm. I depart leaving the last two lines
for that most warm hearted bird, Mr Penguin on
a certain Joe Roberts: "Promising in its
soulfulness but ends up a bit weak. Look out for
the next one." I can only bow gently, navel
glaze and remain, happy to be, Tintin.
...you best pray that I bleed real soon, how's that one for you...

