Feature 19
Off the Blocks for Tanzania
When David Knight sets out amongst the hardy runners in this year's Londo
Marathon he'll be thinking of more than his own health and a cold bath.
I was born in Nsam nearby a missionary hospital
in Kampala, the capital of Uganda. When I tell
people this, it is often met with some interest
because many people who are born overseas
have had interesting childhoods. However, my
father's work caused us to leave
Uganda in 1969 when I was just three
months old, so these names don't mean
much to me. M y parents met and
married while they were both working
there so our house is full of images and
carvings from East Africa and these jtBk
have always reminded me that I have <$8lS9
some latent desire to return to that part
of the world. 1 cannot justify saying
that I am returning to my roots, but tiiis
phrase does partially explain why !
need to go back.
I have never liked the idea ol
travelling as a tourist on safari and so
over the years I have been on the
lookout for a more solid reason to go '
to East Africa. While I was studying :
for my M S c at Imperial College I
found one, hidden in a crack in the
paving-stone jigsaw of
advertisements in the Careers I
Guardian. One phone call, and
selection weekend later, 1 found myself
due to leave for Tanzania in May 1994, L
to work for the charity Health Projects
Abroad (HPA).
The United Republic of Tanzania W
was formed a few years after independence was
gained in 1961, before which time it was a
British protectorate. The ever-popular president
was Dr Julius Nyerera, who held power until his
retirement in 1985. Previously he had studied at
Edinburgh and was in fact Tanzania's first
university graduate. He led a programme of
state-sponsored socialism, which had the support
of many western academics, and produced great
improvements in the health and education
systems in the poorer parts of his country.
Despite the artificial borders created by
Europeans in the 19th century (just look at all
those straight lines on the map), he managed to
engender a cohesive national identity. This
subdued the inter-tribal rivalry which has
destroyed many other African countries and is a
remarkable achievement. Debt crises and the
remedial I M F Structural Adjustment
Programmes (SAPs) have caused much
economic turmoil in the last decade, and the
health system has certainly suffered. Many
people view these SAPs as a form of
reconciliation. By our standards health care is
poorly funded. A general practice of
12,000 people has, in this country, a
budget of £2million. This is same budget
that the whole of the Tabora region of
central Tanzania has with a population of
2 million.
The charity H P A works closely with
rural communities to provide facilities for
primary health case. Rather than being
directed from outside, the projects are
initiated by the local people and H P A
then provides the resources to realise their
plans. I will be working with about
twenty other volunteers in the Tabora
region of central Tanzania, helping to
build various projects. The work will be
supervised by engineers from Britain and
Tanzania and also the local craftsmen.
One reason for us travelling out is to
provide labour because the local people
cannot work full time on the projects.
Another is that it is a gesture of goodwill
to the community. The work will also
provide a unique opportunity to learn
about African life at grass roots level.
Each volunteer has to contribute £2,450
to the project costs and to help me reach
my target I have organised a competition
based on the London Marathon, which I will run
in April. I would also be very grateful for any
straight donations.
One returned volunteer explained to me that
while he was there he learnt to walk slowly. I
hope that I will know what he meant when I
return.
Tick-a-Place' Marathon Competition
Win £100 worth of vouchers with a clean conscience...
In cooperation with Health Projects Abroad, David Knight is giving you the opportunity to win a whole handful
of vouchers for various goodies! The task? As mentioned above he will be running in this years London Marathon.
The competition is to guess his finishing position! Easy? Well there could be up to 30,000 runners so there is plenty of choice. The nearest guess
will receive £100 worth of vouchers for various high street shops. To enter each guess must be accompanied by a £1 donation which will go to the
charity Health Projects Abroad. So you can't lose!!! (Of course larger donations will be gratefully received).
p Your Name
Your Address
Hand your completed form into the Union Office together with a minimum of £1
donation or send the form and a cheque (made payable to Health Projects Abroad)
to the address given on the right.
All entries must be received by April 11th. The winner will be contacted on April 21st.
In the event of a tie, a draw will determine the winner.
David Knight
c/o Health Projects Abroad
HMS President (1918)
Victoria Embankment
London EC4Y 0HJ
i J

