Union 21
Nominations, Campaigns, Elections . . .
Monday 14th February. Valentine's Day and the
start of the '94 Imperial College Union
Sabbatical Elections. The posts on offer are:
President, Deputy President (Finance &
Services), Deputy President (Clubs & Societies)
and Felix Editor & Print Unit Manager.
So how do you go about being elected?
The first thing to do is to get nominated. You
need someone to propose you for the post. This
means that they think you are the right person
for the job and you have the right personal and
professional qualities. Twenty people have to
second you to show that other people support
you and the views of your proposer.
The nomination is recorded on the election
papers which are displayed opposite the Union
Office, 1st floor, Union Building, Beit Quad.
You have from when the papers go up, 9am,
Monday 14th February to when they come
down, 6pm, Friday 25th February to get both
your proposer and twenty seconders to sign the
papers. Remember no 'Mickey Mouse' or ' B .
Clinton'; your proposers and seconder have to
be fully registered students of Imperial College.
After the papers come down, all proposed
and fully seconded candidates start their
campaigns using posters, flyers, manifestoes,
speeches...the candidates must convince you that
they are worthy of your vote.
In the second week of the campaign, there are
the hustings. The hustings are where you get to
hear the candidates and their proposers speak
and, more importantly, where you get to
question them on any issue to do with the
campaign. The dates, locations and times are
advertised well in advance.
On the following Monday and Tuesday, 14th
and 15th March, voting takes place across
College, St Mary's and Silwood Park. Voting
stations record your secret voting slip in ballot
boxes. Voting closes on the evening of the 15th.
All the votes are then counted. Later that night
the winners are announced.
For anyone thinking of standing, make sure
you talk to the current holder of the post to get
an idea of what the job entails and the responsi-
bilities that go with it. You need also to talk to
Andy Wensley (President) as he is the returning
officer for the elections. He will talk you
through the rules and procedures that control our
elections. You need to know these as you may
be disqualified if you break these rules.
Remember the dates and get ready to vote.
Hull, Hell and Hall
If you are a first year undergraduate, chances are
you'll be one of the quarter of all IC students
living in a hall of residence. In my opinion the
'hall experience' is one you grow to love or
loath, depending to some extent on whether you
and your hall are compatible.
I remember, prior to arriving here from the
primitive northern reaches of Hull two years
ago, reading in the College accommodation
literature that I would be 'guaranteed a top of
the range, single room with at least some mod
cons (bed, door, windows etc.) for about £50 a
week.' Allowing for inflation, it makes IC
accommodation some of the most expensive in
the country and indeed in London.
Now, as the ICU Accommodation Officer, I
am concerned with trying to get value for money
for the residents. The quality of facilities varies
tremendously from one hall to another and
encompasses a great many factors; from the
structural health of the building to the number of
students per cooker hob.
A lot of concerns can't be addressed
overnight. However discussing them now, might
mean in a couple of years time, (everything
costs money!) something can be done. The
accommodation committee establishes a
network of hall contacts, so ICU can keep more
informed and liaise more effectively with
College staff.
Each hall 'elects' a housing representative,
who attends accommodation meetings. This
gives them the opportunity to sort out routine
hall problems by discussing them with residence
staff and gives the chance for two-way
communication. The residence staff encourage
the opportunity for our (constructive) comments.
For instance as a result: some halls now have
more microwaves and Southside laundry is open
longer. We can also discover what 'invisible'
action is been taken on our behalf and some of
the logistics behind particular decisions.
The committee also provides a source of
student opinion and debate on various issues;
such as the huge notice boards which have so far
been put into 'study bedrooms' in Southside,
Weeks and Garden. The decision to fit the
boards was made last year, in an attempt to
protect the walls from students in general and
blu-tac stains in particular. Next year the notice
boards will be the only space where posters will
be permitted. This was debated at length by the
hall reps, and unearthed a lot of student disquiet.
Every Easter, hall residents panic over
whether storage space will be available, this is
largely because no-one is quite sure of the
procedure for finding out. I have been promised
that space will be available, providing residents
go and see their housekeeper and add their
names to the list now. Southside and Linstead
will be used for external conference letting, over
the vacation but Evelyn Gardens won't. So if
you need to stay in London over Easter and only
have a 34 week let, go to the Accommodation
Office, 15 Princes Gardens, again now, and they
will try to accommodate you.
I sit on various College committees discuss-
ing future strategies (as yet confidential) for the
running of student residences. Some issues that
have recently been resurrected are common
rooms and the Accommodation Booklet which is
given to all first years. The booklet is currently
under review by the College and will hopefully
incorporate some descriptions of halls by the
Hall Representatives.
Potential common rooms (in both Clayponds
and Willis-Jackson/Holbein) have been given a
good airing and we are currently awaiting
decisions from the College.
Finally, if you don't know who your Hall
Rep is, find out from a Subwarden or me, and
then make sure you go and harass them with
your comments and complaints.
Alternatively, do not hesitate to contact me if
you want to make your opinion known about
any accommodation matters, either through my
pigeonhole in the Union Office, Dave Goddard
in the Union Office (ext 03502) or in Falmouth-
Keogh hall in the evening (ext 94 722).
Students and
Benefits
Overseas students with a restriction on 'recourse
to public finds' cannot claim the following
benefits: Income Support, Family Credit,
Housing (Rent) Benefit, Homelessness
Accommodation. If any of the above are
claimed by a student, the right to stay in Britain
will bejeopardised.
Any benefit not included in the above 'public
funds' list can be claimed without affecting the
right to stay. This includes Child Benefit, One
Parent Benefit, Council Tax Benefit,
Unemployment Benefit, Sickness Benefit,
Disability Living Allowance. Students can claim
if eligible, eg. child benefit if they have a child.
Students cannot normally claim Council Tax
Benefit, but currently a non-student partner can
claim as it is not a 'public fund'. From 1st April
1994, Council Tax Benefit will become a
'public fund'. This means partners of students
with a restriction on public funds cannot claim
Council Tax Benefit from 1st April 1994 as it
will affect the right to remain in Britain.
Students may be able to claim urgent case
payment if funds from abroad are temporarily
disrupted. Obtain advice before making a claim.
Different rules apply to home students, EEC
students, refugees and if the partner is settled in
Britain. If in doubt, advice should be sought.
Further advice from the Union Adviser,
Minever Kavlak, or Citizens Advice Bureau.
Do You Need Financial Help?
'Access funds are available for home students.
Application forms from the College Fees
Office, room 334, Sherfield Building. Forms
must be returned by 25th February.
People who do not qualify for access funds
(eg. overseas students) can apply for a
hardship fund. Deadline is 14th February. See
tutor because you must be nominated for it.
Further details can be obtained from Tony
Cullen, room 335, Sherfield Building.
The Union Adviser can be phoned on ext 3507

