Opinion 23
«l3 Pi4 2 .
Making enemies of Buju Banton and Shabba
must be a legitimate reason for even hetero men
to start shaving their legs and squeezing into
little Chanel cocktail dresses. These fascist
matriarchs whose trade mark decadence and
objectification of women could popularise them
to demi-god status with any Neo-Nazi activist
group or IC drinking club, save for their little
oversight of not being quite Caucasian enough.
My own sexuality having been called into
question by four separate people in recent times
leaves one with the temptation to simply say:
"Yes, I am." I doubt myself often enough,
particularly with the allure of gay culture as
strong as it is. The best clubs are gay. Not
simply because of their frenzied freedom and the
uninhibited 'freak-out' manner in which they are
approached, but the happy nature, the lack of
pissed bastards out to badger women into bed
and, of course, the kitschy music make it an
intimidation-free night out. Gay pubs, immersed
with good humour (Kings and Queens on the lav
doors. Take your pick!) and cheap ale, are again
easy places to go simply to watch people. But
what do you see? Gay men on the pull are very
easy to spot: they approach their quarry (often as
obviously receptive as they themselves are
inquisitive) exchange a few words and a new
friend is made. None of the fear and 'my friend
fancies your friend' shenanigans of the breeding
population, or none from my limited view of
their world at least.
This is essentially what inspires my envy of
homosexuals. Having thrown caution to the
wind and announced to the world, their friends
and family that their likelihood of marriage is
rather slimmer than they may have hoped, they
go out and enjoy themselves. It is as if they want
to make up for the time they have lost in the
hetero master-race.
I wish I could be as confident, uninhibited
and free as the gay men I have met and chatted
to; but I cannot. I am a cog in the hetero
breeding wheel and there is nothing I can do
about it. Keanu Reeves does nothing for me and
unfortunately not a single tear could I muster at
the sad demise of River. I am trapped in the cold
sweats produced by the feminine touch and
addled by idiotic games that are required of me
for a regular dosage. But on Wednesday nights I
can be found in the Powder Room at Heaven in
Charing Cross, watching the TVs bitch each
others eyeliner and trying to make some sort of
sense of the whole spectacle.
If that is the sort of sentiment that inspires
you to violence, then examine the reason why. Is
it the perceived submissiveness of gays that
gives you the confidence you require to take one
on? Or the basic fear of being gay yourself and
the social ostracism that would follow it? Why is
it that weakness is always dubbed being queer?
Is it a re-enforcement of your own masculinity,
or reassurance to your confused mind? I can't
decide for you, but remember how much guts it
would take you to bring this hatred down upon
yourself. Far more, I think, than clubbing
someone to death with baseball bats because
they chose to be different to you.
So girlfriend...YOU BETTA WORK!
Glyph
The Concreteers Of Your Dreams
Dear Felix,
When I came to Imperial I was prepared for
the fact that the phrase "Hello, I'm studying
Mechanical Engineering" wasn't going to be the
best chat-up line in the world. I wasn't however,
prepared for the vehemence of contempt people
hold towards engineers, not just outside, but also
within, this College. I feel compelled to ask why
this is the case.
The first problem is that engineering is
essentially politically incorrect. Engineers build
motorways and power stations. They pollute and
destroy. Engineering only reaches the news
when people campaign against it, when
'environmentalists' protest at the unnecessary
destruction of our landscape. (Unnecessary, even
though these same protesters undoubtedly drive
to the protest site and probably brew cups of tea
during advert breaks thus necessitating extra
power stations.)
Yes, engineering work has polluted, has
killed, has maimed - but these are mistakes to be
learned from, mistakes which can be rectified by
the engineers to build a better world.
The other problem is that engineering,
apparently, is boring. OK, it frequently is, but it
need not be. Look, for instance, at Calatrava's
bridges; compare the French and British channel
tunnel terminals. Why is the European terminal
so beautiful and the British so mundane? In this
case it is the politics which are to blame. The
Government is not prepared to pay for great,
beautiful structures and we are left with
functional objects instead of glorious temples to
technology. (Recently, for instance, a
memorable Calatrava design for the new East
London river crossing was rejected in favour of
a cheaper, but worthless, design.)
Ironically, the only area in which nationally
funded engineering is supported properly is the
Military - where many of the most exciting new
developments are being made. The Government
is prepared to kill people in the most advanced
and inspirational manner possible, but will not
fund machines which enhance life, rather than
death.
To add insult to irony, one might notice that
those environmentalists who are so vocal about
the extinction of some pretty butterfly by a
motorway fly-over are strangely silent about the
Government's love of aesthetic death machines.
Could it be that their love life is restricted to
themselves and their country, whereas the wilful
killing of foreigners is laudable?
Surely we have reached a stage in the
development of the world when such
nationalism is a dangerous absurdity and the
only sensible way forward is internationalism.
Surely it is time that we stopped glorifying
ourselves at the expense of others and worked
for a better world?
And, once the political bickering has ceased,
who better to attempt to achieve this
monumental task than those maligned
concreteers of dreams, the Engineers.
Yours, somewhat ramblingly,
Marcus Alexander,
Mech Eng 2.
Applications for re-applicant places in IC
residences for the 1994-5 session are now invited.
Please note that these places are for people who will help run the social programme for freshers at
the start of next session. You are unlikely to be selected unless you played a prominent part in the
social life of your hall. Application forms can be obtained from the wardens.
The deadline is Friday 25th February.
Articles Deadline: Friday, 6pm Letters Deadline: Monday, 6pm

