s Feature
For Sale: One Saint, Slightly Abused
Owain Bennallack wonders if the cards a charade. Photos: Diana Harrison.
I got a Valentine's card once. Eleven years old
and horrified. The idea of one of those skinny
creatures thinking of me whilst listening to
Tainted Love, tongue to the envelope, licking
it...I destroyed the card in a wave of disgust. My
siblings pieced back together the goobledegook.
("Shmugbug please be my bedrug.") They were
looking for something more psychotic - my
brother had been sent Cindy doll parts all week;
his name scored into the plastic with a Stanley
knife. So the sibs, unimpressed, sauntered back
inside to watch Taxi Driver, Me, I forgot about it
until I reached fourteen and suddenly wanted to
know which of those pouting sexpots had lusted
for me. Unfortunately, they were now too busy
being driven around in Ford Capris by their
sixth form boyfriends. I cursed my late
development and my early good taste.
Honestly, males should be held back from
school for five years. When the female of the
species is holding slumber parties, playing
Twister and wondering just why she likes the
shower so much, the male is in the toilets
challenging his mighty mates to 'hit the ceiling'.
Every year I'd fall for someone, end up thinking
the excellent pre-printed rhyme quite sufficient
and sign it 'from Owain'. Why did I never learn?
As regularly, the girls would point, not giggling
like in a movie but smirking. "HimT, they'd
say, with a quizzical mix of shock, dismissal and
repugnance. After several years of these annual
public humiliations I finally
caught on. Women don't write
cards for men, they write them
for each other.
Think about it! It's one of
those bonding things. Going
down to Athena together,
picking your cards, writing your
cringy lines together and then
laughing at the recipient
together. And the codes! Show
me a man who understands
'SWLAK', ' G Y K O Q Y M C H ' or
T W A N 2 F U K U ' and I ' l l show
you a cross-dresser.
I've just been informed by a passing hackette
that I'm bitter, twisted and that the acronym is
'SWALK'. Oh, and Valentine's Day is all about
love - yeah, like Silence of the Lambs is all
about cooking. "Go out and ask people then."
Hold still, trembling heart! There hasn't been
such a forgone conclusion since General
'Geographically Challenged' Custer said to
lieutenant; "Indians? Indians? Pull yourself
together man, this is California not Calcutta."
I set out in search of Cupid's February Fools.
I'll ask them about the hearts and roses stuff; if
any of them come over all dreamy Diana will
snap them for posterity...and prosperity too, in
the subsequent blackmail for the negatives.
First up, a strapping young man is sunning
himself in the JCR. I rush over and mumble
something about Valentines and the trooper
understands me. "Nah, it's all too commercial
now," Matt says, although I wonder if he's
biased when I discover he works in the
bookshop. He's undecided about whether he'll
do anything with his girlfriend on Valentine's
Day, but I wouldn't hold your breath; he was
"exhausted after being with her
last night." M y kind of man.
Score one to my side.
Our next victim is sitting
nervously beside a pillar. He
looks as scared as I am. Why?
It's the prospect of going up to
an Imperial Man and potential
rugby player and asking him
sweetly if he still believes in
love and romance. ("Yeah, kiss
this!" Cue flying fist and
spiralling reporter. I make a
mental note not to talk to anyone
in a stripey shirt and shorts.) I
ask Mr Nervous about the day. He looks about
and as he reads his paper says conspiratorly:
"Yeah, it means something. It's a chance to tell
someone how you feel about them." Worse, he
calls it "an excuse", implying that we'd send
each other pink paper with 'snookie bear'
written on it every day i f only we could
overcome our existential solitude.
He admits that he has a girlfriend and will be
taking her out on the fourteenth. The man is too
soppy for words, I have to
photograph this. "No!" says Mr
Nervous, holding up his hands.
"No photo, no names." He then
questions who to ask about
putting mascotry articles in
FELiX. That's the reason for his
reticence, he says. As quickly as
you can say "fasten your seat
belt please Mr Rushdie, we shall
shortly be landing in Iran," he's
gone. All I can say is if you think
he's your man,
your best bet is
to carry an eight
foot by three foot Valentine's
card with you to lectures.
Next up is Miss X , a physics
student. "Valentine's Day is cute
if you're in love. But if you're
not, it really means nothing". I
ask her if it could actually be
dangerous - ostracising the
lonesome and single population,
leaving them with nothing to do
but eat chocolate and watch
Baywatch, nothing to listen to
but The Red House Painters, no hope of a hand
to clutch in the godless February evenings, when
the neon burns so bright and warm and you're so
alone, unwanted, walking the streets and
anyway, she says "no" though judging from the
look of her she's ne'er worn down the leather
Kevin, The Sexual Chemist
Anna sells tea and hearts
treading Kings Road at 2am. So it's not
dangerous? "Only if you're very insecure." Me?
Her friend Bill tips the balance towards the
love camp when he claims Valentine's cards are
a good idea and that he once worked out who
sent him a card by the handwriting. Hmmm...try
using a typewriter next time Bill.
Andy, from Mech Eng, tells
me that he will be sending a
card. He was pressured into it by
his flatmates (her mates).
There's "no romance involved at
all" although he hurriedly adds
that his romance "lies
elsewhere". Nice recovery.
Am I the only decent cynic
here? No way says Sally, who
studies Biology. "I don't think
people believe in it. I know I'll
get one but I've already told him
I won't be sending him one." Eat
your cake and get someone to bake you another.
Momentum is definatly swinging my way. I
notice a sturdy gent with a worldly wise glint in
his eye. He proves a noisy one.
"Valentine's Day? It's a chance for desperate
men to find desperate women - with the
possibility of a shag at the end of it!" he rattles
out. Ouch. He carries on "I mean it's a joke! For
one day in the year a man will get romantic -
what about the other 364?"
Come on Kevin, haven't you ever wined and
dined, sent flowers? "Flowers! That's it! It's all
part of the world wide Interflora conspiracy!"
His friend shakes her head. "Yeah, lets get
'the woman's perspective' now," says Kevin,
cottoning on to the corny language. She replies:
"If you're a couple it's a chance to be nice to
each other" but Kev's not going to be silenced.
"Where's the spontaneity in that!" he
screams. "Send cards in October. No - send
Bananas! Fruit for Valentine's Day! And another
thing, why don't people put their names on? You
send an anonymous one and
some other bloke gets the girl on
your behalf! No wait, that gives
me an idea! Why not send
yourself one and claim it was
from someone really pretty, use
it to ask her out?" Too
commercial? Try too psychotic!
I whirl out with my notes and
my photographer. Leaning
against the wall I catch my
breath. I see Kevin was the
natural extension of myself. I
walk with my head hung low.
On the way, I stop to buy a
chocolate bar. And Anna, of the Concourse Tea
Bar revives my spirits: "Nah, it's all for fun!
People have been sending cards for as long as I
can remember. I ' l l be getting one from my
husband! Lovely."
See, I told you so. Love is in the air.
Win £100 of vouchers for high street stores on page 19

