Feature 1
Valentine Cards: Principles and Practice
Michael Ingram, the noted naturalist, talks about the birds and the bees.
Preface
Fate is taking the piss; it is its nature to do so.
I had thought that I'd write a nice
introduction about who the real Saint Valentine
actually was. Maybe even get something funny
out of it. So off I went to the library to hit the
history books. Unfortunately, the history books I
found seemed to have been written by David
Lynch. Basically, what they said was this:
There were in fact two St. Valentines. No one
really knows who either of them were. Neither
does anyone know why they were made saints,
or why they were immortalised as a date in our
calendar. The duo were so mysterious that they
probably didn't tell anyone their names when
they were alive, so people would have had to
call them 'bloke' or 'hey y o u ' . Perhaps
typically, the ancient Romans decided to solve
the problem once and for all and martyred them
both.
On top of that, I doubt that anyone except
Zen masters will see any connection between the
saints and sexual potency.
So, I thought. That's my original idea down
the toilet.
Receiving
Many people maintain that giving is always
better than receiving. In the case of Valentine
cards, however, this is definitely not true (so if
anyone tells you it is, stand on their toes). The
reason is obvious: being on the business end of a
serious card greatly increases one's chance of a
shag.
However, in order to transform probability
into reality, you first need to identify your
admirer. This can be extremely difficult, but
there are a number of useful clues to look out
for:
1. If it is signed, then read the signature. This
will give you the name of whoever wrote the
card. Well, it will give you a name.
messages to their secretaries. Thus you should
be on the look out for any shorthand in the card
(eg. 'I wnt t g t bd wt u'). It may be that your
admirer is something in the city (like a road).
3. If the card contains extensive usage of the
word 'mother' (or its derivatives), then, unless
you have children, it is almost certainly from
Ice-T (or his derivatives).
Giving
At this time of year, those with a yearning for
their beloved may become bitter, twisted and
malodorous if they find they can't express their
feelings. Thankfully, many conventions have
been established which enable even the most
clueless amourant to produce a card so
blisteringly erotic that the reader won't know
what's hit them.
Physical gestures have a special notation - a
cross means kiss and a circle means hug. Thus
'xxo' means 'two kisses and a hug', and 'oxo'
means 'hug, kiss, hug' (or 'stock cube'). If you
find yourself facing a complete game of noughts
and crosses, I suggest you consult the Karma
Sutra.
Verse conventions such as 'Roses are red,
violets are blue' are very common. This is a
good thing, as it ensures the prospective mate is
totally clear about flower colours. It can also be
used to impress them with the depth of your
knowledge.
Here are some rhymes that will be useful if
you are writing an innuendo-strewn masterpiece:
red, the Grateful Dead
blue, ague, shoe, achoo
yellow, bordello
hips, apocalypse
stallion, Pygmalion
failure, genitalia
domination, irrigation
toast rack, Bennallack
libido, aikido
2. Busy executives will often dictate Valentine Okay Lurve Cadets, let's go to work!
Worked Examples
If you still find yourself stumped, despite
the symphony of advice I have granted, here
are some examples to use:
Roses are red
And violets are blue
I know you like solvents
So I've sent you some glue
You've the loveliest eyes
That I've ever seen
But my parts have been caught
In a threshing machine
Roses are red
And violets are blue
And Brezhnev is dead
So you '11just have to do
Your eyes are like diamonds
That shine in your mirth
But your razor tipped thumbs
Are like nothing on earth
Roses are red
Yeltsin is red
Yeltsin! Yeltsin! Yeltsin!
Roses are red
And violets are blue
When the pentangle 's ready
We '11 sacrifice you
Violets are blue
And roses are red
When you're plucking a chicken
Must you bite off its head?
"Roses are blue
And Violets are red
Oh I do like these Poppies"
The Mad Hatter said
K i n o e s ? , y o H ' U .
.fVMUty «OM«#V**. H T J T H A T

