Clubs and Societies S
i p • r i a I c
m a • r a d I
So You Wanna Be A Star !
After a complete new amplifier wasfitted over
Christmas, London's best Student Radio Station is back and better than eve
Here are some of the things that have been happening, some that are going
happen and how you can become a star on Imperial College Radio.
Jukebox & Top 50
Every Weekday 6 - 7 pm, starting Monday 14th
February is the all-new IC Radio Jukebox.
Recognising the need for a regular request
show, the Jukebox will be taking requests
during the hour and playing them immediately
(well, as immediately as it takes the presenter to
find them). Don't worry if you've not phoned
down for a request before. It's easy - 789 from
halls, and 3440 from anywhere else in College.
It's on the internal telephone system - so it's all
free.
So...what do you fancy listening to between
6 and 7pm each day?
Along with the regular requests we shall
also be playing people's top three songs with
spot prizes for some played. This too is a new
feature for this term and is part of the bid to
compile the IC Radio Top 50 Campus Chart.
Vote for your top three songs and you stand
to win a spot prize (CDs, T-Shirts and the like).
Entry forms and collection boxes can be found
in IC Radio, FELiX, the Union Office and in a
Hall kitchen near you. There is also a form on
the opposite page. The Top 50 will then be
played in full at the end of term.
So...grab a form and give us your choice.
J u k e b o x ~ W E E k c U y s 6 - 7 piw
Requests ~ 789 (Halls) or 3440 (College)
You can pick up LCRadio on 999AM, and listen
to it on high quality land-lines in hall kitchens,
the JCR, FELiX and Southside bar and laundry.
The IC Radio Committee ~ a bunch of more
friendly people you couldn 't hope to meet.
Information
If you want to know more about any of these
things then come down for a coffee. The station is
manned most lunchtimes and every evening. We
are located next to the Southside Shop just down
the ramp from the Southside security lodge.
So if you've great ideas for a new show and
haven't yet got round to putting them into
motion - now is your chance. Especially now
that our new purpose built editing suite over in
Northside is nearing completion.
Queries will happily be taken by:
James Handley - Station Manager
Steve Dunton - Technical Manager
Neil Bond - Head of Music
IC Radio Buffet
To mark the launch of the various things
happening this term, IC Radio present the
opportunity of free food, music and lots of fun
at the IC Radio Buffet. So if you're vaguely
interested in the Radio come and join us. It is
being held during the evening of Wednesday
23rd February in the New Southside Disco
Room (the old Belushi's). Come along and find
out more.
Interviews
Recent interviews on I.C.R. have been of a high
standard with a range of famous groups
interviewed including (excuse the name
dropping): The Boo Radleys, The B M X
Bandits, Pulp, St Etienne and Chicory Tip (the
top 70s Band).
Future interviews will include: Slint, Citizen
Fish, Mark E . Smith (The Fall) and Beat
Happening. Obviously we have a great need at
present for interviewers, so if you think you're
able, come down and have a chat.
Although we can't guarantee it, if you have a
particular favourite group that you'd like to
interview let us know and we'll try and get it for
you. Most take place at gigs where your
entrance is free. We also need music reviewers
for the latest releases, so come and see Donna
(Publicity) or Neil (Head of Music) at the Radio
Station. We want You !
Regular Shows
Now that we've had a term to find out who's
good and who's best, we have allocated this
term's regular shows. Below is a brief listing of
the presenters, style of show and of course the
Time:
Breakfast with the Posse Every day: 8-9 am
Wake up every morning to the riotous sounds of
Jaymz Pace and the Breakfast Posse (if he ever
finds one)!
Mission Impossible Monday: 7-7:30pm
The most up-to-date science programme around.
Easy going with fun captivating articles on the
latest scientific reports and developments.
Monday Meltdown Monday: 7.30-8pm
Join the awe-inspiring Gareth Mitchell for his
first show of the week. "Humourous, topical and
close to the edge."
Dom & The Fat Bloke Posse Monday: 8-10pm
Some of the best new talent this year. A main-
stream show with a fun lively approach. These
guys work well together and it shows.
Back to Basics Tuesday: 9-10pm
No, not a tory show or even a catering advert, but
Rahul and Jamie, our friends from across the
pond in an up-to-date indie show (with more).
Dan The Man's Lunchbox Wednesday: 12-2pm
A show that just keeps running. Now in its third
glorious year this mix of music, information and
chat is the perfect lunchtime combination.
Wednesday Week Wednesday: 2-3pm
Gareth Mitchell returns this time with an hour of
interactive radio, phone-ins, requests and the
usual cutting wit of the man himself!
Al's Groove Show Wednesday 3-5pm
The perfect way to complete Wednesday
afternoons (the one day you're in all afternoon),
with Alistair's casual talkative style.
Richard Saw Wednesday: 7-8pm
Anyone who's allowed to name a show purely
after himself must be.good and with training in
professional radio, this is perhaps the most
technically correct show on IC Radio.
A Kick Up The Arts Friday: 7-8pm
Join this fusion of up-to-the-minute news (top
politicians interviewed live on air) and a compre-
hensive rundown of the arts listings for the
capital, including cinemas, theatres et al.
Matt Around Midday Saturday: 11.30am-lpm
Saturday lunchtimes just wouldn't be the same
without waking up to Matt Cornell around
midday. A lively chatty show playing great
music. Some old, some new, the mix is endless.
Top 40 Album Chart Saturday: 3.30-7pm
Surveys show that students buy albums more
than any other format. So join Lofty every
Saturday afternoon for the chart that you decide!
Don't forget there are plenty of other shows just
as good on a semi-permanent basis and You
could be amongst them. Training is easy,
membership is cheap, and after the initial surge
of the first term there are now spaces appearing
on the schedule once again. Go on...Be A Star !
Listen to IC Radio on 999kHz AM anywhere round the College

