4th December, 1969 FELIX Page 3
PRESIDENT'S PIECE
No
Misrepresentation
There are a number of motions of censure on the Pre-
sident of the Union due to be discussed at today's Union
meeting. Also included is a motion demanding his resignation
on the issue of misrepresenting the views of I.C. students to
a representative of the Evening Standard concerning the
visit of Her Majesty the Queen. Since the report in question
also quoted from Felix, it is perhaps as well that the facts of
the matter be ascertained.
The Evening Standard article appeared two weeks ago,
and mentioned that the Union was having difficulty in ob-
taining enough students to fill the places reserved for the
Union at the Queen's visit because people were turning down
invitations. The report originated from Colcutt's column in
the last issue but one, and a representative of the newspaper
then contacted Piers Corbyn to obtain more information.
According to Mr. Corbyn the report misquoted him, but this
is irrelevant since the facts contained in the article are
correct.
When the question of selecting students to attend the
Queen's tea came up at the beginning of term, it was decided
(at a Union meeting) that the allocation should be split into
two; half to go to year reps and I nion officials, and the rest
to be distributed to randomly selected students. To deal with
the random selection, a female market researcher was called
in to draw up a list of 75 students. In her exploits around
the Union to obtain this list, 50% of the male students de-
clined the offer, many because they felt they would rather
take the afternoon off.
In the light of these facts, the report is completely true
as far as the facts presented in the article. There is therefore
no question whatsoever of the President misrepresenting the
Union, and the only case that can be made against him is
that he was naive in expecting a representative from the
Press to agree not to publish opinions which he expressed on
a controversial issue. There is certainly no case for demand-
ing his resignation if he does not write to the Evening
Standard explaining the facts of the issue for these are readily
observed in the paper itself.
The visit of the Queen last Thursday cost the College
£1,500. The equivalent sum would provide many thousands
of meals for those living on the verge of starvation, would
be welcomed by Carnival as a donation to help the mentally
handicapped, would provide valuable agricultural machinery
for those in the under-developed Third World.
It did provide sustenance for us, the fortunate few who
can afford to live in comfort.
THE NEWSPAPER OF
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
EDITOR: M A L C O L M WILLIAMSON
Asst Ed (Production):
Tony Kirkham
News Editor: David Chant
News and production
assistants: Ian Williams,
John Bowman, Tony Sims,
Mike Yates, Malcolm
Bailey, John Ackers
Typing: Susan Parry
Business Manager:
Ian Quarrinton
Circulation — Sennet and
Felix: Roger Lindsay
Asst Ed (Features):
Ian Carr
With Steve Giles
Photographic Editor:
Simon Hoyle
With: Andy Thomas,
Arthur Stoller.
Sports Editor: John Darley
Thanks also to: EIIX, Paul
Mellor, Xris, Piers Cor-
byn, Dave Victor Wield,
Martin Bland, old Uncle
Tom Cobley and all.
National Advertising: J.E.P. and Associates, 117/111
Fleet Street, London EC4. Phone 01-353-4712.
Printed by: F. Bailey & Son, Dursley, Glos.
Published on behalf of I.C.U. Publications Board,
Imperial College Union, London, S.W.7.
As agreed by the Union the letter and pamphlet 'Diversifica-
tion and Representation in I.C.' were produced and given to
the Queen and other special guests, including Edward Short
(Minister of Education) and Douglas Logan (Principal of
U.L.). The Queen was interested in what we had to say and
stayed talking for 20 minutes longer than expected. She
promised to reply to the letter after due consultation. The
Duke said that he was all for diversification.
Press response was: — a photo and long caption in The
Times, and good reports in the Guardian and The Morning
Star. The pamphlet and letter has now directed public atten-
tion onto our policies and has caused a great deal of discus-
sion within the departments.
Presumably because of expected publicity, the Rector,
on 26th November, kindly offered the Union one place on
the AA/ICST negotiations. As was agreed by the ICU
Academic Affairs committee on 27th November we must
make sure that this place includes participation in the
negotiation working parties' discussions and that the Acade-
mic Affairs Officer and others are involved where appro-
priate.
The pamphlet and letter are undoubtedly a success. The
opportunity created is now being grasped, department reps
are taking copies of them to all professors and initiating
discussion. The 'quiet middle staff' are waking up at last
and beginning to say some quite strong things. It is im-
portant at this point that interested staff and students get
hold of, or see, copies. All year reps have copies. If you
know any member of staff who wants a copy, fetch him one
from the I.C. Union Office.
How Fast ?
Some people feet the Union is doing things too fast and
that our speed is annoying certain members of staff and admin.
Some of these people are opposed to our ideas anyhow, but apart
from that we must realise that some professors will never agree
however fast or slow we go. On Representation there is not much
excuse for slowness. Diversification is a more complicated issue
and so concrete results wiM not be immediate, but nevertheless we
can reasonably ask for an urgent plan and make ulse of the
Diversification co-ordination organisation.
I.C.R.C.
The exploratory meeting concerning the Imperial College
Representative Council which I was instructed by the Union to
arrange was held on Monday, 17th Nov. Following its success we
must elect not moire than fifteen students for it at the Union
meeting today.
Following discussion on the Student Residence committee and
hall committees we must make a decision about Freshers in HaU
at today's U.G M.
Lies
A number of lies are being spread about me, they seem to
have the sam© origin as the anti-NUS lobby—the people who
didn't want us to join and yet failed, when asked, to promote dis-
cussions about it.
It Is really rather sad because the stories are easily checkable
as being untrue—yet no attempt has been made by the promoters
to do this, presumably they hope no-one will find out until the
motions of censure have come up at the Union meeting. I did not
misrepresent anything to the Evening Standard (or any news-
paper for that matter), neither did I, on Nov. 25th (or any other
time) continuously use the word "demand" als opposed to the word
"request".
Year reps are now being sent things by I.C.U more often than
Ithey used to be; if you have any ideas on finding out things please
tell your year reps and/or take them to the I.C. Union office.
IDRESS
i/ERSITY
}EE COURSE
' GRADUATE STUDIES
The hey to yourfuture
Electronics BSc,MSc,PhD
If you are graduating soon then w h y not explore
the possibilities with Hewlett-Packard.
Hewlett-Packard Limited is the U.K. member of
a large international company whose products
range from electronic measuring devices through
medical and chemical instrumentation to data
processing equipment. In Scotland, we have a
progressive R / D Laboratory, full production
facilities, and a home base lor our world wide
marketing activities. The Queen's Award-winning
Microwave-Link-Analyser is one of the products
developed and manufactured here. The current
fields of interest include analogue and digital
communications and the application of digital
techniques to signal generation and analysis.
Particular emphasis is placed on the design of
computer compatible instrumentation systems.
Almost all our Engineers join us straight from
University and can look forward to rapid promo-
tion to positions of greater responsibility.
Engineers from our laboratories will be visiting the
University on
16th January, 1970
For more details fill in the above coupon and
return it to: 4
Alan Watts,
Personnel Manager,
Hewlett-Packard Limited,
South Queensferry,
West Lothian, Scotland.
HEWLETT § PACKARD
Information can also be obtained from your
Appointments Board.
Move
ahead
with
mam-mm

