Page 4 FELIX 4th December, 1969
Science and Politics I
Is War a Biological Necessity
In recent years there has been an increasing use (misuse)
of biological data to support political doctrines. The object
of this series of articles is to present a scientifically accurate
account of some of these arguments. Of necessity they will
be highly condensed and many of the pieces of evidence
may atfirstsight seem doubtful. They can only be supported
by reference to original papers, which will be cited at the
end of each article.
The first topic is 'Is war a biological necessity?' Politicians have
used two sets of arguments here, both of which have some
biological foundation. The first is a corruption of Darwin's 'Survival
of the Fittest' and led people (eg Germany prior to the 1914 war)
to believe that competition between animals for food, shelter, space
etc. naturally led to aggression. Thus war is inevitable in man,
where 'population levels are so high and food resources so low.
The second argument is based on the observation that most animals
never kill their own kind (eg lions rarely attack other lions). Thus
there is no fundamental biological reason why man should kill
fellow mien. Both are incorrect.
. Biologically, there are two types of aggression (a) interspecific
aggression (ie: fighting between different species) (b) intraspecific
aggression (fighting between members of the same species).
The first argument is thus based on interspecific aggression.
In these days of escalation, man has intensified his war against his
competitors (eg crop pests) in order to secure a larger proportion
of world resources for himself. When Darwin talked about 'Survival
of the Fittest' he was trying to show the struggle between the
environment and a species, not the competition within a species
(though some biologists disagree!). Thus only those best suited to
withstand the rigours of the envronment will survive. Although the
first argume'nt is basically correct, it does not explain aggression
within homo sapiens, only between man and other animals.
The second argument is an over simplification of the facts. There
is intense competition within a species for food, mates, shelter, etc.
because members of the same species are all competing for the
same commodities. Only rarely do two different species compete
for the same essentials of life (eg out of one million species of
insects, less than 0.1% are considered 'pests' ie compete with man
for food). However, in most cases, nature has chanelled aggression
within a species along certain lines so that it rarely leads to
death. For example, in the competition for mates, combat has
become 'ritualised' in the courtship ceremonies (eg peacocks tail
display and the ritual combats — which rarely result even in
injury—of deer). In the intraspecific competition for space, many
birds evolved "song" to act as territory markers, warning other
members of the species that this area has already been claimed.
In carnivorous animals, where the weapons they possess are quite
capable of killing other members of the species, special inhibitions
against killing have been evolved, often by the loser of a contest
adopting a 'submissive' posture which elicits the 'compassion' of
the victor (this is well documented in Lorenz). However, Man
is a special case. Originally he was a puny animal almost incapable
of killing his own kind, and thus few killing inhibitions were
developed. Those that were developed depend on close physical
contact (eg bowing the head and presenting the neck to an
aggressor elicits an inhibitory response in Man). Today, long
distance warfare means that there is no biological inhibition
against killing.
Thus we can conclude that with a rapidly increasing world
population and the loss of killing inhibitions in modern warfare,
that war is inevitable. I hope not.
Derek Waghorne
References:
K. Z. Lorenz 'On Aggression'
D. Morris 'The Naked Ape'
D. Morris 'The Human Zoo'
Eng Soc Goes to Coventry
At 5.30 a.m. on Wednes-
day 12th November 12 mem-
bers of the Engineering
Society set off towards
Coventry in heavy rain. We
were going to visit Coventry
Colliery, a highly mechanised
mine and one of the nearest
to London.
Despite the Chairman's
attempts at map-reading we
arrived at the Colliery without
getting lost too many times.
We had been warned to take
old clothes with us, and after
we had changed into these we
were issued with protective
helmets, lamps and emergency
respirators (which we did not
have occasion to use).
While we were waiting to
go to the shaft, we saw cages
taking empty skips down des-
cending with an initial accelera-
tion almost equal to that of
free fall! Fortunately when our
turn came we were treated a
little more gently!
We were given a guided tour
of the workings leading up to
one of the faces currently being
worked. Because of the long
distances involved, part of the
journey was made by "man-
rider" (a truly underground
train: 725 yards below the sur-
face). When we finally reached
the coal-face we saw the
cutting machines that have so
greatly reduced the labour in-
volved in mining.
Our return journey included
yet another form of under-
ground transport: a conveyor
belt. When the time came for
us to go up in the cage, and
after two and a half hours
underground, we were again
relieved not to be treated
as violently as the coal! When
we reached the surface we
were shown the winding equip-
ment. It uses two of the most
enormous steam engines I have
ever seen. The equipment has
to be very accurate; the con-
troller must position the cage
to within an inch in half a
mile.
After we had taken a shower
and changed, the visit finished
with an excellent lunch laid
on by the NCB.
As we had a few hours to
spare before coming back to
London we went into the City
of Coventry itself. A tour of
the Cathedral concluded what
had been a most instructive
and enjoyable Engineering
Society visit.
Richard Cole
Stand Up
and be ordered
As the standing orders for Union General Meetings seem
to be permanently unavailable, Union members must deduce
them as best they can, on the basis of observed conduct at
meetings. One such empirical set, derived after the continued
UGM of 25th November, is as follows.
1. Motions for debate must
invariably be read by the Sec-
retary, unless the proposer of
the motion can read.
2. The proposer then makes
a speech of sorts, which is
followed by the speech of the
opposer, if any. If no opposer
appears within 3 seconds of
the Chairman asking for one,
the motion is declared passed.
3. Thereafter speeches for
and against the motion alter-
nate, though not alternately.
4. Points of Order: These are
used for disrupting the order
of the meeting, and take
precedence over other business
if the Chairman can find no
reason to ignore them. They
relate specifically to the con-
duct of the meeting, or to any-
thing else. The. decision of the
Chairman on these is final un-
less overruled by the Will of
the Meeting, measured in
decibels.
5. Points of Information are
for the purpose of insulting
the speaker. As he may wish
not to be insulted, he may
ignore them.
6. Procedural motions are
for lengthening the proceed-
ings, and are a more formal
way of expressing the Will of
the Meeting. The most accepted
is the move to a vote, used
by opponents of the motion
when amendments make it
ridiculous; this immediately en-
sures defeat for the motion, as
a move to a vote automatically
carried.
7. Amendments are am alter-
native way of opposing a
motion.
8. Voting is by a show of
hands, uncounted, followed by
a show of hands, counted, if
the losing side has more than
10 votes. A recount is optional
if the majority is less than 30,
but the Will of the Meeting is
usually against this.
9. Challenges to the Chair
will be assumed carried if the
Chairman shows any signs of
knowledge of Standing Orders.
It is very rarely made.
10. No-one shall in any cir-
cumstances show any sign of
maturity and/or intelligence.
Disorder shall be maximised, if
necessary by the intervention
of the Chairman. The outcome
of any debate shall be extreme
left or extreme right, depend-
ing on whether the Mines'
President is conducting his
orchestra of trained 'vigilantes'.
11. Any person or persons
unwilling to come to UGM's to
play his part according to the
above rules shall be deemed
"apathetic" and despised by the
Union.
12. Note: As Standing Orders
give somewhat unpredictable
policies, Council has the right
to ignore any mandates from
UGM's. PL.
What's on
Thursday 4th December:
Young Student Socialist Society.
Robin Blick of the Socialist
Labour League will speak on
"Stalinism, a cancerous growth
in the workers movement". ME
664 at 5.30 p.m.
Wellsoc's UFO group is meet-
ing at 7.30 p.m. in EE 408, when
Mr. Rex Dutta will be speaking
on flying saucers. All are wel-
come.
Monday 8th December:
Christian Union, "We wish you
a merry Christmas", ME 542,
1.10 p.m.
Tuesday 9th December: in
EE 408 at 1315 hrs C&G Engin-
eering Society — an illustrated
talk on Hovercraft, by Mr. P. W.
Photo: Simon Hoyle
Foss, R.A.F. Oranwell.
General Studies: The chief
Rabbi, Dr. I. Jakobovits, will be
speaking on the Role of Reli-
gion in Contemporary Society,
in Mech Eng 342 at 1.30 p.m.
All are welcome.
Tuesday 13th January: Wine
Tasting society tasting of
Madeiras, Physics SCR, Level 8,
5.40 p.m.
Documentary and historical
film series, "Ashes and
Diamonds", Wajda's study of 3
men of the Polish "free army"
contesting the Russian-spon-
sored government's take-over
of the country at the end of
the Second World War, ME 220
at 6.00 p.rn.
The copy date for What's On
for the first issue of next term
is the Second day of term.
Please get your copy in on time.
Thank you.
Portuguese Students
Mount Campaign
Since 1926 Portugal has been ruled by a dictatorship, and
the continued poverty and illiteracy has resulted in massive
emigration. The recent elections in Portugal under the sur-
veillance of an international commission only served to high-
light the facist nature of the new, supposedly liberal, govern-
ment of Caetano, a disciple of Salazar.
The opposition was subject to continued harassment and threats
until finally the commission was thrown out after presenting a
critical report and fascism remained in control.
Suppression at home, exploitation abroad, for Portugal still
rules an Empire. Since 1961 the country has been fighting on three
fronts the last colonial wars in Africa, despite the condemnation
of these actions by the UN Security Council and General Assembly.
In order to support these wars, 40% of the budget is spent on the
military and all youths are subject to 2-4 years military service.
Yet the people do not want to fight, and in 1967 over 14,000 young
Portuguese did not present themselves to 'the draft board.
A campaign is being waged in London at the moment, centred
on the fate of two Portuguese; one, Eduardoi Cruzeiro, is a soldier
who deserted for political reasons while serving in Guinea-Bissau.
After further militant action while in Spain toe was arrested
by the Spanish authorities. A request from Portugal for his
deportation, on the grounds that he was a military deserter, was
granted. This decision of the Madrid High Court sets a dangerous
precedent, for many young Portuguese, in exile would toe in danger
if other governments took similar decisions. The maximum sentence
faced by Cruzeiro is death or life imprisonment.
The second case to be highlighted is that of Inacio Palma, a
leader of the LUAR (League for Unity of Revolutionary Action)
dedicated to the overthrow of the present regime, who is at
present in Spanish custody awaiting the decision of the Madrid
Government on an extradition request from Portugal. Palma in
1967 led a daring raid on the state bank, escaping with £415,000
to finance the armed struggle. He was shortly afterwards arrested
in Paris by Interpol, but the French Government recognised the
political nature of his crime and refused a Portuguese extradition
request.
Later, Palma was captured in his home country and sentenced
by a political court to (in effect) 15 years in jail plus denial of
liberty for life. He escaped to Spain, but, as mentioned above,
was captured. Collaboration between the Spanish and Portuguese
regimes has always been close, and the sympathetic Spaniards
may well accept the claim that Palma's bank robbery is purely a
criminal matter.
The Portuguese students committee in Great Britain feels that
only an energetic international campaign can save these two men.
They ask for letters of protest to be sent to the Spanish authori-
ties, and a demons;ration was arranged outside the Portuguese
and Spanish embassies on November 30th, last Sunday. J. Walker
E II X
HONI SOIT QUI LEFTIE PENSE
My husband and 1 are glad of the opportunity to address
you, the blessed sons of our Imperial Heritage, fuel for the
white heat of our technology.
You, to whom we all owe so
much, we 'thank your Union for
presenting us with an envelope,
containing some rather point-
less pieces of paper. Under
your hallowed roof we may
see representatives of the
Commonwealth of Nations, who
like ourselves and the British
students are supported by the
bounteous state. Let us now
humbly pray together, that
those unfortunates who are not
supported by our Realm will
give more, that we might be
supported better, that their tax
may be heavy so our burden
is lighter. Let them work, so
that we might diversify.
We are proud of our long-
standing relationship with your
College; we understand why
your white heat could not be
damped. Philip and I had
hoped that our daughter Ann
might marry one of your
number, but Robert of York
informs us that he is no longer
available.
Mother and I have been
hysterically amused by your
President's wondrous garb, and
would deem it a great favour
if he informed the palace of
his tailor's name, so that
Charles and Philip may avoid
him. Philip, when he dined with
some of your number last year
received some amusing notes
from this same fellow; he felt
the taste of the notes was on
par with the taste of the meal.
Following the event, we were
not amused when Philip arrived
home chanting a Kangela.
We were pleased at being
invited to open your new build-
ing, and we hope you did not
object to our bringing along
our husband, but we felt that
the tea provided might give a
respite from the economy
diet of Polo pony steaks au
gratin with Corgi livers. The
repast itself was beyond our
experience, and its quality will
be indicated by the length of
stay of your catering manager
in his new home, the Tower.
We were honoured to meet
the leaders of your Institution,
though we were disappointed
at not meeting George X, as we
desired to wish him an all-
white Christmas. We wish you
all, our subjects, a Merry
Christmas, and to our friends
from the left may Father
Christmas be redder than ever
this year.
J-|istory Today
y^iidio Record Review
Life
Qesign
Architectural Review
|^ew Society
Encounter
are all available at the
H a l d a n e L i b r a r y
2nd Floor, Library Block
Open Mon.-Fri.; 10—5.30

