i
mm
1 m'
The FELIX Late News Supplement
C O R B Y N R E P L I E S
WITH';
Tony Kirkhr.ni,
Miko Y".tc-s,
I en W i l l i a m s .
EDITOR i
John Bowman
Dear Editor,
Thank you for giving me the right of reply about my appearance at the ULU
Presidents Ball of Nov 15th.
It is important and useful.for Presidents to attend i t , and I would be
neglecting my duties i f I did no£ go. Many students do not possess DJ»3 and do not like
wearing then. It is therefore ridiculous to impose formal dress onto "open" student
functions, and wrong that so much money i s spent on this, which only interests a minority
of students.
Accordingly I went along, expecting to be chucked out. I was held up, but
allowed to remain, the people in cha.ge feeling that dress wasn't too important.
Did my indifference to convention affect the uses of the. function? I was .just as
able, i f not more so, to meet other people, including Presidents, and had some useful
discussions.
I was not seen by the Queen kbther, who only came for a short time to meet a few
people. ,
, Further, as faras the name of IG Union goes, most other College Presidents don't
mind at a l l - I talk to then just the same, i f not better! Official bodies are only
concerned with what ICU wants, not what I wear! The great mass of students, on whose behalf,
money is spent on this formal function, either don't come or agree with ml
It seems the only people who are bothered are those who are bothered about other
people being bothered,.,.etc!!
lours in Winter-time hope, Piers Corbyn.
To check on the reaction of other Presidents to Corbyn's dress, FELICITY rang up Eater
Geldard (Kings) and the Vice-President of Bedford,
gThe former remembered Corbyn's dress well, but he thought i t i n character; Corbyn kept
disci$e and caused no embarrassment. However he agread that an outsider, who didn t know
Piers as a person, night get a very poor image of ICU, but repeated that most other
Presidents present knew Piers and were not unduly offended.
On the other hand, the V.p, of Bedford, speaking for himself and President 1-^onty Grigg,
thought that Corbyn's dress was not at a l l in place - ho said that ^-'residents who disagreed
with the function should not turn up at a l l rather than turn up looking disrespectful, Ke
personally got a very poor impabession of ICU, as represented by Corbyn,
Further, the President of has rung up the Union Office to check up that Corbyn w i l l
be properly attired when he attends the Ball at Q
M
D this week,
A N D S O D O E S T H E Q U E E N
Piers Corbyn has now received a reply to the letter which was handed to the Queen
last Thursday, The reply, written by command of Her majesty, states that after consulting
with the Hector the .'iueen has decided to refer the Potter to the secretary of State for
Education (Edward Short). Presumably the Union can now await a further reply from him,
C A R N I V A L S U C C E S S E S
last weekend saw a heroic attempt on the world 24hr. Darts Record. A team of six i':CS
students commenced playing at 12 noon Saturday in the Union snack bar. On their most,
optimistic estimate*they reckoned on scoring a quarter of million points, but by 7 p.m. they
they had achieved their goal and set off to break the record. Unfortunately i n the early
hours the scoring rate dropped and the World record was narrowly missed. At sponsorship of
almost £3 per 10,000 points this event should rake in £150 for Carnival,
S t i l l on the subject of Carnival, over kQ streamer throwing, beer drinking collectors
threw a party on the tube on lioii&QJ night. This event raised a further "100 for ^amival.
C a r n i v a l now stands at over ,'-"1500 with a target of £5000 by the end of term.
DON'T FORGET THE CARNIVAL YialiC ON FRIDAY NIGHT, li dJ OX OiTSCR3 STILL
p, r, o.
vv
.nY\.r
f
p
n m

