A Kenyan scientist and a Gambian clothes
designer have joined forces to fashion a gar-
ment that has the power to repel mosquitoes
and beat malaria.
The one-piece multi-coloured bodysuit
comes with an anti-mosquito mesh hood and a
cape that contains mosquito repellent that has
been bonded with the fabric’s fibres at the mo-
lecular level.
Because the repellent is embedded in the gar-
ment’s fabric using nanotechnology it does not
dissipate like regular skin-based insecticides,
according to the scientist and clothes designer
from Cornell University in New York.
The ‘binding technology’ even allows up to
three times more insecticide to be embedded
within the fabric compared to normal sleep-
ing nets, which are only dipped in solution and
usually need to be replaced or re-dipped every
six months.
Malaria, which is endemic in large parts of
Africa, is a killer parasitic disease transmitted
to humans through the bite of infected mosqui-
toes. It kills more than half a million people
every year. In Africa, a child dies from malaria
every minute.
The creators of the hooded bodysuit, Fred-
erick Ochanda and Matilda Ceesay, have both
witnessed family members fall ill with malar-
ia. They hope that their innovative design will
instigate further technological advances in the
battle against Malaria.
Scientists are already working on a fabric
that can potentially detect changes in tempera-
ture or light and so can secrete the amount of
repellent needed accordingly. This would, for
example, provide more protection at night
when most mosquitoes prefer to feed.
At the very least, Ochanda and Ceesay hope
that the technology can be used to craft stron-
ger, longer lasting and more effective insecti-
cide-treated bed nets.
“Although there are already mosquito nets
being used, the solution isn’t foolproof,” Cee-
say said, speaking at Cornell University.
Fashion to fight malaria
A promising way to power vehicles and appli-
ances in the future is through use of hydrogen
fuel cells. These, however, require a source of
hydrogen to work, and obtaining this hydrogen
has typically been an expensive process.
The most common method to obtain the gas
is to split water into oxygen and hydrogen.
This is an operation that requires a catalyst,
and the catalyst must be such that it reduces
the energy necessary for the reaction to occur
as much as possible. The lower the energy that
is required, the more efficient the system, be-
cause it means there is more energy left over to
actually power your system. Hence, platinum
catalysts are often used due to their excellent
catalytic ability.
A problem with platinum, however, is its
ever-rising cost: something that has been seen
with many rare metals as their availability
becomes ever reduced. Hence, alternatives in-
volving cheaper catalysts are needed, and re-
searchers at the Brookhaven National Labora-
tory in New York have developed a promising
candidate.
One of the best features about platinum is its
high electron density. A cheaper catalyst, nick-
el, does not have such a high density, though
this can be alleviated somewhat using mo-
lybdenum. This alloy still, however, will not
produce the required level of catalytic ability.
A proposed solution was to add nitrogen to al-
ter the electronic state of the alloy, which has
been proven to work in the macroscale. In the
nanoscale, it was found that applying nitrogen
via exposure to an ammonium environment
caused 2D nanosheets to form. These sheets
have a greater catalytic ability thanks to the
increased surface area, and hence the mixture
has a catalytic ability similar to that of plati-
num, but with a reduced cost.
As well as providing a cheaper yet effec-
tive method to produce hydrogen, this re-
search is significant for seeing the production
of nanosheets, when only nanoparticles were
expected. As nanosheets have an increased
surface area (and thus increased availability
of reactive sites), this may lead to developing
even faster catalysts using other materials. In
the aim to produce synthetic catalysts as fast
as natural enzymes, such improvements are
always welcome.
DOI: 10.1002/anie.201200699
Philip Kent
FELIX
Friday 18 may 2012
10
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
SCIENCE
In brief
Zara Shubber
A cheaper way to make hydrogen
Get cape. Wear cape. Beat malaria...?
Nerve cells captured with Amos’ mesolens
Brad Amos, who contributed significantly to the
development of the laser scanning confocal mi-
croscope while working at the Medical Research
Council in Cambridge, has developed a new gi-
ant microscope, the ‘Mesolens’, that allows the
imaging of an entire mouse embryo in subcellular
detail.
Amos hopes that his new Mesolens could make
imaging in developmental biology much simpler
because the lens’ huge field of view removes the
need to stitch many small images together, re-
ducing image acquisition times from a day to an
hour.
The confocal microscope, the current gold
standard in biomedical imaging, is successful
because it allows biologists to obtain an image
from inside a thick specimen, a technique known
as optical sectioning. It does this in two steps:
the sample is illuminated with a small focused
laser spot; this spot is then focused onto a tiny
hole placed in front of a camera. In this way, only
light that has come from the focused laser spot
contributes to the image. The laser spot is then
scanned around to obtain a full image.
Traditional microscope objective lenses in con-
focal systems are small, which means that only
small images can be obtained. To build an im-
age of a 6mm object, hundreds of these small
images would need to be stitched together. To
get around this, Amos had to make his lens half
a metre tall - ten or twenty times larger than a
normal microscope objective. In addition, some
of the elements inside the lens need to be posi-
tioned within micrometer-accuracy.
To manufacture something so large this ac-
curately is clearly not going to be easy. Despite
this, previous bad experiences with commercial
organisations have led Amos to attempt to manu-
facture his giant lens in his own back garden. He
hopes that the Mesolens will cost no more than
a commercial confocal microscope.
The first confocal images from the prototype
Mesolens were shown to the Royal Society in
January this year.
James Clegg
Inventor of confocal microscope
develops new giant lens
Cornell University
Hydrogen car being filled up
“People are still getting sick and dying. We
can’t get complacent. I hope my design can
show what is possible when you bring together
fashion and science and will inspire others to
keep improving the technology.”
Want to write for Felix Science?
Email us...
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk

