SCIENCE
FELIX Friday 18 may 2012 11
A recipe for disaster?
T
he online publication of a
controversial article out-
lining potentially damag-
ing data about the influ-
enza virus finally went
ahead recently, after a significant delay.
Nature, after careful deliberation, pub-
lished the paper much to the dismay of
several official bodies, after the case
was brought to a hearing in April by the
US Senate. With scientific research be-
ing increasingly hindered by outside in-
fluences, is it time to make an absolute
decision over what exactly can be pub-
lished once and for all? Or would this
be detrimental to scientific advances?
The paper, containing methodology
and data covering artificial generation
of a strain of H5N1 avian flu, that has
the ability to transmit between mam-
mals, was deemed initially unsuitable
for publication unless highly censored
by the US National Science Advisory
Board for Biosecurity (NSABB) last
November. However, such recommen-
dation was only advisory; Nature still
went ahead with the publication in full,
entitled “Experimental adaptation of an
influenza H5 HA confers respiratory
droplet transmission to a reassortant H5
HA/H1N1 virus in ferrets.”
Nature, a highly influential journal,
stated after that “A paper that omits
key results or methods disables subse-
quent research and peer review” and
as such, went ahead and published the
paper as intended, with no censorship.
The paper itself justifies the research
in the abstract, by explaining that now
the ability to create and recognise this
transmissible strain has been exercised
in full, possible pandemics can be dealt
with as time effectively as possible.
Issues involved were whether those
who repeat the investigation will be
entirely safe in their attempts, and if
there is a possibility of it escaping a lab
and infecting the public. The US Sen-
ate voiced its concerns over the extent
to which the research could be used to
aid bioterrorism should it get into the
wrong hands. Both concerns are justi-
fied, but are the best solutions simply to
keep such information under wraps?
The World Health Organisation has
been encouraged to release guidelines
about international standards for bio-
safety in laboratories, which hopefully
will minimise the risk of laboratory
based strains becoming dangerous, al-
A recent study published in the journal
Cell has identified a major genetic com-
ponent of human brain development,
with implications for research into au-
tism and schizophrenia. Scientists at
The Scripps Research Institute have
found that the gene SRGAP2, the pro-
tein product of which is responsible for
forming neuronal connections in neo-
cortical development, has undergone
two human-specific truncated duplica-
tions.
One of the duplicates has been named
SRGAP2C, and appeared in the ge-
nome about 2.4 million years ago, dur-
ing the time in which human lineage
separated from nonhuman primates
(a related paper published in the same
issue of Cell covers the recent evolu-
tion of SRGAP2). SRGAP2C interacts
with the original SRGAP2 to inhibit its
functions, delaying the maturation of
dendritic spines on pyramidal neurons.
Dendritic spines are crucial for integrat-
ing synaptic signals from other neurons.
Far from having a negative effect
on brain development, SRGAP2C ul-
timately results in a higher density of
dendritic spines on the neurons when
they mature – a human-specific trait.
Conditions like schizophrenia and au-
tism in humans feature atypical neuro-
nal connectivity; studying human-spe-
cific gene duplications like SRGAP2C
may allow such diseases to be effective-
ly modelled in mice, and unravel some
of the mysteries surrounding these and
other neurodevelopmental conditions.
DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2012.03.034
Brainy gene
Fiona Hartley
The European Space Agency (ESA) is
to lead a billion-euro mission to Jupi-
ter and its icy moons. The Jupiter Icy
Moons Explorer (JUICE) spacecraft is
scheduled to launch in 2022, arriving in
the Jupiter system in 2030.
A five-tonne satellite will be sent out
to Jupiter in order to make a series of
close measurements of the giant planet
and three of its moons: Ganymede, Cal-
listo and Europa. The satellite, packed
with instruments, will take eight years
to reach Jupiter, spend another three
years studying the system before crash-
ing into the surface of Ganymede.
UK researchers including Professor
Michele Dougherty of Imperial Col-
lege, lead scientist of the JUICE mis-
sion, played a central role in gaining
approval for the mission. The JUICE
concept was chosen over two other
ideas, NGO, which would place three
high-precision satellites in space to de-
tect gravitational waves, and Athena,
Green light for JUICE-y space mission
Sophia David
Pretty deadly: a transmission electron micrograph of the H5N1 virus (gold)
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
though no measures as of yet have been
suggested to counter possible bioterror-
ist situations.
The same sort of dilemma came
alongside stem cell research when it
started to gain popularity. Eventual
bans were placed in some countries
such as Germany and Finland over em-
bryonic stem cell use, despite results
having long term potential to make a
huge difference in medicine. Although
the issues with stem cell research were
ethical as opposed to safety-related,
both situations highlight how the gov-
ernment can take control of scientific
activities and even halt them altogether.
Legislation is made on a case by case
basis, but is it time a more universal set
of laws were put into place to protect
both the ability to advance in science
and the general public? Or is our scien-
tific understanding expanding at such a
rate that we can no longer predict what
scenarios may arise in the future?At this
point, research and its consequences are
varied as different scientific discoveries
spark different dilemmas, so perhaps a
law that fits all is unrealistic. However,
with clashes between law and science
increasing in frequency, it seems that
it may only be a matter of time before
something has got to give.
Philippa Skett weighs up the pros and cons of publishing research on H5N1
which would see the creation of the
largest X-ray telescope ever built.
Ganymede, Callisto and Europa are
all suspected to harbour deep oceans
of water below their icy crusts which
could be conducive to microbial life.
To investigate whether Jupiter and its
moons could provide habitable envi-
ronments, JUICE will study the stormy
atmosphere of Jupiter and its magnetic
and charged particle environment.
However, the main focus will be on
Ganymede, the solar system’s larg-
est moon which is 8% larger than the
planet Mercury. JUICE will make close
measurements of the surface, sub-sur-
face, magnetic and plasma environment
of the giant moon. Multiple flybys of
Callisto and two flybys of Europa will
also be performed.
Professor Dougherty said, “There
are four conditions required for life
to form. You need water; you need an
energy source – so the ice can become
liquid; you need the right chemistry –
nitrogen, carbon, hydrogen; and the
fourth thing you need is stability – a
length of time that allows life to form.
“The great thing about the icy moons
in the Jupiter system is that we think
those four conditions might exist there,
and JUICE will tell us if that is the
case.”
The final budget for JUICE is ex-
pected to be approximately 1.1bn euros.
This includes the cost of manufacturing
the spacecraft, launching the satellite
and operating it until 2033 and JUICE’s
eleven instruments.
The ESA Science Study Team for
JUICE includes researchers from Im-
perial, Oxford University, University of
Leicester and UCL. A pyrimidal neuron and dendrites
The three moons of Jupiter that JUICE will visit: Ganymede, Calisto and Europa (not to scale)

