FELIX
Friday 18 may 2012
12
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment Editors: Tim Arbabzadah
Sam Horti
COMMENT
FELIX
A
side from enthusiastic
voting, record turnouts,
balloons and chicken
suits (not the medics
mascot, another one),
this set of sabbatical elections has
been about what’s not gone accord-
ing to plan. The results for two of
the Sabbatical positions were deliv-
ered late – one because of disputes
between candidates, one because of
a technical fault and the subsequent
actions to ‘resolve’ it. There is yet to
be any formal communication from
the Union over the former or latter
– the nature of the complaints and
disputes, or what exactly had gone
wrong. When the brand sparkling new
website, stick figures, and #voteicu
are set aside, there’s one blunt truth:
the system wasn’t checked before it
went up, and nobody was on-hand to
fix problems when they arose. The
voting website did indeed work, you
could put numbers in boxes, see peo-
ple’s names and photos, and, for the
most part, manifestos (the 250-word
‘vote for me’ segment people write)
would be ‘in-line’ with their names.
But, unfortunately, in some cases you
couldn’t see their manifestos, and it
instead said ‘no manifesto submitted’,
which in some cases was incorrect,
or mixed them up for people running
for multiple positions. Not submit-
ting a manifesto can be interpreted
as not caring enough to write one, or
standing as a joke, and candidates are
given ample warning about by when it
should be written. But, this wasn’t for
all the candidates; as has been done
in the last years, when you had to go
through the extra effort of clicking on
their name to see them. One of those
affected was running for a Sabbatical
Role, and over 500 people had voted
for the DPW position (nearly 1000 in
total had voted for a variety of posi-
tions) before that problem was fixed,
11.6% of those cast in that election.
That the Returning Officer was only
made aware of the issue in the elec-
tion he was supposedly running when
told about it by that candidate as he
was walking into the office that morn-
ing (the candidate was making prepa-
rations for the charity bike auction to
be held that afternoon in Beit Quad),
is far from ideal. That no impartial
member of college staff was oversee-
ing the election, as is demanded in
the Constitution (the text by which
the Union is run and managed), was
also strange, and something that will,
hopefully, be avoided in future.
It was agreed that this wasn’t fair
on that person, it’s their employment
next year that’s at stake and this is an
issue that does actually matter to some
people, and it was decided that any-
one who voted before when his mani-
festo went ‘live’ have their vote struck
off (it was claimed that they wouldn’t
be able to vote again). This was point-
ed out to be (a) unfair on the people
whose votes were discounted (and
thereby ignored, and democracy isn’t
about that), and (b) unconstitutional,
by a number of people. He agreed to
it because he hadn’t been told about
any of the other options that had been
considered, as did all the other can-
didates.
From here, the judicial body gov-
erning the Union (whose job is to
uphold the Constitution of the body,
which one of the Sabbatical Officers
had gone against through that action)
said that (a) you can’t go against the
Constitution like that, and (b) that the
candidate was disadvantaged at no
fault of his own. It was decided that
a rerun of the election, which two of
the four candidates had asked for (one
was opposed due to having put too
much work in to do it again, the other
wasn’t present and had given no rea-
son for his absence) wasn’t possible,
and that nothing would be done about
this farce aside from measures (which
possibly should have already been in
place) being prepared so it can’t hap-
pen again.
The next day the results were re-
leased (so these decisions were come
to before any results came out and
were thus come to independent of any
result). In the first round of voting, the
The great election farce
affected candidate was only 7 votes
behind the eventual winner (out of
over 4000 cast, or under 0.2%). That
candidate ended up losing to the DPW
elect by 61 votes (so if only 31 out of
4500-odd, or under 0.7% of votes cast
had gone to the affected candidate, he
would have been the winner), leaving
it at a victory by a margin of 6% of the
disputed votes.
When he requested an apology over
the incident from the Returning Offi-
cer over (a) his manifesto not being
on the website initially (this despite
him jumping through all the hoops
required), and (b) an admittance that
it was unfair, he was refused on both
counts.
That candidate, who lost an election
that was deemed unfair on him, is me.
Why have I written this? To get the
truth about it across, given that it’s
not going to be done otherwise, and to
give it from the perspective of some-
one on the receiving end of these un-
fortunate occurrences. It’s not to spite
or antagonise anyone, more just to say
my piece about it all and move on.
Jack Hewitt
Last week Felix commented that it could be
worthwhile to focus on improving the ‘stu-
dent experience’ from within rather than
from focusing on comparison with other
universities. If anything, it has emerged
that focusing internally would indeed be
beneficial regarding the current Wilson
House hall senior situation.
With seniors originally under the impres-
sion that they would be guaranteed accom-
modation somewhere as Wilson undergoes
refurbishment next year, those that have
been recruited for the position have been
told that this could be untenable, with the
plans of many of these individuals thrown
into turmoil, and rooms potentially being
sought externally to reach the guaranteed
amount of accommodation for next year’s
intake.
At the heart of the issue, it falls to Col-
lege and what has been described as “a
severe lack of communication” on their
part with the Wardens of Imperial in order
to keep those most at risk of losing out in
the loop with ongoing developments. After
all, miscommunication on this level cannot
be, in any way, shape, or form, be benefi-
cial for the ‘student experience’.
Wardens and those holding senior posi-
tions in halls of accommodation should
be the first to be made aware of events
such as refurbishments rather than being
the first to hear of “hints”. After all, people
have chosen to live in this fashion, provid-
ing help to those who need it, and being
kept in the dark with respect to this is sim-
ply not beneficial for any kind of mutual
relationship.
Students are the first to suffer from the
lack of knowledge that their seniors and
wardens can provide. The wardening sys-
tem at Imperial is an important facet of
the community, especially for Freshers
and their adjustment to a new way of life
and independence. Anything that could po-
tentially damage the relationship between
the wardening team and students goes
to ultimately damage the ‘student experi-
ence’. It is important that during the next
stages of any potential hall closure and the
Wilson House refurbishment that there is
clear communication between the relevant
parties, and that there is full and clear .
Otherwise, dissatisfaction will be an easily
apparent prospect.
The closure of various halls of accommo-
dation that has been regularly touted as an
option throughout the year begs the ques-
tion as to why Imperial should be in this po-
sition in the first place. The circumstances
that led to a shortfall in the required rooms
for next year’s intake must be heavily
considered.
Accommodation and
Communication
Polling booth, or toilet stalls with low privacy - Caption, or satire... This shit just got meta
That the Returning
Officer was only
made aware of
the issue in the
election he was
supposedly running
when told about it
by that candidate...
is far from ideal
“
That th
That th
Officer
Officer
”
didate...
didate...
deal
dea

