COMMENT
FELIX Friday 18 MAy 2012 13
COMMENT
FELIX
T
he first twelve months of
austerity saw Tory HQ get
smashed up and students
taking to the streets in their
thousands against rising
tuition fees. Town halls were occupied
as the budgets detailing the severity of
the cuts were passed, half a million peo-
ple marched in London and hundreds of
tax dodging stores were occupied by the
direct action group UK Uncut. But re-
cently this anger has all died away and
turned to disengagement as grown men
dressed as penguins get higher votes
than the Lib Dems in local elections
which less than a third of the population
even bothered to show up to (if we’d all
rocked out maybe the penguin would
have won).
Maybe this is because we’ve realised
“there is no alternative” and decided to
stand down and bear the government
austerity. However with the Institute of
Fiscal Studies reporting that only 25%
of cuts have actually happened yet, and
with the professed economic growth
not wanting to appear, the pain has
barely begun. On top of this, over the
last 3 years the wealth of the 1000 rich-
est people increased by £155bn, greater
than the deficit over this time. This is
a mocking fact destroying any possible
perception that in any way we could
even slightly be “all in it together” as
the wealthiest amass pointless fortunes
whilst the services for the poorest are
ruthlessly closed.
Next Saturday (the 26th) the anger
that begun the anti-austerity movement
will mature into the need to celebrate
the future we could have had. UK Un-
cut has promised a summer of anti-cuts
street parties kicking off next weekend
Post exams party against austerity
in 10 different cities from Central Lon-
don to Middlesbrough. With the Jubilee
and Olympics fast approaching, and the
prediction that we should all be told to
hold good old community street parties
like we were for the royal wedding last
year, UK Uncut want us to show there
are more important things to come
together for as central roads will be
closed by thousands of people.
The last time the deficit was as high
was post war, a time also of street par-
ties. But it was also a time of progress
as the NHS was formed, welfare sup-
port began and truly affordable housing
was actually being built. With this came
a rapidly shrinking inequality gap be-
tween the richest and poorest and with
that a closing difference in education
and health. Now health inequalities are
at a level not seen since the 1920s with
men in Glasgow living on average 13
years less than those of our surrounding
Kensington and Chelsea.
The central London street party will
be leaving at 11am on Saturday the 26th
from four different locations, highlight-
ing four different areas that are being
decimated by the government unnec-
essarily, to then convene on a secret
location (see the UK uncut website for
details). There will be a bloc represent-
ing the NHS, which is being turned
into a machine for corporate profit by
the NHS reforms whilst having cuts
equivalent to the budgets of 40 large
NHS hospitals. There is one for wom-
en, to highlight how the cuts are falling
hardest on women, through higher un-
employment, the closure of children’s
services and crisis centres as well as
benefit cuts.
The welfare group will leave from
Waterloo to make a stand against the
unprecedented welfare cuts. This is
timely, with it leaking last week that
Cameron is planning to magic an extra
£25 billion pounds out of the already
bare budget. The idea of attacking the
welfare budget when there’s such high
unemployment defies logic. How can
people relinquish their “dependency”
on welfare when there are simply no
jobs to do so? People don’t seem to
understand the alternative to welfare is
mass starvation.
And finally the real democracy bloc
will meet at parliament. The Tories
promised during the election they would
look after the NHS to then promptly
start the process of ripping it apart days
later; whilst not even allowing us to
see the risk register detailing the trav-
esty they will leave behind. Combined
with this their unwillingness to engage
in criticism through withdrawing legal
aid and their avoidance of Freedom of
Information requests whilst they take
payments off big business and maintain
cosy relationships with the corporate
media mafia has lead to the true deficit
being one in democracy.
This may not seem much to party
about, but then that’s all the more rea-
son to carnival with the idea of the soci-
ety that we want. Poverty and inequal-
ity are not facts of society to which
there is no alternative, but something
people have changed before and will
change again! And so I invite you to
one of the four starting locations to join
in standing up to the cuts. People will
descend on the final secret location with
games, comedy, food to share, a vision
of the future not dependent on kicking
the poorest the hardest, music and most
importantly... bunting.
Poverty and
inequality are not
facts of society...
but something
people have
changed before
and will change
again
“
Poverty
Poverty
inequa
inequa
”
ange
ange
Luke Sheldon
Skrillex won’t be there, but if there is a YouTube video of the party there’s
sure to be a comment about how he “sucks major donkey dick”
Give Boris bikes a chance
I
should be on Transport for Lon-
don’s pay roll. Why? Because the
times that I have helped people
release bikes from Boris’ blue
stands are innumerable. The peo-
ple requiring assistance are mostly tour-
ists, whom I often have little patience
with. So what is it that makes their plight
so important to me?
I love Boris bikes, but I’m the first to
admit that there is nothing user friend-
ly about them; I can’t stand the sight
of people excitedly parting with their
money only to get stuck trying to re-
lease a bike. The first stumbling block,
of course, is conveying your credit or
debit card details. This acts as a sort of
deposit. If you’re American and don’t
own a card with a chip in it, you’re stuck
immediately. Even if you do have a chip
in your card, the machine can take a dis-
liking to it – my debit card falls into this
category. If you’re lucky though, you’ll
be issued with a bicycle release and then
have a limited amount of time to grab a
bike. Sounds easy doesn’t it? Well, the
problem is that if a bike has a red light
illuminated by it, it will NEVER be re-
leased, no matter how many times you
correctly type in the code. Pushing in a
pound coin where the membership key is
supposed to go doesn’t help either. Since
no one ever seems to grasp these things
first time, this results in many an unaided
tourist’s downfall.
If TfL were ever to recognise my ser-
vices to Boris bikes, I would use it as an
opportunity to air my views about buses.
If I get on one of these splendid vehicles
and it says it’s going to Battersea Bridge
South Side, only to tell me two stops
later that it’s changed its final destination
to somewhere I could have easily walked
to in half the amount of time, I get angry.
This happens to me too frequently and I
know the drill. You end up paying twice.
There surely is an easy way around this,
for instance they could issue you with
a slip allowing you to get on the next
bus for free. And provide free coffee for
those poor people who tried the bus only
after the bikes failed them…
So, should we bother dwindling our
money on buses and bikes? In this ever-
persistent rain, buses’benefits surely out-
weigh their short fallings. But come the
summer, whenever that may be, do try
to get a Boris bike. If you’re successful:
cycle through the park along the south of
the Serpentine, west to east. Yes it is like
the M25 at rush hour, but at other times it
is one of the most scenic and best experi-
ences TfL has to offer.
Stephanie Walton
Dear Sir,
I would like to nominate Pro-
fessor Chris Toumazou FRS
FREng for the vacant position
of President of Imperial Col-
lege and Professor Donnal
Bradley CBE FRS for Provost.
Chris is a front man with great
people skills and would be ide-
al for the external affairs role.
Donnal has the right blend
of academic and managerial
experience for the internal af-
fairs portfolio.
Yours faithfully,
Mark Lee
Materials (1986-1989)
Letter to the Editor
Send your pieces in to:
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk

