Last week was unusual in politics, with a poli-
tician making a clear statement about their po-
sition on what to some is considered a contro-
versial topic. Barack ‘Big O’ Obama clarified
what he had previously described as his evolv-
ing attitudes to same-sex marriage, finally say-
ing in an interview on US channel ABC,
“It is important for me to go ahead and
affirm that I think same sex couples should
be able to get married.”
With this action Obama has become the first
sitting US president to support gay marriage
and has received a large amount of praise from
America’s gay community. While Obama has
historically been reticent on his opinion on
gay marriage, some thought that the potential
political fallout might have caused him to stay
his hand. However with his work on repealing
the “Don’t Ask Don’t Tell” policy in 2011 he
has been seen by many as friendly to the no-
tion of gay marriage, if not an open supporter.
However Obama has always expressed that
his Christian belief has made him difficult to
instantly accept the concept of gay marriage,
although he revealed last week that his wife
had a hand in his final acceptance. The Presi-
dent has clarified that this is his personal view,
not a federal position and he will not interfere
with how the states choose to form their leg-
islation.
Unlike the assumed impulsive leap, this
viewpoint seems to have developed slowly,
with his first step being removing the HIV
travel ban, a move that had been initiated by
the outgoing George W. Bush. Then as well as
repealing the DADTAct, he and several senior
officials declared that the Defense of Marriage
Act (which defines marriage as the union be-
tween one man and one woman) was unconsti-
tutional and pressured the Justice Department
to stop defending said law.
However, some people believe that Obama’s
decision to publicly show his support for
same-sex marriage was purely a calculated
political move. Since his Vice President Joe
Biden has announced his own support for
same-sex marriages earlier in the week, so a
few people have suggested that Obama was
forced to come up with a public response, lest
he lose favour in the upcoming elections. Oth-
ers have remarked that the Obama 2012 Presi-
dential campaign is running with less energy
than the 2008 campaign due what may seem
as a disappointing track record as President
compared to the hopes stirred by is previous
image as a fresh –faced senator and bringer of
change. It is implied that by supporting gay
marriage the Obama campaign might attract
more of the youth vote which gave it the mo-
mentum that carried it to the White House,
especially since it is a subject, which is sup-
ported much more by the younger generations
than the more politically static older genera-
tions.
The Obama campaign denies all accusa-
tions of political manoeuvring, insisting that
One small step for POTUS
Seriously, there’s a moth behind you! I’m just lookin’ out for you...
the President had in fact made his decision
some time ago and had planned to express
his views to the public closer to the election,
however they admitted that they felt the epi-
sode with Joe Biden and the resulting media
pressure had forced their hand.
While Obama’s thoughts on same-sex mar-
riage are personal, as the President of the
United States his opinions do carry serious
weight both domestically and internationally.
In the United States gay marriage laws are de-
cided on a state-by-state basis, with 6 states
along with the District of Columbia (Wash-
ington D.C.) currently have laws which al-
low same-sex marriage while other state laws
range from accepting civil unions to a com-
plete. Most recently the state of North Caro-
lina approved an amendment to their consti-
tution (by a majority of 22% of votes) that
banned same-sex marriages and other unions,
adding to their statutory ban.
As one politician steps forward, it seems an-
other steps back. Disappointment struck the
UK’s gay community when in the Queen’s
Speech in the House of Lords there was no
mention of the expected bill on same-sex
marriage. It seems while David Cameron is
in favour of legalising gay-marriage, after a
beating in local elections a fortnight ago and
firm dissention from the Tory grassroots, his
government has decided to put the issue on
the backburner along with the House of Lords
reform, preferring to focus on less controver-
sial topics.
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Politics Editors: Joseph Letts
Rajat Jain
POLITICS
FELIX Friday 18 MAY 2012 15
Obama’s evolution of thought on same-sex marriage
European Troubles
politics.felix@ic.ac.uk
Got something to say? Send your articles to:
Joseph Letts
Not so cozy anymore?
Last week French citizens in South Kensington,
France and the rest of the world voted eagerly to
bring the reign of Nicolas Sarkozy to an end, repla-
ceing him with new French President François Hol-
lande in what to some may seem as a vote of no
confidence for Europe’s austerity plans. Hollande,
leader of the Socialist Party has immediately be-
gun to make waves in what is an already turbulent
time in Eurpoean politics. As well as seeking to re-
nege on Sarkozy’s agreement with the rest of Eur-
poe tying France into a path of austerity, he also
has not let go of plans to tax high earners with a
€1m pay packet by 75%. As well as piddling over
Chancellor Merkel and former President Sarkozy’s
method for recovering Europe’s debt and saving
the Euro he has also criticized the UK for placing
too much hope on our financial services industry,
signalling support for an EU-wide tax on financial
transactions and a push for tax harmonisation.
REUTERS / Joshua Roberts
Rory Fenton
Greek Tragedy
After an attempt by
the temporary tech-
nocratic Greek gov-
ernment to reduce
government spend-
ing and follow the
terms of their bail-
out loans, the Greek
people showed their
displeasure by an
uneven spread of
votes in the recent
elections. With no
party receiving a
marjority and talks
between parties
looking to form a coalition government falling flat,
a new election is set to be called sometime in the
near future. Keep an eye out for the New Democ-
racy party (Greece’s major conservative party) who
won the most votes in the last election, as well as
Syriza (the Radical Coalition of the Left) who came
second in the elections, but are adamant to reject
the bailout.
Joseph Letts
Same-sex marriage
in the US of A
Legal – New York, Massachusetts,
Connecticut, Iowa, Vermont, and
New Hampshire, District of Colum-
bia, the Coquille Indian Tribe, and
the Suquamish tribe
Civil Partnerships and similar
unions – California, Colorado, Dela-
ware, Hawaii, Maine, Maryland, Ne-
vada, Oregon, Rhode Island, Wis-
consin, Illinois, Washington and New
Jersey
Banned/ Not Legal – Alabama,
Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Colora-
do, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Idaho,
Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisi-
ana, Michigan, Minnesota, Missis-
sippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska,
North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio,
Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South
Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee,
exas, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia,
Wisconsin, Wyoming
Is this the queue to topple Sarkozy and wipe
that smug smile from his face? I would just
prefer somebody taller, that’s all

