T
hroughout history a number of
great artists have also been sci-
entists. “Anton Tchekhov himself
was a practicing physician” Has-
san Abdualrazzak, researcher at
Imperial College and playwright tells me in
the Junior Common Room at Imperial where
we met for the interview. He continues to say
that scientists make good playwrights due to
the huge analytical skills needed to write a
good script. This may go against the stereo-
type that scientists are rigorous, working only
from hard facts while artists are eccentric, run
by their emotions and impulses, however as
many before him Hassan has disproven this
stereotype by remaining a successful scien-
tist whilst producing award winning work.
His first play “Bagdad Wedding” was wildly
praised, premiering at London’s Soho the-
atre, and also reproduced by BBC Radio 3, as
well as in theatres in Sydney and New York.
Bagdad Wedding focuses on the lives of three
professional Iraqis. The play moves between
London and Bagdad where the wedding of
the main character, Salim, a doctor and writer
of adult fiction is taking place. On the way to
the wedding Salim’s cousins fire gunshots up
into the sky (a traditional occurrence at Iraqi
weddings), attracting the attention of Ameri-
can soldiers. Believed to be a terrorist, Salim
is captured and tortured. The play starts with
Salim’s death; his friend, Marwan, looks back
at their relationship and how they met at Impe-
rial College as students. Hassan tells me that
one of the scenes in the play takes place at the
base of Queen’s Tower where Marwan and
his love interest Luma, an outgoing, energetic
Iraqi medical student, are talking about the
tower and admiring it. Luma returns to Iraq af-
ter her father’s death to practice medicine in an
under-equipped hospital. One of the themes in
the play is her adjusting to her new job which
requires her doing things such as putting on a
hijab in order to fit in.
The main concern of the play, and possibly
of Hassan’s upcoming work in the depiction
of his characters, which shows ordinary Iraqi
people educated, interested in art and lead-
ing seemingly normal lives, contradicts com-
mon beliefs and images from the media that
only show the disaster, tragedy and religious
fanaticism. Hassan’s characters drink, work,
fall in love and have insecurities. They are
seemingly alive and human in every possible
manner. The ability to capture the multiple
layers of humanity combined with telling
history by depicting everyday life may be
FELIX
Friday 18 may 2012
18
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal
ARTS
believe it I received a handwritten letter with
his home address printed on it!” Hassan tells
me with excitement. Having also included a
sample of his writing in it, Hassan mentions
that Pinter’s letter had been encouraging. He
also declares that he would like to write in a
more abstract manner, although his two up-
coming plays are both realistic and political.
The first one he mentions is A Fire Blaz-
ing Brightly, a bigger, more “epic” play, once
more set between London and Iraq, that he
hopes will be bought by one of London’s
larger theatre companies. The second play,
titled The Prophet, and premiering on the
14th of June at London’s Gate Theatre came
about differently: artistic director, Christo-
pher Haydon commissioned Hassan to write
a play about the “Arab Spring” with Egypt
as its focus. The international reputation of
The Gate is one of the main reasons for Hay-
don’s choice of Hassan, as instead of bring-
ing in and translating European plays, he had
found an international writer in the UK: “ I
was born in Prague, I grew up a little bit in
Bagdad, I grew up a little bit in Egypt, Nige-
ria… and then I came here. Because of my
background, I ‘qualify’ for a theatre like The
Gate”, Hassan explains.
Hassan continues by describing the plot
of The Prophet and how he and Hayden had
bounced ideas off one another until coming
up with the concept of using the metaphor
of a couple – Leila and Hisham – trapped in
their marriage, to describe the situation in
Egypt, a country trapped by Mubarak’s rule
and unable to move forward. The play fol-
lows a day in the life of this couple: that day
is the 28th of January 2011, the start of the
Egyptian revolution. According to Hassan;
“Most people say the revolution started on
January 25th, but the 25th was a small dem-
onstration; on Friday 28th over one million
people came out on the street, and that’s re-
ally when the revolution properly began.”
Who could have guessed that in the labs
of Imperial such a theatre talent was hid-
den? Hassan is not only ambitious and hard-
working, he is also down to earth. As a treat
for the theatre enthusiasts at Imperial Hassan
has arranged discounted tickets; all you need
to do is call up The Gate and say the word
‘Iraq’ to get a discounted ticket of £10 until
the 28 June!
The Prophet runs at the Gate Theatre,
Notting Hill, from 14 June to 21 July. See
www.gatetheatre.co.uk for more details.
one of the main reasons for his success as a
playwright.
Growing up in a family of academics and
intellectuals Hassan thought his uncle, a
novelist, to have the most interesting job of
all. As a child he had seen the uncle work
on old typewriters, manuscripts being almost
holy mystified objects, out of reach and touch
for his young hands. As a boy he had writ-
ten stories in Arabic, his mother tongue, and
had considered pursuing writing as a career.
However, upon leaving Iraq and arriving to
the UK at the age of thirteen he was led into
the path of science because his English was
not developed enough and he was unable
to take courses such as English literature at
GCSE. Throughout the years, and as his Eng-
lish improved, he took up writing again. At
first, it was short stories he would show to
no one, except maybe a trusted friend. In the
meantime he received a PhD from UCL and
proceeded to work at Imperial as a postdoc
in stem cell research. He went to Harvard for
a short while on a one-year contract, but his
stay there was cut short after 9/11 because
he no longer felt safe staying in the country.
When asked about where he gets his in-
spiration from, he mentioned names such as
Arthur Miller, Kafka and British playwright
Anthony Neilson, who according to Hassan
writes “dark twisted funny plays, that are
almost like fairy tales for adults”. Hassan,
being a humble person, proceeded to tell
me about how he had chosen to write a let-
ter to Harold Pinter in the ‘90s after reading
his book opposing the first Iraq invasion in
‘91; “I have to write him a letter I thought,
it doesn’t matter if he doesn’t answer, so I
wrote a letter to the publisher and would you
“Hassan’s characters
drink work, fall in love
and have insecurities.”
Prophet and Loss
Taiba Suddek talks to Hassan Abdulrazzak, one of IC’s
own, about his new play exploring the Arab Spring
“He continues to say
that scientists make
good playwrights”
Competition Winners
Having waded through the tens of entries and
after several heated debates late into the night
over who should win, the Editor selected the win-
ner of our π-curious competition. So we’d like to
congratulate Georgie Graham on her winning en-
try, for which she receives tickets for herself and a
friend to see π-curious herself at The Bloomsbury
Theatre on 21 May.
Special commendation must also go to Jane Lang-
don-Davies, Achuthan Balasingam and William
Smith, samples of whose work below, along with
Georgie’s winning haiku.
The winner is...
Sex life is constant.
Study at Imperial:
Differentiate.
...and some of the best:
Open interval
Impulse expensive ice-cream
Without its endpoints
A Mobius strip
Is not orientable.
Idea for a boob tube.
Real analysis
Is a really hard subject.
I’m doomed for exams.
Tax on my pasty.
David Cameron is a git.
Pie remains constant.
A Pretty Titty
Like Poisson Distribution
Imagination
Homeomorphism.
Mum said I should’ve done French.
Wish I had listened.
Big up Team GB.
But wait! in cinemas now,
my film, Men in Black.
Ready for exams,
I have bossed the problem sheets:
Go hard or go home.
Dr. Hassan Abdulrazzak

