5/4 Respect: A Tribute
to Math Rock
MUSIC
FELIX
Friday 18 MaY 2012
20
music.felix@gmail.com
Music Editors: Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Ross Gray Mark England
Alex Ramadan
Simon Hunter
F
irst off, I apologise for the lateness
of this article. I felt that the eulogy
of such an important figure wasn’t a
writing to be rushed. Adam Yauch,
better known as MCA, passed away
on the 4th May, aged 47. His death immediately
sent ripples through the world; statuses and
tweets lamenting the loss of such a talent, along
with simple R.I.P.s, abounded as soon as the
news hit. If you want to read a eulogy that mine
could never live up to, check http://beastieboys.
com/. A New York native, MCA’s music career
really started when he founded a hardcore punk
group known as Beastie Boys.
It’s not hard to see the influence that their
years as a hardcore group had on the Beastie
Boys sound. Their debut album, Licensed To
Ill (1986), was perhaps the first example of
“rap-rock” in history. Breaking through as the
first white rap group of any note, Licensed To
Ill went platinum – the first ever rap album to
do so - and then some, although it was attacked
by some critics and die-hard hip-hop fans as be-
ing culture pirating; the Beastie Boys viewed
as Frat-boy and macho. This album, and many
(if not all) of their later releases would become
staples in every suburban white kid’s musical
life story.
Constantly penetrating into my and, I assume,
your lives, Beastie Boys produced some of the
most ubiquitous riffs, samples and rhymes in
history, including the hilarious ‘Fight For Your
Right’: a parody on the moronic hard rock being
churned out at the time, meatheads still turned
up their gigs and went mental, not realising they
were being lampooned. Perhaps even more fa-
mous, what party is complete without surfaces
and bottles being smashed in a ruckus incited by
‘No Sleep Till Brooklyn’? Or, in the case of my
social circle, five of us drunkenly shouting the
lyrics and kicking things while everyone else at
the wine tasting looked on in disgust. Perhaps
it’s solely due to the release date but I found
To The 5 Boroughs (2004) to be particularly
prominent throughout my early teenage years,
especially the nerdy rhymes laid down within
‘Ch-Check it Out’. The explosive opening
rhymes of ‘Intergalactic’ (Hello Nasty, 1998)
are also permanently burned into my memory
from Beastie Boys’ brief appearance (actually
not featuring Yauch, sadly) on Futurama.
Many of their most successful singles were
accompanied by phenomenal videos. Above
mentioned ‘Intergalactic’ features a giant robot
destroying a city by popping while the boys
rap, and was directed, along with other greats
such as ‘Body Movin’’, ‘So Watcha Want’, and
‘Ch-Check it Out’ by MCA under his pseud-
onym Nathanial Hörnblowér. MCA was
heavily involved in film, running a New York
R.I.P. Adam Yauch
City independent distribution company, Os-
cilloscope Laboratories. As if this still wasn’t
enough contribution to the world, he was also
an active Buddhist, and campaigned heavily to
free Tibet. Instead of focusing on the negatives
of losing a great artist, rapper, and all-round per-
son, I propose that we all take an hour out of
revision season to stick on our favourite (if you
don’t have one, now seems like an ideal time to
get one) Beastie Boys album and pay homage to
the one and only MCA.
Ross Grayremembers the legendary MCA ofBeastie Boy fame
Don Caballero have adopted a wide range of
sounds (and line-ups) over the years, but arguably
it was their early albums that were the most infuen-
tial. They are one of many math bands, and most
certainly the best, to have come from Pittsburgh.
The band first formed in 1991 with Damon Che
on drums, Mike Banfield on guitar and Pat Morris
on bass. Ian Williams joined the band a year later.
A highly revered drummer, affectionately known
as ‘the octopus’, Che was a large reason for the
band’s success. It was his use of unusual time
signatures, switching between them at a split sec-
ond’s notice that allowed them to adopt the math
rock sound and produce some of its best work. It
is only fitting perhaps that Che is the only constant
member. They released their debut album, For
Respect, the next year. The band, who had initially
planned to hire a singer, remained instrumental
due to their success without one. The album was
characterised by a beefy crunch of guitars and big
riffs with occasional more relaxing moments. For
any other band, this would be their opus, but with
subsequent releases, Don Caballero 2 and What
Burns Never Returns, they expanded their sound,
adding more melodic touches, but maintaining the
experimental time signatures and even making
them more technically challenging.
Despite their immense talent as a creative unit,
their work was made with a seemingly revolving
door of bassists and eventually, in 1998, Mike Ban-
field left the band. Instead of replacing him, Don
Cab took the bold move of remaining as a trio and
using Akai headrush loop stations to compensate
for Banfield’s absence. Thus, American Don was
made, an album that continues their previous di-
rection, with some very catchy riffs and meandering
soundscapes. This album reminds me a lot of the
work Williams would go on to do with Battles. How-
ever, as with every other Don Cab line up, it came
to an end, when Williams and Che fell out.
The band was finished until 2003, when Che as-
sembled an all new line up. Normally a recipe for
disaster, this actually led to an album of just as
much quality as their previous efforts, World Class
Listening Problem. Che’s impressive fills remained,
along with a very talented band playing around
them, formed from fellow Pitsburghers, Creta Bour-
zia. Finally, they released another album in 2008,
Punkgasm, everybody’s least favourite Don Cab al-
bum, featuring unpopular attempts at vocals. How-
ever, mini epic, ‘Loudest Shop Vac in the World’ is
worth admission alone.
In short, if you like your music intelligent, catchy
and technically proficient or are just curious to hear
the band that spawned Ian Williams, you can get a
serious kick out of Don Caballero.
Riaz Agahi
Pt. III - Don Caballero
Howler rip upThe Garage
With the NME/Q provided hype train fully
derailed circa February, exactly how much
‘howl’ do the Minneapolitans still have? To
my surprise on a tepid Tuesday night in High-
bury, ‘the pseudo-strokes’ still have some fire
left in their collective belly.
Support was offered by four piece Canadian
indie rock outfit Hooded Fang who were by
all accounts, rather good. Dynamic from the
start and easily catching the slowly building
crowd’s attention (and keeping it) as they
blitzed through some powerful up tempo pop-
py-rock numbers. An act to look out for down
the bill in the festival circuit over the summer.
As Howler come on to the stage (uncharac-
teristically on time) it is not hard to see why so
many comparisons have been drawn with the
NYC post-punk indie godfathers I alluded to
at the beginning of the article. From the way-
farers lazily drooped over lead singer Jordan
Gatesmith’s doe eyes to the seemingly multi-
plying bottles of San Miguel lazily drooped
over the stage, the aesthetic parallels with Ju-
lian and co. are patent. At the risk of annoying
Howler, you and myself anymore, I will no
longer refer to The Strokes in the article.
Despite the ominous signs of inebriation,
they open the set with a spotless rendition
of ‘Wailing (Making Out)’ which immedi-
ately works the crowd into fervour. Beads
of sweat are easily visible amongst the audi-
ence by the time the count in for the second
track ‘America’ has begun. The tracks from
their debut, America Give Up, which has been
on the shelves for five months now, lack the
freshness that endeared them to critics and
record label executives alike last summer but
due to the catchy nature of the drawn out gui-
tar melody’s and relentless enthusiasm shown
by the band itself (despite the lead guitarist
admittedly recovering from a nasty bout of
shingles) the entire room is very much en-
gaged. Particular highlights of the set are the
crescendo building ‘Beach Sluts’, alt-rock
ballad ‘Too Much Blood’ and Mustang-riding
‘Pythagorean Fearem’. Jordan keeps a good
rapport with the crowd, even at liberty to dis-
cuss where he acquired his burgundy chinos
to the more inquisitive members of the audi-
ence.
The set flies by and I found myself checking
the watch in disbelief as they announced set
closer and single ‘Back Of Your Neck’, but
thanks to some timely stage invading and a
little help from Hooded Fang guitarist, they
manage to muster up an eventful encore with
a new unnamed track. By the time they have
exhausted every last bit of material and on-
stage booze they have, the band look almost
as disappointed as the crowd as they vacate
the stage.
Although the potential of Howler is hardly
bursting at the seams anymore they still have
a lot to offer in terms of a good old fashioned
rock n’ roll live experience. With eyes firmly
fixed ahead and talk of a new album already
rippling amongst the remaining faithful, the
boys from Minnesota aren’t done yet.
Simon Clark
Adam Yauch (8.5.1964 – 5.4.2012)
Check out Howler at some festivals this year including Benicassim and Latitude

