The Royal College of Radiologists – Free Public Lecture
Radiation & smart drugs:
Homing in on cancer’s Achilles’ heel
Date: Monday 18 June 2012
Time: 6.30pm - 7.30pm
Location: The Wellcome Collection, Euston
For further venue information and location please click here
We warmly invite you to attend a free public lecture hosted by The Royal College of
Radiologists on Monday 18 June 2012.
We are delighted to welcome Dr Kevin Harrington from The Institute of Cancer
Research, who will give this lecture on ‘Radiation & smart drugs: Homing in on
cancer’s Achilles’ heel’.
“In the last two decades, we have begun to understand the
importance of genes in preventing and causing cancer. As
part of this process, we have identified specific abnormalities
in cancer cells that make them very different from normal
cells. Importantly, some of these changes (or mutations) in
cancer cells make them resistant to the standard treatments,
such as radiation and chemotherapy, that have been used for
many years. However, because cancer cells come to rely on
these mutations to allow them to survive, grow and spread,
they represent a potential weak spot in a tumour’s defences.
Therefore, by developing new drugs that attack cancer cells
through their Achilles’ heel, we may be able to improve the
effects of radiotherapy in treating a range of tumour types. In
this lecture, I will discuss a number of examples that are
already allowing us to achieve better treatment results and will
introduce others that hold enormous promise for the future.”
Dr Kevin Harrington, The Institute of Cancer Research
If you would like to join us for this lecture please RSVP to
rcrlecture@rcr.ac.uk. For further information please call Joanna
Humphries on 020 7299 1130.
Will of the week
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2012.
Editor-in-Chief Matthew Colvin Editor-in-Prowling Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Charles Betts News Editors Sophia David Alex Nowbar Reporters Aemun Reza Maciej Matuszewski Jonathan Peek
Features Editors Katy Bettany Stephen Smith Sports Editor Indy Leclercq Sports Rookies Gabriel Oppetit Johnny Wong Science Editors Kelly Oakes Alexander Karapetian Business & Finance Editors
Will Prince Deepka Rana Politics Editors Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Technology Editors Chris Bowers Feroz Salam Comment Editors Tim Arbabzadah Samuel Horti Arts Editors Will Prince Eva Rosenthal
Music Editors Mark England Ross Gray Simon Hunter Íñigo Martínez De Rituerto Alex Ramadan Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen Alice Yang Television Editors George Barnett James Simpson Film
Editors John Park Lucy Wiles Games Editor Laurence Pope Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Food Editors Anastasia Eleftheriou Michael Krestas Travel Editors Dushi Arumuganesan Chris Richardson
Online Editors Philip Kent Jonathan Kim Puzzles Admiral James Hook Photo Editor Miles Robertson Copy Editors Carol Ann Cheah Philip Kent Jonathan Peek Annina Sartor Honorary Copy Editor Jack
Hewitt
What’s on We need Classifieds.
HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
Friday 18 may 2012
2
The cancer genome: an
autobiography
A. de Rothschild LT, 2nd Floor
St Mary’s Campus
22 May 17:00-18:00
Brains, trains and
automobiles
Professor Stephen Gen-
tleman talks about the
link between traumatic
brain injury and neuro-
degenerative disorders
such as Alzheimer’s. Tea
and coffee will be served
from 16.45 in the Reyn-
olds Building. Open to
all. Registration required
in advance. Contact
k.weeks@imperial.ac.uk
to register.
Glenister Lecture Theatre
Charing Cross Campus
22 May 17:30-18:30
Programmable light
Learn how the manipulation of light using comput-
er programs is opening up a world of new optical
techniques at Professor Mark Neil’s inaugural.
LT1, Blackett
South Kensington Campus
23 May 17:30-18:30
Peter Campbell of the Wellcome Trust Sanger In-
stitute: Hinxton, delivers a lecture on encoded
DNA. Followed by a wine reception. Open to all,
contact l.hollick@imperial.ac.uk for further infor-
mation.
We know that it’s Exam Season,
but surely someone must need to
sell something? Or need some-
thing in general?
The Classifieds Section is feel-
ing a little lonely. If you can help,
email felix@imperial.ac.uk.
 
    #,,,
 –  $#
Join us for the biggest street collection ever - help to raise funds to
address the issues that face young London.
Flash mobs, singing and busking, be part of this historic event.
Come for the whole day or an hour - we need you.
Date: 21st JUNE 2012 What to do: Collect or Busk
Time: To suit you Venue: City of London
Follow: Alexandra Rose Youth Project
@ARC1912
SIGN UP: www.alexandrarosecharities.org.uk Alexandra Rose Charities
1912-2012

