MUSIC
FELIX Friday 18 MAY 2012 21
Breaking the frame
Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto dissects Surgeon’s latest
album ahead of his appearance at Bloc
Reviewed in 60
seconds
S
urgeon has been a staple of the ware-
house scene since his early involve-
ment in the depths of techno at the
turn of the 90s. His sound, and that
of those he has influenced, is what
you might imagine tearing through the night
deep in between the concrete walls of some dis-
used building. While the musical influences cited
include industrial and krautrock pioneers such
as Faust and Whitehouse, inspiration from the
visual and literary works of David Lynch and
William S. Burroughs are immediately appar-
ent in the obsessive monotony and enveloping
pscyhoacoustics of his records.
This is endurance techno. The very essence that
defined the dance music underground. A blurry
soundtrack for questionable encounters on dark,
smokey dance floors. No sun glasses, no glow
sticks, just the throbbing undertones of a stub-
born kick drum and gargantuan bass. This is tran-
scendental dance music for introverts. A dose for
zealous party-goers who would rather stare at the
bright light and let the sound consume them.
Yet with his Nth release and already 6th full-
length album, Surgeon has done exactly what
he says on the tin, Breaking the Frame. More
than just a techno record, this is a document of
transcendence. The attested mold of heavy 4/4 is
buried beneath an archaic craft of electro-acoustic
magnificence. The kick drums sound like smash-
ing concrete blocks with your head. The harmon-
ics, when they appear, are a tear through the heav-
ens, somewhere between a burning sitar and a
crying machine. It is the sound of industrial music
post-Blade Runner. If Gaspar Noé’s psychotropic
epic Enter the Void were set in Mordor, you might
have found the Uruk-Hai pulling shapes to this.
The ominous atmosphere that permeates the
hour is apparent from the start. After the gener-
ous introductory swathes of ‘Dark Matter’, track
two sets off with a bassline that bubbles like an
octopus throwing a tantrum. This weight which
has become such a signature of Surgeon’s pro-
ductions is also painfully apparent in the sparse
tribal drum which runs throughout ‘The Power of
Doubt’and in the cascading frenzy of ‘Radiance’.
However, his inner ear for complex yet subtle
rhythms has really expanded on this record, as
he delves in the space between the numerous
polyrhythms which rear themselves the length of
a single track. Their juxtaposition with the pum-
meling 4/4 gives these instances room to breathe
and melt into one another. This is best character-
ised by the first track on side C, ‘Presence’, which
opens with a stuporous breath of a kick, before
the tantric cycles of an Oriental string instrument
wraps around the listener like an enchanted snake
disappearing in fog.
Whether he has sampled an Indian hurdy-gurdy
or a Balinese gamelan or simply mirrored them in
his own studio remains a mystery.The sheer pres-
enceofthesesoundsisoverwhelming.Theyseem
to envelop you and take hold, removing you from
your physical environment and elevating you to
some other space. After the mesmerising cycles
of ‘Presence’ disappear in a sudden drop, the 6
minute interlude ‘WeAreAlready Here’disperses
the air in an unfamiliar cacophony of infinite bells
and stained glass.
The closing track ‘Not-Two’is something of an
opus. As if walking back into the piercing light
after an out of body trip, field recordings of bum-
per cars and arcade games in a carnival give you
a somewhat drunken feeling before they suddenly
disappear again under a blanket of drawn-out
choirs and eternal ringing. Scenes from the movie
Enter the Void come back to mind. An inebriated
introduction to The Tibetan Book of the Dead, in a
room decorated by abstracted streaks of paint, just
before another hit and a trip down the rabbit-hole.
Honest Jon’s Records have recently released
this EP and all the others from the Meet Shan-
gaan Electro series on CD. Also featuring con-
tributions from the likes of Actress and Oni Ay-
hun, these tracks lend a new light to the spirit
of Shangaan, a ridiculously upbeat style of tribal
dance music from Southern Africa.
Demdike Stare deliver perhaps their most
sober bass line to date, while the drums haunt
like a paranoia, reminding of midnight rituals in-
volving the skulls of ancestors and very heavy
liquids. The second take, or ‘Version’ in dub
talk, loses the drums in favour of more vexing
atmosphere, set by obsessive chants and dis-
tant birds.
Hype Williams’s offering opens with a hypnotic
reggae jerk under dropping drums. Not long af-
ter the first cries of Muscovite Inga Copeland,
the sleepy bassline falls and lulls the remainder
of the track, amidst confessions of “Never felt a
day when I don’t look back...”
Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
★★★★✩
Demdike Stare/Hype
Williams
Meet Shangaan Electro
2012
In this, their third album, the Hackney based boys
move in a slightly different direction. Many of Por-
tico Quartet’s trademark sounds are used more
sparingly; searing soprano saxophone lines riding
over the blissful hang melodies are less preva-
lent than in Knee Deep in the North Sea or Isla,
replaced instead by various synthesised efforts.
I think it was right for the band to move in this
direction as there was little room to manoeuvre
with the sound that they had forged on their first
two albums. However the final product isn’t quite
accomplished to the level with which artists like
Bonobo fuse the organic with the electronic.
Don’t get me wrong, this is a good album, but
I’m left wondering how good this could have been
had they really nailed the fusion of their amazing
musicianship with the extra dimension electonic
noises can bring.
Simon Hunter
★★★✩✩
Portico Quartet
Portico Quartet
2012
HMV Forum
Be sure not
to miss...
White Denim
White Denim are one of the best live
bands around at the minute; the com-
bination of their raucous garage rock
and their Texan charm will definitely
win you over. Their music flows from
dirty, scuzzy rock to (dare say it) free
jazz. Recent album D has been a hit
with the critics and they will want to
give it the send off it deserves.
Bloc Competition
Well done to the winner of the Bloc Weekender
tickets: Jesse Felix
We will email you soon to confirm details.
Commisserations to all those of you who entered.
If it makes you feel any better, everyone got the
correct answer.
Mark England
Two gigs battle for your
attention on Tuesday 22nd
May
The Shacklewell Arms
Micachu
Watch Micachu’s debut DJ set (her
of Micachu and the Shapes fame)
as she supports Emika at this trendy
East London venue. She is a classi-
cally trained musician but is known
best for her wonky electronic pop
performed with crazy instruments
made from vacuums and broken
bottles.
Surgeon’s year 6 art project, aged 11

