FELIX
Friday 18 MAY 2012
22
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
FILM
Depp & Burton: a match made in heaven
Dark Shadows, currently out in cinemas, marks the eighth collaborative effort between one of Hol-
lywood’s most versatile, talented leading men – Johnny Depp – with his boss/friend/director – Tim
Burton. And in honouring their batch of wonderfully weird, eerily eccentric movies, Felix Film takes
a look at their lengthy filmography
5. Corpse Bride (2005)
Burton had always been interested in the animation genre, giv-
en his involvement in various projects such as The Nightmare
Before Christmas, James and the Giant Peach, and Mars Attacks!
but his first full-length, stop-motion film came with this one.
After a wedding proposal practice in the woods goes wrong, an
unlucky groom-to-be (Depp) unwittingly gets himself engaged to
a corpse bride (Helena Bonham Carter). He’s not so sure about
this sudden development, but she appears to be hopelessly
devoted to him. There are bizarre yet charming moments as the
unlikely couple start sharing a genuine connection.
1. Edward Scissorhands (1990)
It started back here with Depp and Burton, with Depp being cast
in his debut Burton role after Tom Cruise, Tom Hanks, Robert
Downey Jr., and William Hurt were all considered for the role. The
transformation Depp undergoes may frighten some, but there
is a much richer, incredibly touching love story that runs under
the tale of an artificial creation with scissors for its hands. Bur-
ton was initially unfamiliar with Depp’s previous roles but thank
heavens the quiet yet sympathy-arousing Depp was chosen for
the role. Because without this feature, there might not have been
the 7 more films from this unique pairing.
4. Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (2005)
Leave it to Burton to turn a beloved childhood bedtime story
into a visually dazzling, somewhat creepy adaptation. Aside from
the fact that Depp looks like a disturbing man-child luring chil-
dren into his enormous factory, Burton’s family-friendly outing is
a vibrant, colourful and energetic piece of work that works de-
spite the lead actor’s distracting performance. One of the main
strengths here is the young Freddie Highmore, who was picked
after Depp’s recommendation (the two had previously worked
together in Finding Neverland), in the role of Charlie, providing
the effective, sweet, central emotional core.
7. Alice in Wonderland (2010)
Arguably the weakest offering from the Depp/Burton team,
while you cannot deny the oddly brilliant portrayal of The
Mad Hatter from the consistently reliable Depp (but the less
that is said of that silly little dance at the end, the better),
Burton’s portrayal of Wonderland, and Alice’s (a blank Mia
Wasikowska) pointless adventures feel strangely detached,
owing to the plodding pace and repetitive plot strands. The
wonky 3D conversion, combined with the uninspired script
and a disappointing final showdown, make for an uninvolv-
ing fantasy outing.
6. Sweeney Todd (2007)
The current outstanding production playing at West End might
somewhat diminish the efforts from Burton’s first and only musi-
cal but his stylishly bloody and darkly witty adaptation that frank-
ly lacks a single memorable tune is still an impressive one, mak-
ing singers out of actors. Depp, filled with anger and vengeance,
slashes the throats of anyone who gets in his way, whereas Hel-
ena Bonham Carter completes the perfect crime by making pies
out of the bodies. Sounds horrific, and it is, which is exactly what
you would expect from Burton.
2. Ed Wood (1994)
Often dubbed “the worst director of all time,” Ed Wood (Depp)
was known for his low-budget genre films and failed to win over
the respect of the industry, but following the release of a biogra-
phy that shed new light on his life, career, and love for cinema,
he was given new-found appreciation. Filmed in black-and-white,
dealing with a long-forgotten story must have contributed to why
this barely made its mark at the box-office despite its strong
critical acclaim. Still, Martin Landau deservingly won his Best
Supporting Actor Oscar in his role as Bela Lugosi, a frequent col-
laborator of Wood later in his acting career.
3. Sleepy Hollow (1999)
Severed heads, witchcraft, humour, this combination can only
be the work of Burton and Depp. After a vengeful headless war-
rior arises to brutally decapitate individuals in a small village,
an off-beat forensic investigator (Depp) is sent to the town of
Sleepy Hollow to track down this haunting creature. What he
digs up is a community full of disputes, family troubles, back-
stabbing and even more decapitation than he’d anticipated.
Burton’s gothic crime thriller has its moments of gore, shock
value and paying homage to the traditional films of the Hammer
Films Productions, his visuals also received a lot of praise.

