This week on YouTube
Not strictly television...but worth
a watch anyway
Cameron Sent ‘Lots Of Love’
Texts To Brooks
David Cameron reveals that he really doesn’t have
a clue what’s going on. LOL, oh well.
D
espite being released over ten
years ago, Band of Brothers
holds it own in the TV hall of
fame. Beautifully filmed and
exquisitely produced – as you’d
well hope with an estimated budget of $125m –
it’s an absolute tour de force.
Labelled as a TV mini-series, it consists of
ten episodes, each about an hour and quarter in
length, following the journey of Easy Company
of the US Army 101st Airborne division during
WWII. Band of Brothers was inspired by a book
of the same title by Stephen Ambrose, which
documents the actual journey of Easy company
through the war.
The plight of Easy Company begins with ba-
sic training in Georgia where they are trained to
be the best under the ferociously harsh Captain
Sobel who forces them to run up the infamous
‘Currahee’ mountain many-a-time. We fol-
low Easy Company to England for their final
preparation before they land frantically strewn
over Normandy as part of Operation Overlord.
Following this we see them losing men in a
heavy battle whilst liberating the French town
of Carentan.
Easy Company are then dropped into the
Netherlands as part of Operation Market Gar-
den where they are tasked with liberating Eind-
hoven. Later the company is called to Bastogne
to fight in the Battle of the Bulge and have to
survive the treacheries of a harsh winter and
low supply levels. Having endured the winter
in Bastogne Easy Company carries out a dan-
gerous mission in Haguenau. In the penultimate
episode, aptly named ‘Why We Fight’, we see
the troops enter Germany and discover some-
thing unimaginable; the Landsberg Concentra-
tion Camp, containing over 5,000 prisoners
suffering from famine, disease and exhaustion.
Finally the company captures the Eagle’s Nest
and discovers the house of Herman Goering.
They later move to Austria where V-E day (Vic-
tory in Europe day) is announced. Some troops
are sent home whilst others begin training to go
to war in the Pacific.
There are many great films about WWII that
are somewhat humbling including my favou-
rites Saving Private Ryan, Schindler’s List and
The Pianist. None of them immerse you in the
Band of Brothers will blow you away
same way as Band of Brothers. They don’t even
come close. Having a total run-time of nearly
twelve hours is probably partly to thank for
this. But, perhaps of greater importance is the
connection between the real veterans (who in-
troduce each episode) and their characters. It
gives the series meaning and a certain feeling
of actuality. You imagine these people, nigh on
seventy year ago in the very same situation - if
not worse – living the horrors of war that you
watch from the comfort of your living room.
Being devoid of any sort of subplot – no
romances left at home, no ongoing friction
between soldiers – we see a deeper side of
war; how it changes people, relationships,
mental states. Soldiers form bonds greater
than that between brothers. They suffer from
shell shock, losing limbs, losing friends
and towards the end of the war; alcoholism.
“There are many great
films about WWII...none
of them immerse you in
the same way as Band of
Brothers”
We see the progression of soldiers being scared
of, to accepting death and its inevitable place in
war. Captain Speirs memorably tells a comrade
that “the only hope you have is to accept the
fact that you’re already dead. The sooner you
accept that, the sooner you’ll be able to function
as a soldier is supposed to function: without
mercy, without compassion, without
remorse.All war depends upon it.”
Particular scenes of note in-
clude the aforementioned
discovery of the Lands-
berg Concentration
Camp, stumbled
upon during
a patrol of
a newly
captured
German
Henri 2, Paw de Deux
Henri the existentialist cat considers life, relation-
ships, freedom and whipped cream amongst other
topics. French with English subtitles.
TELEVISION
FELIX
Friday 18 May 2012
24
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Television Editors: George Barnett
James Simpson
George Barnett reviews HBO’s epic mini-series
town. The shock to the American’s when liber-
ating the barely living detainees combined with
the backdrop of the camp, scores of bodies and
the shells of people who managed to survive
certainly act as a striking and stark reminder of
what so many gave their lives for.
During the final five minutes of the mini-
series Major Winters sheds light into
the strikingly different post-war lives
of the soldiers and their attempts to
fit back into society, into a world
so completely different. After
announcing the war officially
over to the company, the screen
darkens and the surviving vet-
erans are finally named. In a
manner which evokes so
many emotions they give
their final narration and
thoughts on the war, with
Carwood Lipton notably
recalling the famous Saint
Crispins’s day speech; “From
this day to the ending of the
world, we in it shall be remem-
bered, we lucky few, we band
of brothers. For he who today
sheds his blood with me shall be
my brother.”
I know no other television se-
ries in the same league as Band of Brothers.
It stands head and shoulders above anything
else. I implore you to buy the DVD and watch
it, if not only for the quality of the series
but also to keep alive the memo-
ries of those that sacrificed
so much.
Oh, so where can I watch
this fantastic sounding se-
ries?
Well as you asked so politely; get it from www.play.
com, it’s only £13.99 – bargain of the century!
Whilst you’re at it get The Pacific boxset as well.
The Fast Show - Best of Swiss
Toni
Swiss Toni gives his classic advice on women. Pay
attention and work your charm when you’re next in
Metric. Like a boss, naturally.
It’s a witch! No wait...it’s Rebekah Brooks
Henri le chat
The ultimate ladies man, after Matt Colvin of course

