TELEVISION
FELIX Friday 18 MAY 2012 25
C
reated by Craig Thomas and
Carter Bays, this hit US sitcom
has been on the air since 2005 so
it might seem a bit strange to be
reviewing it so far into the story.
Truth be told, I’m a bit of a late-comer to How I
Met Your Mother – I only started watching it in
January, when exam revision should have come
first – oops. I have managed to catch up with the
rest of the world and happily sat down to watch
the season seven finale yesterday – but more on
that later.
To those unfamiliar with this show, it centres
on the character of Ted Mosby (Josh Radnor),
an architect living in New York. At the start of
the show, he is living with his room-mate from
college Marshall Eriksen (Jason Segel) and
Marshall’s girlfriend of nine years, Lily Aldrin
(Alyson Hannigan). Together with Barney Stin-
son (Neil Patrick Harris), Ted’s “best friend”,
they can frequently be found in the local bar
MacLaren’s where Barney comes up with outra-
geous ways to pick up women. The pilot epi-
sode also introduces a new love interest for Ted
in the form of aspiring Canadian reporter Robin
Scherbatsky (Cobie Smulders).
Each episode is actually a flashback, as future
Ted tells his teenage son and daughter the story
of how he met their mother.
On the surface this may sound like a Friends
rip-off and in some ways perhaps it is: Ted is
a hopeless romantic in search of The One and
Robin is the Rachel to his Ross, only smarter.
Lily and Marshall resemble the Chandler and
Monica from later seasons, while Barney is
similar to womanizing Joey. The only character
missing is Phoebe. MacLaren’s is quite clearly
a replacement for Central Perk. The show even
debuted very shortly after Friends finished
its run. The success of Friends clearly proved
that friends living together and supporting each
other through the ups and downs of adulthood is
a popular formula and it managed to work out
quite well for HIMYM, which is still one of the
most popular TV shows even after seven years.
Personally, I think it’s better than Friends.
As is the case with many shows, the first
couple of episodes don’t do the series justice.
I tried watching it when it first came out, but
didn’t find any of the characters particularly
engaging or interesting, so gave up. Recommen-
dations from numerous friends made me change
my mind and give it a second chance and I’m
glad I did. I guess the writers and cast simply
needed some time to find a rhythm that works
for everyone and the writing has been solid
ever since. The writers have given us some
truly memorable moments and catch-phras-
es, whilst also making sure that the characters
develop over the years as they pass from their
late twenties to early thirties.
The thing that actually got me hooked on HI-
MYM is an element that I haven’t often found
in this genre, namely cliffhangers. It’s true that
they are nowhere near as gripping as those from,
for example Lost, but they have kept me on the
edge of my seat nonetheless throughout the 159
episodes that have aired so far. The biggest cliff-
hanger and mystery is, of course, the identity of
the mother. It’s been seven years and we still
don’t know who she is and based on the last epi-
sode of the season, we won’t be finding out for a
while. Teasing the audience like this is common,
Frasier managed to talk about but never show
the character of Maris for eleven years while we
are also yet to meet Howard’s mom on Big Bang
Theory. It keeps viewers coming back, although
I wonder how much longer they can keep it up.
It’s impossible to review any show without
commenting on the actors that bring the char-
acters to life. Although he’s not the main char-
acter, the star that really shines is Neil Patrick
Harris as Barney. His escapades are out of this
world but he manages to deliver every line with
a straight face and provides us with most of the
laugh-out-loud moments. That being said, the
Lucia Podhorska recalls just How I Met Your Mother
rest of the cast is also great. Jason Segel
is charming as an aspiring environmental
lawyer that believes in the supernatural
and together with Alyson Hannigan they
are the most solid on-screen couple I have
seen in a while. Fans of the American Pie
movies will get to see the actress behind
band geek Michelle show off her comedy
skills. Cobie Smulders I wasn’t too sure
about for a long time, but she’s grown on
me and I applaud the writers for taking her
character down a more serious path this sea-
son, thus allowing the audience to appreciate
her acting even more. Josh Radnor as Ted is
a great fit, although he’s my least favourite
character – but this has nothing to do with
the actor portraying
him.
As I men-
tioned at
t h e
b e g i n -
ning of this
article, the last
episode of the
season aired this
week and brought
with it a revela-
tion that audiences
have been wait-
ing for since this
time last year. With
an ending like that, I
can’t wait for season
eight this September.
All this being said, if you
haven’t yet watched this
series, the end of exams
and the beginning of sum-
mer is a great op-
portunity to do so.
I guarantee it will
be legen – wait for
it – dary!
Better than Friends?
Exams, what exams? Go on, write us
a review, you know you want to. Drop
us an email at tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk

