Starcraft: the Revolution of eSports
T
he lights of the metropolis shine
brightly on the clear summer night.
Down on the bay, a crowd gathers
around a giant outdoor screen. Spot-
lights flood the area as the audience,
now exceeding 50,000 people, work themselves
into a fever pitch. The two teams come out on
stage to deafening cheers. Teenage girls scream
as one idol from each team is chosen for the first
round of combat. They each enter a booth. The
music swells, and the video game begins.
“It sounds like a science fiction story from the
future. But this event actually happened in the
past, in a place where such things have been com-
monplace for over ten years. This was the 2006
Proleague finals held in Seoul, South Korea. The
game being played was StarCraft.” — The Dawn
of Starcraft, eSports comes to the world stage, by
Jeremy Reimer, arstechnica.
Starcraft was released in March 1998, closely
followed by several expansions with the third and
final release in November 1998. Together, they
would become an all-time best-selling game for
the PC, with 11 million copies sold worldwide.
The game is a sci-fi real-time strategy game, with
three distinct races that can be played. It is said to
have revolutionized the standards for RTS games,
perhaps due to the insane skills required to com-
pete at the top level. It triggered the creation of
the world’s first major eSports (electronic-sports)
tournaments starting in 2002 in South Korea, and
spreading throughout the world today.
Starcraft II: Wings of Liberty is the long-awaited
sequel, released on July 10th 2010. It follows the
same lore as its predecessor, seeing major changes
in only the outdated graphics and speed. Certain
units were removed, added, or altered drastically,
but the mechanics of the game remain untouched.
There are several elements of the game to mas-
ter; conceptually simple, but extraordinarily dif-
ficult to do all at once. Like most RTS games,
players build armies and fight to kill their oppo-
nent — but the resources the players are required
to gather are spread about the map, and you can’t
see what your opponent is doing unless you scout
them out.
FELIX
Friday 18 may 2012
26
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
GAMES
Economic balance is vital. You need enough
workers to maintain a high income, and the gath-
ered resources must all be intelligently spent.
Decision-making is the most crucial part of the
game— choose what buildings to invest in to pro-
duce the right army composition to engage at the
best time in the most advantageous way.
All the above is referred to as “macro”— any-
thing that involves considering the overall game
and maintaining a good play. Its counterpart is
“micro”, which focuses on the intense second-by-
second unfurling of game-changing battles. There
is a lot to do in any one battle: certain units have
abilities toggled by hotkey and must be cast in the
right place at the right time, target-firing power-
ful units to minimize damage taken, and splitting
groups of units to avoid splash attack damage.
So far, you might be asking the question, why
is it different to any other RTS? Well, there are
three main elements to this. The first is its fully
integrated multiplayer ladder system. All players
are given a rank in a league, and winning games
in multiplayer allows you to climb the ladder and
eventually be promoted. There are seven leagues
from bronze to Grand Masters – GM being the top
200 in a region.
The second is the game’s ongoing development.
Starcraft is constantly being tested and developed,
with changes made following the evolution of the
metagame. Patches are brought in to maintain the
“balance”, making sure no single strategy is too
“overpowered”.
The third is the satisfaction received from Star-
craft 2 as a spectator sport.At eSports tournaments,
hundreds of professional players pit themselves
against each other in a thrilling battle of wits,
pushing their skills to the limit. The matches are
shown live, with audiences hundreds of thousands
strong, all over the world, watching the game un-
fold. Accompanying this is play-by-play commen-
tary by knowledgeable and entertaining casters,
who expertly blend enthusiasm and comedy into
every event. There are over 30 tournaments a year;
the largest ones offer a prize pot of up to $120,000.
In the games, there are countless preparations a
player can make in order to surprise their oppo-
nent. Usually, this makes the player more vulner-
able to attack. There is a high-pressure excitement
“There are over 30
tournaments a year; the
largest ones offer a prize
pot of up to $120,000.”
Two enemies set aside their differences to fight off an advancing Zerg Swarm
generated from knowing something the players
don’t – in your head, you scream “Attack NOW,
before his advantage kicks in, now is your ONLY
opportunity!” Every moment is packed with dra-
matic tension, because any moment could decide
the game.
The other factor is the strategic brilliance of
the players. In the game, intelligence and prepa-
ration are by far the most important attributes of
the players. High-level play is full of mind games.
Professional competitors will study their rivals’
play styles months in advance in order to find and
exploit the smallest of weaknesses. The “wow”
factor is in the stunning decision-making and out-
smarting of your opponent, with each player hav-
ing a unique approach to the game.
To celebrate this wonderful world of Starcraft,
Imperial’s own Starcraft Society was formed ear-
lier this year as a sub-society of Gaming. We have
held six tournament and screening events so far,
each incredibly entertaining and successful. The
most fantastic aspect is just having a community,
being able to discuss and participate in a game you
love, with others who share that feeling. Further-
more, there exists a Collegiate Star League where
universities all over Europe compete on Starcraft.
An Imperial team was formed at the start of this
academic year, by Ben Thomas, a first-year Physi-
cist. We placed third this season, out of 22 teams
including Oxbridge and University of London.
So, if you feel you wanna get involved in an
awesome game with an awesome society, join our
Facebook group “Imperial Starcraft Society”, and
come along to our next event, a live screening of
a pro-tournament, MLG Spring Arena 2! Hosted
by ICU Cinema Society, we will be in the Union
Concert Hall this weekend from 5.00pm Saturday
and 5.30pm Sunday. The tournament is hosted in
America, so they will go on until the early hours
of morning, pop by whenever to catch a glimpse of
the eSports phenomenon!
Carol Yang discusses why Starcraft has become such a phenomenal success
The audience of the Starcraft: Brood War Proleague finals in Seoul, South Korea, 2006
“
Fighterforum

