BOOKS
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
FELIX Friday 18 MAY 2012 27
Monster Hunter International – looks like a friendly bunch
Werewolves, vampires and lots of guns
I
t’s not everyday that you get to
throw your boss out of a 14th-
story window, but that’s exactly
how this story kicks off, and
from the start till finish, it’s one
heck of a thrilling roller coaster ride.
No, it’s not a story about an insane,
stressed accountant finally breaking
down and deciding to test out Newton’s
law of gravitation on his boss. In fact,
given all the crazy stuff that goes down
in the book, the protagonist, Owen Za-
stava Pitt is actually quite a sane guy.
You see, the boss in question had
very recently morphed into a werewolf
and was actively trying to rip Owen’s
guts out, so it wasn’t exactly an over-
reaction to decide that he really needed
some fresh city air. I know. Werewolves
sound awfully familiar. In fact, they
were featured quite prominently in a
series that I have never read, and prob-
ably won’t be reading anytime soon –
Twilight. Heck, there are even vampires
in Monster Hunter International, loads
of them, but that’s where the similari-
ties end.
There’s nothing remotely sexy about
vampires found in the world of Monster
Hunter International. Their skin doesn’t
glow and shine, and they certainly don’t
try to seduce teenage girls. What they
do try to do however is rip your heads
off, all the while taking a lot of hurt in
the form of bullets, flamethrowers, and
even grenades without even batting an
eyelid. Which brings me to my next
point. There is a lot of gun talk in the
book, and I mean a lot. Larry Correia
clearly knows his guns, and it shows.
While it’s true that I’ve seen people
complain about how he goes overboard
with his gun descriptions, I can honestly
say that, even though I’m not a gun per-
son, I thoroughly enjoyed the book.And
if any of you actually like guns, then all
the better!
With this book, Larry Correia has
created a dark urban fantasy world that
doesn’t cease to amaze. Combining
Lovecraft’s Cthulhu Mythos with zom-
bies, werewolves, vampires, a secret
government bureau, a monster hunting
company, a tough as nails protagonist
and lots of firepower, the author paints
such an action packed scenario that
reading the book is literally like watch-
ing a blockbuster movie, except it’s all
packed into the 700 odd pages of this
immensely entertaining novel.
Finally, I would like to point out
that this book is not a thought provok-
ing, deep piece of literature. And it
doesn’t pretend to be one. This is one
of those books that you actually read
just for entertainment, and that feeling
of ‘wow, that was awesome’, followed
by a strong urge to buy the sequel. So
if you’re even mildly interested in ur-
ban fantasy settings, monsters, guns, or
maybe all of the above, this is the book
for you. Heck, I’ll even recommend this
book to anyone who just wants a good
fun read filled with jaw dropping action!
A heartwrenching and powerful read
I don’t usually read a lot of contem-
porary literary fiction but I’m always
looking to broaden my horizons and so
I happily picked up Emma Donoghue’s
Room when it was selected by the Im-
perial Book Club as our latest read.
The novel is narrated in first person
by Jack, a five-year-old born after his
mother was abducted and abused by a
man who he calls Old Nick. The two
are kept confined in the titular room,
actually a converted shed in the man’s
garden, with Jack’s mother letting
the boy believe that this is the entire
extent of the world in order to help
him deal with the difficult situation.
While certainly very absorbing and
not short of moments of tension, this
is, for the main part, a subtle and in-
trospective look at how being trapped
and isolated from society for over half
a decade can affect a person. The sub-
ject matter is dealt with both realisti-
cally and sensitively. You really get a
real feel for the emotions of the protag-
onists and only the most heartless of
readers could not strongly empathise
with them by the end of the novel.
What really positively surprised
me about the Room is that it contin-
ues for almost two hundred pages af-
ter what in many other books would
be considered the climax. Donoghue
shows herself to be a truly superior
writer by going on to consider the
consequences of her resolution to the
problems set up in the first part of the
novel while at the same time provid-
ing a whole different viewpoint on
the established characters. There is a
clear divide between the two halves
of the book, but Donoghue’s skill
shows through in that they flow to-
gether – with the second part feeling
Ivan Ho reviews Monster Hunter International – the ultimate antidote to Twilight
“Whilst cool and
edgy, it has also
grown rusty in the
last twenty years.”
like a natural progression of the first.
The major criticism of those who
did not like this book has been Jack’s
narration, with some calling it dis-
tracting and annoying while others
saying that the vocabulary and sen-
tence structure is not really believ-
able for a five year old. I can only
say that I found the book perfectly
readable and convincing. Sure, the
Emma Donoghue’s Room – an exploration of the psychology of isolation and abduction
Maciej Matuszewski
“A subtle look at how
being trapped and
isolated from society
can affect a person.”
grammar is somewhat nonstandard,
adding to the feel that this is really
the internal monologue of a small
child, but I got used to very quickly.
In fact, for me, the narration is one
of the main selling points of the book.
It provides a viewpoint that interest-
ing and rarely seen in fiction. Jack
is free of many of the preconcep-
tions and prejudices held by adults
and so looks at the world in a more
innocent and much clearer way.
Room is an intelligent and power-
ful book. It is no surprise that it has
won numerous awards and received
widespread praise. If you are look-
ing for a serious read be sure to pick
up this book – you’re sure to find
it a deeply rewarding experience.
“like watching a
blockbuster movie”
“You get a real feel
for the emotions of
the protagonists.”

