SPORT
FELIX
Friday 16 march 2012
30
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sport Editor: Indy Leclercq
SPORT
FELIX
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sport Editor: Indy Leclercq
A 6-strong team from TriIC donned
their lycra (or to be precise a pleasant
Nylon-Spandex mix) to compete in the
340-strong field of May’s BUCS sprint
triathlon championship. Arriving at the
sunny Wiltshire in the morning, avoid-
ing the wealth of carbon time trial bikes
in the car park, the task of 750m of
swimming, 25km of cycling and 5km
of running lay ahead.
Swimming in a heady mix of chlo-
rine and sweat from the 300 previous
competitors is unenviable stuff but
Andrew Gordon, in particular, made
it look very comfortable, covering the
distance in an impressive 11:31. Three
other team members (the Captain Ste-
phen Cooper, new-comer Luke John-
ston and Will Palmer) were coinciden-
tally placed in the same lane, allowing
for the convivial competition over the
next 85 minutes or so. The next disciple
saw Andrew again set the quickest time
amongst the Imperial team, averaging
33km per hour over a windy and hilly
course.
The final element, a 5km undulated
run saw three of the team run under 19
minutes placing them in the top 50 for
that disciples: Rueben Bogg (18:12),
Andrew Gordon (18:54), Sam O’Neill
(18:55). And it was these three who led
home the TriIC team overall.
At the top of the leaderboard, some
high-jinx (in the form of cycling in a
group which is not permitted) from six
of the top ten competitors meant that the
BUCS champion was only determined
once those involved in the shenanigans
were handed time penalties. Naughty
boys ! For the team event, with 60 uni-
versity teams qualifying, Imperial ‘A’
finished 25th and the ‘B’ team 52nd.
TriIC have a number of informal and
formal training sessions for all begin-
ners to experts. Any men and women
out there who would like to join in then
please see www.union.ic.ac.uk/acc/
triathlon/.
The annual three day BUCS regatta
at Nottingham’s Holme Pierrepont is
usually a test of endurance, both physi-
cal and mental, and this year was no
exception. With competitors entered
in multiple events on a single day and
with weather ranging from pouring
rain to brilliant sunshine, ICBC was
put through its paces from start to fin-
ish. By the end of the weekend, 126
BUCS points had been accumulated as
well as an array of medals, many com-
ing from the lightweight men.
Saturday seemed quiet due to the
absence of all novice competitors. The
organising committee had decided that,
after the multiple sinkings of last year
and the horrendous weather forecast,
they would chancel beginners’ racing.
In the end, the conditions were rowable
with a solid tail wind leading to rapid
times. Never fear, though, there was
plenty of racing to be had, especially
for the women’s squad. The champion-
ship quad (str: Louise Connell/Klara
Weaver/Harriet Cross/Hannah Patter-
son) brought home the first piece of
silverware, taking second place in a
straight final behind Reading (7:02.3).
Another medal followed quickly from
the Intermediate pair (str: Cat Buizza/
Harriet Cross). After a convincing win
in their heat, the girls continued to
dominate the field as they won the first
gold of the weekend after a storming
second half of the final (8:02.8) – a feat
replicated by many Imperial women’s
crews over the weekend.
For the testosterone-filled side of the
club, the Championship Lwt four (str:
Wilf Kimberley/Tim Richards/Tom
Pearson/Gareth Brown) proved their
might as they won their heat by more
than 10s and progressed into the final,
where they met rivals University of
London. The boys in purple gave Impe-
rial a run for their money and clung on
– ICBC took the gold medal by a mere
0.48s (6:28.3). As the lightweights
came into the landing stage, Kimber-
ley and Richards continued the BUCS
tradition of jumping out of one boat
into another. The Championship eight
(cox: Libby Richards/Johnny Rankin/T
Richards/Ben Spencer Jones/Ali Hud-
son/Matt Pointing/Henry Goodier/
Kimberley/Rory Sullivan) were wait-
ing ready to head onto the waves for
the last final of the day. After a tight
race with UL in the heat, the guys were
hunting for blood. Unfortunately, the
might of Newcastle, Durham and UL
just squeezed the guys out of the med-
als, despite a storming row (5:52.2).
Thankfully the weather had decided
to turn to bright sunshine with a slight
tail wind by Sunday. The lightweight
men were with the eight (cox: Jess
Johnson/Kimberley/T Richards/Tom
Pearson/Brown/Myles Holbrough/
Paul Jones/Elliot Jennings/Martin Eb-
ner) easily winning their heat. There
was stiff competition come the final,
as three well drilled lightweight crews
from UL, Cambridge and Nottingham
fought it out for the medals. Impe-
rial’s scratch crew, containing two
novices, performed admirably taking
fourth place (6:16.8). The lightweight
quad (str: Kimberley/T Richards/Hol-
brough/Jones) demolished the compe-
tition winning their heat by nearly 10s
and the final by another 6s (6:30.2).
The heavier side of Imperial were in
slightly smaller boats as the Champion-
ship coxed four (str: Rankin/Sullivan/
Spencer Jones/Goodier/cox: Johnson)
took centre stage. Frustration reigned
over the crew as they were squeezed
out of the direct final place by the Uni-
versity of East London. After the heat,
Spencer Jones could be found hover-
ing around the bushes as a week of ex-
ams and illness mixed with two days
of intense racing had pushed him be-
yond the limit. The difficult decision to
scratch the boat before the impending
repechage was met with disappoint-
ment, frustration and understanding in
equal measure.
For the fairer half of the squad, it was
time for the Championship eight (cox:
L Richards/Weaver/Connell/Lily Bea-
dle/Patterson/Cat Buizza/Cross/Siân
Morgan/Maddy Whybrow), the first
time ICBC has had a senior women’s
eight at the regatta since 2009. They
did not have the easiest of routes to the
final. In the repechage, they learnt their
most useful skill – rowing through
crews. Having left the blocks slowest,
the eight crept through the field, break-
ing Bristol and Glasgow, one at a time
and just inching ahead of Edinburgh in
the crucial final 150m. A similar story
unfolded in the final as they gradually
rowed through Exeter and had Durham
in their sights but the finish line came
too soon and Imperial took fifth place
(7:01.0).
By Bank Holiday Monday when
most people are nursing a hangover,
Imperial were beginning to feel the
strain. The weather had turned, the sun
disappeared, and fog, wind and pelting
rain arrived in the miserable Midlands.
Racing was postponed and, in another
BUCS tradition, racing format was re-
jigged to 1500m time trials with the
fastest six crews going through to six
lane finals. The wind caused only the
occasional problem in the time trials
pushing crews out of their lanes. The
remaining men of ICBC were few and
far between as many had returned to
London, generally to prepare for those
little annoyances called exams. The
numbers dwindled even more once
Sullivan was hit by the same bout of
sickness that had struck Spencer Jones
the day before and so the lightweights
were left to hold the honour of the
club. The gangsta lightweight dou-
ble (T Richards/Kimberley) and pair
(Kimberley/T Richards) won both time
trials and got lucky lane one for the fi-
nals. The pair went without a hitch as
they led from start to finish, adding an-
other bit of gold bling to their ever glit-
tering collection (7:14.1). The double
was running the same course until the
final moments when Loughborough
decided to shoot them down, beating
the guys to the gold by just 0.8s. Con-
solation can be taken from the fact that
Kimberley and Richards took home
more gold medals each than several
universities.
Continuing miserable conditions hit
the women’s doubles (Championship –
Weaver/Patterson, Intermediate – Con-
nell/Cross) during their time trials as
the heavens opened with a spectacular
deluge, just as they were racing. Both
made it to their finals to take fourth
place and bring another silver medal
home to ICBC, respectively. The two
doubles then combined to make the
Championship coxed four (str: Weav-
er/Connell/Cross/Patterson/cox: L
Richards). They qualified third for the
final and, although the final standing
start probably wasn’t in their best in-
terest, they showed the same resolve as
the women’s 8 the previous day. They
steadily walked through crews from
the back of the field. In the final 400m,
they overtook Cambridge to earn the
bronze (7:42.4).
Despite injuries, sickness, a dwin-
dled squad size thanks to exams and
field trips, multiple entries per athlete,
and the dismal conditions, Imperial
soldiered on to take four gold, three sil-
ver and one bronze over the weekend.
ICBC was fourth in the Victor Ludo-
rum, fifth in the medal table, and have
racked up a total of 250 BUCS points
in the 2011-12 season. Now all eyes
move to the rest of regatta season and
the relative comfort of Dorney Lake,
and the pinnacle of the summer, Hen-
ley, in less than 50 days’ time.
Triathlon
Stephen Cooper
Tri-ing for Imperial at BUCS championship
Bank Holiday Boat BUCS
Boat Club
Elizabeth Richards
“Our fortunate es-
cape sparked a re-
markable comeback”
Tim Richards and Wilf Kimberley bask in the glory of BUCS
IC Boat Club
ICTri

