NEWS
FELIX Friday 18 may 2012 5
Polish Club at risk of being sold
Petition to protect popular cultural and social venue attracts support
A petition has been set up to save the
Polish Club, Ognisko Polskie, based in
Princes Gardens, which is at risk of be-
ing sold. The South Kensington club in-
cludes the Ognisko restaurant, popular
with staff and students from Imperial.
Ognisko Polskie has existed for sev-
enty-one years, promoting the Polish
culture in London, and has held a range
of cultural and social events including
lectures, concerts and art exhibitions.
Jill Cook from Friends of Imperial
College said, “The club is used by many
Poles living in London as well as by
other nationalities and by local residents
in South Kensington, and it seems a pity
that such a cultural and historical venue
should no longer exist.”
She added that, “It is the only pleas-
ant venue for meals and drinks close to
Imperial College.”
The petition states that, “The pro-
posed sale of the building will be an im-
mense loss and damaging to the Polish
Community. We feel that the directors
of Ognisko Limited have not explored
the full range of business options to
make Ognisko Polskie financially vi-
able once more.”
A decision will be taken at the AGM
of the Polish club on 27 May which will
seal the fate of the club.
The petition can be found online at:
https://www.change.org/petitions/
ognisko-polskie-polish-hearth-club.
“It seems a pity
that such a cultural
and historical venue
should no longer ex-
ist”
Sophia David
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
Hollywood big-hitter and modern day
renaissance man Will Smith was to be
found at Imperial’s very own Ethos
Sports Centre on Princes Gardens last
Wednesday morning.
Smith was visiting the centre as part
of a promotional tour for the upcom-
ing film Men in Black III, but man-
aged to eschew the usual promotional
duties in favour of demonstrating
his sporting prowess alongside some
of Britain’s Olympic hopefuls from
Team GB.
Also taking to the gym hall were
GB Basketball captain Drew Sullivan,
triple jumper Yamile Aldama, super
heavyweight boxer Anthony Joshua
and hurdler Perri Shakes-Drayton.
Engaging in a few shots of basket-
ball, a leap over the hurdles and a
quick bout, Smith entertained the as-
sembled press with his disarming and
still resolutely fresh athleticism.
A vast amount of secrecy surrounded
the event, with knowledge of Smith’s
arrival privy to only a select few, in-
cluding Union President Scott Heath.
Few, including Felix itself, were
aware of the presence of the Fresh
Prince until the event had concluded.
The presence of Team GB marks
the impending arrival of the Japanese
Olympic Committee for the entirety of
London 2012, who will be accommo-
dated on the South Kensington Cam-
pus. The Switzerland Open Swimming
and Triathlon team will also be stay-
ing at the South Kensington campus
during the event and using the Ethos
swimming pool for training purposes.
Team GB will be also using the pool
for training.
Now is the story all about how Will Smith was at Ethos
Matthew Colvin
Obviously, things didn’t pan out this way. If we had smuggled a photographer in though, it would be an entirely
different story
Hollywood superstar visits sports centre and trains with members of Team GB
“Smith entertained
the assembled
press”
“A vast amount of
secrecy surrounded
the event”
Ognisko Polskie is situated opposite the main entrance of Imperial College

