UNION MEETING cont.
by a variety of interested parties
—here, indeed, was no apathy
and high voting figure revealed
that once the facts are displayed
the College is quite capable of
forming an opinion. Of the other
speakers Bob Finch made some
points worth recording — that
since Mental Health was a nat-
ional problem, it could be dealt
with nationally, i.e. by legislation
in Parliament; however this was
not possible in the case of Free-
dom from Hunger, and therefore
we should support it by the only
means available : financially. In
summing up, Lawrie Austin
agreed that this was possible, but
that in point of fact Mental
Health had ' missed the boat';
hence it was our duty to support
it. ' Imagine,' he said, ' the
agonies of a man about to take
his own life . . ..'
' Imagine,' countered Roger
Thomas soon after, 'the agonies
of a man having his life taken
from him,' and on this note the
debate closed. A vote was taken
and later ratified by ballot where
Freedom from Hunger gained
304 against 289.
The Union meeting was a great
success, not only in the attend-
ance, but also in the standard of
intelligent interest shown by those
present. The President handled
the meeting with well practised
tact and together with his con-
constituent presidents set a stan-
dard of awareness they would be
wise to maintain.
5 S 5 ! ! ! ! S S 5 ! t I ! ! i ! ! ! i 9 * !
F E L I X
NIGHT CLUBBING
Most students' entertainment on arriving in London is based
entirely on College hops, sherry parties and the cinema. But the
Metropolis has establishments which, for the livelier mortal provide
additional late night entertainment—we are referring to Night Clubs.
We hope in a series of articles to give readers an idea of what
to expect from these. Firstly, one must become a member—this
can be expensive as membership fees range from £1 upwards, but for
four guineas one may become a member of thirty-six Clubs by join-
ing the Clubman's Club. It was one of these we visited the other
day—i
Tha Peppermint Lounge
The elegant decor, lofty pillars
and scintillating chandeliers form
a luxurious background for one
of to-day's most exhilaraing keep-
fit exercises yet devised by the
Yankees for the ' paunchy, bar-
fly ' British. This has been
banned in the U.S.S.R. with typi-
cal Victorian prudity, the author-
ities denouncing it as ' vulgar and
indecent'—it is of course the
Twist.
The elegant decor ? In none
other place than the Northumber-
land Grand near Trafalgar
Square, which every Tuesday
night becomes the home of the
PeDpermint Lounge.
There one is able to dine, wine
and of course Twist after paying
a £1 entrance fee, which provide
for light refreshments and the
first drink. Y o u are able to
sample the Peppermint Twist
cocktail, eat peppermint on rolls
and twist to the tune o f ' Pepper-
mint Twist,' here the Twist is
raised to the withering heights of
transmission on 208m.
It is open from 8.13 p.m.—3.13
a.m. Dress—sublime to the
ridiculous. The room was lit by
one candlepower per table—and
very nice candles, too !
The first few hours twisting
was to records, non-stop due to
the duo-turntable, however about
10.30 one was given chance to
recuperate, by the introduction
of Sinatra (ever tried Twisting
cheek to cheek ?)
From midnight, twisting is to
the accompaniment of a small
band.
May it be said at this point,
that common beer drinkers are
not exactly welcomed here, since
on ordering a pint of beer, the
waitress (and a very nice waitress,
too) disappears into the depths, to
return after several minutes with
a pint, which besides being flat
is a ' cuckoo,' and demands 5/-.
However, as whisky, gin, brandy,
etc., are a mere half-crown a
noggin one need not go thirsty.
Meals are served in an adjoin-
ing room, but not having a
cheque book, we dined on the
' light refreshments.'
To sum up—for a pleasant
evening's Twisting, it is ideal, as
long as you have about £3 (for
two). Girls—well, yes, there
were some without partners.
Happy Twisting . . .
Editor's Note
The next article in this pro-
posed series is not expected until
the next term's grants come in.
f K H : : : 3 K » : K 3 » . : K K : . K ^
I F you're someone who can't resist asking "Why?" or
"How ? ", then the Central Electricity Generating Board
offers you a career with endless opportunities. The Board
has a continuous programme of research in which organ-
ised curiosity is vitally important. This is where you ask
"Why?". The Board's output needs to be doubled every
ten years. To continue to do this economically, success-
fully, the Board asks "How? ".
FOR THOSE WITH A HIGH CQ
There are plenty of openings for those with a high CQ. In research (CURIOSITY QUOTIENT)
and development work, there are direct appointments for physicists,
metallurgists, mathematicians, chemists, engineers. In operational work
— design and construction, generation, transmission — there is a two
year programme of training for electrical and mechanical engineers.
Why not whet your curiosity by spending part of your vacation with
us ? Or come and visit a research laboratory or power station or ask
for information about the opportunities for you.
Just write to the UNIVERSITY LIAISON OFFICER ( C46 ),
CENTRAL ELECTRICITY GENERATING BOARD, BUCHANAN HOUSE, 24/30 HOLBORN, LONDON, E.C.I.

