fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Fashion
Fashion Editor – Daniel Wan
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk Fashion
Daniel Wan
Fashion Editor
A
s the new academic
year dawns, I can
onlyharbourarank
mix of envy and
dread. The jeal-
ousy stems from
the fact that whilst
all you Freshers will be intoxicating
your young, worthless bodies during
the next week and beyond, I’ll proba-
bly be laying a brick or two wondering
how likely it is that I’ll actually end up
with a degree. Hence the dread.
I am ever the optimist, though the
above paragraph suggests otherwise.
As you probably read this half-tram-
pled copy of Felix on the floor of Da
Vinci’s, you should come to the re-
alisation that Felix will be your only
salvation from the insanity that is
Imperial College. In the almost in-
comprehensible words of one of my
friends, the first year is “jokes as
fucks.” You heard him; and it will be.
Since you’re going to be avoiding
any real work this year, there’s going
to be plenty of time for exploration of
the local area. When you’re in Lon-
don, though, your local area is the
majority of London. A short tube or
bus journey will unravel the semi-de-
lights of this beautiful city, including
all the shopping you ever even both-
ered to dream about.
So, when the money comes rolling
in from Daddy or you’ve decided your
student loan is far too big a sum of
money to be just sitting in your bank
account ‘unused’, you’ve got no other
choice but to whip out a few bills
and splash-da-cash on another pair
of unneeded shoes. Or even that top
you’d seen in a magazine once, but
the village where you were born and
(in)bred was too much of a Shitsville
to actually have any decent shops.
Hence I lay upon you the holy Felix
Fashion guide to the freshest, sick-
est, (insert another recent-era slang
superlative) shops and boutiques
within reachable distance. The ones
that will provide you with the style
that will last you throughout the next
few years of your life here in South
Kensington.
You may not be as ridiculously clev-
er as the guy sitting in front of you;
you may not be hard-working as the
girl sitting behind you, but I’m going
to make damn sure that out of the
three, you’re going to be the one that
is looking the best.The Felix Fashion
team also come wandering around col-
lege armed with a camera and a note-
book, scouting for those of you that ac-
tually made an effort that morning to
look like something other than a tramp
on the street. We’ll then nervously ask
you if we can take a picture and ask
what you’re wearing, crawl back down
into the dingy Felix basements and
feature you in that week’s issue. So be
prepared. Don’t let yourself look like a
tramp. You dirty tramp.
On another note, if you’re interested
in fashion, and always wanted to write
about it, there’s only one obvious solu-
tion. Write for Felix Fashion. This year
I’m look for fresh blood to stain the
pages of upcoming issues. You’ll get to
know Felix’s deepest and darkest se-
crets. Trust.
Primark
Marble Arch
The largest Primark in the UK
is located down the Marble
Arch end of Oxford Street, and
attracts thousands at a time. This is your
place for moderately guilt-free shopping
since you could probably buy a new
wardrobe with the change you found in
the communal washing machines that
week. For a rather sweaty, disorienting
and delightfully exhausting day, head over
to Primark. You may not walk out with
something you ever needed or wanted in
your hands, but you can guarantee they
will never be empty either.
Style: 4 Catwalk to highstreet quicker
than Kate Moss can snort a line.
Expense: 1 Peanuts. (Contrary to
belief, Primark actually do
accept peanuts as
payment)
American Apparel
High Street Ken.
Some call this California-based highstreet
chain plain and boring. I call those people
blind. American Apparel offers, yes plain,
but also stylish essentials. No tacky prints on
any of their clothes, they base their image
on block-colours with hints of 80s panache.
Though slightly pricy, you pay for ethical and
well-produced clothes; an AA hoody can last
eras. The cut of their clothes mean that most
buys will be fairly slim-fit. If you’re a fan of
baggy clothes, buy several sizes up.
Style: 4 Strays away from the norm, but not to
everyone’s taste.
Expense: 4 Fairly expensive on a student’s
budget, but just don’t think about it.
Topshop / Topman
Oxford Street
Though Topshops are appearing on every
street corner on Earth and beyond, seeing is
believing when it comes to describing the company’s
flagship store. Taking one corner of Oxford Circus, it spans
across four floors. Three floors are dedicated to all things girly, and
the top floor toTopman. It can be heaven or hell with the frantic
combination of low prices and masses of people. My advice?
Don’t go there on a Saturday afternoon or risk losing limbs.
Style: 4 To-the-minute fashion at the expense of
being a Topshop clone
Expense: 2 Hard to beat quality for
the relatively inexpensive cost.
Retro Shop
/ Retro Man
Notting Hill Gate
‘Retro Man’ and ‘Retro Shop’
are coupled shops, located seconds
away from the Underground station,
and buy, exchange and sell high street
and designer brands. You’ll find classic items of the
highest names in fashion past and present. Great for
accessorising for the final touch of an outfit. For the
damn cool with record players, you might also want to
pick up some rare vinyls a few doors down.
Style: 5 The most famous names of past era.
Expense: 3.5 Second hand doesn’t mean
dirt cheap, but prices can vary.
Portobello Market
Ladbroke Grove
Portobello Market is a haven for
the retro-loving average of today.
Stall upon stall exhibits second-hand clothing; where a classic 1979
Liverpool jersey is at home precariously squeezed between a tattered
PanAm messenger bag and an essentially New-Wave ra-ra skirt.
Someone else’s worldly possessions can now be yours for a haggled
price. However, retro is back these days and don’t the sellers know
it!? Portobello also offers an afternoon’s worth of entertainment and
novelty shopping.
Style: 3 Retro is back, what else can I say?
Expense: 2.5 Any market offers a decent bargain. Finding it is the
problem.
Joy
Fulham Broadway
Joy’s self proclaimed “walk-in uber-boutiques’
sprawl to every corner of the UK. Regular
visitors include Kiera Knightley and Sienna
Miller. The Fulham branch is located in the
Broadway station complex, and offers a mixture
of the latest British and European designs
Style: 3 Retro is back, what else can I say?
Expense: 2.5 Any market offers a decent
bargain. Finding it is the problem.
You don’t need any food
Some places where you can blow your year’s student loan in one day. Do it. I dare you.
182 felix Friday 3 October 2008 219
Friday 3 October 2008 felix

