felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Sport at Imperial: fitness and fun all in one!
The Countdown begins...
Jack Cornish &
Mustapher Botchway
Sports Editors
Welcome, freshers, to another year of
sport at Imperial. After large-scale suc-
cess in our sports over the past couple
of years, the College has finally taken
its rightful place as the best sporting
university in London. Officially. Last
year we moved up 7 places in the BUCS
(formally BUSA) overall sports points
table to take 22nd place, a record. If we
also add the significant contribution
made by the Medical School’s sports
clubs, we ascend to 20th place. So you
guys have a tough act to follow in re-
placing our recent graduates!
Sport will be bigger and better this
year at Imperial. New sports such as
Gaelic Football, Women’s Cricket and
Futsal are aiming to replicate the re-
cent successes of the Rugby, Tennis,
Fencing, Netball, Rowing, Squash,
Badminton and Volleyball clubs. There
are many opportunities to play sport at
Imperial, and all of our clubs are more
than happy to allow anyone at any
standard to play, so make sure you sign
your name up for at least one sport at
Freshers’ Fair.
Along with the BUCS & ULU com-
petitions, Varisty is the main inter-col-
lege sporting event where the College
compete with the Medical School in a
wide range of sports. felix will be cov-
ering this event in style in the weeks
leading up to this flagship event so join
a sport and keep your eyes peeled.
For some of you the prospect of
hard training sessions and competi-
tive matches every week may be a little
daunting, although for some it may just
be the start of a week filled of gym and
running sessions! Each to their own,
and you will soon see that the clubs
will cater for all standards.
There is, however, another side to
sporting life at Imperial… You are en-
rolling in a university steeped in tradi-
tion, fierce rivalries and bars that are
home to 50+ sports clubs and hundreds
of teams. Varsity, Bottle Match, Hyde
Park Relays, ULU, BUCS and more
are followed by song, games, tankards
and celebration back at the home bar.
A headache may follow but it is worth
every painful lecture.
To be involved in a community of
sportsmen and women who have rep-
resented the university and taking
sport at Imperial to an all-time high is
a great honour. We must celebrate in
the appropriate manner and if you do
you will find yourself with a whole host
of comrades and a full social calendar.
The instant legend that is the Sports
League will be back in felix this year
once competitive matches commence
in a few weeks time. Can you help
push your sport’s team to the top of the
table?
Choosing a sport can be difficult
at times, especially for beginners and
those who have never played before, so
carry on reading these pages for a brief
introduction to some of our clubs and
their highlights.
We were inundated with entries so
we hope you can tolerate the text-heavy
nature of this week’s section. This will
DEFINITELY not happen again.
Enjoy the read, find a club to join and
with any luck it will be you making the
back page next week!

