news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
2 felix Friday 3 October 2008
News
News Editor – Khadim Shubber
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 3 October 2008 felix
News
Felix was brought to you by:
felix 1,409
Friday 3/10/08
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London
SW7 2BB. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, 17 Brest
Road, Derriford, Plymouth. Registered newspaper
ISSN 1040-0711. Copyright © Felix 2008.
LOLCATS
of
teh
WEEK
Editor-in-Chief
Jovan Nedić
Deputy Editor
Kadhim Shuber
Senior Copy Editor
Gilead Amit
Food Editors
Rosie Grayburn
Afonso Campos
Science Editors
Mičo Tatalović
Daniel Burrows
Music Editors
Peter Sinclair
Susan Yu
Coffee Break Editor
Ravi Pall
Fashion Editor
Dan Wan
Welfare Editor
Hannah Theodorou
Sports Editors
Jack Cornish
Mustapher Botchway
Pictures
David Murray
Nick Ablitt
Special thanks to
Tom Roberts
The first of 29 issues... Looks like
we’ve got a long way to go! Any-
way, if you’re actually reading this,
a big hello from the team.
We hope you enjoy this issue so
much that you’ll join us on this side.
Positions are available for copy and
layout editors, contributors, pho-
tographers, web editors and any-
one who wants to write something
we haven’t covered.
Feel free to drop into the base-
ment in the West Wing of Beit,
we’ve got lots of shiny new iMacs
for people to play with, plus other
distractions for when you get writ-
er’s block.
See you all soon,
Jov and the team
Vision 2008: get a taste of
the medical profession
Jovan Nedić
Editor in chief
Lord Winston wonders: has the NHS has lost touch with the
doctors of today and tomorrow?
This year’s Vision Conference, an an-
nual event which attempts to introduce
the medical profession to students
from deprived areas, was undoubtedly
a success, with nearly 300 A-Level stu-
dents in attendance. The day started
with Imperial College School of Medi-
cine Student Union [ICSMSU] Presi-
dent Mark Chamberlain giving a talk
on what being a medical student is all
about, and what they should expect
from the six-year course.
After this introduction, the poten-
tial medical students sat through talks
about the various requirements need-
ed to become a medical student, as
well as talks on what it will eventually
be like to roam the wards as a doctor.
Various role-play interviews and stu-
dent panels followed, where the guests
asked the medical students whatever
they liked. The definite highlight of the
day, however, was the keynote speech
by Prof. Lord Robert Winston.
The lecture room for the keynote
speech was packed with prospective
and current medical students alike,
as well as a few members of staff and
even some of the guest speakers. The
topic of the speech was ‘what it means
to be a doctor’; an enthralling topic
from arguably the most famous doc-
tor in the country. Everyone was ea-
ger to hear his views, and he didn’t
disappoint. His speech had two main
points: that students should always be
prepared for any eventuality, and that
they should be willing to give up their
time to do the best they can for their
patients. He went on to say that: “by
doing medicine, you gain a huge per-
spective on life. As doctors you have to
be human beings; you must listen, be
open-minded and patient. The NHS
does not value these issues, they care
about paperwork more than the doc-
tors connecting with their patients.”
The issue at the heart of Lord Robert
Winston’s talk was the fact that doctors
rarely have time to spend listening to
their patients, which can lead to unac-
ceptable oversights.
This is by no means the first time
that Lord Robert Winston has been
in the spotlight over his attitude to
the NHS. In a 2000 interview with the
New Statesman, he criticised the fund-
ing given by the Labour Government
to the NHS: “it’s ludicrous that we
spend so much less than the European
model”. The resulting pledge of billions
for funding earned Lord Winston the
title of the ‘man who saved the NHS’;
though this has not stopped him cam-
paigning in an attempt to save it again.
Last month, the government decided
to reverse a decades-old policy by no
longer providing free accommodation
to doctors in their first year of their
medical career. It is for this reason
that the government has not increased
the wage of first year doctors. Medical
students and the British Medical As-
sociation [BMA] are worried that this
decision will cripple the already debt-
stricken medical students, though
Health Minister Anne Keen MP has re-
fused to open discussions on the mat-
ter – much to the dismay of the BMA.
Prof. Lord Robert Winston, the ‘man who save the NHS’
Students to live at Thames
Valley University
The Imperial College Accommodation
Office has had to deal with a record
number of applicants this year, a direct
result of the increasing number of stu-
dents studying at Imperial. This led to
fears that some students would not get
student accommodation in their first
year; as guaranteed by the university to
those who apply in time. Three weeks
before the start of term, felix was in-
formed that there were about 160 stu-
dents who had applied for accommo-
dation but had still not received it.
This problem occurred because
some students, unhappy at what they
believed to be an unreasonably high
rent for halls close to Imperial, rejected
their offers in order to receive less ex-
pensive accommodation. One student
was even trying to swap his single en
suite room in Beit on Facebook, as it
had not been one of his choices and he
would struggle to afford it.
The accommodation office has been
unable to change the offers made to
students due to the understandable
difficulty in making individual changes
once everyone has been catered for.
This year 80% of students received one
of their top 5 accommodation choices.
It is a combination of a shortage of
rooms and a demand for cheaper ac-
commodation that has put this pres-
sure on the accommodation office.
While all students want to be situated
as close to university as possible, the
high cost of rooms in the area (the
majority of single rooms in South
Kensington range from £140 to £180 a
week) has put many off.
Hannah Theodorou, Deputy Presi-
dent for Education and Welfare, admit-
ted that “the price of accommodation
is certainly climbing out of the reach
of many students” but argued that
the rent was in line with other Lon-
don universities. felix then conducted
a survey of the three central London
universities: LSE, UCL and Kings. The
most expensive hall was High Holborn
Hall, where LSE students could be ex-
pected to pay up to £160 a week for a
single en suite room. UCL’s most ex-
pensive accommodation was at John
Dodgson, where a single en suite room
costs £145 a week. Kings’ Great Dover
Street Apartments, the most expensive
Kings accommodation, costs only £128
a week. Hannah Theodorou then con-
cluded that “Imperial was focusing too
much on quality”; presumably instead
of on affordability. Eastside, the new
hall being built at Princes Gardens, will
consist almost entirely of high quality
single rooms with only around 17 af-
fordable twin rooms.
This is not the first year that there
have been problems with 1st year stu-
dents. Last year, due to redevelopment
work on halls in Princes Gardens,
Imperial was forced to rent out two
UNITE Halls of Residence (Piccadilly
Court and Orient House) at nearly
£500,000 each in order to house all the
1st year students.
In addition to UNITE, this year’s
accommodation office has looked to
Thames Valley University (TVU) to
house the overflow of students. The
college is planning to house over 20 1st
year students in Paragon Hall close to
Boston Manor tube station in Zone 4,
and is currently looking for a warden
to accompany these students.
The wardening staff have rejected
the scheme, however, on the basis that
the students will not receive appropri-
ate pastoral care. An alternative solu-
tion was offered to the college by the
wardens, which included reconverting
single rooms that were once twins back
into twin rooms, though this was later
rejected. A contract has already been
made with TVU, making it difficult for
the wardening staff to prevent college
from housing students at TVU.
The accommodation problem has
largely been ‘solved’, however, by the
fact that many students who were un-
happy with their accommodation offer
have decided to either live at home or
seek housing in the private sector.
In total around 10% of this year’s
intake has been unable to obtain, or
have chosen to opt out of, student
accommodation.
There is significant work being done
to address this problem in the long-
term, and work on the new halls of res-
idence on the east side of Princes Gar-
dens has been progressing rapidly over
the summer. The hall is being built in
a similar manner to Southside, with
three adjacent halls being built, each
expected to house close to 400 stu-
dents. On the first floor there will be
a bar to replace Harrington’s Bar and
Grill (looking out onto Prince’s Gar-
dens) as well as a cash machine and a
small shop for everyday groceries. This
new hall, which will be opened in Sep-
tember 2009, will deal with the steady
increase in the number of students
coming to Imperial in the near future.
For students desperate for cheap ac-
commodation, however, these halls are
not a viable solution. As stated above,
fewer than 20 rooms in these new
halls will be affordable twin rooms. A
follow-up story will run sometime this
term.
Medical student killed by
tram in Croydon
Jeevan Sivalingam, affectionately known as Jeeves, a medical stu-
dent who was about to enter his fourth year at Imperial, unfortunately
passed away on the afternoon of the 13th of September 2008. He had
been cycling near his home in South London when he collided with
a tram. By all account he did not suffer as he immediately fell uncon-
scious before passing away later in hospital.
He was born on the 18th of June 1987 and his mother had become
pregnant with him despite having undergone a sterilization. His par-
ents were told that the chances of this happening were 1 in a million
and so when they decided on a name, the thought it appropriate to
call him “Jeevan”, which roughly translates into English as “life”.
Throughout his life Jeevan maintained a reputation of being cheeky,
funny and full of life. This is something that his many friends through-
out Imperial can confirm. Many of these friends were in the Medics
Hockey Club, which he was a devoted member of for 3 years. He
committed himself to this club fully both on the field and off, and
there is no doubt he will be missed.
The Tamil Society was another club he was fully committed to and
he made huge contributions to their show Mega Maalai in 2007, help-
ing to raise a large amount of charity in the process. Many will also
remember Jeeves as a resident of Bernard-Sunley House in his first
year, a place where he made many of his most valued friends.
His smile and his friendly nature will be missed by many throughout
Imperial. He always stopped to chat and rarely left until he had put a
smile on your face. Unfortunately he has left this World prematurely,
but hopefully the memories of him can make us smile from time to
time in the years to come.
Kadhim Shubber
Deputy & News Editor
Don’t forget to register at the Health Centre and
make sure you are up to date with your MMR and
Meningitis vaccines
For more information visit
www.imperialcollegehealthcentre.co.uk
Imperial College Health Center
And finally...
New beers, new bar, new
union
Jovan Nedić
Editor in chief
The Union has received a facelift over
the summer, with dB’s and daVinci’s
getting a new lick of paint and a brand
new style. The aim of this work was to
make daVinci’s feel more like a bar than
a canteen, and for dB’s to be more like
a nightclub. A new colour scheme has
been employed with a funky new wall-
paper, as seen in the picture below. The
visual appearance, however, is not the
only thing that has changed.
A new range of drinks have also been
brought in, hoping to attract a larger
audience to the Union bars. A total of 7
lagers will be available on tap, ranging
from Fosters to Staropramen, as well
as a larger range of ales on tap in The
The back of Eastside, which will house close to 400 students
Muhuntha Sri ganeshan
Becks		 £2.20
Foster		 £2.00
San Miguel £2.40
Blackthorn £1.60
Grolsch		 £2.30
Stella		 £2.30
Staropramen £2.40
John Smith £2.00
Guinness £2.90
Coors Light £2.20
Magners draught £2.75
Union Bar.
Imperial College Union’s sports
night, Sin City, was also recently voted
the best student Wednesday night out
by the London Lite. The new selection
of beers and the recent positive pub-
licity will definitely make the sports
teams happy, especially for those
snakebite lovers, who can now have a
premium snakebite, made of Stella and
Magners...

