4 felix Friday 3 October 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Fresher Meat
I
t’s hard to know how to intro-
duce myself at the start of a new
year. There’s something very
tacky about Freshers’ Week, and
in places like this the same sort
of thing gets trotted out all the time –
“Welcome To Imperial”, “Geeks Are So
Funny, Ha Ha Ha, Am I Right Guys?”,
“You’ve All Done So Well To Get Here”,
et cetera. It’s all rubbish, of course, and
after the fiftieth iteration – which you
should encounter by Wednesday at the
latest – you’ll understand why people
turn to alcoholism, violence and col-
umns in felix. So let’s avoid that this
year and not even mention the fact that
it’s Freshers’ Week.
Hell, I’m not going to introduce my-
self, even. You can work that shit out
for yourself, because you’re going to be
so sick of asking people what they do in
three days’ time that you’re not going
to care who I am anyway.
Actually, fuck not mentioning Fresh-
ers’, let’s really let off about it. Not the
first years, mind you. Hordes of en-
A. Geek
thusiastic first years aren’t the prob-
lem – and I actively encourage you to
physically assault anyone who mutters
how awful it is to have first years eve-
rywhere, because they’re morons – the
real problem are the elderly bastards
like me that seem intent on proving
their youth, despite the fact that a look
at their unused provisional drivers’ li-
cence would confirm it to the world.
21 year-old men signing up to Ultimate
Frisbee because they’re self-conscious
about not being teenagers. Pathetic.
And the sheer volume of utterly
pointless toss you end up attending
because you’re too bewildered by the
first week to beat back the arseholes
touting them. A boat trip? Sounds like
a recipe for ball-freezingly cold enter-
tainment! A party where we dress up
in school uniform despite having spent
an entirely non-sexy seven years wear-
ing them and whining about it? Abso-
fucking-lutely. I know! How about an
ethnic food night where we can all
embarrass ourselves by revealing the
extent of our slightly racist preconcep-
tions about other cultures?
I mean, who dreams up this shit?
Why does it appear entirely compul-
sory? When I arrived at Uni, the first
thing I wanted to do – after the manda-
tory half-hour spent in the fetal posi-
tion – was take a look around the city.
I was going to spend four years staring
into the hollow abyss of those mongol-
oid eyes anyway, I didn’t need a pub
quiz to ease me into the notion. My
advice to all freshers – spend the week
exploring King’s Road, Hyde Park and
Queensway. Plenty of time for head-
hunting later in the year, because the
odds of finding anyone sane in the peo-
ple mashup you’re about to enter are
very small indeed.
I’ll offer you this, though – whether
you come from a wealthy family, or
arrived in London with nothing more
than your loan; whether English is your
first language or your fourth; whether
skyscrapers are familiar or frighten-
ing to you, you are about to embark on
the best years of your life so far. You’ve
just been given carte blanche to rein-
vent yourself, and then placed in a city
full of opportunity. Of course, you can
choose to become shallow, predictable
and selfish, and you’ll find it both sim-
ple and rewarding. Or you can think
hard about who it is you want to be,
and let the experiences you’re about to
have inform, rather than control, who
you become.
Most of you will choose the former.
Many of you came here with exactly
that intention. Over the coming weeks
I’ll be letting you know exactly what I
think of that, along with Simon Cowell,
staff at Caffe Nero, Nick Clegg, people
who call me “Sir” whilst smirking, the
old woman from Eggheads, and any-
one who works in Canary Wharf and
wears something from The North Face
on their commute every day.
I am A. Geek. The A stands for a
lot of things. Let me know how your
first week treats you by emailing anan-
grygeek at googlemail dot com.
Straight into the spirit of things. -ish
Gilead Amit
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
The Student Hub is your one-stop shop for a variety of student services. We provide a
friendly service helping you with common university and student life queries such as:
• Accommodation
• Finance and tuition fees
• Exams
• Student funding and bursaries
• Student records
• Admissions
• International Ofﬁce and UROP
• Welfare
If you have questions about any of the above visit our website:
www.imperial.ac.uk/studenthub
If you can’t ﬁnd what you’re looking for there, come and see us on Level 3 of the
Sherﬁeld Building, South Kensington Campus. Our normal opening hours are:
• 09.30 to 17.00 on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday
• 10.00 to 17.00 on Wednesday
We are open on Arrivals Weekend!
We’re opening especially on Saturday 4 and
Sunday 5 October from 09.00 to 15.00 to take
payments for tuition and accommodation fees
as well as helping you with your other queries
T
his is the moment I dread
every week. This one.
This precise, fleeting in-
stant that will be gone by
the time the unswerving
laws of grammar compel my reluctant
fingers to reach the next full stop. Be-
cause, you see, these are the five sec-
onds I have in which to hook you into
reading this article, and that sort of
pressure always gets to me. All I can do
at this stage is hope that you’ve reached
this far already and, if you are still out
there, I need to start making your read-
ing time worthwhile. And fast.
The problem is that the pressure al-
ways arrives so suddenly. Here I am,
taking a quiet break in an unobtrusive
part of the newspaper when your gaze
suddenly casts a brilliant spotlight over
the page. The beam rushes madly from
side to side before coming across the
massive T typed above, singling me
out to stand alone and quivering in
the glare of your critical searchlight.
‘Dance for me, clown. Make me laugh’.
The pressure is stultifying. How would
you like it if I only gave you 163 words
in which to prove your worth?
Drat. I’ve put my foot in it. Damn,
damn, damn. Already. I knew I should
have taken more time over this.
The fact is that I was trying to break
something to you gently. Because –
well, there is no easy way of saying
this. You see, this week – and for this
week only – I’m leading a double life.
I’m cheating on you behind your back.
Well, in front of your front, to be hon-
est, because I’m being unfaithful right
now; by attempting the impossible task
of pleasing two readers at once. I don’t
actually mean that there are currently
only two people casting their eyes over
this page. No, that would be absurd.
My readership is vast. Colossal. In fact,
if all my readers were laid horizontally
and placed head to toe, then the result-
ing chain would...er…well…um…look
faintly ridiculous. But seriously, what I
mean to say is that there are two dis-
tinct personae casting their eyes over
this page. Two archetypes, if you will
allow me to do to Jung what Oedipus
did to his mother for a moment. And
being the lovely physicist that I am I
will, in my lovely physicist way, refer to
you two as Alice and Bob.
Now you, Alice, are a fresh-faced,
rosy-limbed young fresher. Twinkly of
eye, bushy of tail, supple of limb and
smooth of skin, you are as attractive a
corner of the readership market as one
could hope to be writing for.
Bob, on the other hand, is entering
yet another year at Imperial. The ex-
periences of university life have irrevo-
cably changed him into a sadder, yet
wiser man. He’s been around the block
a few times, and the view has been
so mind-numbingly depressing that
he insists on returning here. Bob has
heard it all before and, quite frankly,
he’s sick of hearing it again. With the
majestic changing of the seasons, he
has seen past issues of felix dissolve
into compost, words that took weeks
to put together ripped apart in seconds
by the unforgiving elements and the
most witty, engaging and challenging
of columnists slowly fade away to be
replaced by people like me. With the
maturity and cynicism born of years
spent in this place, Bob has little pa-
tience for the frilly idealism and whim-
sical humour that might send Alice into
giddy fits of exhilaration. Bob, in other
words, has no Barack Obama sticker
on his (clearly) Microsoft laptop.
And this, dearest Alice and Bob, is
where the horns of the dilemma on
which I am sitting start causing irrepa-
rable damage to my fleshy parts. How
do I keep Alice entertained without
causing Bob to foam at the mouth at
my naive and optimistic pandering?
And, no less importantly, how do I
keep Alice from closing the paper in
tears at the sight of the naked, unadul-
terated cynicism coursing through my
veins?
Well, darling Alice and Bob, me ol’
sweetheart, it looks like I won’t have to
answer that particular question today.
The coward’s way out, certainly, but
‘he who writes and runs away should
never ever end a comment piece on a
pun that abysmally bad.’
Editor
Here we go...
A
nother year, another fe-
lix, another editor. To all
of you who voted for me,
a big thanks; to all of you
who didn’t, you’ve got me
anyway; and for all of those who don’t
care or know who I am, oh well!
I am the new editor, and things are
going to change. I will actually stick to
my manifesto points and ensure that
you guys get a fun yet highly informa-
tive paper. Yes, it sounds like a whole
lot of crap, but I thought I might as well
do my obligatory start of year editorial
rant. Fair enough, I did say things are
going to change, and as you may have
noticed, I didn’t mean visually.
So to all of you out there who are
wondering what exactly I am going to
change, well, here it is. Work is already
underway on creating a new felix ar-
chive. Come the new year, every issue
of felix since the first one in 1949 will
have been digitised and indexed, mak-
ing it easier for you guys to search for
exactly what you’re looking for. Clubs
and Societies will be able to look up
their history and browse through pho-
tos from the past. Alumni will be able
to read through news articles from
the years they were at college, whilst
the general population can just have a
look at what we students have thought
about college life for the past 59 years.
Coffee Break is back and although
quite a few of you won’t remember
what that is, you can probably guess
that it’s the section you’re likely to read
when having a break or just bored in
lectures! Competitions will be run, and
hopefully I’ll be able to sort out some
prizes. Page 3 will be made fun and
slightly competitive, with the introduc-
tion of Mr and Miss Imperial. Basically,
every week there will be a competition
for the best-looking male and female
from each department; with students
then voting for their favourite and
the winner being announced the next
week. You can either submit your own
photo or you can come in to the office
and we’ll arrange for one to be taken of
you. Towards the end of the year we’ll
bring back all the winners and then
pick the eventual winner. The winners
will receive £250 each!
I,science and Phoenix will be bigger
and better than before and we are plan-
ning on bringing out two new maga-
zines this year: Another Castle, which
will be for all those gaming enthusiasts
(read: geeks) out there, and a one-off
sport magazine to come out after var-
sity for all the sporty types out there.
Lastly, the more serious side of the
paper will remain. The news will be
hard-hitting and to the point. I prom-
ise that we will not hide away from
stories, if there is something out there
that the student body deserves to hear,
we will print it.
The cat, my friends, will be free!

