science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
6 felix Friday 3 October 2008
Science
Science Editors – Daniel Burrows & Mico Tatalovic
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
Friday 3 October 2008 felix
Science
Have you ever cheated on your boy-
friend/girlfriend? If yes, you’re not
alone ... Depending on whose report
you believe, anywhere between 20 to
44% of people admit to infidelity. How
does infidelity make you feel, though?
The recent Love and Sex series booklet,
released by The Independent, focuses
on infidelity and states “[that] guilt
plays its damaging part - only a heel or
a fool actually enjoys betraying some-
one else...” After cheating, feelings of
guilt ensue. Biologically speaking, guilt
has evolved to lubricate the complicat-
ed social lives of humans. In the case
of the guilty pleasure that is infidelity;
true feelings of guilt may act as signals
to your partner that you are sorry and
will not attempt to repeat the offence.
This might then help re-build the trust
and maintain the relationship.
A lot of research indicates that wom-
en are more jealous of their partner’s
emotional infidelity, and men of sexual
infidelity. This makes evolutionary
sense: a man’s reproductive success
(genetic interests) can easily be jeop-
ardized by a woman’s sexual infidelity:
a single case of this and he could spend
the rest of his life investing resources
in raising someone else’s offspring.
This principle of paternal uncertainty
affected evolution of much human
behaviour, including jealousy. On the
other hand, women traditionally de-
pended on men for protection and re-
sources and so a woman’s mating strat-
egy involves finding a mate that will
invest time and resources into their
relationship and children. If her mate
gets emotionally involved with another
woman, this may mean divergence of
those investments away from her.
Following this line of reasoning, re-
searchers from St. Mary’s University,
Canada, hypothesised that man should
feel more guilt about their own emo-
tional rather than sexual infidelity and
that women should feel more guilt
about their sexual rather than emo-
tional infidelity. In both cases, people
should feel guiltier about their own
actions that reduce their partner’s re-
productive success more, since one of
the functions of guilt is to stop people
from damaging their social relation-
ships by acting in undesirable ways.
Results based on questionnaires filled
by 130 men and women and published
in the journal of Evolutionary Psychol-
ogy are exactly the opposite of what
the researchers expected.
What could be happening in our
minds? Why do men feel more guilt
over sexual and women over emotional
infidelity? One possibility is that both
sexes project their own values onto
their partner; i.e. if sexual fidelity is
really important to you as a man, you
think it must also be important to a
woman and so feel guiltier about that
than about emotional infidelity, which
you don’t perceive as important. It is
also possible that since men perceive
their relationships more as sexual and
women more as emotional, their guilt
is also stronger in the domain which
they perceive as important for their re-
lationships. Finally, the guilt trip might
actually be there to smooth out our re-
lationship with the same-sex competi-
tors; not our mates. So knowing that
other men also get upset about sexual
infidelity means that the stronger sense
of guilt is there to minimize retribution
from competing males.
Mico Tatalovic
Science editor The Naked Scientists
Tally-ho! It’s
the Naked Sci-
entists – in-
nuendo-laden
metaphors
ahoy – en-
lightening us
with their take
on the week’s
science-related news. Cambridge sci-
entist Chris Smith and team discuss
why voles are monogamous, and hu-
mans often aren’t (it’s all down to our
vasopressin levels, apparently), and we
learn how the current trend of human-
caused extinctions is nothing new, and
why for bats silence can be golden. Def-
initely one for the biologists, although
a large part of this week’s programme
is devoted to the Large Hadron Col-
lider with interviews with several of
the scientists involved. The jury’s still
out on the ‘kitchen science’ segment
– all a bit Blue Peter – and the rest of
the programme left me cold. At times
it feels like they are trying too hard to
be funny and ‘edgy’, but end up sound-
ing patronising and, dare I say it, plain
boring.
www.thenakedscientists.com
Science with Dr Karl
This, on the
other hand, is –
in the words of
the Fast Show
– brilliant!
Expectations
were lowered
beforehand
when I found out that this is broad-
cast weekly on Radio 5 Live, home of
angry middle-Englanders and Danny
Baker. However Dr Karl himself, who
sounds a bit like an Australian Robert
Winston (and, I like to think, replete
with bushy moustache) is a veritable
mine of facts and witty anecdotes. The
phone-in format of this LHC-special
gives the good Doctor ample time to
expound on the very meaning of life,
the universe, and…Maggie Thatcher at
Tory cocktail parties. His enthusiasm
doesn’t obscure the facts – he really
knows his stuff – but as a populariser
of difficult science Dr Karl is second-
to-none, mixing quarks and strange
matter with Kurt Vonnegut Jr. and the
illegalities of sticking one’s elbow out
of a car window in Australia.
www.bbc.co.uk/radio/podcasts/
drkarl
This Week in Science
Once you get
past the un-
adulterated
‘TeamUSA’feel
of this show,
it is actually a
treat to listen
to. Kirsten San-
ford and Justin
Jackson make a great presenting com-
bo, exuding enthusiasm and humour.
The frat-house feel does occasionally
get in the way of the science, but there
are plenty of serious points, such as the
emotive use of animal testing by ani-
mal rights activists, and disagreements
in the scientific literature over the seri-
ousness of expected sea level rise due
to climate change. Also in the news is
a study on narcissism, water bears in
space, getting girls into science, and
– surprise – the LHC. The presenters
bring a balanced and well-thought feel
to proceedings, and one can only hope
their mission to bring science to the
masses succeeds.
www.twis.org
The Science Show
Another An-
tipodean of-
fering, ‘The
Science Show’
is broadcast
on Australian
national radio
and is present-
ed by Robyn
Williams (no, not that one). Unsurpris-
ingly this has a distinct down-under
focus, with news of amphibian declines
caused by chytrid fungus (did you
know 2008 was the ‘Year of the Frog’?);
ciguatera poisoning in coral reefs and
why you shouldn’t be eating barracuda;
and the killer Hendra (?) virus in bats,
horses and people. As if that wasn’t
enough, we also hear about the Ebola
virus decimating gorilla populations in
Congo, and the palm-oil boom and its
repercussions for orang-utans. It’s not
all bad news; there is an interview with
a 16-year old girl with a NASA schol-
arship (although frustratingly we don’t
find out why people can’t walk on the
moon any more), and a fascinating fea-
ture on Henry Ford – industrial gen-
ius, reincarnation-believing mystic,
peace activist, and anti-Semite – as the
100th anniversary of the Model T rolls
around. Worth it just for the crackly re-
cording at the end of Ford haranguing
Thomas Edison in a public debate on
the importance of a good work ethic.
www.abc.net.au/rn/cienceshow
Science in Action
A special edition of the BBC radio pro-
gramme from Cern, the home of the
LHC. Sue Broom interviews some of
the physicists involved with the project,
and there are some great insights. Who
would’ve thought that things were sim-
Our top 5 science podcasts
Daniel’s Unmissable Science Videos
Two towers of Ferro-liquid..... yes its a liquid.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=me5Zzm2TXh4
Perfect for that shiny new 3G iPhone.
pler now than
in Democritus’
time(theGreek
philosopher
who discov-
ered the atom)?
According to
Cern Nobel
Prize winner
Stephen Weinberg, they are, and all
because of commonality; instead of
being made up of millions of different
materials, everything we see can in fact
be reduced to a collection of quarks
and electrons. Reductionist, perhaps,
but intriguing nonetheless. The Beeb
really went all out promoting the LHC
– not only this programme but Radio
4’s Andrew Marr was there for the
grand switch-on (allegations that Cern
delayed the start date to coincide with
Marr’s holiday were denied) – and this
manages to show us what goes on be-
hind the scenes at the ‘biggest experi-
ment ever’ as well as bringing to life
a few of the thousands of people in-
volved. The excitement in the control
room when the first beam completes
its circuit is nerdishly contagious, and
the congratulations between scientists
touchingly awkward.
www.bbc.co.uk/radio/podcasts/scia
Will the LHC create a black hole that will swallow the Earth?
Image curtesy of Daniel Strange
LHC in the Media: Black hole swallows reason?
The Large Hadron Collider: a brilliant
example of collaborative science or a
doomsday machine? If you were fol-
lowing the headlines in the days leading
up to Wednesday, September 10 – the
first attempt by physicists to circulate
protons all the way around the 27km
ring under the Franco-Swiss border –
you may be forgiven for thinking the
latter was true.
The Daily Mail certainly did; “Land-
mark experiment to unlock secrets of
Big Bang could cause end of the world”,
it screamed, before introducing us to
the scientist responsible for switching
on the LHC, Dr Lyn Evans – or “Evans
the Atom”, the man who “will end the
world on Wednesday.” “End of the
world due in 9 days”, announced the
Sun with alarming certainty. Read fur-
ther, however, and it emerges that this
is the view of Otto Rössler, an obscure
Germanchemist(sorry,“boffin”)trying
to halt the experiment in the European
Court of Human Rights. After the case
was thrown out as “overly speculative
and not credible”, The Sun continued
with its apocalyptic claims: “Boffins
set to cause Big Bang” – “some experts
fear…a huge black hole that swallows
the planet and wipes out mankind.”
The broadsheets weren’t much bet-
ter. Here’s a week in the life of a Guard-
ian reader: “Is the end nigh?” (5/09);
“Is this my last weekend ever?” (7/09);
“Will the world end?” (8/09); “Is this
the way the world ends?” (9/09). Yikes.
The Independent and The Telegraph
also asked if this was “the end of the
world?”, while Simon Jenkins in The
Times was left to grumble about more
worldly matters, namely the £3bn of
public money spent on the project,
and to compare Cern – the European
nuclear organisation in charge of the
LHC – to the shadowy autocratic re-
gime running the Olympics (that’s the
IOC, not China).
After all that, predictably, the great
day came and went without a hitch,
leading to a collective about-face (“Suc-
cess! The world hasn’t ended” etc…).
The object, intentional or otherwise,
of much scientific journalism seems
to be to spread fear and mistruths.
This isn’t hyperbole; the results are
clear to all. Readers of Ben Goldacre’s
Bad Science column in The Guardian
will know about the fallout from the
MMR scandal in the early 2000s. An
anecdotal piece of research linking the
MMR vaccine to childhood autism was
picked up by the media and sensation-
ally reported as fact. In 2002 it was the
biggest story in the British press; by
Felix examines the media reports of the world’s biggest experiment.
2005 the vaccine uptake was so low
that the UK was in a mumps epidemic,
and by 2008 measles was declared en-
demic (persistent, continuous presence
in a population) for the first time in 14
years. The truly sensational thing is
that less than a third of the newspaper
articles on MMR mentioned the fact
that the scientific evidence was over-
whelmingly against such a link and that
many more people would doubtless be
harmed if they did not get the vaccine.
This shows the effect irresponsible
science reporting can have. It’s almost
impossible to know what drives the cy-
cle; the public are hungry for bad news,
and the press is only to happy to oblige
and shift more copies. Why let the truth
get in the way of a good story? Much
‘knee-jerk’ reporting of science fails to
address the important questions. One
example is the campaign against GM
crops by The Mail, squeamish about
“Frankenstein foods” and scientists
“playing God”. These objections have
held back a potentially vital technology
Felix Whitton
Science correspondent
“The object of
much scientific
journalism
seems to be to
spread fear and
mistruths. ”
for feeding a growing world popula-
tion faced with rapid environmental
change, and more importantly diverted
attention away from important issues
concerning multinational companies
(Monsanto et al.) who stand to profit
most from gene patenting and termi-
nator technology at the expense of the
world’s poorest.
What the LHC highlights is the point
at which many of these issues converge.
Professor Brian Cox of Manchester
University, one of the project’s lead
physicists, said that anyone who thinks
the world will end “is a twat” – proof
that scientists do not have spin doctors
– but brisk language notwithstanding,
he was voicing the opinion of an over-
whelming majority of experts. And yet
this was overshadowed in the main-
stream media by apocalyptic language
from a clutch of crackpots. By the same
token, we heard various estimates for
the cost of the experiment – anywhere
between £3bn and £5bn – along with
much righteous indignation as to the
immediate returns of the UK’s £500m
contribution, but almost nowhere
did we read about the joys of science
for discovery’s sake, unencumbered
by utilitarian targets and cost-benefit
analyses. Professor Stephen Hawking
pointed out that the money spent on
the LHC and the space race amounts
to less than 0.1% of world GDP; “If the
human race can’t afford that, it doesn’t
deserve the epithet ‘human.’”
Update - since this article
was written there has been a
setback at CERN. A ‘quench’
occurred where one of the
super-conducting magnets used
to direct the particle beams
failed. This caused a sudden
100°C rise in temperatures and
a tonne of Helium to leak into
the tunnel. Over the next few
weeks the affected section will
be warmed to room temperature
so the area can be inspected for
damage. The result is that the
accelerator cannot be started
again till spring, after the winter
maintenance period.

