music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
20 felix Friday 3 October 2008
Music
Music Editors – Peter Sinclair and Susan Yu
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
Friday 3 October 2008 felix
Music
Glastonbury Festival 2008
British summers are increasingly packed out by music festivals, Glastonbury being the
most well-known. Duncan Casey travelled to Somerset to see what the fuss is about
Peter Sinclair
Music Editor
H
ello, hola, bonjour,
willkommen, ni hao,
hi, you alright? So wel-
come to (or back to)
Imperial College! I hope
you’re as pleased to be here as we are
to have you here. This here’s the music
page, and I am one of the music edi-
tors, trusted to guide you through the
adventure playground that is the Lon-
don music scene, steering you towards
a cooler and more healthy diet of awe-
some sounds, and away from that fuck-
ing Coldplay album. If you do own that
album you are not allowed to read the
music page.
Music is a huge part of the London
student lifestyle. We are lucky enough
to have wound up studying in one of
the largest and most cosmopolitan cit-
ies in the world, and the music scene
definitely reflects that. In London there
is a community for practically every
genre of music, from jazz to hip-hop to
classical, and of course to dubstep. It is
a 24-hour city where you can see/listen
to/do/eat almost whatever you fancy,
any time of night or day. A city that
cultivates eclecticism and eccentric-
ity in its individuals and in its thinkers
– the saying: ‘different strokes for dif-
ferent folks’ extends to all six million
Londoners. Because of this, getting
out and getting involved in the music
scene here is one of the most enrich-
ing, gratifying, mind-expanding and
soul exploring things you can do while
you’re here. It’s a way to find out what
you really like and to really pursue it –
like a vision quest without the peyote.
London is a mysterious city, only re-
vealing as much as it thinks you should
know, and always keeping surprises
hidden to keep you interested. In my
two years in the smoke I’ve accrued a
small amount of knowledge which I
feel I should pass down to the prospec-
tive music listener. It’s by no means a
comprehensive list – London has way
too much going on to know every-
thing, but here’s four tips to steer you
in the right direction:
1) If you’re planning a big night, get a
Time Out. £2.50 from every newsagent,
but definitely worth the investment. It’s
got every music and club listing for the
week, with information about the kind
of music you can expect at all the clubs.
It’s a great way to find odd little spots
that make you know you don’t know
your shit when you really don’t.
2) Shoreditch is a fun place – check
it out as soon as is convenient. Super-
trendy but cheap because it’s a bit of a
shit-hole in places. The pubs are nice
though.
3) Union nights are a great way to
meet people in the first year, and a
good way to get pissed up on the cheap
too. But other than that, they’re just
NOT COOL. Yeah, I said it!
4) Never ever ever get a kebab in
Leicester Square at night, even if it’s
the only way they’ll let you use their
toilet. It’s just not worth it – find an
alleyway.
That’s it, that’s the list. The fifth hid-
den tip is to email me (music.felix@
gmail.com) and I will sort you out with
free CDs and press passes to gigs in
exchange for writing a couple of para-
graphs about them. Rly.
After last year’s washout, the omens
weren’t looking good for Glastonbury
2008. Slow ticket sales and contro-
versy about Jay-Z’s headline spot had
kept the festival in the papers, but the
publicity wasn’t the sort that anyone
wanted. Oh, and then it started to rain
on the Thursday. Tell me again why I
do this to myself every year?
Having sat out the obligatory mon-
soon with only a box of wine and a
small bag of recreational narcotics
for company, I emerged, bleary of eye
and stubbly of face to start the festival
proper. Breakfast was a rush – for rea-
sons known only to themselves, the or-
ganisers had arranged for talent vacu-
um Kate Nash to open the billing, with
her sub-Lily Allen (not something I say
often) brand of noise, but after that
things improved dramatically. While
Glasto doesn’t have the big-money pull
of Reading or V, the advantage is that
the people who do turn up to play do
so because they want to, as opposed
to some contractual obligation. A
refreshing set by Hobo Jones and the
Junkyard Dogs, (complete with silly
outfits, washboards, percussion played
on a guitar with spoons), banished the
earlier memories, before the Alabama
3 brought the Jazz World stage to its
feet with a blindingly good selection of
their gospel-infused back-catalogue.
Not bad for a band famous solely for
the Sopranos’ title music.
Surprise hit of the day, as well as
coolest-named act of the festival was
Lupe Fiasco – imagine Kanye West,
but not shit – whose sample-driven
hip-hop had a crowd of fifty thousand
middle-class white people who had
never heard of him jumping, gurning
and pulling ‘west-side’ poses at each
other. He was, for the record, signifi-
cantly better than Jay-Z, and the truly
epic nature of the Glastonbury sound
systems meant that you could actually
hear what he was saying, which was a
novelty for a rap gig.
Fun Lovin’ Criminals, The Fratellis
and The Kings of Leon rounded out the
scheduled bands for the day, at least for
me – the Kings seem to have found a
Bruce Springsteen-esque stadium rock
sound, which is frankly a dramatic im-
provement on the four-boring-men-
recording-generic-garage-rock-in-a-
bucket sound of their first albums.
So, then the day really got underway.
One really stand-out thing that sepa-
rates Glasto from, well, almost every-
thing else in the country is the late-
Jay-Z’s set was mired with controversy, being the first hip-hop act to headline the traditionally indie festival
Knee deep in human excrement
night stuff. A lot of the fun doesn’t
even start until midnight, and with the
replacement of the much-loved cabaret
of weirdness that was Lost Vagueness
with Trash City and the mysterious
Shangri-La, no-one really knew what
to expect. Shangri-La, as it turned out,
felt like a fairground as imagined by
Rob Zombie, only with marginally less
eating of brains; Trash City was, how-
ever, easily the best thing at the festival.
Imagine a post-apocalyptic Las Vegas,
with barren, wrought-iron trees spew-
ing smoke into a red-lit main strip,
complete with lasers, screaming break-
beat, flaming lanterns and dancers on
stilts, surrounded by the ruined re-
mains of casinos and strip joints. And
then go and have a sit down for a while
and try to work out what it is you must
have just taken.
Of course, the only trouble with all
“Then my
housemate set
himself on fire,
so we decided to
call it a night...”
“Shangri-La felt
like a fairground
as imagined by
Rob Zombie,
only with
marginally less
eating of brains”
this fantastic late-night show is that
no-one gets to bed until 6am, so the
next day was a little slower… Fortu-
nately, the good Mr Eavis knows that
too, so we started the day with an ev-
er-so-faintly surreal set from Shakin’
Stevens. Yes, really. It was a day built
for sprawling in the sunshine (yes, ac-
tual sunshine! At Glastonbury!) to the
pleasant but not desperately challeng-
ing sounds of Martha Wainwright and
Crowded House, with the blues guitar
genius of Seasick Steve thrown in for
good measure.
What can I say about Amy Wine-
house? A testament to the power of
the human liver, her show was superb
until she tried to talk, at which point
it became painfully apparent that she
was only still upright due to some El
Cid-style stick up her arse. She fell
over, swore, spat and punched a fan or
two, and in between occasionally belt-
ed out some of the hits that have made
her the animated car crash she is today.
Jay-Z started well, poking fun at such
luminaries as the Pope, George Bush
and Noel Gallagher, but to be honest
we got bored halfway through. Then
my house-mate set himself on fire, so
we decided to call it a night and go put
him out. 3 litres of wine + 1 large gar-
den candle = a whole bunch of pain.
Let that be a lesson to you, kids.
Sunday was a bit truncated, as my
gang were all off direct to Roskilde
festival, which is very much a story
for another day – the things we do for
you! In any case, ignore the doom and
gloom in the papers – Glasto tickets
come out on October 5th this year, and
you can register now at www.glaston-
buryfestivals.com. It’s what your stu-
dent loan is for!
Duncan Casey
It was sunny! Which for any event held
in Scotland is cause for celebration. It
only rained lightly once, at 3am. The
line-up was being tipped as the best
out of all the festivals this summer
and it certainly racked up the famous
names. Arriving fashionably late on
Friday after some local decided it
would be a laugh to move a signpost,
we successfully managed to park the
furthest away and dragged our supplies
along the mud track to Ryanair’s idea of
a campsite that was so distant it never
filled. Listening to the faint warble of
The Verve drifting over from the main
stage we set about watching a clued up
friend erect the tent.
The line up may have been excellent
but it was badly planned. It left us with
an empty Saturday, and a Sunday that
was so packed with jam that it made
a mess of our tops. Trying to get my
very English friends to Ceilidh Dance
and absentmindedly watching people
fight over free t-shirts filled up the
dead time between interesting sets
though. We made the mistake of going
to see Lightspeed Champion as The
Pet Sounds Arena’s sound quality was
awful and Devonte Hynes sounded and
looked like a silly hat singing slightly
out of tune. Cajun Dance Party, a little
bit of a guilty pleasure, had disappoint-
edly typical stage personalities but I
still really enjoyed The Flies Arrive - I
love songs about being late, despite
Amylase being risible. They certainly
did GCSE biology.
The food was
a pleasant
surprise
with
“Healthy
T” of-
fering
lamb,
beef,
oys-
ters, salmon and wild boar (all locally
farmed) as well as about three stands
selling risotto pitched at about the
same prices as everywhere else selling
the standard-shaped grease. Shame
they didn’t offer better beer. The cli-
max of Saturday night for the rest of
the group was Rage Against the Ma-
chine but never having been a fourteen
year-old boy I wandered off to find my
friends who were working at T.
We woke up bleary-eyed on Sunday
to the sight of a row of men pissing on
a chain-link fence 100 yards away. Even
a few girls pissed in the corners, which
began the unresolved argument of why
Scotland’s Glasto:
T In The Park
guys can piss wherever they want and
girls cannot without the male populace
reacting with disgust. Surely no one
should get to piss where people can
see?? Answers on a postcard. Dodg-
ing the suspect mud we set off and
split up, squinting at our badly copied
out programs. The ‘Pet Sounds arena’s
sound quality still hadn’t improved but
Battles managed to raise up against the
badly checked tent and play a short but
sweet set. John Stanier, drummer, was
awe inspiring to watch. Yeasayer was
one of the best bands of the festival
with their hauntingly happy sound hit-
ting me like an Indian summer echoing
through the an abandoned warehouse.
Time for the big
headliners, but with
R.E.M, Aphex Twin
and The Prodigy all
playing at the same
time it
was a hard
choice for many. R.E.M is my favourite
band, meaning that despite what peo-
ple say and some songs being mediocre
I love them uncontrollably. I cannot
review it with any sense of neutrality
so I’m not going to pretend to try. The
only downside of the amazing set was
two girls from a certain city [Glasgow]
whopushedtheirwayforwardandthen
shouted about their nail polish to each
other for an hour! I mean what was the
point? They didn’t look like they were
even enjoying the conversation. Af-
terwards we possibly headed towards
some campsite entertainment.
Finally we were woken up at the un-
godly hour of 7am but still managed
to be practically last to leave, squelch-
ing through what the end of the world
might look like if everyone died in a
multi-coloured refugee camp. The
wind tossed tents like tumbleweed and
we felt fine.
Sarah-Emily Mutch
‘T’ stands for Tenants. Sarah-Emily
Mutch does her best to recall the weekend
New Album from The Streets
The Streets
Everything Is Borrowed
Vice Recordings
HHIII
Amongst other things, Mike Skinner’s
career is on borrowed time with this,
his latest and most bewildering re-
lease to date, Everything Is Borrowed.
Perhaps he spent the whole grand on
fucking up his head, because the whole
feel of this strange record is that of a
new-age spirtualist cult service.
The theme of the album is summed
up in the title - ‘Everything is Bor-
rowed’, which refers to how we are
born with nothing, die with nothing
(except love, which Skinner points
out), and everything in between is ‘just
borrowed’. Very deep, very nice, how-
ever that’s just not what The Streets are
about. This attempt at putting across
a profound message just makes him
sound like that pissed guy at the pub
who sits at the bar and starts talking to
you when you go up to get a drink and
then won’t leave you alone even when
you’re obviously patronising him.
There are some brief moments
throughoutthisalbumwherethecharm
of previous releases shines through,
and without fail it’s always where he
drops the sillyness of the amateur phi-
losophising and just talks like himself.
Like on the Dry Your Eyes-esque I Love
You More (Than You Like Me) - “I drew
a drawing of you after last time I saw
you / I never thought to draw a picture
like that before /I learnt a lot about my-
self drawing all morning / It was abso-
lutely shit, I’m rubbish at drawing”. It’s
almost like he realises how ridiculous
the rest of it is and just takes the piss.
The kind of cutting taking the piss that
made his previous albums great. Only
the butt of the joke is his own album.
Ouch.
The name ‘The Streets’ alone guaren-
tees this release a brief spell towards
the top of the billboard charts, and
some of the beats are probably good
enough to make it linger a bit longer,
but just as the weekender must even-
tually emerge from his or her stoned
stupor and confront the harsh reality
of Monday morning, so too will Streets
fans eventually wake up, bleary-eyed,
to Skinner’s abysmal lyricism this time
around and say: “Mike, what the fuck
are you talking about?”
Peter Sinclair
Everything Is Borrowed is
available on 07/10/08

