10 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
20.02.2015
Comment Comment Editor Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Should we boycott Fifty Shades of Grey?
Fifty Shades of Grey has opened
the door for us to talk about
sex candidly and honestly
in a way that has never been done
before, something that can only
be a good thing. People are more
open to discussing their desires and
fantasies than ever, with millions
of people exploring new sensations,
and rejuvenating their sex lives. But
along with this comes a dark side, and
ignoring that could be potentially
damaging.
It’s fantastic that people are starting
to experiment with their sexuality.
Certainly among young people, the
use of restraints and role-play is
completely normal. I’ve played games
of Never Have I Ever where people
have been given incredulous looks
upon admitting that they’ve never
experimented with being tied up.
However, for our parents’ generation,
who the books are aimed at, it’s all
very risqué, and something that
they’ve probably never tried.
Sex dominates our society, from the
media to advertising to clothing, and
beyond. It is so important to be open
about it; it makes no sense whatsoever
for something that is referred to
so constantly to be taboo. I have
always said that if you’re not mature
enough to talk about sex, then you’re
not mature enough to be having it.
For our generation, this is probably
a good measure, but for older
generations this simply wasn’t an
acceptable option. In this way, Fifty
Shades really has caused a revolution
in the sexual liberation of middle
aged (and older) women and men.
Unfortunately Fifty Shades of Grey
isn’t just some pure erotica that
happens to have gone mainstream.
It is a story of a naïve young woman,
Anastasia Steele, and her relationship
with billionaire Christian Grey, who
happens to be really into BDSM.
Ana is timid, insecure and
inexperienced. She is relatable to
every single woman who thinks that
maybe their life is a bit boring; she
appeals to the weakest aspects of
our personality. In the same way as
Twilight, Fifty Shades of Grey is written
in a way that makes you very easily
put yourself into her role, and feel the
highs and lows with her. You form
emotional attachments as she does,
and so when reading it through in
the whirlwind of an addictive novel,
you don’t notice that it’s not a normal
paperback romance.
As far as I’m concerned, there is no
question as to whether or not Fifty
Shades of Grey depicts an abusive
relationship. It does. Between stalking
her when he first meets her, isolating
her, manipulating her, failing to
consider her emotional wellbeing,
coercing her, and threatening her
(even outside of the contract she
signs, supposedly giving consent for
him to control her), I think it is clear
that it is not a shining example of a
healthy relationship.
As with any film or book featuring
slightly gritty material, we tend to
restrict it to those mature enough
to handle the content. With many
people calling for the boycott of the
franchise, and many saying that it
should not have been released as a
major film production, the question
is raised as to whether the authors, or
producers, have a responsibility for
their content. Surely adults should
be allowed to recognise and decide
for themselves whether something
is good or bad or safe or healthy?
Other books, films, and even video
games are released that are harrowing
from perspectives that we’re more
accustomed to (for instance featuring
murders), where the person viewing
the content is allowed to make the
judgement that killing people is
wrong. In this case there seems to be
a far greater backlash, and I wonder
whether that is justified.
The target audience members
for this book are uneducated about
BDSM lifestyles, and are probably not
frequent readers of erotica (or if we’re
going to be honest, they wouldn’t
be reading Fifty Shades of Grey for
anything but a laugh). When they
have no experience of such practices,
contextualising it only within
the framing of being passionate,
romantic, and sexy, are people really
going to be able to see some of the
abusive aspects of the story for what
Anastasia Steele and Christian Grey: an example of how not to do BDSM. Photo: Sam Taylor-Johnson/Universal Pictures
Tessa Davey thinks that it’s time to talk about domestic violence
they are? When you take something
that people haven’t encountered
before and tell them that it’s hot,
they’re more likely to accept that
rather than question whether what
they’re being told is actually even
okay. While I absolutely think that
people should be given the benefit
of the doubt in interpreting what
they read and watch, mislabeling an
abusive relationship like as this as
a whirlwind romance is potentially
harmful.
The point at which any activity, be
it BDSM or as vanilla as you please,
is consensual is at the point of a
clear, informed, sober yes. Ana is of
a consenting age and is sober, and
agrees to Christian Grey’s contract.
Does this mean that she is giving
informed consent? Ana has never
had sex, or even masturbated. Her
views of sex and relationships are
incredibly underdeveloped for
someone her age, and she views them
in a very naïve way. She is, in my
opinion, not emotionally mature
enough to agree to this contract with
no discussion. Ana is willing, she’s
into it, but I think simply describing
all of the sex as consensual because
she timidly nods agreement, or she
trembles in anticipation, or says it
feels good when he goes down on her,
is simply insufficient.
The cast, directors, and producers
of the film have stated that Fifty
Shades of Grey “does not glorify
domestic abuse”. This may be true
of the film, which has been highly
edited and cut to make it suitable
for cinematic viewing. The film may
not portray the very shaky ground
on which the consent stands, but
Christian Grey is generally seen to
be abusive throughout. The director,
Sam Taylor-Johnson, says, “and when
he crosses that line it’s a very firm no
and she has the final word - she has
all the power and he’s the vulnerable
one so I don’t think there’s any
glamorisation of it.” This is in jarring
contrast to parts of the book, where
through her narratives, Ana is seen to
feel out of her depth.
The film, while being either
laughably terrible, or exactly your
cup of tea, is, as expected, not as
problematic as the books. As far as
EL James is concerned, whether or
not the book is depicting abuse is
not a topic up for discussion, stating,
“Don’t get me started. No it’s not -
OK?” This is dismissive, and displays
an attitude that is grossly unhelpful
in a society where talking about sex
is still somewhat taboo, and domestic
violence is stigmatised.
These books started a positive
dialogue about sex, reducing the
taboo, and have the potential to
help start a conversation that could
help break the stigma surrounding
domestic violence, an important
subject that should be open for free
discussion.

