THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 11
FELIX 20.02.2015
Politics Politics Editor Joshua Renken
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
2015 General Election: it’s complicated
The upcoming UK general
election is set to be the
most unpredictable vote in
living memory. Labour and the
Conservatives are practically neck
and neck with only 75 days to go and
the odds of a hung parliament have
never been shorter. Britain appears
to be entering an era of six-party
politics, where the Labour-Tory share
of the vote is at record lows. This
election is the first in recent history
where the public will be heading to
the polling stations expecting a hung
parliament.
For a long time Britain upheld
a three party system, composed of
the Conservatives and Labour, with
the Liberal Democrats traditionally
coming in third place in the popular
vote.
At the time of writing, Her
Majesty’s Government holds a 34 seat
majority in the House of Commons,
with the power being shared between
the Conservative Party (303 seats)
and the Liberal Democrats (56
seats) in a coalition. The Labour
party (257 seats) currently serves as
Her Majesty’s Opposition with the
remaining 34 seats (there are 650
in total, with 533 in England, 59
in Scotland, 40 in Wales, and 18 in
Northern Ireland) occupied by nine
smaller parties, three independents
and the Speaker of the House, John
Bercow. However, in the last five
years the political landscape has
drastically altered with the rise of
UKIP, The Green Party and the
Scottish National Party (SNP). These
smaller parties have split the vote on
both sides of the political spectrum,
making Britain’s political future look
even less clear than it did in 2010.
After May’s election the
Conservatives and the Liberal
Democrats are both predicted to see
their parliamentary representation
shrink significantly, with an increase
in the percentage of votes and
number of MPs for Labour, UKIP,
the SNP and The Green Party. The
Liberal Democrats are expected to
retain majorities in around half of
their parliamentary constituencies
and lose their third place position in
the popular vote to UKIP. The upshot
is that Labour and the Conservatives
will end up with a similar number of
MPs, and the Lib Dems will suffer
severe losses.
The result of these shifts in the
public’s voting intention is messy.
A coalition even more complicated
than the status quo looks set to befall
our democracy, with the potential
requirement of a three-party
‘rainbow’ coalition to form in order
to reach a majority in the House of
Commons. One possible scenario
is that no majority coalition can
be negotiated, and one of the main
parties will have to lead a minority
government. This governing party
would have to arrange a ‘confidence
and supply’ policy with smaller
parties who would support vital
actions such as the budget, without
holding any ministerial posts.
Labour is expected to receive
a hammering up in Scotland, as
the SNP takes the majority of
constituencies north of the border.
Current polling indicates that, if
Scottish voting intentions do not
change from now to the election,
the SNP will win more than 50
constituencies (out of 59), putting
virtually all of Labour’s 40 Scottish
MPs out of a job. This level of
parliamentary representation for the
SNP would nearly equal the current
size of the Liberal Democrats, and
may turn out to be the crucial factor
that denies Ed Miliband the keys to
Downing Street in a Labour majority
government.
Over the course of this parliament,
The Green Party has been picking
up votes from the left and recently
polled higher than the Lib Dems.
They are, however, unlikely to
translate this increased support into
more than one MP at the election.
Journalists, politicans and pollsters all agree that this election is going to be a nail-biter. Watch this space. Photo: Wiki Commons
Joshua Renken describes the current political landscape with a view
to this May’s general election.
In the last few years, Nigel Farage
and UKIP have been amongst the
biggest talking points in British
politics. UKIP are currently polling
at several times what they achieved
in the 2010 election and two Tory
defectors have provided the party
with its first representation in the
House of Commons. UKIP enjoyed
success in the recent European
Parliament elections, winning the
most seats of any party, but are not
expected to gain any more than four
or five MPs after May’s election.
Neither the Conservatives nor
Labour stand a good chance of
winning the 326 seats required for a
single-party majority government.
Labour are predicted to represent the
highest number of constituencies but
not enough to command a majority in
the House of Commons, as did occur
in 2010 with the Conservatives.
Regardless of whether it is in
an outright majority, a minority
government or a coalition, only two
men are realistically in the running
to become prime minister: David
Cameron and Ed Miliband. If forced
to choose between the two, the public
favour Mr. Cameron. But in spite of
Miliband’s individual unpopularity,
Labour is ahead in most of the
polls. Public opinion suggests that
the UK wants David Cameron as
prime minister, but in a Labour
government. If the Conservatives
manage to stay in power after 2015,
many will think it was Ed’s poor
public image that kept Cameron in
Downing Street.
It could be that the eventual
administration is not the direct
result of public opinion. Instead,
the government is more likely to
be determined in post-election
political negotiations. In other
words, the weeks immediately after
7th
May could prove to be more
important than the weeks running
up to the election itself. If there is
a hung parliament, party political
talks would no doubt consume
Westminster, and in all probability
last longer than the five days it took
for the existing coalition to form back
in 2010.
This far out, the election is
impossible to call. There is a long
time to go and a lot could happen
between now and 7th
May. Election
campaigns are often defined by
what goes wrong and public opinion
could still shift dramatically. For
many of us this will be our first time
participating in a general election,
and it just so happens to be the
most complicated and interesting
in almost a century. Whatever your
opinion, don’t forget to vote.

