16 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
20.02.2015
Film
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk Film Editors Ellen Mathieson, John Park and Jack Steadman
Dornan dominates Dakota
The worldwide phenomenon
that is Fifty Shades of Grey
finally hit the screens last
week and of course, it has made a
lot of money. The story of Christian
Grey (Jamie Dornan) and Anastasia
Steele (Dakota Johnson) in the Fifty
Shades trilogy however has become a
laughing stock in the literature world
since its publication, with many
rightfully criticising the horrendous
“inner goddess” narrative voice of
Ana, as well as all the other times
author E. L. James made the readers
laugh unintentionally. But Kelly
Marcel’s script attempts to scrape
away as much of that as possible, in
an attempt to make something at
least half-serious out of what initially
started off as Twilight fan fiction.
And the effort seems to have paid
off in certain respect, as the film is
not nearly as trashy or cringing as one
would expect. Sure there are lines of
dialogue here and there that sound
a little off, but most importantly,
the film remembers to approach the
difficult, taboo subject matter with
a sense of well placed humour. The
first half that involves absolutely
no BDSM whatsoever is the initial
courting phase, one that is not afraid
for its characters to let loose and poke
fun at each other.
Now, the much-anticipated scenes
of BDSM do occur, but director Sam
Taylor-Johnson plays them relatively
safe and stylish, despite the 18
certificate received here. Perhaps this
was a conscious decision to avoid the
much dreaded NC-17 classification in
the States which automatically turns
any film into a virtually unscreenable
one, but regardless there is a sense
that just a few extended snapshots
into the world of BDSM fall short
of doing the character of Christian
Grey justice. We get the feeling that
the Red Room of Pain is not fully
explored here for whatever reason,
and the surprisingly safe, restrained
(no pun intended) approach comes as
a disappointment.
Throughout the film Grey’s
troubled past is hinted at, no doubt
a teaser for things to come in the
two sequels that have already been
the go-ahead signal by the studios.
But instead of expanding the cold,
steely-eyed, and supposedly heartless
billionaire’s central role in the story,
the film gets stuck in a frustratingly
repetitive loop in which the girl starts
whining for more commitment, and
the guy starts resisting and just wants
kinky sex. You get the feeling the
film is thirty minutes too long, and
numerous ultimately pointless scenes
really ought to have been left on the
cutting room floor.
Dakota Johnson is without doubt
the best aspect of the film. The
casting department has found a
real talent with Johnson, whose
FIFTY SHADES OF
GREY
Director: Sam Taylor-Johnson
Screenplay: Kelly Marcel, E. L.
James (novel)
Cast: Dakota Johnson, Jamie
Dornan, Eloise Mumford,
Marcia Gay Harden
JOHN PARK
SECTION EDITOR
astonishing performance of innocent
naïveté gives the film a convincing
female protagonist, as a slightly
awkward, inexperienced young
woman. Johnson also knows how
to get in touch with Ana’s more
playful, cheeky side, as she toys with
Christian’s needs and emotions.
Playing opposite her, Dornan
arguably has the more limited,
one-dimensional role, but he plays
damaged and disturbed well, setting
things up nicely for how his role may
(or may not to be fair) develop in
future films. He is, as he says in the
film, “fifty shades of f***ed up”.
Expect an abrupt ending, as the
franchise will take at least the next
two years to properly finish. The
supporting characters we barely get to
see here, should feature more, and a
bigger delve into Christian’s past will
work to the advantage of the sequels.
Photo: Sam Taylor-Johnson, Universal Pictures
Photo: Sam Taylor-Johnson, Universal Pictures Photo: Sam Taylor-Johnson, Universal Pictures
Photo: Sam Taylor-Johnson,
Universal Pictures

