18 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
20.02.2015
Film
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk Film Editors Ellen Mathieson, John Park and Jack Steadman
Ex Machina was released at the
end of January, a film I would
recommend to many people.
Written and directed by regular
Danny Boyle collaborator Alex
Garland, it explores the concept of
the definition of humanity through
the paradigm of artificial intelligence
where the plot sets in motion a Turing
test (a test devised to test a machine’s
capacity to exhibit intelligent
behaviour akin to that of a human).
Watching the film got me thinking
about the merits of science fiction
as a genre of film. A lot of the time
science fiction is heavily degraded
due to false assumptions about its
maturity as a genre. Opinions which
can be attributed to the likes of Star
Wars and the various exploits of
the Superhero genre of the Marvel
production company create this
image of the fan base of this genre
and therefore our expectations of
it. You know what I’m talking about
– you see a few around Imperial:
Glasses wearing, acne-ridden, slightly
overweight, awkward when talking
to members of the opposite gender,
and possessing a strange penchant for
Anime.
Although it has to be said there are
people like this, myself fitting some
of these descriptions at some point
(Being 14 was a dark chapter in my
life), it leads to the neglect of one of
the most influential and thought
provoking genres available. For me,
science fiction includes the fantastical
elements of Action and Fantasy
thereby creating the cinematic
spectacle that is demanded by the
average cinema goer, which is allowed
to act as a backdrop to tell a more
serious message of social realism or
philosophy that would otherwise
get forgotten about in the wallows
of portentous indie drama. For my
money, there are a few recurrent
themes that are usually explored in
intelligent Science Fiction: Society
and class; what it means to be human;
and human relationships and their
transcendence.
Ex Machina, as mentioned before,
plays on the theme of what it means
to be human through exploring the
concept of whether or not artificial
intelligence can be possible as
well as if emotions, thoughts, and
consciousness exist, can a robot
be considered human. This is a
fundamental work of Descartes,
dealing with the concept of self which
in any other genre would probably be
considered pretentious (see the eye-
scratchingly inane I Heart Huckabees)
but since the genre of science fiction
allows the creation of worlds and
concepts that are fictional but with
the proviso of being feasible –Ex
Machina prompted Stephen Hawking
to express his worries at the dangers
of AI. This theme is featured heavily
within the 1982 classic Blade Runner
where the artificially intelligent
replicants of Deckard’s world who
were created in order to fulfil a
subservient role to humans start to
break from their programming in
order to discover what it means to be
alive. Within this theme there also
lies a recurrent motif of the desire of
freedom, occurring in Kubrick’s 2001:
a space odyssey with HAL’s rebellion
or through the leaving of Scarlett
Johansson’s AI operating system in
the 2013 film Her.
Society and class is an issue usually
tackled in some gritty British film,
but is more frequently present
in Science fiction. Besides the
aforementioned Blade Runner, the
most commercially and critically
successful science fiction work
that tackles this issue is that of
Neill Blomkamp’s District 9. Set
in Johannesburg, the immediate
parallel is that of the apartheid, but
replacing the oppressed race with
Alien Refugees that live in shanty
towns, segregated from the rest of
the population. Although this may
not be the most subtle of metaphors,
it is still an extremely interesting
backdrop for this film to take place.
Another interesting case of this,
albeit far less alien infested, is that
of Never Let Me Go where classes of
people are raised to be organ donors
for higher social classes, focussing on
individuals who reside in this state
and their endeavours in trying to
escape from their role in society. It
touches on the desire for autonomy
from the state but at the centre of
it resides an emotional core which
assists in delivering the warning of
overpopulation and the rebellion
against reinforcement of class roles.
Despite the humungous budgets of
many Sci-Fi films, the most effective
stories that they can tell is that of
human relationships, forming the
main attraction of the film with the
interstellar space travel being used as
a mere platform to convey this. The
obvious example (as you may have
guessed) is that of the recent Dylan
Thomas enthused Christopher Nolan
epic Interstellar – despite it’s reported
budget of 165 million dollars, and
the extensive theoretical physics
that Kip Thorne was responsible for
devising, the central story is that of
the relationship between a father and
daughter and the fact that thousands
of light years can note break the bond
and duty of family. Nolan is an auteur
at creating movies with million dollar
budgets whose central dogma is far
beyond that of any other blockbuster
movies, but is frequently neglected
from the awards both because of
the blockbuster status and the
assumptions about the science fiction
genre – a Science Fiction film has
Father and Daughter share a moment, Interstellar. Photo: Christopher
Nolan, Paramount Pictures
What is human? What gives us the right to decide? Left: Ava, Ex Machina – is she conscious? Right: Rachel, Blade Runner – she thinks she human. Why should we disagree?
Photo: Alex Garland, Universal Pictures. Ridley Scott, Warner Bros.
never won the best film award.
With this all said, it may sound
like the average cinema goer requires
some sort of explosion to get them
to engage there brain at the moving
pictures in front of them; however
it is far from it, but it cannot be
denied that with the variety of
genres that tackle philosophy or
ideas of the self, Sci-Fi is the one
that permits and allows for the most
cinematic spectacle within a genre,
whilst manipulating the audience
to consider themes that they would
perhaps not consider in other
circumstances, making it the most
exciting and innovative genre in
cinema today.
From Ex Machina to Blade Runner
Jonathan Masters explores the merits of Science Fiction

