Nominations are now open but be quick to get your nomination in as they are closing in just over a
week!
The elections are open to all students, Undergraduates and Postgraduates alike. You can nominate
yourself for one or more of the positions available during our Nominations period (2 February - 1
March)
We’re running number of information sessions before and during the Nomination period so that you
can learn more about how to write your way to election success and how to be a campaign machine.
You really CAN do it. Visit imperialcollegeunion.org/elections to find out how.
imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
What can you gain through volunteering?
Thousands upon thousands of students volunteer at Imperial each and every
year, making a huge difference to life on campus.
The students who run your Clubs, Societies and Projects; your Year and
Department Academic Reps; the students who run your Constituent Union’s;
Hall Seniors and #helloicu crew members; the Mums & Dads you were
allocated in your first year – all these students are volunteers.
This is your opportunity to let them know the difference they’ve made to your
time at Imperial – send them a short thank you message as part of the Great
Volunteer Thank You.
Find out more at:
imperialcollegeunion.org/greatvolunteerthankyou
The Big Elections 2015 - Nominations close 1 March
More students than ever before have nominated their favourite lecturers, tutors
and support staff for a Student Academic Choice Award!
Nominations closed on Friday for the 2015 cycle of the Student Academic
Choice Awards, the student-led opportunity to celebrate and reward excellence
amongst College staff.
808 nominations were received, from every faculty, department and campus in
Imperial College London - including Horizons, Centre for Educational Develop-
ment, Silwood, and several Medicine teaching & research hospitals.
Now that nominations have closed, panels of Academic Representatives will
meet in student-led sessions to decide the shortlist of six people for each
category. The SACAs Shortlists will be revealed in the coming weeks - keep an
eye out here to see if your nominee has made it to the SACAs Ceremony!
Find out all about SACAs and see who got shortlisted at:
imperialcollegeunion.org/sacas
Record number of SACAs
nominations
Student campaigning gains
discounts for students
As of 1 March, we will be discounting our range of feminine hygiene products
in our shops, a request that was raised at our most recent Union Council
meeting.
A student approached Chris Kaye, our Deputy President (Welfare), about the
lack of access to, and price of, feminine hygiene products on campus. Following
this, he then brought a paper to council to discuss the issue, and consulted with
the Union’s Management Team about how to bring about change to address
this issue. It was suggested that these products were sold at cost price, and
after agreement with the Management Team and Council members, this will
come into effect next month.
You can turn advocacy into action and evoke change such as this to make the
student experience at Imperial even better.
Visit the new Campaigns section on our website for more information or visit
our Union Council pages to find out how to submit a paper to Council.
imperialcollegeunion.org/news

