27 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
20.02.2015
Editor Cécile Borkhataria
Fashion
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Cecile Borkhataria takes a look at some of the best and worst dresse
Music’s biggest night: the best and wo
Beyoncé killed it in this all black Proenza Schouler dress
at Sunday’s Grammy’s. She wore an equally beautiful
white dress on stage whilst performing ‘Take My Hand,
Precious Lord’, which featured in the popular movie Selma
about the civil rights movement in the United States.
Her performance was controversial since Ledizi, a jazz
singer who sang the song in the movie, was not asked to
perform it at the Grammy’s. Ledizi was also nominated
for the ‘Best R&B Performance’ Grammy, but ironically,
lost it to Beyonce. Ledizi even told critics that she was “a
little disappointed” that she wasn’t asked to perform the
song. Despite the controversy, Beyonce’s performance was
flawless and she looked fabulous at the awards show.
Nicki Minaj in Tom Ford Photo: Jason Merritt/Getty
images
Rihanna in Giambattista Valli Photo: Larry Busacca/Getty images
Beyoncé in Proenza Schouler Photo: Jason Merritt/
Getty images
Rihanna wore this incredible pink Giambattista Valli Haute Couture gown on
Sunday night. The dress, which recently featured at Paris Haute Couture week,
was the subject of much Internet buzz and memes. The daily mail claimed
that she looked like a “giant cupcake”, whilst others have memed the dress,
portraying family guy character Peter Griffith wearing the dress. Some even
compared her dress to a Barbie themed birthday cake, since the skirt was so
poofy and ruffly. It was even rumoured that her dress took up three seats at the
awards. Others thought her dress looked like a shower loofa, but my personal
favourite is an aerial photo of the audience posted by a twitter user, joking that
the dress could be seen from space.
Nicki Minaj oozed sex appeal on the red carpet in this
daring Tom Ford gown. Not one to be body conscious,
Nicki looked phenomenal wearing the dress, with the
risque deep plunging neckline accentuating her best
‘assets’, and the fringed peek-a-book skirt giving us a
glimpse of her toned legs.
The rapper was nominated for two Grammy’s: ‘Best Pop
Duo/Group Performance’ for ‘Bang Bang’ with Jessie J and
Ariana Grande, and ‘Best Rap Song’ for the popular hit
‘Anaconda’.
Although she lost both awards to Christina Aguilera’s
‘Say Something’ and Kendrick Lamar’s ‘I’, she arguably
looked the sexiest of all the starlets that night.

