THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 28
FELIX 20.02.2015
Fashion
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk Editor Cécile Borkhataria
ed celebrities attending the prestigious event in Los Angeles
worst outfits of the 2015 Grammy’s
Madonna in Givenchy Photo: Jason Merritt/Getty
images
Kim Kardashian West in Jean Paul Gaultier Photo: Jason Merritt/Getty
images
Although Charlie XCX tried to pull of the women’s suit
look, she looked like more like a chav going to his high
school prom. The combination of the shimmery white suit
with her ruffled shirt looked like she could have bought
the outfit at a thrift shop, not from Moschino. When
she hit a Grammy after-party at Hollywood’s Chateau
Marmont hotel, she made an even bigger fashion mistake
by changing into a skin-tight leopard print leotard. One
word can summarise her fashion choices: cheap.
Charlie wasn’t nominated for a Grammy, but she still
managed to perform on stage – at the after party she went
to. It sounds like Charlie XCX needs to find a new agent
AND stylist.
Charlie XCX in Moschino Photo: Jason Merritt/Getty
images
Moving on to the worst dressed celebrities of the night,
we have exhibit A: Madonna in Givenchy. The legendary
pop star wore this questionable Spanish matador style
ensemble with thigh high boots, which had no place on the
red carpet. On top of the already tacky outfit, the fishnet
tights and leather gloves she wore made her look like a
near-retirement burlesque dancer.
To make matters even worse, the short skirt flashed her
bottom to photographers, giving the world a full frontal
view of her black thong. Although she wasn’t nominated
for any awards, she gave an incredible performance of
‘Living for Love.’ At least she did something right that
night...
We all know that Kim Kardashian West loves to flaunt her body in revealing
outfits, and she usually pulls them off. However, this train wreck of a Jean
Paul Gaultier gown did nothing for her figure. Yes, the dress accentuates her
cleavage, but the deep plunging neckline with the high slit is far too much skin.
In the fashion world, there’s a universal rule when it comes to dresses.
If you’re going to wear a dress that accentuates your cleavage, then you
shouldn’t show too much leg, and if you’re going to wear a short skirt, then
you shouldn’t show too much cleavage (if you want to stay classy, that is.)
Unfortunately, Kim’s dress looks more like a sparkly dressing gown than a red
carpet worthy dress.

