HANGMAN hangman@imperial.ac.uk
THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 38
20.02.2015
FELIX
CANCER
VIRGO
This week, you’re getting
married in a partially
bulldozed church in London.
Everything has lined up to be
the perfect wedding and you
love for your new girlfriend
is at an all-time high. Just as
you are about to say the final
words. Your old crush comes
in. You say the wrong name at
the alter...
HOROSCOPES
LEO
PISCES
AQUARIUS
CAPRICORN
SAGITTARIUS
SCORPIO
LIBRA
GEMINI
TAURUS
ARIES
This week, your sister and your
best friend are getting married.
An opportune moment to get
a quick one in with your crush,
with whom you’ve been very
‘off and on again’. The wedding
was beautiful and it makes you
cry about how unsuccessful
your weddings have been. Oh,
and your crush is pregnant.
This week, your crush gives
birth to your beautiful child.
You can’t help but feel that you
love her and want to spend the
rest of your days with her and
raising your kid. You decide to
propose to her, pity your friend
accidentally found the ring and
proposed to her instead. What’s
worse is that she said yes. You’re
pretty sure they’ve banged.
Thisweek,alotischangingin
yourfriendshipgroup.Your
sisterandhusbandaremoving
outoftowntoraisetheiradopted
twinsandthemotherofyour
childisleavingtoworkinParis.
Lifewillneverbethesame.Ina
lastditchattempt,youleaveher
avoicemail,maybeshe’llreadit
beforeshefliesaway–inanycase,
youhopeRachelwillreturn.
Thisweek,afterdecidingtogo
onabreakwiththeperfectgirl,
yousleepwithanothergirlthat’s
clearlyhadathingforyoufor
awhile.Needlesstosay,your
crushgoesballisticandbreaks
upwithyou.It’snotfair,you
wereonabreak.Somethingtells
you,regardlessofhowmany
timesyoudrunkenlymarryher,
shewillnotletyouforgetthis.
Thisweek,oneofyourfriends
encouragesyoutore-kindle
yourloveforsynthmusic.You
getaregulargigatyourlocal
coffeeplaceandawakenthe
musicalgeniusinsideofyou.
Unfortunately,nooneelseagrees
withyourstyle,what’smoreyour
musicalfriendrefusestoplay
anymore.Youchoosetogiveupto
bringherhappiness.
This week, your long term
partner, with whom you have a
child has come out as a lesbian.
Cutting you loose and taking
your son. It would have been
ok if she didn’t get custody
and if your son didn’t think
all of your guy friends were
‘daddy’ too, seeing as he had
two mums.
Thisweek,yourpetmonkeyis
foundoutbyanimalcontrol.
Afterthelossofyourpartner,he
wastheonlythingleftinyourlife
thatwasgood,evenifhedidshit
onyourstuffandhaveconstant
controlofstereo.It’sokthough,
you’reprettysurehe’sgoneinto
cinema,maybehestillthinksof
you.
Thisweek,yourcarelessfriends
accidentallytellyourcrushabout
youreternalfeelingsforher.She
realisesthatyouaretheperfect
guyforherandalwayshavebeen.
Unfortunatelyyouareabroadand
arenotpresentto‘signforyour
package’–what’sworseisthat
youreturnfromthetripwitha
girlfriend.Shit.
This week, your sister’s school
friend, who you’ve had a
crush on for most of your life,
suddenly returns to your life
as she decides to crash at your
sister’s place. You’re not sure
what’s happened but she seems
distraught – either way your
long term relationship is going
to hit a strain.
Thisweek,inordertospice
upyoursexlife,youandyour
longtermpartnerdecidetotry
somethingnew.Muchtoyour
turgor,sheperksupattheidea
ofathreesomeandsuggestsher
attractivegymbuddy;pityshe
spentmostofthethree-waywith
her.Ontheupsideyoumadea
reallygoodsandwichduring–
withturkeyandalittlemustard.
Friday 13th of February
My hall has started to order food off Tesco online, although they keep screwing
up our order. I thought I had ordered 3 potatoes but instead was delivered three
sacks, so will be having to eat potatoes for a week.
My hall has started to order food off Tesco online, although they keep screwing
up our order. I thought I had ordered 3 potatoes but instead was delivered three
sacks, so will be having to eat potatoes for a week.
Saturday 14th February
Today ate roughly my body mass in mash potatoes, and couldn’t move for an hour
whilst crying over American Girl, who is no longer texting me back. I also drank a
litre of Tesco basics vodka, which was a bad idea as I then threw up all my mash
potato. It was roughly the same consistency and the same colour it was when it
went down.
Sunday 15th February
Dinner: three jacket potatoes and chips. I tried to make sweet potatoes by
rubbing some chips in sugar stolen from the JCR, but this is apparently not how
it is done.
Ran into Dorothy today whilst chewing absent-mindedly chewing on my potato snack
sticks. She is walking now, although said she will always have a slight limp, but
seemed optimistic about it. I too want sex so good one day it is worth struggling to
walk for the rest of my life. Spent five minutes being sadly envious of Kriss.
Monday 16th February
Dinner: roast potatoes with a side of mash. Skin has turned slightly yellow but
Diary Of A Fresher aged 18 3/4
think it might something to do with my bedsheets as I haven’t washed them since I started.
Tuesday 17th February
Today I ate three potatoes, slightly raw as I couldn’t be bothered to wait for the oven to
cook them.
Wednesday 18th February
HAVE REALISED YOU CAN MICROWAVE POTATOES OH MY FUCKING GOD
Dinner: five jacket potatoes with rubbery cheese I stole from the JCR. Seasoned with salt I
also stole from the JCR.
Thursday 19th February
Can no longer eat potatoes, feel like I am about to die from lack of protein. Have resorted to
stealing my corridor mate’s protein powder, although that too made me feel sick.
I eventually threw the protein powder up, and it still looked suspiciously like thrown up
mashed potato.
We predrank tonight to go out to Roxy, and thought it would be hilarious to take Stuart’s
frozen whole salmon on the night out with us. It seemed so good, especially when we
pretended the salmon tapped into the tube with his own, aptly named oyster card, but
forgot it would defrost.
The salmon started to smell around midnight, although we tried to keep him cold by
submerging him in pitchers of woo woo and purple rain.
No-one remembers where we left the salmon, so had to share potatoes with Stuart as he
didn’t have anything to eat for dinner the next day.
Thisweek,eventhoughyou
arehappywithyourcurrent
relationship,youstillcan’thelp
feelsomethingforyourcrush;
itdoesn’thelpthatshe’salways
there.Yourpalsaregoingthrough
oldvideosandtheydecideto
watchyoursister’sprom.You’re
notsurehowithappened,butyou
getoffwithyourcrush.Things
arelookingup.

