THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 41
FELIX 20.02.2015
C & S Editor Ben Howitt
Clubs and Societies
felix.clubsandsocieties@imperial.ac.uk
Hit the Highway with Indian Society
EastMeetsWest is a student run multicultural show that
accumulates the talent across Imperial College and
showcases a cornucopia of cultures.It is the longest
running student show in the UK and its 23rd
anniversary
show,Highway,will be held at the Richmond Theatre in
London on 22nd
February 2015.
The purpose of the evening is to raise money for
charity whilst enjoying a show highlighting a fusion
of Eastern and Western cultures through various art
forms including dance,drama,fashion shows and music.
This year the show takes the form of a start to finish
production where the drama element links all of the
various acts together.The title‘Highway’represents
the unforgettable journey that the characters as well as
the audience will embark upon over the course of that
evening.
EastMeetsWest displays an array of dance and
musical acts from all over the world,truly embracing
the vibrancy of cultures from around the globe.In
terms of Eastern dance forms there is a variety ranging
from Bollywood to Bhangra,Bharatnatyam to Gaana.
Intertwined with Western art forms and including
Funkology,hip hop,Afro-Caribbean dance,Light Opera,
Jazz band and belly dancing,this evening promises an
incredible diversity!
EastMeetsWestis all about nurturing hidden talent
through inclusivity.A key ethos of our show is allowing
anyone and everyone interested to participate in the
show,turning students into West End performers.
This contrasts East meets West from other university
shows because it allows everyone to get involved and
focusses on not just one art form,but a medley of four!
It is refreshing to see a student show where instead of
selecting the crème de la crème,the aim is to make every
participant feel like the crème de la crème by the end of
the show.
The heart of the show is charity and all the efforts
surrounding the production are centred on improving
the lives of others around the world.“This year,we are
proud to support the British Asian Trust and their anti
child trafficking campaign,which strives to empower
young women and help survivors recover from the abuse
and trauma of being trafficked”.
EastMeetsWeststarted 22 years ago as a simple
idea to demonstrate classical Eastern acts alongside
more contemporary Western performances.From
performances in Imperial College’s very own Great
Hall in front of 400 people,the show has grown into
a massive production over the span of two decades.
Previous venues have included the Shaftesbury Theatre,
Eventim Apollo,IndigO2,London Palladium and most
recently,the Novello Theatre.
The show is now accommodating for people in their
thousands as a result of the show’s immense popularity
that caters not just to students but for a family audience
and people of all ages.
EastMeetsWest does not simply aim for excellence in
performance.It aims to create a unique performance
that blends culture,commitment,pride,passion and
elegance with entertainment.
EastmeetsWestwillplayattheRichmondTheatreat18:00
onSunday22nd
February.Ticketsstartat£15,andcanbe
boughtatwww.emwtheshow.co.uk/tickets.htmlortherewill
bepaperticketsonsaleinSAForSherfieldeverylunchinthe
leaduptotheshow.
Image: Indian Society
SONIKA SETHI
EAST MEETS WEST VICE PRESIDENT
It was the end of one of the last
weeks of term; uni life was
definitely hectic by that point,
or at least it was for me. It was lab
week, so although I was knackered
from a long week of afternoons at
the bench, Friday was exciting and
rewarding. I had finally completed
the third experiment of the term and
obtained large, defined crystals. This
seemed to bode well for the concert
later that night, or perhaps it placed
me in a better mood in advance of the
performance. Going straight from
labs to pre-concert rehearsal was quite
a transition, but also a lovely way
to celebrate the end of the week by
doing something that I love, besides
Chemistry!
The concert itself was an even
bigger adjustment. Playing in the
Sibelius Hall, Helsinki, last summer
was an experience that I’ll never
forget. Performing in the Great Hall,
right in the heart of a university so
focussed on science where we are
used to academic work, was also
a unique experience. It was even
more exhilarating as the concert was
completely sold out!
This undoubtedly lifted everyone’s
spirits and boosted the jubilance
of our opening piece – Dvorak’s
Carnaval Overture, which received
wonderful applause. The adrenaline
continued on into my performance of
Prokofiev’s Second Violin concerto,
and I hope everyone enjoyed it
as much as I did. The first half of
the concert was very well-received
with rounds of applause, and the
second half was no exception. After
Marquez’s festive Danzon and
Rachmaninov’s atmospheric and
much more solemn Isle of the Dead,
we received a standing ovation!
All who attended the concert
that evening thoroughly enjoyed
themselves and we would like to
thank those of you who came to watch
us perform!
After a restful break (apart from
revision for some), ICSO is gearing
up for our next concert; Saturday 28th
February, 7.30pm at Cadogan Hall,
near Sloane Square. The programme
includes a varied repertoire and
features Martin James Bartlett, BBC
Young Musician of the Year 2014. It is
definitely a concert not to be missed!
The programme opens with
Gershwin’s An American in Paris,
full of jazz and saxophones. This is
followed by Mozart Piano Concerto
No.20, with Martin James Bartlett,
which is a total contrast to the first
piece and a chance to witness the
virtuosity of the pianist. The second
half has a Russian theme with
Borodin’s In the Steppes of Central
Asia and Stravinksy’s Firebird Suite;
music from a mystic ballet of love
and oppression.
I am looking forward to returning
into the orchestra to accompany our
soloist and I can’t wait to perform
such a great programme!
Tickets can be purchased online, or in
person on 25th
and 26th
February, at the
Blyth Centre on 5th
floor of the Sherfield
Building, as well as on the door.
https://www.union.ic.ac.uk/arts/
orchestra/tickets.php
Crystals and Concertos
Yingwei Ouyang gives her perspective
on her big night with ICSO
On Wednesday night I had
the pleasure of attending my
first ArtsFest event of the
year – A Very Vocal Evening (3.0),
presented by The A Cappella and
Musical Theatre societies. All four
established A Cappella groups gave
performances, and various solos and
duets were performed by members of
both societies old and new.
The ladies and gentlemen of the A
Cappella society, many of them fresh
from the International Competition
of Collegiate A Cappella, performed
versions of songs that ranged from
classic barbershop harmony to a
sneak preview of the new Beatbox
group, which will debut next
Thursday in Metric.
Making the crossover between A
Cappella and MT was Nick Bradshaw,
who performed with the Techtonics
in the second half. He later gave a
rendition of ‘Moving Too Fast’ from
The Last Five Years, accompanied by
jack-of-all trades Ehsaan Shivrani.
Ehsaan in fact featured in 12 of
the 17 acts presented at the evening,
appearing separately as an on stage
pianist, a temp, an off stage pianist
and an electric guitar player.
The evening had performers
ranging from their first year with
the society to individuals now on
their third degree at Imperial, but
the focus was on the new. The Scopes
performed a new piece in addition
to their normal set; Take Note are
almost entirely new following a
rebranding from Girls’ Barbershop;
and there were no fewer than six
performers new to MTSoc this
year. Confident deliveries from
Heather Campbell, Roshani Abbey,
Farah Shair, David Phillips and
the aforementioned Nick Bradley
served to show that the society’s
upcoming productions do not lack for
performers!
This is the third year now that the
event has taken place, and audience
numbers were once again high. By the
end of the second half, we were down
to standing room only – the audience
apparently having been drawn in by
the promise of great singing and dad
dancing.
The Artsfest Finale takes place tonight
(Friday) in the Union Concert Hall.
Doors 18:30, curtain 19:00.
BEN HOWITT
C&S EDITOR
ArtsFest: A Very
Vocal Evening 3.0

