THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 43
FELIX 20.02.2015
C & S Editor Ben Howitt
Clubs and Societies
felix.clubsandsocieties@imperial.ac.uk
The Erasmus society relax in their short break away from London. Photo: Eduard Feicho
From the 23rd
to the 25th
of
January, the Erasmus Society
spread their wings and flew the
Imperial nest to visit Liverpool and
Manchester! After some good old
FiveSixEight grub (and ale) following
Friday lectures, the multilingual-
chatter-filled five hour coach journey
to Liverpool commenced.
Some of the students hadn’t met
previously and this was the perfect
icebreaker. After a very quick
turnaround at the Liverpool YHA,
that evening the society President,
Lauren Anders, a Liverpudlian
herself, introduced the society
members to the nightlife of this
fantastic city. They headed to Fleet
Street, first to Krazyhouse, then to
Baa Bar.
Students experienced the wonder
that is a night out that doesn’t drain
your overdraft! Relative to London,
the prices were nearly as cut down as
the average mini-skirt (despite the
very chilly breeze!), and there was
much more of a student feel to the
place. The Erasmus group definitely
made the most of it.
Blessed with sunny skies not
common in Northern climes,
and armed with stomachs stuffed
with a full English breakfast, the
group spent the next day exploring
Liverpool. Following a walk along
the Albert docks, the students visited
The Royal Liver building (the ‘i’ as
in ‘alive’, not as in ‘Liverpool’), one
of the first buildings ever made
from reinforced concrete. On its two
clock towers sit the Liver birds, and
legend has it that, should they fly
away, the city of Liverpool would
cease to exist. During their Saturday
stroll, the group also came across a
Superlambanana sculpture, a cross
between a lamb and a banana, of
which 125 were designed by the
Japanese artist Taiso Chiezo to
celebrate Liverpool’s status as the
European Capital City of Culture
in 2008. Other pit stops for the day
included (of course) the Cavern
Club, St. George’s Gardens, the
Eleanor Rigby statue, the Museum of
Liverpool, the International Slavery
Museum and the Walker Art Gallery.
The group travelled to Manchester
by train on Saturday evening then,
after checking in at their next
YHA, hit Deansgate Locks for some
well-earned beverages. Almost all
bars required an entrance fee, which
rendered the bar crawl plan pretty
expensive. But luckily they had
Fabian on board, who managed to
blag the group of 20 into a bar for
free. Even more impressively, all
group members made it to the hostel
breakfast the next morning!
And Sunday was reserved for
culture vulture-ing. First stop was
Manchester Cathedral, where they
were given a tour by an expert retired
literature professor. He first showed
the students, in a style not unlike that
of an academic tutorial, the Angel
Stone discovered in the wall of the
cathedral’s south porch, evidence
for the presence of an early Saxon
church built in 700AD. He then
Erasmus Society members, following
a weekend full of British culture and
socialising with other students from
all over the world.
Erasmus Society holds social events
every week and the committee are
currently organising a tour like this
one, but to Dublin, for the end of
June. Any students, Erasmus or non-
Erasmus are welcome.
We are also holding an event on
the 10th
of March for any Imperial
students interested in doing a Year
Abroad to talk to both Imperial
students who have done a Year
Abroad, and students from abroad
who are studying at Imperial this
year. So if you fall into one of these
three groups, please keep an eye on
our Facebook page for details.
explained that the flat wooden ceiling
distinguishes this Cathedral from
most other European varieties.
A visit to the stunning gothic John
Ryland Library, first opened to the
public on 1st
January 1900 after ten
years of construction (the final results
were just a little more impressive
than our own Central Library), was
followed by an essential recce of the
Old Trafford stadium. The students
explored the players’ changing rooms
and the VIP lounge, before walking
out onto the pitch in double file. It
was especially impressive to hear how
much effort goes into maintenance of
the grass.
The Addison-Lee coach returning
to London on Sunday evening was
full of very tired, but very content
JULIA SPINDEL
C&S WRITER
Erasmus take a weekend trip up North
What’s On – Student Volunteering Week
Events will be running throughout next
week across campus and around London.
There’s something for everyone!
Throughout the week
Find us in the JCR to learn about the
different opportunities some of our student
led projects provide,including Imperial Co-
op,Raincatcher and the El Salvador Project.
Also,is there someone who has given their
time to make a positive impact on your time
at Imperial? Come to the stall and take part
in The Great Volunteer Thank You.All you
need to do is write your message on our
thank you postcards and we will deliver your
appreciations to them!
Tuesday
Inspire school pupils at Imperial–Help
give school pupils an exciting tour around
Imperial and answer their questions about
what university life is like.In association
with the Outreach Department.
Wednesday
Hang out with history–spend an afternoon
cleaning and gardening at one of London’s
oldest and most distinguished cemeteries.
Clean up a city farm pond–join a team of
volunteers to catch and re-house wildlife
from the Deen City Farm pond,drain the
pond,and re-fill it.Also enjoy a tour round
the farm and meeting the animals!
Memory Cafe–help serve teas and coffees,
as well as chatting,joining in and helping
out with the week’s activity,chair exercises,
at a local group for older people run by the
Memory Service.
Conversation Cafe–join a‘speed-chatting’
group bringing English speakers together
with newly-arrived International Students.
Get fit and make a difference with GoodGym
–join students from across London on a run
to a community that needs your help.
Thursday
Science discovery afternoon–spend an
afternoon inspiring the next generation
of scientists in a local primary school by
demonstrating some fun,interactive
experiments.
Help out at Imperial Co-op stall–making
ethical food more accessible for students by
selling a wide range of Fairtrade and organic
food to students.
Friday
Friday food collection–help out on a stall
collecting dry food and tins for a local
foodbank.Or bring along any un-perishable
food that’s been sitting in your cupboard.
Sunday
Help feed the homeless–join Imperial
Souprun on their weekly trip around the local
area,collecting and distributing food and hot
drinks amongst local homeless people.
All attendees will be invited to our Thank
you event,where you will be joined by some
of the regular volunteers,as well as some of
our beneficiaries.
If you don’t have much time
Desk to Difference–don’t have enough time
to volunteer? Come along to our lunchtime
drop in and write a letter to a child in hospital
or answer queries from visually impaired
people through an iPhone app.Drop in
sessions on Tuesday (SAF 121) and Thursday
(SAF 120) lunchtime next week.
Bring non-perishable food items to Sherfield
Foyer to be donated to local food bank on
Friday!
Photos: Imperial Hub

