Sports Editor: Kunal Wagle
sports.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Issue 1598
Immortals lose to Birmingham 41-0
The defence were working hard against
a team that were well-drilled and hard
hitting and managed to block a PAT kick
to deny Birmingham an extra point after a
touchdown.The final Immortals offensive
drive saw D’Emanuel Olagbaju,the
battering ram,get injured and Birmingham
called all three of their time outs to force
the Immortals into one last ill-fated
punt.Some may say that the fact they
were already winning 41-0 makes this a
douchemove by Birmingham but I couldn’t
possibly comment.The Immortals punted
the ball and gave a good chase but saw two
of the starting offensive line,Henry‘Now
Has An Even Uglier Head’Turner and Sam
‘Permabroken’Hill take heavy hits to the
head and go off the field with concussions.
The defence went onto the pitch
determined not give up any more points;
they played hard,physical football and
denied the Lions again and again until the
game was over.Despite the heavy final score
line,41-0,the Immortals played a good
game of football considering the roster size
difference and the number of key players
including G.Orab and Mini Harry Collini
playing both offense and defence.
The Immortals look forward to the final
game of the regular season next Sunday
22nd
February against the Baths Killer Bees.
Having narrowly lost to Bath away earlier in
the season it is a game that the Immortals
are more than keen to win.
Valentines Day was a special day in every
Immortal’s heart this year as it saw us travel
to Birmingham to take on the best team in
the country.After taking five hours to get to
the pitch after multiple motorway closures
and heavy traffic on Country Roads,the
mood on the bus was a little down but C’est
La Vie and Blame It On The Weatherman
for the fog causing accidents.Once we
arrived in Birmingham to face the Lions the
mood switched to one of focus after seeing
the 90-man Birmingham horde we were
to face.The Immortals kicked off to start
the game,only an hour and a half late,and
Birmingham returned well.The Immortals
defence came out firing and Arjav picked off
the Lions quarterback in our own end-zone.
This is when the Immortals hard-running,
ground and pound offence came on to have
a go at the best defence in the country.All
things considered it went pretty well,we ran
hard and picked up some first downs but
ultimately had to punt it away.Birmingham
showed real skill in their special teams
throughout the game and returned the ball
for good field position where their offence
punched the ball in for a touchdown.
This winning formula spelled the rest of
the game out for the Lions; we would pick
up some first downs,run hard,pass well
but always punt which is when they would
get a good return and score.The Immortals
troubles came in the second half,being 21-0
down and having played a tough,physical
half of football.
On Wednesday both the
Imperial men’s and women’s
1st
teams were in action in
the first round of the BUCS Fencing
Championship. The women’s team,
who won the Championship two years
ago, were in action at Ethos against
Newcastle: the first weapon up was
foil and although Imperial has been
struggling this season in foil the team
managed to get a one hit lead after a
tense match in which the score was
45-44.
The second weapon up was épée
and the Imperial women managed to
extend their lead with a 45-37 victory,
which meant that going into sabre,
Imperial only needed to reach 36
hits in order to guarantee victory. In
the event, doing what they do best,
Imperial also won the sabre, thus
sealing victory with a decisive 45-20
score line, giving an overall result of
135-101 . They have thus set up a last
eight match against Edinburgh in
Scotland, which is where the men’s 1st
match took place.
Imperial men’s 1st, Champions
last year, were away to St. Andrews
in their first match of the
Championship and after losing one
fencer, due to “a delayed train”,
arrived in the home of golf with
about an hour to spare before starting
the match. The first weapon up was
foil and after a hard fought contest
St. Andrews pulled ahead 45-38, a
lead of seven. The second weapon
up was sabre but even without
Commonwealth double medallist
Maiyuran Ratneswaren, Imperial won
the sabre 45-41, leaving a target of
winning the épée by at least three hits.
The team fenced tactically and kept
the score low throughout the épée
and went into the last match with a
two hit lead, needing one more hit
to win. The final fencer, Filip Aniés,
got the needed hit early on and then
proceeded to get double hits, keeping
the score low and running the clock
down. With 4 seconds remaining the
lead was still three and St. Andrews
was forced to flèche from the line.
Filip picked the fencer off and when
St. Andrews repeated the move, hit
him again with one second left, with
the result that Imperial won the
épée 40-35 and won overall by two
points, 123-121. Next up for the men’s
1sts are the premier league south
Champions, Cambridge.
" [...] doing
what they
do best,
Imperial
also won
the sabre"
Double victory for Imperial
Fencing’s 1st teams

