THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 9
FELIX 20.02.2015
Comment Comment Editor Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
hall senior’s view
aigning against closing Weeks
average of £166 a week does not take
into account the £20 a week which
Woodward residents will have to
spend on travel, and it has not been
stated explicitly how long the average
will remain at this value.
The result of last week’s council
meeting is not a victory, and the
Union Council were essentially
pushed into a corner and merely
voted for the option that was “less
bad”. Selfishly, College set these
figures based on the very wrong
assumption that accommodation at
Imperial is already affordable.
At this week’s “Imperial Questions
Live” Debra Humphris repeatedly
mentioned the issue of transparency
regarding rent, however the data,
which has been released sets the cost
of Wardening as an “opportunity
cost” of £795,000 annually.
In my opinion, this cost simply
does not exist, as Imperial do not pay
a single penny towards Wardening;
all they lose is the potential “profit”
that could be made from not giving
those rooms to students. Ignoring this
“opportunity cost”, Halls of Residence
actually make a profit of £351,597
annually, and what we really want is
for this so-called “transparency” to
actually reveal the truth, either about
the costs of halls or even any plans to
close them down in the first place.
Due to licensing rules, from next
year onwards under 18’s will not be
allowed to live in Beit. This will leave
them with two options: pay £200 per
week to live on campus, or live in
Acton, which perhaps may not be the
safest place for an underage student
to live.
Not only that, some students need
to live on or near campus for medical
reasons; again they will be forced to
live in unmanageable amounts of
debt, or compromise their wellbeing
and accessibility through financial
pressure to live in Acton.
It is College who should be held
accountable for this failure in
recognising the needs and feelings
of the students, and, quite honestly,
Imperial is going to lose out in the
future as a result of declining student
satisfaction. Endowment is already
low, and quite honestly I do not know
a single student who would be willing
to donate money to Imperial upon
graduation.
I had a conversation with Debra
Humphris after Imperial Questions
Live and all the questions she was
unable or unwilling to answer she
referenced to “Estates”. I don’t know
who “Estates” are, but if they are
deciding the future of hundreds of
undergraduates without telling the
Union and its students the reasons
why, something is very wrong with
how this university is run.
Here’s what some
students had to say
online:
“Itisverysadthatcurrentresidentswerenotinformed
beforehandandthereforedidnothavethechanceto
statetheiropinion.
Browsingtheinternetrumorscanbeeasilyfound
thatthegeneralstudentexperienceatImperialispoor
comparedtootheruniversitiesandthisisalsobecause
ofthehousingsituationinLondon.ClosingdownWeeks
withits66roomsisthereforeasignificantlossasnotonly
itfurtherdecreasesthe(affordable)bedspacesinPrinces
Gardensbutalsowiththecommonroomlosingaspace
whichwasalsousedforjointhallevents....
TheUnionasastudentorganizationshouldreally
thinkaboutwhattheyareherefor-makingthestudent
experiencethebestitcanbeorsupportingamanagement
strategywhichclearlyputsmakingaprofitfirst.”
“Itoccurstomethathavingalower‘headline’rateona
smallnumberofroomsinsomehallsisallverywell,
butgiventhattheoveralllevelofincome(i.e.themean
rate)hadtoremainthesame,thismeansthatjustasmany
studentswillbepayingmorethancurrently...
It’sallverywelltoarguethatthe‘rich’studentswill
simplypickuptheslackbutthispointofviewfailsto
recognisethatstudentsdon’tgettochoosewhichhallsthey
endupin-theyonlygettomakeachoiceof5,andarenot
guaranteedtogetanyofthese...
Thereforethiswouldseemtocreateevenmoreofa
‘roulette’situationforprospectivestudentsinthatthose
whoenduppayingmorewon’tjustbethosewhochooseto
becausethey‘can’,butalsothosewhoaresimplyunlucky...”
“EvelynGardenclosing2015,GardenHallclosed2013,
PembridgehavinginthebalanceandnowWeekson
thedangerlist.Inefficientuseofspace...haveyouseenthe
businessschool?!Profitfirst,studentexperiencelast.Do
thepeoplemakingthesedecisionsnotrealisethatthey
can’tbereversed?
ItsstrangethatEastsidepricescan’tbechanged/lowered
eventhoughthehallhasbeeninoperationfor5+years-at
thesametimetheprocessinActoncanbecutbeforeit
opens-doesthissuggeststudentswerebeingrippedoff?
Allotherrentsincreasing,somesubstantially...and
supportedbythebodyelectedtorepresentstudents.”
“SotheyclosedGardenHalltwoyearsagoandthespace
isbarelybeingused.ItisnowhometotheChaplaincy,
whichdoesnotrequireallthespacethatusedtohouse
nearly100students.AndiftheproblemwithWeeksis
thatitistoodifficulttorefurbishthenhowisitgoingtobe
usedforotherfunctions?Ican’thelpbutfeellikeasimilar
thingwouldhappenwithWeeks;whatawasteofspace
whensomanystudentswouldbedesperatetolivesoclose
tocampus.
Withthesenewpricesforhallsestablished,andthe
closingdownofthecheaperhallsinrecentyears,firstyears
arebeingpricedoutofSouthKensington.Itseemsthiswill
justcreateadividebetweenthosefromdifferenteconomic
backgrounds.Ifthecollegecarriesonthiswaythenitwill
definitelydeterpeoplefromapplyingtoImperialifthey
knowtheycannotaffordtoliveclosetocampus.”
“Againandagainandagainweseeevidenceofthe
corporatementalitythatmakesstudents(thepeople
whoshouldn’thavetopaygoodmoneytofighttoothand
nailforeverylittlething)feelliketheyarebeingboxedinto
acornerwheretheCollegedon’tcareaboutthem.Imperial
operatesaveryeffectivepolicyofnotgivingatoss(onthe
presumptionthateveryonewhocareswillbegonein3
yearsandthenewbatchwon’tknowthedifference).
Acton,Teddington,PrincesGardens,followedbythe
deathofProfGrimm.......
#classicImperial”
"... something
is very wrong
with how this
university is
run"

