2 F E L I X
MOTION DEFEATED
Americans Bob Higgins and John Swaney who opposed the motion
" Yanks Go Home " at the Union debate last Thursday. Full report
in Late News.
There is a faction among high places in IC Union who, if not
already, will probably soon be dubbing Dr. J. R. Butler, warden
of Keogh Hall, as a second Cameron, big enemy of the Union. He
was the driving force behind the Rugby match of 16th February
against Tizard, one of many ideas for fostering some embyro of Hall
spirit.
Tizard has hot air, Selkirk a tradition, but the two lower South-
side Halls were designed by the architect with little thought for com-
munal life. While it is very convenient to be able to descend the
stairs leading straight outdoors and upper gallery lifts are handy for
third-floor residents, there is little incentive to use the lower gallery
or browse over the Hall notice boards.
The penthouse dwellers are stead apathy reigns, and a hand-
keen to build up sporting and ful of diehards save them from
social activities in the Halls of
Residence. The Union argues
that they already provide all the
necessary clubs and societies, and
that such activities should be run
entirely by them. Such an argu-
ment would be genuine if the
Union organisations remained
active throughout the year; in-
SteelIS P R O G R E S S
i|P5
— ~^tJ
STEEL gives a man the opportunity to
rise by ability and achievement,
irrespective of age. It is an exciting
industry now undergoing a revolution
In manufacturing methods, In the deve-
lopment of new types of steel, in new
techniques of application. Since the
war over a million pounds a week have
been spent on development and
modernisation. The present rate of
development Is at four times this rate.
Steel is Britain's biggest manufactur-
ing Industry and the basis of our whole
economy. Its technical problems are
challenging, its management situa-
tions complex, Its Insistence on quality
continuous. It is a diverse and alive
industry and welcomes men who can
take responsibility.
If you are interested in Engineering and
Science careers In Steel, contact the
University Appointments Board
or write to the Training Department
BRITISH IRON & STEEL FEDERATION STEEL HOUSE TOTHILLST LONDON SW1
BIG ROLE FOR
OPERATIONAL RESEARCH
Using scientific method and mathematics,
operational research is applied in the Steel
Industry as a tool of management. It is used to
define and examine problems, and predict and
compare the result of different policies and
decisions on a wide range of subjects from
production control to price levels, from safety
measures to quicker turnround of ore ships.
The Steel Industry has three times more people
in operational research than any other British
Industry.
disaster. Every student has a lot
of academic work to do, espec-
ially near exams., and officials
have hardly the time to continue
to press others to maintain in-
terest in the clubs.
Here the wardens have the ad-
vantage, for they can maintain
pressure throughout the year.
Due to smaller numbers, the Hall
communities have a more per-
sonal atmosphere and so are
more acceptable to shy people.
In fact, the Hall can act as a
stepping-stone for future top-
people in the Union, for here is
the ideal position to gain experi-
ence in handling others. Loss of
face is of less import; a high
proportion of Hall residents are
your friends, in the Union you
have few.
The wardens should be encou-
aged to develop Hall spirit. In
this way, while having an active
social life in Hall, those who are
really interested in the Union
facilities will use them. The Halls
are severely limited in the range
of interests for which they can
cater. Minority interests in the
Union—and there are many-
will not be hurt. The bigger
clubs and societies will be rein-
forced with a less apathetic breed
of students.
D. I. WILLIAMS.
S H O R T S
Now the Natural History Society
intends to compete with Felix. Ex-
pected soon is their 6-page dupli-
cated " Bulletin." In limited sup-
ply, its distribution will probably
be restricted to the east and west
sides of Beit.
With renovated curtain-rails,
behooked doors, and locked
wardrobes, Southsiders are now
faced with the prospect of being
caged in. This latest move in
making Southside safer is the fix-
ing of chain-link fencing, on the
staircases.
WATSON DENIES F E U D
The recent issue of Scrutiny
contains a suggestion of a per-
sonal feud between Dave Watson
and Dr. Cameron. Watson has
strongly denied that there is such
a feud and wishes it to be known
that he is in fact on very friendly
terms with Dr. Cameron.

