Wielding the
mighty organ
E
ditorials. At least 300 words of varying co-
herence about either a) the editor’s recent
exploits, or b) some kind of topical comment
on a recent issue. Inspiration was sparse the
morning I wrote this, so I took a little drift
through the archives to see what prior holders of this
post wrote. They vary from the dry and informative (cf.
Dave Edwards) to the rather vitriolic rants about the
College’s latest idiotic move (cf. Alex Coby), via catharc-
tic diary-esque confessions (cf. Will Dugdale). Being, as
I am, gradually sobering up from numerous glasses of
ICU house wine, I thought: hey, I could do all of those
at once.
First up: dear diary. When I stood for this position,
many, many moons ago, it hadn’t really filtered in to my
conciousness that the workload would be so overwhelm-
ing, despite having seen editors come and go. However,
I will not whinge about my lack of a social life outside
the confines of this Union building, or about the fact that
my house has become somewhere I merely shower and
sleep. I will however, whinge about the fact that life loves
to kick you over and over again, in the crotch, when you
least expect it.
Secondly, I’ll be informative. Although it’s been repeat-
ed countless times to the point that it’s become danger-
ously cliched, Felix is your student newspaper. You may
have noticed the first two issues of the term were rather
skinny, and some of you made your feelings clear on the
matter while I was distributing the newspaper around
campus. If you want to write features, help me research
news stories, write reviews, start a new section, vent
your thoughts onto medium-quality newsprint, or help
design the newspaper, then get in touch with me. I’m
in the office most days, in the bar most nights, and you
can always e-mail me on felix@imperial.ac.uk. We’re a
friendly bunch in the West Basement.
I would rant here about some idiotic move of the Col-
lege or the Union, but it appears that both bodies are
either horribly corrupt and incredibly good at hiding it,
or are in fact doing quite a good job. The new Graduate
Student Association elections have the appearance of
becoming a complete farce, with a single person stand-
ing and very little advertising. Though the redevelop-
ment of Da Vinci’s was rushed to open, the bar is be-
ginning to look more homely by the day, and your editor
has high hopes that it will become a rather nice drinking
establishment before the term is out. The sabbs are bea-
vering away quietly, and Freshers’ Fair was really quite
enjoyable.
On the subject of freshers: man, you guys look happy.
I sincerely hope that your good spirits aren’t broken by
either your departments or the rather mopey older stu-
dents. I’ve found you both approachable and cheerful in
my travels around campus. Keep it up.
Do politicians really believe in what they tell us? Hugh Stickley-
Mansfield discusses whether politicians sell out in pursuit of power.
Dear Felix,
Having just spent the last hour of my
life running around chasing swipe
cards and discovering that not only
does it state my details from my UG
but as a result was sent to completely
the wrong department. Consequently,
I’ve been missing the all important bit
of plastic but then, having gone to the
ID card desk, I find that the problem is
with registry who a) have the longest
queues in the world, can they please
hire a new member of staff and gener-
ally sort their lives out, and b) forgot to
tick one box on my profile which, had it
been done in the first place by someone
competent would have saved myself
a great deal of time and effort and
reduced their queues.
In summary, Registry is a big heap
of steaming…surely they could at least
hire a temp for the start of term when
they are in particular demand. Can we
please destroy it and replace it with a
service with greater capacity, shorter
Letters to the Editor
queues and more and better staff? I
will happily volunteer to start doing a
Berlin wall job and tearing it apart with
my bare hands. Why does it have to
suck so much?
Peter Burgess
Dear Editor,
Hugh Stickley-Mansfield makes a valid
case against the increasing racism
targeted towards Americans. Such an
attitude is both reactionary and miss-
ing the point. A little like Hugh’s arti-
cle. Opposition towards the American
nation from those of us who care about
global injustice and inequality stems
not from a lack of friendliness or intelli-
gence of those Americans we meet on
holiday, nor from a jealousy towards
America’s ‘success’ since they ‘kicked
the British out’. America is a country
with much to offer the world and has a
culture which every other society could
learn much from.
However, current antipathy towards
the country is driven by its political
system – one that requires Sena-
tors, Congressmen and Presidents to
be multimillionaires with extensive
corporate backing; that produces a
president with too much control over
international affairs; that pursues glo-
bal hegemony ruthlessly and imposes
democracy upon sovereign nations in
the face of national, regional and world
opinion.
To most of US critics, the US is a
country run by corporations negligent
of humanity and the environment.
Whether you believe it is through
ignorance, religious zealously, propa-
ganda or disillusionment, the govern-
ment have successfully secured the
support of the citizens they can rarely
be said to represent. It is this system
that most of us despair against. Anti-
Americanism should never mean the
rejection of the American people them-
selves, but the role of their government
and its military across the world.
Darryl Croft
Power over principle?
E
arlier today I was astonished
to hear previous Conserva-
tive leader William Hague on
the radio, sounding perfectly
reasonable. What was even
more astounding was that this was the
second time in recent months that this
has happened.
Of course, what I would consider to
be reasonable is not the same as what
many others would, and I do not doubt
that thousands of people considered
much of what he said whilst leader of
the opposition to be every bit as reason-
able as I see him to be now. However,
that I should agree with everything he
had to say is certainly surprising, given
how rarely I did so beforehand is quite
striking.
The shift may well be at my end, it
certainly is not unusual for someone’s
political leanings to err more toward
the right as they grow up, but it seems
unlikely. I hold fairly centrist views now,
and have never been much of a support-
er of the left, even as a naïve youth (or,
if you prefer, as a more naïve youth), so
the change seems more likely to have
occurred at Mr Hague’s end. Regard-
less of where the change may lie, I find
it very disconcerting to find a man I had
long considered anathema to my own
position echoing my views so closely.
This is by no means the first time
I have found this to be the case; for a
long time I considered Robin Cook to
be a thoroughly unpleasant chap, but
his resignation restored my faith that
there are principled politicians in this
country, and I was terribly moved by
his death not too long afterwards. A
cynical mind might claim that I simply
dislike politicians, only seeing the good
in them once they had had their wings
clipped or fallen on their swords but,
knowing myself far better than this hy-
pothetical observer, I would disagree. I
think it more likely that so many of the
politicians with whom I disagree hold
similar views to my own, but are fully
aware that they would be thoroughly
unelectable if they told the public that
whilst they were looking to come to
power, or even to retain it.
This comes back to a point I touched
on earlier, in that it may well paint me
as somewhat naïve in believing that
everyone in power secretly agrees with
me. But of course, I don’t believe eve-
ryone in power does, merely that there
are more who do than is apparent from
their rhetoric. More significantly, the
thought is far from a happy one since
the core of it is that even those who
(perhaps) think as I do cannot be seen
to pursue policies that I would support,
which would make the whole situation
seem utterly hopeless, were it anything
more than idle conjecture.
Unfortunately, my theory is backed up
by the party with whom I most associ-
ate being almost universally accepted
as being entirely unelectable. Under-
standably then, I have noticed a worry-
ing tendency in myself to consider wa-
tering down my principles in order to
make myself more appealing to poten-
tial voters, should I ever stand for elec-
tion (to be fair, it would be a damn sight
easier than anything else that might do
so, such as not shouting at people with
whom I disagree, writing more concise-
ly or making less oblique jokes).
However, what I find most disturbing
is the one piece of evidence that most
shows my arguments to be more than
a little flawed - as David Cameron set-
tles in, he seems more and more to be
aligning himself with my own positions
on many issues.
The upshot of this is that, at least ini-
tially I would be happy for him to win
the next election, which is not some-
thing about which I am entirely happy.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB. Tel 020 7594
8072. Fax 020 7594 8065. Printed by The Northcliffe Press, Northcliffe
House, Meadow Road, Derby DE1 2DW. No 1,359, Friday 13 October 2006.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711. Copyright © Felix 2006.
Editor-in-chief Andy Sykes | Managing Editor Alex
Antonov | Deputy Editor Tom Roberts | Science
Editor Krystyna Larkham | Politics Editor Matthew
Hartfield | Business Editor Michael Olymbios |
Music Editors Matthew Hoban, Jenny Gibson, Tom
Whitson | Film Editor Angela Lee | Arts Editor Emily
Lines | Food & Drink Editor Hannah Theodorou |
Fashion Editor Dolly Delaney | Nightlife Editor
Gregory Mead | Comment Editor Stephen Brown |
Environment Editor João Vitor Serra | Clubs &
Societies Editor Kirsty Patterson | Copy Editor Andy
Mason
felix
Andy Sykes
Editor-in-chief
“I find it very
disconcerting to
find a man I had
long considered
anathema to my
own position
echoing my views
so closely.”
William Hague, a perfectly reasonable man, now he’s not a politician.
11
felix
Friday 13 October 2006
COMMENT & OPINION comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk

