femm
Friday 13 October 2006
features
editorial
Hello and welcome to the first ever Felix Mu-
sic Monthly or Femm as I have dubbed it. It
is Felix’s music-loving girlfriend – but don’t
tell them that we’ve have them both neu-
tered. If you haven’t guessed by the name
this is a pull-out that will occur every month.
The role of this pull-out is to discuss music
past a few reviews and inane comment from
yours truly. We care about music and hope
you do too, so we are going to present fea-
tures to you as well as reviews.
This week we will be looking at the DIY
‘scene’ in London in the section that is fun-
nily enough called The Scene. It will hope-
fully be a regular section unearthing new
movements, record labels or things of in-
terest. We will also have a regular section
called Bitrate – which you can see below
this editorial. In this section we will have
someone (Gregory Mead if he has time) to
talk about some of the technological ways in
which music is presented. This week Greg
discusses the internet phenomenon that is
Last.fm; it is a clever music player plug-in
which compiles all the music you listen to,
thus deciding your personality.
Our other feature is a long overdue retro-
spective of three of the summer’s festivals;
Reading, Get Loaded in The Park and Es-
cape Festivals with all three covering the
spectrum of how festivals could turn out.
What with no Glastonbury this year, the fo-
cus was obviously diverted to Reading and
yet it didn’t completely disappoint despite
an unimpressive line-up.
We always need contributors in the music
section of Felix and if you have any features
or you want to raise some issues then that
is what Femm is for. We always have plenty
of free CDs up for review and free gigs are
available to those who want them. Music
journalism is a tough business and this is a
great way to get into it if you ever wanted to.
All you need is enthusiasm.
To celebrate the launching of Femm the
Union has allowed us to put on a band as
part of a line up tonight (Friday 13th Octo-
ber) and called the night Felix Live. Popu-
lar act at the minute, Ross Copperman
(www.rosscopperman.co.uk) will be head-
lining around 11pm. There is another band
that is to be confirmed on before them and
at 9pm, the first band on will be The Sail-
planes, a band we picked. They are from
London and are currently making a bril-
liant noise in the vein of Sonic Youth and
Sleater Kinney. It is free to get in before
9pm so turn up early to see The Sailplanes
(www.myspace.com/thesailplanes). It is £3
to get in after 9pm so I do strongly recom-
mend turning up early.
We are also going to run a competition
so you can get FREE entry all night and
TWO FREE BEERS. We have ten free
tickets with two free beers for each ticket
to give away, all you have to do is email us
at music.felix@ic.ac.uk asking for a free
ticket. Nothing more, nothing less. Since
we go to press on the day of the gig, you
better be quick with the emails. See below
left for advertisement.
To get a free download of a Ross Copper-
man song text ROSS to 81330. He is signed
to Sony BMG and has gone down so well
at other universities that he has extended
his tour of them. Also, we at the music sec-
tion will be DJing throughout the night!
Matty Hoban
bitrate
Are you bored of constantly listening to mu-
sic you hate on the radio? Or maybe you like
listening to music but don’t have the time or
energy to actively search out new bands that
you may like the sound of? Tired of listen-
ing to lame recommendations of crap bands
from your friends? Probably. I could go on
all night with the rhetorical questions, but
that’s not the point, the point is they don’t
matter. There’s no need to watch the pap
filled commercial shite music TV stations
any longer. If you don’t believe me, I sug-
gest you smash up that radio churning out
mind numbing XFM ‘alternative’ crap and
get yourself over to Last.fm. (It’s a website
by the way).
For those of you who have been living un-
derneath an internet music rock, helping
Rupert with the curse that it Myspace, or
even worse, iTunes; there is salvation for
you. Last.fm solves all the above problems
and more in one go. The idea of Last.fm is
simple, you install a plug-in into your iTunes/
media-player/whatever and it logs the mu-
sic you listen to, the plug-in then sends this
log to your personal Last.fm page (similar
to a myspace page) and over time, it builds
up a profile on your listening habits. It even
works with iPods.
You can see all the music you’ve been play-
ing since installing the plug-in. It also builds
charts showing your habits, tells you your
favourite stuff on a weekly basis and you can
check your overall top artists, top tracks,
and top albums as well as weekly top art-
ists and top tracks. You can see what you’ve
listened to recently or even what you are
listening to right now! It makes you graphs,
tables, charts, album art mosaics, spinning
wheels of doom and yep, everything.
‘But oh no!’ I hear you cry, ‘Now my elitist
musical friends will be able to see I’ve played
Britney Spears and S Club 7 on loop for 18
hours straight!’ Well, fear not, because the
lovely people who made the site even allow
you to delete any embarrassing entries from
record, so we can still pretend that our taste
in music is uber-tastically cool and hip.
Anyway, back to the problems I first out-
lined, I mean, who cares if I can see what
music I’ve listened to right? Surely I know
that anyway, and I can just tell my friends
it too, assuming they care. Well, luckily for
you, you ungrateful, demanding scamps, if
the amazing charts system still isn’t enough
to convince you to join, there are a plethora
of other functions, most based on the sim-
ple method called ‘tagging’ that the website
uses to categorise the bands. Basically, help-
ful users tell Last.fm what genre of music
they think a band is. It’s that simple. After
tens of thousands of users have told them
what they think an artist is like, be it indie,
hip hop, electronica or whatever, you can
pretty much be sure that the top ten genres
it lists for them (yes, a band can be classed
as more than one genre don’t you know) are
going to be correct, the huge number of ‘tag-
gers’ makes any silly prankster who might
categorise your favourite Coldplay track as
death-grindcore totally insignificant.
So, in theory this means no more blanket
terms that cover 23,784,276 different artists
to describe a band you like. If you listen to
post-hardcore-glitch-techno-electro-grime
cut with cartoon soundtracks played through
a vocoder and 8 different effects filters, then
this is what it’ll be categorised as. Not ‘alter-
native music’ or ‘shit’.
Well great, now that my favourite bands
are correctly categorised, big deal, so
what? Well I ask, do you possess all know-
ing knowledge of all similar bands? Do you
know every single artist who plays your
favourite genre? Can you tell me all the
artists who rap with a classical orchestra
in the background? No, I didn’t think so.
I’m the only person who can do that, but
anyway, this system allows Last.fm to rec-
ommend similar artists to you, which you
can then go out and buy after checking the
free sample tracks they provide, and de-
ciding if you like them. This also forms the
basis of their online radio station, which
only plays (theoretically) music that you’ll
enjoy, even if you’ve never heard it before.
Not only does it recommend similar
artists to you, but it even tells you other
users (known as ‘neighbours’) who have
the same music tastes as you do; you can
then add these users as friends just like
on Myspace. So now you can chat to your
heart’s content with people with the same
music taste as you and you can impress
them with your superior knowledge of all
things musical; basically anything you can
possibly imagine.
Finally, for those money grabbing cheap-
skates out there, grabbing their purse
strings shouting, ‘How much? How much?
How much?’ Don’t worry, it’s all free and
there is no spyware or adverts in sight, in-
fact for all you computer science students
out there, it’s even open source so you can
modify it to your hearts content. By the
way, I don’t work for them.
Gregory Mead
Last.fm user weekly top artists.
femm 2
Friday 13 October 2006
Editor-in-chief
Matty Hoban
Public Relations Editors
Jenny Gibson and Tom Whitson
e-mail music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
phone 020 759 48072
DIY
Festivals
4
6
Gig Poster 8
felix live TONIGHT!
If you head into the Union to-
night (Friday 13th October) you
can see three bands for FREE
before 9pm. After 9pm it is £3
so get there early. Onstage at
9pm is The Sailplanes, a band
hand picked by Felix to support
two bands selected by the Un-
ion Ents. The headliner is Ross
Copperman who The Sun said
about his debut EP
, ‘Effortless
Falsetto and Soaring Guitars. A
Top Debut.’ As well as all of this
we are going to give away 10
FREE TICKETS with TWO FREE
BEERS with each ticket.
In order to claim these free tick-
ets with two free beers each all
you have to do is email music.
felix@ic.ac.uk asking for a free
ticket. We have 10 to give away.
So be quick since you only have
one day to get to it. You have
until 7pm today to get in touch.
Good luck and we hope to see
you there. Read the editorial
above for more info.
Help Wanted
We plan on bringing Femm
out every month otherwise the
name will just be a lie, which
will make baby Jesus cry. So we
really need your views, reviews,
features and interviews to keep
up the content.
Music is so vital to many peo-
ple’s lives and it is generally
something that everyone has
an interest in or opinion on.
In order that we represent our
audience and produce quality
journalism.
You can contribute in any way.
If you would like to help with
design it would be much ap-
preciated as currently only the
editor-in-chief does design and
occasionally needs to do his
degree. Please email music.
felix@ic.ac.uk if you want to
help. Or just come down to the
Felix office in the West Wing of
Beit Quad.

