reviews
album
live
Nowadays you can’t buy anything for six
quid. For example, that is just enough to
cover two trips on the tube, or a large Mc-
Donald’s meal and not even two gallons of
diesel. So naturally I was well chuffed to
have only paid six of the Queen’s finest to
see Four Tet last night (October 4th).
For those not in the know, Kieran Hebden
aka Four Tet is a master of electronic mu-
sic, a well spoken middle class guy sporting
jewfro and crafting some of the most beauti-
ful songs ever. His second album, Rounds,
is a must have for any record collection. I
was quite excited about seeing him live, not
only because I am a pretty big fan, but also
the gig was at Plastic People, a hole in the
ground cum club just of Old Street.
Arriving at doors open we found that in
fact they weren’t open, so we looked to Car-
go just around the corner for some sneaky
refreshments. Returning half-an-hour later
there was a small rabble milling around the
metal grill of a door that was the entrance.
While we waited a young guy came out of the
Vietnamese restaurant next door, and pops
in the club past the bouncer before sud-
denly reappearing. It turns out it is Kieran
himself. How cool, he does it a couple more
times with excited whispers going around
the expectant fans every time, until we are
allowed to filter into the club itself.
Once inside he reappears, this time with a
JD and chatting to the crowd, to start with it
was kind of surreal but as time went by and
the dubious fat-guy-from-Hot-Chip-look-a-
like DJing played more and more obscure
tracks I came to appreciate how great the
atmosphere was. People weren’t mauling
him and he wasn’t being a pompous tit;
there was just a great vibe. Now let’s talk
about the set, and oh what a set, brandish-
ing two laptops and creating complete sonic
mayhem, Keiran crafted a symphony of out
of each track, moulding them from a mix of
chirps, beeps and feedback.
Classics such as Smile Around the Face
were recreated in the most original ways
live and unlike many electronic artists it
turned out to be a real performance and not
a case of just pressing play. With Hands fin-
ishing a set that also covered Spirit Fingers
and A Joy, along with almost everything
else he has done in one guise or another, it
couldn’t have been a better set or more inti-
mate setting. With a wave and a thank you
he went into the ‘back-stage’ area, basically
an alcove behind were he performed and
check his phone, like a real person. I can’t
A packed room full of ebullient teenagers
from Lancaster’s Indie scene sporting
outsized necklaces, big glasses and stripy
knee high socks, cigarette smoke wafting
into the rafters and a ripple of excitement
as Hows My Pop come onto the stage. The
drum beat of the hugely popular Laura
Laura kicks in and the audience go mad.
‘Laura Laura are you gonna get home
tonight?’ they scream at Andy Raven, the
charismatic lead vocalist. It’s like we’ve
all been injected with an amazing concoc-
tion of Pro-Plus and Lucozade.
We all know a Laura. Drinks alcopops to
get smashed, tears up a club dancefloor
and passes out into taxi cab. This is one
of the band’s biggest strengths. They sing
like they mean it, and make us believe it.
I came here not knowing anything about
the band but a murmur of hype and I’m
loving it. The atmosphere is electric with
girls throwing themselves at the stage
and singers stage-diving off.
The best song for me though, is the
perky Turn off your Television (Turn on
your brain) with its insanely catchy guitar
chords and cleverly written lyrics. A cross
between Razorlight and The Ordinary
Boys with an electro twist, meet pop-rock
group Hows My Pop. Comprising Tom
Diffenthal mastering the keyboard and
synth, Chris Macneil on the drumset and
Matt Canty strumming the bass. Citing
Bob Dylan and The Jam as their influenc-
es they joined their musical talents along-
side Raven whilst studying at college and
now are gigging with a full set of massive
dirty guitar chords, plinky Northern notes
and a huge amount of enthusiasm.
If you like your rock and indie, I defi-
nitely recommend checking this band out.
They’re rocking out venues all around
the North and hopefully will be coming
down here too. They usually have CDs at
gigs too for less than a fiver, so it might
be worth digging out those coppers and
taking one home. Try www.myspace.com/
howsmypop for a taster. The band are
awesome live and deserve to be signed to
a label. Snap them up while you can!
Priya Garg
On a cold September night traffic is heavy,
lights glisten off the gleaming wet bus lanes.
Overhead the vast expanse of Piccadilly Cir-
cus neon signs shine down on the countless
faces below. Some are tourists, some are in
suits, some are freshers exploring their new
surroundings, and some are on their way to
see Private View, the recently re-named In-
die Rock trio of Goldsmiths fame.
The venue’s stairs lead down to a cramped
basement with stocky walls. The diminutive
man at the door has all the fans fooled. This
guy has the power to book bands for the
Metro Club on Oxford Street. Most think
he’s just another landlord who plays host to
wannabe rock stars or anyone who’s willing
to make a stand and entertain the masses.
Look how wrong you can be. The bands to-
night are uncommonly good for a pub event.
The Neon Eyes keep the growing crowd lu-
cid in the tightly packed venue, people for-
get themselves and the shrinking room that
slowly encases them. Then its time for Pri-
vate View.
Things start happening. As the band set
up on stage the tall, elegant figure of Char-
lotte Cray graces the stage. The band’s a
trio but there’s an extra mic set up. An im-
promptu alteration makes the trio a quartet.
The expectation grows as final prepara-
tions take place. An unintelligible mumble
comes from the stage and then, it happens.
It comes from out of nowhere. One minute
quiet expectation, the next everyone in the
room has the sense knocked out of their
bodies. It’s like a bomb just hit in a perfectly
executed, synchronous assault on the mind,
the stomach and every sense in the body.
Using lucid phrasing on the guitar and well
weighted lyrics Cray turns this immense
power into a strangely uplifting blaster of a
rock song.
The bassist, Chris Sharples has gone nuts.
NME’s best description of the man is ‘on
the cusp of genius and insanity’. You can
tell why, he’s everywhere. Any more inspi-
ration and this lot would be a jumbled mess
of indistinguishable genius, This experience
was augemented by Miss Cray’s backing vo-
cals, whether she’ll stay in the band I don’t
know, but I hear she has been in the studio
Four Tet
Remixes
(Domino)
HHHHI
Four Tet
Plastic People, Old Street
describe how normal he was or how great it
felt to mingle with the artist before the show
but out of it all I think everyone in the audi-
ence now harbours ultimate respect for one
the most likeable guys in the industry.
Nick Simpson
How’s My Pop
The Gregson Centre, Lancaster
Private View
The Comedy, Leicester Square
with them.
Look out for Kick Me Out, Just Like We
Planned and The Only Girl I Want. Go
to their Myspace page; www.myspace.
com/mypictureband.
David Ellis
femm
3 Friday 13 October 2006
Kieran Hebden (the sole member of Four
Tet) is seen by many as a pioneer and yet
not many (outside of muso circles) have
heard his music. Those who do know about
him have developed a platonic love for his
music. If I very rarely DJ at anything I often
put on Smile Around The Face and whilst
many will dance to it they are still baffled by
it, and pretty much every time someone will
accost me and ask, ‘What the hell is this?’
Whether this is a good reaction or not, I’ll let
you decide.
However, the first time I heard Pause (his
first album) I pretty much had the same re-
sponse as the inquisitive soul above. There
is something unique about hearing Four Tet
for the first time.
There is also something unique about
Hebden, he has used his position of remote
popularity to dedicated people to promote
music as much as he can. He has been in-
volved numerous times with the promoters
Eat Your Own Ears and the exposure of
countless brilliant acts.
Kieran Hebden has also recently collabo-
rated with legendary free-jazz drummer
Steve Reid. It was a collaboration that some-
how made a lot of sense since Hebden has
shown glimpses of his free-jazz-loving-side
in his live shows and on longer tracks on
his albums. So it comes as no surprise that
the first track on Remixes is a remix of Tics
by Lars Horntveth. It sounds similar to the
Hebden/Reid collaboration and is delight-
ful to hear organic laptop manipulation, as
I didn’t know it was possible to use a laptop
and sound that organic.
To those not familiar with such obscuri-
ties (and to be fair, I wasn’t familiar until
I discovered this music through Four Tet
and others) the second track is a remix of
the Radiohead track Sktterbrain. One of the
more accessible remixes with a straight hip
hop beat and lots of reverb on Yorke’s vocals
makes the originally tedious and frankly,
whiny song more emotionally powerful.
For hip hop fans, the remixes of two Mad-
villain songs; Money Folder and Great Day
add a refreshing approach to the genre. The
attention to detail in the samples is what
made hip hop so great in the first place and
Four Tet’s approach shows a lot of respect.
Money Folder is also brilliant to put on and
nod your head like all good gangsters.
The remix of Carmella, originally by
Beth Orton has a big Phil Spector beat and
sounds like it could’ve come out of Tamla-
Motown. The diversity of sounds in all the
tracks is what is brilliant and displays all
sides to Four Tet’s musical appreciation.
Hebden doesn’t just handle more obscure
material, he also reworks So Here We Are
by Bloc Party and puts an emphasis on
the jazzy ride cymbal. He also manages to
produce the wall of sound that should’ve
been on the original by playing the main
riff forwards and then backwards. The
remixer makes a point of holding off the
drums and creating a building tension un-
til the drums erupt at the end in a perfect
climax. It’s all rather coital.
Remixes is a 2 disc package and the sec-
ond disc is called Remixed and as you can
guess, it consists of many artists remixing
Four Tet songs. The opening track fea-
tures Percee P on MC duties and makes
the original sound all the darker and more
driven. It must be incredibly difficult to
remix a Four Tet track since there is so
much going on; you’d be afraid to lose
something in the remix. But even tracks
like the boring No More Mosquitoes get a
brilliant reworking.
Matty Hoban

