feature
Doing It Yourself
Thanks to the internet (amongst
other things) it is now easier to find
bands, have them play at a show
or put out a record by them. This
way of taking control away from
the established music business has
been around for ages. What is it all
about? By Matty Hoban.
O
bvious furniture
and Ikea jokes
aside, doing it your-
self or DIY in mu-
sic encompasses
an ethical code and
outlook as opposed
to an actual sound.
Back in the day – I’m not sure which day
it was, let’s say Monday – the idea of a
music business was new, and then before
you knew it, it was the 1970s. This decade
saw the arrival of supergroups, prog-rock
and so many other evils that Jehovah’s
Witnesses were practically foaming at the
mouth at the thought of the rapture finally
arriving. What the people needed was mu-
sic to get back to its grassroots after a pe-
riod of time consisting of saxophone and
guitar solos. As many know, punk was the
inevitable reaction to the corporate face of
stadium rock, and along with the back to
basics approach to music that was punk
came the ethics of DIY. Record labels such
as Factory were more than a label; they
were an ideology. Record shops such as
Rough Trade popped up in 1976 and sells
records by more obscure acts focussing
on creativity rather than accessibility and
remaining firmly independent.
The decade of excess and privatisation
that was the 80s brought a refinement of
music and it was inspired by punk and it
was called New Wave. Music was head-
ing in the right direction but these bands
quickly went to selling out stadiums and
thus formed the cleverly-titled No Wave
scene in New York. The music varied from
angular atonal noise to noise attached to
classic punk beats a la Sonic Youth. DIY
was never always about music and the
No Wave Cinema movement in New York
was influential on underground cinema
throwing up Jim Jarmusch and Steve
Buscemi amongst others. The central
idea is reject the accepted rules and to
take control of music by giving bands who
deserve exposure – but might not be that
accessible – and give them that exposure
without working for a profit. This is a ma-
jor tenet of DIY, being not-for-profit and
pro-creativity.
So DIY had established itself as a way
to do things; put on gigs, put out records
and make small magazines all celebrating
a love for music and not money. There are
a lot more to the ideas and ethics behind
it and has a long and interesting history
with many great bands. It is not the only
way to do things, nor is the right way to
a lot of people. To more modern and lo-
cal things, there are many people in Lon-
don putting on gigs with a wide variety of
bands/artists/acts. One of these people is
Christopher Tipton who founded Upset
The Rhythm; they put out records and
put on shows with bands predominantly
from the US. He is also an Imperial alumnus
(he studied Biology) and was President of
the Alternative Music Society – a highly-es-
teemed position that this journalist held. He
took the time out of organising Frieze Music
2006 – on tonight and tomorrow (13th and
14th October) featuring Sunn O))), Burning
Star Core, Liars and Erase Errata – to ex-
press his views on what he thinks DIY is all
about.
There is no real one way of going about do-
ing things yourself as it obviously varies with
the person who is doing it, and not everyone
shares the same beliefs. This comes across
when Chris says, ‘I don’t really believe in
the DIY aesthetic if this means something
is defiantly amateur. Things have moved on
since the early nineties. As much as I love
K records (independent label based around
Olympia, Washington) etc, this isn’t the only
model of DIY available to us.’ One problem
with DIY is that not many people are aware
of it. This breeds a certain snobbery and
‘There are a lot of people out there who use
obscure music and the concept of DIY to be
cool but it shouldn’t be about elitism. It’s not
cool by virtue of the fact that barely anyone
knows about it.’
Upset the Rhythm started, ‘Because bands
I loved were having a bad time in the UK,
were playing bad shows, were poorly paid
and some were even avoiding the UK on
their touring schedules to Europe, because
of the costs and the hassle. I knew there was
an audience for these artists and couldn’t
believe someone else wasn’t doing some-
thing. So I did it myself.’ Many other pro-
moters (such as Damn You! in Nottingham)
took this affirmative action in relation to
overseas bands. Chris and the rest of Upset
the Rhythm started by working everything
out for themselves as they didn’t know many
promoters when they started or how they
worked. However he did ‘…have an immense
amount of respect for Tony Green from Rare
Pleasures. He used to do a lot of shows in
London and his heart is in the right place.’
Chris continues that, ‘I used to see him at
shows, handing out flyers for his own shows
that he had made himself and he would talk
to you about the upcoming shows, what they
would be like. This enthusiasm and attention
to detail inspired me. As a result I don’t hire
flyerers and do it myself or with other Upset
the Rhythm members.’ One of the focuses of
DIY has been to establish a community that
results in a dedicated audience for bands
and ‘They are the lifeblood.’
There are other promoters in London
who work in a DIY way and are doing simi-
lar things. There is Miles of Smiles put on
bands who vary from avant-rock in the form
of Enablers to elegant folk in the form of Vi-
king Moses. The bands tend to be from the
US and abroad with local bands supporting.
There is also Undereducated and Unluck
who respectively cover alternative-indie-
femm 4
Friday 13 October 2006
noise and post-rock-noise bands. All this
talk of noise is not to deter you, those who
make noise in a pretensious way aim to chal-
lenge the listener and those use it as a way
to heighten the music. Also of note are Silver
Rocket who put on brilliant gigs of heavy-
rock bands from home and abroad with a
brilliant dancing session afterwards.
One thing you may have heard of as well
is the festival called All Tomorrow’s Par-
ties. This is an independent festival hosted
in holiday camps in Camber Sands and now
Dorset. It started off with Barry Hogan
– suspiciously similar-looking to my name
– wanting to get bands over from the US to
curate or hand-pick the bands that will play
at the festival. The bands or people that cu-
rated brought over many brilliant bands and
the next festival is in early December and
Thurston Moore is curating, expect some
avant-garde legends to be playing. All To-
morrow’s Parties also put on gigs in London
with people such as Ennio Morricon, Calexi-
co and Isis taking part.
However in regards to a scene Chris Tipton
thinks that, ‘There isn't really a scene per se.’
But ‘There are people doing similar things
and you see this when you book UK tours,
other people doing shows like yours who
really care. London is more fragmented
and driven by commercial promoters and
club nights, there is competition rather
than cooperation in the main. There are
a couple of promoters we have worked
with but relationships are casual.’ The
word scene is often associated with jour-
nalism to generalise what is happening. I
may come across as a hypocrite by calling
this section The Scene and you’d be write,
I am a hyprocrite. But then so are all of us
and it is silly to suggest otherwise.
Instead of a scene there is more of an
ethic associated with DIY. This ethic can
be seen as anti-capitalist and I guess it is,
where capitalism stands for competition
and profiteering, the DIY ethic is about
helping each other out for mutual benefit
and if you happen to make money at the
end of the day, you put it back into your
enterprise or pay the bands more.
To get an insight into the ethics Chris of-
fered up this, ‘Ethically, you have to be
One of the pillars in the Notting Hill Rough Trade displaying posters for shows, you
can display these posters for free and they even give you a staple gun
MATTY
HOBAN

