conscious of the fact that most people you
deal with are doing this for their day job. It
is their life's work and you need to treat it
with the respect it deserves. In the UK in
particular, music is seen as a hobby or a
passing fad.’ This last point is very notwor-
thy since magazines like the NME promote
new and up-and-coming bands. This creates
an atmosphere of disposability – although
ironically it seems these days that said pub-
lication seems to put the same bands on
the cover despite being about new music.
Great bands who keep going out of passion
for what they are doing without much rec-
ognition rely on passionate music fans who
share their vision. The nature of up-and-
coming can be seen as redundant in a cli-
mate where albums and bands will always
remain classically brilliant.
You can find out more about the ethics on
various wesbites that I will provide below
also with links to the DIY promoters web-
sites. I also recommend you go to record
shops where they put up gig posters on the
two pillars in Notting Hill. The Covent Gar-
den Rough Trade has posters all over the
wall. You can also see posters in various
Music and Video Exchanges – Notting Hill
being one of the best for displaying posters.
There should also be flyers dotted around. I
recommend that you have a look around and
go to one of the gigs. They are usually very
cheap to get in and it is amazing that more
people don’t just take a risk sometimes.
Also in this article I mentioned quite a few
bands that might be a bit obscure. I hope
this doesn’t put you off and you investigate
as much as you can, not to sound patronis-
ing but you more than often get out what you
put in.
If you fancy putting on your own gigs or
putting out your own records then it is very
easy to do. In London though, because there
are lots of people doing their own thing you
should look to what you can provide that is
different from all the others. This may sound
obvious but you want to cultivate an audi-
ence and it’s good for people to know where
to go for a certain genre or what to expect.
Another point raised by from Chris is, ‘If you
know there is an artist you want to see and
they haven't got a show in your town, put the
show on yourself. It is a lot easier than you
might think. If you want to see them there
is a likelihood other people will want to as
well.’ Also small DIY promoters tend to be
friendly, passionate and enthusiastic about
music so if you want to start out then I’m
sure they’d be happy to help you.
Now to more local things. This may be
shameless self-promotion but you can get
involved in putting on gigs through the Al-
ternative Music Society at Imperial. I am re-
sponsible for organising the gig night Kids
Will Be Skeletons and we bring in many
bands from all over the country and occa-
sionally abroad. It is a great way to get in-
volved with music through the practical run-
nings of promoting bands and gigs. We work
for a DIY ethic by making the entry cost for
the audience as cheap as possible so that all
the money goes to covering the transport
costs for the bands. A lot of bands who play
at these shows tend to want only basic costs
covered such as transport. If you would like
to get involved then tell the society. There is
a poster for the next gig night on the back
of Femm.
Another DIY legacy is the zine, this is a
small magazine of reviews and features that
talks about small bands usually and you’ll
find many music zines on the internet. The
idea of the zine has been around for a long
time starting with black and white A4 type-
written sheets. With the internet it has be-
come easier to spread the word with online
zines.
I could devote a whole article to zines
– and I probably will – but part of the mu-
sic section at Felix are involved with www.
TheMusicZine.com. This website along with
many small zines is run by voluntary contri-
butions so if you’d like to contribute then get
in touch.
I hope this article has given you an insight
into what DIY is all about. Like I’ve said,
it varies from person to person but what it
means to most people can be summarised in
Chris Tipton’s words: ‘DIY is a state of mind
and a declaration of intent.’
the
scene
femm
5 Friday 13 October 2006
The aftermath of a XBXRX at Upset The Rhythm (top) and the other pillar in the
Notting Hill Rough Trade (bottom)
Some Promoters/Labels/Venues
Upset The Rhythm
Silver Rocket
Ecstatic Peace
Kill Rock Stars
K Records
Stolen Recordings
Undereducated
Unluck Recs
Miles of Smiles
No Signal
The Bears
All Tomorrow’s Parties
The Luminaire
12 Bar
Barden’s Boudoir
Zines/Online Sources of Information
Loose Lips Sink Ships
Dusted Magazine
Wikipedia Article on DIY
www.upsettherhythm.co.uk
www.silverrocket.org
www.ecstaticpeace.com
www.killrockstars.com
www.krecs.com
www.stolenrecordings.co.uk
www.undereducated.com
www.myspace.com/gettogether
www.milesofsmiles.co.uk
www.no-signal.net
www.myspace.com/bearspunx
www.atpfestival.com
www.theluminaire.co.uk
www.12barclub.com
www.bardensbar.co.uk
www.llss.tv
www.dustedmagazine.com
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DIY_ethic
DIY Promoters and Useful Links
MATTY
HOBAN

