feature
T
his year was my ninth
consecutive hurrah
at Reading Festival. I
think I decided at about
my fifth year I was
determined to make
it ten in-a-row, and
fingers crossed there
doesn’t seem to have been much that has
stood in my way or as yet stands in my
way of making it - festival apathy due to
the increasingly downhill line-ups, aside.
In fact, the festival is such an old haunt of
mine that in order to do this year’s festi-
val justice for the purpose of this review
I shall attempt to imagine the experience
through the eyes of a festival newbie. This
won’t be that easy. But then considering I
spent most of the festival in a drink and
smoke filled haze of insanity, I don’t think
it will be so hard either.
I shall begin my review at the festival
Main Gate on Friday at about 1pm.(Yes,
yes a bit late for a ‘first timer’ I know but
after almost a decade I don’t need the
extra days in a tent to warm up to it all.)
Here goes nothing. After the weeks of sav-
ing up and then waiting for the ticket to
arrive and then feeling it in my grubby
hands and all the mental planning and
sleepless nights of excitement, Reading
Festival here I come! It’s just like I always
imagined. Only with more strange smells.
So many people, so many, many people,
some strange looking and some just like
me. Everybody was herded like ants or
weird Amazonian, brightly-coloured flies
in the same direction, generally carrying
at least twice their body weight in either
booze or other such related parapherna-
lia destined to help them survive the next
three days.
We proceed to march confidently
through the gates of fire, past the people
trying to get a ticket and the touts trying to
sell you one, past the people handing out
leaflets on Christianity and how to avoid
the lure of the devil. Then past the yellow
day-glow jacket wearing arena staff waft-
ing the crowds this way and that and along
the long dusty dirt road into the camping
area. WOAH! No, that’s not my reaction to
the sheer size of this small city in a field,
comprised mainly of balloon-like coloured
pebbles, that is the cry of one caught in a
breeze of portaloo stench and it’s only Fri-
day. Wahey!
Undeterred and our tent up, we’re ready
to grab a piece of the action. First up on our
list of bands to see is Belle and Sebastian.
We fight our way through the masses to a
quiet pocket to the front-right of the Main
Stage crowd and with only part of my view
blocked, braced ourselves to begin jump-
ing around like happy indie sweethearts
to all our favourite suicidal lullabies. Al-
though the band certainly do have bags of
sing-a-long shoegazing melodies in their
repertoire, I didn’t feel this late afternoon
slot on the largest stag did them justice.
Everything sounded a bit same-y to me,
even for them, and I felt watching them
was more of a nostalgic exercise than a
satisfying musical moment.
The Mystery Jets however, were re-
ally tight and definitely on form. I saw them
open the Carling Tent last year and it is re-
ally great to see how their fanbase has blos-
somed and how much confidence they have
gained. They played some of the stuff off the
new album and it was a pleasure to see it all
working with their usual style. Definitely a
band to catch now while you still can get to
see them in a venue you won’t get lost in.
To be honest I felt like the days highlight’s
were going to be The Yeah Yeah Yeahs, The
Vines and Primal Scream, and I certainly
wasn’t disappointed. Apart from one of our
crew having a major white out during Maps,
I couldn’t have asked for my experience to
be more rockingly festival-tastic. Uninspired
by the line-up we had all been a bit liberal
with our alcohol intake and I’m pretty sure
it was during our early evening sing-a-longs
while linking arms and fisting the air, that I
remember vaguely remarking to myself that
this was starting to seem like the bona fide
time I had been promised.
The crowd lapped up the YYYs, the major-
ity of which were made up of 16-19yr olds
suitably and impeccably dressed and acces-
sorized. The band played like they had been
waiting all year for this slot and they were
the perfect prelude to the rest of the week-
end, if only there had been something a bit
less of a letdown than The Chiefs to follow
their stomping footsteps. In my personal
opinion the Chiefs are the most overrated
thing since Hovis started mixing flour, yeast
and water, and to be honest looking at the
waning size of the crowd at the Main stage,
I’m probably not alone in my thinking.
Whether you love or hate Craig Nichols,
The Vines are a band who are very good
at what they do, and the atmosphere in the
tent was forgiving as well as vibrantly loyal.
They may have been off the map for a while
but the first 15 rows of the Radio One tent at
least knew all the songs and sung to nearly
every chorus. A long time coming perhaps,
but the steady fanbase and sophistication of
the band live prove they obviously haven’t
been resting on their laurels.
Saturday’s highlights will be easy for me
to recount seeing as for me there were only
about a handful of bands I wanted to see.
Main Stage headliners Muse, of course, be-
cause it seems no matter how many times
you see this band there will always be some-
thing dramatic, fresh and untamed about
their performances. With a huge selection of
work to get through they picked a varied but
mostly Hullaballoo-era set and the crowd
loved it.
Sunday was all about the dance tent and
the lead up to headliners Soulwax’s Nitever-
sions set of 2 Many DJs and Vitalic was
just about enough to send us into orgasmic
overload. Sadly, the Vitalic set wasn’t all
I had dreamt of it being and although the
temperature and atmosphere inside the
tent was rising fast, the sweat from dancing
mixed with jets of cold water sprayed by the
security at the front gave it an Alton Towers
twist I wasn’t so sure I enjoyed. For our fi-
nale, 2 Many DJs were greeted with the kind
of screaming appreciation that an interna-
tionally revered live dance act could expect
and they gave us back exactly what we were
after. In short, they rocked!
Festival season
is over. For now.
Checking out festivals large and small this summer,
Reading fares well in 2006, dispite a less than
average line-up. Get Loaded In The Park fails to
impress and Escape Festival impresses all. Honey
Monroe, Nick Simpson, Simon Haywood and
Gregory Mead all share their experiences.
ALL
PHOTOS
BY
GREG
MEAD
From top to bottom; Main Stage, Festival desperation, Vitalic and finally Muse
femm 6
Friday 13 October 2006

