When you are young, summer is
glorious; six weeks of holidays
to play about in the sun, maybe
even go to Butlin’s or the beach;
a time of innocence. Then you
get older and instead of bask-
ing in the sun or day-tripping to
natural wonders such as Ched-
dar Gorge you prefer to stand in
the rain in a muddy field all bank
holiday weekend, while camping
in a bog next door, justifying the
whole affair by calling it the ‘festi-
val experience’. Admittedly festi-
vals are very cool, wonders such
as T in the Park and Leeds con-
sistently have excellent line-ups
ready to entertain you all day and
night. But in recent years there
has been a rash of new festivals
cropping up all over the place and
one such festival is Get Loaded in
the Park, part of the Metro Week-
ender (yes, that’s a festival ran by
a free newspaper). Running on
the Sunday of August bank holi-
day it follows on from South West
4, a ‘dance’ festival on the Satur-
day, aptly named after the local
postcode.
This festival is a bit of an odd-
ity, located on Clapham Common
there is no camping over the
weekend, not that any one would
want to anyway since both days
lie at different extremes of mu-
sic taste. Because there are no
campers so there is no feeling of
continuity across the event and
none of that happy go lucky at-
mosphere that permeates every
facet of Glastonbury.
Turning up an hour after the
event started, the site was dead.
I saw more press photographers
than bona fide audience members
although some did have mighty
fine cameras. But festivals are
about the music I hear you cry, so
lets talk about the line-up. It was
all very generic; Lilly Allen, Baby-
shambles, the Buzzcocks, James
Lavelle and the list goes on. The
artists were all of a certain qual-
ity and I was mildly excited about
the whole thing, they even had 65
Days of Static and Vitalic playing
tent sets. Adam Freeland and
Juice Alheem was one act I was
certainly looking forward to and
as soon as I arrived I bought an
over-priced programme (like V,
the only way of knowing what is
on is paying through the nose for
some laminated cardboard). To
my horror the genius organis-
ers had decided to put one of the
most talented acts on the main
stage at 12 noon, i.e. playing to a
plastic bag and about ten thou-
sand fag butts trodden into mud.
Disappointed and heart bro-
ken I wandered about, avoid-
ing the Cuban Brothers on the
Main Stage and looking in empty
tents until I got so bored I went
to Sainsbury’s. Then a sandwich
and a McDonalds later (plus a
free Coca Cola glass!)
I returned to the ‘arena’ for
more fun and games. Vitalic
played a reasonable set but it was
mid-afternoon and the mood was
none existent. Perhaps it was
just not a good day for electro, so
I went over to see 65 Days of Stat-
ic. On arrival some gypsies were
on the stage and playing in the
slot for 65DoS. On closer inspec-
tion they turned out to be a band,
not gypsies and were covering
the gap in the schedule where 65
had dropped out! Could it get any
worse? Not really, I studied the
programme some more and sat
down to read the Sunday Times
for a good 30 minutes, basking in
the sun like the the good old days.
Finally, I gave up. The last act was on at
8pm, presumably because none of the resi-
dents living around the park would want
rock blaring from the common at 11pm, the
time was currently 5pm and there was no
way I was going to hang around for another
3 hours for the gamble of Babyshambles ac-
tually turning up at all, so I caught the 345
home and had a Nesquik.
I think I maybe being a little harsh to the
whole event, if you do like Lilly Allen and the
in your face style of comedy which had its
own tent all day, or in fact the feel good in-
die bands and general off centre alternative
pop then Get Loaded in the Park is for you.
Otherwise I recommend going to a more es-
tablished event.
ALL
PHOTOS
BYGREG
MEAD
Escape Festival (Clockwise from top-left); Random dude, Erol Alkan and crowd for Pendulum; Babyshambles at GLITP (below)
join the ranks of the dancing. We finally did
when Marco V hit the stage and began to
blare out some beats that we couldn’t re-
sist, everyone was enjoying every minute.
Yet our time at the Radio One Stage was
soon to end, for the Raveology Arena was
calling us. The late afternoon sun brought
with it the start of a packed night of rav-
ing, the time for some Drum ‘n’ Bass was
upon us.
The Raveology arena was a slight sur-
prise but mostly a good one. It wasn’t quite
as full as I expected, yet it meant like all
the other stages you could freely get right
to the front and have room to dance. In ef-
fect it had exactly the right amount of peo-
ple to give it the atmosphere needed and
not feel claustrophobic. We were there
to catch the beginning of Pendulum, one
of the acts at the top of my list and they
didn’t disappoint.
The final plan for the evening was to
catch the end of Erol Alkan’s set, even
though we see him every week at Trash,
his set was largely more electro in style
(predictably) and followed on perfectly to
Mylo where we could catch the last of the
summer sun whilst enjoying some relaxed
and funky beats. This truly was one of my
personal highlights, as again we strolled
right to front of the crowd to join the mass-
es. The sun, sound and setting were per-
fect for that point in the evening and I’m
sure all those in attendance would agree.
We then caught the end of Armin Van
Buuren, Groovrider and Fabio, and the
rest of the night till close was lasers, bass
and air horns galore, what else can I say?
Not much. I was enjoying myself too much
at this point to note anything more.
All good things come to end. With most
people having vacated the site by midnight
in a manner that has been applauded by
the police, which is a credit to everyone.
So off it was to buses, taxis and the like,
with many heading back to hotels. Or for
those like me who forgot to book one, it
was off to a club to continue the party un-
til 4am, before strolling the cold streets of
Swansea waiting for the first trains.
festivalsGet Loaded in
The Park
Escape Festival
Swansea
For those of you who don’t know, it’s a one
day dance festival organised by Godskitch-
en, and pretty damn sweet it is. Running for
its 7th year in a row, the place was packed
out and considering the line-up, it’s not
surprising. It’s not every day that so many
world class acts turn up in Swansea. Only
once a year and we were there.
The festival being in Wales, and us being in
London unfortunately resulted in us start-
ing our mission at the obscenely early hour
of 9am. Setting off from Euston station, with
only a bottle of vodka to keep us company,
we gradually watched the train fill up with
more and more festival goers, all wearing
sunglasses and most of them babbling in
some form of incoherent Welsh accent, but
that didn’t matter, it was great fun. 3 hours
later and we were there.
The first thing that struck me about the
site on arrival was how full of people it was
already, after only being open for 2 hours,
obviously it was pretty popular with the lo-
cals. The second thing that struck me was
the temperature; it felt like my face was
about to evaporate whilst my skin caught
fire. Perfect conditions to dance in for 8
hours straight!
The acts we were planning on seeing
didn’t come on until in early evening, so we
explored the site. The site is basically on a
huge hill with two fields in it, with the Radio
1 Stage at the bottom of one and the God-
skitchen Stage at the bottom of the other
with Raveology and Urban Arenas in cov-
ered tents half way down, and random at-
tractions dotted around the place.
With 4 or 5 beers in me it was about time
to check the place out. We caught the end
of Akira The Don on the Urban stage which
was great, despite the crazy heat in the tent,
the lead singer kitted out in orange jump
suit with orange goggles to match. They also
had the honour of being the only act with a
guitar at the festival.
Getting more into the party mood when
Tall Paul came on, we felt more compelled to
femm
7 Friday 13 October 2006

