Itʼs a new academic year and change is
everywhere in Imperial. The JCR no longer
resembles an airport lounge, pink appears
to be Collegeʼs favourite colour and new
undergraduates are now paying £3000 for the
privilege of coming to study at Imperial. Yes,
after the demonstrations, lobbies and media
frenzy over top-up fees two years ago they
are ﬁnally arriving on campus. After all, what
better way to celebrate the Collegeʼs centenary
than by giving that most special of gifts; debt.
Several years hence the bright-eyed Freshers
that appeared on campus last week will emerge
bleary eyed into the real world with not only a
degree but up to £44,000 of debt.
The principle of free higher education is dead.
Fees have been with us since 1998, in the
intervening years student debt has rocketed
and more and more students have had to take
part time employment to ensure that they can
survive at university. This increased pressure on
time and money prevents students from making
the most of their time at university with both
academic and social lives suﬀering. If this is the
legacy of paying up to £1200 in tuition fees,
then the impact of top-up fees will be far worse.
Of course, the outlook could be even poorer.
When top-up fees were introduced our Rector
was one of those arguing bitterly that £3000
simply wasnʼt enough – why not charge more?
Why not charge £12000 more? Of course, he
hasnʼt changed his mind since then. Top up
fees are capped at £3000 (give or take inﬂation)
until 2010, at which point the government
had promised a “review”. The College, along
with other leading
institutions, has already
begun lobbying hard
to remove the limit on
the amount they can
charge students. Four
years may be an awfully
long time in politics,
but if we are to win
the battle against the
complete marketisation
of education we need
to start ﬁghting now. And we canʼt aﬀord to
rely on the publicʼs sympathy for poor, starving
students – we need solid arguments to support
what we know to be right.
We need to remind the government and the
general public that a university education
doesnʼt only beneﬁt the individual. The beneﬁt
to industry, business and society as a whole
cannot be understated. The students of today
will be the leaders of tomorrow in ﬁelds ranging
from politics to nano-technology.
To start the debate, NUS are organising a
national demonstration as part of a wider
campaign against top-up fees and raising the
cap on Sunday the 29th October. Despite not
being NUS members Imperial College Union
will be joining the demonstration. More details
and publicity will be heading your way in the
not too distant future, but if you want any more
information or would like to get involved in
organising this campaign please get in touch
with me at dpew@imperial.ac.uk.
unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
Ben Matthews
Deputy President
(Education & Welfare)
dpew@imperial.ac.uk
All about… Fees.
The fight is not over
imperialcollegeunion.org
Dear All
As Ben is writing the lionʼs
share of this weekʼs page, I
will try to keep my column
brief. My main message to
you this week is that the
deadline for elections is fast
approaching (nominations close
this Sunday night) and there
are still a handful of vacant
positions up for grabs. This month we are running
elections for IC Union Council members, Faculty Union
Officers, Graduate Student Association Officers and ULU
Delegates. Being a Union Officer can be an interesting,
fun and enjoyable experience and holding a position of
responsibility will encourage you to develop new skills
and interests. Becoming a Union Officer can also be a
great way of improving your CV - I regularly receive
phone calls and emails from graduate employers who
tell me that they speciﬁcally target students who hold
positions of responsibility in the Union and other
extra-curricular activities. So, if you are interested
in standing then please go to our website www.
imperialcollegeunion.org/vote and if you want to know
more about these elections and the positions that are
open for nominations this month then please email me
at president@imperial.ac.uk.
If you want an opportunity to question the candidates
who are running for these positions, then please come
along to our public hustings. These will be taking
place in the JCR at lunchtime and the Reynolds bar in
the evening on Thursday 19th October. Finally, please
remember to vote in these elections - all voting is
online and only takes a moment of your time. I will
send you an email as soon as voting opens towards the
end of this month
John Collins
President
president@imperial.ac.uk
! !
!
STAND
Stand in the Council Elections 2006
Places are available for Ordinary Members of Council, Equal Opportunities Officer & Welfare
Campaigns Officer and ULU Delegates. Also Graduate Students’ Association and Faculty Unions.
Look online for more information at imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
Nominations close Sunday 15th October at 23:59.
A Message
from the President

