12 FRIDAY 21 FEB
COMMENT
Editors: Eoghan J.
Totten, Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Communist Manifesto Turns 166
T
o celebrate the 166th
anniversary of the
publication of the
Communist Manifesto,
I shall be writing a three
part series on the Manifesto: on its
theoretical contents, on its history
and impact and on its flaws and its
position in Marxist thought. What
should never be forgotten about
the Manifesto is that it contains a
specific political program and its
style, brash and powerfully polemical,
reflects this. It is also, as Marx and
Engels pointed out, in many ways
antiquated. Of course, it deserves
remembering on account of nothing
other than its historical importance;
but the Manifesto is more than an
interesting historical relic: it retains
in broad outline the most profound
understanding of the movement and
transition of societies in history.
Thus it is as a relevant political text
that I shall make this exposition. This
justifies, in my view, the exclusion of
the final two sections of the book,
Socialist and Communist Literature,
and Position of the Communists
in Relation to the Various Existing
Opposition Parties. These sections
deal with historically specific matters
that require discussion but not
necessarily representation. This is true
to some degree for the second section,
but it is here the problems with the
Manifesto are concentrated and so
shall be presented in the interest of
parity.
Bourgeois and Proletarians
If one wanted to express the essence
of historical materialism in one line,
nobody puts it better than Marx:
‘the essence of all hitherto existing
societies is the history of class struggle’.
Marx then goes on to emphasise that
the development of the bourgeoisie
has polarised previously complex
class societies into the opposition
between proletariat and bourgeoisie.
Then after a brief description of the
actual (economic) development of the
bourgeoisie, Marx then links this to
politics: ‘Each step in the development
of the bourgeoisie was accompanied
by a corresponding political
advance of that class’. This political
advance has not been peaceful: ‘The
bourgeoisie, historically, has played
a most revolutionary part’, ‘it has
pitilessly torn asunder the motley
feudal ties that bound man to his
“natural superiors”’. Marx’s tone is
ambiguous, so while ‘[the bourgeoisie]
has accomplished wonders far
surpassing Egyptian pyramids’ it has
also substituted ‘exploitation, veiled
by religious or political illusions,
[with] naked, shameless, direct, brutal
exploitation.’
Then we come to the first central
point of the analysis: ‘the bourgeoisie
cannot exist without constantly
revolutionising the instruments of
production, and thereby the relations
of production’. The reason for this lies
in the development of the bourgeoisie:
‘At a certain stage in the development
of [feudal] means of production and
exchange … the feudal relations of
propertybecamenolongercompatible
with the already developed productive
forces; they became so many fetters.
They had to be burst asunder’. But the
very productivity of the bourgeoisie
becomes its own downfall, ‘the
epidemic of over production’ leads
to more or less periodic crises that
beset it which ‘[put on trial] the
existence of the entire bourgeois
society.’ The crisis can be overcome by
the ‘inforced destruction of a mass of
productive forces’ or by the ‘conquest
of new markets.’ Thus ‘the need of a
constantly expanding market chases
the bourgeoisie over the whole face of
the globe’ and ‘it compels all nations,
on pain of extinction, to adopt the
bourgeois mode of production … it
creates a world after its own image.’
Meanwhile, ‘in the same proportion
as the bourgeoisie, i.e. capital, is
developed in the same proportion
is the proletariat.’ This occurs as
the lower middle class sinks to the
level of the proletariat, outpaced
by machinery and out-bought by
large industry. The proletariat, ‘must
sell [itself] piece-meal, [and is] a
commodity, like every other article of
commerce’. Also, the efficient division
of labour and the development of
machinery have reduced the dignity of
work to a mere mechanical procedure,
thus alienating the workers from
themselves. With the development
of industry and the concentration of
the means of production (in factories
etc.,) the proletariat becomes more
numerous and more class-conscious,
though things do not always go
so smoothly: ‘This organisation of
the proletarians into a class … is
continually being upset again and
again by the competition between the
workers’.
However, all revolutionary hope
rests in the hands of the proletariat.
For the bourgeoisie, the proletarian
is the only necessary class because
while ‘the other classes decay and
disappear in the face of Modern
Industry; the proletariat is its special
and essential product’. Furthermore,
as the ‘proletarian is without property’
they ‘cannot become masters of
the productive forces of society,
except by abolishing their own
previous mode of appropriation’.
Thus while every previous revolution
has ‘but established new classes,
new conditions of oppression’, ‘the
proletarian movement is the self-
conscious, independent movement of
the immense majority, in the interest
of the immense majority.’
Thus in summary: ‘Hitherto, every
form of society has been based … on
the antagonism of oppressing and
oppressed classes.’ This antagonism is
the dialectic that provides the motor
force to history which has led ‘either
to a revolutionary re-constitution of
society at large, or in the common
ruin of the contending classes’.
The bourgeoisie has distinguished
itself as the most revolutionary
class to date. However it remains
an oppressing class whose very
revolutionary tendency leads to an
intrinsic instability in the capitalist
mode of production. Simultaneously,
the industrial proletariat proliferates
as the bourgeois mode of production
spreads and polarises class
antagonism, while it organises and
becomes more conscious as it is forced
into association through economic
centralisation. The bourgeoisie need
to exploit the industrial proletariat
for their own survival, yet they no
less need to force the proletariat
into a position where it will develop
its class consciousness and resist
this exploitation. This immanent
contradiction in the bourgeois mode
of production will ‘inevitably lead to its
fall and the victory of the proletariat’.
Proletarians and Communists
The main value of this chapter is
that it highlights some of the more
sustained failures of Marxism. It is
only appropriate to present them here,
though detailed discussion will be
delayeduntilmythirdarticle.However
it also serves to qualify the Marxist
relation to property. Many who lack
conceptual clarity, both Marxist and
non-Marxist, confuse the ‘bourgeois
socialist’ Proudhon’s ‘Property
is theft’ with Marxist doctrine.
However, Marx is very careful to
point out: ‘the distinguishing feature
of Communism is not the abolition of
property generally, but the abolition
of bourgeois property’. That is, it is
not so much property that is theft as
the private ownership of the means
of production (and exchange). Thus,
when ‘We Communists’ are accused
of wanting to abolish ‘Hard-won,
self-acquired, self-earned property!’,
Marx ironically states that ‘there is no
need to abolish that; the development
of industry has to a great extent
already destroyed it’. Similarly, ‘You
are horrified at our at our intending
to do away with private property.
But in your existing society, private
property is done away with for nine-
tenths of the population … In a word
you reproach us with intending to do
away your property. Precisely so; that
is what we intend.’ This conclusion
is based on the antagonism between
‘capital’ and ‘wage-labour’ which, in
the forms presented in the Manifesto
lack conceptual clarity. This will be
further discussed in my third article.
Two areas where (classical)
Marxism has continually proved
deficient are in its relation to women
and in its explanation of the national
phenomenon. The discussion of the
family in this section is ultimately
of little interest, roughly taking
over the conclusions of Free Love
advocates in France and Britain, more
thoroughly dealt with in Engels’ The
Origins of Family, Private Property
and the State. However, it is worth
remembering that, via Engels, Marxist
theory had at least some recognition
of the oppression of the greater
part of humanity. Meanwhile, the
comments in the Manifesto on the
nation and nationalism are from a
clearly internationalist position which
too easily dismisses the efficacy of
nationalism as an ideology.
This yields a third, and perhaps more
general, deficiency in Marxist theory,
the inability to properly explain the
role of ideology in the development
of history. Though we have in brief
the theory of reification: ‘the selfish
misconception which induces you
to transform into eternal laws of
nature and of reason, the social forms
springing from your present mode of
production’, we also have the rather
too simple: ‘What else does the history
of ideas prove, than that intellectual
production changes its character in
proportion as material production
changes’. It is claims like these which
are at the bottom of many of the
accusations of ‘economic essentialism’
levelled at Marx. This is a real issue
which requires discussion, and I shall
attempt to do so in my third article.
Christy Kelly
Writer
wikia.com

