24 FRIDAY 21 FEB
BOOKS
Editor: Maciej
Matuszewski, Eva
Rosenthal
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Joseph Henderson talks about the popular Picocon 31 guest
I am writing about Charles Stross
because of the upcoming Picocon
science fiction convention, which he
will be attending as one of the Guests
of Honour. He has contributed to
the Science Fiction and Fantasy field
with his novels, his blogging, and his
roleplaying work.
Of these three things, the roleplaying
work is perhaps the least notable.
Stross worked on first edition Dungeons
and Dragons, and created some of the
game’s iconic monsters. Drawing from
the works of Moorcock and Martin,
Stross created the Githyanki: cruel
and impious mind-controlling slavers
that lurk in underground caves and
seek to kill their old racial enemies.
The Githyaki are still a part of D&D,
and have appeared in the Neverwinter
Nights 2 and Baldur’s Gate II computer
games, but Stross no longer writes for
roleplaying games.
Stross (and various guests) also blog
on the popular antipope.org site on
the subjects of science fiction, Stross’s
convention attendance, futurism, and
international relations. Stross has also
posted an autobiography on his blog,
which I will not try to replicate here.
Stross can describe his life much better
than I can; this article is better used for
commentary.
On the topic of international
relations, Stross describes himself as
“just an interested layman”
. His opinion,
as a layman, is relatively informed and
his writing is populated by many links
to other parts of the internet.
Futurism is addressed in many
articles, mentioning such topics as
the singularity, Bitcoin, the internet of
things, space colonisation, and a judge
who masturbated while sitting in court.
Stross manages to discuss futurism
with far more attention to evidence, so
the general quality of Stross’s writing
in these essays is better than in his
political essays.
Likewise, when Stross discusses
writing, and the publishing industry,
he does so as a knowledgeable insider.
When Stross makes a statement about
publishing or science fiction, he does so
in a community that is interested in and
follows his words. His articles generate
interest, and almost every one of them
will have extensive commentary on
other blogs.
Of course, Stross’s blog might never
have grown to such popularity were
it not for his very notable writing. I
have not read all of his works, so I shall
confine my commentary to those that
I have. For those who wish to read his
works many are available online, and
almost all published on paper can be
found in the science fiction library in
the Beit West Basement.
Charles Stross won the Locus award
in 2005 for writing the Accelerando,
a compilation of nine short stories.
Stross’s technical skill as a writer was
less developed in Accelerando than later
on, but his ideas are well worth reading.
Over three generations the
dysfunctionalMacxfamilylivesthrough
the transformation of human identity
and society as technology transfers
sentience from the natural brain to the
synthetic computer. As the series goes
on, each generation finds themselves
falling behind the more aware and
efficient intelligences they create.
Stross is not particularly optimistic:
people are not necessarily protected
from the future, and technology creates
a new economy, where posthuman
intelligences ruthlessly exploit every
resource they can find.
From Accelerando, and those other
Stross novels that include them, my
most vivid memories are the sex
scenes. His sex writing is not titillating,
but is generally useful for character
development. The sex in Stross’ novels
is often out of the mainstream, and
BDSM elements feature heavily. Seeing
the characters enjoy unconventional
sex gives the reader an interesting
exercise in empathy, giving a route to
empathy through their private desires.
The Eschaton novels involve a space
opera setting. Faster than light travel
is developed, and can even be used for
time travel. However, the “Eschaton”
, an
entity from the transhuman future, acts
to prevent violations of continuity that
might threaten its own existence.
Nonethelessascolonieswithdifferent
technology interact, causing huge
culture shocks, desperate and ignorant
people take risks that put many worlds
in danger. The plot of the novels is like
that of a spy thriller as UN agents try
to avert catastrophe, while secondary
characters describe the culture shock
and transformation. Once again, the
sex scenes are memorable, but I think
they are more like an out of place
comedy than important character
development.
The Halting State duology are
police thrillers, set amongst the near
future, post-independence, Scottish
police. This isn’t a reflection of wishful
thinking on the part of Stross for
Scottish independence, but an attempt
to create a cool situation to write about.
On his blog Stross has complained that
far too much in the Halting State series
seems to be coming true. The novelty of
the police using World of Warcraft to
spy on criminals lost its lustre to Stross
when he found out that the NSA did
exactly that, so there will be no more
Charles Stross
Charles Stross – writer, blogger and king of the internet.
WORM IN APPLE
“... Halting State
is suffused with
Stross’ wonderful
imagination ...”
“ [The Atrocity Ar-
chives are] a very
amusing look at
modern bureaucra-
cy struggling with
magical horror ...”

