25
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 21 FEB
BOOKS
sequels.
The novels are much like other police
procedurals, but Stross’s contributions
are not to be underestimated. The
first novel, also called Halting State,
is suffused with Stross’ wonderful
imagination, with interesting “crimes
that don’t even exist yet” keeping the
reader intellectually engaged.
The sequel, Rule 34, is much more
disappointing. The novel commits the
sin of using ‘evil sex’ to characterise
the villain, which is dull, and relies on
this ‘evil sex’ extensively. Rule 34 also
attracted critisism from Christopher
Priest when it was nominated for a
Hugo. Priest’s criticism was brief and
denigrating, so I mention it more
for the sake of history than because
it is valuable. Naturally the criticism
inspired plenty of discussion, and
anyone wishing to particularly flatter
Stross might wear a t-shirt made in
response, which bears the caption:
“INTERNET PUPPY NO CAN HAZ
NOMS”
.
Even more contemporary than the
Halting State duology is the Laundry
series. The series is a very amusing look
at modern bureaucracy struggling to
deal with magical horror; a modern
take on the Cthulu mythos’ theme
of “knowledge that is too terrible to
tell”
. The Laundry series loves to talk
about modern management and office
politics, and the struggle of an IT
professional turned into a special agent.
The first novel, The Atrocity Archives
is a good read if you like the idea of a
technical professional griping about
bad management and saving the world
with a few fantastic creatures thrown
in.
The Laundry really gets interesting
with the second book in the series,
The Jennifer Morgue. The book is an
intelligent and very aware parody of
James Bond novels. The Jennifer Morgue
also benefits from social commentary.
It questions and challenges the sexual
cliche’s of Flemming’s novels and the
standards still held in many of the
inspired works.
Much more subtle is the racial
commentary of The Jennifer Morgue. H
P Lovecraft is rightly remembered as
an excellent horror author, but modern
readers often choose to ignore the less
desirable underlying themes of his
work. Lovecraft was a racist and much
of the horror of his work was based on
his fear of racial mixing, cultural decay,
inherited evils and other discredited
concepts.
In Lovecraft’s The Shadow Over
Innsmouth (one of his best works), the
fishy Deep Ones desire to interbreed
with humans. Their children carry
the unfortunate racial features of
their parents, and eventually mutate
into undersea creatures. While some
critics have interpreted The Shadow
Over Innsmouth as being about
Lovecraft’s acceptance of racial mixing,
and overcoming horror, The Shadow
Over Innsmouth is still clearly about
the horror of being mixed race. To
paraphrase George Orwell, while we
may dislike racism in Lovecraft’s work,
and wish it were not there, it would be
absurd to deny its existence. The Jennifer
Morgue also uses the Deep Ones, but
the racial criticism is no longer directed
against them, but against the prejudice
they receive for the circumstances of
their birth.
The Jennifer Morgue is followed by The
Fuller Memorandum. This is much like
The Atrocity Archives, but in every way
better. The alien intelligences are more
intriguing, the office politics more
dynamic and cutthroat, the action
faster and more exciting.
The Laundry series has also had
several short stories published online. I
will not go into these in detail, save to
say that Equoid is absolutely excellent.
If, after reading this, you are interested
in Charles Stross then I suggest you get
online and read Equoid.
At this point there is little left to say.
Stross has written many other books,
but unfortunately I have either not read
them or have nothing to say. This article
was written to give a summary outlook
of Charles Stross’s work, I have nothing
to conclude. I hope that I have caught
your attention, and I look forward to
seeing him at Picocon.
It’s hard to decide whether Singu-
larity Sky is hard or soft sci-fi. In-
herent to the setting of the book is
faster-than-light (FTL) travel and
an omnipotent, post-singularity AI.
However that stuff is all really just
a backdrop to incredibly nerdy (and
delightful) discussions of spaceship-
to-spaceship combat at
relativistic velocities, and a gleeful
dissection of how FTL travel inher-
ently leads to time travel. (The word
“light-cone” is thrown around a lot.)
If that paragraph put you to sleep,
this book is not for you (also you’re
silly). However, if you’re the kind of
person who watches a space battle
in Star Trek and goes “why do all the
ships stop and stare at each other?”
or is annoyed by Star Wars’ ubiqui-
tous sound in space, then you should
travel at sufficient FTL speeds to
ensure you’ve already read the book
before starting this review.
It’s clear that before a word of the
book was written, Stross took the time
to think very carefully about how to
reconcile FTL travel with time travel,
concluding that the only way to make
it make any sort of sense is for there
Singularity Sky
Tom Rivlin explores one of Charles Stross’ most popular novels.
to be an artificial ban on messing with
causality, as opposed to an inherent
law of nature. Similarly, he clearly
thought very hard about how ship-
to-ship combat in space would actu-
ally happen, and does his best to stay
true to that. Of course, the conclusion
seems to be that ship-to-ship combat
in space is a terrible idea and any civi-
lisation who tries it and builds a mas-
sive space navy must be really, really
stupid.
On that note, the story of the book is
set in a post-singularity future, where
humanity has a galactic diaspora,
with many conflicting civilisations.
An engineer from Earth is doing rou-
tine contract work for a particularly
repressive and backwards empire, the
New Republic, when he, along with a
UN spy, accidentally get caught up in
a space battle between the Republic
and a mysterious,
information-based civilisation called
the Festival. The story is light-hearted
and fun, and the two main characters
have an interesting relationship, but,
to me, it was mostly just window-
dressing for the fun space battles.
Like all good sci-fi, the book has
some smart things to say about how
the technology in it would impact
society. In the book, different eco-
nomic and political systems clash on
a galactic scale. Earth’s embrace of
nanotech which can replicate any ob-
ject, and its subsequent transition to
a scarcity-free economy, is contrasted
with the Republic’s strict ban on this
technology, and its stasis in a good
old fashioned 20th
century dictator-
ship. What’s most engaging, though,
is that neither side is presented as
entirely better than the other. Earth’s
people may have unlimited access
to whatever they want, and have far
more freedom, but the price for that
is terrorism on an unprecedented
scale – on Earth, any nutcase with an
agenda can unleash the worst kinds of
plagues and atomic bombs. And you
thought the Anarchist’s Cookbook was
bad.
It’s clear we’re meant to embrace the
singularity in the book (“information
wants to be free” is a quote from the
book that appears on the cover), but
Stross emphasises that the singularity
didn’t fix all of our problems. Like all
technology, it also made more.
See Charles Stross at
Picocon 31
Charles Stross will be joined by Sarah Pinborough
and Professor David Southwood on Saturday
February 22 at Imperial’s annual science fiction
and fantasy convention.
Picocon 31 will feature Guest of Honour talks, a
panel, silly games, quizzes and the destruction of
dodgy merchandise with liquid nitrogen and a
giant hammer.
The convention is open to all and registration
starts at 10:00 in Beit Quad.
For more information, and to buy tickets, visit:
icsf.org.uk/picocon

