26 FRIDAY 21 FEB
BOOKS
Editor: Maciej
Matuszewski, Eva
Rosenthal
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
One day I may look back on my life
and realise that my first love was not a
person but a place...
Our world is full, bursting and strained
like never before. We have the power to
suppress disease, pacify hunger, come
and go as we so choose. Things have
grown, unfurled like ivy tendrils that are
infinitely rich and thick. Buildings tower
like divine beacons. Men (regrettably)
have the power to take a life at the touch
of a button. Information flows like a
cascading fluid. Men try to stop its flow,
to cork the bottle of knowledge...but the
seal leaks, the fluid still flows and men
and women slake their thirst.
Men leave the fields, pace the cobbles
of glimmering cities in the night.
They search for life, advancement and
hope. Parliaments continue to tick
like well-oiled clocks in homage to the
Constantinople, Rome and Athens of
the past. Theatres fill with budding
enthusiasts, challenging notions of
culture, civility and a higher state of
awareness. Restaurants feed labourers
after a hard day’s work, numb the pains
and fill the stomachs of berated men
and women. Police cars roam and race
through the labyrinth of streets like
guardians, sentinels of order, scuttling
beetles in a transient hive. Universities
pulsate with knowlegde, lighting the
way for future generations.
Things move ever so swiftly forward
and yet nothing ever changes. We come
full circle...and when we realise this the
centre may or may not hold.
Maybe time is one discreet event.
I see it as a mirror. Perhaps God set
us a challenge, taking the mirror and
dropping it from a height. Perhaps this
is why we continue to strive and to seek.
Each civilisation that comes and goes
examines the fragments, piece by piece,
in an attempt to resolve the pearlescent,
glimmering puzzle. We seem to get so
far. We fail, slice a finger, lacerate a vein,
let some blood, nurse our wounds...we
have to start all over again.
We don’t want to finish the restoration
of this universal mirror. What would
come after? After all, there is more fun
in seeing infinitely many reflections and
mysteries in the jagged fragments. If we
were to fix it and seal every fragment
back in place, we would see but one
reflection. We might not like it.
It’s above my head. The glint of those
fragments sears my eyes. One day, like
a hermit in the sun, I sought solace. I
sought shade. It was to be found in a
cafe. Standing squat and square with
four walls, penned in by victorian
brick from above and below, it became
my bunker. A glass veranda served to
maintain a link between worlds. Cars
would dance to and fro as their hums
and roars blended with the clamour
of cups and plates glancing dark wood
tabletops.
The place appealed to me through its
simplicity. My memories receded from
memory when I stepped through the
door. Young men served with a greeting,
a smile, a handshake or pat on the back,
providing a lift. I gave due attention
to the pure. The light music numbed
the senses and caused the strain in my
temples, teeth and neck to relax like a
slackening sail. Every motion on the
clock face seemed worthwhile, nothing
wasted.
I would dive deep into intricate novel
plots, surfacing late at night. The place
allowed me to focus my interests into
mental diamonds, concrete my passions
into discrete kernels of knowledge.
Things seemed possible. The tea
and coffee, above all, captured the
imagination. Dark and steaming cups of
pure white porcelain dotted the tables.
People paused, flared their nostrils and
raised the warmth to their lips. Some
would even close their eyes, at ease.
One can see why ancient cultures
revered the act of tea drinking as a
ceremony, a rite of passage. It is an
simple act but steeped in symbolism.
By stopping, pausing and drinking all
other things seemed to stem from that
moment. Groups gathered to play chess.
Long lost friends held one another’s
gaze across tables, the gulf between
them peppered with the fragrant steam
of hot drinks. Men and women donned
their finest clothes; jumpers of wool,
scarves of silk, well-made shoe-soles
slapped the marble floors.
Despite the calm there was still room
for obscurity. In the cafe, as beyond
its doors, one still felt lost at times,
overwhelmed...but at least there was a
platform, sure footing to stand on. It
was my breastplate, my armour, a shield
from relentless missiles of reality.
One night I withdrew my philosophy
notes from my bag. I calmly read over
pages of Adorno and Horkheimer, the
edges furled and crippled.
“characterise enlightenment as...
liberation from fear of the unknown...by
acquisition of genuine knowledge.”
In that instant the cafe assumed a
voice. Chairs scraped the floor, old men
bellowed and children giggled and all
the while white china clicked, sang in
harmony, reverberating off mellowed
walls. It spoke to me.
Let go. Become a free and spontaneous
being. Pause. Breathe the air. Don’t fix
the broken mirror. Stop seeking more.
Pocket instead a fragment of glass, plane
its edges, distill it of all its coarseness
and carry it with you until the end of
your days.
I turned back to my coffee, took a
sip and smiled. In my mind I saw some
ancient monk of another time and place.
With one skilled, steady hand he painted
a fay, fine tree in full blossom on faded
parchment: It had but a few branches.
The monk stopped, placed his brush on
the ground.
He turned to his steaming tea and
drank.
Tea & Coffee Truths
A short story by Eoghan Totten
Send your submissions for
our newest regular fea-
tures!
FLASH FICTION: Ultrashort
fiction up to 200 characters
STUDENT PICKS: Send us up
to 250 words on your favour-
ite book and how it changed
you
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Student Picks
Madame Bovary is generally considered to be one of the
best novels ever written. This is already an excellent rea-
son to read it, but I’ll recommend it anyway.
I am reading it for the third time. Still it morphs into dif-
ferent shapes, carrying with it all the subtlety of Flaubert’s
characters. The first time I read it, very young (too young
perhaps), I was overcome with feeling for the tragedy of
Emma Bovary’s situation. A beautiful, sensual woman
with too much imagination, alone in grey, boring coun-
try villages with only the bore-of-a-husband for company.
No wonder she takes to romanticism; no wonder she finds
herself a couple of lovers; no wonder she commits suicide
when everything collapses!
Then I read it again. What mastery Flaubert has over his
hideous world, the world of the stupid petite bourgeoisie!
Emma Bovary, I realised, was tragic in herself, through her
own shallowness, because of her inability to really look
at the world. She lives in a world of dreams, unoriginal
dreams, the clichéd dreams of Romanticism. Nothing she
experiences in life can compare! Flaubert manages to cre-
ate a rich character, full of life, alive as it were, whilst hold-
ing her in utter contempt. I found this fascinating.
This time, I’m struck by what I perceive as an extreme
sympathy for the character. Flaubert is criticising, with
irony, with half-veiled insults, but also with a wry com-
passion.
It has changed for me yet again. There are so many truths
about life, about oneself and society, to be found in Mad-
ame Bovary... in so short a text, I can really only say: read
it. The rest is filler.
Madame Bovary by Gustave Flaubert
Eva Rosenthal picks:

