32 FRIDAY 21 FEB
TELEVISION
Editors: John Park,
Emily Fulham
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Benefits Britain and the ethics of TV-making
A
s a self-confessed fan
of Benefits Street, I
was confused at the
break in the series two
weeks back, which was
followed by an announcement that
Channel 4 was capitalising further on
the few weeks of column inches the
show had earned them by staging a
debate on benefits.
It promised to feature the not very
guilty looking programme makers,
journalists with middle class axes
to grind and politicians with pre-
prepared sound bites of their own. It
was being recorded a whole month
after Newsnight had quizzed a doe-
eyed producer, LBC had got resident
‘White Dee’ to participate in a call-in
with an unprepared Nick Clegg, and
everyone else and their uncle had
stopped talking about it. Presumably
this was because the possibility of a
second series has been quashed by the
fact that the show’s biggest characters
now get “between 50 and 100 knocks
on the door a day” and the guy trying
to sell cups of detergent for 50p door to
door only gets asked for photographs
nowadays.
The show was preceded by a half
an hour long Benefits Street: The Last
Word, a lazy but vaguely interesting
refresher showing some of the
characters’ best bits as well as a chance
to see their new post-fame haircuts.
Throughout this week, awkward
adverts featuring James Turner
Street residents invited us to share
our thoughts using #BenefitsBritain,
reminding us that a debate was
on the horizon. It began, quite
uncomfortably, straight off the back of
the last instalment of the docu-soap.
Richard Bacon looked excited; he
had a post-watershed hour and a
studio audience rife with opinion.
He wasn’t a Blue Peter presenter
anymore, he was Matthew Wright,
Jeremy Kyle and Paxman combined.
He pre-emptively warned us of fruity
language and rowdy debate. There
were cross-armed, unimpressed
looking James Turner Street residents
in one corner, who seemed happy to
be represented by White Dee (who
went as just Dee this evening, as the
other one hadn’t made an appearance)
sitting across the room from the very
journalists who had condemned them.
At this point, the show had promise.
Things began tempestuously with
journalist Allison Pearson (under
pressure from a hysterical Bacon)
being forced to repeat the ridiculous
implication of her article: that Dee
just seemed too cheerful onscreen to
have depression. This coupled with
a mention of her horrendous ‘Mick
Philpott, a good reason to cut benefits’
piece for The Daily Telegraph seemed
all too much, and wily tweeters noticed
that 45 minutes in she had disappeared
from the front row. Maybe she had
somewhere to be. You get the sense
that Katy Hopkins wouldn’t have been
so shy and (literally) retiring.
To Pearson’s credit, she had
questioned the usual lack of female
panellists. On an initial glance, the
left was better represented, with the
Tories having to resort to their secret
weapon, a rare state-educated MP:
ex-fireman Mike Penning. The show
really fell down with Bacon though,
who took 45 minutes to warm up
to the idea of controlling such a
passionate panel. There was heckling
from the back, incoherent rants
from the self-made CEOs of The Big
Issue and Pimlico Plumbers (whose
mullet was more distracting than the
F-bomb he dropped) and a lot of it
made for quite uncomfortable viewing
(in true middle class fashion I often
had to mute the TV and rely on Zoe
Williams’ live blogging of the event for
The Guardian).
But, unsurprisingly, the debate didn’t
focus on the most interesting point,
and the one that anyone had any real
chance of getting to the heart of in an
hour: whether or not the production
company had acted responsibly in its
treatment and portrayal of residents
of James Turner Street, and how aware
they were of the furore the program
would create. Understandably, to
make a representative series they had
to shoot for 18 months or so, but as
Benefits Street’s detractors and some
appearing on the debate pointed out, a
lot of positive footage seemed to have
been left out. None of the recurring
faces were in work, and between
them had admitted to armed robbery,
Grace Rahman asks whether a live debate was necessary
Star Cops: A sci-fi golden oldie
Maciej Matuszewski
Contributor
F
irst let me say – no, it’s not as
bad as its name suggests. In
fact it’s nothing like its name
suggest. The show itself jokes
about how bad a name it is
in its very first episode. Star Cops is
not some cheap police action-drama
carelessly transplanted into a space
setting. Instead, it is a very intelligent,
brilliantly written piece of television,
and one of the most unique examples
of the SF genre that has ever graced
our screens.
The action takes place in the near
future of 2027, when space travel
has become almost commonplace
and humanity has constructed
several orbital space stations, as
well permanent bases on the Moon
and Mars. However, the spread of
humanity through the solar system
has brought with it the spread of
crime, necessitating the formation of
the International Space Police Force
(ISPF). Star Cops follows the inaugural
commander of this organisation,
Nathan Spring, and his staff as they
deal with the problems of building
the ISPF from an underfunded semi-
professional group into a credible
police force.
The real strength of the show is its
writing. Series creator Chris Boucher
had a great deal of experience of
working on both science fiction
and crime dramas, including the
popular Blake’s 7 and Bergerac, and
both his experience and innate skill
show through in every episode. The
show’s plots are all interesting and
well-thought out, cleverly exploring
both the new forms that crime might
take in outer space as well as the
international tensions that might arise
from different nations competing in
space. The political intrigue is one
of the highlights of the show – with
Spring having to play diplomat as
much as detective and pretty much
every superpower being shown as
being brutally ruthless in what it is
prepared to do to achieve its goals. Star
Cops is special in being one of the few
television shows out there to even flirt
with the idea of hard science fiction –
trying to keep the science as plausible
as possible and carefully considering
the potential consequences of
technological advancement.
The show’s characters are also very
well realised. No one is presented in
terms of absolutes – everyone has a
rich and complex personality and most
haverigorouslydevelopedback-stories
– in short, they seem like real people.
This is greatly helped by the well-
written, intelligent dialogue and some
very good performances, particularly
from David Calder, portraying Nathan
Spring. Spring in particular is a very
interesting character – intelligent yet
often brusque and socially awkward –
a temperament explained by his tragic
back-story. Much of the show focuses
on his often turbulent relationship
with his staff, not helped by their
many personal and professional
shortcomings, and with him trying to
get over his past.
The show was produced in the late
1980s and, while the special effects do
looksomewhatdated,theyretainmuch
of their effectiveness. It is immediately
visible that a lot of time and effort was
put in the creative team to make the
show look as good as possible. The
model work is both imaginative and
realistic and special mention must be
given to the ambitious weightlessness
special effects – achieved through
wire work and trick camera angles.
This is especially impressive given
that even most modern science fiction
shows tend not to bother with this,
preferring instead the cheap cop out
of ‘artificial gravity’.
Star Cops was an excellent show and
far ahead of its time. Always enjoyable,
and often powerful, viewing – it was a
crime that it was cancelled after only
nine episodes. While DVDs of the
show are rather difficult to find, many
episodes are available to view online
and the full box set is available from
the Union’s Sci-Fi library. I strongly
recommend that you check it out.
benefit fraud and stealing from an
employer. According to White Dee
10% of the street were employed, but
perhaps their sound bites weren’t
as shocking, or their storylines less
easy to edit into five episodes. These
residents certainly weren’t in the
debate’s audience.
I’m not going to offer my vague,
oft-repeated opinions on the social
security system in the UK, but I am
writing this show off a limp finale to
a divisive but thoroughly watchable
series. The debate should have at
least attempted to address the ethics
behind production or been handled
better by Bacon. A quote from
Charlie Brooker’s ‘Weekly Wipe’
was featured in the media reaction
segment (I’m sure to his amusement),
and was probably the most sensible
thing said on the matter. Although
the producers argue that they were
portraying members of a community,
often helping each other, they still
chose to call it the provocative title of
Benefits Street, with the connotations
that conjured even prior to watching.
As the show winds down, Bacon asks
what I too have been pondering: has
any good come of this? One woman
sensibly claims that it’s unveiled levels
of poverty in this country which some
viewers may have been unaware of,
but then a second starts arguing
against democracy. Yikes. 8 out of 10
Cats can’t come quickly enough.
bbc
channel 4

