33
FRIDAY 21 FEB
TECHNOLOGY
Editor: Maximilian
Eggl, Yong Wen
Chua, Osama Awara
technology.felix@imperial.
ac.uk
Future of Social Media
W
hen you hear
the term social
media, what
comes to mind?
F a c e b o o k ?
Twitter? Or perhaps even that
embarrassing video you were tagged
in by your friends last night. Of the
modern age of technology, social
media has perhaps had the most
profound effect on our lives, reaching
out with its addictive grip to almost
everyone with a smart device. Social
media sure has come a long way, from
the forums and chat rooms of the 90’s
where people used to retreat to from
their daily lives, hiding under their
The News Bubble
Maximilian Eggl
Yong Wen Chua
Osama Awara
Technology Editors
If you have been on the Internet anytime in the last week, you will have
been bombarded by strange headlines and blogs including the words,
twitch, Pokémon and Helix among many others. Well what all these things
are raving about is: Twitch plays Pokémon. Twitch is a site that allows for
live streaming, most notably for Dota 2 or League of Legends competitions.
However some ingenious individual, who remains anonymous, has
created a great social experiment by allowing the watchers of the channel
to control the character in the Pokémon game. They do this by typing the
button into the chat, which is then relayed to the game.
At the time of writing Red, the protagonist of the game, was stuck at route
12. Furthermore he has released several Pokémon including his starter,
Charmeleon. Oh and also, somehow this experiment has spawned the cult
of the Helix, which seems to worship the Helix Fossil….
All in all, after 6 days of playing the community has not really achieved
much, getting 4 badges, catching 12 Pokémon and generally just walking
around in circles.
What this playthrough has shown is that humanity does not really work
well as a whole. Trolls and idiots alike seem to congregate and try to ruin
the game for others. On a more subtle note, does this show that democracy
is a system that is fundamentally flawed, and as a result anarchy must rule?
Tune in next week for more interesting philosophical questions!
General news from around the tech world, so you can keep up
to date with the newest, weirdest and most futuristic things
around
Twitch plays Pokémon
Keeping us glued to our screens, and how to monetize it
Osama Awara
Technology Editor
avatars and fantasy names, to the less
private Facebook and Twitter where
people you may have met but barely
spoken to, can know more of your life
than you think. People used to believe
that with the invention of the mobile
phone, human communication was
at its finest, how wrong they were,
but who’s to say that even now we
are at our peak in terms of keeping in
touch with each other? Social media
still has a long road ahead, with its
future promising, but there is still
a mostly unseen dark side of it that
has been seen creeping into society,
from privacy breaches to cyber-
bullying. We can expect to see a lot
more changes in social media, from
new platforms to more regulations
on internet communication or maybe
even cross platform communication.
Advertising is a big part of social
media, with most platforms making
their profits from it. Big brands and
companies have had to adapt to a
new ‘phenomena’ of advertising, no
longer being able to solely rely on
the old fashioned ‘in your face’ TV
advertising. Companies have to be
tactful, they need to play the game
right and come up with unexpected,
imaginative ways to get the user’s
attention, or face having their ads
swatted away into the abyss of news
feeds and selfies. One example of
such innovation is that of Frijj’s, a
milkshake brand, where they created a
game for one if its products, requiring
players to watch funny YouTube
videos without laughing. Using facial
recognition technology, the game
was able to recognise when the player
laughed and give them a record of how
long they lasted and allow them to
share their times and challenge friends
on Twitter or Facebook. This kind of
outlandish advertising paid off for
Frijj, attracting around 140,000 people
in the first few weeks, illustrating the
power of advertising through a social
medium. The future of social media
will certainly in part be shaped by
advertising, as many platforms such
as Facebook will adapt in the best way
to deliver adverts to its users without
affecting their experience.
Of course nothing in this world is
perfectandathingsuchassocialmedia
can never be flawless, despite having
the potential to do so much good. On
the surface, the downfalls of social
websites include procrastination, with
many people now finding themselves
spending hours in front of their
screens, busying themselves with their
virtual social life, carefully choosing
the pictures to upload to their profile,
or working their brain hard to come
up with a witty post. The more sinister
aspects of social media include cyber
bullying. So many times now we are
hearing stories on the news of young
kids being driven to suicide due to
the uncontrollable nature of cyber-
bullying. Many vulnerable young
children, who make profiles on social
platforms, copying their friends and
class mates, are unaware of what
may befall them. Those who already
receive bullying at school, come back
home to face a new front of abuse and
can no longer even seek refuge in their
own homes. We can expect to see a
lot more regulation when it comes to
social media.
Take Facebook for example, there is
already an option to report someone
who has been posting inappropriate
content or abuse towards someone,
but this may not be enough to tackle
what seems to be an epidemic. Many
anonymous apps such as ‘secret’
are starting to make it big; this time
providing users with anonymity.
Social networks such as ‘secret’ may
seem innocent at first allowing a
teenager to confess their heartaches to
the world, but this may be turned into
a tool to slander or abuse someone
under a cover.
An interesting proposal for the
future of social media could be
cross platform communication. Say
someone has accounts on multiple
mediums from Twitter and MySpace
to Google+ and YouTube, but tends to
only use one of them a lot more than
others or wants to communicate with
someone else on a different platform
but does not want to create a new
account for it. A new frontier for the
development of social media could be
the implementation of an effective and
secure standard for communication
between social networks. This would
provide for a truly innovative way to
reach out to other people and internet
communities you otherwise would
not be able to. It would however, alter
the risk landscape, and if one platform
is hacked or maliciously attacked, the
consequences of this could potentially
ripple to other platforms and have
devastating effects.
The future of social
media will certainly
in part, be shaped by
advertising as many
platforms such as
Facebook will adapt
in the best way to
deliver adverts to
its users without
affecting their
experience.
“
”

