36 FRIDAY 21 FEB
CLUBS & SOCS Editor: Nida Mahmud
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Discover Islam Week!
Free dinner? Free cake? Islam? If you found yourself saying yes to
one or more of the aforementioned, then carry on reading!
I
Do you ever wonder why we
are here? Does it make sense
that everything around us has
a purposeful order to it and we
are the anomalies? Will our lives
ever matter in the grand scheme of
things, or are we just material beings,
that can feel pleasure because of
chemicals in the brain? ‘Who’ is it that
actually feels?
If these questions resonate with
you, then it will be worth finding out
the answers Islam gives. Discover
Islam week will be taking place from
the 24th-28th February. This week
is your chance to find out about the
fundamental questions pertaining
to our existence, clear up any
misconceptions, and indulge in lots of
exotic foods for free.
Throughout the week there will be
exhibitions in Sherfield and SAF on
Islam and approachable volunteers
at hand to discuss and clarify any
questions you have. Speakers from all
around the world will be travelling to
Imperial to give exciting talks, which
will undoubtedly provide a platform
for a myriad of intellectual discussions.
The talks will kick off on Tuesday 29th
with ‘The Pursuit of Happiness’ and
on Thursday 27th the talk will discuss
‘Is Life Just a Game?’. The week will
conclude on the Friday with an open
Q&A ‘Discover over Dinner’ session,
there will be two renowned guest
speakers and of course, a free dinner
with a mix of Indian and Arab cuisine!
And it gets better – you can share
your opinions and discuss these topics
in length with a number of friendly
volunteers.
“And we did not create the heavens
and the earth and that between them
in play.” Quran {44:38}
Islam is simple. It is a religion
with over 1.6 billion followers (yes a
staggering 25% of the population is
Muslim) and 5000 Brits convert to
Islam every year. We are here for a
purpose and life is a journey where
you fulfil that purpose. Our soul needs
nourishment just the way our body
does. Yet we spend our lives perfecting
this material body, chasing material
possessions, and not recognising the
spiritual side to our beings. Perfection
is not just inward, but outward in
our actions and deeds. Islam asks us
to dedicate our lives to the service of
humanity, which in itself is an act of
worship. Islam is a philosophy and
religion and offers moral, economic,
social and judicial systems for the
betterment of the human condition.
And Muhammad was not just a
Prophet, but was revolutionary, a
statesman, a negotiator, a military
tactician, a spiritual guide, a husband,
a father, lover and most importantly
a human like you and me. Islam
is a holistic way of life, not just a
superficial doctrine.
Regardless of your perceptions,
the only way to truly know for sure
is to find out. We most humbly invite
you to take part in Discover Islam
Week; most assuredly, it will be a
life changing opportunity not to be
missed!
Jawaad Farooq

