5
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 21 FEB
FEATURES
R
AG Week 2014 is coming! RAG gives you a unique
opportunity to have the time of your life, while doing
something good for the world.This year we are supporting
three great charities: Caritas Anchor House, a residential
and lifeskills centre in London for single homeless people aged 19
to 65; Breakthrough Breast Cancer, a force of thousands of people
across the UK working together with a single-minded ambition
to stop women dying from breast cancer; and Practical Action, a
charity that uses technology to challenge poverty in developing
countries.
Everyone loves a cheeky weekend away, and we’re offering
you exactly that! 1-2nd March – it’s your time to Jailbreak! Your
mission: get as far away from Imperial College Union as possible
in 36 hours! The catch? You can’t spend a penny doing it! Whether
you hitch hike across the channel or head to Heathrow to blag a
free flight this will be one of the best weekends of your life! Start
getting your team (2-3 people) together now. Make sure you sign
up on our website icragweek.com.
For more information and tickets, head over to our website
www.icragweek.com, and GET EXCITED!
O
ur opening event
on Monday 24th is
not the one to miss!
For the second year
running we’re putting
a crane in the middle of campus, but
this time we’re going higher. The
legendary Bungee Jump is not for the
faint-hearted – but you’ve got to face
your fears in front of all your friends
and take the plunge in the middle of
campus all in the name of charity!
And if you are not jumping then come
along to Queen’s Lawn at lunchtime to
watch the jumps and munch on Krispy
Kremes.
O
n Tuesday 25th we
are hosting Imperial’s
first ever Man vs Food
championship. If a
bungee jump is a bit
much for you, come try something
everyone loves – eating! In the Union
Bar, the ultimate culinary challenge
will be taking place, a rivalry of the
ages… Man vs Food! You will be tasked
with eating half a chicken as fast as you
can to be crowned Imperial’s gastro
king/queen! Did we mention that it’s
Nando’s we are talking about here…?
O
n Wednesday 26th
dress in pink and in
teams of up to 6, take
on the capital for our
pink themed collect.
Armed with a list of tasks ranging
from easy to challenging and normal
to outrageous your job is squeeze
donations from the unsuspecting
general public.
There’ll be a prize for the team that
completes the most tasks and, more
importantly, that raises the most
money. There’s no need to sign up,just
come along!
Remember, on Wednesdays we wear
pink!
O
n Thursday 27th,
we will be holding a
five-a-side football
tournament on
Queen’s Lawn, with a
twist… all the players will be wearing
giant bubble suits! No injury faking
here, even the most brutal of tackles
will just result in you bouncing off one
another! Make sure you sign up on our
website icragweek.com.
O
n Friday we are going
to ppppaaaarty! As
if staying on your
feet wasn’t difficult
enough after a few
cheeky drinks, on our bar crawl you’re
going to have even less control over
your legs! Find a friend you don’t
mind getting a little cosy with because
you’re going to be tied to them all
night! You’ll also get a crazy awesome
t-shirt + club entry at the end of the
night all included – aren’t we kind?
Science Museum Review by Mahfuz
Ahmed
T
oday I am going to write a review of the Space section in the Science Museum. It is located
on Exhibition Road, South Kensington, London, SW7 2BB. It is a science and technology
centre, plus it is free!
What I have experienced at the Science Museum in the Space section is the way the
information was presented; they have captions, photographs, diagrams, models, even
televisions. I myself think that this is a good way to present information.
This area appeals to adults because it doesn’t give lots of information, it gives a good amount of it,
to fit in pictures and displays; and it is also much clearer to understand.
This area also appeals to younger people by giving them displays and models to help them
understand what they are reading about.
The Earth display has to be the best display in the Apace area because it is the main attraction plus
it gives us the most information.
They have extra facilities in the space room like seats, information pads, safety barriers and a
background image to create the effect of space. They are very good facilities for both adults and
children.
What I enjoyed the most about the Science Museum was the different facts they gave about space,
because it helped me to gain knowledge about space.
What I think could be improved is maybe to make it even darker than it already is and hang some
planets from the ceiling such as Jupiter and Saturn. That would make it look more realistic.
I would recommend the Science Museum to someone else because there is so much to see and
learn about science and technology; for free!
Science Museum review by Ibrahim
and Sadiqul
W
e were reviewing the Energy section of the Science Museum. The subject of the
gallery is Energy. There were activities and educational, interactive games, this
makes you interact with the gallery more. It makes adults walk around and look
at it. The gallery makes teenagers and university students take part and learn.
The gallery teaches you how energy is useful and how to make it. The Science
Museum facilities are very good; they have 3D and IMAX cinema, cafes, toilets, shops and a theatre.
The thing we enjoyed most was the electric pole that zaps you if you touch it with your fingernail. We
also enjoyed meeting Michael Faraday, he showed us the plasma ball, when you turn it on there are
zaps of energy, and if you touch it there is one massive shockwave. We don’t think anything should be
improved in the museum. We recommend the museum to everyone, we think anyone who has been
will come back and say “I enjoyed it 100%!” The best bits were definitely the different types of games
and it has made us think that all galleries should have games.
Tomorrow’s Media Moguls
Get Ready for RAG Week!
IntoUniversity
Maria Goryaeva
ICU Rag Vice Chair
L
ast term two classes of Year 6 students visited Felix
and STOIC to show us all who was going to take on
our roles in 10 years time. The classes visited the
Science Museum and recieved a talk from actors
dressed as Eugene Cernan (the last man on the Moon) and Michael Faraday, then came to the Media
Centre to film a news story and write for Felix about their experience. You haven’t seen happiness
until you’ve seen 10 year olds trying out a green-screen for the first time, and it really highlighted the
fantastic facilities we have here at Imperial. The visit was organised by IntoUniversity, a charity which
aims to encourage disadvantaged young people to apply for further education.
Jonny Pratt
STOIC President

