7
FRIDAY 21 FEB
POLITICS
Editor: Kartikeya
Rana, Jash Rughani
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
of varying opinions which have been
aired openly. This has led to slight
scepticism on the level of organisation
within the party. However, it has
also shown that opposing opinion
is respected, which is a fresh change
for party politics within the country.
Furthermore, they have been
governing on the streets, which has
led to people questioning whether the
party knows the difference between
administration and activism.
Regardless of all the criticism,
however, the party has changed the
way politics is conducted within the
country. Finally, the major parties
are feeling slightly vulnerable and are
forced to take some concrete steps
to improve the state of the nation.
The incumbent government recently
passed their own version of the anti-
graft bill which had caused the protest
in the first place. However, it has been
deemed weak and ineffective and has
been facing major criticism from all
fronts. It will be interesting to see
how the chain of events prior to the
upcoming general elections plays out.
Kartikeya Rana looks at a new dawn in Indian democracy
Wave of Change in Indian Politics
Kartikeya Rana
Politics Editor
I
ndian politics has gone through
the most tumultuous period
in the last few years. A greater
anger and discontent with the
incumbent establishment as well
as a growth of severe crimes around
the country has led to a growing
changeinthewaypoliticsisconducted
in the country. With general elections
approaching and serious anger rising,
it is only a matter of time until India
starts showing signs of a tidal change
in its political process.
The Indian population has shown
grave discontent against the current
political establishment. Over 30%
of MLAs (Members of Legislative
Assemblies) and MPs (Members
of Parliament) have criminal cases
pending against them. Furthermore,
the Indian parliament is seen to
be dysfunctional, with frequent
adjournments and no useful bills and
legislatures being allowed to pass by
the opposition due to a fear of a loss of
support. However, the way politics is
conducted in the country is gradually
changing due to a number of reasons.
India has seen a number of events
taking place which have greatly
aggravated the disillusionment of the
people against the political system.
Crime in India has been on a steady
rise in recent times with an inactive
police unable to solve crimes. This
has been partly because of a lack of
resources being provided to the police
as well as due to rampant corruption
within the police itself. Issues of rape,
murder and racist attacks have led
to a growing sense of vulnerability
of the Indian populace. The anger
was shown by the people in the state
elections which showed the highest
turnout in recent years, with an
electorate turnout above 60%.
India is a country with a range of
cultures, languages, religions, and
castes. This has led to major divisions
within a broadly secular nation. Riots
and other acts of hatred are seen to
be a frequent occurrence due to the
animosity between different peoples.
This has been a source of ‘vote-bank’
politics wherein political parties
support a certain group of people to
ensure or bank on a number of votes
within a particular region. This leads
to divisive legislation and further
division between racial groups. This
has been the case in the state of Uttar
Pradesh, where the ruling party’s
racial prejudices led to rioting and
resultantly displacement of a large
number of innocent members of the
Muslim minority. The maintenance
of this division is used to ensure that
such parties remain in power.
India also has a major income
inequality between the rich and the
poor. According to the Organisation
for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD), the top 10%
of wage-earners in India make 12
times as much as the bottom 10%. A
major role in this situation is played
by corruption. India has shown a lot of
anger and discontent towards the level
of corruption in the country. In 2011,
an anti-graft movement asking for the
establishment of an anti-corruption
‘Jan Lokpal’ Bill had caught the
imagination of the country. Support
for this movement was garnered
throughout the country and there was
a growing hope of change within a
rather disenchanted population.
The movement was unfortunately
unsuccessful and the demands of the
protestors were not met. However,
a number of people in the forefront
of the movement decided to form a
political party with a slightly socialist
inclination. Even though the party
is only a year old, the Aam Aadmi
Party, or the ‘Common Man Party’,
has managed to form a minority
government by winning the Delhi
State Elections. The success in the
state elections has given them the
confidence to run for National
Elections which are to take place this
year.
People have shown a lot of
confidence towards the AAP due to
its stance against corruption. A large
number of people from all over the
country have decided to join. The idea
of having people with a clean profile
join Indian politics has led to the
reinstating of a lot of hope which had
been lost. However, the party has also
shown initial signs of a lack of political
awareness. The party has a number
Gallery.oneindia.com
CNN NEWS

