9
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 21 FEB
COMMENT
P
resenting as an
undergraduate was always
horrific.Alotofithadtodo
with that we (were all given
the same project. Having
to sit through at least 10 presentations
on exactly the same thing, whilst
noticing everything the other groups
had done better, was not only boring
but galling all at once. However, what I
thought suspect about the whole thing
was the marking. Yes, I saw the nicely
prepared marking sheet for the guest
markers, but none of them ever filled
them out. Somehow too the groups
with the flashy presentations without
much technical detail always seemed
to do best (luckily for me….).
Thus, I was filled with a sense of
justice when asked to help asses one
of these days. I was going to mark the
heck out of these kids, but what I was
concerned about was asking those
tricky questions. I mean I never knew
where they got them from. How did
they know about the agricultural in-
dustry in southern Chile? Seriously?
So having jotted down a few things
relating to the project, I headed on
down to see and hopefully destroy
what they had come up with. But again
that irritating thing called compassion
reared its friendly head. They were af-
ter all 1st years and looked scared out
of their minds. As the first one started
I looked down at my mark sheet to
find it was completely useless. Just
three boxes with content, style and
clarity. How do you asses those things
without seeing all of them first? Yet,
I was determined to write something
for each group so got stuck in, even if
most of them there was just a “good”.
The thing was they were in general
good. Though the familiar boredom
did slowly creep back after about six
of them, it was not as bad as before. I
had not poured my blood, sweat and
tears into it for the last few weeks so it
Confessions of a GTA: Part 11
was rather interesting to see what they
had done differently. Yes some were
more flashy and enjoyable than others,
but only one was terrible. This group
had tried to source materials from a
small Central America country where
the material does not actually exist.
Having been there and tried to find it
myself, I know. Surely that would be
on Google? When I questioned them
about it, they seemed to think the sus-
tainability of this resource was more
important than that it actually existing
there already. I think they were plan-
ning to impose a new million industry
on the poor locals within a week…..
Thesestudentsobviouslygotmarked
down immediately, while those with a
rather slick presentation that winged
it a bit more conservatively got my
vote. So the confession this week has
to be if you are presenting something,
make sure your facts are straight. If
you don’t know perhaps you should
“look into it later at greater detail”. Or
there will be someone in the audience
who will tell you (perhaps very nicely)
you are an idiot.
The GTA
Anonymous
winging it - deviantart.com
Reconciling science with poetry
I
am sat at a pew in Westminster
Abbey, filled with a sense of awe
and reverence. Unlike the elderly
lady to my right, her hands
clasped in silent petition, I am
not here for prayer. I am, however,
here on a pilgrimage of sorts in an
attempt to understand the power and
limits of science.
Five steps to my left and I will be
stood over what remains of Charles
Darwin. Four steps forward and I
will come face to face with the death
mask of Issac Newton. But it will
take a keener eye to spot the object
of my pilgrimage. Set neatly in the
floor between Newton and Darwin
is a small, unremarkable stone square
about twice the size of my head. This
is the nation’s memorial to the greatest
British physicist since Newton and the
man behind much of the final year of
the physics MSci; Paul A. M. Dirac.
I have come to pay homage and end
up spending a while just sat watching
tourists pass the stone. Despite its
simplicity this stone square is surely
the most effective and beautiful
memorial in the Abbey.
Kings, Queens and statesmen have
relied on the skill of artists to convey,
perhaps fabricate, a sense of their
importance and success in life. Dirac’s
memorial displays the power and
beauty of his life’s work with just the
6 letters that form his most famous
equation; the Dirac Equation. This
is his own handiwork, no one else’s.
To describe in so precise a form
the motion and very existence of all
fundamental particles of nature, the
same stuff of which we are made,
is an act of uncommon genius. For
Dirac, however, it may also have been
an uncommon act of sacrifice; the
dedication of his life.
I have with me, to aid my pilgrimage,
a copy of Dirac’s Lectures on Quantum
Mechanics in which he lays out in just
87 pages the mathematical ideas that
lead to his equation. The ordering and
logic of Dirac’s prose is impressive and
carefully chosen. If asked by a student
to clarify a point during a lecture he
would simply repeat what he had said,
word for word, and continue with the
lecture. As far as he was concerned,
he had already expressed the idea as
clearly as it could be stated.
He was just as inexpressive in his
personal life, speaking only when
necessary and answering with one
word sentences. So private was he that
many of his closest friends never knew
what his middle initials – A. M. –
stood for (it’s Adrien Maurice). In this
sense Dirac embodied his own subject
of physics with his life. Direct and to
the point, never more than necessary.
Wandering further around the
Abbey I find myself in Poets Corner,
final resting place of Charles Dickens,
Alfred Lord Tennyson and other
greats, and can’t help but wonder who
chose the better path in life. Certainly,
there would be some buried in Poets
Corner who would be quite hostile
to the work of the scientists buried
nearby.
The clock strikes four and the
singers of the famous Westminster
Boys Choir begin their daily service,
their hymns reaching into every nook
of the Abbey, exhorting listeners to
direct their attention to heavenly
matters. “There is no equation for the
salvation of your soul,” they seem to
say, although such arguments would
hold little sway with Dirac, an ardent
atheist and humanist.
The dead poets’ concern, however,
would not be heaven but the heart;
strangled, they might say, by the
constraints of scientific rigour. This
argument was most strongly made
by William Wordsworth, himself
memorialised in the Abbey;
Sweet is the lore which nature brings
Our meddling intellect
Mishaps the beauteous form of things
We murder to dissect
Part stanza, part slap, this is a
direct attack on those who, like Dirac,
dedicate their lives to science. When
Dirac uses his equation to dissect the
universe, does he also murder it? Is a
life lived for science empty of beauty,
of true meaning? Was Dirac’s?
The question cuts to the very heart
of what has been troubling me since
the end of my physics degree last year
and what brings me here to the Abbey;
was all this science worth it? Hidden
to most visitors, this debate seems to
wage in the Abbey itself. The Romantic
poets vs the materialist scientists. Can
they be reconciled?
Oscar Wilde, a much too outlandish
poet to find himself in the sacred vaults
of Westminster Abbey, famously
declared, “all art is quite useless”. He
argued that it was beautiful precisely
because of this uselessness, because
it was done for its own sake, not
corrupted by practical concern.
Perhaps the problem of science, and I
know this sounds strange, is precisely
the fact that it is quite useful. Often
very useful. There was never a disease
cured by a novel nor a planet probed
by a poem but in being useful, science
runs a risk that art does not; that
it ceases to be for its own sake. This
makes it better at attracting research
grants but could explain something of
why science is seen as an ultimately
unfulfilling pursuit by many.
Can science be rescued? Is it possible
to find the beauty of art within science?
The Bristolian commemorated by that
diamond-shaped stone could have
something to teach us. Although
quite literal minded and blunt in
his approach to life, Dirac’s idea of
science was of science as an art, with
mathematics his brush and his paint.
He taught students always to pursue
beauty in their work and would often
reject proposed theories on the basis
that they weren’t beautiful enough.
His approach to physics was to play
with abstract, pure mathematics and
see if any physics popped up. His
underlying belief, almost religious
in its strength, was that the laws of
nature should be beautiful and simple.
Dirac’s field, quantum mechanics, is
notoriously complicated. Particles are
also waves, electrons are said to be in
more than one place at a time, even
in more than one universe at a time.
Obtaining useful results from this
often requires crude approximations
and simplifications. It seems that at
its most fundamental, physics is at its
most useless. This may be the spirit
in which the heart of science can be
rediscovered. Could science pursued
for its own sake, the less useful the
better, be not just a way to better
equations but to rediscover a sense of
beauty in the subject?
The choir has finished and I realise
I’m at risk of staying for a church
service. I perform one quick lap of
the Abbey before heading out into
the warm evening. I have no definite
answers but I wouldn’t expect any
certainties when trying to understand
a quantum physicist like Dirac.
Nevertheless, my secular pilgrimage
has given me a glimpse of these Two
Tribes in silent war. Could Dirac’s
belief in the beauty of physics and
science for its own sake provide a
bridge between the two?
My head full of thoughts, I leave
Westminster Abbey to its more
traditional pilgrims.
Rory Fenton
Columnist
huffingtonpost.com

