QJ
Bilge
When faced with yet another Q T article
many people ask themselves vital questions.
1 Who writes this bilge?
2 Why do I keep reading it?
3 Who won the cup in 1911?
Today we attempt to answer these and
other important queries.
This high-quality text is written by a lone
adventuerer somewhere in IC. He then
presents the text to a lowly man, who claims
to be Q T secretary, who reads it to the
assembled committee. Such has been the
violence at these gatherings that the
secretary uses a bodyguard to protect
himself and the precious text.
The photo shows the reaction to last
week's article where the bodyguard, in the
form of QT's Publicity officer (newly released
from the Scrubs) was forced to draw his
loaded water-pistol to quell the crowd's
reaction. The look of sheer horror can be
seen as the secretary prepares to deliver the
immortal line 'the room subsided into the
basement'. (Bradford City won the Cup in
1911—ED).
As a follow up to the amazingly successful
'St Valentines Day Comedy Massacre' Q T is
proud to present, in association with J Soc,
'Not the St Valentines Day Comedy
Massacre'.
This show stars two stand up comdians.
Firstly, Arnold Brown, a founder member of
'Comic Strip' with many T V appearances
including 'The Young Ones'.
Secondly, Ivor Dembina, part of a long
tradition of Jewish comedians: Groucho
Marx, Woody Allen and Sir Keith Joseph. If
he becomes famous he promises not to end
up obnoxious like Mel Brooks. He points out
that there are more Jewish comedians in
New York alone than in the whole of Biggin
Hill.
This event is to be held on Thursday 7
March in Physics Lecture Theatre 1.
Admission is 30p for members and 50p for
non-members, with free Q T membership
thrown in. Buy now whilst stocks last!
CLUBS1
DEBSOC
Nuclear
Disengagement
for
Britain
The issue of nuclear arms remains a
dominant one in U K politics and over the
past two years the Society has debated a
number of aspects of the issue. O n Tuesday
March 5 at 1.00pm in Chemical Engineering
LY 2, the motion will be 'This House
Supports Nuclear Disengagement for
Britain'.
The speakers are two lecturers within the
College Proposing is D r Philip Webber who
is a member of S A N A (Scientists Against
Nuclear Arms). He has written two books:
'London After The Bomb' and 'Crisis Over
Cruise'.
Opposing the motion is Dr Brian Levitt
who is a former Mayor of Kensington and
Chelsea and is currently a member of ILEA.
As always, speeches and questions from
the audience are welcome.
EIU Ernst &Whinney
'I'M INTERESTED IN G E T T I N G INTO B U S I N E S S
B U T W A N T T O K N O W M O R E A B O U T IT
Is that you?
Ernst & Whinney are offering students who are in their penultimate year and who have done some
Accounting or Economics as part of their degree the chance to participate in their
' A C C O U N T A N T ' S W O R L D ' C O U R S E
involving a business game, case studies and presentations covering an introduction to business
finance.
It will include: How business uses Management Consultancy; An overview of taxation advice;
Establishing the viability of a company; How computers help business; What insolvency means
and Making the most of your own application.
Course will be held at:
M A N C H E S T E R UNIVERSITY on 10/11 APRIL 1985
and
W A R W I C K UNIVERISTY on 13/14 APRIL 1985
Places are limited to approximately 50 per course. Those invited will receive accommodation, all
meals and reimbursement of reasonable travelling expenses incurred. Application forms can be
obtained either from your Careers Service or Jenny Hale, Student Recruitment, Ernst & Whinney,
Becket House, 1 Lambeth Palace Road, London SE1 7EU. Tel: 01-928 2000. The closing date for
applications is 15 March 1985.
FELIX Friday 1 March 1985 13

