ULETTERS;
our
Pompous
twits
Dear Sir,
I would just like to straighten out a few
misconceptions. As usual the pompous twits
that run Wellsoc have got it wrong. Although
the photo they pinched was used on a Private
Eye cover the speech bubbles were originally
from Guildsheet. The 'invoice' was sent as a
joke by myself and Luke Walker. I was
mainly narked that no one even mentioned
the use of my cover to me, actually I am
rather flattered they think it's that good.
Finally I must point out that there is a
difference between Guilds Union and
Guildsheet. I have tried to stay at least
partially independant of the Union. This is
not always easy and I very often find myself
in the impossible situation where I am
slanged off by hacks and non-hacks alike. I
pride mself in the fact that a lot of my friends
are not Guilds hacks (some refuse to go into
theoffice in case it ruins their street cred!).
Although I resigned as editor in the
Christmas isssue I have continued to produce
Guildsheet due to lack of judgement on my
part. I am now definitely resigning due to
reasons of health, finance and work. I would
just like to thank all those people who have
said nice things to me while I have been doing
the job.
Cheers,
Mark Cottle
Safety first
Dear Sir,
Imperial College is morally and legally
bound to provide adequatefireextinguishing
equipment in all Departments and many of
the residences.'We need the co-operation of
staff and students to maintain this vital
equipment in working order. If you know
that an extinguisher or hose reel has been
used or damaged, then please report it to the
Housekeeper/Senior Staff, or the Safety Unit
on 3047.
Yours,
Imperial College Safety Unit
Camborne
complain
Dear Sir,
A member of your faculty has passed on to
me a copy of your newspaper. The headlines
on the front page state 'Camborne go on
Rampage', and go on to insinuate that
Camborne School of Mines students caused
all the damage at RSM. The article also
implies that the student taken to hospital was
also from RSM. This is catagorically not true,
as I am that person.
I was hit in the face by a plate, thrown at
me by a member of RSM. This was
completely unprovoked. As a result, I
received injuries to my right eye which
required emergency treatment at a London
Eye Hospital. Thankfully I am now almost
recovered, and luckily there will be no lasting
impairment to my eyesight.
It was as a result of the plate being thrown
that the dinner erupted. CSM students
naturally objected to any other glassware or
objects being thrown. No one at CSM has any
knowledge of the damage which your article
implies.
On behalf of myself and fellow students, I
believe it is wrong to bracket all mining
students as malicious vandals, due to the
irresponsible acts of a very small minority.
Yours faithfully,
John A Lee
Camborne School of Mines
Dear Sir
I have recently received a copy of your
article in FELIX, 'Cambourne on the
Rampage'. I feel that your report is both
biased and misleading.
There is no mention of the fact that it was
an Imperial College (RSM) student who
threw the plate at the Bottle Match Dinner.
As a result of this a Camborne School of
Mines student, who was a guest, had to be
taken to hospital with glass in his eye.
It would seem to me from my viewpoint at
the top table, that Camborne student were
restrained in their actions. Whilst I do not
condone any acts of vandalism, I would put it
to you that they were not entirely
unprovoked.
I think that your article misleads the reader
into thinking that all the damage was done by
Camborne students. There is no evidence to
suggest this is true.
The majority of the Camborne School of
Mines students and the Royal School of
Mines students were impeccably behaved,
and I feel it is libellous of you to tar us all with
the same brush.
Yours faithfully,
N Kirk Adams
Student President
Camborne School of Mines
FELIX
Don't look
a gift horse
in the mouth
The proposals for re-developing the
refectories in the Sberfield building show that
the College is at i ast waking up to the
inadequacies of the present system (page 5).
Students have been complaining about the
refectories from time immemorial. Indeed
Mr Mooney's catering was even described in
The Times this week as being of 'the stale bun
and formica vintage'.
It would be churlish of us to oppose the
spending of up to £500,000 on dragging the
refectories into the modern world. But what
we must ensure is that we, the students, get
the best deal that we possibly can.
We must make sure that the 'new JCR' is
going to be big enough. We must make sure
that the sort of food provided is the sort that
we want to eat.
So make sure that our representative to
the College, the President, knows what we
want. Turn up to the meeting in the SCR
today and tell him.
Acknowledgments: Many thanks to Hugh
Stiles, Gren, Nigel, Pete, Jon, John, Dave,
Martin, the collators especially Alan, Pete
and Chris, and Rosemary and Tony.
Felix is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial
College Union Publications Board and is printed by the Union Print
Unit, Imperial College, Prince Consort Road, London SW7.
Telephone 01-589 5111 Ext 3515
Editor: David Rowe, Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1985. ISSN 10140-0711.
Why?
Dear Sir,
The advent of various entertainment and
social events in College, heralded by many
wonderful and colourful 'AT type posters
has renewed in me the overwhelming
yearning for an answer to one of those
timeless, seemingly inexplicable but simple
'why' questions:
Why do nearly all the posters have
diagonal slashes cut in them?
yours inquisitively,
Malcolm Gray
EE2
Friday 1 March 1985 FELIX

