CFEATURE
A Spanner in the Works
A brief history of Guilds Union and mascotry
By kind permission of the editor of The Central
Within City and Guilds College it has always
been recognised that students need an
organisation to help them develop socially
and athletically. For this reason the union
was founded in 1898 by M Solomon and H C
Armstrong, the first honorary secretary.
The Union, though, was not the first
organisation to promote social events within
College.. That honour goes to the Boat Club
which in 1889 raced against RCS and RSM.
The Union itself come from the merger of two
existing clubs, the Chemical Society and the
Engineering Society. Both of these had been
organising work visits and talks for several
years. They united as a way of extending
their programmes.
Following this amalgamation, the Union
grew rapidly until the start of the First World
War. A gazette was produced which featured
students' opinions and stories. They had
rugby and football teams who played against
other colleges. Students held debates and
they even had an annual dinner in the
drawing office.
Rag as a method of raising money was not
started until the 1950s, but in the 1900s,
students still organised rag events at major
sporting events. In 1910, the MorningLeader
reported students arriving at an RCS v Barts
Hospital rugby match in pyjamas.
The First War changed the direction of the
union's development. It resulted in a cut in
the number of students and as a result most
of the traditional events could not take place.
This lead to changes. First, Imperial College
Union which gained a building in 1911,
actually started to organise social events as a
method of pooling resources. Second when
the war ended many new social events, which
have lasted to the present day, were
organised.
On the social side Freshers' Dinners,
Dinner and Dance and Carnival originated in
the early 1920s. However Carnival today
bears little resemblance to what it was then
when a jazz band followed a fancy dress
dinner. During the same period the Links and
XXI Clubs were also formed.
Morphy Day first tood place on 25 March
1920 with Mines beating Guilds after the
Guilds No 5 caught a crab. But it wasn't until
the 1930s that rag on the river banks
seemshto have started. The Phoenix then j
reported complaints about noisy hooligans I
on the river bank.
Students in the thirties fell into two distinct
groups . A E Berry, who was the President in
1933, described it when he said there was
'work and brown-bagging on the one hand
and women on the other'. This was partly
because of the long distances many students
lived from College and partly because many
of the poorer students could not afford to
keep up an active social life.
By 1939, the social and sporting calendar
resembled that of the modern union in many
ways. Guilds had even gained a second
mascot, a set of pawnbrokers balls painted in
City and Guilds colours.
The Second World War again lead to a
reduction in the number of students. But
unlike the First War, there was no significant
change in the number or type of social events
organised through the union. After the war,
however events began to change slowly with
the trends. Pop and rock replaced jazz as the
music of the day and 'hops'and later 'gigs'
were introduced.
Carnival too changed, with the fancy dress
and then the dinner itself being dropped. In
rag, tiddleywinks and carol singing became
recongnised as fund raising methods and
women broke down one of the male bastions
by being allowed to attend Freshers' Dinners.
These factors served to form the union
Social Calendar as it appears today.
Significantly, union activities have changed in
the 1980s as the students have struggled to
pull College out of the first half of the century.
The admission of substantially more women
and their interest in the affairs of the union
have improved the standard of events.
Today's calendar begins with a series of
Freshers' Dinners followed by Carnival
during Rag Week and Bo's traditional run in
the London to Brighton vintage car race.
Dinner and Dance starts off the spring term
with activities tailing off during the year as
exams loom. Scattered through the year are
rag stunts around London, union meetings
and rugby sevens and soccer 6s festivals.
Nearly 65 years have passed since City and
Guilds Union first acquired a special
students' car, or 'motorised mascot'. In that
time, Boanerges or 'son of fire' has changed
its body once and its coloursmore than a few
times. The principle of Bo remains
unchanged—that the car should be a focus of
union social and sporting activity and should
take part in the annual London to Brighton
veteran car race which takes place each
November. Bo' has ony failed to complete
the run twice in the last 50 years.
Non eligibility for the run saw the demise of
the first motorised mascot, a 1909 single
cylinder Rover. The Rover was first acquired
around 1920 when it is believed to have been
abandoned by South African students
following a motoring holiday in Scotland.
Bo's first task was to assist in the capture of
Phineas, the University College mascot,
though the result of this jaunt goes
unrecorded.
8 Friday 1 March 1985 FELIX

