Bo's quickly achived notoriety when used
by obviously politically motivated students in
a protest against the then Prime Minister
Ramsey MacDonald. On 30 October 1924,
the Daily Mail reported that 'a delapidated
motor car containing the life size effigy of Mr
Ramsey MacDonald was last night pushed
into Downing Street and left in front of No 10,
the premier's official residence'. It was either
done as a protest against a knighthood of a
biscuit manufacturer or because 'Lord
MacFarlane made a gift of a Rolls Royce to
MacDonald'.
The car was christened Boanerges on 26
November 1925 by H G Jenkins using a
bottle of beer. The name Boanerges is said to
have Come from a book by Ian Hay which
refers to Boanerges, 'son of fire' though there
is no record as to why a 'delapidated' 1909
Rover should be so named. It quickly became
integrated into College life, regularly
attending rag and sports events.
But the students' affection for the Rover
quickly turned to disenchantment when a
rule change by the Veteran Car Club made
Bo ineligible for the Brighton run. So in 1934
City and Guilds union voted the princely sum
of £40 for a replacement. Two students John
Garland and Dick Riggle bought the present
Bo from Lilleshall in Shropshire and towed it
back to London. The replacement James
and Browne appears to have been in better
condition than the Rover despite being seven
years older—in 1933 it averaged 23 mph from
London to Brighton while the Rover
averaged only 20 mph.
Old Bo was however not entirely out of
favour. On being sold to a (presumed)
student Peter Maxwell in 1936, it
accompanied the James and Browne on the
Brighton run until 1939. It was also used as a
track-marshall's car at the Crystal Palace
race track and was garaged there in 1939/40
until the army requisitioned the track. With
its owner at war, and no other garaging
available, it found itself flying the
skies—through the Ministry of Aircraft
Production's scrap collection programme.
New Bo—the 1902 James and
iBrowne—continued to be one of the
jmainstays of College life, though surprisingly
ithere was no official Union financing for its
History of
the College
The City and Guilds of London Institute for
the Advancement of Technical Eduacation
•was founded in 1878 by a number of Guilds of
the City of London in association with the
City Corporation.
The Institute placed in the forefront of its
programme the establishment of 'a central
Institution or College for the advanced
education of those who had acquired
sufficient knowledge of science or the arts to
profit by instruction in the industrial
application of these'. Various locations were
considered before the Commissioners of the
1851 Exhibition offered a site in Exhibition
Road at a peppercorn rent.
The foundation column of the Central
Institution was laid in 1881 by the President
of the Institute, the Prince of Wales, later
King Edward VII. He opened the Institution
in 1884. The first entrance examinations
were held in February 1885; students
entered the College either by taking the
examination or by transfer from Finsbury
Technical College, which the Institute had
set up in 1882.
The Central Institution was renamed 'The
Central Technical College' in 1983.
The object of the Institution was 'to train
technical teachers, proprietors and
managers of chemical manufacturers and of
other industrial works, as well as mechanical,
civil and electrical engineers, architects,
builders and persons engaged in our
industries'.
The creation of the Institution was seen as
part of a strategy to educate young people to
regain Britain's trading and manufacturing
power which had been ebbing since the
Great Exhibition of 1851. Institutions in
Europe and in the United states had been
concentrating on the higher education of
engineers for thirty or forty years.
In 1907 the Government accepted the
Report of the Departmental Committee of
the Board of Education which recommended
the federation of three institutions of earlier
origin which had settled in South Kensington
at the end of the nineteenth century. They
were to form one institution of the highest
ZZZZFEATUREH
maintenance; a 3d levy was made on each
member of the College instead. But as time
passed, Bo grew from being a students' car
into a much respected rare veteran car—it is
believed to be one of the first vehicles
designed and built in Britain.
During the 1940s Bo ceased to be a violate
mascot to prevent any further damage being
incurred. In fact this move began the life of
the present mascot Spanner, for in the past a
spanner, being the largest tool available, was
used as a defence against other colleges.
But that did not prevent Bo being stolen by
Southampton University in the 1950s. Such
was Bo's stature by this time, the theft and
subsequent recovery attracted national TV
and radio coverage—Bo also made the
newspaper headlines around the same time
after being caught speeding in the Brighton
run.
In recent years Bo has undergone
tremendous refurbishment with its present
condition being better than for years.
Following a desperate and apparently
successful appeal for money in The Central
1976 (No 153), the throttle and advance
retard controls have been repaired and the
footbrake adjusted properly. Bo can now be
driven by only one person, but the tradition
of a kind of co-driver is unlikely to disappear.
The car now has a beautiful new maroon coat
to match Guilds colours with the College
shield painted on in cream.
Bo goes out as often as possible to join in
with union events, but outings are obviously
limited in deference to its age and value.
Bo's companion on the last three London
to Brighton runs has been the curiously
named 'Derrick', a 1926 Ner-a-Car acquired
byJhe Union in 1980.
Derrick was made in Kingston-on-Thames
in 1926 and powered by a 350cc Blackburne
side valve engine driving through a Sturmey-
Archer three speed gearbox.
standing for advanced technological
education. In 1907 the City and Guilds of
London Institute became the City and Guilds
College, a Constituent College of the new
Imperial College.
When in 1953 the Government invited
Imperial College to lead the national attack
on the problem of providing more university-
trained scientists and engineers the City and
Guilds College took its share in carrying out
this operation. In 1965 Imperial College was
designated by the Government as one of
three specialised institutions which received
financial priority to enable the development
and expansion of technical eduacation
programmes.
In 1957 the first new building of City and
Guilds College, for Aeronautics and
Chemical Engineering, was opened by H M
Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother; the last
of the new engineering buildings, finished in
1967, was an extension for the same
departments. This marked the completion of
the rebuilding of the City and Guilds College;
the Electrical Engineering building was
occupied in 1962, followed by Civil
Engineering in 1963, while Mechanical
Engineering was rebuilt in four stages
between 1959 and 1965.
FELIX Friday 1 March 1985 9

