THE S.^ ... cR OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
KENNETH BAKER PAYS A 'SURPRISE' VISIT
Loads-a-dosh says Ken
In an informal discussion with Imperial College students on Wednesday,
Secretary of State for Education Kenneth Baker, MP announced his plans
to introduce loans to top up student grants. The discussion was part of
a 'suprise' visit during which Mr Baker toured College departments and
had lunch With the Rector, Professor Eric Ash and other academic staff.
Mr Baker plans to submit a white Government's plans for a
paper on 'top-up loans' to the 'Community Charge', Mr Baker said
Commons in December this year, that students will be able to pay the
He explained that there was 'no charge at the rate of their home
question of an abolition of the grants town if they register at home. In
system' and added that he felt his contrast to a popular view that
plans for student 'top-up' loans students will gain a rebate against
would be very attractive to students, a national average he said that
In the future, Mr Baker said that students will remain eligible for a
he would like to see money being 80% rebate against the actual charge
distributed by Universities in the that they pay.
form of Scholarships and Awards. He admitted that his plans for a
He went on to say that he looked student-loan scheme will lead to a
upon the idea as a move to former 'disentitlement to benefits,' but
years when Scholarships were more added that the 'generous terms' of
prevalent. the loans should compensate for the
When asked about the loss of benefits.
Mr Baker was later interviewed by
the Student Television Of Imperial
College (STOIC). He described
Imperial as 'a distinguished and
excellent College with a world lead
in various aspects of science.'
He went on to deny allegations of
'underfunding' Universities, saying
that he had 'provided a fund of
£ 2 5 0 M for the restructuring of
Universities' and had 'increased the
spending on Universities last year
by 10% and for next year by 8%.' He
added that college mergers designed
to save money were 'a possibility'
although he felt that it was
'essentially a question for the
Universities to decide.'
The Rector, Professor Ash said he
thought Mr Baker's visit had been
'very successful.' He went on to say
that he felt Mr Baker was a
'reasonably good listener,' and said
that he was 'mildly optimistic' about
Mr Baker's plans for Universities
like Imperial.
Call for rent strike
Students have voted in favour of a
College-wide rent strike in the
Spring term if a policy to subsidise
residences with overseas students'
fees is not passed by the College's
Governing Body. A motion passed
at Tuesday's Imperial College Union
General Meeting requires the
Governing Body to transfer £1000 to
the Residence account for every
additional overseas student above
last year's figure.
The motion comes in response to
threats of rent-strikes from residents
of Beit and Fisher Hall. Complaints
have centred around this year's rent
increases and the introduction of a
twelve week rent for the first term.
The College claims that the
increases are due to a deficit on the
Residence Account last year of
£170,000 with a further increase of
£100,000 predicted for this year. The
law prevents the College from
easing the debt by transfering funds
from other areas.
The proposer of the motion, IC
Union Honorary Secretary, Ian
Morris, claims that funding from
overseas students can be handled
differently. He maintains that it is
possible for the College to transfer
a part of the funds from overseas
students to the residence account.
He argues that, whilst the College
is gaining further revenue each year
from an increasing overseas intake,
students at Imperial are having to
pay higher rents as the College buys
further loan financed accommo-
dation.
Loan-financed purchases,
including that of Fisher Hall, have
placed a considerable burden upon
the residence system recently. The
deficit on the residence account is
increased by £50,000 for every point
increase on mortgage rates
according to a letter from Student
Residence Committtee Chairman
Brian Levitt to the Rector.
Nigel Baker, IC Union President,
has expressed doubts about the
validity of the proposal after
speaking to the Rector on
Wednesday. Mr Morris commented
'It should be good fun anyway.'
ISSUE 815 28 OCT 1988

