Travel
The Independent
Traveller
Istanbul holds a special place in the history of Europe. It is the place where,
traditionally, East met West, the only city in the world to span two
continents. For centuries it was the centre of the Ottoman empire, the centre
of an Islamic empire that threatened to overrun Christian Europe, and
which reached the gates of Vienna under Suleymaniye the Magnificent.
Before the Turks, Constantinople, as it was then known, was the capital
of the Eastern Roman Empire, Byzantine, which outlived Rome by a
thousand years. What city in the world can claim to have been the capital
of two world empires as well as holding some of the world's finest
monuments, a blend of East and West at its finest.
Today Istanbul may no longer be a
great capital (Ataturk even moved
the capital of Turkey to Ankara) but
it is still one of the liveliest and most
beautiful cities in the world,
sprawling on both sides of the
unsurpassed Bosphorus. The
modern buildings in the city are as
any found in European cities and
one might think for a moment that
one is in a rather dirty and shabby
Southern European city, until one
turns a corner and catches sight of
a sombre grey mosque with its
leaded roof or a row of the
traditional wooden houses that
caused so much fear of fires. The
city itself is split into three parts, two
in Europe, and the third on the
Asian side of the Bosphorus. In
Europe is the old city, Stamboul,
sprawling over its five hills, each
with its own mosque standing out
on the skyline.
Across the Golden Horn, still in
Europe, is the modern city,
connected to Stamboul by the
Galata Bridge, a floating bridge
teeming with traffic while people eat
in fish restaurants tucked under the
road beside the water.
Stamboul .contains most of the
sights of the city; climb the hill from
the Golden horn and you will reach
Sultan Aburnet quarter, the ancient
heart of the capital. Here stand,
facing each other, two great
temples, one built by Christians, the
other by Muslims, Haghia Sophia
was built by the Emporer Justinian,
and was for centuries the greatest
cathedral in Christendom, and is
still one of the most beautiful
buildings in the world, even if it is
a little worse for wear. When
Constantinople eventually fell to the
Turks, Haghia Sophia was
converted into a mosque and the
mosaics that existed were plastered
over. This beautiful structure was
used as the base for the design of all
the Ottoman imperial mosques in
Istanbul and throughout Turkey.
Such was the influence of Haghia
Sophia another mosque, the Blue
Mosque, was built a thousand years
later. Just as refined as the original
mosque, the Blue Mosque is famous
for the blue tiles that decorate the
interior, and, perhaps, infamous for
the young men outside who are so
anxious for you to have a glass of tea
in their Uncle's carpet shop.
Wander up the street from these
Fishermen at the Golden Horn, Istanbul
The New Mosque
temples as the broken down buses
roar past and you will meet with
bustling, crowded Istanbul as it is
today. Stop in a tea shop to spend
a lazy afternoon playing
backgammon or carry on past
ancient graveyards and Turkish
baths jammed in between shops to
the Grand Bazaar. The great
covered Bazaar is a little city in itself;
you can spend hours strolling the
winding little streets leading off,
while still under the same roof.
Anything from gold to the
ubiquitous carpet can be bought, but
remember to bargain, the price first
quoted will be three times what
should be paid. And, as you seal the
deal on your 'genuine' Lacoste t-
shirt, yet another glass of tea will be
offered, purchased from little boys
who run through the streets with
trays full of glasses.
Down the hill, through narrow,
shabby streets, each selling a
speciality, towards the Galata
Bridge, is the smaller Spice Bazaar.
Here, the streets are filled with open
sacks of spices, nuts and Turkish
delight, which you are free to taste
at your leisure as you decide on the
best purchase. Leaving the Spice
Bazaar, cross the square full of
garden stalls and tea shops, to the
New Mosque, facing the Galata
Bridge.
The harbour around the Galata
Bridge reminds one that Istanbul is
a city split in three by water. The
dock is lined with ancient steamers
belching smoke, some still with
plates marked 'Edinburgh 1887',
that depart for Asia, the Sea of
Marmaris and the Black Sea. Beside
the water, fishermen sell fish fresh
from the Bosphorus, and stalls sell
nuts and thin, pizza like snacks you
roll round a whole chilli. From here
you can take a ship to the Princes
Islands in the Sea of Marmaris, the
pleasure gardens of the princes in
earlier times, now holiday homes for
the wealthy of Istanbul.
Perched on the first hill of
Istanbul, at the meeting point of the
Golden Horn and the Bosphorus is
Topkapi palace, the pleasure dome
of the Sultans. The luxurious
gardens and exquisite pavilions
house some of the world's finest
treasures; the contents of the
treasury are beyond value. The
heart of the palace is the harem, the
private reserve of the Sultan, to
enter which the eunuchs paid a high
[price. Now the price to enter is
considerably less, and worth it to
experience the opulence the Sultans
lived in.
Descend again to the Golden
Horn and cross the Galata Bridge to
the modern city, and take Istanbul's
only tube line, with just two stops,
up the hill to the Galata Tower. The
Galata Tower was built by Genoese
merchants, excluded from the city
proper as they were infidels, and
now offers some of the best views
of the city. Look across the Golden
Horn towards the five hills with
their mosques and minarets as the
sun sets and the Imam calls the
faithful to prayer, and say goodbye
to Istanbul, for the moment.
By Paul Barton
October 28 1988 FELIX Page 16

