Letters
Fisher Hall
Blues I
Dear Bill,
I am writing to draw your attention to the
extortionate amenities charge being levied in
Fisher Hall this term. On top of the rent rises
already discussed in FELIX, the residents are
being asked to pay £17 amenities charge for the
term, which is considerably higher than last
year's charge. This will generate around £3,000
for the Hall's fund this term.
So what will all this money be spent on? The
warden, Dr Richard Murphy, has refused to give
a breakdown of what the money will be used for
and how the figure was decided. We are several
weeks into term now and the only social event
so far has been a cheese and wine party. In fact,
the Hall committee has only just been elected this
week. Will they be able to spend all the amenities
money before the end of term? Last term the Hall
was smaller, the charge was only £10, and still
the Hall committee had great difficulty finding
enough events to spend all the money on.
The newspapers and video are unlikely to come
to more than £500. Can we expect the remainder
to be spent on social events, at a rate of £350 per
week for the rest of term? Well, what have the
subwardens been up to so far? There appears to
be some degree of incompetence here. For
example, the kettles have not yet been distributed
to the kitchens despite the fact that they've been
sitting in the Hall office for nearly two weeks. The
most recent excuse given was that 'Two of them
haven't got plugs yet'.
And what about the mail? The post office drops
off the first post by 9.30am every morning.
However, it doesn't ever reach the residents'
pigeonholes until 9.30pm.
Many residents have repeatedly complained
about this, but nothing has been done. And yet
the subwardens are being paid the equivalent of .
£40 per week in free accommodation. Is it too
much to ask that in return for this they try to do
something for the residents?
Until we are shown some justification that we
are getting our money's worth, the feelings or
discontent amongst the residents will not
disappear!
Name withheld by request.
Fisher Hall
Blues II
Dear Editor,
Last week the residents of Fisher Hall were in
uproar over their rents. Why the rent rise? Why
the extra week? Until they took time to read
accompanying letters of course, which pointed
out that the invoiced amounts were actually fair.
What appears to have escaped most people's
notice is the extortionately high 'amenities'
demand placed upon us. We are asked to
contribute £ 1 7 per term for services aimed at
improving or enhancing our social lives in Hall.
Yet after three weeks we have only just elected
a Hall committee (by a dreadfully poor system).
They will make no decisions for at least one
further week. Over one third of the way through
term we hve nothing to show for the £6.18 per
person already 'spent'.
Notably, there is no position vaguely
resembling treasurer. Who is to decide where the
Hall's £9000 is being directed?
Having spent last year closely associated with
the committee in Hughes Parry Hall, (one of us
was treasurer and vice-president), we are well
aware of the expenditure necessary to support
the far more active social life available there.
Several major parties, heavily subsidised theatre
and concert trips, an oenology group, £2000
subsidy on a Hall Ball, and much more. All in
addition to the sports teams, videos, films,
newspapers, special dinners, bar, and basic
facilities (cooking, washing, sport) provided as
essential activities. This was done on a budget
of £5000, catering for 280 students, compared to
170 in Fisher Hall.
Anyone in doubt should ask a current HP
resident. They'll tell you about Ronnie Scott,
George Melly and other musicians visiting this
year. Nobody will complain about the social life
or grumble about the financing.
Why Fisher Hall can ask so much and show so
little, not a budget or even a planned events list,
is demonstrative of the disorganisation
fundamental to the accommodation system at
Imperial.
We only hope that members of other Imperial
Halls are not suffering a similar treatment, or at
least are better informed than ourselves.
Yourse sincerely,
M R Condon
J P Davies
I P Mercer
A Clarke
(Fisher Hall, 23/10/88)
Poor Taste
Dear Sir,
We were horrified and sickened to read the
small ad on PC Blakelock's death, which we
found in extremely poor taste. What is just as
sickening, however, is to find that the editor of
the College magazine saw fit to print this ad.
Yours faithfully,
Crispen, Steph, Clem, Simon
Moan
I am just writing to set the record straight on
the continuing difficulties that I am having in
getting stuff printed in FELIX.
At the start of term I handed in two cartoons
and one article for the 'Alternative' page. When
they didn't appear in the subsequent issue I rang
to find out what had happened. You told me that
as the Union page had not arrived, you could not
print this page. Although I pointed out that you
could have easily reduced the Finbar Saunders
cartoon and fitted some of the stuff in, I accepted
this excuse and your guarantee that all the stuff
would be printed in the next edition. All, that is,
except for the mild parody of 'The Last
Temptation of Christ', which you found
personally offensive. You are the only person I
known to have done so, out offhe many who
know about or have seen the cartoon. I was
annoyed and did complain about this.
The following week most (not all) of the stuff
I handed in was printed, although the cartoons
were untitled and the article had the wrong title
and was signed, when I asked for it to be
anonymous. There was also a letter written by
you (presumably) parodying me for complaining
about not having my stuff printed (which I did
not do), while neglecting to mention your
personal censorship of a mildly controversial
cartoon which could have provoked debate on
the subject (a situation ripe for parody).
I have since had problems getting articles, such
as film reviews, being printed, despite getting
them in on time.
I hope that these problems have arisen merely
because it is the start of the year and you are still
getting used to the job, for to encourage people
to spend their valuable free time writing stuff for
FELIX when they're unsure of whether it will
appear or not (or whether they'll get it back if it
is artwork they want to keep) is going to be very
difficult.
Yours sincerely,
Noel Curry.
PS. If anyone wants to see the 'banned'
cartoon, it will hopefully be appearing in
Broadsheet shortly.
X L o v e y o u boo - fti'H w
Sexist
Dear Bill,
I was disappointed that your editorial policy
allowed the publication of the article about Roy
Hicks 'Holiday Snaps'. In a college which is
attempting to attract women students on the basis
of equality with men, the article promoted a view
in total opposition to that goal. Sexist and purile
it pandered to discriminatory attitudes which
should find no place in a quality student
newspaper.
Yours sincerely,
Tonya Hills (Ms), Computing 2.
Baronist
Dear William,
What has happened to 'The Baron of
Cheapskate'? FELIX is much poorer without it.
Bring it back.
Yours sincerely,
Rouben A Drain.
Page 2 FELIX October 28 1988

