CLETTERS
Thanks
Dear Sir,
I would like to express my thanks to the
members of Council who came down to
attend the meeting at Silwood on 18/2/85.
We at Silwood have been trying to intergrate
ourselves more fully with South Kensington
over the past two years so as you will imagine
we were very pleased to host this Council
Meeting. I hope the recent positive trend
towards Silwood will continue and that
people will no longer look at us as being stuck
on the other side of the country (it is after all
only 25 miles from S Kensington to Silwood).
Your faithfully,
A J Hamilton
Chairman ICUSP
Wild Goose Chase
Dear Sir,
I would like to respond to the letter written by
Peter Chase which appeared in FELIX 696.
The Wellsoc poster to which Peter referred
did include original material produced by the
Guildsheet Editor—the captions were not
those that appeared in Private Eye, and the
relevant Guildsheet front cover headline,
directly referred to myself. The Wellsoc
poster advertising the lecture on Laser
Weapons was based on the front cover of
Guildsheet issue 6 (21 January 1985).
Both my letter and the 'invoice' sent by
Mark Cottle were sent as ajoke—to make the
point that we had noticed the poster—I am
uncertain of why Peter is trying to make the
matter a big media event by writing to
FELIX. He indicates that he is giving the
'ridiculous suggestion' that Wellsoc uses
Guilds' ideas for their publicity 'no attention'
other than a letter to the most widely-read
medium in the College.
Does Peter think that by claiming that I
have a 'pathetic trumped-up ego' he is
achieving his revenge for my resounding
victory over him at last year's election for
Guilds AAO. Peter, or whoever in Wellsoc
designs their posters, did not have the
decency to mention to Mark or myself that
they wished to borrow Mark's idea. Peter is
now trying to use smear tactics and half-
truths (and displaying his inability to react
appropriately to a joke) which I am sure will
do more damage to the esteem in which
Wellsoc is held than to my interests.
Yours
Luke Walker
C&GU Academic Affairs Officer
General amnesty
Dear Sir,
A meeting on Monday 18 February with
the title 'South African Prisoners of
Conscience' was advertised on notices in
College under the heading 'ICAA and
Amnesty International'. In fact the College
Amnesty group played no part in the meeting
or its organisation and, although Amnesty
International intervened in the cases of more
than 200 South African detainees last year,
Nelson Mandela, who was mentioned in the
notices, is not one of Amnesty's 'prisoners of
conscience'.
Yours faithfully,
Charles Penman
Secretary AI Group
Dear Sir,
In answer to Charles Penman two criticisms.
The nature and date.of the meeting had
been fixed and confirmed with Amnesty, by
the third week of term (or so I thought). I do
not feel that having joint meetings between
two groups infers that they have the same
views or aims. I agree that it is very important
for Amnesty International to remain totally
non-political.
Yes I should apologise about the fact that
the posters may have inferred that Nelson
Mandela is an AI adopted prisoner of
conscience. However, the imprisonment of
such political prisoners as Nelson Mandela,
and the denial of human rights to opposers of
the regime in South Africa, are relevant
topics for discussion between groups such as
Anti-Apartheid and Amnesty International.
Yours,
J Michaelis
A A Chairman
'Unfair' to RSM
Dear Sir,
In reply to last weeks article 'Camborne go
on rampage', I wish to document some
further observations.
To put all the blame for the visitors'
behaviour on RSM is most unfair. The
security personnel on this campus are
employed to prevent vandalism, theft and
break-ins and on Saturday 9 February they
seem to have been very slack in this role.
On Monday 11 February I spoke to James
Chalmers requesting a report of all the
complaints to be drawn up and for Mr Reeves
to consult RSMU when this was completed.
Nothing was forthcoming until we read in
FELIX that a bill was being sent to RSM. I
have still heard nothing from Mr Reeves.
Mr Reeves comment that this is the
behaviour we expect from miners has
offended many people proud to be in the
RSM and in future he should be more wary of
making such degrading accusations.
Yours faithfully,
^Mike Osborne
President RSMU
Publicity
for
sabbatical
elections
All candidates in the sabbatical elections
intending to produce publicity in the Union
Print Unit (FELIX Office) should note the
following deadlines and conditions.
In order for publicity to be ready for
papers down on Friday 1 March, artwork
must be prepared over this weekend
(tomorrow and Sunday), and for this purpose
the Office will be open from 9.30am on both
days. FELIX staff will be on hand to give
technical advice to any candidate.
Candidates with any special requirements are
advised to contact us without delay.
Any photographs to be included on
handouts should be prints, preferrably black
and white. Lettering on posters can be
produced using rub-down lettering (size can
be altered using Office equipment) or can be
typeset in the FELIX Office. Candidates
requiring typesetting, particularly large
amounts of text, must notify us as soon as
possible, and by Saturday at the latest, for
publicity to be ready for papers down.
Coloured papers available for posters are
orange, yellow, blue, green, buff, and red.
Candidates who want other colours should
let us know immediately. Handouts can only
be done on white paper, or you won't be able
to afford very many!
Artwork submitted during the course of
next week will not be ready until during the
week beginning Monday 4 March.
Specially reduced prices have been
arranged for ICU election candidates. For
instance 500 posters on coloured paper in two
designs, and 3000 A4 handouts in two designs
will cost £45. Less ambitious publicity will, of
course, be cheaper.
Manifestos
The deadline for sabbatical election
manifestos to appear in FELIX on Friday 8
March is 1.00pm on Monday 4 March. Copy
must be handed in to the FELIX OFfice by
this time, or no manifesto will appear for that
candidate. Copy should be neatly written,
double spaced on one side of the paper, and is
limited to 300 words. (Manfiestos exceeding
this limit will be cut at the 300th word). A
photo will also be published if submitted
before the deadline.
Felix is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial
College Union Publications Board and is printed by the Union Print
Unit, Imperial College, Prince Consort Road, London SW7.
Telephone 01-589 5111 Ext 3515
Editor: David Rowe, Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1985. ISSN 10140-0711.
2 Friday 22 February 1985 FELIX

