LTFEATURE
The aim of the newly formed Keep Fit Club is
to provide inexpensive exercise classes for
members of College. The classes are
designed to be of benefit to both physically fit
and unfit, women and men.
Exercise should be taken regularly. There
is little point in the occasional burst of activity
when you get the urge to go for your termly
swim. This will only leave you exhausted, stiff
and confused as to why you can only swim
four lengths when while at school you could
do 25! Frequent exercise should enable you
to develop increased stamina, strength and
suppleness.
The work out is performed to music and is
enormous fun. Y o u don't need to be
embarrassed if you look more like Cyril
Smith than Richard Gere, or Clare Rayner
rather than Felicity Kendal, since the
chances are that the sylph-like creatures
next to you will have just as much trouble
touching their toes as you will yours! Only a
few weeks of our classes and you will be
amazed at how much easier you find even
the stomach exercises!
But you are meant to enjoy the Imperial
Workout. If you feel any extreme pain or
muscle spasms while exercising, or if you do
not enjoy it, then stop! If you have recently
suffered an injury or have a recurrent
problem such as back ache you should seek
medical advice before undertaking vigorous
exercise.
Classes are on Tuesday and Thursday
evenings at 6.00 and from Thursday 7 March
weekly lunch-time lessons will start at
12.45pm. Each class will last for one hour and
cost 50p, with club membership at £1.00. All
the classes are held in Southside gym
(oppositie Southside Shop).
You should never exercise on a full
stomach, don't eat for at least two hours
before a lesson—it is also extremely
uncomfortable to attempt exercise with food
and drink sloshing around inside you. Y o u
will not need any special clothing, just wear
something comfortable, for example,
tracksuit, shorts and T-shirt, or leotard
(females only please!). Training shoes or
plimsolls are essential for the running
exercises. Bring a towel or an exercise mat
for the floor exercises.
Get fit
and keep fit
with the
Imperial
Workout
Classes in Southside
Gym
Tuesday 6.00 to 7.00pm
Thursday 6.00 to 7.00pm
Thursday 12.45 to 1.45pm
(starting March 7)
Cost: 50p per lesson
Membership £ 1
6 Friday 22 February 1985 FELIX

