PROFILE;
As the City and Guilds College Centenary draws
nearer, FELIX continues its series of profiles on
the CCU presidents with Maribel Anderson,
President of Guilds.
When Maribel Anderson stood for Guilds
President last year she was almost totally
unknown. As the campaign developed and
she emerged as an unstoppable enthusiast it
was increasingly obvious to observers that
only she could win. There were last minute
, doubts however.
'The day of the elections I was in the JCR
bar. I'd given up drinking and smoking at the
time but my hands were shaking and I just sat
with a Gin and tonic and a fag. I was going to
tell Slug (Steve Bishop, President 82-83 and
Maribel's proposer) that I wasn't going to
stand because I didn't have a hope in hell's
chance'.
Even Maribel, though, could sense the
positive atmosphere in the election UGM.
'I walked in and it was Civ Eng 1, Civ Eng 2,
ladies rugby, Guilds rugby—all my mates. I
could have said "Dibble dabble doo" and
they'd all have cheered. Some people might
have been pissed off by that but the fact that I
managed to get so many friends and
supporters in there who had previously had
no connection with the Union was a good
start. It gave me the impression that I could
.carry that out throughout the year—which
hasn't really been the case'.
During the campaign Maribel was very
much an outsider trying to break into a very
closed shop. 'I got a lot of hassle from the
hacks of the union office. I remember I'd walk
in there and there'd be deadly silence; like
the baddy had just walked into the saloon
and I could hear various whisperings behind
my back'. It was just this sort of atmosphere
that Maribel set out to alter but readily
admits that even her friends are unwilling to
enter the office, 'They can't stand it. People
constantly say to me 'Who are those people
who inhabit the office?' Slowly but surely
they come in, but only people who have any
' reason to be there come in, though I
seriously think its a lot better than last year'.
Even after the election Maribel had to fight
to be accepted and she has bitter memories
of the start of her Presidency. 'It took me a
while to learn the ropes and nobody was
' giving me any encouragement, I got nothing,
I got stabbed in the back everytime I did
something wrong. I didn't like anybody in the
office, nobody was particularly friendly and I
just hated it'. These problems also concided
with a subbornly persistent illness which
drained her of energy and the hacks of
patience. Talking to Maribel this term it is
obvious the bad times are over and she is
determined to enjoy the job. 'I'm looking
forward to the rest of the year now that I'm
on form and I get along better with
everybody. The problem is that the first term
is where you breed the enthusiasm, people
have already formed their ideas and they
won't give you a second chance. I might be
ready to hit hard this term and the centenary
might give me a slight chance but that's
already botched up in a sense and its going to
be very difficult to get that support again'.
The year so far has not been one of
complete doom and gloom with the tug-o-
war and the RCS Smoking Concert being the
highlights for Maribel. 'I love it when people
actually turn out to do things. It gives me
such a sense of achievement, pride and
grand things like that. When people turn up
they tend to have a really good time and it
bugs me when they're just too apathetic or
they're too preconceived in their ideas to
even bother turning up'.
Surrounding the activities of the Guilds
President is an air of theatre which Maribel
recognises and which certainly suits her
effervescent personality. 'I do like being the
centre of attention at times, I suppose it is
egotistical. I like being in the middle of it,
shouting and cheering. I love standing up and
giving speeches at UGMs, but only when the
atmosphere is there. To stand up at a UGM
like the last one when there are 30 people
there just makes me wonder why the hell I
bother.
'The role of a Guilds UGM is far removed
from that of the formal JCU version. Our
UGMs are very much just a show. You could
put it in the same vein as Hi di Hi and we're
the maroon and silver striped coats. I think
quite a few people come along hoping to hear
something of relevance and get very
disillusioned with the whole thing because
there isn't really much to say'.
Many union posts involve much unseen
work with C C U President being particularly
difficult. Maribel obviously takes pride in this
side of the job. 'I am in three places at once
some days. I wouldn't say it was a real strain,
sometimes it's very pleasing when you get it
all done, nobody knows what you've done
but you feel so proud that you've fitted so
much into a day'.
As for the future Maribel has no great
plans. She predicts a third class degree in
Civil Engineering but obviously thinks it
unimportant and says with a sigh 'I am not an
academic'. At one interview she recalled how
she'd explained what President involved, and
answered all the questions about being a
women in a man's world. Feeling confident of
leaving a good impression she left the room
to find Ann Collins outside. As she said,
'They must think we have a whole string of
female presidents'.
Whatever happens, she seems sure to find
somewhere to channel her enthusiasm—and
God help the opposition when she does.
FELIX Friday 22 February 1985

