SF SOC
He struck the bell three times, as was the
custom, and replaced the clapper. The
summons from behind the ornateley
panelled oak door was a long time in coming,
but at last he was invited in.
'Your reverence', he said, bowing to the
appropriate level.
'Do be seated my son', replied the Canon.
When they were both seated, 'I have been
reading your researches with great interest,
and am most grieved to hear that the
Archbishops inquisition has ordered a halt in
proceedings'.
This could be a good sign, thought the
visitor, not too direct, as is the way of the
Church, but doubtless reports will be sent
back to the Holy See in Winchester as to how
well this interview proceeded 'Yes your
reverence, I was most distressed to hear that
my work might be of a dangerous nature'.
'Indeed. But rest assured that a resolution
will be found. I understand that this device of
yours could help in farming?'.
'Yes, your reverence. The driving engines
could be used to plough or maybe, with the
right additions, it could even achieve more
complicated tasks'. Was the canon really
interested in what it could do? That would
mean the Church would almost certainly
endorse his invention. But they might just be
trying to catch me in heresy, though.
'Come here my son, over to the window'.
He moved round the desk and peered
through the leaded glass window. The view
was of green forest and, closer, of broad
fields filled with golden corn. The peasants
were already harvesting the corn and piling it
into sheaves. 'Our harvest will be great this
year, more than enough for all the people'.
'Yes your reverence, but what if we have a
late spring or poor summer. With the use of
machines like mine a harvest would be good
even then'. The conversation had turned
bad, they are trying to catch me. But maybe
not. Perhaps he just wants to hear more of
the possibilities.
'But does not our lord protect us from
such adversity? He provides for the lilies in
the field, are we not more deserving?'.
'There are other uses your reverence.
Transport is one. And mining—we could
pump mines out using engines and so stop
them flooding'. I am falling into heresy, I
know it.
'And what do we find in the mines my son?
More iron and crud to build more machines
from? Have you not read the holy edict of
1712? Mr George Stephenson your work has
become heretical! Do you know who I am? I
am special representative for the Inquisition
in Winchester. You shall be taken there and
we shall find just how far your heresy has
gone'. He ran the bell on his desk. The door
opened, and four members of the Holy
Guard entered. 'Escort this man to the
Chapel of Our Lady. He can meditate upon
his sins there while the coach for Winchester
is made ready'.
PICOCON on the 9 March , eveybody
come along. Library meetings every
Thursday lunchtimes in the Green
Committee Room at the top of the Union
Buiding. If you've got any books out of the
library that you've finished with, please bring
them back.
PS FILM COMING SOON AS WELL.
PHOTOSOC
'Greeting and felicitations! We have some
bloody good news for those of you who can't
wait to get your scabby reptilian hands on the
new colour enlarger. Yes we've finally got it
(but don't tell everyone or they"U all want to
play with it) despite some minor last minute
complications, and it should be in a
darkroom near you sooner than you think. I
hope that you have all printed hundreds and
thousands of really brilliant pickies for our
FELIX competition, the closing date of which
is now March 8. Each entrant should submit
a portfolio of up to four prints (which may be
B&W or colour, any size and of varied
subject matter). The prizes will be some
Jessops vouchers, probably £10 for the
winner and £5 for the runner up, I think. To
enter just give your portfolio to any Photsoc
committee member, preferably at one of our
committee meetings in Southside Upper
Lounge on Friday lunchtimes, or
alternatively send then to H Rudd,
Chemistry PG via the internal 'mail'. And for
those of you who are really ambitious we
have just received news of an international
student photographic competition to be held
in conjunction with the 1985 university
Olympic games, officially called Universaide
1985, which is being held at Kobe in Japan.
The themes are 1 People and places, and 2
Young People. The entries must be either
black and white or colour prints minimum
size 25.4x30.5cm (ie 10x12 inches) and must
be handed in to the Photsoc Committee by
the end of term at the very latest. Also,
entries can not be returned, so don't submit
anything which is irreplaceable.
The prizes are
1. A certificate, a plaque, $400 and a
Canon AE1-P (one award);
2. A certificate, a plaque, $200 and a Fuji
HDM all weather camera (five awards);
3. A certificate, a plaque, $40 and a sports
bag (ten awards).
A pain in the R C C
At this point, now that we have got our new
enlarger, we'diust like to point out to all our
members that we think that Hugh Stiles is a
really nice person. Also it may be of interest
to some of you to note that we have sacked
our darkroom officer, and a new one will be
elected at the next committee meeting.
As you probably already know, we are
going to Syon Park butterfly house again on
Sunday 17 March. If you want to go, just turn
up at 10.00am at Beit Arch. No special
equipment will be needed, because the light
is vey good and most of the butterflies are
CLUBSJ
quite large. Everyone who went last time
came back with some really superb photos,
so if you've never been before, please come
along. We will be having some colour printing
demonstrations in the next two weeks.
Those wanting to go should sign the list on
the noticeboard.
On Tuesday 19 we had the last in our
series of slide shows on the subject of Great
British Photographers which was absolutely
superb, and we also showed some slides
which had been brought along by members.
Sorry it wasn't better publicised.
Finally, there will be a hands-on
demonstration of some very expensive
photographic equipment and a slide show by
two gentlemen from Fox Talbot, the well
known camera shop in the Strand.
The AGM will be held early next term so if
you are thinking about standing for a post on
the committee, then you should talk to this
years committee about what it involves.
QTSOC
The Chairman slumped into his chair,
despondent. He knew now that all was lost.
The months of toil, of continuous effort,
setback after setback (get on with it—Ed) to
form QT had all been in vain. It was finished,
their meagre resources were now depleted.
Nothing was left. He held his head in his.
hands.
'Put your head back on and listen', the
Treasurer cried as he leapt into the room,
narrowly missing the 517 members of
Wellsoc who were in a trance behind the
door. 'I've got something really special.'
'Don't tell everyone Boyo'. His girlfriend
cried (She's Welsh). TheChairman rose and
spoke 'Eh up, what is it?'.
'I told you's not to boast, look you'.
'E bah gum! The man's deformed...'
The Treasurer pulled himself together
'No, not that, this—the final figures for the St
Valentines Day Comedey Massacre—two
dead and five others taken to Brompton
Hospital, but escaped with minor injuries,
the porters there really put up a fight?'.
The Chairman rose quickly, yelled
repaired the new acquired hole in the ceiling
and sat down again. 'Where's our Publicity
Officer? He should be congratulated'.
'He's serving three months in Wormwood
Scrubs at the moment'.
'Whatever for?'.
'He entered his dog at Crufts'.
After a couple of choruses of 'Bestiality's
Best Boys' the room subsided into the
basement.
'Wasn't he also into Sadism and
Necrophilia?'.
'Yes, but he had to give it up—he was
flogging a dead horse. Anyway back to the
good news. He helped himself to a coffee
creme. 'After last week's amazing success
we now have 110 members and, what's more
we can afford to pay our bills—QT lives on!'.
The Chairman slumped into his chair.
'Who are these guys?'.
(To be continued, preferably on page 94).
FELIX Friday 22 February 1985 9

