10 Reviews
Some Went Mad, Some Ran Away...
...Some stayed and ate the Haagen-Dazs. Rubber
shark, rubber balls, readers' wives, Damien
Hirst, sheep in a tank, your confessions won't be
heard. "Isn't it the age of Aquarius?", an
astrologer enquired.
It's more like the age of Banality, one would
like to reply. Nobody cares about the Art any
more, they just want to eat the free ice cream.
Would you blame them? We've passed the point
when 'Is It Art?' is a question, for art is no more.
The fine line between Artist and Charlatan has
finally been erased and your two minutes of
questions are over. We are in a world where
there is so little to worry about that people need
counsellors to create problems for them, a world
where life is but a string of equally irrelevant
episodes in a bland pastiche environment. Sleep,
watch T V , eat frozen Lasagne with your
dysfunctional two-up two-point-four down
family in a plastic box. Maybe Fred West had
the right idea - kill them all, wake them up,
make their lives real for one momentary break in
the clingfilm wrapped monotony of their
emotions.
Am I making myself clear? Do I need to?
Artists don't, they just shove a dead animal in a
tank of formaldehyde and sell it to an
Advertising magnate. In a museum it would be
an exhibit but in a gallery it's Art; in a gallery
you can sell it for £25,000.
The only artistic thing about the new
exhibition in the Serpentine Gallery is the very
absurdity of it existing at all. According to the
words, these people try to 'uncover intimate
details of an individual's private world' - they
question existence and 20th century life. They
'Away From The Flock' by Damien Hirst, 1994
forgot how dull it really is. People live this every
day, they watch it on T V , they know what's
going on. They don't need some over trendy
pornophile shoving it back in their face in the
most obscure manner possible. O K , make a
statement, say something, but make it a
worthwhile point and say it properly. Don't
expect people to reel in amazement at the
profundity of a rubber shark, don't expect people
to congratulate you on your skill at smearing
paint over old pornographic magazines. It's not
big and it's not clever and worse still it's not.
even very well executed. So my viewers, for
once in your life don't bother. Go home, watch
EastEnders, don't go near the Serpentine. You
won't even be given any free ice cream.
MA
Work on the themes of fear, loss, hope, death
and fantasy by 15 international artists curated
by Damien Hirst. Serpentine Gallery, Kensington
Gardens, W2. 071 402 6075. Open daily 10am
to 6pm. Until 5th June. Free entry.
ATM
Union General Meeting
T O D A Y , l p m
Ents Lounge, Union Building

