Reviews 11
Mill On The Floss
It is the early nineteenth century. A woman is a
witch if she swims, but if she drowns she dies.
Maggie cries out in disbelief at what she reads.
In the background, screams can be heard of an
innocent woman drowning.
The dramatic start of the play grips you by
the neck and forces you to watch and listen. The
play is a successful attempt to adapt the book by
George Eliot and is about the life of a strong,
intelligent, and imaginative woman. She has to
hide her emotions and beliefs during the course
of her life and, unfortunately, in an environment
which is totally male dominated. She learns the
lesson in harsh circumstances, severing her
relationship with her brother and also those
around her. The play took us on a ride of
emotions leaving us totally drained at the end of
the play.
The production team includes a small but
very impressive cast who led totally convincing
roles (unfortunately they had a lack of actresses
in one scene and had to use a stuffed doll
instead: don't worry, the human does appear
later). I must mention Shirley Henderson's
delightful portrayal of the young and playful
Maggie, who had a part which could have been
disastrous if not acted as well as she did and also
Michael Matus who did a very good job as
Philip Wakeham: a crippled scholar.
Although I did find various parts of the play
very amusing, I found that sometimes the
humour was in the middle of vital moments,
which required absolute attention and no wit.
Using three Maggies to show her different
characters as she grew was very effective, but I
believed that it was inevitable to compare the
performances of the actesses: the first Maggie's
youthfulness and the third Maggie's forbidden
sensuous affair with her best friend's lover
seemed to overpower the role of the second
Maggie. The play was very dramatic and passed
before our eyes at a very fast pace, this meant
that the issues, which I thought would be dealt
with very deeply were, I believe, only just hinted
at. However, these are petty criticisms compared
to the full effect of the play which combines an
unusual set, music, lighting and wondrous acting.
This is a heart-wrenching play and one to see
if not just for the capturing performances by
most of the cast. Intriguing and unmissable. Go
and see it.
Jack and Lianna
Tricycle Theatre, 269 Kilburn High Road. 071
328 1000. Tube: Kilburn Station. Tickets: £7-
£11.50. Runs until 11th June.
111!
Rough Justice
James Highwood (played by Martin Shaw of
The Professionals and The Chief) finds himself
in the dock for his supposed act of mercy in
killing his nine-month old brain-damaged son.
Rejecting the help from a defence lawyer, he
stands alone against a catholic, pro-life Q.C.
Margaret Casely. As the plot unfolds Rough
Justice becomes a trial of moral issues touching
subjects such as euthanasia and human rights.
Throughout the performance the only actor
with any presence on stage was Shaw, the other
characters seemed very unnatural in comparison.
The only exception being Highwood's lawyer,
who added a touch of humour to what was a
very serious play.
The first half of the play, lasting one and a
half hours, needed a large consumption of
Pro-Plus tablets to keep your interest. However,
the plot finally came together in the second half,
where the audience was bombarded with what
seemed like too much new evidence, which was
not properly introduced earlier on in the play.
At the end, the whole play left you ques-
tioning the British justice system.
Top Cat & Petal
Appollo Shaftesbury, Shaftesbury Ave. 071 494
5070. Tube: Piccadilly Circus. Runs until 2nd
July. Tickets: £6.50-£18.50 (cones £8.50). Martin Shaw and Diana Quick in Rough Justice
Coming Soon: Falling Over England at the Greenwich Theatre

