12 Reviews
Mutha's Day Out, Terrorvision
Arkansaw, USA may be best known for giving
us (allegedly) over-sexed Presidents but that's
all about to change coz Mutha's Day Out are the
next big thing (apparently!). Well, they've
certainly got the energy and enthusiasm, but
considering half of them aren't even old enough
to vote for the aforementioned President, you'd
be worried if they didn't. Still, with some fine
tuning to their brand of grunge/grind/rap/metal'
(sic), who knows? When their mummy next lets
them out the results could be explosive.
Explosive is probably not a very apt
description of Terrorvision's set, but then to call
it merely entertaining would be to do it a gross
disservice. They've got something for everyone,
whether it be in the semi rap-metal blast of 'My
House', the kitsch Showaddywaddy-isms of
'Oblivion', or the all-out dance floor attack of
'Discotheque Wreck'. Heck, they even had a
mini-orchestra come out in the encore, a move
that led singer Tony Wright to warn: "Beware of
dodgy rock bands, coz let's face it, you won't
see anything much dodgier than this!"
With songs that keep reaching new levels of
pop-stasy and such self-effacing humour, do you
have any choice but to love 'em? I think the
1,500 odd grinning faces that left the Astoria
probably answers that one. Vik
Walkabouts
Setting the Woods on Fire
Just looking through the liner notes, you get the
tone of this album. Black and white broken
windows, rusting wheels and cold desolate hills
mirror a grey and doomed storyline. Its
characters seem to inhabit, however transiently,
the rural twilight zone marooned by dying forests.
'Bordertown' is deep within that empty
territory. The tale of an accident occurring in the
white of your eyes and redness of her dress. And
the way it's phrased and played, the outcome is
closer to a metallic edge of a runaway hay bailer
than a pair of warm lips.
There's more strangeness involved. Stuff
about lighting fires under yourself, letting blood
flow clear and an old man buried in his wedding
clothes. It isn't nice or reality. This wouldn't
matter except that the Walkabouts don't play nice
either. Somewhere on the folkside underbelly of
rock, this one has a raw streak. Only the bar
room crawl of 'Old Crow Lied' and the horn
inspired 'Hole in the Mountain' escape from the
pallid atmosphere. If there's burning to be done,
best get some dry tinder. (5) Tintin
Tom Robinson
Love Over Rage
From young gay to glad to be a dad. Pop's
revolutionary fist is now manicured hand in
glove as Tom Robinson undergoes his own
personal turnaround. So what and good luck to
him. He is still one of our finest lyricists and I
can't see this album disappointing anybody
except maybe the old Danny Kustow school of
air guitarists. Mark Amble's back on keyboards
but with Chris 'smooth smooth' Rea guesting on
guitar, the listener senses some kind of musical
split going on here. Come back Danny.
Closest to the old spirit has to be 'Green'. A
good pole at the advertising moguls. "Even
Ronald MacDonald's got a brand new bag, and
if he gives a sh*t about the ozone layer, I'll eat
50 veggie burgers medium rare." No dilution
there but as far as protest songs go, it's the
nearest we get. I miss the old stuff but this is
alright. I give it 2...4...OK, 6 out of 10. T.Bat
Blessed Ethel - '2 Minute Mind/Horsefly': On
'2 Minute M i n d ' , the singer's voice recalls
Debbie (rather then Deborah) Harry but the
guitar sound is far more '90s than '80s. Single
of the week. Ridley Dash
Fun-da-mental - 'Dog-Tribe': The new line-up
deals out more hard hip-hop with bhangra-style
samples underlying the fiercely anti-racist
lyrics. The "we know where you live" phone
message that starts the 'Collusion Dub Dog'
mix, left on the Youth Against Racism
ansaphone, justifies everything this band stand
for. Ridley Dash
Lemon heads - 'Big Gay Heart': A timely
release with its usual interesting compliment of
songs from the archives. The Pear
three walls down - 'Steps': Hmmm...jangly,
Byrdsy, summery, folky, happy. And why not?
The two other songs here are very reminiscent
of R E M circa 'Life's Rich Pagent', which is of
course the best LP ever made, so this is OK by
me. Guy
World of Leather - 'Silver': According to
vocalist Mark Chase: "Silver is the colour of my
true love's ears". Funny that, considering it's
actually about his lost alsatian. The song itself is
a strange breed as it scampers through sleazoid
guitar riffs into a warped disturbed and
thoroughly mongrel-like chorus. Vik
Heliopolis - 'Kintamani': Heliopolis were
original members of Transglobal Underground,
but contrary to T G U they don't use live
musicians. Instead they rely purely on electronic
beats to create their hypnotic soundscapes.
Excellent stuff. Mr Happy
Kindred Spirit - 'Ask Me No Questions': Catch
the return of a solitary Bangle with a River City
Person; Debbi Peterson and Siobhan Maher
team up and unsurprisingly sound like jiggly
jaggly acoustic pop music. Tintin
Urban South - 'Whatever's Clever': This is a
debut release from a Birmingham based rap
crew. The ep itself is full of clever lyrics on top
of a mixture of cool hip hop beats and heavy
bass. Mr Happy
The Family Cat - 'Wonderful Excuse': This is
the kind of single you'd be quite happy to bring
home to meet your parents but, for those of you
who want music, you can elope to the Bahamas
with, seek elsewhere. Joe
Saint Etienne - 'Like a Motorway': A nifty
hook (no doubt taking the fast lane to B B C
sports montage city), is done no favours by
'girlie' vocals that are as pointless as they are
breathless. Rahul
Spinanes - 'Noel, Jonah and Me': Cleverly
selecting the least adventurous song from last
year's patchy but interesting 'Manos' LP, the
Spinanes surge back in a rock-remix style which
is at best inoffensive and at worst incredibly
dull. Even Rebecca's once gorgeous voice is
rendered flat and ordinary by the pedestrian
production. Guy
Machinery Hall - 'Herd': A slow downwards
stair chord progression takes 'Herd' into action.
There's some minor melodic action but this
ends up a whinging moan. Tintin
"...been laying low my get up and go..."

