President
Imperial College Union 13
Deputy President
(Clubs & Societies)
Training and Development. Currently, the
Union does not train its student officers to an
adequate level. This training should include
providing sufficient background information
about the Union, the College, the University of
London and issues and problems the Officer
may face in the course of their post.
We are working towards providing training
for all Union Officers. This includes a manual
of background information, general training, a
networking event and specific job-related
training. Most of this will be provided in the
form of a two-day residential training event.
Funding for this has been secured.
Currently, potential trainers are being
contacted and the brief for the event is being
prepared. It is intended that this will be the start
of an ongoing scheme of development that will
help Union Officers work more effectively.
Next year's office sabbaticals are currently
meeting their counterparts this year on regular
weekly basis. This helps to fill them in on
developments in College and further afield, all
part of preparing them for their year in office.
We have begun a series of meetings to
discuss how we can effectively plan from year
to year. At present, there is an insufficient level
of continuity. The meetings are looking into the
strengths and weaknesses of the Union and how
we can lay down strategic plans for the future.
E-Mail. At IC, we are lucky to have e-mail.
This is being used more and more by students,
departments and College. I am arranging for the
Union to be connected to the e-mail system with
accounts to be set up. Once completed, you
would be able to mail any part of the Union, be
it a club, sabbatical, member of staff or Union
outlet. This could mean lower administration
costs, a shorter response time on enquiries and
an increased awareness of student activities.
Constitution. Following on from last term, I
met with College officials who are now satisfied
with the draft. This will be brought to today's
meeting, (Friday 20th May) for its first approval.
Handbook and Alternative Prospectus. The
Handbook Editor has resigned after being
offered a better summer job. At the time of
writing, a new candidate should have been
found. Advertising is being covered by Sam
Michel (Events and Marketing Manager) with
the other tasks being done by sabbaticals. We
are examining new formats and ways of
distributing the Handbooks. Anyone who is
interested in the project or feels they would like
to contribute to our most important publication,
please get in contact through the Union Office.
We are running the election for Alternative
Prospectus Editor a term ahead of schedule due
to the demand for copies. If we do not produce a
new Alternative Prospectus, we would run out
of copies shortly into the start of next term.
A fair amount of time has been spent
publicising and finding candidates to take over
other Union posts for next year. As a result,
most posts should be filled at today's meeting.
Clubs and Societies. In readiness for the next
academic year, I am collecting the necessary
information and application forms. These relate
to the Handbook, Freshers' Fair, Noticeboards
and an end of year report on clubs and societies.
Sport. I have been involved with the interview
panel for the post of Sports Centre Manager and
I am pleased to announce that Colin Wilson has
been appointed. Colin has been the acting
manager for the past six months.
I have completed a survey of sports teams
and clubs at Imperial. This information was
requested by both the Athletics Committee and
the Governing Body. It attempts to establish the
level of involvement in each of the student clubs
and societies.
The working party on sport will commence
meeting shortly and all the information I have
gathered will form the basis of any arguments I
put forward at this forum. The working party on
sport has been formed to plan the sports
Budgets. I have now received a probable figure
from College for next year's subvention. The
good news is that it is larger than this year's
figure, but the bad news is that it would still
leave us heading for a deficit next year of
£26,000 on the budget reached at the end of the
last UFC. Hopefully we will be able to sort this
out at the next UFC.
Minibus. By this U G M (I'm writing this a week
in advance), the new minibus should have been
delivered, and will soon be available for clubs
use. Please don't damage it too much - it costs a
fortune.
Trading. There is little new news to bring up
about the trading outlets, although we are
currently working on a number of plans for the
future, which will need College approval.
Hopefully I will be in a position to bring you
provision at Imperial for the next decade.
Jazz & Rock Club Move. Due to the noise
problem of the Jazz and Rock practice room
being beneath Beit Hall, it has finally closed.
The room is due to move back where it came
from five years ago. This is the room currently
occupied by Rag. Having found an acceptable
alternative room for Rag, it was possible for
permission to be given to Jazz & Rock to move
into this room. The room is the best suited in the
building for the noise upsetting the least people.
Storage for Clubs and Societies. The problem
of where to store equipment is a big one for
clubs without a room of their own. The room
freed by Jazz and Rock will make ideal storage
for these clubs. The idea is still being developed,
but I hope by the start of the next academic year
to have a new storage facility for our clubs and
societies.
more information by the next U G M . By the time
this U G M happens, the new Rector will have
been shown around the Bookstore as well as the
rest of the Union.
Other stuff. A number of items have been
approved for spending from the old House fund
by Executive, including air conditioning for the
STOIC technical room, to prevent all of the
equipment from overheating. A project that I
would like to see carried out is the refurbishment
of the lift in the Union building, which is really
grotty. This would cost several thousand and I'm
currently trying to work out where to get the
money from. We are also looking to improve the
standard of a number of other areas of the
building, which would make it more pleasant for
the students and more attractive to external
bookings.
Women - Have Your Say!
This Friday morning, a questionnaire, aimed at the female members of the college, will be laying
out some strategic points. Please have a look them, as you might find there is something you
would like to say. Filled-out questionnaires should be sent to: Kristine Vaaler, Women's Officer,
Union Office. Thanks to all who participate.
The questionnaires can be picked up from:
•Union Office «Mech Eng Main Entrance «RSM Main Entrance
•Maths Walkway *Elec Eng Main Entrance -Sherfield Security
•Physics Blackett Entrance 'Biology Common Room «Silwood
•Aero & Chem Eng Main Entrance «Chem & BioChem Main Entrance
Deputy President
(Finance & Services)
Don't forget the UGM today in the Ents Lounge at 1 pm

