14 Opinion
Editorial
Regarding Simon Baker's letter entitled
'Destructive Criticism', I must explain that the
other names listed at the bottom of the letter
when it was submitted could not be printed, as
they did not verify their authorship, as is Felix
policy. But onto the content of the letter itself.
I don't really understand where you get the
Beccy Land Self-Promotion Society newsletter
idea from. I do absolutely nothing to promote
myself in Felix. I am doing my job which is
editing the magazine. I don not gratuitously fill
the pages with articles that I have written, nor do
I put my name in the credits. The only place my
name gets mentioned is under the imprint on the
back page. How this promotes myself I really
don't know.
The letter goes on to question the place of
'silly attacks on Andy Wensley'. The news
stories are justified by the news editor on the
opposite page. As for the front cover, the
intention was a light-hearted joke which would
make people smile and, from what I saw, it did.
Is there really any harm in this? Andy Wensley
is the most public figure in the Union and should
expect to be in the spotlight. If he isn't doing his
job (and there are a fair number of people who'd
say he hasn't), he should expect criticism.
At the start of the year I deliberately did not
want a great deal of emphasis on what the
President was doing wrong as I thought it would
be detrimental to the Union, putting it in a bad
light. I wanted to give Andy time to settle in and
sort himself out, but the mistakes persisted and if
anything, they got worse. Remember the
problems with the sabbatical elections? The non-
secret secret ballot, the lack of publicity for new
election, not conducting the hustings properly.
He knew he'd screwed it up; why else would he
insist on turning off the tape recorder when
being interviewed about it.
As to whether there should be more news,
Felix is a newspaper only in name. I decided at
the start of the year that I wanted Felix to have
more of a magazine format. This would mean
less emphasis on the news and more on features
and articles. I was elected by the student body to
Rag Fete Thanks
Dear Beccy,
We would just like to say a big thank you to
everybody who helped at Rag Fete '94,
especially those who were good enough sports
to sit in the stocks. Special thanks go to I.C.
Radio, Jazz & Rock, Jan (without an h)
Bradshaw, Sam (not as good as Huddersfield
Town ) Scotcher, Ian (gullible) Robertson, Matt
(I prefer Leyton Orient myself) Szyndel, Chris
(table manners) Bragg, Chris (hair) Berry, Alaric
(Queen's Tower) Turner, John (sorry don't
know your surname ) Something, Tim (Herbie)
Atkinson, Mark (what happened to the other 20
grand) Bunyan, Peter (road runner) Bird, Paul
("Oh dear") Thomas, Becky ("It's not the sort of
thing you think to ask.") Clark and Paul (Gallant
Gentleman) Griffith.
We would also like to thank 'The Nancy
Reverb' for being so understanding when they
unfortunately had to be cut short. If anyone
would like to see them again they are playing the
Powerhaus on Monday (23rd) at 1 lpm, cost £3.
Thanks also to every one who came to Rag
Fete and those who also were at the dinner.
Next years slogan is Muff Dive '95 and the
nominated charities are Imperial Cancer
Research Fund, The Rainforest Foundation,
Sense and Cystic Fibrosis.
Lots of love,
Jane & Helen, Rag Exec 93 - 94
Listen Carefully
Dear Beccy,
I write to you as I am concerned about the
people of this land. Some look, but they do not
see, they listen but they do not hear and they
read and yet do not comprehend.
In the last two issues of Felix (997 and 998),
Robert Munro and Anthony France fail to
understand what Yasser Hatami (996) is trying
to say. He does not suggest that anyone should
be murdered or that terrorism should be
justified, but merely that other religions and
beliefs should be honoured and respected. Mr
France, if you have not yet noticed, we exist in a
multi-cultural community where everyone lives
in harmony; to abuse and provoke others is not
welcome here, not from you, Salman Rushdie or
anyone else. If it is within our powers we must
endeavour to prevent religious, racial or criminal
upheaval. I am sure you agree and I just hope
that the Satanic Verses will be an example of
this for years to come.
And as for you, Mr Munro, let me just say
that in this country we also have the freedom of
speech; if we do not abuse this right we may
express our feelings and opinions. It is clearly
apparent that you have not read M r Hatami's
letter properly for it does not coincide with your
accusations. I suggest you learn to swim before
jumping head-first into the deep end.
Oh, and Mr France, nothing would give me
greater pleasure than to insult your mother, but
forgive me if I do not because of the reasons I
have outlined above.
Yours faithfully,
Arash Jamali, Elec Eng I.
P.S. Felix is great. Keep up the good work
guys. I know I speak on behalf of all of IC, as
not many universities have their own paper.
edit Felix as I saw fit and that is what I am
doing. The numerous complaints about the
plunging quality of Felix do not seem to have
reached me. Admittedly there have been some
but, as I have explained before, I can only put in
Felix what students write. I also have to try to
cater for all the students in the College. As for
the presentation, I hope this is an improvement
on the past, as it is something that I place a great
deal of importance on this.
Finally, I can only assume that the policy of
'5,000 copies and a box of pritt sticks'
mentioned at the bottom of the letter is a comment
on my request that articles and letters be
submitted on disk. Let me explain the reason:
With many people having exams, they cannot
spend as much time in Felix. It makes life a lot
easier for everyone if time is saved by articles
coming in already typed. We will still accept
articles if they are not typed in, so I don't really
see the significance of the comment.
Next Week: 1000th Edition Special
Credits
Printer:
Andy Thompson
Business Managers:
Steven Newhouse
Simon Govier
Typing:
Stephen Se
Proofing:
Wei Lee
Tim St Clair
Simon Shaw
Reviews:
Wei Lee (Cinema)
Jon Jordan (Music)
Patrick Wood (Opera)
Fai Fung (Theatre)
Features:
Simon Shaw
Puzzles:
Sphinx
Catfish
News:
Mike Ingram
Lynn Bravey
Wei Lee
Photography:
Diana Harrison
Collators Last Week:
Mike Ingram
Joe McFadden
Juliette Decock
Tim St Clair
Simon Shaw
Patrick Wood
Answers To Last
Week's Crossword
The deadline for articles is 5pm, Friday

