Opinion 15
Destructive Criticism
Freedom &
Equality
Dear Beccy,
I was surprised at the replies to my letter
concerning the Satanic Verses. The points raised
about condoning murder clearly had no
relevance to the substance of my letter and I
therefore feel obliged to reiterate my remarks in
a more easily comprehensible form.
There is no doubt that freedom is an
extremely valuable and worthy thing, but it has
bounds. The freedom to insult and abuse is not a
legitimate freedom. This is recognised in the
British legal system, which prohibits scorn and
slander against holy doctrines of Christianity
and its respected figures. What is distressing is
the fact that such legal protection is not
available for any other religion. A person
insulting Jesus can be charged with 'blasphemy'
and subsequently spend several years behind
bars or face a heavy fine, but he would be free
to utter the most indecent and most provocative
remarks about Muhammad and his family, and
make a fortune out of it.
This represents a fundamental flawin the
judicial system of this country and needs to be
eradicated. It was not too long ago when
discriminations on race and sex were common
practice. Many years of struggle and
campaigning by activists helped to bring an end
to these unfair laws. It is now time that
'religious' discrimination was also eliminated
from society. And if we, as the young
intellectual elite of the country, do not strive for
equality and justice, who will?
Yours faithfully,
Yasser Hatami, EE2
C A R E E R S INFORMATION
Vacancies. Don't worry if you were too late to
apply for the Milk Round, we have written to
employers asking for details of their remaining
vacancies and you should apply in May or June
at the latest. Ask to see the Vacancy File in the
Careers Service.
Penultimate Years. Start thinking about your
future now. If you don't know what you want to
do, visit the Careers Service and try PROSPECT,
our computer careers guidance system.
Careers Talk For Penultimate Years. Two
talks this week, lpm to 1.50 pm. No booking is
necessary, just turn up. Tuesday 24th May: The
Law by Mrs Clare Maurice, Recruitment Partner
of Allen & Overy, CR 317A Sherfield.
Thursday 26th May: Teaching as a Career by
Mr Walter Eyles of TASC, CR 317B Sherfield.
For Further Information come to the Careers
Service, Rm 310 Sherfield, 10am to 5.15 pm
Monday to Friday. You can book a short
appointment of up to 30 minutes between 2pm
and 4pm on Mondays, Tuesdays and Thursdays,
or a longer appointment of up to an hour at other
times. Please note that the lunch time Duty
Periods will restart in the Autumn Term.
Dear Beccy,
I really thought that after the last but one
issue of the Beccy Land Self-Promotion Society
newsletter (oops, I mean Felix - an easy mistake
to make), we would be spared the silly attacks
on Andy Wensley for at least a couple of weeks.
It was a lot to hope for, and lo and behold, there
it was on the front cover. This was by far the
most childish attack in a long line and is a clear
abuse of the position of Editor. As you yourself
said, 'very responsible behaviour'.
For one who made more out of the seemingly
obscure procedural ranglings over the new
Constitution than the Sun makes out the Royal
Family, I suppose the alleged incident in issue
997 ('Reckless Behaviour By ICU President')
was a gift. I can vividly recall the shock
experienced by myself and others as we read
that the President of ICU drinks. Who would
believe it? Today a few whiskies, tomorrow
sacrificing animals and virgins in Beit Quad.
The issue here, of course, is not whether or not
the event occurred. It clearly did, although the
details are open to debate. The point is whether
Felix should waste half a page on its coverage
when only one and a half pages out of twenty
cover news in what is supposed to be a student
newspaper. You get more news in the Exchange
Silence Please
Dear Beccy,
Concerning the IC Rag Fete. On behalf of the
Jazz and Rock Society, I would like to apologise
to the visiting rock band 'Nancy Reverb' from
the Cystic Fibrosis trust. Unfortunately, due to
the selfish arrogance of certain high ranking
college officials, the band travelled 80 miles to
play for five minutes on the Queen's Lawn.
They were then ordered to stop because of
"intolerable noise levels". I find it appalling that
the hard work (and money) put in by the C.F.
Trust went to waste because some faceless
bureaucrat needs absolute silence to shuffle
papers around his desk.
Yours bitterly,
Derek Hummerston, Jazz and Rock Society.
& Mart than this. To be quite honest, who gives
a toss if the Union President has a drink or two.
As far as I can gather, IC Radio was not
'trashed' and no-one got hurt. This is not to
condemn or condone, but to read between the
lines and find the real motives behind the story.
The Editorial is even worse. As well as being
vacuous and quite possibly actionable, it is
sanctimonious in the extreme. Since when was it
the job of Felix to set the moral standards of IC?
It is about time this sniping stopped and you
returned to the job of running Felix for the good
of the students who elected you to the position.
Nothing has been done over the course of the
year to address the numerous complaints about
the plunging quality of Felix. Can you really
justify spending so much time and effort on your
obvious dislike of the President and the way he
does his job at a time when large sections of
College are constantly questioning your own
ability? A case of Dear Pot, Yours Kettle, I think
you'll agree.
Yours sincerely,
Simon Baker, Chem I
P.S. In keeping with new Felix policy, my next
letter will be submitted with 5000 copies and a
box full of Pritt Sticks.
S M A L L A D S
Playgroups and Holiday Playschemes.
The Imperial College Day Nursery (8/9 Princes
Gardens) has started a playgroup for 3-5 years
old on Wed and Thu, 9.15am-12.30pm. Cost per
session: £5.50 students; £6.50 staff.
We are also running a holiday playscheme for 5-
9 years old for half term (31st May to 3rd June).
Summer holiday playscheme 18th July to 9th
Sept. £8 per session 9.30am-lpm, 2pm-5.30pm
or all day. Bring packed lunch and/or tea.
For more info, call Sue Thornett on 3356.
Make Friends in Eastern Europe!
Are you interested in contacting students in
Poland, for example? If so, write your name,
address, date of birth, studies, interests and
future plans and hand into the Union Office, 1 st
floor, Union Building.
Replyfrom the News Editor:
First of all, I would like to set the record straight
about Felix's coverage of the "obscure
procedural ranglings" (sic) concerning the
Constitution.
The Union's constitution provides a legal
framework for Union officers to work within.
For it to operate, the College Governing Body
must approve it. The fact is that Mr Wensley
misled the whole student body by declaring that
the new constitution had been approved by the
Governing Body as a working document. The
document had not even been put to a Governing
Body meeting. In comparison to the
Government, most MPs who have lied to the
House of Commons have been forced to resign.
Secondly, Felix would have reported on the
incident at IC Radio regardless of who was
involved. Despite the fact that the Radio Station
was not damaged, the way in which Mr
Wensley was behaving (witnessed by several
people) ould have led to a very serious incident.
The fact that it was the Union President who
was involved only served to make the story
more newsworthy. Since the President is the
figurehead of the Union and is the primary link
between students and College, it can do his
relations with the students and College no good
if he publicly behaves in an irresponsible way.
Students have a right to know what is going
on in the Union and the College, and it is Felix
policy to try and keep them informed.
The deadline for letters is 5pm, Monday

