Feature 5
23 across, an '&Lit' clue, was admired by a
number of puzzlers in the tearoom. This type of
clue works cryptically but also has significance
when read literally:
23. Boy from inn almost captured
by aggressive types (7)
The answer? HAWKINS of
course.
The third crossword might be
ranked as being of 'average'
difficulty but one competitor had
erred and tried to justify his wrong
answer:
"It's probably only marginally
acceptable," he said rocking
nervously back and forth.
"Sorry," said Mr Grant politely,
"It's not in the dictionary."
It was now the designated time
for a cup of tea but the competitors
seemed more keen to help
themselves to the generous pourings
of Knockando whisky. I asked
Competitor 166 how it was going. It
was his sixth year in the regional
finals and he was aiming to improve
on last year's 48th ranking.
"Number two was a stinker," he
remarked.
I nodded.
"Yes, that seems to be the
general consensus."
He then spoke my thoughts:
"If you could only somehow channel all the
cerebral power in this room..."
I nodded again and smiled. A l l competitors
looked likely winners on Fifteen to One. Some
were.
As positions were posted up on the walls of
the foyer, the competitors scuttled out
of the tearoom to see how they were
doing. This gave the top solvers an
idea of how well they would have to do
in the last puzzle in order to be one of
the four winners progressing to the
national final.
The fourth and final crossword
turned out to be an easy one.
"Piece of cake," said one puzzler.
Despite this, a good proportion of
the solvers still needed the whole 30
minutes. Not Competitor 166. He bid
me a hurried farewell: "I'm off to
watch the Cup Final."
Meanwhile, prospective victors
gathered around John Grant's table and
after a tense few minutes the winners
were announced. They were a food
distributions manager, an advertising
consultant, an antiquarian bookseller
and a Doctor of Philosophy. The
winner had averaged 10% minutes per
puzzle. The average age of the winners
was 51 and despite a waiver of the £5
entry fee for students, only one took
part last Saturday.
, A l l competitors looked relieved and
content at the end: " A most enjoyable
afternoon," said one as he headed for
the bar.
The competition's crosswords will be printed in The Times in the next month. Indeed.
STEWARDS
• Do you like working with people?
• Are you a confident, intelligent person
that can think on their feet?
• Can you be assertive without being
aggressive?
We are looking to recruit new stewards for the remainder of this, and
next academic year. Union stewards work closely with Union staff,
sabbaticals and the bar staff to ensure the smooth running of Union
events. Applicants should be easily contactable preferable by
telephone, and generally available for work throughout the course of the
term. The post can involve duties as varied as stewarding the Fresher's
Week carnivals to assissting guests at dinner functions. There are
reasonable amounts of work throughout the year, and sometimes
through the holidays as well. The Union offers good rates of pay and
training for these positions.
If you think you fit the Bill, then please leave your name and
department with reception in the Union Building, or pop a note in the
internal mail marked for the attention of the Events & Marketing
Manager.
You will men be contacted for interview, if you cannot make this time
then please contact the Union Office to re- arrange the appointment.
There will be a training day on a Saturday nearer the end of term,
attendance k mmpnlsnry If you have any questions please contact
the Events & Marketing Manager on x8586.
ONLY £3.25 for
24 or 36 photos
In by 3pm Back by 4pm next day
Matt or Gloss
ASK AT BOOK
ENQUIRIES
DESK
FOR
DETAILS
i C U
IMPERIAL C O L L E G E UNION
B O O K S T O R E

