6 Reviews
Left: Domingo as Don Jose and Denyce Graves as sultry
gypsy Carmen (Photo: C. Ashmore).
Below: crowds watch last week's piazza performance ofMy
Fair Lady (Photo: P. Wood)
Gypsies And Jackals
Among The Trinkets
Below: Paul Spooner's Last
Judgment automaton outside The
Cabaret Mechanical Theatre
(Photo: P. Wood)
What does Placido Domingo have in common with Anubis,
god of embalming? The answer is that both can be seen in
Covent Garden Market today.
Bizet's Carmen, with the superstar tenor as Don Jose, will
gxgm be relayed live on a big-screen from the Royal
fj Opera House. The performance is at 7pm and
jf&ffiS| the viewing in Covent Garden is free.
JHHB Entrance to the Cabaret Mechanical Theatre
|HB in the lower court of the Market costs £1.20.
B Here, among a collection of ingenious and
•HHjHH surreal automata, or mechanical sculptures, are
• H H H H working models of the jackal-headed Egyptian
• H H H H deity swatting flies, making toast, working out
I in the gym and galloping a camel across the
desert.
The Cabaret, which is open until 6pm
(6.30pm on Fridays), stands out among the
expected throng of wine bars, designer-label
fashion shops and (during the day) trinket stalls.
There are also a candle shop and a newly-
opened branch of Hamley's. Until recently,
there was even a life-size latex Alien in the
Covent Garden General Store on Longacre;
someone came up with the £2,500 asking price a
few months ago.
Eating in the area needn't cost an arm and a
leg (embalmed or otherwise). Quite a number of
restaurants do pre- and post-theatre set menus for
under £10 and, at Ponti's in James Street, baked
potatoes with cheese are £2.40 to take away.
There are dozens of pubs, of course. The
Freemasons' Arms on Longacre has less of a
'fleece the tourists' atmosphere about it than
many others. It owes its name to the presence
of the Freemasons' Hall at the end of the road.
Last year, this was an appropriate setting for
performances of Mozart's The Magic Flute. At
7.30pm tonight and tomorrow, Jane Glover
conducts Britten's A Midsummer Night's Dream
there as part of the B O C Covent Garden
Festival. More Britten can be heard today at
8.30pm in St Paul's Church, Bedford Street;
Ulster Music Theatre perform the moving
church parable Curlew River. Bow Street
Magistrates' Court hosts Gilbert and Sullivan's
Trial By Jury tonight at 7.30pm and tomorrow
at 6pm and 7.30pm.
The next big-screen piazza relay will be the
new production of Verdi's Aida at 7.30pm on
Friday 22nd July, with Nina Rautio and Michael
Sylvester. You never know, there might even be
a guest appearance by Anubis.
Patrick Wood
The BOC Covent Garden Festival ends this
Sunday. Recorded information on 071 240 0560.
24 hour credit card booking on 071 413 3531.
The current Serpentine Gallery exhibition is reviewed on page 11

