Reviews 7
The Draughtsman's Contract
Starring: Anthony Higgins, Janet Suzman and
Anne Louise Lambert
Director: Peter Greenaway
Peter Greenaway, a name to curl the hearts of
ink bespeckled critics and public alike. Even
these diverse groupings were united in their
disgust at his last film, The Baby of Macon.
The Draughtsman's Contract harks back to
better days for Greenaway; it was his most
successful film when released in 1982. Now
reissued in a new 35mm print, it lets those of us
who have more recently lashed ourselves to his
wagon see a different side of his work.
The plot suffers the intrigues of 17th century
England; a place of blooming gardens and blue
skies, where men get to wear the best clothes
and wigs. An arrogant and suave draughtsman is
asked to make a series of drawings. Initially, he
refuses but such is the desperation of the patron
that finally a peculiar contract is signed. Twelve
drawings of the estate and the use of the lady of
the house for the draughtsman's pleasure.
The draughtsman begins his work. He
requires total control over his subject and
anything which even inadvertently comes into
the field of view must remain there.
However, like a Magrittian scene, strange
things start happening. A ladder appears, some
clothes are strewn in trees and when the horse of
the master of the house (who is thought to be
away on business) is found, foul play is
Framed by his profession, the Draughtsman gets involved in contracts written in blood.
suspected. The draughtsman is accused by the
daughter of knowing too much about the
mystery concerning her father. He allows
himself to be involved in another contract, this
time to be party to the daughter's pleasure.
When finished, the objectiveness of the twelve
drawings displays the duplicity of the living.
As in all of his films, the cinematography is
stunning in its finery. If the plot is occasionally
forced in unreasoned directions then the film
shows the broadness of the issues involved. This
film is not one of his masterpieces, but in a
world which bulges with sentiments becoming
more immediate or more drippy by the reel, it
remains a pool of deep attraction.
Tintin
Opens today. MGM Piccadilly £6 (Half-price on
Mon, £3.50 Tue-Fri before 6pm).
pi 111
111
Naked Gun
The
Starring: Leslie Nielsen, Priscilla Presley,
Fred Ward
Director: Peter Segal
The first one was rather drab. The second one,
however, was a riot. The Final Insult falls
somewhere in between. The plot, what there is
of it, concerns Lt Drebin's attempt to retire
because his marriage to whatsherbreasts (played
by Priscilla Presley) is on the rocks. He is called
away from his housework, however, to inves-
tigate a terrorist, Fred Ward, who is trying to
blow up the Oscars ceremony for no apparent
reason.
Some of the expected mickey-takes of other
films are pretty good; it starts with a rip-off of
the staircase scene in The Untouchables, which
is of course itself rip-off the famous 'Odessa
Steps' sequence of Eisenstein's Battleship
33^:
Final Insult
Potemkin. The movie differs from the first two,
in that there are far fewer background gags than
usual and the jokes are really spread too thin,
even with a running time of only 83 minutes.
Some of the more regular humour,
meanwhile, falls a tad flat. The most obvious is
Drebin's attempt to get into an infertility clinic
by pretending to have a broken arm. This leads
to predictable gags about 'bending' and
'pulling', although the flashback 70s disco scene
is quite funny.
Although it's worth watching, I wouldn't
rush out to see it and certainly wouldn't pay
large sums of money. Recommended on video
or, even better still, as a FilmSoc showing.
jk
Opens today. MGM Trocadero £7, (£4 Mon, £4
Tue-Fri before 6pm). UCI Whiteleys £5.75
(£3.50 before 3pm). 'Haven't I been here before ?' says Lt Drebin
Look out for The Piano and Schindler's List at the ICU Cinema

