CLUBSJ
Bookshop
News
As you all know both the Bookshop and the
Sportshop are owned by you, the students;
and profits made by us are passed on to the
unions. During the past six months someone
has acquired the habit of 'borrowing' books.
If I or any of my staff catch anyone acting
suspiciously we will have no alternative but
to inform the College Security and IC Union.
If any of you see anybody 'borrowing' books
come and tell me. If you don't want to tell, at
least point out the error of their ways. The
Shops are an essential part of the College,
and this situation does not help to make
them successful.
During the next few months, the following
publishers will be having exhibitions of their
new titles in the Bookshop. If you want to see
any book that is in the Window, ask any
member of staff. Plenum Publishing—25th
February to 8th March; John Wiley and
Sons—22nd April to 3rd May; Addison
Wesley—6th May to 17th May.
The Sportshop has, apart from the
Regalia, new sportswear, including
tracksuits, trainers, squash, badminton and
tennis rackets. T-shirts, sweatshirts,
jumpers with our new and old logo. If any
club or society wants T-shirts or sweatshirts
with special designs come to me, and I'can
arrange it at very competitive prices.
SCI-FI SOC
The cargo shuttle drifted away, back down
towards Earth. I turned away from the old
observation post, half reluctant to continue
with my mission. I was beyond the point of no
return, but daunted by the prospect of facing
the dangers which nobody, since the battle-
station's arrival, had penetrated. With
supplies shipped up but once a year, with the
possibility of infiltration and sabbotage,
twenty had already stood where I now stood
and, presumably, died in the task I was sent
to perform.
Cargoboats hummed past me, taking the
supply crates to who knows where—but
wherever they were taken, it was deeper into
the station. I leapt on to a crate ready for
transport, and soon the docking bay, and my
view of Earth, disappeared from sight.
I checked my equipment—assault gun
with five chips of armour piercing rounds,
and the EMP gun—our secret weapon
against our computerised dictator.
Flash of light—JUMP. The crate tip,
where I'd been sitting exploded into slinters
as a flechette cannon raked the spot where
I'd sat. Security'bot up there, hovering just
out of sight. Its moving...now. Five closely
grouped AP rounds finished it.
I looked round in time to see a door close
behind the convoy of cargoboats. I was
seated in. I moved to the nearest door and
checked for any obvious control mechanism.
There was a small panel just above floor level
on the left. I forced it open. The maze of wires
at first astounded me. All this just to control a
door? It looked more like an IQ problem!
Five minutes later though I'd isolated the
contol circuitry and, with the crossing of two
wires, the door opened. A long thin corridor
was revealed—too thin, I thought, for
cargoboats. I entered. The door closed
behind me. Oh shit! The computer knows
I'm here. I reached for the EMP gun. But too
late—the world exploded before me as a
security laser neatly drilled my skull.
COMPUTER REPORT RE SOL 3
INHABITANTS-STIMULATED EVOLU-
TION PROCESS CONTINUES. LATEST
TEST SUBJECT REACHED STAGE 4
BEFORE ELIMINATION. EXAMINATION
REVEALED THAT EMP DEVICES HAVE
BEEN RENDERED PORTABLE BUT
THEIR USAGE IS NOT YET FULLY
DEVELOPED BY THE SUBJECTS.
PROGNOSIS FOR DEVELOPMENT IN
SHORT-TERM PEROID GOOD. END OF
TRANSMISSION.
Developments at ICSF continue apace.
Library meeting Thursdays of course, with
names being taken at the meeting for our
2010 film trip. Another film coming soon, and
Picocin, our very own SF convention, is
scheduled for March 9. Speakers, these
should incude Dave Langford, author and
critic, and a representative of the British
Interplanetry Society. Stay tuned for further
news flashes...
RcMfWClMtfl the world's most boring student by Finian
I knew you were out there
somewhere my sweet Juliet.
YIP—YIP—YIPEEE! A V A L E N T I N E S
C A R D FOR MOM
Oh! Quelle romantique? Who
could it have been from?
No longer will I have to pander to this
mere Amphibian for comfort and
flattery.
FELIX Friday 15 February 1985 11

