CLETTERS;
OUR
City and
Guilds
Centenary
Week
From the Dean, City and Guilds College
Dear Sir,
In February 1885, six full-time students of
the Central Institutions, forerunner of the
City and Guilds College, started courses in a
new, purpose-built building in Exhibition
Road. The Central Institution, for university-
level education in engineering, was
established by an initiative of the Livery
Companies (The Guilds) of the City of
London, through the City and Guilds of
London Institute—whose connection with
the College is still maintained, despite the
amalgamation of the City and Guilds College
(as it then became) with RCS and RSM in
1907 to form the Imperial College of Science
and Technology.
Reviewing the century's activities of the
College and its old students, it became clear
that a remarkable number of major
fundamental contributions with far-reaching
effects on technology, and very many large-
scale projects the world over, have flowed
from the City and Guilds College and its
students: hence the idea of a centenary
celebration. A Steering Committee was set
up, which co-opted the City and Guilds
College Union President to its number.
Three main functions have been planned: a
Banquet (Feb 26) in the Guildhall, an all-day
(Feb 27) Symposium on '21st Technology' (a
forward look at technological trends,
opportunities and challenges) and an
Exhibition 'Technology—2000', a selection of
forward-looking research in the City and
Guilds College.
In addition to the 75 subsidised Banquet
tickets for students already allocated through
the C&G Union, a further 25 tickets (carrying
a lower subsidy) will be available through the
Union Office. Free places for students at the
Symposium are available, but you must
register in advance; name-badges giving entry
will be issued (only to those on the list of
registrands) at a desk at the entrance to the
Great Hall on the day of the Symposium
(registration through Departmental Offices,
as already notified by Heads of Department).
Students of Imperial College, and visitors,
will have free entry to the 'Tech 2000'
Exhibition between 10.00am and 4.00pm on
the Thursday (28/2/85) and the Friday
(1/3/85).
The Symposium will comprise
presentations, and discussion by
participants, on Advanced Manufacturing
Technology, Civil Engineering, Information
Technology and the Process Industries in the
21st Century, and on their socio-economic
implications and challenges. It will ofter
students an unusual opportunity to attend
discussions between senior academics,
industrialists and decision-makers, on
matters of great importance.
The Centenary offers us the chance to
project the College to schools, so we are
planning two Open Days (28/2/85 and
1/3/85). Visitors can see Tech-2000 and
something of the different Guilds
Departments; considerable effort has been
invested in preparations.
We need College guides to direct parties
between departments and to stay with their
parties throughout the visit. If you are not
already committed to Departmental
Activities on the Open Day, would you please
consider if you can help as a College Guide; if
so, please contact the C & G Union Office
now, where details are available. The
Steering Committee will not let any help go
unrewarded, but primarily, this is a valuable
opportunity to influence the next generation
of students who will follow you—and the
College needs your help.
Yours sincerely
Professor Bruce McA Sayers
Who dares
wins
To Mr Grenville Manuel
Dear Grenville,
May I first of all thank you for your
concern at the current plight faced, regarding
Union finances, and your most helpful
suggestions as to an opportunity to ease the
burden.
It appears quite obvious to me that you, as
a man of many means, are well versed in this
somewhat specialised field of 'Newspaper
Bingo'. Now, I have no wish to impose upon
your precious time, but if at all possible, I
would relish the opportunity of discussiong
with you, in not inconsiderable detail, the 'ins
and outs' of the Daily Mirror 'Who Dares
Wins'. I would hate to miss an opportunity of
winning the competition, on behalf of the
Union, through not being in full command of
all available information, as I'm sure you are.
I look forward to your briefing.
Yours, completely in awe,
Ian Bull
President
more letters on page 4
FELIX
The unrest among the City and Guilds
students over the Centenary affair is no
mystery.
Due to an official blunder, the College
announced that all C&G lectures would be
cancelled for three days in Centenary Week.
What was not generally announced was the
fact that at least some of the students would
be expected to act as guides to visiting school
children.
Naturally the students were overjoyed at
the prospect of this 'holiday'. Some made
immediate travel arrangements; many more,
I suspect, earmarked the three days for
catching up on coursework, and revising for
examinations.
At any rate, it was assumed that these three
days off meant just that—three days off. It
was simply not made clear to students that
they were expected to remain on campus.
But the reason is not difficult tofind.The
Centenary has been organised by
committees. And, to my knowledge, some
members of these committees have worked
extremely hard to make the Centenary Week
a success. But what has been lacking has been
leadership. There has been no apparent
figurehead for the Centenary organisation,
no one to rally the troops, no one to inspire,
no one to take a firm hand.
Who better to do so than the elected Dean
of the City and Guilds College, who, if he
makes a stand even at this eleventh hour, may
still be able to instil some enthusiasm for an
event that otherwise, from a student point of
view, will be the flop of the century.
One calls to mind the words of Tennyson:
"It profits little that an idle king,
By this still hearth, among these barren
crags,
Match'd with an aged wife, I mete and dole
Unequal laws unto a savage race,
That hoard, and sleep, andfeed, and know
not me."
Acknowledgements: Many thanks to Ajay,
Gren, Dave, Hugh, Nigel, Pete, Finian,
Tinker, Absorbance, Martin, Pete, Sean,
Luke, Jon, John, Ian, Dave, Sean, Rosemary
and Tony. Special thanks to Eric for driving
the van last week.
Felix is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial
College Union Publications Board and is printed by the Union Print
Unit, Imperial College, Prince Consort Road, London SW7.
Telephone 01-589 5111 Ext 3515
Editor: David Rowe. Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1985. ISSN 10140-0711.
Friday 15 February 1985 FELIX

