TLFTTRRS
Guilds not
closed shop
Dear Sir,
We would like to reply to some of the
criticisms of the City and Guilds Union
handling of the Centenary made by Mr
Drummond-Smith in his letter last week
(FELIX 695).
First, the Centenary is being celebrated
over a period of a whole week, the three days
during which classes will be cancelled are to
enable students to participate fully in the
celebrations, to regard this as a holiday is a
gross abuse of a privilege.
Secondly, in selling our limited allocation
of subsidised tickets for the Banquet, we took
every possible measure to ensure that every
Guilds student would have an equal chance
of getting a ticket.
Thirdly, after some disagreement, it was
decided to let IC Ents organise a Centenary
Carnival, because they insisted on having
control over it.
Finally, it is very disappointing that P
Drummond-Smith, as a Guilds student, is
abusing the opportunity to celebrate the
College's Centenary, especially considering
the amount of time and effort which both
College staff and the Union have put into
organising the events. Mr Drummond-Smith
is offering to organise trips to cater for that
exclusive group of students who can afford
mid-season skiing—and yet he accuses us of
being a closed shop.
Yours,
Simon Chamberlain, Hon Sec
Luke Walker, A AO
Sarah Cox, Publicity Officer
Anne Driver, Publicity Officer
Adrian Johnson, Reprographics Officer
Pisshead
clique
Dear Sir,
So the Guilds Dean and academics are
shocked students don't want to work for
nothing at the Guilds Centenary? Virtually
no students have volunteered to help out:
don't they care about City and Guilds? Well,
I can answer that simply—no, we don't really
care that much.
Maybe, when we first came to IC, we had
high ideas about THE Imperial College and
City and Guilds College, but we soon learn to
lose them. Mention C & G to most
engineering students and the first thing that
comes to mind is the self-interested pisshead
clique in the Union (harmless in themselves,
but not the sort of group we'd like to be
involved with), and then secondly the
isolated academics of our departments who
seem to care far less for student then for their
pet 'Body Scanner' projects.
•Let's look at the facts. For the average
engineering student, none of the events held
during the Centenary are of the slightest
interest—at least if any were,"they are
overpriced and booked out by hacks. We get
incredibly pissed off by the seemingly
bottomless pit of money to be spent on
Centenary projects such as redecorating the
JCR and repainting the railings outside Elec
Eng, when money is not available for work
inside our own departments.
Now there's a point—why don't students
respect their academic Guilds College. Well,
what are some of the major academic
problems over the past few years for
engineering students?
First, the four year courses produce the
kind of graduate IC thinks industry should
want instead of the kind industry needs.
Secondly, maths continues to be taught by
mathematicians to engineers, mathemat-
icians who neither know, nor care, how to get
across new ideas to non-mathematicians.
Thirdly, departments seem to resent the
idea that any courses are either badly taught,
or that they are not necessary (or even
desirable) to the degree.
These problems have been presented time
and time again to those academics who now
have endless energy, time and money to put
into what to students here and now is a
useless publicity exercise. Perhaps when they
start taking notice of the real students who
really work here, instead of clever clever ideas
administration may formulate, perhaps then
we will return the respect by feeling a
commitment to C&G.
Name witheld by request
PS Isn't it interesting that all around Guilds,
equipment is being brought out to impress
outsiders, that students have never, and
probably will never see—-toys for those
academics?
Letters
pray
Dear Sir,
A Thanksgiving Service is being organised to
mark the 28th Anniversary of the
Independence of Ghana on March 3 1985 at
the American Church, near Goodge Street
Underground Station.
When we meet, we shall thank God for all
that our country has been blessed with, and
commit the present and the future into His
fatherly hands. We shall remember other
parts of Africa, Britain and the world at large
in our prayers.
You are cordially invited.
May the peace of the Lord Jesus be with
you.
Yours in His service,
Rev A A Beeko,
London Ghanian Chaplain
Plagiarists
unite!
Dear Sir,
One of the recent events of the H G Wells
Society was an excellent talk on the use of
Laser Weapons in space, given by Professor
New of the Physics Department. To publicise
this event, a poster was produced showing the
recent Private Eye photo of Reagan and
Schultz contemplating the use of a paper dart
as a space weapon, with Schultz informing
Reagan of the non-existance of Luke
Skywalker.
Since this poster appeared I have had two
separate letters from the City and Guilds
Union, complaining at using their artwork!
The first is a so-called invoice (no invoice
number, no order number and no signatory)
claiming that we in some way used their
facilities to produce the poster. This
absolutely unfounded and ridiculous
suggestion is (other than in this letter) being
given the total lack of attention that it
deserves.
The second letter is from the upstart of the
millenium, Mr Luke Walker (AAO for
Guilds and known to his few friends as Luke
Skywalker). In his letter he suggests that we
are using his name for publicity without his
consent! If Mr Walker is big headed enough
to think that our poster was, in some way, a
reference to him, I can only pity his pathetic
trumped-up ego, and I will certainly not be
asking his permission if I should utter the
name Luke Skywalker in future.
If the upper echelons of the Guilds Union
have nothing better to do than to nurse egos
in this haughty fashion, then I hold out little
hope for a well organised Centenary
celebration week.
Yours,
P J Chase
Wellsoc Chairman
LETTERS
TO THE EDITOR
Letters should be written double spaced on
single sided A4, and should arrive not later
than 12.30pm on Wednesday.
Anonymous letters are not considered for
publication, but names can be withheld by
request.
The deadline for small ads and Diary is
Monday at 12.30pm. Small ads must bear the
advertiser's name (Not for publication).
4 Friday 15 February 1985 FELIX

