LFEATURE
A D a y i n t h e L i f e O f
Yes, it's part two of the Hitch-Hikers Guide to the Sabbaticals, FELIX'S
expose of what you have to do to get a free room in hall. If last week's
article made you think that being a sabbatical wasn't as easy as you
thought then maybe this week's will put you off completely and hopefully
make you so grateful for the work that they do on your behalf that you'll
buy them all a drink.
Dave Parry—DP
I get up about 9.30. The first job when
I get in is to tidy my desk, clearing off
yesterday's mess. T h e D P is
responsible for the Union rooms as
well as the money, so one of the tasks
of the morning is to check that no-
one has burnt the J C R down, or
broken into one of the pinball
machines. Phone calls tend to take
up a lot of time. I seem to get phone
calls on almost everything, and some
people seem to think of me as
Directory Enquiries. The rest of the
morning is spent on the most
pressing business of the moment,
say something that someone raised
with me in the bar the previous night.
Lunch is taken in the Union snack
bar at about 11.30, leaving plenty of
time before the midday rush, when
the Union Office fills with enormous
quantities of people all attempting to
buttonhole me. There could be a
lunchtime committee meeting, so
there's no chance of an early
afternoon snooze. Afternoon could
mean a college meeting, or I could
spend it on a long term project, such
as the refurbishment of the Union
Building.
There could be a Major S u b -
Committee in the evening, or I could
try and goto see a film. Because I'm a
duty officer I have to make sure that
there aren't any fights in the bar, and
that no-one fills The Lounge ankle
deep in vomit. I am on Refectory
Committee, so I am forced to
undertake regular quality checks on
the beer that the bars serve.
Unfortunately many people seem
unable to differentiate my serious
quality control with getting drunk
just for the hell of it. I never see bed
very early. Hassle for the building
means hassle for me. For instance,
when Guilds didn't clear up after
Carnival it was me who didn't get to
sleep until 3-o-clock the following
afternoon. Monster.
There's a lot of responsibility for
the DP. The job is not quite what I
expected—there's a lot more work
for a start. You have to be impartial
when it comes to making decisions
about different parts of the Union,
and know a lot about how the Union
works. You have to know how people
work too, and keep your act together
even when things go wrong and you
start running round like a headless
chicken.
I think that anyone who thinks they
would like to stand for DP next year
really ought to talk to me. It would be
a pity to have to put up with the
hassle of being DPifyoudidnoenjoy
it.
Dave Rowe—FELIX
My work definitely runs on a weekly
cycle. O n Mondays to Thursdays I
get in at 9-o-clock, and spend about
an hour deciding on which jobs are
to be printed that day, trying to get
the best out of the limited printing
facilities. After that there is the
donkey work of producing a weekly
newspaper, such as pasting up, dot
screening, or proof-reading. On
Fridays however I have to be up at 7-
o-clock to distribute FELIX around
college, and most of my morning is
filled with fending off complaints
from over-zealous Publicity Officers
that their diary entry is wrong, orthat
their article has been cut.
Lunchtimes can be bedlam, as the
FELIX office becomes populated
with people bringing articles orsmall
ads, with the occassional staff
member storming into the office and
screaming 'Hold the front page'.
Once the chaos subsides I can
continue with the grind of producing
FELIX. There's the constant pressure
of the deadline. I work weekends and
late in the evening, possibly very late
on a Wednesday, putting the paper
together. Thursday night means
collation, a quiet drink with the hard-
w o r k i n g c o l l a t o r s , a n d t h e
s a t i s f a c t i o n of a n o t h e r i s s u e
complete.
Unlike the other sabbaticals who
might be working on long term
projects I can always point to
something I've actually produced at
the end of aweek. Howeverthe paper
often owes more to the staff'than to
the editor. That's why it is very
important for the editor to attract
new staff and get the best out of
them, while remembering that
they're studying at the same time.
There is more work than I thought
there would be, but on the other hand
it is more rewarding. I often overhear
people talking about FELIX, and I get
feedback all the time. I don't mind too
much if people don't like it, it's more
of a failure if people don't care.
A FELIX editor must be techically
competent—he or she must be able
to work all the various bits of
equipment and there isn't the time to
learn when you are editing the paper.
For that reason I think it would be
unwise for anyone who had never
worked on FELIX to stand as editor.
Apart from that DO IT—it's the job of
a lifetime.
Friday 15 February 1985 FELIX

