FEATURED
UtotfUuj wtwewm
Half-way up the Union Building west staircase, tucked away
behind the gym changing rooms, an inconspicuous sign above an
inconspicuous door announces 'Graffitti'. It is here that the more
adventurous and colourful posters which from time to time adorn
the Sherfield walkway are printed. FELIX takes a look at ICU's
only 'non-performing' arts society.
'Silk .screening' is a highly skilful, extremely
time consuming, and wonderfully messy art-
form. You do not need to be a second Renoir
to be able to print with screens, but is does
require care and dexterity and, if you are
creating your own design, a degree of
imagination. Basically the technique involves
passing ink through a stencil which has been
prepared on a 'screen'—nowdays made from
synthetic mesh rather than silk. Screening
was developed as a manual method, and
though modern processes now use vacuum
beds and automatic rollers, Graffitti's
printing is still done entirely by hand.
The first step in making up a screen is to
prepare the stencil. On the simplest level this
is done by cutting holes in grease-proof
paper or, for more complex designs a special
two-ply material is used. This consists of a
water-soluble chemical film on a polymer
backing. Sections of the film are cut out and
the remainder can be 'partially dissolved'
onto the screen. When dry, the backing can
be peeled away, leaving certain areas
blocked with the film and thus impervious to
ink. In a similar manner, a light-sensitive
material can be processed photographically
using art work ready-prepared on a
transparency. To print the image, ink is
pushed through the screen with a rubber
blade—the 'squeegee' (this is the messy bit).
Graffitti's primary function is to provide
facilities for students to produce their own
work. As well as using screens to print
designs, members have the opportunity to
use the society's air-brush for more creative
and advanced art-work. The vast majority of
the work done in Graffitti, however, is
commissioned by other college societies,
usually advertising their own events. Most
Dramsoc and Sci-fi soc posters are screen
printed and many other societies are
beginning to take advantage of the wide
variety of work which is possible. Within the
Union Graffitti is the only alternative service
to the FELIX printing facilities. Screen
printing, however, is a much more flexible
process than 'offset-litho' as used in the print
unit. Any size of paper can be silk screened,
sweat-shirts and T-shirts can be decorated;
_
: ;l>yBertok Bi^cht
•' Howard Brenton
The Galileo poster; but only one colour
in fact just about anything which is flat can be
printed using screens. The process also
greatly facilitates the production of multi-
colour designs. Graffitti chairman Andy
Merritt worked continuously for 24 hours to
bring out Dramsoc's famous six-colour
'Galileo' poster last year. This would have
been impossible on the FELIX litho.
The chief drawback of silk screening is
that quantity is severely limited. Because the
process is highly labour-intensive, and
because of the materials and equipment
used, it is not normally possible to produce
more than 150 prints using any one screen.
The quality of printing is nevertheless
superb.
Graffitti is a relatively small society and
most of the printing jobs are done by a
handful of enthusiasts. For some intangible
reason, it seems also to be dominated by the
chemistry department. If you would like to
try your hand at screen-printing, or just learn
more about how it's done, get in touch with
any of the following:
Andy Merritt (Chairman)—Chem PG (int
4528)
Jan Scicinski (Hon Sec)—Chem 2
Sean MacRae (Treasurer)—Chem 2
Miriam Ibbotson (Workshop Manager)
-Chem 2
Alternatively, leave a note under RCC in
the Union office letter racks. Anyone not in
chemistry will be particularly welcome.
FELIX Friday 15 February 1985 7

