ECLUBS
QTSOC
Self-indulgent
crap
'Couldn't put it down'—Guildsheet
'Boring'—Evening Standard
'Really Boring' Civil Enginering Weekly
'Dead Boring'—Necrophilia Today
There were just some of the many
reactions to last weeks raving article entitled
'Zen and the Art of Do-it-yourself Basket-
Weaving, Part IV: How to remove the basket
from between your legs without hurting
yourself. This just goes to prove that eight
out of ten students (who expressed a
preference) wouldn't read a QT article on
religous grounds, or within sight of a
Synagogue, whichever is the shorter.
May thanks to those QT members who
performed the stunt at the U G M on
Tuesda^ (Those people reading this article
in tue FELIX office before Tuesday—No, I'm
not going to tell you what we did/are going to
do/witl -nave done (delete as applicable
depending upon your time perspective).
This Sunday sees the dramatic
appearance of Mr Graham Shields at
Speakers Corner still preaching on'The
Malignant Ear Wart', 'The Love life of the
Avocado', etc. This will begin at 3pm and will -
be followed by walking 'Donald' in the park (if
dry) or a short trip by tube (if not so dry)
Next Tuesday, Southside Upper Lounge
lpm—The Great Debate 'This House
believes Physics freshers should be allowed
to spend all a club's money.'. Proposed by
QT Official Receiver—Paul Bearer all
Welcome!
PS 'Semper in excretum sed altum
variat'—'Always in the shi*t but to different
depths'.
WELLSOC
Wells-
exclusive
Spread through the depths of College, there
are 517 very lucky people—lucky because
they all own a little piece of white card with a
man's head on it. This man is H G Wells, and
the card get these lucky people into most
Wellsoc events absolutley free. Are you one
of these lucky people?
These people are particularly lucky right
now. Over the next month Wellsoc is
offering what promises to be one of the best
periods in its history. Next Monday, the
lucky people can be hypnotized, as master
magician Martin S Taylor brings us his now
legendary lecture with audience
participation. Next week's Gangster
party—probably one of the best parties of
term—promises a live Jazz band, disco, food
and bar 'til late, and all on a Friday evening!
(Tickets only £2.50). Keeping up the
excitement, the following Monday Douglas
Adams, Hitch Hiker of the Galaxy, will be
addressing the society in what looks like
being the biggest attended lecture this year,
so get to ME 220 early!
During the rest of term, the pace is no less
hectic. Eight days later sees our annual
dinner, only a stone's throw from College at
the much loved Bistro Vino, where Martin S
Taylor will be performing magic and illusions
at everyone's tables, and a good time will be
had by all. This is followed on Monday 11
March by our President Eric Laithwaite's
annual lecture, which has been postponed
from two earlier dates due to his unfortunate
illness. The meeting will also be to elect next
year's committee; if you fancy helping to run
Imperial's largest society watch out for the
election papers and grab a committee
member to ask about what's involved.
Finally, we hope to be getting Richard
Ingrams, 'Private Eye' editor, for March 18,
making our end of year lecture no less a
sizzler than all the rest.
517 lucky people are looking forward to all
this: are you one?
ANTI-APARTHEID
Prisoners of
of conscience
On Monday 18 February ICAA is to hold a
joint meeting with the College Amnesty
group to discuss the topic of South African
prisoners of conscience. All students are
welcome at this meeting, which will take
place at lunchtime in the Union Upper
Lounge.
Also, on Thursday next week, the
Polytechnic of Central London AA group are
holding a one-hour picket outside the offices
of Saatchi and Saatchi in Charlottee Street,
W l , to protest over the recruitment of
mining engineers for South Africa. Given this
College's strong links with the mining
industry, both here and abroad, the Imperial
College Anti-Apartheid group have also been
asked to participate. The picket will take
place from l-2pm (nearest tube Goodge St).
At 5.30pm the following day, 22 February,
the City of London Anti-Apartheid Group
begins its 24-hour picket of the South African
embassy in Trafalgar Square. This has been
called to demand the unconditonal release of
Nelson Mandela, and all other political
prisioners in Southern Africa.
Even if you only come to either of the
pickets for a few minutes, you presence
would be greatly appreciated.
BAHA'I
The road
to...
The Future of Man as Prophesied.
'Man has walked by the light of
conflagrations, and amid the sound of falling
cities; now there is darkness, and long
watching till it can be morning'.
Thomas Carlyle
Carlyle said these words in 1831. It is now
1985 are we still in darkness or is it morning?
If George Orwell is anything to go by we
should not worry. 1984 has come and gone.
There is no 'Big Brother' and our brains are
still our own. But what price free will? Peace
is murmured but not evident. We war within
ourselves, our families and our countries.
We neither understand the nature of Man,
nor do we know how to develop. We dream
of a perfect world, but either we are unwilling
to change, or think it's pointless because we
are only human.
So, 'the end of the world is nigh'. The
nuclear protesters are right. Let's all give up,
go down to the shelter and prepare for
Armageddon. If God exists He appears to be
deaf. The Kingdom of God is nowhere in
sight. Are the promises of religion empty or is
it that religion has had it's day and handed
over to politics? From here, we'll be lucky to
see the year 2000!!
It's crisis time, that's clear, but what do we
do? Maybe we have to change to survive, and
maybe the Creator we have dismissed has
issued an ultimatum—there is a blue-print for
peace but it starts with us! Could this be the
future He foresees?
'The enormous energy dissipated and
wasted on war, whether economic or
political, will be consecrated to such ends as
will extend the rage of human inventions and
technical development, to the increases of
the productivity of mankind, to the
extermination of disease, to the extension of
scientific research, to the raising of the
standard of physical health, to the
sharpening and refinement of the human
brain to the exploitation of the unused and
unsuspected resources of the planet, to the
prolongation of human life, and to the
furtherance of,any other agency that can
stimulate the intellectual, the moral, and
spiritual life of the entire human race'.
Baha'i Writings
The Imperial College Baha'i Society is
holding a meeting titled 'The Future of Man
as Prophesied' on Thursday, February 21,
at 6.30pm, level 8 Common Room, Physics.
Speakers from several World Religions will
address this subject. The meeting will be
chaired by Professor Silbertson, Head of the
Department of Humanities, Imperial
College.
10 Friday 15 February 1985 FELIX

