EVERY
FORTNIGHT
No. 13 IMPERIAL COLLEGE FRIDAY 17 NOVEMBER 1950
QUIET WEEK-E
COPPERS* NIGHT OUT
Those who, with S i r W. S. Gilbert, consid-
er that a policeman's l o t i s not a happy one,
must surely have revised their opinion on Nov-
ember 4th. That evening some eighty represen-
tatives of the law exchanged such arduous dut-
ies as pounding the beat in Paddington or being
knifed i n the back i n Battersea for the p r i v i l -
ege of witnessing a free firework display i n
Prince Consort Road while technically protecting
IC from the lawless mobs of Kensington.
It i s true that a further force of forty
were less fortunate, for they spent the whole
evening in a quite unnecessary and remarkably
c h i l l y v i g i l around the Albert Memorial-
Subdued by the sight of so much sombre
blue serge, the crowd behaved as though on a
Sunday School outing. A few faint 'boomalak-
as1
were heard on the lawn, a l i t t l e water was
poured out of upstairs windows of the Hostel,
and some kindly soul attempted to warm up one
of the constables by placing a lighted f i r e -
work in his belt. Even the bangs sounded ap-
ologetic and law abiding compared with last
year. As soUeone i n the crowd remarked, "It's
a poor show when the only source of amusement
left i s to raid your own college!"
And at about 11pm our one hundred and twe-
nty protectors drove away i n their blue limous-
ines to enjoy their hard earned sleep.
MINERS' NIGHT IN
Anyone present at the Mines Freshers' din-
ner on the 3rd must have found the Guy Fawkes
celebrations on the 4th rather an anti-climax.
After a preliminary warming-up at the Cath-
erine Wheel, Kensington Church St., guests and
hosts returned to the Union, where an excellent
cold meal was provided by the refectory. The
Bread Rolls were just crisp enough to discon-
cert the recipient without actually marking him
for l i f e .
When he could make himself heard, David
Griffiths was surprised to find himself propos-
ins the health of the Mines. His speech, most-
ly quoted from odd scraps of graph paper, was
not so much woolly as downy.
In reply, the Dean, Professor Dannatt, ma-
de a short but sincere speech i n which he coin-
ed us a new collective noun - a "frenzy" of
freshers.
Proposing the health of the freshers Peter
Haywood, the President, welcomed them i n a well
constructed and witty speech, sympathising with
them for the their present partial exile i n the
R.C.S. Much stress was laid on the Mines' spi-
r i t . On discovering to his chagrin that you
couldn't drink i t , your correspondent returned
to the free barrels and f e l l into a deep melan-
cholia which prevented him from reporting i n de-
t a i l what he believes to have been a f i r s t - c l a s s
reply on behalf of the freshers.
Worn out by thumping on the tables, the mob
then f i l e d downstairs for the real business of
the evening.
CHELSEA IN & OUT
Up t i l l now we had seen only what might have
been expected of a Mines Freshers' Dinner but f i r s t
class and spontaneous entertainment followed. The
upstairs hall was invaded by a crowd from Chelsea
Poly with obvious aggressive intentions. The drink-
ers left their emptying barrels and, joined by
other I.C. men from downstairs, kept the invaders
at bay. But the Polytechnlcians soon found that
they had stepped into a hornet's nest. From the bar
a further noisy angry swarm eaine forther and in the
face of fire and water the combined forces flung
wereI
flfch-l
tlcu-i
a not
jaoant.
Man behind barricade
injures four police
F I G H T IN C O L L E G E L A B O R A T O R Y
Evening Standard Reporter
Cour policemen were injured in a fight with a man who
^ barricaded himself in an underground laboratory at
the Imperial College of Science, South Kensington, S
.
W
.
Police were called to the
college last night after it was
~",
""'*f
^d that a mr *
w
>
e
Con
Hou
ing t.
motui
cars
tracks
north
Mr
The Royal College of Science featured in
front page news i n the 'Evening Standard' on
Monday, 6th November. On Sunday evening, ab-
out 9-0 o'clock, a 31-year-old seaman invaded
a basement research laboratory of the Geophys-
ics department and, wrenching the legs off a
heavy table, started to smash up apparatus.
THEY USE HOSES, HE THROWS BOLTS
The noise was heard by Mr. Folkierski who
was working late. He rushed down to the source
of the noise, thinking there had been an accid-
ent, and entered the room to investigate. He
soon withdrew, however, to avoid an iron bolt
hurled at him by the v i s i t o r . Mr- Folkierski
found the night porter who 'phoned the police.
Two policemen arrived and called on the miscre-
ant to lay down his weapons and come out (he had
by this time barricaded the door). The only
reply was an iron bolt through the window. A
hurried consultation resulted i n the departure
of one policeman to summon reinforcements, lea-
ving the other expostulating: "What do I do i f
he comes out?" Eventually over a dozen police-
men arrived together with a Black Maria and an
ambulance. Meanwhile Prof. S i r George Thomson,
the Dean of Residence (Mr. D. Allen) and Mr. D.
K.Nicholas were informed by telephone and arriv-
ed on the scene soon afterwards. They were to
witness an amazing sight. The police, unable
to extract the miscreant peaceably, connected
up a hose to a hydrant and stood oy pending the
arrival of a doctor. However, action was pre-
cipitated by the sound of escaping gas: fearing
an explosion, the water was turned to cool the
v i s i t o r ' s ardour. Instead, i t only f i l l e d the
room with steam for the hose had been connected
to the hot water maint I t provided sufficient
distraction, however, for the police to close
i n and Get Their Man. It was 9«40 when he was
f i n a l l y taken away to St. John's Hospital, Bat-
tersea.
Theories as to possible motives for his be-
haviour range from - an act of personal revenge
on science for being blown up during the war -
to - a result of seeing the film "Seven Days to
Noon"!
the invaders out. The latter had rather a rough
passage as a band of hostelites were waiting to
push their way in again. In this encounter we won
two pairs of trousers but lost one pair of shoes.
A counter-attack found our invaders licking their
wounds in Queens Gate. Another two of them were
captured and obliged to surrender their trousers.
Back in the bar one of our debagged captives,
who claimed to be their president, was made to drink
a yard of water, and a messy show he made of i t too.
We had captured four pairs of trousers, but I could
only see three dispossessed owners - I was told
"you should have seen the one that got away".
For the rest of the evening a firework display
was held outside the bar. A cracker which landed
in a jug of beer so thrived on alcohol that i t blew
the jug and i t s contents a l l over the room. There
were no fatal casualties.

