F E L I X 3
EDITORIAL
FELIX prides i t s e l f on maintaining a p o l i t i c a l l y
independent outlook, and though in this attitude we
differ from the 'Daily Worker' we nevertheless regard
the debagging of their student-salesman as unfortunate
- and not in the best taste. On the other hand we
are sure that the incident took place less from
political motives than to demonstrate the f o l l y of
trying to sell the Daily Worker so close to our
doors. And the salesmen themselves must surely have
realised the risk they ran. That being said we were
agreeably surprised at the restrained tone of the
pamphlet which was distributed with the Daily Worker
a few days later (see this page); the pamphleteer,
however, laid himself wide open with his sentence;
"If they have a better paper then let them sell i t
themselves"'. The reply to this on the following
Wednesday was sufficiently urbane to close the affair
with a smile.
There have been a spate of rags recently. The
Battersea Polytechnic caravan started things off.
Then a party of i.C. men - mostly freshers- made
unfruitful v i s i t s to Battersea, U.C. and Kings; in
search of consolation prizes they raided Chelsea
Polytechnic. Whilst applauding their zeal and enter-
prise i t was perhaps a l i t t l e unfair on the Poly:
surely we should hit only someone of our own size
and stature? The Massacre of Mines Night (p.l)
demonstrates what may happen when a smaller college
is goaded into retaliation'.
We hope that the foregoing remarks will in no
wise dampen enthusiasm and initiative. These w i l l
be required in f u l l measure in the tow-path battle
on Morphy Day'.
I.C.D.S.
ARMS & THE MAN
L.U.D.S
This i s by way of an explanation of the pro-
duction of "Arms And The Man" which i s being put on
at I.C. on November 28th - December 2nd inclusive.
At the end of last session U.L.U. appealed to
the Presidents of the various Colleges to obtain the
support of their Dramatic Societies for the London
University Drama Society which was badly in need of
help. As a result of this, I.C.D.S. decided to offer
their f u l l support and the use of the I.C. stage for
the L.U.D.S. full-length Christmas production. This
offer, approved by Council, was gratefully accepted.
Although, strictly speaking, the play this term
will be a L.U.D.S. show, members of I.C. are well to
the fore and most of the well known names will be
found on the programme. W
e want to show the rest of
London University just what I.C. can produce in the
way of audiences as well as plays. W
e hope therefore
to have the large, receptive and enthusiastic aud-
iences which have always been a feature of I.C.D.S.
productions in the past. You will see many of the
old familiar faces as well as some new ones. W
e want
the support of you a l l , both freshers and not-so-fre-
shers.
The good old tradition of a 'Mines Night' will
s t i l l be observed (this time the Tuesday performance)
with specially reduced pricesl
When you read this the tickets will already be
on sale. If you haven't yet bought yours, do so
Iodav. Tickets are on sale in the library annexe
from 1 - 2 p.m. each day, price l / - to 4/-.
D.R.Knapp
President LCD.a
U.L.CONTRACT BRIDGE CLUB
The f i r s t General Meeting of this new Club,
sponsored by I.C.C.B.C., took place at U.L.U.
recently.
Mr. Louis Tarlo, who has captained England
and was one of the British team which won this
year's European Championship, was there to re-
present the English Bridge Union and London Cou-
nty Contract Bridge Association, who gave us
their blessings and offers of help.
I.C. has by far the flourishing Bridge Club
of the London Colleges, and i t was f i t t i n g that
Bob Pearce should be elected the First President
of the new club. John Hunt, the new Secretary,
also comes from R.C.S.
Following the meeting, Teams of Four and
Pairs Contests were held simultaneously, over
100 players competong.
T.G.Gilchrist Wilson.
NEW PERSONALITIES
Dr Smith-Cohen, lecturer in comparative mor-
a i i t v ? a n d Miss Gloria Glyndbourne photograpned
recently on Imperial Institute steps. Miss Glynd-
bourne will lecture on 'New o « •
u „+,-,^on+<!i Tt is expected that ner n e s i i
! ^ ^ f h U
t e
o n
t h e - s u b j e c t w i l l arouse considerable
approach to the
interest.
International Student Service is an organ-
isation serving students and staff of universities
a l l over the world. It is an entirely non-politic-
a l body and has no connection with the International
Union of Students. Its purpose is to help students
to better their material conditions of l i f e , and to
extend and develop cultural activities within univ-
ersities, so that they may become real centres of
national and international l i f e .
I.S.S. works towards this end in two ways. It
runs international centres and -study tours in vari-
ous countries - next year in Scandinavia, Germany
and Italy, and conferences are arranged - the next
one being held near London in the week before Xmas.
The second,and perhaps more important,way in
which I.S.S. works i s by giving relief for students
whenever they are in need. Thus, students are be-
ing sent food, clothing, textbooks and medical sup-
plies. Again, in South Africa many native students
are studying medicine only because of help from
I.S.S.
Now the money for this relief work comes from
one source only - students. During this week -
International Students' Week, November 12th-18th
collections for I.S.S. are being held in colleges
a l l over the country.
There will be a special Hop tomorrow night in
the Union, the proceeds of which are going to the
1.8.3. Sanatorium Fund.
(Information concerning any of the above
projects,or I.S.S. in general, can be obtained from
A.A.Levy, I.S.S.,Secretary, c/o R.C.S. rack)
WORKERS PLAYTIME
On the Friday on which the last FELIX
was published two students selling 'The Daily
Worker' at the corner of Imperial Institute Rd
were invited along to the Guilds hallway where
they were debagged by a party of students.
On the following Monday a pamphlet was
distributed entitled 'You may read what you
like' in which the dangers of physical attacks
on strangers are pointed out. "Whatever you
may think of the point of view expressed in
'The Daily Worker' i t is the only daily paper
that puts that point of view. And many people
read i t just to see 'the other side of the
question'."
The pamphlet ends "Is i t right that a
group of students should decide what other
people may and may not read?" "If they have a
better paper then let them sell i t themselves"
"Let the people decide for themselves"
Footnote: In answer to the penultimate sentence
of the above, on the morning of the following
Wednesday two students stood on either side of
the 'Daily Worker' vendors and distributed
paper bearing only one word of print.

