F E L I X
PROFILE— A.V.5. DE REUCK
Mr. A.V.S. de Reuck i s Chairman of the
Social Clubs Committee, Vice-President of R.C.3.,
Editor of "Phoenix", a fellow of the Royal Meteor-
ological Society and studies Physics in his spare
time. As he has been on the committees of a
number of College societies at one time or another,
was a member of the Rifle Club, and once played
Bridge, i t i s likely that very few readers w i l l
not know him. However, for those who do not,
here is a summary of his personal appearance.
Look out for a Union officer who is f a i r l y t a l l ,
sports a moustache and w«ars glasses. (This
description also f i t s Wally, the Porter at R.C.S.,
but as Wally works there, no confusion should
arise.)
His early personal history started with a
ohildhood of f a i r l y normal Freudian complexity.
Later he returned to school, now as a teacher of
physics, being on deferred service with the RA.F.
Subsequently he served abroad in India and later
in France. On the nights when he i s Duty-Officer
in the Union, he may recount to you,in the Bar,
the many hair-raising experiences he faced during
his term in the Service. The most unnerving of
these seem to have occurred during social evenings
in the mess1
.
And so he came to Imperial College, in 1947.
On arrival here, Tony soon distinguished himself
as a first-rate speaker whosewords, i f not few,
were at least well chosen. Despite being accused
of immorality by a lady from Bedford, he was
elected President of both the Political Society
and the Literary and Debating Society for the
session 1949-50. He achieved the distinction of
being the f i r s t post-war President of the Political
Society to surmount the academic hurdles and return
to take up his political duties
At the request of the President of I.C., Don
Huddart, he agreed about this time to take up the
Editorship of "Phoenix". Since he has been Editor,
Tony has completely transformed this worthy bird,
increasing i t s volume by his ingenuity, and i t s
weight by his editorials.
It might be thought that a man who takes such
an active interest in College l i f e would have well
defined opinions upon fundamental subjects,(e,g.
politics, religion and beer), but his ideas here
tend to be eclectic. Thus in Union politics, when
talking to a reactionary he is progressive, while,
when discussing affairs with progressives he is a
positive reactionary. It i s noteworthy that he is
practically the only member of the "Phoenix" board
not an agnositc. When I asked him what beer he pre-
ferred, he merely said "Thank you. I ' l l have half
of mild." Nevertheless, he is prepared to dis-
course upon a large variety of lesser topics and,
Indeed, with his interests varying from Greek
science to heraldry, and from planetary atmos-
oheres to oratory, Tony i s either the last a l l -
round genius or the f i r s t I.C. dillettante.
(He is clean, healthy and rides a bicycle. - Ed.)
LUNCH -HOUR RECITALS
THURSDAYS 115 BOARD RM. C &G.
23 NOV PIANO. NIGEL OOXE (RAM)
BEETHOVEN APWVSSIONATA
3 0 NOV GOLDEN SONATA - 2 VIOLINS - PURCELL
BRAHMS LIE8ESLIEDEDER WALTZES
4 VOICES & PIANO (4 HANDS)
K E M P S O N ' S
S H O E REPAIR SERVICE
44, Queen's Gate Mews,
Queen's Gate,
Kensington, S.W.7
QMHHA
i l
• I
tut. i
C0l.LV
S iMiimt
JAM -
A Study of Bodies Suspended from Straps.
By A. Tuber, B.Sc. (Hopes).
The fundamental importance of this subject to
a l l persons concerned with Underground Railways
has been stressed by M. Hangeur de Strappe i n a
lecture to the Ecole des Chemins-de-fer entitled
"La Tie et 1'Amour au Paris-Metro".
A lengthy paper on the subject was recently
delivered to a vociferous audience i n the Union
Bar by Mr. Tuber, dealing with the economics, time
and motion study of troglodytically-travelling
bodies.
Economically, the author showed how, owing to
the high passenger-velooity through the barriers,
the probability of non-payment of fares was some
4$ higher than that i n the case of bus travel. The
author l i s t e d and described some 376 occasions when
he personally had broken through this barrier-
layer of humanity, whilst retaining hi3 ticket for
a future occasion.
A time study, applying Einstein's gravitat-
ional fiddle, was not understood by anyone, inclu-
ding the author. He stated, however, that pro-
vided DirektstrBm remained unbroken, the bus was
slower.
The motion of bodies was observed to vary with
age. Thus, young male persons displayed a 74$« ten-
dency to f a l l into the arms of date-worthy steno-
graphers, whilst only 39/» of the dapper business-
men displayed this characteristic. The ogling eye
common to both categories was more marked i n the
latter case. Of the opposite sex, an astoundingly
painstaking research was conducted, as was to be
expected. Out of 1,000 subjects studied, 130 were
discarded on sight (being classified as bass-viola
players, etc., en route to R.C.M.) 610 were helped
to their feet and dropped rapidly on their uttering
the words "Thenks everso, I'm sure". The fate of
the remaining 260 was not stated.
A discussion followed, interesting points
raised being:-
"What about the Polyphase Shunting
Motor?"
"The flux i s proportional to the
f i f t h power of the weight of
solder present."
"What about the Russians?"
"This matter w i l l be dealt with at
the next Guilds Union meeting."
"What about your last orders?"
Mr. Prodmore:
The Author:
A Voice:-
The Author:-
The Barman:-
The meeting was olosed.
X.K.G.F.
TO -NIGHT I
IMPERIAL COLLEGE W
O
M
E
N
'
S ASSOCIATION
ANNUAL DANCE
8-12 pm. GYM 6/—DOUBLE
(Formal Dress Preferred)
U.L. HOCKEY CUP
The I.C. team has successfully come through the
f i r s t two rounds of the University Cup contest, but
on neither occasion coald they have been said to
have looked like Cup holders. This i s disappointing
as there is no reason at a l l why they should not be
just as strong as last year's winning team and i t is
fortunate that our f i r s t two opponents have not pro-
duced any serious opposition.
A cup team playing University players can never
be quite so satisfactory in team work as the regul-
ar XI, and at this early stage i t is not fair to be
too c r i t i c a l , but I would like to see more 'zip'
and much more decisive play. At present i t is far too
jerky - fast runs, then seconds of indecision; or a
good movement into the opponents goal area, then a pass
well behind the circle. Twice as many goals should have
been scored i n these two matches.
However there i s no reason at a l l why a l l these weak-
nesses should not be remedied and our next opponents,
Kings College, soundly beaten. We want more drive and
hard persistent attacking in the last twenty-five yards,
so go to i t I.C'.'.
A.S.

