4 FELIX
CEDITOR'S
omment
DISCIPLINE
We may look with pride upoo our elected Executive! In the first
month of this session they have done two really p itive things wh;
~h
stand out as of being of importance to every mem of ICU Fii >
they have changed a previous ruling and invited z FELIX reporter to
be present at the Monday Exec, meetings. This will, I'm sure, lead to
better understanding of criticised executive.decisions as in most cases
it is true to say that an informed press is a cooperati'•". press. Even if
feeling runs against a decided course of action at least tlie " pros " as
well as the "cons" may be stated and more open discussion
encouraged.
Their second, and potentially more important move, has been
the issuing of the statement on discipline printed in this issue of Felix.
In past years we have repeatedly been faced with an executive whose
facade has cracked whenever it is confronted with a case of unaccept-
able student behaviour.
Let it be hoped that this statement is not another empty threat—
that when faced with a drunken dissident, as doubtless they will be,
they will use their full powers to show they mean business.
Although their responsibility is great the onus is not entirely
upon them; it is up to every student to help create the atmosphere we
want of our union.
If we are to have a union of which we may be proud—a union
where we may relax—a union where we may lead a corporate and
integrated life—we must make it quite clear that we, the members, will
not accept behaviour in our union that would not be tolerated
elsewhere.
PRESIDENTIAL ABUSE
Over the last two years union meetings have developed into a
contest of President v. the rest. This has lead to a decline in debating
standards and an increase in presidential abuse of the floor. For
example, in the session 65/66 this took the form of an apparently
biased running of the AGM at which the annual elections are held,
in 66/67 the president (and chairman) deserted a meeting and already
in this session the president has abused the floor of the union in his
handling of the meeting of the 16th October. There are I feel two
causes of complaint;firstlyhe allowed two of the IC vice presidents
to continue an amusing but distracting pantomime with their water
during a proposal speech for the Carnival charity—this was crass
ill manners and should have been stopped immediately if choosing our
charity is to be any thing more than a farce. Secondly his offhand
attitude to the absence of the accounts for last session gives cause
for concern. Presentation of the accounts at the first union meeting
of the session is an article of the ICU by-laws designed to keep the
floor of the union informed; it would have been at least courteous to
have volunteered an explanation early on o? why they had not yet been
audited, and to have said when their readiness was likely.
If the object and conduct of a union meeting is to be serious, as
I believe is desirable of ICI meetings, then interest will be generated
only if the subject and standard of debate is high. Therefore, to this
end, I would suggest that floor and chair alike return to a more
formal debating style and that an effort be made to find an organised
opposition to general motions, as it is hard to get raging discussion of
an unopposed motion.
MIKE
Within a month the IC mascot, Mike, should again be restored
to its seat of honour in the union lounge, to start itsfifthweek on dis-
play since its inauguration early last session. Having been bandied
around London and suffered a peculiarly unpleasant stay at UC
encased in concrete it will indeed by a happy change for members of
IC to get a glimpse of him.
Whether or not one believes in mascotry is irrelevant; if we have
a mascot (for which incidentally the union has paid £35 and others
considerably more) we may as well look after it. It is not for instance
a cunning defensive ploy to leave our beloved (?) micrometer
unguarded in a room with two unlocked exits as was the case, we are
told, at the beginning of this session. It was fortunate indeed that it
was found by two college patriots who removed it to a place of safe
keeping. Learn your lesson, you members of W.H.O.; next time it
may be some marauding kingsman or polytechnician who carries Mike
off.
Finally then, gentlemen of IC, be upstanding and steadfast in the
defence of your mascot—be not thwarted by the powers of evil, (UC
and the like), for if Mike is again mislayed we must admit ignominious
defeat and adopt that truly foolproof plinth as our piece d'honneur.
V i n o d ' s V i e w s
Imperial College
London, S.W.7
Internal 2881
Tel. KEN 2963
Editor : RORY REDMAYNE
Asst. Editor: John Mullaly.
Sports Editor : Phil Hopwood
News Editor : Paul Heath
Features Editor : Les Pryor
Business Managers :
Dave Cooper and Mary Ford
Advertising Manager:
Justin Griffiths
Sales Manager : Pete Chapman
Late News Editor: Dick Reeves
Photographic Editor :
Colin Broad
Cartoonist: Stuart Senior
What's. On : Ken Simpson
With : Colcutt, Alan Stapleton,
Andrew Perry, Anita Furness,
Colin Harrison, Caroline.
Patsy, Dave Potter, Patrick
Rotherham, Dick Sommer, Ron
Ron Bass.
Advertising Agency: Educational Publicity (Partners) Ltd.
CHA 6081
VINOD GARGA
Vinod Garga was elected as
the sixth Union floor rep. in
Council at the last Union meet-
ing. As a member of Council
and of its External Affairs Com-
mittee he has the chance to put
his ideas and opinions into prac-
tice. Here he writes about the
ways in which he feels the Union
could be improved.
It has been repeated over and
over again that I.C. Union ad-
ministration has lost its touch
with the students whom it is sup-
posed to represent. I believe in it
to a large extent, although it is
not entirely the administration's
fault. As a rough guess not more
than 800 students are in any way
associated with Union activities.
Hence a concerted effort has to
be made to attract as many of the
other 3,000 members.
Publicity
The Union must ensure that
minutes of its meetings, council
meetings and resolutions of spe-
cial importance adopted by com-
mittees must be publicised as
much as possible by displaying on
all departmental notice boards. A
display in the Union building is
just not sufficient. Attendance at
a number of Union meetings
barely reaches the quorum stage
This may be so partially because
many students do not wish to
miss the General Studies pro-
gramme of their choice. It
would be worth a try not to
oreanise any other lectures when
Union meetings are held. This in
no way implies any criticism of
the General Studies programme,
but I think that most of the stu-
dents who take the trouble to go
to General Studies would be the
ones who would also be interested
in attending Union meetings.
I.C. Lodging Bureau
It has been pointed out that
since a large number of students
stay a long distance away from
the College, it is difficult for them
to participate fully in College
activities. One way by which
the situation could be eased would
be the establishment of a College
Lodgings Bureau. It is common
knowledge that there are literally
thousands of student lodgings in
areas within walking distance of
the College. However, many stu-
dents complain that the Univer-
sity of London Lodgings Bureau
has very few addresses in areas
near I.C. A body like this, which
has to deal with many thousands
of students from all over London,
cannot seriously be expected to
cater specially for students in
South Kensington. This void can
be effectively filled by the estab-
lishment of an I.C. lodgings
bureau. To help with the run-
ning expenses of such a bureau,
some suitable arrangement may
perhaps be reached with the
Royal College of Music and, the
Royal College of Art.
P.G.s
The fact that SO few P.G.s come
at all to the Union should
suggest the need of a special ef-
fort to interest them. It should
not be forgotten that the majority
of P.G.s come from foreign
countries and therefore some
measure of hesitancy and reluc-
tance should not be unexpected.
It is necessary for the Union to
organise special meetings and get
togethers (even dinners for mar-
ried P.G.s!) to cater for them.
The Union and constituent Col-
lege officials should try to contact
them personally by visiting them
in their departments. This is,
undoubtedly, very hard work; but
I do feel that unless an attempt
is made to contact them on a per-
sonal basis, there can be little
hope of participation from that
quarter.
External Affairs
Finally a word about external
affairs. There is a tendency for
some students to dismiss the
external affairs aspect of College
activities as " politics." Surely a
student is much more than adata-
feeding machine and he cannot be
expected to behave as if he has
no obligations as a member of an
international community (whether
some like it or not is another
question!). Let us not forget that
criticism and discussion are very
healthy signs of an alive, chal-
lenging society.
Sir,
On Tuesday, 24th October, ,an
ananymous duplicated sheet was
distributed in the Union. This
was concerned with Vietnam
War Demonstration on Sunday,
22nd of October, in which a num-
ber of I.C. people took part. In
particular, it alleged police bru-
tality in Grosvenor Square. I
was present at the Embassy and
thought the police acted with
great restraint. The trouble was
in fact started by a group of
demonstrators attempting to
break through the police cordon
by physical violence. The use of
flour bombs by certain demon-
strators shows that they came
prepared to start trouble. If
people assault the police" they
should not be surprised when the
police retaliate. Thirty police-
men were injured in what cain
only be described as a riot, and
I fail to see how this serves the
cause of peace. To accuse the
police of defending US Imperial-
ism is fatuous. The police
were defending the occupants and
property of the Embassy from
what had degenerated into a
mob. The document ends with
the following: " Forty-seven
people have been arrested. Sev-
eral police and demonstrators are
in hospital all because of L.B.J."
I would suggest that it is all
because of the irresponsible be-
haviour of a small group of
demonstrators, • and I am
ashamed that anyone from IC
could take part in or condone
such action.
MARTIN BLAND.
C O L C U T T
You all know about the happy
yak—the who ?•—in the Isle of
Man who thought his wife was
too woolly. " Before I get down
(up?) to making love to you,"
he said, " You go and get
bugged." " Er ?" queried his
wife. "No, just bugged," he
said. So his wife went and had
her fur rhotheaten and when she
came back, hubby yak was dead
pleased. "Keith Guy will just
love that coat," he explained,
" and anyway, I didn't want our
heirs cut off."
And among other ideas that
Keith Guy just seems to love is
Spastic Dairy Pail—flowing, no
doubt, with the milk of human
kindness. A discoheadache with
its light bazookas aimed at
thought reforming you into be-
lieving you're the greatest—and
aren't you, when you're purple
and pink together ? Man, those
hops ain't hip no longer.
Let's all be beautiful like the
swing Ents Committee and switch
on every Friday night. There's
only one small problem : it's not
one of size—hell, we could all
switch jn to another and who'd
notice ; it isn't one of organisa-
tion— you forget we've the
greatest Ents Committee of all
time. It's really that the
Ents Committees want to be
part of something select—they've
tried long enough. And so there
are to be restrictions on those who
may enter this cytherean centre
of perpetual pleasure. "This,"
says Guy, "will enable us to re-
strict membership." I suppose
this is in the best traditions of
Imperial College. And I sup-
pose Guy, though he made Coun-
cil is still narked at the alliances
which in the past have restricted
him from getting the I.C. Presi-
dency. So a little bit of empire-
building on the side is all in the
game. I mean Tony Duke, whom
they dragged in to oppose Guy,
was a nice fellow. Wasn't he ?
Perhaps all Guy wanted was to
be sub-warden of Weeks.' It's
just the job for someone who
couldn't keep the Union he pre-
sided over in order.
But it's always best (isn't it,
Mr. Seaford ?) to allow those
who've had it already to have
some more. Perhaps Guy just
wants to keep the rugby players
out. Okay, so we all hate the
rugby club—but that's no reason
to keep them out—not so as to
keep out any old Union member.
Are you a member of the hier-
archy ? Switdh on, love in and
freak out every Friday. And if
you're not—well, tough.
But there are some other guys
with quaint, up-to-date ideas.
Like Chris O'Donnell. Suave,
fast-talking Father O'Donnell
with his Stateside T-shirt, who
guides the prelates of Guilds
to further sins against I.C.
" Stronger constituent Unions
means a stronger I.C. Union," he
confesses. I get it fast—divided
we stand and united we fall. Like
if three people attempt to urge
their followers to greater things,
one may succeed. ' So let's put
everything in triplicate — Com-
rade Ruhemann should love that
—and throw in a joint Union for
good effect.
But the effect is bad: who
cares about Union No. 4 ?
Where will Ray Phillips be on
Morphy Day ? Sitting alone in
the Union Office, talking to him-
self in an outlandish voice ? And
with the strange two-facedness of
our three colleagues, the three
confesses. I get it fast—divided
discussions on academic matters.
We must admit to the logic of
these Unions with their concern
for throwing mud-pies for real on
Morphy Day at their fellow-stu-
dents : and metaphorically in the
acedemic sub-committees at their
professors. It's all good for staff-
student relations—and how many
do we have together ? They may
argue that we shouldn't take life
too seriously—after all, we won't
get out of it alive.
No, it's like the nurse in the
Beatle rhyme:
" She feels as if she's in a play,
" She is, anyway."
Except that our three Colleges
are playing a farce.

