Friday 7th March 1980 T H E NEWSPAPER O F IMPERIAL C O L L E G E UNION Issue Number 547
INSIDE FELIX THIS WEEK
Page 2: Letters: Security, Finniston, London Student.
Page 3: Birkenhead kids at IC.
Page 4: Muitigym, RCS voting.
Page 5: Bicycles.
Page 6: Heath at Imperial.
Page 7: RCS results.
Page 9: Reviews.
Page 11: P G Tips, Rag.
Page 12: IC Radio, Clubs and Societies.
Page 13: Clubs and Societies.
Page 14: Hyde Park Relay. ,
Page 15: Sport.
On Monday, Sir Monty Finniston spoke to College. It was a In the evening, the Union staged an open discussion of
speech of authority, charm and wit, but through it showed his 'Educating Engineers Following Finniston'. Taking part were
fears that the report would collect dust on some minister's Sir James Menter, FRS, Lord Flowers, M r L Heard and Prof
shelf. Brown.
IC AND FINNISTON
A R E Y O U FIT T O LEAD A DUSTMEN'S STRIKE?
The City and Guilds College Dean is
chairing the College committee which will
be responding to the Finniston Report.
O n Monday night he revealed his personal
views. Professor Brown said:
"I have sat down for ten hours with ten
highly intelligent colleagues to try to
consider how we reacted to the Finniston
Report and we have agreed on six words
which are "We welcome the Finniston
Report, but . . .". There, roughly speaking,
we stick, because the things that we all fuss
about are quite different.
What is the impact of all this on IC?
Finniston proposes that there should be
three streams of engineers. At IC we are
not set up to educate the technicians, those
on the proposed R Eng (Assoc) courses. So
one of Finniston's stream is not our direct
education business. The other two streams
are the graduate streams, the three year B
Eng lot and the four year M Eng. Finniston
proposes that twenty-five percent ought to
be the M Eng lot who are going to be the elite
and the leaders of industry. One has to
pause and think about this twenty-five
p e r c e n t . A b o u t fifty p e r c e n t of the
engineering undergraduates are in polys
and it seems likely . . . that if this system is.
set up M Eng courses will occur in a limited
number of institutfons and pray to G o d they
are universities, they may not be.
Making the simplifying assumption that
they are, fifty percent of the universities
Sir Monry Finniston
graduates now become M Eng fodder. In all
modesty . . . our students are among the
best in the country, we are able in all our
departments to set a very high level of A
level entry requirements and on the face of
it, you would think, the whole of our intake
ought to be in the top fifty percent of the
university undergraduates in the country
and so we ought to be able to say IC is an M
Eng place.
When we came to talk about this,
departments reacted in different ways to it.
Civ Eng has little hesitation to this . . . but
other people were modest and said it's all
very well, but this twenty-five percent of the
total . . . are supposed to be destined to be
the leaders of industry and X Y Z in our
second years are not fit to lead a dustman's
strike. So we are not happy that all our
intake . . . are really suited to be the leaders
of industry.
People then guessed as to the proportion
of their students who were qualified."
He then explained the consequences of
removing students after the first year and
replacing them with new students who had
inferior A level qualifications. He stated
"Maybe academic superiority is not the right
kind of requirement for leadership in
industry." "If so, an M Eng set up at IC
starts to look a little sick. Perhaps what we
are looking for is personal qualities, and if so
quite a lot of our intake hasn't got it! As
essentially we choose them on an academic
basis even though all departments now
interview (we look for some spark of being
alive) Finniston says it can't be done at that
stage."
He went on to speak against the system
by which both streams worked side by side.
The committee had agreed that entry
requirements would not be lowered at IC —
continuing at 3B's. He though there were no
guidelines to the splitting of the first year
into two streams and felt it was a socially bad
thing to create second class citizens." There
are e c o n o m i c a n d terrible p e r s o n a l
problems of this system" he said.
I M P O R T A N T N O T I C E
If you will be away from College on
M o n d a y and Tuesday you may vote in
the sabbatical elections T O D A Y , by
going up to the U n i o n Office.
The IC organised Hyde Park Relay was held last Saturday. Pictures here are by Mickie Marsh and
Groves (A full report appears on Page 14)

