FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 01 MARCH
10
A problem of perception
‘d like to perform a small ex-
periment. Picture a scientist in
your mind. Now answer this:
what gender is your scientist?
What colour is their skin? I’d
hazard a guess that a large number of
you pictured a white male. Mine has a
beard too – and he’s scrunched over
a desk in a solitary room, calculating
something. His clothes are scruﬀy,
and he clearly doesn’t care over-much
about his appearance.
We all have mental preconceptions.
Of people, of jobs, and of the way life
is in general. It’s not really possible to
get away from that. Nor would the lack
of them be desirable – how would we
begin to think about anything without
somewhere to start from? We can’t re-
member the properties of everything
individually so we have to categorise
and just remember ‘if it’s in this cat-
egory it has these properties’.
As scientists, we like to think of our-
selves as objective and rational. It’s
what we strive for. But we are humans
like everyone else, and sometimes our
irrationality gets the better of us. A re-
cent study [1] looked into the hiring of
lab assistants, aiming to determine if
there was any gender bias in the way
that science departments viewed the
relative competence of male and fe-
male applicants. hey created a group
of fake applications, containing the
same content, but randomly assigned
the names as male or female. he dif-
ferences were striking: on average,
men were consistently judged as being
‘more competent’, and oﬀered higher
starting salaries (by about $3500) than
women.
But this wasn’t a case of ‘misogy-
nistic old men’ putting women down.
he study found that the gender, and
indeed age, of the academic judging
the candidates had no signiﬁcant ef-
fect. In other words, women were just
as likely as men to rate female candi-
dates as ‘less competent’. Curiously,
despite not oﬀering them the job as
frequently, both also consistently
rated female candidates as more ‘like-
able’: given that the CVs were identi-
cal, it would seem that this hints at yet
another false preconception, though
in this case working against men.
Recently, within the Department
of Physics, a group of students have
started meeting to talk about these
issues, and questions much wider
than that: are there fewer people from
ethnic minorities than there ought to
be? What is life like for disabled peo-
ple who want to pursue science? For
the purposes of this article, I’m going
to focus on women in physics in par-
ticular, though much of this extends
to other sciences and engineering
equally well.
here is strong evidence that far
fewer women go on to do physics re-
search than in other sciences. In 2006,
only 14.78% of PhD students from the
‘Top 50’ departments (as rated by the
National Science Foundation) were fe-
male [2]. his compared with 33.42%
and 45.89% for Chemistry and Biology
respectively.
First of all, why should we care?
Many arguments have been proposed
to explain this. I will address some of
them here, and hopefully convince you
that this is worth thinking carefully
about. One argument that is frequent-
ly encountered concerns the relative
ability of males and females in phys-
ics. Intelligence is tricky to deﬁne, but
if we focus on performance in areas
relevant to mathematical disciplines
such as physics, then some research
shows that despite there being no dif-
ference in the average ability between
genders, males exhibit a greater vari-
ance. If you picture a normal distribu-
tion, you can see that a consequence
of this is that there are signiﬁcantly
more males with very high ability (and
also very low) than there are females.
One ﬁgure puts this at twice as many
males as females in the top 1% [3].
Does this explain the situation? Let’s
leave aside issues of whether the data
is applicable and assume that it is for
the moment (this is a complicated
area – the diﬀerence in variability has
been shown to be diﬀerent, and even
reversed, in diﬀerent cultures, for ex-
ample [4]). A very crude comparison
of ‘2:1 male:female ratio in the top
1%’ with the 14.78% female PhD stu-
dents’ might hint that this isn’t suﬃ-
cient. More importantly, however, it
has been shown that women are less
likely to want to pursue careers in sci-
ence, independent of their ability [5].
his in itself tells us that a diﬀerence
in variability cannot explain the lack
of women.
Which brings us to the second
point. Perhaps women just aren’t
as likely to want to study physics as
much as men? his is an interesting
one, because it is probably true, but
really just re-states the question –
why don’t more women want to study
physics? he assumption behind this
argument seems to be that women are
intrinsically less interested in phys-
ics. However, there is some evidence
that can be interpreted as suggesting
that girls are put oﬀ physics at an early
age. A recent study by the Institute of
Physics [6] found that girls educated
in single-sex schools were up to twice
as likely to study physics at A-Level:
an eﬀect which persisted even taking
into account social background and
type of school. What is it about be-
ing educated around boys that makes
girls less interested in physics? I don’t
have an answer to that, but this seems
to me to undermine the idea that girls
are ‘innately’ less interested, and sug-
gests that something is putting them
oﬀ.
Finally, I’ve also heard it suggested
that the eﬀect is a hang-over from the
days when people were less conscious
of gender equality, and that it will
take time for more women to get into
physics. It’s certainly true that we’ve
made a lot of progress over the last
few decades, but there are problems
with this line of reasoning. he ﬁrst is
that recent data doesn’t support this.
If it were the case, we would expect
to see more women in the early stages
of their academic careers, but in 2006
the National Science Foundation’s
ﬁgures for the percentage of female
‘Assistant Professors’ at the ‘Top 50’
departments were 11.15% and 21.47%
for physics and chemistry respectively
[2]. So even if things have improved,
it would appear that physics has not
improved as much as other subjects.
Now that I’ve raised some objec-
tions to these ob-
jections, I’d like to
talk about why this
matters so much
to me. I began this
article by talking
about unconscious
perceptions and
this, I believe, is the
root of the problem
facing physics. I be-
lieve this because I
know for a fact that
I hold these percep-
tions as much as
anyone else.
I ﬁrst noticed this
when one of my lec-
turers told us about
the work of Emmy
Noether. For those
who aren’t famil-
iar with her work,
Emmy Noether
is best known for
‘Noether’s heo-
rem’, a mathemati-
cal formulation of
the link between
conservation laws
and symmetries
in nature. It is a
beautiful idea, and
underlies much of
modern physics. In her day, Noether
had to ﬁght to be accepted among
academics, and at one time could only
lecture unoﬃcially under the name
of her colleague David Hilbert. How-
ever, what struck me is that when I
ﬁrst heard about ‘Noether’s heorem’,
I assumed ‘Noether’ must be a man.
Statistically, this was a reasonable as-
sumption. But what bothered me was
that I was surprised when I learnt that
she was not. Why should I have been
surprised? Is it because I don’t regard
women as capable of being as com-
petent as men? I wasn’t consciously
aware of believing that. Counter-in-
tuitively, however, research has shown
that those who most care about be-
lieving they are objective are in fact
more likely to harbour biases [7].
If we are capable of being biased
without even realising it, then how
much discrimination is going on un-
der our noses without even being no-
ticed? Playing a blame-game and cry-
ing ‘misogynist conspiracy’ will not
help with this. Awareness will. hink-
ing about these issues rather than
hoping they will just go away is the
only way to combat our unconscious
perceptions. I’ve made a lot of points
here, and there is so much more to say.
If you think I am wrong then I invite
you to tear my arguments to pieces.
At least we’ll both be thinking about
it, and I’ll have achieved my goal.
he author would like to thank the
Equal Opportunities Group for the
many vibrant discussions which in-
spired this article, and in particular
Soﬁa Qvarfort and Apostolia Tasoudi
for their advice, critique, and encour-
agement of this particular project.
Stephen Stopyra explores the gender imbalance in physics
I
References
[1] C. A. Moss-Racusin, J. F. Dovidio, V. L. Brescoll, M. J. Graham and J. Handelsman, “Science faculty’s subtle gender biases favor,” PNAS, p. vol. 109 no. 41 pgs 16474–16479, 2012.
[2] J. Handelsman, N. Cantor, M. Carnes, D. Denton, E. Fine, B. Grosz, V. Hinshaw, C. Marrett, S. Rosser, D. Shalala and J. Sheridan, “More Women in Science,” Science, vol. 309, 2005.
[3] J. Valla and S. J. Ceci, “Can Sex Diﬀerences in Science Be Tied to the Long Reach of Prenatal Hormones? Brain Organisation heory, Digit Ratio (2D/4D) and Sex Diﬀerences in Preferences and Cogni-
tion,” Perspect Psychol Sci., vol. 6(2), pp. 134-136, 2011.
[4] A. Feingold, “Gender diﬀerences in variability in intellectual abilities: A cross-cultural perspective,” Sex Roles, vol. 30, no. 1-2, pp. 81-92, 1994.
[5] Y. Xie and K. A. Shauman, Women in Science: Career Processes and Outcomes, Harvard University Press, 2005.
[6] Institute of Physics, “It’s Diﬀerent for Girls: he Inﬂuence of Schools,” 2012.
[7] E. L. Uhlmann and G. L. Cohen, ““I think it, therefore it’s true”: Eﬀects of self-perceived objectivity on hiring discrimination,” Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, vol. 104, no. 2, pp.
207-223, 2007.
Aaniya Ahmed

