SCIENCE
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
FRIDAY 01 MARCH
Bow down to the brainiacs
Philippa Skett on the Human Connectome Project
H
One of the images already pro-
duced of connections in the brain
Graphite supercapacitors are taking charge
Keir Little Science Writer
http://www.humanconnectomeproject.org
ave you ever wanted
to get into the head of
someone? Maybe a po-
tential employer, your
examiners or even
someone you have taken a fancy to?
Do you often ﬁnd yourself question-
ing just what is even going on in your
own head? Neuroscientists are plan-
ning on possibly solving the myster-
ies of the brain mapping as a means
to treat neurodegenerative disorders,
as opposed to giving you an edge in
that job interview in the city, but it is
exciting nonetheless. However, where
is the catch, or rather, the cost?
he Human Connectome Project is
an eﬀort currently underway to build
a complete network map of the brain;
that is, it will be looking at the ana-
tomical and functional connections
between parts of the brain to create a
digital model at a scale never explored
before. Upon its launch in 2009, the
Project aims to shed new light on con-
nectivity patterns in the brain to per-
haps provide an insight into how to
treat Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s
or even schizophrenia. In a popula-
tion that is now facing an aging issue,
such treatments are becoming in-
creasingly essential for healthcare for
the future, although how the Project
will provide a direct platform to this
is unclear.
he Project is being pursued by
multiple components of the National
Institutes of Health, with the aim to
collate information together to form
the complete model. hese are split
into two consortia: one is the WU-
Minn consortium between Wash-
ington University and the University
of Minnesota, who are studying the
brain structure itself in accordance
to genetic and behavioural data. he
other is the MGH/Harvard-UCLA
consortium between Harvard Uni-
versity, Massachusetts General Hos-
pital and the University of California,
where they are attempting to optimise
MRI technology to give a greater spa-
tial resolution when it comes to neu-
rological imaging – not necessary to
view individual neurons, but as close
as they can get to that.
his is by no means a cost eﬀective
feat. he possibility of monetary sup-
port coming from billions of federal
funds from the American government
has been sparked by rumours that it
may be included in Obama’s federal
budget proposal, which is expected to
be conﬁrmed later this month. With
the Human Genome Project costing
around $3.8 billion dollars alone, this
project, with signiﬁcantly more costly
investigative techniques such as MRI,
could skyrocket in price and this may
ultimately come from the pockets of
the hardworking American.
However, despite this phenomenal
cost, the excitement in the scientiﬁc
community is tangible. he American
Association for the Advancement of
Science (AAAS) this month is one of
the largest scientiﬁc non-proﬁt soci-
eties globally, whose contributions
to the scientiﬁc community includes
the publication the established jour-
nal Science. he AAAS is highly in-
ﬂuential in terms of endorsement for
what may be the next big thing, and
this month the AAAS showcased
the emerging science of connectom-
ics (studying connections) as one to
watch, including this project.
But does the project deserve such
hype? he Human Genome Project
was heralded as something that will
“change everything.” Indeed it did,
but through subsequent research
based on the incomplete three billion
letter sequence, that is still ongoing.
No doubt the Human Connectome
Project will follow a similar path –
should the project be completed, only
then can research begin to truly ﬁnd
possible cures for neurodegenerative
diseases.
Unlike the Human Genome Project
however, how reliant future research
in neuroscience is on this project’s
completion is unclear; unless the
MGH/Harvard-UCLA consortium
can develop a greater resolution in
MRI technology, the project will still
be based on the imaging technolo-
gies already available in neuroscience,
which can be seen as rather crude in
nature as it is. herefore, is there a
better way to spend all of this money
in combating these diseases in a more
direct manner than that requiring the
whole mapping of the brain? For now,
it seems not.
Should it be successful, the Project
will no doubt be hitting the front of
newspapers soon and hopefully will
be the neurological equivalent to the
Human Genome Project in regards to
function. It very much deserves to be
so based on its potential cost, but it
will still only merely be the beginning
of a much awaited route to deeper
neurological understanding; the hard
work will not end here. It could take
decades more before therapeutic
treatments are found for neurodegen-
erative diseases, and centuries more
before we can actually read the minds
of teachers, bosses or classmates. For
now, we may have to let science ﬁc-
tion have that prerogative, and keep
our ﬁngers crossed that the Human
Connectome Project will be a success.
In a viral video released last week
from the website www.upworthy.com,
Richard Kaner and Maher El-Kady of
the University of California, Los An-
geles revealed that they have discov-
ered a cheap and eﬃcient new way
of manufacturing graphene, in a way
which could lead to the development
of aﬀordable graphene-based capaci-
tors and batteries.
heir method (also published in
Nature Communications) involves
depositing a ﬁlm of graphite oxide on
a plastic surface and then irradiating
it with a laser – they used a standard
DVD and LightScribe DVD burner.
Much more than merely creating a
sheet of graphene, this process can
be used to inscribe graphene circuits
in the insulating graphite oxide layer
with a resolution of 20μm; a method
which could be scaled up to industri-
ally produce ﬂexible electronics.
"Traditional methods for the fab-
rication of micro-supercapacitors
involve labor-intensive lithographic
techniques that have proven diﬃcult
for building cost-eﬀective devices,
thus limiting their commercial ap-
plication," El-Kady said. "Instead, we
used a consumer-grade LightScribe
DVD burner to produce graphene
micro-supercapacitors over large ar-
eas at a fraction of the cost of tradi-
tional devices. Using this technique,
we have been able to produce more
than 100 micro-supercapacitors on a
single disc in less than 30 minutes, us-
ing inexpensive materials."
Graphene’s supercapacitive abil-
ity has been under investigation for a
while. he UCLA researchers discov-
ered that by embedding an electrolyte
layer on their inscribed graphene,
they could produce micro-superca-
pacitors with the energy density of
lithium ion batteries, though unlike
batteries, they can charge in a matter
of seconds and are far less bulky and
heavy.
"he integration of energy-storage
units with electronic circuits is chal-
lenging and often limits the minia-
turization of the entire system," said
Kaner. "his is because the necessary
energy-storage components scale
down poorly in size and are not well
suited to the planar geometries of
most integrated fabrication process-
es."
Kaner’s team are now looking for
partners in industry to produce gra-
phene supercapacitors on a large
scale. While practical applications for
these may yet be far away, they could
eventually replace current batteries,
leading to ﬂexible, wearable elec-
tronic devices and phones, laptops or
even cars that could be charged in a
few seconds.
Love Science?
Or want to be Brian Cox? You need to start
somewhere...
Why not write for us? Get in touch!
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
One of the images already produced
of connections in the brain

