LOLCATZ OF
TEH WEEK:
Finding these is a perk of
the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Soap opera Acton
he new halls saga contin-
ues.
What’s interesting in all
of this is that the finances
of keeping Evelyn Gardens
seemtobebeingusedasareasonforre-
tainingthehalls.Theleaseisstillgoingto
lastforanother30oddyears.In30years
time I will be a very old Felix Editor. The
amount of money that would be spent
renovating the halls is deemed too high.
First of all, how much will it cost? I was
toldbyCollegethatactuallytheyhaven’t
had a proper evaluation done. Secondly,
are you saying that all of these students
having the best possible time at univer-
sity is not worth that? If you are, then,
well, that’s your opinion, and it’s not a
palatable one: it’s essentially putting a
monetary value on their heads, with a
decision made that they are not good
enough to warrant a bit of a loss – how
would you like that to be done to you?
What atmosphere does that foster in the
students? Being told that, unlike L’Oreal,
theyaren’tworthit.Ifyouwantalumnito
rave about Imperial and donate to it you
needtoshowthemthatsometimesthey
are worth a bit of money being spent on
them. This may make me sound like
a massive radical, but sometimes it’s
worth investing in people. It’s under-
standable that businesses (Imperial is a
business in a way, as they need to make
money to survive) must not lose money.
However, not every single little part has
to make money. Some things can just
be a service, such as having cheap halls
near to campus. Why not just refurbish
the halls to the standard they were at
before? The fact that they need refur-
bishment shows either neglect or inept
management: you have either saved
money by not fixing cracks etc, or you
have hired bad builders who haven’t
done agoodjob –the latterisamanage-
ment failure and/or could be from trying
to save money. Those students’ happi-
ness is worth the money to refurbish,
even if we have to give the keys over to
the Wellcome Trust in just over three
decades.
That all got a bit abstract and “let’s do
it out of the goodness out our hearts-y”
didn’t it? Frankly, I don’t care that it did,
as being nice to people isn’t a crime. Ex-
amining the lease terms again: there are
over 30 years left. If nobody can negoti-
ate an extension in that time then wow
that’spoor.Seriously,youhave30years.
For comparison, in 30 years the fol-
lowing things happened: The Beatles
managed to meet, form, become an
incredibly successful band selling ab-
surd amounts of records and break-up
to pursue solo careers; Shakespeare
managed to write most of his plays;
two World Wars were declared, fought,
and resolved; the internet burst onto
the scene and became as huge as it is
COMMENT MUSIC SPORT
Smoke screen Full of towels Bottle Match
Apparently smokers feel vic-
timised sometimes. That’s what
one of the articles is about.
Should be interesting to see
what the reaction to this is.
This week the Music Editor
Ross talks about going to a pret-
ty sick sounding Boiler Room.
He also wrote it heroically close
to the print deadline...
A heroic effort by Sorcha to get
this done. Also, a more heroic
effort by RSM to all get hor-
rifically wasted before it’s even
midday.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
>>18 >>32 >>48
FRIDAY 01 MARCH
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editors Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka
Rana Science Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George
Barnett, Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Mark England, Ross Gray, Simon
Hunter Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editors Jason Parmar, Maximilian Eggl Coffee Break Boss Matt Colvin Travel Editor
Veronika McQuade Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos Copy Chief Annina Sartor Copy
Editors Thomas Lim, Gerry Hawkins Web Uploading Thomas Lim Illustrators Hamish Muir, Outi Supponen, Aaniya Ahmed
Last week I made some atrocious grammar/spelling errors in the Editorial. I worked myself to near madness, but I still will strive to improve the quality of the paper. – Tim
T
now; and my parents managed to raise
five children and send them all off to
university (thanks by the way!). Not to
hammer the point home too much, but
before the lease runs out the majority of
Americans will be too young to remem-
ber the iPhone being launched. The list
goes on. What Imperial has to do in that
time is ask if it can keep paying to rent
something. When you consider that in
the past someone like Lord Byron could
be born, create a character type so en-
during that they are still used all the time
today, and die, all in just over the space
of time they have, you think that maybe
we’ve got a bit soft as a species really.
College has an incredible asset in Evelyn
Gardens; they must use it, don’t lose it.
The bars and other such things there
are not as innocent as it seems. The
moneymadefromthemwillgobackinto
Campus Services’ pockets. Plus, the de-
velopment is in a place with two hotels
near by. It’s well know that halls are rent-
ed out during summer, and, coinciden-
tally, W3 will be set up with a concierge
service and 24/7 reception; making the
switch into money making summer ho-
tel that little bit easier
This backup option will hopefully re-
main that: a backup. The thing is, last
week I had a photo that I titled “Scott
Heath Backup”. That was the photo that
went in, as I moved on to other work and
didn’t keep looking for a replacement.
There is the crux of the problem really:
once you have a solution, you don’t usu-
ally seek out a better one unless you
have the time. How many times have
you re-written an essay in an exam? Or
copied an answer in neater handwriting
after thinking “that’s messy, but I’ll copy
it up again later if I have the time”?
In an ideal world, the Union would be
able to search for alternatives to bring to
the table. However, they don’t have the
staff and resources for that. Besides,
their job is to advise, which they have
done.
Hard to translate
This week brings news that the deci-
sion has been pushed back until June.
They’ve also been asked to find a new
home themselves. This seems slightly
odd. Wouldn’t the people at the top of
College have all of the best contacts in
other universities? Would it not there-
fore be easier for them to find another
institution to house the Translation
Studies Unit? Would it not be more po-
lite and respectful? Especially as you
have stalled it until June, and are then
going to give them a very short amount
oftimetopackupandleave.Ialsoques-
tion how you can complete a degree
without your supervisor. Find them a
home elsewhere, and allow enough
time for a smooth transition.

