Anonymous
Love Europe, Hate the EU
f you really love Europe then
you ought to be a Eurosceptic
by now.
It’s been striking to see the
amount of pro-EU articles in
these pages over recent weeks. First
Pietro Aronica wrote about the need
for a ‘United States of Europe’, and
now Leonardo Ialongo has written
two pieces on ‘A European Citizen-
ship’ to celebrate the launch of a Eu-
ropean Society on campus. Following
David Cameron’s speech in mid-Jan-
uary promising a referendum on the
UK’s membership of the EU, this sud-
den appearance of propaganda should
be of no surprise.
What has surprised me, however, is
the level of delusional thinking that
these writers and other staunch sup-
porters of the EU have shown.
Leonardo’s ﬁrst article discussed the
numerous beneﬁts that the UK enjoys
as part of the EU, such as consumer
protection, increased mobility across
the continent, and greater power as
a bloc to inﬂuence global political is-
sues. hese are of course desirable.
he problem is that UK citizens feel
that these perks do not justify much
higher tax rates – in 2008, total cost
to the UK of EU membership was esti-
mated at £65 billion. hat’s the equiva-
lent of £1,000 per year for every sin-
gle person in the country. Given that
the UK economy is a complete mess,
its aging infrastructure is in decline
and its people are becoming relative-
ly poorer, perhaps they might have a
point that the money would be better
spent at home? If Europhiles were to
chat with the average British person,
they would ﬁnd that the old clichés
about how where our scepticism
comes from simply aren’t true – most
people couldn’t care less about the lost
empire, they just want value for their
money, and the EU doesn’t give it.
Leonardo tells us that this concern is
misguided as this money is in the form
of a loan, and ‘should therefore be paid
back’. he key word here is ‘should’.
He overlooks the inconvenient fact
that many, nay, most, states cannot
pay back their debts, and we are now
witnessing the consequences of this
across the world. It won’t change any
time soon.
His second article supports the in-
troduction of Eurobonds as part of a
ﬁscal union, since ‘more central Eu-
ropean oversight on national debt is
necessary’. his is a euphemism for
the transferral of the power to tax and
spend from national governments to
Brussels. It is also remarkably simplis-
tic thinking. In such a scenario, it is
clear that this would essentially result
in Germany, the continent’s economic
powerhouse, deciding how money
should be allocated across local econ-
omies. It is hard to see this going down
well anywhere in Europe, least of all in
Greece, where Germany has imposed
austerity as a condition for receiving
bailouts, and newspaper depictions
of Angela Merkel in Nazi uniform are
now common. But it won’t happen
anyway, because no national govern-
ment would ever permanently hand
over their centuries-old power to tax
and spend to Brussels. his is because
in doing so they would themselves be-
come obsolete.
his brings us on to the next point,
which is that in fact the Eurozone’s
main problem is not economic in na-
ture, but one of political legitimacy.
Leandro correctly notes that the pro-
ject has been driven by the European
elite, and has alienated the European
population. He thinks this can be
solved by a ‘process of democratisa-
tion of its institutions’. Again, this
strikes me as just wishful thinking, be-
cause the whole ethos of the EU is an-
ti-democratic. he clearest example of
this was the forcing-through in 2008
of the Lisbon Treaty, a resurrection of
the deeply unpopular EU Constitution
which was rejected by the electorate in
2005. Aside from the usual cuts in na-
tional sovereignty, the most egregious
aspect of this move was that since the
people clearly didn’t want it, the poli-
ticians decided that they knew better,
and quietly changed the terms of the
treaty so that it could be passed in
parliaments, rather than having to go
through irksome referenda. Who in
their right mind would think that this
cynical attitude could be reversed?
It’s clear that what the Eurocrats
want is a kind of superstate similar to
the USA, as Pietro outlined in his arti-
cle. But this idea is nothing more than
a fantasy. Its proponents ignore the
fact that the USA has a completely dif-
ferent set of circumstances to our con-
tinent: they are a single nation-state,
which only came into being as a politi-
cal entity after a devastating civil war.
By contrast, Europe is a disparate re-
gion of many nations, each with their
own cultures, languages, histories
and levels of economic development.
In the utopian world of the Eurocrat,
Europe’s peoples would forget these
diﬀerences, and embrace a common
identity as, in Leonardo’s words, a ‘Eu-
ropean people’.
he problem with this is that no
such people exists – only millions of
humans from diﬀerent nations who
happen to live in a continent called
Europe. Although multi-lingual, mo-
bile types like him and I might be able
to get along well in the cosmopolitan
world of Imperial College, that doesn’t
mean that everybody else in a United
States of Europe would. He correctly
notes that the EU has played an im-
portant role in suppressing the latent
xenophobic and racist attitudes that
many people feel following World War
Two. But it is precisely because those
evils are never far below the surface
that we ought to be extremely wary of
those who want to forge grand politi-
cal projects while assuming that peo-
ples from vastly diﬀerent backgrounds
will get along nicely for the sake of its
continuity. As history has shown, this
is particularly the case when inequal-
ity is rising and living conditions begin
to decline, as they are across Europe
with the gradual movement of wealth
away from the West towards the de-
veloping markets. It is ironic that the
recent rise of far right parties across
Europe, notably in France, Hungary
and Greece, is in part a reaction to
the existence of the EU, rather than in
spite of it.
It is well known that European So-
cieties tend to consist of ex-pupils of
European Schools, and what inter-
ests me is the extent to which these
schools appear to indoctrinate their
pupils with pro-EU propaganda. he
USSR was a very diﬀerent institution
to the EU, but one can’t help being re-
minded of the way that Soviet school-
children were indoctrinated with the
enlightened principles of Marxism-
Leninism, even when its disastrous
results were clear for all to see outside
the classroom. he analogy goes fur-
ther when you remember that just as
Eurocrats want to create a new ‘Eu-
ropean People’, the Soviets were con-
vinced that they could create a ‘New
Soviet Man’ – a selﬂess, healthy and
educated enthusiast for spreading the
socialist Revolution. Unlike the USSR,
the EU will not slaughter millions in
the name of this ideal, but the simi-
larities are certainly instructive. Per-
haps it’s just a coincidence that many
of the EU’s leaders, most notably the
President of the European Commis-
sion Jose Manuel Barroso, are former
Maoists. Or perhaps not.
Why do these people so despise the
nation-state? I’d like to suggest that
graduates of European Schools who
become proto-spokesmen for the EU
simply lack a part of their own identity
– that same part that Italian people
get from going to Italian schools, or
Finnish people get by going to Finnish
schools. In absence of a school-time
aﬃliation with any particular nation,
these people ﬁnd solace in the pros-
pect of a new, European identity, and
now want to impose this on the rest of
us, most of whom are quite happy re-
maining Italian or Finnish ﬁrst rather
then European.
Being a Eurosceptic doesn’t make
you xenophobic, and you can still be
a fan of our continent and its peoples
without supporting the EU, as I am. In
fact, the consequences of greater inte-
gration could be far more disastrous
than the alternative. Perhaps if you re-
ally love Europe then you ought to be
a Eurosceptic by now.
An accident waiting
to happen
... you can
still be a
fan of our
continent and
its peoples
without
supporting
the EU
COMMENT
Comment Editors: George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 01 MARCH
20
An anonymous response to the recent comment articles on the
virtues of the EU
I

