unionpage
imperialcollegeunion.org
The results from the 2011 Times Higher Education student experience showed that Imperial had a below average
good community atmosphere, which I have tried to slightly remedy with encouraging Departmental Societies to start
yearly Facebook groups in Easter 2012, working with Dep Socs to make the Mums and Dads scheme a success (this
still does need improving though) and running an event between the Dep Socs called the Soc Off.
When I ran the ﬁrst one, I did not expect 450 students to attend Metric dressed as their subject on a Thursday night.
However, I was shocked by how much students enjoyed the night, the music and even some reporting they enjoyed
the Soc Off in the Union Survey. So I see no good reason to why another Soc Off should not be run – it’s called Soc
Off 2.0. It’s pretty much the same set-up as last time i.e. dress as your subject, £1 to get in, all the entry fees go to
the 3 Dep Socs who get the highest proportion of their students to attend and students studying different subjects
compete on inﬂatables e.g. Sumo Suit Wrestling Tournament and Gladiator Duel.
Through the success of a second event I plan to leave next year’s Sabbs with a good model to run a Mums and
Dads night on the second week of the Autumn term, so if Soc Off 2.0 is a success last like the last one, we will help
improve the Union’s Mums and Dads scheme for 2013.
Hopefully, you really want to attend now, so come along at 20:00, Wednesday 7 March to Metric and show that your
subject is the best and help improve Imperial’s “good community atmosphere”
.
Doug Hunt
DEPUTY PRESIDENT (EDUCATION)
dpeducation@imperial.ac.uk
Soc Off 2.0 - show your support for your Dep Soc!
Support our campaign
We need you to send us your #AgainstActon thoughts and experiences to
help us campaign against College’s plan to open a 700 bed halls of residence
over 30 minutes away in North Acton.
We are very concerned about what the effect will be, of living so far away
from campus, on students’ welfare. Tell us your thoughts on personal safety, the disconnection from College community, distance
from the many College and Union services or just the sheer drain of spending so much time on public transport each day.
Send us a message on Facebook, Tweet using the hashtag #AgainstActon or emailpresident@imperial.ac.uk starting your message
with “I’m #AgainstActon because… “
. We will be collating your thoughts on the Against Acton website www.imperialcollegeunion.org/
againstacton and passing them on to College. Of course, if you want your message to be anonymous just email president@imperial.
ac.uk stating that you wish to remain anonymous.
#AgainstActon
imperialcollegeunion.org/againstacton
RealAles at Imperial
College Union - tell
us which one you
want!
We serve real ales in the Union Bar and FiveSixEight at Imperial College Union, and we want to get your feedback on what ales you
would like to see. Regular ales in the bars are IPA (£2.90 a pint) and Tolly English Ale (or TEA - £2.20 a pint) and every month from
March, we’ll have a guest ale available, chosen by you. All you need to do it take the poll at imperialcollegeunion.org/realales and the
ale with the highest votes wins! The ales to choose from for March are Belhaven Grand Slam, Mayor of Garratt, Notting Hill Stout and
Yardbird. The current poll will close at 12:00, Monday 4 March, and the winning ale will be on sale from the following week. Choices for
guest ale in April will be on the website soon.
imperialcollegeunion.org/realales

