Pasta la vista, baby
Elizabeth Crow on jazzing up Mondays and THE de-facto student dish
he idea for pasta Mondays
came about as a way for
my boyfriend to try to get
me and my ﬂatmate to eat
more carbs. Before this we
tended to succumb to ‘no-carb-days’
(betterknownas‘no-fun-days’)andoth-
er such health kick fads! We appreciated
being cooked for and the opportunity
to eat together, but his pasta Mondays
generally consisted of overwhelming
‘rower-sized’ portions of pasta often ac-
companied with some sort of pesto, oc-
casionally some chicken, and perhaps a
concession of tomatoes for us girls.
Since he has moved out of London, we
have continued the tradition of substan-
tial portions to fulﬁl the main aim of eat-
ing more carbs. We still enjoy having at
least one evening in the week where we
make the eﬀort to sit down and eat to-
gether, but we’ve taken on the challenge
of creating cheap, quick and exciting
T
FOOD
FRIDAY 01 MARCH
22
Food Editors: Carol Ann Cheah,
Sophia Goldberg, Yiango
Mavrocostanti
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
pasta dishes that we really like eating. I
have particularly enjoyed being inspired
by pasta recipes in my favourite recipe
books that I would have previously
skimmed over if I was cooking for other
people; it came as a surprise to me that
pasta could be a impressive dish to serve
for special meals too!
he Pasta Mondays rules are as fol-
lows: the meal must be cheap, simple
and easy to cook (preferably all made in
less that half an hour – the exception to
this rule is lasagne, which is worth tak-
ing your time over), involve at least one
type of vegetable (one of your 5 a day!)
and exciting (no sauce from a jar!). We
often try to devise healthy twists of tra-
ditional pasta dishes or take inspiration
from pasta recipes found in our favour-
ite cookbooks. I have included some
of our creations to help inspire your
own Pasta Mondays (or Tuesdays, or
Wednesdays...).
This is a healthy and quick twist on the traditional macaroni
cheese. Penne or fusilli will work equally well. – Serves 2
250g pasta
One small head of broccoli and one small head of cauliflower
(or a pack of broccoli and cauliflower florets)
One pack of soft cheese (300g)
2tsp grainy mustard
Good handful of strong cheddar to sprinkle on top.
Salt and pepper
Cauliflower and Broccoli Cheese
Chop the broccoli and cauliflower heads into small pieces Put pasta on the boil and cook as per packet instructions. While
the pasta is cooking, put the vegetables in a sieve or steamer pan and steam over the pasta until both the pasta and vegeta-
bles are cooked. They should be done at roughly the same time.
Preheat the grill to medium. Drain the pasta, reserving a little of the cooking water and add the vegetables, soft cheese,
mustard and seasoning to the pasta pan. Stir until everything is well combined; if it looks a bit sticky, add a little of the
cooking water.
Pour the contents of the pan into a flat oven proof dish, then scatter over the cheddar and a grind of pepper. Put the dish
under the grill until the cheddar is crispy and golden. Serve at the table in the dish and enjoy!
I never believed this was worth making until I did one Pasta Monday – not only is it easy, but it tastes SO much better than
pesto from a jar (and I like pesto from a jar!) There are many variations on this classic recipe – I have included two below
that we have tried and loved.
We use a mini chopper/food processor to make ours, but you can still easily make a more ‘deconstructed’ pesto by finely
chopping the ingredients by hand.
Basil Pesto
50g pine nuts
50g parmesan cheese
1 bunch fresh basil leaves
1-2 cloves garlic, peeled
Olive oil
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
A squeeze of lemon juice
Toast the pine nuts (by dry frying in a pan or under a medium grill) until golden. Put most of the pine nuts, the parmesan,
basil,garlicandaglugofoliveoilintheminichopperandblend,graduallyaddingmoreoiluntilyouhaveapesto-likeconsist-
ency. Add a dash of lemon juice, season to taste and sprinkle over the remaining pine nuts. Use in pasta dishes as desired.
Ifyoudon’thaveafoodprocessor/minichopper:Finelygratetheparmesan,thenfinelychopthebasilandgarlicwithaknife.
Combine with the pine nuts and olive oil until the pesto-like consistency is achieved. Season as above.
Alternative: Spinach, Walnut and Goat’s Cheese Pesto
This is made in exactly the same way as above but substituting 60-70g spinach for the basil, 50g strong, hard goat’s cheese
for the parmesan and 50g walnuts for the pine nuts (if making by hand, chop the walnuts into smaller pieces.) Omit the
lemon juice at the end.
REAL Pesto
The Best-o Pesto that ever was(?) in action
So, what’s the big deal?
Carol Ann Cheah
Food Editor
It’s easy to see why pasta is touted as reliable student grub. It’s relatively cheap,
almost foolproof (RTFI, people – we’re Imperialites!) and doesn’t take ages. It’s
flexible – you can make it a simple bolognese affair, or slap on a complex sauce
and bake it in some mythical way passed down to you from a former mafiosi.
Leftovers keep well, so long as you don’t leave them in some black hole in the
back of your fridge. And like Elizabeth says, it’s also one of the quickest healthy
meals you can prepare so long as you follow a few simple rules (dieters need not
toss their heads in disgust. No, really.)
First up, definitely forget your tinned sauces – some amazing pasta accompa-
niments can be whipped up in the same time it takes to boil the pasta itself. You
don’t need me to tell you about the nasties in pre-made sauces; your wallet will
thank you for making your own from scratch. Best of all, you get to adjust your
own seasoning to suit – try modding the basic sauce recipe below for starters.
Watch the time of the day. Digesting carbs can sometimes send you into a
spot of drowsiness, which explains the famed mid-afternoon slump. That’s not a
big problem if you’re winding down in the evening; but for lunch I like to balance
thepastaportionoutwithmoreprotein(whichkeepsyoualertandfull)andveg.
It’s easily done in a pasta stir-fry, which is not unlike Chinese fried rice – just with
pasta instead! That way, you can control the amount of pasta that goes in with
the rest of the ingredients.
Think colourful. I’m a sucker for the creamy chicken and bacon pasta bake
that my housemate makes (hey Phil!), but my favourite feel-good penne stir-fry
includes a bigger variety of ingredients. Mushrooms, peppers, carrot, peas... the
colour from the veg doesn’t just mean nutrition, it looks more enticing!
Finally, live a little. All things in moderation is the best mantra to go by, so a
little pasta won’t hurt you. Besides, eating pasta triggers a nice dose of feel-good
serotonin so it’s a great dietary pick-me-up. If you’re on a diet (really?), either
decrease the carb portion, or switch out to wholegrain pasta – it keeps you fuller
for longer so you may not need as much, and it’s healthier. See – you really CAN
have your cake (I mean, pasta) and eat it too. Viva la pasta!
Refreshing Tomato and Basil (Base) Sauce
Sweat some onion and garlic in oil, then bung in pure passata/chopped tomatoes
(less than half a tin – the Italians use them too) and bring to the boil. Reduce for 5+
mins if making a 1-person portion – if making a bigger batch ahead of time, you’ll
need longer. Season with salt/pepper/sugar and some vinegar to taste, then add
basil and Basilio’s your uncle. Add chilli flakes for arrabiata, stir in mascarpone for
stuff that rivals the Sainsbury’s tubs, use other herbs... tweak it as you will.

