ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 01 MARCH
28
Olga Zavershinskaya
James Capper
Raqib Shaw
Minjeong An
Christiane Shillito
Helen Pynor
Helen Pynor is a London based artist born in Australia. Her work has gained an in-
creasing following in recent years leading to a title exhibit in the Superhuman show
at the Wellcome Collection last summer. However we think she still qualifies as un-
der the radar. This recognition probably stems for her choice of subject matter. Her
breathtakinglybeautifulprintsspeaktothevieweraboutsomethingverypersonal,our
relationship with our bodies. By juxtaposing clothing, text and organic matter in the
strange aquatic settings she creates, she invites the viewers to discuss the fragility of
our relationship with the corporeal. Pynor is also a keen proponent of the art-science
phenomenon sweeping London currently, which suggests she might be one to watch
withaneyetothefuture.
James Capper makes art for our time. The times that have
been taken over by machines. If machines do not quite rule
the world yet, they certainly rule in Capper’s head. His
sculptures are like dreamed machines in a dream where the
aesthetics of machines have been streamlined to useless
beauty. If you have ever climbed up to the top of an aban-
doned crane at an abandoned dockyard, you might under-
stand the beauty of machines (also if you are an engineer)
and if so, Cappers awe-inspiring installations are something
you should take a look at. He is a recognised figure on the
London art scene but his work is incredibly appealing and
should achieve wider renown in the coming years.
Like many engineers, I have always had a slightly pathologi-
cal adoration for technical drawings and diagrams. This is
probably why the aesthetic and concept of Korean artist,
Minjeong An’s self portraits, appeal to me. By schematically
exploring connections between the physiology of her body
and her second internal landscape of thought and emotion
she bridges a gap that has troubled thinkers for millennia.
Her art brilliantly marries modern philosophical and scien-
tific beliefs about mind and body in an original and very per-
sonal way. The designs are also very attractive and colourful
pieces worthy of a few minutes consideration each.
One gets the impression that British artist Cristiane Shillito (a.ka Ulorin Vex)
might be considered a little alternative. Currently based in Los Angeles she ap-
pears to split her time between modelling and illustration. Unquestionably em-
bedded in the fetish scene her delicate pen and ink illustrations are mesmeriz-
ingly beautiful. Often featuring erotic, fetish, sci-fi and mystical visual imagery
with bold colours, her art work has been on my personal wishlist for many years.
I find myself very attracted to the visual complexity and complex layers of sym-
bolism as well as the strong character of her portraits. Despite the fairly graphic
imagery there is an almost naive innocence that runs through both the artwork
and the execution that evokes a joyful impression of sexuality.
Raqib Shaw has already entered the art world with explosive
force but he has not yet been taken up by the public conscious-
ness. For a society who is constantly moaning the loss of the
artist’s craft, Shaw is the perfect antidote. Crazy and wild magi-
cal creatures, bejewelled and tied down, almost human are the
focus of his work. He comes from Kashmir and the indian influ-
ence, that of carpet weavers, spice sellers and purple and yel-
low crocus flowers, is evident in his work. Don’t think however,
that India is all you’ll get from Raqib Shaw. His pieces are often
painful and raw images of a different world, one full of colour
and almost overflowing with richness, but also one thar can very
easily translate to our own experience.
Olga Zavershinskaya is a Russian photographer born in the
former USSR. A latecomer to photography she now resides in
Czech Republic teaching and working. She says of her fine art
photography that “it tackles methods of realization, emotional
and aesthetic principles”. Her images blend concept and method
to create starkly beautiful geometric portraits. Olga combines
lines, the human form and light in brain bending ways to convey
notions of style and perfection and sensuality. Her work, particu-
larly her series Mind Games, has gained a considerable amount
of online recognition but lacks the broader notoriety it deserves.
1
2
3
4
5
6

