ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 01 MARCH 29
Charlotte Jarvis
Hanne Darboven
Alex Russel Flint
Terence Koh
I sometimes love repetition and obsessive behaviour for the organised
madness it brings to this mad society. Above all I respond to simplic-
ityandelegance.HanneDarboven,anartistwithtiestotheminimalist
movement, is the epitome of all these things. She was active from the
60’stothe90’sandinthistimefilled(byhand)enoughpapertowallpa-
per the earth, with numbers and more numbers, in carefully obsessed-
over sequences, representing her particular way of viewing the world.
Shealsoworkedincollages,infusingherworkwithasortofposingnos-
talgiabyusingpostcardsandotherflatformsofmemorabilia.Darboven
createdasortofmathematical-musicalpoetry,wherebyeachnumberin
hernumberpiecesrepresentedamusicalnote,tobeplayedascomposi-
tions;acombinationofmusic,‘maths’andartbeforethiswasinvogue.
TerenceKohisaCanadianartistlivinginNewYork.Thatisaboutthe
mostboringthingonecansayabouthim.Hislifehasbeenlikeaspar-
klingfairytaleforourdrearyworld(hispseudonymusedtobeasian-
punkboy). You might vaguely recognise his name; he has worked
with Lady Gaga since 2010, creating all sorts of outlandish and won-
derfulsetsforher.However,itishisworkasanindividual,whichhas
allthemagic,simplicityanddowntroddenotherworldlinessthatyou
could ever want. His art is full of poetry, sometimes literally and his
wordplaysarechildishbutcertainlynotnaiveorinnocent.Checkout
his website http://www.terencekoh.com. Not only is his art and po-
etry available there, but he also occasionally sells drawings for cheap
(andtheywillbeworthalotsomeday).
Charlotte Jarvis is one of a growing number of contemporary
artists who are collaborating with scientists and integrating
scientific ideas into their work. For example, her work with
the Netherlands Proteomics Centre resulted in the insertion
of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights into the ge-
netic information of an apple – you can read into it all the
forbidden fruit that you want. Jarvis works in a variety of dif-
ferent media. She also organises mad dinner-parties (hence
her website http://www.artforeating.co.uk) within which
one can fully enter into the artist’s world of choice – the na-
ive outlook of a child, a trashy Las Vegas or The Odyssey have
all been themes.
Alex Russell Flint is a rare thing, a contemporary British realist.
He produces beautifully crafted, technically brilliant, soulful oil
paintings. He splits his time between London and Argenton-Cha-
teau in France, where he apparently holes up in a former school
house. He has painted commissions for the Duke of Gloucester
but is still relatively unknown. Despite his classical style Flint’s
work has an intangible modern twist. His personal work features
sensitive, intimate portraits, generally of females and nudes,
which are rich in texture and expression. The subdued tone often
belies a depth and romantic narrative to his painting in which the
viewer can wilfully lose themselves.
7
8
9
10
May the farce be
with you, young one
“No. I am your father,” is a line that
has gone down in ﬁlm history. It is
at this point that Luke Skywalker ﬁ-
nally confronts Darth Vader, his arch
enemy, and, as we ﬁnd out from that
immortal line, his biological father.
Would the moment have been ruined
by an eager audience yelling out “OH
NO YOU’RE NOT!” directly after? As
if! his is Andromedan Nights, Dram-
Soc’s latest performance, a farcical
sci-ﬁ pantomime written by Impe-
rial’s own Owain Jones.
Pantomime and farce are always
to be approached carefully by direc-
tors. he strength of the performance
relies almost entirely on how much
energy the actors have and how well
they perform physically. With enough
‘oomph’ the play is a riot, but without
it everything falls depressingly ﬂat,
with little able to salvage the remains.
So what did I get when I went to the
dress rehearsal, the night before the
ﬁrst ‘oﬃcial’ performance?
I got excellent farcical comedy and
a jolly good panto. here is no deny-
ing that at times some of the humour
fell ﬂat as the cast’s energy ﬂagged,
but for actors who had been rehears-
ing for three days straight right before
the dress rehearsal their overall verve
and the strength of the performance
was impressive. he pantomime ele-
ment was not helped by the small and
lacklustre audience of techies, direc-
tors and the lone reviewer, whose lack
of cheering did little to fuel the actors’
ﬁre. An enthusiastic audience are key
to a successful performance (take this
as a hint, readers!)
he dialogue and action are clichéd
and ﬁlled with sci-ﬁ and pop culture
references to the point of sheer ridicu-
lousness, but Andromedan Nights
mercifully subverts this by continually
breaking the fourth wall and recogniz-
ing itself for what it is: a farcical sci-
ﬁ pantomime with some hilariously
cheesy writing.
Along with some seasoned veterans,
Andromedan Nights marks the Dram-
Soc debut of several actors. he show
is stolen by one such fresh face, Jack
Williams, who assumes the role of
Mince the Merciless, the play’s (pretty
much useless) antagonist. Williams’s
maniacal energy and evil laughter ﬁt
the incompetent supervillain to a tee,
acting as the perfect comic foil to his
two far more competent and ground-
ed henchmen, imaginatively named
Minion and Goon (Frank Machin and
Kristen Farebrother respectively).
hose with absolutely no interest in
sci-ﬁ may want to give Andromedan
Nights a miss, as a large proportion
of its humour derives from the more
serious works of ﬁction it parodies.
However, even those with a cursory
knowledge of Star Wars/Hitch Hiker’s
Guide to the Galaxy/Lord of the Rings/
etc. will enjoy this highly entertaining
performance by some of DramSoc’s
ﬁnest.
Dramsoc’s Andromedan Nights
is running on Friday March 1 and
Saturday March 2. Student tickets
are £6 on the door, or £5 online at
dramsoc.org/tickets.
Laurence Pope Writer
It’s not always bet-
ter to shoot first
© Ben Fry

