World War Z
Maximilian Eggl looks at an unusual depiction of the zombie story
ast year was the year of
the Vampire, and it seems
set that 2013 will be the
year of the Zombie. Don’t
understand me wrong,
Zombies have always been present in
movies, TV shows, games and books.
However only recently this genre has
achieved mainstream success, proba-
bly through a larger amount of zombie
games than ever, the show he Walk-
ing Dead as well as a large amounts of
movies dealing with the topic.
Max Brooks, son of the famous
director Mel Brooks, has popular-
ised this genre in literature, with his
books the Zombie Survival Guide
(2003), World War Z (2006) and he
Zombie Survival Guide: Recorded At-
tacks (2009). In fact, one of his books,
World War Z, is being released as a
ﬁlm in June 2013 with Brad Pitt as the
main character. his should tell you
how “mainstream” they have become.
While I had read his books soon after
their release, my recent re-reading of
them as well as this now rising pop-
ularity of Z’s, made me think about
writing a review for his second book,
namely World War Z.
Inspired by a similar book based
on World War II, as well as George
A. Romero, the man nicknamed the
“Godfather of Zombies”, it is styled
as a set of personal recollections and
interviews which deal with a global
outbreak of Zombies. Each person’s
story describes their own ﬁght to sur-
vive, and together they describe the
whole arc of the apocalypse. hese an-
ecdotes range from the human level,
where a single person ﬁghts to make
it through, all the way to the top deal-
ing with the governments’ attempts at
stemming the ﬂood.
he underlying emotional themes
(e.g. fear, patriotism, greed etc.) that
underlie each recollection also lead
to a well-rounded book. Not really
bloody or gory at all, this book deals
more with economics, politics, and
human feelings. he book looks at
how society deals with possible ex-
tinction, which makes the book all the
more powerful and much less “cheap”
to read.
At the same time Max Brooks uses
World War Z to describe the survival-
ist attitude that is permeating culture
at this time, as well as criticising the
weakness exhibited by our political
system. Basically, he says that democ-
racy is great, but in time of crisis po-
litical willpower may be lacking, as is
shown by the example of the world
governments (excluding Israel) in the
early days of the war.
Another thing that struck me was
the attitude of one of the survivors,
a Palestinian youth, who in the book
does not believe in Zombies, thinking
instead it is an Israeli trick to reclaim
Palestine lands. You may be able to
laugh at this short-sightedness since
you are reading a book called World
War Z, where zombies are obviously
not a trick by any governmental in-
stitution. However, if you were in the
same situation, with no prior knowl-
edge, would you really believe in Zom-
bies? I didn’t think so.
his interesting format was a great
contrast to the usual zombie fare, as
instead of focusing on one group and
their needs and stories it tries to de-
scribe the eﬀect such an epidemic
would have on the world as a whole.
his international approach encour-
aged me to read more, as it shows
many diﬀerent aspects of the human
condition, as well as how diﬀerent
cultures deal with the same threat.
Also, who doesn’t like reading about a
huge battle between the United States
army and a horde of zombies that just
destroyed New York, with the whole
tanks and missiles thing!
One thing that did annoy me about
the format, though, was that Brooks
wrote some of the short stories so
well that I just wanted to know what
happened next. In fact some of the an-
ecdotes were so gripping that I could
have read a book with those stories
expanded to novel length. hus, when
the end of that particular recollection
came, I was slightly frustrated. hat
made it slightly hard to have a contin-
uous ﬂow throughout the book.
Max Brooks creates a well-crafted
book that does redeﬁne this genre in
times of renewed interest. With an
enthralling array of stories, it is well
worth the read. If you are a fan of the
zombie genre, get to it! If you are not,
and are just curious, get to it! Trust
me, its worth your time.
L
I had heard a lot of good things about
Richard Morgan, but a glance through
the blurbs of his novels didn’t turn
up anything that I thought I would
particularly enjoy. However, upon
reading that Altered Carbon, his ﬁrst
book, had been voted as the ﬁfth best
SF novel of the twenty ﬁrst century by
the readers of Locus magazine, I de-
cided that I just had to check it out.
Altered Carbon is set in the not too
distant future where mankind have
discovered a way to store human con-
sciousness electronically, eﬀectively
guaranteeing immortality; when
someone dies they can just be down-
loaded into a new body. he novel
follows Takeshi Kovacs, a former UN
special forces soldier turned criminal
and part time private investigator. He
is bailed from electronic storage – the
futuristic equivalent of prison – by
rich industrialist Laurens Bancroft to
investigate who killed his last body.
he book is essentially a hardboiled
detective story in a science ﬁction
setting. Indeed, most of the charac-
ters are instantly recognisable genre
clichés – the cigarette smoking cyni-
cal detective, the femme fatale, the
corrupt power ﬁgures. Few of these
are likeable – Kovacs himself com-
ing oﬀ as particularly brutal. Morgan
himself has said that the ultravio-
lence directed by Kovacs against his
enemies was meant to act as escapist
release, both for himself and the read-
ership, but it just makes Kovacs seem
little better than his opponents. he
science ﬁctional elements add very
little either. he cyberpunk themes
explored are nothing new and, for
someone well versed in the genre,
simply seem very tired.
Despite all of this, however, the
book somehow comes together to
work remarkably well. A combina-
tion of very good writing and a well
thought out plot mean that you can
almost forget all of the previously
mentioned problems. he action is
fast paced and it is certainly very easy
to become engrossed.
I expect that how much you enjoy
Altered Carbon will depend strongly
on what you’re looking for – if you like
well-written, clever detective stories
you’ll probably love it, if you’re look-
ing for something fresh and innova-
tive you’ll probably be disappointed.
Richard Morgan’s Altered Carbon
Maciej Matuszewski Books Editor
BOOKS Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 01 MARCH
30

