MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
FRIDAY 01 MARCH
32
hen I ﬁrst consid-
ered writing an
article on Boiler
Room, I thought
it would be re-
dundant. I always thought that it’s just
one of those things that everyone who
would be interested knows about, but
when I started chatting to people about
it I realised this is not really the case.
Considering how electronic Imperial’s
tastes seem to be, as well as our churn-
ing out a pretty incredible number of
DJs and producers, I felt this needed
remedying.
So, the basics: Boiler Room is essen-
tially a promoter who gets incredible
line-ups of electronic musicians, shoves
them in a tiny room with a number of
the city’s biggest hipsters and broad-
casts a TV stream live over the internet.
hat said, they’re not always electronic
people; just last Friday they threw an
incredible event with BEAK> (live),
Anika (DJ set) and Jaakko (live) and on
Wednesday had the whole Boy Better
Know crew live in the place.
he whole thing is sponsored by the
great folks over at Red Stripe – yet an-
other perk, free beer – and for a good
AMS album of the week
The release of Wonderful, Glorious, the 10th
album from long-tenured indie rock band Eels
presents a worrying fact about music: some-
times, artists are overshadowed by their own
success.
Almost wholly the project of frontman Mark
Oliver Everett, Eels’ music has been intensely
personal: their debut Beautiful Freak present-
ed twisted love songs and scathing wit under
deceptively poppy beats. After the death of
his father (physicist Hugh Everett III, famous
for inventing the Many Worlds Interpretation of quantum mechanics), moth-
er and sister in the short space of a few years, Eels’ 1998 sophomore album
Electro-Shock Blues is a hauntingly beautiful masterpiece exploring suicide and
bereavement.
From these great heights, Eels’ have fallen far. The greatest art is born out of
suffering, and Wonderful, Glorious screams complacency. There are still some
emotions explored here, still some witty hooks, but the highs and lows of Eels’
earlier work is nowhere near matched. This isn’t an album about death, break-
ups, or even love: more than anything else, it sounds like an album about the
mundane life of an aging, successful rock musician.
Musically too, there is a lot to be desired. Instead of almost-twee hooks and
sparse piano sounds juxtaposed against sorrowful lyrics, this album presents
only bland, middle-of-the-road indie rock. This isn’t the tired, inevitably-awful
album of an old band reforming way past their peak: clearly, Mark still has tal-
ent left in him. Although he may never produce another Electro-Shock Blues,
there may be some good albums yet to come from Eels, but only if he progress-
es again as a musician. Either that, or if all the rest of his family die.
BoilerRoombikesandb2bs
Ross Gray getsatasteoftheRedStripeMakeSessionseries
few events now they’ve paired up oﬃ-
cially with Boiler Room to present Red
Stripe Make Sessions. I was ﬁrst intro-
duced to this concept at the NTS one
back in November, where 11 painfully
obscure artists were crammed into a 4
hour slot and their sets recorded live
onto reel-to-reel tape. he product of
the evening was a sweet compilation
vinyl; particular highlights include the
incredibly bass-heavy Insomniax’s
‘Speakers Blow’ and Graham Dun-
ning’s loop-manipulating experimen-
talism.
he real spark for this piece was Red
Stripe Make Session 007 on Monday,
which Red Stripe kindly let us tag along
to. he musical line-up was simple but
heavy: xxxy b2b Steve Braiden and
Midland b2b Paul Woolford. In a
slightly surreal centre stage, 14 Bike Co
were brought into the building to hand
make some damn ﬁne bespoke bikes
with the DJs names painted onto the
frames.
It must be said that as much as I love
it, Boiler Room does have a bit of a
reputation (especially in London) for
not getting crazy at all – have a look
through the Facebook comments on
Eels: Wonderful,Glorious
W
Keir Little
Johnny Marr scores above par
At 49 years of age, it seems slightly
odd that it took Johnny Marr this
long to put out a solo album. Re-
nowned for being the guitarist of the
inﬂuential indie pop band he Smiths
in the 80’s, Marr has been busy since
then playing in many bands such as
Modest Mouse, accompanied by he
Healers and he Cribs. So, it’s fair to
say that he’s been around the block a
few times, mostly in groups without
taking the role of the frontman. Well,
you can argue that Johnny Marr and
the Healers was a bit like Marr’s own
band but I reckon he Messenger has
a lot more guts than Boomslang, the
Healer’s only album to date.
he album has all the markings
of Marr’s trademark guitar riﬀs and
manages to sound like a new age
80’s record without being tacky. he
jangly riﬀs in the opening track ‘he
Right hing Right’ are quite remi-
niscent of the upbeat guitar playing
on many Smiths tracks. You would
hardly think this is a musician that’s
been around for a while and despite
all the nostalgia, the record manages
to sound vibrant and fresh. he title
track and ‘he Crack Up’ are ﬁt to be
played in any trendy bar where the DJ/
Bar Staﬀ has some good taste in mu-
sic and don’t listen to Gangnam Style
over and over again. ‘Upstarts’ is the
second single to be released oﬀ the al-
bum and Marr’s guitar here is strongly
backed by his strong vocals. All in all,
it’s a solid debut eﬀort from one of the
best guitarist of all time.
It’s worth noting that the album
has a nostalgic feel for any Smiths
fan because while you recognise that
familiar guitar-playing by Marr, the
Plabon Saha Writer
lyrics remind you just how good the
Morrissey-Marr pairing really was. I
have followed Morrissey’s solo work
quite closely as well and the same can
be noticed in his stuﬀ as well, great
lyrics that are just begging for Marr
to lay the beats down. Some will say
that he Smiths were good for their
era and we shouldn’t temper with
it. Knowing very well that they will
(probably) never re-unite, I guess all I
can do is listen to he Messenger and
wonder what it could have been.
almost any of their
photos and you’ll
see what I mean. I
was hoping that hav-
ing purely b2b sets
would bring the en-
ergy up, and I’m not
sure whether it was
that or the sheer size
of the venue relative
to normal but it cer-
tainlygotprettymen-
tal. he end of Mid-
land and Woolford’s
set in particular was
not only one of the
most impressive
pieces of track se-
lection I’ve seen but
also sent the crowd
absolutely wild.
Deﬁnitely watch it if
Boiler Room archive
it, and watch out for
IC Radio’s head of
programming with
his hipster glasses at
the front.
www.boilerroom.tv

