FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 01 MARCH
36
Nicholas Sparks: vom-inducing
Message in a Bottle - 1999
The Photogenic Couple: Kevin Costner and Robin Wright
The Plot: She is the journalist who discovers intriguing messages in a bottle (duh) in the
sand and tracks down the writer of these letters, a widower mourning the death of his
wife. They meet and start to fall in love, although it’s not too long before he discovers her
secret with regards to how she managed to find him in the first place.
The Puke-worthy Twist: They have a fight after he uncovers her sneaky, journalistic
ways, but before he can come back, apologise and make up, he dies in a sailing accident
whilst trying to heroically save someone. A story she’s told by his elderly father. And with
him there’s the final letter he wrote, confessing his love for her. Boo-hoo.
A Walk to Remember - 2002
The Photogenic Couple: Shane West and Mandy Moore
The Plot: He is the bad boy who has to join the lame high-school drama club to avoid
expulsion. He meets a cute, well-behaved girl there and they start dating, with the moody
angryyoungladshowingsignsofchanginghissinfulwayswithhischarmingnewgirlfriend,
and he decides that school isn’t so bad after all .
The Puke-worthy Twist: She has leukaemia and is close to dying. He fulfills her dying
wishes, and in the end she does die of course, but not before spending the perfect summer
honeymoon with her new husband. He then enrolls in medical school (it’s that easy), and
it all gets very religious with the whole “God sent me to you” type nonsense.
The Notebook - 2004
The Photogenic Couple: Ryan Gosling and Rachel McAdams
The Plot: They’re hot, they’re young, they meet in the summer, they share a passionate
moment, they split apart, they misunderstand, they move on with others, but eventually
find their way back to each other again. They’re initially divided by wealth, social classes
and many, many intercepted love letters, but love does conquer all.
The Puke-worthy Twist: It’s narrated from the future, where the older version of the
man is telling the story to his wife who has Hollywood-dementia (only becoming lucid,
then senile again at the most perfect opportunities for the corniest, cheesiest narrative
impact). And how does the elderly couple die in the end? In each other’s arms...urgh.
Nights in Rodanthe - 2008
The Photogenic Couple: Richard Gere and Diane Lane
The Plot: She is the divorced, frustrated ex-wife and mother, he is the traumatised, guilt-
ridden surgeon. With these kinds of emotional baggage, the two connect almost instantly,
sharing in their pain when he checks in as a guest in a bed-and-breakfast she’s looking after
for a friend. You’re never too old to embark on a romantic journey, it seems.
The Puke-worthy Twist: Whilst separated as he goes on yet another emotionally-charged
trip to mend the fences with his estranged son, he dies in a mudslide. The news is delivered
by his son who thanks her for bringing back the father he knew when he was a child. She’s
delirious of course, but soon she gets over it, after she sees some horses thundering by. Yay.

