FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
37
FRIDAY 01 MARCH
g one-trick pony (spoiler alert)
Dear John - 2010
The Photogenic Couple: Channing Tatum and Amanda Seyfried
The Plot: He’s the soldier on vacation, she’s the doe-eyed college student on spring break.
She drops her bag in the sea, he goes to rescue it for her, and for that she is eternally
grateful. They start dating, and he even considers quitting the army, although that’s
before the terrorists knock down the Twin Towers.
The Puke-worthy Twist: His father has Hollywood-dementia, she has another love
interest who isn’t thousands of miles away, but has lymphoma instead. They both die, and
with these annoying obstacles out of their way for good, they appear to rekindle their
romance in what can be considered an ambiguous ending but isn’t really.
The Last Song - 2010
The Photogenic Couple: Liam Hemsworth and Miley Cyrus
The Plot: She’s the grumpy musical genius who hates life, lacks passion in life, and has
serious daddy issues, he’s the handsome beach volleyball playing hunk who falls for the
city girl. He slowly starts melting her ice-cold heart, which also paves the way for the
dysfunctional father-daughter relationship to improve.
The Puke-worthy Twist: Her father is ill (cancer that spreads), and dies, but not before
ﬁnishing his musical composition masterpiece that he wrote speciﬁcally for his daughter.
The young couple do stay together however, as she decides to accept her place in Julliard,
and he gets a transfer to Columbia University. They’re just so clever and talented, that’s all.
The Lucky One - 2012
The Photogenic Couple: Zac Efron and Taylor Schilling
The Plot: He’s the wounded soldier looking for a peaceful life, she’s the woman who
indirectly saved his life in Iraq (a seemingly random picture of her distracted him whilst
the rest of his team was getting bombed). He keeps this a secret and approaches her,
developing close relationships with both her and her cute son.
The Puke-worthy Twist: Her picture was intended for her now-dead brother, which
makes things slightly awkward. She has an ex-husband who is a touch abusive and hot-
tempered. The ex reveals the male protagonist’s secret, but before he can do further
damage,he,too,dies,makingeverythingall-soeasynowforthetwotocarryonasnormal.
Safe Haven - 2013
The Photogenic Couple: Josh Duhamel and Julianne Hough
The Plot: She’s the helpless victim running away from her abusive, alcoholic police officer
husband, he’s the widower with kids and a tortured soul. She also meets a kind neighbour
who helps her through these tough times. He could really be the new fresh start she’s been
looking for and yes, her husband does track her down, but she ends up shooting him.
The Puke-worthy twist: Possibly the worst offender of all - remember that friendly
neighbour she became close with? Turns out she’s the GHOST of the guy’s dead wife. Even
in her afterlife, she wants what’s best for her husband who’s been left behind. It’s creepy,
clingy, not at all smart or touching, and almost ruins what already was a flimsy ﬁlm.

