La Playstation formidable?
Ross Webster pondersthealphaofthenext-genpack
nd here, in the wilder-
ness of the internet,
we can see grainy foot-
age of the species, that
many of us expect will
beckon in a new age of couch-based
gaming.
his beast has been in hibernation
for a long time. Few have stumbled
upon this elusive animal, and we had
sketchy reports of its capabilities, but
nothing was conﬁrmed until this new
footage was found. Now, hunters,
there is something new to mount on
your next-gen desk, beside your Wii-
U – the Playstation 4.
he really bad David Attenborough
impersonation aside, the biggest gam-
ing announcement of last week is that
of Sony’s latest console – their entrant
to the world’s 8th generation console
championship.
Despite the announcement, there’s
still quite a lot we don’t know about
the PS4 – but what we do know is in-
teresting. here seems to be a move
away from unique console-oriented
architecture (such as the Cell proces-
sors of the PS3) and a move towards
more PC-ish hardware, such as x86_64
cores. he widely-touted reason for
this change is because the games are
developed on the PC anyway, and
swapping between architectures is a
waste of time and money. Why not
just build on a PC, for a slightly altered
PC? Both CPU and GPU are AMD-
supplied, and are backed up with 8GB
of RAM – 16 times as much as the
PS3, and 8 times as much as Micro-
soft’s Xbox360. As with the departing
generation, we’ve been told that there’s
sizeable internal storage in the PS4,
which is good, as one of the latest news
snippets is that all games available on
the PS4 will be available as a direct
download. Kinda Steamy-ish, I guess.
Images and prototypes for the new
DualShock controllers are out, and
they’ve kept the style of the older
DualShock controllers, added some
rounded bits from the Xbox control-
lers, and thrown on a capacitative
touch screen on the front, a la Wii-U
and PS Vita (sort of). I really like where
this new controller is heading, with a
3.5mm audio jack (something I se-
verely hate companies for not already
doing), but also a mono-speaker on the
back.
With regards to the button layout,
it’s the normal conﬁguration when it
comes to playing games, but the Start
and Select buttons (of the 90s) have
gone the way of the Dreamcast, and
been replaced by a single 360-esque
‘Options’ button. Added to the con-
troller, however is a new ‘Share’ but-
ton, which ties in the some of the new
online features promised by Sony.
You’ll now be able to watch your
friends playing on their console, online
through a stream (kinda like a built-in
Twitch service) and you’ll be able to
stream games directly – it looks like
neither Sony nor nVidia got the On-
Live memo. At least it saves on internal
memory.
here are a few things which are un-
clear (especially due to Sony’s liberal
breaking of promises (see: ‘Other OS’
of PS3)) such as the use of pre-owned
games. here’s still quite a market out
there (especially if the games are still
~£40), as a lot of people like to sell on
their completed games, when they’ve
milked it for all the trophies you can
get. Sony has continued to be a little
vague, with cryptic messages along
the lines of ‘We’ll do what’s best’ (I’m
imagining a Fagin-like Sony repre-
sentative, and a sly wink). Well, best
for whom? It’ll all come down to the
vast amounts of scaremongering, and
latest draconian DRM, so I can’t see it
working out well for the second-hand
market, I’m afraid. I actually want to be
wrong though.
Unusually for a game-based device,
the PS4 is said to ship with the new
Playstation Eye (now with two cam-
eras) and a variable-colour light-bar
on the top of the controller, for use as
a PS Move – style device. hey’re not
making you pay extra for these bits –
they’re included (well, they are mak-
ing you pay extra, but hidden away in
the original price, rather than an extra
purchase, a few months after release.)
Release games are a little hand-
wavey at the moment. As with Nin-
tendo always bringing a Super Mario
title upon release, Sony’s bringing out
a new Killzone for the PS4, but most
importantly – Watch Dogs!
As you might have noticed, I’m quite
a PC-oriented guy (and also an equal-
opportunities employer), but I feel
pumped by what’s been happening
with the development of the PS4, and I
like the shape of things to come.
A
GAMES Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 01 MARCH
Got some great news on sale... stranger
Looks like my wishes may have been answered. An image has made its way, sup-
posedly out of a Gamestop back room, showing a promotional poster (just in case
there’s another type of poster out there) of the next instalment in the Assassin’s
Creed series – Assassin’s Creed IV: Black Flag. The poster depicts a character wear-
ing a Connor-style assassin’s outfit, on the deck of a ship, amongst a horde of griz-
zled pirates. Unsubstantiated word is that you play Connor’s grandfather...
There’s a couple of good and bad things here – firstly, as I mentioned a few
months ago, Pirate Assassins are only a few more words away from being awe-
some – acceptable additions are ninja, mutant (probably not teenage, nor turtle),
and robot. However, it’s not been long since AC3 came out, so what seems to be
a look-alike game, being advertised less than 6 months since the last game seems
kinda early to me. There’s a good chance that the image is just a good fake, brought
on by someone mentioning a slideshow they saw being written on a plane. This is
a bunch of strangers on the internet by the way, so they could have been talking
about the dinosaur expansion for Battlefield 3, and there would be just as much
evidence behind it.
I’m kinda split 50:50 on it – I think it could be a great game, but it’s way too
soon. – Ross Webster
My money. All of it.
Take.
VS.
Ass(assins) on the horizon Passionate about games?
(Heck, if you know the
difference between
Mario and Master Chief,
you’re welcome here.)
We’re always looking for more
voices and opinions in the Felix of-
fice, so if you feel like flexing those
creative muscles, rather than those
thumbs, then come and get RSI
with us instead?
If you want to moan about the
current state of affairs regarding
MMOs, or if you’re looking for a
team to start developing your ide-
as, drop us a line at games.felix@
imperial.ac.uk
Who would win? Find out in Mar-
vel vs. Capcom vs. Old English men
Maybe not the final thing,
but it sure does look nice.
What you can’t see is the Flood,
wearing little pirate hats.
38

