TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Jason Parmar
Maximilian Eggl
techology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Maximilian Eggl
Qi. his sounds like some sort of Chi-
nese “life energy” philosophy, but
that’s not what we are talking about
here. Pronounced “chee”, Qi is a wire-
less inductive power standard that is
increasingly being adopted by handset
manufacturers such as Nokia and LG
for inclusion into their handsets. For
phones that do not support the wireless
charging standards, there are cases de-
signed to envelope the devices and pro-
vide wireless charging capabilities. But
is wireless charging even necessary, or
is it just a solution to no one’s problem?
Wireless charging
works in a similar way
to induction cooking. A
changing magnetic ﬁeld
induced by the charging
mat causes a potential
diﬀerence, or a voltage
diﬀerence, across a con-
ductor inside the phone.
By Faraday’s laws, this
causes a current to ﬂow
inside the conductor, and
we’ve got a steady power
source for the phone. So,
in order to take advan-
tage of this technology,
you would need to both
have a phone that sup-
ports wireless charging,
and a wireless charging
device.
he wireless charg-
ing mats are not cheap.
I bought a Maxwell Air
Voltage Wireless Charg-
er oﬀ Amazon for £43,
but the price has now
gone up to almost £50
at the time of writing.
Google oﬀers a trendy
“charging orb” for its
Nexus 4 device, retail-
ing for US$59.99 (£40)
and not yet on sale in the
UK. If the various man-
ufacturers wish to see
FRIDAY 01 MARCH
40
wireless charging take oﬀ, they are not
doing themselves a favour by charging
such a high price for the charging mat.
he upside to this is that these charg-
ing mats should work with future
devices, if the Qi standards remains
dominant. (Caution: if you are look-
ing to buy a wireless charging mat,
avoid the ones sold by “Powermat” –
they do not conform to any standards,
and you will need a separate case for
all of your devices.) But how do these
wireless charging gizmos perform?
I do not speak authoritatively on
this matter, but from my experience
with wireless charging on my Nexus
4, I would say that the wireless charg-
ing has good performance. In fact, I
might say that it performed better
than I expected. Charging is almost as
quick as using an AC adapter. It is re-
ally convenient to just place the phone
on the mat and watch it start charging
automatically, without my needing to
plug in anything. he downside to this
is that the phone tends to get a little
warm when charging. I notice that if I
use the phone while it’s charging, the
temperature can get up to 42 degrees,
at which point the phone would de-
cide to stop charging (for safety I pre-
sume). his leads to the phone and the
charging mat getting into what I call
the “spasm” mode where the charg-
ing indicator would toggle on and
Charging your Phone... Wirelessly
Will the lack of Wires (or lack thereof) ever conspire to be desired?
The News Bubble
General news from around the tech world, so you can keep up to date with the
newest, weirdest and most futuristic things around.
Nokia Release Phones
At the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Nokia has just released 4 new
phones, all aimed at the lower end. The two new WIndows 8 smartphones
called the 720 and the 520, retail between £220 and £120 respectively. Both
of these are quite well euipped compared to their cheap price. On the other
hand Nokia also released two new feature phones, the 301 and the 150. The
301 is your bog standard feature phone and will be available for about 50
quid. However the 150 has created quite a buzz on the internet, as not only
is it priced at the very lucrative price of £13, but also apparently has a bat-
tery that lasts for an entire month without recharging. Nokia really wants to
regain that top mobile vendor spot, and this strategy seems like it may prove
very succesful.
Chromebook Pixel
Google has also released a new product, the Pixel. An apparently high-end
laptop, this device is aimed at power users with a bit more cash in their pock-
ets. Coming with the Chrome OS, a purely browser based operating system
and with a pixel density of 239 ppi (which by the way makes it the highest
resolution laptop currently on the market) it looks like quite an interesting
laptop. However, without an internet connection, it just becomes a $1,499
paper weight.
Galaxy Note 8.0
All good things come in sets of three, and fittingly Samsung also has released a
new product. The Galaxy Note 8.0 used with a smart stylus, which allows you
to use the buttons on the tablet without actually pushing them, is going into
direct competition with Apple’s new iPad Mini. With a higher screen resolu-
tion and generally good reviews, when this comes out later this year, it may
prove to be a good adversary.
iPhone Ahead of S3
Recently Apple has been hammered, its stock has lost a third of its value from
its $700 high, and everyone has been predicting that the days of the Cuper-
tino Company are numbered. However recent data related to mobile hand-
set sales puts the Samsung Galaxy SIII, Android’s most popular phone, only
third in the list. Number one spot is taken by the iPhone 5, Apple’s flagship.
The surprising thing is that the second spot is taken by the iPhone 4S. Apple’s
phone which is more than a year old, and is quite outdated compared to other
handsets out there is still outselling everything except for its bigger brother.
Seeing that kind of data really makes me wonder why Apple is being ripped
apart by all the critics and investors.
The wire-
less charging
mats are not
cheap
Tech editor
Yong Wen Chua Tech Writer
oﬀ every few seconds.
I suppose with more
iteration, the hardware
would be more eﬃcient,
and the heat produced
through the charging
should reduce. But is
this even necessary?
Advocates would say
that wireless charging
is very convenient, and
helps in bringing about
a wire-free environ-
ment. his is absolutely
true, as I have noted
in the previous para-
graph. However, pardon
my cynicism, this also
sounds patently like a
ﬁrst world problem.
here is also a wire that
goes from the AC wall
socket to the charging
mat, something that
you can’t really be rid of.
You are just trading one
cable for another. here
are arguments saying
that the mechanical act
of plugging in and tak-
ing out the charging ca-
ble can lead to mechani-
cal failure on the phone,
although I have yet to
see it really happen to me.
Sceptics would call wireless
charging a fad. I would call it
something cool. While I can see
the added convenience of wire-
less charging, the whole solution
doesn’t really bring much more to
the table. What we need are bat-
teries that last longer, and compo-
nents that use less power. Wireless
charging does not even address any
of these problems. When you add
in the cost of buying one of those
charging mats, there is simply no
added beneﬁt. So until these charg-
ing mats become more aﬀordable,
there is simply no point in using
wireless charging.
”
“
It is really
convenient to
just place the
phone on the
mat

