NEWS
4 FRIDAY 01 MARCH
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Imperial College has announced that
it is one of a number of universities
pulling out of the new EU-led univer-
sity ranking system, “U-Multirank”.
he ranking system would not result
in a league table, however many in-
ternational universities and institu-
tions have expressed opposition to the
scheme.
he College has made an exit along
with UCL, Oxbridge and Edinburgh
via the League of European Research
Universities (LERU). he League,
which contains 21 European research
universities, has decried U-Multirank
as being ill-conceived and badly de-
signed.
In opposition to the plans, Imperial
and other LERU members will refuse
to release certain information and
data to the scheme. he data given by
the universities is crucial as it is what
the ranking system relies upon.
he plans were announced last
month and U-Multirank was expect-
ed to publish its results by 2014. he
scheme’s plans and timings may be
scuppered by the breadth of organised
opposition from the disagreeing uni-
versities.
Speaking in the THE, Kurt Deket-
elaere, secretary-general and spokes-
person for LERU said, “We consider
U-Multirank at best an unjustiﬁable
use of taxpayers’ money and at worst a
serious threat to a healthy higher edu-
cation system.”
he new system, costing 2 million
Euros, aims to oﬀer a fresh alternative
and will grade universities in ﬁve areas
- research, teaching, internationalisa-
tion, knowledge transfer and contri-
bution to regional growth.
Androulla Vassiliou, European com-
missioner believes that “…it will con-
tribute to the modernisation and qual-
ity of higher education”. She insists it
will allow universities to better under-
stand their own strengths and failings.
That chicken has
50% horsemeat...
maybe
Niall Jeffrey Reporter
Imperial pulls out
of new university
ranking system
Length of journey disputed
continued from the front page
>>
Gardens. he College leases the latter
from the Wellcome Trust, and there
are 32 years left on the lease. Last week
it was reported that the indications
are that the Wellcome Trust are not
at the moment willing to extend the
lease. Felix repeatedly contacted them
for comment, but they said that they
“don’t comment on individual assets.”
Last week, the Union sent ﬁve re-
quests to College. It is understood
that College Management are in the
process of drafting a response to the
Union’s requests. Beaumont said “I
have been assured that they’re being
considered carefully and we will hear
back soon”.
he Union timed the journey to Ac-
ton as over 50 minutes during rush
hour (door-to-door) to dispel the claim
that it is about 30 minutes, which has
been mentioned by College. However
it has been pointed out that they do
top up their Oyster cards en-route.
he video is available on STOIC’s You-
Tube channel. he journey back to
College took about 46 minutes.
he Union’s #againstacton page on
their website has now garnered over
4,500 unique visits, and a “Pledge
Your Support” site was launched on
Tuesday, with currently nearly 400
signatures. Beaumont said that he was
“overwhelmed by the support students
have shown for the Union’s campaign”,
and that he would like to thank those
who sent in long pieces detailing their
personal experiences.
In a quantitative analysis of the par-
ticipation of students in Clubs, Socie-
ties & Projects over the last few years,
the Union found that those that live
further away in their ﬁrst year are less
likely to get involved. he data also
showed that students who did not
participate in their ﬁrst year were less
likely to participate later on. he Un-
ion also looked at qualitative data from
the Student Experience Survey, which
it says corroborates the views with re-
gards to a poor student experience.
he College announced the pur-
Research is into artiﬁcial strains of
H5N1 (bird ﬂu) is resuming follow-
ing a voluntary halt from scientists in
January 2012 amid safety concerns.
Professor Wendy Barclay from Impe-
rial College London is one of 40 au-
thors of a letter recently published in
Nature, which outlines the situation
and why some countries are restarting
research. he letter declares an “end
to the voluntary moratorium on avi-
an-ﬂu transmission studies” following
a list of safety recommendations for
this type of research from he World
Heath Organization.
he letter in Nature says that the
“beneﬁts of this work outweigh the
risks” with H5N1, as a “virus capa-
ble of transmission in mammals may
emerge”. he letter states: “We con-
sider biosafety level 3 [BSL-3] condi-
tions with the considerable enhance-
ments (BSL-3+) to be appropriate for
this type of work”. BSL-3 is the second
highest level of protection, which in-
cludes using fume hoods and ﬁltered
air to be released outside the lab.
In January 2012 inﬂuenza virus re-
searchers worldwide took part in a
voluntary 60 day pause on research
on bird ﬂu; this was to allow “time to
explain the public-health beneﬁts of
this work, to describe the measures
in place to minimize possible risks,
and to enable organizations and gov-
ernments around the world to review
their policies regarding these experi-
ments”. However, the period was ex-
tended, and eventually lasted a year.
In this time there were many open and
closed meetings about the issue. On
Imperial College London’s website,
Professor Barclay wrote a statement,
which described the reason for the halt
in research: “he stimulus for this vol-
untary pause in research in one specif-
ic area was the revelation that two labs
had actually generated recombinant
viruses with increased transmissibil-
ity. Several other labs along with these
two had been working in this area for
some years, publishing and present-
ing their work openly, but only when
eﬀorts yielded up a positive result did
anyone really notice. hen there was a
knee jerk response from certain quar-
ters previously naive of this approach,
expressing horror that scientists were
brewing up deadly diseases. It became
clear that the public needed reassur-
ance and justiﬁcation about these ex-
periments.” Research restarted at the
end of January this year.
Bird flu research restarts
Tim Arbabzadah Editor-in-Chief
Scientists end year long voluntary halt
www.naturalnews.com
Read and comment online at
www.felixonline.co.uk
Editorial: page 2
>>
the TSU is being closed and how stu-
dents would complete their degree if
the TSU is closed. hus far, the only
statement from College is that “the
activities carried out by the TSU are
not considered core to the College
strategy”.
In a statement to Felix, a College
spokesperson said: “he Board reaf-
ﬁrmed its commitment to protect-
ing the position of students currently
registered in the Unit and agreed to
commission a review including an
external adviser and student input to
consider the current portfolio of PhD
research.” hey went on to say that
this review will “recommend how the
studies of individual students may be
best supported to conclusion.” he
Board also agreed to gather further
information and options for the activ-
ities carried out by the TSU. he re-
sults of the review and any additional
information will be considered by the
Management Board in June. No fur-
ther decisions on the future of the
TSU will be made until that point.”
he TSU was founded in 2001 and
specialise in scientiﬁc translation;
they currently consists of around 100
students and staﬀ. he last teaching
review described them as excellent.
he TSU strongly believe that they do
have a place at Imperial. he TSU re-
mains proﬁtable and ﬁnancial consid-
erations are understood not to have
played a part in the decision.
Staff left in limbo
as they await the
decision
Editorial: page 2
>>
continued from the front page
>>
As mentioned in the subtitle. Simon
Harding-Roots and Professor Debra
Humphris will be answering questions
put to them through Felix. Email: felix@
imperial.ac.uk to get yours answered.
chase of land and plans to build halls
in Acton, currently titled W3, on
Monday 18 February. By Tuesday, the
Union had launched a website and
had provided their stance, which was
vehemently against the proposals. he
hashtag #againstacton was launched,
which has been used many times. Cur-
rent indications are that most students
oppose the move. here was wide-
spread criticism of Simon Harding-
Roots, the Chief Operations Oﬃcer,
saying that students at Imperial need-
ed a “dose of reality” about the halls,
with the Union using it in their video
of their journey.
he decision to build the halls ig-
nored the advice of the Union Presi-
dent and was not released to students
as it was deemed to be commercially
sensitive. Students’ opposition has
mainly focused on the distance needed
to travel everyday, the cost of the halls,
especially when factoring in the cost
of travel (which goes above the £150
lowest band), the safety of the area,
the wardening provisions, as well as
the ability to recruit hall seniors in the
location.

