SPORT
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 01 MARCH
46
Women’s Rugby top of BUCS
After a slow start to the BUCS cam-
paign with matches cancelled due to
weather and the other sides being un-
able to ﬁeld teams, Women’s Rugby
kicked oﬀ their second BUCS game
against Surrey. he squad were ready
to take on what was thought to be a
tough match since Surrey were top-
ping the table before the game.
Once the other side came out of
the dressing room, it was apparent
that that Surrey had only 12 players.
Dropping both ﬂankers and full back,
the game took on a ﬂuidity and open-
ness much more likened to playing
rugby 7s.
Imperial started the game by kick-
ing deep into Surrey’s half and the
scoring opened with the backs being
fed oﬀ some strong rucking from the
forwards. Inside centre Lucy Olliﬀ
had hold of the ball inside Surrey’s
22 and made an excellent oﬄoad
over the heads of Surrey players to
Carolanne Vouriot who ran in sup-
port and evaded several tackles to go
over the line on the wing. In diﬃcult
conditions against the wing, kicker
Lana Lee made an impressive conver-
sion attempt, which unfortunately hit
the posts. After this missed attempt,
Lana would go on to convert all the
other tries scored.
At the restart, Pip Heggie caught
the ball running full tilt and broke
several tackles to advance into Sur-
rey’s half. Following several power-
ful scrums, Imperial were awarded a
penalty which was taken quickly by
scrum half, Kath Fok, took advantage
of Surrey’s slow reactions and poor
organisation to go over and score. In
fact, this same trick would be pulled
oﬀ by Kath in a later try.
For the rest of the ﬁrst 40 minutes,
Imperial dominated and camped in-
side Surrey’s half. With ball in hand
following the restart, another try was
scored when the ball was passed out
into the backs where Lucy, Carolanne
and Amy Humphreys broke the line
and ran circles around Surrey’s wing-
ers and put Lucy in over the line un-
der the posts.
he game gave Imperial the oppor-
tunity to try several diﬀerent combi-
nations. Both Charlie Stephens and
Juliette Lennon were called to play
for both the backs and forwards. By
half time, the score stood at 54-0 and
the forward pack were able to experi-
ment with short lineouts from Lana
as hooker. Just inside the 22, the ball
went to Sarah Burns who powered
over the line. Unfortunately, the ref-
eree deemed that the ball had been
held up.
Before second half went under-
way, the referee explicitly told Impe-
rial that he would be stricter with the
whistle and also reduce the half to 30
minutes. Surrey were able to respond
and with penalties going against Im-
perial, the opposition ﬁnally put Im-
perial on the defensive. he ball was
turned over with Charlie and Sarah
Burns both ripping the ball oﬀ the
opposition on several occasions and
Kath broke from deep with a kick
chase that saw her score again under
the posts despite being impeded oﬀ
the ball. he other second half try
was scored by Carolanne who dem-
onstrated her 7s background to evade
tacklers in a run that spanned half the
pitch.
Forward of the match was tightly
contested with special mention to
forwards Charlie and Pip and Car-
olanne in the backs. Ultimately the
honours were awarded to Sarah and
Kath. his result puts Imperial at the
top of BCUS 2A and setting up the
remaining ﬁxtures of the season as an
exciting battle for promotion.
Charlie Stephens Sports Writer
Driving Lessons For Imperial Students
•A special offer for Imperial students
from Denis Smyth
•Driving Standards Agency (DSA)
Accredited Instructor
•Mock Test Examiner
5 Driving Lessons for
£95
"Denis is a fantastic teacher and knows how to get people from completely
inexperienced and utterly hopeless driving up to the standard to pass their test. He is
always calm and his comments are constructive; his knowledge of London and his
knack of engineering driving routes that test the learner make the lessons more than
worth it. Since I have met him he has shown a great desire to offer cheaper lessons to
Imperial students and with the backing of other students I am more than happy to
support him."
- Alex Kendall, IC Union President 2010-11
Free Mock Test from
retired Driving Examiner
"I learned to drive in one of the busiest cities in the world. I passed first time. Would I
recommend Denis? Without hesitation."
- Leon Vanstone, Aeronautical Engineering
To make inquiries and book lessons,
call 07808 610 898

