SPORT
47
FRIDAY 01 MARCH
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Tsz Ki Chiu Sports Writer
Tenpin Bowling climb BUCS Rankings
BUCS Tenpin Bowling Championship
took place in Sheﬃeld last weekend.
he results were resounding. For-
mer Captain Michael Lau and For-
mer Vice-Captain Hui Erh Tay, our
favourite bowlers, achieved 605 and
601 three-game series. Consistent
and skilful, Xin Yan Goh and Gabri-
el Lim had overall averages of 155s.
With high averages of 137 and 141,
Hamizah Nor and Karson Wong, who
joined this year, demonstrated how
well beginners could bowl in tourna-
ments. Big improvements were also
made by our Captain Kelvin Wong,
Treasurer Brendan Lo, and Jackie Le-
ung, who maintained high averages of
159, 152, and 129 respectively.
As expected, the performance of Im-
perial Women Team was superb even
though our competitors were strong.
he number of bowlers with an aver-
age of 200 or above doubled compared
to previous years. his tournament
had never been so exciting. he team
started oﬀ perfectly, defeating War-
wick in the ﬁrst round. he hiccup in
the second round did not disrupt their
spirit. Xin Yan Goh, Hamizah Nor,
and Hui Erh Tay secured the third
place after beating Warwick by 172
pins in the third round. hey scored
4165 pins in 27 games. he ﬁrst and
second places went to Leeds Met and
Nottingham Trent.
he departure of our BUCS Tenpin
Bowling Representative Christopher
Chan did not aﬀect the position of
our Imperial Men Team. In fact, our
team was 434 pins better than last
year, moving our position one step up
to the 13th place.
“It was great to see our women team
winning medals in BUCS Champion-
ship again. hey played incredibly well
today”, Team Captain Kelvin Wong
said. “Very happy that our hard work
paid oﬀ after plenty hours of practice.
I am really proud of my team (not just
the girls of course)”.
hanks largely to our coaches Matt
Miller and Mike Quarry for their sup-
port the past two weeks to brush up
our skills. he experience and knowl-
edge they brought was fascinating.
Having the right coach is important,
yet at the end of the day it comes
down to the bowlers’ ability and hard
work.
Our team believes that another suc-
cess will emerge in the BUTBA Cup
Final after the Easter break. We are
conﬁdent and excited to play against
Sheﬃeld, Loughborough, and Ports-
mouth, who made their way back to
the ﬁnal after the play-oﬀ round. With
the best squad in the recent years, Im-
perial should not be far from cutting
the cake of success in the bowling al-
ley.
If you are interested in supporting
us, please drop us an email at tenpin@
imperial.ac.uk or join our Facebook
group (Imperial College Tenpin Bowl-
ing Soc 2012-13).
ICSM conquer IC in LUSL Vase
Following talk of an unbeaten season
following three wins from three games
at the start of the season, the ICSM FC
2nd XI had taken a nose dive. A string
of losses left Captain Ali Brown and his
men dejected and in desperate need of
a win. A quarter ﬁnal tie against rivals,
IC 5th XI, in the LUSL Vase, was cited
as the perfect opportunity to turn our
fortunes around.
In truth, we medics could not say we
played to the best of our ability and IC
may even argue they had the better
Michael David Sports Writer of the game for periods of the initial
ninety minutes. However their ‘cyni-
cal’ football just simply wasn’t clinical
enough and neither side could break
the deadlock by the time the referee
blew for the end of normal time. A
rallying talk from the aforementioned
skipper sent the future life-savers out
onto the ﬁeld with real determination.
Finally our quality prevailed and the
deadlock was broken thanks to this
correspondent. After stealing the ball
from a teammate I was delighted to
net my ﬁrst goal for the club and sub-
sequently let out a Stuart Pearce-esque
cry of delight and relief. I gladly netted
a second to put the game beyond doubt
and the ﬁnal whistle was met with ec-
stasy from the boys in red. We had ac-
tually won a game, and it felt great.
So, after a bye, a walkover, and a
scrappy win over a deﬁant IC team, the
2s are into the semis of the ‘infamous’
Vase.

