Issue 1542
SPORT “Keep the Cat Free”
felixonline.co.uk
01/03/13
@SportFelix
The Bottle returns for the third year in a row
Sorcha Cotter Sports Editor
Last weekend saw the battle com-
mence in this year’s Bottle Match,
which for anyone who doesn’t know
what this is, it’s the varsity between
the Royal School of Mines and their
rivals Cambourne School of Mines.
he varsity consists of seven diﬀerent
sports starting with the tame contests
of squash and golf on the Friday after-
noon, the tense netball in the evening
followed by an early start for hockey
and football on Saturday morning,
these lead into the main event; the
rugby.
his year we couldn’t have had
a better start with a whitewash in
the squash; with only one set being
dropped by an RSM player. he suc-
cess of the golf came soon after due to
some good old Irish luck that boosted
the team through the freezing condi-
tions. Some players took the miners
tradition to steady their hand, merry
spirits and ignite ﬁre in our strictly
athletic bodies. Golf brought home a
3-1 victory.
Netball was going to be tense this
year, with a tightly contested match
last year that resulted in the RSM los-
ing for the ﬁrst time. he RSM girls
had prepared well but CSM had ob-
viously still been training hard. After
the third quarter the RSM had built up
a 21-14 lead and were looking domi-
nant. CSM put in a storming last quar-
ter, but luckily RSM held out for a nar-
row winning margin of 27-25.
hen came Saturday’s activities. At
an unsociable hour of 9am the Ladies
Hockey pushed-back, with the sup-
porters already preparing themselves
against the weather with trusty beer
jackets. RSM were dictating play win-
ning successive short corners but fail-
ing to convert. Just before half time
Gigi managed to scored an amazing
reverse stick goal into the bottom cor-
ner. However as was a common fate of
the Bottle Match this year CSM came
back ﬁghting and got a lucky goal, with
the RSM failing to convert their mul-
tiple opportunities the result ended in
a draw, meaning that CSM retained
the cup.
he men’s hockey was up next, this
proved to be much more tense than
previous encounters. he ball mov-
ing quickly from end to end but some
brilliant defence from Jonney Jones,
Freddie BM Briggs and Harry Fisher
and some dramatic saves from Keeper
Jonney kept the CSM attack at bay.
Half time was 0-0 and looked promis-
ing. Early in the second half a save on
the line unfortunately came oﬀ a foot
and gave CSM a penalty ﬂick and a 1-0
lead. he game was so close and this
was the only goal, hopefully next year
we can right the score line.
Saturday had not had the best of
starts but the supporters make the day
enjoyable for all. he additions of a
burger van helping to keep everyone
going for the all important rugby.
he football was a tricky match for
the RSM team and the strength of the
CSM through the midﬁeld just gave
them too many chances on goal, de-
spite the valiant eﬀort from the RSM
keeper. he ﬁnal result being a dis-
appointing 4-0 loss, however with
some key players returning from years
abroad next year we hope to take a
strong team down to Cambourne next
year.
Finally the Rugby! With an emphatic
victory last year the RSM didn’t know
what to expect from CSM this year.
he RSM started well breaking the
CSM defence and putting them on
edge but some scramble defence just
saving CSM. A turn in play gave CSM
a penalty and they took an unexpected
3-0 lead. heir points were quickly an-
swered by a try from James Cox whose
pace and kicking was just too much
for CSM to handle. he rugby became
hazy for some supporters but all I can
say is that we were all over them run-
ning in tries from Robbie Cowan and
Ali Jones. CSM did manages to sneak
in a try in the second half making their
score more respectable. Fred White
who had been dangerous all game,
causing trouble on the wing got a try
at the death and bringing the Bottle
home! Credit must be given to Cap-
tain James Scaife who lead the team
on the ﬁeld and made some tough
tactical substitutions during the game.
Also to Henry Bleech for organising
the weekend so brilliantly .

