NEWS
8 FRIDAY 01 MARCH
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Concernshavebeenraisedaboutpoten-
tially excessive rents at one of Imperial’s
hall of residence. Imperial College rents
the ﬁrst three levels of Parsons House,
located on the grounds of Charing
Cross Hospital, from housing company
A2 Dominion and then rents out indi-
vidual rooms to students for £121.82 a
week. All rooms are single occupancy
with a shared kitchen and bathrooms.
An anonymous source, however, told
Felix, that they “pay about £290.53 a
month for a 5th ﬂoor room renting
from A2 Dominion directly”
. Assum-
ing a 12 month and 52 week year and
including a £25 a month for internet ac-
cess, which those renting from Imperial
get free, this works out at £72.81 a week.
his means that a student staying at
Parsons House for the standard 39 week
Imperial contract length will still pay
more – £4750.98 –than a student rent-
ing privately for the whole year – who
will pay £3786.36.
hese ﬁgures have, however, been
challenged by Paul Noke, Head of Col-
lege Residential Services, who told Felix
that the company who owns the build-
ing “currently charges rents of £105.51
per week for rooms elsewhere in the
building”
. However, Felix has obtained
documents showing that the rooms do
indeed cost around £290 per month, as
stated above.
Noke explained that the higher Col-
lege rents resulted primarily from the
College being “obliged to pay an annual
rent for the rooms (including water,
electricity, planned maintenance for the
building) even though the rooms cur-
rentlyformpartoftheUGaccommoda-
tion portfolio [and as such] are used to
accommodate Imperial students on 39
week contracts”
. He further explained
that “5 of the 48 rooms that form part of
[the] contract are used to provide War-
dening accommodation, [which] needs
to be paid for”; that, “ students get hall
events/parties [which are] organised
by the Wardens and Hall Commit-
tee [and] are paid for by the amenities
fund, which is charged for within the
rent” and that privately renting resi-
dents “are also responsible for some of
their own minor repairs to their ﬂats,
whereas [Imperial] students would not
be expected to pay for this”
. He con-
cluded that “the £121.82 per week rent
that we currently charge is correct once
you divide all of the costs over the 39
week licence period” and was also care-
ful to point out that private rooms “are
rented on six month rolling tenancies,
so a room only become available when
a tenancy is relinquished”
. his means
“an undergraduate student may not be
able to secure accommodation there for
the whole of the academic year” unless
renting from Imperial.
Claims of insuﬃcient warden sup-
port, with the anonymous source telling
Felix that “the wardens don’t seem to
organise many/any social events”
, were
also challenged by Dr Marko Krzanric,
the Head Warden of Parsons House. Dr
Krzanric maintained that the Wardens
and seniors have “managed to organise
60-ish events this academic year so far”
,
including “Freshers Fortnight events,
Christmas party, weekly Sunday break-
fasts, Poker nights, trips to the thea-
tre and circus, cooking competitions,
London tours, Holiday themed events
(Pancake Day, Halloween, Burns Night)
and even a Christmas meal and New
Years party for students who could not
be home during holidays”
. Dr Krzanric,
was keen to stress that “the welfare of
our students is paramount for [the war-
dens]”
.
Maciej Matuszewski Reporter
CLASSIFIEDS
SOFTWARE ENGINEER
WANTED
A small, privately owned software vendor that has good
communication links by road and rail. Founded in 2005,
we write software that manages and assures the proper
operation of IT systems in organisations like commercial
banks and telecommunications companies by monitoring
the performance and availability of servers, services and
applications. We have a growing range of products that
have been successfully deployed into several blue-chip en-
terprises. We are expecting a step-growth event with the
imminent acquisition of a new, very large customer and as
such are looking to expand our team.
Applicants should have the following:
• Experience with a popular web framework & MVC (e.g.
Django).
• Experience with serialisation methods (e.g. XML,
JSON).
• Experience developing web based APIs (e.g. REST).
• Understanding of UNIX and exposure to multiple plat-
forms (e.g. Linux, Solaris, AIX).
• Experience with bash, sed/awk and Make.
• Conversant with a popular VCS (e.g. Subversion, Mercu-
rial).
• Good understanding of Virtualisation platforms for
example:
• KVM, Solaris Zones and LDOMS, AIX LPARS, VMWare.
• Managing virtualisation with Libvirt.
• Knowledge of web server management and deployment
(e.g. Apache, NGINX).
• Database administration skills (e.g. Oracle, Sybase, DB2,
PostgreSQL)
For more information:
Call: 01626 721212 or 07880632634
Email: suzanne@spectrumconsultancy.co.uk
Email felix@imperial.ac.uk to place Classifieds.
A screenshot showing the
payment of roughly £290
Imperial students pay more to
rent rooms in Parson’s House
Students pay £1000 more than privately renting a room
College responds to questions over the price
Wardening and renting rooms from company highlighted
Website declared “hot shit”
Imperial College London’s student news-
paper, Felix, has officially been declared
to have a “fucking sick” website that “eve-
ryone should visit” by the Prime Minister
in a statement at a press conference.
The website is thought to allow students
to comment on whatever they like.
01/03/13
Check it. We’ve got a
website and everything.
Read and comment on
articles online, from the
comfort of your bed.
www.felixonline.co.uk

