Anthem For Bored Youth
"Here We A r e Now: Entertain Us"
Set your MTV mindset ontofast-forward as weflick through the delights in store during
Freshers' Weekfor students new, old and indifferent (you lucky people).
One day I'll learn not to push my luck. Sure, making snide comments about the evolutionary
pedigree of the mobile mountain we were stranded behind, vainly trying to catch a glimpse of the
stage, wasn't strictly the smartest thing I've ever done. But 'accidentally' spilling my pint over his
girl-friend for an encore...well, that was just plain dumb. Neck muscles the size of Henry Rollins'
slowly tensed as he turned with all the menacing speed of continental drift. My new-found friends
evaporated like the morning dew, and suddenly I felt, very, very alone...
...which is what the fun and games of Fresher's week is all about: trying not to feel alone in
a new place and situation. The standard advice is to go to everything, if only so you don't have
time to worry about spending the next few years of your life with a bunch of complete strangers
(gulp). Don't panic, the sea of unfamiliar faces will quickly resolve into the comforting features of
friends from hall, friends from your course and 'friends' you met at registration (and have been
trying to avoid ever since). So make the most of those few precious days when the grind of course-
work and exams is still a distant gleam in your lecturers' eye. Get out there and party! (Just don't
annoy any neanderthals during the Freshers' Ball, OK? It, isn't worth the bruises...)
Freshers' Week kicks off on Monday in traditional style with the New Year's Carnival. There's
an Irish Ceilidh, complete with real ale bar, late bar until 2am and disco 'til 3 and a chance to look
stupid on the Bucking Bronco and Surf Simulator rides. Music comes from Indie hopefuls 'Salad'.
Their lead singer used to be a vidcojockey for MTV, which just about says it, all...
Wednesday Night is Party Night, starring Geno Washington's Hypnotic Show: a Hypnotism
show with a difference (it says here). Geno is also allegedly a 'soul legend' (can't say I've ever
heard of him) so perhaps lie sends you to sleep with his singing... Apart from the usual late, bar
and disco there's the cult experience of the Double Six Club... a night of wacky fun where waiters
encourage you to relive your childhood with all your favourite games like Ker-Plunk, Hungry
Hippos and Risk (personally, my favourite game as a kid was 'doctors and nurses' - Ed). Sounds,
erm, interesting.
The Grand Finale to the Week is Friday's Freshers' Ball, featuring
the by-now obligatory late bar and disco which tonight goes under the
somewhat unfortunate name of the 'Funky Bunker'. The best in funk,
dance and rare groove aided and abetted by some top-name DJ's. You
can also try your luck at the Guilds Casino (well, I guess betting is one
way to supplement your meagre grant). Finally, there's the musical
talents of dance outfit SubSub, famous for the hit 'Ain't No Love (Ain't,
No Use)' and...very little else, actually. Support, comes from tribute
band 'Peroxide Blondie'. No prizes for guessing which band they're a
'tribute' to. What next, a 'Status Quo' tribute band?
All the big events going on during Freshers' Week take place in the
Union Building in Beit Quad. Be there - or be somewhere else.
(Hey, we're not going to force you to have a good time).
TO ATTEND UNION EVENTS YOU NEED COLLEGE ID
(EITHER UNION CARD OR REGISTRATION FORM)
Freshers' Week
Checklist
| Do the registration two-step in the
JCR on Monday or Tuesday. This
involves getting to the front of one
queue, only to discover you need to
fill out a dozen forms in triplicate
and join the end of another queue.
Patience is a virtue...
| Collect Grant Cheque from JCR on
Monday/Tuesday, then apply for a
student loan on Wednesday when
your grant runs out.
| Fresher's Reception, Monday, the
Great Hall. Good way to catch up on
lost sleep.
| Get College ID/Union card from
your department. Extra points for the
most obviously hung-over photo.
I Register with the Medical Centre .
| Go to Freshers' Fair on Tuesday (see
guide in this issue for more details).
I P A A A R T E E E E !
Freshers' Week ticket (all three days) costs £15. Otherwise tickets to the
New Year Carnival and Freshers' Ball are £6 and £7 apiece, while
Wednesday's Party Night atmosphere is yours to sample for a fiver. You
can also buy tickets from the Union office. A new dressingfor your Salad days at Imperial.
030CT91 F E L I X

