Feature
Puccini Packs in the Punters
Patrick Wood was swapped at birth with an opera columnist and became th
critic to send his own quotes to Pseuds' Comer. Below, two evenings ofthe wo
most exciting and extravagant artform make himforget about sex.
With minority cultural events such as Polish
surrealist, cinema, it's a fair bet that sooner or
later someone's going to take their clothes off.
The reverse of this symbiotic relationship
between the intellectual and the corporeal is
that when, for example, I went, to see
Borowczyk's The Beast at. the Everyman (he,
other week I could claim, to anyone 1 saw who
knew me, to be there for the biting Bunuelian
anti-clerical satire.
There's not much nudity in opera (unless
Maria Ewing's doing Salome) and the down-
side of designer-led, big budget productions is
that there sometimes isn't much thought either.
Not, an accusation that can be levelled at
English National Opera's latest, Tosco.: the
new management is weighed down by a huge
box office deficit, but director Keith Warner has
succeeded in substituting ideas for cash. The
sets are sparse but inventive and beautifully lit.
Act HI on the castle battlements has a lime-
green dawn sky behind an Expressionist jumble
of sentry-boxes and a sinister crimson stairwell.
The end of Act I looks good too; priests and
cardinals process downstage and we see, as the
obsessed Baron Scarpia sings his 'Tosca, you
make me forget about God', that their statue is
not, the Virgin Mary but Tosca herself.
The main roles are strongly sung. Henk
Smit brings creepy villainy to the part, of
Scarpia, Chief of Secret Police and arch-operatic
nasty. Rosalind Plowright, is powerfill and steely
as Tosca, although occasionally a little shrill. On
the first night, the orchestra 'under Sir Alexander
Gibson didn't: seem totally happy with some of
the dramatic gear-shifts, particularly in Act I, but
this is surely no longer a problem.
September is becoming unofficial Puccini
festival month in Loudon, as the two opera
houses alternate his crowd-pullers to kickstart
their seasons. It's not hard to see why.
Turandot, like Tosca, has a strong plot (no
babies swapped at birth here), racy characters
and a hit-list of stunning tunes. Andrei Serban's
opulent production, revived by the Royal
Opera, dales from 19J54 and was obviously
created in a different financial climate to the
one in which ENO are currently having to
work. The stage is filled with colour and move-
ment: a giant grindstone is wheeled on by
dancing ninjas; severed heads trail crepe blood,
and the ancient Emperor Alloum descends from
the ceiling on an enormous cushion. The tenor
Giuseppe Giacomini is terrific as Calaf. The
famous Act III aria in which he vows not to let
the tyrannical Princess Turandot walk all over
him (Nessun dormai) is superbly delivered. As
Turandot,, Sharon
Sweet looks like noth-
ing so much as a vast
singing pillow. Her
voice may not. be the
most, beautiful of
instruments, but. it has
thrilling power and
what's more she can
act. (Note that the cast
changes after October
3rd.)
Of the orchestral
series starting up
around now (including
Deutsche Romantik on
the South Bank and a
Berlioz series from the
BBC SO) it's the
London Symphony
Orchestra's Mahler
cycle that looks set to
be the autumn's
hottest ticket, des-
ervedly so on the evi-
dence of the first, two
concerts. Michael
Tilson Thomas is cur-
rently the most excit-
ing conductor in
London. He's pre-
pared to take risks —
including that: of not
retiming during the
long span of the
Second Symphony,
leading to a couple of
bad mis-pitchings in the finale. A small price to
pay for a reading of great, excitement and sus-
pense, not a little of which centred on whether
Mr
IT was going to manage to stay on the podi-
um. One moment he is crouched almost on his
haunches behind his music-stand; the next, he
uncoils like a spring and lunges forward as if to
kebab the violas on his baton. The orchestra
responds with sizzling virtuosity, nowhere, more
so than in the eruptions of the Second
Symphony's awesome funeral march. Next will
be the monstrous Third Symphony, in a con-
cert which also includes Brahms and Benjamin
— a long haul both for audience and players.
Each concert, is being played twice, so the
prospects for student standby look good.
• Tosca is al the Coliseum, St Martin's Lane,
until Oct 27th. Box office (071) 632 8300.
Seats from £8 in advance, £5 on the day.
RosalindPlowright as Tosca (Photo: Clive Barda)
Student standby: stalls seatsfor £15 from three
hours before the performance (subject to avai
ability).
• Turandot is al the. Royal Opera House,
Covent Garden, until Nov 5th. Box office (071)
304 4000. Seatsfrom £5 in the upper slips —
restricted view, so book early ifyou want to be
able, to see anything al all (good sound
though). Standing places at £10.50, and seats
at £22 availablefrom 10am on the day. Student
standby (£7.50 in the amphitheatre, £15 in the
stalls) subject to availability.
• The LSO Mahler cycle continues at the
Barbican Centre on Oct 5th and 6th. Box office
(071) 638 8891. Student standby: stalls and
tier one sealsfor £8 and £6.50.
030CT94 F E L I X WM

