• H Feature
The Illustrated Student Animal
"Welcome to the Jungle" roared the infinitely more socially well adjustedAxle R
And we reply: Welcome to the FELIX aborginal guidefor newcomers (andfor the
rest ofus a reminder of just why that summer holiday was so good...)
Hi, Des Morris here. Following on from the
uncanny success of the 'Live Orgasm' sequence
that I brought to you on the BBC, it is time for
me to don my overcoat once more, gesticulate
unconvincingly and venture into the vigorous
jungle of entertainment that is Homo sapiens.
Brought to you tliis week is an exclusive,
never-before-shown-on-TV insight into that
branch of man which is so ubiquitous around
South Kensington, the Sludius imperii, or
Imperial student. By following these creatures
with hidden endoscopic cameras we have
managed to gain an extraordinary insight into
the different tribes to be found around
Imperial.
Des poses infront the gorillas
Group One: The Anorak
Classification : Dorkus maximus
Identification : "I love these sausage rolls"
Population : Too Many
Habitat: JCR, departmental libraries, southside bar
Collectively known as the jeans'n'jumper brigade, clusters of this
tribe are often found huddled over tutorial sheets in the JCR and munching
those oh-so-wonderful sausage rolls that contain about as much meat as
the Virgin Mary. The Anoraks have this uncanny propensity to think that
work is important, and will while away many a happy hour groping at the
intricacies of fourier analysis. They generally avoid groups 2 and 3. For
entertainment, they might just, 'go for a pint, at Southside to celebrate the
end of exams' if pushed, but really prefer an evening in with Tetris. More
outgoing types may work for a CCU, thus giving these strange sub-unions
the reputation they now have. Four anoraks and a sausage roll
Whither I.C Regalia?
Group Two: The Apathetic
Classification : Apatheticus commonis
Identification : The pint and the mating calls ("Wcheyyyyyy!!")
Population : Duntio. I'm too drunk to count.
Habitat: Union.
We managed to gain exclusive footage of these creatures by lurking
suspiciously outside the Union late at, night. Unfortunately our cameraman
was stampeded when a herd of them overheard a cry of 'Free beer at
Southside' which a drunken fresher unwittingly blurted. Work is unknown
to these types, whose favourite, form of exercise is to lift a glass to their
mouth, or tip it over someone's head. If questioned, they will often deny
their laziness by claiming to be in a spoils team, usually because 'they have
great, post-match parties'. Often on the look out for group 3, some gain a
pathological condition known as 'sharkus extremis'. They can easily be
spotted by their large dorsal fin and an air of desperation.
MM F E L I X 030CT91

