Feature
Group Three: The Female
Classification :
Identification :
Population:
Habitat:
Skirtus worrms
Look for' crowds of dorsal fins
Don't believe the prospectus
Unknown
These are a special rarity which usually remain unseen at Imperial.
In fact they are so scarce that for many years it was thought they were a
subspecies of miner (type 4) and whose apparel was a special type of
geologists kilt. So much for that theory. For many years the Female was
discouraged from coming to Imperial, as it was thought that the surging
levels of testosterone may be loo much for some delicate experimental rigs.
There is now a policy of positive enforcement, of females, so much so that
even the most, conservative of senior academics are shaving their chests and
sporting brassieres, lipstick and blonde afro style wigs.
Afemale or not afemale? Listen, you learn not to ask questions.,
Group Four: The Miner
Classification : Under graundus
Identification : Pick axes, tunics and funny handshakes (or is that Masons?)
Population : Scarce
Habitat: RSM
Very few, if any, of these are seen around Imperial. They are thought
to lurk in the secret passages which abound beneath Imperial and only
emerge, rock in hand, in the dead of night to make off with a few of the
choiciest females. However, due to the current trend for rampant
transvestitism at, college this activity has ceased admirably. The Rector once
offered a prize to anyone who could spot a miner, but. the '1923 Miner-
Finder' trophy and the prerequisite sloppy French kiss from Sir Ron
'McDon' Oxburgh have to this day remained unclaimed.
Under groundus (artists impression)
Group Five: The Hack
Classification: Bacchus slappus
Identification: Funny clothes or attitudes, maniacal zeal for activity
Population : 157
Habitat: Beit Quad
These can usually be spotted by their unusual array of haircuts,
which range from the traditional 'cowpat' to the more avant-garde 'shorter
than my goatee.'. The Hack has a propensity to enthuse about anything to
do with the Onion (sic). Different tribes abound, ranging from the all-nite
free speech abusers in FELIX (Who are so generous as to furnish me with a
nipple-tweakingly sexy paycheck for this so called article) to the more
organisational committee type people who don officious titles and hide
behind the protectively inanimate, Onion desk staff, slurping at coffee whilst
ignoring people.
FELIX hacks (can you spot the author?)
030CT9M F E L I X KE3

