N
e
w
s Feature
Whose Line is it Anyway?
David Cohen dials the international connection on the new college phone syst
The ten year old phone system installed in
Imperial was showing signs of age. With the
demand for more extensions constantly
increasing, the only way of satisfying this
seemingly insatiable hunger was by running
small exchanges piggy-backed on two to three
main lines, which act as splitting points so that
more phone lines could be connected. This, for
example, is what happened in Prince's
Gardens: 4 lines ran from the Linstead
exchange to College, so that only 4 calls could
be directed outside of Prince's Gardens at any
one time. These four lines served all the
residents in Prince's Gardens, some 1000
students in total!
The new phone system project was
conceived in December 1990. After filtering
through layers of college administration and
decision making, the project was finally
adopted and the birth date of the new system
was set: 25th June 1994.
On this particular weekend an innocent,
unsuspecting, student (lets call him Mr. Phi)
decides to call Silwood Park (Imperial College's
outer arm) for some friendly discourse. Mr Ph1
dials the appropriate numbers: 72 (Evelyn
Gardens to South Kensington) 4- 96 (South
Kensington to Silwood) + the rest of tic
extension. nrrri
Whenyou put a new
B ii t
hark! What
BT error
m e s s a g e
t h r o u g h
y o n d e r
h e a d - s e t
breaks? It is
"Your number has not been recognised" and
hey presto, we have free phone calls! Only a
student (See Pages 18-19 for a detailed
analysis of the genre) would not pass up on
telephone system in
everybody is going to try
and break it."
such an opportunity. Needless to say, such
news spreads amongst the impoverished, Tory
stricken, student society like wild fire.
The fault was reported to the College
Telecommunications division and promptly
rectified. But, rumour has it, many
international phone calls were made in the
short time that the fault existed —New
Zealand and Singapore being amongst the
destinations mentioned. When queried about
this Alan Hillycr, Telecommunications
Manager, said that he was unaware of any
problems existing in the system; but
acknowledged that such faults were a
possibility. "At the moment, there is lots of extra
programming going.on with this [national]
"Phone-day". With all the national codes
changing, Ericsson Ltd. [College phone
contractors] have been doing a lot of extra
programming, and it is quite possible that they
could have changed something, without me
knowing, that would have upset the dialling
patterns."
Other sources have revealed that there
was apparently a similar problem inside the
College network, on, and following, the BT
"Phone-day". This saw the replacement of the
010 international dialling code with the
simplified 00, finally bringing
Britain in line with the long
standing international standard.
A member of staff in the
Computing Centre, told
F E L I X that he discovered this
problem on the 15th of August,
and dutifully reported it on that
day. Furthermore he claims to
have had knowledge of people who made
international calls, on phones which were not
supposed to permit this service, seven weeks
after he reported the fault.
So how common is the awareness of the
fault? Mr. Hillyer knew of a person in the
Chemical Engineering department who had
notified him of this problem. Sources in College
have also informed F E L I X that a similar fault
was being exploited in the Chemistry
department. "I mean everybody is going to be
trying it. When you put a new telephone
system in everybody is going to try and break
it. The old system, after 10 years, had had
virtually all its holes plugged up, although if an
occasional reconfiguration was made a door
might still be accidently left open," says Mr
Hillyer. "Of course in such situations College
will have to foot the bill" . It's a bill which
seems to be growing ever larger.
This "back-door" syndrome seems to be
a common ailment in large scale technological
systems (Another example of which is the
expanding global computer network, which
seems to be taking on a life of its own). Of
course when such a back-door is discovered it
is more likely than not to be exploited before it
is reported. Mr Hillyer reassured that "Procedures
are in place for finding out things like that and
who is responsible", but refused to elaborate on
them.
The new telephone exchange system is
completely computer controlled. All the system
parameters are changeable in software which is
maintained by Ericssons — an authorised
contractor and manufacturer. Problems seem
to occasionally arise due to some side effects of
the modifications made by Ericssons which
effect the present, customised, configuration at
IC. Because of the mode of operation, there is
no single person in the position to be able to
know everything about the entire system.
Consequently its difficult to make sure that
consistency is maintained in the system from
modification to modification. Currently,
though, it seems that all known loopholes have
been detected and blocked. But, there is no
guarantee that every possible dodge has been
effectively barred. Some mention of "patches"
in the system (quick fixes), which are used by
engineers to quickly remedy local problems,
Cast aspersions on the long term integrity of the
system. The jinx has even reached as far as
Beit Quad. Earlier on during the exchange
reorganisation, F E L I X experienced some
telephonic problems too. Yes, even the
impenetrable walls of F E L I X T O W E R S
where audaciously attacked.
"It's all gone very smoothly", remarked
Mr. Hillyer commenting on the new system
installation, after considering all the problems
encountered. But if anyone knows a cheap way
of calling aunts in Australia , please contact the
F E L I X office.
l i M F E L I X 030CT9H

