N
e
w
s feature
Rebecca Mileham takes afresh stroll down IC's own
rejuvenated Oxford Street...
Walking a
New Way
From a shelf somewhere in Beit Quad to a
business with a yearly turnover now well over
half a million pounds, the Union Bookstore has
come a long way.
"It's not a small concern'', confides Jill
Gibbons, who, in three years as manager has
overseen both disasters, such as the doors
falling off, and triumphs, as she foresees the
new commercial developments along the walk-
way.
For, flushed with its success, the Union
Bookstore lias expanded, opening a newsagent
in the space formerly occupied by the STA stu-
dent travel office, and extending by 15% the
range of books offered in the original shop.
"We'd had complaints from students and
staff about the lack of room in the shop",
explains Jill. "The main problem is that people
want to use credit, cards for book purchases,
but we sell a wider variety of sweets than the
JCR and we're almost the only place that, sells
cigarettes. The queues at lunch time can be
horrendous".
The bookshop's proposal of a newsagent
to fill the space left by STA was readily accept-
ed in a vote at. the final Union General Meeting
of last year, beating by a mile the alternative
thrilling suggestion - an outpost of the
Endsleigh insurance company.
"We should be able to get out about 70
titles of newspapers and magazines, along with
cold drinks, confectionery, phone cards,
stamps, batteries and toiletries", she explains.
The length of queues will be kept down with a
cash only rule in the newsagent and two tills
running during lunch times.
Jill's optimism in the number of items it
will be possible to cram into a space the size of
a South Kensington bedsit is admirable consid-
ering that the STA office moved to sunnier
climes further along the walkway precisely
because of the claustrophobic atmosphere in its
old premises.
"I don't know what the old shop was
designed for, but it certainly wasn't a travel
agent" says Henry Stedman, an STA travel
consultant and frustrated travel writer who is
currently planning a trip to Madagascar.
Manager Tim Prentice goes further: "It looked
like the type of place where you booked a trip
to Paris or a bus ticket". Offended Parisians
aside, STA hope to attract the business of the
travelling IC population with new services.
"With the new office the accent is on long haul
travel, although bus tickets are still available",
Tim says - a relief to those of us who spend
weekends in Manchester rather than
Madagascar, although leaving long-suffering
Parisians in the lurch.
Having beaten off competition from
other student travel agencies to renew its ten-
der here, STA will be hoping to prove its worth
by introducing a new travel library consisting
of around fifty up-to-date guide books such as
those produced by Lonely Planet.
Won't this admirable idea prejudice sales
of the same guide books on offer in the book-
store, though? Tim thinks not. "If people want
to look up a little bit of information, they don't
buy a guide book", he says confidently.
STA's new office occupies what used to
be a clipboard - now refitted - in which the
JCR caterers kept "some things", now housed
in a new cupboard on the left of the walkway
door. Dan Look, Union Deputy President for
Finance and Services, claims that the lost space
in the undeniably crowded JCR has not been in
vain: "I think that the benefits of a larger STA
office with an extra member of staff far out-
weigh the loss of a few seats".
Approval for the site of the refitted office
is even forthcoming from the contractors.
Peering over his yellow tea mug, Ron Owen
says "It's all work", but Ian Warren takes a
more pragmatic view: "It's been very enjoyable
working here - good parking facilities, and food
en suite".
For those who aren't planning their next
round-the-world trip, the presence or absence
of a travel agency along the walkway may be
academic.
And for those who buy one book a year
and a snack or magazine every day, moving
the interesting part of the bookstore into a
space less than a quarter the size could under-
standably be seen as a step in the wrong direc-
tion.
The revamped bookshop will undoubt-
edly be more serene for those who like to
browse in the electrical engineering section, but
have the everyday needs of students been side-
lined?
Jill Gibbons feels that the proposed items
will fit "very nicely" into the newsagent space,
and is at pains to point out the financial
advantages the shop offers to students because
it. is run on a virtually non-profit making basis.
"We have a policy of offering all stationery
cheaper than people could buy elsewhere, by
checking our prices against Smiths and
Rymans at the start and halfway through each
term" she explains.
Books are slightly different, being subject
to the net. book agreement which should fix the
price in all shops. However, as Jill says,
"Dillon's are known for breaking the agree-
ment and there's now an idea that text books
will be cheaper there." She goes on, "They can
only reduce the price of top ten fiction, though,
and we've found (hat some text books are more
expensive at Dillon's to make up for the reduc-
tion on popular books".
The most, obvious immediate change to
the bookshop is its new decor, and particularly
the new signs which enable you to get straight
to the section you're after without becoming
sidetracked by the Far Side cards.
Deputy President Dan Look comments:
"Upgrading the bookshop means that all the
money the bookshop makes is reinvested for
the students".
Bookstore employees are quick to point
out the advantages of the new hardware.
"We used to have metal shelves which
looked like DIY", says Roy Howard, who has
worked at the Union Bookstore in its many
forms for 25 years. "It was cold before; this is
warmer to look at, and softer". As well as their
tactile advantages, the new shelves won't tear
the covers of the books as the old ones tended
to. They even come with a pedigree. "We went
to the specialists in book shelving - they've
done Waterstone's", says Jill Gibbons with a
contented sigh. "It's a different atmosphere.
Every time I walk in I think: yes, this looks like
a bookshop".
030CT91 F E L I X HQ

