Introducing lelix
In the Belly of the Beast
They worked quickly, nimble, scalpels slicing
across the paunched, freshly shaven flesh and
unzipping the inner organs to the. rasping air.
The blood was warm in places: deep within the
animals body, safefromthe cold reality of the
operation being performed, old organic matter
had tried to resist, to preserve itself, to live. And
some of that matter would indeed remain - but
those lucky cells and conglomerates of cells
would be chosen by the surgeons goal and not
by stubborn life.
When the. bucket by the. side, of the table
was nearly full (the. lungs blooming like Lilies
on the surface of the nuirky contents) they lay
down their tools. The green screen on the.
adjoining trolley displayed a yellow line and
the yellow line was a slow, unenthusiastic
wave, like, a tide scared of King Kanute.. A nurs-
es fingersflickered across the control panel. 'Its
still alive, she deadpanned. The, wave rose, and
fell in a slow stocatto. The tallest surgeon nod-
ded and motioned to a shape in the darkness. A
tray sailed out of the gloom like dead Orphelias
floating coffin. Arrayed on the tray were the
replacement organs, floating suspended in large
glass jars of a dirty brown fluid. They were
primed in their inactivity: organic hand-
grenades awaiting the command to explode.
The medical men called this command by
attaching the pipes to pipes and fusing the ner-
vous systems with new, cybernetic connectors.
Red-stained switchboard operators. The work
wasfast, but the work took an age.
Eventually the beast that lay across the
table sparkled with dew sprinkled guts and the
jars were all empty. The transformation was
near complete and as the body was strung
together the tallest surgeon smiled to himself
and to his revitalisedfeline companion. In afew
days the creature would walk again, testing its
fresh body even before it explored the hospital
cell. Then it would be released. The new year
could begin.
FELIX veteran or virgin? Whoever, wel-
come (back) to college and to everyone's
favourite newspaper named after a cat (lets
leave 'Pussy on the top shelf where it belongs
shall we?) We have a few changes planned this
year, as bombastically alluded to in the little
fairy story above, hence the summaries below.
I know that at this time of the year the clubs
and societies en masse are frog-marching every
unattached soul into their offices - member-
ship form and a pen in one hand and the
promise of a year of unparalleled delights in the
other - and hence it can be difficult to allocate
your time. But still, to anyone interested at all
in doing anything in FELIX: come in and we
can talk about it (I have a big couch, a stick on
beard and an excellent, bedside manner...) You
can commit as much time as you want and it
needn't compete (much) with your other inter-
ests. The best organisations work on synergy
and I need as many people with a stake in the
drama of producing the paper as possible. Only
with your help can I spend vast amounts of
time in the bar, under the bar and being car-
ried out of the bar! Anyway, reader or writer, I
hope you like the new layout and sections and
that you enjoy FELIX in the months ahead.
Features
We hope to tackle a wider range of issues this
year and welcome any ideas you may have
(particularly if you can provide some informa-
tion on the story — or better still become a fea-
ture writer — yourself!) Clubs and Societies
intending to submit features are asked to con-
sult the editor first, (and a couple of weeks in
advance) and work out the details together.
Clubs and Societies News
This section will keep you up-to-date on the
current affairs of the Unions 130+ clubs and
socs. We hope, for example, to provide
advance news of special events, report on
important, changes in the administration and
politics of their day-to-day running and high-
light, particularly outstanding achievements.
StandBy!
We preview what's going on in the world of
arts, entertainment, fashion and clubs in our
comprehensive new review section. Student life
in London wouldn't be impossible without it
but it should give you some idea how to best
spend those, rainy days and nights...
The Seven Day Guide
What? Have we finally managed to overhaul
the diary section? Well, we, hope to briefly
cover local cinemas, the pick of the gigs,
shows, performances and exhibitions whilst,
still keeping abreast of everything happening
around Imperial.
F E L I X 030CT94
Introducing Felix
Joining the FELIX Team
The. first port of call for all you inspired journalists is the FELIX office itself. A
lot. of the people in there will know each other which may give a cliquey
impression but it. really isn't that bad once you start talking. You'll probably
find half the people, in the office you took to be embittered old hacks have only
just wandered in like you! The FELIX team is drawn from such a wide spec-
trum of the college that it, can claim to be one, of the most cosmopolitan and
friendly places on campus. So don't be a scaredy cat - become a FELIX
cat...(urrrgh! 1 can't believe I just wrote, that!)
Freshers Fair: Find us near our office in the NorthWcst of Beit Quad.
Editorial, news and reviewers meetings: Scan FELIX for details.
'Keep the Cat Free'
The FELIX motto refers not only to the price: it refers to the
concept of editorial freedom. You may have noticed that die
fellow below has has two heads. As a partially Union funded
society we try to promote the Union where possible — but at
the same time we have to stand firm and defend the right of
IC students to a free press. Sometimes this brings us into con-
flict but that is better then the alternative: a neutered Tomcat
blindly towing the, official line...
Science
Best read at lunchtiines or on the tube (what
kind of sicko would read about physics whilst
actually in a physics lecture?) this page will
keep you abreast of the movements in the
world of science, especially as regards our
humble Imperial College. Whether this will
actually happen, or the page degenerate into a
desperate re-write of Tuesday nights
Tomorrows World will depend to some extent,
on whether we can track down the enthusiastic
but noticeably absent Science Editor before
the start of term. Whither Tim? TIM V Clever
contributors are sort to produce a wide range
of stories and to do the coursework assign-
ments of hard-core hacks for a affordable,
price.
Incoming
Hear the siren, see the bombs, run for shelter
and watch theflamesthrough the cracks in the
corrugated doors of the air raid shelter! Is that
an apt metaphor for tliis, the letters page?
That depends on what letters we get — intellec-
tually debates with the accuracy of an Excocet
or ill-aimed SCUDS, we will print them all.
This year there will be a weekly guest editor
mediating the, debate. They will be responsible
for editing down letters of an unreasonable size
(over 200 words in most cases), adding com-
ments of their own and generally being witty.
Its a tall order.
Puzzles, Gossip and Naughty Bits
This section, called 'Bile in the rough notes all
summer, is presently in limbo due. to a distinct
lack of gossip. Normal services will hopefully
be restored soon and well be keeping you up-
to-date on the crazy goings on of a bunch of
people (and their lawyers) you don't know yet
but will be intimately familiar with by
December. In the. absence of gossip we will be
cutting out heads from photographs of various
Union officers and sticking them over the.
heads of farm animals, then distributing the
pictures to 6000 people each week. (Union
officers suddenly overflowing with gossip are
reminded that the FELIX office is located in
the Northwest corner of Beit Quad).
News
We hope to expand the news pages this year
and seek to make sure FELIX fearlessly covers
every interesting story across campus. News
will adorn both the front and back covers, and
inside pages.
Reading the bound editions of previous
years, it. is obvious that the student body is, in
general, now much more ignorant of the activ-
ities of both Union and College personnel and
also more easily intimidated. Interestingly
/ news coverage declines along with plummeting
attendance of UG.Ms, the start, of the student
loan era and the end of the Thatcher boom
years. A link could even be (tenuously) made
with the, launch of the staff magazine
'Network. Is poor news coverage then
inevitable? We intend to find out.
Opinions: Editorials and Columns
The editor will be, ranting regularly enough to
make any further comment unnecessary and
unflattering! In addition they'll be a range of
regular writers talking about everything from
science, die Internet and the goings on at
Mary's to their latest trip to the Seven-Eleven.
Will Harts and Cullens be, covered too? (Well,
that is what we call a cliff-hanger in the media
trade - you'll have to read to find out) Anyone
interested in writing a regular column should
come in and ask for the, editor — for more
irregular preachers check out the soap box col-
umn. (Note that, all submissions to FELIX,
even ones which necessitate anonymous pub-
lishing, must first be validated with a college
security card in case, of fraud).
030CT94 F E L I X EH

