FELIX EDITOR Simon Banton proposed by Neil McCulloch
Gone are the days when Friday morning meant
you read Felix in 1st lecture to the exclusion of
writing notes. Nowadays the only person that
looks at Felix for more than 5 minutes is the
lecturer who sees it drift past in the form of paper
darts. Some may say that Felix will always be this
tedious. I say NOT SO! For 3 years I have beer-
disappointed, along with many others, in Felix ant
it has gone on long enough. If you elect me a;
Editor I will re-vitalise our newspaper.
The essence of Felix is that it should provide a
lively forum for the discussion of matters which
interest and affect students. It should have a
balance between sports, clubs/societies, reviews,
CCU reports et al. This much is obvious. What is
not so obvious, or easy to do, is give the proper
FELIX EDITOR
In pursuit of what is honest and good in this
College, Ajay Kapadia has decided to become
next year's FELIX editor. He discussed his
plans with a special reporter.
Q. Why are you standing for FELIX editor?
A. During my time at College, the standard of
FELIX has always been low. My journalistic
instinct assures me that I can achieve new heights.
Q. What makes you the best candidate?
A. I know what the job involves and I am able to
carry it out. My experience includes working as
this year's News Editor, responsible for filling two
and a half pages every week.
I believe in the independance of FELIX and, for
the sake of the newspaper, it must not be lost. I'm
sure that nobody wants to read a paper that
reports news about the same old people, or acts as
a voice box for College or any of the Unions.
Q. How do you aim to make FELIX more
attractive to its readers?
FELIX EDITOR
I'm writing this to point out a few things that
modesty prevents Hugh from saying himself. He is
probably the only properly experienced candidate
standing for this post, having worked on the
production side of Felix for several years. This is
important, not only because the Felix editor also
has to manage the Union Print Unit, but also
because he will have to advise next year's
handbook editors over the summer. This would
not be easy if he were inexperienced.
But Hugh is not just another Felix hack, he is
very concerned about getting more people
involved. Having edited Spanner and Guildsheet I
have seen the problems he will face and am
confident to propose Hugh Southey for Felix
Editor.
Mark Cottle
FELIX this year has not lived up to its full potential.
It hasn't been relevant to students and it hasn't
been lively and innovative. How often has FELIX
ignored an event organised by your club or CCU?
exposure to the news stories that do not leap out
and bite the news staff on the ankle. College block
and the Union can, and do, make decisions and
long term plans without any accountability to
students as a whole. The only way to get at the real
news in I.C. is by incisive and investigative
iournalism. You need to use every devious means
possible to uncover the truth and this I intend to
do.
In conclusion, let me say I am not a Felix hack
and as such I can bring a TOTALLY fresh
approach to the job rather than a re-hash of what
has been mediocre before.
For a well-balanced, exciting and revealing Felix
vote for me next Monday or Tuesday.
Simon Bin ton
How often has FELIX bored you during first
lectures? FELIX can'be improved and this how I
would do it: *
•News This year FELIX has reported on boring
news about College staff and ignored student
activities. If I am elected FELIX editor the news
pages will be relevant.
•Comment The FELIX editorial can and should
be used to influence College. I am prepared to use
it for students.
•Humour If elected editor I will ensure FELIX has
a regular diary column reporting on anything
amusing that happens in College. I will also
encourage people to submit humourous articles
and photographs.
Lack of space prevents me from continuing the
list. However the improvements I intend can be
summed by saying they are intended to make
FELIX your newspaper rather than the newspaper
of a few hacks and College administrators.
Hugh Southey
A. Simply by including articles that students
want to read. News is obviously of utmost
importance. I want this to be amusing, well
researched and not always run of the mill.
Articles on issues particularly relevant to
student life in London will become regular
features.
Information is valuable and hard to come by in a
large city. I want to include not only information
about what's available at College but also what's
available throughout London.
Q. How would you implement these
changes?
A. There are many people in College who have
never thought of researching, writing or drawing
for FELIX. I want to encourage all students to
bring their ideas to me. The talent is hidden out
there, somewhere.
My goal is to make everyone feel that FELIX is
their paper.
Ajay Kapadia
Ajay Kapadia proposed by Peter Hands
Hugh Southey proposed by Mark Cottle
The full list of candidates fully proposed and seconded on
Friday 1 March at 5.30pm was:
President
Carl Burgess
Gareth Pritchard
Gra ham Thorpe
Allan Trench
Deputy President
David Kingston
David Sharpe (withdrawn)
Hon Sec
Andy Belk (withdrawn)
Quentin Fontana
Aidan Jennery
Felix Editor
Simon Banton
Mark Cottle (withdrawn)
Ajay Kapadia
Hugh Southey
10 Friday 8 March 1985 FELIX

