FEATURED
Science Fiction
'The Imperial Stormtroopers were
closing in, their blaster fire getting
closer to the base. It was time to leave.
Han. Solo lifted his gun and shouted,
'Move it out'. The Rebel group leapt from
cover and raked the oncoming troops
with fire. Han's gun spat deadly laser
bolts. He hit two troopers full in the
chest and they went down. Two nearby
Rebels were split asunder by the heavy
callibre fire of the Imperials. It was time
to get out of there'.
That is how many people encouter science
fiction, in the form of the special effects
extravaganzas of the cinema. Recent films
like the Star Wars trilogy, Buck Rogers and
televison shows like Dr Who and Space 1999
are indeed what most people think science
fiction is all about—flashy hardware,
cardboard characters, thin plots but lots of
mindless simplistic action to make up for it.
Oh, and superb, expensive special effects.
Most SF films and TV series are in fact like
this, and all of them are pretty crap.
The home of science fiction, however, is
not the screen but the printed page, and the
screen version of SF, despite a few notable
exceptions, lags about 50 years behind the
books.
Science fiction first came into its own in
the magazines of the twenties and thirties
with such titles as Amazing Science Fiction.
These featured mainly the whizz-bang-zap
kind of science fiction common in today's
cinema.—This was neither scientific nor
particularly good fiction, but did introduce a
lot of people to the idea of setting stories in
either the future , or alternative worlds.
Three noted, and possibly infamous, stars of
this peroid were E E 'Doc' Smith, Robert E
Howard and L Ron Hubbard. Smith's
horrifyingly awful Skylark and Lensman
series are still staple fodder for many young
SF fans, all of whom later complain how bad
his stories are. Howard too will never be
forgotten, nor forgiven, for his creation
Conan the Barbarian, who has recently
stepped into the cinema in some pretty dire
films. Hubbard though went from writing
awful science fiction to founding the pretty
awful religion of Scientology. He then died
and is now more or less forgotton (thank
God!).
However during this period, known to
many SF fans as the Golden Age, some
authors started to use science fiction in a
more grown up way. Two distinct schools
grew up, which have now become
respectively known as hard and soft science
fiction.
The first of these to arise was hard SF. Its
founding fathers were Isaac Asimov, Robert
Heinlein and to a lesser extent, Arthur C
Clarke. The basic idea behind hard science
fiction is science. The hard authors usually
take a few interesting scientific ideas, like
machines that think or black holes, and see
where this takes them. The usual source of
ideas for hard SF is hard science, like physics
or astronomy. In this sort of work, the people
in the stories are usually secondary to the
ideas, and so characterisations are
sometimes rather wooden. Hard science
fiction writers are often scientists
themselves. Robert Forward, a physicist at
Bell Labs, in fact published a paper on a
device he worked out for use in his books
Dragon's Egg. Hard science fiction ruled
supreme throughout the late 40's and 50's
with such classics as Asi'mou's Foundation
trilogy and Heinlein's Starship Troopers.
With the 60's however, change come in the
form of the English authors Brian Aldiss, J G
Ballard and Michael Moorcock. They came
from a literary rather than a scientific
background, and concentrated on the more
human aspects of the world. Where science
was involved at all it was generally ecology or
psychology. The advent of these, and other,
authors created soft science fiction, more
usually termed New Wave. The spearhead of
the New Wave in the late 60's was the
magazine New Worlds, edited by Michael
Moorcock. This and the whole of the New
Wave was dominated by the attitudes of the
hippy culture of the time, and concentrated
on such themes as mind-changing drugs,
anti-war protests, eastern relgions and
ecology. Most of the New Wave soft SF is set
in the near future as opposed to the vast time
scales frequently involved in hard SF. The
New Wave also served to vastly increase the
literary quality of science fiction, and
encouraged experimentation in style.
Occasional disasters came as a result of this,
such as the nearly unreadable Barefoot In
The Head by Brian Aldiss. However, this
experimentation also lead to the breakdown
of the barriers between hard and soft SF and
between SF and the rest of mainstream
fiction. As a result of this certain of the New
Wave authors are now among the most
acclaimed of modern writers. Indeed J G
Ballard nearly won last year's Booker prize.
In the two decades since the New Wave,
science fiction has settled down again, with
the soft and hard merging into a
homogenous whole. It may be that the time is
ripe for a new revolution in style, since many
authors have taken to rehashing old ideas in
the form of long, immensely tedious series.
Frank Herbert, who first added hard and soft
SF to get the fabulous Dune, has fallen foul of
this sequel disease. The sixth Dune book has
just been published and a seventh is on its
way. The signs are bright through, with new
authors such as Bill Gibson (in his book
Neuromancer) returning to the originality
that distinguishes the best in science fiction.
Tomorow, Saturday 9 March in the Bot Zoo
Common Room, IC SF Soc brings you our
very own science fiction convention
—PICOCON. Starting at 10.00am and
continuing to 10.00pm (at least), PICOCON
will give you the chance to sample the best in
science fiction. There will be a host of video
films, two guest speakers, games
demonstrations and more.
The Days timetable is:-
10.00am Registration
10.15am Monty Python Live at the
Hollywood Bowl
11.45am Charades Game—SFSOC vs
ASTROSOC
12.15pm Lunch and Treasure Trap
demonstration
1.00pm Star Wars
3.00pm First Speaker Gerry Web
4.00pm Empire Strikes Back
6.00pm Second Speaker—Dave Langford
7.00pm Blade Runner
9.00pm Dreamscape
10.30pm Close of convention
Throughout the convention we will have
two computers running games such as the
award-winning ELITE by Acornsoft.
Refreshments will also be available all day.
Now for a bit of data on our speakers:
Gerry Web is a long standing member of the
British Interplanetary Society, a group
spearheaded by Arthur C Clarke in the 30's
and 40's. Gerry has worked on the Daedalus
Project and now runs a firm of space science
consultants. He is also a longstanding fan of
science fiction. Dave Langford is also a long
time fan of SF, and is now a full time writer.
The Critical Mass column in White Dwardf
magazine is his most wellknown face, but he
has also written The Space Eater, War in
2080 and The Leaky Establishment, in which
he drew on his experiences of work at
Aldermarston. Dave's talk last year was so
entertaining that we've asked him back for
more.
So there it is PICOCON PI, 12 hours of
science fiction experiences all for only £2.50.
'•'mat more could you ask for?
lew worlds!
FELIX Friday 8 March 1985 11

