CLETTERS
OUR
Mascotry
Dear Sir,
Over the years which I have spent here at
IC (three and a half). I have seen and read
about many incidents where this infantile
pastime known as mascotry has caused
damage, injury and offence. Last week's
example affected my club and myself directly,
and has moVed me to write to you.
The disablement of the yellow union van
last week was the cause of the cancellation of
a planned I C Y H A trip to Dartmoor. This
upset the weekend plans of our members,
who were very upset about it, and also
resulted in lost revenue of about £40 to the
Youth Hostelling Association of England
and Wales. We were very fortunate in that the
wardens of the Youth Hostels at which we
intended to stay agreed that we need not pay
them. If they had not been sympathetic,
I C Y H A would have lost the money, as well.
Needless to say, I am very angry about the
whole occurrence, and would be delighted to
see this pointless and stupid tradition of
mascotry stopped. If the participants wish to
let off steam in a competitive manner, would
it not be better done in a squash court or on a
Rugby pitch, while innocent members of the
public could avoid them? A t the moment, I
can only see mascotry giving students a bad
name, and costing members of the public
money and inconvenience.
I would be interested to see someone give a
good argument in favour of mascotry, and
will eagerly scan future pages of F E L I X .
While I appreciate that last week's incident
was caused by Q M C , I cannot see that other
perpetrators of the 'sport' are any less to
blame.
Yours disgusted,
S Eriksen
President ICYHA
Blatant
Electioneering
Dear Sir,
Many students were pleased to have the
opportunity to attend the '21st Century
Technology' symposium last week. The
£120/head conference was designed to give
leading members of the college a chance to
speculate what the future would hold for
different areas of technology. Many of the
presentations were good, two of them were
very poor indeed. The lecturers concerned
didn't stick to their subjects, had poorly
presented slides, occasionally out of
sequence, and delivered the material in a very
uninspiring way.
The lecturers should have realised that
they can't have the same attitude towards
presenations to leading members of industry
as they have towards students, who only sit
through badly prepared, boring lectures
because of the prospect of forthcoming
exams.
It is time, surely, that college acknowleged
the fact that being an 'expert' does not make
•you a good lecturer. The teaching standards
of the college could be improved so easily by
compulsory short courses in 'the
presentation of ideas and technical
information'.
These could be enhanced by using video
recordings to enable lecturers to see and hear
what they are like. Fellow staff would be able
to give constructive comments. The majority
of students already do such a course and most
find it a great help.
The cost in time and money would be
minimal compared with the benefit of more
efficient teaching and better communication
with industrialists.
Yoursfaithfully
Roger M H Preece
Elec Eng Dep Rep
Thatcheration
point
Dear Sir,
Last Wednesday Margaret Thatcher
visited Imperial College, ^ou could be
forgiven for not having noticed.
Let me remind you that she is the head of a
government which is in the process of cutting
funds to education—universities i n
particular—to an extent that both teaching
and research quality are bound to fall: in
some cases probably never to recover.
Did the Student Union publicise the Prime
Minister's visit, or organise a demonstration?
How about the Socialist Society or Labour
Club? O r perhaps C N D ? Or any single
organisation that might have reason to
disagree with current government policies?
Did They Hell.
In the end a small but noisy crowd that was
disorganised and badly misinformed was left
to form—more by luck than planning. But
though we may have been amateur, at least
we were there.
I draw two alternative conclusions. The
first is that the lack of efficiency and ability in
the groups mentioned above is so great that
they could do nothing; the second is that their
apathy is so great that they would do nothing.
If the former charge is correct, that's
terrible. If its the latter, thats downright
disgraceful. I wonder whether anyone here
cares?
Yours faithfully,
Matthew Freman
FELIX
Vote,
for me
You must have already have seen the huge
number of election posters and handouts
strewn over the campus. And in the next few
days you will, no doubt, see many more.
It is not for me, tempting though it is, to
comment on what the sabbatical candidates
have to say. You must make up your own
minds. But what I do say is that you should
vote. You should register your opinion, even
if it is only to write A B S T A I N across the
ballot paper.
People often speak about apathy in the
student body. But the worst sort of apathy is
the sort that leaves your opinion unregistered
and tars you with the same brush as the small,
but vociferous minority who believe that they
represent your views.
Remember: your vote counts.
As is usual towards the end of term, there will
be no F E L I X next Friday. The last issue of
term will appear on Wednesday 20 March.
The copy deadline for this issue will be
Wednesday 13 for Diary, Small Ads and club
articles, and Friday 15 for letters.
Acknowledgements: Many thanks to Gren,
Dave,Pimilico Connection, Dave Clements,
Kishor, Jon, John, Pete, Andy, Martin, Paul
Jowitt, Michael, Don, Alan, Chris, Nigel,
Peter, all the collators and Rosemary and
Tony.
Felix is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial
College Union Publications Board and is printed by the Union Print
Unit, Imperial College, Prince Consort Road, London SW7.
Telephone 01-589 5111 Ext 3515
Editor: David Rowe, Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1985. ISSN 10140-0711.
Paper data
Dear Sir,
Can't information held on paper be read
by computer with current technology?
('Protecting What?', F E L I X 694, 1 Feb 85).
What, then, are the implications in the
provisions of the Data Protection Act, for
paper-based records?
Yours faithfully
RJR Morris
Physics 2
Friday 8 March 1985 FELIX

