EFEATURE
PIMLICO
Dear Student,
Would you like to teach science to
children in an Inner London School next
year?
If so the Pimlico Connection is the society
for you. We send about eighty tutors to six
local schools every Wednesday afternoon
during the Autumn Term and for four weeks
or so in the Spring Term. The ages of the kids
range from five to seventeen and the subjects
include Maths, all the Sciences, English,
Design and Technology and Computing—so
there's bound to be something to suit you!
Generally the tutoring involves a
committment of two to three hours per week
(two classes). The teacher still takes the
lesson so don't worry, you won't be left with
thirty screaming kids to look after. You are
there more as a helper and confidante to the
kids than a teacher figure.
The presence of extra people to answer
questions means that the kids are able to
learn more and frequently they actually enjoy
lessons more because of it. Indeed it is also
very rewarding for tutors to see children
progress in their knowledge.
Another benefit that tutors gain is a
development of their ability to communicate
scientific ideas to people less knowledgeable
than themselves. It certainly brings you
down to earth with a bump when you have to
explain how to do division without a
calculator (a difficulty I had!). Such skills are
very often vital to getting ideas across when
you finally get into work and certainly if you
want to be a teacher/lecturer.
If you are interested come along to our
(free) recruitment lunch in Elec Eng 606 on
Tuesday 12 March where there will be a
chance to talk to this year's tutors. If you are
unable to make it contact me (Elec Eng 3) or
David Berry (53, Princes Gate) and we'll be
pleased to give you further details.
I'll just leave you with some comments
made by this year's tutors in response to the
question;
'What do you like most about tutoring?'.
•Seeing previously indifferent children
become more interested and involved in
practical science.
•The feeling of doing something useful with
my Wednesday afternoons.
•Talking to the kids about things and finding 1
out their views.
•It was extremely satisfying to help children
understand fundamental principles.
•The kids were lively and good fun.
• Meeting people from different
backgrounds.
•Gaining insight into the teacher—pupil
relationship
•The enthusiasm that the kids showed for us
when we arrived at the start of the afternoon.
•I found it a challenge which was very
rewarding.
I think they speak for themselves! Hope to
see or hear from you soon.
Graham Youngs
Chairman
6 Friday 8 March 1985 FELIX

