PRESIDENT Carl Burgess proposed by Greg Simpson
How can I sum up why Carl should be President in
about 100 words.
He has shown his ability, to take on any job and
do it excellently, as Rag Chairman and Rag Mag
Editor he has revitalised Rag and will do the same
for ICU as President. He has done a lot for IC,
edited the RCS Handbook, was one of the
founders of IC Wing Chun Club, represented
I.C.U. at U.L.U. and college committees and has
been the I.C. observer at the NUS conference
But having said that he still exhibits the
characteristics of the average student.
Greg Simpson
The job of President needs not only experience in
sitting on committees but experience in dealing
with people, both College Admin and students, on
a personal basis. Sitting on high powered
committees such as Governing Body and Finance
and Executive needs exact knowledge of the
students' case because the President will be facing
experienced negotiators. A strong President who
will not be intimidated by such people is needed to
put forward the students' case.
I believe that many students do not get involved
in the Union because there is a gross lack of
communication between the Union and the
general student body. Consequently many
decisions are made by a small body self-interested
parties behind closed doors. The excuse given is
that if anybody wanted to find out, the information
is freely available. I believe that students should be
told what is happening about all matters before key
decisions are made which affect them, in order for
their views to be heard.
Carl Burgess
PRESIDENT Gareth Pritchard proposed by Andrew Palmer
As you are highly unlikely to know, I am standing
for the sabbatical post of President. This is one of
the major problems of our Union—a total lack of
interest or participation in the Union, and
something I pledge myself to change.
This apathy is one of the most disturbing
aspects of ICU, and places us in a bad position
when making representations to college. On this
front, the recent unseemly infighting between the
CCU's on the one hand and the major sub-
committees and Union hierarchy on the other has
only weakened our case on such occasions. To
this problem I will bring what might seem a strange
advantage. Some might call it inexperience, but it
should really be seen as impartiality between the
CCU's and the MSC's. I regard the current split as
totally wrong for our Union—it should be a place
for relaxation not recrimination.
As an indication of my attitudes towards the
issues involved, I support the concept of a financial
carry-over for all Union sub-units, as this
encourages fiscal economy. I also favour the
current type of autonomy enjoyed by CCU's, but
they must realise that this is not something they
should abuse—it is in their interests as well that the
Union should run smoothly.
1 would also adopt a pragmatic approach to
Union involvement in the wider political sphere. As
a result of this, and of the need for financial
stringency, 1 am strongly opposed to NUS
membership
Finally, I would say to anyone reading this that
this election concerns you. I would rather you
voted for me, but want you most of all simply to
vote. Apathy will be the bane of this Union, college
(and indeed country).
G J Pritchard
Chem 3
Graham Thorpe proposed by Chris Hendy
The proposer
I've seen six presidential elections at Imperial.
Those candidates making extravagant promises
failed to produce results. Graham Thorpe makes
no such claims. He has the confidence, respect
and experience to lead the Union during a difficult
1985/6. Please read his manifesto and I'm sure you
will make the sensible decision to VOTE
THORPE.
Chris Hendy
The experience
1st year council rep.
Metallurgy Department Rep 82/3
ICU Academic Affairs Officer 83/4
RSM Open Day Chairman 83/4
UGC Visitation Group Member
The candidate
People have asked me in the past few weeks what I
am going to do when running the Union. I could
have given them a load of crap, but I asked the
PRESIDENT
RSM Friend§ of China Society
RSM Anti-Apartheid Committee
RSM Wist
RSM Hon-Porns Committee
Origami Soc (before it folded up)
Treasurer of the Real Ale Society
President of the T-Total Club
The main problem is the financing of IC Union. I
said the other day to Graham Thorpe, "The
College is expecting a cut in funding of 1-1.5% in
real terms." To alleviate this problem, since the
Rector is leaving, I plan to convert 170 Queensgate
into 25 Student Flats. This will provide income and
question in return, "What does the Union mean to
you?" Of course I have plenty of ideas that I want
to implement, but contrary to popular rumour, the
Union isn't run by just three men all the time.
There is a vital need for feedback which at present
is sadly lacking.
When voting for all the posts this year I ask you
to consider exactly what the Union means to you.
How about:- the chance to play sport and the
present poor level of facilities; the probability of
getting good, cheap residence in your second and
third years; the fight for effective lecturer training;
the staging of gigs and discos, as well as operas and
plays; the chance to go mountaineering, or diving,
or become a DJ; whether your fees money goes on
teaching you or on research; the standard of food
in refectories; the price of books and beer.
Open your eyes to ALL the Union activities
whether I've listed them or not. Come Monday and
Tuesday, use your vote, and for your sake use it
wisely.
Graham Thorpe
Allan Trench proposed by Sarah Cox
help to solve the accommodation problem.
To solve the refectory problem, I shall install a
kebab and curry house into the union.
I cannot foresee any problems as far as grants
are concerned because Sir Keith Joseph is my
Uncle, and I shall be applying family pressure.
I take the view that whilst cutting back spending
on education may lead to short term benefit the
long term effects of such a course of action will be
harmful at a period of rapid technological growth if
economic development is to be sustained. As
Caligula said, "Would that the Roman people had
but one neck".
I shall direct the affair of the Union and co-
ordinate representation of the union's viewpoint to
the college and to other authorities. Most of you
will agree that higher education is more than
academic work for a degree—it is also about
hobbies and pastimes, sports and socialising,
meeting people and exchanging views and ideas.
After all, as Bernard Shaw said, "A university life
without pleasure is no education at all."
It will not be a.pleasant task to sort out IC Union.
To quote from Hamlet, "I must be cruel only to be
kind".
I am the man for the job. As Aristotle said, "Allan
Trench is by nature a political animal".
Allan Trench
8 Friday 8 March 1985 FELIX

