DEPUTY PRESIDENT Dave Kingston proposed by Hugh Stiles
Who is Dave Kingston?
Well, he is a third year Mathematician who has
been heavily involved in the less glamourous side
of Union life—posts he has been elected to so far
are social rep., dep. rep., safety rep., and GUC
delegate. He has also been awarded RCS social
colours. However, he is aware of the problems
presently confronting the Major Sub Committees
in spite of his C C U roots and has a good
knowledge of ICU, having been a regular face in
the Union Office over the last 12 months.
That's why I am proposing Dave for Deputy
President.
Hugh Stiles
The Deputy President is responsible for the
management of ICU's resources—finance, and
the use and maintenance of the Union
building—as well as refectories, our mascot Mike,
and being Safety Officer. The most important of
these is finance.
Finance
Next year's Deputy President will have a difficult
HON SEC
If you are looking for an efficiently working, well co-
ordinated Union next year then I am the obvious
choice for the ICU Hon Sec . The post is largely
concerned with the administration of the Union
and ensuring that every thing runs efficiently from
UGM's and Council to organising the Union
transport and as such requires someone with
experience of working with people and an indepth
knowledge of how a university works. I have these
qualifications having worked for several years
before coming to IC and having been associated
with universities in various capacities for a long
time. A sabbatical post in IC Union is not as some
people imagine, a simple extension of a C C U or
MSC post, it goes much deeper than that as it is a
full time job with the responsiblity that goes with it.
Commitment to the job is of vital importance as is
HONSEC
The post of I.C.U. Honorary Secretary is largely
administrative and is therefore apolitical. It
involves taking and producing minutes of various
committee meetings, the running of the Union
transport system, upkeep of the Union Insurance
Policies and the conducting of Union Elections.
However, the job is not as simple as it looks, and
is expanding all the time. The Union transport
system is requiring more and more time to
organise, dealing with hire companies, as well as
looking after the Union's vans. Much time at the
beginning of term is taken up with updating the
Insurance Policies to ensure all Union's equipment
is properly insured.
There are also other duties of the Hon. Sec; the
production of the Union Directory and Union
cards, liasing with the Union Solicitor as well as
many other minor tasks. If the Hon Sec is
neglegent then the administrative system of the
Union will collapse and chaos will be unavoidable.
job. Yet again the Union is facing a reduction in
disposable income—the money spent mainly on
clubs and CCU's. Already this has provoked
arguments between the Major Sub Committees
(the bodies who oversee most clubs' activities) and
the CCU's over next year's funding. This rift is
deflecting this year's Deputy President from the
job of trying to obtain as much money as possible
from College. Quite clearly an end to this split is
needed. A lead in this direction has to come from a
Deputy President who has a wide knowledge of all
aspects of ICU, yet is not tightly connected with
any pressure group. I think that I fit the bill.
Refectories
Improvement in refectories is possible next year
with a new refectory manager and the proposed
JCR/Sherfield refectory swap.
Mascotry
I would like to see Mike appear in public more
often.
Dave Kingston
Quentin Fontana proposed by Simon Chamberlain
enthusiam and reliability, all qualities that I feel I
have in abundant quantities which will enable me
to carry out the job effectively and with the
minimum of fuss. Don't waste your vote, vote for
me as ICU Hon Sec.
Quentin Fontana
Aidon Jennery proposed by Estelle Simpson
If you decide that the Union needs to be run as
smoothly as possible with a competent and
efficient Hon. Sec. then vote for me.
I have had much experience of committee
meetings and administration, being RCSU
"BROADSHEET" editor, SCIENCE FICTION
SOCIETY chairman and Miscellaneous Clubs
Representative on the S.C.C. exec. I am not an
I.C.U. "hack" and can therefore breathe new life
into what is mainly a routine job. I can look at the
administrative system objectively and update it if
needs be.
I have the drive and enthusiasm to refresh the
Union, and make it work as completely and
efficiently as possible for the ordinary student.
In short, if you want an Hon. Sec who will do the
job as it should be done, then vote for me, AIDON
JENNERY on 11th or 12th March.
Aidon Jennery
Sabbatical elections
Voting 11th & 12th March
Results UGM 14th March
FELIX Friday 8 March 1985 9

