W H E N F E L I X
S P E A K S
T H E W O R L D
L I S T E N S
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION 18th NOVEMBER 1971 No. 305
Union Autonomy
Two weeks ago the Government issued a "con-
sultative document" on the Financing of Student
Unions which, if carried out, is bound to have
far reaching effects on the structure of ICU and
all others like it.
GOVERNMENT GREEN PAPER
The main points are as follows:—
Present Arrangements
Responsibility for approving union constitu-
tions belongs with the university or college au-
thorities.
The unions are supported in the following ways:
(i) accommodation and services provided by the
institution; (ii) subsidy provided by the institu-
tion: (iii) membership subscriptions from local
education authorities; (iv) profits from their own
activities, trading, social activities and invest-
ments.
Payment of Union Subscriptions
Majority of full time students receive manda-
tory awards, part of which is paid to the union
by the LEA.
There is considerable variation in the amount
of union subscriptions. It is estimated that the
annual expenditure on student unions is about
£3 million.
Defects in the Present System
The main defects in the present system are
as follows:
(i) Local authorities have very little control
over the level of subscription.
(ii) Since subscription increases are paid by
the local authorities the system does not en-
courage careful inspection of union money.
(iii) At the moment some unions spend com-
pulsorily obtained money on activities more
suited to voluntary contribution.
(iv) Part-time students may prefer not to join
union.
Possible Courses of Action
(i) A Registrar to provide some form of control
over union operation.
(ii) Make union membership voluntary.
(iii) Make unions compete for money with
other university departments.
Proposed New System
(i) All students are automatically members
of the union of that institution without paying
any subscription but they may still use union
facilities.
(ii) Individual clubs are financed by increased
subscriptions from members.
(iii) Unions would be financed by college
authorities.
UNION MEETING
ICU's immediate reaction to this was to call
an emergency union meeting which succeeded
in filling the Great Hall. At this, a motion was
discussed condemning government interference
in union affairs and calling for a National Day
of Action eventually to be followed by a National
one-day closure of all colleges in Great Britain.
This was passed by an overwhelming majority
but not before various amendments had been
attached. The last paragraph was amended,
making a one-day closure possible without the
support of the college authorities. Two new para-
graphs were added, making a total of 10, asking
for the support of the trade unions and the
parliamentary Liberal and Labour parties. A
surprise motion, passed by a large majority
cancelled Morphy Day. The proposer suggested
that it was inconsistent for students who wanted
to show that they were responsible adults to dis-
rupt traffic and generally behave in an anti-social
manner.
UNION FLEXIBILITY
It is interesting how inflexible the union con-
stitution appears to be when dealing with almost
anything that crops up at a meeting. For example,
the final note on the motion. This could not
actually be voted on until someone had formally
opposed the motion. Does this suggest a posi-
tive indication of unanimous membership is im-
possible?
CORRECTIONS
So much for the general background but
what does it all mean? Before that, however,
the straightforward inaccuracies can be dealt
with:—
(i) The survey supported by NUS was in fact
conducted with the hope of bringing polytechnic
unions up to the level of university unions. This
has not, in fact, been published and so the
government is using it out of context.
(ii) It is claimed that neither the Government
nor the UGC has any control over union subs.
Apart from being untrue it implies that union
management is so irresponsible as to raise the
fees for no reason. In fact, people standing for
official union positions must show themselves
to be highly responsible, otherwise they just won't
get elected.
(iii) The paper says that colleges are not strict
enough in their vetting of student money. Again
untrue, as the union has to submit detailed in-
formation to get grant increases.
(iv) Students often vote money to causes un-
related to the university, e.g., political move-
ments. This appears to have substance as it
does happen. However the money used for
these payments is that collected as profit from
union activities and it is quite justifiable, if a
majority agree, that this money may be used
for anything. In the case of Sussex, who tried
using public money for an ultra-vires payment
further legislation is unnecessary as this is al-
ready an unconstitutional Act by the union.
SOLUTION
The suggested "solution" to these problems
involves removal of compulsory subs, to unions,
giving the extra money to the student. This
would remove a college union's ability to speak
on behalf of students of that University. Money
being allocated by the college to the union would
make funds dependent on good relations with
the college, which is by no means certain. The
third part of the proposals involves removal of
the union subsidies to clubs and societies. This
would be immediately disastrous to those with
high overheads.
WHAT'S HAPPENING?
So far, only facts have been dealt with, but
some speculation on what the Government is
thinking about might be interesting. Early this
year, JUS was involved in lengthy discussions
with HMG about the possibility of increasing
grants. Nothing was then decided; at the time of
NUS conference in April there were no pro-
posals to discuss. Surprisingly enough (?) the
Government said what they were prepared to give
only two weeks after this, and consequently, very
little discussion occurred. In the light of this
it seems odd that these ideas on Student Unions
should be published only weeks before the next
NUS conference where they are bound to be
very fully discussed. There are various conclu-
sions to be drawn from this. Possibly they are
trying to see how much they can effect without
producing undue criticism. Alternatively they
might be hoping for a great fuss about the idea
of voluntary membership, with NUS passing
various motions about it. They will then offer
to negotiate on the proposed system eventually
giving way to NUS demands. Thus, we are
thereafter likely to have union subsidised clubs
and societies, but will find registration necessary.
The Registrar's powers could be so wide-ranging
that union self-government could be altered or
destroyed.
PLAN OF ACTION
ICU's reply to this is thus to totally reject
the plans and to plan a long-term campaign
against them. Yesterday there was a march of all
USK colleges to the DES to protest — I was
assured that given good weather, about 2000
from USK were expected.
Of all recent legislation this is the most likely
to affect individual students. It is not something
which will gradually occur, it is planned to make
the changes next Autumn. The most important
point to remember is that no actual division in
Parliament is necessary for all this to become
law. The proposals will be presented and unless
someone wishes to discuss it, nothing can be
done to stop them. Thus our only hope is to get
enough people in the country as a whole in-
terested so that discussion occurs. More than
moral support is called fori
The
Impossible
takes a
little longer
And so the intrepid band of Felix reporters, in-
cluding no less a personage than the editor
himself, set out to obtain, by fair means or foul,
photographs of the Miss World contestants.
A phone call to the Albert Hall gave us the
necessary information — the organisers, who
were the people to see about press tickets, could
be found at the girls' hotel in Grosvenor Square.
"They must be expecting trouble — they've
got the army guarding the door."
Leaving the American Embassy we went up to
the first floor of the hotel via the ultra-modern
lift, complete with piped music.
"Sorry dears, they've all left," was the first line
of defence, but the fearless reporters were not
to be stopped so easily. However, "Superman"
managed to persuade us that perhaps we didn't
really want those pictures after all. Downstairs
again and another phone call to the Albert Hall:
"Sorry, we can't help you."
The only course of action remaining was to
sit and wait for the girls to come out. The
camera was set up at the back door where we
caught our first glimpse of Miss Malta. (It is
only a small island, not many people); mean-
while several coaches pulled up outside the
front door. We arrived there just in time to see
it disappear round the back, but managed to get
some very good pictures of the coaches.
Back to the Albert Hall in record time (the
policeman blinked, so we didn't get caught for
speeding) to find several rows of police and
Women's Lib. demonstrators between us and
the contestants.

