Page 6 FELIX Thursday, November 18, 1971
ALBUMS I N B R O W N
A N D V E L V E T
"White Light-White Heat"
Velvet Underground (Re-release) MGM
What is so good about this group? Groups that it is
definitely "in" to like come and go. Led Zeppelin, The
Doors Traffic, and even Soft Machine have been and
gone from the elite. But some groups stay. The Band,
Grateful Dead, Velvet Underground. In a recent review
this album was described as "probably the greatest elec-
tric rock album ever made". I listened, and half agreed.
Then an angry letter was sent to the paper in which the
review appeared pointing out that the review of the
album when it first came out dismissed it as repetitious
and pretentious, and I half agreed again. Some of it is
repetitious, certainly. "Here She Comes Now" is a bad
track, built on very limited musical ideas. But the other
tracks are repetitive only when repetition increases an
effect, and are never pretentious, unless songs about the
squalor of heroin-shooting can have any pretentions. The
Beatles, The Byrds and Country Joe could extol the
virtues of LSD, the Stones sang about pills and what
group worth its salt didn't mention cannabis in one con-
text or another? Only the Velvet could sing lyrics like
"I'm searching for my mainline, I couldn't get it side-
ways, just like Sister Ray said".
"The Gift" is a narrative of how a man posts himself
to his girl because he can't afford the train fare; she
and her friend can't open the parcel so her friend sticks
a blade right through it. It's like a horror film you've
seen before and know it has a grisly ending, but each
time you see it again you hope everything will turn out
right in the end. This track, "Sister Ray" and "I Heard
Her Call My Name" which sounds through headphones
like having your teeth drilled, probably do qualify as the
foremost "horror rock" songs ever made. Music for
nightmares, bad trips, withdrawal symptoms. Horribly
good, certainly, but not the best. After all, The Who's
"Tommy", Pink Floyd's "Ummagumma" and Soft
Machine's "Third" were still to come. But we learn by
our mistakes and that is what makes "White Light/White
Heat" so important.
FILMS: ' Private Road' and
Days and Nights in the Forest
Before I start my reviews, I'd like to 'plug' a film that
Filmsoc is showing on the 19th November: the film is
'PRAISE MARX AND PASS THE AMMUNITION' which
is described as a look at "the business to end all busi-
ness—Revolution". The film is directed by Maurice
Hatton with John Thaw as Dom, and is well-worth see-
ing.
Back to the film reviews proper. At last I managed
to see 'PRIVATE ROAD' and I would strongly recom-
mend that you should get to see it. It is like "Bronco
Bullfrog' about young people in London but has moved
away from the East End to a more middle class area. The
film is about Peter Morissey (Bruce Robinson), an
aspiring, young writer and Ann Halpern (Susan Pen-
haligon) a middle class secretary, who meet; they try
to get away from her family first by living together in a
flat and then by going to the West Coast of Scotland
to write his novel; they go back to London where his
novel is rejected and Ann discovers that she is preg-
nant and she retreats back to her parents where she
has an abortion. It might seem to someone who has
not seen the film to be a rather trite story, but behind
this is the director Barney Platts-Mills. Barney Platts-
Mills is a director who makes films about the young and
undecided; Peter comes out of the film as being a very
unsure person. At the end of the film he gives the im-
pression that he will eventually marry Ann and become
part of the 'gin cultured' middle class and his friend
Steve, the non-conformist will continue to go his own
way. It's very hard to talk about this film is isolation from
'Bronco Bullfrog' as this film has so many common
themes with 'Bronco Bullfrog'. And I'd prefer to talk
about Barney Platts-Mills' films as a whole when I
review 'Bronco Bullfrog' in February (or thereabouts).
Satyajit Ray's film 'DAYS AND NIGHTS IN THE FOR-
EST' (Paris Pullman) was the first Indian film I've ever
seen and I didn't know what to expect. I half expected
a film with a very rigid structure like a Japanese film,
but what I found was a very easy going film, telling of
four men who go into the country from Calcutta for a
week and what happens there, it's a kind of back to
nature journey which has quite humorous conse-
quences. Ray's technique produces a fairly even paced
film which does drag a little but there is always some-
thing to attract your attention.
In the next edition of FELIX I'll review some films for
Christmas; including Frank Zappa's film '200 MOTELS'.
Also between now and 1st December sees the London
Film Festival and I shall take a look at Monte Hellman's
'Two-Line Blacktop' with James Taylor and Dennis
Wilson and Stuart Rosenberg's 'WUSA' with Paul New-
man and Joanne Woodward. Plus any other good films
I manage to see.
BOOK REVIEW:
"ALTERNATIVE LONDON"
This is one (probably the) best guide book to London
now available. Straight types should not be troubled
about the book's lack of applicability to them, since it's
not really so "alternative" as the name implies. It in-
cludes advice about the perennial accommodation,
tenant and landlord, drugs, and of course sex, hang-ups,
with which you may or may not be familiar. Its avail-
ability on the street (from part-time pushers) when you
may be able to haggle for a reduction on 30p, or even
in the famous high street bookshop which refuses to
stock Oz, Private Eye or FELIX. Or make 15p per copy
by selling it yourself.
"Galactic Zoo Dossier" — Arthur Brown's Kingdom Come—Polydor
Brown is back! Arthur
has had a lot of trouble
over the last three years
getting a group together,
with the various ex-mem-
bers of his groups, among
them members of such il-
lustrious ensembles as
Atomic Rooster and Emer-
son Lake and Palmer com-
plaining that he was impos-
sible to work with. The
current group has been to-
gether for nearly a year
now and with this album
under their belts look like
staying that way. The al-
bum should come as a
delight to those who liked
the God of Hellfire back in
1968. Similarities with the
original Crazy World are
inevitable, of course, the
percussion keyboard style
of Mike Harris being parti-
cularly like that of Vincent
Crane.
Bnt don't think that this
group is a copy, The Act
(featuring among other
things Arthur being cruci-
field) and most of the
songs have changed. The
an3 aircraft ftrnctttn-
-pvTVb. fuel. uu"e±toa
System,..^...
ItwaK a Trice
Say—^Mt
XV&» slivrrt-nfl,
T3trt ^-2*-
SiesT-loam AWhATiajs,Ambrose's,
vrtreak enemy, a~g#x\ -<Wm HHae fuel
album is built as a sort of
concept, all the songs run-
ning into one another, and
represents possibly a
journey through space, or
an acid trip. Or perhaps
the demented ravings of a
man regarded by many as
being completely insane.
Insane? Perhaps, but
Brown's must be the in-
sanity of a Rasputin rather
than that of a Don Quixote.
The lyrics don't detract
from the reputation a bit;
they're frequently hysteri-
cal, occasionally poignant
and often hilarious, parti-
cularly "Brains" a n d
"Night of the Pigs'. While
occasionally good music
is sacrificed to make way
for "weird", gimmicky
noises and effects, the
songs are in the main ex-
cellently constructed and
the instrumental contribu-
tion by the group as a
whole is not just a backing
for Brown. Listen for
Andy Dalby's guitar on
"Sunrise" and Julian
Brown's dipping, swelling
synthesizer on "Simple
Man".
Apart from the afore-
said comparisons to the
Crazy World, this band has
no debts. Don't listen to it
because Arthur Brown's
name is on the cover —
listen because Kingdom
Come made it. But listen to
it. Now excuse me while I
bury a hatchet in my head.
Yahoing!
FORGET-ME-NOT LANE
"Our whole lives are an extrapolation of our infancy"
observes Frank in Peter Nicholls' semi-autobiographical
nostalgic, time-leaping play 'Forget-Me-Not-Lane'
(Apollo Theatre). This statement just about sums up
the play's message—the child is the father of the man,
no generation is really much different from its prede-
cessor. Frank is the author-figure, and the bulk of the
play is a series of flashbacks into his past as he stands
aside and comments on the action. We see him tolerat-
ing his affably tyrannical father ("Don't drink, don't
smoke and don't put propositions at the end of sen-
tences") attempting to court his girl, and doing his bit
in War-time concerts. He grows up and gradually moves
away from his friends, his parents and, to avoid repeat-
ing his father's matrimonial mistake, eventually his wife,
all the time wryly regretting lost love and opportunity.
All of which would be rather dour were it not for
Nicholl's superb comic talent. The play free-wheels in
and out of it's six-door set, jumping backwards and
forwards in time, laced with wild humour and gently
funny 'Joe Egg' type soliloquoy. Anton Rodgers plays
the chatty Frank with an easy charm, even advising
the audience on the location of the Theatre bars; while
Michel Bates plays his Dad with just the right tension.
Typical of the play's humour is Frank's explanation to
the audience "For those of you smoking hash and
wearing beads and your grandmother's curtains, us
doing our bit was not the same as you doing your
thing". It really is a very god play, though judging from
the number in the audience it may not run for much
longer.
On the other hand 'Showboat' (Adelphi Theate) will
probably run for years. This revival of the classic
Jerome Kern and Oscar Hammerstein musical enjoys
huge and varied sets, sumptuous costumes, hordes of
excellent singers and dancers, very acceptable music
and one or two very notable individual performances
with Derek Royle and Miguel Godreau particularly stick-
ing in the mind as Captain Andy and the lead dancer
respectively.
Unfortunately the show seems to lack almost all plot;
what there is seems only to exist for song-hanging.
Presumably this did not worry the original 1930's audi-
ences, but now, after the strong dramatic lines of
'West Side Story', 'Oliver!' and 'Man of La Mancha',
the mixture is really too weak. The very middle-aged
audience applauded rapturously throughout the show
('so nice after all this modern stuff) but the matter
is of little consequence. If any.
Bob Carter.

