Page 8 FELIX Thursday, November 18, 1971
THE C & G TRIP
IX*
fMoorgate '
The time, 9 o'clock on a dismal Saturday morning;
the place, Guild's Union office, this was the start of
C and G's, nay IC's contribution to this year's Lord
Mayor's Show.
SIDE S H O W
At the start it looked like we were about to experience
a monumental disaster as the rain gradually set in. Glum
faces told all that needed to be known but everyone
soon cheered up as the enjoyable pastime of waking
up the Union officials was discovered. Jowitt was par-
ticularly troublesome and two phone-calls had to be
made just to make sure he was still awake. By the time
this had finished more distractions were made avail-
able by the steady increase in outlandishly dressed
people. However, the event of all this was the attempt
to give away lunch tickets. Originally the Vice-President
tried to do this by calling names out but complications
set in as he explained that the groups that people's
names were called in indicated the float that they were
on. This might have been alright if the name of the
float had been mentioned at the same time but predict-
ably nothing so obvious occurred.
W H A T A B O U T T H E W O R K E R S ?
The first thing we noticed at the start was the large
number of multi-coloured floats crowded into the side
street. Floats about Banks, Insurance, were at the front
covering subjects from 'the spirit and adventure which
characterize the insurance business (??) to Banks, a
'- '• ' S i l l , •!
service to the people'. In the former was a representa-
tion of the 'Golden Hind' with a number of people
dressed in Elizabethan costume C and G students, were
the 'Bank managers' and people at work and play' in
the latter. The Metropolitan Water Board float had their
own pop group. Sundry unusual electric cars followed
this with the theme of clean students dressed in white
and blue costumes were driving them and generally
making the point. Surprisingly enough they too were
from C and G and by that time I was beginning to won-
der if there was anyone else there! However this illu-
sion didn't last long as the next float happened to be
City University who had produced a large cash register
to symbolise the part played by the City of London in
changing foreign currency into sterling. Attention was
soon diverted from this when the amplifier was turned
on on the C and G float. With this blasting out large
amounts of noise vaguely resembling pop music almost
nothing else could be heard—especially City who had
only a rather feeble public address system. C and G,
with a theme of 'Students Today—Engineers Tomorrow',
actually had about six of its female members on the
float, giving the misleading impression that this is the
actual ratio of male to female in the college. Little did
the crowds know that this is about the total actually in
the place!
About this time concern was expressed that the pub-
lic might not know who we were, as a 'Boomalaka'
was thought necessary, and so at 11.20 there was the
first of many, assisted by the amplifying system. Some-
one pointed out that all the lamp-posts had the C and G
coat of arms printed on them. Well, it's quite true, they
:|j|f
. . R E m m
did, but unfortunately most people think of these as the
City of London's. With the show about to start it was
suddenly realised that the Vice-President, responsible
for organising (?) everything, had not turned up and
some interesting comments were made! However, he
was eventually vindicated when found to be organising
the collection. This raises another point as to how
C and G happened to be the only College licensed to
collect for charity during the show.
At last, the actual journey had started. Most of the
pavement along the whole official path was packed ten
deep, which is an incredible number of people.
S O M E H I G H L I G H T S
The Lord Mayor on being pressed to contribute to
the Rag Charities, said 'I'm sorry but I've no loose
change'. Bo, of course, had to make an attempt to catch
up with the C and G float. However, after a few yards at
30 mph the police stepped in (?!!) and some caution-
ary words spoken into the driver's ear robbed CrimSoc
of yet another member. Attempts by City to dampen the
spirits of C and G with a couple of water pistols, failed
miserably.
Lunch was a totally disorganised affair, with practic-
ally anyone being able to get in just as well, otherwise
half of the people involved would have starved. None of
the 'invisible men' who did most of the collecting had
received lunch tickets.
Victoria Embankment was the most exhilarating part
of the day, coming out at just the right time. Since it is
a dual carriageway Bo found no difficulty at all in find-
ing us and various U-turns found her right behind us.
Again an apologetic Mr. Jowitt found himself listening
to the police!
O P E N AIR S H O W
After the show someone had the great idea of taking
everyone back to South Kensington on the float. So we
found ourselves sailing down Oxford Street with the
music full on and generally distracting the shoppers.
This was about as much fun as the actual parade with
quite a bit of money being collected from passing cars
and pedestrians. An experience not to be missed is
public reaction to a 'Boomalaka' outside Selfridges!
All in all this is a great tradition worth perpetuating if
only for the fun public and students alike get from it.
(Many thanks to Brian Darling, John McCullough,
Rob Armitage and a happy chain of coincidences which
led to this article).
News in B r i e f
MISPRINT—AN APOLOGY
Readers may have been
puzzled by an article en-
titled "IN THE MUCK
HEAP" in the last FELIX.
They may have wondered
who or what dogs would
be encouraged to "de-
face". Of course, this was
a printing error, and should
have read "defecate". The
meaning of the piece
would also have been
clearer had the title not
been changed from "IN
THE SHIT" by a nameless
intermediary between au-
thor and reader.
Lunchtime O'Boobs.
A GOOD BANK TO HAVE
BEHIND YOU
Further to last week's
mention about bank
charges, you may be lucky
enough to receive a letter
similar to that Midland sent
to one of our scouts, which
read "we do not propose
to charge your account...
in view of your family's
connection with the Bank
for many years." We hope
to bring a comparative
look at bank charges in
the next issue.
IMPERIAL NOBELLED
Dennis Gabor, Emeritus
Professor at I.C., is to be
congratulated on his re-
cent windfall of £36,000,
not to mention the Nobel
Prize for physics. FELIX
is glad to refer readers to
a previous issue of I.C.
News for the full write-up.
GUYANA, NOT GHANA
BWANA
We apologise for impli-
cating Carl Seaford in
recent allegations about a
Ghana passport. The coun-
try concerned, as Carl was
anxious to stress, is in fact
Guyana. Anyway, its still
not British!
OPENING TIME
Regardless of promises
to the contrary, Southside
Shop is extremely tardy in
opening. You should not
rely on purchasing break-
fast provisions if you in-
tend to get to a 9.30 lec-
ture.
Lunchtime O'Breakfast.
CONGRATULATIONS
Tony Kirkham, last
year's deputy president,
has finally got his MSc. All
the bodies on Felix would
like to send their heartiest
congratulations to Tony
and all those involved in
bringing about this 8th
wonder—we didn't fink it
were possible.

