The next work, a video-audio instal-
lation by Darren Almond, is much
more impressive. If I Had You, con-
sists of four screens placed around
the room playing looped videos with
a soundtrack of piano music and
dancing feet. It celebrates his grand-
mother’s memories of honeymoon-
ing in Blackpool, with images of her
watching a couple dancing in the
tower, an illuminated windmill, and
a fountain. Moving about the room,
you are captivated by the combi-
nation of the images, completely
immersed in the observation and
reflection mirrored in the grand-
mother’s face. Almond is sensitive
and attentive, yet somehow man-
ages to avoid an all-too easy descent
into an emotional agenda, instead
leaving the viewer to reflect on this
objective documentation of a tempt-
ingly personal subject. This was, in
my opinion, the most impressive
single work in the exhibition, and
truly deserves to be here.
The Turner Prize 2005
arts arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sorting the worthwhile from the downright weird
Art
The Turner Prize 2005
Tate Britain
Millbank
Admission £5
Until 22 January 2006
10am-5.50pm
When you think about the Turner
Prize what comes to mind? The
forefront of young, exciting British
art? Pointless piles of bricks?
Something high-brow and conceptu-
al that no-one seems to understand?
Well, its back, and this year its full
of black squares, shiny junk-shop
birds, sheds and bottom portraits,
although lacking the controversy
that has become all-too inevitable
with this competition.
However, ignoring my prejudices
about it, I went down to the Tate
Britain to form an objective opinion
on the exhibition. The first artist,
SimonStarling,haspresentedthree
works, each with narratives behind
them. The first is Shedboatshed, a
shed which is apparently a work
of art because it started life as a
shed, became a boat, and was then a
shed again. Who is he trying to kid?
He attempts in Tabernas Desert
Run and One Ton, II to create an
environmental message, but miss-
es an opportunity to make a real
comment, instead attempting to get
more involved in the process of cre-
ation of objects. He may have learnt
how to make an electric bicycle, but
that doesn’t make it a piece of art,
and I was disappointed by his inclu-
sion in the exhibition.
12
felix
www.felixonline.co.uk Thursday 27 October 2005
Above: Simon Starling, Shedboatshed (Mobile Architecture No.2) 2005, Mixed media
Next is Gillian Carnegie, the only
woman in the shortlist (the prize
has been won by just 2 women in
its 21-year history). Famous for her
‘bottom portraits’, she is an artist of
extraordinary observational skills,
and has developed a distinctive and
impressive relief-style of painting.
Her strokes are well-considered and
developed, and although her palette
is generally rather dingy and her
subjects completely lacking in spon-
taneity, they bring fire and drama to
her paintings. These are more than
subjective studies; these are attacks
on accepted formats for academic
painting. From her portraits of bot-
toms to her superb black paintings
of forest landscapes, Carnegie suc-
cessfully challenges and subverts
how we look at classical subjects.
Her paintings are absorbing, and
the volume on display proves her
abilities and expertise in a wider
mix than any of the other artists
here.
Below Left: Darren Almond, If I Had You 2003, Four-screen video
installation, Melody by Richard James
Below Right: Gillian Carnegie, Red 2004, Oil on board, 22.8 x 33 cm
Cranford Collection, London
Finally we are presented by the
installation The Kinks by Jim
Lambie. Named for an ill-fitting
and rather pointless silhouette of
the band on one wall, it resonates
in the psychedelic black-and-white
flooring, created with vinyl tape. At
once organic and clinically modern,
it confuses the eyes and, although
flowing into the imposing figure of
Black Kestrel (Six Rorshach) by the
black paint splattered over the floor,
it clashes with the other works on
display. The three sculptures here
are oversized junk-shop models
of birds. The others are colourful
and shiny to the point of vulgarity,
although comical in their general
cheapness, and the whole installa-
tion seems bitty and unimpressive.
As you may have noticed, I was not
exactly dazzled.
So, are Simon Starling, Darren
Almond, Gillian Carnegie and Jim
Lambie really the best young con-
temporary artists in Britain today?
They do provide immense variety-
many aspects of modern art are
represented here. They are all adept
at their chosen craft, and present us
with complex and well-thought out
images. However, I leave the exhibi-
tion feeling less than affected.
None of the artists has truly
moved me, nor have I seen great
originality in many of the works.
Perhaps commenting on the world
is out of fashion in artistic circles.
They seem not to be innovating,
merely repeating and improving. I
have come to expect more than this
from the Turner Prize, but maybe
with all art has been through in the
last 20 years, it has become near
impossible to surprise. I sincerely
hope not.
The winner of the Turner Prize
2005 will be announced by the panel
of judges on 5 December.
Below: Jim Lambie, Installation view, Mental Oyster Anton Kern Gal-
lery New York, 2004,Courtesy of The Artist

