All of a sudden it seems inherently wrong that I’m not waking up every day with a stink-
ing hangover and a sense of impending doom. Now that freshers’ fortnight is well and
truly over there seems to be a void in my life. Not feeling rubbish is unsurprisingly a won-
derful feeling. With a heavy heart I’ve had to stop living the dream that is event organis-
ing and start living up to the reality that is running the medics’ union properly.
As I sit at the desk trying to create helpful responses to the four thousand emails I get
each day (90% being for porn and Viagra that I can only imagine my predecessors signed
up to) I can’t help but think that being president before the advent of emails was a truly
wonderful thing. Honestly, what must they have done with their time? I can only imagine
that meeting manifesto pledges was much more attainable in the olden days.
Speaking of manifestos, I did enjoy reading all those in last weeks issue. It’s amazing that
there are so many people determined to make council ‘Representative, democratic and
efficient’. It’s also nice to see the pledges for ‘increased clubs and society budgets and
greater sabbatical accountability’. I do indeed hope that all these things do happen this
year and that council doesn’t turn into a bitch-fest and ego-stroking debacle it has been in
the past.
Here’s to the future of democracy!
What’s happening at the ICSMSU?
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB. T: 020 7594 8060 www.union.imperial.ac.uk
Danny McGuinnes - ICSMSU President
News from the Union...
Sameena Misbahuddin - President
Union Website
So what do you think of the Union Website? Ever visited it?Think that it needs
improving? More user- friendly? More eye-catching?Think that it could be more
suitable to giving you the information you want, when you want it?
Well last term communications was discovered as a problem through the strategic re-
view survey that we did www.union.ic.ac.uk/strategicreview and the website is seen
as a key tool to improving this.
This year we are undergoing a complete overhaul of the website. Not just changing the
way it looks, but completely redesigning the functionality of it, bringing it inline with the
21st century.
This term we are gathering feedback to what students want from the website…what
info is not on there that you would find useful? Do you want more info about who your
reps are? And what your reps are actually doing for you? What events are going on at the
Union? Help for clubs and societies? Discussion forum? More eye-catching design?
Next term will see the actual production of the website after all the user requirements
have been collated.
If you have any ideas or want to get involved there are various ways you
can:
Email yoursay@imperial.ac.uk
Focus groups: Get involved in a focus groups that are happening in early No-
vember. Email to volunteer yourself.
Online: Check out updates on the website www.union.imperial.ac.uk (the web-
site we currently have).
Or simply come and chat to me or one of your other Union representatives.
Yoursay
If you have any comments about anything the Union does at all, then use the Yoursay
feedback system to get your opinions heard. Feedback and replies are online at www.un-
ion.ic.ac.uk/yoursay and email yoursay@ic.ac.uk or fill out one of the forms in the Union.
If you have any questions about this service, contact Tim Aplin, Deputy President (Fi-
nance and Services) on dpfs@ic.ac.uk , who administers this service.
University of London
A reminder that if you have any views on the issue of Imperial leaving University of Lon-
don, come along to the first Union Council meeting of the term tonight – Thursday 27th
7pm Mech Eng 220
Surgery hours: if you have any questions or want to chat to me about anything, pop along
to the Union building anytime. However at the following times I will definitely be around
to answer queries:
Monday,Wednesday andThursdays 12pm-1pm in the Union offices.
president@imperial.ac.uk
RISE WEEK 7-11 Nov 2005
A week of events including:
Overseas Societies Football World Cup (OSC)
Debate on cultural diversity in London (Debating Society)
Civil Liberties Talk
LOOK OUT FOR MORE DETAILS IN NEXT WEEK’S FELIX & ON POSTERS
AROUND CAMPUS.
that meeting manifesto pledges was much more attainable in the olden days.
www.union.imperial.ac.uk
Not happy with the Union website? Got views on how we can improve?
We are currently re-designing it and want and need your input.You can volunteer
to be part of a focus group or just tell us what you think. Either way just E-mail:
yoursay@imperial.ac.uk

