I
n Omar’s column he questioned the
accepted truths and values of the European
Enlightenment and contrasted them with
other models of society in which religion
is more prevalent. Much as I agree with a lot of
what he says, my views (which are by no means
conclusive) differ crucially on some aspects.
Though first envisaged by the philosophers
who inspired the French revolution, the ide-
als and values of the Enlightenment are not
“European” or “Western”. They should not be
viewed as the product of a particular historical
period or situation but rather as the common
heritage of humanity as a whole, as something
everyone across the world should (and some-
times does) cherish and aspire to. It is mon-
strous to suggest that human beings should be
denied the right to self-determination or that
anything other than human conscience should
be at the centre of decision-making and legisla-
tion.
A community/society should be able to opt for
a more religious life-style but these decisions
should nevertheless be taken democratically and
self-determination in religious and other matters
should remain paramount. Thus Enlightenment
principles can and must be upheld even in a
society with a religious majority. Spirituality
and belief is not within the domain of the state.
Religion should not be imposed or discouraged
by the powers that be.
It is simply not true that Enlightenment itself
becomes a religion just as intolerant as other
religions can be. Nor is it true that it is hostile
to, or incompatible with, other religions. In fact
some of the advocates of this once revolutionary
philosophy were themselves intensely religious
in their own way. The “marginalisation” of reli-
gion which Hashmi observes in our society has
less to do with the imposition of secular values
and more to do with the dominance of capitalism
– a system that glorifies materialism.
What the politicians in power are doing in this
country and across the world in the name of pur-
suing ‘our values’ is sheer hypocrisy. It is, in my
view, in direct contrast to the doctrines espoused
by philosophers from Voltaire to Rousseau.
Sadly most of the political, economic and social
changes we have witnessed over the past few
years – wars, erosion of civil liberties, removal
of protection for those left behind by society
etc. – are actually taking us back to the bad old
days of “the Raj, Africa and Slavery” as Hashmi
puts it, rather than pursuing a more progressive
model of society.
It would be very desirable if the world’s only
superpower, aided by its servile, bribed allies (no
names), was attempting in good faith to spread
freedom, democracy and human rights across
the world. Unfortunately, any scrutiny reveals
that the US (and to a lesser extent Europe) is
selfishly pursuing its interests with a total disre-
gard for these principles as it has done continu-
ously since World War 2.
I wasn’t intending to engage in the routine
(fully justified) practise of Bush bashing but
at this point I can’t resist. While George Bush
(Tony Blair and other ‘free world’ leaders are
far from exempt) is sanctimoniously preach-
ing human rights, freedom and democracy his
actions all point in a diametrically opposite
direction: indefinite imprisonment without trial,
torture and humiliation inflicted on prisoners
of war, pre-emptive war, attempts to undermine
democratically elected institutions and gov-
ernments, the list is endless. They are hardly
examples of a doctrine of democracy, self-deter-
mination and the rule of law. Thus George Bush
is a champion of Enlightenment secularism one
moment and a fanatical bigot when it suits him
better. Such, it pains me to say, is the opportunis-
tic nature of modern ‘democratic’ politics.
The pursuit of the ideals of the Enlightenment
should not be left in the hands of the selfish, cor-
rupt and narrow-minded politicians to use for
their own ends. It is we the people who should
tirelessly invoke and aspire to the legacy of the
French revolution and of all progressive thinkers
and societies that have come since. The alterna-
tives are too dreadful to contemplate.
I
saw Pride and Prejudice last Sunday, and
my flatmate and I were getting annoyed
with all the lovey-dovey couples around
us. They were all cuddling in that gentle
darkness that invites people to do very naughty
things, as all is allowed in the dark (except
mobile phones). Naughty things like what? Well,
loud handjobs for instance, and pissing on the
back of the necks of the people in front of you
and then pretending you had an accident with
your Fanta, which just happened to be very
warm.
However, these sad, sad people were more
annoyed with us than we with them, and just
because we spent the entire movie discussing,
quite loudly, the differences between the film
and the BBC adaptation, and trying to estimate
the distance from Keira Knightley’s lips to her
chin. We came to the conclusion that it’s approxi-
mately three feet.
When the film ended we were in low spirits.
The director had evidently wanted to avoid cli-
chés and make the film as realistic and fresh as
possible, but did this creative ambition justify
the lack of Colin Firth and kissing in the film?
Also, the film ended, not with a scene of the wed-
ding, but with that of an old fart mumbling some-
thing to himself. The most anti-climactic ending
in the history of cinema, ever!
Nevertheless, the film made me think; think
about how relationships between sexes have
changed. They have improved in a way, as there
is more equality and freedom nowadays, but
wouldn’t you prefer to hear “I ardently love and
admire you” to “How’s about a shag”? Wouldn’t
it be better, girls, if we got more respect, and
men used poetry instead of alcohol as a method
to get into our pants? Romance, guys, romance;
that is what women truly want: a 21st century
Mr Darcy. Oh, and he was rich too.
In some ways, however, I am glad I don’t live in
the 19th century. The truth is that women were
objects then, in different and more diverse ways
than they are objects now. Austen portrayed
powerful and intelligent women who were, to an
extent, in charge of their own destinies, but what
happened to the weak ones, the ugly ones, the
ones that didn’t care for marriage or housekeep-
ing? They were simply outcast. The position of a
woman was determined by the man whom she
stood by (or behind). This still happens, but I
believe (I want to believe) that we have come a
long way since Lizzie Bennett’s times.
F
irstly this week, I would just like to say
that the new Darkness single is really
growing on me! I really tried hard not
to like it, I really did! I decided a long
time ago that The Darkness were going to be a
one album wonder, well not even a whole album,
a couple of songs really, because everything
apart from ‘I believe in a thing called Love!’ and
‘Growing on me’ was, frankly, crap!
Their Christmas single, ‘Don’t let the bells end’
was one of the worst ever. It wasn’t even funny!
So on hearing they were releasing a new album
I was resolute; it would be appalling. At first this
seemed to be the case. I heard ‘One way ticket’
and I laughed, how I laughed, because I really
didn’t like it, I thought it sounded like a tortured
cat! Then I heard it again, then again, then again
and before long I decided it was okay, not great,
but it certainly didn’t involve subjecting felines
to various cruel devices! Since then I have heard
it quite a few times more and now I am forced to
admit that it is actually very good, probably right
up there with ‘Growing on me’, which means
I was wrong, The Darkness were not a two hit
wonder, they have at least three good songs!
This week I was going to write you a light
hearted article about my plans to take the idea
of no win-no fee from lawyers and introduce it
into football but unfortunately due to a story I
saw in The Times the other day I have instead
decided to get all heavy and political. The story
concerned two Albanian men and a Lithuianian
woman who had been convicted of tricking
Eastern European girls into coming to Britain
and then selling them to people who forced them
to work as prostitutes. They were all sent to
prison. The woman, Vilma Kizlaite, got 11 years
and the two men, Tasim Axhami and Emiljan
Beqirat, got 16 and 21 years respectively. What
annoys me though is the fact that both men had
previously been granted asylum in this country!
Now I want to make it clear that I have no prob-
lem with geniune asylum seekers but it seems to
me that if they are convicted of crimes (especial-
ly crimes as serious as these ones) they should
be sent back to their own country, which is not,
as far as I can make out what is going to hap-
pen. Instead, they will sit in a British prison for
the next 10-15 years costing the taxpayer many
thousands of pounds (more about taxpayers next
week when i discuss work paydays).
If asylum seekers knew that they would be
deported automatically if they commited a
crime, then I don’t think many of them would
be so willing to risk it, especially if they really
have sought asylum because they fear for their
lives in their own countries. I’m not saying this
would solve the crime problem. Most crimes are
commited by British people and unforunately we
can’t get rid of them so easily (unless Australia
agree to accept them again which I doubt they
will, although they are, apparently, desperate for
hairdressers).
We can, however, send foreigners back to their
own countries for their own governments to deal
with as they see fit. That might help reduce the
crime level a bit. It would also make it look like
the Government is actually trying to do some-
thing about the numbers of asylum seekers and
illegal immigrants, whereas at present they
seem willing to let the system carry on until the
country is actually full to bursting point.
I suppose the only good thing is that with the
Government’s new early release scheme ( put in
place because of prison overcrowding), the two
Albanian gentlemen will be out within about two
weeks, so they won’t actually cost the British
taxpayer much at all.
No wet T-shirt contest = empty soul
I should write for the Daily Mail
Irene Lahde
Iain Heaton
Michael Pittoni
The joys of enlightenment
20
felix
www.felixonline.co.uk Thursday 27 October 2005
A response to Omar Hashmi’s “Can anyone lead the Tories” in Felix 1331
Liked it or loathed it?
Let Felix know which columist you like and which you hate: felix@imperial.ac.uk
*The views expressed in these columns
are not neccassirly those of Felix

