Letters -a
Wasted energy
Dear Sir,
I am writing to complain about the large waste of energy
in the Lyon Playfair Library. As a Life Scientist, I work
on the fourth floor of the library under increasingly
difficult conditions. The major problem is the air
turbulence caused by the electric ceiling fans. These cause
papers and books to be blown about and make working
within five metres of them impossible. The reason why
the fans are employed, and indeed why windows are left
wide open, is not because of the large mass of bodies
within a small space, but because the central heating
radiators are too hot to touch.
Thus, large amounts of energy are being wasted daily
by the College in a pointless manner. Surely this could
be avoided by the use of simple thermostats set at a
reasonable temperature.
I cannot speak for other floors in the library, but on
the fourth floor, large areas of working desks cannot be
used because of the fans, rain blowing in through open
windows or the intense heat from radiators. Therefore,
cramping of many people into small areas of desks occurs,
particularly on Wednesday afternoons, while other areas
are completely unpopulated due to the adverse weather
conditions! The problem is compounded by undereducated
librarians who do not know how to control the fans. When
asked politely if the fans could be turned off, a librarian
replied, 'they cannot be turned off, they can only be turned
down. And I don't know how to do it!' Does this mean
that the fans will be left on until Armageddon!
This is a very real problem and I know that a lot of
people feel strongly about this—not only the poor working
conditions, but also the energy wastage.
Something must be done about it!
Yours sincerely,
Julian R Henson, Life Sci H.
Answering the
opinion
Dear Judith,
The author of last week's opinion article makes a horrific
and perverted travesty of history by attempting to link the
Nazi policy of systematic killing of the Jews which resulted
in six million murdered, and the conditions of the refugees
in Gaza, Judea and Samaria.
It is indeed true to say conditions in the camps are poor.
When Israel entered these areas in 1967 the inhabitants
were found, after 19 years of Arab rule, to be living in
the same abject squallor and misery as had existed in 1949,
Today the camps are administered by the U N whose
budget has been cut in recent years as the Arab countries
have refused to pay the sums requested of them. One day's
oil revenues of Saudi Arabia could solve the whole
problem.
Notwithstanding this, Israel has engaged in a consistent
effort to improve the living conditions. Since 1970 every
refugee who wishes to leave the camp is given a plot of
land, chooses his own type of dwelling and construction
plan and becomes the full property owner once the building
is completed, his property being registered in the Land
Register. The new neighbourhoods are built orrState land
with water, sanitation, electricity, roads, Mosques,
schools—proper housing and infrastructure. To date the
scheme has enabled 80,000 refugees to leave the camps.
A little known UN Resolution has been adopted annually
since 1971, stating inter alia that 'Israel desist from the
removal and resettlement of Palestine refugees'. This year
only Israel and USA voted against the resolution. Is it not
ironic that those who preach about the need to overcome
the plight in the camps have repeatedly lent a hand to UN
resolutions which would, if implemented, perpetuate the
problem?
Mr Akhtar asks 'What was preventing (Israel) from
solving the problems in the last thirty years?'. He
conveniently forgets that Israel offered Gaza back to Egypt
as part of a negotiated deal after the Six-Day War. The
Arab response was the three noes of Kartoum—no talks
with Israel, no recognition of Israel, no peace with Israel.
Furthermore, under the Camp David framework signed
on 17 September 1978 the Arabs of the administered areas
would live a transitional period of five years under the
autonomous administrative council. The accords include
an invitation to Palestinians and Jordanians to enter into
direct negotiations aimed at securing peace. Sadly the offer
was not accepted.
The PLO has eliminated itself as a negotiating partner
not least because of some 8,000 acts of terror, mostly
against Israeli civilian targets, causing the deaths of over
650 Israelis and the wounding of thousands more. Its
charter states its aims—'the Arab Palestinian
people...reject all substitutes for the total liberation of
Palestine'. 'Armed struggle is...the overall strategy, not
merely a tactical phase'. Today the PLO has not altered
its goal one iota. It continues to deny Israel's right to exist.
Its ambiguous rhetoric thinly disguises its glee whenever
its killers murder Jews—whether they be a crippled
pensioner on a cruise, a defenceless middle-aged woman
in Larnaca or a baby in Nahariya.
In describing the recent unrest in the administered areas
Mr Akhtar does not publicise the murder by Arafat's
'Force 17' of an Israeli salesman, Shlomo Sakal. The car
accident referred to, happened two days later—the accident
was unintentional and the Israeli driver concerned will
stand trial. Israel is not a totalitarian regime based on the
rule of gun but a democracy based on the rule of law.
When its security forces are faced by violent mobs, hurling
fire-bombs, rocks and knives, then self-restraint gives way
at times to self-preservation. But that too is subject to the
rule of law. The Israeli soldiers involved in the burial of
the Palestinians are being court-martialled. Distressing
cases of brutality by Israeli soldiers are breaches of and
represent the antithesis of government policy.
I condemn any and all excessive force. In contrast Mr
Akhtar condones Palestinian violence. Morality which is
selective is not morality at all. Where indeed are the
protests at the sieges and massacres of refugees in the
camps of Beirut and those of Yarmuk, Heleb and Darah
in Syria? Suffering in Beirut does not of course justify
hardship in Gaza—but those who omit to mention the
former reveal anti-Israeli not humanitarian motives.
Surely history records few people so consistently misled
by their leadership as the Palestinian Arabs. From the
Grand Mufti of the 30s and 40s to Yasser Arafat of today,
rejectionism and maximalism have gone hand in hand with
threats, intimidation and assassination of Palestinian Arabs
who espouse policies of negotiation and compromise. The
one-sided criticism of Israel by Mr Akhtar just fuels the
obstruction of those who preach violence. Only by making
these elements impotent might the voice of Palestinian
Arab moderation be heard. When that happens the peace
process will begin in earnest.
Yours sincerely,
Neville Nelkon, DoC 2.
S
m
a
l
l Ads
PERSONAL
• Vote for me! Oops, too lata
• Join the SPARO's NHI Beit.
• Cath thinks working in Soho is more
profitable than singing on the tube.
• Diana—you've stained my feet with
Guinness
• Did they learn you to walk before
coming to UNI, Sarah?
• Helen R, will you shave my pubic
hair off please? K E (I admire you from
a distance).
• Want your underwear frozen? See
Fiona and Edith.
• Fiona & Edith, can we have the
whips back sometime?
• Yishu, Yishu, How my heart bleeds
for you, your poem has given me much
inspiration, I now only desire for our
unification, Yishu my darling, the time
will come, I really fancy your sweet
little bum-Sam.
• There once was a sailor who'd blush,
whenever a girl had a crush. Poor boy'd
be last, to run up his mast, just to
avoid the great rush.
• ICSO play the Nutcracker Suite
tonight-but who's the Sugar Plum
Fairy?
• Get totally Brahmsed tonight with
ICSO.
• Does Simon use a different coloured
condom on his thumb 34 Mad
Gardeners.
• The 4.20 from Evelyn Gardens is
now arriving at 'Room' 22. 34 MG.
• Remember Room 'XX' is a 'Heart to i
Heart' bonk-free zone 34 MG.
• Mark and Matt celebrated the
322nd anniversary of the Great Fire of
London on Wednesday Feb 24. 34 MG.
• Notice to our bored housewife: We
apologise for the disrupted milk service
over the last two weeks and hope to
restore the service asap—The Dairy (I).
• Thank you Clive and piss off.
• Thursday lunchtimes boring? Stuck
to know what to do with those two
hours? No? Well come to see the totally
fab IC Amnesty letter stall anyway,
JCR, 1pm.
• Torture get up vour nose? Dictators
get on your four-asterisks? If you can't
face someone nicking your supply of
Australian lager then come and help
Amnesty protect innocent people from
far worse—1pm Tues,- Elec Eng Foyer.
• Get awake, get a brain, get a life, get
a ticket for the 'Physicists'. March
15-18, Union Concert Hall.
• Will you survive...
• ...'The Physicists' the most explosive
play in the history of IC.
• Will all DoC 2 students please stop
reading this and pay attention to the
man at the front of the lecture
theatre-RB.
14 Friday March 11th 1988 FELIX

