• Probably some of the best wines in
the world...guaranteed to reach the
parts that Claret does not.
• Seeing as you only read this bit, may
I direct your attention to the notice
about Physics sweatshirts in the
Announcements section.
• We the accused, wish to express our
concern that the Mad Gardener seems
unwilling to address himself to the
burning issues of today.
• Matt Stratton is innocent.
• The Mad Gardener is a weed. Root
him out.
• FMW says 'Oh no it's not!'.
• Vote for Sartaz, Hassle Soc. Publicity
Officer elections.
• Sartaz Promotions Agency. Hassle
ads special this week. Sartaz, Physics
2. 'It works'-Amin El-Kholy.
• Cath, he still wants to know. Do you
do it like the other girls from the
valleys—like a bunny?
• Don't step on my blue plastic shoes.
• Hairee, a good weekend—hie Look
forward to the next (when you recover).
• Welcome to England, Carrie. Be my
belated (by three years) valentine (for a
day at least).
• Hope you had a happy birthday,
Louisa Can you remember it? But don't
go, we all need you. From the four four
party (and what a party).
• The Penthouse Club require beautiful
women for research into new ways of
being nice to people Also perhaps a
few physiotherapists or gymnasts as
controls.
• Haggis-Hunting Soc is holding a
familiarisation session for F-14 bimbos
at the Hampshire Hog. A subsidiary of
the Penthouse Club.
• We made the Baron at last!
• Now the elections are over, can we
mention Dave Williams? The Penthouse
Club.
• Will the next FELIX Editor respect
our traditions? The Penthouse Club
• Jan(et) and John: Book 2.
Jan runs the house. John helps her.
Jan drinks the wine. John drinks the
wine. We all drink wine. Jan likes John.
John likes Jan. And I'm afraid that's as
far as it goes.
• Anyone for tennis? Imperial Tennis
Club coaching. Contact J Van Vlymen,
Mat Sci 2.
• W + M, M + W? W + S,
S + W? S + M - N o !
WANTED
• A person to translate a Geological
Spanish paper into English. Fee
negotiable. Box No. 640.
FOR SALE
• Mini Clubman, S Reg, black,
sunroof, radio, lots of recent work (with
bills), runs well, MOT November, Tax to
end April. £700 ono. Special offer for
members of IC: £100 off!! Phone
Howard on int 4528.
Pecker up?
Dear Judith,
With reference to Martin Peck's election proposal which
appeared in FELIX dated March 4th, we should like to
raise the following points:
1. Mr Peck has never been elected to a position on the
Rocksoc committee.
2. Mr Peck has consistently failed to support Rocksoc
events.
3. Mr Peck has not attended a single Rocksoc meeting
this term.
We would therefore like to object in the strongest
possible terms to Mr Peck's use of our society to further
his political ambitions.
Love, light and peace,
The Rocksoc Committee.
PS. We shall shortly be reading omens from Mr Peck's
entrails.
Savage challenge
Dear Judith,
Imagine our surprise when we read in last week's
FELIX that the Penthouse Club go sharking every Friday
night.
We of the Gauntlet Club also don our fins every
weekend and hereby challenge The Penthouse Club to a
'Jaws Evening' on the Friday night of their choosing.
Police Chief Brody will be informed.
A word of caution: One person in Southside last week
got severely savaged by a black fin and lost all feeling
from the neck down. Luckily, he saw the funny side of it.
Cheers,
The Gauntlet Club.
Sinister CU
Dear FELIX,
I am glad that questions are being asked about the
'Christian Union' (FELIX 796). What annoys me most
about this movement is its name, presumably adopted in
order to trick us into believing it represents all Christians.
The orthodox Christian view is that Christ founded a
movement and left his spirit working in that movement.
That movement which became known as the Catholic
(meaning 'universal') Church, later collected together
various writings which were circulating to form the Bible.
So the Bible is the product of Christianity, not vice versa
as the CU claim.
Taken outside the context of the Catholic church (which
I take to include not only the Roman Catholic church, but
also the Orthodox churches, and others which maintain
the history, traditions and teachings handed down to us
from the first Christians and developed by centuries of
prayer and contemplation) the Bible is an obscure jumble.
If one accepts the Bible as the sole source of authority
(as every member of the CU must) one is no more a
Christian than one would be a true follower of any other
religion if one picked up its sacred books and developed
one's own religion based on them. Indeed, what
justification do the CU have for rejecting the Gnostic
gospels and other works that were not included in the
Bible, if they reject the Church that compiled it?
In fact the C U take a peculiarly selective view of the
Bible. That view started when people like Martin Luther
criticised the Church for appearing to sell salvation for
cash, using flashy imagery, and over-focussing services
on the individuals leading them. It is hard to believe thaf
people like Swaggart, Baker, Robertson, and the other
American TV evangelists, of which the CU are the British
wing, trace their origins to Luther's protests (hence
'Protestant').
The most important Protestant belief is 'justification of
faith alone'. This means rejecting the whole of Christ's
radical social teaching on helping the poor and so on, as
useless (strangely they do not seem to hold the same view
on sexual matters). That is why their declaration is so
important to the CU. If you do not accept it, no matter
how good your life, you are doomed. To them, Mother
Theresa of Calcutta will go to Hell. It is no wonder that
right-wing politicians the world over have taken up this
religion with enthusiasm.
Having seen the C U in action at three different
universities, I am convinced they are a sinister force which
ought no longer to be tolerated by other Christians whose
name they abuse.
Yours sincerely,
Matthew Huntbach (Dept of Computing).
Money takers?
Dear Judith,
| My attention was recently drawn to the front page of
last week's FELIX and the story entitled 'Moonie-rakers'.
On reading the story, which purported to be informing
IC students about CARP, I could not but feel a tinge of
deja vu.
On checking my archives, I discovered why. Almost
all the 'factual' material about CARP was lifted straight
out of a two-year old copy of FELIX; this despite most
of the material in that copy having been challenged as
inaccurate or misleading, in a letter from the then UK-
CARP Director, printed two weeks later.
Therefore, for the sake of those who were not privileged
to be readers of FELIX at that time, I'd like to raise a
number of points again.
1. CARP and the Unification Church.
CARP is a movement for students who are concerned
about resolving the problems of society and the world.
For this reason, meetings and seminars are organised on
diverse issues. Attendance and/or membership is not
restricted to members of the Unification Church.
Furthermore, Reverend Moon is clearly identified as the
founder of CARP in two introductory leaflets (copies
enclosed with this letter) distributed on campus by CARP
members.
2. The 'Brainwashing' Myth
The charge that the Moonies practice brainwashing
techniques has been fully discredited by recent sociological
and psychological studies (see especially 'The Making of
a Moonie' by Dr E Barker of LSE). An attempt to uphold
a similar charge in court (made by HM Attorney General)
was recently dropped on account of what amounted to an
absence of any credible evidence.
3. 'CARP is a sinister organisation'
There is nothing secretive about CARP. Members are
always happy to try and explain aspects of Unification,
the philosophy of CARP, to the best of their ability. CARP
no more 'feeds on the loneliness and unhappiness of
people' than the NHS does on their ill health.
Yours sincerely
Dr C Turfus, Director CARP-UK.
FELIX Friday March 11th 1988 15

