A l t e r n a t i v e
Andrew Daglish reveals the truth about paper recycling, life,
the universe and everything....
The truth has been revealed at last!
'Simply recycling half the paper in
use in the world could meet three
quarters of the demand for
paper...1
'. Hence, by recycling all
the paper in use in the world, 150%
of the demand could be met. This
means that, since demand is, within
the limits of the Heisenberg
Uncertainty Principle, not going to
shrink to two thirds of its present level
in the time it takes to recycle the
paper, there is a 50% increase in the
amount of paper in existence, ie, for
every ton, say, of paper recycled, the
recycler receives 1.5 tons. This has
staggering implications.
First, on a level of vital importance
to every student, indeed most of the
population, one need never be short
of money again! Simply by recycling
two five pound notes one will receive
three in return! This should see a huge
rise in demand for paper money, but
this will have no long-term effect on
our forests because the required
amount will soon be in circulation due
to students spending 'excess' recycled
paper money.
However under no circumstances
should this be attempted if you are
already in debt, since:
Final amount = (initial amount x
1-5) ° when n = number of recycles.
Hence starting in debt only increases
the amount of money one already
owes, at a rate potentially far higher
than anything credit card companies
have yet been able to invent.
It should also be noted that applying
the 'recycle' principles to your cheque
book will probably only result in
catastrophic debt, since cheques have
still to be drawn from your account.
However, they could still be useful if
one is the type that insists on writing
cheques and one is down to one's last
two cheques.
This in turn has important
implications on Government
economic policy. It is obvious that
any government allowing its citizens
to recycle money indiscriminately
(eg, Argentina, Brazil, Mexico,
Israel) will be the victim of rampaging
inflation. It becomes obvious that the
success of the Government's
economic policies are due in fact to
their success in suppressing the illegal
recycling of paper money, something
that many governments have failed to
do (eg, central European nations
between the wars). This also accounts
for the increase in general crime: the
police forces have been diverted to
tracking down recyclers, who take
great pains to conceal their
endeavours, at the expense of tracking
down other criminals.
Further proof of this is provided by
history. A study of rates of inflation
reveals a discontinuity which cannot
be accounted for by mere increases
in prices. For many years historians
have thought this indicated the birth
of inordinate greed in people,
otherwise known as capitalism, but
recent studies in the light of the
discovery of recycling has led to the
realisation that the discontinuity
occurred at the same time as the
introduction of paper money.
However, this theory has effects
potentially far more profound than
those on mere fiscal policy; it is final
and irrevocable proof of the type of
3) the spontaneous generation
theory.
The third theory is similar to the
first, ie, a universe constantly
expanding from its centre. The
difference is that the first postulates
an initial massive explosion followed
by an increasingly widespread and
less dense universe, whereas the third,
pictures the universe as constantly
gently expanding, with more matter
coming continually into existence
spontaneously at the centre. This is
in fact a special case of the type of
universe we live in.
In fact, the universe is constantly
expanding but it has more than one
centre, and the number is variable.
The centres are waste-paper recycling
machines, and each represents a
universe (microcosm) in its own right,
with bodies orbiting it and the other
heavenly bodies (waste-paper baskets)
constantly. The case previously
postulated could well come about in
due course in our own universe when
the operation has become centralised
in the interest of greatest economy
and efficiency.
Of course, this all violates the
conservation of mass, which was
shown to be a load of bunkum by
Albert Einstein anyway. Recall that
at extremely high velocities the mass
changed to negative velocity, ie, the
particle does work on itself on
decelerating. Of course work has to
be done on the particle in the first
place to accelerate the rate of
recycling to unusually high levels.
Perhaps the most important
application of recycling is to the fossil
fuel crisis. Even now, chemists the
world over are searching for ways of
converting paper into oil
economically. So long as this can be
done without burning more than one
third of the paper to provide fuel for
the conversion this will be viable, the
remaining paper being recycled using
some of the oil to provide more paper
than initially, and the remaining oil
being sold. Ecologists are interested
in turning excess recycled paper into
trees. CERN has shown interest in
generating other elements by nuclear
fission and fusion, using paper oil to
power the electromagnetics initally,
followed by fissionable heavy paper
elements when enough have been
generated. Again this should be
possible within current recycling
limits (a 50% increase) although some
chemists have recently reported
improved yields2
.
Of course, this has been and is
being opposed by commerce,
especially the paper industry, which
fears a vast slump in trade, and, more
sinisterly, by governments on
economic grounds although the CIA
is known to be a proponent of
recycling, to destabilise the
economies of the target nations. The
KGB is believed to be behind the
economic crisis in Israel, and attempts
have been made on the South African
one, which is more resilient due to the
heavy usage of gold. The Australian
government has stated it believes itself
to be the first to take steps to fully
insulate its economy following the
introduction of plastic money earlier
this year, but leading chemists have
pointed out that oil (from paper) may
be converted to plastic. This,
however, is just forgery.
universe we live in. The three basic
theories advanced thus far were:
1) the expanding universe, or 'big
bang', theory
2) the oscillating universe, or 'big
bang gnab gib' theory
of a body tends to infinity. This could
be due to the increased rate of
recycling, suggesting that each
particle in our universe is a
microcosm. The mass is decreased to
normal on slowing down as mass is
References:
1. Easterbrook, S, FELIX,
1988, 795, 6.
2. Bullshot, A L L & Grummond, H
J Scientific Discoveries, 1987, 12, 1
FELIX Friday March 11th 1988

