Feature
A feature on recycling paper, by Richard Heap
Paper Money
When it comes to recycling waste
paper, Britain ranks fourth in the
world. Fifty five percent of its paper
and paper products are recycled and
only countries like the U.S.A.,
Spain and West Germany, do
better. Britain exports about three
thousand tonnes of waste paper
every year—and the country is
unique in owning the only mill
capable of converting 100% waste
newsprint back into newsprint.
Few people realise how much
paper this country uses; estimates
place the figure at 8 million tonnes
each year. This includes many forms
of packaging, cardboard, cigarette
packets, hygiene papers and tissues,
overcoming the problems of
jamming in the machine, and
putting dust in the toner. Yet no one
seems to want to risk trying recycled
paper in their machines especially
as the photocopier merchants tend
not to recommend them.
There is a reluctance to use some
of the lower grade recycled paper,
such as toilet paper. This is not only
because recycled toilet paper sounds
a bit suspect, but according to
Health and Safety regulations,
public toilets should offer the
highest standards—surely they are
not still remembering the
sandpaper-like recycled toilet paper
that was handed out during the
or cheaper, than 'virgin' paper, and
so it should be. Producing recycled
paper uses 50% less energy than
thermal process. The chemical
process destroys the material in the
wood which holds the fibres
Recycled paper enlarged 100 times under an electron microscope.
Waste paper delivered for recycling
envelopes, and writing paper. Most
of these can be, and are, made with
recycled fibres. Despite recycling so
much of our waste, 57% of our
paper comes from abroad, either as
raw pulp or as finished products.
Very few of these finished products
are made from recycled fibres.
In spite of improvements in the
quality of recycled paper, people are
reluctant to use it. For office use,
recycled paper has often been
considered undesirable because of
its colour and quality. But things
have changed; with improvements
being made all the time, the better
recycled paper is now as good as
comparable 'virgin' non-recycled
paper.
Conservation Laid, one of the best
recycled papers is inexpensive and
cannot be distinguished from
Conqueror except by its water-mark,
which bears the recycling logo.
Anyone who has used Conqueror
will know that it is a very high
quality and expensive paper. Photo
copier paper too, has improved,
'Great' Wars?
Recycled paper is now as cheap,
pulping trees and there is an
environmental saving—less toxic
effluent is produced by the process.
The basic rule for recycling waste
paper is, "the more you put on the
paper, the more effort required to
remove it, so the lower the grade".
Waste paper merchants deal in 66
grades of paper, although these can
be grouped into about 8 broad
categories. In a University the most
common categories are newsprint,
magazines and other free
advertising publications, and
cardboard, which are all low grade,
and photocopier paper, general
office white paper and computer
paper.
Most paper is made of wood
fibres, which are arranged randomly
in the paper. The fibres are pulped
either mechanically or by a chemo-
THE C
The best grade is clean white paper or 'Best White'. This is unprinted
and uncoated and can b« pulped with very little extra processing
not produce much. This can be reprocessed into high quality writing,
such as C« n Laid.
Computer paper is a high grade paper consistent in quali'y. lightly
printed, and rarely uncoated. It occasionally conies in a woody form
which is a low grade paper, fetching only a quarter of the price of
non-woody. This too can go into good grade paper, or B v e n back
into computer paper.
The next grade is called White Heavy Letter , which covers most
white .ide ranges
from lightly printed letters to heavily printed photocopies. Again,
its value varies according to the density of the print. In general, white
heavy letter is n high grade paper which can be reprocessed into
photocopier and duplicating paper.
Magazines are printed on the lowest paper grade. They are often
heavily coated, so they feel nice, but this hides the low quality paper
underneath. Recyled magazine paper is not very useful except in
producing packaging and hygeine papers, such as hand towels.
Included in the s a m e grade are coloured office wastes, which
contain dyed paper. The only way to hide the dye colour, is to over
dye it - lur. > ... • ..
together, producing a higher quality
paper which does not yellow in the
sun, as the mechanically produced
paper does. The mechanical process
seperates the fibres by grinding up
the wood, which produces only a
low grade paper, often referred to
as 'woody'.
Once the paper has been rolled,
it may undergo various processes to
improve the quality or suit a certain
application. The paper may be
water-proofed for posters, or plastic
coated for book covers. The most
common coating is kaolin which is
rolled into the fibres, making the
surface smooth. Low grade fibres
are often improved by this method.
When paper is recycled, ink has
to be removed and any coatings
which may have been applied,
depending on the final use of the
fibres. Each process requires extra
effort. It also loosens some of the
fibres, so less volume of paper is
produced at the end. Amongst the
most difficult coatings to remove are
the self-carbonating layers. High
grade waste paper commands a
good price since reprocessing to
clean fibres requires little effort, and
wastage is low.
The grade of paper is dependent
! on the colour of the paper and the
amount of print. Coloured paper is
virtually worthless, since the dyes
used in the paper tend to be water-
p r o o f and therefore difficult to
remove. Likewise water-proof print,
although not used very often,
cannot be removed except by
expensive processing. Normal print
is easier to remove, but the heavier
the print the more processing
required, which effectively lowers
the grade.
The grade can be ruined by
leaving paper clips, bulldog clips, or
Oct ber 3 1988 FELIX 'Page 17

