Feature
plastic sheets or binders amongst
the paper. Improved technology can
cope with staples, but it helps if
there are not too many.
A tonne of newsprint, equivalent
to 7,000 national newspapers,
requires 10-17 trees worth of wood
pulp. Imperial College, at a
conservative estimate, uses 100
tonnes of photocopier paper and
computer paper a year. This is
equivalent to about 1.3 hectares of
appointed a student to look into the
possibility of recycling our paper,
and in the future to consider other
forms of waste that the college
produces. The prospects are
encouraging, and hopefully a
scheme will be set-up in the next
few months.
Although the quality of recycled
paper is continually improving, the
market for recycled paper is not
increasing as quickly as one would
FELIX passes the acid test for good quality paper
trees, and given the time it takes for
a tree to grow, Imperial College
needs 50 hectares of trees to keep it
in good quality paper—an area 7
times the size of the campus. It is
estimated, that as a country, if we
recycled 70-75% of our waste paper
and board it could save felling 35
million trees every year, or to put it
another way, reduce the number of
conifer plantations.
Trie natural vegetation in the
highlands is actually conifers, but
rarely did nature grow trees in rows
and squares. The highlands also
contain valuable flow bog habitats,
ideal for rare arctic and tundra birds,
these are regarded as poor quality
land suitable for nothing but trees.
In Sutherland and Caithness 50
hectares of bog land are being lost
each week! Heavy tree planting in
these areas leads to soil erosion, and
increases acidity in lakes and rivers.
Twenty two thousand jobs in
paper recycling could be created
with further reclamation of waste,
and this is already happening.
Several county councils are
organising paper collections in their
offices. The Body Shop Head
Offices operate a scheme called the
'Paper Chase'; in the first 9 months
a staff of 80 collected 50 tonnes of
waste paper. Consider the potential
in a college such as Imperial!!
This is why the Students Union
expect. At the hub of the problem
is a certain reluctance by the paper
mills to employ new technology,
which could improve quality and
reduce the costs.
The easiest way to reduce waste
is not to throw it away until it is well
and truly used. Living in one of the
richest areas of London, I used to
(and still do) go rummaging through
skips, and it is amazing what people
throw away. I can safely claim to
have found over a thousand pounds
worth of usable good condition
' r u b b i s h ' .
• In College, internal envelopes are
designed to save waste and to save
money, but how many get thrown
away less than half used?
• Use both sides of a piece of paper
before throwing it away. This may
involve writing on the back of
computer print out, or crossing out
a letter and writing on the back.
• Learn how to double side
photocopies, it is not very difficult.
If you make a mistake on a single
sided copy you can put it in the
manual feed and print on the back.
•Don't buy or use goods that waste
material. Many goods are grossly
over packaged. How long is the
packaging of a McDonalds, or even
a Q.T. Burger, used for? Five
minutes, ten minutes? and
then...CONSIDER THE WASTE.
There's money in it...
T h e government may say that recycling must be economically
viable, but it is questionable whether our present way of living is
viable in the long run without very much more recycling. Perhaps
the government should extend its profit and loss accounting to cover
the loss to future decades and future generations as well as our own.
It is an ecological truth, as well as an economic one, that there is
no such thing as a free lunch.' (Sunday Telegraph, 9/3/86)
Britain annually produces 500 and jars are used in Britain, which,
million tonnes of waste. Of this 23 if thrown away, produces two
million tonnes of waste glass.
People in this country are fairly
used to Bottle Banks, and possibly
Save-a-Can skips, but now there is
dawning a new age—Paper Banks.
Collections by the Civic Amenity
Trust or other council organisations
have been collecting paper door-to-
door in some areas for several years,
but some councils are now putting
out skips for people to bring their
paper to. Similar bins have recently
been seen in Italy, where glass,
aluminium and paper banks are
lined up together in the street. Some
American universities also have a
similar set-up in the halls of
residence. This kind of collection
can bring in valuable revenue, as the
waste can be sold for reprocessing,
rather than paying to have it
removed and put in a hole in the
ground.
Aluminium can raise 40p per kilo,
million tonnes is domestic waste
which includes about 30% paper
products. A further 30% is other
recyclable materials. Sadly most of
this goes into a hole in the ground;
if you are lucky it is burnt, possibly
for energy generation. But the
number of holes in the ground are
not limitless, as New York has
found out, and England will find
out in the next 15-20 years. Already
large amounts of money are spent
on shifting London's waste into the
home counties. Having to transport
it further, or even abroad, at present
seems ludicrous, but it could well
happen.
The long list of damaging effects
to the environment starts here, with
the leaching of concentrated
chemicals from these landfill
rubbish tips into our water supplies.
Using reclaimed waste, as opposed
to the 'virgin' raw material, reduces
Collecting for recycling, the Minnesota university way
the amount of energy required to which is about lp for every drinks
produced the finished product, and
often reduces the amount of
pollution and useless by-products.
Making paper from reclaimed
material uses 50% less energy than
from virgin pulp. Aluminium uses
95% less energy, and produces 40%
less pollution!
Cans alone constitute 9% of the
average householder's bin, which
amounts to more than a quarter of
a million tonnes of cans every year
for London and 11 billion cans
throughout Britain.
Every year, 6 billion glass bottles
can collected. Why has it taken so
long to raise peoples' interest in
recycling?
'Most of the successful recycling
schemes throughout the world have the
following in common: improved public
education and co-operation as well as
government encouragement of, if not
participation in, the recycling
endeavour.' (World Bank Review of
Recycling from Municipal Refuse)
So this is your education, you do
the co-operation and... well... we
might survive on our own.
October 3 1988 FELIX Page 3

