Felix
Editorial
A Strange New World Let me take this,
opportunity to welcome you to Imperial College,.
or, if you're an old hand, to welcome you back.
If your new to the College and are feeling a bit
apprehensive, don't worry - you are not alone.
Make the most of Frehers Week; go to all the
events and sign up for all the clubs which interest
you. There will be plenty of time to worry about
lectures in the forthcoming weeks.
The Union The ground floor of the Union
Building has been completely refurbished over
the Summer. The Union bar has been given a
much needed redecoration and a new stage and
lighting tower have been constructed i n the
Union Lounge.
The Union refectory has undergone a major
facelift and a catering consultant has been
brought in to design new menus. The emphasis
will be on 'healthy eating' and I urge you to give
it a try - eating burgers every day is very bad
for the complexion.
Get involved in the Union. It is your Union and
it is here to represent you. The worst thing you
can do is spend three years doing nothing but
work - all you get at the end is a piece of paper
with a grade written on it.
STA The College's Assistant Finance Officer,
Malcolm Aldridge acted irresponsibly when he
halted work o n STA's new premises. (STA are
the College's on-site travel agents). It seems that
M r A l d r i d g e told everyone about h i s
dissatisfaction with the contract drawn up by the
Union and STA, except the Union. Instead, he
waited for the builders to start work before telling
the Union that the contract could no go ahead,
at great embarrassment to the Union.
M r Aldridge was quite right to query the clause
in the contract which called for the College to pay
compensation should S T A be removed from
College premises. W h y should the College be
expected to risk having to pay compensation
when it is the Union that will be making money
on the deal?
But for h i m to claim that he was unable to
contact the Union Manager, Dave Peacock to tell
him of his concerns over the deal is absurd. If M r
Aldridge was unable to contact M r Peacock by
phone (Mr Peacock carries a portable phone with
him wherever he goes) he should have sent h i m
a letter, or left a message for h i m in the Union
Office. Oddly enough, he did manage to send
the manager of S T A a letter explaining the
situation.
So what is M r Aldridge up to ? Whatever it is,
I think we can be sure, from the lack of regard
he has shown towards the Union, that it will not
be to the students' advantage. I could hazzard
a guess and suggest that the College are trying
to secure a deal with STA for themselves...but
then again I could be completely wrong.
Alternative Prospectus Supplement Martyn
Peck's Alternative Prospectus Supplement
caused a great rumpus amongst the academics
within College. They complained - rightly - that
the supplement represented their departments
unfairly and inaccurately. Deputy President Chas
Brereton and former president Sydney Harbour
Bridge (name changed in aid of comic relief)
therefore deserve all credit for rewriting the
supplement.
The new A P represents the departments both
acurately and fairly. In so doing it looks set to
cause an even greater rumpus than the first
version.
Story 1. A t the start of the Summer, the Union
Office asked FELIX to print the A P supplement
for them. They explained that the supplement
was required urgently and so ex-FELIX editor
Judith Hackney and I volunteered to do the
artwork and the printing, so that it could be ready
within a week. The Union even agreed to fork
out an extra £50 to print the covers on coloured
paper rather than wait a couple of days for a
paper delivery.
Why then, one wonders, are the supplements
still sitting here in the FELIX office ?
Story 2. One of the Union Officers asked FELIX
to typeset the welfare booklet 'But were afraid to
ask..' so that the book could be printed and
distributed to this year's Freshers. Rose Atkins,
our typesetter operator wasted a whole week
setting the booklet (and typesetting paper is not
cheap) only to be informed by the Officer in
question that he didn't have time to make the
required corrections. Instead, the Union decided
to distribute the University of London Union
Welfare book to the freshers.
Story 3.runs something like this: The Union
commissioned the Dramatic Society to repaint the
Union Lounge. They payed a few members of
Dramsoc over £1000 for doing so. Last year, the
Ents Crew repainted the Lounge free of
charge...and it is rumoured that the company
contracted to refurbish the Union Refectory could
have done the job for half the price. (I hope this
story4sn't true.)
The blase attitude of some of the Union
Officers, when it comes to spending money is a
cause for concern. Every time £50 is wasted by
the Union it is £50 which could be well spent on
a club or a society. I hope these incidents do not
reflect the trend for the coming year.
Freshers' UGM One of the motions due to be
debated at the freshers' U G M purports to ban the
discussion of 'political motions' at U G M ' s . The
motion, proposed by the previous Union
President and seconded by the current President
is ill conceived.
Essentially it prohibits U G M ' s from discussing
motions which are not 'directly relevant to the
academic or personal welfare of students at I C
In other words issues such as Human Rights,
religion, the arms race, racism.. .the list goes on...
will be banned from U G M ' s .
Whatever happened to freedom of speech? The
Union would be amongst the first to condemn
the no platform policy of Left Wing Student
Unions; this motion is no better than the no
platform policy. It is a good deal worse. The
motion states that the Union should not fund any
campaigns which do not directly involve British
students. In other words, events such as the
Human Rights Week - which IC has successfuly
staged in the past - will be a thing of the past.
I need not remind those students who attended
last years U G M s that amongst the only quorate
U G M of the year was the 'political' debate on
Bethlehem U n i v e r s i t y .
Students at IC are far too removed from the real
world already. W h y blinker them even more by
banning discussion on important human issues?
That the motion should originate from an ex
President who portrayed himself as 'the student
activist' during his election campaign is hypocrisy
indeed. I urge y o u to attend Thursday's U G M
and vote to consign this motion where it
belongs..in the dust bin.
St Mary's Hospital Medical School. Imperial
College merged with St Mary's Hospital Medical
School in August. The College has n o w gained
the official title of Imperial College of Science,
Technology and Medicine. The merger seems to
have changed very little so far, but a ceremony
is planned on the 19 October to mark the
occasion. (FELIX is still awaiting its invitation.)
IC Union is currently engaged in negotiations
with the Students Union at St Mary's. Inspite of
the College's merger, the Unions are still far from
ready to merge.
The students at Mary's are naturally worried
by the prospect that they will be swamped by
Imperial. There are two factors which should
reassure them. Firstly IC is based on a
Constituent College system which still allows its
Constituent Colleges to retain their
independence. Secondly St M a r y ' s is i n
Paddington and would be hard pressed to lose
its individuality even if it wanted to.
The cliched Medical Student is in many ways
similar to our own cliched Mining Student. They
like drinking, they are intensly proud of their own
institution, they play rugby and they are on first
name terms with their lecturers. They have to
work as hard (maybe harder) as students at IC;
they have no politically active clubs and in fact
politically active medical students are frowned
u p o n by the medical establishment.
When it comes down to it, IC Union has little
to gain from merging with St Mary's Union. With
the exception of a mountain hut (which they are
guarding jealously from IC students) they have
no facilities which are not duplicated i n the rest
of IC. Nor, with only 200 preclinical students in
residence can they be expected to make any
contribution to the male:female ratio at IC.
St Mary's have much more to gain by
merging..access to IC's clubs and M O N E Y . And
this is the dilemma which taunts them. A t heart
St Mary's Union does not want to merge, it wants
to retain its own identity; it wants to keep its o w n
facilities for its own students. Yet the Union keeps
one eye on the possibility of extra funding for its
clubs and societies.
FELIX Are you interested in joining the FELIX
team? Drop in and see us in the ' G o o d Time
Freedom Bus' at Fresher's Fair. W e will be
running introductory sessions for the first few
Wednesdays of term, or come to the FELIX
cheese and wine party on Friday in the FELIX
office at 8.00pm. W e need writers, reporters,
artists, photographers, advertising salespeople,
reviewers....
Staff Meeting Today at 1.00pm.
Tiddly Winks D o w n Oxford Street on Saturday.
Its much more fun than staying in bed.
Thanks to everyone for putting up with me this
week and thanks particularly to: Steve Meyfroid,
Kamela S e n , Dave Smedley, M i k e , John
Wilkinson, Chris Leahy, Neil Motteram, L i z
Warren, Mylan, Chas Brereton, Cwis Martin,
Andy Thompson, Fiona (sorry I forgot your tiddly
winks article), Chris Edwards,Pete Wilson, Jason
Lander, A n d y , Rose a n d Dean (bloody
trains...), the collators a n d anyone I've
forgotten. Apologies to the bloke I shouted at
in the U n i o n Office.
October 3 1988 FELIX Page.2

