(2)
the policy is a legal document and defines the insurance in precise terms. The following is an outline ofcover and someofthe exclusioi
THE BASIC COVER.
Personal Belongings up to ±2000 and College/Landlords property in your room up to £1000
Your Personal Belongings are covered:
* in the rooms or Hall of Residence which you occupy during Term time and in any place of residence within the U.K. where you
reside during the year andwhilst removed during the vacations to secure storage designated by the College authorities and within
said premises
* while you are in transit between home and College within the U.K. at the start and end of each Term
Your Personal Belongings and College/Landlords property are covered for loss or damage arising from:
* fire, lightning, earthquake, explosion, or smoke,
* storm or flood
* riot, civil commotion, strikes, labour and political disturbances or malicious persons
* escape of water from water tanks, pipes or apparatus or fixed heating installations
* theft or attempted theft
* falling television and radio aerials or trees
* subsidence, heave and landslip
* leakage of oil
* collision by vehicles or aircraft
Thefirst£15ofeveryclaim, rising to£25 in areas2 and 3 (as indicated on page 3), is not covered Items exceeding£100 in individual vali
are not covered unless specified. Items exceeding £300 in individual value are not covered. Theft from vehicles is not covered.
Personal and Occupiers Liability at Common Law up to £500,000
gives protection for accidental injury to a person or damage to property caused by your negligence as a private individual occurring
during any period of insurance in the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland, the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man.
Personal Accident £1500
covers bodily injury caused by:
* fire or thieves in your rooms
* an accident while travelling by motor vehicle, railway train, passenger ship, ferry, aircraft or hovercraft as a farepaying passenger
* an accident as a pedestrian involving a motor vehicle and resulting within 12 months ofthe injury in death or total loss of or complete
and irrecoverable loss of use of one or more eyes or limbs.
Funeral Expenses up to £1000
Funeral expenses necessarily incurred by you following the accidental death of your parent(s) which are irrecoverable from other
sources are reimbursed under this section.
OPTIONAL EXTRAS. - only available in addition to Basic Cover
(A) Higher Cover
You should increase the sum insured on your personal belongings if the sum insured under the basic cover is not adequate
(Exclude any specified items you may decide to cover separately under 'All Risks'). Remember that a heavy claim might
be under-compensated if you have under-stated the full value of your belongings. (Maximum cover allowed in all is £3500)
(B)A11 Risks Cover (valuable items)
List on page 4 any items you wish to insure separately againstAll Risks such as loss, damage and breakage as well as fire and theft,
anywhere in the U.K. This is advisable for valuable jewellery, watches, expensive garments, Hi-fi etc. It can be continued after you
cease to be a student. (Maximum coverallowed overall is £2000, limit anyone item£500) The first £15 of everyclaim, rising to£25
in areas 2 and 3 (as indicated on page 3), is not covered. Theft from vehicles is not covered.
(C) Pedal Cycle
We can cover loss of or damage toyour pedal cycle byfire,theft and collision anywhere in the U K ; excluding accessories unless the
cycle is stolen or damaged by fire at the same time; and the first £15 of every claim. (Maximum accepted value of cycle £300).
'NEW FOR OLD' CLAIMS SETTLEMENT
Provided your sums insured are adequate, claims for Personal Belongings and 'All Risks' items will be setded on a 'New for Old' basis.
This means you will be paid the full cost of repair or replacement. The only exceptions are clothing, household linen and pedal cycles
where a deduction will be made for wear, tear and depreciation.
H O W T O APPLY
Complete the right-hand portion (pages 3 & 4 ) and send it with the correct premium to:
HARRISON-BEAUMONT (Ins. Brokers) LTD
4 MEADOW COURT, WITNEY, OXON OX8 6LP.
TEL: WITNEY (0993) 703251
(or in the event of postal disruption take to the nearest Norwich Union office)
Make cheques payable to HARRISON-BEAUMONT LTD. These are the Registered Insurance Brokers who
administer the Scheme for Norwich Union, and they will send your Policy Certificate to your HOME ADDRESS.

