(4)
Items to be insured against 'All Risks'; continue on separate paper if necessary.
N.B. -Max. under this Section is £2,000; max. one item £500, if over consult the Brokers.
Describe jewellery etc. clearly. Give maker's name of HI-FI, CAMERAS etc.
-Main exclusions: theft from vehicles; damage to sports equipment whilst in use; contact lens
spectacles; records & tapes; the first £15 or £25 of any claim as detailed in (a) on page 2.
ITEM SUM TO BE INSURED
T O T A L S U M T O BE INSURED &
N.B.
1. This proposal outlines the cover available and some of the exclusions. The policy itself is a legal document and
as such defines the insurance in precise terms. A specimen of the policy document is available on request.
2. You are requested to keep a record (including copy letters) of all information supplied to the Insurer for the
purpose of entering into this contract.
3. We confirm that a copy of this proposal form will be supplied to you, on request, within 3 months of its
completion.
DECLARATION - (to be signed by every applicant for this insurance)
I declare that the statements made in my application are to the best of my knowledge and belief correct and
complete, and I agree that this proposal shall form the basis of the contract between me and the insurer and I will
accept and abide by the terms of the policy to be issued. For a major part of the 12 months to be covered by this
insurance I expect to be a student
in the year of a year course at college/university
Date; Signed:
fIMPORTANT NOTE: Material Facts State any other material facts here including details of all previous
claims. Failure to do so could invalidate the policy. A material fact is one likely to influence an insurer in the
assessment and acceptance of the proposal form. If you are in any doubt as to whether a fact is material, it
should be disclosed to the insurer.
Issuing Agent - if you wish to control the case, your Company name and address must be legibly shown
here; then remit premium net of fee; no other documentation is required in routine cases.
E. HARRISON G.S.S.
Reminder. No liability shall attach until the form, correctiy completed, and the correct net premium has been
received and accepted by Harrison Beaumont and thus a policy issued.

