Food
Food the elixir of life
by Yishu Nanda,
Food Correspondent
Last year Felix's own gastronomic column
looked at eating in far away places likes Paris,
Rome and Venice. I hope I managed to
inspire, you to be adventurous when eating
out on your travels during the holidays. This
year my task will be to encourage you to
explore the mind blowing experience of
titillating the palate in London's cosmopolitan
corridors of gastronomy !!
I begin the new series of articles by looking
at places within the central zone which are
popular with the students every year, and
some which are my special tips.
Eating Italian
Spago
5 Glendower Place, S.Kensington
(Only 5 minutes away)
I reviewed this restaurant for the first
Postgraduate Felix over the Summer. I gave
it a relatively good review only to find myself
hounded by people muttering ' how could
you recommend Spago ?'. The place has been
recommended by a number of Italians at the
college. I will for the record state that their
pasta offerings were good. The 'spaghetti
cartoccio' in which the chef produced a great
combination of squid, mussles, prawns and
pasta is a must, but the pizzas should be
avoided. '
The starter of 'proscuitto melone', a
spaghetti cartoccio, a Peroni beer and an
expresso cost me just £7.50p, giving good
value for money in South Ken.
Bar Italia
Firth Street
(opposite Ronnie Scotts)
Tube Leicester Square.
You might find it useful to know about this
corner of Italy in London. It's a 1950s style
Italian cafe in the heart of our city. Just go
there to enjoy an expresso. It gets packed with
the Italian expats on Sunday evenings
enjoying the Italian football being screened .
Fatso's pasta joint
13 Old Compton Street, W l .
Tube Leicester Square.
Sun noon-10.30pm .
Mon-Thurs noon-11.30
Frid, Sat noon- 12.30am.
I do not think that I will be going here, but ,
it should appeal to students who like to hog
themselves on pasta and one of the number
of sauces available. For £2.80p you can have
pasta and one of their sauces , and between
Sunday and Thursday you will keep having
your plate filled at no extra cost .
'What DID you put in this, Yishu ?'
Russian
Lubas Bistro
6 Yeoman Row, Knightsbridge
( 5 minutes away).
Mon-Sat 6pm- midnight.
Cost £7-12
Reservation necessary Free Corkage allowed!!
This bistro has proved popular for many a
rowdy student binge! They have a large
number of tempting starters including a
cheese dumpling, a hearty onion soup and the
classic beetroot soup which keeps the cold
Russian winters at bay. The main courses
include Kafpiv (grilled cod : expensive at £7),
Zraza (breast of chicken stuffed with
vegetables), Beef Stroganoff ( beef cooked in
sour-cream sauce) and Chicken Kiev amongst
others. Lubas has yet to disappoint someone
I know who has been there.
Indian
There are nearly 5000 Indian restaurants in
London. Though one might think that one is
spoilt for choice many places prove to be a
disappointment. I will highlight a few
interesting places.
Diwana Bhel Poori House
121 Drummond Street, NW1
Tube Euston Sq.
or
50 Westbourne Grove, W2
7 days, noon-llpm
Tube Bayswater
This has got to be a haven for vegetarians.
It is always a pleasure to eat here. They serve
a well chosen number of snacks which are
popular in many parts of India. Do not miss
the opportunity of trying the 'dhai bhalle', the
'bhel poori', or the 'aloo papri chaat'. Whilst
you might not want much more if you have
more than 2 snacks, there will always be the
temptation to have a 'massala dosa' or the
'rava dosa'. A n important feature of Diwanas
is their house thali which includes some
bhajias, a dal, two vegetable dishes, rice, raita,
pickles, and dessert for just £3.90.
Gullistan Kebab House
On New Road near London Hospital.
Openings Unknown, but try 6pm-9pm.
Tube Whitechapel.
Cost Very cheap.
This place (?!) I stumbled upon in the East
End has got to be one of its kind. It is popular
with the Muslims living in the area. The food
is cooked freshly every day in small batches
in a small kitchen open to view behind the
counter. When things run out, tough, you
have to eat something else. The last time I
went there they were offering 'seekh kebabs',
'keema samosas', a quail dish, and a number
of vegetable dishes.
Most people seemed to buy things to take
away, although they had seating capacity for
about 10 people. I stopped recommending this
place to people after I took someone there who
became distressed about the seedy
surroundings. Well, it is in the East End and
we are students, so one cannot be snobbish.
I think you would enjoy the experience of
going to Gullistan but do not take someone
you want to impress.
Page 6 FELIX October 3 1988

