vv
PRADA REVEALS NEW WMD RANGE
FELIX!PoliticssawDavidCameronandNickClegg
sneaking out of Metric last Saturday, leaving
their cabinet colleagues to mingle with ravers.
“We just wanted some alone time, was that too
much to ask?” said Cameron when interviewed
bySTOICTV.NickCleggaddedhistwodrachma
to the conversation saying, “It’s so true! With
ourjobs,ourfamilies,ourwivesandourchildren
taking up a large amount of time, we have very
little time to develop our relationship. After
all we’ve been through over the last few years,
sometimes I just want to take David by the
hand and let him know that it I support him in
every choice and every failed pasty tax until
election do we part.” However Cameron has
recently been seen flirting with the
right wing of his party by our
intrepid reporters, begging
the question if David
Cameron is as commit-
ted to this partnership
as Nick Clegg
believes?
At an exclusive sell-out event in Paris, designer label Prada launched
a new range of luxury weapons of mass destruction for the mod-
ern dictator. The fashion label’s Head of Design said that the compa-
ny was blazing a trail in new markets, “Last year it was diamond, this
year is all about uranium 235”, he told a captivated audience of au-
tocrats, terrorists and celebrity chefs. The new range includes surface
to air missiles (genuine Italian leather), nerve gas (cherry lipbalm fla-
voured) and for those with a more vintage taste, conventional nuclear
weapons with specially treated fins for that retro, pre-launched look.
WHO SAID THAT?
Go f*ck yourself!
Dick Cheney or Jimmy Carr?
You’re a miserable pipsqueak of a man!
Lord Sugar or MP Tom Watson?
The only thing that’s bigger, quicker, more
black and more up in London is a taxi!
Boris Johnson or Tinie Tempah?
I ball so hard motherf***ers wanna find me!
Jay-Z or Julian Assange?
MOONING FOR CAMERON
FRIDAY 22 JUNE 2012
10
Answers:
Use
G
OOGLE
BLING GOES BANG!
IMPERIAL POLITICS Politics Editors: Joe “Danger” Letts
Rajat Jain Rory Fenton
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk

