One of the things I’ve found weird at uni is summer
plans. Instead of taking advantage of the long holi-
days – and we’ll never get it as good as now, even if
we all become teachers – by going home, chilling on
a beach or just dossing somewhere and sleeping for
3 months, there’s this weird obsession with do-
ing something productive (and by that I mean with
the aim of improving your employment prospects).
Being bombarded with info on the latest internships and how I
should go into careers x, y or z is very nice, but when I’m 18, and
for all intents and purposes still a schoolboy (spring work at a bank
being one example, with the application deadline before January)
shouldn’t be top of my priorities – enjoying my time at uni (hard
as that may be) and just loving life whilst I can should be. Now a
second year, I had to see my personal tutor about if I had any, and
if not, then why? I understood he was caring about what I want to
do with my life, and the answer was ‘I’m 19, how do I know what
I want to do for the next 40 years, I don’t even know what I want
for tea tonight?’. It was McDonald’s in the end.
Instead of having a holiday, my friends from halls etc. are
spending it at SocGen, Barclays and the like, or working in
labs around the country (and at the poor excuse for research
facilities they call UCL) and by not doing so, because I want
to go home, wake up at midday and just have a nice relaxing
holiday before third year – which is what Summer Holidays
are about – I’m somehow in the wrong. After turning 19 six
months before (and still an irresponsible teenager who isn’t
even that good at doing laundry or washing up, never mind
trying to solve/contribute to the financial crisis or the world’s
other pressing issues) the deadlines for half the internships
had passed and I felt like I had missed a beat. But had I? Or is
my general reluctance to get a real job (and become a functional
member of society) something that student’s no longer have? Is my
time at Imperial just a stepping stone to one of the predefined ‘ca-
reers’ I get told about in weekly emails. I don’t know; I just want to
spend the summer playing FIFA and watching One Tree Hill (which is
apparently what I’ll be doing on graduation in two years now that
I’m unemployable). I’m even doing an extra year at uni because I
don’t want to be part of the real world, so whilst I admire those
of us who already know what we want to do and when, I have to
wonder: wouldn’t spending the summer lying on a beach (or just
in bed waiting for mum to cook some dinner) be what we’re used
to spending our holidays doing. Although, going on a rugby tour/
climbing trip/wandering around Montenegro would be nice as well.
It’s the holidays, not a time to be doing anything of note really? Or
is it?
To be honest I’m not entirely sure if we are all just very career
driven or driven into careers by other factors – the pressure to
find jobs, the horror of being unemployed or just ‘everyone else
has, probably should’. I’m only 20 for God’s sake, I still enjoy pick
and mix and laugh at fart jokes, am I really ready to kickstart my
career/PhD or do I just want to go home/spend 2 weeks glued to
a sunbed. I thought uni was all about the long holidays, occasional
all-nighters, and just having fun whilst avoiding the real world and
work, not desperately trying to find it (and being a failure if you
can’t/won’t).
– Jack Hewitt
THESIS CLAUS
Maybe your eyes were drawn to this arti-
cle because you thought there might be a
spelling error in the title, or maybe not (shame
on you). Nevertheless, it must be clear to you
that I have not made an error but I am in fact
referring to a small mascot, whose abode is that
of my humble PhD student desk. This said toy
is dressed in red with white trimmings and has
a look of geniality that becomes his patronly
position. However, having Thesis Claus on your
desk does come with responsibility – for he is
making a list and checking it twice!
Maybe I invented Thesis Claus to remind my-
self of the reward-driven nature of research
and how important it is to stay focused on a
goal in order to get anywhere in life – (actual-
ly I invented him as an excuse to sing
Christmas carols in my head any
time of the year, but we will
stick with the former argu-
ment). Indeed, research
is hard work and the
idea of completing a
thesis to a PhD stu-
dent is as exciting as
Christmas is to a three
year old.
So perhaps you are
a student who needs
ideas for your own desk
mascot. A howling mon-
key or an angry bird may
seem appropriate depend-
ing on how you feel about your
work, but perhaps it is better to choose
something more conducive to productivity? That
said, mascots aren’t only for scientists. You could
be a medical student who practices examina-
tions on a teddy, or a business student present-
ing a pitch to a panel of plush toys. Maybe it’s
not so bad having to face a soft critic once in a
while to feel good about yourself.
– Anonymous
SUMMER CHILLING
FRIDAY 22 JUNE 2012 13
O
d
IMPERIAL COMMENT

