FRIDAY 22 JUNE 2012 15
N: My most recent tour of Scandinavia and
Eastern Europe was blissful. I got to visit
so many interesting places. They had to
pretty much pry me from Finland, I didn’t
want to leave!
W: How did you find it trying to make it
as an artist while still studying for your
degree? Did you ever feel you wouldn’t
be able to succeed in both?
N: It was extremely challenging. But I
knew I was going to succeed, I had to.
There was no other option! It’s at those
moments you pull from your stores of
blinding dedication and just push through.
W: After playing with M83 and Orbital,
are their any other big collaborations
planned?
N: There are other things I’m working on.
W: Is it true your first album was re-
corded in your apartment? If so, is it
strange now having to record in big stu-
dios?
N: Hah, I’m still recording in my apart-
ment! As much as I fantasize about the
idea of walking into a big posh studio and
making a record like that, it’s just not how
I work. Maybe one day, but I’m too much
of a control freak right now.
W: Are you pleased with the response
you have got from your first few al-
bums? Have you started work on any
new material?
N: I’m always working on new material.
But after Conatus, I feel like I owe it to my
insides (and outsides) to put reset on the
whole thing for a bit.
W: Torrent downloading websites have
Zola Jesus
Will Stocker interviews the American songstress
N
ika Roza Danilova aka Zola
Jesus is a young singer,
songwriter from Wisconsin.
At the age of only 23 she has
released three EPs and three
full-length albums and also collaborated
with some big names. After supporting
Warpaint, the XX and Fever Ray on US
tours straight out of college she has since
embarked on several of her own headline
tours playing gigs and festivals all over the
world and in the UK in 2011. This summer
she’s back making her only UK festival
appearance at Latitude Festival, Henham
Park, Suffolk (12-15 July).
Will: Are you looking forward to com-
ing back to the UK and playing Latitude
festival this year?
Nika: Yes, I haven’t been there in awhile
so it will be good to return.
W: Does it feel like things have changed
since the start of festival season last
year?
N: Honestly, I feel like they should have,
but I’ve been touring pretty much endless-
ly since then so it also feels like I never
really stopped.
W: What’s the gig/festival that really
stands out for you in your career as be-
ing memorable?
N: My first UK tour was really a milestone.
I was so naive and just doing things based
on intuition, had no one really to guide me.
I felt very courageous back then!
W: Who do you see as being your biggest
musical influences? Have the people you
listen to and get influenced by changed
much over the last few years?
N: Being a music fan and a musician are
two completely disparate things for me.
I listen to music avidly but never from a
standpoint of “this is what I want to sound
like”. You need to trust what’s inside of
you and let that come out organically,
never let other’s experiences and creativity
inform your own.
W: What have been your favorite tours
that you’ve done so far? Any bands you’ve
particularly enjoyed playing with?
“My most recent tour of
Scandinavia and East-
ern Europe was blissful.
They had to pretty much
pry me from Finland”
been in the news lately. What are you
thoughts about the illegal download-
ing of music and how do you feel it has
changed the industry? Do you think it
can it ever been seen as a good thing?
N: I think it’s a shame for the industry, all
those white men in suits, but I also think
it’s inevitable. People are sneaky, they al-
ways have been! The Internet is the wild
west, and even I can’t deny the charm of
that. So I try not to be too judgmental. It
just forces you to work harder. And when
people do choose to support something,
they fully commit. I meet many people
at my shows who come up to me with my
entire discography, down to the limited
edition seven inches of only 100 copies.
People that truly believe in what you are
doing will continue to support you no mat-
ter what.
W: How did you get your stage name?
N: I made it up when I was young, with-
out a purpose for it until I started making
music.
Zola Jesus plays along with other huge acts
such as Bon Iver, Elbow, Paul Weller and
many more at Latitude Festival, Henham
Park, Suffolk (12-15 July). With tickets at
just £175 for the weekend I know what I’m
going to be doing in summer...
“The internet is the wild
west, and even I can’t
deny the charm of that”
Zola Jesus’ third studio album, Conatus, is out now
Kadhim’s last totally hot
album of the week
So, this exists... By ‘this’ I mean haha im sorry,
Kitty Pryde’s debut mixtape. Words truly fail me
– ok, well maybe not entirely, but let’s not get
meta here. Let’s imagine, for a horrifying mo-
ment, that you teamed a tumblr tween up with
the guys behind Main Attrakionz. You’d end up
with lazy, hazy hip-hop beats (the type that de-
fine Clams Casino, A$AP Rocky, and, of course,
Main Attrakionz) and a tumblr tween making you
facepalm about our future with her inane rap...
Which would all be fine, we could just direct
anonymous vicious Internet hate in her general
direction and get on with our lives. But her music
demands repeat listens. Her lyrical content says
something eye-opening about the priorities of In-
ternet-reared youngsters – Kitty Pryde is a inno-
cent, bottom-lip-tattooed, cry for attention from
kids who can afford Supreme but can’t afford to
let their guard down for one second.
And let’s be honest, the collaboration between
the newest wave of hip-hop and white America’s
teen culture simply reflects the absolute ascend-
ancy of hip-hop culture in the Western world – a
progression which can be seen to begin as far
back as Public Enemy’s sell-out tour of the UK
in the late 80s.
I’d go as far as to say that Kitty Pryde is one
of the most self-aware artists to appear since
the Millenium – her remix of Carly-Rae Jepsen’s
‘Call Me Maybe’ is clearly a conscious recogni-
tion that some detractors will try to tar with the
“cheap pop” brush. Ignore the haters, Kitty, keep
rolling.
If you’re struggling with this column, feel free to
Google “trolling”. Alternatively, tweet me @kadhim-
shubber with complex comparisons between Kitty
Pryde and Aung Suu Kyi. If you’re struggling with
that comparison, tweet @kttydothedishes and ask
her to Google Aung Suu Kyi for you... Either way,
this is my last column ever. It’s been fun. Thank
you for indulging me, and letting me pretend I
know anything about music...
Kitty Pryde
haha im sorry
2012
IMPERIAL MUSIC

