RETURN OF THE QUEEN
With recent revelations confirming rumours that The
Green Lantern is in fact, homosexual, DC Comics has
decided to cash in on the appeal and immense media
interest surrounding their superhero’s coming-out
celebrations. The most recent DC film project
in the pipeline, Zack Snyder’s Man of Steel,
a reboot Superman film planned to be re-
leased some time in 2013, will now have a
special guest star in the form of The Green
Lantern. Just how this character will fit
into the story of Clark Kent is not clear at
the moment, but we have reports that both
Henry Cavill (Superman) and Ryan Reynolds
(The Green Lantern) are more than ecstatic
about the news.
“Will they hook up? I have no idea.
That part of the script is being com-
pleted as we speak” said the re-
cently engaged Cavill. “I mean, it will
definitely be an interesting twist. I
have done lots of sex scenes with so
many actresses now, especially in
that pornographic television se-
ries thinly disguised as a histori-
cal costume drama [The Tudors],
so it would be a nice change. I’ve
always wondered what it would
be like with a man.”
“We are especially happy about
the inclusion of the word “Steel”
in the title,” raved Snyder,
“kind of says it all really, about
our big bulky heroes. Actu-
ally, I’m not sure any mate-
rial known on planet Earth
would be sufficient enough to
describe just what they’ve got
packing down there. Anyway, it’s all
in the early stages so we’ll see.”
Madonna is threatening a comeback to the film in-
dustry after her latest passion project W.E. flopped
both critically and financially. She has already
penned her semi-autobiographical feature Cou-
gars Unite: Never Try Settling and is looking for
suitable actresses to come together to form an
ensemble romantic-comedy.
“This chapter of my life means so much to me.
And I don’t feel there are enough films out there
to represent women of a certain age. But hopefully
my new film will change that.”
Jennifer Lopez is currently the front-runner to be cast
in a top-billed role, with Diane Kruger, Kate Winlset,
Eva Longoria and Caroline Flack also in consideration.
GAY SUPERHEROES
IMPERIAL FILM
FRIDAY 22 JUNE 2012
16
Tension is running high on the set of Avatar
2 after Sam Worthington, the lead actor, was
fired on his very first day for being “shit” and
not able to shake off his “ridiculous Austral-
ian accent when playing an American.”
“Good riddance, really,” said director
James Cameron in an exclusive interview
“it was an easy decision. The only eas-
ier decision I’ve ever had to make
was to kill that god-awful baby-
face DiCaprio at the end of Titan-
ic! That was actually a toss-up
between him and Kate Wins-
let. And I actually wanted to
give the girl the final boot.
She was heavier, and so just
made more sense for her to
drown. But then the studio
bosses warned me about
unfortunate implications
like ‘unfair dismissal’ and all
that garbage. Did you know,
I almost had to scrap the “I’m
the king of the world” line?
At one point it was re-written
as “I’m the monarch of the
world.”
NOT SO G’DAY MATE
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk

