UN-HATHAWAYPY
DARK XXX-RATED NIGHT
Experts are predicting another Oscar win for
Dame Helen Mirren yet again for her portrayal
of Queen Elizabeth II. In hew new film Diamonds
are a Queen’s Best Friend, Mirren reprises her
role as the Queen, celebrating her Diamond Ju-
bilee, marking 60 years on the throne. Her spot-
on portrayal of the Queen’s famous royal waves
captured the hearts of audiences worldwide,
with critics praising her hand gestures as being
“simply sublime,” “astonishing,” “mesmeris-
ing” and “heart-wrenchingly beautiful.” The
BSSH, British Society for Surgery of the Hand,
were also enthusiastic about Mirren.
One surgeon commented, “her fingers move
about so gracefully, there’s something so ma-
jestic about the way she waves. The propor-
tions are absolutely right.”
The film, essentially a two-hour footage of
Mirren waving on a boat rowed single-handed-
ly as punishment by the guy who interrupted
this year’s Oxford-Cambridge race, is already
tipped to win this year’s Best Actress Oscar.
The Dark Knight Rises will serve as the backbone
to an upcoming pornographic film. Still set in
Gotham, The Dark InCognito Knight Rises looks
at the slow but sure and steady “rise” of a
man, despite all the restrictions he faces,
most notably from the incredibly tight
leather suit he needs to wear for some
of his clients. Former stripper Channing
Tatum has shown keen interest in star-
ring, with Disney star Selena Gomez,
looking to be taken more seriously as a
grown-up actress, is in negotiations to star as
Catwoman.
This new ambitious project will be financed by
the BCP (Berlus Coni Productions) responsible for
many classic hits such as Sex Toy Story 2 and
Pump Fiction.
MIRREN OSCAR?
IMPERIAL FILM
FRIDAY 22 JUNE 2012 17
The new teaser trailer for Tom Hooper’s film ad-
aptation of West End musical Les Miserables
has fans eager for this year’s Christmas
when the film hits the screens. Adding
further context to his latest, the Acade-
my Award winning director of The King’s
Speech hinted that his new musical film
will be a “more hard-hitting, raw, emo-
tional rollercoaster ride.”
“Thedifficultywas,”hecontinued“the
trailer is supposed to be suitable for
everyone. So we decided not to show
the full scale and depth we jumped
into. For instance, we couldn’t show
the extent of Anne Hathaway’s hair
loss.” When further quizzed on this
matter, he replied “let’s just say it’s
not just the head that gets shaved.
Look, Fantine [the character Hatha-
way plays] needs money in the sto-
ry. We assumed she’d want to sell
it all. Everything she has. The whole
nine yards.”
Hathaway, who sings ‘I Dreamed a
Dream’ in the trailer, was praised for
her distraught look in the trailer. And
this certainly better explains just why
she was so convincing in her bare per-
formance. Les Miserables is out later
this year, and has been rated 18 for
strong sexual content, the first time
ever for a West End musical adapta-
tion.

