Rooms available for rent in Earls
Court
One double bedroom for one person
in a flatshare at £145/pw available
for rent in Earls Court, including all bills
except water and internet.
Conveniently located, 20 minutes
walk to Imperial College, 1 minute
walk to Earls Court tube station, 3 min-
utes walk to local supermarkets plus a
wide range of pubs/bars, restaurants
and laundering services on your door
step.
Sharing with two other mature and
responsible postgraduate students,
the room comes with a double bed,
wardrobe and study desk.
Clean and tidy housemates pre-
ferred.NOPETSANDNOSMOKERS.
For viewing or more info please
contact email joe.fang.zhou@gmail.
com.
The Recreational Clubs Committee
present the following awards:
RCC Club of the Year
Synchronised Swimming
RCC Fellowship
Afandi Darlington – Gliding
RCC Distinguished Service Award
Chris Mark – Fellwanderers
Clare Tan – Caving
James Carver – Snooker
Jonathan Westoby – Gliding
Nathaniel Bottrell – Fellwanderers
RCC Colours
Boris Korzh – Outdoor
Carla Canturri – Synchronised Swim-
ming
Caz Yang – Gaming
Derfogail Delcassian – Canoe
Giulia Grimaldi – Underwater
Jim Carr – Fellwanderers
Leonard How – Mahjong
Luke Bacon – Underwater
Matthew Lees – Mountaineering
RCC Merit
Andrew Wilkins – Mountaineering
Anthony Hartley – Underwater
Gavin MacAulay – Fellwanderers
Hari Arora – Snooker
Hiu Yan Lam – LINKS
Nathan Scrivens – Pilots
Savan Shah – LINKS
Simon Evans – Fellwanderers
Yue Chin Chew – Knitsock
Zachary Smith – War Games
Approved by the RCC Colours Com-
mittee 15 June 2012.
RCC Merit: Awarded for achieve-
ments, commitment or social prowess
of an individual.
RCC Colours: Awarded for efforts
above and beyond those expected
of a persons’ role or to individuals
who have given significant and re-
peated outstanding contributions to
the student experience within RCC
Clubs&Societiesthroughouttheyear.
RCC Distinguished Service Award:
A much greater magnitude of rec-
ognition, awarded for efforts, usu-
ally over a number of years, beyond
thoseexpectedofanindividualwithin
RCC Clubs & Societies.
RCC Fellowship: Shall only be
awarded to those individuals who
have served RCC Clubs & Societies
or the RCC Exec extensively, and
enhanced the student experience in
an exceptional manner, over a num-
ber of years. It is not anticipated that
there will be nominees of sufficient
standard for this to be given each
year. Each individual, so awarded,
will be given a pewter tankard with
the year engraved.
FRIDAY 22 JUNE 2012
2
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB. Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711. Copyright © Felix 2012.
Editor-in-Chief Matthew Colvin Editor-in-Prowling Timor A–Ha–babzadah Deputy Editor Sir Charles Betts Esq. News Editors Sophia David Alex Nowbar Reporter
Aemun “The Firecracker” Reza Features Editors Katy could-do-Betterany Stephen Smith Sport Editor Indy “LeTwerp” Leclercq Sports Rookies Gabriel Oppetit Johnny
Wong Science Editors Kelly Oakes Alexander “24 Kara Gold” Karapetian Business & Finance Editors Will not-so-fresher Prince Deepka Rana Politics Editors Rajat Jain Joe “Danger” Letts Tech-
nology Editors Chris “who?” Bowers Feroz Salam the Badman Comment Editors Tim Arbabzadah Samuel Horticulture Arts Editors Will Prince Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Mark England Ross
Gray Simon Hunter Íñigo Martínez De Rituerto Alex Ramadan Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen Alice Yang Television Editors George Barnett James Simpson Film Editors John Park Lucy Wiles
Games Editor Laurence Pope Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Food Editors Anastasia Eleftheriou Michael Krestas Travel Editors Dushi Arumuganesan Chris Richardson Online Editors Philip
Kent Jonathan Kim Puzzles Admiral Jimmy Hook-Up Photo Editor Miles Robertson Photographer Slobodan Radosavljevic Copy Editors Carol Ann Cheah Philip Kent Jonathan Peek Annina Sartor
Online Copy Editor and General Person Jack Hewitt Chairman Kadhim “could you f*** off now please? Shubber
Felix Editor called
before Leveson
for crimes against
journalism,
Page 76
EVERYONE REJOICES
AS CLASSIFIEDS END
RECREATIONAL CLUBS COMMITTEE AWARDS 2012
This year FELIX! has been...
Applying like mad to the Business School after
they started giving out free iPads to their stu-
dents.
Laughing as UCL thinks that moving away
from the honours system and towards GPAs
will make anyone think they’re good. Com-
mendable effort though.
Drunk after hearing about the Union’s new
bar policy, and so just purchasing a keg the old
fashioned way (Internet).
Accidentally broke some speakers when we
misinterpreted what “better feedback” actu-
ally meant.
Shocked by the sudden, heavily opposed, plans
to change the Holland Club.
Deciding against moving into Clayponds after
hearing that it’s closing.
Excited about avoiding even more lectures,
and catching up on sleep, as lecture podcasts
become a reality.
Swaggering down the newly opened Exhibi-
tion Road with Boris Johnson in tow.
Still buzzing from the euphoria of live blogging
TEDx and Varsity.
Grinding out an even bigger sex survey.
Punk-rocking with Johnny Rotten, completely
accidentally.
Shrugging at the Guardian’s new league ta-
bles.
Sleeping during Council meetings. Seriously.
FELIX! SOLD 1,262,732,879,234,911,128,086,570,344,000 COPIES LAST WEEK!*
*SOURCE: SCRIBBLES ON THE BACK OF MY NOTEPAD, YESTERDAY
SERIOUS!
SERIOUS!
I’ll keep it brief. It’s been fun!
Beyond that, forgive me for trans-
forming Felix into something a lit-
tle trashier for one week only. But
hey, what can I say? It’s the end of
term…
But all of my thanks go to every-
one on this year’s Felix team. Be-
yond all doubts, it’s been thanks to
you and your boundless enthusiasm
that we’ve been able to go to print
every week. The Friday highs, the
Wednesday night lows, and every-
thing else in between, it’s been a
journey that’s also been a privilege
to share with you.
There have been some great sto-
ries to work on, and some that I’m
sure next year’s Editor – Tim – will
continue to survey with a keen eye.
Anyway, enough of that, onto the
latest Imperial gossip. I didn’t real-
ise the other national papers were
joining us in providing some laugh-
ter in the news, I mean, O-Levels,
that’s a great one! (Wait, sorry,
that’s not a joke? Oh.)
–Editor
ONE LAST THING...

