TTh
TV DISGUST MAN INJURED IN BARGEPOLE INCIDENT!
Old ladies and programme-makers are said to
be in a distressed state after it was revealed
that a time when there aren’t any costume
dramas left to make may well be just around
the corner. “Similar claims have been made
in recent years regarding the supplies of fossil
fuels and clean water”, said a BBC spokesper-
son, “but nobody has addressed the shortage
of remaining servile years over the last century
which will soon pose great problems for the
broadcasting industry”. ITV’s Downton Abbey,
the most popular period-piece for years, has
come under fire lately for using around 8 years
of obsequity in as many episodes. Writer Julian
Fellowes told FELIX! that he plans to eventu-
ally turn Downton Abbey into a documentary
about a National Trust property in Berkshire,
and therefore plans to carry on extracting a
great number of pound coins for some time
to come. High-brow television owners have
voiced their opinion that the post-war dec-
ades don’t have the same appeal to them un-
less they feature Philip Glenister as retro
cop Gene Hunt next to that bird with the
nice legs, and therefore it would be bet-
ter for everyone if the BBC just remade
everything in high definition – “That
way, by the time they’ve finished
there’ll be a few more decades that
are quite long ago, and Apple’s Reti-
na TV to remake the rest for”.
There was general sadness this week when
a previous guest on the Jeremy Kyle Show
was refused the right to sue his attacker under
the so-called “bargepole law”.
Attacker Baron Kenwin Faunterloy of that
fancy manor over the road continues to main-
tain his innocence in the case, citing his attack
on Kevin Humperdinck as “self-defense” under
the controversial law.
“To be honest, it wasn’t as though I was walk-
ing the streets looking for an easy target to
beat with my diamond encrusted cane... oh go
on then, it was!”
The standard measure for this “safe distance
of defense” – a “bargepole’s length” – was
made law in 1706 to pre-empt the Treaty
of Union between England and Scotland by
giving the English an easy means to keep the
Braveheart wannabes at bay.
Although now considered rare, bargepoles
can still be found in places where barges exist.
“I can’t help it if poor people walk past me,”
Faunterloy continued, “it’s just beating down
on the poor has been in my line for hundreds
of generations!”
Those who decried the story as a sad indict-
ment of the current class system were swiftly
shot down in the Commons, where a debate
was held and nothing was really decided, like
usual.
SHERLOCK ACTOR CHANGES NAME
AFTER SAUSAGE CONFUSION
Serial Sherlock Holmes impersonator Benedict
Cumberbatch has had his name altered by
deed poll this week, follwing an embarrassing
incident in a butcher’s shop in North Yorkshire.
TV nearing natural limit
of period-drama making
FRIDAY 22 JUNE 2012
24
“I can’t help
it if poor
people walk
past me”
American “pregnant”
by 3D skin flick
An American woman has sued filmmakers
after claiming that watching a three-di-
mentional shoddy film resulted in her becoming
pregnant. Her husband, who recently returned
from a year-long tour of duty in Afghanistan,
has rejected claims by realistic people that
a better explanation for the pregnancy
might be that another man just got his
wife pregnant. The child is said to
look “just like” the main character
in the blue movie. You couldn’t
even make it up, could you?
IMPERIAL TELEVISION Television Editors: George Barnett
James Simpson
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk

