ED MILIBAND TO GET UPGRADED VOICE CHIP SOFTWARE
Cretins and Cheryl Cole were among the first
to point out that the BBC’s coverage of the
Queen’s Diamond Jubilee celebrations was
“totes amazeballs”.
The coverage, which was described by known
clever man Stephen Fry as “lamentable” in-
cluded a mock knight’s accolade performed by
radio impersonality Fearne Cotton, amongst
other things which did not count as being ac-
tual coverage of the Jubilee itself.
The Queen is said to be “royally pissed off”,
according to royal sources, but not quite as
much as Prince Philip, who actually contracted
an infection to better express his distaste.
Chief keeper-in-office of the Con-
servative Party and some-time
leader of the Labour party Ed Mil-
liband is to receive a firmware up-
grade this week, following several
incidents in which he was left repeat-
ing himself over and over and over
again on national television.
On a number of occasions, the op-
position leader has been left unable
to express any opinion whatsoever
on key issues such as politics, politics
and politics.
“Embarrassing performances at
Prime Minister’s Questions” and “an-
swering six different interview ques-
tions with the same phrase in vary-
ing arrangements” have both been
logged as known issues with the
makers of the chip, other users of
which include Michael Howard and
Gordon Brown.
ALL TV TO BE LEVESON BY 2035
Statistically speaking, 100% of TV output will be the Leveson Inquiry by
13 March 2035. Concerns have been aired amongst politicians that the
Rt Hon Lord Justice Leveson may even expire before his eponymous enquiry,
leaving several issues which everyone definitely cares about unresolved, as
well as a paritally written 70,000-page report which is expected to launch
its own inquiry in a way not dissimilar to that bit in the second Harry Potter
film where Voldemort comes out of the diary, should anyone try to read it.
BBC’s Jubilee coverage
“bare good”, say cretins
FRIDAY 22 JUNE 2012 25
We’ll give you gay marriage,
but only if we can watch
the break-ups on TV, say
homophobic people
Nalbandian blames outburst on
sovereignty of Falkland Islands
Argentinian tennis ball hitter David Nalbandian has blamed his violent
outburst at this week’s AEGON Championships on what he called the
“continuing UK occupation of the Falkland Islands”. This revelation comes
just days before Argenitinian President Cristina Kirchner handed top
public-schooler David Cameron an envelope, believed to have some pa-
per inside it, on which was believed to be some writing about why Britain
is bad. The match official is said to be in a state of relief following the
removal from his leg by doctors of a large advertisement board bearing
Nalbandian’s bootprint beside several anti-UK slogans.
Britain’s homophobic people have issued a joint statement in
an attempt to get this whole thing sorted, so we can move
on and get on with the fixing the economy or something. They
intend to stop complaining about gay people getting married,
but only if they get to watch the funny bits on television.
Dave, a builder from Norwich, said “I think that’s fair enough
really, I mean, what’s in it for me otherwise?” Seasoned bigots
have denied rumours that they are becoming increasingly lib-
eral, having just accepted people of other ethnic origins into
their neighbourhoods on the basis that they “quite like a curry”.
Regular political bitcher Peter Tatchell admitted that the news
had come as a major blow to him, which people sniggered at,
before he added that he was now out of things to campaign
over, prompting cheers from all concerned.
“computer scientists
apologise”
Computer scientists have applaud-
ed their profession’s poor attempts at
software engineering, adding “we’re
doing a fantastic job of saving the
country from the most annoying PM
ever”.
IMPERIAL TELEVISION

