LOVE WORDS
Anastasia Eleftheriou and Michael Krestas,
the current Food Editors of Felix, have gone
missing. Matt Colvin, the paper’s Editor-
in-Chief, declared that they haven’t been
answering to his numerous emails over the
past 10 days. Their friends at Imperial say
that both of them were very frustrated with
their respective work loads; Anastasia was
working very hard to meet her individual
deadline and Michael was trying to find time
to fit in his internship that started before
the end of the term. Policemen who visited
the Editors’ houses did not find any clue that
could lead them to a conclusion. FELIX! has
not made a formal announcement about
the matter, but inner circles admit that the
paper cannot wait for them forever. Sooner
or later, the position of the Food Editor will
be declared as “empty” and whoever wants
may apply. A Food Editor’s duties include re-
ceiving several invitations for free dinners at
restaurants and cocktail bars and free sam-
ples from various companies. J.B.
Ok let’s face it. Being a Food Editor is cool! Free
samples, free dinners, the prestige of being a
food critique and blah blah blah. At the beginning I
thought that this would attract guys, as I naïvely be-
lieved that everybody would fancy going out with a
girl and enjoy very good service for absolutely free!
And here comes Michael. The reason that nothing of
the above happened. We had to go together for eve-
ry review (so I didn’t have the chance to invite any-
body...), and also guys were sceptical to ask me out as
they weren’t sure if we are together! A.E.
CO-EDITOR UNVEILED
Being an editor is a great thing. Being a co-editor is a true torture. If
you have never worked with Anastasia before I suggest you never
do so! She can be incredibly distracting, lacking any sense of time and
concentration. Editing a one-page section typically requires a couple of
hours but with Anastasia you may want to take off the entire day for it.
The worse thing is that she thinks she’s pleasant and fun to work with. It has
been hard admiting those things about my colleague, but I feel the obli-
gation to inform future editors and co-workers. When you see Anastasia
again, simply turn the other way. M.K.
FOOD EDITORS MISSING
FRIDAY 22 JUNE 2012
28
These are the places I could have gone with anyone but instead I was stuck with Michael
S.G. and N.N., who came second in the Imperial Food
Awards last autumn, have recently filed a formal complaint
against the Union describing the awards as “the epitome of
fraud” and that they would do whatever possible to restore
justice. The Food Editors of Felix, who organised the com-
petition, have not yet commented on the matter, as no-one
has managed to get in touch with them. O.T., winner of the
competition, said that such actions are just acts of jealousy
by the runner-ups and that her recipe was by far the best.
Sources from the Union told FELIX! that there are seri-
ous thoughts to remove the Food Section from the coming
year’s paper if suspicions are proven to be true.
We would like to thank everybody who contributed to the
Food Section this year. We were in big trouble every week
editing all of the tempting recipes you were sending us. It would
have been much better though if you could’ve also sent us a little
to taste too! Special thanks to Yiango Mavroconstanti for her
continuous and restless contribution, to Clare Cheng and Hannah
Cox for their vegan articles, Olivia Tillbert for all of her help and
every participant of the Imperial Master Chef competitions.
FOOD AWARDS SCANDAL
SOME SERIOUS SPECIAL THANKS
IMPERIAL FOOD Food Editors: Anastasia Eleftheriou
Michael Krestas
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Have you zeen Anaztazia orgr Michael lately?

