M
organ’s first novel, The
Bend in the Sky, puts me
less in mind of The Hitch-
hiker’s Guide to the Galaxy
and more of Vogon Poetry.
The prose is littered with clever asides which,
while they are certainly entertaining stand-
alones, for the most part distract the reader
from the plotline. Morgan makes the mistake
of trying to be funny rather than trying to be
interesting. This isn’t always a problem, but
Bend in the Sky mimics the humour of Doug-
las Adams and, to a lesser extent, P.G. Wode-
house. Douglas Adams already pushed the
funny side of Hitchhiker’s past exhaustion, it
needn’t be pushed further.
A great deal of the novel is spent trying to
avert a coming crisis, where Captain Jeltz –
sorry, Capias K*rargxt – is bringing his ship to
destroy the Earth. If he has a particular reason
for destroying the Earth it skips my mind right
now, but rest assured all 73 of his personalities
want the Earth destroyed on their route to rul-
ing all of existence. When Kasteriskrargxt (as
I shall now write his name) arrives on Earth
he will use his mind control rays to force our
innocent protagonists to act out a tragic script
of unspeakable tragedy, overriding their char-
acter and free will.
Oh yes, characterisation. I don’t have more
than a basic impression of most of the cast, not
the young guy who is young, nor his “drop-
If I had been born in 1888 and not 1988 I would
have been a suffragette. And I would venture
that it is impossible for anyone to read Emmeline
Pankhurst’s My Own Story without feeling a simi-
lar sentiment.
Pankhurst begins by recounting the early days
of the campaign for women’s suffrage; the ques-
tioning of MPs at meetings and the sending of
small delegations of women to parliament. She
then documents how the women’s attempts
to get enfranchised were met with opposition
and how they responded to this with increasing
enterprise.
Pankhurst’s autobiography of 1914 is not only
an informative account of the fight for women’s
suffrage, but also a page turner from start to
finish; she was evidently an immensely talented
writer as well as a skilled political leader. She
gives vivid accounts of hunger strikes, force
feeding, brutality, suicide, window breaking
and arson. Indeed the book makes for a shock-
ing read; women are mocked, derided, abused,
wrongly imprisoned and worst of all, ignored.
From the comfort of the 21st century it is impos-
sible to imagine the social climate that led to the
police, prime ministers, cabinet and judiciary,
people whom today we hold in the highest es-
teem, suppressing these women for so long. The
injustice to these poor vote-less ladies leaves
one feeling cold and numb and one is compelled
to keep reading in order to see these women
enfranchised. However the book disappointingly
ends abruptly in 1914, years before women get
the vote in 1918.
My Own Story is a manifestly one-sided ac-
count of the proceedings in which Pankhurst at-
tempts to justify the suffragettes’ increasingly
militant actions. A comparison with an opposing
text would shed light on different view points, for
example that these ladies practised terrorism
and in doing so delayed the achievement of their
goal. In any event though, My Own Story makes
for a thrilling read and we can rejoice in its dis-
tance from today.
Stephanie Walton
Hunger Games, Women
and Politics
dead gorgeous girlfriend” who is happy to
get her breasts out in a public park after the
laziest blackmail from a lewd photographer I
could imagine (and then she starts playing na-
ked catch with the mind control ring – is this
a movie script?), nor the loan shark dodging
former immortal and his idiotic companion.
Perhaps quick characterisation is a justifiable
price for a large cast in a fast paced novel, but
I’m not sure it’s a price The Bend in the Sky
can afford to pay. There just isn’t enough char-
acterisation for the mind control rays to take
away.
But I do worry that I’m judging too quickly.
As I read through The Bend in the Sky I started
to appreciate the characters, the clever updat-
ed-for-the-computer-age Hitchhiker’s style,
and the occasional original, hilarious aside.
Does the novel improve as it goes on, or did I
just take time to learn to accept Morgan’s un-
conventional prose? The former, I’m afraid.
I don’t feel the novel as a whole is more than
the sum of its parts, these bits of wonder don’t
fit together as well as the apparently discon-
nected adventures of Bertie Wooster.
Many good writers, such as Philip Pullman,
have novels early in their career that now em-
barrass them terribly, and are no worse now
for the experience. When Morgan has written a
few more novels, I’ll certainly go out and read
them, and wouldn’t discourage you from do-
ing the same. If you really like them go back
and give The Bend in the Sky a try. Until then,
give it a miss.
* This isn’t a footnote, K*rargxt just has the
misfortune of an asterisk in his name. Morgan
avoids the sin of footnotes, but makes up for it
with the heavy overuse of italics.
FRIDAY 22 JUNE 2012
30
The Bend in the Sky
Joseph Henderson reviews a promising but flawed debut
Not so Exquisite a Specimen
With the News of the World no longer in print
you’d be forgiven for thinking that paedophilia
is no longer a ‘thing’. But it is, dear reader, it is
– at least in my world. In the last few months
I’ve read no fewer than two novels on the sub-
ject. One, a classic – Lolita by Vladimir Nabo-
kov – and the other a recently released novel
by Imperial alumnus Paul West – Exquisite
Specimens. Both are written in the first person
and both are pretty disturbing.
Exquisite Specimens is, according to its au-
thor, 50% autobiography. Like its author, the
book’s protagonist, Simon, is a Cambridge
graduate taking a PHD in Metallurgy at our
own Imperial College. The book follows him
during his first year of PhD here. It’s certainly
fun to read about somewhere so familiar – the
same Cromwell Road and the same museums.
The book’s theme is also one that will be as
familiar to the stereotypical Imperial student as
the mockingly erect Queen’s Tower – sexual
frustration. We read of Simon making out with
a gas cylinder in his lab and venturing into
Soho’s specialist bookstores. He has his first
girlfriend in this year, managing to chat up a
young French woman after taking several va-
lium pills to calm his nerves. Their sexual en-
counters are described in graphic detail, with
Rory Fenton one ending with him vomiting from nervous-
ness. West paints himself as a very odd, geeky,
socially reclusive character who fakes some of
his PhD research to have time to spend with his
French lover. The feeling of honesty that one
gets is a strong point for the book, enabling it
to paint a clear portrait of an awkward scientist
and showing a side of Imperial life the average
student wouldn’t be aware of, even if it makes
for an uncomfortable read at times.
So far so good but the honesty goes further.
A lot further. Simon starts to fantasise about
schoolgirls, specifically those who come to
South Kensington on school trips for the mu-
seums. He describes how he walks down Ex-
hibition Road with his hand dangling freely to
rub against the girls. Taken as a work of fic-
tion (and here’s hoping it falls into the 50%
that is fictional) it fails to offer much more to
the reader than fact rather than explanation or
understanding. We shouldn’t be afraid to read
novels that make us uncomfortable, books that
allow us to see the world through the eyes of
an outcast. Crime and Punishment gives the
reader the under-standing experience of the
guilt that comes from being a murderer with-
out necessarily requiring us to agree with mur-
der. This is what happens in Lolita. We hear,
in his own words, the story of Humbert and
his obsession and eventual sexual relationship
with 12-year-old Dolores Haze, nicknamed
‘Lolita’. The reader is not left with any doubt
that this relationship is deeply wrong but
Nabokov still manages to present things from
Humbert’s view and how he considered him-
self justified, taking us on a tour of Humbert’s
mind. We actually get to understand this man’s
thinking. We find it disturbing and perverse but
we understand and are better for it.
Conversely, a novel that describes only the
actions of such an outcast, even in first person,
falls into voyeurism. Reading Exquisite Speci-
mens feels like this, like we are reading the sto-
ry of a sexually deviant man without learning
anything deeper, without getting into his head.
So unless the reader wants to read about sexual
perversion for its own sake, they stand to gain
little from reading.
To an extent, the book is interesting as an
honest insight into the life of an Imperial PhD
student but as it progresses, it leaves the reader
wondering why they are actually reading the
book in the first place. We feel more like flies-
on-the-wall than in his shoes and the more un-
comfortable for it. Novels can tackle difficult
subjects, even paedophilia, but they need to
take their reader on a journey with them. Oth-
erwise we end up feeling little better than the
disturbed characters they portray. This, unfor-
tunately, is the case with Exquisite Specimens.
IMPERIAL BOOKS Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk

