w
ARE YOU READY FOR
Big Rigs: Over the
Road Racing?!?!
FRIDAY 22 JUNE 2012
32
Games Editor Laurence Pope
talks about about yet another
obscure game that you’ve prob-
ably never heard of. No change
there then
“Because gravity and physics can
go die in a fire.”
NEXT WEEK!!!
Felix Games reviews Garbage Truck Simulator!!!
(Seriously, who comes up with this rubbish? Geddit,
rubbishgame,garbagesimulator?Thosewordsmean
the same, that’s what makes it funny. Oh never mind.)
FELIX EXCLUSIVE!!!
If you’ve never heard of Big Rigs: Over the Road Rac-
ing you’ve never lived. Criticisms against it have ad-
mittedly been harsh – “Buggy as hell”; “A complete
waste of time”; “I’d rather gouge my eyeballs out with
a fork than play this s$*& again” and “Stupid f&$*ing
piece of God-damn bulls*%$ motherf*%&er” are a
few of the tamer ones.
The ‘bugs’ in the game are pretty much all over the
shop. Your driving competitors never move from the
start line, you can accelerate beyond the speed of
sound, drive through buildings like they’re made of thin
air and climb up vertical slopes like gravity and friction
are merely optional laws of nature.
Your average person sees these ‘flaws’ and thinks
‘Buggy game, waste of time’. A smarter individual re-
alises that Big Rigs is not a sloppily designed game but
is in fact an intellectual masterpiece, tapping into the
deepest desires of the human psyche.
In life we are constrained by the immutable laws of
nature. Gravity pins us to Mother Earth, a burden each
of us must face and come to terms with. Big Rigs frees
us and allows us to realise, if only for a moment, a pure
world in which gravity and physical laws do not con-
strain human actions.
Big Rigs must also be viewed as an anti-depres-
sant, rescuing many from their own
dark thoughts. In a fiercely competi-
tive world things grow overwhelming,
threatening to crush even the most
hard-working and motivated individu-
al. By removing any challenge, freez-
ing your opponents in place, Big Rigs
ensures victory after victory, helping to
reinforce an individual’s self-worth. A
truly noble cause.
But the supposed ‘bug’ that hits
deepest is the ability to leave the map,
entering a void of purity and nothing-
ness. It is obvious that this is a represen-
tation of Heaven. You transcend the
boundaries of the mortal realm, enter-
ing a realm of inner peace and purity.
You have no more goals, no demands
to meet, nothing. You are but a free
spirit, floating in the big emptiness. It is
enough to draw a tear to my eye.
Do not hate upon Big Rigs. What ini-
tially appears to be a flawed game is
in fact a modern masterpiece, a com-
plicated simulator to break free of re-
ality, if only for a few precious hours.
Or maybe it’s just a buggy piece
of trash that was churned out over a
weekend by an incompetent studio to
make a quick profit *shrugs*.
IMPERIAL GAMES Games Editor: Laurence [insert
hilarious name here] Pope
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk

