Scott Heath Ledger Michael Foster Monya Zard
S
ome may remember Scott
as a man of indifference,
however throughout his
troubled career as a stu-
dent politician not one per-
son could deny that he did
his upmost to follow Union
constitution to the letter.
Many questioned the work Scott did over
his year in office, with the majority of his
observable time spent with senior college
officials; wining and dining with the best
of them. While no benefits for the student
body came from said meetings, he did end
the year with CV references rivalled only
by Prince Harry.
Scott’s biggest attribute to the student
experience can only be summed up by his
constitution changes proposed at his highly
desolate General Meeting. The deep sor-
row he felt while realising that the world Is
bigger than Imperial College Union and its
pedantic constitution can only be imagined
by the most creative of us, those of us who
would have been an Art History student in a
different life sans competitive parents. Like
the great actor Heath Ledger, his work will
surely be recognised after his passing.
Why Scott thought he could deepthroat
a chicken escalope baguette from the in-
famous Sandwich Shop is anyone’s guess,
but if anything, he knew what he was doing
this time. He finally took a stance and stuck
with it. Fortunately the baguette stuck in his
throat, ridding the world of another syco-
phantic middle man.
To say there would never be another man
like Scott Heath would be of credit to his
character, however this is not the case. The
student body has elected another middle
class white man to fill the same size 9 shoes.
H
is year was all seem-
ingly occurring without
too much incident, until
he unwittingly was be-
stowed with the title of
Returning Officer for
the Big Elections. This
caused him to have a
mental break down and become something
of a renegade. Michael was on the run
from the police, with only an Excel spread-
sheet and sporadic access to eActivities to
keep him occupied. He was eventually ap-
prehended when detectives were able to
track his movements via a tweet he posted
about angrily having to approve invoices,
or whatever it is he does.
Michael, known to his friends simply as Mi-
chael, was dragged out of the Starbucks
he was residing in, kicking and screaming
shouting “just let me rubber stamp one more
payment!” He was taken to a rough jail on a
far away island and quickly became friends
with all of the most powerful inmates. Mul-
tiple times the guards were accused of tor-
turing Michael, by not allowing him to use
Excel, but rather insisting he makes tables in
Word. However, the US Government, who
run the jail, replied belligerently by saying
“la la la we’re not listening, can’t hear you,
sorry, your question is invalid as my fingers
are in my ears”, the spokesman then stuck
his head in the ground. Very soon after his
arrival, he became the guard’s favourite in-
mate when he started doing all of their tax
returns for them.
Some speculate that it was suicide in the
end. He was found slumped in his cell with
a stethoscope tightly wrapped around his
nether regions and a grin on his face, pos-
sibly a throwback to his days as a medic.
I
t was always going to be a tough
year for Monya. At the very start of
her year she had to organise Fresh-
ers’ Fair. This required her to tire-
lessly, meticulously, and methodically
take the plans from last year and
change the date at the top. She was
also required to write a whole 100
words in a box and so the first month’s sal-
ary was well-earned.
Detectives are still investigating the sus-
picious circumstances of the ‘accident’ that
befell her in the end. The New Clubs Com-
mittee, who some of you may know (obvi-
ously just kidding, as nobody would know)
seemed “strangely jolly” during the funeral.
Monya was walking across the shared
space on Exhibition Road, and didn’t know
where to cross as the Union hadn’t lobbied
the local council hard enough to clarify.
It turns out her confidence in the ‘shared
space’ meaning that cars will look out for
pedestrians was tragically high. She was
run over by a stampede of horses, analo-
gous to the end of Mufasa in The Lion King,
although less children cried and her voice
wasn’t the same as Darth Vader. It’s also
less likely that she will speak to students as
a cloud in the sky at any point.
Surprisingly, Arsène Wenger was actually
on the scene and standing two metres away
at the time of the fateful incident. When
questioned during the investigation he re-
portedly said that he “could not comment”
as he “did not see the incident clearly”. This
is contrary to reports that he was staring at
it intently.
It has been said that a certain Mayor of
the city allegedly wasn’t on hand as he was
too busy chasing off muggers screaming
“oiks”. Wenger also did not see this incident.
IMPERIAL HANGMAN
FRIDAY 22 JUNE 2012
36
SHOCK EXCLUSIVE: SABBATICAL TEAM ALL MEE

