Jason Parmar Nic Massie Colvin Secret Lad
T
echnology was always Jason
Parmar’s Achilles’ heel. Nota-
ble moments of his life includ-
ed trying to tether a Windows
phone with a Chromebook,
and single handedly buying
every Olympic Ticket avail-
able.
However the world of gadgets and giz-
mos would prove to get the best of him, with
the recent Microsoft press release sending
him over the edge. Some say he shouldn’t
have disregarded the obvious early warn-
ing signs such as losing his hair and not
being able to ejaculate without watching
porn, but no one could have foreseen Ja-
son’s dark decent in to feral life.
In a bizarre public display, Jason tore his
clothes off while surrounded by his peers
and ran away. He was found weeks later
by a elderly couple out dogging by Rich-
mond park (who decided that the Sas-
quatch-like corpse wouldn’t put them off)
in a very compromising position. Allegedly,
Jason’s body was found with his non-dom-
inant hand wrapped around his 3” penis
(very thorough journalistic investigation was
conducted to obtain this accurate figure).
The autopsy confirmed that he had placed
a hard straight twig down his urethra, pre-
sumably for heightened pleasure while
masturbating. The deviant sex act for one is
said to have caused an infection that would
normally have been treated by broad
spectrum antibiotics, however Imperial Col-
lege Medical centre couldn’t arrange an
appointment for several years.
Jason died the way he like to live. Erect. If
it wasn’t for Jason’s work on online podcast-
ing, future students would have to actually
attend lectures. Thank You Jason. R.I.P.
E
very single week, Nic almost
thought about maybe doing
work. One time this term, he
notably turned up to the of-
fice at 2pm – beating his
previous record by an entire
hour. He worked tirelessly for
many weeks to get posters in
the toilets, an aim that he has left to his suc-
cessor to finish. Many students have fond
memories of the Green Week he organ-
ised. One student, who FELIX! stopped in
the library, said: “what and when was that?
Now piss off and let me get a potato.”
Not satisfied with his office being a place
of work, he converted it into a sex dungeon,
luckily the supply of free condoms came in
useful. Unfortunately, Durex couldn’t keep
up a steady enough supply to keep it
packed out. Pasante fortunately stepped in
at the last minute.
His unfortunate demise was only discov-
ered when he didn’t turn up to work for a
week. The next week, the staff at the Un-
ion started to become worried as this was
a new record and decided to investigate.
When they went into his dungeon, they
found several ‘respectable’ politicians, who
all suddenly pretended they had ‘walked
into the wrong room’ and ‘were on a tour’
and had ‘lost their boxers’.
A whole team of detectives, including Ben-
edict Cumberbatch, who was chosen as he
has played Sherlock Holmes, and therefore
must be good at finding people, were all on
the hunt for the missing Deputy President.
Nic died in an unfortunate pubic hair shav-
ing incident: he was shot while shaving his
pubic hairs, by a student who really wanted
to see a poster in a toilet. His ashes were
buried, in free condoms, around Beit Quad.
S
ecret and Lad are two
words not normally associ-
ated with Felix Editor Matt
Colvin (also known as The
Colvinator), however this
goes to prove Matt’s lad-
dish behaviour was indeed
that secret. Colvin Secret
Lad was spotted at various points through-
out the year, continually on the prowl, ever
searching for his next release of sexual ten-
sion. Something that occurred quite often
in order to alleviate the wounds suffered
from furiously typing on his keyboard 18
hours a day, resting only to sleep, eat, forni-
cate, and sometimes deliver the newspaper
around college on time.
Unfortunately the wounds became too se-
vere, both physically and mentally. The con-
stant nightmares of the Daily Mail calling
Matt about an illicit article broke his origi-
nally solid mental wellbeing, reducing him
to the point where he had no option but to
shear his fingers off with a pneumatic press
just so he couldn’t write anymore. Just when
he felt the sweet release of responsibility,
Matt came to realise that a life with no fin-
gers was more tormenting than that before.
He wasn’t able to maintain the existence he
once treasured, worse yet he was unable to
take his own life.
Fortunately, his pain was alleviated when
he was crushed to death by a large iMac
and several broken keyboards. These fell
from the top of a wardrobe on the one oc-
casion he nearly cleaned up the FELIX! of-
fice. He may have escaped, had a stack of
un-filed FELIX! back issues not hit him in the
head. Matt was only found when The Times
called him up wanting a quote. Reportedly,
his last words were “lessons must be learnt”.
IMPERIAL HANGMAN
FRIDAY 22 JUNE 2012 37
ET GRISLY ENDS. OH-YOU-ARE-A-BITCH-UARIES

