IC 1st XI begin ULU Cam-
paign with crushing win!
Stefan Bauer, who has been on all 5
trips that Eagles made to France said
“I would never have dreamed that one
day we will be able to compete with
French Universities at such a high lev-
el. What the club has achieved over the
last 5 years is immense and it would
have been impossible without the com-
mitment of all the members. We have
no BUCS points to win and no money
to spend, but every week people come
and give their best to make this team as
good as it can be. It’s touching.”
The draw was not easy as there were
only 3 teams per group and 4 knock-
out games, including the final, to win
the trophy. This means that every game
could be the last one if the teams are
complacent. The Imperial 2nd team,
largely consisting of Imperial players
from years gone by, was set to face
Lyons alumni’s and ECN. Expectant-
ly, they proved to be too difficult for
a team that has never played in this
formation. After 2 very entertaining
matches, the veterans joined the first
team in the quest for the title. Mean-
while, the girls team could repeat their
coup from last year and edge past Cen-
trale Lyon, Paris and Polytechnique
to secure a place in the quarterfinals.
An impressive result for a team that
was founded merely 2 years ago and
the result of hard work on their be-
half. Captain Annabelle Mayers com-
mented “We try to be realistic with our
expectations, but the last 2 years have
shown that we can compete with much
more established clubs, which is very
encouraging for the next years”. The
men’s first team was set to face last
year’s finalist Lille in their first game
before trying to fend off Lyons 3rd
team. In typical Eagles fashion they
would have a shaky start, but managed
to control Lille’s left handed half-back,
there only source of danger and win the
game. This was followed by a convinc-
ing 17:0 win over the hosts 3rd team in
what turned out to be a practice game.
In the round of 16, IC had to face
Polytechnique, the French military
academy and their most renown engi-
neering school who traditionally have
strong sports teams. It was also the
former school of Thibault Hervier, the
Eagles’ right wing player, which made
this a very prestigious game. A surpris-
ingly static opponent with a severe lack
of creativity made it easy for the Eagles
who were reinforced by players from
their 2nd team at this stage, first and
foremost Romain Henry, who proved
to be a vital addition in the games to
come. The quarterfinal was reached
and spirits were high, when we got the
news that IC had to face their nemesis
– the Nancy-Boys. Suddenly there was
an elephant in the room and people re-
membered their tragic defeat to the Al-
ligators the year before. Imperial fell
back to their shaky way of playing and
lost balls carelessly while at the same
time struggling to defend Nancy’s very
short and windy play-maker from Por-
tugal and brutish-looking right-back.
On the other side of the court, a man
who looked as if he was a laboratory
product specially designed to be hit
hard by balls proved difficult for the
eagles shooters to overcome. With
merely 3 minutes to go Nancy took a
time-out and the Eagles gathered near
the centre-line with their heads down.
It was that moment when Max Flash-
back’s motivational speech and Kristof
Kölker’s determined yet rather crude
shouting woke the inner fighting spirit
of the representatives from London. In
these 3 minutes, Imperial would not
concede a goal and score 3 themselves,
thanks to Stefan Bauer finally finding
his way into what Roberto Galli refers
to as “the Zone” and some rather intel-
ligent play in attack. Having equalised
in the dying seconds of the game, the
Imperial Eagles had to overcome an-
other ghost from their past – a penalty
shootout. Having lost to Manchester
University in this situation only one
month ago, no one was keen to shoot at
first. However, Charles Missiaen rose
to the occasion and 4 brave men would
follow him soon after that. Imperial
got the advantage when the brutish
Nancy-Boy saw his shot come off the
post. The Nancy goalkeeper felt brave
enough to take a penalty himself, but
Imperials goalkeeper got the better of
him and saved his shot with a brilliant
stop to his bottom right, meaning that
the Eagles had the chance to win it with
the 4th penalty. Thibault Hervier made
no mistake and sealed the place in the
semi-final, much to the delight of Lu-
cas Carstens, who was left speechless
by the intense encounter.
As the team moved into the big ven-
ue for the semi-finals, greeted by fan-
fares and bewildered looking French-
men, they were given the sad news
that the girls team was only narrowly
defeated in the quarterfinal in a venue
the other side of Lyon. This meant that
it was on the Eagles to defend the hon-
our of the Club against Telecom Paris,
who despite their short stature were
rumoured to have played a very good
tournament up to then. In their first at-
tack, the windy Parisian left wing left
the Imperial defence flummoxed with
a quick return pass from his neighbour
and opened the scoring. Stefan Bauer,
motivated by the crucial penalty safe in
the quarterfinal and keen to make his
5th trip to Lyon the stuff of legends,
was determined to show the audience
that there is a quality player behind
that neon truck on his goalkeeping
shirt and prevented the Eagles from
falling too far behind with a sprawl-
ing safe against the right wing trying
to convert a counterattack. In attack, a
clever mixture between the relentless
force of Kolja Ortmann and Adrian
Nadal on the line and fast waves of
attack from Kristof Koelker, Charles
Missiaen opened gaps for shots from
the back position through Lucas
Carstens and Max Flashback, as well
as the wing positions through Roberto
Galli and Thibault Hervier. In defence,
an ever-so-reliable Romain Henry took
care of every opponent coming his
way and swift movements from along
the 6 metre line prevented Paris from
finding any gap big enough to trouble
Imperials goalkeeper. So it came that,
despite being one goal down at half
time, Imperial secured a place in the fi-
nal of the Challenge Centrale Lyon for
the first time ever.
It was a draining day and sleeping
in tents on a rainy night in the south
of France (if they slept at all) did not
help the team. The 8am throw-off
again Centrale Paris, who overcame
the hosts first team in the semi-final
and put an end to their hopes of win-
ning the title for the 11th time on a row,
was the last hurdle for the Eagles on
their route to glory and fame. Joined
by future president Yannick Seis and
left-handed veteran Ruben Freytag,
IC was determined to make it count.
Apart from conceding an early coun-
terattack in the opening minute of the
game, the Eagles made no mistake
and remained in control of the game
throughout. Stefan Bauer with prob-
ably the best goalkeeping display the
tournament has seen in years gave the
Imperial the confidence to dominate
their opponents in their own half. A
mixture of fast counter attacks via the
wing positions, powerful shots from
the 9-metre-line by the half-backs and
pure physical strength on the line-
positions gave the visitors from Lon-
don the upper hand. The game ended
18:20 for the Eagles. It is a beautiful
story of team-work, determination and
taking the initiative that lead them to
this point and one that surely deserves
recognition. Knowing the team, they
will not be complacent, but continue to
work hard and ensure they can sustain
their efforts and maybe even surprise
some unsuspecting Germans at the
IDEA League in the summer.
French success for Handball
...Continued from Back Page
Handball standing triumphant
Following a week of rain, few expect-
ed a match to be played. Yet Sunday
dawned cloudless, paving the way for
one of the most exciting cricket match-
es to have ever been played by an Impe-
rial team.
Captained by William Baker, the 2nd
XI arrived at Fortress H (renamed from
Harlington by one confident member
of the team earlier that morning) to
lose the toss and be asked to bowl. The
pitch, as can be imagined by its uncov-
ered nature, was damp and slow.
President Ian Woolf got the team of
to a good start by dismissing one of
the opening batsmen for just 3. This
was swiftly followed by a sharp piece
of work in the field by Vignesh Ven-
kateswaran, running out their number 3
batsman for a duck.
However, King’s managed to steady
the ship with a partnership of 58 runs.
It was at this point that Captain Baker
delivered a masterstroke by introducing
the left-hand orthodox spin of Vignesh.
He struck with his very first ball, the
umpire adjudging the remaining open-
ing batsman to be out LBW.
Vignesh, it seems, was everywhere.
He was involved in the first three dis-
missals and proceeded to be involved
in the next three, grabbing two more
wickets himself and taking another fine
catch. King’s were being held together
by their helmetless number 4 batsman,
but once he was dismissed by Captain
Baker, they were struggling at 106/6.
With the final 10 overs upon them,
the remaining King’s batsmen were
pushing for every run. A mix-up and
a good throw in from the deep ended
a good cameo by their number 8 bats-
man, which had pushed their score up
to 157/8. The drama, however, was just
starting. In the final over of the innings,
their number 11 batsman was bowled
by a ball bouncing twice. He thought
that constituted a no-ball, however the
umpire gave it out. In an act of won-
derful sportsmanship, Captain Baker
recalled the batsman despite the grum-
blings of his bowler. As it turned out,
not another run was scored with the
batsman being run-out of the final ball
attempting a quick single.
Set 168 to win, Imperial embarked
upon the chase cautiously, reaching
the end of the 10th over with a score
of 28/2.Opener Anmol Bedi prevented
a collapse with a studious innings of
29 from 55 deliveries, but aside from a
28-ball 17 from in-form Ahsaan Ismail,
received little support. At the halfway
stage, Imperial were 69/4 requiring 99
runs from the next 20 overs.
In strode Vignesh, who immedi-
ately increased the team’s run-rate. As
the last recognised batsman, it was up
to him guide the team home. He hit a
couple of lovely cover-drives for four,
which were then followed by a glorious
six. However, wickets were still falling
around him and to make matters worse,
he started suffering from cramps.
The score with 10 overs to play was
114/7. At the crease were Vignesh with
a runner and Ian Woolf. Slowly, but
surely they began to haul in the target.
With the field pushed out for Vignesh,
he could only obtain singles, but for
Ian, the field was in and he responded
by wielding the willow with tremen-
dous effect, scoring some much needed
boundaries.
With 12 runs to win however, Vignesh
went for one big shot too many and
was caught. The tension in the dress-
ing room was palpable. The number
10 batsman walking out to the middle,
Ganesh Kumar, was known only for his
big swing. Nevertheless, Ian showed
composure born of 4 years at Imperial
and reduced the equation from 11 runs
of 12 balls to 2 runs of the last 6, by
hitting a magnificent four over cover.
Ganesh was on strike for the final over
to their opening bowler and seemed in-
tent on finishing the job with one hit.
Indeed the bat flew out of his hands at
one point, but he failed to make contact
with 4 consecutive balls. 2 runs re-
quired now from 2. A single was some-
how taken, leaving Ian on strike with
the scores level. Then, with a hit past
mid-off, the match was won.
Cricket
Rajiv Bhur
“the Imperial Eagles
had to overcome
another ghost from
their past”
FRIDAY 22 JUNE 2012 39
IMPERIAL SPORT
Sport Editor: Indy LeTwerp
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk

