RECTOR PIES HIMSELF SILLY
PARK SCANDAL: KATY COULD-DO-BETTERANY REPORTS
Journalists in court is a common sight nowadays; but FELIX! never imagined the day that one of
its own editors would take the stand. The self-styled John “White Ribbon” Park, who is currently
standing trial for the alleged stalking of leading lady Madeline Stowe, 53, was today rocked by
allegations of illiteracy, as part of an exposé detailed in The Telegraph.
Park, whose reputation is already in tatters, was arrested in 2011 after he was caught lurking
outside Stowe’s Mayfair apartment. The star of popular US drama Revenge, alleges that she had
been obsessively followed for several months prior to the arrest by an unknown male, as well as be-
ing sent explicit letters and photographs. “I feared for my life – wherever I went, he was there. I’m a
lady who is used to admirers, but I knew that this was something different – something more sinister.”
Of course, Park’s rampant lust for the older woman is no secret – his recent film reviews have been
strewn with the idolatry of stars such as Charlize Theron. Some students will also be aware of the
many accusations regarding dalliances with certain senior female lecturers that surround the trou-
bled young editor.
It was sometime after his arrest in September that undercover journalists from The Telegraph
started secretly monitoring his private correspondence. In a shocking twist of events, it has been
revealed that Park, far from being the talented editor the College thought they knew, would struggle
to differentiate a punctuation colon from his own colon (a claim further substantiated by his lack of
talent in his chosen field, medicine.) His command of the English language, described by The Tel-
egraph’s inside men as “dismal”; has been largely covered up by his co-editor, copy editors and the
use of spell-check.
The deception, already being described as “the cover-up of the decade”, will come as no surprise
to people close to Park. We asked a family friend, who opted to remain anonymous, for a reaction.
“To be honest, I didn’t even know he spoke English. He edits which paper?” With reports of ‘Bully-
ing in the Workplace’ allegations also made against him, it is clear that Park is in for a rocky few
months. Park was today unavailable for comment, but sources close to him have speculated that if
found guilty, he will use the inevitable custodial time to enroll himself on an English course.
Rector (or should that be President & Rector? Help me out
here I’m genuinely confused) Sir Keith O’Nions was the
centre of yet another minor pie-based scandal last week-
end, after attempting to pie himself in the face in front of
a small party of alumni. “I took inspiration from RAG when
they pied me the other month. If they can raise awareness
through such a simple act, why can’t I?”
The alumni present at this fictional event were large-
ly unimpressed. “I prefer it when he just makes
small talk with us. Anyway, I’m basically allergic
to pastry, so I’m doubly underwhelmed. I literally
could’ve broken out into a mild rash.”
IMPERIAL gossip
FRIDAY 22 JUNE 2012
4
In an act reminiscent of the traditions
of countless maniacal dictators, next
year’s FELIX! Editor, the incorrigible
and unpronounceable Tim Arbabza-
dah, has fired the entire editorial
staff, with the changes coming into
effect right now.
The tyrant commented to FELIX! on
the monumentous decision “I just
want a fresh start, you know? Man’s
got work to do.”
NEW EDITOR FIRES
EVERYONE
fired!

