WHERE ARE THEY NOW?
Let’s face it: you go to Imperial, the world’s
nerdiest university. Likely chances are that
you’re either revising, or revising. So where
are you going to meet your one true love? Im-
perial College Library of course!
The new art of ‘Glamvising’ encourages its fol-
lowers to ditch the trackies and bed head
and get your glam on! It’s no longer just
about getting the grades, it’s about
getting the girl or guy. Students can
be seen with enough make-up to
make an Oompa-Loompa cry and
dressing up for a night on the town.
It’s the way to make sure you look
your best for when you’re achieving
your best. Although, as this is Impe-
rial, it’s likely your best is a low 2:1.
A new craze that is sure to change the
face of Imperial (or at least make
it look better). Be sure to
catch on quick, other-
wise you’ll end up as
‘that person’ who falls
asleep and wakes up
with paper stuck
to their face.
Gross.
The rise and fall of the great and glamorous ap-
pears to not escape Imperial. Former Felix Editor
Dan Wan has been found to be nothing more than a
common plate thief. He admitted to ‘like, nicking
everyone on my floor’s plates in halls. That was
the old me though, I’m now a changed man.
I’m like Chris Brown, except without my Twit-
ter account being hacked”. It seems the ‘boy
from Watford’ can’t escape his past though.
It’s been claimed that he has been seen at
the BBC working on documentaries, in disguise
with a moustache. The bigger crime is how unsuit-
able such facial hair is on him. Pyschologists that we
pretended we would pay and then didn’t told us that
the plate theft may be kleptomania, sexual deviancy,
or that he was just hungry and had lost his plates.
Last year’s Editor Kadhim Shubber is still here, damn.
PARMAR PARS OLYMPICS
Controversy has erupted after ousted Deputy
President (Education) Jason Parmar bought
every single Olympic Games ticket on sale. It
spells embarrassment for the UK as the seats will
be empty, except for Jason and his ‘many friends’.
It is expected that a maximum of three seats at
each event may be filled, with two being his parents.
This isn’t his first shame. Many will not remember “lol,
PAR-gate” earlier this year, but it still happened,
and someone probably cared or something.
It is thought that his entire salary has been
ploughed into the purchases, with Ja-
son himself saying “I really wanted
beach volleyball final tickets,
turned out I accidentally bought
them for the men’s final. Will
probably still get good use
out of the binoculars though.”
Well, it seems as though he
must love his legroom!
THE NEW GLAMVISING
CRAZE IN THE LIBRARY
IMPERIAL gossip
FRIDAY 22 JUNE 2012 5
WAN–TED!

