EXCLUSIVE: EVERYTHING CAUSES CANCER
Aresearch paper obtained by FELIX!
Science in advance of publication
in an academic journal proves that go-
ing about your daily life increases your
chances of getting cancer. The research,
led by Professor Liam Yliad in the De-
partment of Medicine, Imperial College
London, shows that being alive is the sin-
gle biggest risk factor for cancer.
“It’s astonishing,” said Professor Yliad.
“I was looking through the data, and
time and time again I saw it. Every sin-
gle patient in our sample that had been
diagnosed with cancer had been alive
at the time of their diagnosis – some for
many years.”
The news will come as a blow to sci-
IMPERIAL SCIENCE
FRIDAY 22 JUNE 2012
6
MICKEY ON MERCURY
Craters that bear an uncanny resemblence to Mickey Mouse were spotted on
the planet Mercury by NASA’s Messenger probe, the first spacecraft to visit the
planet. The photo shows an area close to the Magritte crater where daytime
temperatures soar to a frazzling 400°C and dip as low as -200°C at night.
EU FIRES BILLIONS INTO SPACE
While working class people across Europe strug-
gle against harsh austerity measures, European
bureaucrats have handed a billion euros to aca-
demics at elitist institutions such as Oxford to
go on a jolly to Jupiter. While youth unemploy-
ment is over 50% in Greece and Spain, European
governments have shown themselves to be as
down-to-earth as ever by sending money into
space rather than addressing problems faced by
their own people.
LICENSE TO SPILL
The latest weapon in the arsenal of ineffectual
tools for cleaning up oil spills in fragile marine
ecosystems comes from nanotechnology. Scien-
tists in the US say that once once an oil spill oc-
curs, polluters can deploy a new wonder sponge
that will quickly mop up any oily mess. With
their new carbon nanosponge, oil can be soaked
up, squeezed out, stored or simply burnt off,
almost anything in fact, other than bring back to
life the plant and animal species that soaked up
the oil in the first place.
entists who thought that instead of caus-
ing cancer, everything might in fact pre-
vent cancer. The debate between these
two academic factions has been ongo-
ing for some years. Experts say that this
research paper will put an end to that,
and will allow scientists to concentrate on
finding a cure.
The challenge now for scientists is to
work out how this research can be ap-
plied to cure cancer once and for all.
“We’ve shown that being alive is the ul-
timate cause of cancer,” says Professor
Yliad. “So now, the hunt is on to find a
preventative measure that could reduce
that risk factor for people who have yet
to show signs of cancer development.”
BE BETTER WITH BEER
Several reports have shown that moderate drinking
of wine can have health benefits due to the anti-
oxidants available within. Recently, researchers from
the British Esteemed Ethanol Recommendation Society
(BEERS) established that these health benefits extend
to beer.
Their study showed that the welcoming atmosphere
of a pub added to the health benefits, citing a 40%
decrease in antisocial behaviour. On why these results
have only just surfaced, Dr Hofstadter told FELIX!: “well
it always takes longer than you expect”. Moderate beer
consumption can reduce the risk of stomach ulcers and
contrary to reports from the Daily Mail, can lower risk
of cancer by protecting against Helicobacter pylori.
UCL have confirmed that there is no link between the
amount of beer consumed and obesity, eliminating the
beer belly myth. Since beer is rich in silicon, studies have
shown that not only does it help strengthen bones, but
it also protects against osteoporosis. A study of 5,000
Britons showed that more than one pint of beer a day
reduced the risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Poly-
phenols, found in beer, cut levels of cholesterol and are
also effective in combating breast cancer. The scientists
also found that a bottle a day cut risks of kidney stones
by 40% due to the diuretics found within. Beer consti-
tutes over 20% of the daily recommended fibre intake,
serving as one of your five-a-day. Though the benefits
of antioxidants in darker ales have shown a reduction in
the risk of cataracts, they warn that excessive consump-
tion has seemingly led to short term visual and mental
impairment and should be avoided.
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander “24 Kara Gold” Karapetian
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk

