10 FELLX
new men...
new knowledge...
new problems to be solved...
Today's children will grow up in a world that is
being remade before their eyes. They will have a
wider range of opportunities. They will also face
problems calling for new solutions. Today's
children need the most imaginative and creative
teaching. Teaching by men and women who are
among the ablest of their generation... graduates
who are among the most outstanding of their
year. Teachers have greater influence on future
generations than any other profession.
What does Teaching offer you in return ?
New opportunities
Teaching is a vigorous and growing profession. It offers
the graduate greater opportunities than ever before,
both in developing professional skills and in achieving
posts of influence and responsibility — often far earlier
than in many other careers. For example, nearly half of
the men graduate teachers between 2
5 and 2
9 hold such
posts and receive salaries well above the basic scale.
About half of those in their 30's are heads of depart-
ments, earning up to £2,330, or hold even higher posts.
One fifth of those now in their 4o's are headmasters who
may earn salaries up to £3,850. The prospects are even
better for graduates with first or second class honours, or
a higher degree.
New ideas - new initiative
The mastery of teaching skills and the evolution of new
methods are a stimulating challenge. New discoveries
and new knowledge present teachers with problems for
which there are no precedents. New communication
techniques and aids must be developed.
Training: an extension of your knowledge
Some graduates feel uncertain whether they are
temperamentally suited to teaching. The one-year
post-graduate training course equips you to start your
career confidently on a basis of practical experience
as well as theory.
Why not find out more?
Talk things over with your Appointments Board, and
ask for the new booklet, 'Careers in Education for
Graduates', or write for a copy to Room 114 (22C/1)
Department of Education and Science, Curzon Street,
London, W. 1. It describes the schools of today and the
kind of teachers they need; their salaries and special
allowances.
4
"
" J M M I
He needs trained minds like yours
to fit him for tomorrow's world
IT'S
Issued by the Department ofEducation andScience
Soccer Cup
I.C.3 U.C.2
ON SATURDAY, December
4th, U.C. visited Harlington
to play I.C. in the first round of
the U.L. Cup. Conditions could
not have been called ideal, a
heavy drizzle making the playing
surface treacherous.
Straight from the kick-off I.C. put
great pressure on the U.C. goal and
were unlucky not to take an early
lead. Gradually after this bright start
UJC. came more into the game and
I.C. seemed to coast along.
I.C. were always the more dangerous
side and it came as no surprise when
they took the lead. Wellfair, beating
his man on the outside, centred for
Hopwood to dive and head past the
U.C. goalkeeper.
Half-time Goal
The game was very even after this
goal and the conditions were becom-
ing increasingly important to the pat-
tern of the play; the greasy surface
making recovery in the tackle difficult
for both defences. Just on the half-
time whistle the home team was
stunned when U . C . managed to score
the equaliser ; a dangerous diagonal
lob into the I.C. goalmouth was al-
lowed to trickle into the net via the
centre forward's back.
IX*.. Go Ahead
After the interval, Hunt, playing a
real Captain's game, strove manfully
in the midfield. The team respond-
ing magnificently to his example,
fought for every loose ball and tackled
like terriers. In the 51st minute an
inspired piece of football culminated
in Widelski pushing the ball through
to an unmarked Hopwood who shot
past the advancing goalkeeper into the
net. T o their credit U . C . hit back
immediately when the left-half was
allowed to run through and shoot past
a statled Wojtowicz.
GODDIN CUP
On Dec. 4th, I.C. Fencing Club won
the " Goddin Cup," a competition
for teams of three, from the London
Colleges, each member of the team
fencing at one of the three weapons.
Our 2nd and 3rd teams, consisting of
less experienced fencers, were elimi-
nated early on i n the competition.
The 1st team, having got through the
1st round very easily went on to the
direct elimination between eight
teams and finally secured the trophy
with a comfortable win over U . C .
in the final. The winning team was :
G . Paul (foil), P. Harden (epee) and
D. Scott (sabre).
Gordon
Lowes
The Ideal Snorts Shop
10% DISCOUNT T O
ALL I.C. MEMBERS
173/4 SLOANE STREET
S.W.1
Tel. REL 8484

