FELI X
GOOD NEWS WEEK-f°l
sport
Winning Goal
However, a minute later, spurred on
by their supporters, I.C. regained the
lead. A man to man passing move-
ment saw Wellfair score from a pass
by Stoddart.
As the game drew to a close there
was only one team in it and U . C .
looked a slightly dispirited side, out-
fought and outplayed: the jubilant
I.C. team were through to the next
•
round.
Bob Grundy.
All set for a header in front of
University College goal during
the second half of the Cup match
at Harlington.
—photo by Rahif Quartan
Sportlight
• OUR RIGHTFUL PLACE
W E A R E doing very well these days. The Boat Club won the Winter Eights
the Athletics Club won the Winter Field events cup, both the Rugger and
Soccer teams have won through to the next round of their cup competi-
tions, and generally " Felix sport " has had more wins than losses to report.
Perhaps we are at last returning to our rightful position in sport as is appro-
priate to our size. Keep it up lads, keep it up. With all these laurels
behind us maybe some of us will even manage a little training over the
the vac. Give it a try—you'll be surprised at the advantage it gives you
after the festivities, over those who have not.
SPORTSMEN T O G E T H E R
The proposed new " sporting " club to be organised by Messrs. Howell and
Ray certainly gets my vote. The aim is to encourage more interest between
sports and to provide a reward for those who put a lot into their sport
but do not achieve full colours.
Frank Hobson
BOATS WIN WINTER MEET
THE BOAT Club swept all before them in the U.L. Winter Eights
on December 4th, by winning both the Open and Junior events.
I
. C. had a crew entered in eaich of the Open, Junior and Novice
divisions of the competition, which is held at the Universities Chis-
wick boat house.
...The INovice crew were beaten in
their firsit heat, but they did well
against their obviously more experi-
enced opponents.
Carnival hangover
The Junior crew had a walk-over in
their heat, due to the inability of their
opponents to raise a team. This was
a real relief all round, as several
members of the crew were still feeling
the after effects of the .R.C.S. Carni-
val. The final took place four hours
later, by which time they had caugh*
up, to some extent, on their lost sleep
This was well fought, but in the later
stages I.C. drew well away td win
convincingly by two lengths from
Royal Veterinary College.
There was never any doubt that our
first eight would win the Open even'
and in the final they rowed home
convincing winners over the U.C
team.
disorganisation
The Regatta as a whole was run
with the disjointed organisation that
characterises University events these
days. Entry forms had to be returned
in October, yet no formal request
or the I.C. launch was received till
the day before the races—a great
imposition on the I.C. boatman whc
had to drive it. The programme of
events was not received until two days
before the event, making organisation
very difficult.
scratch eights
Two other crews were entered in
the London Rowing Club " scratch
eight" regatta on the same day. Thf
Junior-Senior eight were narrowh
beaten by a London R.C. eight. The
Junior crew were beaten by anothet
London R.C. eight though performing
verv well against such opposition.
Crass Country
CLOSE THING for once
THE A N N U A L match against Ranelagh Harriers provides the Cross Country
club side with one of its rare opportunities far competition against a non-
students side. With the increased strength of the I.C. team mis year, hopes
ran high that we might reduce the usual crushing defeat to a more honourable,
one.
Ranelagh is one of the more lively
clubs, with the proceedings starting
and finishing at a pub down by the
Thame9 at Richmond. Their team
now includes an ex-Oxford Captain,
an Olympic medalist and E C ' s vice-
captain who on this occasion stayed
loyal to the college.
Counting twelve in the match
proved to be a wise decision. I.C. ran
well above form and only lost by the
narrow margin of 145-157. The
bitter rivalry between Captain Howard
Dickson and Vice-Captain Alan Cope
was, on this occasion, resolved in the
Captain's favour; the course, punctua-
ted with ponies, deer and Ranelagh
veterans, being more to his liking.
Happy New Year
Many intrepid and fearless mem-
bers of the club are spending New-
Year's Eve running to Mountain Ash
in Wales carrying a message of good
will (presumably) from the Minister
of Sport to the runner in the Dec.
31st Nos Galan meeting at Mountain
Ash. The runners, with two dormo-
bil'S, one car and sore feet, are going
to ,'iin relay-fashion and attempt the
London to Cardiff record on the way.
Guilds Tragedy
In the U.L. Champs, last Saturday,
which included the inter-college com-
petition, R.C.S. scored overwhelming
victory "against the other two. Guilds
were a their lowest ebb for many
years and in fact, if second teams had
counted C. & G . would have been
fourth. There was even some doubt
that Guilds would beat Mines, how-
ever, despite the participation of
President Dickie Gash who struggled
gamely through the mud to come last.
In the championship proper our
first man home was Howard Smith
who ran in nineteeth. A t the time of
going 'to press the team placings are
not known.
B R O K E N L E G
In the 1st X I soccer match against
League leaders Woolwich Poly, last
Wednesday. I.C. winger Graham Well-
fair broke his right leg in a pile-up
with the Goalie and Fullback only
two minutes after the start. I.C.
went on to win the match despite
this handicap.
ENGLISH ELECTRIC
GROUP
including English Electric
Marconi
English Electric Valve Company
Marconi Instruments
Napier
Dorman
will be visiting Departments of Imperial College on various
dates between 18th January and 2nd March, 1966. Stud-
ents of the Department of Metallurgy are invited to visit
English Electric House ur. Wednesday, 9th February, 1966.
You will be able to discuss opportunities and arrange for
visits to one of their Works or Laboratories, where you can
meet people already active in fields of your interest.
Offers will be made to suitable Graduates who will probably
have studied:
Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electronic
Engineering, Aeronautical Engineering, Mathematics,
Physics and Metallurgy.
Our handbook 'Graduates in the English Electric Group"
is available from the Appointments Representative in your
Department, who has details of the actual dates of our visits
and will be jjleased to arrange a definite time for a discus-
sion. Otherwise, complete the coupon below and we will
send you direct a copy of our handbook.
V mm mm H mm me mm mm mm mm mm mm mm mm mm mm mm mm m
To: R. S. Wignall, University Liaison Officer,
English Electric House, Strand, London, W.C.2.
Please send me a copy of 'Graduates in the
English Electric Group'.
SGD
/Capital letter please)
ADDRESS .
UNIVERSITY..
SUBJECT OF STUDY 0015Y

