2 F E L I X
MAIR ACCUSES
Lirmsey Filibustering?
Q N THURSDAY WEEK, a large audience packed the Union Con-
cert Hall, and witnessed the rare feat of a Union meeting open
on time!
After the usual business of the meeting, Keith Cavanagh proposed the first
of the two expected motions—"decrying the proposed system of loans to students.
The main point of this speech was that the present Government has changed
their policy on student loans, and the means test.
Because of this change, the number
of women students and those from
poor families would fall, thus it
seemed that the Government was
ignoring the Robbins and Anderson
reports.
The first speech from the floor
produced the start of a series of bor-
ing amendments and counter-amend-
ments. Frank Fuchs, seconded by
David Reich, proposed that a com-
mittee be set up to help the Executive
look into the position of student
grants. Reich added a touch of farce
by suggesting that the meeting should
support the amendment and reject the
motion. The President ruled him out
of order. The amendment was passed
virtually nem con. ,
Ted Needham took the floor, and
proposed that any mention of the
means test should be deleted from
the motion. The President ruled
Barry M a i r out of order when he
stated, " I retract my statement that
M r . Needham is a nit."
A procedural motion was put for-
ward, but Dave Livesey promised he
had further information to sway the
meeting. This led Mair to accuse
Livesey of filibustering so that he
would not have to propose the second
motion on an open vote for the Presi-
dency. The procedural motion was
defeated. Livesey told of the rela-
tively high failure rates in countries
already having loans systems.
Time running short, a vote was
taken after a procedural motion and
the motion was carried. A commit-
tee was set up consisting of Council
plus Fuchs, Cavanagh, and Sean
Dunne.
PROF. B L A C K E T E L E C T E D PRESIDENT OF T H E R O Y A L
SOCIETY
Oxford fails the Nation
Q N 30 NOVEMBER, P. M . S. Blackett, Nobel Prize Winner, Pro-
fessor oi Physics at I.C.. ex-Dean of R.C.S., ex-Pro-Rector of
I.C., was made President of the Royal Society. He refuses to state
his intensions for the Society yet, but his views on the Society's recent
course are clear.
He endorses enthusiastically the in.
novations made by Lord Florey; in-
cluding the increased numbers of
" technological " Fellows, the expert
studies on the brain-drain and popula-
tion growths and the advice it gave
to the Trend Committee on Scientific
policy.
There is hope that increased atten-
tion will be paid to such reports in
the future, thanks to the position
Blackett enjoys in the Government.
He is a member of the Council for
Scientific Policy under the Secretary of
State for Education and Science, M r .
Crosland, who is responsible for £100
million channelled annually through
the University Grants Council and
Research Councils.
Recently, Blackett says, the numbers
of staff and research students in Bri-
tish Universities have been rising by
7 per cent, per annum. The cost of
equipping university research has risen
Research
PHYSICISTS
M E T A L L U R G I S T S
M A T H E M A T I C I A N S
C H E M I S T S ENGINEERS
With the demand for electricity doubling every eight years, we can offer
some of the most challenging research, both fundamental and applied, to be
tackled in the coming years. Rewarding careers are also offered within the
Computing Branch, where the solution of research, planning and operational
problems necessitate the use of some of the most advanced computer
equipment in the world.
You will find a university-like atmosphere, modern equipment and
opportunities for consultation with universities and research organizations.
Our laboratories are pleasantly situated and have well-established sports
and social clubs.
Excellent salaries and prospects are offered; at 21 -22 with a good
honours degree you could earn £1,100 p.a.; for a Ph.D. at 24-25 this might
be £1,500 p.a. Freedom is given to publish the results of research and it is
possible to work for higher degrees.
Apart from research, there are opportunities for electrical and mechanical
engineers and physicists to gain two years engineering training leading to
good careers in generation, transmission or design and construction. Posts
and training schemes in administration and personnel management are
available for arts graduates and those of other disciplines.
W. H. F. Brooks, Recruitment and
University Liaison Officer, Sudbury House,
15 Newgate Street, London, E.C.1
Further information
is available
from:
The Board's representatives will be visiting this University on January
14th 1966: Physicists. February 2nd: Electrical & Mechanical Engineers.
March 1st: Metalurgists, Mathematicians, Chemical Engineers, Chemists,
wnen they will be pleased to meet you to discuss career opportunities. Further
details obtainable from your Appointments Officer.
by 15 pei cent, per annum. The
difference between these two numbers
he calls increasing " sophistication
factor." If Britain is to get the most
from her slender means, she must be
ruthless in her treatment of industry
and university research alike.
The U.G.C. and the Research coun-
cils must provide clear-cut guidance,
by making sure that new departments
in Universities do not duplicate the
work of existing ones, and by develop-
ing " centres of excellence " — a few
strong rather than many weak depart-
ments. " We must endow ability not
subsidise mediocrity." he says. This
new world of science and industry
will be "vital but not cosy."
The new scientific statesmen must
realise that the endowment o? scien-
tific research depends directly on the
productivity in the near future of
about 1000 export firms, of most of
which they have never heard.
Both the private firms and the uni-
versities (especially Oxford) have been
guilty—the one by failing to realise
the impro.Vance of technology, the
other by not encouraging science
students into technology. More must
be persuaded, even though this will
mean drawing- talent awn" from the
science departments. Further, the
inhibitions in the way of business
consultancy by academics must disap-
pear.
C H R I S C O O P E R
FOREIGN
AFFAIRS
Selected by Paul Smith
The Duke Wins
The Duke of Beaufort has been elec-
ted Chancellor of Bristol University
despite the passing, almost unani-
mously, of a motion by the Union
calling on the student representatives
on the University Governing Body to
vote against him. The proposer of
the motion said that the University
had chosen the Duke purely because
of his social status.
* * *
Closing Time Put Back
Visiting hours at two Bristol Halls
of Residence have been extended, and
residents may now entertain women
until 10.00 p.m., bringing them into
line with the two new halls. Resi-
dents' guests in the remaining two
halls still have to be out by 9.00
p.m., however.
* * *
Rowdy Vice-Pres
The Vice-President of Newcastle
University was attacked by an un-
identified student when he asked to
see his Union card after an outbreak
of rowdiness in the bar. The student
escaped after the Vice-President re-
taliated.
* * *
Fiery Beer
Chaos reigned at a Durham Hall
of Residence after a student tried
to open a beer bottle on the fire alarm
button.
* * *
Leaving N.U.S
The President of Queen Mary Col-
lege Union is to urge the Union Gene-
ral Meeting to vote in favour of leav-
ing the N.U.S. on the grounds that it
is totally useless to the students of
Q . M . C and serves no purpose that
is not adequately served by the college
union.

