4 F E L I X
X
Imperial College Union
Prince Consort Road
London, S.W.7
Telephones : K E N 2963
Internal 2881/2799
E D I T O R — D . I. WILLIAMS 2799
Assistant Editor—Peter Combes
Production Manager—Barrie Pichler 090
Features Editor—John Cawson 2751
News Editor—John Grout 3351
Sports Edkor—Frank Hobson 3353/4
Treasurer—Andrew Mayo 3353/4
Sales—Pete Ash, Elizabeth Rankin, Rodney Dawson
Local Advertising—Tony Firshman, Chris Lampard
Sub-editors—Graham Botch, Malcolm Roasiter, Richard Mitchell
Photographers—Colin Harrison, Kahif Qattan
Cartoons—Richard Gentle
National Advertising—Educational Publicity C H A 6081
Comment
Onward Christian Soldiers
" p i O U S WORDS are not enough!" repeats Christian Hardwick in
the latest edition of that religious newsletter CONTACT. This
is in comment upon the way in which a working party of " three
Communists " was set up to help the Union Executive look into
the subject of the proposed Government loans and student grants
in general at the last Union Meeting.
Mr. Hardwick—presumably i n agreement with other leaders of this year's
" Holy Huddle "—goes on to chide IC Christians for being more concerned
with who attends Eucharist and other devotional and " pious " discussion
meetings than with the actual welfare of man. "Grants and the way
the Union is run—these are God's concern, and thus ours " (the Christians,
that is). H e continues, " Is it just another example of our failure when
put to the test?"
Does this, therefore, herald a revival of united Christian activity in Union
politics at this College—or are they but phrases blown to the wind? Next
term should see the fruits of Mr. Hardwick's invective.
But, one wonders, will only the Christians dare challenge the " left-wing
front"? Why do we hear so little from the biggest of the political societies
the Conservatives—in determining Union policy? A n d what of that body
of supposed speakers—the Debating Society (or at least their regular
" stars ")—why do they, with the notable exception of David Reich, have
so little to say i n Union Meetings? (Were they not last year seeking
to train people for this very purpose?)
However, these recognised forms of " cliques " (for want of a better term)
should not exclude the so-called " ordinary student member " from having
his»8ay. But too little organisation here does have its disadvantages—
as" was only too obvious last fortnight when a multiude of unnecessary
(plus a few valid !) amendrrlents, points of order and points of inform-
mation were, thrown around, all contributing to the exclusion of another
major, and less nebulous, topic—the proposal of an open vote for the
Presidency.
Season of Good Cheer
Perhaps the coming vacation will cause many to re-think their policy i n
Union politics. The results we shall see at the next General Meeting,
on 27 January. There I look forward to seeing some half dozen or so
organised groups of people vying with each other, showing democracy i n
action, seeking to b u i l d a .better Union.
HP RUE TO THE tradition of the oncoming season of goodwill to all men
(and women), I wish all members of Felix staff and all our readers a
very happy Christmas and a successful New Year.
D. I. WILLIAMS
L A M L E Y ' S
T E C H N I C A L & G E N E R A L
B O O K S
A R T M A T E R I A L S
D R A W I N G
I N S T R U M E N T S
S T A T I O N E R Y
P A P E R B A C K S
1, 3 & 5 E X H I B I T I O N R O A D ,
L O N D O N , S.W.7
Breach of
Rule IS ii
T A S T W E E K residents of Blight
Hall were paralysed to receive a
circular at first sight serving Notice
on Residents. However, the Notice
was merely a notice, excerpts from
which follow :
. . . The Security Police have repor-
ted that about 3 p.m. on Saturday
4th December, about 550 young men
left the building accompanied by
about half a dozen tired-looking
young ladies. These ladies had not
been observed to enter the premises
since the Security Police went on
duty at 8.30 that morning. It is
quite clear that such behaviour is a
breach either of Regulation 221
, or
Regulation 25 i i 2
as well as a grave
breach of the spirit of para 173
and
a misinterpretation of para 5 f4
. In
this context I, -the Disciplinary Sub-
Committee, am not prepared to en-
gage i n discussion about the precise
C O L C U T T
J T IS N O T very often i n this college than anything happens which really
offends the ordinary student or viO;ates his coue o i behaviour. However,
there are two subjects in the air at the moment which cannot, and should
not, pass without comment.
Where hove ait the
Spotlamps gone?
C ; O U T H S I D E C A R P A R K and motor cycle shed have over the years seen
a good deal of the coming and going of a motley selection of vehicles,
but just recently, there has been a good deal more going than coming.
As long ago as the beginning of last session, people were complaining of
pilfering from bicycles and motor cycles. Reports i n " P e l i x " and
notices requesting items to be returned " with no questions asked " seem
to have had no effect whatsoever. The problem has now reached a peak
where a positive effort must be made to curb this activity.
Students are losing whole assemblies, wheels, engines and the like from
their machines, the thieves now not content with bicycle pumps and spot-
lights. Only a day or two ago, I spoke to a resident of Southside whose
bicycle had been reduced to a frame overnight. The difficulty of finding
the offenders is hightened by the fact that people are always in the shed
taking their own property apart and a stranger in there would not be at
all obvious. It seems doubtful that this is the work of students, because
they cannot use what they steal or it would be noticed by the owners.
They could of course, sell it, but it seems more likely that gangs of
outsiders are coming i n at various times, perhaps during the morning
when it's quite quiet, and lifting our property i n fantastic quantities.
What can be done? Perhaps militant action by those affected to persuade the
college to fit gates with locks could be the answer. Unfortunately the
motor cyclists do not have any official committee to represent them or
act on thir behalf.
Happy Days
are here again
"D O S T E R S M A Y O N L Y be placed on Union notice boards if they have
* the approval of the Publicity Officer. Generally such approval is granted
without question, but recently, there has been a series of notices put up
in Southside giving publicity to a group of people calling themselves " the
Gay Set." The poster invites one to v.: it nearby pubs, and promise enter-
tainment in the form of cabaret and lively company. Y o u are promised
that no longer will your life be dull and uninteresting but will take on a
splendid gay aspect. Y o u will become one of the " in-crowd," mingling in
close proximity with actors, pop stars and the like.
You get all these " benefits " and all you have to give is your presence. Or is
it? 1 decided to try two of the places mentioned in the advertisement and
went first to the " Chepstow," looking forward to seeing Terry Noel " the
leading women impersonater i n England." Far from finding a lively set,
the place was full of seedy-looking introverts all looking as if tomorrow
the end really was at hand. Needless to say, I did not wait for M r . (or is
it Miss) Noel. The " Colehearne " is pretty well known in I.C. (I'm not
sure why!) and so I will not waste space in describing it, suffice to say I
was terrified during all of the five minutes I lasted inside.
This sort of thing being advertised within college is a disgrace of the first
magnitude and must cease at once. The Executive must vet publicity
more carefully in the future if people are not to be acutely embarrassed
when they bring their parents and girl friends past these posters. The
very nature of the advertising, and the way it has changed since the
beginning of term suggests a distinct subversive attempt to lure students
who may be down and lonely, into a questionable clique.
Happy Christmas or should it be Gay Noel to you all.
the What's On column for such items
will instead be published in a special
free Felix on Wednesday, 13 January,
All copy, please by 6 p.m. Tuesday,
12 January to Mike Smith, 213 Fal
mouth (3353/4) or via Felix pigeon-
hole in Union rack.
WAY OF THE WORLD
by Mgnotus
WHAT'S ON
T N VIEW of the fact that arrange
ineiits for club meetings early
next term have not yet been settled
definition of "' ladies," " young," or
" power." Without sparing a mo-
ment's thought to interpretation of the
Regulations, or to somewhat obscur-
anist matters such as morality, I will
point out that I shall have no hesita-
tion whatever in enforcing any Regu-
lation that they won't let me overlook.
I will therefore merely state that such
behaviour must cease forthwith."
Ta for now,
F R A N K C U R B I N G
1
" Residents are not permitted on
roofs nor should they scale walls of
College buildings."
2
" It is strictly forbidden for a resi-
dent to introduce an overnight guest
to the authorities. Any resident who
is responsible for such unauthorised
occupations may be required to leave
the Hall without even time to get
dressed."
3
" . . . leaving bathrooms unclean or
untidy, wasting light and " power,"
. . . acts which might lead to personal
injury "
4
". . . but residence for less than half
a year shall be disregarded."
N o such letter was received by mem-
bers of I C W A ; are we to take it that
the authorities don't care about
strange women in their rooms?
Who is He ?
T V / H O IS I G N O T U S ? Which of the
" Human derelicts who throng the
Press Room on Wednesday night and
Thursday morning can have been
driven to this pass? Is it beetle-
browed, totally-illiterate, but other-
wise totally-unfitted-for-the-job, Editor
Ian Bilious? Is it bureaucratic, en-
cyclopaedic, power-hungry John
Snout, eyes fixed on the Editor's
chair? Is it long-haired, pseudo-
intellectual, Chris Stupor, narcissistic
Sexsocsec? Is it lofty, laughing, Mick
Bitch-all, who only last week invested
in a new typewriter, also with an eye
to that Editorship? Is it even the Big
Boomer himself—F. Lecher?
Worse yet—who is B. G ? Is he
Ignotus? Does he know himself?
See next Union Meeting for exciting
public apologies.

