8 F E L I X
How an account
with the Westminster
can play an essential
part in your career
Things will be very different now you are out
on your own. Do you know what we mean ?
Q u i t e a s h o c k
Life in a bed-sitter can be unexpectedly expensive. Food,
entertainment, sport, books, can all cost m u c h more than you
had expected. F o r the first time i n your life you really start
worrying about money. Come and see the Westminster. W e
can help with expert advice.
M a k i n g t h i n g s easier
T h e Westminster helps thousands of young people every
year. A n d goes on to help them, positively, throughout the,
whole course of their careers. Here is how the Westminster
can make things easier for you.
1. A s y o u get i n t o y o u r stride. Y o u ' l l soon have money
decisions to make (methods of saving, types of insurance,
the problem of a mortgage and so on). Y o u r local
Westminster Manager has immense experience of this kind
of problem. If you want it, he'll help you draw up a personal
budget plan that will give you the chance to build up a small
reserve of capital.
2. Starting o n y o u r o w n . Perhaps at some stage you'll want
to start your own business. T h e n your Westminster
Manager can help you i n all kinds of unexpected ways. H e
can often put you i n touch with people and opportunities
that can make the difference between failure and success.
3. W h e n y o u r e a c h the top. Sooner or later you'll have to
invest quite substantial sums of personal capital. T h e
quality of your life after retirement depends on how you do
it. It's not just a technical problem. T h e best advice comes
from someone who knows the kind of man you are.
H i s i n s t i n c t is not to w a r n , b u t to help. Is your image of
a Bank Manager SO years out of date ? Call i n at your local
Westminster Branch and see what an up-to-date bank can
do. Y o u ' l l probably find that the Manager will be prepared
to lower; substantially, your bank charges i n the early years
of your career.
Services that make life easier
The Westminster Bank offers many services to every
account holder - ranging from greetings cheques, savings
and deposit accounts, travellers' cheques, foreign currency,
night-safes, safe-keeping of documents and valuables, to
help with wills and investments. We want you to use them.
And use them to the full. They are the key to an easier,
well-ordered life.
Next time you pass the Westminster—call i n and ask to see
the Manager. H e ' l l explain exactly h o w the Westminster
Bank can help you. Or write to the Westminster Bank
L i m i t e d , 115 O l d B r o m p t o n Road, South Kensington, and
ask for our booklet' O n U s i n g Y o u r Bank'. The Westminster
has over 1,350 branches i n England and Wales.
BANKING
OPENING an account with a bank can have many advantages,
even when the income is only a small one. Banks welcome the
small accounts of students and people starting out on their careers—
after all many of these are likely to grow into large ones later on.
Banks have of course the basic functions that most people know about
—i.e. they accept deposits, provide a simple and cfiic'ent means of payment
through the cheque system- and they lend, usually in the short-term, this latter
function being one usually affecting indusry and commerce rather more than
the private customer.
The cheque system is in fact what first attracts most individuals to banking.
Relying on cash alone for making all one's payments is cumbersome and
highly inconvenient for anyone who has to make transactions involving more
than trivial amounts, as most of us have to from time to time.
Incidentally over 537 million ar-
ticles passed through the banks' clear-
ings last year, worth £358,669 nr'lion,
'or £7,567 million per head of the
population of England and Wales.
However, the basic banking services
are by no means all that the banks
can offer to their customers to help
make their financial lives run more
smoothly.
Some of their additional services
could be useful to you now, others
later on. To mention one of the best
known, by making standing orders
to your bank you can make sure that
any regular payments you have to
make, such as subscriptions, insurance,
rent, etc., are paid on the due date
without your having to do anything
more than ensure that there are suffi-
cient funds on your account to meet
them.
FRIARS
NOT ELEPHANTS
T H E R E A R E more elephants
in England than there are
friars. Some of the few—friars
not elephants—were visited ou
Saturday, December 4 t h , by a
group of predominantly first yeai
students, accompanied by Brother
Columba, SSF. The visit came
at the end of the first week of i
" Getting to Know You " scheme
Travelling Friday evening, the
weekend was spent at the Gonvent of
the Community of S. Francis at
Compton Durville, Somerset, where
a group of nuns administer a hospital
for old people. The Friary visited
was near Cerne Abbas in Dorset
One of the Francisan friars told
something of his work amongst drug
addicts in the East end of London. At
the convent in the evening, another
of the brothers told of his experiences
on the kibbutzim in Israel.
L E S J O H N S O N
Letter
Edwards Cleared
I WAS astounded by your coverage
of last week's debate on Rhodesia.
Naturally, one first notices the head-
lines of an article which in this case
read " Edwards loses control." I find
it incredible to believe that your re-
porter thought that this sentence,
which presumably is his opinion, was
of such paramount importance to
justify its use as a headline.
It is a pity that your " reporter"
did not hear the two main speeches.
Had he done so, he would have noted
that they were not interrupted, con-
trary to What his article would have
one believe.
I would add that in a debate on a
topic such as the present Rhodesian
situation, it is to be expected that
members of the audience participate
by making spontaneous comment, re-
lating their views to what is being
said.
CHRISTOPHER ERIKSON,
Treasurer, Debates.
ED.—The production of a headline
—selection of the most significant
part of a story—is an editorial func-
tion.
Another service which is much used
is that of safe custody, whereby banks
undertake the safe keeping of custo-
mers' documents and valuables—
which might .include, for (example,
National Savings Certificates. Ser-
vices connected with travel include the
provision of travellers' cheques (which
can be bought to use in this country
as well as abroad, though they have
of course chiefly become known in
connection with foreign travel), buy-
ing of foreign notes and coin, and ob-
taining passports.
If you want to save something, as
distinct from operating a current ac-
count, on which of course no interest
is paid, you may open a deposit or
savings account, on which interest will
be paid, related to the current level of
Bank rate, and changing as that
changes. Y o u may also buy savings
certificates and Premium Bonds
through your bank.
Altogether one's bank account
usually turns out to be an indispens-
able part of one's financial arrange-
ments.
GOD AND MAN
Few people really believe in God,
if they did, they wouldn't continue to
think and act as they do ; this country
is overrun with people who are theo-
retical believers but practical atheists.
This view was expressed by Jack
Graham when he came to address
I.C.C.U. on Monday 29th November.
He quoted Paul as saying that if
only man were to examine the world
around him, he would see ample evi-
dence to convince him of his mis-
deeds. Man has a built-in conscience
—he knows when he has done wrong.
Man cannot find God by searching
— t o start with, man is finite, whereas
God is infinite, and besides this,
man's understanding is impaired by
sin. Intellectualism isn't everything.
The man who starts by saying " I
don't know " is more honest than the
one who says " I know it all." '
G o d must reveal Himself to man
if man is to know H i m — i n terms that
man can understand. This is one rea-
son for the coming of Christ—God's
ultimate word to us. Through H i m
we can come to know God. But we
must first be prepared to climb down
and say: " God, I don't know—take
me and show me." Q-^
W H A T L O N D O N OFFERS
A S T U D E N T
Editor: R. Dewan
Have you explored Soho'! If you
haven't, you are recommended to
arm yourself with a copy of
What London Offers a Student
and go to Piccadilly on a Satur-
day evening—Yes, you are as-
sured of a wonderful time.
This publication, edited by R.
Dewan, has some of the most in-
teresting articles on student Lon-
don. It is Free for the First
Year studentsbut others can ob-
tain it for a paltry 3/-; it is a
good value for money.

