He’s Just Not That Into You
HHHKK
Director: Ken Kwapis
Writer: Abby Kohn et al.
Cast: Jennifer Aniston
Ginnifer Goodwin
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
Friday 13 March 2009 felix
Film
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
20 felix Friday 13 March 2009
Film
Film Editors – Zuzanna Blaszczak and Jonathan Dakin
The film equivalent of Marmite hits the screen
Watchmen HHHHK
Director: Zack Synder
Writer: David Hayter et al.
Cast: Malin Akerman
Billy Crudup,
Jackie Earle Haley
Jonathan Dakin
Film Editor
By this point in time, you must know
about the torrid history of Watchmen,
as it has been heavily advertised and
dissected in the press. Based on a huge-
ly successful comic book series by Alan
Moore and Dave Gibbons, Watchmen
as a movie has been in development
since the early ‘90s. Many people have
claimed it was unfilmable because of
its sweeping narrative and spectacular
and iconic imagery, and many fans are
still unconvinced that director Synder
will be able to do the graphic novel any
justice.
The plot? Well it is hard to explain
but it starts with an assassination that
makes three former superheroes come
out of hiding to investigate what is go-
ing on. That is the basic plot, and by
saying the rest I think it would spoil
it. It is mainly a complex political web
which draws the lives of the characters
in and out of one another, with the sav-
ing of the world aspect a subplot that
comes closer to the forefront as the
story progresses. I know this is vague,
but I think that not knowing the sto-
ryline makes the film much more in-
teresting and watchable (take my word
for it!).
As you can tell from the stars above, I
liked it. I liked it a lot. But I hadn’t read
the comic before I had seen the film,
so to make sure I wrote as objective re-
view as possible, I went to the cinema
with two friends of mine who had both
previously read the original source
material, so that they could tell me
their views on the film. One of them
loved it and the other hated it. I think
Watchmen is a Marmite-type of film
– you either get it or you don’t. And I
personally don’t think many people in
the general public will. It is the kind of
film that the critics love because it has
‘deep’ political meanings and is well di-
rected, so I was careful not to jump on
their bandwagon. As a superhero film,
I’m not sure it works, but as a political
action/drama centred around a gang of
former superheroes, it is great.
For starters, three things about this
film bugged me. The soundtrack made
me wince (especially during the sex
scene – why was ‘Hallelujah’ playing
in the background?), the plot was at
Bardem lives every man’s dream with two lovely ladies at his side.
Watchmen finally arrives at the cinemas and comic book lovers are clearly split into ‘love it’, ‘hate it’ camps.
Why do people never call back after
a date that you thought went so well?
Why does the person you are obviously
flirting with barely look at you and act
like you aren’t even there? Why is it so
hard just to get someone to notice you,
even when you try your hardest to look
attractive? The answer for everyone
out there who has ever experienced
this: they just aren’t that into you.
Based on a self-help book of the same
name, He’s Just Not That Into You, takes
the idea of why people don’t return
calls and never speak to you again and
places it into the lives of an all-star cast
who re-enact our deepest fears about
dating and relationships.
For example, take Gigi (Ginnifer
Goodwin), an attractive twenty-some-
thing woman who finds that every man
she goes on a date with never calls her
back, even when she thought they had
clicked. Why does no one want to go
out with her? Is there something wrong
with her? Or is there a problem with all
the men that she is attracted to?
The film lays it out straight down the
line from the very beginning by telling
women that if a man wants to be with
you, he will be with you. Men don’t
play mind games – if they aren’t into
you, they just won’t see you again. So
don’t tell yourself that they went on a
business trip or have a meeting or are
on holiday – they just don’t want to go
out with you. These messages are told
comically throughout the film, reveal-
ing secrets of both the male and female
psyche as the different character’s lives
weave in and out of one another as the
plots progress. One couple decide that
if they can’t get married, they should
break up. Another happily married
couple discover that maybe they don’t
know each other as well as they might
think. A beautiful, young woman real-
ises that when you are really attracted
to someone, it doesn’t matter if they
have a wife: you should just go for it.
The trailer promises a fiery affair, a
love triangle, loads of Catalan sun and
Latino meat (Javier Bardem, Penelope
Cruz). Unfortunately the trailer also
overemphasises the tragic slant of the
movie which, in actuality, is not as
melodramatic and soap-opera-like as
you’d be forgiven to conclude from the
teasers.
The story is deceptively simple –
two young, American women (Hall as
Vicky and Johansson as Cristina) arrive
in Barcelona to spend the summer with
a well-off relative of Vicki. At a routine
dinner in an ordinary restaurant late
at night, their holiday suddenly gets a
twist when they are approached by Juan
Antontio Gonzalo, a bohemian, fully
Spanish-blooded painter (Bardem)
who offers them exactly what Cristina
is looking for – a passionate adventure.
Naturally things get a bit more compli-
cated as Vicky, who doesn’t trust Juan
Antonio and is not stirred by his open
‘womanising’ and mix of macho looks
with an artistic soul, falls in love with
the exciting stranger. But nothing can
Seriously, he’s not into you!
The acting is very good, with eye
candy for both men and women in
the form of Scarlett Johansson, Justin
Long and many others. Jennifer Ani-
ston shines in a likeable role not too
dissimilar from her Friends counter-
part, and Jennifer Connelly proves her
acting merits by tackling the emotional
scenes. Bradley Cooper is also good as
a badly-behaved husband, and Drew
Barrymore makes the most of her
cameo. Although the script is some-
times obvious and the plot is fairly pre-
dictable, it is hard not to like the film.
It provides some genuinely funny mo-
ments that are juxtaposed with some
touching scenes. For those of you who
get really engrossed in these types of
films, there is a nail-biting moment
in one of the plots when you consider
that the couple may not get together,
as it could go either way. The ending is
good as there are a few happy moments
along with sad ones, and the unhappy
bits are realistic, therefore making the
film as a whole stronger (because I like
a bit of harsh reality). Let’s just say that
it is good to see women who don’t sell
themselves short by settling for less!
It is a fairly forgettable, run-of-the
mill chick-flick that people will en-
Woody Allen takes a new look at love
Vicky, Cristina, Barcelona
HHHHK
Director: Woody Allen
Writer: Woody Allen
Cast: Javier Bardem
Scarlett Johansson
Rebecca Hall
points incomprehensible (and this is
why reading the book before seeing it
is a good idea) and the character of Dr.
Manhattan (played by Billy Crudup)
was dry. But these critiques aside, eve-
rything else was brilliant. The direc-
tion was great: the film looked daz-
zling – drawing you in from the very
beginning until the end. The images
were very iconic and memorable, do-
ing the comic books justice as well as
giving the film depth and style. The
acting was also very good; Jackie Earle
Haley as Rorschach and Jeffery Dean
Morgan as The Comedian stole the
show with two dominating perform-
ances. Patrick Wilson who played the
Nightowl was also very good and al-
though Malin Akerman as the second
Silk Spectre wasn’t as convincing as the
rest, she looked the part and held her
own. Saying that, both Billy Crudup
(Dr. Manhattan) and Matthew Goode
(Ozymandias) were not very good in
their roles but mainly because their
characters were bland and forgettable,
although crucial to the plot.
The special effects are amazing: Ror-
schach’s changing ink-blotted face is a
marvel and the fight scenes look very
slick and cool. And that is something
else I must come on to – the action
scenes. After seeing 300, I had high
hopes for the director, and he did not
let me down. The action sequences
were by far the best parts of the film,
and although the Matrix-style slow
motion shots were overused and un-
original, the beat-’um-up gory action
was very exciting. The best part of the
film was when a few of the characters
break into a prison to help one of their
friends, only to be encountered by
some very angry and very aggressive
inmates.
The gore is not for the faint of heart:
you will see some very grisly bits that
make you grit your teeth in disgust.
One of these moments includes a bone
being snapped out of an arm, and an-
other features a meat cleaver and a
bald head. Oh dear. After all, this is an
18-rated film; but judging by how some
the audience reacted to the naked Dr.
Manhattan, whose neon blue penis is
on show throughout the entire film,
you wouldn’t have guessed it.
The overall tone of the film is very
dark and unknowingly uncertain, as it
takes quite a long time before the final
unveiling of why everything has hap-
pened is revealed. This helps add an
unpredictable quality to the film, but
only if you have not read the book.
Although the story is pretty flat and
drags on for longer than it should,
Watchmen is a spectacle to behold, as
it pleases the eye as well as the brain,
since it gets you thinking about po-
litical issues you might not otherwise
ponder. It isn’t the revelation that peo-
ple are saying it is, but it does have a
very uncharacteristically, different feel,
with a strongly anti-Hollywood end-
ing. It is refreshing to see such a dif-
ferent movie, something that isn’t your
usual Hollywood hogwash.
So if you like regular superhero
films, like Spiderman, you might not
like Watchmen because it is a lot more
edgy, and is definitely not a happy clap-
py piece of cinema. Watchmen is the
kind of film that everyone will have an
opinion about, from the doting fans to
the unaware masses. So go and watch
it, and the only thing I can guarantee
you is this: you will either love it, or
you will hate it.
joy when they watch it, but probably
wouldn’t be too bothered about see-
ing again. Even men who are dragged
into the cinema by a woman can find
something to like about it, even if it is
Scarlett Johansson’s cracking body. It is
good that someone has finally decided
to tell women the truth about how
men think, but I doubt many women
will listen to it (just keep telling your-
selves that because he winked at you, it
means you will get married!).
So for everyone out there in need of
relationship advice, take heed: if they
aren’t trying to get you, then they just
aren’t that into you.
Jonathan Dakin
Film Editor
Zuzanna Blaszczak
Film Editor
happen as Cristina also has the hots for
the artist and Vicky is in fact engaged.
That’s all very tragic and really not that
interesting but throw in Juan’s slightly
psychopathic ex-wife (Marie Elena),
with Penelope Cruz in an Oscar win-
ning performance and the film be-
comes an explosion of pure, eccentric
and slightly crazy energy as the story
begins swerving surprisingly from side
to side.
In all fairness, it’s not just Penelope
Cruz that makes the movie; the as-
sembled cast works perfectly togeth-
er and makes a stretched story very
believable.
It’s enough to look at Johansson to
know Cristina is forever fruitlessly
looking for something she wants but
never knows what it is, while Hall ef-
fortlessly plays the down-to-earth
friend taken aback by the sudden reali-
sation that when God wants to punish
you, he answers your prayers. And of
course Bardem is fantastic as the em-
bodiment of the lustful, yet tender and
sensitive, lover.
Even with a talented and well -tuned
cast, the film would probably be a rath-
er significant failure if it weren’t di-
rected by someone like Woody Allen.
This legendary director, who suffered
through a period of ample number
of misses recently, is one of the few
people who could pull this project
off. Allen plays with narrative styles,
themes, ideas, shots and emotions in
a virtuoso offering in step with the
amazing soundtrack of Spanish guitar.
The movie becomes great fun because
the director is having fun, constantly
winking at us and making sure we don’t
start taking things too seriously (in
typical Allen fashion). Beware though
as the humour is rather sophisticated
and finding pure laugh-out-loud mo-
ments can be tricky. But if you enjoy
laughing at bizarrely quirky events that
seem unreal yet so commonplace at
the same time, you’ll find a truck load
in Vicky, Cristina, Barcelona.
The true genius of the movie is that
coming out of the cinema you realise
that somewhere between the comedy
and the tragedy, you’ve been told a
tale well worth thinking over as it just
might change some of your set views
about love.
If superheroes were to have a convention, this is what it would look like.
A bit of eye candy for the men, enjoying a pedicure

