22 felix Friday 13 March 2009
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Technology
Technology Editor – Richard Lai
Richard Lai
Technology Editor
A
few weeks ago I prom-
ised to try out Windows
7 on a netbook (Acer As-
pire One), but sadly this
never happened. In fact,
before I started writing this column I
was at the Post Office to return the said
netbook back to its eBay seller.
All this fuss started back in early Feb-
ruary when I won an eBay auction for
the faulty netbook: all the seller said
was that the screen didn’t turn on, so
I assumed it would be an easy fix by
upgrading the BIOS (as suggested by
my good friend, Google). What actu-
ally let me down was that the seller
took pretty much forever to send the
item to me, coming up with all sorts
of excuses: heavy snow for the first
week (fair enough), then in the second
week he needed to get the shop to ex-
tract personal data from the hard disk
(should have done that before the auc-
tion ended!). In fact it was the fourth
week when the seller finally shipped
the netbook, but my joy was short-
lived: upon booting I discovered that
the screen was cracked.
Naturally, I had some suspicion that
maybe this was a dark fact that the sell-
er covered up in the auction listing but
on the other hand it could have been
Royal Mail’s fault. Anyhow, I contacted
the seller to see if I could get some sort
of refund: £70, which is the standard
rate for a new screen on eBay, or a full
refund if I return the netbook. At this
point I must point out that the refund
request is reasonable: I’d be happy to
claim the compensation from Royal
Mail myself, but the problem is that
the applicant must be the holder of the
proof of delivery – that was the seller
in this case.
The seller’s initial responses were
disappointing: he claimed that he had
contacted Royal Mail but was told that
they were “not too sure what they could
do”. Not good enough. In fact, the sell-
er’s claim sounds more like a steam-
ing pile of something that he collected
from the park, and by ignoring my e-
mails since then made it obvious that
he wasn’t willing to do anything about
this, so I filed a dispute with PayPal.
The process goes like this: you file a
dispute in order to get eBay’s attention,
who will assist you to deal with your
counterpart if requested; you escalate
the dispute to a claim in order to get
PayPal’s attention, who will actively
contact your counterpart to get an an-
swer. In my case, I heard nothing from
the seller a week after the dispute was
filed, so I escalated it to a claim.
As the title suggests, PayPal man-
aged to get the seller to speak to them,
and eventually decided that I was eligi-
ble for a full refund (including postage)
upon returning the item via tracked
delivery. They won’t be whipping the
seller for me, but at least I get all my
money back. Isn’t that great?
Be warned though: had the seller
not sent the item to me via tracked de-
livery, PayPal would not have given a
shit about this, so always double-check
when buying from or selling on eBay.
Finally, don’t forget to pick up the
new issue of Another Castle!
PayPal FTW!
Create your style
Special Introductory Offer
£23 only
for medium devices
£45 only
for large devices
How to qualify:
Choose a design from
1. www.myDIGISKINdesign.com or use
your own high resolution picture
Send your order (inc. device type) to
2. sales.uk@mydigiskin.
com for an invoice (pay by debit card, credit card or PayPal)
Once payment is received, pop down to the
3. Nokia Flagship
Store at 240 Regent Street and ask for a DIGISKIN staff
An hour later you can pick up your skinned device!
4.
Found out more by calling us on 08443 571 134.
Pimp up your iPhone
Richard lists a few great iPhone apps that you can’t live without
TwitterFon £ Free
If I haven’t got you hooked onto Twitter yet,
this app will: out of the many Twitter apps I’ve
tried on the iPhone, TwitterFon turned out to
be the fastest and most powerful of the lot. All
the buttons are at the right place, so you’ll be
tweeting with a minimum learning curve.
Also try: Tweetie £1.79
Similar app but supports multiple accounts.
Flixster £ Free
Chem. Eng. bad boy, Tadek (@tadekk on
Twitter), kindly pointed out that Cineworld
is currently doing a 2-for-1 student offer on
studentbeans.com, so go get the voucher and
then get this free app to locate your nearest
Cineworld cinema anywhere, anytime – well,
Mondays to Thursdays only for the offer.
Also try: VLC Remote £0.59
Watch movies at home instead with this handy app.
Bloom £2.39
Despite the price, Bloom is an app which, with-
out doubt, will be used more than once after
purchase. You can compose relaxing, ambi-
ent music by simply tapping anywhere on the
screen (thus leaving behind a beautiful radial
trail), or you can just let the bot make music
for you. Great for the exam season. (Thanks,
@VentnorBlog)
Also try: Koi Pond £0.59
Let the fish clear your stressed mind.
( )
)
(
)
(
London Tube Maps £0.59
*By Ben Fearnley, Computing undergraduate*
Ben talks about the development of this app:
London Tube Maps was designed from the
start as a useful way to find your way around
the London Underground network, and it has
turned out to be just that! With thousands of
users it has become a popular way to view the
transport system.
Of course, with success of a small app comes
a giant company wanting to milk it for every
penny they can sue its creator for. Very early
on in the life of the app, Transport for Lon-
don’s artwork designers, “Pulse Creative”, de-
manded payment to use their maps or else
they “would be forced to take legal action”. In
the end a settlement was agreed and with the
use of their original, high quality maps London
Tube Maps is now the perfect way to view the
Underground.
The development cycle continues though; the
next stop for London Tube Maps is tube sta-
tuses (in this shot you can get a sneak preview
of what’s coming). This addition will make
the app an invaluable utility for planning your
journey through London.”
Also try: Tube London City £2.99
Pricey but has route planner and live information. )
(
“
”
Easy-to-navigate linear view with search
A sneak peek of the upcoming status feature

