W
e are excited to present this year’s Imperial College RAG Fashion Show 2009. The show this
year is themed around legendary Fashion ‘ICONS’. In today’s society where image is eve-
rything and we aspire to be our role models, we want to showcase some of the world’s
icons that have moulded fashion throughout the years. We will show James Bond’s
classically clean-cut suits and Audrey Hepburn’s sexy cocktail dresses contrasted with
Vivienne Westwood’s rock punk designs.
The show is on Tuesday 17th March at Heaven nightclub, one of the biggest and best party ven-
ues in the capital, famous worldwide. All profits from the show are going to this year’s RAG
charity, The Winnicott Foundation. The Winnicott Foundation is a registered charity that aims
to help save the lives of premature and critically-ill newborn babies, and give them the best
future possible. Founded by doctors and parents in 1985, the charity supports the Win-
nicott Baby Unit at St Mary’s Hospital, Paddington. We are hoping to raise over £5000
from the Fashion Show this year.
Many fantastic companies have donated clothes to us this year ranging from high
street favourites Urban Outfitters, Intimissimi, Lyle and Scott to vintage classics
Sam Greenberg and Butterfly Girl. From European chic with Jaeger, Area 142
and Les Nereides to avant-garde Le Tour de Force and Ad Hoc. We will also
be showcasing the best in new British designers with Hinks Taylor and
Project Showroom No. 5 plus many, many more. This year’s show is set
to be the best clothing line-up yet, immortalising legendary style icons
from past and present.
The Fashion Show this year promises to be a whirlwind of beau-
tiful models and clothes. With amazing goodie bags for every
guest and free entry to our after-party, this is one evening
not to be missed. For those wishing to go VIP these tickets
include free Topshop jewellery, front-row seats and a free
drink. On the night we also have an array of wonderful
prizes to be won in the gift tree and raffle, including a
£50 Sophie’s Steakhouse voucher, Alice and Astrid
underwear and a £250 hair voucher. The after-
party will be a night to remember with incred-
ible live DJ acts and drinks deals, taking you
through till 3am.
Tickets are now on sale, go to www.
icfashionshow.co.uk to purchase yours.
Don’t miss out on the chance to see
the hottest people at imperial strut
their stuff on the catwalk. The
Fashion Show this year is set
to be iconic in every sense
of the word. See you all
there!
Helen McDill and Rachael Bishop present the RAG Fashion Show
Tuesday 17th March at Heaven
Doors open 7.30pm for the show at 8pm.
After-party doors open 10.30pm, finishing at 3am.
Tickets available from www.icfashionshow.co.uk
now
VIP- £25
Non-student seated – £18
Student seated – £15
Standing – £10
After party – £5 or £7 on the door
For more info email RAG.fashionshow@ic.ac.uk
in Hammersmith Apollo in 2008. The
frivolous hat was designed by the RCA
trained milliner Soren Bach.
“A hat is the cherry on the cake, the
dot on the ‘i’, the exclamation mark,
the fashion focus”, says Stephen Jones.
If visiting the exhibition is not enough
to quench your new found enthusiasm
about hats, go to the exhibition’s cura-
tor’s lunch time talk at the V&A this
Wednesday the 18th March at 1pm.
Hats: An Anthology by Stephen Jones
at the V&A, now – 31st May, student
tickets £4.
straw hat with floral details which was
once worn by Audrey Hepburn are
now on show in the exhibition.
As one of the world’s most sought
after milliner in the world, Jones has
designed for Madonna, Kylie Minogue
and the Rolling Stone; collaborat-
ed with John Galliano for Dior, Rei
Kawakubo for Commes de Garcon and
many more. A recent collaboration of
Jones with Giles Deacon gave birth to
the Pacman hat for Giles’ SS09 show.
The £5,000 hat accompanied Giles’
many contemporarily cut dresses and
skirts with a layer of translucent PVC.
The royal approved milliner also
highlighted the royal head gears in the
exhibition. The set includes the sim-
plest head gear of all – Queen Eliza-
beth II’s Hermes headscarf, which still
emits a faint hint of perfume. D&G,
Paul Smith, and Jean Paul Gaultier all
featured headscarves on their catwalks
in 2008, proving Agyness Deyn’s point
that Queen Elizabeth II has always
been one of the fashion icons of our
time; also the lilac felt and tulle hat that
the Queen Mother wore on her 100th
birthday. Further down the timeline,
From an old Egyptian mask
to enormous bunny ears
Transvestites
Boys wearing skinny jeans.
Girls wearing dinner jackets.
Go hardcore by wearing men’s
silk pyjamas à la D&G or top
up a boyfriend look by
wearing leather brogues.
A pair of adapted female
versions were spotted at
Russell&Bromley for £125.
Alternatively loiter around
charity shops for a cheap fix.
Fashion vs Luxury
“Fashion and luxury are the
same”, says Grace Codding-
ton, the Welsh Chief Fashion
Director for the US Vogue and
Anna Wintour’s right hand
woman. Having said that,
she is also astonished by the
extravangances of the fashion
world. “What? A $10,000 skirt?
You’re not paying for that one
skirt, you’re paying for all the
ideas and manufacture that go
into it.” Quite right.
A Sweet Face
Dolce & Gabanna will launch a
comprehensive make-up line
at Selfridges on 15th March.
The ads feature actress Scar-
lett Johansson and make-up
artist Pat McGrath. A bronz-
ing powder costs £27 and a
bright red lipstick costs £20.
The price range will put the
branded cosmetics in league
with the more historical
make-up lines from Christian
Dior and Chanel. The mascara
range will feature a signature
peppery scent. What? Scent in
mascara?
SICK
SHIT
A
groundbreaking fashion
show took place in the
V&A in 1971. This show
has transformed the
museum’s fashion and
textile collection into what we know
it as today. Thanks to the curator for
this fashion show, Sir Cecil Beaton – a
photographer for Vanity Fair and the
costume designer for the musical My
Fair Lady – he encouraged the V&A
to document a full history of fashion.
V&A’s fashion collection now boasts
over 28,000 pieces ranging from the
wedding suit of James II of England up
to the modern day masterpieces from
designers such as Vivienne Westwood
and Christian Lacroix.
V&A compares the legendary 1971
show to its current hat exhibition:
Hats - An Anthology by Stephen Jones.
Likening the implications underly-
ing Cecil and Stephen’s exhibitions
for V&A is only one aspect of the de-
signers’ seemingly parallel universe.
Steven Jones rescued some of Cecil
Beaton’s work for My Fair Lady which
were originally bagged up and ready to
be shipped off to a landfill site. After a
tip-off from stylist L’Wren Scott, Jones
proceeded to acquire the hats from a
Warner Brother’s archive in LA. The
The £5000 hat Stephen designed
for the Spring/Summer 09 Giles
catwalk.
Stephen Jones collaborating with
John Galliano.
An installation of a milliner’s
atelier in the Creation section of
the exhibition.
Flatpack hats? What next?
Bjork on stage in Hammersmith
Apollo with the dyed fur pom
pom head dress by the Danish hat
designer Soren Bach.
From top: The Queen has been
donning headscarves since WWII.
D&G revamped headscarves in
their Autumn/Winter 08 RTW.
Kawai Wong delves into the world of hats at the Victoria and Albert Museum
the bonnet that Queen Victoria wore
upon her union with Prince Albert is
also on the showcase.
Jones considered a constructing the
exhibition chronologically, but has
decided to follow the life of a hat in-
stead. The exhibition is divided into 4
sections - the stages of hat making: the
inspiration, the creation, the salon and
the client. The creation section fea-
tures an installation of a milliner’s at-
elier. The workroom is filled with hats
that are in different stages of produc-
tion. Also on show in the atelier are the
genuine “head conformations” of Prin-
cess Diana and Jackie Onassis.
Steven Jones travelled around the
world for two years in search of the
100 hats to add to the exhibition. The
remainder 200 hats come from within
the museum and private collectors.
The exhibition draws on pieces from
the Egyptian from 600 BC all the way
up to the two kaleidoscopes like pom-
pom head dresses Bjork wore on stage
24 felix Friday 13 March 2009
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Fashion
Fashion Editor – Dan Wan
Kawai Wong: What are the inspira-
tions behind these flat pack hats?
Zara: I worked in a commercial en-
vironment before I came to study at
the RCA. I am aware that large hats are
not the easiest objects to be packaged
and transported. So I was inspired by
the notion of a collapsible hat. I was
inspired to create elaborate hats that
can be folded up and don’t take up ex-
tra space.
K: How did you pursue the idea?
Z: I looked at various patents for
constructions that have been created
in the past. Also how things can be
cut out. Then I started to look at tech-
niques such as laser cutting etc.
K: Is this a completely new design?
Z: This has certainly opened up new
world of millinery for me. I am inter-
ested in things that are not necessarily
constructed from traditional blocks. I
have placed a patent in the technical
area. So I’d like to hope that this is a
completely new area of hat design.
K: What is your ethos in terms of de-
signing hats?
Z:Ilikethingsthatlooksimpleandel-
egant but also based on functionality.
K: Where are you going from here?
Z: I am open to all sorts of things at
the moment. There are many depart-
ments at the RCA and there are always
techniques that I can try and trial -
vacuum forming, clay modelling and
laser cutting. I’ll also experiment with
different fabrics as well which aren’t
necessarily used in traditional milli-
nery. And of course I will still develop
my flat pack hats.
K: Are you looking forward to start-
ing your own design label?
Z: I am actually quite looking for-
ward to working with other designers.
Graduating from RCA doesn’t mean
the end of a learning process. People
can evolve and get good aspirations
by collaborating with other people.
Stephen Jones works with an amazing
array of fashion designers.
Going forward my ambition will be
to work for another milliner or possi-
bly a couture house rather than on my
own.
Clockwise from top: Hat 1, Hat
2, Hat 3. Elegant, simple and
collaspesable!
Zara Gorman, from the RCA, has created flatpack hats. Kawai
Wong enquires

