felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Imperial
ladies win
delayed
Varsity
Jessica Poore &
Lauren Chalmers
Although hockey had a sucessful var-
sity day, the ladies 1’s had to wait a bit
longer.
The initial match, having been post-
poned due to Imperial having a BUCS
cup match, was played on a thundery
Sunday afternoon at Harlington. De-
spite this, the medic crowd were out
in force supporting the Medicals to the
very end, much to our appreciation.
The Medicals were out for revenge,
with one of the more unfortunate play-
ers, Sabrina Black, standing on crutch-
es on the sideline as a result of Emma
Berisford’s abuse from the last match.
The match began with a strong
Medical start, however they couldn’t
finish off the well worked play, espe-
cially since the Imperial pace started
really slowly as they expected to win.
The quick tempo from the Medicals
could be due to the fact that this game
was also to keep them from being rel-
egated. It was Imperial that managed
to break the deadlock with Jill scoring
the first goal.
Resilient, the Medicals battled hard
and had some chances, but a contro
Continued on page 30
Hockey
Imperial Women’s 1st XI 4
Medicals Women’s 1st XI 2
Mojito, Tequila and pointy foils
Foils drawn, under the gaze of the
mid-afternoon sun, IC Fencing nov-
ices strode confidently into competi-
tion against London’s finest at the ULU
Novice Foil Fencing competition. For
some their first competition lay ahead,
and for others, the experienced, their
second. In the heat of a match none of
this matters.
No nerves, no fear. The mind focuses
not on the dripping sweat and aching
muscles, nor the weary eyes, but on the
flood of memories from past training
sessions, evaluating the next move, the
pre-emptive strike. What followed by
the teams, Imperial Tequila and Mo-
jito, was a display of pure determina-
tion and skill.
Both teams eased to early victories in
the often tricky opening match, defeat-
ing both UCL second and third teams,
with impressive scores of 45-27 (Tequi-
la) and 45-32 (Mojito). Imperial Mojito
continued to put in a strong perform-
ance against UCL first, but eventually
succumbed to pressure against a very
strong UCL team.
Imperial Tequila’s second match
versus Kings was not so clear cut. An
evenly matched and intensely fought
struggle led to a 44-44 deadlock. All
eyes watched on intently as the com-
petitors took their positions. In a dis-
play of their skill and confidence, Im-
perial Tequila took victory. Cheering
ensued.
Giving firm opposition, both teams
lost their third matches against the two
strongest sides in the competition, with
Tequila losing to UCL1 and Mojito los-
ing to ULU a close 45-37. Mojito put up
a strong performance against the Kings
team which gave Tequila such trouble,
winning 45-38, an excellent result.
The competition closed with what
some claim to be the only match of the
competition, the Imperial Tequila-Mo-
jito showdown. The outcome of this
match was all important for the final
standings of the contest, with a medal
position at stake.
A closely battled, and needless to say
heated match once again came down to
one point. The weight of team pride on
their already weary shoulders tortured
the mind. Imperial Mojito overcame
the pressure to win a well deserved fi-
nal point.
With their victory Mojito took an
overall third place in the competition,
awarded bronze medal for a fantastic
performance on the day. All involved
gave impressive displays, a sign of a
strong future for IC Fencing club.
Celebrations were short lived how-
ever, with post competition drinks
Jason Lloyd
at the union. Penalties for the day’s
events were delivered by a multitude
of shots from the infamous epee guard,
penalties for a low overall score, high
score, or anything else the team could
come up with. The excellent perform-
ances of the day soon disappeared
from memory.
The Imperial novice team, affectionately known as Mojito and Tequila

