news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 21 November 2008 felix
News
4 felix Friday 13 March 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News
The world beyond
college walls
Edited by Hassan Joudi & Raphael Houdmont
President Lech Kaczynski has warned the US Obama administration of
not fulfilling its missile shield obligations to Poland outlined in a bilat-
eral agreement signed last summer.
In a television interview Kaczynski said, “A deal was signed, and I think
regardless of which administration is in power in the US, agreements have to
be implemented.” The comments come amid recent reports that Obama has
offered to suspend plans for a US missile defence shield in Eastern Europe, in
order to improve relations with Russia.
The whole missile-defence system consisted of 10 missile interceptor bases
in Poland and a radar station in the Czech Republic, and was designed to
counter threats from ”rouge states,” becoming fully operational by 2012. In
return the US would help upgrade Poland and the Czech Republic’s armed
forces.
The proposed system had received support from NATO, which Poland is
a member of, and Poland sees the system as extremely important for its se-
curity. But other ex-Soviet states are not so supportive of the idea and there
are fears the plan has already stoked up an arms race and contributed to a
new cold war.
Poland
The International Criminal Court (ICC) has issued an arrest warrant for
Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir.
It has accused the leader of committing crimes against humanity and war
crimes in war-torn Darfur, where more than 300,000 people have lost their
lives over the past 6 years. The arrest warrant follows on from the indict-
ment – a formal accusation of committing a crime – of Bashir in July 2008
which caused a stir as it was the first time a sitting heading of state had been
indicted.
In its arrest warrant the ICC refrained from pressing charges of genocide
due to insufficient evidence, but said that it would not hesitate to do so should
more evidence emerge. All 108 governments who have ratified the ICC stat-
utes are now obliged to try
and bring the defiant Mr
Bashir to justice.
Whether this arrest war-
rant is a triumph for jus-
tice or will bring further
violence to Sudan remains
uncertain. Earlier this
week however, UN peace-
keepers in Darfur were
ambushed, and four were
seriously injured by local
militia.
Sudan
Chinese authorities tight-
ened security and restricted
all tourism in Tibet, as the
Dalai Lama lashed out at his
oppressors, ahead of the 50th
anniversary of the Chinese
crackdown on Tibet.
This time of the year always
has the police in eastern city of
Lhasa feeling edgy, but this year is particularly important. It is 50 years since
the Chinese crushed the Tibetan rebellion, forcing the Dalai Lama into exile;
20 years since protests which led to the imposition of martial law; and one
year since the deadly protests which brought about a backlash by security
forces in the run up to the 2008 Beijing Olympics.
For all the talk on the Tibetan side, and all the threats from Beijing, the
10th of March, the day of the 50th anniversary, went by without much inci-
dent. But supporters of the Tibetan cause are getting increasingly frustrated
at the lack of concessions from China, and the so far ineffective tactics of the
Dalai Lama.
China
Engineering libraries to be
shut down by August
The four remaining Engineering De-
partmental Libraries are to be closed
from the 1st of August this year in
plans to concentrate services in the
Central Library.
In an email to the Union, Deborah
Shorley (Director of Library Services)
said that “The role of Engineering De-
partments Libraries has diminished
and they are no longer well used” due
to the increasing use of electronic re-
sources and the “improved facilities for
students in the Central Library”.
The closures come at a time of in-
creasing budget cuts around campus
including a 5% reduction in the Un-
ion’s annual subvention (the money
given to Imperial College Union by the
College). In this environment, “main-
taining a [library] service in each of
them [Engineering Departments] does
not represent a good use of College
resources”.
Job losses as a result of these changes
are being minimised with efforts be-
ing made to redeploy library staff else-
where in the College. However the only
jobs being guaranteed are Engineering
Liaison Librarians who will see no
change to their responsibilities.
City and Guilds College Union
(CGCU) President Mark Mearing-
Smith was confident that the changes
wouldn’t impact students negatively
saying “This is a change that could be
done smoothly and efficiently with a
benefit to students and my successor
will be working over the summer to en-
sure that this is the case”. Deputy Presi-
dent Education and Welfare (DPEW)
Hannah Theodorou was similarly calm
about the closures saying “While it is
a disappointment to see the libraries
close, I can understand the reasons
behind the decision and I believe that
the library will work closely with the
Faculty to ensure the Departments af-
fected are able to continue providing
the all the required resources through
the College’s central library”
Concerns were raised by both relat-
ing to the continued use of the librar-
ies as useful study spaces. In addition
the CGCU President was keen to stress
that the collections and books in the
Departmental Libraries must remain
accessible saying “We need to make
sure that the books and collections
housed in the Departmental Libraries
aren’t moved into storage and continue
to be available to students in the Cen-
tral Library”
However the College has made no
guarantee that all the books and collec-
tions will be moved to the Central Li-
brary saying only that “Decisions about
what should happen to Department
Library collections will be made jointly
by the Library and the Department,
taking into account the security of the
collections and long term access”.
There is opposition to the planned
closures. A petition has been started by
Senior Lecturer Dr J R Standing from
the Department of Civil and Environ-
mental Engineering. In an email to the
Civil Engineering (CivEng) Department
he says “Many of us are really enraged
by the idea - especially as it seems there
was no consultation about it”.
The petition has already been signed
by the Head of CivEng Department
and will be available to sign in the Civ-
Eng library until 2pm this afternoon.
Kadhim Shubber
Deputy Editor
Another day, another accolade for Imperial
College
Imperial College has officially become
the first Academic Health Science
Centre (AHSC) in the UK this week.
An AHSC is a formally recognized
partnership between a university and
healthcare provider.
This acknowledgement comes only
18 months after Hammersmith Hos-
pitals NHS Trust and St. Mary’s NHS
Trust merged under the Imperial Col-
lege name in October 2007.
After six months of close scrutiny by
the Department of Health, Imperial
College London Faculty of Medicine
and Imperial College Healthcare NHS
Trust are awarded the first British
AHSC designation.
Professor Stephen Smith is both
Chief Executive of Imperial College
Healthcare NHS Trust and Principal
of the Faculty of Medicine at Impe-
rial College London. He feels the joint
governance over Faculty of Medicine
and the Healthcare NHS Trust has
had immediate impact on now “world
class” biomedical research, education
and patient care.
“We have passionately believed in
this approach for a long time and to-
day’s announcement confirms our vi-
sion for the AHSC which is already
bringing great benefit to patients.
“During our first 18 months as an
AHSC, we have achieved the lowest
standardised mortality rates in the
country of any multispecialty NHS
Trust, developed and introduced a new
test that can diagnose TB more accu-
rately than ever before and pioneered
the use of robotic technology to treat
complex aneurysms, previously con-
sidered too high risk to operate on.
The benefits for patients could not be
clearer.”
We are delighted to be recognised as
an AHSC. This approach is recognised
internationally as delivering better
healthcare outcomes and it is excellent
news for local people and the UK as a
whole that it has been adopted here.”
Lord Tugendhat, Chairman of Impe-
Dan Wan
News Editor
rial College Healthcare NHS Trust said
of the newly formed AHSC. Similar
AHSC models bringing education and
healthcare provision under one source
of control have proven to be highly ef-
fective in countries including the USA,
Canada and Singapore.
Sir Roy Anderson summed up the
AHSC as a great step for Imperial
College’s ever-developing academic
reputation and medical provision: “I’m
delighted that our AHSC partnership
has been formally recognised by our
international peers for the world-class
quality of its research, education and
patient care. Winning formal AHSC
status is testament to the leadership
and vision of our principal and chief
executive, Professor Stephen Smith,
and the determination and passion
of so many people across the AHSC
who have worked hard to turn this vi-
sion into a reality. We can be proud of
our successes achieved in the first 18
months, and look forward to making
many more advances in healthcare that
will directly benefit our patients.”

