comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
Friday 13 March 2009 felix
Comment
6 felix Friday 13 March 2009
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
Gilead Amit discusses Vikings, violins and violation
“Would it have
killed you to at
least give my 923
words last week a
once-over, or even
a skim? Oy!”
O
ne of the unparalleled
pleasures of adulthood,
which almost makes the
whole tiresome business
of growing up worth-
while, is the conquering of language.
For those of you reading this, adults and
precocious toddlers alike, my words
cannot withhold their secrets. Your
steely eyes can force even the most
labyrinthine of my sentences to give up
their hidden treasures, in the same way
as marauding Vikings were wont to do
to Anglo-Saxon monasteries.
If there is something we want to say, we
have all 26 letters and 15 formal punc-
tuation marks of the common QWERTY
keyboardwithwhichtosayit.Wecanuse
the full panoply of verb tenses, cases of
the infinitive, subjective and conjunctivi-
tis, use the full palette of iambs, trochees,
terabrachs and anapaests, all the while
indulging in as many variations of rhyme
patterns as our hearts desire.
We can all communicate whenever
and wherever we want to, at whichever
level we choose. The horrific image of
losing the ability to interact with the
outside world is now for the most part
relegated to the world of nightmares,
along with neverending staircases,
deformed arachnids and, in my case,
large bears replacing the regular buses
driving down Baker Street.
This is, of course, true for those of us
who are fluent in a particular language.
While my English may well be good
enough for me to occasionally under-
stand the things I write myself, the
weaknesses of my other tongues are
a source of constant frustration. My
grandparents and older sisters have
long grown accustomed to my peculiar
fondness for the wrong adjectival end-
ings and complete ignorance of grade
school conjugation. My nieces, how-
ever, in the golden-hearted innocence
of childhood, are less tolerant. My eld-
est niece has just turned 12 and so has
been able to speak more coherently
than I for most of the past decade.
To give her credit, when she real-
ized my imperfections she recovered
from the blow fairly well. Though her
mother has doubtless taken her aside
and gently explained why Uncle Gilead
talks like he was dropped on his head
as a baby, my niece’s disbelief still occa-
sionally bubbles to the surface. Form-
ing sentences that contain the requisite
subject:object ratio is difficult enough
without watching a 12-year old roll her
eyes as she attempts to hide the smile
on her face. Nor is the sidelong pitying
glance much of a morale-booster. My
one consolation with this branch of the
family is that I completely crushed her
3-year old brother at a game of Scrab-
ble the last time we played.
It is this sort of inferiority that always
strikes me whenever I am confronted
with a musical instrument or a sheet of
paper with staves on. It is irritating and
humiliating for an adult to find himself
unable to communicate in one medium
with the fluency he is accustomed to in
another. This, by the way, serves as the
lead-in for those of you who had better
things to do last week than pick up a
copy of felix and give my 923 words the
once-over. It would have killed you to
at least skim it? Oy!
When faced with the shining ivories
of a keyboard, for instance, I can come
close to understanding the rapine
thoughts of those Vikings of paragraph
1. ‘Olaf see something beautiful. Olaf
not able to have it. Only way for Olaf
to truly own is to destroy.’ Hence why
every short-lived keyboard session of
mine has always ended with violent
ten-fingered thundering – the last at-
tempt of a desperate man to produce
something beautiful from an object he
is too uncivilized to truly possess.
By far the most beautiful and inac-
cessible instrument for me, however,
has always been the violin. I don’t
know whether it is my Jewish cultural
heritage or an unusual (perhaps even
a usual?) preference, but the sounds
of the violin resonate more power-
fully within me than those of any other
instrument. If I hear the sound of a
fiddle, whether it be of a young child
practicing at home as I walk down the
street or a busker at my local tube stop,
I will automatically stop to listen.
This is why, gentle readers, to cut
through this most turgid of suspenses
and let the strangled cat out of the bag, I
have decided to take up the violin. It may
be foolhardy to announce this in public,
as my stamina could give up soon and
leave me with slowly cooking egg on my
sizzling red face, but I believe I can do it.
I’m glad that I at least have this modi-
cum of self-confidence or I would nev-
er even have had the courage to rent an
instrument or contact a teacher. Even
now, walking around college with the
distinctively-shaped blue case I feel like
I am somehow cheating. As though I
don’t belong in the world of music and
should stop faking my membership. If
a real musician were to come over to
me and shake his head in disappoint-
ment, I would not think twice before
handing over my violin and running
behind the building to cry.
My short journeys from the locker
where I store my instrument to the
crowded music rooms are made by
passing through as many shadows as
possible and by employing the most
deserted routes I know.
If you should knock on the door
of one of the aforementioned music
rooms and hear the yelp of a dying
animal, the odds are 50-50 that it will
be me, and not my violin. And if you
should walk in, you will find me cow-
ering behind the chair in the hope you
won’t register a complaint about how
someone like me got inside.
S
o Sir Roy Anderson says that
he wants UK students to pay
two or three times the cur-
rent rate for their education.
Personally, I don’t see the
problem with that as there are now
thousands of students leaving universi-
ties with degrees that aren’t worth the
paper they’re written on and are strug-
gling to find jobs. Many of them sim-
ply took the university route because
it meant not working for another three
to four years and now that decision has
come back to bite them. Maybe the
increase in tuition fees will make only
those who are serious about their de-
gree do them in the first place.
In my time, I have already seen an
increase in tuition fees and have seen
people argue the points for and against
having them increased in the first
place. I must admit though, that it was
Mustapher Botchway, the sports editor,
who pointed this out to me, but with
the increase in tuition fees there has
also been a shift in social behaviour.
Let’s face it, compared to the other
universities in London, we are the ones
who are seen as the geeks.
When he told me of his little hypoth-
esis, I had a good look back at my four
and a bit years here at Imperial and to
my surprise, he was right. In our first
year we were always busy doing some-
thing, either going out to clubs or just
down to the pub for a few quiet drinks,
we were always doing something. One
night that was a compulsory one for
us, was a Wednesday night in the Un-
ion with the rest of the sports teams.
Back then, if you didn’t come out on a
Wednesday, it was frowned upon and
as a result Wednesday nights were al-
ways busy, even dB’s, at 7pm. Since
then, there has been a steady decline in
the number of people attending, now
whereas some might blame the quality
of the nights put on, Mustapher blames
the rise in tuition fees.
The logic behind it is a simple one;
because students now have to pay up
to £12,000 for a degree compared to
£4,000 when I started, they constantly
feel that they need to get their money’s
worth and not waste it away in the
bars and clubs of London. Students are
feeling that if they are going to spend
£12,000 on an education, they can’t
afford to waste their time and end up
with a 2:2 that won’t really get them
past the online application stage. I have
seen this mentality first hand, as living
in halls has exposed the mentality of
our first year students, and the conclu-
sion is a simple one; they are scared of
getting a bad grade and as a result, they
constantly seem to be working and as a
result, they are less tempted to venture
into the great nightlife that London has
to offer. Relax everyone, it’s your first
year, this is meant to be the one that
you enjoy and have a good time!!
With our already appalling reputa-
tion for social life at Imperial, my ques-
tion is will an increase in tuition fees
see the social life at Imperial die out?
L
ast week there was an opin-
ion expressed by Abdul
Hanan expressed that the
government was employing
“tyrannical tactics” “aimed
at blurring and eventually wiping out
Islamic identity, values and thought.”
And it sounded awful that our evil op-
pressive society was pushing a minority
around. But after doing some research
it’s obvious that there are some pretty
big points that need looking at.
Essentially what’s happened is that
some people in Whitehall have put to-
gether a draft proposal to ban certain
behaviour being promoted in govern-
ment funded Muslim institutions, so if
your Mosque takes government funds
you’re not allowed to do certain things.
And from the backlash on the internet
it seems that there are four big “Mus-
lim” opinions that the state has “no
right” to ask for changes in. And as
usual both sides are being absurd.
The first Big Thing is that the gov-
ernment finds it wrong for Muslims
to call for a Caliphate (a big world-
wide state where everyone is Muslim
and governed by Shariah law) and
the idea is that if Muslims don’t want
a Caliphate then they won’t turn to
armed struggle. This is patently gib-
berish. Muslims should have the same
freedom to express a utopian view as
everyone else – so long as they respect
everyone else’s right to do so. Muslims
should have as much right to call for a
Caliphate as I have to call for a world
in which Islam is no longer practiced;
everyone is a humanist and the writ-
ings of religion sit on par with fairy
tales. Free speech flows both ways, if
individuals accept that, then there is
no reason they should not be allowed
to say what they want.
The belief in jihad, or armed resist-
ance, is also an issue and the govern-
ment paper points out that govern-
ment funded institutions shouldn’t
call for the armed destruction of its
political allies. Of course the govern-
ment has taken this too far and said
that calling for armed resistance by
Palestinians against the Israeli military
is unacceptable behaviour from a gov-
ernment funded body. This is insane.
Muslims in Palestine have just as much
right to armed defence as the Jews
across the border do. If someone fires
rockets at Israel then Israel has every
right to fight back. If Israel randomly
attacks Palestine, then the Palestinians
have every right to fight back. Every-
one who has ever grown up in a play-
ground understands this.
The third big issue is the call from
some Muslims for Shariah law. And
here the government is right. There is
no reason that belief in a certain reli-
gion should grant you different legal
rights. There is absolutely no case for
having two parallel legal systems with-
in an equal society. We are all equal
individuals of the same nation and we
should all be governed by the same set
of laws, and if we want to change those
laws, our democratic system provides
us with a means to do so. Having two
legal systems only accomplishes the
creation of second class citizens.
Finally the government proposal
would mean that state funded Muslim
Jovan Nedić
Editor in Chief
Will the social
life at Imperial
die out?
I
mperial College is notorious for
being full of grumpy, depressed
and downright fucked off stu-
dents - so much so that they ban
going up Queen’s Tower (except
in RAG week) so you don’t throw your-
self off! Our student satisfaction rating
in The Times Good University Guide1
2009 is 38th out of 113, even though
we’re 3rd best overall. According to
Unistats2 2008, the Aero department
rank themselves a self -deprecating
22nd out of 26. (Possibly understand-
able if you associate with Chris O!).
So why the long face? It might be just
‘grass is greener’ syndrome, but is
there more a deep rooted hatred that is
spawned by being a cog in the Imperial
machine?
Let’s have a look at the Times League
Tables first. Oddly, Imperial spend-
ing 11% more on us than the next best
University doesn’t mean a jot. Maybe
if more was spent on departmental
funding and less on ludicrously slow
revolving doors, oversized pictures of
the Rector’s brain and blue tiled build-
ings maybe we wouldn’t be a big bunch
of whingers, probably not though.
We award a relatively low amount of
‘good’ honours (26/113), although we
do have the best graduate prospects.
This should fill us with a wondrous
feeling of self satisfaction that after
all the pain comes a pot of gold. But
then again, who likes the Sergeant Ma-
jor who makes you run harder, faster,
for longer than anyone is the whole
bloody army only at the very end to say,
no, you’re still a mangy maggot who is
worthless.
Definitely some things to think about
there but let’s see another company’s
statistics, Push.co.uk3 give some of
The debate on
drugs continues
institutions could no longer declare
homosexuality to be a sin and call for
it to be banned. And while it feels very
draconian, it’s the right thing to do. In
exactly the same way that believing in
God from a certain perspective doesn’t
suddenly give you different legal rights,
being religious doesn’t magically give
you the privilege of robbing other
people of their civil rights. If religious
(the paper would have to apply to all
religions) groups want to call for the
banning of homosexuality while being
publically funded then I should be al-
lowed to get public funding to aid me
in calling for the banning of religion.
That’s fair. Until I can get my fund-
ing, other people shouldn’t get theirs.
There is nothing wrong with being gay.
Homosexuality occurs widely in na-
ture. Homosexuals and heterosexuals
should have equal same rights in our
society. And if you don’t like the idea
of equal rights, then I’m afraid you’re a
member of the wrong society.
And before I duck away from the in-
evitable tide of angry that’s coming my
way, I just want to say: growing up I (a
Sikh) had to sing Christian hymns at
school. It did me, nor my religion any
harm.
And if kids really don’t want to sing,
they can just keep their mouths closed.
Singing Christian hymns makes a per-
son no more a Christian than eating
halal food makes someone Muslim.
Shahadah (love of Allah), Prayer, Zakat
(charity), Sawm (fasting) and the Hajj
(pilgrimage) make someone a follower
of the Prophet, not refusal to accept
others way of life.
Luke Dhanoa: In defense of
“liberal western values”
T
wo weeks ago Edward
Townes made a very reso-
nant point; that the state
should not be allowed to
interfere with the free will
of an individual, particularly if their
interference is the criminalisation of a
victimless ‘crime’. This is, essentially, a
definition of freedom.
However, one has to consider ex-
actly what one’s free will is, particu-
larly while suffering from a drug de-
pendency. Obviously, it is usually very
much one’s own desire whether or not
to smoke cannabis and as such the laws
(and more importantly the enforce-
ment) concerning this drug are rea-
sonably light. My opinion would see
this, or even full legalisation, extended
to drugs that can be broadly charac-
terised by very low heavy dependency
rates, even if they are Class A (take
ecstasy as an example). Legalisation
campaigners often invoke the figure of
1.5mil US drugs arrest per year – DoJ
figures show that this re-classification
would reduce that by at least 900 000.
And notably these are the drugs (with
the exception of cocaine) that are
usually associated with ‘inert’ users
– those who would not otherwise be
criminalised.
I do find it a lot harder to argue that
someone with a methamphetamine,
cocaine or heroin dependency is truly
making a voluntary decision every time
they take the drug. If they were then
why is it infamously hard to quit?
Of course the same argument could
be applied to alcoholism, however this
fails to account for the comparatively
massive exposure to alcohol that it
takes to become addicted, or appreci-
ate the nihilist fallacy of the argument
that our society has tolerated one ill for
so long, we may as well legalise any-
thing similar.
My cousin (who attended a promi-
nent public school) ODed on heroin.
He was found lying unconscious on
his side, in a pool of his own vomit and
with the needle still in his arm, by his
mother. Once taken to hospital, his
parents were told that he was expected
to die.
He is now out of his coma, but 12
months later he still cannot come
to terms with what he has done and
convinces himself that he was in a car
crash. At 28 he is now entirely depend-
ent on his parents and his doctors ex-
pect this to be the case for the ‘next
couple of years’. Fortunately his parents
are in a position to support him both
financially and emotionally, however I
am sure that there are many with simi-
lar stories, but without this luxury.
Following Edward’s argument I do
not see how his ideas would have pre-
vented this. Apparently my cousin
didn’t take bad stuff, he just took too
much – a problem that will recur what-
ever instructions come on the label and
unless you intend to oversee the taking
of all drugs legally sold. This is not par-
ticularly feasible with drugs like meth
or coke, or with the atmosphere under
which most people use them. So over-
sight not only threatens the ‘freedom’
argument, but it will again generate a
black market; one which licensed com-
panies are going to be under immense
pressure not to supply (wittingly or
otherwise), thus bypassing the regula-
tion of quality.
So not only is it almost certain that
pushers and their supply networks
will remain in this country (albeit on
a reduced scale), but I doubt that the
cartels and many parties interested in
the global supply of narcotics will give
up because some of the rich world le-
galises. Ironically, the more successful
legalisation is in the West, the less of
an interest to western governments the
global narcotics networks will be, in
short cutting support from the great-
est suppliers of funding, equipment
and training to combat narcotics.
In search of new revenue sources the
cartels would undoubtedly focus on
sales in poorer states, those less well
equipped to combat either the power
of the cartels (as Edward points out,
both political and paramilitary) but
also the social and rehabilitation costs
of a growing drugs market. While
many poor nations already have severe
problems of this kind, I maintain that
the cartels will increase their focus on
these and other nations – ultimately
wherever they think they will be most
successful.
The reply to this is that the west
should maintain funding levels and in-
crease co-operation with these states
as the problem spreads – but aside
from the truly unmanageable logistics
and diplomacy of any such operation,
it seems that it would violate one of
the key motivators for legalisation, in
that any effective policy would at some
point violate sovereignty of some if not
many of the states at which aid was
targeted.
The ‘war on drugs’ is bloody, but it is
a war. The Economist this week quotes
the blood-spill this year in Mexico as
a reason to legalise, but a matter of
months ago the same magazine was
explaining that President Caulderon
is engaging in a ‘push’ to finally cripple
the more social based statistics for
universities.
Maybe the impetuousness of our
youthful college (in terms of mature
students we are 137/138) striving to
change the world for the better com-
bined with the sudden knock-back
of hard work destroys our hopes and
dreams. This is encapsulated by the in-
stitution that dashed the boats that are
our minds which believed that I, Impe-
rial student would excel and become
the next De La Beche/Brunel/Darwin
or Pasteur (delete where applicable)
against the rocks of the reality that
8000 people cannot all be great.
I’m sure the extreme right wing so-
ciety would argue that it’s the 39% of
international students stealing our
satisfaction with their Queensgate
residences and they being used to the
humidity level in the library leading to
Where do we draw the line?
Tim Harford-Cross can solve Imperial’s poor student satisfaction rating
the Mexican cartels. It would be naive
to think that this would not be bloody,
or that there would be risk to the state
itself as reflected in the opinions of
many think tanks. However, west-
ern legalisation or not, the destruc-
tion of the cartels will still have to be
undertaken.
In short, while I recognise that there
are serious arguments for the legalisa-
tion of narcotics, the nature of the sup-
plynetworkwouldrequireanyactionto
be global in scale and this itself brings
about a maze of enforcement issues.
Full legalisation would perhaps have
been an argument before the problem
became so global (‘opium wars’ bring
perspective as to how far back we
would have to look), but it does little to
address a paramilitary supply network
already in place.
The sad truth is that while I do not
see many of the evils associated with
it successfully being combated in the
next couple of decades, at the moment
much of the sales market is focussed
in the countries who seem most able
to deal with such an international and
resource draining crime.
them always doing better in exams is
the root of the dissatisfaction.
And with even less doubt I think that
the extreme left wing society would
counter by saying it is the unnaturally
low level of state school students (6th
lowest) and treatment of the ethnic
societies(cue the Islamic society being
exiled to Queen’s Lawn) strikes a feel-
ing of an elitist police state, driven by
the capitalised institutions who break
our morale and force the good hard
working people of this college into a
uniform number-crunching efficient
machine, that live in a pseudo-free so-
ciety, where life is not chosen but di-
rected by an authoritarian leader who’s
whims and personal preferences are
law only superseded by decisions that
lead to greater profit, defeat the natu-
ral sense of satisfaction one gets from
achievement.
But if we remove the extremists, the
pessimists, the optimists, the young,
the old, the capitalists, the socialists
and all heirs to the throne, we should
end up with a beautifully average per-
son who is happily content yet for some
reason their immensely pissed off. Can
we blame college though? I think not;
we chose to come here. We knew that
Roehampton(24:76) had a male: female
ratio destroying our pitiful 64:36 and
Leeds Met average rent was less than
half ours (£52 rather than £111).
So if we fancy improving our satis-
faction maybe we should get off our
arses and enjoy the surfeit of theatres,
cinemas, bars, restaurants and celebri-
ties that only Central London has to
offer and our political, international,
sports, social and departmental clubs
that have some of the best facilities in
the land.
“If we fancy
improving our
satisfaction maybe
we should get off
our arses”
The author is anonymous due to
sensitive content in the article

