Meat eaters! Kawai Wong is with you
B
am. Cow farts. Bam. Global
warming. Bam. Acid Rain.
Bam bam bam bam. “You
meat eaters”, a few feeble
sentences attempted to
punch us out in last week’s felix. The
arguments played like a skipped record,
“Meat eaters destroy planet earth.”
Fresh from Tesco: Avocado from Is-
rael. Baby corn from India. String beans
from Kenya. Honeydew from Brazil.
Galia from Houndras. Kiwi fruit from
Italy. They all have aeroplane labels on
their packaging. For those who are sen-
sitive enough to smell cow farts: do you
have eyes? Can you see the labels?
If food miles were taken into con-
sideration, the eco warriors would be
gorging on a lot of British winter veg.
Carrots, potatoes, mushrooms and on-
ions. If a person could fart like a cow,
global warming would no longer be an
issue with this diet. One could show up
at British Gas and offer their gas as a
green alternative.
Some fruit and veg are available
on the supermarkets shelves all year
round. These pears, apples and grapes
have been stored in refrigerated vaults
for years since the day they got picked
in a distant farmland. What is a fridge
plugged into? The mains. What cool-
ants do fridges use? Ammonia and
propane. Where do you think the off-
season tomatoes and cucumbers come
from? Air conditioned and carbonated
green houses.
Unless one is a vegan and a nun,
there will be chocolates, cheese, milk,
wine, spirits and ice cream on the
menu. Cheese is one of the most en-
ergy inefficient foods due to the energy
that go into processing and refrigerat-
ing it. A bar of Cadbury chocolate has
one and a half glass of milk in it. I be-
lieve the milk comes from cows, a type
of animal that farts.
Dropping facts and guilt bombs is
easy. A recent study revealed that a
330ml can of coke embodies 39g less
carbon dioxide than a 250ml innocent
smoothie, which has a carbon footprint
of 209g. How ironic that the innocent
smoothie has always been perceived as
the green drink?
Flushing your toilet uses an equiva-
lent of 1200 bottled water per month.
And don’t forget that one sixth of the
world’s population do not have access
to clean water. Your Ipod uses bromi-
nated glass amongst many other toxic
chemicals. Upon disposal, the Ipod will
certainly mark a skull on the ground.
Is it likely that you will stop drink-
ing coke? Is it likely that you will stop
flushing the toilet? Is it likely that you
will never, ever buy an Ipod or a com-
puter? How much freedom are you
willing to sacrifice for the numerous
green agendas out there? The truth
is that the green arguments are often
so grey that you can’t distinguish the
black and the white. And there often
two sides to it. If you fact and number
crunch all the lifestyle guidelines they
throw at you, you may as well go back
to live in the 1800s. It is therefore im-
portant to weigh up what you hear
with common sense.
So is the 200g of meat I am not eat-
ing tonight going to save enough water
and preserve enough land to make the
world a better place straight away? But
if everybody in the UK stopped eat-
ing meat for three months, this would
surely sabotage the livelihoods of the
meat farmers and their families. And
this will happen almost right away. Fur-
thermore, how many cows do I have to
stop eating before the environmental
changes take effect? 5? 10? 1000?
Considering the ostensible carbon
footprint of foodstuff is an elementary
entry to eco-issues. Nutritional value
per carbon footprint is the measure
forward . For the same weight of beef
being carried the same distance as
baby corns, the beef cargo contains
significantly higher calorific value and
more essential nutrients. This implies
that for the same amount of carbon
footprint, the meat can satisfy more
hungry stomachs. Yes, rearing animals
uses more land. But remember your
GCSE geography lessons about crop
rotation? Different crops that have dis-
similar nutrient demands are planted
in sequential seasons for improvement
of soil structure and fertility. Letting
the animals roam around pooping can
rejuvenate the fertility of the field too.
It is undoubtedly shallow to restrict
our vision to global warming and glo-
bal warming only. It is of critical im-
portance to realise the many problems
that food raise and cure. Yes, the string
beans have travelled 4000 miles from
Kenya. But these are grown by farm-
ers whose families’ livelihoods are de-
pendent upon. If consumers were en-
couraged to look at carbon footprints
only, these beans would have no buyer
whatsoever.
No job for the farmer means no food.
Not, no plasma TV or no summer holi-
day in Spain. Their children will end
up on the front cover of National Geo-
graphic so that us kids in the rich world
can lament the plight of these poor Af-
rican children in pure hypocrisy.
As a fully conscientious eater, many
otherattributesofafoodproductshould
go into consideration. Helping of the
poor farmers, careful farming methods
that nurture the soil, welfare of the ani-
mals, ethics of the company are all but
to name a few. Innocent, for example,
donates 10% of profits to charity.
The first and foremost decision
when it comes to following a green
agenda is - how is this lifestyle change
going to affect the living conditions
of the others? This is a bit controver-
sial - but I believe that any agenda
that compromises human rights is a
rubbish agenda wrapped in glossy pa-
per. Some people wish that artificial
fertilisers never existed because they
lead to algae boom. Quite easy for an
all-things-organic mum who drives a
BMW 5 series to say. It also goes back
to the careful farming method I men-
tioned before.
While the future of the environment
is in our hands now, we should not be
flooded with guilt every time we enjoy
the fruits of the technological advance-
ment that our ancestor toiled to bring
forward. Stinking your toilet out be-
cause there are people who do not have
access to clean water is a ridiculous. Di-
rectly investing in scientific research is
the efficient way to eradicate our global
warming problem. In-in-in-in-indirect-
ly curbing your steak cravings is not.
Protein will always be stocked in my
fridge. No amount of cow farts, sheep
poos or bull diarrhoea will be able to
green wash me away from living in
moderation.
A
s ever, my daily packet of
energy gained from my
daily Library Café baked
potato was in danger of
running out this one Fri-
day afternoon. This packet of energy,
not entirely supported by a mediocre
four hours of sleep the night before,
would hopefully be enough to sus-
tain the thankfully repetitive forward
movements of my legs back home. It
had been one of those weeks where
my time was divided between labs, lab
reports, dissertations, and extremely
slight slivers of sleep.
Not in the mood for niceties or any
sort of visual emotion, I was nothing
more than skin sack full of lazily-func-
tioning organs as I walked through the
masses of white-collared workers.
Then, amongst the suits, a home-
less man stopped me in my tracks
and asked those ever-awkward words:
“Big Issue, mate?” I was thrust into a
split-second moral dilemma; I should
actually buy it to help the guy out that
Dan Wan gets held up by a convincing tramp
“This man could
have convinced
Darwin to set fire
to the Origin of
Species and eat the
charred remains
for dinner.”
tiny bit. However, you naturally ques-
tion what’s actually beyond the front
cover adorning Katy Perry. Is it going
to be of any interest to you, or are you
just wasting money you, quite frankly,
need. But is it actually wasting money
if it’s contributing to a good deed?
Mental panic ensues, and you hesitate
slightly as more of these questions soar
through your mind. Normally this hes-
itation just makes the entire situation
even more awkward when you finally
summon the words “no thanks” from
your porridge of a brain.
The Big Issue seller pounced on my
hesitation instead and went onto ques-
tion why I wasn’t willing to buy The Big
Issue. He worked the sympathy vote
with his personal sob story, and he did
well to pull on the strings of my heart
that was otherwise barely beating itself
at this stage of my tiresome day.
With instant unconsciousness seem-
ing ever-appealing I was still not entire-
ly comfortable with this unusual and
abrasive method of selling me a copy
of the Big Issue. However, there was
something that compelled me about
this man worryingly dressed in a coat
and hat not too dissimilar to mine. He
seemed incredibly intelligent, and had
the ability to reply to my tired slurring
instantly and even convincingly.
This man could have convinced Darwin
thatevolutionwaswrong.Imean,hecould
have probably gone onto to convince Dar-
win to set alight to the Origin of Species
and eat the charred remains for dinner.
So, there I stood, in the middle of Ful-
ham Broadway, talking to this tramp.
Although, it was more so him talking
to me. As his sharp voice continued
to precisely pierce every passing ear
within a two metre radius, he began to
talk about his life at university. “I went
to Imperial College, just up the road.
Used to live in South Kensington I did,”
he mentioned proudly, “but now I lived
here in Fulham ever since.” I perked
up. This oddly echoed the last year and
a half of my own life.
This man had a degree from Impe-
rial. Though an obvious but naively
conclusive question, it would be fool-
ish to reason how he could have pos-
sibly ended up living on the streets of
Fulham when he had a degree from a
‘world-class institution’.
The more he spoke of Imperial, the
more I gauged of his experience. It be-
came more and more of hindsight to
my own experiences here at Imperial.
He said this place gave him some of
the most ”focused” years of his life. He
dedicated his time to his degree, and
nothing much else. Through this, Im-
perial set him up for a life of comfort
and relative wealth. After he graduated
with 2nd class honours, he had a job
in the City, and looked to have the rest
of his career on track. However, the re-
cession in 1980 hit him hard. He was
subject to the ruthless “first in, first
out” policy at the company he worked
for.
As much as a degree can do for
you, and especially one from a uni-
versity such as Imperial College, this
man showed me there is definitely a
lot more to life. No matter how many
cushions we have to sit on, there is al-
ways the uncomfortable stark surface
we are using the cushions to avoid. He
only had one cushion, his degree.
It is unlikely anyone has the sole fo-
cus as their degree in their life. It made
me realise that when I made the excuse
“I’m too busy with coursework to talk”, I
probably wasn’t. This week, my priori-
ties shifted. My degree is still number
one, but it is parallel with everything
else. Your mother and every ‘career
advisor’ you’ve ever spoken to has
probably told you to find that healthy
balance between work and play, but
at such a work-intensive university, it
is so easy to lose it. Most of the time
though, the balance comes naturally.
The times when it doesn’t are the times
I’ll think back to The Big Issue seller’s
story and reassess.
All work and no play makes Dan an
incredibly tired, and apparently tramp-
harassed, boy…..and repeat.
“It is of critical
importance to
realise the many
problems that food
raise and cure”
Amin Elmubarak examines women’s rights
T
he passion and crafty in-
novation brought on by
the new wave of elections
at Imperial have flung my
mind to other important
political issues of the past: apartheid,
gay rights, and women’s rights. It’s
this last issue that I have found myself
dwelling over for a rather long time as
I am wondering if women’s rights have
progressed in very much since the
suffragettes and the mid-nineteenth
century.
For many years the ability to vote was
restricted to wealthy property owners
within Britain, therefore specifically
excluding women, as property law and
marriage law gave males ownership
rights at marriage or inheritance until
the 19th century. As difficult as it may
be for some to believe, by the 7th cen-
tury reforms under Islam gave women
rights in inheritance, marriage and di-
vorce – the likes of which are yet to be
seen in some cultures and were yet to
be seen in the civilized west for many
centuries.
Now, the laws and legislations of the
west seem to have overtaken the early
attempts of Islamic reform. Though
there are many laws and bills that “in-
sure” equality in terms of employment,
pay and treatment in the work force;
women are still paid, on average, less
than men and there are fewer women
than men who hold the top jobs in any
sector.
SO?
Why could this still be an issue af-
ter all of these campaigns and laws? It
could be that by the time women get
the point where a “top-level” job is
within their grasp, they decide to have
children or the new job could mean
less time spent with the children that
they already managed to have.
But the real question is why do we
always end up coming back to jobs,
flexible hours and childcare every time
we talk about women’s rights; when
originally the issue was equal rights
of voting and weight within the law ie.
Giving evidence.
These days it seems that there is a
new wave of women who opt to set-
tle down, have children and take care
of them in a manner that is closer to
what their predecessors worked so
hard in order for them not to. And
this wave is seen by the more career-
minded as sell-outs or backward, akin
to how “Gangstas” see those of colour
who chose to wear chinos and a shirt
as sell-outs.
In my opinion those persecutors have
become what they have been trying so
hard to fight. The point of all human
rights movements was not to carve a
way out for “their people to live” but
to provide an alternative option; to
give them the right to chose how they
wish to live their life – be it a careers
climbing the corporate ladder, flying
through chambers or looking after 3
little children and an even more diffi-
cult to please adult one too.
The second point and somewhat
more pertinent is the idea of value.
The value something is given depends
very heavily on the criteria you chose
to value it by; a diamond would fail in
its evaluation if you used the criteria
for grading football striker to grade it.
Likewise, the problem we have is that
we use money as our national and in-
ternational grading system. To chose
what job we take, what thing to buy (it
fits in those examples!) but also who to
value? Who brings more to a relation-
ship? Who to marry?
For men and women to have equal
rights and equal value, the DO NOT
need to be able to do the same jobs or
wear the same clothes or even – dare I
say- get paid the same!
Let us start by not calling a girl who
might have slept with a few guys on
fresher’s week a slag or a slut and then
in the same breath call a guy who did
the same a stud!
Let us start by valuing a woman for
the content of her character and her
views on issues as oppose to how short
she can wear a skirt.
Let us start by allowing our women
to have the freedom to choose leaving
her job to look after her children and
return when she’s ready without being
judged.
Man and woman’s existence depends
on one another. Their value is not in
their ability to do the same thing but in
their ability to do for one what the oth-
er cannot do for them. When I ham-
mer a nail on to a wall, my left hand
holds the nail in place whilst my right
hammers it into place.
They may both do different jobs but
the are equally as important in carry-
ing out the task.
“There are still
fewer women than
men who hold the
top jobs in many
sectors”
A
close friend of mine is
afflicted with a disease;
he caught it in South-
East Asia. It’s not life-
threatening but I’m quite
concerned that it might destroy his
bank account. It’s an affliction shared
by Travel Editor Dylan Lowe and no
doubt a great deal of students at Im-
perial. It is in fact fairly common: this
disease is the need to throw oneself out
of the aeroplane of comfortable living
and out into the great blue unknown of
the world (usually landing safely with
the help of a parental parachute).
I confess that I too suffer from this
disease (thankfully I didn’t need to piss
into a cup at the Union to find out)
but it isn’t the thrill of experiencing a
new food or seeing a new sunset that
draws me. Glaciers are less impressive
than the gems that humanity tosses up
and temples and shrines offer less spir-
itual comfort than the joy of instantly
connecting with a person that has no
knowledge of what you did in the last
hour – never mind the 19 years of so-
cial baggage that burdens you.
So I travel to meet people. I imagine
that I would still meet new people at
homeifinsteadofpioneeringflight(and
by a tenuous link sparking a debate in
the felix Comment section about Rya-
nair) the Wright Brothers had decided
to direct their efforts towards the elec-
tric toothbrush but there’s a distinct
and important difference.
There’s an understanding between
two people who meet while travelling
that their time together will be brief.
It’s not a horror that is considered
directly and explicitly addressed but
subconsciously because each passing
moment ticks down the clock, each
moment also becomes precious. You
mentally rush towards each other; ex-
posing your secrets in a completely un-
reasonable spring clean of your emo-
tions, learning more about each other
than you even knew about yourself and
no matter how exciting or exhilarating
the activities on offer, you know guiltily
that you’d be just as satisfied to see no
more than the four walls of the inside
of a bar with your new friend.
Inevitably the dreaded day of depar-
ture arrives and the question hangs
over the platitudes of the goodbyes:
Will we really make an effort to stay in
touch? Our everyday lives can easily
hijack any idealistic efforts to maintain
that special intense holiday bond when
it loses its intensity (not to mention its
‘holidayness’) and becomes no more
special than a few sentences typed
mindlessly into facebook. Indeed, is
the short lifespan of the friendship
what makes it so sweet?
In an attempt to deny the previous
accusation I have tried to maintain a
meaningful contact with a Texas girl
that I met during my trip to Washing-
ton for Obama’s Inauguration. I have
taken inspiration from the Amish and
rejected modern instant communica-
tion. Why give any thought to a face-
book message or email when you can
correct, delete and review and if nec-
essary send more messages instantly at
no cost? The words and sentences are
cheapened by their ease.
So I have shunned the instant gravi-
tation of facebook and instead opted
for the slow, thoughtful restraint of the
letter; leave the alcopops at the door,
I’ll wait for the mulled wine to finish
simmering because, the handwritten
letter I declare will preserve short-lived
flash in the pan friendships. That you
know nothing of your letter’s progress
and less so of the letter winging its way
to you increases the anticipation and
the importance of the correspondence,
while on holiday the shortness of time
added value, now the slow passing of
days without mail gives the connection
importance. If nothing else, the great
length of time that it takes to receive
and write a letter, will give me longer
before I run out of things to say.
Turns out that there’s a reason why
people don’t write letters anymore. My
idealistic epistolary crusade has ended
in heartbreak. At first, all seemed well.
I didn’t use your average everyday lined
paper, I sought out some special letter
writing paper. I positively skipped to
the post office at Gloucester Road and
with a beaming smile I carefully placed
it into the red box. And I waited... and
I waited… for four weeks… And then
hurrah! There in the mail to my apart-
ment building, a hand-written letter
from San Antonio, Texas. A victory
over facebook, email and the best ef-
forts of modern technology to keep
us instantly connected. And with the
glory of my success behind me, I wrote
a reply (I even used an ink pen, no, no a
biro would not do!).
It’s true that pride comes before a
fall – I have not yet received a reply.
Each morning I dare a glance at the
mailbox but each morning I am sorely
disappointed. I’ve considered throw-
ing my hands up and surrending with
a grovelling instant message inquiring
“did you get my letter?” but I still con-
vince myself that if I wait one more day,
I’ll find some literary gold lying on my
doorstep.
I don’t like to say it, but it might be
more likely that only one of us was
keen to keep in touch. Perhaps memo-
ry is enough for my fellow traveller and
just perhaps some people have better
things to do than write to randomers
from London.
All I want to know is, is it too desper-
ate to send another letter?
Kadhim Shubber desperately needs a reply. Now!
“Turns out that
there’s a reason
why people don’t
write letters. My
epistolary crusade
has ended in
heartbreak”
8 felix Friday 13 March 2009
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 13 March 2009 felix
Comment

