Science
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 felix Friday 13 March 2009
Science
Science Editor – Mićo Tatalović & Daniel Burrows
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 13 March 2009 felix
You got into university – check. You’re
either studying something you’re
completely passionate about, some-
thing you did very well at high school
(before the novelty died) and you have
no idea why you’re here but the folks
back home have great expectations,
or you’re somewhere in between
– check.
However far along in your studies
you are, albeit Bachelors, Masters or
PhD, the big questions always looms:
what am I going to do with my life
next?
– Post-graduate studies/ post-doc-
torate studies/ post-post studies... All
fairly self-explanatory. All getting you
closer to a life of research, allowing
you to research something at the apex
of your field; potentially world-chang-
ing in itself, the holy grail of which is
to be awarded a Nobel Prize, some-
time down the line.
– Finish up whatever study you’re
doing and go into industry. Bad times
now, so only the best and brightest
will get the coveted ball-breaking fi-
nance jobs.
The rest will have to look within
their respective degree-related indus-
tries to find a job that inspires, or go
into teaching (a steady job educating
the young minds of the future – very
respectable).
– Start up your own company, be
your own boss, someone not working
under anyone else’s orders – just you
Climbing the ladder by saving the world?
and the endless stretch of horizon that
screams POTENTIAL. Apply the best
of everything that you’ve ever known
about yourself and create something
in its reflection.
Starting your own company might
sound scary to you but the short of it
is, there’s never a better time to start-
up than now and that’s especially true
whilst you’re at university. Why?
1. Competitions – you can earn
money just by having an idea. Impe-
rial Entrepreneurs has just launched
Ideas Empowered, a business idea
competition.
The competition has two rounds,
with a 1500-word executive summary
submission on 30th of March; the top
teams go to the finals on the 1st of
May and pitch their ideas to panel of
judges/investors. Winners will receive
a £3000 cash-prize as well as in-kind
services and benefits such as 6 months
of mentoring by Connect London,
profiles/ads on Cmypitch.com and in-
troductions to investors.
Teams also get the chance to be
mentored by professional entrepre-
neurs throughout the competition
and learn essential business skills at
our workshops.
2. A haven of co-founders. Look
around you. You go to uni with some
of the brightest, technical minds in the
country. Somewhere you’ll find some-
one who’s into creating stuff, up for a
challenge, or willing to give it all a go.
3. The UK has some of the most start-
up friendly places on Earth. London is
one in particular – if not the financial
capital of the world, the Government
is very supportive of small enterprises
whether logistically or by means of tax
deductions. The tech scene is boom-
ing also despite the recession.
4. Access to tools and facilities. The
library, research databases, computer
labs, university lecturers and Imperial
Innovations are all resources on cam-
pus that can add value to your entre-
preneurial endeavours.
5. Few major obligations. No mort-
gage to pay and no family to feed. Most
of us are living off student-loans and
part-time jobs. This gives you time to
grow your venture in between classes
and friends.
6. An unbelievable learning experi-
ence. Entrepreneurs average 3.8 fail-
ures before final success. Even though
you may not succeed the first time, as
long as you give it your all and do your
best, you’ll learn a hell of a lot out of
the experience.
7. There’s still time. If you start up
now and you fail, there’s still time for
you to go into post-grad studies, into
industry, or give it another round…
If these reasons convince you that
starting up a sci-tech company might
be a good thing for you, maybe check
out Imperial Innovations or join Im-
perial Entrepreneurs to learn more.
Our next event on 16th March at
6:20pm, in Blackett LecT1, Prince
Consort Road will detail everything
you need to know about the upcoming
competition and other opportunities
to discover how you can make your
wild ideas about how to improve our
Marita Cheng &
Niccolo Corsini
Big Bang Fair: Inspiring future scientists
The biggest ever UK celebration of
young people’s achievement in science
and engineering ended with prizes be-
ing awarded to students aged 11-19 at
the QEII Centre, London, last week.
‘The Big Bang’, the first UK Young
Scientists and Engineers Fair, was the
venue for the biggest-ever finals of
competitions in science, technology,
engineering and mathematics to in-
spire even greater numbers of young
people to study related subjects.
Among the many projects that com-
peted for several valuable prizes, were
the following:
– Exams Stink: a scented wrist band
worn when studying and then in an
exam to aid recall of information; it re-
sulted in a 10% improvement in exam
performance.
– A martial arts dummy especially
designed to suit many different martial
art styles.
– A computer screen for people who
suffer from colour-blindness.
– A low-cost, solar-powered water
heating system for households in the
developing world.
All the students I spoke to were en-
thusiastic about their projects and
would love to see their projects com-
mercially available to other people as
Mico Tatalovic
Science Editor
A
s the lights dim, I stretch
out my legs onto the
empty chair in front of
me and start to relax.
It’s been a long couple
of days ferrying children round ‘The
Young Scientists and Engineers Fair’,
and the lecture sessions provide wel-
come relief.
But my half-sleep is soon inter-
rupted when the teacher three rows in
front hisses at a pupil, telling them to
get their feet off the chair. That tone of
voice still scares me. So much so that
my legs also move back to the floor and
I try to pay attention.
The lecture is about the Blood-
hound super Sonic Car. It is packed
with breathtaking facts about the
power of the vehicle they are building
and even more breathtaking footage
of the Thrust cars that have kept the
landspeed record in Britain.
Richard Noble, who headed Thrust
and now heads Bloodhound, enthusi-
astically takes the audience of a hun-
dred teenagers through the history
of landspeed record attempts and the
hopes they have for this one.
Along with the school parties, I am
enthralled by Noble. The teenager in
me is wowed by talk of 100,000 horse-
power from the combination of a twin
jet engine and a rocket mounted on
the rear of the car.
Bloodhound will travel at over 1,000
miles per hour – 1.4 times the speed of
sound. And all the engineering, and all
Bloodhound landspeed record project
the engineers, are British.
The project aims at inspiring a new
generation of engineers in this country.
Previous generations had Concorde,
the Vulcan and the Lightning but cur-
rent engineering successes are mainly
kept private. The list of defence tech-
nologies produced by the MOD are,
understandably, secret. Even Formula
One teams are cagey about going pub-
lic with their developments – it makes
it easier for their competitors to copy.
The landspeed record is different.
Promoting the technology it uses does
not affect national security, nor does it
affect competition like in motorsport.
So the government have created an
education programme around the car.
Schools can visit the build site. Teach-
ers are offered curriculum materials
developed around the Bloodhound
programme and the website enables
Jessica Bland reports from the first ‘Big Bang Fair’ asking if the Bloodhound Project is enough to make you
wish you were an engineer?
pupils to keep up-to-date with its
progress. There are also numerous
events and activities like this lecture.
Bloodhound had the attention of
everyone in the room, but is this
enough to inspire a new generation of
engineers?
Undoubtedly the career choices of
some scientists and engineers are in-
fluenced by this kind of iconic project.
Indeed Paul Drayson, the Minister of
State for Science and Innovation, says
his own son, inspired by the Thrust
programme, changed from a media to
an engineering degree.
But this kind of inspiration is not
enough by itself. Other things need
to change. For example, the wages of
a graduate engineer or scientist are
not comparable to those of finance
graduates.
The prestige is not comparable to
art, journalism or even the Civil Serv-
ice. Unfortunately, at the moment, en-
gineering and science cannot promise
in pay and status what other careers
can.
A new initiative backed by the
Prince of Wales hopes to help rec-
tify this: offering PhDs £20,000 a year.
And the increasing interest in climate
science and particle colliders means
that science is slowly shedding some
of its dull reputation. These changes,
though, are incremental.
Bloodhound is an inspiring project
– it even inspired me after too many
hours in the Queen Elizabeth II Con-
ference Centre in Westminster where
the fair took place last week. But it
didn’t make me want to become a
engineer.
I am still glad I left experimental
sciences after my undergraduate de-
gree. No matter how exciting it can
be, it takes a stronger person than me
to work in a lab all day for less money
and sometimes less respect than your
peers.
Bloodhound is to break the current land speed limit and reach speed of up to 1,000 mph. Will this be
enough to encourage and inspire a new generation of scientists and engineers?
Can science help you make you first million? Could new start-ups
design commercially available solar-powered cars, for example?
Alongside the Bloodhound, Virgin Galactic was another big hit with the school kids at the first annual ‘Big
Bang Fair’ last week.
well. When asked if they thought they
would win any awards, students were
mostly shy but hopeful.
Science and Innovation Minister,
Lord Drayson said: “This competition
has highlighted the reality of science
today, it’s exciting, fascinating and
shapes all our lives. Young scientists
today will shape our future tomorrow
– which is why competitions like this
are so important to celebrate young
British talent.”
Sir Anthony Cleaver, Chairman of
the Engineering and Technology Board
(ETB) and Co-patron of ‘The Big Bang’,
said: “The UK economy needs a strong
science and engineering sector if it is
to break through the current economic
difficulties and provide a strong ba-
sis for growth. Seeing 200 incredible
projects from across science and engi-
neering gave all who attended ‘The Big
Bang’ great heart that we witnessed a
defining moment, igniting interest in
science and engineering for students
and starting something that will con-
tinue to grow – which is why we named
it ‘The Big Bang’. ”
As well as exhibiting their projects,
students also had the opportunity to
watch interactive exhibits and talk to
people from various companies and
scientific institutions.
Plans are already underway for next
year’s competition in Manchester.
EcoBuild: Future of sustainable development
Olivia Sharp
Science Reporter
Last week, ecogirl packed her lunch
and went off to Ecobuild at Earl’s
Court, the world’s biggest event dedi-
cated to sustainable building. After
checking out the zero-carbon house
and watching three very important
political types discuss the politics of
sustainability, I threw some questions
at Kevin McCloud, that posh guy off
Grand Designs.
ZEDfactory are another company pioneering sustainable housing design. We might all be living in these
hobbit-esque RuralZED houses in the future.
The zero carbon
house
Meeting Kevin
McCloud
The Politics of
Climate Change
Ecobuild wasn’t short on spectacle –
one of the main attractions was a full
size, zero-emission house, inside the
exhibition centre. The cannily named
ECO2
H2
OUSE invited people to go and
have a nose around and check out its
many emission reducing features.
The house retains heat far more ef-
ficiently than the average house, using
innovative technology instead of tradi-
tional insulation.
The walls contain ‘phase change ma-
terial’, much like the gel inside winter
hand warmers. This can store large
amounts of energy when it melts and
solidifies, which means excess energy
from the house’s rooftop solar panels
and wind turbine can be collected for
insulation or heating water.
Lighting is provided by LED spot and
strip lights, which use a minute 15% of
the energy of incandescent bulbs, and
50% of that used by fluorescent tube
lights.
ECO2
H2
OUSE’s designers at ECO2-
H2
O (pronounced eco) want to “cut out
the greenwash, and make real progress
in moving sustainability forward”. The
company are growing in success and
have high hopes for ECO2
H2
OUSE.
Celebrity architect Kevin McCloud led
a discussion at Ecobuild on the future
of sustainable development. Lucky for
me, I stole a few words with the God of
Grand Designs by stalking him around
Earl’s Court until he got scared and
begged me to leave him alone.
So Kevin, what has been the best
thing you’ve taken away from this
year’s Ecobuild?
I’ve got a lot of great new contacts.
The rainwater products here are re-
ally interesting and there’s definitely a
future for those. Things are really hap-
pening in the business side [of sustain-
able development], that’s really why
I’m here.
What is the future for sustainable
development?
Well, government targets seem to be
as far into the future as 2050. We need
to be getting into action now, be well
on our way by 2020, and have achieved
them by 2030. Sustainability and cli-
mate change should be the main prior-
ity for our government.
The arena hosted talks from various
important people involved in sustain-
ability and the environment. ‘The Poli-
tics of Climate Change’ was an assuring
discussion between three political fig-
ures: Michael Heseltine, former Depu-
ty PM; Tim Yeo, MP and former Min-
ister for the Environment; and Michael
Meacher, MP and former Minister of
State for the Environment.
All three men stressed the impor-
tance of the economics for tackling cli-
mate change, but were optimistic that
targets could be achieved.
Heseltine struck a cautionary tone
at the start: in our current economic
situation, climate change has moved
down the list of priorities: ‘Anything
that puts up prices is politically diffi-
cult – increasing taxes on petrol would
be very effective in cutting emissions,
but a very unpopular decision by any
government.’
Tim Yeo stressed that the environ-
ment will become top priority again,
as the business community continues
to see the opportunities and threats
of climate change. ‘Politicians were
in denial about global warming until
2006, but business was miles ahead,
assessing the economic benefits of go-
ing green.’ He also noted that the UK
is behind Europe in terms of building
standards, so in the next few years will
go to efforts to improve.
The role of developing countries in
global warming was discussed, with
agreement that countries such as In-
dia and China are helping more than
appreciated. Meacher believes these
countries are ‘victims of the eco-cri-
sis’, and cannot be expected to follow
Europe unless we are willing to lead.
Michael Yeo noted that China has
tighter vehicle emissions than the US.
Overall, there was agreement that
not enough is being done to meet gov-
ernment targets regarding emissions
reductions. They all agreed that po-
litical parties should worry less about
popularity and more about taking ac-
tion on cutting emissions.
Best freebies from Ecobuild
conference: an ash sapling and
a 2GB USB stick made from
recycled plastic.
lives into reality.
Present will be Sachin Duggal
(Nivio) and Oliver Woolley (BBAA,
Envestors), both Imperial alumni who
once took the leap from Science to
Business and are now very successful
entrepreneurs. The talk is followed by
drinks /networking and it’s all free!!
For more information see www.
imperialentrepreneurs.com

