Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 13 March 2009 felix
The sweetest escape of them all
Alex Marsden considers escape of travel through art - is the endeavour of travel sweeter through the
medium of art or through personal experience? And can one complement the other?
S
o here we are, another week,
another editorial. Time to
witter on about me and my
daily life and trick you into
thinking it’s relevant to cul-
ture and the arts.
This week I went to the Barbican
centre which, it turns out, is some kind
of glorious Mecca for the arts all un-
der one central London roof. I’d only
ever been once before, at night, for a
gig (of sorts – long story) so did not
get to fully appreciate its sheer bril-
liance. It has art in the conventional
painting sense, theatre, dance, music
and cinema all housed under some top
notch architecture. They have lots of
free events too; when I was there it was
“Do Something Different” weekend,
and there were kidlets as far as the eye
could see, doing crafts and dressing up
in wigs. I think, on the whole, I quite
like to move in and take up permanent
residence. They have big blocks of flats
all around so this would be a feasible
goal, were it not for the price of living
in a trendy location of central London,
coupled with my career prospects or
lack thereof. Damn.
Something I’ve been thinking about
this week is how we define ourselves
here in the “Culture and The Arts”
section. To my knowledge there have
been no debates/disagreements/all-out
brawls over whether an article or topic
should be covered in the arts section
or elsewhere in felix (let’s disregard the
Emily Wilson
Arts Editor
fact that probably nobody would care).
I can think of many scenarios where an
article could legitimately be claimed by
either us or film, nightlife, clubs/socie-
ties, music… For example, if I go to an
evening event at the V&A and I write
about it, is that arts or is that nightlife?
If I see an orchestra perform, is that
arts or music? If I see an exhibition
at the Science Museum, is that arts or
science? Suggestions for something
the arts and sports sections could fight
over on a postcard please.
The trigger that got my mind whir-
ring on this little debate was Ameri-
can Psycho. I read the book and the
other night I watched the film. For the
record, the book was incredibly bril-
liant and disgustingly violent, while
the film was moderately good, surpris-
ingly unviolent, but not a bad repre-
sentation of the book (resisting urge to
ramble on…). Hypothetically speaking,
if I were to write an article comparing
and contrasting the book and the film
(which I could do, quite easily, but it
would descend into rant and gorily
graphic descriptions), where in Felix
should it be printed? And who should
decide?
Anyhoo. I hope you enjoy this week’s
arts section. I had fun writing for it. If
you want to have fun writing for it, why
don’t you email us? arts.felix@imperial.
ac.uk is where to find us. Bonus points
to anybody who initiates a fistfight in
felix.
Fistfights in the
felix office?
T
ravel literature and writ-
ing can be a tricky topic.
More broadly, anything
pertaining to "travel" is
regarded by most as a pre-
dominantly positive endeavour. I have
lost count of the number of friends and
acquaintances who harbour clandes-
tine desires to embark on alternate or
dream careers as presenters of travel
programmes, and I have allowed myself
to wallow in the thought of being paid
to embark on the kinds of indulgences
most of us save and plan and look for-
ward to for a paltry three weeks of the
year
Paul Theroux was famously scath-
ing of the genre of travel writing when
he branded it self-indulgent, predict-
able and dull. Though apparently true
when one dedicates oneself to a world
capable of producing the same circum-
stances each and every time regardless
of location, this will be of little conse-
quence for the majority of us for whom
the opportunity to see the world is a
rare and precious one to be seized.
Writing exclusively on the process
and experience of travel is one way to
approach the topic, but equally entic-
ing are the authors allow us to travel
through their characters' situations
and settings.
This is more than reading the inter-
esting sections of Lonely Planet - Tibet
whilst licking one's lips at the idea of
discovering a hidden Shangri-La hid-
den deep within the Himalayas. By
trusting the writers' experience and
knowledge, we can walk the same
streets as their characters and meet the
same people and live the same lives.
I have enjoyed reading about a Dublin
past through Joyce, immersed myself
in the Istanbul of Orhan Pamuk's sto-
ries and found new appreciation for the
crackpots in our very own city thanks
to Zadie Smith. Watching anything by
Woody Allen or Edward Burns makes
me want to spend more time on the
sidewalks of the Five Boroughs.
But does this actually work? Litera-
ture and art as an enhancer or comple-
ment to the experience of travel?
I have read books before and during
trips, but mostly before. The anticipa-
“The anticipation
of adventure can
be most enticing”
tion is one of the best parts of the ex-
perience of this curiosity we know as
"travel" but when on the road, so to
speak, one is usually too busy social-
ising, sleeping, living and experienc-
ing to bother with Hajime's extended
consideration of how his parents met
or the extended meditation of exist-
ence with regard to the protagonist's
hometown.
So taking in such art during travel
is a bad time. After travel can be non-
existent - one's expectations are either
usually fulfilled, leaving no desire to
indulge in further fantasies, or are too
steeped in disappointment to the point
that it is too painful or frustrating to
read about something you felt didn't
exist or you missed out on.
I read Wei Hui's epic statement of one
woman's emancipation in Shanghai
Baby as a precursor to a much-antic-
ipated stay in Shanghai. Though admi-
rable, her descriptions of the city were
overwhelmed by the sheer amount of
to-ing and fro-ing and romantic plots
and subplots. Nothing she wrote could
possibly have done justice to the sheer,
head-spinning vibrancy and vitality of
a city destined for greatness, both si-
multaneously delirious and apoplectic
at its newfound level of decadence and
charisma. This is what you get for judg-
ing and paying for a book by its cover.
Similarly, anyone who watched any-
thing by Wong Kar-Wai prior to a trip
to Singapore or Hong Kong was bound
to be disappointed that the streets
were not littered with Maggie Cheungs
or Tony Leungs, and that every single
moment failed to resemble a breath-
takingly stylised paean to whimsy and
heartbreak. Hoping for a retrofantasti-
cal place as such was asking to be let
down, and similarly expecting Machu
Picchu, Angkor or anywhere with simi-
larly epic promises to live up to them
can be like knocking on the door of
disappointment. Reading Lost Hori-
zon and making the trip to Shangri-La
(it exists, but as an artificial cash cow
for tourism) are two wholly different
things and hoping for the reality to re-
semble the fantasy is like pretending
Santa Claus exists.
For a trip through Mongolia, I re-
visited a memorable segment of Mu-
rakami's The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle
telling the account of a failed reconais-
sance mission by some Japanese troops
stranded in Mongolia during the Sec-
ond World War. The novel left an im-
pression of a vastness, desolation and
desperate harshness coupled to desper-
ate and horrific circumstances that left
me equal parts repelled and gravititat-
ing towards the region. The reality was
different, but no less epic. Waking up
in a landscape only describable as ut-
terly alien and racing towards the hori-
zon in a train seemingly suspended on
a flat ocean of land, the earth flat in all
directions to the horizon, left me suit-
able awestruck. The experience was
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
12 felix Friday 13 March 2009
Politics
Politics Editors – James Goldsack & Katya-yani Vyas
S
o, elections are once again
upon us. Poster bearing can-
didates stalking the walkway,
flyer wielding camapaign-
ers ambushing you during
luchtime in the JCR. lollipops and fly-
ing saucers offered up as payment for
our votes. Like such bribery would
work! Ok, fine, sometimes it does,
people seem to be particularly fond of
lollipops...
Union politics is a difficult subject
to understand, luckily for you there is
a 12 page special in this issue to ex-
plain the inner workings of the Union.
Marvellous!
Right, so that is that. I will go no
further than to wish all the candidates
good luck and to discourage any slan-
derous or inapropriate comments.
I suppose it is very easy at a time like
this to get so caught up in our Univer-
sity bubble that we forget about the
ouitside world. With this in mind, I
asked some fellow students for some
quotations and compiled them here.
The question I asked was; “What is
an important political issue at the mo-
ment” Here are a selection;
“The most important issue in politics
today is whether or not the US will re-
main the worlds only superpower.”
“The protests against British troops
are absolutely disgusting, it is not the
fault of the troops but the government”
“I dont know much about politics
but I think that...” It took ages to get
even that out of one student.
“Are we really going to come out of
On Tuesday 24th February, a speech
given by prominent Kurdish politician
Ahmet Turk was abruptly censored on
Turkish state television when Mr. Turk
started speaking in Kurdish.
In Turkey, with a substantial ethnic
Kurdish population, it has long been
forbidden to speak Kurdish in public.
Mr. Ahmet Turk might face prosecu-
tion for disobeying the law for it is il-
legal for Kurdish to be spoken in the
Turkish Parliament building.
“We have no objection to Turkish be-
ing the official language, yet we want
our demands for the lifting of the ban
on the Kurdish language to be under-
stood as a humanitarian demand,”
Ahmet Turk said. Mr. Turk replied to
criticism for his Kurdish talk by point-
ing out that Turkish PM Recep Teyyip
Erdogan had spoken a few Kurdish
words on the newly launched Kurd-
ish television channel TRT-6, which is
restricted to only broadcasting issues
related to culture, music and other
non-political matters. “If the PM can
do it, then why can’t I?”, Ahmet asked
rhetorically.
In Turkey the use of the Kurdish lan-
guage is still a very sensitive matter.
Until as recent as 1991 the fifteen to
twenty million Kurds in Turkey were
not recognized as a distinct ethnic
group from the Turks, but were rather
referred to as ‘mountain Turks’ for they
usually live on higher plateaus in parts
of Turkey. In that year, when a Kurdish
political party entered the Turkish Par-
liament for the first time in history, an
upheaval broke out around the Kurdish
speech given by female politician Leyla
Zana, who was later imprisoned for it.
Zana went on to be nominated for the
Nobel Peace Prize. Even now, Kurdish
is illegal to be spoken in many public
spaces (amongst which the Turkish
Parliament) and is not allowed to be
taught to primary school children in
Kurdistan.
CNN spoke of ‘irony’ on the incident,
writing on their website that ‘it is in
contradiction with the recent launch of
the Kurdish TV-channel’. The incident
has therefore sparked mistrust among
many Kurds who see TRT-6 as a pure
tactic of propaganda from the ruling
AKP party, trying to win over Kurd-
ish voters for the upcoming provincial
elections in March.
Mr. Ahmet Turk is a prominent polit-
ical member of the pro-Kurdish Dem-
ocratic Society Party (DTP), which
was elected to Parliament by the mini-
mum-required 20 seats in the national
elections of July 2007. By standing as
individual candidates, the DTP-mem-
bers were able to join forces afterwards
and thus avoid the obstruction posed
by the 10% Turkish threshold required
for a party to gain seats in Parliament,
which is the highest in Europe.
With thirty-five to forty millions
souls, the Kurds are the largest ethnic
group in the world without their own
state. In the four countries in which
the Kurds live – Iran, Iraq, Syria and
Turkey – it is in the latter two that they
have not only long been under oppres-
sion from the ruling forces in those
countries, but furthermore have also
specifically endured the subjugation
of their cultural norms and linguistic
practises.
In today’s Iraq, Kurdistan is an offi-
cial semi-independent federal region,
often referred to as the Kurdistan Re-
gion, with its own government, consti-
tution, security forces and presidency.
Kurdish being closely related to Per-
sian, the Kurds enjoy formal recogni-
tion by the Iranian government, with
a province in the country officially
named ‘Kurdistan’, literally meaning
‘the land of the Kurds’ and formally
definable as the geographic, ethnic
and historic land inhabited mostly by
the Kurds. Recently, the Iranian for-
eign minister Mr. Mottaki furthermore
opened a consulate in Arbil, the capital
city of the Kurdistan Region, with the
hope of leading to the strengthening
of ties between the two. His German
counterpart Mr. Steinmeier only re-
cently followed in his footsteps.
During a traditional World Economic
Forum session in Davos, Switzerland,
on 29th January 2009, the Turkish PM
heavily criticised the former Israeli
president Peres for the recent offensive
in Gaza, saying to him amongst others
‘you know how to kill very well’ and
‘you kill children on the beaches’. In re-
sponse, Israeli Maj. Gen. Avi Mizrahi
pointed out that ‘Erdogan should look
in the mirror first of all’, referring to the
oppression of the Kurds in Kurdistan
and the Turkish occupation of north-
ern Cyprus.
Early last year, Erdogan made a simi-
lar ironic statement on a visit to Ger-
many, home to a substantial Turkish
immigration population. Speaking to
a Turkish crowd in Ludwigshafen, he
urged the German Turks not to assimi-
late into the society in which they live,
but rather to maintain their own hab-
its and cultures, a fact which has been
true in the opposite for most Kurds in
Turkey. Unlike this latter group, Turk-
ish populations in Western countries
Ahmet Turk was censored for speaking Kurdish on Turkish television
Katya-yani Vyas
Politics Editor
It’s all so
confusing...
No Kurdish allowed
are free to set up lobbying movements,
free to establish parties promoting
their heritage, culture and language
without the fear of it being forcefully
shut down or even face political perse-
cution as a result of the countries’ leg-
islative authorities.
One of the main issues on the ne-
gotiating table between the EU and
Turkey for the latter to gain member-
ship of the organisation has been the
Kurdish issue. The remnants of Kemal-
ism – the nationalist ideology imposed
by the first president of modern Tur-
key, Kemal Mustafa Ataturk – are still
ever present in Turkish society. The
ultra-nationalist MHP-party continues
to advocate the creation of a united
‘Turan’, based on the unity of all Turkic
peoples. One of the most significant
remnants of Kemalism can be found in
the Turkish constitution, which writes
that it is considered a violation of rights
if somebody would offend the Turkish
nation state or its creator.
As a result, censorship in Turkey has
been placed repeatedly on globally ac-
cessible websites like Youtube, where
users are able to exert this criticism
without fearing prosecution under the
Turkish law.
Although nationalistic Turkish pub-
lic opinion would fiercely resent any
concessions to the Kurds in the time of
and on behalf of the Erdogan adminis-
tration, leading political experts claim
that the current Prime Minister should
publicly recognize the political, eco-
nomic and cultural suffering that the
Kurdish people in Turkey were made
to go through in past government eras
as a gesture of reconciliation.
Raz Jabary
James Goldsack
Politics Editor
Bring on the
orgies
V
oting is open to one hell
of a lot of abuse. Some
experts even believe that
the democratic method
we use is in fact seriously
out-of-date and flawed, largely leading
to not what is intended; the favourite,
even least-disliked candidate being
found the victor. Instead, the result can
only be described as a shambles.
Realistically, people vote for many
distinct reasons. Some vote for selfish
and individualistic reasons, others for
noble reasons like for the greater good.
While we believe that it actually works,
another factor is heavily involved.
Not in the act of voting but before.
For a long time dubious tactics not
only have been used to get people to
remember political candidates, also
frequently to subliminaly make voters
eventually decide to vote for them.
Lately, this technique has been used
in the US elections. Made famous by
X-rated frames added into film reels,
everyone should know how this was
done from “Fight Club”. Watch it.
Indeed, subliminal messaging was
typically made illegal some years ago
or at least it should have been.
Reports have been made of findings
into how much these subliminal mes-
sages really affect people’s perception
and actions. It has been shown to work
wonders and it is a very dangerous, or
brilliant, use of technology.
Maybe some of this years Union can-
didates should use it.
Many people do not know anything
about the workings of the Union so
how can we be expected to make an
informed decision? How are we sup-
posed to know what an honourary
treasury secretary ACTUALLY does?
This is one final problem with public
voting.
Perhaps we should go back to Plato’s
idea of a benevolent ruling elite to run
everything for us, a group of people
who actually KNOW what to do.
Go Plato.
Oh and don’t forget the orgies.
the recession by 2010?”
“Reduction of emissions is very
important”
All are interesting issues, even the
third which highlights a general lack of
interest for politics amongst students.
I am going to focus on the recent
protest in Luton against British troops
returning from Iraq. Protesters were
heard to shout at the marching soldiers
“Terrorists” and “Anglian Soldiers Go
to Hell”. In addition, some were hold-
ing up placards with the words “Butch-
ers of Basra” written in distinct red
letters.
To say that this is distasteful would
be a woeful understatement. The army
is there to obey the commands of the
government wthout question. For a
group of anti-war protesters to behave
in such a disrespectful manner towards
people who have devoted their lives to
their country is absolutely awful.
Ironically, the protesters then had to
be protected by another division of the
civil service, the police, as supporters
of the soldiers turned on them, shout-
ing, “scum” and “No surrender to the
Taleban”.
Gordon Brown expressed his disap-
pointment saying “The whole country
is proud of our brave servicemen and
women” and that it was “disappointing
that a tiny minority tried, but ultimate-
ly failed, to disrupt the event.”
I am retreating to the haven of un-
ion politics for the evening, the outside
world is beyond my understanding
sometimes.

