Architecture and the art behind it
Emily Wilson sees the great architect, artist and designer Le Corbusier at the Barbican centre
T
he exhibition space in the
Barbican centre is a little
unusual – it’s big and open
and spread out across two
levels. Architecturally el-
egant itself, this is the perfect venue to
house the Le Corbusier retrospective.
Its quirky design complements the
contents beautifully, though doesn’t
lend itself to a sequential walk round.
It takes me a while to find the begin-
ning of the exhibition, which no signs
bother to tell me is upstairs.
I know absolutely nothing about Le
Corbusier (1887 – 1965) when I arrive.
For example, I don’t realise that ‘Le
Corbusier’ is a moniker for Charles-
Edouard Jeanneret. Whatever his
name was, he started out as a watch-
maker who developed an interest in art
and design. Early on, he followed the
ideas of the Arts and Crafts Movement
(I know a lot about this – I did my his-
tory A-level coursework on it). Think
twee William Morris flowery designs
on old ladies’ shopping bags, but don’t
forget the rebellion against the Indus-
trial Revolution and undercurrents of
rampant Communism. But then Le
Corbusier moved to Paris and got all
trendy, hanging out with famous art-
ists like Leger, Picasso, Braque, Picabia
and Duchamp. He started his own arty
magazine called ‘L’Esprit Nouveau’
(‘New Spirit’, to us Englishfolk). Picasso
sent in a few token doodles, and these
are on display. Le Corbusier is already
getting interested in architecture, with
plans for utopias and scrawls of how he
wanted to solve congestion in Paris by
redesigning the whole city.
This second room is a mix of draw-
ings, design, architecture and film, and
it’s a little confusing. The biography
and some of the contextual themes are
lost in the chopping and changing be-
tween media. It’s not very clear how Le
Corbusier went from training locally
as a watchmaker to designing whole
buildings, for example. The narrative
is very grand and conceptualised. An-
other addition to the confusion is that
See, this Le Corbusier chap wasn’t just an architect - he also did
strange paintings. Is that a boob I see before me?
work by other artists who influenced
Le Corbusier is inter-mingled with Le
Corbusier’s own work, with little disct-
inction. These criticisms are true of
most of the exhibition. But I’m getting
into the nitty gritty here – the general
STUFF is all lovely. This is one of my
favourite periods in art and design; the
transition from the traditional of the
nineteenth century to the explosion of
modernism in the twentieth. The sleek,
crisp modern style pokes through early
on amongst the conventional, mak-
ing for design that’s eye-catching and
exciting.
There’s a little Mondrian on loan
from the Tate which I recognise. You
don’t expect there to be so many paral-
lels between these different artists and
styles, but it makes perfect sense next
to the crisp white models of Le Cor-
busier’s architecture. The Cubist in-
fluences shine through as flat top roof
terraces, square form and simple lines.
I absolutely love these houses – I want
to live in one very badly.
Suddenly we swing from architec-
ture and interiors to paintings. His
paintings are extremely similar to
Leger’s. But Le Corbusier is a jack-of-
all-trades kind of guy, and his paintings
aren’t as mind-blowingly excellent as
some of his painter chums. I think his
design and architecture is much bet-
ter. He was certainly a visionary, with
grand schemes for world domination.
He wanted to redesign the cities of the
world, restructuring urban areas and
filling them with his crisp, tidy build-
ings, solving all the world’s problems.
He was ambitious, and he does come
across as a little smug.
Downstairs, a highlight is a big tapes-
try/fabric piece on the back wall called
“Presence II or Guard Your Wing in my
Hand” (1949). It’s a bit random. Like his
paintings only bigger and more vivid,
and involving a bunch of wild animals.
There’s what looks like a rhino, a yak or
bison, a lion and a few gazelle. But in
the centre there’s a big punching hand
in a modern graffiti-like style, and a big
pair of boobs.
I say there’s a lot of arty paintings and
so forth, but the exhibition has plenty
for architecture buffs. There are some
pieces focusing on different com-
missions he received from across the
world, including locations like Chandi-
garh in India. There’s a lot of material
on the Saint-Pierre Church in Firminy.
This was designed by him but not built
in his lifetime. Construction started in
1970, stopped in 1978 and then some
nice people got around to finishing it
off in 2003-6. It’s impressive how well
the design has endured. The model of it
nearly fills a room – it’s incredibly tall,
with steep sides like a mountain. There
are plans of it, but nobody thought to
put up a photo of what it looks like
now. In fact, there are few such photos
in the exhibition. I think I’d like to see
the buildings for myself to really make
a judgment.
The exhibition wraps up with a
whole kitchen. Le Corbusier was keen
on designing houses for the masses in
the post-war period, in the great tradi-
tion of garden cities and new towns.
This is another era of design I get ex-
cited about – I love how these famous
and visionary architects came up with
plans for what is now a load of bleak
council flats.
I’m very impressed by the Barbican
exhibition space and the way the cu-
rators have used it. For example, they
take advantage of the split level by
hanging images at different heights
so they are best viewed from upstairs.
Le Corbusier is an interesting subject
and the contents are varied and quirky.
You don’t need a background knowl-
edge of him or the period to appreciate
this show. This is a fun one to wander
round with friends and hang about in,
rather than taking it too seriously. And
at £6 for a concession ticket you get a
lot for your money.
Le Corbusier: The Art of
Architecture
Barbican
Until 24th May 2009
Here is Le Corbusier, in all his bespectacled glory, poking a naked man
For some reason, the arts editor seems to have a foot fetish
not as intense or magnified as I would
imagine being stranded behind enemy
territory without supplies would be,
but it felt as good as reality had ever
been.
However, literature or cinema as a
complement in this context is usually
only applicable when one plans one's
destination with some serious intent.
Stumbling upon a destination and us-
ing the arts to feed one’s imagination
is a different matter Reading about
Mayan civilisation after you unwit-
tingly discovered there was more to
Yucatan than Spring Break and Coors
Lite is a perfectly common experience,
I am sure. For me, as with many oth-
ers, I am certain, family trips are prime
time for unsuspectingly stumbling on
an interesting destination.
I had read about Oregon in National
Geographic before and watched Rob
Reiner's Stand By Me, but neither of
these were sufficient preparation for
the sheer beauty of North America's
Pacific Northwest. Jacob Aaron Estes
oft-overlooked Mean Creek (featuring
a pre-Wackness Josh Peck) probably
does the best job of encapsulating the
small-town naivety amidst a summer
backdrop of eye-wateringly lush for-
ests, sunlicked creeks and breathtak-
ing Cascade volcanoes watching the
season pass.
So sometimes the anticipation of an
adventure is the most enticing escape
of them all, and books, images, pho-
tography, music - whatever you wish
to incorporate into your definition of
“art” - can make the experience all the
sweeter. Sometimes it’s sweeter when
you stumble upon it, and art can feed
those memories until one returns there
again. Expectation has the potential to
result in epic anticlimax. And for some
the escape of travelling through the
arts is enough, and for those without
the resources or the constitution to
make trips, modest or epic, this is the
sweetest escape of them all.
been sold out. There was no way that
Galileo’s findings would go unnoticed
or unexamined by the Church.
In 1616, a panel of the Holy Office
of the Inquisition pronounced the idea
of an immobile Sun as ‘foolish and ab-
surd’ and that the official position on
Copernican astronomy was ‘false and
contrary to Holy Scripture’. This was
delivered to Galileo by the pre-emi-
nent Jesuit Cardinal Bellarmin – the
‘hammer of the heretics’ – who had in
1600 prosecuted the priest Giordano
Bruno for heresy and burnt him at the
stake. Galileo was told that as long as
he stuck to a purely hypothetical view
of the Copernican system and did not
try to tell anyone how to interpret the
Bible, he would be safe.
Eight years later, encouraged by the
election of Cardinal Barberini, a sci-
entist and friend, as Pope Urban VIII,
Galileo wrote his Dialogue Concern-
ing the Two Chief World Systems com-
paring the Ptolemaic and Copernican
systems. This proved one step too far.
Although presented as an intellectual
argument between imaginary charac-
ters, Galileo’s opinions could be easily
inferred and the name he had given
to the character putting forward the
Ptolemaic view was the not altogether
flattering one of ‘Simplicio’. Urban VIII
reacted with a fury and a vindictive-
ness which he was to take to his grave.
Summoned to Rome, before the Of-
fice of the Inquisition and ‘vehemently
suspected of heresy’, Galileo renounced
his teachings and vowed never to up-
hold them again. The Dialogue was
placed on the Index of Prohibited
Books in 1664 where it would remain
for nearly two hundred years.
Galileo remained under house ar-
rest until his death in 1642. During this
time he completed his greatest work
Two New Sciences Pertaining To Me-
chanics and Local Motion which was
smuggled out of Italy, printed in 1638
in Holland, and established some of
the fundamentals of physics. By the
time of its completion, Galileo had
lost his sight and was never able to see
the printed version. Fully aware of the
irony, he said to a friend in 1638: ‘This
universe which I….enlarged a hundred,
Galileo’s
Timeline
Lily Topham engages in a discussion of the issues behind Bertolt Brecht’s The
Life of Galileo, in anticipation of DramSoc’s production of the play next week.
Bertolt Brecht and Galileo Galilei
T
his year is the four hun-
dredth anniversary of the
telescope, the interna-
tional year of astronomy,
the two hundredth an-
niversary of Darwin, the one hundred
and fiftieth anniversary of the publica-
tion of The Origin Of Species, and also
happens to be the year that DramSoc
will be performing Bertolt Brecht’s
The Life Of Galileo. Including that fi-
nal point may look a little incongruous
in terms of the epic sweep of history,
but it is not a bad time to put on a play
about a long-dead man whose contro-
versial theories about the world are
now common-knowledge.
Brecht and Galileo were both giants
in their respective fields, engendered
passionate loathing and admiration,
and became legends within their own
lifetimes.
It is hard now, in an age of Star Wars,
where every child in primary school is
told the names of the planets, where we
all know that we are on a small planet
orbiting an insignificant star in the spi-
ral arm o one galaxy among millions
in an infinite universe, to understand
how people believed that the Earth was
the centre of the cosmos. However, as
far as people of Galileo’s time were
concerned, the sun and the stars all
formed part of the heavenly spheres,
set in perfect circles, revolving around
a stationary Earth. This worldview
put forward by Aristotle and Ptolemy
(who, ironically, were ‘heathens’) was
an integral part of the doctrine of the
Catholic Church.
In order to see the impact of Gali-
leo’s teachings, we have to understand
the fundamental effects which Gali-
leo’s findings had on the way in which
people saw themselves and the world.
It was not simply a case of what hap-
pened in the heavens above people’s
heads, but how it affected the very
purpose and position of people in so-
ciety and the emergence of the role of
experimental proof in science which
could be applied to all walks of life.
Galileo did not pluck his ideas out
of nowhere. By the early sixteenth
century, Nicolaus Copernicus had de-
veloped a theory which removed the
earth from the centre of the universe.
In his work On The Revolution of the
Celestial Spheres published in 1543 the
Earth became simply another planet.
Considering the potential import of
this work, it did not cause nearly as
much of a fuss as might be expected.
Certainly, it was hardly a bestseller –
the first print ran 400 copies, which
failed to sell out. In it, Copernicus was
merely postulating a theoretical view;
including nothing to prove his theo-
ries. In the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries the Catholic Church was de-
veloping an early form of fundamental-
ism – strengthening their theological
standpoints and placing a greater em-
phasis on adherence to the established
teachings of the Church.
Born in Pisa, Italy in 1564, Galileo
was a respected and well-established
lecturer and researcher at the Univer-
sity of Padua. Characterised by a fierce
energy and an energetic belief in the
power of experimentation, during the
early 1600s, Galileo wanted to end the
ignorance of Nature’s laws of motion.
He was distracted by news of a re-
cent Dutch invention, the ‘eyeglass’,
which he proceeded to refine and pre-
sented to the entire Venetian senate to
the great astonishment of all. Even the
oldest senators clambered up the high-
est towers of the city to look through
Galileo’s remarkable telescope and see
ships on the horizon a good two or
three hours before the youngest, keen-
est, unaided eyes. However, it was Gali-
leo’s further refinements of this instru-
ment which made it so substantially
different from the little curiosity pieces
they had previously been. By 1609, he
could magnify objects by a factor of
twenty; and when he turned his gaze
on the moon and the stars it would ir-
revocably change the way society dealt
with science. Galileo saw sights which
no-one had seen before; the mountains
on the surface of the moon, the Milky
Way and the four moons of Jupiter
which he dedicated to Florence in his
work: The Starry Messenger.
Galileo’s discoveries were greeted
with huge attention and acclaim –
within a week of publication, all of the
copies of The Starry Messenger had
nay, a thousandfold….is now for me so
diminished and reduced, it has shrunk
to the meagre confines of my body.’
Brecht’s The Life Of Galileo is by no
means a factual account of Galileo’s
life. It focuses on the latter part of his
life and plays fast and loose with dates
and facts. This is hardly surprising as
Brecht did not aim to write costume
dramas; the epic theatre movement
which he championed aimed to ensure
that the audience was always aware it
was watching a play and be provoked
into rational self-reflection in order
to use theatre as a political and social
medium. However, in this play and its
different manifestations and revisions
over the years, there is more than a
purely didactic message; there are real
characters, with very human flaws and
questions that are raised which are rel-
evant today and will continue to be.
The story of the creation of The Life
of Galileo as a play spans nearly twenty
years. Initially written in German in
1938 whilst in exile in Denmark, Bre-
cht seriously revised the play when
Charles Laughton approached him in
Los Angeles in 1944. During this peri-
od the play itself became much shorter
and eventually, after years of rewrit-
ing and multiple changes in directors,
opened at the Coronet Theatre in Los
Angeles with Laughton in the title role
to a mixed reception. Indeed, it was
said that Laughton was so nervous and
fidgety that the costume designer was
ordered to sew up his trouser pockets
to stop him playing with himself in the
opening scene.
Brecht continued to revisit and revise
the play up till his death in 1956, and
since then, translators from Howard
Brenton to David Hare have adapted
the play further. Throughout Brecht’s
re-writes of his play, his aim was to
show the impact of self-realisation
upon a man who meets a test and fails.
This play removes the romanticised
image of Galileo declaiming against his
critics in the Office of the Holy Inqui-
sition, and repositions him as a simple
man, susceptible to normal human
pettiness, greed, love of food and com-
fort, fear of pain and capable of great
moral and intellectual failure.
Brecht shows the audience a star-
tling image of men and women alone
in the universe. The play asks how we
as humans are equipped to cope with
the moral decisions which we have to
make, what an individual and science’s
responsibility for knowledge and our
actions are and puts forward the pas-
sionate argument that one individual
can make a difference.
Towards the end of the play, Galileo
says: ‘I take it the intent of science is
to ease human existence’. In this age of
great twechnological advances, great
wealth and yet great poverty and suf-
fering, the questions and ideas that this
play raises are as relevant today as they
were four hundred years ago.
The Life of Galileo by Bertolt
Brecht, translated by Charles
Laughton is being performed by
Dramsoc from Wed 18th March –
Sat 21st March, 7:30pm.
All performances are in the Union
Concert Hall, Beit, SW7 2BB.
Tickets are available on the door
or in advance:
www.dramsoc.org/tickets.
£5 Students/£7 Non-Students
4th C BC
Aristotle writes On
the Heavens, his chief
cosmological treatise.
1543
Nicolaus Copernicus
publishes On the
Revolutions of the
Heavenly Spheres
1564
Galileo Galilei born in
Pisa on February 15th
to Vincenzo Galilei and
wife Giulia.
1589
Galileo appointed
as Professor of
Mathematics at the
University of Pisa.
1592
Galileo starts teaching
geometry and astronomy
at the University of
Padua.
1600
Giordano Bruno burns
at the stake in Rome
for advocating the
heliocentric worldview.
1609
Galileo designs his first
telescope, which he will
later use to discover the
four moons of Jupiter.
1632
Galileo’s book Dialogue
Concering the Two
Chief World Systems is
published.
1633
Galileo is found guilty of
heresy by the Holy Office
of the Inquisition. The
Dialogue is banned.
1638
Galileo’s Two New
Sciences is published.
1642
Galileo Galilei dies at
his villa in Arcetri on
January 8th.
1835
Galileo’s Dialogue
dropped from the
Vatican’s Index of
Prohibited Books.
1992
Pope John Paul II
publicly endorses
Galileo’s philosophy.
2009
Imperial College
DramSoc puts on a
production of Brecht’s
Life of Galileo.
One of the many romanticised images of Galileo before the Holy Inquisition by Joseph Robert-Fleury
1995
The spacecraft Galileo
arrives on Jupiter.
14 felix Friday 13 March 2009
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 13 March 2009 felix
News

