Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB. T: 020 7594 8060 www.union.imperial.ac.uk
Union
Central Library
This year will see the start of redevelopment of the Central Library, South Ken campus. The redevelopment aims to provide more study space - modern and with
improved digital and wireless technology - as well as improving working conditions, such as the much needed air conditioning. It’s likely to take around 2 to 3
years to complete, with the first phase starting in July, soon after term finishes.
Science Museum Collection
One of the ways of achieving more space will be through the relocation of infrequently used items from the Science Museum collection. These are currently
kept in stores in the Central Library and will be moving to Science Museum premises in Wroughton, Wiltshire. The items will be available via a 24hr call-back
service (accessed online, by phone or through the Library), so that anyone wanting to access these items can do so. Discussions with the Science Museum
about the future of its Library have been ongoing over the past 2 years, resulting in this solution. The Science Museum Library’s frequently used Science &
Technology Studies collection (STS) will remain at the Central Library.
More info can be found at http://www.sciencemuseum.org.uk/libraryfuture/info_faqs.asp . If you have any feedback, be sure to raise it on http://www.
sciencemuseum.org.uk/libraryfuture/
It’s expected that items will start to be moved from the Central library during the Easter Holidays. This is clearly a time of high library usage for exam revision, so
to begin with only items in stores in the basement and ground floors will be removed using the back exit, to keep any disturbance to the minimum. Items from
any of the reading rooms will not be moved until after summer term’s ended.
If there are problems, let us know asap so that we can ensure College address them adequately.
This summer
This summer will see work on Levels 4 & 5
Level 5
Level 5 will be renovated and the Humanities department will move in (currently this floor is also taken up by offices). The Business Studies collection from Level
5 will be relocated to Level 2, along with the study space.
Level 4
Work here will focus on improving the study environment and in particular on tackling temperature and ventilation problems. Whilst the work is going on, some
of the collections from this area may need to be relocated, such as those for Life Sciences and Medicine. At the moment the Library is assessing how much of
the 4th floor is actually going to be disturbed and what the relocation needs will be. However, all Level 4 stock will be back in it’s location before the start of the
new term.
Alternative Study Space during the Summer holidays
College are looking at options to provide alternative study space elsewhere on campus, but as close as possible to the library, so that anyone still needing to
work can do so away from the worst of the building disruption. More information on this will be available in due course.
24hr Library
From the beginning of the Easter Holidays and throughout the Summer term, the Central Library will once again operate on a 24/7 basis.
If you have any comments and feedback on anything mentioned here, please let us know, so that we can work with College to
minimise the disruption the renovations will cause students and ensure that the improvements do benefit the student body.
Sameena Misbahuddin
President
president@imperial.ac.uk
Union Entertainments
This term the Union is simplfying the price structure for it’s
Friday night entertainments. Most Friday nights will be FREE
ENTRY before 10pm and only a quid a kid thereafter.
Then once a month the Union will offer a big name act for £4.50
entry. This month we have X-Factor stars Eskimo Blonde and all
the great music from Fresh 40 not to mention Radio 1’s DJ Dan
Bailey. This event will take place on January 27th so mark it in
your diary!
Keep checking the Union ents pages at
www.union.imperial.ac.uk/ents for more upcoming events and
in next week’s Felix get hold of your latest Union Newsletter
and term planner.
Sports Centre
This term’s unfortunately started with a 3 week delay on the
opening of the new Sports Centre.
To ease the effects of the delay, the Union are working with
College Sport & Leisure to relocate Clubs affected and College
are covering the extra costs that this is incurringDue to the
continuing delay over the opening of Ethos, Fitness First
in South Kensington have kindly agreed to offer all Imperial
students a one month only offer for January while we wait. Call
02075905000 or pop into Fitness First at:
Petersham house
29-37 Harrington Road
Greater London
SW7 3HD

