W
hy is Michael Barrymore allowed to do
Hitler impressions in the Big Brother
(sorry ‘Celebrity’ Big brother house)
when recently a hospital driver got
sacked for doing them at his office christmas
party and then in the hospital while at work?
Can someone please explain that to me? Hitler
impressions are not the cleverest thing to do in
this day of age of political correctness so I was
not entirely surprised when Stephan Marsham
got fired from the Princess Alexandra hospital
in Essex. I did not think it was right; but I was
not suprised. However, then Mr Barrymore does
them for the whole of the UK to see and there
doesn’t seem to be any call for him to be chucked
out. Now, I am not sure how good Mr Marsham’s
impressions were - Michael’s were not very good
(his Frank Spencer impression, on the other
hand, was excellent) - so maybe that is where the
difference lies. Maybe it is fine to do impressions
as long as they are not particularly good, and
maybe no one but me realised it was meant to be
Adolf, though I feel that is unlikely!
It is kind of fitting that two of the most
ridiculous things in England should overlap;
political correctness and Big Brother. Political
corrrectness has gone far too far. Schools have
had to cancel sports days because children are
not allowed to win and lose anymore, because it
makes the losers feel bad! That’s brilliant, they
won’t now lose when they are young, they won’t
get used to disappointment and failure. Instead
of simply growing up knowing they weren’t
the fastest in the school they will grow up as
complete and utter losers unable to impress in
university or job interviews. We learn more from
losing than from winning.
Also it is now pretty much wrong to make any
kind of joke; can’t joke about fat people, can’t
joke about foreigners (except perhaps the Irish),
can’t joke about the opposite sex! The only safe
subjects are blondes and gingers and I bet they
are preparing a movement to stop us picking
on them! Just like losing, being picked on
makes us stronger. I’m not saying kids should
be bullied and physically beaten but everyone
gets picked on! Also jokes are an essential part
of our culture, it is one way we bond with each
other and discover who has the same view on
life as we do. If you don’t like the way someone
acts, don’t hang around with them! If someone
deliberately tells jokes to someone who they
know finds them offensive then that is a
different matter but people should be allowed to
have a joke with a group of like minded people.
As for ‘Celebrity’ Big Brother it is probably
only slight less ridiculous than rampaging
political correctness. The word celebrity in itself
is quite funny. Between Big Brother and “I’m a
celebrity get me out of here!” they must have
used up nearly every Z list celebrity there is.
I am longing for the day that Craig, winner of
BB 1, walks back into celebrity Big Brother and
is hailed as a famous TV personality! Though
maybe they are missing a trick there, how about
a “BB Winners’ BB”? Take all the winners from
the first 6 series and put them in the house,
then the nation really would have to choose
between its favourites! And also chuck in Nasty
Nick just for fun because he deserved to win it!
For all of you who didn’t watch BB 1 then Nasty
Nick was a very bad man who spent six weeks
discussing nominations with other housemates
and was never nominated once himself! The
confrontation between himself and the other
housemates was gripping TV and did wonders
for Craig’s (who eventually won) popularity
rating as he was seen as the leader of the other
housemates during the stormy meeting.
By now you will have all realised that I watch
BB so I probably have no right to slag it off.
In my defence I only watch it sometimes due
to there being very little else on TV, and I am
not an obsessive viewer. Also, I remember the
original BB when it was nice and simple; ten
housemates, one house, a lack of food and a task
each week. Now there are so many extra bits
that it just gets confusing and Celebrity BB is
just as silly, after all when is someone actually
going to get evicted? Aren’t they only in there
a week? Mind you some of them will probably
want to stay in there longer because I don’t
see them having a very good life outside; Mr
Galloway’s constituents are asking what the
hell he is doing in there and the police probably
want to interview Barrymore again now he has
admited live on TV that he was high on dope the
night someone drowned ion his swimming pool
(and he did Hitler impressions!)
Personally I hope that Chatelle wins; she
isn’t particularly clever, she isn’t very good at
singing, she isn’t a lot of things but most of all
she isn’t some desperate, haggard old celebrity
desperate for one last moment in the limelight.
L
atest reports of Ariel Sharon indicate
that he is being weaned off sedatives
to bring him out of an induced coma.
However, even if successfully revived,
this incident marks the end of his political life.
He has long been a leading figure in Middle
Eastern politics, with a legacy most recently
being associated with the pullout from Gaza and
the formation of the “centrist” political party
Kadima. This paints a picture of a man who is
prepared to take risks in the interest of peace.
Yet, if we scratch beneath the surface and recall
his past actions, this political demise actually
marks the end of an era of repression and terror.
With regards to the formation of Kadima,
Sharon left the “right-wing” Likud party in order
to do so – another party he helped establish.
The reason he gave for this drastic step was in-
fighting amongst Likud members caused by the
Gaza pullout and their refusal to co-operate with
the peace process. A more pressing and morose
reason, though, was to counter the rising popu-
larity of the leftist Labour party under the lead-
ership of Moroccan born Amir Peretz, a much
more vocal supporter of peace and of a welfare-
driven state in opposition to the war-mongering
and neo-liberalism Sharon espoused.
By setting up Kadima, Sharon successfully
appeared more left wing and so reduced the
competition from Labour. However Kadima’s
ranks were full of recognised rightist figures,
essentially making it a new Likud, with the same
agenda but without the emotional baggage!
Regarding the commendable issue of the Gaza
pullout, it has been suggested that the main rea-
son for this was the ratio of indigenous Arabs to
Jews, which was too high and so was against the
racist nature of the Jewish-only state of Israel.
As the expected congratulations from world
leaders flew in, unknown to the majority, the
19 square miles of Gaza given up were rapidly
replaced by occupation of a further 23 square
miles of West Bank within the next month with
enlargements of other strategic settlements.
So what does Sharon’s end as Prime Minister
mean for the world as a whole? By leaving
both Likud and Kadima stranded, Sharon has
left them unelectable chickens without heads,
leaving Amir Peretz as his successor. But even
if Peretz is successfully elected in around 80
days time, it will be a step in the right direction
at most and will not lead to any fair deals for
the Palestinians, e.g. the right of Palestinians
to return from refugee camps to their seized
homes and homelands that they were forced out
of: a right which Peretz opposes.
Ultimately, the stability of the region may
change in the short term but for long term peace,
the international community urgently needs to
get its act together and use this window of oppor-
tunity to change the status quo, resolving the
illegal settlement building and denial of even the
most basic rights to the Palestinians. Until these
rights, homes and the livelihoods of Palestinians
are not permanently restored to them, and the
international community and superpowers do not
take an unbiased view to Palestinian suffering,
there will be neither peace nor an end to terror-
ism, whether it be Palestinian or Israeli.
T
oday the Brown Couch can reveal the
real reason for the Sports Centre opening
delay. Two builders and 3 College Police
were killed over New Year in an epic gun
battle which ripped apart the Sports Centre inte-
rior. Extensive reworking is now required before
it can be opened on 30 January 2006.
News of the failure was broken to college in
an email on 6 January. “A series of unforeseen
minor setbacks” were cited as the main cause
for the delayed opening. In papers recently
released under the College Free Information
Bill, the Brown Couch has been able to piece
together the events leading up to the term.
One paper, entitled “Ethos Executions”,
details the events of 1 January 2005. Two build-
ers, referred to only as “Griff” and “Terry” had
drunkenly decided to start work on the demoli-
tion of Southside at a party they attended for
New Years Eve. At 4am, Griff and Terry started
their mechanised cranes and began demolishing
what they thought was Southside. At 4.30am, a
routine security patrolman discovered Griff and
Terry at work knocking down key sections of
the Ethos Sports Centre. The patrolman alerted
security staff whose response was brutal.
12 security guards, 5 attack dogs and 10
armed College Police attended the scene at
4.45am. Verbal warnings were given to Griff and
Terry who were still unaware of their situation.
According to the Head of College Police, “After
the warnings, the offenders still seemed in a
state of blissful ignorance. Two warning shots
seemed to sober them up though. They jumped
from their bulldozers and sprinted inside the
Sports Centre.”
A team of 8 elite College Police were sent in
pursuit while a call was placed to the Mayor of
College for authorisation to kill. The Mayor was
at a New Years Eve party when the call came
through. When the situation was explained, he is
said to have screamed “KILL!”. Once that order
was issued, Griff and Terry lasted only another
20 minutes, before being executed poolside.
It is now that the details become a little hazy.
We shall now make use of the damage report to
give you a fuller picture of what happened inside.
The damage list, as compiled on 2nd January,
stated the facts as “blood everywhere”, “shat-
tered tiles in swimming pool and changing area”,
“rifle storeroom raided”, “red pool water” and
“cafe coffee cup slightly cracked”.
Our sources have confirmed the following
course of events. Griff and Terry ran inside
the Sports Centre, desperate men. They broke
into the rifle storeroom and armed themselves
for what was to be their last stand. There then
followed mild skirmishes that shot their way
through the building until Griff and Terry were
cornered in the changing room showers. They
had managed to kill 3 of the 8 “elite” College
Police who then decided to change tactics. Griff
and Terry were flushed into the open using IC
fire grenades. They dived into the pool to put
our their burning bodies, where they were then
minced by machine gun fire.
For College to suggest that all this is “minor”
only highlights the terrible massacres that must
occur with all other “major building projects”.
Killed’a Builder?
Ammar Waraich
Brown Couch
Iain Heaton
18
felix
www.felixonline.co.uk Thursday 12 January 2006
Sharon and his recent pursuit of peace
PC and BB

