W
inter is a sea-
son of extremes.
In December we
stuff ourselves
repeatedly with
Christmas fare
and drink ourselves silly, then come
January we resolve to ‘detox’ and
attempt to exist on celery. But is
becoming a herbivore for a month
really worth it?
A quick flick through Carol
‘Countdown’ Vorderman’s bestseller
‘Detox for Life’ reveals there is little
you can eat on the diet that normally
appears in the everyday diet. Fruit
and vegetables are in abundance
but you can’t have meat, fish, dairy,
bread, sugar, pasta, caffeine, alcohol
or salt. Does the Sandwich Shop
stock anything there that could be
included in a detox diet? Not much,
apart from the complimentary slimy
apple. It comes across quite strong-
ly that this diet requires military
style preparation to avoid finding
yourself abandoned in the middle of
college at 6pm, starving with noth-
ing to eat but the contents of the
department’s vending machine. One
reviewer from Amazon sums it up as
‘Great, if you have no social life’.
If the idea of preparing chickpea,
coriander and lime salad for dinner
doesn’t take your fancy then why
not try one of the range of detox
products on the market? For just
£19,99 you can buy Gillian McKeith’s
‘24 hour detox programme’ – a mix
of seeds and dried vegetables that
replaces food for a day. Or how
about a detox juice, detox tea, detox
massage oil or even detox socks?
Crazy as it seems they all exist. But
do they work? Not according to
SCIENCE science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
felix
Thursday 12 January 2005 www.felixonline.co.uk
’Tis the season to... Detox
Emma Turner looks at what the fuss is all about
If we ate a
decent diet,
exercised a bit
and stopped
using a pack of
Marlboro like a
friend, no one
would need a
detox
A
new London-based consultan-
cy has been created to help
fill the funding gap that so
often leaves promising univer-
sity-based projects dead in the
water.
The Advertising Through
Science Bureau (ATSB) came into being on the
9th January with the aim of marrying under-
funded science projects with cash-rich com-
panies – they want the scientific paper to be a
marketing outlet for the corporate sponsor.
Merry Kingston, a founding director,
described the inspiration behind the ATSB:
“In late 2005 we read about a research group
that had managed to create very detailed pho-
tographs using thin colonies of bacteria. The
bacteria had been genetically modified to pro-
duce a dye on exposure to light and the group
cunningly sugared the pill for the paper’s pub-
lication by producing a bacteria-pic of the word
‘Nature’. This got us thinking – “What if they
had instead written ‘Kodak’? They might have
tapped a huge source of extra cash and taken
their research much further.”
The standard funding application process
can prevent much research from getting off
the ground and universities are reluctant to
take on sponsors for fear of seeming in hock to
corporate interests. The ATSB hopes to bring
science and big business to the same table, but
in a way that gives researchers independence
from any corporate motive.
Larry Donaldson, another ATSB director,
explained the fund-raising process:
“We match key features of the research pro-
posal to certain corporate sponsors. We make
suggestions as to how publicised aspects of
the research could be modified to incorporate
the sponsor’s name, logo or slogan and then
negotiate a fee with the sponsor. For instance,
an immunology study could include images of
lymphocytes arranged to spell out ‘BUPA’. Or,
instead of naming a new cloned animal ‘Dolly’
or ‘Snuppy’, the group could pledge to call it
‘Asda’. This is simple but effective publicity.”
Donaldson went on to suggest that a labo-
ratory test of lab rat maze-running could be
matched to Nike, who would provide Nike
branded rat-wear. The researchers could
shave swooshes into the rats’ fur. According
to Donaldson this would automatically lend
‘brand awareness’ to an otherwise obscure
research paper and provide easy publicity for
the sponsor. He went on:
“Steve Jones could have benefited from thou-
sands of pounds of additional research money
if only he’d maximised the cross-marketing
potentials of his earlier research into snail
shells. Capitalising the ‘S’ in every instance
of the word ‘shell’ in his papers would have
yielded a healthy per-word payment.”
Merry Kingston then went on to reveal their
plans for ‘JargonBranding’:
“Many existing scientific terms could be ret-
roactively adjusted to incorporate company
names. The Advertising Through Science
Bureau would devise re-branded jargon and
encourage the uptake of the new terminology
with per-use payments for scientific authors
who include the new terminology in any pub-
lished paper. We’ve already started work on a
campaign to brand-allocate parts of the elec-
tromagnetic spectrum. So far, we have Virgin
Radio waves, InfraRed Bull and X-Factor rays,
and we’re negotiating our supplier for the
micro-wave band.”
The newer
scientist
a recent investigation by the charity
‘Sense about science’ who asked a
panel of 11 dieticians and toxicolo-
gists about their scientific founda-
tion. Detox products were slammed
as a waste of time and money. One
panelist comments that McKeith’s
rabbit food is unlikely to do what it
says on the tin, ‘I don’t see how it
can boost energy without carbohy-
drate or stimulants like caffeine’.
The body does not accumulate
noxious chemicals over a stint of
un-healthy eating as is commonly
thought. Our very own Professor
Alan Boobis OBE (Toxicologist at
Imperial) exposes the myth that we
are somehow poisoning ourselves.
‘The body’s own detoxification sys-
tems are remarkably sophisticated
and versatile. They have to be, as
the natural environment that we
evolved in is hostile’. This is verified
by the fact that 36 hours of drinking
an almost lethal dose of alcohol the
body will have expelled it naturally.
The reality is that people who start
on a detox program are doomed
to fail due to an inherent lack of
willpower. OK, some people might
have a will of iron but after days of
deprivation even the strongest will
starts lusting after a cream cake.
And from there it’s a slippery slope.
Why do we put ourselves through
it? It seems to be a phenomenon of
the British. There aren’t many other
countries that flip-flop between the
two states of binging and dieting.
Could it be that we have not yet
learnt to eat well here? French res-
taurateur Raymond Blanc, founder
of the Le Petit Blanc restaurant
chain blames our binge drinking cul-
ture. He claims that the lifestyle in
Mediterranean countries does not
breed such problems, ‘we hardly
ever drink without food. That is an
English invention – all those bars
with their happy hours.’
So is the real problem that while
worrying about which detox diet or
product to try we are avoiding the
issue and not addressing how the
toxins got there in the first place?
If everyone ate a decent diet, took a
bit of exercise and stopped using a
pack of Marlboro Lights like a friend
then no one would need to detox.
But where’s the fun in that? Granted
at Imperial there are an unusually
high proportion of people who do not
give in to the cliché of student. They
don’t drink, (alcohol interferes with
the ability to calculate) smoke and
actually do eat a balanced diet. But
for those that do occasionally have a
half at the union why not soften the
long term effects by trying a ‘pretox’
Try having a balanced meal before
going out with an emphasis on pro-
tein and vegetables (you’ll make up
the carbohydrates in alcohol later)
Don’t forget to drink lots of water
when you get home, get plenty of
sleep and you should be fine.
The conclusion is transparent, eat
a normal balanced diet that includes
fruit and veg and there is nothing
wrong with a little indulgence now
and again. There is no doubt that
all the foliage in Carol V’s book is
healthy and if you can eat it than
good for you. You’re a better person
than me. But don’t try to treat a non-
existent illness with useless prod-
ucts that have no scientific basis,
unless you want to loose the wrong
sort of pounds. Anyone want a sec-
ond hand Carol Vorderman book?
Get involved in the next
issue of I,Science.
E-mail i.science@ic.ac.uk
Duncan
McMillan

