A
fter viewing the ever-sickening dev-
astation in Bali, President Susilo
Bambang Yudhoyono stated at a
news conference that: “The terror-
ists are still looking for soft targets”.
The potential for fear to overcome the usually
rational minds of humanity is starkly obvious.
Many deny it, but a global climate of fear has
been created. We feel it here in London. Muslims
feel it when they are told that MI5 has agents in
every mosque in the country. Imperial Students
feel it when Education Secretary Ruth Kelly tells
our Rector, Sir Richard Sykes, to “identify and
confront unacceptable behaviour” right here
on campus, and Muslim community leaders are
asked to help “identify and isolate” potential
extremists.
What is an extremist? Am I an extremist? I’m
Muslim. Everyone is telling me that this is fine.
If I were old and wise, I would remember the
early 1950s, a time when every loyal member
of the United States would affirm their patriot-
ism by making sure that no slither of socialism
was present in their family, friends, neighbours
and in fact anyone they knew. The ‘Red Scare’
pushed society to pressure individuals from
‘deviant’ political or social views towards the
popular view, even by suspending some civil
liberties, with the poor excuse of preserving
national security. The pertinent question one
must ask is whether this is an example of history
starting to repeat itself.
On Friday 5 August 2005, Prime Minister Blair
made a speech announcing proposals for new
anti-terror legislation. The measures were dis-
proportionately aimed at the Muslim community
in Britain, as they included plans to shut down
mosques, proscribe Hizb ut-Tahrir despite them
being a non violent political party, to draw up
a list of unsuitable Muslim clerics who would
be excluded from Britain and also to establish
an ‘Extremism Taskforce’ to set standards for
Imams that remain.
There was also the alarming move to extend
the maximum period of detention without trial
from fourteen days to three months. Personally,
I do not believe the Government has the public
support to pass measures that would isolate a
British citizen for a three month detention. It
infringes on human dignity and is ultimately a
rather reactionary move.
What concerns me most is the notion that “glo-
rifying terrorism” or “preaching hatred” will be
considered a crime. The point of discussion and
debate is to overcome differences and to under-
stand those of different points of view. In these
strange times, we must endeavour to remain as
open-minded and frank as possible to genuinely
comprehend others. One example could be the
State of Israel. This issue encompasses religion,
politics, human tragedy and misconceptions on
all sides. Many actively support it, others make
themselves deal with it, yet others oppose it.
What is inappropriate is to forbid debate. The
nightmare is this: if these measures are adopted,
thoughts will be considered a crime. The fear
of being caught by proposals against “indirect
incitement to terrorism”, “glorification of terror
acts” or “unacceptable behaviour” could only
curtail the freedom of thought. Opposition and
political dissent will effectively be outlawed.
The idealism that I subscribe to will not sit
well with some. I’ve been told by many to stay
quiet, to not “rock the boat”. I would like to see
this attitude dispelled. Even though studying
at a science institute gives us ample opportu-
nity to ignore the wider world, I hope that we
can remember the plight of minorities who
were dehumanised for draconian legislation to
become law. Muslims can feel the spotlight on
them now, but we all realise that the oppressed
minority tomorrow could be another defenceless
minority. Mr Blair, I will not let you change the
rules of the game (a copy of this week’s Felix
has been sent to the Prime Minister). A society,
which recognises and adapts to meet the chang-
es of our time, is a challenge that I would relish.
O
h no, my friends, it is not an option,
it is essential! It was my good friend
and Felix Editor, Mr R Neate, who
first suggested this idea to me. At
first, I did not see the necessity, but
that was when I was a student!
Since then I have started working, and I have
not seen an episode of Neighbours for three
weeks! Today is the first day I have had a chance
to, and that is only because I am off work sick
and trust me, even Neighbours is not worth
staying up all night vomiting for (occasionally,
maybe, but not regularly!) Plus, if I do it too
much, I may get the sack, which would be a
shame because I actually do enjoy my work.
Nowadays, I don’t get to watch much TV at all
during the week except for late night TV, and
I can’t stay up too late because I have to be at
work by 8.45am (God, I’m old!) On weekends,
however, I do lounge around on my sofa and
watch quite a lot of Channel Four (I’m really into
Lost and The O.C.). The only soaps I can watch
are Hollyoaks, Home & Away and Eastenders.
Now Hollyoaks is brilliant, attractive people and
some wonderful storylines; Home & Away has
even more attractive people (Oh Tasha, you shall
be mine), and what it lacks in storylines it makes
up for by the pure number of beauties who
appear to live in the tiny village of Summerbay.
The Home & Away omnibus is on Saturdays and
Hollyoaks on Sundays, so it works well, (obvi-
ously the people at Channels 4 and 5 had a chat).
I do, however, have a problem with the BBC
bothering to screen an omnibus of Eastenders.
‘Enders is crap and no one is talking about it!
Add on to that the fact that is on at 7.30pm or
8.00pm, so even I could watch it during the week
if I wanted to! So why do we need a omnibus?
Oh why, oh why, oh why? I think its because its
a British soap and the BBC feel they should use
British TV. Personally I would dispose of the
remaining Mitchells and the Slaters and dear old
Dot Cotton and put Neighbours in their Sunday
afternoon slot. Even if they insist on keeping
Eastenders on then, why not put Neighbours on
Saturday?
They could even pit it against Home & Away
to discover which is the true Ozzie giant!
Personally I would bet on Ramsay Street, the
people aren’t as hot (not since Holly Valance
and Delta Goodrum left), but the storylines are
so much better! Actually, now I come to think
about it, we should take the actors from Home
& Away and make them perform Neighbours
storylines, that would be brilliant. Of course, we
can’t replace Harold, Lou, Susan, Karl, Paul or
Toadie, but, let’s face it, I would much rather
see Rebecca Cartwright performing the role of
Janae Timmins.
Anyway, enough of that, it’s not going to
happen. What can, and must, happen is a
Neighbours omnibus! So please, for me, for
yourselves in the future when you have jobs,
campaign for a Neighbours omnibus. Just pick
up a pen and write to the Director General of the
BBC, (it’s not like you have much else to do in
lectures!).
Mark Thompson
BBC Director-General
White City
201 Wood Lane
London
W12 7TS
mark.thompson@bbc.co.uk
W
hen I heard the news reports last
year, recounting how a prisoner
serving time for rape had won
£7m on the Lottery, my psychic
radar went into overdrive. I had
visions of mass tabloid headlines exclaiming
exaggerated hostility towards perpetrator Ior-
worth Hoare. The Sun never fails to disappoint
me when it comes to predictability, and I expect
media hype once more now that Hoare has been
released back into society, where he’s now free
to spend his money as he pleases. Apparently it
is also costing the public purse thousands each
week to keep his new identity a secret.
I can see the headlines now: ‘We caught the
bastard! Then let him go. And now he’s spend-
ing his millions. He just bought himself a pair of
pants.’ Shocking Stuff!
Unfortunately, luck and fairness aren’t syno-
nyms. My friends in Math Soc will probably
argue that luck doesn’t even exist. I once stayed
up all night working on my GCSE coursework,
and my teacher was sick the next day, hence the
deadline was extended. As you can imagine, I
wasn’t particularly happy and extremely envi-
ous of everyone who didn’t bother and still got
a better grade than me. Its a childish jealousy
parallel to this which is plaguing the minds
of those shouting: ‘Dirty rapist! How dare he
win the Lottery? I deserve to win, damn it!’.
Incidentally, a woman undergoing cancer treat-
ment won the highest Lottery jackpot ever, just
around the same time as Hoare.
The lottery is just that – a lottery. It doesn’t
care if a rich person gets richer, so why care
when a convicted criminal wins? Does the lot-
tery need a new set of rules to decide who is
worthy? If so, I think poor students need prior-
ity!
Victim support groups have already expressed
anger at the win. One feminist writer even went
as far to say that Hoare “should give every sin-
gle penny of that money to rape crisis organisa-
tions”.
Why? Hoare broke the law, and was conse-
quentially punished by imprisonment, not con-
fiscation of earnings. He has paid his metaphor-
ical debt to society; why are people hell bent on
suing him/cajoling him into giving the money
away? He paid for his ticket, and he contra-
vened neither the rules of the National Lottery
nor the terms of his punishment. He didn’t even
have access to the money until he had finished
serving his sentence in full. Fair enough, eh?
Unfortunately, our puritanical society just
can’t hack it, and would prefer that High Court
judgements be arbitrarily altered to divert such
winnings to a criminal’s victims.
Exactly how do they envisage the precise
definitions of such a law? And where do they
draw the line? What if Hoare had bought his
ticket before he had been convicted? What if
he hadn’t won? Is he only held responsible for
all the crimes of his past once he starts getting
some dosh? Is prison not enough? Will finan-
cially depriving criminals reduce crime rates?
Precisely how much compensation will make
victims feel better?
As a student, I can see why he doesn’t want to
give the money away, even if he is sorry for his
crimes. Good luck to him, I say. I optimistically
hope he’s realised the error of his ways and
manages to avoid the paparazzi as he buys his
morning paper.
It’s all very well being self-righteous when
one’s never had such large amounts of mind-
corrupting cash, but £7m is a lot of money to
give away. How many of you would?
A Neighbours omnibus is not an option
Why can’t a rapist win The Lottery?
Iain Heaton
Anushri Patel
Omar Hashmi
Muslims are today’s soft targets
14
felix
www.felixonline.co.uk Thursday 6 October 2005
14-15-1329.indd 2 5/10/05 12:47:44 pm

