We’d had our little ﬁngers crossed for several months and it appears that all that crossing
as worked. We have an amazing new intake! I’ve seen nothing like it. We’ve only had two
days of events so far and their enthusiasm would be very hard to rival (apologies to other
years, we love you too). Things kicked off with the BBQ on Sunday afternoon were it was
lovely to see 300 freshers’ eating to the point of vomit. Not content with eating 37 burgers
in one sitting, one chap took a whole tray of left overs to see him through the week. Looks
like he’s learnt the art of student life already.
Now as for the Boat Party, not really sure where to start. One young lady managed to
seduce the captain of the boat, much to the horror of all around them. Fortunately there
were no fatalities and no acute poisoning. Monday night saw the Freshers’ Roadshow,
the annual induction to the medical school. If asked to describe it I’d probably say it was a
mix between Fun House and the sinking of the Titanic. Think Cupid may have paid a visit,
as I’ve never seen so many people smooching in the Reynolds in my life. A very randy
bunch these young freshers!
Anyhow, we’ve still got another 10 events to go at the time of writing and we’re hoping the
newbies continue to represent as well as they have. You guys are awesome, I love you
all.
Danny. x
What’s happening at the ICSMSU?
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB. T: 020 7594 8060 www.union.imperial.ac.uk
Danny McGuinnes - ICSMSU President
News from the Union...
Sameena Misbahuddin - President
Elections, Elections, Elections
This month sees a number of elections to Union Committees. So if you want to get in-
volved and actually make a difference, then why not stand for election…
Council
Governance to many may seem boring,………but if the Union is to work well then it is
vital that we make it work effectively.
Council is the governing body of the Union and is responsible for policy making and en-
suring the Union is serving its students well. A variety of issues are dealt with at Council,
from Fairtrade policy to student accommodation - dealing with issues concerning the
whole of the student body. Council is vital to everything we do – it tackles all the crucial
issues and if we’re to have any chance in challenging College decisions that we dislike,
then we must be able to present a united front.
Council meets monthly and is open to all to attend. There are 16 remaining positions to
be ﬁlled on this committee, of which at least two must be ﬁrst years and two postgradu-
ates, and for the rest a quota for each faculty.
Equal Opportunities Ofﬁcer
This ofﬁcer will be responsible for ensuring that the Union’s Equal Opportunities Policy is
upheld, and sits on Council and Welfare committee.
Trading & Retail Committee
Oversees commercial activities of the Union and is the place to go to represent student
views to ensure the bars, catering, shops and entertainments meet the needs of the stu-
dents. 4 positions up are for grabs on this committee and it meets once a month.
Services Committee
Oversees non-commercial services such as the Welfare service and services provided for
Clubs and Societies. 4 positions are up for grabs and it meets once a month.
ULU
There are up to 3 delegates for the University of London Union council to be voted for.
Delegates need to attend the monthly meetings and ensure that Imperial’s needs are be-
ing met by its parent university’s Union and to work with other London Unions.
Faculty elections
Some Faculty Unions are also having elections for a variety of positions. Look out for
posters relevant for your faculty. The elections timetable for Faculty elections is the same
as central Union elections and all works on the same electronic voting system (accessible
through the Imperial College Union website). However, you can not vote in other faculty’s
elections than your own (so don’t try ;-) ).
Why not get involved?
Thinking of standing then?
Nominations for all these positions are open now and close on Friday October 14th. To
ﬁnd out more information about how to stand for these positions
See www.union.ic.ac.uk/elections.
Nominations to Executive Committee
The Executive Committee is the management board of the Union, meeting fortnightly and
overseeing the Union operations. The committee consists of the Union President, Deputy
Presidents, Faculty Union Presidents and Overseas students’ committee chair. The
Committee will also have 2 representatives nominated from Student Activities committee
(SAC), 1 from Welfare committee and 1 from Academic Affairs – these latter four are to
be nominated at the beginning of term, at and by the ﬁrst meeting of each of the commit-
tees – to ﬁnd the dates of these ﬁrst meetings check www.union.ic.ac.uk/meetings.
Freshers’ Fair
Tuesday saw another successful Imperial College Union Freshers’ Fair. A big thank you
goes out to all those who helped make it a success; all the CSC and Faculty Union com-
mittee members, the Sabbatical ofﬁcers and Union staff members who helped through-
out the day and all the Clubs and Societies who organised stalls and demonstrations
welcoming students to a new term. And a special thank you goes to Simon Matthews
– Deputy President (Clubs & Societies) for organising the day.
DON’T HIDE FROM
DISABILITY
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT SERVICES AND FACILITIES AVAILABLE AT IMPERIAL TO HELP STUDENTS WITH
DISABILITIES PICK UP A LEAFLET OR CONTACT THE INFORMATION & ADVICE SERVICE.
T: 020 7594 8067 E:ADVICE@IMPERIAL.AC.UK

