Gunther Von Hagens the plastination professor, he shot back
“do you regard him as a scientist?” Winston himself has his
reservations: he regards him more as a “travelling showman
– quite a good travelling showman”. Prof Winston questions
whether people really “watch him because they want to learn
about anatomy” and wonders “if they learn anything about
how their bodies work”.
Lord Winston regards it as “hugely voyeuristic”, but wonders
“what makes him tick: his facial expressions are bizarre and
he wears a hat while he’s doing dissections.”
While other scientists regard Von Hagens’ work as mor-
ally reprehensible, Winston is not quite so damning. However,
although he “wouldn’t want to do it, I expect I would do a bet-
ter job if I did”. He believes there is a place for anatomy on TV
and cites Jonathan Miller’s A Body in Question dissection as
“powerful, non-voyeuristic, highly engaging TV”.
“Women can’t have it all” – British Medical Journal
A recent report in the BMJ stated that women should not
wait until their late thirties to have children. It said that the
availability of IVF may encourage women to postpone preg-
nancy.
Winston thought that the “authors were trying to have it both
ways. I thought the authors were a bit poorly focussed. They
were trying to say they weren’t preaching, but they were telling
people to have babies earlier. I don’t think that is an acceptable
approach: we need to be much more subtle.
I don’t think you can tell women when they’re in their late
thirties that they need to have a baby now as they might regret
it later. It’s wrong. It’s not actually how life works. I feel our
colleagues at another university south of the river are peddling
rather simplistic arguments.
Teaching at Imperial
Winston bemoans the fact that he rarely has the opportu-
nity to teach undergraduate students: “they [Imperial College]
don’t wheel me out to teach undergraduates, and I’d like to,
really. I give the odd talk, but don’t do a lot of undergraduate
teaching.”
He does regularly tour schools and universities, and finds it
“funny that when I go to other universities around the country
I talk to absolutely full lecture theatres. I get bigger audi-
ences in places like Exeter, Warwick or Aberdeen than I do
at Imperial in London. I suppose when you’re at home people
R
OBERT WINSTON has revolutionised the way
science is portrayed on television. No longer
is science restricted to Channel 4 Learning or
late night BBC2: his recent collaboration with
Casualty attracted 7.3 million viewers at prime
time on BBC1.
Just one of the many highly complimentary comments on the
show’s website said: “I was expecting this to be a quite tedious
episode, but the fluidity of his performance and interactivity
was quite impressive to say the least.”
Professor Winston has produced numerous highly success-
ful TV series, including The Human Body, The Secret Life
of Twins, Superhuman and Child of Our Time. His cheerful
demeanour and trademark moustache are now well recog-
nised across Britain. But he says his success is due to luck, at
least in part: “I feel very privileged. The biggest thing I’ve had
in my career is luck; I’ve been in the right places at the right
times and I’ve had the right people to help.” His ‘big break’
occurred through a bit of a ‘Judy Finnigan at the BAFTAs’
episode: “My trousers fell down while I was doing a televised
cesarean section; I’ve been hooked with TV ever since.”
Winston is one of a select number of scientists that have
succeeded in conveying complex scientific ideas to the public
in an engaging manner. But he does not agree with the “grum-
bling within the scientific community” over the lack of quality
coverage of science issues in the media. In fact, he used his
recent presidential address to the British Association for the
Advancement of Science to “argue that we actually have a
pretty good, fairly scientifically-literate press.” He continues
“we have some of the best science journalists in the world”.
He agrees with the view that the media does to some extent
heighten public mistrust of technology. But he also believes
that “we should be more aware that there is actually a very
good reason that people should mistrust technology: it is quite
threatening. What we haven’t recognised as scientists is that
mistrust is a natural aspect of our society.”
Surprisingly, given that most scientists yearn for more and
more science on TV, Winston believes that in fact “we don’t
do too badly, we probably do proportionately better than other
countries. And the quality isn’t bad either.”
He has found it “more difficult to work with the Discovery
Channel recently, as they are looking more and more to dumb-
down the science we want to produce. We want to be much
more challenging with the science. They don’t want to chal-
lenge their audience.”
He complains that audiences in America, where he “might
get one or two million” viewers, are much smaller proportion-
ately compared to the UK where he “generally gets more than
5m viewers”.
Radical Scientists
When I asked him his view of radical scientists, such as
Imperial’s own TV star talks to Felix about why he wants to get more
involved with undergraduate teaching, the role of the media in
science and how his trousers falling down launched his TV career.
Prof. Lord Robert Winston
“My trousers fell down while I
was I doing a televised
Caesarean section”
3
felix
Thursday 6 October 2005 www.felixonline.co.uk
reckon they can see you all the time.”
He is very keen to take up a new chair in science and society
at Imperial. “In my view one of the problems with this mod-
ern science university is that it doesn’t teach communication
enough. I don’t think it teaches a whole lot of things I think we
should be teaching – the nature of science, ethics, and risk.”
“I would like to see the university doing much more in [terms
of] having ethics inbuilt into undergrad teaching...communica-
tion is an essential role for the scientist today.”
“The irony of Imperial is that it’s got some really good courses
in science and the media, but they’re mostly postgraduate not
undergraduate. I think there’s a need for more undergraduate
involvement. Course organisers will always say that it means
extending the course or that they can’t teach the curriculum.
I would argue that communication is too vital a part of being a
scientist today for it to be ignored. The implications for society
and the risks and advantages of commercial development – it’s
all very important.”
“It’s a hard thing to introduce, but it gives you more wisdom
about the science. It gives you the notion of the university
being responsible for thinking about the role of science in soci-
ety. The science we do doesn’t belong to us; it’s all funded
through the public, so the public own the science. People are
reluctant to accept that but it’s true.”
Winston has “missed not having more contact with the
undergraduate body. Undergrads are in many ways much
more interesting.” So it appears that if Prof. Winston has his
way Imperial undergrads may be lucky enough to have him as
a lecturer.
While talking about the rumours that Imperial may stop
teaching undergraduates he said: “it would be a terribly nega-
tive step...I think it would be a very impoverished university
without them. You could argue that it would no longer be a
university, more a research institute.” But he does not believe
the rumours are true.
What next for Lord Winston?
Although Prof. Winston has just officially announced his
retirement he is currently conducting research into transgenic
pigs. The goal of the work, which involves modifying pig genes
using novel methods, is to eventually produce organs that
might be used in human transplantation.
He has a new book and television series coming out soon
called The Story of God. He believes that God and science can
coexist, as explained in his book.
“There’s a place for a story of creation. Evolution is as close
to being proved as we can have it. But that doesn’t necessarily
nullify the biblical account of things.”
Rupert Neate
The Story of God is published 17 October
The TV series begins in December on the BBC

