Degrading to women; destabilising for men? Pornography is a subject which raises strong feelings in ma
people. Whether the readers have fears of their own sexual inadequacy or not, reading and masturbatin
over the material leaves feelings of disgust in most.
The Meat Market
By Liz Warren
UK Circulation of 'soft' pornographic magazines readily
available in Newsagents (not comprehensive)
Mayfair 157,197
Penthouse 110,000 circulation
Independently assessed readership 581,000
Forum 50,000 (quarterly) circulation
Independently assessed readership 250,000
PAUL RAYMOND MAGAZINES:
Escort 365,095
Men Only 239,160
Club International 129,798
Model Directory (quarterly) 90,000
Men's World 102,000
Razzle 138,667
Total for Paul Raymond Magazines = 1,004,720 monthly
Fiesta 240,000
Knave 90,000
Total for all UK magazines listed = 1,618,583
These represent only 10% of the monetary value of the
material sold in the UK
Pornography is big business in the United Kingdom.
It pulls in over £500 million every year. Consider the
UK circulation of 'soft' pornographic magazines
readily available in newsagents (see box). The
independently assessed readership of Penthouse and
Forum shows that each copy is read by five people.
Newsagents claim that on average people buy two
magazines, which gives a total readership of about
four million, based on these magazines alone.
Government sources estimate that the male resident
population of the United Kingdom aged between 15
and 64 in June 1988 was 18,760,200. This means
that around one in ten men in the United Kingdom buy
pornographic magazines and one in four men in the
United Kingdom read them. The proportion of people
at Imperial-you-reading these magazines is
probably even higher, given the ratio of men to
women. Remember that these figures do not include
videos, hard core magazines or any other media.
Many of the soft core magazine publishers produce
more 'respectable' publications such as Brain Damage
(published by Galaxy who also produce Fiesta and
Knave) and the Sunday Sport (owned by the
publishers of Park Lane and Whitehouse). The owners
of the Sunday Sport also run the Ann Summers chain
of sex shops, who hold 'tupperware' style parties to
sell sex aids to women, something which is viewed
as quite acceptable by many people. Many of the
women who buy from these parties would find
Whitehouse in particular offensive.
Last year, MP Clare Short introduced a private
member's bill concerning pornography. When she
spoke in the House of Commons she received a
barrage of highly personal insults from backbench
MPs, many of them implying that she was only
introducing the bill because she was jealous of the
women in magazines. The bill was destroyed by the
attitude of these MPs. Why does this subject promote
such strong feelings? Is pornography on the increase?
Is that in itself a bad thing? And where do you draw
the line between pornography and, for instance,
'glamour' photography or an 'art' film?
In order to write this feature from an informed
viewpoint FELIX purchased (without a great deal of
effort) five magazines: Penthouse, Fiesta, Whitehouse
and Rodox, which are essentially aimed at men and
Playgirl which is marketed towards women. We also
managed to buy a hard core magazine aimed at gay
men called Under Construction from a dubious
bookshop. These provided the starting point for a
discussion amongst a mixed group of Imperial College
students (all names have been changed).
The dictionary definition of pornography is 'writings,
pictures, films etc designed to stimulate sexual
excitement' (Collins Concise English Dictionary).
Pornography should therefore at least offer this,
whatever else it provides. Many of the magazines or
other forms of pornography viewed by the group were
considered to be not only unerotic, but to be either
amusing or disturbing.
Penthouse was felt to be the acceptable face of
pornography: the pictures were considered to be
mostly well-photographed, artistic studies of
attractive naked or semi-naked women. The rest of
the magazine consisted of features of general male
interest-sports cars, mountain bikes, nuclear power
and actresses (clothed). There was some discussion
as to what the difference was between many of the
pictures in Penthouse and certain advertising shots in
the current issue of Cosmopolitan. In the end, the
group decided that there was little between them,
particularly those shots which used sexual interest as
a marketing ploy.
Whitehouse was an example of what 'John' called
'gynaecological pornography', with the bias of the
pictures being towards open crotches, held wide and
treated with glycerine to simulate sexual arousal. The
emphasis was purely on women as available lumps
of meat. 'John' described the centre page spread as
'practically being a medical diagram-all that's
missing is the arrows and the labels!'
Fiesta contained a series of pictures of 'Ample
Annie', a grotesquely overweight black woman
(shown on the middle of the right-hand side of the
back cover). The aureolae of her breasts were best
described as 'dinner plates'. This feature produced the
general reaction of laughter and 'How can anyone find
that attractive?' The feature was felt to be 'sick',
'medically unhealthy' and simply unattractive and
unerotic, although 'Richard' pointed out that in some
cultures, such women were viewed as the height of
sexuality. 'Sid' added that there are fetish magazines
soley devoted to obese women. It is interesting to
note that Fiesta claims to be aimed at both men and
women.
The fourth magazine, Rodox, was bought in a large
sex shop off Leicester Square as an example of a
legally available 'hard core' magazine. The most
hypocritical aspect of this magazine was the white
circles which covered certain parts of the pictures.
These white circles are required by British law, which
forbids the display of penetration.
The most disturbing part was the 'stories' which
accompanied the photos. In Ibiza Trio the text reads:
'Jenny was on a week's holiday in Ibiza, and one day,
whilst she was taking a stroll around the town, she
was accosted by a couple of paramilitary types in a
jeep. One of them whistled and said, 'Hey baby, d'you
need a lift?!' 'Yeah, sure!' she replied naughtily.' That
would be great, my feet are killing me!'...Jenny was
overjoyed...She'd been dying for some dick and here
she was, with a burning phallus in each hand...' This
demonstrated both a remarkably fantastic approach
to sex-'Mark' commented that 'all pornography is
fantasy'-and also a disturbing implication that all
women, when walking down the street minding their
own business are in fact simply waiting for a man to
Page 10

