leap on them and drag them away for sex.
Perhaps Playgirl, the fifth magazine, is designed for
this sort of woman (if she exists). Everyone looking
at Playgirl was surprised at how far it went. There
were the expected shots of muscular men displaying
their biceps. In the issue we saw there was a large
feature on several members of the Chicago Bears
American Football team.There were a number of shots
of simulated sex; something which no-one had
expected. In general, these shots were felt to be
considerably more tasteful and erotic than any of the
equivalent pictures in Rodox. None of the women
found the pictures of men particularly attractive.
'Susan' said she felt that women had more
aesthetically pleasing bodies than men.'I prefer
looking at women to looking at naked men', she said.
One aspect of the magazines that was felt to be
particularly disturbing was the advertisements for
items such as penis enlargers: 'Scientifically (sic)
developed over many years, this vacuum developer
will help, with regular use, to develop a larger
thrusting, throbbing, growing erection that you can
show to anyone with pride'. This sort of
advertisement, together with letters including phrases
such as 'this was the longest yet, 10" and very thick',
were described by 'John' as 'overall, playing on some
mens' feelings of inadequacy'. A quick straw poll
reached the conclusion that the average length of a
man's penis was about six inches. 'Susan' pointed out
that as the average length of the vagina was about
five inches, a ten inch penis would be no more
pleasurable than a six inch penis and quite likely to
be a lot more painful. In general the magazines were
felt to show a false and possibly dangerous view of
what was sexually possible and 'normal' or 'average'.
Computer pornography is a relatively new
development. It is certainly available on computers
within Imperial College (the pictures shown in this
feature were produced by an Apple Macintosh in
College) and falls into several types. There are
interactive programmes such as MacPlaymate where
'tools' can be used to stimulate an illustration of a
female figure to 'orgasm'; she can be dressed in
-" mmmmmm
Under Construction: For all you men who like seeing women humiliated. How would you like to be on
the receiving end?
different costumes and will also masturbate and
'couple with her talented sex partners'. It is also
possible to obtain digitised images from pornographic
films, for example Maxine Headboom, contains about
two minutes of fellatio. The image looks like a grainy
black and white television picture. Another type
consists of games of a sexual nature, such as strip
poker, which divests images of women of their
clothes. A Time Out feature recently described these
as 'catering very much for the rather naff tastes of
15 year old boys'. Many of these programmes are
Whitehouse: In your newsagent now. Why not pick it up
are all owned by
with your copy of Brain Damage and Sunday Sport? They
the same company.
freely available on bulletin boards-openly accessible
to anyone with E-mail and far more discreet to acquire
than a magazine. Computer pornography brings a
whole new meaning to the word 'shareware'.
What about the telephone lines like 'Deep Throated
Joy', 'I teased her till she came' and 'Bad girl says
please', all titles obtained from one genuine
advertisement? These are often, but not always, a lot
milder than the titles promise and some include a great
deal of advertising for other numbers before
embarking on the theme of the phone call. Perhaps
it is as well they are so mild since they are easily
available to any under-18 year-old with a telephone.
Even some of the 'chatlines' operated by respectable
bodies like British Telecom have been closed down
because they have turned into explicit sessions
between callers who 'talk dirty' and arrange
assignations over the phone, although this isn't
necessarily pornography.
Perhaps one of the most bizarre new developments
in the world of pornography is the arrival of
pornographic holograms. A British company has just
released a range of six 'erotic' holograms. The images
were produced by British artist James Copp and show
scenes based on Victorian erotic photography, with
men and women in various states of undress. Copp
says that he produced the work whilst comparing the
effect of holography on images that were prevalent
in early photographic work, and admits that the series
was released purely to make money. He also says that
he thinks people 'will not find the images erotic in the
first instance because they're so unconventional in
3D'. Holographers have been predicting pornographic
holograms since the infancy of the science: with the
possibility of animation and multiple images as well
as 3D effect, they are wondering what will appear
next.
Video pornography contains much the same themes
as the harder magazines. Under the Video Recordings
Act of 1984 it is illegal to depict sex with violence
or show genitals and urination/excretion. The
Committee against Pornography and Censorship, a
pressure group set up to express concern about the
proliferation of pornography and the messages it
displays about women, carried out research in Soho
to obtain illegal videos. Despite the 1984 Act, they
Page 11

