Maybe we should all have thought ofsomething more general than science to study. Do we all see our
as middle management trainees?
Disillusionment
Name withheld at Editor's discretion
I remember when I was about six years old I actually
asked my mother if I could have extra lessons in Maths
and English with Miss Thompson because I was keen
to learn. And now? Well, last year I would have run
ten miles, literally, rather than sit in front of a problem
sheet. Is it me? Or (and this is the way I like to think)
is it not? My learning ability cannot have regressed
so far since I was six, I think, so perhaps it was
education that killed the will to learn. Similarly a friend
who, like me, used to be top of the year until he got
to 14 or 15, has since dropped out of two degree
courses. Another has changed from being the top of
the class at '0' level to dropping out of the first year
of an engineering degree. It would be easy to write
off these failures as the pressure of University life,
living alone, etcetera, but in my experience it was in
the sixth form, or earlier, that the disillusionment
occurrred.
I think it was a gradual realisation of irrelevance that
crept up on me as an adolescent. Why should I have
to learn how fast light propogates in a vacuum, or by
what angle it bends when it gets to a block of glass
or water? It is there and I can see with it, what more
do I need to know? Enough to know that the stars are
astronomically far away and sparkle on a clear night,
why do I need to be able to calculate the mass of the
moon or its gravitational pull?
I was taught the biological version of sex, the
useless bit that doesn't really matter. I could draw a
vagina in cross-section, but didn't have a clue about
a front elevation...and not a word about the pill or
those aerials that women insert to pick up Radio
Three. And Mathematics? That was the most
irrelevant of all. It didn't even pretend to have any
application to real life, but was just an intellectual
game for people who didn't care if they wore the same
anorak every day, or what people thought of flared
trousers nowadays.
But our English teacher, no, he knew what life was
about. He didn't vote Conservative, he wore lightly
toned pastel day-suits, drank in the same pubs as the
sixth form and dated the most attractive pupil in the
school. No wonder most of the sexually repressed
fifth form at that public school flocked to the arts
courses at the age of sixteen when fhaf decision
arrived. Thar decision to go arts or not that's dropped
in your lap sometime before 'A' levels, heralded only
by a single career interview with a retired English
teacher, or with a lady from the council who advises
you to become an engineer 'because we haven't got
enough'.
And me? Perhaps I should have flocked with them.
But here I sit, on the wrong end of a decision made
six years ago. If I 'got into the wrong box' it is
nobody's fault but my own. But I do feel somebody
is to blame in that the decision which box to get into
(if you'll forgive the double entrendre) is made so early
when only a handful of kids know what they really
want to do. I also blame that person for the very
existence of the boxes themselves. Why must one
choose to go for either 'The Sciences' or 'The Arts'
or some eco/pol civil service option at LSE?
So my advice to you planners-of-courses, lamenting
the continuing drop in applicants for science and
engineering course, is to come up with something
more general, something that will keep options open
and make applicants feel, when they are weighing up
coming to the best technological institute in Britain
against its lack of human-interest value, that there is
more here than an expensive ticket to
middle-management.
City & Guilds Union presents
GUILDS
CARNIVAL
with
THE MAN FROM DEL MONTE
and
•Howlin' Wilf & the Vee Jays-
plus Films, Cocktails, Videos,
Bar till 2am, Disco till 3am
FRIDAY 17th NOV
IC Union Building
8.00pm
Tickets: £4 (adv), £4.50 (on the door)
from Guilds Office
ITALIAN SOCIETY
THE ROMAN
TOGA PARTY
Thursday 23rd November
8.00pm to 1.00am
UNION LOUNGE
Bar it Disco * Roman Food
DRESS CODE: TOGA
Price: £1.50 (50p off if you wear a toga)!
50p to members
DON'T BE THE ONLY NERD WITHOUT A TOGA!
ft

