Splot Soc—Murders a table
Sunday November 5 saw the first trip by Splot Soc,
a society formed only this year. A group of 50
dedicated 'paintballers' gathered outside the Union
Building at 7.45am, bleary eyed and fighting off the
morning after hangovers that kept 5 others in bed.
For the uninitiated, 'paintballing' involves acting out
various combat encounter scenarios in
woodland/swamps (!) using guns that fire paint pellets
(balls). These burst on impact, marking the target as
'dead' for that game.
The opposition for the day's battle, which was
spread over 8 games, came from 'Ratcliffes'. The first
two games involved trying to steal the opponents' flag
from their fort and return it to our own fort through
dense woodland. Splot Soc won the first, with the
longer second game resulting in a draw.
The third and fourth games were similar to the first
two but the two flags were on opposite sides of a very
open bridge over a swamp. The score now stood at
2-1 to Splot Soc, and there was a break for a barbeque
lunch.
The idea of the fifth and sixth games was to reach
the opponents fort via some heavily occupied
trenches. Ratcliffes won both of these, forcing the
score to 3-2 in their favour. But Splot Soc fought back
hard in the 7th game-similar to the first 2, but with by 4 games to 3.
a heavy'ammo-box'instead of a flag-to claw back Everybody who went thoroughly enjoyed
the score to 3-3. themselves, so if you feel you would like a go, meet
The final game saw a mass charge by every member Splot Soc any Tuesday in Southside Upper Lounge
of the Splot Soc team to snatch victory on the day between 12.30 and 1pm.
Animal Welfare
On Saturday November 18, Action for Animals (the
London branch of the largest British animal rights
group, Animal Aid) will be holding a demonstration
outside St Thomas Hospital. This is in relation to the
hopsital's involvement in alcohol experiments which
were performed on ten baboons; originally intended
to see if a diet supplemented with zinc could prevent
liver disease. The experiment failed, after five years
of subjecting the baboons to high doses of alcohol,
since none of the animals showed signs of cirrhosis.
Cirrhosis of the liver is a main cause of sickness and
death in western society but animal experiments
continually prove that it is hard to induce in animals.
In 1974 American scientists reported that, in
experiments on thirteen baboons given alcohol in the
diet hepatitis was induced in four and cirrhosis in two.
Yacht
Last Saturday IC Sailing Club had their first race
meeting of the term against Kent University. IC were
fielding three teams, one a ladies team.
Our captain, Carol Eastwick, and her ladies team
took to the high seas and swept past the Kent ladies
to win 1, 2, 3 in their first race. The re-match was
later abandoned and put down as an IC ladies victory.
In the afternoon the wind lessened. This didn't
hinder the IC 1 st team in their 1, 2, 3 victory over Kent
with Liam Moloney speeding home to take 1st place
in the Club's new Firefly.
Next was the turn of IC 2nds, losing 4, 5, 6. They
staged a comeback in their re-match though and beat
Kent with 1, 4, 5.
Both clubs called it a day after that and retired to
the bar with IC having won 4-1 overall.
The researchers at St Thomas have challenged these
findings and are planning further trials on other
baboons.
Researchers at Reading University, working on the
link between alcohol consumption and high blood
pressure have found that results from animal
experiments differ widely and 'many are directly
contradictory. This lack of agreement may derive from
difference in the species or strain of animal used, the
dose given, the route of drug administration, the areas
of the brain studies, or the time after drug
administration at which the studies were done.'
Modern clinical studies with alcoholic patients can
provide more relevant insights into the nature of this
harmful condition, and with over one million problem
drinkers in the UK there is no shortage of subjects for
Fatal
This coming Thursday IC FilmSoc is showing Fatal
Attraction, one of the decade's most controversial
films, in which Michael Douglas discovers that extra-
marital affairs can seriously damage your health, not
to mention your pet rabbit. As the woman who
Douglas has an affair with and then dumps, Glenn
Close is superb-at first highly sensual and then
deeply disturbing when Douglas's successive
rejections plunge her into madness.
As the film progresses the tension slowly escalates
as the extent of Close's insanity is gradually revealed
through acts of increasing violence.
observation. Additional information can be obtained
from test tube studies with human tissue derived from
biopsy samples and autopsy specimens.
ICU Animal Welfare Society has been invited to
participate in Saturday's demonstration and anyone
interested (non-members are more than welcome)
should meet under Beit Arch at 10am on the day
before getting the tube to Westminster. The
demonstration will be assembling at 11am opposite
the main entrance to St Thomas Hospital, Lambeth
Palace Road, before marching at 12.30pm to the
Home Office to deliver a petition. Various events have
also been organised for the afternoon, so please come
and give your support.
Ten Pin
The Ten Pin Bowling Club notched up another two
wins last week in the University League. On
Wednesday we beat Southampton University at home
7-3. The ladies team won well (again!) by 100 pins
as did the A team with Sam Chen having the highest
series of the match with 502. The B team had a very
close match finally drawing, whilst the C team, after
a valiant effort from both Andy Bays and Mark Ward,
were beaten.
We then played Kent University on Sunday and beat
them by an amazing 9-1. The B, C and Ladies team
comfortably beat Kent whilst the A team drew, losing
the series by only 5 pins. A great game was put in
by Waleed Sarwani with a 526 series.
Page 15

