Football
London Hospitals-5 IC Dribblers!-0
Battling violently against the elements (namely the
bastard in the Black!), IC ladies fielded a brave 11
lasses to face the onslaught of bad decisions, bad
insight and bad timekeeping, not to mention London
Hospital, whilst still suffering from Saturday evening
and an excess of available parties. The back four were
stalwart and solid in the face of the furious attack by
a 7 foot square Vikingess and Maradonna herself (I'm
sure that was hand ball in the box!). It would take too
long to describe all their goals but I would like to say
that Emma was superb in goal and we don't blame
her for the second goal. It was more down to the Eddy
currents and force fields created by the blast of the
direct free kick which forced her hands an inch apart
either side of the ball! For the rest of the match there
were a couple of near misses and a lot of kicked shins.
All things considered the 'Dribblers' achieved their
goal (if you'll pardon the pun); ie not to be beaten 6-0
as we were last time we played 'doctors and nurses'
with London Hospital (phnarr, phnarr). Honestly, have
they anything else to do but practice footie now the
ambulancemen are on strike??
UC ll-(1) 1 IC 11-11) 3
IC II move comfortably into the next round of the cup
with a fine victory at UCL.
UCL started spritely enough and capitalised on their
early pressure with a well taken goal. However, after
this point they never smelt the IC goal and -when
reduced to ten men by an injury, were constantly
under IC pressure.
They conceded the equaliser in the first half when
a slightly deflected E Coates' free-kick beat the keeper
and went into the top corner of the net. The two
second half goals came from good 'edge of box'
strikes; first from R Martinez and then from R Kay,
who hit a right foot rocket late in the game.
Rugby
IC 2nd XV- RHBNC-
Despite a stiff breeze against them in the first half,
the 2nd XV resisted some heavy pressure, and
conceded only two penalties going into half time 6-0
down.
Having been evenly matched in the first half, the
IC pack began to take control of the rucks and mauls,
releasing the back division who could have scored
more had the handling been sharper. IC fought back
using the wind, and eventually got a penalty which
Tintin converted. As the time went on, anxiety crept
into the IC attack, but a well worked move set Tintin
free to finish well and put IC in the lead for the first
time. The try was converted (Tintin) and a late penalty
gave Tintin an opportunity to seal victory, which he
did with ease.
This was the best team effort his season, and a
great morale boost for future games. Also our thanks
to Henry who did a great job at scrum half, despite
having his nose broken by over zealous tackling (or
was he punched in the face?).
16 Page
Hockey
RHBNC 3rds-(0) 0 IC 3rds-(4) 4 RHBNC—1 IC—1
With the echoes of eleven goals against Surrey still
ringing in their ears, Imperial travelled to Royal
Holloway with high hopes. Neither strong winds or,
what appeared to be an organisational nightmare,
deterred Imperial from dominating a shakey Holloway
side that lacked both imagination and lustre. Two fine
goals from Adam Pritchard, an opportunist strike fron
Jon Briggs and another 'sneaker' from Ian Macgovern
left Imperial comfortably ahead at half-time.
The second half, however, found Imperial
floundering on a pitch which now closely resembled
a swamp. Kevin Hill, finding the conditions favourable,
constantly threatened a stationary defence, but,
despite fine performances by the IC team and the
occasional foray upfield from Eric Sie, Imperial failed
to convert their superiority on a fixture that had long
been decided.
Holloway had all the play in a tight match but IC
proved that good tackling and an awful pitch cold stop
much of the play.
The opposition's inability to score short corners
with Paul Lavercombe saving off the line and keeper
James Whiteham having an inspired game kept the
score 0-0 at half time.
After the re-start Holloway got a penalty flick which
slipped in under James' outstretched hand. This lifted
IC to score on the break with Mark Lonsdale slipping
the ball to Gary Knaresborough who beat the keeper
and hit it home.
Thanks to strong defending and Hari Vandeven's
acrobatic clearance off the line the score remained
1-1: a hard fought draw for IC.
RHBNC 11-1 IC II—3
IC entered the match knowing that Royal Holloway
would be the toughest opposition yet in the UAU. All
our fears were realised when, after 10 minutes,
Holloway deservedly took the lead following some
scrappy defending by IC. This, it appeared, was what
IC needed, and we almost immediately took control
of the game. However, the pitch denied us until 1
minute before half-time when Steve Burton struck
clearly past the keeper to provide the equaliser.
After the interval the game was one sided; solid
defence and good distribution from the half backs
providing the forwards with plenty of ball. However,
it took the clockwork-like short corner routine to put
IC ahead-a good clean stop by Dave Millard allowing
Colin Wright to shoot the ball home. The match was
put beyond doubt 3 minutes from time when Colin
Wright converted a penalty flick, following a deliberate
use of feet to prevent Dom Howard from scoring.
With this 3-1 victory, IC knew they ought to go
through to the next round of the UAU in 1st place,
so a riotous bar night was had by all!
Cross
Country
In the second London College League race, held in
Guildford, IC's first men's team achieved a one point
victory over Oxford Poly to extend their overall lead
in the league.
The going was heavy and conditions very cold and
windy. However, Paul Northrop kept his from together
to finish 6th. Alex Gaskell was in danger of being
blown away by the wind, but kept his feet on the
ground long enough to come 17th. Surging through
in the closing stages was Dave Knight, his long loping
stride once again proving too much for Dr John
Rowland.
Helen Macintosh's 6th place in the women's race
was the best position by an IC runner for several
years. Sonya Legg's 12th place was also a
considerable improvement.
As the season hots up, Imperial should again be
proving they are the governors.

