Slave success
The slave auction raised a staggering £1063 last
Tuesday. The highest price was for Fiona Nicholas,
IC Union Hon. Sec. (Events), who was bought for
the third year running by Danny Shiu. She cost £60
this year; her value has gone up from last year when
she was only worth £43.
Dave Smedley, FELIX editor, was bought for £40
by Fiona Nicholas and Dave Williams, Union Deputy
President, was also bought for £40. Neil McCluskey
was acquired for about £25. Max Kallios, a member
of last year's City and Guilds union executive was
one of the cheapest, at £8.
Forty to fifty slaves were sold, in one and a quarter
hours. This compares favourably with last year's
figure of £400. The slaves are required to work 24
hours for their purchasers, in return for a meal (and
it had better be good—ed.).
Self defence
A self-defence course for women is to be arranged,
if enough students and staff are interested in attending.
Those who would like to attend should contact Fiona
Nicholas, IC Union Hon. Sec.(Events), (Int. 3503)
or Michelle Began (Int. 3500) so they can organise
the timing and price of the course.
They expect the course to be comprised of one hour
weekly sessions for five weeks, and it will be run by
the police. It will be open to both students and staff.
Video nasty
A video machine has been destroyed and about £18
stolen from it in Southside halls. Dr. John Hassard,
warden of Tizard and Selkirk halls stated that the
machine was worth £800, the money for which will
have to come out of the hall accounts. He said he is
trying to claim from insurance for it.
'This is horrible vandalism', he added. Tt will cost
the hall quite dearly.'
Mr Phil Clapp, subwarden of the hall, said that the
attack occured at about 3 a.m. on the night of the 5th
of November and that it 'seems strange that nobody
heard it'.
A reward of £200 has been offered for information
leading to the apprehension of the thief. £100 of the
reward is coming from the hall, and £100 from the
video machine supplier.
'If we dont catch the person or people involved,
we must pay up, insurance won't cover it', said Mr.
Clapp.
Loans march
next week
The National Union of Students, London Branch
(NUS London), has organised a march for the 22nd
November to protest over the Government's Student
Loans proposals. The march will start from the
University of London Student Union building in Malet
street at 1:00 pm.
A spokesperson from the NUS told FELIX that at
a preliminary rally yesterday (Thursday) 3500 people
attended, 'so the march should be well attended'.
Imperial College Union has not yet decided whether
it will support the march or not, though a group of
students against loans are to meet in Beit Arch at 12:15
pm on that date.
RCS bike
filched
The Royal College of Science (RCS) Union have had
their trandem bicycle kidnapped.
The daring felon left a poison pen letter explaining
the ransom demand would come later and signed it
'a man called Horace'.
A top ranking official of the RCS Union said 'No
comment', though it is understood that the combined
forces of Scotland Yard and MI5 are working hard
to solve this heinous crime.
Rag week
roundup
'Everything has been a success' concerning rag week
so far, claimed Fiona Nicholas, ICU Hon. Sec.
(Events). She said that the 'Exec Initiative ' took place
last Tuesday when twelve people, including the ICU
executive , were chained in pairs and left in
Ditchingley.
They had been searched beforehand as they were
only allowed one ten pence piece each and had to get
home on that. Ms Nicholas said that between them
they had managed to smuggle four credit cards, a
servicetill card, £80 and a pair of pliers, though she
claimed she didn't know who had brought the pliers
or why.
She went on to say that after a pub crawl (during
which M r Rob Rowe Phoned the FELIX office and
confided that 'Fish are nothing like sheep') they
caught a train and went home. She claimed that some
money was raised, though she didn't know how much.
Ms Nicholas told FELIX that the raft race across
the Serpentine had to be cancelled as 'the rag
organisers had asked permission from the wrong
police', and so were stopped by the right police during
the crossing attempt. There is the possibility of a
£2400 fine.
The Hypnosis lecture was a 'storming success',
during which over £1000 was raised.
Hal Calamvokis, Rag chairman, complained that
'the ICU exec wimped out of exec torture on Thursday
lunchtime it will happen this lunchtime (Friday)
along with Aerosoc darts and the Monster Boat Race
in Beit Quad'. Free beer will be available as from
12:30 in the same place.
Get on
television
A new generation of intrepid reporters are required
to reveal all about their summer jobs in a Channel
four series to be recorded soon. The Clark Production
Company is looking for students who will report on
their employment experiences, in particular their
treatment and if it served as a preparation for 'real
work'.
Further details can be obtained from Alec Goulden,
Clark Production, Freepost 20, London W1E 4 Y Z .
RESULTS T A B L E
HOCKEY
Mens
RSM Mens 11 — 1 Guys Hosp--1
Kent—0 IC- - 0
Kent II-1 IC II-- 3
Kent III—0 IC Ill--1
Ladies
Kent—4 IC- - 0
Kent II—1 IC II--1
RUGBY
Kent-3 I C - 36
Kent II—4 IC I I - 17
FOOTBALL
Kent—2 IC- -1
Kent II—2 IC II--1
Kent III—2 IC III--1

