Flanned! French Xmas
The City and Guilds hit squad 'flanned' all the first
year students of the Electrical Engineering department
yesterday (Thursday). The operation, possibly
organised by Elec. Eng II students, involved
shepherding the unfortunate victims into the flanning
chamber where they had foam flans thrown at them.
A photograph of the first year students was then taken,
while the hit squad made efforts to clean up the mess.
IC thief?
This year's Day Nursery raffle has been blighted by
the theft of the first prize, a £130 Colour television
set. The theft happened at the Southside Halloween
disco, when a man who was described as 'not looking
like an IC student' falsely claimed the prize, promising
to show evidence that he had the winning ticket later.
Ms Jennifer Slade, of the Nursery Fund-Raising
Committee said that they would be buying another
television for the real winner. 'Nursery funds are
likely to be considerably reduced as a result. How
mean can people be •?' she added.
Ms Slade asked that if anyone knows who this thief
is, would they please contact her, (4919, 4921 or
4967) or the Felix Editor, Dave Smedley in the Felix
office (3515).
The first prize went to J. Watts; the second, a Sony
Walkman, went to Lady Cooper. The third prize, 4
bottles of wine, was won by Claire Andrew.
IC I
M
A
L
G
O
BRANCH MEETING
All members are invited to
attend the next IC Nalgo
Branch Meeting to discuss
the 1990 Pay Claim
Tuesday 21 November
1.00pm
Pippard Theatre, Sherfield Building
Non-members are also welcome but
only members have a vote
IC students are invited to meet a number of students
from a wide range of European countries this Winter.
They will be celebrating New Year's Eve in a French
chateau. A pan European group of student societies
have arranged a three day trip to France with the
cooperation of the French Ministry of Culture, which
will cost £70, exclusive of travel costs
Six hundred students are expected to be there.
Details are available from the IC Union Office or from
committee members of IC European society. Cheques
must be delivered to the Union office by 1st
December, and be made payable to Imperial College
Union.
SHIT STIRRERS
WANTED
FELIX is in dire need of News
Reporters. Would YOU like to:
^Fraternise with the famous?
^Fraternise with those who think they are famous?
^Converse with the incompetent?
•Irritate your most hated lecturer?
•Inform yourfellow students?
If the answer is yes, news reporting is for you! The
F E L I X Office is a long room in the far corner of Beit
Quad—ask for A d a m Harrington or David Smedley.
Dodgy deals?
An insurance company has been illegally trying to
sell its products in Southside halls. The company,
'Students and Graduates Financial Planning Division'
(SGFPD) had purportedly gained access to the hall
to contact students who had responded to their
advertisements earlier in the year, though they did
try to interest other students once inside.
Mr. Chris Owen, subwarden of Falmouth-Keogh
Hall, said such entry without the permission of the
warden was not allowed and that 'they wouldn't have
been allowed entry anyway'.
A spokesperson from SGFPD claimed that the
saleswoman involved was 'inexperienced' and that
she may be taken off the case if she did not comply
with the rules. She'was to see the warden last
Wednesday to explain her position.
Felix has been assured that this will not happen
again. In the meantime, FELIX is refusing to
distribute leaflets for the company involved.
More misery
British rail has released plans to modify services over
the Christmas break. They claim they will increase
the number of seats by 130,000.
Their plans include the reservation of seats in
second class without charge on some services; more
comprehensive boarding controls at some mainline
stations at busy times; some extra trains and the
opportunity to upgrade a second class ticket to a first
class one for an additional £3 on some weekend
services.
SECURITY
Anyone requiring
access to the Union
Building on Friday or
Saturday (17th/18th)
must carry their Union
card or a Hall key.
Hamlet horror
A ring worth £400 and two cameras worth an
estimated £200 have been stolen from 131 Hamlet
gardens. The thieves smashed the glass panel on the
front door and opened the lock from the inside. They
then gained access to the residences using a crowbar
on the inner doors. They also stole £30 from a number
of residents.
An occupier of Hamlet gardens told Felix 'If they'd
fitted wired glass beforehand this wouldn't have
happened'
IMPERIAL COLLEGE
Of Science. Technology & Medicine
CHRISTMAS BALL
DINNER & DANCE
(New This Year!)
Wednesday, 13th December, 1989
Student tickets only £12
Staff tickets at £15
Ticket price includes:
Reception drinks it Four-Course Meal
Wine * Port + Disco
Carols with IC Choir
-BAR EXTENSION—
-LATE DISCO-
For more details:
Students—Contact IC Union Office
Staff—Contact Miss Rahimian, Conference Office
Room 170 Sherfield Building
BOOK NOW TO AVOID DISAPPOINTMENT!
Closing date: Wednesday, 6th December

