Heathers Lysistrata
Veronica Sawyer has a problem. She doesn't like her
friends at the local high school. But then her friends
aren't very nice, being the sort of people who enjoy
humiliating anyone who isn't as rich and pretty as they
are.
Veronica becomes attracted to JD, the new kid in
school who wears a student overcoat and pretends
to be Mickey Rourke out of Barfly. He suggests that
they do something about Veronica's problem, and she
is only too happy to agree. Little does she know where
this decision will lead...
The director, Michael Lehmann, takes side swipes
at a wide range of American stereotypes: rich bitches,
sports jocks, dorks, fatties, suburban living, hippies,
vicars, cops and college students all come in for the
treatment and most of it works. The film has a surface
veneer of normality which is lifted occasionally to
reveal a more surreal world lurking below. The croquet
matches, in particular, are pure Alice in Wonderland.
On balance, though, I found it hard to like this film.
The characters are uniformly unpleasant to everyone
around them, and lack the redeeming ability of holding
the viewer's interest for more than a few minutes.
Perhaps you'd have to have been to an American high
school to appreciate it properly.
Jim Lucy.
The Bogie Man
Hogmanay. The staff of a mental institution on the
outskirts of Glasgow are celebrating New Year in the
traditional Scottish fashion-getting very drunk and
attempting to get off with one another. Meanwhile,
one of the inmates decides that he isn't going to spend
1990 locked up...
The Bogie Man is a new comic published by Fat Man
Press, a new, Scottish-based comics firm. It is written
by John Wegner and Alan Grant, a well known two-
some in the comics world, having written for Judge
Dredd and Batman.
The artwork is by Robin Smith, a Marvel artist, who
has done a fine job of conjuring up the bleak darkness
of Glasgow, as well as capturing the likeness of
Bogart.
Bogart? The escapee mentioned early not only looks
like Bogart-he thinks he's Bogart. He prowls through
Glasgow, on a delusionary quest for the Fat Man;
weaving every innocent he encounters into the sinister
web he believes surrounds him. Then, when he
acquires a gun, things start to get serious.
The writers do a convincing job of recreating the
nigh-on unintelligible Glaswegian tongue, and a
helpfully provided 'McGlossary' will aid the
Sassenachs, despite being slightly inaccurate-a
'piece' is not just a sandwich, but any old snack.
Bogie's talk is also nicely done, and the two are
often cleverly contrasted.
The tie-in with Glasgow's appointment as European
City of Culture 1990 (don't laugh) is also very apt.
On the whole, the comic is very adult, and is well
worth a look, even if you've always believed that
comics were all about guys who wear underpants over
their tights-this will prove you wrong.
Adam T.
Aristophanes, a comic playright of Athens in the fifth
century BC has always been particularly successful
when translated into English because it is good, old
fashioned, unsophisticated, 'whoops-there-go-my-
trousers' bawdery which is at the root of much of
English humour. He was also a sharp satirist, although
most of this has naturally lost its edge in the
intervening 2,400 years.
The play was originally an anti-war satire and the
theatre group Cracked Mirror have attempted to
translate this into a twentieth century play, complete
with feminist overtones. The hybrid that results is not
totally successful. Most of the language used is
everyday English, though the script tends to slip into
rhymes which are a bit pretentious and pseudo-
Shakespearian phrases are mixed with the colloquial,
which is bloody awful.
The theatre-situated behind a pub-is very small
and it reflects well on the group that this never cramps
their style. The production is, at times, hilarious and
rather obscene-the women of Athens, led by
Lysistrata, withhold their conjugal favours from their
husbands hoping this will convince them to make
peace with Sparta during a particularly nasty war. The
sexual frustrations that result are manifested by the
use of long sponge sausages stuffed inside the men's
kilts, which are used~a great deal-beaten, slapped
and squeezed by the women.
There are only four men who play all the parts,
and start by being suitably neanderthal and bashing
each other's brains out.All their parts are
caricatures.The women are played by five ladies, led
by Lysistrata who maintains an agreeably enigmatic
and chaste figure throughout.
The play is extremely funny, but has no depth. The
moral: women are sensible and stubborn; men are
stupid, violent and arrogant. This is hardly an original
or particularly accurate generalisation, however the
play of Aristophanes gives little leeway to change this.
Lysistrata is being performed at the DOC theatre
club, 64 Lawford Road, Kentish Town. The nearest
tube is Kentish Town (90p). The tickets cost £3.50
and the play will run until December 2.
Adam Harrington
The Rainbow
The latest offering from director Ken Russell, adapted
from the D.H. Lawrence novel of the same name,
centres on the experiences, sexual and otherwise, of
an (at first) innocent girl (Sammi Davis) as she grows
up and leaves home.
Being a Ken Russell film, there is, as expected,
weirdness, nudity and bonking. As it is only rated 15
none are present in excessive amounts, although there
is something for everyone. (Say no more-if you're
interested you'll have to go to see the film.)
On the whole, the film is beautifully put together
with excellent use made of the various location shots.
Thre are some definitely above-average performances
from Paul McGann as a young soldier and the girl's
lover, and the beautiful Amanda Donohoe as Ursula's
teacher and second lover (?!).
The Rainbow could be classed as an 'arty' film —
but don't let that put you off seeing it. It is well worth
a look, even if only for the gratuitous, but tasteful love
(lust?) scenes. Be warned this film is certainly not
another 9'A Weeks/Two Moon Junction. (No matter
what the ad posters look like.)
DAN.
Page 5

