Astoria, November 7th
The Return of Marillion
Gone are Fish, the usual backdrops, Mark Kelly's
banks of keyboards and Steve Rothery's beard. In
their place we have Steve Hogarth [ex-Europeans], the
'man with the big white gloves'. As the first notes of
King of Sunset Town roll from the speakers, he is
greeted as a well known hero, despite the fact that
this is his first British gig with Marillion. The man has
a hard job on his hands, replacing Fish, possibly one
of the best frontmen in the business, but he doesn't
try to compete, singing the old Marillion songs in a
similar style to that of Fish, but receding into the
background during instrumental breaks. The new
songs are sung with the same force as on the album
Season's End, and as usual, Marillion are faultless
musicians.
OK, a different voice on Kayleigh sounds strange,
but the man in black is a very capable frontman and
definitely here to stay (if he doesn't fall from one of
the speaker stacks which he climbs during the
performance). All in all, a very enjoyable gig.
Town & Country Club
The Return of Fish
Fish kicks off the last night of his tour with Alex
Harvey's Faith Healer, touching hands with the crowd,
and the scene is set for a two hour long sweat as the
crowd push and shove to be nearer the stage. Here,
Fish airs most of the new album, Vigil in the
Wilderness of Mirrors, due out in January, as well as
8 Marillion-era tracks, including the ever popular Script
for a Jester's Tear. The crowd go ecstatic at any of
The Marquee, November 12th.
Bad Brains
these songs, and even the unfamiliar new material
receives tumultuous applause. From what was heard
tonight, Vigil should be an album to watch out for,
each song sounding very different from the last, and
a complete change of direction from Marillion,
sounding more folky, with more guitar (Fish uses two
guitars).
The stage set was good with an impressive
Queueing started at 3pm, so by the time we got in,
Broken Bones had left. Judging by the previous vinyl
offering, F.O.A.D., just as well.
Few bands manage to combine hard rock and
'ethnic' music (for want of a better word), among
them Living Colour, Fishbone and the likes of Run-
DMC and the Beastie Boys. Bad Brains are
acknowledged pioneers, the two most recent LPs, /
Against I and Quickness, combining dub with
speedcore and the philosophy of Rastafari with the
power of metal.
Given the numbers of dedicated Broken Bones fans,
it was gratifying to see the friendliness of the
audience, with thrashers swaying to roots reggae, and
dreadlocks flying when the speed increased. Mind
Ian McCulloch
you, with so many people worshipping Jah in the
traditional way, no wonder the audience was mellow.
A track list would be inappropriate since the band
decided the next number when the previous one had
finished, were strongly influenced by requests from
the audience and were so loud, distorted and obscured
by the throng as to make tracks all but unidentifiable
(to me at least). A number of gems stood out
however, a dub Day Tripper, for example.
An excellent gig, with an innovative band enjoying
themselves, all of the rock cliches (stage diving off
the balcony, heavy handed security and permanent
aural damage), and some refreshing touches Inobody
hurt in the mosh).
J.C.G.
Faith and Healing
Let's face it. Echo and the Bunnymen could have been
contenders. They had that big sound without all the
pretentious flag waving that has befallen the likes of
U2 and Simple Minds. And so it was with some
surprise that I found this single (taken from Ian
McCulloch's debut solo album-Candleland)
beginning with a drum machine. Perhaps it was a
conscious decision to try and move away from the
Page 6
Bunnymen sound, perhaps it was because no one
could replace the unique style of the late Pete De
Freitas. Whatever his reasons Mac has ended up with
a single that vocally is an extension of Over You (a
track from The Game, the Bunnymen's last album
which Mac admits is his least favourite) over a cold
slab of New Order rhythms. All in all, an uneasy
alliance.
landscape backdrop, and the lighting well done,
considering the size of the lighting rig which used all
the available space. Fish himself goes from strength
to strength as a live performer, and all these combine
to make this 'one of the best' gigs of the year. It will
seem a long wait until March, when he should be
touring again.
Dave Poubon
WANTED
MUSIC
Have you seen a concert
or bought an album
recently?
Why not tell everybody
what you thought of it?
We will print reviews of
any type of music from
rock to classical.
Send reviews to:
NEIL LAVITT
Music Editor, FELIX

