S m a l l A d s
ADVERTISE IN THE FELIX SMALL ADS SECTION
FREE IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF IMPERIAL
COLLEGE UNION
ANNOUNCMENTS
• Keep-Fit Club: Anyone wishing to join should
come to Southside Gym during a lesson. Details of
classes in What's On guide. (Trial lessons
available.)
• The Jewish Society is having a meeting on
Tuesday 21st November at 1.30pm in the Union
SCR it is entitled 'Is this the pre-messianic era?'
by Jonny Better.
• Shit Hot Sax Player required for London-based
jazz-pop band. Contact Andy T. in FELIX Office
(Ext 3515).
• Where will you be tonight? Be at the Guilds
Carnival, 8pm Union Building and get partying for
Rag. Entrance only £4.50.
• Every Wednesday and Sunday 'War Gaming and
Role Playing Society' regular twice weekly
meetings. 1pm First Floor, Union Building.
• 25th November-WG & PP Soc are organising
another 'Real Life Role Playing' event. Meet
10.30am outside Casey Jones at Charing Cross
Railway Station. Event takes place at Sevenoaks.
ACCOMMODATION
• Room to let-£105/month plus bills. 15 min
cycle from College. Phone 350 2979.
• Sharer for house in Hounslow West, single
room, suit m/f, postgrads preferred, 5 mins from
tube, close to shops, must have sense of humour.
£155 pern plus bills. Phone Steve on 01-570
0718 (evening).
FOR SALE & WANTED
• For sale-Tandon PC AT: RAM 1Mb, Hard Disc
20Mb, Frequency 12MHz, Floppy 1.2Mb, VDU
mono, Printer DMP 4000. £1099, phone 01-960
3623 (evenings).
• Wanted-Secondhand racing or mountain bike
with approx 20" wheels. I will pay between
£50-£60. Contact Ronald YK Chan, Aero III,
through pigeonhole.
• Does anyone have a video of the Aston Villa v
Everton match from last week? If so, can I borrow
it? Chris Greenwood c/o Guilds Union Office
x3521.
• For sale-Electric keyboard: Yamaha Portatone
PSR-16. Full-sized keys, hardly used, complete
with keyboard stand, adaptor, and all the useful
manuals and receipt. Price £120.
• Yetti trionic gaiters size 42-43 for sale, new
rands £30 ono. Contact Phil Hay Geology internal
mail.
PERSONAL
• Vampiresl ME220. Tuesday 21 Nov, 7pm. Is
that really a lovebite on the icsf Chairman's neck?
• Up yours! If you didn't turn up to the Time
Travel colloquium, Wed 22 Nov, Physics LT1,
1.15pm.
• Sex, violence, blood and dabauchery. It's all in
the work of the icsf writers-7pm Thurs 23 Nov,
icsf Library.
• Drabble. Come and see the icsf Chairman's
Drabble.
• Ralf-sorry I called you Murray.
• How to play the spoons, the Brewer way.
Available now!
• SplotSoc 1 -Tables 0. Splotted any good
tables recently? S.S. Pres. 'Oh twat' (GNAT).
The Delator Column
By Paul Shanley
At last week's UGM, a speaker challenged the quorum
of the meeting, thereby bringing it to a premature
finish-as less than 300 students were present.
Writing in FELIX on Friday we explained his reason
for this course of action. I won't dwell on that here
but I would like to expound on UGMs in general.
The trend of low-attendence UGMs has only
emerged in recent years. As recently as six or seven
years ago, the average attendence was about 350.
One problem lies in publicity of meetings. It used
to be the case that motions were submitted to the
FELIX Editor in the form of a pre-printed 'exec news'.
This was then collated into FELIX on a Thursday night.
The advantages of this system are numerous:
• Everyone gets to read the motions beforehand to
enable them to lobby support for any contentious
motions.
• The Union Office becomes more effective in its
activities; ie making an effort to inform the student
body of what's going on.
• FELIX remains editorially free from the Union by
putting production of exec news in the hands of the
Union Office.
majority are bored with the whole process. They don't
care what sabbaticals and other officers get up to.
After all, it doesn't affect them, does it? Well, maybe,
maybe not. Having seen the CCU's make dickheads
of themselves at the freshers' UGMs, people tar IC
UGMs with the same brush and stay away. The
consensus appears to be analagous to the woman
with only one child-'Well, I tried it once but I didn't
like it'.
So how do you liven a meeting up? The first way
is to encourage audience participation. Inform Joe
Student how to word a motion; it can be on any topic
(my maiden motion was on George, Bungle & Zippy).
Slip a few dodgy motions in, say 300% pay rises for
sabbaticals, to wind people up. Most people say 'Oh
I still wouldn't go to a UGM'. Let's list four possible
motions for the next UGM:
1. Women to be banned from the Union Bar.
2. Freshers' Week parties to be made 'whites only'.
3. All students of Irish decent to be searched on entry
to Beit Quad.
4. Mandatory HIV tests for all members of Gay
Society.
This last point has been a contentious one. Within the Disgusted? You should be. It would be an outrage if
old Hon See's job description, fell the production of
papers and minutes, such as exec news. Since the
Union re-organisation, there is now a gap, as this
responsibility is no longer within the remit of any
Union officer.
Currently, there is no job description for UGM
Chairman. When this is drawn up (hopefully this term),
the responsibility for exec news should become one
of his/her duties.
The publicity clearly has to be better. It is not
enough to place 100 papers on the Sherfield Walkway
and expect people to read them-the fact is they
don't. Posters should be sited in departments and
common rooms with the co-operation of dep reps-it
is not fair to expect the Union Publicity Officer to carry
out this task on his own. The Publicity Officer's job
is to ensure that the posters are eye-catching (the age
old problem).
Clubs and societies should be heavily (if not totally)
discouraged from holding any meeting or gathering
that clashes with a UGM, on the proviso that there
are no extenuating circumstances. The last UGM was
held at the same time as Norman Tebbit speaking at
a ConSoc meeting. Whether this affected the turn-out
is a moot point.
Okay, so far so good. But this is only one side of
the coin. It is assumed that if UGMs are widely known
about, then students will flock from miles around to
attend. Of course, this isn't the case.
Probably the main reason for apathy is that the
such policies were even discussed. (Incidentally, two
of the above have been seriously suggested in recent
years and another was Union policy until 1975). But
ask yourself this. If you knew one of those items was
on the agenda, wouldn't you turn up? If you didn't
attend and everyone else did likewise, how would you
feel if that policy was passed?
This is obviously looking at an extreme, but it
demonstrates a point. If sufficient numbers are pro-
or anti- a proposal, they will turn up and vote.
On a lighter note, UGMs should be made more
entertaining. Officers' reports should be kept to a
minimum. Procedure should be adhered to but not in
a sense where the standing orders appear to have
precedence over the meeting's business.
There is a problem with UGMs being conducted in
a place which is non-conducive to the right
atmosphere. In my belief, the decision, three years
ago, to move UGMs from the Great Hall to the JCR
has had no effect other than to fiddle the quorum. The
argument about easy accessibility is a red herring.
Everyone knows where the Great Hall is; if they are
going to attend a meeting, they'll turn up irrespective
of the venue.
To summarise, the Union faces a charge of being
unrepresentative of its members. There is an equal
share of the blame. The UGM machinery must work
more effectively, to encourage attendance, to inform
of a meeting's business. Students should play a part
in the running of the Union, that's what it's there for.
Page 8

