Earthquake alert
When, on the 17th October, Northern California was
hit by its worst earthquake in decades, the Civil
Engineering Department's Earthquake Field Training
Unit (EFTU) responded in record time. The EFTU is part
of the Engineering Seismology and Earthquake
Engineering (ESEE) Section and was set up to provide
training for engineers and earth scientists working on
reducing earthquake damage. As soon as news of the
earthquake began to arrive, in the early hours of a
Wednesday morning, preparations began to dispatch
an EFTU team to the affected area. On Saturday 21st
the team consisting of Dr Amr Elnashai, Ahmed El
Ghazouli and Julian Bommer, flew into San Francisco.
The team members spent four man-weeks in
California, working in close co-operation with
American engineers and earth scientists, investigating
damage to buildings and communications as well as
faulting, landslides and ground behaviour.
The first shock came at about 5pm local time in the
midst of the long-awaited World Series Baseball
match between the San Francisco Giants and Oakland
Athletics. It was centred on the San Andreas fault
which ruptured over a length of some 40km in the
Santa Cruz mountains, some 70km to the south of
San Franciso. The magnitude of the earthquake is not
yet accurately known, but it is believed to be
somewhere around 7 on the Richter Scale. The scale
is logarithmic, making this some 40 times smaller than
the '8.3' earthquake of 1906 which destroyed large
areas of San Francisco.
The earthquake of October 1989, which has been
named the Loma Prieta earthquake after the highest
mountain in the Santa Cruz range, killed only 63
people. Had the earthquake occurred closer to San
Francisco (where the San Andreas, Hayward and
Calaveras faults run) the damage would have been
greater and the death toll far higher. It is likely that
the area will suffer nearer and bigger shocks in the
future. The Loma Prieta earthquake is a reminder that,
although California has made great progress in
earthquake engineering, the problem has not
disappeared.
Of the 63 who died, the majority perished when an
upper section of the double-decker Nimitz Freeway
collapsed onto the lower deck, squashing vehicles
down to 18 inches. This freeway is normally packed
with traffic moving at a crawl at such a time and first
estimates put the death toll as high as 200. Luckily,
because of the number of people avidly watching the
baseball match, it was mercifully uncongested.
The ESEE Section is now working with the original
drawings of the bridge and accelerograms recorded
in this earthquake, to find out what went wrong.
There would seem to be certain fundamental errors
in the design of the columns which made the structure
exceptionally vulnerable. This is despite a programme
of bridge an highway strengthening started after a
number of bridges and elevated freeways collapsed
in the San Fernando earthquake which hit Southern
California in 1971.
The famous bridge crossing San Francisco Bay lost
one section and there was extensive damage to the
freeways. One bridge collapsed, its columns punching
through the deck.
Although the death toll was low, the economic loss
was very high, estimated at up to $10 billion. More
money will be lost as collapsed bridges, damaged
freeways and landslide-blocked roads disrupt the
transport system. The railway network in the area is
extremely limited and although the earthquake
encouraged people to make more use of the excellent
metro system in San Francisco, California is an area
where nearly everyone travels by car.
The exclusive Marina District of San Francisco was
exceptionally badly hit. Here the houses were built on
landfill, put down in the 1920's to reclaim valuable
land in the Bay area. This soft and unconsolidated fill
liquefied during the earthquake, temporarily becoming
'quick sand', cracking and buckling the pavements
and causing extensive damage to houses. Elsewhere,
liquefaction of natural deposits caused extensive
damage to river bank, threatening settlements and
agricultural land with flooding when the heavy rains
begin. These rains are also expected to bring an
additional hazard to those coastal and mountain areas
affected by landslides. There are also about 100 dams
in the area which, despite the fact that their reservoirs
were almost empty after two years of drought and a
long summer, survived well. Following some
spectacular damage to earth dams in the 1971
earthquake, the State's dams also underwent an
extensive strengthening programme.
In the Santa Cruz mountains there was extensive
ground cracking, some fissures being over a metre
wide and about a metre deep. Many of these were
being filled in or covered over by the state and county
authorities where they crossed roads and by home
owners where they crossed private land.
The EFTU is now producing a preliminary report on
their field observations and carrying out further
analyses of the collected data. A presentation of the
preliminary findings will be made on Wednesday
29th November at 1.45pm in Room 201, Civil
Engineering. All members of College are welcome.
Julian Bommer
• The US Government ban on funding research
involving aborted human foetuses is to continue
indefinitely after a decision by Louis Sullivan, the US
Secretary for Health and Human Services. The ban
was first imposed last year following experiments in
which foetal tissue was grafted into the brains of
sufferers from Parkinson's disease.
Initially, the American National Institute of Health
(NIH) had decided that within certain bounds, such
research was acceptable, a decision that was much
criticised by the anti-abortion lobby.
Sullivan has come down on the side of the anti-
abortionists. He now argues that the thought that the
foetus could be useful for research could persuade
women unsure of whether or not to have an abortion,
to do so: politicians do not like high abortion rates.
The decision has been opposed by the NIH and AIDS
researchers who believe that foetal liver cells can be
used to control the virus.
• The future looks bleak for NASA's Freedom Space
Station. Robert Ree of the Congress Science, Space
and Technology Committee is furious at the agency's
plans to scale down the project. Under the new plans,
the scheme will lose 20% of its 1990 budget and the
final construction will be extended by a year and a
half. Ree has proposed scrapping the scheme entirely
rather than letting it fade away.
• Only 30% of carbon-dioxide gas is absorbed by the
oceans, according to figures from a Natural
environment Research Council sponsored study. It has
previously been thought that the figure was closer to
50%. Carbon-dioxide is, of course, a 'greenhouse gas'
and, if the figures are correct, the planet could be
warming even quicker than was once thought.
It has also been revealed that the ozone hole over
Antarctica, which is already larger than many
researchers had expected, is starting to break up
ahead of time. Several ozone-hole theories, including
one linking the size of the hole to the direction of the
winds in the middle atmosphere, have already fallen
foul of the hole's erratic behaviour.
• In an interim report from the cold fusion advisory
panel of the US Department of Energy (DoE), Moshe
Gai of Yale University and Stephen Jones of Brigham
Young University have announced that there is no
evidence for cold-fusion in the form of anomalous
neutron emission from titanium immersed in deuteron
gas. Jones, who believes that cold fusion may be an
effect of small-scale solids and Gai, who does not,
agreed to collaborate in a joint, decisive experiment
and the only stray neutrons detected were traced back
to cosmic rays.
However, the lack of results has not discouraged
Jones. Some of his other work suggests that the joint
experiment was run for too short a time giving it only
a 50-50 chance of success.
• Plugs. There will be a talk on 'Ground Based X-Ray
Astronomy' at 1pm on 21st November in Physics LT2.
At 5.30pm on the same day, Life Scientists can, for
the price of £2, partake of Cheese and Wine in the
Biology Seminar Room. On the 22nd, at 1.15pm in
Physics LT1, there will be a seminar asking 'What's
wrong with time travel?'. If successful, the seminar
will be repeated three months ago.
Page 9

