30th January, 1973 F E L I X Page 7
ALWAYS READ THE SMALL PRINT
N o a p o l o g i e s f o r t h e s i z e o f t h e p r i n t — w e ' v e h a d t o u s e m i n i a t u r e t y p e a l l t h r o u g h
t h i s i s s u e t o g e t e v e r y t h i n g i n w e w a n t e d t o . T h e s e a r e t h e m o t i o n s c o m i n g t o T h u r s d a y ' s
U G M , a n d t h e n c e ( i f y o u a p p r o v e ) t o t h e N U S C o n f e r e n c e . C o n t a c t l e n s e s m a y b e b o u g h t
a t a d i s c o u n t t h r o u g h t h e N U S . . .
DRAMA
1. Drama Colleges Motion
Pre-amble
i. ICU Notes: that changes are required in the
present nature of training students for work in
the Dramatjc Arts — a profession which has
high unemployment and restricted entry.
i i . that clarification is needed into the definition
of the term Drama College.
iii. that an enquiry is about to take place into the
training of students at Drama Colleges at which
student opinion is not directly repressed.
iv. that students at Drama Colleges are not organ-
ised into effective student unions for the pro-
tection of their interests.
v. that students of Drama are only eligible for
discretionary awards.
Action
ICU calls upon the N U S Executive to:
i. ensure that student opinion is represented at
any enquiry into the training of students at
Drama Colleges.
ii. work towards the establishment of effective
student unions in colleges of Drama to ensure
that the interests of students are represented
at a local level and encourage the establish-
ment of a National Association of Drama Col-
leges Student Unions' along the lines of the
National Association of Music Colleges Student
Unions for the full discussion of and action
on common problems.
iii. make special note in the campaign against
discretionary awards to the problems of Drama
Students, and to fight for the right of students
to train for a profession in the Dramatic Arts.
GRANTS
Background
N U S recognises that:
(1) Grants are part of the cost of higher educa-
tion.
(2) Higher education is being re-orientated and
the costs restructured to meet the changing needs
of British industry. Intensified international compe-
tition and falling rates of profit are forcing the
government to increase the pace of technological
innovation and hence to reorganise and re-strUcture
the costs of higher education.
{3} The problem therefore is not simply the
student grant — the value of which has fallen as
part of the cutback in costs of higher education —
but also of the way the government is attempting to
-force students and college workers to pay for its
'rationalisation' and re-orientation by:
(a) D E S instructions that catering must be self-
financing — leading to price increases and
worker redundancies (e.g. in Kent).
(b) U G C attempts to institute loan-financed and
self-financed halls, whereby students are
forced to pay for building, and workers laid
off.
(4) Although the Vice-Chanceilors want to in-
crease student grants — to avoid trouble, — they
are united with the government on their mutual
need to re-structure the costs of higher education.
Policy
The central aims of the N U S grants campaign
must be as follows:
(1) To explain that the government must take
full responsibility for the financing of higher edu-
cation — neither students nor workers are re-
sponsible for this. The state must pay for its
problems here as elsewhere — students and wor-
kers are not responsible for these problems.
(2) Struggles against price rises, rent increases,
cut-backs in workers' jobs and the like in such a
manner as to upset the smooth running of institu-
tions of higher education so as to force the gov-
ernment to take heed and to raise the possibility
of groups of workers supporting our struggles.
This approach is incompatible with a perspective
of seeking 'support' from Vice-Chancellors and
M P ' s , etc., who are opposed to students taking
effective action. Therefore N U S must not have any
perspective of forming alliances with M P ' s or Vice-
Chancellors in the fight for student needs. We
expect, rather, that any M P ' s and Vice-Chancellors,
etc., who seriously support our demands will sup-
port our campaign.
(3) That to reflect the true wishes of students
as a whole the main demands of the present cam-
paign should be
(a) Full grants for all students (that is an end
to discretionary awards, discrimination
against married women students and all
parental contributions to the grants i.e. the
means test).
(b) A n increase in the grant to counter the
effects of inflation since 1962 since when
the value of the grant has been falling (i.e.
at least £100).
(4) That the introduction of cash grants in col-
leges of education should be a further aim of this
campaign. Prepayment of hall and catering fees is
inconsistent with the right of students to spend
their grant as they wish and furthermore to with-
hold such payments. No increases in 'costs are to
be tolerated as a result of this.
(5) That priority in the campaign should also
be given to an increase of £100 in the post-gradu-
ate grant, and the restoration of the London allow-
ance for post-graduates.
(6) That the fight for a decent standard of living
will not cease with the present campaign.
(7) That the introduction of a so-called student
wage system will do nothing to improve the stand-
ard of living of students and is therefore totally
irrelevant to our needs. N U S should concentrate
on trying to improve the level of the grant not its
name and drop this demand.
-(8) To totally reject the freeze and all other anti
working class legislation. W e shall continue the
fight for higher grants no matter what legal meas-
ures the state may put in our way.
(9) That it is unproductive to seek promises
from the Labour Party. Repeated commitments from
the Labour Party have proved worthless, so
attempts to channel the campaign into parliamentary
methods must be opposed. Our greater strength
lies in mass a,ction not in the influence of student
votes. N U S should concentrate its efforts on mobil-
ising students and not waste time on M P ' s .
(10) That any decision on the acceptance or
rejection of a government offer must be taken
democratically by all students and not by the N U S
Executive alone.
Campaign
The rent strike is not the only tactic we can use
in this or subsequent campaigns. One day strikes,
occupations, boycotts of lectures, a temporary halt
to research and other such tactics on a locaf basis
are also effective in putting pressure on the college
authorities.
Instructions
1. To Exec & C O ' s
To change the demands of the present cam-
paign in accordance with Policy 1, 2 and 3.
2. To Exec
To support all colleges taking action over any
of the demands of the campaign.
3 . To Exec & C O ' s
Not to waste time and effort in trying to get the
support of the Labour Party or M P s .
4. To Exec
To Call a one day Emergency Conference as
soon as an offer by the government is made
known to decide acceptance or rejection of such
an offer on the basis of the decisions of union
meetings in C O ' s . This Emergency Conference
would also discuss further action if necessary.
To ensure the minimum of absences through the
financial situation of small unions, arrangements
should be made for the registration fee to be
waived in cases of financial hardship.
WHITE PAPER
Topic: White Paper
Preamble
ICU notes the Government White Paper ( C m d
5174), misleadingly titled "Education: A Frame-
work for Expansion".
ICU states its total rejection of the educational
philosophy on which the White Paper is based,
spawned as it is by the need of capitalism to cut
costs; ICU rejects in particular the misleading
concept that "the total resources available will
always be l i m i t e d " (para 7), for the educational
system, which it feels should be a foremost priority
in Government funding; and believes that one sec-
tor of education should not have to suffer so that
another may be improved.
Policy
1. Nursery Education (Section 3).
ICU welcomes the advances to be made in the
provision of nursery education, but considers it
essential that a commitment is made to providing
full-time places for children of two-income families,
rather than simply catering for the needs of the
non-working mother (para. 25),
2. Sejcondary Education (Section 4).
ICU applauds the proposed improvement and
expansion of special schools for handicapped chil-
dren and the special building programme to
implement these aims (paras. 41-43), but is dis-
appointed that no mention is made of welfare and
counselling in secondary schools particularly in
view of the raising of the school leaving age,
3. Teacher Education (Section 8, etc.).
ICU welcomes the provisos for "help and sup-
port" during the period of probation and for re-
lease for in-service training in at least one-fifth of
this period; ICU also regards the suggestion of
lightened time-tables and use of trained, profes-
sional tutors during this period as good ideas
(para. 68).
However, ICU regards as unsatisfactory the White
Paper's vague and anomalous mutterings about
teacher supply and the projected cutback in college
of education places available, by at least 50 per
cent (para. 150), which would almost certainly
indicate a vast increase in the numbers of inappro-
priately and inadequately trained post-graduate
certificate teachers and married women returners
teaching in nursery and primary schools. The un-
desirable implications of this are clear.
4. Further and Adult Education (Section 12).
ICU realises the White Paper's failure to outline
a comprehensive scheme of post-achool education,
and notes the inadequacy of the few skimpy refer-
ences to adult education. ICU notes the implied
establishment of the A-level exam as a suitable
criterion for predicting future performance in edu-
cation. These considerations make nonsense of the
White Paper's claim to recognition of the need "to
make good for individuals the absence or loss of
earlier opportunities and to encourage the renewal
of knowledge and skills made obsolete by the
explosion of knowledge and the impact of tech-
nology on a rapidly changing environment" (para.
ICU regards the Dip. H.E. as an ill-con!ceived
and unwelcome corruption of past plans for two-
year degrees, and particularly rejects the implica-
tion in the White Paper that the D i p . H.E. should
be a terminal qualification (para. 112) and that
there shouid be a 2 ' A ' level entrance requirement.
ICU believes that the Dip. H.E. should only be
accepted for entry into teacher education when it
has included units of the theory and practice of
education.
6. Universities.
ICU notes with alarm the proposed cut-back in
the projected number of university places and in
the annual growth rate of funding on the higher
education sector from 61 per cent (1961-72) to
5 per cent (1972-1982) (para 168).
ICU condemns the Government for not only re-
fusing to end the waste and inequity of the binary
system, but instead retaining it and sharpening and
intensifying the binary division. In this context ICU
opposes the attempt to isolate the Universities and
establish them as an elitist minority, by defining
the university sector as the "world of scholarship,
research and invention" (para. 1 0 7 ) ; and the im-
plications of increasing the exclusiveness of the
university sector by reducing numbers, making
entry more difficult and by trying to fob off working-
class children with diversions and lowered expecta-
tions, e.g. the Dip. H.E. rather than a degree.
ICU notes, with disappointment, the refusal of
the Government to accept its responsibility to pro-
vide a higher proportion of residential places, and
regards the White Paper as vague and inconclusive
in its few references to student accommodation.
ICU welcomes the intention to provide, if pos-
sible, courses "within reasonable reach" of their
homes for part-time students, but notes, with grave
misgivings, the White Paper's view that there is
" a need for a higher proportion of full-time stud-
ents to be based at home", and rejects entirely
the concept of the regionalisation of intake.
ICU condemns the proposed cut-back in the pro-
portion of post-graduate students from 19 per cent
in 1971-72 to 17 per cent in (1976-77) (para.
134).
7. ICU notes the absence of any reference to
progress in methods of assessment or involvement
of students in determination of -curricula at any
level of education.
Conclusion
ICU feels that change in the education system
should be directed towards establishing an overall
comprehensive system of higher education. ICU
considers the White Paper inconclusive, vague, and
inherently non-progressive, and entirely directed
towards cutting costs, rather than expanding and
improving education.
On these grounds and those outlined above ICU
rejects the vast majority of the White Paper.
Instructions to N U S Exec.
(1) To inform the mass of students about the
White Paper and its implications to ervcourage feed-
back from students on the whole question of edu-
cational philosophy.
(2) To trace the developments on this question
and to keep CO's fully informed.
(3) To investigate alternatives to present and
proposed qualifications, e.g. A-fevels and Dip, H.E.
and methods of assessment. (Report?).
(4) To liaise with N U S in investigating and
pressing for, improvement of welfare and coun-
selling systems in secondary schools.
To C O ' s .
(1) To discuss with College Authorities, and as
far as possible, gain their agreement, on policy,
particularly with reference to
(a) Accommodation,
(b) Rejection of the Dip. H.E.,
(c) Rejection of the regionalisation of intake,
and
(d) Resistance to cut-bj(cks in post-graduate
numbers.
WAGE FREEZE
Wage Freeze
Conference (ICU)
Deplores the system of wage restraint (Phase 2)
that has been introduced by the Tories with the
support of Labour, and the significant silence of
the Union leadership, to coincide with the price
restraint that allows the price of all food, all
foreign goods, all goods with international fixed
prices and any goods that the manufacturers claim
have had cost increases, to rise without hindrance.
Notes the struggles of some sections of the low
paid, for instance, the hospital workers and the
gas workers, to gain higher wages. (Even at a
time when Heath is trying to persuade them that
Phase 2 is in their own interest). Also the import-
ant efforts of students to obtain higher grants.
Believes (1} That this is an attempt by the ruling
class to solve one of its major problems, the decline
in profit margins, at the expense of the working
class. That is to eat into the income of workers
with rising prices while making it illegal for them
to attempt to get larger incomes.
(2) That such struggles for higher wages and
grants are the main forces acting against the legis-
lation at the moment, and that these struggles
must be actively supported, and broadened where
possible, in order to break through this legislation.
Mandates — the Executive (1) To give support
in the form of nationally co-ordinated publicity to
the struggle of such locally based groups, particu-
larly when their own unions are failing to do this,
with a view to generalising the struggle from
simply the economic necessities of higher wages
to the more far reaching effept of breaking and
thus making inoperable this wage restraint.
(2) To co-ordinate activities with the N U S , to
attempt to show to school kids the effects of their
actions in the specific struggle of the hospital
workers this winter.
(3) To do everything possible to influence such
organisations as the L C D T U , and rank and file
shop stewards committees to get a basis for mass
united class action.
— all C O ' s (1) To liaise with such local groups
and to use both union facilities and union finance
to support their struggle,
(2) To use N U S as focal point for information
both by sending them details of the local situation
and distributing sufch information as comes from
NUS about other areas.
AUTONOMY
Policy
1. Conference considers that complete constitu-
tional, financial and political autonomy of student
unions is a fundamental right and is therefore not
negotiable.
2. That student unions can only be controlled by
the students and therefore no interference by col-
lege authorities, government or any other outside
bodies is to be tolerated.
3. That democratic control by the student mem-
bership alone ot~each union is the only acceptable
form of control of the union. This also applies to
amendment or replacement of the .constitution of
the union and its financial affairs.
4. That autonomy by its nature is reflected in
the activity of the relevant C O .
5. That the achievement of autonomy of student
unions is not an end in itself but is a necessary
basis for further action in defence of our standard
of living and interests to ensure freedom of or-
ganisation and action,
6. We must be prepared to repel any govern-
ment attack when it comes.
7. That the achievement of autonomy by indivi-
dual C O ' s will put us in a much stronger position
to meet any renewed government attack on our
autonomy.
8. That the struggle for autonomy is a local and
national action. Therefore the declaration of auto-
nomy by a student union can only take place
according to the situation of the union and the
degree of understanding among its members of the
need for autonomy as a step towards an even
stronger union.
9. That it is a waste of time trying to secure
promises from the Labour Party or M P ' s to sup-
port Student Union autonomy as such promises are
worthless. Autonomy will only be achieved through
action by students.
10. That no negotiations with the government
can take place without the democratic mandate of
an Emergency Conference.
Campaign
In accordance with Policy 5 and 8 the cam-
paign for full autonomy of individual C O ' s cannot
be separated from other actions taken by unions
and the need for autonomy will manifest itself in
the course of other campaigns. Therefore a-ction
for autonomy will be taken on a local level when
the situation demands the need and makes such
action possible. The form such action should take
must of necessity be determined by the local con-
ditions.
The best way to fight for autonomy is to exercise
it, that means Student Unions should take any
political actions they wish, such as making politi-
cal payments, the student body nationally has to
act in solidarity against any resulting attacks or
victimisations on the Unions concerned.
Instructions
1. To Exec
To give full and unconditional support to all
jnions taking any action to declare themselves
autonomous or struggle against their C A ' s on any
issue.
2. To Exec
To urge and encourage all C O ' s to take action
to fight for autonomy as soon as possible,
3. To Exec & C A G
Not to enter into negotiations with the govern-
ment on the subject of autonomy without the demo-
cratic mandate of an Emergency Conference.
VIETNAM
Conference (ICU)
Notes (1) The signing of a peace/cease fire
agreement between Nixon and representatives of
the P R G .
(2) US'continuing aid to the puppet regime; U S
fleet remaining in Indochinese waters and U S
bases remaining in Thailand (both constant
threats to resume hostilities); continuing rearma-
ment of the puppet army; transformation of US
troops into "civilian advisers"; the increase in
Saigon's police terror.
(3) The proposal to send in " p o l i c e " forces
from capitalist countries to ensure that the com-
munists get a "fair d e a l " .
Believes (1) That a step forward has been made
for the Indochinese people in this agreement which
removes the American military presence.
(2) The features in Note (2) illustrate that a
lasting peace has not been agreed upon, merely a
change in the distribution of forces in the area.
(3) That such military supervision Jcannot be
relied upon, to preserve anything but the status
quo.
(4) That in such a situation all possible inter-
national support for the final victory of the people
in Indochina achieving self-determination, is still
essential.
Censures the Executive —• for actively opposing
the development of the ISC (the only movement
in this country based on a lasting solidarity posi-
tion) in its first major public action after the
founding conference which the Exec supported,
backed by the N U S conference in Margate.
Instructs the Executive to a/ctively support the
right of the Vietnamese people to decide their own
future by participating in the building of the ISC
and consistently campaign with the ISC for solid-
arity with the Vietnamese people until final victory
over the forces of Imperialism.
All C O ' s (1) to support the ongoing solidarity
activities of the ISC.
(2) To attempt to set up local ISC groups in
their own areas.
YOU'RE
ALL
INVITED!
O n Saturday, 3 r d February, there i s
to b e a meeting of London students
on the M u r r a y Report. A n y student i s
w e l c o m e to go, a n d each h a s equal
voting status.
T h e d e c i s i o n to hold such a meet-
ing w a s taken by U L U S R C at its
meeting o n December 4 t h , w h e r e
there w a s a heated d i s c u s s i o n o n t h e
rights of a l l students attending to
full speaking a n d voting rights.
S h o u l d y o u w i s h to g o , but in the
months s i n c e November have c o m -
pletely forgotten what the M u r r a y
Report is or s a i d , copies m a y b e
bought from D i l l o n ' s price £1.00, or
copies of the special issue of " S e n -
n e t " w h i c h contains a l l the relevant
information are again available, free
of charge, from the U n i o n or F e l i x
office.
T h e meeting w i l l be held at the
U L U b u i l d i n g in M a l e t Street.
PAPERBACK
BOOKS
REVIEW
Biggies: Foreign Legionnaire
by Captain W . E . Johns (Armada 20p)
I'm told that once you've read one
Biggies thrill-packed adventure you've
read the lot, and y o u know a l l there is
to know about Biggies, Ginger, Bertie
and A l g y — this I can believe. H o w -
ever, I must admit that I thoroughly
enjoyed this book. T h e plot was simple
and straightforward and certainly didn't
hang about. A t 20p for 160 pages, ex-
cellent entertainment.
The M o d e r n Crossword Dictionary
by N o r m a n G . Pulsford (Pan, 50p)
If " d o i n g " crosswords is your pen-
chant, this is the book for you. Y o u will
find films, novels, plays and fictional
and historical characters i n it as well as
song titles, pop groups, animals, birds,
insects ad nauseam . . . i n fact,
everything required to reduce to a frac-
tion of the time the effort necessary to
complete a puzzle.
The R e d Towers of Granada
by Geoffry Trease (Puffin 25p)
A boy is turned away from his home
as a leper, is saved by the outlawed Jews
and goes questing through Spain for a
mysterious Golden Essence that will
save England's Queen Eleanor from
death. H o t stuff with a really excellent
beginning where our hero experiences
a strange and terrible thing — his o w n
funeral service!
The R e d Steer
by Wade Smith (Fontana, 20p)
John Wayne and his devotees, this is
what you've been waiting for — if, like
myself, a l l those revised westerns o n the
T V have put y o u off the ranch for ever,
steer well clear, for Wade Smith has
nothing for you. T h e story is slow and
tired, very much like the characters it
attempts to portray, and this is not
alleviated by the hackneyed plot and
predictable ending.
The 8th Fontana B o o k of Great Ghost
Stories (Fontana, 25p)
Exactly what it says — ghost stories
by some excellent writers. T h e book is
worth reviewing for the first story alone,
"The Haunted H a v e n " . Ghostly figures
rowing wrecked boats through the
pounding surf, returning in the early
hours of the morning leaving only foot-
prints in the sand — terrifyingly real.
D A V I D H O B M A N

