IMPERIAL COLLEGE
South Kensington,
London, S.W.I.
Norman St-John Stevas, M.P.
Under-Secretary of State,
Department of Education and Science.
Dear"Sir,
As a student of Imperial College, I wish to complain strongly about the
financial situation that I and my fellaw students find ourselves in at the
moment.
The recent rapid rise in costs that students have to bear has not been matched
by increases in grant levels, nor w i l l they unless the Government decides to act.
This problem is worsened further by the fact that part of the grant is composed of
a parental contribution. Our parents because of financial and other reasons are
unwilling to pay us the f u l l contribution. This means test element has increased
sharply in recent years and accordingly the amount most of us receive from our
parents has gone down in real terms.
This is not the end of the matter. It is often assumed that a l l students receive
grants and at the f u l l rate. Apart from the means test problem many students receive
lower level grants because they are not on degree level courses. This is the worst
part of a l l . W
e think that a l l students should receive a grant as a right.
If the Government wishes to expand higher and further education there can be no
short cuts. In particular the value of our grants must be maintained and
discriminatory practices within the grants system removed. If this is not done not
only w i l l we suffer, so w i l l future generations of students and with them the
widening of access to higher and further education we wish to see.
The NUS is at present organising a campaign to pressure the Government into action.
W
e support the Union's claim for an end to discretionary awards: a raising of the
main rates of grant to counteract the erosion of value that inflation has caused;
a raising of the grants that married women students are at present eligible for and
the institution of a student cost index with an annual review of grants.
Students at I.C. feel particularly strongly that the parental contribution should
end. This has led to an increasing proportion of the grant coming from our parents,
many of whom cannot afford i t . W
e feel that the only just system is to pay the f u l l
grant to a l l who study.
Many of my fellow students are post-graduates. They cannot work during the holidays
and so cannot afford to get into debt. W
e are totally opposed to the introduction of
loans for Post-Graduates and feel that the cost of l i v i n g in London warrants the
re-introduction of the London allowance.
I am deeply disturbed that your Government has delayed for a whole year before
replying to the N.U.S. claim. I urge you to recognise that the widespread rent-
strikes and refectory boycotts show deep feeling among students that the N.U.S.
claim is just.
I strongly urge you to concede i t immediately.
Yours faithfully,
Date

