felix
M I L L E N N I A L S
Friday 13 January 2017 21
millennials.felix@ic.ac.uk felixonline.co.uk/millennials
It’s a new year and a new term, most definitely filled with new lectures, problem sheets and
coursework to stress over. Luckily, there’s also a number of upcoming games to enjoy and
procrastinate with. So without further ado, here are the games that should really be on your
radar, as recommended by Saad Ahmed
Most anticipated games of 2017
Mass Effect: Andromeda
The Mass Effect series was iconic and
well deserving of all its recognition. Its
ending may have been polarising but it
did not take away from the hours of rich
game play and world building. It was a
thrill to learn that another entry in the
series was coming. Although not much is
known about this particular game, the lim-
ited footage we’ve seen was slick and all
the familiar mechanics we know and love
- conversations, romances, and shooting
things - are back in action. With a release
date of 21st
March, the hype level of fans
is off the charts.
Yooka-Laylee
Made from one of the biggest kick
starters of 2015, this colourful game looks
to recreate the fun and glee of old N64
games. Along the duo of Yooka the cha-
meleon and Laylee the bat, players will
get to explore huge, breathtaking worlds,
interact with a whole host of colourful
characters and collect as many…well...
collectibles as one possible can. A lighter
entry in terms of feel and tone but one
which promises a lot of fun.
Resident Evil 7: Biohazard
Resident Evil was a series whose focus
changed with different instalments but the
latest entry is set to bring back everything
that defined the franchise in the first
place. Exploring a creepy old mansion,
this survival horror is expected to give
players a constant feeling of dread and
suspense. Because this is the first game of
the series that will be in first person, the
chilling scares are set to be all the more
terrifying. This game is even fully playa-
ble in VR for those brave souls amongst
us wanting the extra layer of tension.
The Legend of Zelda: Breath
of the Wild
Arguably one of the most anticipated
games on this list, the latest Legend of
Zelda is going to be released on the Wii
U and the new upcoming Switch. The trail-
ers have given us a look into a new model
with a truly beautiful landscape. Hyrule
is now a complete open world where you
can enter dungeons as you wish, weap-
ons now degrade over time and you need
to forage for food and items. Fans have
been waiting for this game for well over
a year and hopes are riding high on the
latest of Link’s adventures.
Injustice 2
Another sequel (sensing a trend yet?)
coming this year is Nether Realm’s Injus-
tice 2. Injustice was well known for pitting
the heroes and villains of DC comics
against each other. Compared to the
first game, this one will allow players to
earn and unlock upgrades to characters,
giving this fighting game an RPG element
to it. With the developer saying it will
have the largest roster of any DC fighting
game up until now, it will be interesting to
see how this one fares.
For Honour
With intense melee combat between
knights, samurai, and even vikings, this
game definitely sounds like it will be
popular. This is all about sword duels in
the midst of large battles, as players aim
to anticipate enemy attacks, read their
stances and properly strategize to land
the killing blow. Other than this, there
is said to be a single player campaign
that is touted to be varied and engag-
ing; if this game kicks off, Ubisoft will
have another franchise to keep gamers
hooked.
\\ Bioware
\\ Playtonic Games
\\ NetherRealm Studios
\\ Ubisoft
\\ Nintendo
\\ Capcom
There are plenty of other games on the horizons apart from our picks, with new entries also announced in the Fallout, Assassins
Creed and Uncharted series. Regardless of what console you may have, there’s definitely going to be something for everyone
and 2017 looks to be a great year for gamers.

