24 felixonline.co.uk/millennials millennials.felix@ic.ac.uk Friday 13 January 2017
felix M I L L E N N I A L S
DRUGS
DRUGS
Drug Bible | Mephedrone 101
MCat Charge
White Magic
Plant Food
Drone
Meow Meow
How you use it
The most common ingestion method
of mephedrone is sniffing/snorting.
This writer has never heard any other
practical consumption technique. Whilst
MDMA may often be bombed (a process
whereby the drug is wrapped in a small
piece of tissue or cigarette paper and
then swallowed like a pill) in order to
prolong the effects, this is counter-pro-
ductive when taking mephedrone due
to the much shorter effects experi-
enced anyway. Basically, the amount
of time that would be added by taking
mephedrone in this manner would not be
warranted by the increased method of
preparation.
Legality
Mephedrone has been illegal since 2010. Being a class B drug puts mephedrone in the same
group as other substances such as cannabis and ketamine. As a result, if caught in possession
you could acquire a prison sentence of up to five years and an unlimited fine. This situation
is decidedly worse if caught in possession with intent to supply. This could result in up to four-
teen years in prison and a potentially unlimited fine.
Things to do when you’re high
Do
• Make sure you’re in
an environment you’re
comfortable with.
• Place a limit on how
much you will take.
Whilst experiencing a
comedown, you will
want ‘one more line’,
placing a limit helps
prevent this.
• Take it with friends
you trust. Whilst on
mephedrone, due to
the increased confi-
dence you will feel, you
will end up revealing
your deepest darkest
secrets.
Don’t
• Let yourself be peer
pressured. Drugs are a
serious choice, you don’t
have to take anything.
Especially if you’ve unin-
tentionally found yourself
in a chemsex party on a
friday night
• Drink excessively whilst
on mephedrone. Strug-
gling to stand up being
drunk whilst simultane-
ously rushing is not a
pleasing experience.
• Mix with other uppers, a
combination of MDMA.
and mephedrone will
ensure you don’t go to
sleep for days.
What it does
Mephedrone is a potent stimulant. Users expect to
feel short rushes, alertness and confidence. Whilst
the effects are not dissimilar to cocaine and MDMA,
when taking, anticipate a much shorter experience
than either of these other drugs. Whilst the influence
of cocaine lasts between forty minutes and an hour
depending on the strength of the drug and method of
ingestion, mephedrone affects the user for no more
than typically thirty minutes. After this period expect
a severe comedown, a much harder crash than other
drugs (heroin notwithstanding). Whilst the comedown
may not be physical (there are no physical effects
on the body due to the comedown), mentally users
expect to be consistently wanting one more line, com-
monly referred to as fiending. Mephedrone causes a
much more intense experience than cocaine, which
goes some distance to explaining the more addictive
comedown.
Some statistics
According to the government, 1.9% of people aged
between sixteen and twenty four took mephedrone
between 2014 and 2015. This is well below other popular
drugs such as cocaine (4.8%), ecstasy (5.4%) and canna-
bis (16.3%). From this we can conclude that mephedrone
is not the most popular of drugs in the UK. However, this
writer believes it is best to cover a whole range of drugs
in felix, in order to provide the most comprehensive drug
education possible.
Meph
Imperial College has a strict zero tolerance policy on drugs.
If you’re struggling with drug use, visit talktofrank.com
Prices
Mephedrone is notoriously cheap. Expect to pay somewhere in the region of £15-20 for
a gram. Although mephedrone is relatively unheard of in London, in certain regions and
scenes such as the north of England and the gay chemsex scene (obviously just a weird, weird
coincidence) it is the drug of choice. In cities such as Manchester and Sheffield prices can be
as low as £25-30 for an eighth (3.5g). Whilst cocaine is often rated on its purity, which in turn
can affect the price enormously, there is no such metric for mephedrone. This writer has never
heard of ‘pure mephedrone’ for sale. Your best bet for a continuous supply of good mephe-
drone is a find a dealer you trust and hopefully your return business will persuade them they
don’t need to sell you the crap stuff.
MDog
Bubble
Bounce
meow
Glossary
Rushing – Term used when experiencing increased levels
of alertness and confidence. Used in a sentence as simply
‘I’m rushing’.
Fiending – Used to express wanting more mephedrone
when coming down. . For example, ‘Now I’ve stopped
rushing, I’m fiending’.
Gram – The common unit when buying mephedrone is
a gram, similar to buying other uppers. Larger weights
can be bought if you’re richer than the rest of us. Smaller
weights can also be bought if you’re just looking for a
quick hit.

