Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Are you a people person, who is looking to work on a range of events?
Then join our Promo Team! We’re keen to expand our face-to-face
interaction with our members, and our Promotional Assistants will help
us to achieve that by talking to students about our events and projects,
and help at events such as our Refreshers’ Fair.
We’re looking for of enthusiastic and dynamic student staff to help the
Union. If you’re looking for a part time job to fit around your studies, then
this could be for you!
To apply go to: imperialcollegeunion.org/jobs
Promotional Assistants needed!
Say thank you with the SACAs
The Student Academic Choice Awards - or SACAs for short - are Imperial College Union’s flagship event for empowering students to recognise,
reward and celebrate excellence among College staff.
Launched in 2012, the SACAs enable students to reward excellence and innovation amongst Imperial’s academic and professional staff. We believe
teaching and supervision are skills of equal worth and value to research, and we aim to build a community in which academics, staff and students
all feel empowered to bring forth new ideas. You can nominate as many people as you like, in as many categories as you like - and if your nominee
is shortlisted, you might win a free ticket to the ceremony! If there’s anyone who stands out to you, then let them know - by nominating them for a
Student Academic SACA. Nominations are open until 26 February.
To nominate go to: imperialcollegeunion.org/sacas
JANUARY SALES
imperialcollegeunion.org/januarysales
Visit our shops and venues to get great deals that are easy on the wallet this January!
Union banner 14 Jan.indd 1 14/01/2016 16:33
Wearelookingforstudentstovolunteerastutors,lendingtheirknowledge
and expertise to help and support hundreds of children in their studies in
the schools surrounding our campuses. Inspire local children to succeed
and reach their academic potential to become the next generation of
STEM students. The programme runs January to March with tutors
volunteering between 1-3 hours of their time each week. Our next
briefing sessions to get involved will be during the week commencing
23 January 2017
. For more information check out:
imperialcollegeunion.org/pimlico
Winter is coming...
Volunteer with the Pimlico Connection

