FELIX 3
V I E W P O I N T
T H E Q U E E N S E N G L I S H
Many readers may have heard,
with some measure of alarm, that the
university of London no longer requi-
res a pass at Ordinary Level in
English Language as one of their minim-
um entry requirements. This dictum has
also been adopted by the College in i t s
present regulations. This is a retro-
grade step, for i t is a sign of
diminished ideals, a severe restraint
on University Education.
For what purpose do we come to
College? Is i t to learn vast quantiti-
es of scientific irrelevancies that we
are unable to comprehend? Is i t merely
a seeking after those mystic letters
B.Sc in the belief that they alone will
lead us up the path of financial success?
Surely nothing could be further from the
'tT-.;th.
What, therefore, is an Education?
It is a development of one's mental
powers, a giving of intellectual train-
ing that will enable the recipient to
further the progress of the Human Race.
A person can have an immense know-
ledge of scientific facts, a genius
for original research, but what good
is i t to the world i f be is unable to
impart this brilliance to the rest of
mankind?
Human learning and technical
advances are eojnminicated as the writt-
en word; they must be written, therefore,
in a logical and unambiguous manner.
This entails a firm grounding and
adequate knowledge of the English lang-
uage, and an ability to express oneself
clearly and concisely. This grounding
should be acquired in our younger days
at school, and built up through the
rest of our life. A strong building
cannot be built on sand; i t s foundations
must be firm. So likewise also our
education must be built on a rock, the
rock of English Grammar.
In the words of the College Pros-
pectus, " evidence of a good general ed-
ucation will be expected ", before
the applicant is admitted to Imperial
College. This may at first sight
appear satisfactory, but what head-
master, i n his recommendation, i s
likely to admit that his pupils' gener-
al education i s lacking?
This surely i s a very cogent
reason for requiring an impartial asse-
ssment of the applicant's ability to ex-
press himself in the Queen's English.
In the Union at the beginning of
this session I came across some student'
shopping l i s t . The handwriting was that
of a ten year old, sons of the spelling
was l i t t l e better: Soesidges, Baked' ,
Beans, Biskits, Soroepan. What was the
mental age of this student? Of one fact
I am oertain - this student should
never have been allowed to enter the
College.
The written word i s not the aele
necessity; an ability to express one-
self clearly by word of mouth is also
essential. How many students, even when
they graduate, are capable of coherent
speech? ~5.au many could explain clearly
and simply the principles of their
{latest experiment to someone who has
not a scientific training? Such a
facility is imperative: when a graduate
enters the industrial world he must be
capable of advising nis Company's
Directors of the virtues or otherwise
of his particular problem or project.
Imperial College oontained in 195°-
1957 79(6 of United Kingdom students
to only S% from foreign lands. No
inconvenience is caused to Foreign
Students by their having to show
proficiency, by examination, in English^
in fact this is essential i f they are
to gain the maximum advantage from
their stay in this College. Tfhy there-
fore should United Kingdom students not
be required to show proof by examination
To quote Prof. Perry at his inaug-
ural address on October 2nd. 1902 -
many of you must think that i t i a
not only a waste of time, but a positivi
sin to read novels and poetry and gener-
al literature, to cultivate in any way
the imagination, to take an interest in
painting, or sculpture, or music Are
you fond of reading? Do you know how to
use books? Can you explain what you
observe and know? ... Mere learning i s
a poor thing, but fondness of reading
leads to the greatest possible intellect-
ual and emotional faculties".
These are bold words; what Professor
of today would dare to be so forceful?
Before one oan appreciate and gain from
one's reading, a good basic grounding in
English is es- ential. It is my firm bel-
ief that a pass in English Language at
Ordianry Level is the barest minimum
that should be tolerated for a University
student: I would go further and say that
an even higher standard is required for
science students. At College we should
have compulsory essays to write on scien-
t i f i c subjects at least three times a
term, and members of staff should he
appointed only i f they themselves are
proficient in the jueen' s English.
Do you claim to be educated, or
are you merely a moronic memoriser
and not an understander of your
daily work ?
J.K. Taylor.
ATTACK ON Gt.M.C.
v f f s \
JEL CARNIVA)1P'
by our Military
Correspondent
Tuesday afternoon, and a scout
party of two surreptitiously entered
Queen Mary College via the front door}
Our heroes, two RCS men with scarves
hidden round their waists, slowly search-
ed the building. A talk in the bar with
two goon-students, but neither knew
where Mary* was. Intensive searching
everywhere, including the "Ladies" and
the Union President's Office (the former
has "Ladies" on the door) failed to un-
cover the motheaten monster, once a
leopard but now a stuffed bug-ridden
corpse.... and how appropriate for the
dead, defunct and dandruffed thing that
is Q.M's. union.
Eventually three targets were con-
sidered: the bust of the founder, the
parchment charter of incorporation and
the college shield, which was selected
as being the hardest to borrow. It
is in the T-junction of three corridors,
a l l of them busy and one under the eyes
of a hall porter. But, how to remove
without damage?
A trip to the Physics department
where a P. G., after much haranguing ,
lent a screwdriver.... oh, miserable
youth! Then the unscrewing, interru-
pted at one stage whilst a party of goon-
students walked past, not noticing the
crest of their alma mater hanging diz-
zily at 45° whilst the heroic raiders
perspired profusely. At last i t un-
screwed. .. and away through the front
door with a polite "Good night" to the
porter (it was now nearly 6 p.m., the
end of ragging time).
But -i.K.C. would not play. A l l
attempts to get them to collect the
shield from the RCS Union Meeting were
countered with. ."The Rector is informing
the police". So the badge was returned
on Friday morning, its 3-feet length
back now inscribed "Presented by RCS
Union, October, 1958" and bearing a
tastefully executed RCS crest.
R E F E C T O R Y
C O M M I T T E E
The following points arose from a
recent meeting:-
(1) Last year was a qualified success,
but'no trumpets should be blown yet1
(2) The small dining room on the third
floor will soon be available for
private parties,
(3) Gross sales thi3 term have risen
steeply, causing chronic congestion
in a l l the dining Iiallse Possible
solutions were discussed, among which
was the staggering of lectures - but
this appeared to be too complex,
(4) Cutlery losses from the refectories
are s t i l l high - especially in des-
ert spoons, ( A recent Mooney spot
raid in the Garden Hostel resulted
in the recovery of a quantity of
china, but l i t t l e cutlery)
Trays also are disappearing slowly.
(5) Kr Garaett apologised for the delay
in providing a Suggestions Book,
(6) A proposal that a coffee trolley
should go from room to room between
lectures proved untenable.
(7) Xraas Closing - from lunchtojne 19th
Dec. until lunchtime 29th Dec.

