4 FEUX
I T ' S W O R T H K N O W I N G
FELIX
EDITOR
1500
S C A R E D ?
News has just reached me that yet
another mascot has fallen into willing
I.C. hands. This time i t is a lion -
the pride of the Royal Free Hospital.
One striking feature that emerges
from these raids is that they are aimed
at womens' colleges. What about Sand-
hurst? - This was an afterthought when
an attempt to remove the Bear of Royal
Holloway College - another female est-
ablishment - ended in failure. The
Royal Free is also primarily female.
In the very near future someone
will be writing to our contemporary'Sen-
net1
, enquiring why I.C., with some 2500
males 3hould always choose womens' col-
leges for mascot raids. They will has-
ard guesses at the cause. Is i t sex-
appeal that i s the motive force? Hardly;
although Bedford provided a l i t t l e sport,
Westfield and y.M.C. could hardly have
been less convivial. The correspondent
may be forced to conclude that I.C. is
just plain scared of tackling other,
predominantly male colleges for fear of
massive reprisals, or of being slaught-
ered in the act.
Is this true? Are you scared? Go
and get mascots by a l l means, but occas-
ionally , as the Westfield President in-
ferred: PICK SOMEONE YOUR OWN SIZE !
STUDENT EXCHANGE
The following technological instit-
utions offer Exchange Scholarships:
1) Aachen Teohnisohe Hoohsohule,
2) Teohnisohe Universitat, Berlin.
3) Xidgenossisohe Technisohe Hoohsohule,
Zurich.
There are no fees and a l l expenses
are paid. An adequate command of Ger-
man is required. For further details
see notioe-boarda or ask at the Registry.
ESSAY PRIZE
We should like to remind our
readers of the S i r Arthur Aoland Engli-
sh lasay Prise, whioh waa instituted t e
encourage the good writing of English.
The ooapetition i s open to all under-
graduates and a total of 25 guineas i s
available for prises. Entries should
be submitted by January 15th, 1959.
Further details can be obtained from
the Registry.
Anna Russell, the International
Concert Comedienne, is making her final
appearance in London this season at
the Royal Festival Hall on Saturday,
15th November. She has the rare
quality for making fun of classical
works without causing offence.
Yesterday a new play by Jeremy
Kingston - "No Concern of Mine" opened
at the Westminster Theatre: this i s the
story of a group of young people,
and their problems in present-day London.
The oast includes John Fraser, Judith
Stott, and John Charlesworth.
On November 15th the London prem-
iere of Handel's "Samson" is being pro-
duced at Covent Garden: also having
their first performances this season
Are "The Bartered Bride" (Smetana)
on the 12th and Aida (Verdi) on the
19th November.
Two items to be booked well in
advance:
The Royal Festival Ballet's produc-
tion of the Nutcracker (Tchaikovsky)
will be performed at the Festival Hall
from 22nd December until the 10th Janua-
ry. Under the supervision of Alexandre
Benois, the oast will include Natalie
Krassovska and Marily Burr, with a full
ballet company of one hundred.
Postal booking is now open for the
Christmas season of Gilbert and Sulli-
van Operas by the D*0yly Carte Opera
Company at the Princes Theatre, begin-
ning on December 15th.
A new thriller from France with
some excellent Press reviews is "Evid-
ence in Concrete", at the Cameo Poly:
i t begins with the eternal triangle
and continues with the husband's warped
but brilliantly devised plan to avenge
himself on the lovers. The stars are
Gerard Oury, Jeanne Moreau and Philippe
Nicand.
I.C. MOCK PARLIAMENT
On Thursday 30th Ootober the first
Mock Parliament of the Session met with
a labour government. The Prime Mini-
ster, the Rt. Hon. Les Allen started
the proceedings and was followed by an
emergency budget. The Chancellor, the
Rt. Hon. John Luoioli outlined his mea-
sures to out spending on the armed for-
ces; the abolition of income tax and
the substitution of spending tax;
students grants were to be standard-
ised.
In view of the secrecy whioh sur-
rounded the budget, the leader of the
opposition, the Rt. Hon. Martin Barnes
gave an able reply to the budget pro-
posals.
The Rt. Hon. Frank Thilo showed
how the increased revenue would be used
in improving social servioe* - housing
and education reoeiving speoial atten-
tion.
When put to the vote, there were
nineteen votes both for and against
the budget. Appropriately enough,
the toss of a coin decided in the
Government's favour.
Strains of the "Red Flag" were
heard as the House adjourned.
Just down the narrow Middle Temple
Lane off Fleet Street is the Middle Tem-
ple dining hall, built in 1570 and now
well steeped in history: i t suffered
some bomb damage during the war, but is
now rebuilt exactly as before, such that
no joins are visible. Its piece de
resistance is a 60 ft. table from one
piece of oak. Open Sat. afternoons,
admission free.
My apologies for an error in the
last issue: owing to illness Otto Idem-
perer has not been able to conduct the
opening concerts of the Beethoven series.
His place has been taken by Giulini and
van Beinum.
The advertised programme for Novem-
ber 19th has been cancelled, and replaced
by another in the Beethoven series, i n -
cluding the 3rd Symphony (Eroioa),
which will be conducted by Royalton Kis-
Oha
T O U C H S T O N E
If Sir Roderic Hill was s t i l l alive,
he would have been proud, beyond his
wildest dreams, of the success of last
weekends Touchstone gathering. 'The
soap-box of free speech but not licence'
was most ably used by Mr. Richard Cross-
man in his masterly and provocative
introduction to the 'Problem of Power'.
A Socialist M.P., noted for his strong
personal views, and his column in the
DAILY MIRROR, Mr. Crossman moved
straight in with a statement of the
problems and morals of Nuclear Warfare.
He spoke with 3Uoh conviction that even
those who did not hold with his polici-
oal views, were forced to admit that the
Problem of Force (or Power) in the world
of Politics was not one to be trifled
with. As a former head of Psycholo-
gical Warfare, he applied the whole
strength of his personality to get
us arguing into the small hours of
Sunday Morning.
The 39 persona present inoluded
9 first year students, a promising sign,
and was graced by a large contingent
from the Chemistry and Chemical Engin-
eering Departments (regretably mainly
Postgraduate). Discussion, as always,
ranged far and wide; although i n the
main i t centred around the 'Ultimate
Deterent'. Most members felt that
Nuclear weapons were a necessary
deterent, superiority of power and size
of atomic stockpile over the Russians
was however not essential.
Whenever politicians got to work
on international affairs, fraud (in
the suppression of the true facts)
was almost inevitable. Many illum-
inating facts of the war were told to
us, and this bore out the previous
statement concerning political announce-
ments.
One member suggested 'What is the
use of the world anyway', this view waa
immediately shouted down as untenable,
but no cogent reasons were given for
disapproving of this viewl
As a result of such stimulating
discussions, i t i s certain that argue-
ments will be continuing around college
for some considerable time.
J.K. Taylor.

