10 FEATURE FELIX FRIDAY 2 4 T H JANUARY
A B u n c h o f Poofters
by IQ's Karen Yates
A recent survey showed that 80% of
homophobic men were turned on by
an erotic video of two men together.
So, are they really homophobic, or
just afraid of their own sexuality?
It has been suggested that Imperial is
a bad place to be gay. However, this
attitude is closer to an outdated
stereotype than the truth. There is
homophobia here (as there is every-
where), but it does seem to have
decreased from what it once was.
Even last year, as soon as any IQ
poster went up, it was torn down, it
was almost a race between the
posterer and the bigot to see who
could get to the end of the walkway
first! This year our posters have
remained up longer although this is
not a plea to the first homophobic
twat to start removing our posters
again! Blatant homophobia is now
frowned upon, so insults have now
become more underhand and bitchy.
Homophobia can take many
O n e s t e p f o r w a r d ,
t w o s t e p s b a c k
Gays, lesbians and bisexuals have
been around for a long time and, in a
sense, we have moved backwards in
our behaviour towards them.
In 2500BC a married couple were
buried in Egypt. The only difference
between this tomb and any other
tomb of a married couple was that
both the people in this tomb were
male. There is also evidence that in
the past the Roman Catholic and
Eastern Orthodox churches sanc-
tioned and even sanctified unions
like marriage between members of
the same sex.
It is only relatively recently that
problems have occurred, the pro-
posed change in the law in Hawaii
allowing same-sex marriage result-
ing in a right-wing blackmail cam-
paign against the state.
Discrimination against homosexu-
als and bisexuals is allowed by law.
There is no law that states that
employers should not not employ
somebody because of their sexuality
as there is with sex or race. It is up to
forms, from indirect comments
behind the back to direct "queer
bashing". A person coming out can
destroy their employment opportuni-
ties, have their family turn against
them and be subject to mental and
physical abuse.
In the USA, gay adoles-
cents are two or three times
more likely to commit sui-
cide than their heterosexual
peers.
Slightly closer to home, a U L U
student in an intercollegiate hall was
forced to move out because people
stopped talking to him and everytime
he went to the bathroom, everyone
walked out. Last term IQ received a
piece of hate mail through the post.
The content of the message said
individual employers to decide on
their equal opportunities policy on
this issue. An equal opportunities
policy, such as IC's, that only takes
"appropriate provisions in relation to
age, disability and sexual preferences
something to the effect of "Hello you
dirty maggots". It was sent to every
U L U lgb society.
Some people are homophobic due
to the fact that they have a low self
esteem, they need to find a minority
group that they feel superior to.
Stereotypes are formed of the people
within these minorities. In this way
gay men are tarty, camp and should
be doing art, therefore, there should
be none here. Lesbians should be
shaven headed mechanics with atti-
tude problems. These stereotypes are
ingrained into people's conscious-
ness to the extent that young gay
people can assume all other lgb's are
like this and become frightened that
they are not, and so stay closeted.
However, as more people come out,
they realise these are just stereotypes
and that they have no need to live up
to (or indeed down to) this media
induced image.
So far, I think I have implied that
homophobes and biphobes are large-
ly ignorant and straight - however,
there is another group equally as
likely to be biphobic as the hetero-
within the law" should, in time be
improved so that it is made clear that
the best person for the job gets the
job regardless of who they are.
One step at a time brings us closer
to a fair and equal system....
sexual community. To some, in this
group, bisexuals are traitors to the
cause, people who haven't made up
their minds to be gay because they
are too keen on keeping their "het-
erosexual privilege". On this issue,
the gay community are as guilty as
their heterosexual counterparts.
Bisexuals, in no way gain a hetero-
sexual privilege, closeted gays and
bis do, but once a bisexual is out,
they are subject to queer bashing,
taunts, loss of job, loss of family....
sound familiar so far? Far from hav-
ing "the best of both worlds", bisex-
uals are subject to suspicion by both
the gay and straight communities.
According to a survey by
the University of
California, those least like-
ly to be homophobic are:
* politically liberal
* young
* highly educated
* female
* know a Igb person
I Q i s h e r e f o r y o u
Although this article may seem at
first to be depressing we have come
a long way towards eradicating
homophobia and biphobia.
IQ could not have existed just a
few years ago. It is important to
note that the majority of people are
very open minded and, frankly, do
not care what you are as long as you
are happy. There is however still a
lot of work to be done until we reach
the point where a homo/bisexual can
come out to their parents without
fear, perhaps, eventually there will
be no need to even come out.
IQ is a friendly group where gays,
lesbians and bisexuals can meet. IQ
meets every Tuesday at 7.30 in the
Brown Committee Room. We can
be contacted via the pigeon holes in
the union office or by e-mail to
ka.yates@ic.ac.uk or s.r.cook@
ic.ac.uk
Contact Numbers:
National Lesbian and Gay
Switchboard (0171) 837 7324
National Bisexual Helpline (0181)
569 7500 10.30am - 12.30pm
Many of the arguments against gays, lesbians and bisexuals can be easily
countered, I have listed some of the most common ones:
1) Sex with members of the same sex is unnatural.
About 80% of the world's population are heterosexual, therefore to them,
yes, same sex relations are unnatural. However, equally unnatural is a sexu-
al relationship with a member of the opposite sex for a gay person.
2) Homosexuals recruit young people
Almost all heterosexuals do not abuse children - the same is true for gay
people. My aunt used to think that all gay people were paedophiles, then she
found out about me... She has since decided that although I am not a pae-
dophile so her original idea was wrong, I must fit into the stereotypes, com-
ing out as lesbian to your aunt is a good way to avoid grotty perfume for
Christmas!
3) The Bible condemns same sex relations.
The original Hebrew scriptures seem only to condemn homosexual rape
and both heterosexual and homosexual prostitution. It says nothing of homo-
sexual feeling. The writings of St Paul are believed to be mainly personal
opinion as he also condemned women even speaking in church. Many
churches teach that people should love the homosexual but hate homosexu-
ality, unfortunately some people end up hating both.

