4 NEWS FELIX FRIDAY 2 4 T H JANUARY
Campus plan holds few surprises
MATTHEW BENNETT
The new Imperial College plan sum-
mary for 1995/96 to 1998/99 con-
tains few surprises, with emphasis
placed on development of interdisci-
plinary research centres and the con-
tinuing of the "Campus Renaissance"
scheme to improve the South
Kensington site.
The plan is a revised version of
one produced two years ago, and sets
out the main objectives for college-
wide affairs, and covers the integra-
tion of the four medical schools into
the college, campus changes, curricu-
lum changes and the budgeting
objectives as well as general aims of
the college.
The creation of the Imperial
College School of Medicine is seen
as a major event, and a way of
exploiting the "wealth of clinical
opportunity in the associated hospi-
tals, and the technological and scien-
tific expertise available in other parts
of the college." The merging of med-
ical, scientific and technological
aspects are "expected to lead to sig-
nificant advances", and this is one of
the main reasons that multidiscipli-
nary research centres are being set
up.
Few changes in the courses or cur-
riculum offered are envisaged, but
the plan does refer to the increased
demand for graduates to have "scien-
tific and technical communication
skills" and "professional develop-
ment courses" are sited as an area for
growth.
The plan also recognises the
An artists impression of how the new
"existing strengths in music and arts
amongst students and staff and
pledges that the new music and arts
centre, to be situated on the top floor
of the new library, will "extend the
breadth of educational and cultural
opportunities available to the col-
lege's wider internal and external
communities". An Arts and Music
centre had been planned for a number
of years following a bequest from a
former professor, Nevil Blyth. This
would have funded the building of
music practice rooms on the top of
the present library. The money was
insufficient to fund the plans, which
were shelved for a time, until the
Campus Renaissance project
required the extension of the library
and allowed a Lottery bid to be
staged.
This was seen as the perfect oppor-
tunity to offset some of the costs of
extending the top floor for the arts
Arts and Music centre will look.
centre, as the necessary cranes and
building works would already be in
place. The Arts and Music centre is
to be the subject of one of at least
three National Lottery grants for
Estates, with the facilities required
for an excellent range of arts facili-
ties, practice rooms and recital spaces
as well as public access (required for
the Lottery money) costing in the
region of £2.3million. The building
extension itself will cost £1,6million.
Sources in the Estates Division sug-
gested that the public access to the
Sherfield building would also need to
be improved, at a possible cost of
£1.3million.
Other objectives set out in the plan
include the conversion of the Beit
Quadrangle Biology buildings into
halls of residences and the building
of two completely new halls in
Princes' gardens. The plan stresses
that opportunities to increase the
ARTISTS IMPRESSION B Y SIMON JONES
number of rooms will only be pur-
sued "at a cost that students can
afford". Sports facilities are also cov-
ered, with the boathouse singled out
for mention, but the South
Kensington sports facilities are also
under redevelopment with plans for
another Lottery grant well advanced.
The plan also includes details of
the changes to the Queen's lawn
area, with landscaping for improved
looks, access and usability, and as a
"public focus for college", as detailed
in Felix 1071. These plans are the
subject of a further lottery grant.
Budget plans include continued self-
financing to protect against "unpre-
dictable changes in external circum-
stances".
The proportion of women in col-
lege is also set for increase, with an
increase from 18% to 27% over the
last 10 years, and a target of at least
35% by the year 2000 envisaged.
New bookstore plans drawn up
continued from front page
In a parallel move with the retail
discussions, one of the main areas
under review is Union publicity.
Many people are unaware of how
major a role the Union plays in the
life of the College, and how many of
the services on campus are run by the
Union. In order to remedy this a
number a proposals have been put
forward for raising the Union's pro-
file. It has been suggested that a
photo board containing photographs
of the Union staff and sabbaticals
with explanations of the jobs they do
be put up in the Union to show peo-
ple which jobs are done by whom.
There may also be an introduction
party for wardens in Halls of
Residence so that the Union's mes-
sage gets to the first people freshers
come into contact with. There may
even be an Union sandwich and pizza
delivery service to the different
departments on campus.
The main publicity idea, however,
is that all posters, letters and leaflets
carry the Union logo, as well as that
all Union catering and recreation ser-
vices display prominent signs
reminding people that they are run by
the Union. Students also need to be
made aware that their clubs and soci-
eties could not exist were it not for
the Union. Messages to this effect
will be put on all posters and adver-
tisements issued by the clubs, and
many clubs will be required to adjust
their name and livery to include the
ICU acronym or the phrase "..sup-
ported by Imperial College Union".
The Union also aims to convey the
message to the College that they both
have (in theory) the same objective;
giving students as
good a quality of life
as possible, and
therefore that they
should work together
a lot more than they
appear at present to
be doing. "I think it's
unfortunate that the
College and the An artists impression of the present Union book-
Union have differing store in the future. Plans for the site include expan-
views about what sion into the available space and converting the site
constitutes the good from stationary selling to a catering outlet.
of the students," says Mr Williams,
"The Union believes that we can best
serve students and the college com-
munity in general by trading and
thereby gaining a degree of financial
autonomy from the whims of Higher
Education budgets, as well as tailor-
ing our services to suit students'
needs." Mr Willaims voiced the
opinion that the College, judged by
it's actions, often shows that it does
not share this view.
Whatever happens the store will
have to be refurbished to allow it to
pursue a different trade, resulting in it
closing for a fortnight, likely to be
during the Easter vacation to min-
imise disruption of services.

