FELIX FRIDAY 2 4 T H JANUARY NEWS FEATURE 7
"Going once; Going twice; Honours
degree sold to the man in the hat"
Graduate tax, top-up fees, vouchers,
levies, income contingent loans
Everyone agrees something needs to be
done about student finances - but what?
Simon Wistow investigates
In an effort to redress the imbalance
in student funding created by the
Government in recent years, the
NUS have proposed a system of
graduate taxation. The scheme was
one of many detailed in 'Funding
Our Future', a policy statement pro-
duced by them and described as:
"a hypothecated tax ... levied on
graduates and which is used to fund
post-16 education. This would sub-
sidise both maintenance and part of
tuition fees. Maintenance may con-
tinue through the existing grant sys-
tem. Alternatively, a student could
pay a proportion of tuition and main-
tenance up front and hence not be
liable for Graduate Tax"
However the tax faired well in a
assessment based upon whether the
schemes would widen access of
higher education, alleviate student
hardship, fund further education stu-
dents, fund part-time students and
enhance quality of educational
objectives.
Graduates who are able would pay
a percentage on Income Tax or
National Insurance, related to
income, throughout their working
lives. Graduates would, therefore,
pay higher rates of Income Tax or
National Insurance than non gradu-
ates. Graduates would only start pay-
ing once they had earned a certain
amount. It could be repaid by a flat
rate, for example lp in the pound of
income tax paid, irrespective of tax
banding, or a proportional rate
dependant on income.
The cost to students would only
arise after graduation, in Income Tax
or National Insurance accruing
indefinitely throughout the graduates
working life. However, as the actual
amount repaid would be based on
income, students could not know in
advance how much they would end
up repaying, the eventual cost to stu-
dents depending upon a number of
factors (for example, their future
income, tax bands under incoming
governments and the length of their
working lives).
The advantages of this system are
fairly obvious; reducing the disin-
centive to enter higher education
(with repayment dependant on future
earnings not current economic situa-
tion), and clearly applying fairly and
equally to every student. It would
also provide additional funds for
expansion. As a calculable figure this
would allow funding councils and
institutions to plan more effectively
for future expansion.
The disadvantages of such a
scheme are equally obvious.
Students would not know how much
they might end-up repaying, and
there is no control over repayments
because they are taken at source.
More importantly, because graduates
pay over their working lives some
will actually end up repaying far
more than the cost of their higher
education. Furthermore, the sugges-
tion that the well-off might be able to
opt out by paying their maintenance
and tuition up front raises the ques-
tion of whether the scheme should be
made compulsory.
The NUS and the Labour party
have voiced their approval of the
scheme and David Blunkett, the
Shadow Minister for Education,
revealed that Labour would seek pri-
vate sponsorship for a £2.4 billion -
per-year loan system. He has howev-
er admitted that students are likely to
pay a higher rate of interest on loans
for living costs under a Labour gov-
ernment as they will repay over
twenty years through National
Insurance contributions.
It seems a fair and just system
(assuming that the days when a free
education was expected, not just
prayed for, are long gone). It acts as
an incentive to work at your degree
and only taxes those that have made
use of the system. There will always
be the argument that it will discour-
age people from going to the more
expensive universities (like IC), but
in this market led age it might even
persuade universities to price them-
selves aggressively. Market competi-
tion has lowered the cost of crossing
the Channel or making phone calls,
so maybe we can see cut price
degrees in the future.
Options for Change
Maintain the status quo
Keep the present systems of grants and loans
Use of the Tax system
A general increase of Income Tax could be used to fund adequate student
support , and increased funding for higher and further education. Either tax-
ation levels or tax bands could be altered, or spending priorities changed.
A Maintenance Income Contingent Loan
A loan system towards maintenance, whereby repayment is based on a
level of earnings. Students borrow a loan to pay for maintenance. This would
differ from the present system of student loans as it would be flexible and
repayments would be related to future income. Repayment of the debt gen-
erated by the loan could then be collected through the present National
Insurance or Income Tax systems. (As with the present Loans system, it is
assumed that the repayment interest rate will not reflect the full market rate).
A Fee Income Contingent Loan
Roughly the same as the Maintenance Loan but based upon the premise
that, in addition, students would repay a proportion of their tuition fees.
Top Up Fees
I'm not even going to mention these despicable creatures.
Vouchers
Much the same as the new nursery vouchers. Each individual is allocated
a number of post-16 education vouchers throughout their lifetime.
Employers Levy
Employers would pay an additional increment on their National Insurance
contributions - so employing a student would directly cost them more, thus
suggesting the possibility that employers would actually favour experienced
(ie. older) non-graduates, rather than fresh, shiny faced, college leavers.

