8 FANTASY SABBATICAL LEAGUE FELIX FRIDAY 24TH JANUARY
Fantasy
Sabbati
Felix brings you an unrivalled opportunity
to share the success of
next year's sabbaticals with
Felix's Fantasy Sabbatical League™.
Now you too can join in the cut and thrust
of the sabbatical race by playing
Felix's Fantasy Sabbatical League™.
Read on, and you could be a winner!
Remember, this is not a hoax!
The aim of the game
The object of Felix Fantasy Sabbatical League'™ is to predict the outcome of the 1997 ICU Sabbatical Elections. Using your skill and judgement, you must choose which four
people you think will be elected to each of the four sabbatical positions, and which four will be runners-up (ie lose and come second). First and second place positions are
simply determined by who wins most votes in the eventual elections. To win, you will have to guess not only who will be elected, but also who is likely to stand for election.
Included opposite is a list of possible 'players.' These are people who currently hold positions on Council (the governing body of the Union) plus a few wildcards. They
are*the people closely involved with the Union whom we feel are most likely to stand for one of the four sabbatical positions. We have placed them in divisions, according
to the seniority of their position within the Union, and assigned a points value to the players in each division. THE POSITION OF INDIVIDUALS WITHIN THE L E A G U E
REFLECTS O N L Y THEIR CURRENT STATUS WITHIN THE UNION: IT DOES NOT REPRESENT HIS/HER LIKELIHOOD OF STANDING OR BEING ELECTED.
There are two other 'players'; you should enter 'New Election' as a second choice for a position if you think that only one candidate will stand for that post, or if you think
people would rather vote for a new election than any of the candidates. If you think someone other than those included on our list will stand for a particular post, then include
the 'None of the above' player in the relevant place on your team. You do not have to state who you think 'None of the above' will be. If 'New election' or 'None of the
above' finishes in the place you have guessed, you score the same points as if you had guessed an actual individual's result.
Remember, you are strictly limited in the number of points you can spend on players, and so may not be able to field your first choice team... This is where the element of
chance comes in. Good luck!
First Prize:
Two return tickets to Paris and a bottle of Champagne
Sabbaticals? What Sabbaticals?
For those not in the know, each year Imperial College Union holds a campus-wide ballot to elect new sabbatical officers.
There are four sabbaticals elected by campus-wide ballot at ICU: President, Deputy President (Finance & Services), Deputy President (Clubs &
Societies) and Felix Editor. They hold their position for year while taking a break (a sabbatical) from their studies. During this time, each is ultimately
responsible for running the services and performing the duties under their remit. These people are your representatives in many different areas, whether
attending college committees on academic affairs or being responsible for the finances of the Union and the many clubs and societies which you may belong
to.
For example, the Deputy President (Clubs and Societies) in charge of the running of the many clubs and societies of the Union as well as health and safe-
ty and representing the Union (and you) on college committees, among other duties. Thus, even if you are the Caving Club chairman implementing H&S
policy or just an ordinary member of the International Tamil Society, the DP (C&S) looks after your interests.
This year's sabbatical elections will take place in early March. However, the papers for nominations go up on February 3'd
for two College weeks. Any
full member of Imperial College Union may stand for any of the positions listed above. To be able to run for election, however, each nominee must have a
proposer and twenty seconders, all of whom must also be full members of the Union. After the papers come down on February 14'\ campaigning proper can
start, and the, 1996-97 sabbatical race can begin.
If you have any queries about the elections or wish to find out more about any of the posts, contact the President, Eric Allsop, via the Union Office, or
speak to the present encumbents.
The small print
•The closing date for entries is 5.00pm, Monday 3rd February. O N E E N T R Y P E R PERSON.
•Competition results will be determined using 1997 ICU Sabbatical election results, as confirmed by ICU elections committee.
•The highest-scoring entry, as calculated by Felix, will be the winner. In the unlikely event of a tie, the winner will be the entrant whose original team had the lowest combined
points value. Failing this, the winner will be selected at random from those sharing the highest score.
•The competition is NOT open to the following groups of people:
•All those listed as 'players' opposite.
•Current sabbaticals.
•The Felix staff.
•Any unlisted 1997 sabbatical candidate.
•Anyone who is not a UG, PG or member of staff at Imperial College.
•Anyone acting on behalf of those above.
•The Felix Editor retains the right to declare the competition null and void at any time and to amend the rules without notice. Any change in rules will be published in Felix.
•The results of the competition, and the points value assigned to each player shall have no bearing whatsoever upon the results of the election. Anyone suspected of contra-
vening 1CU sabbatical election rules, as laid down in the ICU constitution, may be subject to ICU disciplinary procedures.

