FILMS
Due for release in the next week are two very interesting films.
APOCALYPSE NOW
(X, Francis Coppola)
The guilt and fears of the American people over their involvement
in Vietnam have fostered several features on the subject. By far the
most impressive and direct is this truly grim epic of carnage and
destruction.
Captain Willard (Martin Sheen) is a young agent who is sent on a
mission to 'terminate' the command of Colonel Kurtz (Marlon
Brando). He is told that Kurtz is mad; he is told Kurtz is a murderer;
he is told Kurtz must be terminated. Yet despite this Willard cannot
believe that one of America's best Colonels has done anything with no
reason.
Kurtz has become the G o d of an army of ruthless natives who
follow his orders to the limit. He has a renegade army at his control
and wages a path of terror and destruction. Willard, the 'messenger
boy' of the American military must locate and also destroy. He
journeys up a river in a patrol boat with a crew of four; during the trip
he is influenced by their experiences and attempts to understand
Kurtz's actions.
Coppola believes he has created a film which will communicate the
full horror of war — he bases it strongly on visuals and leaves the plot
deliberately thin. There are some stunning sequences, notably the
destruction of a village by Lt Colonel Kilgore (Robert Duval!) who
blasts out Wagnar from his helicopters as they spew bullets, rockets
and napalm.
I cannot comment on the ethical and political side of it, but can say
that the message seems to be that good and evil can be mixed where
it is convenient. This was done in Vietnam and Coppola wishes to
expose the lie that the people of that time were living. Don't kid
yourself, it applies to you as well. A mosf enjoyable film which should
not be missed.
Marlon Brando plays Colonel Kurtz.
by MARK SMITH
STAR TREK
THE MOTION PICTURE
(Robert Wise)
Persis Khambatta as Ilia, the Deltan navigator of the
Enterprise.
On a completely different theme and bias is this feature based on
the cult T V series. The technology is better, the effects more
stunning, but the characters and ideas are the same.
Not many people have dared to portray the optimism and joy that
Gene Rodenberry has in Star Trek. He delights in the idea that the
human race can and will survive, becoming more benevolent and
understanding as they grow.
Less of the ideas, what about the film? As a keen fan of the series I
expected a great deal and was only partly rewarded. The crew of the
Enterprise are reunited to face an imminent peril; Earth is threatened
by a mysterious cloud which is approaching the planet rapidly. The
Enterprise is in 'dry dock' following re-design and is the only available
starship which can investigate. Admiral Kirk takes over command
after spending several years on Earth. He is unfamiliar with the new
ship but will not allow Captain Decker to face this ultimate threat
alone. Spock, McCoy and all the other crew soon arrive, as well as the
beautiful Ilia, a bald headed woman from the planet Delta.
I found the film very enjoyable, even though tedious in places. The
story is a little disjointed but as the characters are already so familiar,
they compensate for this. The only disappointment was the ending. I
think that in an attempt to emulate 2001: A Space Odyssey that they
lost a lot. Here though significance is pointed out and strange
circumstances clearly explained, leaving little to the imagination. The
message of optimism is great, but you needn't ram it home quite as
clearly.
Anyway besides that it was very enjoyable. Fans of the series will
not want to miss the return of their favourites, but I feel that the
appeal will not be much greater. Treat it as escapism and you'll end up
feeling warm inside. Otherwise don't bother.
10

