S)P DAY BY DAY
WEDNESDAY 5
NUCLEAR POWER PLAN
The building of at least one controversial
American-style pressurised water nuclear power
station has been approved by a cabinet
committee. According to the minutes of the
meeting this will be "subject to satisfactory safety
clearances being obtained". Sizewell in Suffolk is
the favoured site for the PWR reactor,
construction of which would begin in 1982.
RHODESIA CEASEFIRE PLAN
The deadlock on the ceasefire plan for
Rhodesia was broken when the PF were given
assurances that the Rhodesian airforce will be
kept in check and disarmed, that the
Commonwealth monitoring will be large enough
to do the job and that South Africa will be asked to
keep out of Rhodesia during the ceasefire and
elections. The final task is working out the military
logistics to implement the plan, which could take
a week.
MINERS A C C E P T 20% DEAL
Over fifty-one percent of the miners voted
against their executive's advice in an 87% poll and
accepted the National Coal Boards. The P M told
a parliamentary lunch that she was heartened by
the result which was one of the signs that her
philosophy and beliefs were in accord with those
of ordinary people.
THURSDAY 6
CIVIL SERVICE JOBS T O G O
The Lord President of the Council announced
that 40,000 Civil Service jobs are to be axed over
the next three years. These cuts, which will save
£212 million a year, are in addition to the 20,000
jobs lost by the three-month ban on Civil Service
recruiting after the General Election.
British Steel, who are also cutting jobs,
announced that the 2,400 workforce at the River
Don Plant, Sheffield is to be reduced by 400.
NUCLEAR PLAN LEAK
The Prime Minister has ordered a Government
inquiry into the leak of a Cabinet paper about the
siting of a nuclear power station. The paper
revealed that the Goverment has approved the
building of at least one pressurised water (PWR)
nuclear power station. The paper, which was
published in the press, also states that they
should keep a low profile over the programme to
minimize the expected opposition from anti
nuclear protesters.
INCREASE IN VIOLENT CRIME
Home Office figures reveal that violence
agains.t the person in the first three quarters of the
year rose by ten per cent compared with the same
period last year. Criminal damage offices have
increased by three per cent. However, offences of
robberies, burglaries, theft and fraud show a
decrease — robberies showing a seven per cent
decrease.
FRIDAY 7
NATIONAL STEEL STRIKE
An all-out national steel strike was called from
2nd January by leaders of th 90,000 British Steel
Con workers in protest at the pay offer of 2%
made earlier this week. This will be the first
national strike in the steel industry since the
General Strike in 1926. the decision was
described as a 'tragedy' by the B S C Chairman
and he said that the only winners would be foreign
steelmakers.
BRITAIN OUT' C A L L
Demands by the Irish Republic for a British
commitment to withdraw from Ulster are
expected soon. This follows the election of Mr
Charles Haughey as Prime Minister designate
and ieader of the ruling Fianna Fail party. Mr
Haughey said he stuck by his party's policy on
Ulster which began with a decieration that "we
want to bring about unification".
SATURDAY 8
NEAR MISS FOR C O N C O R D E
The U S A F admitted that on 30th October a
formation of its fighters on a refuelling exercise
missed collision with an Air France Concorde by
milliseconds, the near disaster was the fault of the
USAF traffic controllers who did not warn the
U S A F pilots that a Concorde was flying in a 20
mile wide corrider between two forbidden military
air zones. The lead plane in the formation of four
F-15s missed the underside of the Concorde's
nose by just ten feet and the second plane missed
Concorde's cockpit by 15 feet.
N A T O MOVE
The four big powers in Nato — American,
Britain, Germany and Italy — are to press ahead
with their decision to build and install new
medium-range nuclear missiles, despite growing
opposition among their smaller allies. They plan
to build 572 missiles with nuclear warheads at a
cost of £4,000 million to be spread through
Western Europe. The Russian's have warned that
there would be no disarmament talks if the Nato
missile programme went ahead.
JACK S O L O M O N S DIES
Jack Solomons, who rose from being a
fishmonger in the East End to become Britain's
top boxing promoter died today, aged 77. During
his career he promoted 26 world title fights. He
was closely associated with Randolph Turpin,
Freddie Mill, Bruce Woodcock and many other
boxing headline-makers of the 1950s.
MONDAY 10
END OF SMALLPOX
A 17 nation commission of the World Health
Organization in Geneva concluded that smallpox
has been totally eradicated. They recommended
that all vaccination against the disease should be
abolished, although 200 million doses of vaccine
are to be kept. Research is now only to continue
in four centres, one of which is St Mary's Hospital,
Paddington.
SPANISH CONCUBINES
Mr Bias Pinar, the leader of the Spanish Fuerza
Nueva party received loud cheers from his blue-
shirted facist followers, when he suggested
concubinage as a solution to marital problems in
Spain, where divorce is not permitted. Some of
his female followers, however, were less
enthusiastic although one admitted that
"concubinage is hardly new here in Soai:;".
TUESDAY 11
BSC CUTS 52,000 JOBS
British Steel is to cut 52,000 jobs in its efforts to
imDrove productivity and bring capacity in line
with demand. By next August the work force w:
be reduced to 100,000. The cut-back is the bigges.
than any nationalised industry has ever had to
endure. B S C was warned by Mr Sims, General
Secretary of the Iron and Steel Trades
Confederation, the largest union in the industry,
that it could expect 'mass trade union action'.
SUNDAY 9
CEASEFIRE IN DOUBT
The weekend raids by Rhodesian ground and
air forces into Zambia and Mozambique against
bases occupied by the guerillas of the PF. have
thrown doubts over the conclusion of an early
ceasefire at the Lancaster House conference
The reaction of the PF was bitter and the twin
operations by troops of General Walls were
described as 'outrageous' especially as the
General was a key figure in ceasefire negotiations.
K H O M E I N I ' S F O L L O W E R S
RIVALS
Five people were killed in fighting between the
supporters of Iran's two most powerful religious
leaders for control of the broadcasting station a!
Tabiz. The fighting was between the followers of
Ayatollah Khomeini and Ayatollah Kazem
Shariatmadian.
SOAMES OFF T O RHODESIA
Despite anxious protests from the opposition
the Government launched the fuel stage of the
Rhodesian gamble by sending Lord Soames to
take up his duties as Governor of the revived
colony of Southern Rhodesia, even before the PF
leaders had accepted the final"terms of the
ceasefire proposals. Lord Soames will be met by
Bishop Muzorewa, the outgoing P M , who has
acknowledged that all legal powers rest with
Britain. He will face demands from the PF to
abolish by decree all legislation restricting their
activities including ail emergency powers
introduced in 1965.
FEES RISE MAY SHUT THREE
L O N D O N C O L L E G E S
Lord Annan, London University s Vice-
Chancellor, warned that it faces redundancies
and closures of three colleges because of
government spending cuts. In a letter to the
University Grants Committee he appeals for tne
university to be made a special case for funds t;
ease it's 'specially disastrous plight'. This ha^
been caused by the Government's plan to cu*
finance to universities in direct proportion to
numbers of overseas students they admit and so
force them to charge 'full-cost fees'.
11

