ROWING
A DAY AT THE RACES or NOVICES
AT READING REGATTA
We reached Reading after an indescribable
exhibition of rally-driving down the M4 (in a
Landrover) including 'Cadence' braking and
skid-control by John (I've done skid-pan
training — honestly) Vedy!
We arrived to find our reputation had
preceded us and Gonville and Caius College,
Cambridge had scratched. So our first race in
the Novice Regatta (which was only for
people who started rowing this term) was
against Reading University. In this race,
which was not our greatest achievement, we
showed Reading what seven men rowing is all
about. After about fifty strokes we were about
one length down, this was too much for Stuart
who decided to swim it. After a spectacular
'Crab' he found himself ejected from the boat
and as we swept oast him he was smacked on
the head by Pete Mance's ("I thought he was
a swan") blade. Exit main competition.
However all was not lost (yet), we were now
eligible for the plate (a competition for first'
time losers). After a compete rethink of our
strategy (we decided to lower the rating and
lengthen the stroke by opening out the angle.
Technical!), we were ready for the first round.
In this we ably showed the inferiority of the
Welsh by thrashing Cardiff University with
the ample margin of three feet!
We were now in the semi-finals! Our
opponents, the Royal Military College of
Science, Shrivenham, never really stood a
chance. After racing the whole course side by
side we won comfortably.
So to the final. After a very close race we
were narrowly beaten by Jesus ("We only row
five days a week — we walk on water")
College, Cambridge by one length.
The indomitable Novice crew were: P
Tebbutt, J Vedy, S Allinson, A Purdy, R
Redhead, J Marsden, P Maince, M Agnew and
S Crampton.
G L I D I N G
Despite poor weather I C G C has had an
excellent year with eight new cross-country
pilots completing silver distance (50km), Pete
Reading attaining diamond g->al (300km
triangle) in the Club Libelle, and Phil Guthrie
attaining much embarrassment (280km in the
Astir on the same day!)-
The Easter course was highly successful
with everyone on it going solo by the end,
though perhaps the same cannot quite be
said of the Long Mynd expedition. Suffice to
say that the Astir is recovering nicely after an
argument with a fence, and should be flying
again by the New Year. However, some
interesting 'wave' and 'ridge' soaring was
achieved before the accident, and afterwards
due entirely to the generosity of the Midland
Gliding Club, who let us fly their machines.
Now with the onset of winter it's back to^
overhauling the gliders ready for next
summer — yes, those bits of fibre glass in the
Aero basement really fly!
If you've got this far, are still reading and
aren't yet a member, then you're obviously a
natural glider pilot. Why not come along to
one of our meetings and find out? Training
continues throughout the winter and for
around eight pounds you can get down to
Lasham one weekend and have a fly round
and that incluaes social membership, a flight
transport and accommodation — all you need
is a sleeping bag.
We meet at 5:30pm in Aero 254 every
' Thursday.
Chris Starkey EE3
We also had one ladies crew entered in this
event — the ladies competition that is. I n their
first race, they took on the might of the
Billygoats (Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge
for those of you who didn't know) and won by
about two lengths. This put them in the semi-
final, where again they had Cambridge
opposition, this time from Churchill College.
They led for the first part of the race, but they
could not hold off Churchill's challenge over
the second half of the race and lost by about
one length.
After four races in four hours the
sympathetic reader will realise we needed
something that refreshes the parts that a
certain lager doesn't! Consequently we went
back along the A4 (because there aren't any
pubs on the M4) and although we missed Dr
Who, I don't think anyone really minded.
Now for the plug! If Ithere are any of you out
- there who would like to have a go, take the
plunge (sorry about that one!) and come
down to the Boathouse on the first
Wednesday afternoon of next term and find
out what it's all about. It's just along the
Embankment from Putney Bridge, on the
south side of the Thames; you can get there
by tube or number 14 bus (from the tube
station at South Ken).
Steve Crampton
IC 4ths REACH SEMIFINAL OF
CUP
On Saturday, IC 4ths faced their toughest
test yet in the cup against A M C 3rds. A side
who are not only in the division above us but
who also knocked out IC 3rds in the last
round.
Q M C got off to a shock start by scoring in
the first five minutes but this only helped IC to
adapt to the tighter game and come back at
them fiercely. Twenty minutes of intensive
pressure mainly inspired by some superb
play by Richard Dolan rocked the Q M C
defence bringing some fine saves from their
keeper. Desperation soon showed in Q M C ' s
play, ruthlessly bringing down any of our
forwards who got near the ball. Then the
breakthrough came when Andy Hartland
finished Richards fine approach work by
rifling a superb low shot wide ofthe keeper's
full-stretch dive. The game proceeded at a
furious pace.
The second half continued much the same
till Andy struck again squeezing the ball in
between keeper and post. IC looked poised to
take firm control of the game till a surprised
goal was defelected past Steve Veats from an
uncharacteristic loose ball from the corner.
The next five minutes were very shaky for IC
with Steve Veats making two fine saves from
forwards who were clear through. At about
this time Paul Galvin, whose jinking 'Barnes'
like play on the right got him regularly
flattened by the definitely nasty Q M C
defence was squashed by the hairiest
leftback in the country. He later had to come
tired of wandering round in ever tightening
circles wondering what century he was in.
Consequently superb sub Dave Brannan had
to come on and add his own exciting brand of
exhaustion to the team for the last ten
minutes. This move coincided with Andy
becoming 'Hatrick' Hartland and putting IC
ahead 3-2 and taking their rightful place in the
semi-finals. This was a fantastic team
performance and everyone in the side
deserves credit. However, last words must go
to Steve Kaye's dramatic (even traumatic)
sixty yards run down the left wing beating at
IS THERE NO STOPPING THEM?
IC Volleyball reached new heights of
success this week when they beat the team
from West London College of Further
Education on their home ground at Osterley
on Tuesday 4th December. We (the
supporters) all thought that the score was
going to be really impressive when the first
two sets were won, 17-15 and 15-10 by the IC
team, but this thought was soon shattered
when the next two sets were dropped 2-15,
14- 16 during the final set we shouted
ourselves hoarse cheering the team on to a
15- 13 victory which will give us five more
valuable points in the 'Seetech' League.
Every member of the team deserved
congratulations for playing well both
individually and as a team, especially Chris
W a c h n i c k i , w h o s e general play was
exceptional and Henrey Szyszko and Andy
Ciuksza who were both 'spiking' very well.
Also a special mention to Tam and Marc for
coming along even if they did not get the
chance to prove how good they are!
The team comprised: M Banasiak, L
Bogdanowicz, A Ciuksza, P Diaz-Lalcaca, B
Hermansson, D Penty (Capt on court), S
Tam, H Szyszko, C Wachnicki and M Young.
Carolyn Wainwright
Team mascot
~ " F O O T B A L L
least five players and leaving Q M C grateful
that he was playing at left back.
Team: Steve Veats, Neil Morris, Steve Kaye,
Neil Redmayne, Dave Griffiths, Damian
Nnochiri, Paul Galvin, Steve Sims, Richard
Dolan, Ramsey Hawa, Andy Hartland and
Dave Brannan.
SECONDS IN SEMI-FINALS
At 12:30pm on Saturday 8th November, the
heroes ofthe IC 2nd XI began to converge on
the Union Lower Lounge. On arrival it was
obvious there were two sorts of players.
There were the quiet, sober, well-behaved
gentlemen such as Al Betts, Brian Scannell
and Giles Brereton, who had sensibly had a
quiet Friday evening in, as a suitable
prepartation for this important quarter-final
game. The other sort was typified by Phil
Niccolls, who staggered in, with the help of
Kevin Buckley and Andy Haralampous
bemoaning the fact that he had lost all
recollections of the previous evening's 'one
garment' party (I won't mention the 'lurex'
body stocking, Phil!) and staunchly denying
he had only worn a smile!
The whole team assembled and carried out
the time-honoured IC tradition of waiting
half-an-hour for Capitol Coaches to turn up
On eventual arrival at Harlington, the
usual pre-match ceremonies were performed
(notice how I avoid giving details!) and IC 2nd
XI took to the field.
At full-time IC had won by two goals from
Kevin Buckley and Phil Niccolls. Rumour has
it that Andy Haralampous hit the bar (cross-
bar!) and Julian Gamble cleared off the line.
Three jugs, one shower and one of Arthur's
teas later (not necessarily in that order!) six of
us realised we had missed the last coach back
to College! The five travelled by tube, while
Barry (I've got two crutches!) Hatton got a lift.
Back at the Union celebrations continued.
The team: Al Betts, Jim Beer, Julian
Gamble, Declan McGuckin, Goldilocks
Brereton, Brian Scannell, Dave Dean and
James Rowley.
Yours libellously
Giles Brereton
12

