THE OSTERLEY PARK RELAY
On Wednesday 5th December, the club
competed in the Osterley Park Relay. The
relay is four legs of just over three miles and is
of a high standard attracting many of the top
university teams in the country. The level of
interest in the relay was raised by the
presence of Sebastian Coe, using the race in
his build-up for the 1980 Olympics.
The IC A team in the guise of the UL team,
were led off on the first leg by Mark Prickard
who showed an excellent turn of speed to
hand over to Steve Kirk in fourteenth place,
recording the fastest time for an IC runner.
Meanwhile at the front, on the second leg,
Sebastian C o e (Loughboro') had set off in
pursuit of the leading Borough R d runner,
cross-country international Dave Clark.
Unfortunately he lost his shoe, halfway round
and although he carried o n , it ruined his
chances of taking the fastest time of the day.
Our very own Steve, also lost his shoe on the
second leg, but being a down-in-the-pocket
student, unable to afford to leave running
shoes lying around, cooly stopped to tie his
shoe up, losing four places in the process!
Evan Cameron, ran a steady third leg to pull
back four places whilst lan Morton running
last leg, gained a couple more places to finish
the team in a fine twelfth position.
So onto the fortunes of the S and C teams
(alias the A and 8 teams). Richard Green,
running for the A team, kept things sensible,
finishing ahead of Mark Thwaites (8). Then,
on the incident-packed second leg, positions
switched, with Richard Seville, on his debut
run, gaining no less than twelve places to
bring the 8 team in, in 29th position, one
ahead of the A team, with Mick Kelly, having a
T A B L E T E N N I S
December 5th, remember that date,
because it could go down in the annals of IC
Table Tennis history as J E F F S T E A N D A Y .
It all began with the Christmas Competition
which I had organised (with handicap
scores) as a semi-social, semi-serious
episode. First of all Jeff defeated a University
of London first division player without (in the
third game) the need of his eight point start.
This alone would make most IC team players
day, but then came the third teams match that
evening (Jeff is the Captain) and a display of
sheer dogged 'blood and guts' (pardon the
vulgarity Snooker Club!).
Background info: IC3 equal top of their'
division with INT S T U D E N T S H O U S E 1
(their opponents) and having both won all
their matches very easily, this match was
crucial to the championship. Also, up to this
match Jeff had a 100% winning average (and
all his opponents were 100% or over 90%).
After losing the first two matches (despite
good play by Stanley Wong and Hong-tai
Man) Jeff's first victory instigated an IC
recovery to 4-2. Then, however, Hong-Tai
played a player, who, though not his equal in
ability, responded better to the pressure.
(Man needed to win the game, to settle the
match.) This left Jeff, facing the only other
player in his league with a 100% average prior
to the match, and needing to win, as the final
match was very unlikely to fall to IC.
He pushed, served, looped, smashed,
blocked and most of all T H O U G H T his way to
a great third game 21-19 victory and this
means that IC now have a marvellous chance
of winning the league championship (barring
fatal injuries or death).
The other league matches were as follows
(if anything can follow):
IC1 vs TWA1: 7-2
bad day. Happily, for Mick things turned out
better in the U L Championships, but on with
the relay. B y the end of the third leg, the A
team were ahead again, with Gary Longhurst
overtaking Chris Smith. Finally to the last leg,
where our guest Q E C runner, renowned
orienteer, Hugh Dixon finished the A team in
26th, whilst Alan Murray had a respectable
run for the 8 team finishing them in 32nd
position.
The relay itself was won by the home team
Borough Rd, with Loughboro' second and
Birmingham third, but it was good to see the
IC team put up one of their best performances
in a relay, for the last few years.
UL CHAMPIONSHIPS
Even without the services of our new
marathon star, Mark Pickard, who was
d i s p l a y i n g his talents o n W i m b l e d o n
C o m m o n for his club, the IC team hoped to
retain the team trophy they won last year. Our
Scottish international, Evan Cameron,
despite being off-form recently, showed he
could still put out a big one when it mattered,
in winning the individual championship by
being the first student home, though well-
beaten into second place overall by a past
member of the university who won the race.
Next runner home, in eighth place, was five
million dollar man (cuts affect us too) Steve
Austion-Kirk, who, never happy with just one
race a day, used this as a warm-up for the
over-night British Orienteering Champion-
ships, only three hours later. Mick Kelly,
recently returned from the dead, and looking
after the race as though he'd be joining them
again soon ran very well to finish in sixteenth
place.
On Tuesday 4 December IC Water Polo
Club produced two teams to compete in the
U L U Knockout. Our first team had a two goal
handicap and our second six goals.
IC2 were the first to play, the score at the
start was 6-6, playing against Barts Hospital
2nd team. We did not start off very well and
Barts scored a goal to take the lead. Our front
p l a y e r s w e r e very u n l u c k y , D i m i t r i
Papconstantinou's shot hit the crossbar and
then the goalkeeper in the head but the ball
didn't go in and Adrien Butler hit the goal post
twice shooting from in front of the goal, but
finally he scored a goal to equalise.
In the second half, Barts were completely
out-played, Nick Ajderian and A k e Wallin
were marking tight at the back and did not
give them another opportunity to break. Mike
Casey scored our second goal after breaking
from his man. John Heffernon was passing
the ball accurately up front and B o b Bradley
Yes, another excellent win for the firsts
(also top of their division). Kartick hit a peak
for the season, winning all three matches
superbly and Pete and Hong gave solid
displays winning two matches each.
IC2 vs DAVIES, LAING & DICK: 6-3
One good player doesn't make a team as
D L D found totheircost. All the IC heroes won
two sets.
IC4 vs N C B 3 (AWAY): 8-1
The slowest table, the hottest room and the
deadest bats it has been my misfortune to
encounter and we still thraped 'em!
Considering that, on arriving home, I was
wrongly accused of stealing half a bottle of
ketchup from a flatmate (and had the other
half thrown all over me!) I am quite pleased I
managed an un-nasty report.
Pete Hewkin
Our valiant Captain, lan Morton, awarethat
every position was important in the team race
struggled to finish in nineteenth place,
despite badly pulling a muscle half-way
round the course. With four of our team, in
and six to count, it was painful to see our main
opponents, University College, start packing
their runners in, but four of our own team
were fighting it out for the remaining two
team places. Alan Murray and Richard Seville
finished 29th and 32nd, with Charles de Bono
33rd and Mark Thwaites 35th helping us to
win the event for the second year running.
With half the field now finished, there was
growing anxiety over what had happened to
Gary Longhurst, who had not yet completed
one of the two lap course. Unfortunately, he
never finished and has not been seen since,
leaving his distraught girlfriend waiting for
him to complete the first lap. Meanwhile,
Francis Smith, who had presumably stayed
well down the field looking for the missing
Gary, finished near the back in 64th position.
Speculation about Gary mounted when at the
prize-giving, lan limped up to receive six gold
medals, one o'f them being for the women's
race!
Now a plea for help. With our two most
important fixtures coming up next term, when
our top three or four runners are certain to be
nabbed for the U L U team, it is essential we
have a better turn-out for races. The standard
does not need to be high, but this could be
your chance to compete alongside Seb C o e
at the British Students Championships (with
600 others!). However, if anyone wants to run
over a few things with a coach, don't try the
Cross Country Club, apply instead to the
Nation Bus Company to become a driver.
" W A T F R POLO
scored our third goal, positioned in front of
the goal. Finally, Bob scored another goal to
make the final score 10-7 to us.
So IC2 went through to the quarter-finals,
where we were unlucky to play against Guys
Hospital first team, last year's winners of the
competition. Guys were a very fit and
experienced team, and despite our efforts
they completely dominated the game. We
started off with a 6-0 lead, but they managed
to produce four goals in the first and three
goals in the second half from 'cannon' shots
to make the final score 6-7, a very close win
for them.
The team was: B Bradley, M Casey, J
Heffernon, A Butler, N Ajderian, A Wallin and
D Papaconstantinou.
IC 1 were the next to play, it was a game
against Barts first team, we started off with a
2-0 lead. Dave Dunstone scored the first goal
for them (!) when he tried to pass the ball back
to our goalie Dave Roberts. Our defence was
rather d i s o r g a n i s e d , Barts were fast
swimmers and they always managed to have
a free man up front whenever they were
attacking. No wonder they managed to score
seven more goals to go through to the semi-
finals, winning by 8-2. A poor result for ICI.
who didn't play up to their usual standard.
The team: D Roberts, P Mills, P Porter, N
Buckland, D Dunstone, N Last and B Ashwin.
Finally, we played the last games for the
1979 Middlesex League. IC1 took part in the
2nd Division with three more teams, and they
finished joint first with eight points. IC2 took
part in the 4th Division with six more teams
and they managed to finish fourth with ten
points. The players of both teams should be
c o n g r a t u l a t e d f o r t h e i r e x c e l l e n t
performance throughout the year.
Dimitri Papaconstantinou
13

