EDITORIAL
There is no end, no beginning just new
calendars taking the place of those that indicated
the passing of the seventies. On into the eighties
spins the earth • a space ship hurtling through
space slowly being polluted and no-one knowing
where it's going.
Enough of complex imagery .... I'll leave that to
the FELIX fiction writers. We have the good
fortune to know where we're heading (at least in
the short term). Most of you will be going home,
this weekend, back to your family life sharing
Christmas with your friends and relatives.
At this point I would like to welcome a new
reader to FELIX - the British Prime Minister, Mrs
Thatcher. If I wanted to be political I could write al
length about the cuts but that would be taking
advantage of 10 Downing Street's current interest
in FELIX. The leader of the Conservative
Government must be aware that she is losing the
student vote but we don't remain students for
long! I believe cuts can be beneficial if they only
stop wastage and if the enforced discussions and
modifications produce a more efficient system.
However, if cuts restrict development and rreale
stagnation then they must be condemned.
Within the last few weeks an important new
club has been formed al Imperial. The
Microcomputer club has emerged rather late
considering that we are one of the foremost
Universities of Science and Technology in Ihe
UK. The importance of hands-on experience of
micro-processors is clear to everyone who has
dabled in computing. I have pledged my help to
give the club a hand during their early
development but the signs are thai interest is
likely to snowball as we begin to try to cope with
the micro-processor 19R0s.
Large mainframes will become strange
museum pieces like, their parents, the valve
calculators of the fifties. It was a shock to see a
micro simulating a game of space invaders. The
whole package was just sitting at the end ol a table
in the Lower Refectory. The program had been
written in a mere five hours.
Imperial students may be able to understand
the workings of the latest computers but coping
with human beings could become difficult as we
spend more time with machines that to some
extent are becomming human substitutes.
THE GETAWAY
Steve McQueen, AliMcGraw, Sam Peckinpah;
low brow entertainment but never a dull moment.
On general rerelease this month, this film bears
the unmistakable stamp of Peckinpah, with slow
motion death scenes and some excellent
photography; Ali McGraw never looked so lovely
as when she made her exit from a refuse truck.
Beginning with a sequence of shots, each
abruptly frozen after a few seconds, the film
revolves around the progress of Doc McCoy
(Steve McQueen) as he blasts his way across the
USA, accompanied by wife Carol (Ali McGraw)
after a bankraid he has carried out, his side of the
Playing a solo game against a machine is often
addictive. Gone are the days when nearly all
students played card games to pass the time ....
there are only four years to go to 1984!
Having managed to get the editorial around to
mentioning the social lives of students I will now
begin a contraversial discussion on the role of
ICWA (Imperial College Women's Association).
At the start of next term it is strongly rumoured
that a motion will be put to a U G M which, if
passed, would effectively destroy ICWA. I hope
that the pages of the first FELIX of the eighties will
contain contributions from both sides of the
ICWA debate. As Editor of FELIX I have to
decided to print my own views to start the debate:
1: ICWA needs to change .... any organisation
isn't perfect and so change in the right direction
is always for the best. The question that has
to be answered is how the change should take
place and what will be the end result.
2: ICWA could be disbanded. If so we must decide
what should replace it or whether it needs to be
replaced. Has it outlived its initial purpose?
At the end of the debate YOU will be given the
chance to vote at a U G M .
Merche Clarke has written on page four of this
newspaper that if there is a question of change in
ICWA then it is ICWA who should decide and be
involved in any discussion. Every female student
at Imperial is a member of ICWA and I have not
considered the arguments without consulting
several members of ICWA.
I note that there are few occasions where girls
at Imperial have the opportunity to meet in a large
group. FELIX has given extensive coverage to the
Ladies Rugby team. Involvement in women's
rugby is one of the rare chances for girls at IC to
be involved in an activity which is their own.
ICWA does organise events purely for women
and some where men are invited as well e.g. the
ICWA Ball. However, I am certain that there is a
need for more events regularly each week. More
events mean that more people would have to
help with the organisation. That brings me to the
criticism of ICWA i.e. not enough people get
involved. It is easy to say that ICWA should be
abolished because few are interested, but there is
a good chance that with radical change ICWA
could quickly become an Association that plays a
the bargain with a politician who has arranged his
prison parole. Several people are gratuitously
killed, and car-chases abound.
For all his neat tricks, McCoy loses faith in
Carol, after she guns down the politician and a
theme of doubts and chances taken is quite subtly
introduced. There is a nice touch in the film,
where McQueen does a car-stunt and actually
gets it wrong; long live the human factor.
Unfortunately for the film as a whole, there is a
happy ending, but all in all, if you don't wince at
the idea of Steve McQueen saying What seems to
be the problem, Officer?, at a roadblock, then I
can guarantee you'll enjoy yourselves.
Lars Wernberg-Moller
major part in life at IC. A new Society would take
at least a year to get going. ICWA has the ability to
be able to reach full potential faster than a
completely new Society.
Girls need help on a wide range of topics.
ICWA can play a major role in the welfare of a
woman Imperial.Advice on contraception e.g.
The advantages of Low Oestrogen Pills when
considering the side effects of being on the Pill.
Advice to Freshers on how to cope with the
multitude of problems that crop up during their
first year. The Fresher can benefit from the
experience gained by Second and Third year
students. ICWA events are ideal for encouraging
informal discussion that might not be started in a
more formal environment.
Male students can only benefit from a strong
women's organisation. More girls will be
encouraged to come to Imperial and when they
arrive they stand a better chance of being happy
here if they have the support of a well organised
women's association.
Once the year is underway it is difficult to meet
new people. A lot of students waste their 'social'
time. Men and women can be trapped in the
search for unreachable goals.
I believe that ICWA can help the Fresher
shorten the period when she learns about
Imperial. ICWA could be one of the important
aids to women at IC.
Y O U will be given the chance to influence the
live of students in the 1980s. By writing to FELIX
the ICWA debate can be thrashed out before the
frantic discussions at the next U G M .
If you're still reading this Editorial then you
deserve an extra special medal for perserverance.
I must close by thanking everyone that has helped
produce FELIX this term. Few realise the long
hours that have to be put in to bring you FELIX. It
is quite usual for me to get up on a Monday and
not return to my Linstead hall room until Friday
afternoon (there are always chances of taking
short FELIX cat-naps during the long nights).
O K that's my job but dozens of students, studying
for degrees, give many hours to help me get
FELIX pasted up and collated. As I sit at the
FELIX computer typesetter my digital watch says
that its 6:10 a.m. For most of the night there have
been a least half a dozen students working in the
office. Soon the sun will be rising heralding the
start of another Thursday at Imperial.
I still need more help. Everyone is welcome to
join the FELIX Society. FELIX is your newspaper.
If you think we can make specific improvements
then either help us carry them out or at least pop
in for a chat.
Have a great Christmas. Enjoy your brief
respite from the pressures of Imperial.
Colin Palmer (FELIX Editor)
WHAT'S O N
FRI 14 D E C : I C C h r i s t i a n U n i o n F e l l o w s h i p
E v e n i n g at 6:30pm in the M u s i c R o o m , 53
P r i n c e s G a t e .
TUES 18 DEC: IC Chem Postgrad Christmas
Cheese and Wine Party at 5:30 in Room 231.
Tickets 80p.
M O N 7 J A N : I C F o l k C l u b p r e s e n t R o a r i n g
Jelly in the U L R at 8:00pm. T i c k e t s 30p to
m e m b e r s , 60p to n o n - m e m b e r s .
THURS 10 JAN: Gliding Club Meeting at
5:30pm in Aero 254.
T H U R S 10 J a n : E n t s F i l m : C o n v o y in M E
220 at 6:30pm. E n t r a n c e 30p.
FELIX Is published by the Editor, on behalf of the
Imperial Colleg».Union Publications Board. FELIX
is printed on the Union premises in Prince Consort
Road, London SW7.
Editor: C R Palmer
FELIX ISSN 0140-0711. Registered at the Post
Office. Copyright FELIX 1979.
D O N T FORGET THE MATHS PARTY
FRIDAY 11TH JANUARY 1980 !

