B U M P E R C H R I S T M A S
I . C . R A D I O T I M E S
301m I 999kHz
T e s s a the M a g i c A a r d v a r k
Standing morosely in front of the bathroom
mirror the other morning, I had The
Idea. 'Gorrunnghhf was my first reaction, as I
stood there , desperately trying to gain an
overall view of my body in the mirror, between
the large spaces where the reflective coating
had disappeared altogether. Then as the idea
appealed to me more, and I attempted to
remove a layer of oily substance from my
tongue, I thought 'Mmmrrmghaa'.
As I teetered dangerously on the platform of
the District Line, only inches away from high -
voltage death, I mused that Archangel,
Russia, is one ofthe coldest places on earth. It
is also one of the places whose inhabitants will
next term be deprived of the Fifth Dimension
of Aural Exitement that I.C. Radio provides
for its listeners.
The Idea which had been born that morning
filled the air with a sense of anticipation , and
formed a silly smile on my face, which
slithered about before falling, chuckling, to the
ground, where the rats got it.
How well I remember England's 4 - 2 victory
over the Germans in the '66 cup final. How
well I remember I.C. Radio Sportsdesk, with
in-depth coverage of college sport - a feast of
sporting delight; available from your local
radio station all next term. A thrill ran through
my body, and twice round, the tube,
frightening an old lady and two schoolgirls.
The Idea was gaining energy and
pulsating ominously.
A screaming chorus of V A T zero - rated
Juilan Pitt (left) with his guest Neal K a y
in the l.C. Radio studio last Saturday.
shivers ran down my spine as I thought of
I.C. Radio's weekend programmes - a feast of
music, news and information to fill the whole
of Saturday and Sunday. "Where else", I
asked a lampost, "can you go to bed with
Jeremy at 11 and wake up with Sarah at 8 the
next morning?". How I wished that I lived
in Hall.
The Idea had by now escaped from my
cerebellum and was trampling on my
synapses.
Suddenly , many of my extremities turned
green with envy at the thought of all those
people in Hall listening to I.C. Radio's
gorgeous weekday programmes on 301
metres medium wave. A wave of
uncontrollable hysteria ran round my fevered
brain as I considered the prospect of the five
specialist music programmes rampaging their "
way across the airwaves, not to mention the
return of Kaptain Kremmen each evening
at 7.30.
Dripping with sweat, I contemplated the
medium wave service that lasts until one in the
morning every day.
Finally, the pressure was too much.
Running screaming through the streets of
South Kensington, The Idea went out of
control, eating everything in its path; there
was no escape - I was going to have to write
about I.C Radio in FELIX.
Slimey Mildew (no relation)
Friday; 14th December
5.00 Tune In - Karen
6.00 American Rock - Dave Hodes
7.00 Viewpoint • Chris Dalton; including: Roger
Sprocket reviews 'Bean Island', preview of
weekend television & a look at things to come
9.00 Roundabout - Tony Ferguson; one of the few
programmes in which Sahara Blott will not
(hopefully) appear.
11.00 Through Midnight - Chris Watts
1.00 Closedown
Saturday 15th December
8.00 Wake Up With Jon - Jon Firth; if you're getting
up early to pack, if you're not then tune in
anyway for some great early morning music.
11.00 The S & B Show - Sahara Blott; Superb and
Brilliant: have a dose of sand before you go.
1.00 Lunchtime Lunacy - Jeremy Nunns; a
complete contrast to the previous programme.
3.00 Fiddler's Dram Fan Club Show - Tony Ferguson
everything from Floyd to Fiddler's Dram.
6.00 The Light Alloy Show - Shep; Rock Music in
the last decade - How has it changed? Nights in
White Satin was first released in 1967, and
recently entered the charts aqain.
9.00 The Gramaphone Request Programme
Peter Bennett
11.00 Through Midnight - Karen; is this the end?
1.00 Closedown - For the last time this decade, I.C.
Radio present this popular spot.
I.C. Radio Top Twenty
j (1) Electric Light Orchestra - Confusion / Last
Train to L o n d o n
2 (2) Boomtown Rats - Diamond Smiles
3 (3) Status Q u o - Living on an Island
4 (6) Joe Jacckson - It's Different for Girls
5 (5) Jam - Eton Rifles ^
6 (-) Tarney Spencer Band - Cathy's Clown
7 (8) Inmates The Walk
8 (•) Mike Oldfield - Blue Peter
9 (-) Rocky Burnette - Tired of towing the line
10 (4) Madness - O n e Step Beyond
11 (18) Santana - Y o u K n o w that I Love Y o u
12 (•) Michael Jackson - Off The Wall
13 (15) Ruts Jah War
14 (-) Skids - Working for the Yankee Dollar
15 (17) After The Fire - Life in the City
16 (-) T o m Petty and the Heartbreakers - Here
17 (7) B.A. Robertson - K n o c k e d It Off
18 (-) Carolyne Mas - Quote G o o d b y e Quote
19 (12) Stevie W o n d e r - Send O n e Y o u r Love
20 (11) G a r y N u m a n - C o m p l e x
This chart of the most played records on I.C. Radio over
the last two weeks is compiled by Sarah Talbot, with
assistance from T o n y Ferguson.
CITY AND GUILDS
This last week was again fairly guiet with
very little happening until the Year Rag on
Saturday, with lots of money, about £1,850
being collected by various means. Hit Squad
hit Carnaby Street with one slight
difference, they got the public to hit
themselves for a small donation, Chem Eng
1 must be hit mad: Ruth collected £161 all by
herself and others got more than £100 each.
Many thanks to all those who collected.
Also on the Rag front, carol singing took
place with about one hundred and fifty
people in Scarf. An onslaught in London
took place with Guilds choosing to arrive in
Downing Street just as Maggie arrived.
She was greeted by renderings of a few
carols and by a Boomalaka. She gave five
pounds to our collection. It would have been
more but the education cuts are starting to
bite.
Merry Christmas to you all.
Bryan
THE ICWA ARTICLE
Well, Christmas is here again; turkey and
Xmas pud, crackers and mince pies — oh!
yes those little tartlets of wonder which you
can stuff down open gullets, hit the market
again and you too can taste some of the
most varied offerings in the mince pie
gendre from ICWA today at lunchtime. As
an added attraction we have invited some of
the College personalities to pit their wits
against one another in a spectacular balloon
debate. Each candidate has to pick a woman
from history, eg Frank James has chosen
Mary Summerville (and you can join in too)
and convince you (the audience) why they
should remain in the balloon whilst the
others are thrown over board. See you at
one o'clock in the ICWA Lounge.
I shall take this opportunity to advertise
some of the events we shall be holding next
term. The ICWA Lounge will be open all day
with books, newspapers (Guardian and
Mirror), magazines (Time Out, Spare Rib
and Cosmopolitan). For the first couple of
weeks of term there will be free coffee, tea
and biscuits with the possibility of music
(has anyone a tape machine?) and the
likelihood (spot the statistician) of lively
conversation! Bring all your friends and
have lunch here. (Has anyone a tape
measure to measure the windows for
curtains?)
There will be a Women's Bar Night on
Sunday 17th February in the Union Bar so
let me have any songs you want to sing and
we'll get a song sheet together.
Following a small but enjoyable trip to the
ballet, we shall be arranging other such
events so come forward with your
suggestions.
Finally, with respect to certain people
questioning the necessity/role/function of
ICWA, we are holding an Open Meeting (it
is important that as many people as possible
attend) to discuss The Role Of ICWA on
Tuesday 15th January in the ICWA Lounge.
If there is a question of changing ICWA it is
us who should decide and be involved
implicitly in any discussion.

