Royal
School
of Mines
Mining &
Metallurgical
Society
ROBERT N PRYOR
MEMORIAL LECTURE
TI-- 4'm'mg and Metallurgical Society is sponsoring the
First Annual Memorial Lecture to the late Professor
Robert N Pryor. The lecture will be given by Sir Mark
Turner, Chairman and Chief Executive of Rio Tinto Zinc
Corporation Ltd, on Monday 14 January 1980 at 6:00pm
in the Mining Lecture Theatre at the Royal School of
Mines, South Kensington, London SW 7. The lecture
will be on the topic of International British-based
Companies in a Nationalistic World. All are cordially
invited to attend.
OVERSEAS STUDENTS
A s s e t o r L i a b i l i t y ?
By the time you read this IC Committee
on Overseas Students will have had its
second meeting of this session. At the last
meeting, IC Union was represented by
Aftab Gujral and Mick Berry and topics
included allocation of Hall places to
overseas postgraduates (at present 10%),
the T O E F L test (Teaching Of English as a
Foreign Language) and the successful
Introductory Arrangements (in future to
include liason with Michael Arthur, Union
Welfare Adviser).
" A SUBSIDY T O BRITAIN"
Any campaign against the government's
proposed reduction in grants to universities
(eg for IC, from £22.37 million now to £17.29
million in 1983-84 — the latter figure —
including no fees for overseas students —
money those students will presumably have
to find themselves) must urge a broad
viewpoint if it is to carry any weight. As Lord
Bullock points out in a recent letter to the
Observer "there should at least be an
attempt to analyse the advantages, as well
as the costs" of the presence of overseas
students, especially postgraduates at British
universities. The benefits of unpaid research
work and to international trade (with
British-educated students returning home
and maintaining links with British industry
and its modus operandi) are obviously more
difficult to evaluate than costs of running
courses and maintaining establishments,
but without them we only have half the
picture. Indeed the British educational
system would have to be paid for even if we
sent all overseas students home, and many
advanced courses would have to close, and
levels of academic and cultural stimulation
fall as a result.
The Government seems to have dropped
the 'Full Economic Cost' line (and
understandably so!) but the fictitious £100
million subsidy paid by taxpayers towards
degree courses for foreigners seems to have
replaced it and last month the Telegraph
quoted this, though the underlying
calculation is far from clear.
Even if one is opposed to granting
overseas aid, the present government's
policy towards overseas students makes
economic nonsense. The most charitable
thing that can be said is that it hasn't been
t h o u g h t t h r o u g h fully. P r e v i o u s
Conservative leaders would surely have
considered such unpleasant discrimination
"un-British". As Lord Flowers said on
Commemoration Day: "It makes our
partnership in Europe much harder to
achieve It impoverishes our society. It
is wrong."
All overseas students entering British
universities in 1980 will face minimum fees of
£2,000 (arts courses) and £3,000 (science
courses) excluding all accommodation and
living costs. As you go home for Christmas
reflect that saying "Happy Christmas" to an
overseas student at IC may be impossible by
Christmas 1985 — there would not be any
and Britain would be poorer economically,
intellectually and culturally.
Mick Berry
O v e r s e a s s t u d e n t s at the M a y o r ' s r e c e p t i o n .
P h o t o by A f t a b G u j r a l
A n n u a l IC Newcastle
Christmas Pub Crawl starts
on 28th December at 6:00pm
in the G e o r d i e Pride
(opposite Newcastle Central
Station). Anyone welcome!
For details see Malcolm
Brain.
6

