A Q u e s t i o n of F a i t h By Justin Newland
The joyous sound of church bells pealing
resounded through the winding alleys of the small
village, cheerfujly knocking on every door as it
passed, as if to proclaim the dawn, the coming of
Christmas. A light fall of snow had decked the
streets and rooftops with a mysterious,
comfortable glow. The gas-lights flickered lazily
from side to side, swayed by the gentle breeze
that had sprung up after the snowfall. A gorgeous
calm rested over the country village, set deep
within the bosom of the Black Forest.
His gaze fixed wearily to the ground, a man
trudged along the deserted streets, oblivious to
the Christmas spirit that rang out from every door
he passed. His lips, maroon with the cold,
remained tightly shut: he would not be joining in
the hymns this Christmas day. Neither would his
gloveless hands, thrust deep inside his tatty •
overcoat, be pressed together in pious prayer to
the Lord.
But why? Who was this young soldier with only
his shadow for company? And why did this
solitary figure divert his eyes to the ground as
soon as someone approached?
The day before, on Christmas Eve, K — had
been ignominiously discharged from the Army.
Stripped of rank, honour and self-esteem, the
shameful humiliation of that day still hounded him
whichever way he turned. He had come to his
home town to spend Yuletide with his ageing
parents, but it was the very thought of facing them
that filled him with dread. Twice already he had
reached the door, but had slunk away each time,
disgusted with himself.
He sought refuge in the warm anonymity of a
tavern where he'd spent some time before his
recruitment, some nine or ten months before.
The familiarity of the rough, oaken pews, the low,
panelled ceiling and the pungent odour of hops
rekindled vivid memories of tranquil, untroubled
past. He thought it was appropriate that he
should find himself in this nether-world of drunks
and thiefs. He ordered a cognac, then sat alone in
the corner.
Sitting opposite him was a middle-aged man, a
most disreputable-looking character wearing a
threadbare suit beneath an equally worn
overcoat. To add to his dishevelled appearance,
the fellow hadn't shaved for several days, and
clearly needed a good wash. It wasn't long before
he tried to strike up a conversation with K — , who
at first just frowned whenever the fellow said
, anything. But from his accent and speech, K—
realised that the man, who by now had embarked
on his life-story, was by no means a tramp. In a
voice hoarse with self-pity, he told him that his
occupation had been Sub-Clerical Officer in the
local government departments. He had a wife,
three little children and a home, all waiting
anxiously for him to return bearing gifts and
benedictions, but he wasn't going home. He
couldn't. He'd been fired from his job three days
ago, and in a desperate attempt to double his
paltry earnings, he'd gambled and then drunk
away the lot. His tiny blue eyes were shiny with
tears as he told K — that he couldn't possibly face
his consumptive wife and three darlings empty-
handed. He'd rather die than see his children
starve!
As often happens when men, whether they be
strangers or not, are brought together under the
same troubled roof, these two quickly came to a
kind of sympathetic understanding. Cheered
somewhat by the velvet warmth of the cognac .
K — proceeded to relate to his companion his own
woeful tale: one month ago, he'd been arrested
for a theft he hadn't committed. The quarters of
one of his commanding officers had been
ransacked and the thief had made off with a
princely sum of money.
The following day, a thorough search of the
barracks revealed the stolen money in K—'s
belongings. Relieved from guard duty, he'd spent
the night in question reading alone in the barracks
and therefore had no alibi. His insistent
proclamations of innocence only berated his
superiors all the more; they glibly suggested how
dignified it would be for K — to admit his guilt, and
be done with it. But despite their threats and
advice, he'd maintained his innocence with a
stubborn pride.
For three weeks, he'd festered in the Army
dungeons, racking his brains to think who had
planted the money in his chest. He swore on his
parents' lives that if he ever caught up with the
brigand, he'd chop off his hand. Finally, on
Christmas Eve, the travesty of justice was
completed: he'd been court-martialled.
The identity of the criminal would have
astonished him. Thinking that the truth is always
hidden in the shadows far from our view, we
scour the distant horizons and beyond
forgetting to look at what is nearest. For
unbeknown to K — , his best friend in the Army
had been the agent of his misfortune. The motive
for the theft, unlike the deed itself, had been
decidedly honourable; L— had wanted to give his
elderly parents a bountiful Christmas, and had
succumbed to temptation with this noble
intention in mind. L— had carefully concealed the
booty in his friend's chest without either his
knowlege or consent: he had thought to leave it
there until their Christmas leave, but to the
calamatous results we have described above.
At any rate, by this time K—'s eager listener
had fallen asleep. With his conscience
unburdened by confession, K — took his leave
and soon found himself outside the door of his
parents' house.
What had he to fear from then, anyway? He
was innocent, or was he? He'd been found guilty
of theft and dishonourably discharged from the
Army. Yes, these were the facts. Then would his
parents too condemn him unjustly, would they
believe the word of their son, a convicted thief,
over the decision of an Army court? Would they
bear his shame and disgrace with him, or oust him
from their company? With these thoughts beating
around his head, he knocked three times on the
door.
To his amazement he was not met by his
bespectacled father, but by another elderly
gentleman, a stranger! Not without some
embarrassment, the old man informed K — that
his parents were deceased. Somehow K — had
already guessed as much. His father had died of a
sudden stroke three weeks previously, and as so
often happens when one partner of a long
marriage is laid to rest, his mother had died of
grief just two days later.
Of course K — hadn't heard the news earlier
because he had not been allowed to receive any
mail during his detainment. He was more
disappointed at not being able to atend their last
rights and their funeral than at their actual deaths;
after all, they were both old, and it was right that
they should receive the last call at the same time.
The old gentleman nervously explained how
they'd been desperate to escape from the city,
and had moved into the dwelling within a week of
it being put up for sale. By now K— was in a state
of mild shock. He did not even think to ask who
had given the permission for his abode to be put
up for sale.
The old man took pity on him, and humbly
asked K — to spend at least one night in his home.
The self-consciousness of K—'s disgrace
suddenly paled into a thin shadow beside the
tragic loss of his begettors. But no sooner had he
been given the chance to overcome his
bereavement than his sense of humiliation
returned once more.
For as soon as he stepped into his old living-
room he was met by L—, his army friend. There
he was warming his hands by the warm glow, of
the fire in the very place his father had sat and
smoked his pipe for so many years. The room, the
furniture and the ornaments had all changed; only
the distinctive smell of the place had remained.
There are some moments in a man's life that
are like watersheds: in them he seems to see all
his strivings, his hopes and his misgivings in an
entirely new and brilliant perspective. It is at this
time that his life is stripped of illusions; truth is no
longer fragmentary but, on the contrary, it
appears to him as an integrated whole. It is like a
man in a labyrinth, who, after years on aimless,
endless wanderings down dead-ends, suddenly
realises and knows the way to the centre.
At the moment when L— stood up to greet
him, K — had such a revelation. Was it the shy,
reluctant way his friend had offered him his hand,
or the confused look in his eye that acted as the
catalyst? K — did not think about it. He knew it
was L— who had committed the theft and
hiddened the money in his belongings as sure as a
man knows that the sun will rise on the morrow.
In the moment of recognition L— too realised
that he had unwittingly revealed his guilt. A sharp
pang of disappointment stung K—'s heart. He
remembered the promise he'd made to himself in
the tavern. He looked across at the nativity scene
in the corner of the room, and at the dining table
laid for the Christmas meal.
fn that instant of emotional turmoil, he made
an unconscious decision. This was a watershed in
his life, if he but knew it; his choice led either to
wrath and vengence or to forgiveness and mercy.
It was then that the sorrowful glint in his eye
turned to one of the most sublime happiness. All
that had happened, he realised, was good, it could
be no other way. It is the vicious sentiments of
jealousy, avarice and anger that have to be
overcome; man has paid for his victories over
them with much blood, and will continue to do so.
Let earthquake break the ground beneath your
feet, let nations be toppled, let your love be
unrequited; what matter! The nightingale will still
sing, the butterfly dance and the apple tree
blosom.
K — dug into his pocket and took out his last
gold coin. Timidly he offered it to L— who
immediately understood the symbolic meaning of
this act. There are times when a single deed can
say more than a thousand eloquent words, and
whose meaning is quite unequivocable; this was
one of them.
L — accepted the coin, and as he did so,
resolved to confess his guilt, not to K — but to
those who would not forgive him so readily.
JUSTIN N E W L A N D
T H E DEVILS - Epilogue
For anyone who went to see this gruesome
production and came away emotionally disturbed
or just plain mystified as to how the real Christians
of today live and behave there are groups in
College always willing to see you. Among these are:
IC Christian Union, which meets on Fridays at
6:30pm at 53 Princes Gate; The Senior Christian
Fellowship which meets at 1:00pm on Wednesdays
in Huxley 341 and also the College Chaplaincy
which meets in most departments on Thursday
lunchtimes.
8

