It was with great regret that we
learnt of the death of John Phil-
lips following a climbing accident
in the Alps. We offer our sincere
sympathy to his parents and rela-
tives.
John Phillips, Nigel Fitzpatrick
and Gregory Tough were in a
party of nine from the I.C. Moun-
taineering Club which was climb-
ing in the Alps. The three named
had set off from Zermatt to climb
the Matterhorn, 14,800 ft. (on the
Swiss-Italian Border) via the
Zmutt Ridge and were a short
distance below the summit when
John Phillips fell, it was this fall
and not exposure, as reported in
some papers, that was the cause
of his death.
The two survivors later made
contact with a party climbing on
the Italian side and were taken
down the mountain to a hut to
receive medical attention as they
were suffering frqm exposure.
They were taken to Milan where
Nigel Fitzpatrick was treated for
mild frostbite. He was flown back
to England and it is hoped from
HALDANE LIBRARY
13, Prince's Gardens
Sorry! You won't find text-
books or scientific treatises in
this library, but you will find over
10,000 good books of general
interest including all the latest
novels !
And it's Free too !
Open 11.0—5.0 p.m. and
until 7.0 p.m. on Tuesday
and Thursday
l.G. LIFE IN PICTURES p2
UNION SADLY
WEAKENED
Resignations
Rock The Boat
the latest report that he will soon
recover. Gregory Tough has re-
turned to Zermatt to attend the
inquiry.
The suggestion in some papers
that the two survivors were poorly
equipped probably arose from the
fact that the major part of the
equipment was carried by Phillips
and also that a part of the equip-
ment carried by the others was
lost in extricating themselves from
the accident.
The College Staff as soon as
they heard of the tragedy did all
in their power to inform and assist
the parents concerned.
John Phillips had been a moun-
taineer from an early age as both
his parents are keen climbers. He
was one of the most able and
responsible members of the
mountaineering club and had
been elected Transport Officer for
this coming year.
Fourteen days after being elected Union Secretary last June
Roger Withrington resigned. Earlier in the year he had applied for
a post with V.S.O. and was accepted, but due to lack of funds they
were unable to send him abroad until 1965. However, he has since
been told that sufficient funds are now available for him to go to
Nigeria immediately. If he had refused the offer it was unlikely
that a place would have been kept for the following year, and so
after much discussion and worry he has accepted their offer. This
was obviously the correct decision for him as he will be teaching
in Nigeria and he has always intended to take up teaching as his
career.
At the moment it appears unlikely that Pete Griffiths, this year's
Deputy President will be returning, having been offered a place to
do a one-year P.G. course he was unable to get a grant from D.S.I.R.
and so signed a contract for a job, again the week after signing this
contract he was given a grant by D.S.I.R. and as F E L I X goes to
press is negotiating with the firm to postpone his job for a year.
The question now remaining is who will fill these posts ?
Felix tip for secretary, is Barry Utting.
Felix tip for deputy president—your guess js as good as ours.
A dramatic view of the newly opened main entrance
to City and Guilds.
Photographed by John Cawson

