2 F E L I X
RAGS-CARNIVAL-SHOWS-WINE
LC's year socially is very busy. There are Dinners, Balls,
Dances, Hops, Rag Days, Shows, and continuous parties.
DANCES
The year starts for most with the Freshers Hop on the first
Saturday of term ; this is well worth going to, it is the first chance
for people to meet people and is heavily attended by both the male
and female sex. After this, on every Saturday night during the year,
there are Hops in the Union. I.C. is renowned for these Saturday
nights and all sorts of secretaries, nurses, trainee teachers, etc., attend
regularly. Also during the year the Jazz Club hold really fabulous
Stomps in Southside.
Many formal balls and dances are held scattered throughout the
year, namely the Commem. Ball at Claridges, the Mines Ball at the
end of the Christmas term (non-Miners do occasionally attend), the
Engineer's Dinner-Dance in January, the I.C.W.A. Formal in March,
and during the Summer term the May Ball, which for me will be the
greatest night of all, and the Silwood Ball.
In a slightly lighter vein there are trie two fancy dress Carnival
Nights, one organised jointly by Guilds and Mines, the other by
R C S
CARNIVAL
In May there is the I.C. Carni-
val. This lasts a week and its
main aim is to collect money for
Charity. This can be great fun,
May Ball 1964
Couples enjoying the Midnight
Revue.
Morphy Day, 1963.... A mem-
ber of R.C.S. suffers the gross in-
dignity of losing his trousers
against the overwhelming odds
of many Guildsmen.
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
I COMMEMORATION
BALL
i
CLARIDGES HOTEL
THURSDAY, 22nd OCTOBER, 1964
Dancing from 9 p.m. until 2.30 a.m. to the music of
Tommy Kinsman and his Orchestra
Tickets are priced at £4 0s. Od. double, which includes * Buffet Supper
Application Forms may be obtained from the Union Office and
should be returned before October 22nd, 1964
Morphy Day 1963. . . . Noddy
man- surveys the damage after
running the gauntlet of Morphy
Madness.
dressing up in any old clothes ah
parading in the West End, push-
ing a ping pong ball down High
St. Ken. with one's nose or similar
stunt. Also during the week there
are shows every night in the
Union or Southside including the
very popular late night film show.
RAGS
These normally take place un-
announced and usually involve
pinching of mascots etc. There
is, however, one day to remember,
Morphy Day; this takes place in
the beginning of November and
we all travel by tube to Putney
where a great ceremony of debag-
ging all R.C.S. men (or more oc-
Hop 1964.. . . Last year's Presi-
dent in a cool moment.

