6 F E L I X
E D I T O R I A L
TECH. OR VARSITY
Imperial College forms part of London University, but in fact is
little more than a Technical Institution. Imperial has built up over
the years a name known throughout the world for producing Scien-
tists (and Engineers) who are more than adequate. To-day a degree
obtained at I.C. is still highly regarded for its technical merit; it is
not, however, thought by many to be a University Degree in the true
sense of the word.
At the end of our time at I.C. we may gain our B.Sc. Degree,
which is of course the object of the exercise, but the fact must be
faced, we experience little or nothing of a complete University Life.
We meet few students from other Colleges, in fact some of us take
pride over our insularity. We take no part in general student affairs
which are arranged by N.U.S. and thereby deprive ourselves from
becoming better known through press reports of their activities. There
is still a group of people in I.C. who think it big to be the odd one
out. How can we be " big " when so few of the general public have
ever heard of us. We rarely meet our lecturers outside of the Lec-
ture Theatre or Tutorial Room. We have few if any discussions with
tutors, for many of us have no personal tutor. Many of us take no
part in any college activities, whether under the auspices of the
Union, or to a lesser degree the Halls of Residence.
The answer to all these criticisms lies with us, the students, for
it is us who make Imperial College what it is. Most members of
staff are only too eager to discuss problems with us, but it is for us
to approach them, not just sit back and complain about our relation-
ship with them. The Union is for everyone to use, we pay for the
privilege, so take full advantage of it; there are Clubs and Societies
which cater for all tastes.
N.U.S., with its many advantages, may well be discussed again
this year. This is a serious matter, there are points of value for both
sides of the " in—out" question, let us discuss it sanely without any
of the neurotic personal hatred that arose two years ago.
N. J. W A L K E R .
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllUIIIIIH
WELCOME
GIRLS
says
ANGELA
« TAYLOR
An association in Imperial College, run solely by and for women
students is surely a phenomenon in itself. I.C.W.A. despite its
inevitable restriction in membership, plays an active and noticeable
part in College and Union affairs.
The Women's Association organises social and recreational acti-
vities for its members. Many of these activities, especially the dances
and parties, are very successful college functions. Visits to the
theatre and fashion houses, are also regular features of the associa-
tion's activities. The Sports Club (I.C.W.S.C.) endeavours to cater
for the various sporting interests of the women students. Last year,
several teams had notable successes in inter-collegiate matches. A l l
women students, will find there is an opportunity to take part in
their favourite sports, irrespective of their standard.
The Women's Association have their own lounge in the Union
building, in which to hold parties and meetings, or just relax with
a cup of coffee.
With the aid of this edition of " Felix," a special welcome is
given to all the new members of I.C.W.A. As in previous years, it is
hoped that I.C.W.A. will have another enjoyable and successful year.
A N G E L A T A Y L O R ,
President I.C.W.A.
T
H
I
S I
S l.C.
Over the last ten years Imperial College has developed at an
unprecedented rate. A l l its facets, academic departments, hostels,
and the Students Union received a bonus in the form of new build-
ings and facilities, but all these are mere frameworks for the people
who use them, for without these people—you—the College does not
exist.
One of the most important parts of a University eduucation is
the exchange and development of views with fellow students, and a
climate to achieve this is possibly the difference between our form of
education and any other. If you never do anything then you can
never expect to have this contact; and therefore active participa-
tion in some part of College life is an absolute necessity.
In departments, where one works, student meets student and
views are exchanged. In halls, which unfortunately not everyone
is lucky enough to inhabit, one will meet people with whom one's
only apparent connections are eating, sleeping and living next door,
but much can be gained from such unlikely friendships.
In the Union Clubs one encounters students with whom one has
common interests. If an active part is taken in the club then these
are the people with whom one will mix most, be it travelling to a
game, over tea before a meeting, or sharing a room on tour.
These personal contacts which you will develop are the very
substance of University life, and unless advantage is taken of them
your education will be incomplete.
As in every sphere of life participation brings its own reward
and I.C. Union is no exception. The facilities are available, as you
will see on the afternoon of October 5th when all the club will be
on display, but the onus is on the individual to make the best use
of them. If you feel that something else is needed, make your opinion
known and then do something about it—this is your Union. You
will have met most of the Union Officers by this time, remember that
they are your officers and approachable as such.
Combine a successful academic career ; a well rounded per-
sonality derived from a breadth of interests ; and an ability to deal
with people and affairs, derived from an active Union life, and you
will have received a true University education.
Your President,
N O R M A N E . PRICE.
K
N
O
W
Y
O
U
R P
R
E
S
I
D
E
N
T
Norman Price is the first En-
glish President of I.C. Union for
three years. Hailing from Hales-
owen in Worcestershire this ever
smiling, talkative lad is a solid
product of the local Grammar
school. In those days of efferves-
cent innocence he quickly cot-
toned on to the idea of not being a
dull Norm(!) and represented his
school in fencing, cricket, rugby,
lawn-tennis and athletics; and his
being Deputy-Head Boy did not,
he claims, have any connection
with his position as Chairman of
Debates and prominence in school
plays and the choir.
Luckily, Cambridge spurned
him and so in 1961 he entered
I.C. to study physics. He has
weathered three years successfully
and is now studying for a D.l.C.
in acoustics.
During his undergraduate days
Norm's preoccupations matured,
dealing a fatal blow to his inno-
cence. His interest in soccer led
to the abandonment of rugby,
though on the field his knees often
tend to act to the contrary, result-
ing in his captaincy of the Soccer
Club last year. He still actively
demonstrates his varied musical
talents being a leading member of
the Gilbert and Sullivan Soc. and
the I.C. Choir. He was lead singer
for the " Shadies " Beat Group
with whom he cut a disc! On the
floor, the "Scar" and the "Shake"
are among his strongpoints, his
antics being remarkably like those
of a penguin.
An ability to obtain the most
out of committee meetings is an
essential quality of a President.
Norm's experience was gained as
a departmental representative to
RCS Union, as a members of
Tizard Hall Committee, and the
Working Party set up last year to
investigate the structure of the
Vnion, and finally as a member
ot I.C. Union Council—an august
yet workmanlike body of elected
students, ultimately responsible
for the running of the Union.
One of the President's main ob-
jectives this year is to involve
more people in the running of
their own Union. In this mam-
moth task, his permanent grin
(which at the moment is genuine)
should set him well on the way.
He's a very friendly character so
don't be afraid to approach him
as he rushes around the College
trying to appear busy.
His intense desire for the well-
being of the Union deserves more
than a cursory glance, then—back
to the lab'. The onus rests with
all of us but especially those enter-
ing College this year for the first
time.

