8 F E L I X
Will it all seem worthwhile 5 years from now?
At Turner & Newall a man's degree — whether
in science, engineering or the arts — counts
for far more than a passport to a round of
interviews. Our Training Scheme is planned
to employ all his university attainments to
the full, and to be adaptable to his individual
needs.
J u s t w h o a r e T & N ? Turner & Newall is one
of the strongest, most important groups in
British industry. With a large and growing
stake in asbestos-cement, in insulation, in
brake linings and in plastics T & N is closely
linked to all four major areas of economic
growth. To the building industry; the motor
industry; the newer plastics; and to activity in
the developing territories of the Common-
wealth . . . all adding up to a strongly expand-
ing £100,000,000 business with 36,500
employees. Overseas, with 17 companies in
10 countries T &. N has doubled its interests in
ten years.
E a r l i e r R e s p o n s i b i l i t y T & N thus offers
outstanding graduates a career of great scope,
keyed from the first to areas in which expan-
sion is at its fastest... opportunity at its best.
Moreover, under our broad and flexible
training scheme, the graduate assumes
managerial responsibility more confidently —
and certainly earlier — than is often the case in
industry today.
N o t e t o R e s e a r c h M e n T 4 N also recruits
scientists and engineers direct into its re-
search and development branches, whose
projects are particularly closely linked to the
needs of the expanding industries. Opport-
unities for supervising work with a practical
application, as well as for fundamental study,
are thus outstandingly good.
Ask your Appointments Board for further de-
tails, or write direct to: Management Appoint-
ments Adviser, Turner&NewallLtd., 15 Curzon
Street, London. W.1. (Tel. GROsvenor 8163)
TURNER & NEWALL LIMITED mm
TURNERS ASBESTOS FISHES LTD • AND 17 OVERSEAS MINING & MANUFACTURING COMPANIES
FRESHERS
By now your future course as a
Union man (or woman) has been
laid out for you by the presidents
of C & G, RCS, and (last and
least) RSM.
As a Miner you are in a minor-
ity, so you cannot afford to have
the other two colleges gang up
against you. Strength is in num-
bers, and for all bellicose activities
you join Big Dave Bishop and his
beery band of nut-shifters.
The important rivals are RCS
and Guilds.
But the most important student
body is the Imperial College
Union itself, a fact that usually
the officers of the constituent
college unions hate to acknow-
ledge in public for fear of losing
the final vestige of power inherited
from the foundation of the South
Ken seats of learning in the last
century. Fortunately little now
remains here in brick and mortar
to remind us of that era. The
concrete-and-glass skyscrapers are
of the age of 1C and the SISTER
we are destined to become.
Mentals
Union activities should also
belong to this age. You will soon
find that Guilds, RCS and Mines
have only brief bursts of activity
in the academic year, whereas the
" big daddy " rambles on right
through to next summer; true,
ICU has a few supplementary
boosters.
I have found a disproportionate
representation of students of vari-
ous departments active in the
Union. Guildsmen are, on the
whole, most active; otherwise
smaller departments are relatively
more active than larger ones. The
Union is the place to develop
those talents we possess apart
from the academic side. To live
College life to the full the student
cannot devote every minute to his
study (if he does then he is on
the sure road to a mental home).
Maintaining membership in just
2 or 3 clubs is quite sufficient to
leave your mark on IC Union and
your fellow humans.
To be a good Union, I.C.U.
must have your support. If there
is anything that you feel is wrong
then say so in the letters column
of this newspaper ; you will find
sympathisers (and opponents).
Last year we were expert at pro-
vocation.
D. I. WILLIAMS.

