ers
Small Ads
FOR SALE
• Mugs (quantity 30}. New-unused. Were £1
each, will sell for £15 the lot. Contact V
Collins (Mech Eng) int 6208
• Trolley (floor level). Has strong metal frame
Very useful for moving packages, tables, chairs,
etc A s new £23. Contact V Collins (Mech
Eng) int 6208.
• SAAB 99L Dark blue, L reg, sun roof, good
tyres, MOT September 88, taxed until February
89. £350. Int 4468.
PERSONAL
• Has Prophylatic Press worked out what a
phrophylatic is, or will he ask a Johnny?
• For all those who missed the Press and
Love Breakfast Show on Monday, you missed
out.
• So listen in on Mon 16/5/88 at 8am on IC
Radio to the Neil and Spense Show.
Guaranteed record spot for all personal ads
readers.
• I didn't say that either last week—The
Rector.
• Have Fez, Anne-Marie and Phil got diseases
or are their spots just on the show?
• Introducing Spense, the no 1 DJ at IC
Radio—Si Bichara.
• Introducing Neil, the best thing to w * * k to
during your revision—Madame Sin.
• Don't be conned into listening to this con.
It's a con to think that is is a con.
• Where's my record? —Mallam.
• You haven't got it yet—Lane
• Is this the sort of rubbish we're going to
hear on the show?
• Mr Floppy is it flora or sunflower
margarine?
• Calling all rhinos—feeling horny? Where's
Nigel?
• Nigel—don't point that b*m at me! The
Rhino Club
• Boz—long range coo from the girlie rower,
in need of mouth-to-mouth resuscitation.
• 2nd Lt Tyler wishes to announce that he
has eloped to Aldershot with a large bulldozer.
Telegrams to the happy couple should be sent
via Guilds Union Office.
• Lost: One large Second Lieutenant. If found
please return to the Guilds Union Office
• Q: How much work has this year's Internal
Services Officer done for the Union? Answers
on the back of a postage stamp please
• Who's got Ann's blue dressing gown?
• Wing does it (i) 3 times in 4 0 minutes and
(ii) gracefully.
• Graham's bed is 'squeaky' clean!!
• Save our chocolate Write to your M P
NOW!
• No Swiss chocolate please. We're
Rowntree's.
• Keep Rowntree's Yorkshire
• Wordpuzzle—rearrange these words: Nick
Sodding a mouth got has big Leigh.
• Penthouse Club! Wow, yeah—let's have
some more split infinitives this week as well!
• Excellent.
• After Silwood, a four-way simultaneous
chocolate orgasm in Hyde Park.
• Mr Anonymous—who are you? ES5.
• Found: One pair of black lace knickers (only
slightly ripped!) by a tree after Silwood Ball.
Contact Dramsoc for return.
• Found: A sum of money outside the FELIX
Office. See Judith if it's yours.
Useless phones
Dear FELLY,
Having been back at College for two weeks and only
having received two external telephone calls, I must write
to express my concern over the efficiency of the new
Weeks/Garden Hall exchange. As I understand from your
explanation at the beginning of term, there is only one
line between the exchange and the main College exchange.
This means that only one person in the whole of
Weeks/Garden Hall can receive an external call at one
time. Is this really so? It seems too preposterous to be
true. Before this new, and, I presume, highly expensive,
exchange scheme, each landing had a simple, four-digit
extension number, and no problems arose. Now, not only
is the new phone engaged to all external callers (even if
it is not actually in use), but its ringing tone is virtually
inaudible and it needs a sharp tap before it actually
connects! What use is a telephone exchange with all sorts
of high-falutin' and fairly useless applications if it cannot
guarantee simple communication? Why should the external
caller (probably long-distance or in a callbox) suffer the
expense of waiting while the line is supposedly engaged?
The most annoying aspect is that the previous phone
system worked efficiently. Perhaps the new Weeks/Garden
Hall exchange should have an external number totally
separate from that of the main College exchange. But
above all—why the deplorable waste of money on an
ineffective scheme? College—and students—are hard up
enough as it is without resources being squandered in this
way.
Yours,
Madelaine Stafford.
A A dismay
Dear Judith,
I was dismayed to read last week's report entitled 'Union
squashes debate' (FELIX 801). This report was both
biased and incorrect.
First let me clarify that the Anti-Apartheid Society has
a 'no platform' policy against persons who officially
represent the system of Apartheid. It is not against debates
or public meetings in which Apartheid-related issues are
discussed.
In the case of the debate, planned by the Debating
Society for May 5, we objected to the invitation of Mr
Jan Castalyn of the South African Embassy. We refused
to oppose the motion in that particular planned debate
because we did not want to legitimise Apartheid by
standing on the same platform as Mr Castalyn. That is
why it comes as no surprise to me that both Sydney
Harbour-Bridge and Abby Amushila (who had, at first,
agreed to speak) and the Zambian, Zimbabwean and other
African Embassies refused to participate.
The article which appeared in FELIX on the cancelled
debate, states that members of Anti-Apartheid asked
people not to enter Mech Eng 220 'where the debate was
being held'—we could not have possibly done this because
there was no debate being held in Mech Eng 220.
It also says that the President of DebSoc spent forty
minutes asking Anti-Apartheid members 'to go into the
debate'. Again, this statement is not correct as the
President, Ms Lynda Matthews, could not have asked us
to join a non-existent debate.
What Ms Matthews did want, was for me to speak, in
Mech Eng 220, to all the Anti-Apartheid demonstrators
present, explaining why I believe in a 'no platform' policy;
which, of course, is ridiculous, since none of the
demonstrators would have been demonstrating if they did
not agree with such a policy.
The article also states that we were 'totally against
participating' in debates. This is wholly and grossly untrue.
I told Ms Matthews that I was personally willing to speak
in a debate, especially one whose motion was
Apartheid-related.
What this article did not mention was that there were
around fifty people, demonstrating their disapproval
against the invitation of a member of the South African
Embassy, outside Mech Eng 220 and only about five
people, mostly members of DebSoc, inside the lecture
theatre (presumably having a general discussion).
Yet none of the demonstrators were interviewed or
approached by FELIX staff, and none of us were either
named or quoted in the article. On the other hand,
statements made by members of DebSoc were published
in FELIX.
Finally, I think that some people may feel that the bias
in the article was not unexpected, seeing that it was written
by Mr Andrew Allum (and sub-edited by yourself). Mr
Allum is not only a member of the the Debating Society,
but was ak j meant to be a speaker in the cancelled debate.
I hope that the article which appeared last week was
only an isolated case and that reports in FELIX, in future,
will return to their normal high standard of truthfulness
and journalistic competence.
Yours sincerely,
Rakesh Muthoo, Chairman, Anti-Apartheid Society.
Mr Muthoo's letter contains a factual inaccuracy: the
FELIX reporter who wrote the story was Mr Andrew
Waller who bears absolutely no resemblance to Mr
Alliiii at all. I apologise if our story appeared biased.
It was not intended to.
Dear Judith,
Sanctions or no Sanctions?
What is the role of the IC Debating Society? What is
debating all about? What is real freedom of speech?
'It is essential to the purposes of the College that
opportunities for free and open discussions shall be
safeguarded' (IC freedom of speech: code of practice).
This is what we, as IC Debating Society are trying to
defend with all the means available to us. We have the
duty to promote discussion of subjects which we think
would be of interest to IC students. As is inevitable, most
issues have two rivaling arguments and our role is to make
sure the participating audience is able to listen to both sides
of the argument. Ideally, no one should obstruct such
democracy, and, surely, anyone opposed to this is termed
no less than a dictator.
Speaking in public is a state of art on its own. Amongst
the finest speakers in history one could mention Winston
Churchill, Mark Anthony, Martin Luther King, Steven
Bico, etc. These people have persuaded a multitude of
people of their convictions by means of the spoken word
and by nothing else.
Why should a group of people at Imperial College deny
the majority of students at IC of a grand occasion of
testifying such an event? Such is the fallacy of what
happened on Thursday May 5 in the vicinity of Mech Eng
220: a historic event in itself, as I realised what a
determined few hard-liners bring about. Of course, with
no respect for lawlessness, I continue in my endeavours
to ensure the true freedom of speech where absolutely no
one would be inhibited as they speak forth their own
individual mind.
Yours democratically and individually,
Mark Gialanze (Physics 1).
FELIX Friday 13th May 1988 11

