A N N U A
President
Sydney Harbour-Bridge
Regretfully I am not in a position yet to write an annual report because of
ongoing matters which will have to be reported in full.
Sydney Harbour-Bridge
Deputy President
Alan Rose
Mr Alan Rose has written his report but has decided not to submit it at
this moment in time. It will be published in a future FELIX, as will Mr
Sydney Harbour-Bridge's report.
Honorary Secretary
Charles Jackson
Introduction
At this time last year, Dave Colley (my revered predecessorl suggested
that I write my report in much the same format as both his and the
previous Hon Sees. In view of the wholesale change in the job
descriptions and the extended working year I have decided to follow that
approach as much as possible but adding in my analysis of the situation
and my approach towards leaving matters in a fit state to be handed
over.
First I would like to say a few words of a general nature about the
current job description. Being almost entirely an administrative post, the
biggest problem has been the inevitable learning curve. Hopefully the
change in job description will offset this effect. Certainly something had
to change.
1. Transport
a) General Administration: Last year saw the demise of shared costing
for weekend bookings. This year I tried to run a system where outside
hire vans were booked as second vehicles for those clubs requiring more
than one. However, demand has been unexpectedly high and this system
has had its problems with 'one-off users and certain clubs who felt that
they were treated unfairly. However, I have encouraged greater flexibility
in the use of cars and panel vans. This itself has meant that I have dealt
with more hire firms than last year, not all of whom are very quick at
sending invoices. A particular problem that I am trying to alleviate is that
until recently it has been difficult to provide regular figures on the usage
of the transport account. I am currently working with Reggie to ease this
task by the breakdown of expenditure into various subheadings and the
use of the micro to speed up calculations. One problem with ascertaining
the current position is the lack of an exact carryover figure for the
beginning of the year. My own calculations have given a working figure,
but sight of the audited accounts would be much better.
b) Minibuses: This year has seen the delivery of one seventeen seater,
FLW and the order and eventual delivery of a thirteen seater, FLM. AHU
has continued to give problems with the steering, clutch, battery and
choke. It has now got a problem with the loss of the synchromesh on the
lower gears. OLE suffered a major breakdown, merely because the driver
didn't check the water level in the radiator and then proceeded to
continue driving with the oil warning light on. This year I was hoping to
expand to six vans but problems with AHU have made this unlikely.
c) Outside Hire: This year I have used Budget and Translocation to
provide more flexibility. However, Translocation can be relied upon to
send bills swiftly in contrast to Budget. I have also experimented with
Crown Supplies. Outside hire always produces problems, for which there
are no easy solutions.
d) Accidents: There have been two major accidents, to BLR and an
outside hire car. These have caused great hassle due to delays and
arguments about the payment of VAT on claims.
e) Vehicle Insurance: Nat West Insurance Services have been very
helpful with advice and the willingness to issue cover notes at short
notice. However, the same cannot be said of whoever in the Motor
Insurers Association rang up the repairers to say that we were liable to
pay VAT on repairs. As we aren't, this caused me considerable grief,
fj Problems an the H o . U o n : The first and most serious problem is a
government proposal to bring us into line with the EEC by requiring an
HGV or PSV licence to drive minibuses. At present we use minibus
permits to exempt us from this requirement on^the grounds that usage is
not for 'hire or reward'. As this is planned to happen quite soon, we are
left in a difficult position regarding the purchase of new vans. The second
problem is the running of the transport system next year. It is rather
unrealistic to expect the Union Manager to take on this area immediately,
even if it is desirable for him to do so. The strengthening of the Transport
Officer system is one possible way forward.
2. Insurance
a) Clubs Insurance: The £100 excess on claims has been a considerable
burden this year. However the low number of claims may help us in two
ways. Firstly I hope to be able to renegotiate the premium and excess
due to the improvement in the claims history. Secondly, it has taken
longer to learn this aspect of the job than certain others. I have cleared
up some long outstanding claims, and hope to be able to clear up others
dating from last year. There seems to be woeful ignorance amongst clubs
as to insurers' requirements when making claims. This is understandable,
but someone should really have produced a set of guidelines, as is my
intention. The other problem is that of inventories. I think that it is
inadequate to attempt the production of a complete new inventory at the
beginning of the year. The Union Office is very busy and club committees
are new to the job. My solution, which I hope to implement, is to store
inventories on the microcompu. r in such a way as to allow easy
updating. This will also enable production of an inventory for each club to
amend at the end of the year in time for the calculation of the new
premium.
b) Halls of Residence Insurance: This has arguably been one of my
most successful areas this year. It is certainly one into which I have put
considerable time and effort. Last year the procedure for handling claims
was changed but unfortunately my predecessor was not informed of all
the requirements. This led to large delays and a considerable backlog of
claims. Having managed to convince the insurers that that the delay in
submission of claims was due to College and not the claimants, I set
about clearing up the backlog. I have been successful in clearing up
virtually all of last year's claims, and most of this year's. Unfortunately
this required a flood of information from my office to the insurers, which
could be causing delays in the handling of claims. The insurers have also
become noticeably more pernickety in dealing with claims. The insurance
brokers at Alexander Stenhouse have been a tremendous help, both in
dealing with my vast amount of enquiries, and in chasing up the insurers.
A special word of thanks must go to Pete Higgs, who helped me file the
mass/mess of correspondence from last year.
A connected task which I have performed this year has been the entering
of details of claims for the last two years on the micro. This is enabling
me easily to perform analyses such as changes in the claims history, and
the relation of security changes to changes in the number of thefts. A full
report on this is being prepared.
c) Linstead Hall Basement Sale: This has been such a problem as to
deserve special mention. Although it has dropped out of the headlines,
the task of gaining recompense for those students who lost possessions
is not easy. The various complications arising from the sale have taken up
much of my time, and the whole sorry affair still has not been brought to
a satisfactory conclusion. Because it is still an ongoing matter, *here is
not much of detail that I can say without possibly prejudicing c "standing
claims. When the matter is finally settled, I will take great pleasure in
telling the full story, from my viewpoint.
When looking at annual reports for 1980/81, I found the quote "The
Endsleigh Halls of Residence Policy has caused us some problems this
year, with the largest being the disappearance of luggage from Linstead
Basement." Plus ca change, plus ca meme chose.
3. Duplicating, Photocopying and Stationary
a) Duplicating: The Gestetner and stencil cutter have been in working
order for most of the year. However their presence has led to a
considerable number of requests from clubs for duplicating. Also I have
duplicated RSM Newsletters and one issue of Guildsheet. I have reduced
the emphasis on use of this process for Union minutes and general office
bumph. I have mainly used the photocopiers for minutes, leaving the
gestetner for UGM papers.
b) Photocopiers: Both photocopiers have been replaced this year by
more suitable and versatile machines. The copycard system on the main
photocopier has been very successful, and will ease both billing and the
prevention of free photocopying by unscrupulous individuals,
c) Stationary Supplies: Generally I have used Central Stores for supply
of envelopes, pens and paper. However, the possible closure of this
facility has made the investigation of other sources more urgent. We have
received interesting quotes from a supplier of recycled paper, and hope to
tie it in to an initiative to organise recycling of paper throughout College
and its environs.
FELIX Annual Report '88 1

