4. Union Committees and Meetings
a) UGMs: These have suffered from the age-old problem of inquoracy.
Even the transfer to the JCR hasn't been as successful as hoped. The
possible increase in attendances has been offset by problems in counting
attendance and votes. One problem has been the general lack of
publicity. One thing that I have noticed has been a lack of policy-forming
motions. My intention to produce a Composite Policy Statement may help
this situation.
b) Council: All Councils have been quorate this year, thank goodness.
Generally discussions have been of high quality, but as always have
tended to go round in circles somewhat. Obviously there has been
discussion on many important issues, particularly changes in the job
descriptions. I feel obliged to return to the age-old Hon See's problem
about the preparation of papers. Members still hand in reports and papers
at the last minute. It takes a considerable length of time to prepare
papers for Council, which people simply don't realise. It is particularly
annoying when members submit material too late to be distributed and
read before the meeting.
c) MSCs: It's quite relaxing to attend committees which you don't have
to minute. However, I haven't attended as many as I would like, mainly
due to pressures of time. Those I have attended have been well-run and
often very interesting.
d) Other Committees: The Minor Subcommittees are all minuted by the
Hon Sec, bar Academic Affairs. Union Finance Committee has been the
lengthiest of these this year but has been chaired well by Alan Rose. I set
up a more consistent style for the minutes, allowing for greater continuity
between years. One problem has been the constant search for consistent
UFC policy. As this is often set by precedent rather than in the form of
motions, it will be very difficult to set it in the form of a policy
statement, although very useful. House Committee has been very useful
and active. Members have approached it in a refreshingly non-partisan
manner. They have seemed willing to address the problems in the
Building, though hindered by College dragging its heels on improvements.
Welfare Committee has had some useful discussions and External Affairs
business seems to have been conducted mainly through UGMs. It is very
sad that Internal Services Committee hasn't met at all this year. Exec
hasn't met as often as might be liked, and it seems now that this
situation should be rectified next year. It has shown itself willing to deal
with problems in a quiet manner 'between friends' and on occasion thus
to create a smoother path than might otherwise be possible. Also
pancakes and maple syrup in the RSM President's room was a treat not
to be missed.
d) ULU GUC: As usual this has suffered from the problem of delegates
approaching it from a political stand rather than from the interests of their
members. Although I often agree with them, I still consider the primary
pupose of student bodies to be that of looking after the interests of their
members. Political discussion on outside matters is important, but should
always take second place. I.C. Union is regarded of somewhat of a
maverick because of its difference of approach. Although some people
respect us for this, many have the rather dogmatic view that we are baby
eating fascists merely because we are Imperial and not in NUS. I still hold
out hope whilst such people as Fat Norm (ULU VP F&A) are in student
unions, but it does nark me a bit.
5. College Committees
a) Governing Body/ F&E: Surprisingly, there have been some relevant
matters at these bodies. The College deficit and Finance Section problems
together with the St Mary's merger have been major issues. There is a
promise of more to come with problems due to College policy on
recruitment of overseas students being emphasised. One of my best
memories is of the chairman of the Governing Body almost ignoring the
Dean of Guilds to tell myself and Alan a set of amusing and racy
anecdotes.
b) Parking and Traffic: Again the subject of parking fees has raised it's
ugly head. However we provided a set of proposals to raise the money
without hitting those least able to pay.
c) Joint Trade Unions: Recently I have attended these instead of Syd,
the main subject being the proposed closure of Central stores.
6. Other Jobs
a) Parking Permits: These are a major source of grief. However much
you explain, people still accuse the committee of allocating them unfairly,
and still expect you to have a secret supply long after they have been
allocated. I'm sure the allocation sustem could be made more efficient ,
but I'm also sure that we allocated them as fairly as possible.
b) Commem Ball: This is something that I could have organised much
better with the benefit of hindsight. All indications are that next year's
Ball will be something very special, and organisation is well under way.
c) Elections: These were very hard work, and I'm quite frankly amazed
that they went without major hitch. I was very disappointed at being
unable to organise a ballot box at St Marys, which would have been a
nice gesture on the eve of merger.
Conclusions
I've enjoyed my year of despotic power, although it is far from over. I
feel that it has stood me in good stead for the future, and my main regret
has the strained relations between the Office and Felix. I only wish that I
could have had my present level of knowledge ten months ago, and that
I'd had the perks of any self respecting despot. All I can offer in
mitigation is that I have always tried to do what I felt was right.
Thankyou, goodbye and goodluck to the Union.
Credits
Unlike Gutman, I have managed to retain my hair. This is largely due to
my colleagues, Syd and Alan and to those amazing fixtures, the
permanent staff. Jen, Pat, Kathy, Reggie and Dave have all made the
shouldering of burdens a little easier. Lastly, thankyou to Ken Weale for
some good chats about cricket and to Jelly for some good beer.
Chas Jackson
Academic Affairs Officer
Charles Brereton
In this annual report I have summarised the major acheivements of the
year and also plans for the rest of this term and the next academic year.
My work as Academic Affairs Officer is conducted, on the whole, within
(i) College and (ii) Union committees and (iii) activities directly related to
these, so the report is in three main sections.
A. COLLEGE COMMITTEES
1. Undergraduate Studies Committee: Luke Walker, City and Guilds Union
AAO 1 985-86 said that this committee would form the most enjoyable
part of any AAO's work; in retrospect I am inclined to agree with him.
Under the able stewardship of Professor David Blow the committee has
progressed from strength to strength. The members of the Committee, all
without exception, are genuinely concerned about undergraduate
teaching. The Committee has divided itself into two Working Groups,
looking at Teaching Evaluation and Student Needs.
Teaching Evaluation: this group is responsible for the Lecturer Evaluation
Questionnaire, which had a pilot run early in the Spring Term. This was
not without its problems, and having seen a few of the analyses of the
results I am agreement with the recommendation of the Committee,
namely that a pilot run(s) is necessary to iron out the difficulties. I look
forward to the Questionnaire next year - at last students will be taken
seriously in all departments where the lecturing is not up to scratch. I
hope that all the time and trouble which Students and Staff have taken
over the past three years will have been worthwhile. My thanks must go
to Professor David Ewins who chairs the group and Vernon McClure
(Deputy Registrar) for their hard work.
Student Needs: This working group has been looking into the problems of
students' motivation (or lack of it), workloads and failure rates. This
group has not been as active as I would have liked; however the group
will be looking into these areas in more detail in the next academic year.
2. Board of Studies: This "committee", consisting of Heads of
Departments, Deans, Professors et al is basically a rubber-stamping body
for its subcommittees policies regarding course changes etc. and as such
is quite boring. Nevertheless it is the highest Academic Board in the
College, so student representation on it is vital. Most of the items which
are discussed are passed with a nod! However, on contentious items
such as the questionnaire or failure rates, I have been quick to put the
students' point of view.
3. Admissions Policy Committee: College policy on admissions
procedures, standards and external publications for prospective students
is decided here amongst 14 admissions tutors and 4 student reps. The
big problem of recruiting more students has been addressed thoughout
the year. In particular, analysing students' reasons for declining offers
made has been useful. I was not pleased to hear of the problems which
College is having getting offer/rejection decisions transmitted to
2 Annual Report '88 FELIX

