A N N U A
candidates via UCCA. However I must thank Admissions Tutors and
registry staff for doing their best in the circumstances.
Meeting with Schools: This conference, held in the Easter vacation, was
well received by the 40 or so senior and Head teachers w h o attended.
College spared no expense to see that they were fed with all the best
statistics (from Peter Mee) and nosh (from Rob Northey)! The most useful
part was talking to the visitors: I gave them an unbiased view to take
back to their pupils; IC is a good College - but also faces some serious
problems (which many school Heads seemed unaware of.)
4. Careers Advisors Committee: This committee met once, just before the
start of the Academic year. In spite of the good intentions of the
departmental careers advisors and those in Sherfield this particular area is
seriously understaffed, as I myself have found. I hope the committee
realises that finalists need all the help they can get in finding work.
Perhaps departments should send a questionnaire to all tina'ists to find
out exactly what they want to do - this wili give them some sort of idea
of the numbers they will be dealing with (i.e. those w h o want jobs and
those who want to do further study). This is one area which I think needs
definite improvement.
5. Rector's Working Party on the Recruitment of Women Students: Under
Margaret Cunningham's aegis this working party has discussed some of
the problems IC faces in recruiting more women. The IC-WISE courses,
started last year, have paid off and will be run again this year, both as
residential and non-residential courses. The number of women students at
IC has increased to nearly 1000, but shows a slight fall in percentage
terms.
In general, I have enjoyed sitting on College committees in spite of the
preparation that is needed for each one. I have to be alert 100% of the
time; since on many occasions I am the only rep for all 5,250 of you. It's
quite a responsibility - administrators and academics see student reps
come and go but it's your future which is often at stake.
B. U N I O N C O M M I T T T E E S
1. Academic Affairs Committee: This has been the backbone of the
Union's work in Academic Affairs. I have tried to make the meetings
interesting and have provided refreshments for members at most
meetings. Chairing the committee has not always been easy, though. We
have had 8 meetings so far this academic year and there will be two
more this term. A A C Secretary: Jo Feakes has not been able to attend
many meetings this year owing to academic pressures; as a result I have
not given her the support that she deserves for doing what is a thankless
task. Ordinary members: Gail Turner and Linzi Wishart were ratified at the
Results UGM last term but both have yet to attend any meetings.
Sabbatical members: I am very disappointed with these members of the
committee. Sydney Harbour-Bridge is the only sabbatical officer who has
shown any interest in the committees work. Alan Rose and Chas
Jackson's attitudes towards the committee have left much to be desired.
Even Kingston and Q were better! Information: the three Union
sabbaticals are ex-officio members of all Union Committees. Dep Reps
and CCU AAOs: By far the most active and involved members this year.
In the past Dep Reps have been critisized for not being involved enough
with the Union. However with the Lecturer Questionnaire I have been
able to ensure that almost all of them do their jobs properly. For many
students their Dep Rep is the only Union Officer they have any real
contact with; and I am pleased to report that most of them have
accepted this responsibility.
This year's best Dep Reps have been in Guilds - thanks to the efforts of
Becky Hunt, Guilds AAO. She has taken a keen interest in problems faced
by all Guilds students, not only those in her department. Dave Bradley
has done an excellent job as Mines A A O ; he is a useful representative on
College Committees and I shall be sorry to see him go this June when he
graduates. Executive Sub-committee: I set up this committee (consisting
of myself and the three CCU AAOs) so that we could review papers for
College Committees with the idea of co-ordinating representation thereon.
We have also been able to deal with matters at CCU level rather than
departmental level, to discuss topics which are then taken to the full
committee for approval. As a forum for discussion, Mason and socialising
it has been successful. St. Mary's Academic Affairs: As a result of a
motion passed at the committee last term, William Liddell, St. Mary's
Education Rep, now attends meetings. Next year there will be 4 reps, the
Education Rep (equivalent to a CCU AAO) and 3 year reps (equivalent to
Dep Reps), being preclinical 1 & 2 , and clinical.
I have been down to St. Mary's several times to liase with their Union
Officers in the bar; these events have been extensively documented
elsewhere.
2. Council : This huge committee is at best controversial and lively, at
worst dull and tedious. I have provided written reports to every Council
meeting this year - unlike "certain Union Officers I could mention".
3. Other Union Committees: I have sat on many of the other Union
Committees, too numerous to mention here. I am somewhat disheartened
when I see almost the same people each time sitting on them.
C. G E N E R A L
1. A c Reps: Much to my regret, I have not been able to get to know as
many Ac Reps as I would have liked. I tried to organise some
interdepartmental training evening last December but this idea was not
well received by Dep Reps. As a result it is hardly surprising if many Ac
Reps have never seen or spoken to me this year. This is not the way I
intended the Academic structure within the Union to run; how are Ac
Reps supposed to get involved with the Union at a higher level if they are
not in contact with at least their CCU AAO?
2. Academic Affairs 1/2 day: this event, now in its third year, was run
last term and although the attendance was somewhat disappointing, all
those present agreed that it had been useful. The meeting was addressed
by the Rector, who also answered questions from the floor. Looking back
on this year, that's probably the only time the Rector has had to answer
to ordinary students!
3. Rest of this term: There will be two more meetings of the full
Academic Affairs Committee (including the Joint meeting) as well as four
of the Executive sub-committee. By the time you read this the
Undergraduate Studies Committee will have considered its review of the
Maths Department. Service teaching by the department has often come
under criticism. Apart from that there are only a couple of college
Committees; most people will be sitting exams.
4. Next Year: Dep Reps for the departments of Chemistry, Aeronautics
and Mineral Resources Engineering still have to be elected. As Deputy
President I will have overall responsibility for Academic Affairs within the
Union; the College Questionnaire will be run again, with the results being
published for the first time. The Academic Affairs Committee itself will be
stronger, since many of this year's members will be on the committee
next year.
Conclusions:
At the end of this academic year I will have been at IC for four years; but
this year has undoubtedly been the most enjoyable. I have learned a great
deal about the way College works; this experience will be useful for me
next year. However many of the things I have achieved would have been
impossible without the support of other Union representatives, and some
College personnel, some of whom are mentioned in this report. To them I
extend my grateful thanks.
I can only hope that Richard Spencer, this year's Mech Eng Dep Rep and
my successor, will be able to look back on next year with the same pride
I have this year. To him, and a;i of you, I wish the best of luck for the
future.
Charles Brereton,
IC Union Academic Affairs Officer 1987-88
Entertainments Officer
John Noble
No report submitted.
External Affairs Officer
Neil Motteram
I've realised a few things in my
past three terms as EAO:
1) That the outside world is not really a nice place.
2) That the government doesn't really give a damn about students.
3) That the University doesn't care too much about student opinions.
4) That it helps if the EAO does something all year.
G E R B i l l
This was a major campaign. We don't have many of those. The support
we got from the students after we actually explained to them what was
going on was wonderful. It does prove that IC students do care if the
issues are explained to them.
The strike was not very well followed up. After we got positive
responses from some of the MPs that we talked to, we should have
written to them and followed up their interest. This did not happen.
The GERBill was considerably amended in its Commons Report Stage.
This was due to immense pressure from Labour, the teaching and
University unions, the TUC, the NUS, and perhaps, us. It still is a major
FELIX Annual Report '88 3

