A N N U A L REPOR
threat to autonomy and some sort of pressure should be brought on the
Lords.
G r a n t s , B e n e f i t s & H o u s i n g ( G B H )
Oh dear!
In the past 12 months students have been hardest hit by minimal grant
increases, exponential rent increases, changes in benefit regulations,
changes in covenants etc etc. Soon we'll also have the Poll Tax to deal
with (1990). All this is generally making life unlivable for ordinary
students in London. A recent report said that students can expect an
average overdraft of £345 after their first year. I feel the time could be
coming where we will have to advise applicants not to come to London
unless they are financially secure on their own.
T h e H o u s i n g Bill
The theory is that with the deregulation of tenancies, that there will be a
great expansion of the rented sector because landlords will have more
rights. This expansion is supposed to lead to a lowering of rents to
'market levels'. The problem is that the demand for rented
accommodation in London is so great, when this bill is passed, rents are
sure to skyrocket. The bill removes many of the rights of the tenants
against unfair landlords and is, on the whole, a bad thing. I feel this is
something we should be focusing on in the coming year.
H u m a n R i g h t s W e e k
Simon Boscher and Amnesty have been working on a major Human
Rights Week to be held next February. Despite hassles from those
wonderful people at ULU, we have been working to get it University-wide
recognition. We hope to be taking a motion to the next GUC and
cooperating with ULU and other' colleges in'its organisation.
U L U
ULU can be a useful forum for debate, ,a powerful lobbying body, a good
central union for the University. ULU can also be a great big floundering
idiot, a puppy for NUS London to do with what it will, and a political
bickering shop. We try to encourage the former and discourage the latter.
ULU sabbaticals seem impossible to get hold of, and useful when you do.
Last week I took a tube out to Malet Street, and did more useful work in
an afternoon than in three weeks over the telephone.
What we really need ULU for is as a source of information. We caught
on far too late what was happening with GERBill and gained much from a
'borrowed' NUS briefing. As we are outside NUS we need ULU to provide
an up to date news briefing service. They have a new research officer,
we should press the new exec for information.
NUS
DebSoc's debate last term showed that there is considerable interest in
our students as to what NUS has to say. I feel we should invite more
people from NUS next year and perhaps re-open the debate on affilliation.
We have ignored them for seven years.
S p e a k e r s e t c .
I wish that political societies would inform me in advance of interesting
speakers on topics concerning students. A case in point, SocSoc invited
an MP who was on the committee stage of GERBill at the time
concessions were being made. About 20 people were there, half staff.
In general we should have more political speakers, for example, at
UGMs.
T o C l o s e
It's been fun. I'll do it again, and again, and again...
We/7 Motteram,
ICU External Affairs Officer.
Internal Services Officer
Alistair Birch
Wo report submitted.
Postgraduate Affairs Officer
Helen Fitzpatrick
Wo report submitted.
Rag Chair
Nigel Baker
The best way to judge the success of the Rag year is to look at the
money raised. Last year £14,700 was donated and despite inheriting
many problems from last year's chairman this year's total is set to exceed
£25,000.
The year has been characterised by the continuing success of the
'traditional' events such as Monopoly, Tiddlywinks and most of the Rag
Week events, along with the introduction of many new events and the
resumption of collections under an Imperial College Union Charity Rag
licence. Collecting licences were obtained for Canterbury,
Wolverhampton, Chelmsford and Bedford. These collections passed off
successfully without incident and I can now look forward to the time
when the Metropolitan Police will allow us to hold London licences after
our seven years in the wilderness.
For the first time this year we decided to operate an incentive scheme.
This began by offering Rag t-shirts to those who collected £100 and
sweatshirts for totals of £250. During the spring term it became apparent
that these were no longer realistic incentives and so jumpers for £600
and tankards for £1000 were added to the list. At the time of writing
two people have earned tankards and it is anticipated that by the end of
the year five people will have passed the £1000 mark.
The only unsavoury event of the year was Drink-a-pub-dry which took
place in the ULU bar, Mergers. Unfortunately the reports that were
written in London Student were highly exaggerated but the situation was
solved very quickly when I spoke to the ULU sabbaticals. Since Drink-a-
pub-dry doesn't raise any money for Rag it has been decided that this
event will not take place next year. Morphy Day is also to be dropped,
this is due to lack of interest.
The end ofhhe spring term was livened up by the serving of an
injunction upon myself over some allegations that were allegedly made
against London Rag '88. This injunction was later lifted. The sad part of
the whole event was that when I was last in touch with London Rag '88
it looked as though it was going to lose a lot of money and would need
bailing out by Intermediate Technology, the charity it was hoping to
support. I will not say 'I told you so' but...
It now only leaves me to say thank you to all those who have helped
Rag over the last year and to pass on my best wishes and good luck to
Fiona Nicholas as she takes over the most rewarding job in College. If she
receives as much support for 'Dragons Divine '89' as I did for 'Lemming's
4 Annual Report '88 FELIX

