A N N U A L R L E
Fate '88' then next year will be another record breaking time.
Good luck Fiona,
Nigel D Baker,
Rag Chairman 1987/88.
Welfare Officer
Acting: James Papa
Wo report submitted.
Womens Officer
Linzi Wishart
From the amount of feedback I've had this year I can only assume that
most women are perfectly happy being women at IC. Sandra Dawson and
I met the new first years who wanted to meet us. A significant
proportion of those who turned up had been on the ICWISE course,
another of which has been organised mostly by Margaret Cunningham
(and the Rector's working party for the recruitment of women students)
for this Summer.
Council was very boring. Welfare Committee started off well, with the
alcohol awareness campaign taking shape. However, the campaign was
shelved until next year (or maybe never) and the committee hasn't met
since. Julie Hall, ULU Women's Officer, contacted me last term and there
was a meeting of women's reps (I sent Helen Fitzpatrick) where
important issues were discussed. However, when I went to the next
meeting, there was no one there and no one had heard of Julie Hall, i
It's been a year of firsts for me including: the ICU Ladies Lunch which
will hopefully become an annual event, and this report (the first from a
Women's Officer). I can't tell you about the video on cervical cancer
because it hadn't happened at the time of writing.
Good luck to Gill Knowles for next year and hopefully WIST will rise
from the grave as well.
Linzi Wishart, Women's Officer
the basis of University of London teams and in some cases such as
Volleyball providing over half the UL team.
This year, as a committee, we have encouraged coaching in all sports
and I hope that over the next few years, more clubs may benefit from
what is an important part of training. If more teams are to learn to play
better and more people are to be brought into sport it is vital that
coaching facilities are improved. I hope through our Union funding that it
will be possible to continue this in the future.
Off the field advances have been made in a few areas although there is
still a great deal to be done over the next few years in particular
regarding the provision of indoor sports facilities. Agreement has now
been reached as to the type of facilities which should be provided for an
indoor sports facility on campus and this has now been accepted by the
governors. The development is now at the 'project definition stage' and a
number of architects are being asked to submit proposals.
The development of the basement of Southside for the provision of a
weights gym/health club has also been given provisional approval and at
present is being discussed with reference to the type of facilities which
should be provided. This is one area in which I anticipate the A C C
Chairman and new Union Manager will be very involved over the next
few months.
Outdoors, the extraction of gravel from Harlington is proceeding and at
present over half a million pounds has been raised from this source. It is
hoped that it will not be very long before an astroturf pitch will be put
down at Harlington and at present projections are being made prior to a
definite decision as to the date and place where it will be.
Another significant development next year will be the possibility of St
Mary's students competing under Imperial colours. In all cases. I think to
obtain maximum benefit to both sets of students, clubs should
individually contact their opposite numbers at St Mary's and work out
how they may best cooperate. Already, the Waterpolo teams have agreed
to merge and I would imagine in many sports this would be to the long
term advantage of sport at Imperial.
Finally, I would just like to thank all this year's members of the Mafia
and those Capo-regimes who have regularly turned up to meetings. May I
remind all Capo-regimes that elections for next year's Mafia are on May
24 and it is in your own interest to stand!
Good luck to 'Rob' 1988/89 whoever he/she may be.
Rob Gee, ACC Chair.
.'*thletics Clubs Committee Chair
Robert Gee
Affiliation to the Universities Athletic Union (UAU) has continued to
enhance the general level of sport throughout the College with several
good performances over the full range of sports.
Teams from Football, Rugby, Badminton, Fencing, Hockey and Squash
reached the last sixteen in the play offs of the UAU. With the Ladies
Fencing team reaching the quarter finals. In both Water Polo and
Volleyball, the IC teams won the regional tournaments and came fourth in
the finals. The Karate Club have also been very successful this year,
consistently winning medals in all University competitions often only
finishing second to Cambridge University.
Again however, the Boat Club were Imperial's only winners when they
won both the first and second eights UAU Championships. This followed
an impressive summer last year when they won the Visitor's Challenge
Cup at Henley beating UL in the final and had thirteen members of the
Club selected to row for Great Britain, some in the World Student Games,
Under 23 Championships and World Championships.
Once again this year it can be seen that many IC teams are providing
Overseas Students Committee Chair
Qavid Munasinghe
The OSC has traditionally been one of the quietest of the MSCs and
somewhat remote from the rest of ICU. This year I have tried to bring the
OSC more into the mainstream of ICU activity, and I hope this policy will
be continued in the future.
REPRESENTATION:
The OSC not only represents the various National Societies at IC but
every overseas student at Imperial. It is this which leads me to voice my
concern at the way College administration treats the overseas student as
a direct commodity. College has realised that full fee paying students
provide a valuable source of income and has initiated a series of intensive
recruitment programmes worldwide. This has seen the number of
overseas students at IC increase to about 11 50 this year, and this figure
will be exceeded by at least 100 next year.
My concern is based on the fact that College does not deem it necessary
to provide the additional support services in terms of welfare and
accommodation which will be needed due to the increased numbers.
It may prove possible to increase the numbers of overseas students in the
short term if the above policies are continued but if the students returning
FELIX Annual Report '88 5

