A N N U A L REF»C>
to their home countries are dissatisfied with the facilities at IC they will
surely not encourage others to come here, and IC will lose the
International reputation it has as an educational establishment. This will
ultimately make recruitment much harder in the long term.
SOCIETIES:
One of the positve aspects of the increase in overseas student numbers
has been the formation of several new societies, in addition to the 17
already in existance. This year has so far seen the formation of a Korean
Society, and two others, the Japanese society ,and the Middle East
society will be active by next session. The activities of the societies in
general has been about normal, though several societies have shown a
marked increase in activity.
osc
The OSC executive has generally performed much better than in any
previous year ( out of the last five). I hope this shows how by spreading
the workload a lot can be achieved in a short time, this bodes well for
the future.
EVENTS
1. Sports
This year the appointment of an OSC Sports Officer has been extremely
effective. He has been able to coordinate the weekly activities of the
various societies, within the very limited time allocted for the use of
facilities,as well as organise the International Week sports tournaments.
This year the traditional 6-a-side football tournament,with teams playing
for the Jose Molina (International) Cup, again saw the Cypriot society
team victorious, for the second year running. An International week
basketball tournament was also initiated this year with Greek, Cypriot, IC
Basketball and OSC All Star teams taking part. Congradulations to the
OSC All Star team who performed to a very high standard and won the
tournament convincingly.
2. International Night.
The highlight of the OSC calendar was the International Night in
February. This has grown into a major event in recent years, attracting
about 1500 people this year, and has gained a reputation as being one of
the best International events amongst the London Colleges. It is far
removed from any other event at Imperial and draws in many students,
academics and families for an evening of varied entertainment. This year
saw the traditional national exhibitions, Latin American carnival and Afro-
Caribbean Disco. The highlight of the evening however was undoubtably
the Cultural Show which had nine acts from the Cypriot,Indian,Korean,Sri
Lankan and Turkish societies taking part, all of whom performed
extremely well.
In conclusion I would say that this year has been particularly successful
for the OSC and its' constituent societies on many fronts. I believe there
has been a greater awareness of the International community at Imperial
giving one the opportunity to find out about the various cultures present
at IC as well as giving overseas students the chance to bring to the
attention of all students at Imperial matters of international significance.
The spirit of Internationalism which exists at IC and overides all else
within the OSC bodes well for the future.
David R. Munasinghe.
OSC Chairman 1987-1988
Publications Board Chair
Christopher Martin
Imperial College is fortunate to possess some of the best and widest
ranging media of any University, and Publications Board is the body that
looks after the administrative and financial side of these publications on
behalf of the Union.
It is important to stress that, in normal circumstances, the Publications
Board has no editorial control over its publications. I am pleased to say
that during the last two years during which I have been Chair, the Board
has not encountered a situation where it was forced to interfere
editorially.
However, a great deal of time has been spent by the Officers of the
Board in defending publications from attacks from within the Union itself,
attacks on the principle of editorial freedom on which our publications are
based. Because we have such a wide range of experienced and well
resourced media at the College, the approach to these publications must
be necessarily different from a students' union that just puts out a news
sheet every week.
We cannot allow any one member of the students' union dictate what
appears and does not appear in our publications, unless that is the task to
which they have been elected, and then that editor is responsible to the
body that elects them.
We had a situation with the Union Handbook over the summer where
unacceptable changes were forced through in the final drafts, against the
wishes of the editor, in order to present a less accurate and more
favourable view of IC and IC Union. If any of the publications we produce
are to have any credibility at all, and are not just to be puppets of the
Union administration, then this behaviour cannot be allowed.
I am pleased to report that, eventually, a policy was passed ensuring that
the Handbook editor does have the final say of what goes in the
Handbook so this situation should not happen again.
This year has been an example of a very useful function of Publications
Board: to act as a buffer between the Union and the publications, and to
stop the Union's financial power becoming editorial power.
I must say that the Union Finance Committee this year has been
completely schizophrenic-one meeting it seems to be the most
enlightened it has ever been since I started going over 4 years ago—and
the next it is a shambles. Particularly, the Five Year Plan meeting showed
a great lacking in any consistent financial policy at all. The policy
changed three times in the space of an hour! Sensible, concrete and
binding financial policy must be a first priority for the UFC next year.
UFC did pass policy on the membership subscriptions on the two
publications that do need to charge membership; IC Radio and STOIC.
Previous years have seen the membership fee rise to a level where
students were put off joining; in particular IC Radio was finding great
difficulty in providing the kind of service they would like and that the
students deserve. The new policy allows the individual publication to set
its own membership fee at a level that will encourage, instead of
discourage, new members and will allow a better and larger service.
St Marys
One change next year that perhaps will affect the Publications more,than
most is the merger with St Marys. It will require money from some"
source, to provide Mary's with an Alternative Prospectus, Handbook, and
copies of FELIX and the Phoenix, the least they can expect as part of
Imperial College Union. They might want to produce their own Handbook
and AP; this is up to them. It would be enourmously unfair, however, for
students in one part of ICU to have these facilities, and in another hot to.
There seems to be a very strong case to be made to College to provide
these resources.
Looking to the future may also see IC Radio and STOIC provided with
feeds to St Mary's, particularly their Hall of Residence.
The Handbook
This was produced over the Summer by Pippa Salmon, and was certainly
up to the excellent standard we have come to expect. I have yet to see
an equal to this publication produced by any other college.
Felix
Under the editorship of Judith Hackney, most of the problems this year
have been with the Print Unit. Problems with the reliability of the
equipment kept recurring, and resulted in many all night sessions.
However, FELIX did appear every Friday on time to an excellent standard
and has been well received and well read.
Many detailed discussions were held over the future of the Print Unit,
after it became clear that the Litho Operator was working well over his
contracted hours every week. Steps have been taken to cut down his
work load, but the situation will have to be carefully monitored in the
future so the balance between Union work at cost price, and outside
work at a profit, is never tipped too far.
IC Radio
Under Steve Gutteridge this year, IC Radio seems to have been adversely
affected by the substantial membership fee, and this has certainly
resulted in a poorer service than could otherwise be expected. They are
certainly looking to the future, however, and have recently obtained a
licence so they can try out the possibility of broadcasting to the Princes
Gardens halls on the FM band, with a large increase in quality. Again, the
spectre of Community Radio looms, and it is reassuring to see that they
are well prepared.
STOIC
STOIC have expanded their programmes to include broadcasting on Friday
evenings, now that they have their own studio in the Union Building.
However, I must express concern about the manner and amount of
money which has been spent on this project over the past few years. It
appears that every few months they find they need a new piece of
equipment in order for them to broadcast...and we are assured that this
is the last item they will need to finish their studio. I have heard this said
of no less than five separate claims over the last three years.
Some Officers within STOIC seem to think the Union has undertaken to
equip them to whatever standard they like, and all that they have to do is
claim of the nearest available contingency fund. I have great doubts, after
3 years of seeing the Studio develop, of whether unqualified students
have enough knowledge to make judgments on the suitability of what is
very expensive equipment, and I propose that before any more money is
spent on the expansion of the Studio, outside expert advice should be
sought.
Phoenix
A new style of Phoenix has appeared this year. Instead of the previous
practice of producing one a year and then attempting to sell it, this year
6 Annual Report '88 FELIX

