the editor, Liz Holford, has brought out three smaller editions which have
been distributed free with Felix. I think it will take a little time for the
new style Phoenix to catch on, but I think an Arts magazine is essential
in a place like IC. There has certainly been more involvement from
students with the new style of publication.
Postgraduate Prospectus
This used to be called the Postgraduate Handbook but Postgraduate
prospectus is more correct: it is aimed at final year students thinking
about a postgraduate course and gives a student's view of postgraduate
life, along with a lot of information which cannot be obtained elsewhere.
It was produced by Alan Barnett, again to the usual high standard.
Distribution again is a problem; this year piles were left in Departments
for final year students to pick up, accompanied by a Poster campaign.
This has been fairly successful, and I think it has fulfilled its purpose well.
A. P. Supplement
Because we only produce the Alternative Prospectus every two years,
and it is produced for the year ahead's entry, parts of the current AP
could be three years out of date. To counter this, money saved from the
AP last year was carried over to produce a four page supplement, which
was mailed out with the remaining copies of the full A.P. The supplement
was produced by Martyn Peck, but was greatly hampered by Dep. Reps
not bothering to write anything.
The experiment of having an AP every other year, with a supplement in
between needs to be looked at very carefully to see if it has been a
success, or whether there is a method that could produce a new AP
every year at reasonable cost. I hope this is discussed in depth next year.
Thanks
Finally, I would like to thank the following, as well as all the members of
the Board (especially the editors); Jen, Kathy, Pat and Reggie, Dean and
Rose for their unending help and patience with us all throughout the year;
Alan, Chas and Ian; Simon Langan for being an excellent Senior
Treasurer, Nigel and Kamala, who keep the Board running, and finally all
the students for reading, listening, watching and perhaps even taking part
in a publication.
Chris Martin,
Publications'Board Chair 1986/88.
Recreational Clubs Committee Chair
Neil McCluskey
The last academic year for the RCC has been totally non-academic in its
activities but virtually academic in its running. I have had a fairly easy
task in running the RCC with considerable help from the rest of the RCC
Exec and a great deal of co-operation from the ciubs themselves. It's
amazing what they do when threaten to freeze their grants.
Most clubs have been very active throughout the year. Notably: YHA six
times requesting a tent, six times denied, still doing brilliantly.
Mountaineering managing to devour a number of table decorations as part
of their annual dinner.
Photographic society back in the picture increasing their membership on
last year by large amounts.
Parachuting attracting many people willing to pay lots of money to throw
themselves out of planes.
Other mentions should go to the new clubs within RCC, these being
Beetlesoc and Computer Graphics, with Debsoc halfway to transferring
from SCAB to RCC.
Financially the clubs within RCC are managing to spend every penny we
have with quite a bit of money going tours. Some eight clubs ran tours
during the Easter vacation, putting a hevy strain on the Union vans and
on Chas Jackson.
Next year's RCC Exec was elected, or should I say merely ratified, on
Thursday 5th May. With an enormous turn-out of both incoming and
outgoing club chairmen the meeting still only lasted for thirty minutes!!
With three out of the five posts going to Scout and Guide, the other two
being outdoor clubs as well it looks like the indoor clubs are going to be
quiet, shy and retiring for the coming year. I hope they prove me wrong.
After splashes, splutters and fits and starts the following clubs never
really got off the ground: Graffitti, Surf and Water-skiing. Graffitti have
reformed but have yet to claim any money, strange though that may
seem. I hope next year Surf and Water-skiing will be continued.
Lastly I'd like to thank the UFC and the Union sabbaticals for giving us
lots of dosh when we needed it and for not buggering up the meetings by
attending!!
Neil McClusky
RCC Chairman 1987/88
Social Clubs Committee Chair
David Clements
1. Introduction
SCC is a strange conglomeration of clubs whose interests vary from
Transendental Meditation to the City of London, and many of whose
groups you might expect to be in conflict with one another, such as the
Conservative Socirty and the Socialist Workers. However, SCC, as the
body which provides funding and overall administration to the 32 clubs
within it, does function well, and overseeing it has been a rewarding job.
2. SCC Business
This year the total membership of SCC clubs amounted to some 2500
people, about 3/4 of the total undergraduate population of IC. As always
happens, some clubs fade out of existance, and new ones form. This
year we have made a net gain in clubs, with SWSS (Socialist Workers),
RockSoc, SLAGS (Student L, ,,oian and Gay Soc) and GLC (the Greater
London Club) forming while Polish and CND have disbanded. Christian
Union has also been lost to SCC, but more of that later.
As is usually the case, SCC has the largest clubs in college, this year the
laurels are shared by Industrial Society and Science Fiction Soc. each
with 400 members. Of the religious clubs, the Islamic Soc should be
mentioned since its membership of about 250 makes it bigger than
almost all of the other religious clubs put together. The Islamic Soc
committee are clearly providing a much needed service. The Greater
London club is also an unusual phenomenon in gaining a membership of
170 in just its first year of existance. Rob Conn, their founder, and
committee should be congratulated for their hard work, and I'm sure far
fewer of us will now 'live in ignorance'.
On a rather less mercenary note than membership figures, a club which
has had a notable success this year is the IC Amnesty Group whose
adopted Prisonner of Conscience, Ivan Starovoit, a Jehova's Witness
imprisoned in the USSR, has finally been released. One other notable
success, introduced last year, but only put into full operation this year,
has been the SCC video system, now used by clubs throughout the
Union.
On the organisation side of SCC I'd very much like to thank the vice
chairman, Sarah Bunney, for her hard work this year; things would not
have gone so smoothly without her. Our two senior treasurers this year
also deserve thanks for putting up with the boring necessitites of cheque
signing sessions and book keeping. Nigel Graham (Civ. Eng.) has been
treasurer for several years, but had to give up the job half way thorough
the year. He has certainly contributed a great deal to the running of S C C
over the years and shall certainly be missed. A presentation pot will soon
be arriving, though probably not by the A G M , unfortunately. Dr. John
Cosgrave (Geology) then kindly took up the job of HST at short notice,
and has been doing an excellent job ever since. Thanks are also due to
Jen Hardy-Smith and Brian Lloyd-Davies in the Union office for making
the switch in our HSTs so smooth.
3. Union Committees
As a major subcommittee of council (MSC), SCC sends its chairman to
both Council and Union Finance (UFC) meetings. Council, as the highest
committee in the Union, second only to a U G M , gets through an awful lot
of business, and its meetings tend to be very long. This has been
especially true this year with the very necessary Union reorganisation and
many other matters being discussed. One thing you can certainly say
about this year's president is that he doesn't let sleeping dogs lie, and I
think future generations of IC students will benefit from this.
The only major item discussed on Council of direct relevence to SCC this
year was the issue of the Christian Union. Briefly the issue here was that
CU requires its members to sign a declaration of faith, and it was deemed
that this was contrary to the principle that any IC student can join any IC
club. As a result of this the CU are no longer a Union club, but are
organising events outside Union auspices. This does not seem to be
unduly affecting their activities, though of course they no longer have a
Union grant, and I wish them every success. The restriction placed on
membership of CU is in fact imposed by an outside body, and the issue
of restrictions on club membership resulting from external influences is a
can of worms that is probably best left unopenned. As it is this may well
be an issue that could 'run and run'.
The Union Finance Committee (UFC), the body in contral of the Union's
purse strings, has rather more direct relevence to SCC, since it is from
there that we get our money. The Union has been fairly well off this year,
FELIX Annual Report '88 7

