due in part I am sure to the competence of Jackie Pierce, last year's DP,
and so most reasonable elaims to UFC have been accepted. However it
became clear at the time of the Estimates UFC for next year's budgets
that UFC is badly in need of some coherent policies. Bits and pieces of
policy on funding, spending etc are scattered through old UFC minutes,
and I hope that next year's DP spends some time collecting these
together into some form of policy document. This would make
everybody's job at estimate time much simpler.
SCC currently has about 2500 members, which means that the subsidy
they get from the Union is about £3.50 a head. This represents, I feel,
exceptional value for money when you consider the degree of activity of .
the SCC clubs. One financial bugbear that I am very pleased has not
rainsed its ugly head this year (touch wood) is the issue of Ultra Vires
payments. It may be that SCC committees have finally worked out what
an Ultra Vires payment is (aside from being illegal) and have decided to
be good boys. For that I am glad.
One final bit of Union business that has been of relevence to SCC was
the 'reorganisation' of the room booking system. After it was discovered
what a mess this was it took a massed deputation of MSC chairmen to
change it back to what it always was. I trust the old system is now
working as well as it always used to, if not better.
4. F i n a l B i t s
It certainly has been an interesting year, and SCC chairman an interesting
job. Its a pleasure to regularly meet and assist such a varied and
enthusiastic group of people as members of the SCC club committees,
and they all deserve thanks for their work in their own clubs and
societies. I see the job of S C C chairman merely as one of making things
as easy as possible for the clubs to get on with doing their business of
running events of interest to their members and students in general.
Seeing so many clubs doing so well is what makes the job worthwhile.
One final notice to all SCC clubs. Please get forms for the Union directory
from your pigeon holes in the Union Office, and send your articles for the
ICU Handbook to Dave Smedley in the Felix Office as soon as possible.
It just remains for me to wish next year's SCC chairman, whoever it may
be, the best of luck, and I you get as much out of the job as I have.
'It was a tough job but somebody had to do it.'
— Superchicken
Dave Clements, SCC Chairman 1987-88
Social Cultural & Amusements Board Chair
Richard Squire
A report on the activities of the Social, Cultural and Amusements Board
during the 1987/88 session.
1. S o c i e t i e s
Despite the loss of the Music Room, C h a m b e r M u s i c have had a good
year, with the formation of a new chamber orchestra along with ICSO.
They have also organised four concerts, and several coaching sessions
for members.
C h o i r have had two successful concerts so far, performing extracts
from 'Seasons' and 'Christmas Oratorio' in the first term, and Verdi's
'Requiem' to a packed Great Hall in March. They also organise many
social events for members, such as rehearsal weekends out of town.
D e b s o c have this year held a major debate on the NUS, and a College-
wide debating competition. Two Debsoc members also won this year's
ULU debating competition. Debsoc are likely to transfer to SCC next
session.
D r a m s o c had successful runs of Satre's 'The Flies' and Durrenmatt's
'The Physicists' in the Union Concert Hall, despite one or two difficulties.
This summer they are off to the Edinburgh Festival for the Nth successive
year. Dramsoc's range of technical services for events is also continuing
to expand.
In their second year, F i l m s o c have successfully increased their number
of film showings, showing a wide variety of films to a wide variety of
audiences in Mech Eng 220, on Tuesday and Thursdays. The 'Cult Movie'
season was a feature of this year's programme.
Folk C l u b has been given new life this year after a long period of
dormancy, specialising in the performance and appreciation of Folk Music.
Events have been held in both the Holland Club and Norman's, and
members played at several events during Rag Week.
J a z z a n d R o c k continues in its expansion, with bands from the club
playing gigs both inside and outside College. More new bands have been
formed this year than in previous years, and two Hops have been held,
with improved organisation and increased attendance.
O r c h e s t r a ' s year has seen performances of Hoist's 'The Planets' and
Tchaikovsky's 'The Nutcracker Suite' among many others. The Orchestra
has been more balanced this year, due to an influx of talented new
players into the strings section. The concerts have also been well
attended, with every seat in the Great Hall filled for the Autumn
performance of 'The Planets'.
Last, but not least, O p e r a t i c Society have had a difficult year with a
small committee, but due to a lot of hard work by a few people, have
managed to make their shows a success. Their February show this year
was 'The Gondoliers' by Gilbert and Sullivan. A strong intake of keen
freshers this year should serve to make life easier for them.
2. T h e M u s i c R o o m
Over the summer of 1987, the old Humanities buildings of 52-53 Princes
Gate were taken over by the new School of Management. With them
went the Music Room, for years the centre of College's musical activity,
and several other smaller practice rooms. The School of Management
intended to use these facilities for conference and educational purposes
on a permanent basis, to the exclusion of Music.
A campaign by the musical community within College ensued, in the
hope of keeping the space provided for music in College to at least its
previous (albeit inadequate) level. A lot of work was done, both by
members of College's Music Committee, and by members of the student
musical societies; publicity was produced, a petition raised, and a concert
held in Sherfield foyer in protest. The result of all this was not the
retention of the Music Room for music, but its temporary replacement by
Terminal Room A , in the old Holland Club building, along with a new
Steinway concert grand piano for which the money (20K) was arranged
by College. Replacements for the smaller practice rooms had been found
previously, in various parts of the Sherfield Building. However, the current
arrangements are far from satisfactory. Terminal Room A being generally
acknowledged to be an inadequate, and only a temporary replacement for
the Music Room. It must be ensured therefore, by myself, my successor
and the members of the Music Committee, that the Rector's undertaking
to look for sponsorship money to fund an extension to the Huxley
Building, for the sole purpose of music, is carried through.
Thanks are due to the chairpersons of the musical societies, along with
Ian Howgate and Al Birch for their work over this issue.
3. S C A B N i t e
A few years ago, SCAB Nite used to make a perennial loss. This year, for
the second year running, almost £200 was raised for Rag. Members of all
the SCAB societies took part, and my thanks must go to everyone
involved, especially those who helped behind the scenes setting up. You
know who you are.
4. C a p i t a l E q u i p m e n t
Again this year, losses to SCAB capital equipment have occurred due to
theft owing to lack of security in the Union Building. With luck, the new
lock system recently purchased by House Committee should improve
things, so long as the system is not abused.
5. F i n a n c e
A review of UFC financial policy is badly needed, and is currently being
carried out. SCAB'S financial policy is currently under discussion, and
may need to be tailored to fit in logically with newly formulated UFC
policy, governing the presentation of estimates etc.
The College's long delay in returning last year's accounts has been of
no help at all this year.
In summary, a mixed year for SCAB. The loss of the Music Room was a
bad blow, but all of the societies have had an active year, and one new
society has been started up again.
My thanks for help during the year go to Ian, Alan and Chas, Chris
Martin (for fixing our finances!), the chairpersons of al! the SCAB
societies, and to Bill Wakeman, Nigel, and, of course, Dinah...
Richard Squire,
Social, Cultural and Amusements
Board Chairman 1987/88.
8 Annual Report '88 FELIX

