Mr Alan Rose, Deputy President of Imperial College Union, has written an
open letter concerning his position with respect to annual reports and
allegations that have been made against him about his responsibility for
the Union Snack Bar and Bar.
That I, as Deputy President, bear a global responsibility
for the Union's bar and catering activities as a
sabbatical officer is without question and in this regard
I am prepared to be called to account to justify my role
within any part of the management structure.
The decision of the Executive Committee to back the
recommendation of the self-styled 'investigation
committee' in the removal of the bar and catering
activities from my remit implies an instrumental
responsibility for the apparent stock shortages
experienced by both outlets. This is a position which I
cannot accept.
The matters which the Executive were invited to
consider related to a number of complaints made
largely by persons who also bear administrative,
financial and legal responsibilities for the Union trading
outlets. None of these complaints would implicate me
directly in the stated shortfalls even if they could be
substantiated which, for the main part, they cannot.
The only formal allegation made against me is one of
'gross mismanagement' a term so suitably vague that it
may be interpreted to mean anything from dishonesty
to gross incompetence by anyone not privvy to the
details of the 'investigation' process.
It was alleged that I countenance the practise of
after hours drinking which I do not. I have helped the
bar manager to clear the bar on a number of occasions
and have repremanded him in the past for allowing the
consumption of alcohol during the afternoon. To back
up this allegation it was offered as evidence that on a
stated night I was locked in the Union Bar drinking with
the staff until well into the morning when in fact I can
conclusively prove that I was in Beit Hall.
It was alleged that I acted in defiance of licencees'
instructions in allowing 'undesirable' individuals to work
behind the bar in relation to one particular person. I did
not wish to act on the basis of someone else's
personal animosity towards a person who I considered
to be a valuable asset to the bar but would have
accepted sound professional reasons or an explicit
statement debarring him. No reasons have ever been
forthcoming and every instruction affecting him has
been carried out to the letter. He was never employed
by the bar after an instruction was issued and has not
set foot behind the bar after a further instruction was
issued.
The delays in the production of financial information
relating to trading outlets has been cited as my specific
responsibility. Providing detailed trading accounts is
something which I am neither required nor qualified to
do. Whilst I could have chased some people harder for
figures in the Autumn term and perhaps even produced
a few raw figures myself, I was engaged in a great
many other activities including organising the
recruitment of a finance officer who I believed would
be able to produce exactly the kind of detailed
information which was needed. Given that we were all
concerned about the standing of the snack bar, raw
figures such as the sales figures produced by the Union
Administrator (which she could have produced at the
committee at any time) or bank statements may not
have told the full story and could easily have lead to
the wrong conclusions. For example, a cash fiow
problem in November would have been consistent with
expanding into the area or formal dinners where we
had invested quite a lot of money but were not seeing
returns as the bills had not yet been paid. If this was,
however, symptomatic of a greater problem, we
needed last year's accounts (which the College had not
finished) and the advice of a professional (who was
due to start in the near future). Suppliers had increased
their prices so we increased ours; portion control was
said to be lacking so we tightened it up; takings were
suffering at the hand of a better range provided by
college outlets so we looked at what else we could
provide. These were the sort of decisions which we
were in the position to make and were indeed making.
That there were delays in dealing with some other
issues is cited as dithering on my part. For example,
the RCSU claim about poor service at their dinners took
some time to sort out. By the time it reached my hands
there were no more catering meetings scheduled for
the Autumn Term which had one day left to run. I
believed that as I had not been present at the dinners
in question and that the catering staff felt that an
adequate service had been provided, the matter should
be taken to a catering committee, and indeed the ICU
President asked me to make it an agenda item as he
wished to discuss the whole future of dinners in the
Union. By the time the catering manager had returned
from compassionate leave, the finance officer had
identified a possible theft of stock or cash from the
snack bar. When it became clear that this was to
become a police matter I was advised that the details
of the trading account should not be made public by
the senior treasurer and by the police through the
President. As the catering committee members would
undoubtedly be demanding details of the account I

