decided to suspend meetings until such time as we had
a statement which we could give, as the alternative
would have been to hold meetings and to deliberately
mislead the committee. The committee met again after
an effective gap of two months, not an excessive delay
compared to previous years.
There was an implied allegation of an irregularity
concerning the snack bar about which I know nothing
and of an IOU taken out by a member of catering staff
about which I know something. The money covered by
the IOU was apparently taken out before I took office
but I was asked to call it in which I did. The borrower
does not know to this day where the money actually
came from or to where it is supposed to be repaid. No
one has furnished me with this information and it does
not seem to show up on the trading account. The
money is still locked up in my office as I am still unsure
of its status and I would not approve of its joining the
unaccounted for sums which exist in the Union safe
and are occasionally used for buying such items as
bottles of sherry.
I am charged with a failure to communicate with the
licencees and whilst this is not an easy charge to either
prove of refute, it is to my mind one of the more
significant ones. Whilst I would freely admit that there
are a number of personal differences between myself
and the licencees, the important factor is that
professional channels should be kept open and in this
regard I feel that I have fulfilled my obligations. Both
were informed immediately of the apparent shortfalls in
the bar and the catering accounts and were involved in
the decision making process of what to do about them
from the start. There are a number of people who bear
responsibilities for the bar and catering activities and to
make the charge that I was making decisions and
excluding people who had a need to know is to claim
that those people could not possibly have any
responsibility for the problems which we have
encountered as they did not know about them. As soon
as I became aware of the problems I passed the
information on. None of us were aware of the stock
situation before the finance officer began work and I
was not and could not have been aware that a possible
theft had taken place in either the bar or the snack bar
before this time.
Having stated that I could not have prevented
something which I could not have known was taking
place I must state that I believe that at all times since
becoming aware of the situation I have acted in a
proper manner. Since the involvement of the police, my
role has become less significant given that their first
contact has always been the President. As the
investigation has progressed, there has been
information which has not been passed on to me and
this has affected the amount which I have been able to
do.
The responsibilities are not, as I have already stated,
vested in me alone. If management was to blame then
it is the management structure which must shoulder
the responsibility and not one person. We have known
for a long time that the Union needs to change to fulful
its management responsibilities and I have always been
supportive of such moves, particularly from the point of
view of bringing in a finance officer as I have already
mentioned. I alone cannot be blamed for the way in
which the matter has been handled given that in the
initial stages I was only one part of a group of people
making decisions and in the later stages I was not even
kept informed of what was happening. If the licencees
or the President feel that more should have been done
in any direction then they themselves had an obligation
to do something or, if they felt that I should have been
doing something, asking me to do it. At the start of the
year I asked the President to deal through me if he
wanted something done about the bar or the snack bar.
This was simply because I felt that he had a tendency
to overreact at the slightest provocation and that this
would not be good for staff relations. It was not, and
could not have been, any kind of disclaimer of
responsibility on his psrt in either area.
If the finger of suspicion is to point at all at those
people who have handled stock then it must surely
point at those who handled invoices or cash. There
may be no evidence to suggest malpractice on the part
of, say, the Union Administrator, but she was never
interrogated by the police and in any case there is little
or no evidence against the bar and catering staff who
have been sacked or suspended. The Union must be
fair and must be seen to be fair, there are not two
classes of employee as no one is above suspicion and
no one is beneath justice.
I have remained in office but am presently
considering taking up a job offer for the near future
given that I feel very bitter about the way in which I
have been treated in the name of a students' union into
which I have put an enormous amount of time, effort
and (dare I say it?) love over the past three years. I
resent being asked to carry the official can for
something which I can accept no blame but for which I
would have been prepared to bear whatever part of the
responsibility was ex-officio mine for a system which
has clearly been shown to be at fault.
I am prepared to submit my annual report but only if
the ICUGM asks for it; it is up to that body to decide
whether it is happy to accept the easy solution of
finding scapegoats and allowing those who would shirk
their responsibilities to appear blameless.
I have done nothing dishonest and reject the charge
of 'gross mismanagement', I feel I have a right to have
Alan Rose, ICU Deputy President.

