• THE PHANTOM SOAKER has
returned! Anarchists mourned the loss
of this wacky character when he/she
disappeared from the College scene
two years ago. However, at 7.30 last
Sunday night, College's favourite
rascal returned.
Internal Services Officer and
Falmouth Keogh Assistant
Subwarden Al Birch was walking
outside his hall when a carrier bag full
of water landed right in front of him.
Despite hunting high and low for his
assailant, Mr Birch had no success.
FK Warden and top physicist Prof
Geoff New was informed of this near
miss. He put calculator to pen to
paper and worked out that the carrier
bag was travelling at such a high
velocity when it hit the ground that
if it had landed on top of Mr Birch,
it would have killed him
instantaneously!
Rumour has it, that if and when the
Soaker is caught, he/she will be
charged with gross incompetence.
College Chief Security Officer
Geoff Reeves told an ace FELIX
reporter on Monday that he didn't
think that it was the work of the
original Phantom Soaker.
• THE SILWOOD BALL last
Friday night proved interesting to say
the least. Gail Turner announced her
engagement to Paul Bailey. Several
people present expressed concern
over this, leaving Miss Turner in a
somewhat subdued mood. When RCS
Hon Sec Gordon Brignall later
approached her on a completely
different matter, Miss Turner resorted
to Anglo-Saxon dialogue. RCS
President Elect, Stephanie Snell,
anxious to intervene told the Hon Sec
Elect not to be so rude. This resulted
in a croissant ricocheting off Ms
Snell's ample frame. The croissant,
24, was said to be in a stable condition
last night.
• ON THE SUBJECT of Silwood,
College Chief Random Simon
Bradshaw spent all of last week
looking for someone to accompany
him to the Ball. Mr Bradshaw was
seen accosting several young ladies
including shy, impressionable,
FELIX Editor, Judith Hackney, 22.
Alas Mr Bradshaw was rejected by all
and eventually attended alone.
bllcKMAU
Information required on the following topics:
• Why was next year's UGM Chairman seen leaving College's
Refectory Manager Rob Northeys flat at 5.30 in the morning two
weeks back?
• How does Mr Sydney Harbour-Bridge find time to attend an RCS
AGM; attend a Pub Board meeting and eat his lunch in the JCR but
not to write his annual report—part of his job?
• Why were the Chemistry Department so keen to hush up another
attempted suicide just before the Easter break?
• Broadsheet Editor Dave Smedley had a cosy little chat with Mr
Sydney Harbour-Bridge last Friday. Could this explain the content of
Broadsheet this week? Could this explain why Broadsheet came out
three days early? Why does Mr Harbour-Bridge refuse to talk to FELIX?
• The Players: The portrait of Lord Keogh has been found safe and
well. The picture, which disappeared from Falmouth-Keogh Hall last
term, was found Saturday by a hall resident. I can now reveal that
Delator had intended to recapture the Noble Lord on a midnight raid
but he came to light before the raid could take place. How convenient!
• RCSU VP-elect Dave Williams had admitted to one of my rp^'es
that the painting was hanging on his wall.
• Holbein resident Chris Stapleton has admitted to another of my
moles that his 'friends' within Gauntlet Club had Lord Keogh on
their hit list.
• Falmouth Keogh Assistant Subwarden Al Birch has admitted that
he possesses a key to the cupboard that the picture was contained
within.
• Falmouth Keogh resident Ian Frith 'discovered' the painting. Why
was he looking in the cupboard in the first place?
Are one or more of these four individuals members of 'The Players'?
Who are these masked men? Why did they not turn up at Rag Fete
as was previously announced?
Last week's story concerning Guilds Dinner and Dance proved to be
half a red herring. The entire story was made up by Guilds Hon Sec
Alan Hepper. He 'leaked' it to RCS mug Dave Williams, who told RCS
tramp Tony Spencer. Guess who told Blackmail? Messrs Williams and
Spencer are now on Delator's 'Unreliable Information' list. Nice one,
Alan!
On a more serious note, I have received further information that
confirms the existence of a second bank account. I intend to publish
a list of more 'slush funds' very soon.
Last week's Blackmail:
1) The Queen's Tower bonkers were Carol Luscombe and Simon
Banton. I received a note from them promising to reveal more unless
I paid five pounds. Well, a crisp fiver is on its way!
2) Rob Northey, College Refectory Manager, was the man confronted
by the lady with her knickers down at the 170 Queens Gate party.
Five pounds by Monday or I reveal the lady's name. This is your final
chance.
This week's Blackmail:
1) A blast from the past: One of this year's Union Officers had a close
shave at secondary school. The poor chap felt the urge to cut off all
his pubic hair. This kinky act was not done in private however. It was
done in full view of his classmates and teacher during a third-year
English lesson. Five pounds from the pervert and I forget about this
incident.
2) A five pound cheque from the second year Aeronautics student
who asks his girlfriend to do the most extra-ordinary things with Mars
Bars.
Loads more Blackmail next week.
Delator.
PS. Keep the information rolling in. It's all appreciated!
l_i b
>
o
l
• MARTYN PRICK of Vote for
Me, I've got a briefcase' fame is in
the news again this week. Mr Prick
left his case in 7—11 on Gloucester
Road whilst buying some very dodgy
magazines. When the Holbein
Random went to collect his lost
property next day, the police were
promptly run up. 7—11 staff had
thought the offending item was a
bomb and had it removed. Mr Prick
was last seen making his way to
Gerard Rd in a large white van...
• TALKING OF. 'El Prick', he and
his Bean's Club random twin Sumeet
Ghaie (pronounced GAY) were up to
no good again last Sunday night.
Anxious to discover the identity of
Bean's Secretary Paul Shanley's late-
night guest, they did some spying
'Cosmic Ferret' style. This involved
hanging out of a third-storey
bathroom window just above Mr
Shanley's window with camera
poised. The boys slightly gave the
game away when they forgot to take
the camera flash off. As no thunder
followed this sudden burst of
lightening, Shan and his guest realised
what was happening and drew the
curtains.
The bungling peeping toms then
burst in on the pair to take surprise
snap shots for the Holbein
noticeboard. Shan and his guest, not
wishing to disappoint the boys, who
had obviously gone to so much
trouble to corner him in a
compromising position, arranged a
photosession for them on his bed. A
good time was had by all.
• TWO CASES of mistaken identity
have come to my notice recently:
FELIX Editor Judith Hackney had
found herself back in her room with
two other randoms after collation last
week. One of her guests, who was
slightly worse for wear after
devouring a third of a litre of
Southern Comfort, manage-
; to spill
his tea all over her carpet. The man
in question then decided to make
himself another cup. He got up,
picked up her telephone, took it over
to her sink and proceeded to try and
fill the 'phone up. It took at least two
minutes before he realised exactly
what he had done.
Also Martyn Prick (it's that man
again), whilst pointing at a packet of
cream crackers in a friend's room,
accused him of being a stamp
collector, Mr Prick was convinced
that the packet was a stamp album.
The difference between Miss
Hackney's friend and Mr Prick was
that the friend was drunk.
Chris Jones.
FELIX Friday 13th May 1988 s

