Editorial
Imagine a computer manufacturer
who has to pay out vast sums every
year because its computers are
unreliable and break down while
under warranty. Any sensible
observer would tell the company to
spend some money on its production
line and its quality control in order to
make its computers more reliable;
fewer repairs would lead to a long
term saving. If the company actually
chose to cut its losses by sacking staff
and economising in its complaints
department, we would rightly regard
the management as stupid and
incompetent. Yet something very
similar is happening with the Health
Service.
The Health Service is (supposedly)
becoming an increasing strain on
Government spending. At the same
time the British public are becoming
increasingly unhealthy. The
Government has responded by
restricting the amount of money spent
by the hospitals. What they ought to
be doing is taking action to improve
public health. Last year, while the
Health Education Council spent £1.4
million on a campaign called Look
After Your Heart (this is about one per
cent of the advertising budget of the
tobacco industry), the NHS spent
more than £400 million treating those
who had heart disease. Britains have
some of the least healthy hearts in the
world (two British regions, Scotland
and Northern Ireland, actually top the
world league for heart attacks per
head of population).
The Government's free-market
instincts seem to prevent it fulfilling
its duty to the public. Nutritional
labelling of food has been rejected by
ministers (contrary to their scientists
advice) because the powerful food
lobby were worried that telling people
what was in their food might put them
off buying it. The Common
Agricultural Policy and the Ministry
of Agriculture have conspired to
subsidise the farmers who produce
some of the least healthy foods
(hence, for example, the butter
mountain). In fact, almost all policies
relating to agriculture are designed to
benefit the producers and they have
historically completely ignored the
nutritional needs of consumers.
Recently those scientists who work
on areas related to public health have
been starting to agree more than ever
before that it is possible to improve
public health by concerted
government action. Several scientific
reports (on diet and health, the cause*
of heart disease and so on) have
produced urgent suggestions for
action. However, the politicians seem
too concerned with keeping public
spending under control in the short
term to realise that they could save a
fortune in the long term by spending
U N D E R
can make more money encouraging
us to eat an unhealthy diet. And no
scientist should allow their opinions
to be bought by vested interests.
It requires a lot of effort to create
a healthy society, but in the end it is
worth it. We need government action
T H E
MICROSCOPE
by Steve Black
money now to encourage us to be
more healthy.
We need Government action
because the food industry makes too
much money out of unhealthy foods
and is therefore willing to promote
bad habits by powerful advertising.
Even the tobacco industry (who
cannot claim that its products are
good for you) is still allowed to spend
a fortune every year encouraging us
to kill ourselves. They get away with
it because they also spend a lot of
money lobbying MPs in an attempt to
stop them banning the advertising.
Other slightly less disreputable
companies, such as sugar refiners,
have misused scientific results to
make their products seem more
innocuous than they actually are. One
company even had one of its own
experts make a highly publicised
speech claiming that children who eat
too much muesli were suffering from
malnutrition because of lack of sugar.
We will never build a healthy society
if we follow the advice of those who
to promote the public knowledge of
the facts of nutrition and health. We
also need legislation to force food
companies to tell us what is really in
their products so we know what is
good for us and what isn't. We should
aim for a society where people are
well enough informed about science
to judge for themselves how to be
healthy.
It is good to live in a society where
the ill will always be looked after, but
it is better to live in a society where
few people fall ill. We live in a
country where the cost of caring for
the ill is becoming so large that some
people think the state can no longer
afford to pay it. However, the best
way to preserve the NHS is not to
keep investing more money in treating
illness (though some may be needed
in the short term), but to spend the
money in an effort to create a more
healthy society. Investing in health
education now will ensure that, in the
long term, we can afford to look after
our ill.
Vampire chemical
kills bugs
A new idea in chemical weaponry has
been invented by chemists at the
University of Illinois: it is an
insecticide that only kills during the
day. At first sight this may not seem
like such a good idea, since crop-
eating insects are likely to be just as
hungry at night as during the day:
why should we call a truce if they
don't! However, the nature of the
vampire chemicals may make them
more useful than other bug-killers.
The basic chemical ingredient of
the Illinois chemists vampire soup is
a compound called delta-
aminolevulinic acid (delta-ALA to its
friends). Because of its similarity to
some cellular building-blocks, it is
unlikely that insects can evolve
resistance to it. In fact, it works
because they absorb large quantities
of it at night and then, when the sun
comes up, light (aided by the other
chemicals of the soup) initiates a chain
reaction that transforms the delta-
A L A into another rather nastier
compound called proto-porphyrin
which buggers cell membranes when
it gets into the wrong place in them.
Outside the insects or in the absence
of light the delta-ALA is harmless and
rapidly degrades in the environment.
Insects that have absorbed the
compound survive normally until
dawn when they last about ten
seconds before spinning around
violently throwing up and dying
(unless they can find a dark coffin
filled with consecrated earth).
The other additives to the chemical
soup can be readily modified to make
the mixture highly specific for one
pest. The process of making specific
cocktails is easy and thousands have
already been tried. This is a
significant improvement over more
conventional pesticides where costly
and slow trial-and-error alterations to
the basic killing-molecule are the only
way to create species-specificity.
It all goes to show that even
watching old horror films can suggest
ideas for new chemistry.
If there is anything you would like to
see on this page then now is the time
to contact me: there are only a
handful more issues of FELIX before
the summer. Suggestions, ideas,
articles, abuse to Steve Black, Chem
PG or the FELIX Office.
6 Friday 13th May 1988 FELIX

