FELIX SPORT
IC CLEAN SWEEP
B r u c e B r a d lev
IC travelled lo Kings on Saturday determined to wine away any
memories oT' their dastardly defeat at LSE on the previous
Wednesday. ICelected to play against a strong wind and a slight
slope and although 1C were not playing badly, it proved a difficult
matter to sustain a position in the kings half. A late tackle by
Austin brought the first score
of the half with Kings going equally brilliant run, once
ahead with an easy penally again scoring near the posts
from in front of the posts. Finney again obliging with
The first half continued to the conversion,
by a very tight forward battle Kings were well beaten by
with 1C coming out on top, the this time and IC rubbed in
outstanding forwards being their superiority with an
Lipscombe and Cresswell. 1C unconverted Cotter try and a
equalised from a Finney Hughes penalty, giving a final
penalty and completed the half score of 22-7 in favour of IC.
with the score at 3 points all.
The second half started Team: B.Finney, D.Shakesheff,
disastrously for IC when Kings R.Slern, D.Henton, A.Williams,
scored what can only be R.Hughes, M.Cotter. B.Bradley,
described as a fortunate try R.Austin,D.Hart,K.Lipscomhe,
after they had knocked on and S.Booth,R.Cresswell. MSergot
then failed to ground the ball J.Smiih.
properly. Undaunted IC
soldiered on and although the Due to the conditions of
wind had dropped considerably t n e pitch, a converted try by
managed to put the Kings line i C E x t r a lst's was the onlv
under almostconstantpressure. s c o r e j n this 6.(j victory over
The pressure was bound to M i l l Hill Gremlins. I'm sure
tell and Hughes, who had that those who played, feel
bulled the Kings back row into t ha t the result doesn't reflect
a false sense of security by the way in which we beat the
consistently passing to his opposition,
centres, unleashed an un-
stopable jinking run, beating Team: D.Turner: C.Whiteley,
at least six men before going M.Gibson, J.Gilbert. M.Ranson;
over by the posts. Finney D.Forbes. D.Osbourne:
duly converted. Ten minutes A,Whiteside, (.Shepherd,
later from an almost identical C.Wrigley. R.Rice, P.Jeffs,
position, Hughes, executed an S.Chudy. M.Kilbride, I.White.
HOCKEY
I'm sure there is a budding rhyme between Hug and jug, but
being rushed I'm afraid you'll be deprived of my poetic talent.
This must go down as the match of "The Jug That Got Away'.
On a multitude of occasions, Mrs. Hug, our dazzling left winger,
put the smell of beer into our nostrils (after first scoring two
goals, which incidentallv
pushes her into the lead as made it 4-1 and then in
season's lop scorer). On this between repeated attempts at
form <C.F. note!) who can this elusive jug (Moan, moan),
stop her? Westfield scored twice. The
A goal down early on, our final goal, a square-cut into
fearless and eager squad the net by goalie for the day
fought back to make it 1-1 at Tim Hanson (??) whose
half time. A goal from Andy accomplice (one of our two
'Chopper' Brewster, who spectators!!) was insistant
decided that it was too much on adding to the beer kitty
effort to try and ruin the wood- (always a good club man Tim),
work a second time. Our second spectator, obviously
Half-time. Mrs. Hug struck with a great knowledge of IC's
and it was 3-1! All over? attractive play, brought along
Hardly. An Andy Hall rocket his camera! (I think a few
last Saturday marked the beginning of the Rugby season for
the A' XV. After last week's disappointment, where the opposition
didn't turn up, the 'A's were raring to go. But when our opposition
(Kings College) hadn't arrived by Kick off time (3.00p.m.) everyone
thought w
t
- were in for a repeat performance. 'Don't panic!' came
the cry from Alvin Davies and
as sure as Wales would beat our winger, Jon Pitcher went
Tonga, Kings arrived, only over in the corner. Shortly
25 minutes late. afterwards, Ned the Yank
Much to our approval we made a good break down the
played a shortened match and right and slipped a perfectly
had the distinct disadvantage timed pass to Gwyn Davies,
of playing with a certain, who was up in support, and
nameless, scrum-half. The despite running on only one
first half was a rather, in good leg, he ran round his
fact, an extemely scrapy winger and scored our third
period, where our forwards, and final try, making the final
due to the lack of decent score 12-4 in our favour,
opposition, started to fight This was a good all round
against each other for some- performance from this world
thing to do. However, we did renowned Rugby team and the
score a try, a fine individual side shows definite promise
effort from John Swift. They for future weeks, when, no
replied with a try just short doubt, many more sides will
of half time to level the be on the receiving end of the
scores at 4-4 International XV.
The second half saw a
great change in the style of T e a m A l v l n Davies: Jon
play from IC and, accordingly, Pitcher, Sven Hindmarch.
we took the game by the Ked the Yank. Gwyn Davies,
scruff of the neck and Kings Hugh Savers, Me; lan Eleanor,
weren't really in it. The Steve Hoyle, Neil Hicktng;
scrum half, having settled Steve Aspden, Chris Culh-
down, produced a piece of a bertson: JohnSwtft,RichSutton
Gareth Edwards magic, and lan Marwood.
At last the inevitable has happened — the Hockey team has won
its first match of the season. Having travelled out to the wilds of
Esxex, 1C took the field in a confident mood. IC soon took the
lead from a penalty corner. The first shot was blocked but John
(Yes, he's still here) Andrews was on hand to scoop the ball over
the line. A second goal soon
followed. This time Bob
Middleton was on the right
spot to add the final touch to
a well worked long corner
embarassin& moments in routine. Against the run of
glorious technicolour are in P'av QMC pulled one goal back
_ t „ „ n following a defensive lapse.
s l o r e
> ' In the second half, OMC
Thanks to Nigel Harrison applied more pressure but the
for venturing into the inevitable (,e s t m o v e s still came in
job of umpiring on his own. breakaways from IC. Although
Oh, yes! About those 'open the hockey they produced was
goals' folks Er not as good as that in the
S-O-R-R-Y. first twomatches,ICthoroughly
A start to the mixed season deserved their 2-1 victory,
that couldn't have been which was more comfortable
bettered. Westfield provided than the scoreline suggests,
us with a very enjoyable and
good humoured match (and a Team: R.Hutson; J.Marshall,
win!!). Congratulations to all R.Cameron (Capt.): T.Clarke,
concerned particularly those K.Arrowsmilh. M.Vievra;
making their debut. D.Lord. I .Tutu. R.Mtddleton,
J.Andrews, C.Dver,
Injuries: IC 0 - Westfield 4 (;mp. T.Hanson.
Team: Tim Hanson, Shirley
Fairweather, Richard Cameron,
Jane Purvis, Chris Hodge.
Andy Hall, Andy Brewster, L'OlUll Oil DilCC I I
DianaMounsey .Dave Balderson
Janet Coxage, Viv Hughes.

