F i t I X
This Week we begin a new column in FELIX called 'Forum'.
The idea of this column is to stimulate discussion on various
topics of general interest, but not necessarily all involved with
students. This week's issue is 'Mastermind', that well known
BfBCprogramme starring Magnus Magnusson, and you can read
nhat Riz Shakir has to say on It and the IC entry into University
Challenge below. Next week's author will be Stephen Richardson.
MasterMIND!
MOST OF us have watched 'Mastermind' sometime or another.
Some of us were probably bemused and many others amazed by
the apparently stupendous knowledge of the participants.
However, I am sure not many of us have asked such obvious
questions as: What purpose does this programme serve? ; What
does it teach one if anything? ; What does it prove? ; etc.
It's reputed to be an 'intellectual' programme (Dictionary
defines 'intellect' as being 'the faculty of thinking and
reasoning'). But what has it done for our intellect? If it has not
even inspired us so much as to analyse the meaning and
implications of its title.
The title, at subconscious level, unconscious level, call
it what you will, 'suggests' that it is a process whereby a
person with a 'master mind' is selected. (Dictionary defines
'mind' as being 'thinking faculties as distinguished from the
body i.e. intellectual faculties'). However, it has very little
to do with the mind and is in reality a test of memory. In fact,
in many cases it boils down to whether a person has had the
time and/or the opportunity to read the relevant literature.
Hence it is not even a test of memory.
As regards the participants, I think they are rather arrogant,
bigheaded and supercilious to say the least. Basically they
are weak and need to reassure themselves of their 'importance',
in order to maintain their self-image.
Personally I admire those people most, who are ingenious
enough to improvise a solution when they encounter unfamiliar
situations, than those who can recall facts. 'A computer can
retain facts indefinitely where as it cannot produce solutions
instantaneously'.
As an ancient Punjabi saying sums up so perceptively
'A donkey loaded with books doesn't become a scholar'. (A lot
of the feeling has been lost in translation, however the gist is
clear).
The above also applies to other programmes of similar nature
and their participant. The propective IC team for 'University
Challenge' being an important exception to this generalisation.
Being.of highest 'intellectual standards' (???), they would not
partake in such a mediocre gathering but for the fact that the
ICU will receive £100 and free BOOZE will be provided for the
participants.
GAS CONVERSION
The process of conversion to natural gas will begin in the
College next Monday, 28th October. On that day all College
buildings to the north of Prince Consort Road will be without
gas for twenty-four hours from 8 o'clock in the morning.
Conversion work in all buildings south of Prince Consort
Road, including Prince's Gardens, will begin two days later,
on Wednesday, 30th October, when there will be no gas supply
for the twenty-four hours starting at 8 a.m. (Evelyn Gardens,
Queensberry Place and Hamlet Gardens will not form part of
the present conversion programme). Once the conversion
process has started, it is anticipated that it will probably
take about seven days to restore full service to all areas of
the College.
Access.
On Monday and Wednesday, the Gas Board will require
access from 8 a.m. to all areas included in the conversion
programme, including certain of the Halls of Residence.
Anyone who is likely to be away from the College should
arrange for their key to be available from their Departmental
Superintendent or, in the case of private accommodation, from
the Domestic Bursar.
There will be only coffee and sandwiches available in the
Union Lower Refectory on Monday.
Whilst it is certain that there will be meals available in
College Block and Southside on Wednesday, it is uncertain
whether they will be hot.
Our society is a melting-pot of
influences. Some good. And some
bad-
Many graduates are concerned
enough about society to realise
that some of its most acute conflicts
occur in the treatment of offenders.
And as a result they join the
Probation & After-Care Service.
As probation officers, their job is
to enquire into the background of
those who have got into trouble
with society and to work across the
boundaries of the problems that
present themselves. The range of
social work and the element of
personal involvement is
considerable and the rewards in
human terms are great indeed for
the right sort of person.
How do you start? Normally
through sponsorship as a trainee
probation officer on a course of
professional training recognised by
the Central Council for Education
and Training in Social Work and
leading to the Council's Certificate
of Qualification in Social Work.
Courses last between one and two
years depending on your degree
subjects. Graduate trainees are
paid at present a salary of at least
£1416. This rises after training to
£1926 and then can rise to £3390 and
above by promotion. The highest
grades earn up to £7000. Threshold
agreements operate. Probation
officers working in the London
area receive additional
remuneration.
For more information about the
Probation & After-Care Service as
a career please send your name and
address on a postcard to the Home
Office, Probation and After-Care
Department (WM) Room 446,
Romney House, Marsham Street,
London SW1P 3DY or get in touch
with your local Chief Probation
Officer whose address and telephone
number are in the telephone book.
Probation & After-Care Service

