8 F l t l X
NUS MOTIONS
IC is presenting these motions to the NUS Conference at the end of November.
Policy Heading Northern Ireland.
Motion tabled by Imperial College, London.
Conference notes...
1) The continuation of the bi-partisan policy by
the Labour Government
2) The intention of the government to strengthen
the Royal Ulster Constabulary and the Ulster
Defence Regiment.
3) The publication of the recent report on the
economy of Northern Ireland.
4) The recent allegations that the army command
in Northern Ireland defied government orders,
in particular during the Ulster Workers
Council 'strike',
5) That internment continues in Northern Ireland
and in particular that N.U.S. members continue
to be interned.
6) The attempts of Powell, the Monday Club and
the National Front to use Northern Ireland as
a political base from which to extend their
influence.
Conference believes...
1. That the Labour Government should break with
the Tory policy of seeking a military solution
to the problems of Northern Ireland, and
instead seek a political one,
2. That the decision to strengthen the R.U.C. and
U.D.R. is a capitulation to the right wing in
Ulster who are trying to bring back the B
Specials under another name.
3. That the report on the economy of Northern
Ireland highlights the root cause of the problems
of Northern Ireland, namely the domination of the
economy by foreign imperialism, in particular,
British imperialism; that the sectarian divisions
are maintained in,Northern Ireland by imperialism
in order to continue its domination of Ireland, and
Northern Ireland in particular.
Conference calls for a political solution to include
the following...
1/ The release of all internees.
2/ The repeal of all legislation that represses the
democratic rights of the people of Northern
Ireland, e.g. the Emergency Powers Act.
3/ The passing of a Bill of Rights, as demanded by
the conference of the British T.U.C. in 1971, to
guarantee democratic freedoms and an end to all
discrimination in housing, employment, etc.
A/ The withdrawal of British troops to barracks
pending their complete withdrawal from Northern
Ireland.
5/ The creation of a non-sectarian police force to
replace the RUC.
Conference recognises that these initial
steps are the only way to create a situation in
which the basic problems of Ireland can be solved
and therefore calls for maximum support to be
given to those organisations such as NICRA,
which aim to unite Catholic and Protestant
workers against the repression of British
imperialism and for the above policies.
Policy Heading Teaching Methods.
Motion tabled by imperial College, London.
Conference notes:
1. That the education of students in C.O.'s is of
vital concern nationally.
2. That the quality of teaching in post-school
education leaves much to be desired.
Conference believes:
1. That lecturers require a significant period of
training in:
a) delivery of lectures.
b) management of tutorials.
c) audio*visual aids.
d) curriculum development-
e) assessment and examinations.
Instructions.
Exec,
Instructions.
To Exec. & COs.
To undertake a review of and publish a report
on this question.
Policy Heading Entertainments
Motion tabled by Imperial College, London
Conference notes:
1 The amount of money spent on entertainments
by CO's annually and the annual increase of
that amount.
2 The importance of entertainments in students'
unions (per se).
3 The percentage of the music market that
students' unions constitute.
4 The level of prices that are being asked for
bands and the fact that this level prohibits
many small colleges from holding entertainments
e vents.
5 The vast differences in prices charged for the
same band at different venues.
6 The excessive profits made out of SU's by
commercial agencies.
7 The irregularity of contracts with their various
riders and clauses, and the liability to which
many SU's thereby expose themselves.
8 The "varietyof tactics' used by commercial
agents to ensure business ana subsequent
moral dilemma in which social secretaries find
themselves!
9 The transience of social secretaries and the
permanence of the commercial agents which
gives them greater 'expertise'; the disadvantage
at which SU's are thereby placed.
10 The history of the NUS brokerage.
1 1 The potential of solidarity within the student
movement as the key to the solution of these
problems.
Conference objectives:
1 Fairer and rational price system.
2 A reliable service for entertainments.
3 A greater degree of access for small venues.
4 A standardised contract in which SU's can
have confidence.
To work for maximun support for
organisations campaigning for some
or all of the above policies.
To organise more visits by students
from Britain to Northern Ireland and
V.V. in order to increase student
awareness of the real problems of
Northern Ireland and their solutions.
Conference instructs:
To elect a working party of
seven members — 4 from the
floor of conference; 2 from
NUS Executive; 1 from the
board of the holding
company for NUS Services.

