F E L I X
Working Party
1. To investigate all the aspects of
musical and related entertainments
within CO's and the feasibility of —
both economically and politically —
of establishing an NUS Entertainments
Agency as an extension of NUS services.
2. To appoint their own chairperson,
secretary, etc., from within their own
number.
.3. To co-opt, in an advisory capacity,
anyone who can assist them in their
investigation.
4. To prepare a full report, together with
recommendations and minority opinions,
to the next Margate Conference in 1975.
COS. 3. To fight cutbacks and mergers whenever they
occur and are not in the interests of the
membership.
Exec. & Cos
To oppose the disgusting discrimination
against overseas students.
To campaign to force the Government to
maintain the rent freeze, and extend it to
cover all rented accomodation.
To call national action whenever opportune
to press for N.U.S. demands.
To co-operate with teaching unions and the
trade union movement to fight against cutbacks
and the government education policy.
All CO's T.o co-operate fully with the working
party in every aspect of their work.
Exec. To make financial provision for the
working party.
Policy Heading Finance of Education.
Motion tabled by Imperial College, London,
Conference notes....
1) The Government announcement on Grants of
14th May, and the increase in the main rate
to £605 and to £665 in London.
2) That the basic structure of the grants system
was left unaltered, natably as regards
(a ) discretionary awards
(b) the parental means test
(c) discrimination against married women
(d) the non-recognition of the cash grant
demand for colleges of education.
3) That the grant award will be swiftly eroded by
inflation, especially as college administrations
attempt to place canteens and halls of residence
on self-balancing accounts.
4) The rising fees for overseas students.
5) The introduction of spouses contribution.
Cutbacks.
1. That the last Labour Government did nothing
to reverse the £200mn. cuts from the
education budget by their Tory predecessors.
2. That the drastic reduction of education
finance reverses the proposals advanced
within the Robbins Report.
3. That by 1981 the number of students in
teacher training will be slashed by half.
4. That the present series of mergers are being
conditioned by education cuts, and that a high
reduction in the building programme is
accompanying the decrease in total intake.
5. That there will be a significant decrease in
staff numbers and the quality of education if
these cutbacks are implemented.
Conference recognises...
1/ That the Grants Campaign can no longer be
separated from the whole question of educational
financing, because the Grants increase is being
offset by cutbacks on expansion, and on existing
educational provision
2/ That education cuts are a direct response to the
economic crisis and represent an attempt to
provide a limited education on the cheap.
Conference further recognises that the real
burden is placed upon present staff and
students who will suffer both economically
and in terms of their educational aspirations,
and upon those already deprived of
opportunity — i.e. working class children,
women, black people, and those who could
benefit from adult education.
3/ That there is a real basis for unity amongst
students, campus workers and academic
staff — thus bring in their respective trade
unions.
Conference resolves....
To combine the campaign for a fair grants
system and against education cutbacks, as
part of the N.U.S. fight for increased
educational opportunity and availability.
Conference instructs...
Exec. 1. To pursue the demands of the Grants Campaign
as previously defined, with the addition of
abolition of spouses contribution.
& COS. 2. To encourage direct action in pursuance of a
fair grants system and against economisation
policy whenever it is possible and at all levels
possible.
Policy Heading Housing
Motion tabled by Imperial College,London.
Conference notes:
1) The continuing shortage of housing for all
sections of the population.
2) The massive inflation in land prices, mortgage
interest rates which have been passed on in
increased rents.
3) The Labour Governments proposed new Rent
Act which actively discriminates against
student tenants because of the reduction in
rent rebates to student tenants of £4.
4) That there is little Local Authority housing
suitable for single people.
5) The acute housing problems faced by student
tenants who are parents, many of whom are
refused places on Local Authority housing lists.
6) That students in college-owned accommodation
are usually licencees and not tenants.
7) That the U.G.C, shows signs of paying for some
deficits on housing accounts.
8) The dangerous anti-democratic proposals for a
'criminal trespass law' and its effects,
particularly on squatting and occupations, sit-
ins and picketing.
Policy,
l) That there will be no solution to the general
housing problem until land and building are
nationalised and the resources used for the
benefit of society rather than speculators.
2) That students should be recognised as a part
of the community in which they live and Local
Authorities should provide a range of
accommodation appropriate to local demand.
3) College-owned accommodation should be
subject to the same rent control as other
accommodation.
4) Colleges should provide emergency housing
as a welfare service.
5) That either licensee status should be abolished
or the rents charged under such agreements
should be considerably less than that paid by a
tenant with full rights.
6) That discrimination in the new Rent Act be
abolished, particularly with regard to rent
rebates.
7) That where landlords intend to withdraw their
property from the accomodation market and wheie
where this could mean large scale evictions,
local authorities should purchase such
accomodation by compulsion.
8) The major long term priority for students with
regard to housing must be to obtain collage
owned accomodation for all students.
Instructions.
To whom
N.U.S. Exec.
Areas & CGs
COs
NUS. Exec. COs
and Areas.
What-
To circulate briefing material
about housing, legal rights, rent
rebates and licensee status to
all CO's.
IV) To pressurise Local
Authorities to provide long and
short term accomodation suitable
for young people.
2) To joing local campaigns
against any new office building
or site or land wastage.
To campaign for emergency
provisions to be made available
by college authorities.
To campaign for an end to
self-balancing housing accounts.

