Page 10
LOOKING BACK...
L
ast summer, while returning home, I
travelled by ferry from Liverpool to
Belfast. Not having previously booked a
berth, I registered on board and waited.
Eventually, I managed to obtain a berth in a
four man cabin. Retiring late, I did not see my
fellow cabinmates.
I slept soundly, except for two occasions
when I was woken by the restlessness of the
traveller in the bunk opposite me. Both times I
rolled over and crashed into oblivion.
In the morning, I exchanged cursory nods
with the other three occupants and continued
about my business. I went upon deck to catch
a breath of fresh sewer outlet and play
moving target for the seagulls. Returning to
the cabin, two of the three had gone to
breakfast. The third one was just finishing
shaving.
'Morning,' he said.
'Hi.'
'Your first tour?'
'?????'
'First tour in Ulster?' he repeated.
'Oh, no, I live there,' I said.
'Oh.'
'Your first time?'
'Yyess. I'm a bit worried about it. Ididn't get
much sleep last night.'
'Well, it's never as bad as it sounds,' I said,
lying through my back teeth. What could I say
to him? Join the Army, see the world, be
posted to Crossmaglen and enjoy the best
laxative known to man?
Barely eighteen he was, just past basic
training. I never asked of him where he was
going or who he was. Nor he of me.
We chatted about the cricket results, the
weather, fishing and all sorts of other trivia.
We moaned about the cost and standard of
Sealink breakfasts. We left the ship together.
At the terminal he went to the military exit.
'Seeya,' he said.
'Good luck,' I said, as I plodded to the civilian
exit. I remembered then, that I had meant to
tell him about the excellent fishing country to
be found in South Armagh. But then, I
reckoned he would not have much time for
fishing. He probably would not be anywhere
near South Armagh anyway.Even if he was,
he would certainly not be there to catch fish.
I will never know what happened to that
young private soldier. Just eighteen, built like
a tank, and scared. Wouldn't you be? Going
to fight a war of shadows, where you cannot
shoot except under circumstances decided
by your Commanding Officer, where every
smile may conceal a gun or knife, where every
car might explode without warning, where
just doing your job makes you a likeliertarget
for a sniper's bullet. Wouldn't you be scared?
And frustrated?
T
here is a saying that when Terence
O'Neill (Prime Minister of Northern
Ireland during the sixties) attended
society functions in England during his
premiership and was introduced, a
diplomatic 'Who?' was the first reaction. On
reply to this the next comment was 'Where?'
Of course, that type of reaction may have
been due solely to the man that Terence
O'Neill was; however I am not so sure.
Until the current speight of unrest,
the government of Northern Ireland was of
little concern to Westminster.Parliament had
little say in the affairs of the Province,
preferring to behave as the ultimate absentee
landlord. Northern Ireland was governed by a
perpetual one-party system of Unionist
control. The Unionists, a combination of
descendants of the nobility and hard line
reactionaries, maintained their position, not
by repressive legislation as such, but by a
mixture of rigging election boundaries to
their advantages (gerrymandering), allowing,
under certain circumstances determined by
property ownership, one person to have more
than one vote to cast, by propagating the old
adage of 'divide and rule', and in a country
where jobs and housing have always been
acute problems, keeping tight control of both
their allocation.
Usually the 'Catholic Nationalist' minority
got the raw end of the deal, being seen by
nobility and majority alike as "a potential
threat to their comfy niche and their freedom
of worship (that is, those of the majority who
were really concerned about religion).
In the end, demands for Civil Rights
became louder and louder. 'Brits Out' and
'Irish Unity' were not the immediate war cries
in 1968. What was wanted badly was electoral
reform, and fair allocation of jobs and
housing. The IRA had not yet reappeared,
having had little success with their previous
campaign in the late fifties, and often
Westminster was looked to as the saviour
from the stagnation of fifty years of Unionist
indifference and misrule. The CR Movement
was a just and deserved cause. However, it
went sour.
Reactionary 'Protestants', believing that
any electoral reform weakened their position,
and opened the door to unity with the South a
little wider, responded with violence. In
(London) derry, notorious for appalling
housing, unemployment, and gerrymander-
ing, a peaceful CR march was disrupted by
'Protestant' thugs. Events rapidly escalated
into rioting, counter-rioting and razing of
whole streets to the ground. Within days the
country was poised on the brink of civil war.
The Royal Ulster Constabulary could no
longer control the street mobs. Protestant
and Catholic clergy and moderates pleaded
with Westminster to intervene. The Unionist
heirarchy, now anxious for some sort of law
and order to return, asked for the military to
be sent in to keep the hard men of both sides
apart. In the end British troops arrived in a
peace keeping role.
The attacks and riots upon 'Catholic'
estates by 'Protestant' gangs, gave the IRA
the opportunity to appear as the peoples'
police. Support grew for them in these areas,
not because of their ultimate political
aspirations, but because of their appearance
as the only means of defence. Once the IRA
had gained the confidence and support of the
people, they were able to move against their
real targets.
Fired, as they always had been, by the
watery-eyed romantism of appearing as
freedom-fighters, they gradually moved from
the defensive to the offensive. Quickly
forgetting the original reasons for the troops
being in Northern Ireland, they launched
bomb attacks on anything that they
considered to be "part of the British war
machine" - shops, cinemas, pubs, banks.
Soldiers and police were automatic targets.
The intention was, and is. to bomb and shoot
all trace of Britain out of the North-East
quarter of Ireland. Once the remnant of
imperialism had gone, the next step was a 32
country Socialist Republic.
This is how I remember the current unrest
beginning. Since then, there have been many
attempts by successive British Governments
to find an instant solution. That in itself is a
gross error of judgement. In a country where
memories are long, and fear of the other half
remains for generations on end, any solution
must be arrived at over a long period of time.
Also, no solution can be imposed from
Westminster, it must be arrived at in Northern
Ireland itself. But with no competent
politicians, with nothing better than skilled
rabble-rousers for representatives, there
would seem little hope of useful political
activity occuring.
That private soldier should have completed
two tours by now - perhaps three. I am sure he
is still as confused as he was when I met him. I
am not surprised. I am quite confused myself
as to why some Irish don't have a cause, but
are prepared to fight anybody in support of it.
David Crabbe
U N D E R G R A D U A T E S P O S T G R A D U A T E S
1979 80
R E S I D E N C E
H A L L S & H O U S E S H A L L S & H O U S E S
APPLICATION FORMS are now available from the
Residence Office, Room 161, Shertield Building, for- APPLICATION FORMS are now available from the
Residence Office, Room 161, Sherfield Building, for:-
NEW APPLICANTS GREEN FORM
2nd & 3rd year UG Students who have
not had a year in Hall or House
RE-APPLICANTS BLUE FORM
Postgraduates who have had ONE year in
residence - Hall or House
RE-APPLICANTS BLUE FORM CLOSING DATE - FRIDAY 16th MARCH
UG Students who have had ONE year
in residence in Hall or House NEW APPLICANTS YELLOW FORM
CLOSING DATE - FRIDAY 16th MARCH
CLOSING DATE - WEDNESDAY Ist AUGUST
Imperial College students are eligible for two years in
Residence as an Undergraduate.
Completed forms should be returned to Room 161,
Sherfield Building. Only correctly completed forms,
with photographs attached, will be accepted.
Students are eligible for two years in residence
as a Postgraduate.
Completed forms should be returned to the
Residence Office.

