Page 12
MART'S
MUTTERINGS
I bet you were all sitting there thinking that you've
absolutely nothing to do on M o n d a y evenings. Well, after
you've been to Speakers'Corner on Sunday, i n order to make
the case against tuition fee increases, the obvious thing to do is
to come along and observe Council meeting in the Senior
C o m m o n R o o m at 6 o'clock. T h i s is your opportunity to listen
to the Rector of Imperial College and ask questions on
anything you'd like to know about and particularly about the
p r o b l e m of tuition fees. As you should know by now we are
asking College this year not to increase tuition fees, and also to
charge overseas students the same rate as home students. This
i n total should cost College over £400,000, so we need quite a
good campaign i n order to achieve this. Don't forget we also
want you to lobby your M P .
Refectories
Thanks to those hardy individuals who turned out to lobby
Governing Body last Friday. T h e result of the meeting was not half as
bad as it could have been, and the worst proposal was not passed by
Governing Body. T h e Refectory Committee will continue to discuss the
termly review of prices and it has been referred to Refectory
Committeee to come up with a new regulator which will take into
account both food cost increases a n d other increases on a regular basis
to the Refectory accounts.
When is a Resident not a Resident?
Well, if you're a Local Authority you'd probably reply to this "when
you're trying to save money". As you will know if you've been reading
my column regularly (somebody must be mad enough), several
Imperial College students have been refused grants because the
Department of Education and Science decided to collude with local
authorities to change the definition of "ordinary residents". Therefore,
even though people have lived in this country for three years, they are
still not able to get a grant. M i c h a e l Arthur, however, may have saved
the day by writing a legal paper on which we have now received
counsel's opinion which is favourable towards the chances of winning a
case against a local authority. If we succeed, our one small U n i o n will
have defeated the entirety of the Education authority's bureaucracy!
E x t r a Union meeting
As you might have noticed from last week's issue, I have called an
exta U n i o n meeting for next Tuesday, the 27th, at 1.30 p.m. in the
Great H a l l . That is at a later time in order not to clash with the
Pancake Race, which is an Imperial College annual tradition.
Motions on the agenda include cannabis and gay rights, to say
nothing of a late addition of one campaigning against tyrannical clocks,
calling for the ending of discrimination against all Celts. See you then.
M a r y Attenborough
President, IC Union
Education & Apartheid
O n T h u r s d a y 8th the Imperial College Committee on
Overseas Students invited Sir Robert Birley to speak on the
controversial subject of 'Education and Apartheid' i n South
Africa. Sir Robert, who is one o f the leading educationalists i n
this country, was i n South Africa for three years as Visiting
Professor of Education at the University of Witwatersand.
H e began by giving a few facts on South Africa. O f its population 72%
are Africans, 16.75% Whites, 9% Coloureds, and 2.25% Asians. The
South African Government came into power in 1948 and in 1953 the
Bantu Education Policy was introduced and students were seggregated
by colour. H e went on to explain how most of South Africa's economy
depended on migrant labour and how these labourers had to leave their
families behind and work in South Africa for a number of years, as they
were not allowed to bring them with them.
H e went on to say that in the instructions in factories where
Primary school there were about
3.5 million Africans, which is
about 91.4%, and in contrast only
about 14% in Secondary schools.
Sir Robert explained this by
q u o t i n g a S o u t h A f r i c a n
industrialist who had said that
they had to teach the Africans to
read and write so that they could
read a n d understand notices and
they were required to work. V e r y
little science was taught and the
South African history that was
taught was completely distorted
and the African children, who did
not believe any of it, had to learn
it in order to pass examinations.
The teacher, pupil ratio for white
students is 1:20 and for black
students it is 1:52. T h e per capita
Grants, Sponsorship
and Tax
This is a brief survey of the way that earnings, and sponsorship and
scholarship payments affect your grant and tax position. If your
personal experience of what happens is different from this, I would be
very interested to hear about it.
Income that affects your Grant
You are allowed to earn as much as you like during the vacation
without it affecting the quantum of your grant entitlement. Term time
earnings, however, are limited to 235 pounds and after that you lose I
pound from your grant for every I pound you earn over 235 pounds. The
same applies to money received by way of a scholarship or sponsorship,
where the limit is 500 pounds. This is the position with Local Education
Authority undergraduate grants but may be different in the case of Qther
types of grant or grants from other sources.
Payments that affect your tax position
The general position is that scholarships are not treated as taxable
income in the same way as the L.E.A. grant is treated as exempt. It is,
however, up to the taxman to decide whether or not certain payments
are to be treated as scholarships or as earnings which would be liable to
taxation. The way that they do this is to say that payments over a certain
fixed value are too big to be treated purely as monies for the purpose of
assistance with education and that therefore they must be treated as
income from earnings or 'offices'. This means that the whole lot is then
taxable (subject, of course, to the usual personal allowances) under
Schedule E of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1970. Whether a
payment is called a scholarship or sponsorship does not make any
difference.
The figure that they use for this purpose is 2000 pounds per annum.
However, if you are in a position where, had you been getting an S.R.C.
grant, you would have been paid more than this, then the exemption will
apply so long as your income from your sponsorship does not exceed
this S.R.C. figure. From April of this year the figure will go up to 3000
pounds per annum.
Sometimes a sponsorship is given on the understanding that you will
work for your sponsor during the vacations. If this is the case, that part
of the money which can be attributed to the work that you do for your
sponsor will count as earnings and be potentially taxable.
Accommodation
We are stepping up advertising for offers of accommodation and so
hope to heave a few more places than usual to offer. How about a house
for five in SW16, or a flat in Wandsworth with one twin-bedded bedroom,
livingroom, kitchen etc. for 30 pounds per week? Contact the Welfare
Centre' for these and many (well, a few) more.
Hamlet Gardens
Last Friday, at a meeting in Hammersmith Town Hall, some tenants
from Hamlet Gardens decided to set up a Resident's Association. This is
really designed to help those other than occupants of college flats (who
have their own negotiating machinery through college). Most of those
present at the meeting were not I.C. students. It is hoped, however that
those of you who live in Hamlet Gardens will lend your support to this
scheme, since, without support, it won't get very far! The initial objects
of the Association are to explore the position as to Security of Tenure
and Fair Rents and to assist in matters between individual tenants and
the landlord. The Chairlady of the Association is Liz Hebblethwaitewho
is at I.C. If you want more information about what the Association can
do for you, you should contact Liz, who lives in Flat 20, Hamlet Gardens.
Michael Arthur,
Welfare Adviser
expenditure for white students is
R 644, and R 41.80 for black
students.
Commenting on the political
awareness of the students, Sir
Robert said that most of the
English speaking Universities
were against the government, and
its policies. D u e to people like
Steve Biko, a medical student who
was the leader of the Black
conciousness movement, the
African students are very much
more certain of their political
aims and are determined to
achieve it. In conclusion he stated
that the African students were
very much more intelligent than
they are made out to be and are
determined to achieve their
political objectives one way or
another. S. D i l i p k u m a r

