IPage 15
R E V I E W S — I
Z Z Z D T H E A T R E
" A F a i r Q u a r r e l " by T h o m a s Middleton
and W i l l i a m Rowley by the National
Theatre C o m p a n y at the Olivier
Theatre
It was the R o y a l Shakespear Company's
" T h e C h a n g e l i n g " which I reviewed last
week which tempted me into-seeing this play
by the same collaboration, and on arrival at
the Olivier Theatre I was wondering whether
I would be able to pay much attention to the
play, so impressive was the nature of the
theatre itself.
I soon found, however, that the open stage
lent itself admirably to the play, and the
actors' varied entrances from the back, front
and sides of the auditorium and through the
central well of the stage, served to make a
pleasant change from the rather mere
predictable 'pro-scenium' situation.
The subject matter of the play is mainly
based around the ethics of duelling, and in
Imperial College Folk Club meets every
Monday evening of term in the Union Lower
refectory. Most Mondays we have a guest act,
and aim to cover the whole range of folk
music with a wide variety of guests. To
supplement the guests, about half of each
evening is devoted to performers "from the
f l o o r " d o i n g t h e i r own thing -
unaccompanied singing, ragtime guitar,
poetry (!) and everything in between;
anything and everything is welcome with the
financial persuasion that anybody who
"performs" gets in free!
The first act of the term was "Dolphin Suite", a
highly amusing three man band singing songs
ranging from Buddy Holly to their own comic
compositions.
By way of contrast, the next weeks gueste were
"Brian Boru", three lads playing and singing
trad. Irish tunes, one member of the band
spending most of the evening fighting withasetof
Irish Pipes!
Mr. Smith, a one man comedy act withaguitar,
graced us with his presence thefolbwing week. He
performed ethnic obscure, traditional material
such as Bachs 'Air on a G-string' and some of
Sousas marches, promptly followed by putting a
black plastic bag over his head and impeisonating
Al Jobon! As if this wasnotenough.oneof thefloor
spots that evening was an excelent band called
'Arcadian'. They played a wide variety of
instruments and entertained us with songs that
covered the whole spectrum of folk music.
Panic ensued next Monday afternoon when at
four o'clock that evenings guest, Nigel Mazhyn
Jones, 'phoned to say he couldn't get here. He
'phoned a band called 'Waterfall', who were in a
some studios in the back of beyond, and asked
them to play. They immediately threw
everything, including the dog, into the back of a
van and arrived at I.C. at about 8.30 p.m. Despite
the short notice, a hectic drive in bad conditions,
and a lead singer with asore throat, they turned
out to be a superb replacement providing a very
enjoyable evening culminating in a jam sessbn
with everyone present playing something (even if
it was only a beer glass).
A week last Monday evening, Tony Rose, the
West Countrys finest revival singer, was the guest
of I.C. Folk Club. We weretostforwords about this
mans talents.
Sunday evening saw the first in a new series of
folk music programmes on I.C. Radio. They are
broadcasted between 5 and 6 p.m. and presented
alternatively by Jeremy J. Farrell and Jonathan
F. Clarke. Anysuggestbns for material toplayon
the times in which the play was written (1616
- 1617) this was fairly topical. James I, the
"peacemaker's" reign saw a distinct rise of
civil disturbance following an age of foreign
hostilities; " W h e n the drum's unbraced, and
trumpets cease, soldiers must get pay for to
live in peace", and ex-privateers and soldiers
preyed on the civilian population of L o n d o n ,
and the provincial gentry drawn to L o n d o n
at that time who " t u r n ' d four or five hundred
acres ... into two or three trunks of apparel"
to get here (more fool them).
The production of the play leaves little to
be criticised and much to the imagination
(props are scarce and scenery is non-existent),
the lighting was good (but the facilities for
this seem to be virtually limitless), a n d the
changes of situation are thus effected quickly
and clearly.
T u r n i n g now to the acting, Ian Ireland was
a striking Russell (father to Jane who was
acted with some mediocrity by Harriet
Walter). Fred Pearson and Nicky Henson as
quarrelling soldiers were well cast and added
flair to the play as did M a r k Wing-Davey and
Peter-Hugo Daly as cornishmen, forming the
FIRST: JAKKO. Lead guitar and vocals. Co-
writeron all material. Aged 20. Finalist in Melody
Maker National Competition; Graudated (?) to
Warren Harry, and finally became good enough to
join the Spoons.
SECOND: TAM. Aged 22. Keyboards, drums,
co-writer. Plays synthesiser clarinet, electric
piano. Father is sub-principle bass player in
N.P.O. Tarn trained at the Royal Academy.
THIRD: LYNDON. Keyboards, drums, vocals.
Co-writer. Also classically trained, and from a
musical family. No relation to Julie Andrews, but
the 'good looking' member of the group.
FOURTH: ANDREW. Aged 23, as is Lyndon.
Bass, classical guitar, flute. Royal College of
Music. A very funky person.
the programme may be given to Jerry or Jon at
folk club on any Monday evening.
Last Monday (19th February), we were proud
to present a band by the name of "Desperate
Scratch", giving us one of their last London gigs
before departing for a tour of the Belgian folk-
scene.
Remember! I.C. Folk Clubmeebevery Monday
in the Union Lower refectory at around 8.15 p.m.
fool and wit duette, common to plays of this
era. But almost beyong doubt, the finest actor
(in my opinion) to grace the stage that night
was Dermot Crowley as the scheming and
wicked physician whose sweet and sour role is
demanding to say the least. T h e sudden
revelation that he is in fact a viceful villain
and not (as he at first seems) a selfless
philanthropist is delivered so well that it is
hard to come to terms with the dichotomy, or
even believe it, and so it was intended in the
play.
This leads me to point out that this play has
much in common with " T h e C h a n g e l i n g " , in
that some of it concerns the lengths to which a
man will go to get his way (in lust), but unlike
it in that it contrives to have a good outcome,
and the threats and schemes of the wicked fall
to nothing instead of d a m n i n g all, good or
evil.
T h e script itself, I think, offers more in the
way of historical interest and insight than
that of entertainment or art, but the
production reinforces these latter weaknesses,
and hence the play has much to offer.
D a v i d M . Weston
FIFTH: but not in order of importance, TED
the trumpet player that stands at the front. Ex-
Salvation Army rumouis incorrect but he mayend
up there. Hesso young for his age 21.
SIXTH: ELLIOT. Chief mechanic, electrical
wizard and crew boss.
Assemble as above although the order may be
flexible for metric punters. You should then have
an extremely talented and entertaining combo,
veisatile to the point of envy by other would-be
musicians, and quite capable of anything. Jazz
rock is the wrong description as is new wave.
Very clever and exciting rock with a lot of CLASS
is more like it, and like it you will.
See them in the Union
Concert Hall at 8:00 p.m.
tonight.
Members get in for 30 p., otheis for 60 p., and
membeiships cost you £1.00 , inclusive of one
nights free entry. The exceptions are nighfe
without guests when everybody gete in free, and
floor performers of any sort who get in for free
whenever they perform - come and try your hand!
If you've any enquiries, get in touch with
Jeremy J. Farrell, Physics II, or come along
any Monday evening - see you there!

