P a g e 19
R u g b y F i r s t s
R e a c h F i n a l
L C . lst 21
R O Y A L F R E E lst 0
As holders of the Gutteridge C u p I.C. Rugby were
disappointed to say the least after a terrible performance in
the first round put us out of this year's competition. As a way of
showing that the team can still play we have made it our goal to
win the Plate Competition instead and the above score now
means we have reached the final. So all things going well we
will bring back another trophy to be displayed in the Union
Office.
The team was not as strong as it might have been with captain R a y
Parkinson injured and a new front row set up. Even so the line up was
still strong and there was every reason for confidence.
A n d what a start I.C. made! Almost immediately from the kick off
.Royal Free won a scrum only to lose the ball after a truly monumental
drive from I.C. had pushed them back a full ten yards! This set the
trend for the match because a n excellent display from the forwards won
nearly all the line-outs and many of the srummages. However, in the
loose the pack was not as good, though winning the majority of the ball,
and this was probably due to the lack of match practice recently and the
need for a professional coach.
A l l that remained for us to do
was to score and the points came
quite slowly.
Early on Ronnie H o w a r d
downed the ball for a try only to
be denied by the referee who was
clearly in error. W e kept going
though and the first score came
after a good movement in the
three-quarters was put over for a
try in the corner. This was quickly
followed by a penalty under the
posts from M . Cotter, playing at
full back for the day.
The second-half carried on as
the first had done with I.C. on the
attack most of the time and the
score being elevated to the above
total after a final flourish brought
more points for us.
Richard Smart scoring a real
bulldozer try following a penalty
close to their line had an excellent
match, and Steve Debney must
also be mentioned for a good
performance on the wing (he
usually plays centre or fly-half).
A l l that remains to report of
this match are the celebrations.
T h e U n i o n Bar was graced
with two " z u m b a s " from Ray-
Parkinson and skipper for the day
Steve Townsend - what more
need I say!
Stay with me though for there
are two more matches to be
reported!
I.C. lst 6
S A R A C E N S 3rds 13
This was the match preceding
the above game by the way.
After so many cancelled games
recently everyone was amazed to
find this match still on. A quick
'phone call to A r t h u r confirmed
this so we set off for Harlington
even though we were one player
short at this time (so were the
seconds). In the end Ian Taylor,
the second's captain, managed to
drag his remaining player out of
bed in Evelyn Gdns, and lent one
of his players to us.
Thus with a full team we
arrived and, yours truly - captain
for the d a y due to R a y
Parkinson's ham string injury - set
about giving the team talk. A l l my
cool authority was shattered
though when I rummaged
frantically through my kit bag to
find I had forgotten my boots!
W e took the field to face
Saracens (I borrowed some boots)
and the match began.
S a r a c e n s s e e m e d to be
perpetually on the attack but
some good tackling in the backs
denied all their attempts. The
forwards, though much lighter
than our opponents, managed to
win us a fair amount of ball
though much of this was spoiled
by their two very good flankers.
W e held them well and by half-
time we were actually 6-0 in the
lead after two good penalty goals
from " D o b b e r s " - who was
standing in at fly half for the
absent E d d y Budgen.
I.C. held out well in the second-
half but with about 20 minutes to
go Saracens scored twice to gain
them the points to win the match,
and adding a penalty goal.
T h i s w a s n o t a b a d
performance from I.C. in view of
the opposition and the fact that a
spirited fight back in the last ten
minutes almost brought us a
couple of tries.
Next week
I.C. lst 13
S I D C U P 10
S. Townsend
Dear Students, - I have received
certain requests to help various
people by trying to extract both
information and money out of
you. So here goes:
1. There is a movement in
College which is attempting to get
a professional injury fixer to
reside at College, in the future, in
the hope that nagging little
injuries can be cured as soon as
possible. But before we can be
granted this luxury facts have to
be gathered to ascertain whether
enough students are kept out of
sport or other recreational
activities for any length of time to
warrant such action. So could any
of you readers who have been
injured this session please jot
down on a piece of paper what the
injury was, how it was caused,
how long it lasted, what steps you
took to cure it and how it was
eventually cured and send it along
to the Union Office care of me or
Daphne Websper.
2. Be warned that in the near
future questionnaires will be
circulated around college in an
attempt to find out what sort of
student uses the U.L.U. buildings
and what improvements you
would like to see in the U.L.U.
buildings which might provoke
you into going there more often.
3. I should be able, shortly, to
get hold of cheap 'Speedo'
K R U G B Y
swimware and leisure ware, any
profits going towards sending a
Water Polo team to the World
Student games in Mexico. So if
you want high quality goods at a
low price then find me in the
Union Office every (well some-
apologies to Chem PG) lunch-
time between 12.30 and 1.
Also, if any of you are interested
in seeing Water Polo matches
between U.L.U. team and an
American team (thegames should
be televised) in mid-April for only
75 p I will be able to order you
some.
4. This is aimed purely at the
college sporty types. The
University of London Sport's
Council is holding a large 'ball' on
Saturday March 3rd. The tickets
are 3.50 pounds per head, which
includes a buffet and a late night
disco run by Capital Radio. The
point of the 'ball' is to get as many
sportsmen and women as
! possible from all of London's
c o l l e g e s to be a b l e to
communicate with one and other
on friendly terms and maybe even
have some fun.
So if any sportsmen (especially
stoats) and women are out there
reading this and you want a ticket
then come and get me as soon as
possible because there is a limit of
600 which could go very quickly.
Love and affection,
Clyde O. A C C Chairprimate
S E C O N D S DEFEAT WESTFIELD
I.C. 2ND's 8 WESTFIELD 1'STS 0
The side looked like it was down to the usual number of players, as I
didn't get up in time. Well, I forgot the match was in the morning. I
eventually made it to Harlington a few minutes late.
Anyway, I've no idea who won the toss, but we kicked off. The ball
seemed to like their end because it stayed there most of the first half.
After about fifteen minutes our numbers were cut down to size when
Chriss Hughes-Narborough went off for a while with an aggrevated
knee injury, probably caused originally by his epic convertion in last
term's Goldsmiths' match. Andy Pearce, meanwhile, had intercepted a
pass, and broken free. Unfortunately, he was brought down five yards
short of the line. The first half finished, with us actually letting Westfield
get inside our 22.
In the second half, they had the advantages of both the sun and the
wind, but this had no effect, as after ten minutes, Andy Pearce got our
first try. His convertion attempt,however, did not have the length to
reach from the touchline. Within a short spaceof time, a ruck formed on
their line and, after five minutes, Roger Butters decided to lift the ball out
and score. Sadly, again the convertion attempt (taken from about the
same place) did not have the length to score. The pressure continued
until after twenty five minutes of the second half, the match suddenly
ended.
Liam Gartside
The Steve Marshall
Cartoon Book
is still on sale from
T h e F E L I X Office, only 30p

