Page 6
SPONSORED 24 HOUR WALL-WASH
While the minds of almost everyone else in College were turned to
romance (and all that that entails!) on Valentine's Day the members of
I.C. Rugby Club had their minds on other dirty things - i.e. washing the
walls in the Union Building.
So at noon we all gathered to begin the ghastly ordeal and trooped up
to the Table Tennis room.
With just twenty minutes gone Ray Parkinson showed all his skill as a
cleaner when he came down his ladder surveying the good work only to
step straight into a bucket of detergent. So now we know he has at least
one clean sock!
After this things went relatively smoothly and we were making an
excellent impression on the walls with our detergent and acetone for the
graffiti and dirtier spots.
Now a note for all those who scribble on walls. For future scribbling
do not use indelible felt tip markers (unless if s green as this appears to
come off more easily) - but stick to normal ink or pencil!
One gets a fairly good
impression of peoples' extreme
political views while doing things
like this and notices such as
"Down with the fascist regime of
the Shah" and "No to NF" seemed
particularly prevalent. If these
people spent more time airing
their views through the usual
channels rather than wasting our
time and their felt tip ink
everything would have been
easier for us. (No political
comment is intended here and the
a b o v e n o t i c e s are o n l y
examples!).
Rather than give a wall to wall
account of each room in the
building I will just mention two
that were of particular interest.
During Wednesday evening we
tackled the Union Refectory and
were amazed at the grime on the
walls. I just hope everybody
appreciates how much cleaner it
is now - and if they don't we have
left an uncleaned square on one
wall to illustrate just what it was
like originally.
The most amusing event came
at about 2 am in the gym. Steve
Townsend had placed himself
precariously on top of the
basketball nets to clean high up
and someone removed his ladder
(the only way down). Then
everyone proceeded to chuck
sopping wet rags at him - and even
a bucket of water! Needless to say
when he finally jumped down he
found a bucket and drenched
both Robin Davies and Ronnie
Howard!
And so at noon the next day the
saga finished and we surveyed the
clean walls - a job well done we
thought.
It is too early yet to say how
much we raised but it should be
quite a tidy amount.
Our reason for a wall-wash? We
wanted to do something original
and this was certainly that. All
those who use the Union
Buildings will benefit as well as
the Rag Collection, to which half
the proceeds will be given. The
rest is going to help pay for the
rugby club Easter Tour.
So at the end of the day this was
a really successful event enjoyed
by all those who took part.
Thanks to the members of the
club and to Ray Parkinson for
arranging it.
"Turnip"
N E R - A - C A R . . . B U T N O T F A R F R O M A B I K E !
Use
I.C.RADIO
in your
election Campaign
i f y o u a r e s t a n d i n g i n t h e
I . C . U n i o n e l e c t i o n s
t h e n t e l l e v e r y o n e a b o u t i t
o n I . C . R a d i o .
In 1925 a mere (?) £60 would have bought you a model ' C Ner-
a-Car, pictured above, "So w h a t ? " ' ! hear you cry, alright then
m u m b l e . Well in 1979 Guilds have been given one, tax free!
It's not quite in the same condition as the one in the photo, in fact it's
in a couple of hundred bits, (anybody seen Clem, and Jez.?) but it will
be back on the road by the turn of the century, G o d willing. It has been
dormant for several years since it had a front end smash. It was rescued
by Roger Serpell, who intended to restore it but never found the time,
who has now given it to us.
O n l y about a dozen Ner-a-Cars still exist, four of which are model
' C , only one of these four is running.
What the press said:
The Clarion: "In the model 'C .Ner-a-Car the Sheffield Simplex Company
have produced something which will give all the speed a sane man can desire, plus
the riding comfort and safety which make the Ner-a-Car famous.
The new Blackburne engined Ner-a-Car is probably thefinest example of two
wheeled comfort in the world."
Powered by a Blackburne 350 c.c. side valve engine, with a Sturmey
Archer 3-speed gearbox, the Ner-a-Car has all the usual features of a
Vintage motorcycle; acetylene lighting, throttle lever instead of throttle
grip, hand gear change, total loss oil system and no rear suspension. But
the real oddity of the Ner-a-Car is the hub-steering system (Wallis are
the only other firm that has produced Hub-steered road machines).
This hub-steering and the chassis instead of a frame give the design it's
name.
The design speed of the model ' C was 55 mph. and at speeds like that
it is best to bear in mind the fact that both foot a n d hand brakes operate
on the rear wheel only.
What the Owners said!
"It gives me great pleasure to express my satisfaction with your Blackburne
engined model 'C.
I took the machine on a holiday run to Edinburgh and back. Il climbed
everything in top gear and the cost for oil and petrol was 11 llOd.
I had no occasion to open my tool bag or make any adjustment whatever, and on
wet roads and tram lines the model 'C" is quite as safe asyour earlier models, and
the extra weight is hardly noticeable.
After three years of riding on .Ner-a-Cars I consideryour model 'C absolutely
it".
This bike with its foot wide mudguard and totally enclosed
transmission was aimed at sales to the upper classes, among the riders of
Ner-a-Cars were the E a r l of Haddington, the E a r l of Fitzwilliam, the
Earl of Bective and the Duchess of Marlborough.
The Ner-a-Car was produced by the Sheffield Simplex Co., Canbury
Park R o a d , Kingston on Thames from 1919 to 1926 when the firm
suddenly closed down. Perhaps there weren't enough Earls to go round.
A n d y Rushton
D E B A T E O N S T O I C
Those of you who missed the
showing on STOIC, of the
Programme on Debating Society
with scenes of violent discussion
from the debate on " T h e
Campaign for Homosexual
Equality", please read on.
The speakers for the motion
that "The House Supported" the
campaign were Bob Rigby and
Roy Burns. They stressed the
circumstances of the oppression
of Gays and the aims of the
campaign.
Speaking against the motion
Were Shlomo Godsi and Dave
Haddon.
Dave quoted from the good
book, though he denied that he
believed in God, just the Bible!
The speeches provoked further
discussion from the floor to prove
that the crowds weren't just there
because of the camera.
After a summing up speech
from Shlomo and Roy, the camera
and crew left for the safety of the
S.T.O.I.C. Studio. The campaign
has proved it had overwhelming
support.
John Shuttleworth
Publicity Officer

