Page 7
Day By Day
3UND-UP OF LAST WEEK'S NEW
Wednesday 14th
U.S. Diplomats attacked
American prestige in Iran and Afghanistan
suffered setbacks when American embassies
were attacked. In Teheran, the embassy was
ransacked by Marxist guerrillas and its
occupants were rescued by militia loyal to the
Ayatollah Khomeini. The American
Ambassador to Afghanistan died when
security forces stormed a hotel room where
he was being held by a terrorist gang
demanding the release of prisoners held by
the pro-Moscow regime.
Maudling dies
Reginald Maudling died from kidney failure
and haemhorrages. Mrs. Thatcher, in a
personal tribute said he "brought to politics
one of the most brilliant minds of his
generation". Mr. Callaghan said: "He never
bore malice and he was always ready to think
well of his opponents as well as to defend his
friends."
W H Smith ban Thorpe hearing book
W H Smith; the newsagents and
booksellers, has banned the paperback, "The
Thorpe Committal", for "legal reasons". A
spokesman said, "In the opinion of our legal
advisers the book is calculated to prejudice a
fair trial."
Thursday 15th
Russian students protest over sex rules
A recent issue of the Soviet Union's Young
Communist League newspaper publishes a
lament for the love-Mfe of Russian students.
Soviet universities abound with old-
fashioned regulations, including hostel room
inspections. Married girls at a hostel in Rostov
University could invite their husbands to
their rooms, but only for an hour a day, and
never during the night. Western students
attending universities in the Soviet Union say
most of them are just as permissive as in the
West, and that the rules are usually ignored.
A British post-graduate student said, "It
just seems more immoral because of the lack
of privacy." She had her own room at her
hostel in England but at a Russian provincial
university she shared with three other girls,
whose boy friends usually stayed the night.
Western students speak of the warmth and
camaraderie of Russian student life, and to
the survival of love in a cold and bureaucratic
climate.
Tutamania hits North America
Tutankhamun, the Boy King, the most
celebrated former resident of Thebes and the
Valley of Kings, has inspired a giant shopping
spree by his admirers in New York.
Americans admit to spending more time at
a Tutankhamun gift shop that at the
exhibition that has been staged at the
Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. The
sale of official Tut reproductions has grossed
7 million pounds profits which will be sent to
the Cairo Museum and other beneficiaries.
Friday 16th
Generals executed in Iran
Six men, five of them generals, were
executed after trials by Islamic courts in Iran.
At least 20 other people have been
condemned to death, and many more people
face trial.
Concordat team set up
A small group of senior ministers will have
the job of making the concordat between the
labour party and the unions more than just a
document. It consists of the Chancellor, Mr.
Healey; Mr. Foot, Leader of the house, and
three other ministers.
Blessing saves ex-MP
A former Conservative MP "arrested" by
Transkei security police said a last prayer and
blessed his captors, who said they were going
to shoot him. Mr. Humphrey Berkeley said
his would-be assassins thought he had cast a
spell over them and they fled!
Saturday 17th
Ireland beat England at rugby
The final score was Ireland 12 pts, England
7 pts. The game, played at Lansdowne Road,
Dublin, lacked excitement. Ireland's captain,
Fergus Slattery said he was never alarmed
when England were in possession. They were
not, he stated with chilling truth, dangerous.
England have only taken I pt. from their last
two games and lie fourth in the International
Table.
Wales just lose against France
France 14 pts, Wales 13 pts was the final
score. The difference of only 1 pt could have
been much greater because France
outplayed Wales but made hard work of
capitalising on their advantage. Wales stay
top of International Table with 4 pts from 3
games.
Birmingham student wins National Cyclo-
Cross
Chris Wreghitt retained his National Open
Cyclo-Cross Championship at Sutton
Coldfield. 100 competitors had to cope with
snow-covered and iced-up -slopes of Sutton
Park.
Sunday 18th
Russia warns China to withdraw from
Vietnam
China occupied border towns in Vietnam in
what Peking called "a limited punitive act" to
avenge the Hanoi 'atrocities'. The Kremlin
warned China to withdraw its forces from
Vietnam or face the consequences.
The Soviet Union said it would honour its
treaty of friendship with Hanoi. The treaty
commits the two countries "In the case of
attack or the threat of attack" to immediate
consultation "for the purpose of removing
that threat and taking appropriate effective
measures to ensure the peace and security of
their countries".
Third World War forecast
Alexander Solzhenitsyn, the Russian
author who is living in exile in the USA,
forecast that a third world war will begin. He
blamed both Russian and Western
statesmen.
He said, "We are clearly moving towards a
world war, yet Western Statesmen deceive
themselves that we are moving towards
detente."
FA consider a switch to summer soccer
Fixture chaos due to the postponement of
hundreds of football matches has prompted
the FA to consider the idea of a March to
November season. Cricket and other summer
games will vigorously campaign against
further encroachment on their calendar by
soccer.
Monday 19th
Sale of British Harriers to China delayed
The fighting between China and Vietnam
threatened to delay the sale of British Harrier
jump jets to Peking as part of a trade package
deal. Mr. Callaghan faced Left-wing pressure
not to sell the Harriers.
Duke leaves 500 million fortune
The fifth Duke of Westminster, whose
family fortune, estimated at 500 million
pounds, probably ranks second only to that
of the Queen, died peacefully today.
The new Duke, Earl Grosvenor, spoke of
his responsibilities for the estates which
include Belgravia and Mayfair. Although he is
only 27 he has already controlled much of the
family wealth.
Student Union funding talks open today
The Government wants student unions to
be more directly accountable for the 14
million pounds spent on them out of
ratepayers' and taxpayers' money. They want
to see a system introduced, under which a
minimum per capita fee of 15 - 20 pounds
would be paid to institutions by local
authorities. The universities and colleges
would have to negotiate any extra amount
with students.
Tuesday 20th
China prepared for Russian border attacks
Chinese officials told foreigners at a
briefing that Soviet reaction to the conflict in
Vietnam might range from threats to attacks
across the border. He also said that the
"limited" combat with the Vietnamese would
end very soon.
No premium bond draw as Ernie strikes
Weekly and monthly premium bond prize
draws will be halted by an indefinite strike of
60 Civil service Computer operators at
Lytham St. Anne's Lanes. The strike begins
on February 23rd.

