iPage 9
DISCRETION-
The Better Part of?
Most British IC students probably think that their
mandatory grant award f r o m their local education authority
(LEA) is certain; and that at the start of each t e r m (and, m o r e
usually, later) a cheque will appear in Sherfield. Generally, this
is the case. However m a n y are liable to be subject to the
"discretion" of their L E A , often leading to hassles, particularly
financial.
The most common occurrence of discretionary awards for IC
students is for those who have to retake a year. T h e recent tightening of
public finances has meant that it is now even more difficult to obtain
L E A backing for a retake year, with the result that many have to beg
finance from parents, work through their course, or even drop out. O f
course, L E A finance for retaking is subject to College academic reports,
but there are some who are considered suitable by the College, but are
unable to return due to lack of money.
The other major victims at IC of the discretion of L E A s are those
whose homes are in the L o n d o n area, but who prefer to live away from
home. In such cases, when the L E A considers that a student could
reasonably commute from home every day, only a home grant is
awarded. Such a decision is "at the discretion" of the L E A and is based
upon their opinion of the particular circumstances. O f course, their
interpretation of the situation may be wrong so, if you are one of those
affected, it is well worth getting in touch with your Local Education
Officer.
The D E S has admitted that in 1977-78 local authorities underspent
their budgets on discretionary awards by £23 million. If you hold a
discretionary award and are unhappy about the decision, it is worth
checking whether your L E A underspent last year. If so, it will add
weight to your argument. The next step is to write to your Local
Education Officer, and if this approach does not bring satisfactory
results, try your local councillor. It will also help if you could let me
know of any grant's problems you may have and of what progress you
achieve in trying to sort them out.
T i m Hillyer
External Affairs Committee
Election Elk
V M
Well you all came - despite a complete lack of anything erotic
(excepting me of course) at the UGM on 13th Feb. It was great - it
remained quorate through the whole length of the meeting. However
you have not escaped yet - due to the backlog of motions that we seem
to have gathered over the past term and a half, an extra UGM has been
called on 27th February (Shrove Tuesday) to try and deal with all the
motions left over - Cannabis, Gay Rights, Victimisation of Celts.
Although I can't promise anything erotic (excluding me) I'll try to be
even more erotic than usual, and display my naked kneecaps.
Elections
Well we're really into election fever now and to confuse you further
about all the ones going on I'll say i) Dep Reps I'm not sure exactly how
many departments are going to have elections for these, for at the time
of writing I still haven't heard from all the Dep. Reps, but if there is an
election it will take place on Monday (26th) by ballot box for the whole of
the day. II) Sabbatical Officers (yes, Deputy President is now also a
sabbatical)."Papers are up for this now. Need I say more? ill) Other
Officers e.g. External Affairs Off., Welfare Off. etc. Papers for these
posts go up on Thursday 1st March and stay up for 8 college days. The
hustings and elections occur at the Results UGM on Thursday 15th
March (not a college wide ballot). Well there you go, all you wanted to
know about elections but were afraid to ask. So there.
Pancakes (Celtic ones)
On Tuesday (which you should know is Shrove Tuesday) we have
the arrival ICU Exec. vs. ICWA Pancake race around the quad, which by
coincidence happens to clash with theannualtesting of the fire hoses in
the Union Building. I hope everybody will be there to support the
glorious exec.team as it fights the ICWA oppressors. We're using Celtic
pancakes this year and not vile Anglo-Saxon ones that have been used
before. After the pancakes, I hope everybody comes along to the extra
UGM in the Great Hall at note 1.30 pm, and fight discrimination against
Gay, Cannabis - using Celts.
Well folks, that's all for this week, more literary genius next week.
Mel Kinkie
ICU Hon. Sec.
Speakers' Corner, Academic Affairs and Stanley
Kubrick or Getting Down and Getting Hon..
The Spring t e r m is always the busy time for the holder of m y
post. W i t h a string of college and union committees this has
certainly rung true, once again.
In this article I hope to bring you up to date with some of the
m a i n spheres of our interest and some of the decisions made.
Lastly I will then go on to describe the jobs of the Academic
Affairs Officers of college.
Undergraduate Applicants
The figures for undergraduate applicants as of 31st January, show
that there has been a slight fall in the numbers of applicants to R C S and
R S M and an increase in the number of applicants to C and G .
O f the disciplines at I C there has been nationally substantial
increases in applications for Aero (11%), C i v E n g (6%), E E (17%), M e c h
E n g (10%), C o m p u t i n g Courses (55%), Biology (7%) and Physics (9%).
E l i t i s m or flexible?
O f major interest at a recent Admissions Policy C o m m . meeting was
a suggestion that the college sets up a scheme as operating in 5 Oxford
Colleges for the admission of Science candidates.
Basically it is this. The I L E A will pay for special tuition for a pupil
who has been accepted to one of the colleges with lower grades. Pupils
for Inner L o n d o n Schools are chosen on the basis of showing scientific
academic ability. After an interview the colleges will give some a
conditional offer. This conditional offer is lower than the normal level of
A B B at a level of B C C . Thus the candidate, even though his school
might not have the reputation of getting Oxbridge places now has the
incentive to work.
This scheme is designed to generate motivation in selected schools
and create opportunities for L o n d o n pupils who are not on the
receiving end of an education to match their ability.
T h e committee noted the thinking behind the scheme but saw i)that
two C's, the entry requirement in most depts is a realistic goal for
anyone ii) the danger of a "special" arrangement with one area. Yet
they accepted the Union's view that what was needed was such a
selecting procedure and special consideration of such candidates. This
means that these candidates are unlikely, I trust, to be rejected before
an interview. It is this shift from the emphasis on past exam results and
background to academic ability that the U n i o n is working for.
Late Night Study
For those who have found the new, earlier, closing of the L y o n
Playfair library inconvenient - good news. F r o m now on if you wish to
study late, R o o m 327, a Committee R o o m in the Sherfield Block, is
available for use any weekday between 8:30 - 10:30 p.m. However, I
should add that you are asked to comply with two conditions. Firstly, as
you enter the Sherfield Block sign in with the security guard and be able
to show him your U n i o n C a r d . Secondly, no food or drink should be
taken into the room.
A Year of Academic Affairs
Papers are up and flying everywhere for the jobs o l T C U Academic
Affairs Officer and the 3 C C U Academic Affairs Officers. A l l very, very
important jobs and need very much to be done by people with drive,
continual concern and imagination. A l l 4 chair large committees, sit on
Council and the supreme Board of Studies. Thus their contacts should
spread from Academic reps, to dep reps, to U n i o n Executives, to heads
of departments right to the very top. A n active A A O instills a continual
advancement of student interest and thinking. O n the other hand, a
person who just "fills" the post causes a stagnation. If you think you
have what it takes, see the current holder of the particular post. (Bob
Hart C and G , Steve Ruane R C S , K e i t h Barker R S M and myself IC).
V e r y briefly a little about I C U A A O . I have shown it to be more than
just editing the Alternative Prospectus and doing 1001 other connected
jobs. M u c h time is spent preparing for committee meetings, writing
reports and letters and talking policy. Put simply it's a one-man
Academic Affairs Office; what you don't do no one else is likely to do. It
needs a good working relationship with a lot of people, a sense of
beaurocracy and organisation, a lot of determination, ideas, and
a personality that allows you to become concerned about a multitude of
topics. D o come and see me, I should hate a lot of good progress this year
to be wasted.
Roger Stotesbury
IGU Academic Affair Officer

