Elections: an apology
I would like to start by apologising to you all for this yearʼs
Sabbatical elections. There is no doubt that they have been
slightly more farcical than usual and everybody, including
me, is in some way responsible for this. I think it is fair to
point out that the unusually large number of candidates
who stood for election this year vastly increased the
probability of something going wrong!
It is important to understand that the democratic
structures of the Union allow for any member to complain
about how elections are conducted. I understand that the
elections committee have faced an unprecedented number
of complaints this year from a variety of people and I am
sure that have dealt with them as fast as possible. Election
results cannot be announced until every complaint has
been resolved and this is why the Presidentʼs election result
has been delayed by nearly a week. Over the Easter break
we will take stock and I will ask the governance review
working group to suggest ways of improving the way we
run elections.
Have you got the brains to face Paxman?
We are actively looking for the next Imperial College team
to enter the popular BBC Two competition, university
challenge. We are running an internal competition that
we hope will encourage inter-faculty rivalry and raise the
standard of our winning team. We hope to enter just one
team this, unlike the two teams that we have entered in
the past.
The grand ﬁnal for this competition will take place at 6pm
in the SCR on Thursday March 22nd. If you would like to
enter a team then please get in touch with me by emailing
me at president@imperial.ac.uk. If you wish to represent
your faculty then please contact your Faculty Union
President as some faculties are running their own internal
competitions.
Buy your early bird ball tickets now!
Tickets for this yearʼs summer ball are now on sale. This
ﬂagship union event, which is being branded as the
Imperial College Centenary ball, promises to be twice as
big as last yearʼs event. This event promises to be an event
that Imperial College has never quite witnessed before! A
full ticket will buy you a quality four course dinner, access
to venues in the College and Beit Building, a variety of
entertainments, several celebrity acts, a casino, a shisha
bar, ﬁreworks, funfair rides and more!
Even though this ball is planned to be larger than last
yearʼs, we are currently selling tickets at last yearʼs prices,
however, this will not last for ever! At the end of this term
we will be increasing the price of each ticket by £5 and
again after the Easter holidays we will increase them by a
further £5, so itʼs best to buy early. To buy tickets visit
www.imperialcollegeunion.org/ball.
And ﬁnally
I would like to congratulate Steve Brown, Chris Larvin,
Kirsty Patterson, Alistair Cotts and Tom Roberts in their
successful election as ICU Sabbatical Officers. I hope you all
ﬁnd next year as rewarding as this yearʼs sabbatical team
has and we look forward to working with you all to ensure
that summer handover and training is successful.
unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
President’s Update
Council Elections 2007
for more info: imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
Nominations for Council Elections 2007 are now
open.
Youcanstandatimperialcollegeunion.org/voteforthefollowing
positions:
• Council Chair
• Equal Opportunities Officer
• Welfare Campaigns Officer
• RAG Chair
• CAG Chair
Nominations close Friday 9th March at 23:59.
John Collins
President
president@imperial.ac.uk
On Sunday 22 April 2007, Ben Ryall will become the ﬁrst
student ever to represent the College in the world famous
London Marathon.
Ben will be hitting the streets of London to join a 46,000
strong army of fun-runners, celebrities and professional
athletes along the 26.2 mile course, which he aims to
complete in less than three hours!
All sponsorship raised from Benʼs mission will go towards
the Student Opportunities Fund, to provide scholarships
for undergraduate and postgraduate students worldwide,
who may not otherwise be able to aﬀord to study at this
world-class university. The Student Opportunities Fund
is one of Collegeʼs Centenary Projects along with the Beit
Redevelopment and Library Redevelopment.
Visit Benʼs website to read his weekly blog and training
diary, see photographs of Benʼs training and send him
good luck messages.
Help us to invest in the future of your College and make a
diﬀerence to the lives of these students – sponsor Ben at
www.imperial.ac.uk/alumni/marathon2007.
Thanks for your support!
Sponsor Ben!

