14 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
08.05.2015
Music
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk Music Editors Grace Rahman & Amna Askari
Victoria Park,London
Saturday 6th
June to Sunday 7th
£38.50-£83 + booking fee
This two day fest is ideal for the music
fan trapped in London for the summer or
festival first timer, being smack bang in
the middle of the East End. As well as being
able to hop on the central line home after a
day of Red Stripe sponsored head bobbing,
you’ll avoid all the costs of a pre-festival
trip to Millets, as there’s no camping. If you
value the line-up more than the vibe, then
this might be the best year yet for Field
Day, as RIDE, Patti Smith and Imperial’s
own alumnus Caribou are playing. The
Saturday’s got more names, with Django
Django, FKA Twigs and Tune-Yards
among plenty, and so has a heftier price
tag. Sunday boasts the old-timers Patti and
RIDE though, as well as Savages and Mac
Demarco, so it’s a toughie. Or you could be
decadent and go to both. Field Day often
attracts even more artists than the line-up
would have you think, but they’re mostly
there to see their mates. If you’re the kind
of person who’d get excited standing behind
two thirds of the xx during a Kindness
set, this is the outing for you. Dev Hynes
is a loyal attendee, so bring along your old
Lightspeed Champion vinyl for him to
sign, I’m sure he’d love that.
TL;DR: Don’t forget your canvas tote bag
and nonchalant attitude.
Reading,Berkshire
27th
to 30th
August
£66.50 for a day ticket / £210 for the
weekend
If the infamous poster of this year’s line-
up with all the male-only bands blanked
out, leaving only sparse female acts didn’t
put you off, Reading might be for you. This
year’s Friday headliners, Mumford and
Sons, don’t really go with the vibe of the
festival, well-known to be full of teenagers
from the south-east celebrating their GCSE
results by huffing on hippie crack and
setting fire to tents. Drenge, Palma Violets
and The Cribs are bands ideal for a Reading
audience and seeing them in their natural
habitat is akin to going on safari rather than
a rainy day staring out the lions at London
Zoo. Most exciting and arguably the only
reason you need to go, is that Sunday boasts
one of only two festival performances The
Libertines are expected to do this year.
Peter and Carl are back together and writing
Various venues in Hackney,London
Saturday 8th
August
£30
This one day festival comes highly
recommended (by us). As well as boasting
headliners Camera Obscura and The
Antlers, they’ve also wangled appearances
from hotly-tipped Shamir and the
anarchical Fat White Family. “Various
venues” sounds ominous but in fact they’re
all dotted along the same street, which is
much easier to negotiate than a four mile
mud trek uphill in your wellies with fifty
thousand other people who also want
to catch the end of something. There’s
a temptation to make up for that cheap
ticket by spending loads of cash on widely
available craft beers, but the Sainsburys
that you’ll pass several times going back and
forth offers four packs that can be enjoyed
overlooking nearby Regent’s Canal. The
venues themselves are interesting too, most
Grace Rahman gives the lowdown on her festival picks this year
Your Summer Festival Guide
Missed out on Glastonbury re-sale tickets? Or simply don’t fancy watching the sun rise over the stone circle after queueing up for a falafel wrap behind the Kardashians? There are a whole host of
festivals across the country this summer that cater to all tastes and most budgets. Whether you want a hedonistic weekend in Wales or a London fest a stone’s throw from your internship office,
here are some of our hand-picked faves.
Visions
Field Day
Green Man
Brecon Beacons,Wales
20th
to 23rd
August
£140 + booking fee
As a festival, boasting that you’re ‘family-
friendly’ can be a bit off-putting, but just
think of it as the antithesis to the piss-filled
bottle throwing of Reading and Leeds or the
stabby nature of multiple others. Aside from
babies in papooses crying during evening
sets, you probably won’t even notice. This
year’s sleepy, friendly Green Man has the
likes of not very sleepy or family friendly
St Vincent in attendance, as well as Goat,
Hot Chip and the universally adored Public
Service Broadcasting. The civilised music
fan will have ample time to read their copy of
The Observer (available onsite) of a morning
before donning American headdresses and
heading out to dad dance to Super Furry
Animals. Despite being in the wilderness of
Wales, the nearest station, Abergavenny is
only two and a half hours from Paddington
and there’s a free shuttle to the site (which
isn’t the case for other awkwardly located
festivals, we’re looking at you Bestival). The
countryside setting is stunning and the site
itself is twee as hell. Perfect for the first
timer, Green Man is a calm affair. There’s
no judgement if you want your bedtimes
early and your raving limited. Don’t miss the
ceremonial burning of the ‘green man’ on the
last night.
TL;DR: If the crowds of Glasto don’t appeal
but you’re too bourgeois for Latitude.
Reading Fesitival

