THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 17
08.05.2015
FELIX
Travel
felix@imperial.ac.uk Travel Editor Yung Nam Cheah
where you can touch the windows of
both sides without leaving your seat,
but practise at packing a roomful
of things when moving to London
at the start of term should count as
good preparation for this task. The
good news is that the cassette player
still works, so during the many
hours ahead my dad will be working
through the mighty collection of
music tapes from his University
days. I am to be exposed to literally
hundreds of hours of ‘80s music.
Oh well, at least the car is in a
fetching blue-green colour.
We Are Alone
No back-up support. If we break
down, we have to find a way to fix
the problem. We choose the route
ourselves, and are responsible for the
visas involved.
As we will be lucky to reach the
finish point without half a dozen
break downs, if at all, preparation for
future repairs and problems is key.
Our gear includes many interesting-
looking tools of various sizes, as well
as shovels (for sand) and two sturdy
metal planks (for ditches). On the
bright side, when we break down in
the middle of nowhere, the car is very
light compared to modern ones. We
should be able to push.
We are planning to go through
France, Germany, and Poland,
before heading diagonally south,
to eventually enter Russia via
northern Ukraine. We then will head
fully south and turn East through
Kazakhstan. Crossing into Mongolia
itself involves a brief hop back into
Russia, before heading straight to
Ulaanbaatar. For some reason the
finish line this year has moved from
Mongolia’s capital to Ulan-Ude in
Siberia, but my family has had a
long-running joke that one day I shall
roller-skate in Ulaanbaatar, and it
would be a shame not to complete the
challenge.
Roller skates re-packed, we will
head north back into Russia for
the final time in order to get to
Ulan-Ude. This multiple re-entry
into Russia has caused some
complications with the visas needed,
as a normal tourist visa only allows
two entries.
However, after some research,
we found a more expensive version
which will suit our needs. An
interesting challenge posed by the
freedom of route is the lack of maps
available for some regions. In a world
of Google Maps and satellite imaging,
it was surprising to discover that no
actual road maps have been updated
in some areas for over a decade.
There is something a little deflating
about having THE most up-to-date
map out there and finding out that
you were still in primary school
when it was published. As we are
guaranteed to get lost at least
once, I am considering learning
some rudiments of various Asian
languages, should wild gesticulating
and a look of abject confusion fail to
explain our predicament to locals.
Helping the World
This year the Adventurists are
supporting Cool Earth. Every team
is raising £1000 for one of their
projects. The one that I chose was
to support the Awujún project. The
Awajún people live in Peru, close to
the Ecuadorian border. Cool Earth
wishes to protect 56,000 acres of their
land, home to 15 endangered species,
from the threat of loggers and of
miners.
As well as the environmental
impact of deforestation, destroying
Awajún land would push these
species closer to extinction and
destroy the local people’s way of life.
Hopefully the Citroen will be able to avoid this fate. Photo: Creative Commons
The fetching blue-green 26 year old Citroen AX that will travel across the world. Photo: Amelie Lecoeuche
Cool Earth works by helping the
local people to protect their homes.
By developing alternative sources of
income through fish farms, cacao,
and traditional jewellery made from
seeds harvested from the rainforest,
the idea is to out-price forest
destruction. By helping the people to
retain control of their homes,
Cool Earth also protects vast areas
of forest which cannot be accessed
without first clearing the area
belonging to the villages. In effect,
the villages and the forest close to
them create a barrier to prevent
further deforestation.
So the plan is to drive across most
of two continents in an old and
unreliable car using a route which
may have changed and the roads may
actually break the car in order to save
the homes of hundreds of people
thousands of miles away.
‘What are you doing this summer?’
I’m saving the world.
Donations can be made in person or
via the Cool Earth platform at www.
coolearth.org/402/driving-to-save-the-
planet, and I have set up a Facebook
page to document our travels (search
‘Driving to Save the Planet’).
For more information, visit www.
coolearth.org and http://www.
theadventurists.com/mongol-rally

