imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
Join the #helloicu for 2015!
October sees the return of thousands of new students and we need your help to give them the best welcome possible!
We are looking for people to join the #helloicu crew, to share your experiences and offer advice that will help relieve any
nerves and concerns.
The #helloicu crew have an important role in making sure new students get settled into life at Imperial. Being part of
#helloicu crew is not only great fun but gives you the chance to meet new people and help create memories to last a
lifetime!
This will be our third year of running #helloicu crew and we want it to be bigger and better than ever before! This is what
#helloicu crew had to say about their experience last year:
A100% said the experience boosted their confidence
A90% said they learnt and developed new skills
A100% made new friends from different courses and study years
A100% would recommend the experience to a friend.
Get involved in a range of Welcome Week events that fit around your timetable and interests and make it a week to
remember! Find out more and sign up at imperialcollegeunion.org/helloicu.
The Union Awards - nominate someone today!
Celebrating the huge impact and hard work of our volunteers the Union Awards are the annual showcase of the best of
Imperial College Union and our membership. We have 14 awards across the board, all designed to recognise the great
work that students do at the Union.
The Union Awards are nominated by students, decided by students and awarded at our gala event in June.
We need your nominations to help us shortlist students and groups for the Union Awards. Your nomination is supported
by a short statement. This is your chance to tell us why they deserve to win that award; include examples, reasons and
any information that will help!
Nominations open on Monday 27 April, and you can make a nomination until midday, Wednesday 27 May. Just login on
the Union Awards page on our website, and you can nominate as many times as you want in each category. If you have
any questions or queries please contact unionawards@imperial.ac.uk.
Awards available are:
ACampaign of the Year
AContribution to College Life Award
AInnovation and Enterprise Award
AEvent of the Year
AClub, Society & Project of the Year
ACommunity Connections Volunteer of
the Year
ACommunity Connections Project of
the Year
AAcademic Representation Network
Undergraduate Team of the Year
AAcademic Representation Network
Postgraduate Team of the Year
AAcademic Representation Network
Rep of the Year
AColours
AOutstanding Service Award
AFellowship
AFellowship with Distinction
Union Survey 2015
We want to know
what you think
about
Take the survey online now at
imperialcollegeunion.org/survey
Your annual chance
to give your honest
feedback about all of
your Union’s services
and outlets.

