THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 23
FELIX 08.05.2015
Welfare
felix.welfare@imperial.ac.uk Welfare Editors Diba Esbati & Chanon Wongsatayanont
Exam Survival Guide
Ipopped into the Central Library
today. It has turned into a special
circle of hell with the smell of
stress oozing out of the walls and
the room echoing with the sound
of a thousand people scribbling.
Hurricanes of paper raged on every
table so I found nowhere to sit. I’m
quite relieved really. It gave me an
excuse to escape the place and find
somewhere else.
I’ve talked lots and lots about exam
stress in my previous articles but I’ll
write one more just because of the
sheer stress I’ve seen today. This time,
I’ll go for something very precise.
No more general tips and analyses,
‘maybe-this, maybe-that’. They aren’t
very useful in the thick of action
when emotions run high and nerves
are on edge. I’m going to give you a
schedule, and let’s call it an Exam
Survival Guide.
Some of the advice will make you
go “I know, dad/mum!” if you hear
them back at home. But please trust
me for a minute and read the rest of
the article. This seemingly simple
survival guide has helped me through
one of the most stressful times of my
life: three weeks before my finals in
my undergrad (one of the two graded
exam sessions in my whole degree).
My alternative had been anxiety pills.
This routine was actually given to
me by a university doctor I had an
appointment with during my finals
revision. He said I should strictly
stick to the schedule for a week and if
things aren’t getting better, he would
prescribe anxiety pills.
Before the schedule, I had been
sleeping at 03:00 or 04:00, waking
up at 10:00, somehow still feeling
horrible. I wasn’t able to work
properly until 15:00 because of
headache, then trying to compensate
for time badly spent by working
further into the night, I went to bed
later and later. The vicious cycle got
worse, until I couldn’t focus anymore.
So I gladly accepted this routine. I
think it was out of lack of alternative;
I knew that my night routine wasn’t
working even though I’ve always been
a night owl, so a recommendation
that sounded different and stable is
welcome.
I first thought the ‘doctor’s
orders’ would put extra weight on
my shoulders. But after a few days,
the routine became a massive relief
because it made me feel that there
was something I could finally control.
I knew what each of my days would
look like and despite the exams,
things weren’t as chaotic anymore. It
doesn’t make exams easier, just easier
to cope with.
Looking back at it, the Exam
Survival Guide is actually an effective
time management system. I now
see it as a preventative measure that
stops stress building up from other
things in addition to exam stress,
such as lack of sleep and not knowing
where to start, especially when there
are no lectures anymore. It provides
a system you can use to help manage
your day, making it feel bite-sized
and not overwhelming.
The schedule will also keep you
grounded, getting you through
good days and bad days of revision.
Sometimes, overworking to
compensate for a bad day would
cripple your revision plan for the
next day.
Give the Exam Survival Guide a try,
especially when you’re feeling lost
with the exams looming so close. It
might work for you as it did for me!
Chanon Wongsatayanont has an action plan to organise your days
If you are concerned about
your own mental health,or
that of a loved one,there are
people out there you can talk
to who can give you advice,or
will be there to listen.
Helplines
If you are distressed and need
someone to talk to :
Samaritans (24 hr helpline):
Phone: 08457 90 90 90
www.samaritans.org.uk
Anxiety Help :
Anxiety UK
Phone: 08444 775 774
(Mon-Fri 09:30-17:30)
www.anxietyuk.org.uk
No Panic
Phone: 0808 800 2222
(daily,10:00-22:00)
www.nopanic.org.uk
Eating Disorders:
Beat
Phone: 0845 634 1414
(Mon-Thurs,13:30-16:30)
Addiction:
Alcoholics Anonymous
Phone: 0845 769 7555
(24 hour helpline)
www.alcoholics-anonymous.
org.uk
Narcotics Anonymous
Phone: 0300 999 1212
www.ukna.org
College Resources
Student Counselling Service
Phone: 020 7594 9637
e-mail: counselling@ic.ac.uk
Imperial College Health
Centre
Telephone: 020 7584 6301
e-mail: healthcentre@ic.ac.uk
You can also go to your
academic or personal tutor
regarding pastoral issues,
especially if you think your
mental health might be
affecting your academic
performance.
Mental health
helplines
and resources
Don’t panic! Here’s a schedule guide to keep you sane and revising right
up to the exam. Image: Wayne Fears
EXAM SURVIVAL GUIDE SCHEDULE
08:00-09:00–Wake Up,Morning Routines,Breakfast
Have an easy breakfast that packs a lot of slow-release energy.Porridge,
whole-grain cereal or congee recommended.Do not skip it.This will be
your energy source until lunch and the gradual digestion will keep you
awake as you study.It will also start your metabolism,which helps stabilize
your blood sugar level that will in turn reduce stress.
09:00-12:00–Revision
Try to keep the revision within this time frame,but make sure you use all
the time wisely.
12:00-13:00–Lunch Break
Anything is great for lunch apart from two things: Heavy meal and
sugary lunch.Heavy meal will give you a food coma that will knock you
out in the afternoon session.Doughnuts for lunch might seem like a great
idea but the sugar high and the eventual crash will make your afternoon
revision a hell of a rollercoaster.
13:00-16:00–Revision
The challenge here is staying awake (I would know),especially when
you’re not used to this kind of schedule.Light caffeine and healthy lunch
will deinitely help with this.
16:00-16:30pm–Coffee/Tea/Biscuits/Socialising/Gaming Break
To refuel some energy or blow off some steam.Breaks are essential for
the daily marathon.But make sure that you don’t talk to friends past 16:30!
16:30-19:00 –Revision
The last push to complete all the revision you’ve set yourself for the day.
19:00-20:00–Dinner
Now it’s time to reward yourself for 8 hours of revision you’ve done today.
Preferably ice cream for dessert.Diet can come later.
20:00-22:00–Rest (Or Optional Revision)
Can be an optional revision session in the case that there is still a lot of
material to cover,or you’ve procrastinated too much during the day.
22:00-00:00–Rest
This is vital.It can be exercise,talking to friends,gaming,silly youtube
videos or just doing nothing.I would recommend exercise as it uses up the
adrenaline stored up in times of stress,but whatever to take your mind
off the stuff you’ve revised today.The brain takes a while to consolidate
long-term memories and this is an unconscious process,so just trust your
biology to do what it’s supposed to do.Plus,your brain needs some time to
calm down from intense mental activity so you can go to sleep more easily.
00:00–Sleep
Try to stick to midnight because if it gets any later,you’ll either wake up
with less sleep or the whole routine might slowly begin to shift.Memory
consolidation also occurs during sleep,so getting enough sleep during
the exam season is essential.It also makes waking up at 08:00 more of a
possibility for night owls.

