26 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
08.05.2015
Arts Editors Fred Fyles & Kamil McClelland
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Extraordinary Tale of Everyman
For British actor Chiwetel
Ejiofor, no role is too
large. Coming to national
prominence after his showstopping
turn in Othello in 2008, for which he
won the Olivier Award for Best Actor,
he returns to the UK this year with
a spade of awards and nominations
under his belt thanks to his stirring
performance as Solomon Northup
in the 2013 Steve McQueen film 12
Years A Slave, which nabbed the top
spot of numerous critics’ end of year
lists. However, if any role is to give
him pause it would be his latest one;
Ejiofor is the titular character in
the National Theatre’s production
of Everyman, taking on the mantle
of humanity. Rufus Norris’ first
directorial effort as head of the
National Theatre, Everyman is a
mixed bag, with strong performances
and excellent physicality coming
up against a lackluster script, whose
elements jar in all the wrong places.
A 15th
Century morality play,
Everyman follows the proverbial
journey of the ‘Everyman’, a
paradigm of humanity, who
undertakes a quest for Christian
redemption. Following his death, he
is judged by God, his deeds tallied
up and weighed; he tries to find
people to accompany him on this
journey, turning first to an ensemble
representing fellowship, then his
kindred, and finally to material
goods, before facing that he must
go it alone. Ultimately, he looks
inside himself, finding an inner
knowledge of mankind’s innate
goodness that will accompany him
towards judgement. Paying penance
in front of God, Everyman begs for
forgiveness, and is finally absolved.
Of course, Norris felt that bringing
along only one big name was not
enough; this is his first production
after all, and there’s no better
impression than a play buckling
under the weight of household
names. Therefore, he has invited
Carol Ann Duffy, Poet Laureate, to
transcribe the script of Everyman,
updating its vernacular from Old
English to modern slang, and thereby
– theoretically – making it more
accessible to today’s audience. Maybe
Norris felt that he should appeal to
the broadest range of people possible,
or perhaps he thought that a couple
of swear words here and there would
be better than innumerable instances
of the word “thy”, but really he does
the play, and the public, a disservice.
Duffy’s adaptation is adequate,
but there are moments where the
colloquial language comes against
the grand themes, stuttering and
grinding like a spanner in the works.
Having Everyman accuse his sister of
being a bitch, or calling Death a cunt,
simply detracts from the grandiose
themes, bringing us down to earth
with a dull thud.
Furthermore, Duffy takes away
much of the religious aspect; a
gamble that doesn’t quite pay off, it
means that the heavy subject matter
instead becomes a wry indictment
of modern consumerism (I mean,
I hate capitalism as much as the
next bourgeois culture vulture,
but the same thing has been
done – and better – by numerous
playwrights). However, some aspects
of modernisation do work; Duffy
replaces the theme of mankind
abusing each other, and focusses on
how we damage the environment.
Whirling montages of natural
disasters and floods roll through the
auditorium like a hurricane, provided
by video designer Tal Rosner. It serves
as the dramatic apex of a production
with a heavy focus on clever staging;
from the very beginning, where
Ejiofor is slowly lowered down on a
rope, through the scenes where he
confronts his own materialism in a
subconscious department store, and
up to this gripping conclusion, Ian
MacNeil’s setting rarely puts a foot
wrong.
Javier De Frutos’ work as
choreographer and movement
director should also be applauded,
providing the ensemble cast with a
near-aggressive sense of physicality.
But the real draw, the one that will
bring the crowds in and ensure that
the production has a sell-out run,
is the presence of Ejiofor. And fair
enough. Ejiofor is nothing short of
magnificent. With sweat dripping
off his brow, he cowers in the face
of death, delivering his lines with
a great might. With a gravitas that
only those most brilliant actors
can possess, he brings the entire
audience to a standstill, as we bath
in his magnificent oratory. He is not
encumbered by the awkwardness of
the language, managing to transcend
even the most awkward turns of
phrase; that being said, it makes
me sad that we aren’t seeing him
deliver the original text. We’ve seen
this man deliver one of the finest
Shakespearean performances of the
modern age – imagine what he could
have done with the unaltered play.
The remainder of the cast are just as
excellent, although, naturally, none
overshadow the main attraction.
Kate Duchêne’s God is a world-weary
cleaning lady, sweeping up after
the mess her humanity has created,
tired at the long years the human
race has put morality in the corner;
Dermot Crowley imbues his Death
with a scottish brogue, replacing the
traditional black cloak and scythe
for protective overalls and gloves,
resembling more a cast member of
CSI than the bringer of doom.
Ultimately, Everyman is an
extremely promising opener to
Richard Norris’ tenure at the helm
of the country’s most famous
theatre. With its explosive set
design, energetic movement, and
powerhouse of a central performance
from Chiwetel Ejiofor, Everyman is
an engaging piece, and bodes well
for Norris’ run. Despite a script that
doesn’t live up to what could have
been, I am certain that Everyman,
with its lively, dazzling take on what
it means to be human, will prove a
triumph.
Everyman is on at the National
Theatre until 30th
August. Tickets from
£15, available online.
Chiwetel Ejiofor as Everyman and Kate Duchêne as God in the National Theatre’s production of Everyman Photo: Richard Hubert Smith
Chiwetel Ejiofor astonishes Fred Fyles at the National Theatre

