36 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
08.05.2015
What is going on inside
the Blue Cube this week
It’s not all royal babies this week at the
Imperial College London campus! We’ve
got plenty more lined up for all of you
wonderful Faculty Building workers
throughout the week, so just take a look
and pop along to anything that takes your
fancy!*
Advice On: Family
Our “Advice on” series continues with this
session on family. We’ll be looking at how
to handle family life, from having children
to finding a home to live in.
Family life is always complicated, and we
don’t want any stress at home to detract
from all the hard work we do here!
We hope you find this series useful - be
sure to let us know if you do, and we’ll
schedule more!
International Diplomacy Course
On Thursday at 12, we’ll be running a
crash-course in international diplomacy
and how to deal with foreign governments.
As you all know, we are an international,
world-leading institution, which
occasionally means we have to deal with
governments beyond the United Kingdom.
Don’t forget to bring your yoga mat as
usual, and green tea will (of course) be
provided.
All-Staff Briefing Cancelled
Our weekly staff briefing has been
cancelled by the Vice Provost (Arbitrary
Excuses) due to continued difficulties with
determining the actual properties of a Staff
Briefing.
The lovely boys handling the review into
Staff Briefing procedures have assured
me that they will have a report ready for
consumption within the next few weeks, so
we can all keep looking forward to that!
For now, I’m told that they’re looking into
new ways of disseminating the Briefing, to
save on valuable time taking the lift up to
the Briefing Room.
*Attendance at at least one Blue Cube
Event per week is mandatory.
What is going on outside the
Blue Cube this week
The Vice Provost (Marketing) has asked me
to remind you all that this weekend is the
Imperial Festival!
Alice Gast: Thought of the Week
“The birth of a princess is a truly special
occasion that will be remembered for years
to come. This joyful birth is a reminder to us
all of the need for collaboration in all walks of
life. Just as parents must collaborate to have
a child, to raise that child, and to ensure that
child grows up to come to Imperial, we must
all collaborate to help raise my bank balance.
Sorry, Imperial’s bank balance.”
The weekly newsletter of the Faculty Building
Blue News
Provost Post
of the Week
Every week, a member of
our esteemed Provost board
shares their thoughts with
our collaborative, cohesive
community. This week, we
welcome Al Pologies, Vice
Provost (Arbitrary Excuses)!
Unfortunately, Al has once
again been called away
by an unexpected spate of
cancellations, so he was unable
to write this column for another
week.
In his place, we’re delighted
to announce the appointment
of our new Vice Provost
(Collaboration)!
Let’s all give a big welcome
to Colin Abboration, formerly
of the Electrical Engineering
faculty, who was awarded
the post after an extensive
process of interviews and group
collaboration workships.
With no further ado, here’s Col
(as he insists we call him!).
Hi all!
I’m delighted to be your new
Vice Provost (Collaboration). I
look forward to collaborating
(haha!) with all of you over the
next few weeks.
I’m extremely excited to be
making the leap to the Faculty
Building after my years in the
Engineering offices.
I’ve spent many years looking
across Dalby Court at this
marvellous blue cube, wishing
that one day I could work in
these hallowed halls.
It’s a dream come true, it
really is, and I look forward
to helping make all of your
collaborative dreams a reality.
As my first act of
collaboration, I’d like to make
this column a collaborative act
by allowing the Vice Provost
(Marketing) to post a small
advert for Imperial Festival!
I’m excited!
Hello all,
Welcome to another brand new edition of Blue News, our weekly
digest of news, informative tidbits and other delightfully intellectually
stimulating treats for your delectation and digestion.
This week, we’re all getting very excited for Imperial Festival, which is
taking place this weekend. There are events planned all across campus,
from the Great Hall to Queen’s Lawn (and everywhere inbetween!), and
it’s all promising to be an exciting concoction of all things science and
scientific.
I, for one, am extremely excited to see what our wonderful boffins have
been coming up with behind the scenes in this magnificent, world-
leading institution, and the Imperial Festival provides the perfect
opportunity to see the fruits of all this glorious collaboration!
In other news, I’m sure you were all aware of the postgraduate
graduation day on Wednesday. I just wanted to reiterate how wonderful
it was to see so many paying customers students passing through
our doors clutching their brand new degrees, which they all paid so
much for worked so hard for! It’s to all of your credit that they had such
a wonderful time at university, and we can all feel proud of such an
achievement.
In the wider world, you may have heard rumours that a new Government
has been elected. I hope we can all join together in wishing Mr Cameron
a very happy second marriage to Mr Clegg term, and the very best of
luck with removing the cap on staff loans tutition fees. The lovely boys in
Finance assure me that this will allow us to construct a second robotics
lab, replete with a Nespresso machine for all those late mornings!
And with that exciting announcement, I’m afraid this edition of Blue
News has to draw to a close. I’m as disappointed as you are, but fear not
- we shall return, as ever, next week! Until then:
Have a productive, cohesive, collaborative and happy day!

