THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 39
08.05.2015
FELIX
Sport Editor: Kunal Wagle
SPORT
Matthew Douthwaite on ICCA’s success at the BUCS Championships
Cross Country and athletics sprint across
BUCS inish line
It’s been a great weekend for
Imperial Cross Country and
Athletics after they won two
silver medals at the BUCS Outdoor
Athletics Championships 2015.
The team travelled to Bedford
hoping to build on their success of
competitions so far this year (Top
8 in BUCS XC, semi-finalists at
BUCS Indoors) and they were not
disappointed with great performances
all round.
The medals came from Sarah
Johnson in the Women’s 10,000m
and Alberto Sanchez in the Men’s
5,000m, and is an improvement on
last year when Chris Bannon was
Imperial’s only medallist taking silver
also in the 10,000m.
Sarah’s race looked comfortable for
her right the way through as she sat
in the chasing pack following a Bath
The Men’s team receiving the BUCS trophy Photo: ICVC
University athlete who had set off on
her own.
With a few laps to go Sarah made
her move along with one other and
they left fourth place behind. As they
came round the bend to the final lap,
Sarah had stepped it up and was 10m
clear, and was excitingly closing the
gap on the leader. Unfortunately she
ran out track to complete her chase,
but finished in a comfortable 2nd
in
36:32.08 after running a very smart
race.
Alberto’s race was a highly
tactical affair. With a field full of
international athletes and a windy
back straight nobody wanted to push
the pace.
After an extremely slow first 3k in
9:50, the runners were getting uneasy
but a huge final km burn up was
clearly on its way.
At this point Alberto took the
initiative and stepped up the pace,
immediately drawing out the field
to leave Birmingham and St.Mary’s
chasing him down.
The final 1500m ramped up
in speed until it came to the last
600m where Birmingham’s athlete
drew level. With an admittedly
phenomenal kick he accelerated into
the bell, with Alberto hot on his heels.
Unfortunately, Birmingham’s last
lap was well below 60 seconds and he
couldn’t be caught, though not for
lack of trying, but Alberto managed
to hold off St.Mary’s for the silver in
15:19.38.
There were other great
performances from the Imperial
team over the weekend with Gil
Machado fighting a gripping 800m
heat to make it to the semis and first
year Chris Olley easing through to
the 1500m semis, only to have a very
unfortunate fall which prevented him
reaching the final.
Athletics Captain Gareth Holden
and Liana Spyropoulou also narrowly
missed out on qualification spots in
the 400m and 400m respectively.
With all a lot of young talent across
multiple events, the future looks
bright for Imperial Athletics.
The community has never been
stronger and with our partnership
with Thames Valley Harriers
providing us with training and
facilities there is great potential for
the coming years.
The team is keen to showcase their
abilities in Imperial’s final fixture
of the season at the London College
Athletics Series at the end of May.
This meet is open to all abilities, so
if you’d like to get involved, find us
on facebook or email run@imperial.
ac.uk!
Fat or muscle?
We are inviting healthy volunteers to take part in a research study comparing body fat and metabolism in young adults. It will
involve a single visit to Chelsea & Westminster Hospital for 3-4 hours. You will have a full body Magnetic Resonance scan, which is
safe, and does not involve x-rays. You will also be asked for a blood, and urine sample and a buccal swab taken from the inside of
the mouth. This study is open to people aged 19-27 years; we would particularly welcome interest if you were born prematurely.
For more information please email James Parkinson, Research Associate, jrcp@imperial.ac.uk or text 07814 296596

