Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Has someone in College helped you through tough times or gone the
extra mile to explain a concept or support your research? If there’s anyone
who stands out to you, then let them know! Our Student Academic
Choice Awards (SACAs) celebrate great work at Imperial and gives you a
chance to say thank you.
You can nominate as many people as you like, in as many categories as
you like - and if your nominee is shortlisted, you might get a free ticket
to the ceremony! Nominations are open until Sunday 26 February. Show
your appreciation by nominating someone great for a SACA.
imperialcollegeunion.org/sacas
As part of the Union’s continued support of student social entrepreneurs,
we are pleased to announce a series of bespoke workshops designed to
develop entrepreneurial talent at Imperial.
We’ve lined up three fantastic workshops for social entrepreneurs in the
run up to the A.C.T. Now! final showcase in March. These free sessions
are open to all students who are engaged with, or are looking to start,
social enterprise initiatives during their time at Imperial.
Each session is specifically designed to enhance the skills of student
social entrepreneurs, enabling them to move their social intiatives
forward and explore the world of social enterprise.
Join us on Wednesday 1 February for the first session, Building a Powerful Presence, delivered by the Royal Central School of Speech & Drama.This
hands-on session will help you to: develop your confidence in public speaking, make an impact when presenting, pitching or networking, speak with
confidence about your enterprise intiative.
Find out more and register now at imperialcollegeunion.org/news
Nominate someone great for a Student Academic Choice Award
Register for the Social Enterprise workshops
Our Strategy 2017-20 is our vision for the future of Imperial College Union.
On Thursday 19 January, student leaders, Imperial College Union staff and College figures gathered in Metric for the launch of Our Strategy; an
ambitious plan to take our activities to the next level. The launch event also saw the reveal of our new strategic themes: For You, For Your Support,
For Your Development, For Your Voice and Your Union. We also have a refreshed set of organisational values which set out the kind of organisation
we aim to be: one that demonstrates leadership, partnership, democracy and inclusivity in everything that we do.You can explore the strategy and
download it online.
imperialcollegeunion.org/strategy

