6 Friday 27 January 2017 Friday 27 January 2017 7
felix.news@ic.ac.uk felixonline.co.uk/news
felix
felix N E W S
felixonline.co.uk/news felix.news@ic.ac.uk
N E W S
A
s the Women’s March on
London made its way down
Park Land and Piccadilly that
bright, clear Saturday, traffic
and tourists were brought to a
standstill by a mass of bodies,
placards, and flags. Among the signs about
pussies and abortion rights, there were a
few that stuck out like sore thumbs, no more
so than the one that read “Clean Coal is a
MYTH!” At the time it seemed incongruous,
but today it seems eerily prescient: over his
first five days in office, Trump has not only
decimated global abortion rights by signing
a gag bill, blocking US-funding overseas, but
he has lied about how many people attended
the inauguration, reinstated the Dakota Access
pipeline, and started planning his border wall.
His team even coined the idiotic neologism
‘alternative facts’, which would be laughable if
it weren’t so terrifying.
So to see environmental protesters at the
Women’s March wasn’t only to be expected,
but to be celebrated. Those opposing Trump
are now faced with two choices, given the
wide range of targets he has taken on: either
we can spread ourselves too thin, trying to
take on way too many topics at one time; or,
environmentalists, civil rights activists, and
feminists of every colour and creed can unite
together to resist any moves that Trump tries
to make. Based on last Saturday, when it is
estimated up to 100,000 people marched, the
latter route is being taken. I can only hope that
the momentum is kept up long enough to enact
real, tangible change.
R
egardless of whether you believed
Donald Trump meant what he said,
there was little doubt that he had
made some shocking statements.
In my eyes, this left two possibili-
ties for those who voted for him in
November; either they agreed with his state-
ments, or they voted for him despite of them.
And I was satisfied with neither.
I marched because I feared that the election
result would legitimise comments of this nature,
and in particular for my concern over the Pres-
ident’s seeming dismissal of issues concerning
sexual harassment.
Sadly less than a week in his presidency
our worst fears have turned out to have been
prophecies.
Fred Fyles
Helen Money-Kyrle
Protesting Trump | The Women’s March through the eyes of Imperial students
We talked to some of our editors, contributors and readers about their
participation in the weekend’s anti-Trump marches. Here are their hopes,
their fears. Here are their thoughts. Here are their testimonials.
I
asked myself a question the first time I
heard about the Women’s March: Is it
necessary? The answer is yes. I joined
tens of thousands of people because I
needed to share a message too. It was not
a complaint. We advocated tolerance and
respect for everyone, after all, women’s rights
are human rights. I marched because I could
and some could not – as one placard read,
“I raise up my voice so that others can be
heard”. And it mattered because it was part of
a movement.
Hope was the predominant feeling
amongst all kinds of supporters. Carrie
Fisher’s Leia was one of the leaders of
this rebellion, portrayed alongside the
words “A woman’s place is in the resist-
ance”. All of us, we are the resistance.
I will keep on marching so that little
girl who was by my side knows that she
is powerful, that when the world turns
upside down, we rise up. I am not afraid
of the future, because democracy will
eventually listen. Because we will build
bridges instead of walls. Because love
trumps hate.
T
he march was fantastic! It was
primarily the atmosphere that
did it because despite it being
the Women’s March all sorts of
causes came up to join us. So it
felt rewarding and inspiring just
to be surrounded by SO many people who
really believed that the world deserved better
and the ‘power of the people’ would help
it become that. Personally, I do have strong
feelings about equal rights and peace and
I want to stand up not just for my friends or
my sister/mum but for women from around
the world who are mistreated or who aren’t
granted the basic human rights we all deserve.
On hearing of an event to primarily campaign
for these issues I couldn’t not go.
Though the march was centred around
Trump, that didn’t seem to make it feel more
political. It didn’t take away the feeling of
solidarity.
It felt very empowering and exhilarating to
walk through central London (especially in
tights, a thong and a pair of balloons) and
there was a strong sense of togetherness. In
the end I came out of it feeling like there was
more hope in the world especially after seeing
masses and masses of people walk by me;
people who believed in the same things as me,
as all of us. It was great to actually voice my
opinions!
Ana Villanueva
Esther Maltby
\\ Esther Maltby
\\ Esther Maltby
\\ Indira Mallik \\ Indira Mallik
\\ Piramol Krishnan
\\ Tom Hartley
\\ Indira Mallik

