The Southside Plan
The news of Nick Morton's great mystery
leaked last Friday after FELIX had been
distributed. I'm a little surprised, not to say
annoyed, that Morton should take such a
clandestine approach to what is probably the
most important decision the Union has had to
make since its formation. He made no effort to
inform the Union of what he and College
Secretary John Smith have been discussing
until it was too late. If he had revealed the
plans in Exec News last Friday (which he
certainly should have) then perhaps we would
have had a packed A G M with people who
were willing to give their opinions on the
scheme. As it is, we have to trust that Nick
Morton knows what he's doing and that
College won't take advantage of the way he
has failed to find out what people think, whilst
he personally is all for the idea.
There is no reason for a great panic or over-
reaction to what is, after all, only a very
tentative idea. But we shouldn't be lulled into
trusting the Union or College leadership and
everybody should try to make their opinion
clear. As soon as more definite plans are
available they should be published and some
sort of ballot, perhaps including Union Life
Members, should take place.
The whole thing could, of course, fall
through if the money is not available, if
academic- departments object strongly (for
financial reasons) or if students generally
disagree with the move. We cannot rely on
either of the former, and the latter is certainly
the most important factor to be considered at
present.
Airing Dirty Linen
Several fairly important matters have been
overshadowed by The Southside Plan. It has
been decided that the linen service in Halls of
Residence is to be dropped. There is some
disagreement about the consequences of such
a move and the possible savings for students.
The main reasons for agreeing to drop the
service was to save money and create a large,
central laundry for use by all IC students.
Well I doubt whether it will save much
money except if you don't wash the sheets at
all. At present it costs about £1 a week to have
clean linen delivered to your door. If you
washed your sheets every week and
considered the amount of time, effort and
inconvenience this causes, then it would easily
be valued at over £1.
Secondly the Hall Wardens are divided over
increased laundry facilities. They seem to want
a large laundry, but for use by Hall residents
only. Some Wardens disagree with the idea
completely and the indespensible Senior
Warden Don Monro cooked up the whole
thing in the first place.
It seems very pointless to me and may be yet
another false economy.
FELIX Rally
All is not dead at Imperial College! The
fabulous FELIX Rally will take place on
Sunday, June 20 with clues set by Scara-
mouche and myself about various places in
London.
The idea of the rally is to spend a timed
period on a treasure hunt around Central
L o n d o n with a set of clues and map
references. Teams of up to four may take part
and pairs on motorcycles are allowed. Points
are collected for items of treasure and clues
solved, and the winners will have their names
engraved on the FELIX Rally pot. If you are
interested in entering please contact the
FELIX Office and we'll give you more details.
Credits
Thanks to Peter, David, Dave, N., Nick, Steve,
Jez, Paul, all the collators, Maz and Ian.
Subwarden of W e e k s Hall
The position of Subwarden of Weeks Hall will be
available from October 1982. The post provides
rent-free accommodation in a small flat in return
for light but continuous duties assisting the
Warden mainly in running some amenities and
acting as Secretary to the Hall Committee.
Weeks Hall is a small Hall by College standards,
housing 50 male and 16 female students all in single
rooms, but as the donation of Vickers Ltd to a high
standard of amenities and opened in 1959. There
are, however, structural problems and special
regulations have to be observed to ensure the
safety of residents.
Applications are invited from responsible post-
graduate students, research assistants, or young
members of academic staff who expect to be able
to serve for either two or three years. It is unusual
for undergraduates to hold subwardenships but
not impossible. Please apply in writing by June 11
1982 to the Warden, Dr D M Munro, giving full
details of qualifications and experience. A short list
of applicants for interview will be prepared on the
basis of these letters of application.
If you take a rectangle divided into unit squares,
and tile it with two-square dominoes, most of the
grid lines of the rectangle will have one or more
dominoes lying across them. If there is a grid
line with no dominoes crossing it (so the
rectangle can be separated into two smaller
rectangles) we say the rectangle has a fault, in
the same way that we refer to a geological fault
between layers of rock.
The first diagram shows a fault in a 5x6
rectangle, the second shows a fault-free tiling
of the same area. For this week's puzzle, I
want a fault-free tiling of a 6x8 rectangle.
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the
FEUX Office, please. £5 (donated by Mend-a-
Bike) for the best solution received by
Wednesday, 1:00pm.
Last Week's Solution
17 seems to be the minimum number, and of
the three who found valid solutions. C.N. Goh,
Elec Eng 3, was selected as a winner (again!).
What's On
Friday, May 28
•Soup Run, 10:30pm, Falmouth Kitchen.
Tuesday, June 1
•Wine Tasting society meeting, 6:00pm, Union SCR.
Tasting a variety of interesting wines, this is the last
meeting of the year.
•Dancing club, mixed ability class, 7:30pm, JCR.
•Soup Run, 10:30pm, Falmouth Kitchen.
Thursday, June 3
•Turn It O n Again (last of three programmes), 1:00 and
6:00pm, JCR, Southside TV Lounge, Beit, Linstead,
Weeks and Garden Halls. A browse through the STOIC
archives, featuring material recorded over the last
academic year.
•Summer Singing, 5:45pm, Music Rm, 53 Prince's
Gate. Vivaldi's 'Gloria' and Mendelssohn's 'Elijah' will be
sung purely for fun. Everyone welcome.
Warden
Rayleigh House
This post is suitable for a married postgraduate
expecting to remain at IC for a further two years.
Application forms from Union Office. Closing
date for applications 5:00pm, June 1.
Further information is available from present
Warden, Mike Hudson, Int 4095, (eves) 589-1329.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of the Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince
Consort Road, London SW7 2BB (589-5111 ext 1048 int 2881) Copyright FELIX 1982. Editor: M A Smith, Advertising Manager: S M Gibtin.

