Page 2 FELIX February 25, 1971
Late Letters
A d a y i n t h e l i f e
Dear Diary,
Today I got up at 8.30
a.m. I ate my breakfast and
caught the bus to college.
During the journey I read an
Electronics text book.
I arrived at college at 9.20
and since I had ten minutes
to spare before the lecture
started, I didn't waste them
but continued reading my
text book. When the lecture
started I took notes on all
that the lecturer said. It was
very interesting. At the end
he gave out a new problem
sheet.
At 10.30 we had no lecture
so I went into the study
room. Since I was up to
date with all my other prob-
lems I started on the new
sheet. I managed to do most
of them but found difficulty
with one problem.
After another interesting
lecture I had a quick snack
and then returned to the
study room to read some
more of my text book. The
afternoon was spent in the
laboratory where I completed
a very important experiment
on the Transistor Amplifier.
At 5.30 p.m. I came back
to my digs and, after tea, I
completed all my problems
from today and copied up my
lab. Afterwards I read my
text books in preparation for
tomorrow's lectures. I am
just about to go to bed at
10.30 p.m.
But, dear diary, today I
met a strange sort of student.
He was telling me that he
had only done the first prob-
lem sheet and he was five labs
behind in copying up. His
reason was that he didn't
have time; he was too busy
with other things! "But why
did he come here?" I won-
dered. I can't understand
anyone who doesn't want to
do college work all the time,
I don't think I ought to mix
with students like this. I
can't understand anyone who
isn't like me.
C o o k e — f i n g e r s b u r n t
TO HELL WITH EXAMS!
Dear Sir,
Rarely, even in a student
newspaper, can an article
have combined so ill inform-
ed a mixture of unproven
facts, absurd opinions and
asinine conclusions as your
Mr. Cooke, and his article on
'Strikes and the militant'
(11th February).
Mr. Cooke links the
bombings of the Angry Bri-
gade, and militant shop
stewards (these people, as he
puts it, with aristocratic
grace). One can only hope
that he realizes the implica-
tions of this. Have the com-
munist militants, the trotsky-
ite militants, the anarchist
militants, and the ordinary
economic militants buried the
ideological hatchet at last? Is
*the angry brigade the thin
end of the revolutionary con-
flagration? Alas, it seems
more likely that Mr. Cooke
has simply extrapolated from
reality into fantasy. Anyone
who reads the papers can see
that shop stewards are mili-
tant, as is the angry brigade;
the logical conclusion is
obvious.
Freedom, Mr. Cooke im-
plies, is linked with capital-
ism, any other system, he
warns, will only bring chaos.
(I trust that Mr. Cooke is re-
viewing the virtues of capital-
ism in the light of the Rolls-
Royce affair). Quite why Mr.
Cooke links the freedom of
the individual so indissolubly
with capitalism I am at a loss
to understand, unless he has
in mind the freedom to be-
come a millionaire—or to
help someone else become
one. None of the commonly
accepted basic freedoms seem
to me to be linked with any
economic system, though
they may be obstructed by a
But what ways are there out of the rigid exam system?
We can make teaching much more work and sMU oriented,
less tied to syllabuses, and more 'liberal.' And it is necessary
to be aware of a great danger here. The danger is that be-
coming more 'liberal' is seen to mean having more diverse
studies, and I think this is quite mistaken. There is enormous
value in specialisation: it gives the specialist authority and
confidence. It gives him the experience of doing things in
fields in which he can exercise initiative, and education for
life is equipping people to use their initiative, to feel confi-
dent with some justification, to feel responsible, to feel that
they understand their judgements and are not passing the
real responsibility elsewhere. The mere fact of being a spec-
ialist gives a person something that a well-rounded, liberal
minded, balanced person who is not a specialist can never
have. The experience of operating specialist skills is exhilar-
ating and is, incidentally, a path to experiences which some
people seek through drugs (and do not ever grasp because
the skills never become built into their conscious and con-
trolled selves).
Exams are a terrible imposition on those who do not
expect to be successful. It is no use talking about lazy
students. People do not fail through laziness but through
lack of incentive. One of the great justifications for exams
is that they provide incentive, and if they fail to do this
in any individual case, that person becomes a victim of a
system which goes on using a method even after it is clearly
seen to be failing. Depressed students who can't work should
not be persecuted, as they undoubtedly are nowadays, merely
because someone else thinks that the exam ought to provide
an incentive for them, and that its the student's fault if it
doesn't.
Of course exams are not an incentive at all really; it
is the certificate, prize, or degree which is in prospect that is
the incentive, and any other system which awarded them
would be just as good. An exam is quite useless — nobody
ever wants to use the "work" done in the exam hali, or even
see it again if they can avoid it, so why should it be an
incentive to a sensible person? What teaching should be
based on is the wonderful experience of acquiring skills and
using them: the only benefit from education is from the
skills, including the control and understanding of all aspects
of one's self, that one has at the end. Teaching should be
designed to give every student the opportunity to feel these
skills growing inside him, and because what students can do
varies enormously from one to another it is quite silly to
try to force them into the same mould and measure them all
by the same test.
I have come to dislike exams rather strongly because they
wreck the relationships I try to establish in teaching: with
clever students they are an unnecessary bore in every sense,
with weak students they are quite pernicious because they
impose on the teacher and student the task of grooming him
for a kind of athletic performance he is no good at and
not helping him to grow into the best person he can be. All
the nonesense about discipline that we hear in connection
with exams arises because we are trying to do silly things
with the wrong people, and so of course we have to introduce
some form of artificial compulsion.
Students who argue the case against exams will carry most
weight if they show that they positively want to get on with
some other aspect of the learning business and that exams
get in the way of this. It is less credible if the student com-
plains he is being persecuted by the system (even though it is
true), and that side of the argument should be left to the
teachers, who feel it strongly and are more likely to be
believed. The students, will, I hope respond with enthusiasm
to opportunities to get on with real work. If a teacher offers
an alternative to an exam and meets only the sort of bloody-
mindedness that I feel is actually justified in the case of
exams everyone will be the loser, and we shall end up with a
more rigid system with the reactionaries of society saying
with glee "I told you so!"
We must not forget that exams are actually useful to many
people and so we continue to have them. But they are useful
because people have planned everything on the assumption
that we must have them, just as they plan their lives on the
basis of many other quite arbitrary aspects of our lives such
as the tax laws, inheritance laws, marriage laws, and so on.
Some laws are more sacred than others of course, but
exams aren't even laws, they are convenient regulations
whose form has evolved in a special historical context and
they are becoming intolerable.
R. S. Scorer
system. It appears that Mr.
Cooke takes the view that a
terrible state of affairs in the
so-called socialist countries
justifies a different but,
equally terrible state of
affairs in this country, a very
curious argument.
Nothing like as curious,
however as Mr. Cooke's
parting shot. He informs us
that if all the Capital in the
country (which he takes to
be £300 million, heaven
knows why) were distributed
amongst the people, then
within 6 months it would all
be concentrated in capitalist
hands once more. We are
not informed why this would
happen, but as an economic
principle, it is startling in its
elegance. Perhaps that is its
appeal to Mr. Cooke who
obviously prefers imaginative
elgance to realistic analysis.
Yours faithfully,
H. D. Anderson.
SELLING OF A PRESIDENT
Post Seconders Nom. Papers Polling
President 20 down Mar. 8 Mar. 15/16
Deputy President 20
Hon. Secretary 20
Dept. Reps. 10 down Today
Academic affairs 10 up Max. 4 Mar. 16
External affiairs 10 down Mar. 16
Welfare officers 10
Felix editor 0 none none
The hustings will take place on Thursday, March 11th and the results will be
declared at the UGM on March 18th. At time of going to press a number of people
are rumoured to be standing for the various posts available. The grapevine gives
John McCu'llough and Graham Oubridge (Who?) for president and Dave Amis for
Vice-president. More news and views in the next FELIX.
Studentplan Gradplan
Motor Insurance designed and marketed
solely and specifically for
Students and Graduates.
Negotiated by N.U.S. with leading Insurers
to include all major benefits at low cost
with Unlimited Passenger Liability cover.
The obvious choice for the
Academic Motorist.
Full detail from Endsleigh Insurances
(Brokers) Ltd., Carlisle House, Southampton
Row, London, WC1. Tel. 01-242 5062
Endsleigh Insurances (Brokers) Ltd.,
the Insurance Dept. of N.U.S.

