February 25, 1971 FELIX Page 3
E D I T O R I A L
-
With Carnival Week over, I.C. seems to have settled back
into its customary mode of inactivity. In eight days more
controversial issues were raised than for a whole term pre-
vious.
In his week Carnival Co-ordinator, Dennis Taylor, man-
aged to raise approaching £1000 for Paddington children. The
attempt to have an "event" every day of the week did create
some sort of "rag-week" atmosphere, but still, there must have
been many hundreds of students who ignored it. Saturday's
fete provided a successful end to the week, and I'm sure most
people appreciated Julie Ege giving so much of her valuable
time, or simply appreciated Julie Ege.
The controversy that has sprung up in Physics over a re-
latively insignificant event is simply another clash between
politically conscious groups in the college. The common-
room issue was, at its time of initiation, a perfectly valid and
not unfair enquiry. Yet the decision to turn the issue into a
political one, immediately stamped it with the seal of failure.
From then on it was simply a fight between Piers et al in
the Red corner, and a right-wing faction of Physics 3 in the
blue. Although I admit my sympathies lie with the left, the
right's attempts to use intimidation and humiliation to "win"
their argument were depressingly typical. What was even
worse was the encouragement received for Dr. Pain, who
should have known better than to let his emotions override his
common sense. Remember the common-room? Well Physics
UG's are still banned. What was Newton's third law? Inter-
action and reaction are equal and opposite.
F E L I X 2 9 9
EDITOR Tony Sims
ASST. EDITORS Mike Yates, Dave Sugden
PHOTO EDITOR Malcolm Bailey
NEWS Tony Kirkham
ARTS Charlie Hulme, John Ackers.
PHOTOGRAPHERS Steve Heap, Malcolm Freedman
TYPIST Susan Parry
CARNIVAL NEWS Dennis Taylor
PRINTED BY F. Bailey & Son Ltd. Dursley, Glos.
ADVERTISING University Press Representation,
Grand Buildings, Trafalgar Square, WC2
PUBLISHED by the editor on behalf of ICLI publications
board, Prince Consort Road, SW7
J U D I T H
Throughout the grants campaign there has been little at-
tention drawn to the plight of postgraduates. The SRC grant
is £130 more than the undergraduate award for an
extra 16 weeks. No wonder the number of PGs is dropping
and the proportion of overseas research students is increas-
ing. The last grants rise was proportionately less for PGs—
the government want to cut down the number of PGs but
must it starve them into submission? Already the SRC will
not guarantee a third year grant because of 15% cuts in its
money. How much more stringent will the SRC soon have to
be? Loans for PGs are not far off unless we act to protect
their rights.
College deliberately seeks to divide the various groups in
the university—witness their efforts to destroy the ICRC be-
cause the council draws IC people together. All the different
sections are meant to approach the rector separately, be
"consulted", but never involved in the real power structure.
Thus the Holland club, a purely social entity, is singled out
as the non-academic staff's representative body, rather than
the trade unions. Its meetings are too infrequent and ill-
attended to be able to formulate really representative policy.
As its executive is almost self-perpetuating, the college can
ingratiate themselves. The trade unions should provide the
non-academic staffs representation on the refectory commit-
tee instead of the Holland club.
. Major changes need to be brought about in IC—by staff
and students acting together to break the hierarchy. Staff
such as Dr. Pain hardly help by seeking to divide. Academic
staff are in a weak position—their careers depend on heads
of departments—as Geoff Sirokin and Dick Atkinson found
out. Deans (through the dean's committee), heads of de-
partments and a few college administrators run this college,
decide its future development, dictate the courses, dole out
the money, subject to industry and the government. Under-
graduates are barely tolerated—factory fodder. More stu-
dents, mean more research money.
Five reps on the board of studies and three observers on
the governing body mean little. We have been denied re-
presentation or even observer status on the Deans (or the
heads of depts. meetings)—okay we are neither (yet!), but
why aren't these meetings open? Where is the college's aca-
demic community? Each department is an empire building.
L E T T E R S
O p e n F o r u m P h y s i c s
Well folks the first "Open
Forum" has been born.
These Open Forums are in-
tended to be a series of lec-
ture / debate / discussion /
symposiums delving into the
deeper questions of our lives
as university students. The
title of the first one will be
"Is Technology Enough?"
and the speakers will be Lord
Kearton from Courtaulds,
Sir James Tate from City
University (ex-C.A.T.) and
Dr. Johnathan Rosehead, a
lecturer from LSE and a
member of BSSRS. All three
will speak and then the ques-
tion will be thrown open to
the floor for you to put your
own views. All members of
staff are welcome and have
been invited. There will be
refreshments in the JCR
afterwards for those who wish,
to continue the discussion. It
is hoped that this type of
forum will become a regular
event, and embrace all the
aspects in college so that one
can have constructive debate
on these matters. Lord Pen-
ney will be in the chair and
Lord Kearton has told me
he objects to being asked
how much he earns. So come
along, ask some questions,
show how inadequate/ade-
quate the courses we do here
are to us. It's all in the Great
Hall, Thursday, March 11th,
at 6.30.
Mark M . Wood
ICU Academic Affairs
Officer
Editor's Message:
Why don't you write a letter to Felix?
Deadline is the Wednesday after each issue.
Please don't write more than 300 words.
Dear Sir,
Over the past few weeks,
in the Physics department
there has been a growing
feeling of animosity between
different factions. This has
ended in Ricardo Turullos
of basis group Physics get-
ting wet feet and Dr. Pain
being criticised for a tactless
and inflammatory statement.
This train of events only
goes to show that instead of
a confrontation (nasty word)
between students and staff
there has come about a stud-
ent vs. student vs. staff situa-
tion, which is going to help
no one, least of all UG's.
The main problem in the
student camp is the resent-
ment growing between Inter-
action (basis group Physics)
and the "rest" over the atti-
tudes towards the 8th floor
problem and the Round
Pond affair. The "rest" see
Interaction as a small leftish
Corbynish clique which is
demanding concessions in a
rather crude manner and
also distributing an equally
crude CEFE-type news sheet
— at least one writer of In-
teraction also writes for
CEFE. This is perhaps a
little unfair since Interaction
has some good ideas, e.g. 8th
floor commonisation, a larger
more representative Staff Stu-
dent Committee, periodic de-
partment meetings etc. Unfor-
tunately their methods have
tended to lag behind their
ideas, and so the resulting
polarisation (their word) has
occurred between staff and
students, and amongst stu-
dents themselves. "Inter-
action =leftie" is also unfair
since the meetings of the basis
group are open to all Physics
students — third year Union
bar / strongmen included —
technicians and staff, and the
people who do go are not
all "leftie" (which is now a
totally meaningless word any-
way). So if you want to
change Interaction then go
to their meetings on Fridays
at 3 p.m.
If the UG's in the Physics
department want to get any-
where in the advancement of
staff / student relationships
then they must be prepared
to unite to form a solid front
and try to produce policies
satisfactory to all, and also
act with a little more tact
than of late. Any further
duckings and insults will only
lead to a situation whereby
no part of the UG body will
have any standing with the
staff, so the sooner common
sense and tolerance return
to Physics the better.
Yours faithfully,
A tired frustrated
Physics student.
W h a t ' s O n
Thursday, 25th February
C & G ENGINEERING SOCIETY: A G M and Presenta-
tion of Faber Prize Competition Paper. 13.15 in E E 408.
WELLSOC FILM SHOW: The Scarface Mob, and Evi-
dence in Concrete. Pure, unadulterated corn at an amazingly
low price. 7.30 p.m., ME 220.
Friday, 26th February
FILMSOC: Brunei's anti-clerical "Simon of the Desert";
"Zabriskie Point", Antonioni's impressionistic view of Ameri-
can materialism. 19.15, M E 220. Guest tickets in advance
from Tizard 436.
Monday, 1st March
St. David's Day, and WELLSOC — Science and Jokes.
The inimitable Prof. Jones gives his long-awaited lecture.
7.30 p.m., M E 220.
Wednesday, 3rd March
IMPERIAL COLLEGE FOLK SONG CLUB PRE-
SENTS: John Foreman and resident singers. Non-members
25p, members 15p, Upper Union Refectory. Floor singers
welcome, come early. Bar.
C & G ENGINEERING SOCIETY: An all day visit to
see Concorde at the BAC works, Filton, near Bristol. Details
on the notice board in Mech. Eng., level 3.
Monday, 8th March
WELLSOC: Lateral Thinking. Edward de Bono speaks.
7.30 p.m. ME 220.
Thursday, 11th March
SOUTH EAST ASIA SOCIETY: The famous Japanese
Epic Film, "The Seven Samurai". 18.00, Chem. Eng.
Theatre 1.
STUDENT ECONOMY AND
CHARTER FLIGHTS
WEEKLY (DAILY IN THE SUMMER)
TO AND FROM
NORTH A M E R I C A
ONE WAY £40 ROUND TRIP £65
(OPEN ROUND TRIP £65)
AND OTHER PARTS OF THE WORLD
EXPO INTERNATIONAL
81 CADOGAN GARDENS, LONDON S.W.3.
01-584-0064-5
D e c i m a l s
Dear Felix,
I feel it is my duty as a
member of the Neasden Pio-
neers of Radio One to cor-
rect your correspondent Mr.
Willmott in the last issue.
Decimal currency (or Dis-
mal Guernsey, as some grum-
py old cows call it) was, as
the careful reader of the East
Grinstead Skinhead Journal
will recall, an invention of
the quasi-communist clique
which was rightfully deposed
from power by the present
government, which is, of
course, in reality a junta of
Bentley owners (Rolls' are
suddenly out of fashion with
fascists). The former adminis-
tration's plans, probably
Moscow-oriented, for a new
Penney which would have
wrecked our (n.b. a pun)
economy, were ingeniously
avoided by the present reg-
ime who, no doubt divinely
inspired, have made the
penny worth a lot more than
it used to be (which was
more than a penny in any
case owing to the reactionary
nationalisation of copper
mines by Zambia).
Furthermore the Tories
have generously inundated
us with propaganda so ele-
mentary that even the Welsh
are showing signs of under-
standing it. Furthermore they
have provided issues such as
Law and Order, Dutschke,
the Titanic, devaluation, and
rationing, compared to which
even Trotsky's memoirs be-
come boring.
So we should all boycott
this new Socialist fascist
money — it hasn't even got
Lenin's head on the reverse,
where it belongs — and force
somebody to resign. In any
case I haven't got any money
so I can't see what all the
fuss is about. Cheques pay-
able to
Soss Roberts.
P.S. The South African
Embassy recently withdrew
their bank account from
Barclays on the grounds that
"Barclays DCO is too racially
tolerant." I urge all students
to bank with Barclays and
channel more money into S.
Africa.

