10 Clubs and Societies
Know What I Mean, Harry? Snooker Win
STOIG cameras were out and about this week
recording the I C U Sabbatical Hustings. This
marks the comeback of STOIC after an
extensive studio rebuild and extension that
commenced in July last year.
The studio now has a professional layout,
allowing the production of informative, quality
programmes on a regular basis. Delays in the re-
launch have been caused by an unreliable
network system. The STOIC engineering team
has spent the recent months replacing 1.6
kilometres of cable and distribution boxes in
Electrical Engineering and Southside. STOIC
now sees itself free to expand its coverage to the
parts of the campus as yet unreached.
STOIC has also been active on the
production side during the year. Programmes to
be broadcast over the next few weeks include
Simon Says (featuring an exclusive interview
with Frank Bruno) next Wednesday evening,
Abbey Road, a tour round the famous music
studios by their resident engineers and Carlo's
Half Hour, a look at different genres of
television through the eyes of T V presenters
such as Alistair Stewart, Bob Holness, William
G Stewart, M r Blobby and Julia Sawalha. For
the first time in STOIC history, network
television (Channel Four) has shown an interest
in broadcasting some of our programmes.
STOIC also intends to produce a new weekly
programme, STOIC LIVE, that will incorporate
College and national news, film reviews and a
look at what is happening around London and
IC. Each week, the show will highlight one or
more clubs and societies. The Wall, another new
show, will be a platform for any IC student, past
or present, to give their views on anything.
Everything will be screened, with no deadlines,
no censorship and no holds barred. Anyone with
a message should visit the STOIC studio one
lunchtime to arrange a recording.
Additionally, STOIC has found a system
capable of broadcasting to the Evelyn Garden
halls, St Mary's Medical School and Wilson
House. It works by transmitting a T V picture
and sound on an infra-red beam over a range- of
1.5 miles. STOIC hopes to raise the money to
install this over the summer vacation.
STOIC can currently be seen in Da Vinci's
bar and Beit Hall. Southside halls and the JCR
will be connected soon. The STOIC studio is
situated on the top floor of the Union Building.
Anyone keen to stand for one of the Social, Cultural and Amusements Board (SCAB) positions
should sign up on the papers opposite the Union Office.
SCAB is the organisation that represents the likes of FilmSoc, DramSoc, Choir and Jazz & Rock
in the happy family that is the Union. The posts are Chairman, Treasurer and Honorary Secretary. If
anyone is interested but feels they need convincing, contact Daniel on ext 5185 (or e-mail d. shields
@ic). The election meeting is on Wednesday 23rd March at 1pm in the Brown Committee Room.
Teams from England, Wales, Scotland and
Ireland were 'sent to Coventry' to compete in
the U A U Snooker Championships, hosted by
Warwick University recently. Imperial's A team
finished the weekend strongly by winning the
'Doily Trophy' by 13 frames to 12 in a very
competitive end-of-tournament match.
The weekend started with Imperial's Paul
Kellett grabbing the centre of attention in
scoring breaks of 72, 59, 51 and 38 in very
Hendry-esque snooker. Both Imperial's A and B
teams won their first matches, the A team going
on to win their group over Southampton and
UEA. The B team were edged out of the first
round group by Cardiff B by just one frame,
despite a good performance against Bradford.
The A team then went on to destroy their
next two opponents, Warwick and Ulster to
reach the quarter-final stage against Cardiff A ,
the eventual winners. But in a petty application
of the rules, enough to make any ice dancing
judges envious, Imperial were penalised one
frame for arriving unavoidably late. The
quarter-final was lost on the black ball of the
final frame, leaving Imperial to concentrate on a
curry in Coventry and the Doily Trophy.
Revenge is 'on the table' for next year as the
tournament is due to be hosted by Cardiff
University.
A team: P Kellett, V Ly, S Baugh, J Fulcher, P
Wooders
B team: B Drinkwater, A Robinson, M Sinha,
R Godbole, N Samsatli
Student
Accommodation Office
Vacancies in College Residences
as at 7.3.94
Ref Hall Type Sex UG/PG From Licence
1. Southwell Twins M UG Now 34-Week
2. 8 Earls Ct Sq Twin M PG Now 51-Week
3. Bernard Stinley Twin M UG Now 38-Week
4. Bernard Sunley Twin F UG Now 38-Week
5. Bernard Sunley Twin F UG Now 38-Week
6. Fisher Twin M UG Now 38-Week
7. Garden Twin F UG Now 38-Week
8. Linstead Twin M UG Now 34-Week
9. Olave Twin M/F PG Now BES Let
10. Willis Jackson Twin M UG Now 34-Week
11. Holbein Twin M UG 28.3.94 38-Week
12. Garden Triple M UG Now 38-Week
13. Olave Triple M PG Now BES Let
14. Clayponds Singles M/F UG/PG Now BES Let
15. Southside 2 Bed Married PG 21.3.94 51-Week
For further information, please call in at
Ground Floor, 15 Princes Gardens
ISLAM
or
DEMOCRACY
No Contest!
Democracy is being hailed today as the only system by which the world can live in peace and prosperity.
The solution to the problems of the homeless, the poor and the deprived in this country are all linked to a more
democratic and open system of government. The tyranny, oppression and dictatorship in other parts of the
world, especially in the muslim world, will apparently be solved by establishing democracy in those
countries. Or so we are led to believe.
Democracy, {demos cratos - people power) since its first inception by the Greeks , has never worked
from its first trial in Athens to the present day twentieth century. Then women, slaves and the poor were not
allowed to participate in the process of decision making. In fact the system was always at loggerheads with
itself with so many conflicting requirements, allof them impossible to meet. Today the problems are different
but of the same nature. In Britain we have the rule of the minority, where we have a government whom 60%
of the electorate do not want. 80% of the people did not want the poll tax. If this is what you call democracy,
it has failed.
In Islam the situation is completely different. The system it offers functioned perfectly for 1400 years
for everyone, regardless of race colour religion or regional location. The system is based upon giving
complete sovereignty to the Creator while allowing the people the authority to elect their ruler. This is in
complete contrast to democracy which gives sovereignty to the human mind, something which is weak,
limited, needy and dependant on its environment. For muslims this unacceptable. Democracy has and never
will work. None of the present governments in the muslim world rule by Islam and, as was seen in Algeria,
democracy is not the way to establish the Islamic system.
Come and hear about why Islam has an alternative system to offer over democracy, and if you truly
believe in democracy then come along and present your case.
Date : 16 MARCH 1994
Time : 2.00 p.m.
Place : MECH. ENG. 220
Imperial College
(South Kensington tube)
MrEKlnL couKt isLxMicsocwyy

