Clubs and Societies 11
The IC Festival of Drama
Light is tentatively breaking over a not too
distant horizon and let me be the first to herald
its re-emergence. A leaner, keener Dramatic
Society, disburdened of rancour, welcomes one
and all to participate in The Imperial College
Festival of Drama. This unique celebration is a
spontaneous response to overwhelming enthu-
siasm on the part of IC Dramatic Society
members and a blossoming, burgeoning group of
students, for realising an participating in drama,
within or without the theatre.
There are four faces to the festival. Already
recorded is a radio play by Tom Stoppard.
Directed by Ed Mulligan, The Dog It Was That
Died is an ingenious satire on the precious and
perplexing game of international espionage. The
broadcast on IC Radio, 20th March, promises to
be an hilarious event.
In the final week of term (22nd to 24th
March) we present a daring re-examination of
T.S. Eliot's intriguing verse-drama Murder In
The Cathedral, directed by Asghar Khan.
Dispense with any pre-conceptions and be
prepared to be shocked...
Forming the bulk of the programme and
being performed on alternate nights in the week
beginning 14th March are plays by two of this
centuries most enigmatic writers. Dylan Thomas
employs the sensuous irony and subtle insight
familiar from his poetry, in this adaptation of
The Doctor and the Devils. The exhaustive
efforts of director Phill Henry and his committed
cast should ensure a rivetting evening.
Last, and perhaps most peculiar of all, is a
masterpiece of theatre created in the compelling
mind of Eugene Ionesco. Exit The King portrays
the final, desperate struggle of Man confronted
with his mortality. Reason rebels and the
playwright constructs a hugely elaborate and
insanely humourous response to a tragedy that
begins the moment we scream our way into the
light. The work has provided cast, crew and
director, Phil Ramsden, with a tremendous
challenge and opportunity to communicate a
shatteringly powerful statement. There are plans
to tour with this production to Paris, Edinburgh
and Geneva - so spare yourself the expense and
see it while it's on near you!
In addition to the naked attraction of the
above purely as a banquet of high art, we are
also providing concessions on the prices of
seeing the two shows in the Concert Hall when
purchasing a dual ticket, while the Eliot, being
played in the Lounge Bar (opposite Da Vinci's
Bar), is absolutely and unashamedly free\
I hope you can support this event, which
promises to be a very special occasion indeed.
To miss it would be to disregard a significant
episode in the history of student theatre; I urge
you not to make that mistake!
P.S. Anyone still interested in performing in
our shows in Edinburgh, there are still a few
spaces left. Get in touch with Jim Kingston
(Physics 2) as soon as possible.
Horrifically Weird Scissors
Horror and weirdness. Monday's ICSF video
projected double bill begins in Chem Eng LT1 at
6pm with Dario Argento's overblown gothic
classic Suspiria. Set in a German ballet school
with maggots in the attic and witches in the
common room, Argento goes way over the top
with his relish for disposing of beautiful women
in grotesquely inventive manners. Excess piles
on excess, making other gore films pale by
comparison. Not for the squeamish.
The strangeness begins at 8pm with David
Lynch's second short, The Grandmother. This is
the tale of a young bedwetter who grows a
grandmother to comfort him from a seed. Not
quite as odd as his first short, The Alphabet, but
it still outweirds everything else. If you liked
Eraserhead, come along to this one. Both fdms
are free to ICSF members, details given below.
After these two gems, at 8.30pm we're
holding our Annual General Meeting. If you
want to stand for an ICSF committee post for
next year, come along and tell us why we should
vote for you.
This coming Tuesday night, in the STOIC
studio, ICSF is proud to present a heartwarming
fantasy double-bill which I should've scheduled
for Valentine's Day but didn't. At 6pm, we have
flavour-of-the-year Steven Spielberg's rather
sweet and unfortunately overlooked romance,
Always. Starring Spielberg-regular Richard
Dreyfuss, Oscar-favourite Holly Hunter and
everyone's best friend John Goodman, the
movie tells a similar story to Ghost. When
Dreyfuss dies while saving his best mate
Goodman's life, he realises how much his
girlfriend, to whom he's unable to talk directly,
means to him. When he gets sent back to Earth
as a ghost to inspire the thoughts of a young
rookie, he is horrified to discover that the
youngster has designs on his ex-girl and is
forced to give up his own feelings for her. It's
really good, so turn up and see it (details below).
At 8pm, we have Tim Burton's bittersweet
fairy-tale Edward Scissorhands. You all know
the story - a retelling of Frankenstein with
Johnny Depp as the sympathetic leather clad
monster and Winona Ryder unfortunately not
leather clad as the object of his affections.
Anyway, Winona Ryder's fab (and her acting
isn't bad either) and so's Johnny Depp. The
music's terrific, as are the sets, which are a
perfect pastel mickey-take of 50s American
suburbia. With an ending that can make all but
the most hardened, cold, frigid, emotion-less
bastards (yes, I know there are a lot of you out
there) cry, Edward Scissorhands would be a
perfect 'date' movie.
Admission to both is free if you're a member
of STOIC, JapanSoc or ICSF. ICSF membership
costs just £3 and gets you in free to all our video
screenings along with reduced entry to our
35mm presentations in the cinema including
your first film free. You also get to borrow
3,000 books, videos and graphic novels (from
our library in the corner of Beit Quad).
Adventure
Holiday Prize!
Would you like to go on an adventure holiday or
even travel to Egypt for/ree? If so, take part in
the WWF Juggleathon on Saturday 12th March.
Other Rags will be taking part as well and the
Rag raising the most money for WWF this year
wins ten places on an adventure holiday.
Currently we are in second place, £28 behind
Keele so we stand a good chance of winning.
Also, all collectors have a chance to win a trip
to Egypt, as their names will be entered into the
Grand Draw with this as the first prize. The draw
will take place at the party for all collectors.
For those of you seeking more adventurous
activities we are planning a sponsored parachute
jump for next term. If leaping out of a plane
appeals to you, come and see Jane, Helen or
Mike in the Rag Office or attend one of our
Friday lunchtime meetings.
On a more serious note - the Rag Executive
elections are upon us and we need people to
stand for Rag Chair, Secretary and Treasurer.
The elections will take place at our meeting
today (lpm, Ents Lounge). The Chair will be
ratified at the U G M on the 18th March as it is a
Union post. If you want to stand for any of these
posts or any of the other positions on the
committee then see Jane, Helen or any of the
committee before the meeting and we'll give
you more information about what the posts
involve.
Regular society meetings are listed on the centre pages

