14 Reviews
Alexandra Kollontai
Barbara Ewing performs the role of Alexandra Kollontai
This play is about the only woman in Lenin's
government who was also the only woman in
any position of political power anywhere in the
world at the time. Yes, an absolute must for both
feminists and the M(7*'ranr™-touting men in
anoraks who hang around the Union Building.
Surprisingly, however, I would actually
recommend this production to thinking people of
all political persuasions.
A monologue lasting an hour and a half non-
stop by the authoress seems pretty heavy and her
performance is very powerful, but there is no
Angels in America
Part Two: Perestroika
Eavesdropping, I learnt that a fair few of this
evening's audience had seen Millennium
Approaches at today's matinee, and were in
desperate need of the final fix of Tony
Kushner's Angels in America double-bill. But
for those of limited time and finances, a
knowledge of Millennium Approaches is by no
means essential, although a quick glance at
Perestroika's programme might be advisable.
I'm going to run through the plot so that you
can appreciate easily the more important aspects
of the play. So in a single breath if-you-please:
former McCarthy-ite stooge - has relationship
with Mormon, married Republican clerk - who
loves Leftie, reactionary type - who has just
jilted the sensitive yet sardonic Prior Dillane.
Now if I tell you that all of the above are male
and that the first and last have AIDS, then you
might think you'd died and gone to Soap-Opera
Hell. Forget it because although you're going to
get a glimpse at Heaven, feet are planted on terra
firma, circa 1985-90. A healthy dose of fantasy
has allowed Kushner to chronicle our decade
better than fact alone could manage.
Allegory between the personal nitty-gritties
of life and Universal Truths often seems clever-
yet-contrived. Not tonight. The AIDS patient,
too scared to consider a future, and the obstinate
Bolshevik, clinging on to tried-and-failed
ideologies of yesteryear, show movingly that
change and progress, although vital, ain't half
hard for us mere mortals. Divine assistance isn't
the solution because Heaven is a place where the
sole pastime is playing cards. In a stagnant
afterlife, it provides "the only pleasure of
Paradise: indeterminacy".
Who could disagree? Today we see a
rudderless Britain, with Cap'n Major at the helm
telling the nation to get back to basics that
probably never were.
From slow beginnings where the distinction
between fact and fantasy is sometimes
confusing, alliteratively-blessed director Declan
Donnellan manages to make Kushner's personal
vision accessible. I don't doubt that there will be
future productions of Perestroika that just don't
click. The Company assembled at the National is
near-faultless and your grandchildren just won't
believe you didn't see this 20th century classic,
first time around.
Rahul
National Theatre, South Bank, SE1. 071 928
2252. Tube: Waterloo. Student standby £5.50
3
Ahr before performance.
axe-grinding. This is historical theatre at its best,
bringing to the audience the realisation that
historical events are caused by real people with
rounded characters, having a personal life as
well as their public position.
This play reminds one that the Czarist
Empire, toppled in a bloodless coupe, was a
backward regime and perhaps corrupt too. Lenin
and others were idealists, genuinely interested in
bettering the lot of their countrymen. Stalin on
the other hand is seen as a villain, executing all
political opponents.
There is no moralising here; none of the
Orwellian cynicism about pigs becoming men.
Just a genuine attempt to understand a less
known, but still central figure in the happenings
of October 1917 that changed the world.
The body of Karl Marx, who died in 1883,
was brought to the New End Mortuary, which is
now the New End Theatre, before being interred
in the Mausoleum that marks the grave of one
more equal than others. I wonder what he would
have made of the play? Come to think of it, I
wonder what he would have made of the Russian
Revolution? Chinese communism? The Labour
Party? The twentieth century as a whole? I
wonder. Go and see this. It's good.
Michael Factor
The New End Theatre, 27 New End, NW3. Tube:
Hampstead. 071 794 0022. £6. Ends March 27th.
IIIIIII
The Dish
Paul Hallam has created a spendidly ironic piece
of theatre in The Dish, revolving around the life
and memories of an ageing drag queen residing
in a seaside guest house left to her (him?) by her
great aunt Euphemia. Robert (Bette Bourne) to
his mother every Christmas, but China to
everyone else, spends her time during the off
season musing on the past and checking up on
the talent at the local building site. We are made
privy to her thoughts as she wanders through her
life. Every now and then the present impinges
on the past sharpening up our perceptions of
change through the decades.
Wry and amusing, musical and poetic, with
China lapsing into long soliloquies from
Shakespeare in an effort to recover her long lost
acting passions, this is a pleasure to watch.
Accompanist Laca Daisical responds well to the
light banter flung her way and often the play is
so intimate you are left feeling as though you
were the only soul in the theatre eavesdropping
on two old friends reminiscing. A 'feel good'
show without a doubt, a history as much as a
piece of fiction and thought provoking without
the seriousness of heavy drama.
Rachel
The Drill Hall, 16 Chenies St, WC1. 071 637
8270. Tube: Goodge St. £6. Ends 12th March
Your letters on pages 21 and 22

