Reviews 15
Shadowlands
Starring: Anthony Hopkins, Debra Winger
Director: Richard Attenborough
The first book I ever bought was 'The Lion, the
Witch and the Wardrobe'. It cost me 65p, more
than a week's pocket money (I was seven at the
time) and I read it from cover to cover in two
days. 'The Chronicles of Narnia' are loved by
children everywhere for their special magic.
Writer CS Lewis, known as Jack to his friends,
was a deeply religous man and led a cloistered,
carefully ordered life in the all-male fellowship
of Magdalene College, Oxford. His mother died
when he was nine and after that Jack lived in a
world of his own making, where no one could
challenge him emotionally or intellectually.
Shadowlands is the tragic and moving love
story of CS Lewis (Hopkins) and Joy Gresham
(Debra Winger), an American poet inspired by
Lewis' writings to start a correspondance with
the best-selling author. She sails to England and
befriends Lewis. The pair fall in love, but it's
only when Joy is diagnosed with cancer that
Jack realises how much she means to him.
Anthony Hopkins excels as Jack, portraying
him as everything that is Oxford: the tradition,
the stiff upper lip, the smugness. The character
seems emotionally wooden at first, but Hopkins
manages to make his face appear to melt as he
realises his love for Joy Gresham. Debra
Winger's great performance adds a much
needed touch of humour in places. As Joy, she
helps Lewis to show his true feelings. Joseph
Mazzello is note-worthy as Joy's young son
Douglas who at first holds Lewis in awe.
A scene that sticks in my mind is when he is
exploring the attic of Jack's home and discovers
an old wardrobe. He opens the door to find it
full of coats and pushes through, obviously in
search of the magical world of Lewis' books.
Mazzello clearly shows the disappointment
Douglas feels when he finds nothing inside. It is
a feeling we all know, like the first time you're
told Father Christmas isn't-real.
The idyllic setting of Oxford is a perfect
background with its towers and oak-panelled
rooms. Attenborough uses locations to their
fullest with opening shots panning a choir
singing in chapel and further scenes of mist-
enshrouded towers and student celebrations.
Shadowlands has a message everyone can
identify with: if you love someone, tell them
before it's too late. Call me sentimental if you
like, but I was sobbing from the last half hour of
the film onwards (as was the rest of the
audience). The messages are so clear, the
feelings so intense. This is a film that everyone
should see.
Lynn B!
Out in London now. Odeon Kensington,
Kensington High St., cones £3.50 before 6pm .
UCI Whiteleys, Queensway, £5.75, cones before
3pm £3.50
On Deadly
Ground
Starring: Steven Segal, Michael Caine
Director: Steven Segal
An impressive work. The screen rips open with
a (surround sound) blast of reed pipes to reveal a
gigantic empty vista of virgin white snow. The
camera dives down, sweeping between mountain
peaks struggling to be seen beneath their white
blankets and soars into the heavens again.
This is a big film. The first five minutes
establish Segal's cavalier/cowboy status as he
extinguishes an oil well fire as well as his
compassionate-but-hard status (beats up guy in
bar but doesn't enjoy it). At first it seems fairly
standard fare, with some unforgivable dialogue.
But, as with Under Siege, it grows into an
involving and well-paced drama. Segal is forced
to take arms against his employer - Michael
Caine in devilishly good form - who is cutting
dangerous corners to rush through a refinery
before rights revert to the eskimos. They adopt
Segal as their champion on a weird vision-thing
which is surprisingly gently handled.
By now the hostile press are mute and
enthralled. Spectacular explosions and scenery,
well choreographed fights, a stunningly good
soundtrack and a reasonably tight plot all make
My Life
Starring: Michael Keaton, Nicole Kidman
Director: Bruce Joel Rubin
Bob and Gail Jones (Keaton and Kidman), a
wealthy couple living in California, are
expecting their first child. Bob has terminal
cancer and naturally wishes to live long enough
to see his child. He decides to make a video of
'his life' for the child to learn about its father as
it grows up.
Meanwhile, as a last resort in tackling the
cancer, Bob visits a Chinese healer (Haing S.
Ngor). Treatment, he is told, is not possible
while his heart harbours this much anguish.
'What anguish?' he asks. Forced into self-
analysis (most American's idea of heaven, I
think) Bob Jones realises that he has little
understanding of the methods and maxims ruling
his own life and sets out to fathom them with the
support of his wife Gail.
The acting in My Life seems stagnant and the
sense of urgency is not consistently carried
through. I was never convinced that the lead
characters were really married to each other -
Eco-friendly? Sure, I recycled the plot.
a highly satisfying package. Under Siege had
slightly more tension, but this is a commendable
ride, and even Segal's eco-speech at the close is
accepted by a dazzled audience.
Expect this one to run and run and for
heaven's sake see it in a decent cinema for the
sound.
The Pear.
Opens today across London. MGM Fulham Rd,
cones £3.50 before 6pm. Warner West End,
Leicester Square, cones £4 before 5pm
their marriage at all times was to the camera.
Keaton is cursed with a face capable of only a
limited range of expressions but at least he
executes them effectively (even when caked in
ghoulish makeup or hidden behind a bat-mask
you can picture what his face is doing).
The You've-Been-Framed video-taping of
Bill's life provides most of the humour in My
Life and the laughs are appreciated. More laughs
are in store if you grasp the life-is-a-roller-
coaster-ride cliche which is an integral part of
Bob's journey of self-knowledge (pardon the
pun).
Rubin, who has written the screenplays for
Jacob's Ladder and Ghost, obviously has talent
in the literary field and he makes a fair
directorial debut with My Life. It is pleasant to
see something a little different coming from
Hollywood amidst the wave of sequels and re-
makes and I get the feeling from his works that
Rubin knows more than the average schmuck
about the topics he deals with.
Sensitive but a little too tentative.
Sphinx
Opens today across London. MGM Tottenham
Court Rd, Cones Mon £3 before 6pm, £3.50 with
Student ID any other time.
International Night Photo Spectacular - see pages 6 and 7

