16 Interview
Blossoms from the Full Moon
If Woody Allen painted his Manhattan in the grime of grey and Warhol's
Underground were pillars of black, New Yorkers Madder Rose have their
own tint. Tintin sawflashes ofKodachrome...
Madder Rose have been up since eight o'clock
by the time I get to see them. Enduring ten hours
of press adulation, photo shoots, dissected
histories, drug ridden memories. The reason?
Well, they're presently on tour with a second
album out at the end of the month, their first,
'Bring It Down', being one of the critics' top ten
of 1993.
Strange to tell, but as I sit down in the void of
the interview's first few minutes and look
around, we've been put into the cruddiest room
in the Astoria: cracked primrose walls and an en
suite bathroom which Mary is just coming out
of. That the wash basin is above where I'm
sitting causes more embarrassment as polite
'excuse mes' need to be made. She dries her
hands and sits down. Why do I tell you this?
Because interviews are not what you often read,
they can be messy, to start with at least. Four
people in an enclosed space, trying to work out
if they will get on with each other.
Billy sits sprawled in a chair, relaxed or just
bored? Johnny Kick is still wearing his hat. Does
he ever take it off? I never ask the question.
Mary goes to sit on a battered sofa and looks
pretty nervous, or is that just pretty? She has the
sort of face that brings both qualities together.
I'm supposed to be in control of this
interview, the band are there on my behalf at
least. So I start off with some easy banter for
them. Press acclaim, comparisons with Mazzy
Star - Billy loves them, Mary not so much, "it's
a very surfacy comparison" - and the preview
tracks I've heard from their new album. In the
meantime, Johnny's been reading an old copy of
F E L i X which reviewed one of their gigs. He
passes it to Billy who explodes: "Who wrote this
f***ing thing?" It's are not looking good as the
'writer' is only a fist's throw away. I try not to
look too worried and mutter about student
reviewers, not mentioning myself or anything.
Mary wants it all read out, "Wow" she shouts,
"let me see that". Billy eventually says, "It's
kinda funny though" and I take the opportunity
to escape and talk to Johnny about the band
dynamics with Billy and Mary doing all the
upfront stuff. He talks in a slow, strong drawl.
" B i l l y will bring a song and play it on
acoustic. W e ' l l arrange it together; we get
input..." Billy interrupts with his own input.
"Once a song is done we've found it's really
cool just to play it on acoustic guitar and let
everyone kinda create their own part and that's
been working out really well for us and the
band's really a democracy; no-one's more
powerful than the other. I mean, if someone
doesn't want to do something or play something
then we don't do it, so it's equal, it's cool."
By this stage Mary has finally got to the end
of my review and reads out, "...two drummers,
Mary, Johnny Kick, Billy and Matt stand in a
rubbish tip and try not to say cheese.
who did they think they were, Pavement?" She
laughs and I can feel like laughing too.
We head into more conventional territory. I
ask Billy whether his songs come from real
experiences or are 'made up'? "Well they're all
based on things I've lived through or things I
feel, but some of the lines or situations maybe
made up to fit the thought behind it, you know,
but they're fairly personal."
...that whole summer I
sat on the edge ofthe
stage andjust wanted
so bad to be in a band
like I could taste it.
Despite some intensive listening before the
interview, I confess that I don't really
understand what most of the songs are about.
For example, was 'Beautiful John' about Andy
Warhol, someone Billy knew from days at the
Factory?
"No, no. It's about someone, you remember
the period when he was making movies like
'Trash' and 'Flesh'?" I nod unconvincingly. "I
think the real guy I was thinking about was Joe
Dallesandro, the star of those movies, with long
blond hair, or someone like him, someone who
was popular mainly because he was this
beautiful man and sh*t and I was wondering
what it would be like years later when he was
older and no-one gave a sh*t about him."
Clicking back into muso mode I ask whether
they had written any songs too personal to be
released, a point particularly brought out of an
excellent Kristin Hersh interview in Melody
Maker, something Mary had also read. "I have a
couple like that you do too actually," she says to
Billy. He's not sure what songs are too personal
and Mary has to tell him. "I was thinking of the
one that goes..." and then she start singing in her
quiet, comfortable voice. "Hush little baby,
don't say a word...you know that one...we got
things to do, gonna do things tonight." Billy
remembers. "Oh yes, the only reason I don't
want us to play that is the first line is 'the first
thing I wake up I think of Mary' - this is before
I met Mary but it seems kinda silly coming out
of Mary's mouth." "But it's true", butts in Mary,
with a big smile. "If I were singing it, it would
be true." At this point the room breaks into
general laughter as they consider what other
names could be used instead of Mary. Larry and
Harry are thrown around for a bit.
We end talking about how weird it is to have
had musical heroes like Sonic Youth and the
Velvet Underground now that they have become
heroes themselves. Mary says: "It's an
incredible thing and to have that happen in such
a short space of time...I mean I remember just
when I was a sorta roadie for Y o La Tengo one
summer, and that whole summer I sat on the
edge of the stage and just wanted so bad to be in
a band like I could taste it. And that was only
three and a half years ago." I comment how
good Yo L A Tengo's last album, 'Painless', was.
There's agreement of greatness.
Mary tells me to get their first album and
'Faith Book'. "Any record by them actually is
great. They were a big influence on us," Billy
continues. "Big, big influence, they were great.
Put on a great live show, they're great
songwriters, everything about them." The Roses
wax lyrical. "Yes, there's nothing wrong with
them." Mary finishes laughing, "they're perfect!"
So they finish arguing the majesty of another
band. They're still enthusiasts themselves. In the
past music has made their guts swoon and in
turn, they are producing songs which we can cry
and dance to. Later that evening on stage
Madder Rose kick the crowd out of shape. I look
on and think how good it can be.
The single 'Panic On' is released on March
14th, and an album of the same title on the 28th.
They also play the Astoria on April the 9th.
I think of you all today long so try and get some sleep

