Reviews 17
More cartoon capers from the
lad with plus fours. Although
it's a sparse bag this week, here
goes. Blur's 'Girls and Boys'
is a fully rounded record. The
Pear squirts. "The essence of
what pop music should be; refreshing, light and
with the minimum of lyrics...I love it. It's
marvellous...Blur for ever." Freddy has to grit
his ears for Tool and 'Prison Sex'. "Enormous
pounding bass, limitless energy and Maynard's
incomparable vocals. This ought to be a good
deal more impressive, but is merely good."
Downstream, Guy has the
broken bargain bin to himself,
Maxine and 'Hovering'. "If
only I could really enjoy
records like this. It sounds
gorgeous; chiming guitars echo
out over pulsing, sometimes almost dub rhythms
and short fragments of vocals are used as an
extra instrument rather than as a voice.
Eventually it ceases to be music and becomes
just sound." He was also going to review Shed
7 but his vinyl got warped. "Best thing for it", he
muttered, disappearing into Rough Trade Records.
Rose Chronicles
Shiver
The easy mind sees things clearly, but only
because it can't see shadows. On the subject of
the Rose Chronicles some such minds would
call out 'Canadian A l l About Eve' and
sometimes it's true. 'Glide' does mention the
word 'harbour', and 'Deirdre' gets close in
tempo but 'Shiver' is more exciting than Regan.
The core for the lyrics is vaguely religious;
lots of angels, the odd demon, souls galore and a
final track called 'Awaiting Eternity', even God
gets a credit in the liner notes. Yet for all this,
the album is ethereal in the sense of being
otherworldly rather than supernatural.
Finally when the mists have settled, there are
just four glorious tracks and only one of those is
transcendent. 'Nothing's Real' flies high from
the stakes of failed love, the vocal inversion
hinting of the breaking on offer. But how much
is a single beautiful song worth? (5) Tintin
Buckpets
To The Quick
This Dallas four piece have been around since
1988, recording two albums for Island Records
before this one for the US label Restless. They
enjoyed credibility boosting support slots with
Neil Young, and Jane's Addition, who
eventually kicked them off their tour for
'showing a little attitude'. But despite their
success on the American circuit, the band are
still relatively unknown over here.
The music mostly recalls the gentle melody
of the Smashing Pumpkins with the occasional
nod towards Sonic Youth, but there's enough
variety here to avoid becoming just another
grunge wannabee. Their fondness for writing
everythingjoinedup makes for interesting, if
slightly confusing, lyric sheets. Altogether this
is a well packaged, well recorded album that can
do nothing but good for their chances over here.
(9) Ridley Dash
1
1
1rflll
1
1
1111
1
1
11
11
Soundgarden
Superunknown
Opener 'Let Me Drown' hints at upbeat grunge
stomp, carelessly shrugging off the miserable
dirtiness all too often associated with the ' G '
word. But then 'My Wave' funks out to prove
that no hole's gonna be big enough for this
pigeon. Diversity is the key word here. With 16
songs in 73 minutes, I couldn't begin to describe
the breadth of this work. Tracks range from the
doomy, Sabbathy fuzz-bass of '4th of July' and
the gleeless 'Mailman', "I know I'm heading for
the bottom but I'm riding you all the way", to
the flippy, Beatle-ish 'Black Hole Sun'; from the
bizarre Turkish folk-Zeppelin hybrid 'Half to
the punk rock 'Kickstand'.
At the same time, it's recognisably the same
band which recorded 'Badmotorfinger' and
whilst each song has its own distinct identity,
they combine to form a coherent album with that
irresistible Soundgarden groove running
threadlike throughout.
A l l four 'gardeners' put in sparkling
performances but it's Chris Cornell who stands
out. He is simply the greatest singer in rock
music today, capably switching from bluesy
croon to stratospheric howl and encompassing
the ranges of Layre Staley and David Coverdale
with ease.
Every time I play this, I hear something new.
It's an outstanding work of breathtaking
magnificence and I feel a tad mean knocking a
point off it for slightly overpolished production.
(9) Freddy Cheeseworth
Being generous we'll allow Glyph to talk long.
"I have always regarded Morrissey as
something of a literary acrobat. He appears to be
out to impress, purely on his verbal somersaults
and lyrical tumbles rather than by the
communication of anything relevant. His
provision of vignettes depicting elements of all
our little insecurities and worries tend to make
us sit up and ponder, thankfully, that someone
else has those little setbacks in their life as well
as us and that we have a friend somewhere.
However, it would be far too easy to assume
that to be true and it often leaves something of a
bad taste in the mouth when it suddenly dawns
on you that he is actually mocking your
weakness as opposed to empathising with you.
This song, 'The More You Ignore, The Closer I
Get', being a case in point...Pass me the Daffs
Steven."
Oh Adonis, Adonis. Morrissey afigure of fun
IIIIII
Combustible
Edison
18 Winger
Different. It's different. In similar vein to Angelo
Badalamenti's Twin Peaks Theme this is an
exploration into chime bars and xylophones, an
album of seedy glamour, casinos and low dives.
It's cocktail parties in the '50s with white pianos
and tuxedos; instrumental plinks and wails
gently conveying you from mood to mode and a
clean relaxed feel broken only by singing.
In what it is, it's good, but far too
inaccessible. Describing it as quirky would be
misleading but maybe i t ' l l find it's niche
somewhere. (4) The Pear
I might break someone because of you

