18 Elections
IC Radio
Interviews
For those of you unable to hear IC Radio last
Monday, what follows is edited highlights of the
interviews of the election candidates. They took
the form of questions from an interviewer, so the
lack of a mention of a particular topic by any
candidate is not necessarily an indication of a
lack of interest.
President
Interviewer: Paul Dias (ICR News Editor)
Kamran Bashir came across confidently,
though often a little slow and perhaps boring. He
indicated that he saw part of the role of
representatives on Union committees as being to
inform the students of Union activities.
He said that he doesn't believe apathy actually
exists and getting people involved is simply a
matter of providing the students with what they
want, which he assumes is top-of-the-range club
events.
Kamran believes the President should go out
and talk to freshers and "give them a push in the
right direction", telling them there's more to life
than IC and to find out what U L U was like. He
thought that this would have a knock-on effect
with most of the people from other colleges
coming to the suggested events at IC.
The next candidate was Lucy Chothia who came
across very confidently, albeit with occasional
hesitation. She reasoned that apathetic students
can't be expected to become interested in
anything about the Union if they're not told
what's happening.
Lucy said she wanted to clarify and improve
the situation between I C U and the CCUs,
including St Mary's - to this extent she has
already talked to the C C U Presidents who she said
were "very keen" on the idea. She said that she
sought clarification of the Union hierarchy and not
simplification as stated in her manifesto. She said
that "people after the last two years are tired of not
being able to work in a defined [constitutional]
structure" and that she "would take whatever was
decided this year and make it work".
The interview concluded with Lucy discussing
how she would raise the President's profile and
get people to know who she is and what she does.
H o w T o
V o t e
( A P h o t o S t o r y )
The final candidate was Paul Thomas who
came across as very together and comfortable, if
almost too casual. He commented that, while the
Student Representative Council will be good for
the Union, the real way forward in improving
communication lies in getting the idea over to
everyone that they are involved in the Union
already through their clubs and societies.
On a similar vein, he said that he would try to
make himself more accessible in places where
the students were, such as Southside Halls and
the JCR. He said that the President should have a
wide ranging view of what's happening in the
Union and would be able to either give
comments to people on the spot, or get back to
them on any other point.
His interview concluded with his adamant
denial that just because he'd been involved with
the Union for so long it meant he didn't have
fresh and new ideas.
New Election is also standing.
Deputy President (Finance
& Services)
Interviewer: Declan Curry
First was Tim Brown, who stumbled his way
through the hard-hitting questioning. He admitted
that the job is "terribly boring and not intrinsically
interesting", saying: "You chair the Union Finance
Committee...the meetings are just very long...
sometimes...the argument is very repetitive...you
nod in agreement." He professed to being wary
of change as it wastes a lot of time and effort.
The tack then changed to his policy on bank
charges which he felt were far too high at
present, saying that he would first approach
NatWest (the Union's current bank) and, if the
result was unsatisfactory, try some alternatives
used by other universities.
Dan Look, the next candidate, came to the
microphone like a horserace commentator, often
too fast to keep up with, but confident in his own
views. He started by rebuffing Tim on the bank
charge issue saying that he thought "people were
being too hasty".
He admitted that he found the prospect of the
£ViM Union subvention "frightening" but also
commented that "EViM is a lot of money and it is
bound to scare people...for your average student
who is getting £3,000 a year, £ViM you can
hardly comprehend".
He said he also looked upon it "as a personal
1 . F i n d y o u r n e a r e s t
v o t i n g s t a t i o n
challenge... as the money has to be spent wisely".
Security, he felt, was in no need of change at
present and his personal touch was that he
wanted more openness with the money, not
realising that it was part of his job anyway.
New Election is also standing.
Deputy President (Clubs &
Societies)
Interviewer: Andrew Tseng
Mark Baylis instantly defended the short length
of his manifesto by taking great lengths (of very
long stammered sentences) to make his points.
As in his manifesto he said that having run
one club meant he understood the way that clubs
were run. After some pushing, he then admitted
that he still had to learn "to a degree" what he
could and couldn't do in the job.
The interview then centred on apparent
proposals according to Mark to "replace the
sports facilities". He did point out that he had a
"distinct insight" into the present problems due to
being a captain in the badminton club, one of the
few clubs involved in this specific problem.
Next was Maria Moratis who came across as
being full of opinions, but she had some trouble
expressing. She said that people don't know
enough about the positive achievements of
societies and that "they should be publicised in a
more active way", the suggestion being "maybe
huge posters around College".
She pointed out that ICU has huge overseas
societies and "there should be more integrated
events so that you expose all this immense
amount of different culture to everybody else".
Ian Parish came across as the clearly, speaking
confidently though diplomatically. He said that,
in general, sponsorship should be for specific
clubs, though he would also seek sponsorship for
ICU in general to benefit all societies.
The interviewer finished by trying to draw Ian
on his supposed knowledge of the proposed
sports hall, without realising that it was already a
point in his manifesto.
New Election is also standing.
Due to space restrictions, the Felix Editor &
Print Unit Manager candidate interviews could
not be included. Fuller transcripts of all these
interviews are available from the Felix Office.
2 . H a n d o v e r y o u r
s w i p e c a r d

