Elections 19
Voting
Explained
The election campaign will be brought to a head
next Monday and Tuesday. Cross campus voting
will decide the sabbaticals for next year.
Andy Wensley now takes you through highs
and lows of the Single Transferable Vote (STV)
system used by Imperial College Union.
To be a 'winner' under STV, you need to get
more than 50% of the vote. If no candidate has
achieved this, the candidate with the least
number of votes is eliminated. Their votes are
then distributed amongst the other candidates
according to how the voters placed their second
votes on the ballot paper.
Yep, you can vote for more than one
candidate because you place them in order of
preference on the ballot paper. So, for the one
you want to win, place a ' 1' beside their name.
For your next favourite, place a '2' and so on.
You don't have to place a preference against
all of the candidates. If you want to select only
one, then that's OK. Putting a '2' against your
next favourite candidate does not affect the
chances of your first choice winning. The '2'
only comes into play if your first choice is
eliminated as being the candidate with the least
number of votes (as described above).
Here's An Example:
You are given a ballot paper for President. There
are four candidates: Tom, Dick, Harry and New
Election. (Remember that if New Election wins
then a whole new election is called)
You like Tom the best, Dick and Harry seem
to be plonkers so you decide to vote like this...
Dick 4
Harry 3
New Election 2
Tom 1
When all the votes are counted, on the first
preferences, they poll,
Dick 230
Harry 270
New Election 290
Tom 410.
A total of 1,200 people voted. But the winning
line is 601 and nobody got that far. Time to go
to the second preferences, so Dick is eliminated
as the candidate with the least votes and all his
'2's are counted. Of those 230 votes, 175 voters
put Tom as number '2', 25 go to new election,
15 go to Harry and 15 had no second preference.
So now the votes stand at...
Dick 285
New Election 315
Tom 585
Non Transferable 15.
This still adds up to 1,200, but now the winning
line is 593, half of 1,200-15+1.
Still no-one has a winning quota, so Dick's
votes are shared out as before but if any of
Dick's '2's went to Harry, these are shared out
according to the third preferences. Looking at
Dick's votes, 200 go to Tom, 35 go to New
Election and 50 are non transferable (there were
no further preferences). A quick totting up gives...
New Election 350
Tom 785
Non Transferable 65.
We have a winner! Tom leaps past the post to
claim the election victory.
Don't forget that you need a valid swipe card
if you want to vote. If you haven't got one, see
Andy Wensley in the Union Office or go to the
Security desk in the Sherfield Building.
Always vote using numbers, not ticks or crosses!
If you use a tick or cross, your ballot paper will be spoilt and your vote will be wasted!
Hustings
The ICU Sabbatical Election Hustings on the
South Kensington site took place last Tuesday.
Candidates for each of the sabbatical posts
(along with their proposers) were each given two
minutes to speak, before being questioned on
their policies by an audience numbering less
than 130 people. Although all candidates were
asked if they had job offers to accept if not
elected, the audience did not seem to attach
much weight to the answers.
The first candidates to be questioned were
those for Felix Editor & Print Unit Manager:
Owain Bennallack and Joe McFadden. They
were asked how they intended to get more
people involved with Felix (as required by their
manifesto promises): Owain promised unceasing
scouting for new contrib-utors, while Joe
concentrated on the targeting of specialist groups
for their expertise in certain areas.
Next was Deputy President (Finance &
3. Your swipe card will be
electronically checked
and you'll be given Sour
voting forms.
Services): Tim Brown and Dan Look. Apart
from being asked to restate their names more
clearly (as the questioner apparently could not
tell them apart), they did not say much that
differed from interviews and manifestoes.
The next candidates were those standing for
Deputy President (Clubs & Societies): Mark
Baylis, Maria Moratis and Ian Parish. Mark
faced extended individual questioning over his
concentration on sporting clubs and Ian made
laboured the point of his intention to look for
external sponsorship for societies. Only Maria
showed she knew the effect of the Government's
student union reforms on societies' funding.
Finally came the candidates standing for
President: Kamran Bashir, Lucy Chothia and
Paul Thomas. Bypassing the microphone,
Kamran emphasised his experience of other
London colleges, gained from having lived in an
intercollegiate hall and organising several club
nights. He promised to attract first years and
external students by organising more club events,
leading to the suggestion from a questioner that
4* Put a J next to your ist
choice, 2 next to your
2nd choice etc.
he stand for Ents Chair instead.
Individual questions were also directed at
Lucy Chothia, who promised to regularly give
extra time to talking to students without requiring
appointments to be made. She rebuffed a
suggestion that her manifesto pledge to ease
organisation of non-Ents events was not
necessary, citing her experience with the Third
World First society as evidence.
Paul Thomas promised in his speech to
improve communication between the Union and
students, primarily by resurrecting the 'Reaching
Out' information stalls employed at the end of
last year. He also emphasised his involvement
with the Union (as U G M Chairperson) and his
consequent experience of its running. All three
candidates were asked how many UGMs they
had attended: Paul said all of them, Lucy said
three and Kamran said none.
The only unquestioned candidate was New
Election, who is standing for all posts. This was
due to a forgetful Hustings Chair.
••PI mm*
JBffi
5. Put your voting slips in
the ballot box and leave.

