Opinion 21
Aerial Views
Dear Beccy,
I read with some interest the letter from
James Harrow and Anthony Waite, both of
Electrical Engineering II, in particular the
section with reference to a sabbatical post being
created for STOIC.
I entirely agree that a sabbatical for STOIC
would no doubt do wonders, and it certainly has
enormous potential. After all, STOIC is, in their
words, "...the best technically equipped studio in
the country." (presumably with the exception of
non- student studios?). I must also agree with
the ongoing anti-apathy whines, since it is
turning into a real effort to try to get schedules
filled for 15 hours broadcasting every day.
However, I didn't agree with the way the
amount of time and effort the entire IC Radio
committee put into the station was just brushed
aside by the offhand comment "...although IC
Radio doesn't [have a sabbatical], setting
lights...for shots requires a great deal more
effort". I note with interest that neither M r Waite
nor Mr Harrow are ICR members, and hence
have presumably never presented a radio show,
let alone been involved in the station in other
capacities.
I can only think they imagine that shows and
presenters magically create themselves, and
playlists pop into existence at the wave of a
wand; interviews with bands, liaising with
record companies, ensuring that none of the
(extensive) Radio Authority Code of
Programming regulations are ever contravened,
and that playlists are adhered to for 105 out of
168 hours every week is an easy task to do,
since we don't have to concern ourselves with
the visual medium?? (The other 63 hours being
between 11pm and 8am every night.)
It's probably pure coincidence that most of
the previous station managers either failed their
degrees, or had them suffer to the extreme (not
to mention the sacrifices made by some other
Dear Felix,
The International Tamil Society recently
presented an exhibition of photographs to
portray their world-wide culture and I went
along to this being keen to find out about
different ethnic cultures. However on going,
although there were some pictures showing
Tamil dance and entertainment, importance was
obviously being placed on a set of photographs
depicting suffering in Sri Lanka. Emphasis was
placed on two things:
1. The tiny island of Sri Lanka and not on the
Tamil culture throughout other countries in the
world.
2. Violence, rather than displaying their rich
and varied culture.
This exhibition had clearly been used as a
vehicle for further propaganda. Before I left a
members of the committee, which are extensive
by anyone's standards).
It may come as a bit of a shock to them that
trying to run a full time broadcasting radio
station is not a trivial task, and although it could
be debated at great length which media most
deserves a sabbatical post, it is not possible to
say outright that any one deserves such a post
more than another. Why not abolish the
Fe/ix/Print Unit sabbatical post in favour of a
STOIC sabbatical, since (s)he only has to make
sure Felix comes out once a week, whereas
filming a program is much more time
consuming, wouldn't you say Bee?
Nothing has been more disheartening this
year than to have to abandon projects, such as
broadcasting on F M across London for a month,
because neither I nor the station committee have
been able to find the amount of time for these
projects, since the 'mundane' day to day running
of a radio station takes up more than a few hours
a week! I would love to see all the student media
have sabbatical posts, because then IC could be
a truly awesome force in the media world, and
be the flagship of student media. However, the
facts are that they don't, and money is money,
which never just appears, and so we have to do
the best we can, with the amazing equipment we
have.
Why bicker about who's best, or who could
be best, when the combined efforts (like the
hustings) always provide a high quality
entertainment, with a greater appeal than any of
the media on their own could hope to achieve?
In the meantime, I will not sit aside and
watch the efforts of myself and the ICR
committee be swept aside by sweeping
statements that, at accuracy's expense, could
charitably be described as misinformed.
Yours faithfully,
James Handley,
I. C. Radio Station Manager.
leaflet was thrust into my hands, it was, yes, you
guessed it! NOT about the Tamil race and their
religion, but a set of politically biased argument
against the Sri Lanka government. What was
strategically omitted from this leaflet was the
fact that a lot of their suffering is caused by the
Tamil terrorist organisation who force young
boys to join them and kill them if they refuse;
who do not allow people to leave them and also
use innocent civilians as human shields.
I was disturbed by the undercurrent of
venomous feeling running through this
exhibition and think that the Social Clubs
Committee should think very carefully before
authorising such displays of negative images in
the future.
These are the view of the Sri Lankan Society
of Imperial College.
Refreshing
Dear Felix,
Congratulations on the article printed on 4th
March '94 titled ' A n Independent Thinker'. It
was very refreshing to see a rational opinion
expressed about the civil war that is currently
being fought in Sri Lanka.
Open-minded thinking of this kind should
certainly be encouraged to allow us to banish
prejudices and misconceptions which may be
formed of the different races inhabiting Sri
Lanka; brought about by a handful of misguided
and misinformed fanatics.
Keep up the good work!
Name withheld by request.
ICU Handbook
Dear Beccy,
I thought I would write to Felix to let
everyone know that I am the Handbook Editor
this year. By the time you read this all clubs and
societies should have received a letter asking
them for an entry - if your club has not please
let me know. As for the Handbook itself, I plan
to keep the three volume format of this year,
with a few content changes. I will, however,
welcome suggestions from anyone who has
ideas about what they want to see in the
Handbook. Just drop a note in my pigeonhole in
the Union Office or e-mail me at jhm@
doc.ic.ac.uk.
Bye for now,
John McAleely,
Computing UG2
C A R E E R S INFORMATION
Milkround. Don't panic if you are too late to
apply for the Milkround, we shall be writing to
several hundred employers in May and you can
apply for their remaining vacancies when you
have completed your finals.
Summer Vacation Training Opportunities are
available on the Database in the Careers Office.
Apply to UROP for research opportunities.
Penultimate Years. Start thinking about your
future now. If you don't know what you want to
do, come to the Careers Office and try
PROSPECT - our computer careers guidance
system.
Applications and Interviews is a short course
for all on Wednesday 16 March in Huxley 344
from 2pm-4pm. Sign up in the Careers Office.
For Further Information come to the Careers
Office, Room 310 Sherfield - open from 1pm-
2pm daily this term.
Negative Images
The deadline for letters is 6pm on the Monday before publication

