22 Opinion
OSC Thanks Epistola Marci
Dear Beccy,
Last Friday, 4th March, was the culmination
of several weeks of hard work by many people.
The result was International Nite '94, probably
the largest and most organised event at Imperial
College. The final success of the event, with
over 1,200 tickets sold, a sell-out, was a tribute
to the hard work of each and every person listed
below. On behalf of the Executive of the
Overseas Students' Committee, I would like to
thank each and every person and express what a
great pleasure it was to be able to work with
them.
Anindya Ghosh
Ganesh
Jean-Paul Deelchand
Karanan
Richard James
Rob Ochola
Asim Gusbi
Stephen Mardon
Vicki Wilkinson
Nadeem Iftikhar
Seetal Patel
Arzoo Shah
Tim Bavister
Paul Dias
Betty Tsang
Sarah
Clare Jackson
K.S. Anand
Sam Michel
Mandy Hurford
Michelle Began
Alison Holder
Andrew Wensley
Charles Leary
Dave Goddard
The Union Stewards
Richard Allen
Richard Williams
Jonathan McDougal
The rest of the
DramSoc Team
Rupa Patel
Angela Darekar
Nainish Bapna
Ali Kolahi
Henry Sebastian
Richard Kho
The order of appearance of the above bears
no reflection on the level of work put in. If I
have omitted anyone, and I'm sure I have done,
please accept my apologies and thanks.
Best wishes,
Mustafa Zakir Hussain,
Chairman, Overseas Students' Committee.
Lent '94
Lunch Time Series
15 Mar Is there any mystery in life?
Fr Alexander Fostiropoulos
Orthodox Chaplain, London Univ;
Priest, Russian Cathedral
22 Mar Where do we go from here?
Dr John Wyatt, Consultant
Paediatrician, University College
Talks are on Tuesdays at lpm, in
Biology W2
(under Beit Arch)
Lunch available from 12.30pm
Dear Felix,
I too worship Rolf Harris. I too like nothing
more than to accompany 'Stairway to Heaven'
with the sonorous drones of my didgeridoo. But
more importantly, I too have been assaulted by
the London Church of Christ. It was within two
weeks of arriving in London, when I could have
been classed as vulnerable cult fodder; "Excuse
me. Would you like to come to a meeting"..."It's
a religious meeting, at King's Cross." Oh yes,
thankyou, goodbye. I am not the only one -
virtually everybody I know has been attacked by
one of these evangelists. These people are
dangerous; they are not out to save your souls,
but rape them. They are out to erase your minds.
The London Church of Christ must be
stopped. Sadly I doubt that the Union has
powers to prevent them infesting our campus, so
that leaves the students as the only ones who can
remove them. If you are approached by one of
their 'friendly' preachers don't walk away, but
at the very least insult them, abuse them, politely
offer to remove their testicles if they don't leave
immediately. These people prey on the weak and
turn them into zombies. They are criminal, so
deserve nothing more.
A more effective solution, however, would
be to crush the 'Church' at its root. Being in a
cult, these people can no longer think for
themselves, their minds are worse than
vegetable - they are positively mineral. It is
surprisingly easy to destroy such a cycle of non-
thought (I will always remember with glee the
time I broke down a Krishna's entire belief
system with just five minutes of post-Crowleyan
New Age pseudo-rhetoric. I left him
gobsmacked, and walked away). To destroy this
cult we need counteractivity (the London Anti-
Church perhaps?), we need vigilantes willing to
go to the meetings and subvert them from
within. So if they approach you take up their
offer. Go and talk with them, win their
confidence, and then strike them down. Break
through their parrot-spoken tales of love and
make them see how mistaken they are. By
turning these people round, by forcing them to
use their minds again, maybe the London
Church of Christ can be destroyed.
Yours,
Marcus Alexander
Mech Eng UG2
Bitter Sweet Words
Dear Felix / Jon Jordan
I was aggrieved to learn of the tenuous hold a
certain Mr Jordan appears to have with some of
the finer points of English grammar as shown in
his letter 'Politics, Engineering & Peace',
appearing in the last issue of FELiX. Take for
example the well-known "either...or"
construction, "Either learning is the best thing to
emerge from our mind's eye A N D it's also a
terrible thing...".
I was also concerned with the soundness of
his logic: "What's wrong with being career-
obsessed? Despite the regular mention of such,
I've still yet to meet such". I am sure that if Mr
Jordan ever were to meet 'such', he would
realise exactly what is so wrong about it, but
since he claims not to have as yet, then his
ignorance is understandable and forgivable;
besides, 'obsessed' is not the same as 'oriented'.
Aside from these minor obstacles to thought,
however, I was actually very concerned about
the second half of his onslaught against the
ideologists, in which he makes the alarming
claim that nationalism is one of the strongest
social forces available. Perhaps next week we
shall see M r Jordan extolling the virtues of
Hitler, Stalin, Karadzic and the like.
Before he goes about attaching labels such as
'naive' to ideologies and people he does not
know, I suggest M r Jordan think about the labels
he might possibly be attracting, such as
'xenophobe', 'bigot' or (shock, horror!)
'narrow-minded fascist'.
International Nite last Friday was a prime
example of the broader educational experience
which we could hope to acquire by studying in
such a cosmopolitan environment as Imperial.
Those present witnessed a joyful celebration in
verse, dance and music, of the cultural splendour
of each nation's heritage, which unlike political
nationalism, is a great unifying force. If you
were unable to attend, I can heartily recommend
you listen to 'Deep Forest' to capture some of
the spirit of the evening.
Ideally I'd like to think of your letter as a
cunning ploy inciting me to reply and as such
you've succeeded. No doubt you will feel
abashed by my less than complimentary remarks
and feel it necessary to retaliate, but don't
expect me to be similarly bruised, for, of course,
I have far more important things to do, such as
learning, perhaps picking up some marks on the
way.
In summary, prejudice arises due to a lack of
education, which clearly Mr Jordan is suffering
from if he is still in two minds as to which end
one normally begins to read a letter, so to make
things simple, Jon, here's a hint: start at the
other end.
Yours sincerely,
Sagar Das,
Chem Eng 3
Shadowlands is reviewed on page 15

