M
4f Feature
Looking at Europe with 2020 Vision
How can Europe live up to its hopes and avoid the pitfalls by the year 2020?
Regional economic fluctuations within our
continent are one of the major European
headaches of today. Economic and financial
indicators vary from country to country and even
from region to region. Each administration is
striving to improve their own region by deciding
on and implementing measures that suit a
particular situation and point to a particular aim,
whether it be to decrease the rate of inflation, to
raise industrial production or to make a better
balance of payments. A single pan-european
macro-economic policy cannot and will not cope
with regional problems and affairs simply
because they refer to the economic environment
of a particular European area.
At the moment we can distinguish between
groups of countries in Europe that either form a
particular organisation and/or share common
recent, past and future aims. These are the
European Union (EU), the European Free Trade
Association (EFTA), the former Eastern bloc
countries and other countries which are members
of the Council of Europe but do not fall into any
of the categories above like Cyprus, Malta and
Turkey. There are extensive differences in
current economic and political situation as well
as in aims and strategies among these groups of
countries; there is also notable fluctuations
within a group, or among regions in a particular
country
My vision of Europe in the year 2020
encompasses the following points that refer to
a Europe from the Atlantic to the Urals:
1. Homogeneity in living standards, quality of
social network and other related services.
2. Well-established economic development and
progress ensured by optimum macroeconomic
policies ardently followed and reasonably
adapted only when needed.
3. Reinforcement of efficiency in all fields and
levels of production by the application of
scientific and technological endeavours.
4. Use of clean, 'green' sources of energy,
such as Wind Energy, for the operation of
plants, industries and the European Grid.
For many Euro-pessimists the above set o f
points would probably seem to be of the
nai'vest Utopia ever! Nobody would blame
them since Europe seems to have been
losing confidence in itself over the past two
years. Nevertheless, despite the recent
crisis on European optimism, there
is an established certainty in the
European political spectrum that
"the power lies with the union".
Today, the European economy
is picking up again and there is
substantial hope that the economic
divergence, caused by instabilities such as the
European Monetary System crisis, the Danish
and French referendums over the Maastricht
Treaty and the Swiss referendum over the
European Economic Area, will be reverted.
Firstly, the GATT accord last December was
a major relief as trade will now be much more of
a fair play than before. Secondly, renegotiations
on the Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM) will
establish certainty among investors and currency
markets. Thirdly, the European Economic Unity
and the faithfulness in its timetable will provide
a reference to all countries aspiring
to join the EU. Also, progress on the
EEA will establish further forms of
cooperation in all fields between
the E U and the EFTA countries.
Moreover, further stabilisation of
the Central and Eastern European
states' economies and politics by
means of interactive exchange
of opinion and know-how in all
levels will bring them closer to
western standards. Finally, a
successful integration of
Sweden, Finland, Austria and
(perhaps) Norway and
retrospection of the
applications of E U
integration of Cyprus,
Malta and Turkey will
redefine the current and
future relations between
the E U as it stands and
each of these countries
We also have to
realise that this current
phase of the European
history is critical. At
this difficult time
there are quite a
number of factors
that can lead the
'European
Dream' to failure. First, and within the EU, there
is the danger of some countries forming an
economic union of their own, leaving the other
nations in ignorance and with a very uncertain
future. Similarly the so-called 'poor' countries
may not be able to continue their economic
development due to inner deficiencies as well as
lack of the Union's solidarity. There is also still
the possibility (quite remote now, though) of the
E R M collapsing under the pressure of currency
markets. Prospective members of the E U (EFTA
plus Cyprus, Malta) will have second thoughts
about joining the Union once the crisis sharpens
and will think that they are still better off on
their own. Lastly, if the former Eastern
bloc countries are not given further
aid in order to continue and finish
off with reforms they may well
face a continuous recession along
with social and political unrest. All
of the above will lead to severe
economic discontinuities and
incoherence throughout the continent
Top priorities are
therefore the following:
1. Enhancement of
cohesion between the 12
member states of the EU by
means of coordination and
further funding of all the
relative programs for regional
development.
2. Further cooperation between
the EU and EFTA countries as
well as structural changes within
the EU leading to the successful
integration of the four
aforementioned countries.
3. Increase of opinion exchange and
aid at all levels with the central-
eastern European countries.
4. Mostly important: to present a new
pan-European perspective for the future
which will cater for all countries
aspiring to share interest, opinion and
beliefs over the crucial problems of the
continent; i.e. a blueprint for the United
Europe.
Kyriakos Hatzaras
(Greek Delegation for the 'Europe 2020'
Conference.)
Part 7 of Cracking Cryptic Crosswords is on the back page

