Feature 5
A Stranger in our Midst
Marcus Alexander looks back in timefrom the heights of the Queen's Tower
The Imperial Institute. Who is that cheeky time traveller in the top left':
Everybody's seen it, some have even been to the
top of it, but nobody seems to know why it's
there. The Queen's Tower is famous within
Imperial College for being the only remotely
attractive building in College (apart from the
RCM), it's emblazoned across the cover of every
prospectus and yet for years it has stood empty.
So why is it there at all? It turns out that the
Tower was originally part of something far
greater. It was the central feature of the Imperial
Institute, a vast building commissioned to mark
Queen Victoria's Golden Jubilee in 1887.
The Institute was to be the spiritual heart of
that long dead institution, the British Empire.
Containing libraries, laboratories and museum
rooms, it was a gross celebration of Imperial
power. The building itself was over 210 metres
long, a fantastic neo-Rennaisance construction
with the Tower rising from the centre, flanked at
either end by smaller, supplementary towers.
With the Tower making it one of the tallest
buildings in London, it stood proudly at the heart
of the city and the heart of the Empire, watching
over its progeny with an omniscient eye.
The Imperial Institute was just part of the
immense vision of Prince Albert. Using the
money raised by the Great Exhibition of 1851,
he created the South Kensington of today by
commissioning the Science and Natural History
Museums, the Victoria & Albert and the
forerunners of Imperial College. His dream was
to 'improve the progress of Human Develop-
ment' by creating a centre of aesthetic and
cultural learning in London. (It is a sad irony
that students at the modern Imperial College
have so little interest in the aesthetic learning).
So the Tower stood at the centre of this
monument to British rule. From its 87 metre
high peak the whole of London could be seen,
even landmarks up to twenty miles away.
However, its glory was short lived. The Empire
began to crumble and the Institute was not
profitable. Much of the building was taken over
by the University of London in 1902 and other
institutions used it later on. Meanwhile, Imperial
College was born and it was hungry for space.
In 1957, the Government committed architec-
tural sacrilege by ordering that the fantastic
Institute building should be destroyed. The site
was needed for the monolithic steel frames of
the new Imperial College buildings. The ensuing
uproar was so great that they eventually decided
to keep the Tower. Over a space of two years, the
Civil Engineering department worked to make
the Tower stand on its own, by rebuilding the
lower half and installing massive foundations.
The dying embers of the Imperial Institute
became the Commonwealth Institute and moved
to Holland Park, along with two of the stone lions.
The Tower now stands somewhat incon-
grously in the indifferent heart of College, a
symbol of the academic achievements around it.
It is empty and locked to prevent overstressed
students from temptation. It seems irrelevant
now, its past forgotten along with the remains of
the Empire it represented. A few renegades from
the Mountaineering Club have suggested turning
it into a climbing wall but, apart from that, the
tower remains largely ignored.
However, for a few weeks at least, the
Queen's Tower is experiencing rebirth. Once an
emblem of power, more recently one of science,
the Tower has become a work of art. Various
artists have been asked to draw their inspiration
from the architecture and history of South
Kensington in an exhibition designed to bring art
out of the gallery and onto the street. Organised
by the Royal College of Art, it will exist in the
area around Imperial College throughout March,
giving us a once in a lifetime chance to receive
that much needed dose of aesthetic learning
without having to walk for more than five minutes.
In creating the exhibition, the Albert
Memorial (or rather its scaffolding) has been
utilised, a Saracen personnel carrier is now
sitting outside the RCA and a 'diplomatic car' is
roving the streets. This mutating machine will be
both seen and heard as it cruises past the 24
embassies in the area, playing each nations'
music in turn. For those who dare to venture
inside the R C A itself, they will be able to
express their opinions on a giant video system,
or just write them on the wall. The artists have
been using up-to-the-minute technology to
express the modern paranoia about surveillance,
terrorism and Big-Brother. Video, sound and
military hardware have all become valid media
for this most modern of modern art.
For the highlight of the show, I braved the
freezing sleet to pay a visit to the Tower itself.
At the very top protrude four video cameras.
Their appearance had been so subtle that they
could have been placed there by College
Security to keep a beady eye on us. I found the
door open. Inside were four screens, suspended
from the distant roof of the tower, showing the
view from each camera. The effect is dis-
concerting and vertiginous, the feeling of staring
up and at once looking down from an impossible
height. Huddled behind a radiator was Anne
Eggebert herself, the artist...
Her path of discovery seemed analogous to
my own. The might of the old Institute and its
shocking aims, which included 'the furtherance
of systematic colonisation', inspired the idea of
using the Tower as a symbol of power and
surveillance, where one could both observe and
be observed at the same time. The sense of
alienation she felt within the Tower and within
the concrete arena of the College itself inspired
the title, 'The Visit of a Stranger', a quote from
Marcus Aurelius written on one of the Tower's
stained glass windows.
Amidst the discussion, I asked if there had
been any student interest? Well, apparently she
had found the Tower plastered with posters
claiming that "Art is dead. Long live The
Bohemians". So, those fabled revolutionaries
had struck again! What had amused her most
was the fact that they had used blu-tak, so the
posters could be removed! So much for radicalism.
So, after years of emptiness the Imperial
PowerPhallus has a new lease of life. It has
survived rebuilding and abandonment to be
rejuvenated as a new, more cynical symbol of
domination. Venture inside the Queen's Tower
while you can while you can (the lower half is
open) and experience its unknown past.
See page 16 for an interview with Madder Rose

