s Feature
The Night of a Thousand Stars
Last Friday, the OSC's International Nite drew in its traditional shiny, happy
crowds. Come, let usfly across the world in a blur ofpictures...
Global Buzz: Owain Bennallack Postcardsfrom Paradise: Ivan Chan
Wow the world has come to us and many of us
don't seem to care. At once Ifelt very lonely, the
world seemed very big. Everyone should be in a
minority sometimes.'
So I ended a column on International Nite
last year, lambasting the absence of home
students from the proceedings. This year there
were, perhaps, a few more. But regardless, in
the interim an obvious truth has dawned. There
are x tickets and y countries on that stage. That
means roughly x/y tickets per affiliated and
homesick student. So there isn't that much room
for the rest of us! A shame, because this really is
the high-night of the College event calender.
I feel a buzz when I arrive at six o'clock. It's
the buzz of a College partying, letting its hair
down. We are here to smile, laugh and butcher
anyone who stands between us and the last
portion of Kway Teow Goreng. I try that
myself, also hitting the Japanese stall and, with
a ticket plundered from an absent friend, circle
the Iranian buffet. It was truly gorgeous. That
left a spare food coupon but unfortunately I'd
misplaced that spare ticket! Contented gluttony
turned to stomach-turning panic when I
considered the absent friend's arrival for the
cultural show where, meeting me ticketless, she
would undoubtedly put on a show of her own in
the Sherfield Building foyer (castrato anyone?).
Luckily, a wonderful Singaporean stall helper
found it in a sorry brown state at the bottom of
his box. Relieved, I almost knocked over the
Goreng in my efforts to culturally bond with him!
Everyone I spoke to described the food as
'brilliant' except a chap called Tai who only got
a chance to use one coupon. He admits that the
food he tried was 'brilliant' - friend, the Food
Fair is like an exam, you have to learn to cram!
Pick your country, cheer your flag...
Sitting pretty.
"You have to be here really quickly because
when everybody arrived - voom - everyone
hits the best stalls straight away...when I got to
the Japanese stall there was just tumbleweed
flying by..." Tim Parsons, Aeronautics PG
Do you get an opportunity to try out food
from the other stalls?
"Yes of course! We get a chance before the
main fair opens..." The Lebanese Stall Helpers
What about culturalpromotion?
"It's merely for having fun...it might
depend on the individuals themselves, rather
than generalising to say that everyone will
think of it as something greater."
Kavah Jhayour, Aero
"The Food Fair has gone extremely well - it
exceeded all our expectations." Mark Sin, OSC
The Dance Club provide us with that perfect Kodak moment. Rather more diverse than the local take-away..
Explore the Queens Tower and the meaning of power on page 5

