Feature
Purity, Beauty and Musical Alchemy
Patrick Wood talks to conductor Andrew Davis and soprano Patricia Wise
about Alban Berg's Lulu, one of the greatest operas of the twentieth century.
Andrew Davis, Chief Conductor of the BBC Symphony Orchestra. (Photo: Alex von Koettlitz)
The name of Schoenberg spells commercial
suicide for concert promoters. O f those
composers who have adopted the methods of
serial composition, it is only Schoenberg's pupil
Alban Berg whose works have gained anything
like widespread public acceptance. The
accessibility of Berg's two most popular
compositions has been enhanced by their
extra-musical associations. In the grim realism
of the opera Wozzeck, it is not difficult to see a
powerful reflection of the misery the composer
himself experienced as a soldier in the Austrian
army. A n d the rich and beautiful V i o l i n
Concerto is a requiem for the 18 year-old Manon
Gropius, stepdaughter of Alma Mahler, which in
the last movement magically merges its
twelve-note row into the opening theme of a
Bach chorale.
Only recently, however, has it been possible
to understand the personal motivation behind
Berg's greatest work. Now, with hindsight, it
does seem odd that someone in a lasting and
blissful marriage, as Berg ostensibly was, should
be drawn to Wedekind's two Lulu plays, with
their pessimistic and ultimately tragic
exploration of sexual attraction. "Berg was, I
believe, rather obsessed by sex," says conductor
Andrew Davis. "We've discovered more and
more in the last few years about his affairs,
particularly of course with Hanna
Fuchs-Robettin, who was the inspiration for
probably both the Lyric Suite and Lulu. At the
same time, I don't think he just stayed in his
marriage to Helene because it was convenient. I
think there was something about their
relationship that he needed."
But he also needed a different type of
involvement, which he found in his idealistic
adoration of Hanna Fuchs-Robettin. Berg's wife
seems to have understood the nature of the
affair. "He didn't want too close an association
with this woman, as he imagined her in the
unheard of florescence of his artist's fantasy, for
fear of disappointment," she wrote in a letter to
Alma Mahler in 1936, a few months after Berg's
death. Helene was to survive her husband by
more than forty years and throughout this time
she forbade the completion of the opera's third
act, which Berg had left unorchestrated. Lulu
was performed only as a two-act torso.
Andrew Davis recalls meeting Helene Berg
in the early seventies, on a chance visit to the
Bergs' summer residence in southern Austria.
"We had tea and chocolate cake and I asked her
about Lulu. She quoted the line that she'd been
delivering for years: 'I showed it to Schoenberg,
Webern and Zemlinsky and none of them
wanted to finish it and said it should be left and I
think it should be left,' and the great mystery is
whether she really believed that, or whether, I
don't know, was this her way of getting back at
Alban for all his infidelity? I don't think so, but
it is very strange because everyone knew and she
knew, I suppose, that the piece was so almost
complete that it was really untenable to say that
you couldn't perform it."
Whatever the reason, it was not until 1979,
three years after Helene's death, that the
premiere of the complete three-act Lulu was
given and the apotheosis of Berg's love for
another woman reached the stage. In the final
scene, Lulu has fallen from the heights of
fashionable society to the degradation of
prostitution in late Victorian London. Aiwa, a
composer and one of Lulu's past lovers, a
character with whom Berg closely identified,
stands enraptured before a portrait of Lulu in the
fullness of her beauty, and challenges anyone to
remain a respectable, conformist member of
society in the face of such allure. It is as if Berg
were trying to define the nature of his idealistic
relationship with Hanna and at the same time to
justify it.
Andrew Davis has been "completely
infatuated", as he puts it, with the music of Berg
since he first heard the Violin Concerto in his
early teens. As a student in Rome in the late
A review of The Dish at the Drill Hall is on page 14

