Feature
sixties, he went hungry in order to be able to
afford an orchestral score of Lulu. "I think Berg
is one of the greatest masters of the twentieth
century...I mean ever, really. And his style has
always appealed to me tremendously. It's a very
lyrical style, but it's very complex emotionally,
which is what I like about it. There's a lot of
irony in the music, there's a lot of humour—
very black of course—and there's a deep sort of
melancholy...It's interesting, there's a sense in
which Berg's music and Elgar's music, for
instance the Second Symphony, are not so far
apart. They both look at the world with rather a
sense of catastrophe I think; a lot of compassion,
but with a lot of disillusionment. And, of course,
Lulu is absolutely that, because by the end of the
piece one is disillusioned with Lulu and all the
men around her and the whole awful business of
sexual attraction. But at the same time, in spite
of all the degradation she goes through, at the
end the sense that one has is of an awful loss and
an awful waste of something beautiful and pure
and vibrant."
After the success of Davis's Berg weekend at
the Barbican two years ago and with the
'Towards The Millenium' series having reached
the Thirties, the time seemed right for the
fulfilment of a long-held ambition. "I've been
dying to do Lulu for
years and years. The
Berg weekend..., you
know, I had more fun
than should be legal
doing that!" Despite
their well-received
Wozzeck, the English
National Opera have
yet to commit
themselves to a
production of the
complete Lulu and so it is not since the Covent
Garden revival of 1983 that London has heard
the finished opera. "Wozzeck is easier to put on.
It's a much easier opera to cast. If you've got a
good baritone to do Wozzeck then you can cast
the rest fairly easily, whereas Lulu...The title
role of course, almost no-one in the world can
sing it at any given time. And some of the other
roles are hard—Alwa's a very hard role. But it's
mainly finding a Lulu, that's the biggest
problem."
For these two concert performances, Lulu is
sung by Patricia Wise, today's pre-eminent
interpreter of the part. "It's probably the longest
role that I sing," she says, "except for Susanna in
Mozart's Marriage of Figaro, which certainly
can't be compared, because the dodecaphonal
music is much harder to learn. Also the many,
many scene changes and the character
development of Lulu demand a lot of
concentration just to remember which door
you're going out of and which costume you're
coming back on wearing!" This will be less of a
problem in a concert performance, although
there are plans to do a minimal staging,
including entrances and exits for the singers.
There will also be supertitles, but unfortunately
there will not be the film scene specified by
Berg to depict Lulu's imprisonment and escape
after she has murdered her third husband, Dr
Schon. This pivotal event, the mid-point of the
..the lament sung by the
dying Countess over
Lulu's body makes one
of the most moving
endings in all opera.
opera, marks the beginning of Lulu's decline.
"One should almost think that Lulu has, in a
way, staged her whole rise and fall and that she
is practically going back to that great beyond
from which she came. So this makes her a very
interesting character in that she's almost not
human," says Wise,
recalling the title of
Wedekind's first Lulu
play, Earth Spirit.
The complexities of
the plot are matched by
the intricacies of the
music's construction.
Andrew Davis believes
that any interpreter of
Lulu has to be aware of
the many important musical interrelationships in
order to bring them out as clearly as possible.
However complicated the technical means,
though, the end results are very clear in what
they reveal about the characters. "You always
feel there's some sort of magic with Berg," he
says. " Y o u know, he decided to take every
seventh note of the Lulu series and came up with
this theme for Aiwa, which is so lyrical and
self-indulgent and morbid. Of course, it's what
he does with the basic intervals...But for Dr
Schon you have this
series starting with a
major triad, second
inversion, and it speaks
of such a strong
personality before you do
anything with it."
The other principal
character is Countess
Geschwitz, whose love
for Lulu goes completely
unrequited. Wedekind
was one of the first playwrights to create a major
character with lesbian tendencies, and his
sympathetic portrayal of the Countess will surely
have appealed to Berg, whose sister was a
lesbian. "Geschwitz is a very sensitive character,
and a sad character, but a very beautiful person,"
explains Davis. "The whole opening of the
second act is such a wonderful new world, and
the music is comp-
letely dominated by
Geschwitz and you can
almost smell it, like the
music is a reflection of
the orchids that she's
brought Lulu."
Berg's ingenious
use of his leitmotivic
material is a source of
continued fascination
for Davis: "You're
always finding new subtleties, new cross-
references." Some of these cross-references
serve to make powerful dramatic points. "There
are a lot of correspondences where music comes
back, sometimes at radically different tempos; a
lot of Act II scene ii is exactly twice as slow as
the same music in Act II scene (', which is
deliberate. Lulu comes in from hospital, she's
sick, so everything is moving in this strange
dream world." There follows the rapturous
consummation of Alwa's love for Lulu (but with
alchemy, transformed
Wedekind's trite ditty
first into gold and then
into lead.
a ghoulish twist at the end, as Lulu remarks,
"isn't this the couch where your father [Dr
Schon] bled to death?") This wonderful and very
approachable section is one of many memorable
passages. "There are lyric moments which are
actually very, very beautiful," says Wise. "The
duets with Schon are
Berg haS, by SOme aCt Ofvery gratifying, and t
two duets with A i w a
are also very lyric."
"It's the piece that
adheres most closely to
Schoenbergian princi-
ples of twelve-note
composition," says
Davis, "and yet it's his
most tonal in some
ways, it and the Violin Concerto. There's all this
wonderful dance music—the English waltz,
which is quite like some of the music in the
V i o l i n Concerto; it's the same slightly
over-civilised world of the dance hall." There
are jazz influences too, with a prominent part,
both blowsy and yearning, for alto saxophone.
"And he uses Wedekind's lautenlied in a very
important way and integrates it so cleverly with
his own style." In particular, after the
extraordinarily powerful transition between
scenes i and ii of Act III, the curtain rises on a
run-down garret and an off-stage wind band
perfectly captures the drab, washed-out
atmosphere of a grey, rainy evening. Incredibly,
the tune is the same as in the preceding
interlude; Berg has, by some act of alchemy,
transformed Wedekind's trite ditty first into
gold, and then into lead.
In black and white on the page of the libretto,
the closing scene is grim and sordid. Lulu's third
client is Jack the Ripper, played by the same
performer who has sung the role of Schon. He
stabs both Lulu and the Countess to death. Yet
Berg avoids lurid melodrama through the depth
and feeling of his music; the lament sung by the
dying Countess over Lulu's body makes one of
the most moving endings in all opera. Davis
feels that both of Berg's operas transcend their
originals. "With Lulu, at the end of the opera
you do have this incredible love for this
extraordinary woman, I
think. Y o u can't help
loving what she
represents and cherishing
what she represents and
mourning in a very
profound way that it's
gone. And yet analysing
it, you look at the libretto
and you think, well, isn't
this a little whore? But it
isn't, and that's the
essence...And that's where a lot of productions
of Lulu, several that I've seen, fail completely, I
think, because they don't understand Lulu's
inherent purity."
Andrew Davis conducts and Patricia Wise sings
the title role, in concert performances o/Lulu at
the Royal Festival Hall on 11th March and at
Symphony Hall, Birmingham on 13th March,
starting at 6.30 pm.
.an off-stage wind band
perfectly captures the
drab, washed-out
atmosphere of a grey,
rainy evening.
See page 4 for a vision of the future of Europe

