The Pill Poppy Day ICCAG
The Pill has hit the headlines again! Two
reports indicated a link between taking the
pill and the later development of two of the
cancers specific to women. However, the
exact risk and whether any particular 'low
dose' pill has a more pronounced effect on
this than another has yet to be fully worked
out, but the likelihood of a woman, by taking
the pill, developing a cancer, which would not
have otherwise developed will be very small
indeed. Other factors, such as inherited pre-
dispositions for the development of breast
cancer would be far more influential.
At this level of increased risk, there is no
need to stop taking the pill, or immediately to
change to a different pill if you are taking one
of the brands of the pill described in the media
as a 'high risk' one. If you should wish to
discuss your contraception wait until your
prescription is due for renewal. By then the
reports will have been better assessed so that
you can be given objective advice on the risks
of taking the pill, and whether there is any
need to change from a pill which you are
presumably used to and suits you, to a new
one.
Stopping the pill, without first acquiring
another effective means of contraception, is
more likely to cause problems (ie an
unplanned pregnancy) than the remote pos-
sibility of developing cancer through continu-
ing to take the pill. If you decide that you wish
to stop taking the pill, and want advice on
alternative means of contraception, please
make an appointment with one of the doctors
at the Health Centre, where unbiased advice
will be given.
Alan Swann
ICHS
Vegsoc
Fruit & Veg Tasting
Have you ever longed to try a juicy
kiwi fruit? Or fondle a gorgeous
pear? O r sink your teeth into
something even more exotic?
At this fabulously opulent party,
you will be able to taste all sorts of
fruit and vegetables (including
fermented sorts!). •
Doors open at 6:30pm in the
Union S C R tonight. Entry is by
membership, terrific value at only
50p.
Page l O H P H H I ^ H H H H n
Poppy Day here already! Someone else after
my money! Why can't the Government pay!
The members of the Royal British Legion
have heard all the moans as we stand in the
cold streets trying to boost the takings in our
collecting cannisters. The war was over years
ago, why do they still carry on with Poppy
Day?
People soon forget the members of the
armed forces that fought for our freedom in
the past and were wounded so badly that they'
were unable to support themselves, and in-
deed even in these days of uprising's and
conflict, are still being wounded and maimed.
These forces don't moan and grumble when
they have to defend our rights to freedom.
They ask for no reward for their bravery. But
who knows better than the ex-serviceman
what they need to help make their lives a lot
happier and easier. Homes where they can be
looked after, staff that can look after them,
apart from the comforts like T V sets, furni-
ture articles, etc, etc.
The members of the Royal British Legion
as ex-servicemen are always ready to stand by
and help their comrades in the forces the best
way we can, but we call upon all citizens to
make an army to help us to raise the necessary
funds in order that we may be able to fulfil
our task, especially in these days of higher
prices for everything needed.
Please give the poppy collectors your sup-
port by being even more generous with your
donations.
You can join us paying homage to the
fallen heroes at the Putney Brige war mem-
orial at 10:45am on Sunday 13 November if
you live nearby.
Thank you.
Friday, 4 November, 1983\
"ICCAG?....Oh you mean the Soup Run."
Unfortunately that's all the community
action group is renowned for, but that, we
hope, is changing.
As well as helping down at an adventure
playground for disadvantaged children at
Acton on Saturdays and visiting old people at
St Pancras Hospital on Wednesday
afternoon, you can now do something NEW.
It's called J O B B E R S Q U A D and is a pro-
ject to give help to people in rather than out of
the community by doing practical jobs as well
as talking to them, which is the purpose of the
venture. If you have any practical skills arid
have something to give to such people by
talking to them then do join us. Jobs range
from putting up curtain rails for a blind man
to typing a letter of grievance to Mrs Thatcher
for an old lady in an old people's home.
Despite these other activities you are still
welcome aboard the Soup Run which helps
'down and outs' by giving them bread and
soup and conversation. This runs every Thur-
sday evening at 9:30pm from Falmouth Hall
Kitchens (Keogh end). If you drive also, are
over 21, have held your licence for over 18
months and it is clean then we will pay for you
to take the Union test to drive the soup run
for us.
If you are interested in us, then we are
interested in you and would love to see you at
our meeting at 12:30pm Monday in ICCAG
Office (top of the Union) and at 12.30pm.
Wednesday for the Jobbersquaders.
Thank you.
Consoc
The main purpose of this article is to set the
record straight on some matters which have
been causing some confusion in this term's
Felices. The ConSoc article in the Freshers'
F E L I X was genuine. The subsequent letter
from me was a fake. None of the loony left-
wing rantings (of Martin Attwell, Michael
Newman and others of that ilk) were faked by
us—we can leave them to make fools of them-
selves. Moving on to the last normal F E L I X :
whilst the letter from Richard Monkhouse
(Consoc exec member) was fake, the small-ad
seeking "a blonde/blue-eyed secretary" was
genuine. Incidentally, no more applicants
please; I shall have to spend the next fortnight
interviewing those who have applied so far!
Seriously though, this article is really writ-
ten by me. We welcome anyone (first years in
particular) who would like to attend our com-
mittee meetings, and help us organise events.
If you are interested, simply go up to the
Union Office, and leave a note in the Consoc
letter-racks, with your name, year and de-
partment. We will then inform you of the date
and place of our next meeting.
Jonathan Gerson
N O T E : U N F O R T U N A T E L Y D U E T O L A C K O F
S P A C E A N U M B E R O F C L U B A R T I C L E S H A V E
B E E N O M I T T E D . P R I O R I T Y IS G I V E N T O S H O R T
A R T I C L E S A D V E R T I S I N G F O R T H C O M I N G
E V E N T S .
FELIX
Human Rights Week
5-9 December
It is essential that any club wishing to participate in Human Rights Week should attend the
HRW SCC exec meeting, on Monday 7 November, 1:00pm, Green Committee Room.
Clubs should have a clear idea of the campaigns they wish to pursue during the week and be
willing to discuss the campaign with the SCC exec.
Note: Clubs that are not represented may not be able to take part in Human Rights Week.

