Sport
Sorry to football the other week, but Pallab
was being mean and you got the short straw!
Today sees the publishing of VIP (Very
Important President) Ian Bull's UAU article.
As well as this, we have the first part of the
FELIX version of Coronation Street, 'The
Cricket Club Saga'. The next ACC meeting is
on Tuesday 15 November, time and place in
next week's issue, if I remember.
Now for the Table Tennis Club. You make
the Chess Club look butch! Why should I
include an article in these hallowed sports
pages from a group of poofters too week to
hold tennis rackets? Not only that, but careful
examination of the copy for that week
revealed that Table-Tennis Club did not
actually submit an article, even if I had wanted
to put it in. I certainly didn't see the article.
The most insignificant clubs make the loudest
noise
Moral: if copy is submitted on time, and
Pallab doesn't lose it first, it will almost
always go in. John Scott
Now for the Bull
Affiliation to UAU allows IC clubs and stu-
dents to compete against other universities
and colleges of universities under the name of
IC, rather than through ULU (although there
are no restrictions on a student playing for
ULU as well).
The affiliation commences in 1983/4 ses-
sion but unfortunately will not benefit all of
the ACC clubs. This has been discussed ex-
tensively by A C C and was regretted but
accepted, being due to the timing of our
affiliation (after fixture lists had been drawn
up) resulting in a reduced (negotiated)
affiliation fee. This will allow some
participation this year and will lead to full
participation for 1984/5 session.
The actual details of the competitions
centre around regions and groups therein.
For instance, IC could compete against
Surrey, Sussex, LSE, U C L or City. The
winner(s) of the recognised leagues move to
the next round, where travel further afield eg
Manchester, Loughborough is likely, as is
stiffer opposition.
ACC club captains will shortly be receiving
copies of the U A U Handbook if any club
member has any queries could they contact
Ian Bull in the Union Office at lunchtimes.
(Ian's also the man to see for rubber blow-up
dolls of Norman Tebbitl-Sports Ed)
We now have the following regular times for
dry slope skiing at Blue Sky Ski, Hillingdon:
Tuesday evening (intermediates instruction)
meet Southside Lounge 6:30pm; Wednesday
afternoons (beginners instruction) meet
Southside Lounge 1:00pm. Intermediates
welcome.
If you're coming with us to Risoul I
strongly recommend at least a couple of
session's on the dry slope—this saves a lot of
wasted time falling over on the first few days
of the trip. The balance payment for the
holiday is now due (check your pigeonholes
for details) and please note the bit about ski
passes.
Page f 2 ) H H H H H H H H i
After the previous Saturday's disaster against
a bunch of cretins, we were matched against
another bunch of cretins. We always seem to
do worst against the real incompetents. True
to form, not one of the ladies could manage
two consecutive matches—this is too much to
expect really, and no lady has ever yet
managed to play for us in two consecutive
matches.
Anyway, with a restructured team we set
about the demolition of UC. Anne was
reluctant to join in this, as she preferred
demolishing chocolate digestives. Dom
managed to keep his temper in a match for the
first time ever, much to Janet's relief, and I
was still drying off from the night before (the
aquatic incident in southside!) Nick and Jane
forgot about Badminton and argued all the
time! Not true really, and thanks to Jane for
turning up at such late notice.
There will be a social on 2 December. What
form this will take I don't know. Ideas please,
but you'd all better turn up, anyway. We'll be
meeting in the Union Bar, as Ian and I are on
best behaviour in Southside!
contrary to what I said on Monday, there is
no Badminton tonight. Sorry, but we're back
to normal next week.
A breather from the rigors of a Wedne-
day training ride.
To those of you who signed our book at
Freshers' Fair, where are you, already we
have one of the best racing squads IC has ever
seen.
For the rest join us for our weekly club run
(pace not crippling) meeting at Beit Arch at
the earlier time of 8:45am this Sunday as we
follow Bo to Brighton no doubt passing her
on the way. It's 55 miles so bring a railcard
and money to get back (and for grub).
Hifle 6
*
Pistol
Six teams arrived to sail this weekend at the
Welsh Harp. IC were able to provide two
teams, despite the lack of crews.
Phil captained ICA to an impressive
victory over Kent. After some competitive
team racing—especially by the aggressive
young newcomer to the club (who will remain
nameless since his defection to UL2!)—
Sussex finally broke ICA's dominance.
It was left to ICl to restore IC's pride,
which they duly accomplished. However
Kent declined to sail a second race due to lack
of wind.
Graham wanted the foot mentioned. Last
week we sailed at the foot trophy but we
didn't do very well!
IClst 1 Ashford 2
The day started well, we had shirts, but then
someone, as they always will at this time of
year, raised the question of balls. Some were
eventually found with the match ball being
purchased from Harrods, one does find it so
very useful, thanks to Geoff'Wheels' Ayers.
After a delay to wait for a couple of umpire
chappies the game commenced.
Ashford going off like the clappers
managed to score early on. IC retaliated by
playing some of their best hockey but were
unable to score before half time. In an early
matched second half IC equalised through
that good man Alistair Ross, but our first
points in the league again eluded us as
Ashford (a rather unsavoury bunch as it turne
out) cut through out tiring defence to score
with five minutes remaining.
Obiturary: It is with great sadness that I
record the passing of Margaret from the
hockey field. He was a fine player and a close
personal friend. He...OK Simon cut the crap.
Sunbury 1 IC 2nds 0
"Hello Maurice."I thought you were going to
play for Sunbury 2nds this year?"
"Yeah, I wanted to, but then they found
out my mum and dad were married."
(Do I get the feeling you enjoyed this game?
-Sports Ed)
Football
IC Football Club requires referees for
Wednesday and Saturday afternoons. No
previous experience is necessary but a
knowledge of the rules is preferred. Training
can be provided for anyone interested
Referees are entitled to free coaches to
Harlington, free teas and are paid £5.50 per
match.
Anyone interested please contact Dave
Griffiths (Chem Pg int 4126 or home 223
8616) or Adam Rose (DoC 3).
\Friday, 4 November, 1983 FELIX

