Rugby at Harlington
Football
Ou est Leroy? II est parti de la tube station-de
South Kensington avec billet dans la nain.
Nous findons Leroy, buardons le train et
changer a Victoria. Apres pickons up Leroy
sur L'escalator, eventualfement nous
arrivons a Colliers Wood, jouer de la Colelge
des Kings.
Apres le kick-off, nous sleepons pour dix
ninuit, et surpriser! surpriser! les Kings
rettons les deux goals—le goalkeeper Nick
"les fingers de beuree" Tarn dropper la
clanger pour la second goal. Zut, alons!! Le
College de lTmperial se reveille et begin to
play avec confidence. Dave "le diable"
Wadsworth biter les legs de l'opposition,
mais a half time, nous still losensono 2-0.
Nous restantons- le deuxiere half, jouer
contre onze footballers et un batand de
referee, qu'il a ignorance de la football rules.
Le revitalizement IC XI sont les demon
footballers pour tout le second half.
GOOAAALLL!!! "Le diable" Wadsworth
nettons le balloon, apres bon skill par le Dave
"dribbler" Stephenson. Under l'inspiration
de skipper Garry "levae it out, Jean-Paul"
Lawrence, nous continuons to play
brilliantement, mais sans reward. Tant piss!!!
Nous loser 2-1. Quel injustice.
Nous adjournons a la pub, et consumono
beuacoups de pints.
IC3 v QMC 2 4-2
IC started well and quickly worked them-
selves into a 2-0 deficit, thanks to two
beautifully contrived defensive erros. Playing
against a force 10 gale (usual) the IC midfield
machine then woke up and even managed to
produce a chance! Needless to say, Torsten
was there to ably demonstrate the art of
heading wide—before being substituted at
half-time.
Spurred on by yet another inspiring half
time team talk given by Jon Barden. (There's
not enough shouting, come on lads, more
running, etc, said in dull monotone.) IC then
turned on a second half performance of pure
power. The rout of QMC was started by N
Horespool with a finely headed goal. Dave
Lynne notched up a couple of excellently
taken goals and Marc Whitehead savagely
whipped in a curling short from a set piece
thanks to Captain Chris Gordon head
butting the opposition keeper in the goolies.
This gave us an unassailable 4-2 lead which
we only kept by some fine goalkeeping from
Phil Goldsmith.
IC continued their build up for the
Gutteridge Cup with an impressive win over
Royal Holloway.
IC started off well and soon went 3-0 up
with a penalty by M Hassel and he soon
followed this with a try, a conversion and
another penalty. However too many penalties
were conceded and allowed Royal Holloway
to come back to 12-6. For 20 mins in the
second half IC came under intense pressure
but survived and in the last 20 mins romped
home with 5 tries
IC2nds 0 Rosslyn Park XV 12
The relatively uneventful first half ended
with the scores deadlocked at nil nil. The
rugged determination of the IC pack and the
hard tackling of the backs was largely
responsible for the half time score, despite the
huge weight and strength advantage enjoyed
by the opposition.
The second half was another story
altogether. Will Chapman slipped through
their backline like a greased pig—due to the
copious amounts of Vaseline smeared about
his body—to set up a few scoring chances.
But the superior strength and weight of the
opposition eventually led to the opening try
and conversion.
e ? : * : * : * K » »
The brave participants in this venture ( 6
experienced canoeists, 6 novices) left Beit
Quad at 6pm Friday 21
After a cold night in the village hall, we
were ready for the first assault on the River
Usk. With only two accidental 'swims' on the
Saturday, we retreated to the pub.
Awaking refreshed and sober on Sunday,
entertainment on the river was provided by
Lewis Owen, our club expert, capsizing and
managing to lose a new pair of paddles.
Anyone interested in trying canoeing
should come to the College Pool on any
Tuesday evening 6:30 to 8:00pm.
IC vs QMC 62-66
The journey to Queen Mary College turned
out to be a worthwhile warm up match for the
league which starts next week. A poor
performance during the first five minutes
resulted in us trailing by 20 points at half
time. A lot of effort and team work helped us
make the final result a respectable one and
gave hope of improving on last year's record.
The V A V Men's basketball tournament
(preliminary round) is being held in Brighton
on 12-13 November in which we will be
entering a team. If you want to pariticipate
the squad will be picked during the next
training sessions. The first team trains on
Monday evenings at 5:30pm and the 2nd
(mixed) team trains on Thursday evenings at
8:00pm, when anybody is welcome (including
beginners). A training session for everybody
is held on Thursday lunchtime. (All training
sessions are held in the volleyball court.) The
full squad will be picked from both teams.
For more information contact Tim Vink,
Elec Eng 3.
Bowls
IC played their first inter-university match of
the season on Sunday. It was the traditionally
'easy' fixture of the season at home to
Southampton Univ. Things this year,
however, did not go to plan, against a strong
Soton team which performed well above
average. Individual 'star' performances go to
Andy Chapman and Tim Schofield with
personal high season scores.
Score: We lost (heavily)
B o a r d
Sailing
In the first race of the National Boardsailing
Championship in Plymouth, ICBSC showed
its full power with Francis Carr taking a first
and Christian Luckenberg a fourth place.
The afternoon saw two more races in light
winds, with a second and sixth place by the
captain.
Sunday evening found the team rigid with
cold, with some members hoping thjat the
force 0 wind conditons would persist all day.
After a late breakfast, no beans, we sprang
into action as a force 4/5 breeze appeared okit
of the blue (grey).
FELIX I \ Friday, 4 November, 1983 \
Cricket
On the last Wednesday of term the IC Cricket
XI found themselves playing in the ULU Cup
finals against Barts at Motspur Park. IC won
the toss and elected to bat first in this 40
overs-a-side match.
Can you waitfor next week's exciting episode?
• H H H H H H B B Page 13

