3itoria[
NUS
The N U S debate is coming up again, as it does every year. However
this year N U S are really making a big push to get us to reaffiliate,
especially by bringing their biggest gun N U S President Neil Stewart
to the U G M on Tuesday.
As Neil says in his article on page 5 the reasons we disaffiliated no
longer exist. N U S are less political, they are less wasteful with student
unions" money and they really do provide a valuable service for
students. Without their efforts nationally all student grants, indu-
ing ours, would be much much lower.
Anyone who says NUS does nothing for IC students doesn't know
what he is talking about. We are benefiting from the activities of NUS
without paying a penny. The moral reasons for affiliating are over-
whelming.
However we've got ourselves in a financial hole. If we are to find
the annual £13.000 affiliation fee (don't be fooled by any trick
deals—it works out to £13,000 a year whichever way you juggle the
figures) it means some of the services, clubs and societies of this
Union are going to have to be cut. Are you preapred to join NUS at
the cost of having no C C U s or no Boat Club or no Gliding Club? This
is what you must decide over the next few months for a possible
campus-wide ballot. Do go to the U G M on Tuesday to hear Neil
Stewart speak.
FELIX Retraction
Smce the publication of the Careers F E L I X last week a couple of
people from Industrial Society have told me that they found some of
the material in that issue not to their liking. They have asked me to
make it quite clear that their only contribution to that issue was a
couple of very badly written articles (which were not used) and a long
boring list of companies visiting IC at the Careers Fair.
It seems as if the people running Industrial Society are far more
concerned about impressing their prospective employers than help-
ing people to get jobs. I would have thought it was obvious to anyone
that it would be quite beyond the obnoxious little twats in Industrial
Society to produce an informative and readable Careers F E L I X . Just
to set the record straight it was produced largely through the efforts
of D r Neil Harris and his colleagues in the Careers Advisory Service
together with the F E L I X staff.
Credits
Lynne James, Carolyn Aldred, Jon Jones, Andy Cave, Simon Nield,
Steve Brann. Matt Fawcett, PeterHobbis, SteveBishop, Hugh Southey,
Carl Burgess, Tim Noyce, Guy Riddihough, Michael Newman, Peter
Rodgers, Diane Love, J Martin Taylor, Ulysses, David Rowe, Pete the
Print and Maz.
Pallab Ghosh
2 3 4- 5
7
1
r
1
0
Across
I. x" (5)
6. x2y(xy-z) (5)
7. (x+y)2(x+z)2
+2x(y+z) (5)
8. y2
(2)
9. (x+2y)2
(3)
10. 2(x+1)2 (3)
II. z 2
(2)
DOWN
1. (y+z)2
(3)
2. 2x2
(y+z)2
(5)
3. x3z2
+x2
y(x+z-1) (5)
4. 3x< (5)
5. (x+2y+z)(x+y+z)2
(5)
8. yz (2)
x, y and z are all positive integers. Find them and complete
the grid. No answer begins with a '0'. Good luck everyone!
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the FELIX Office
by 1pm on Wednesday. £5 from Mend-a-Bike for
randomly selected winning entry.
Last week's solution
Well, the week before's actually. Due to a cock-up,
the puzzle was wrongly printed and the statements
did not read as they should have done. A s a result,
the solution was not unique, and I make it that there
are three solutions:
Abdul Chicken P Lasagne Beef mexican
Zorba Beef mexican Beef mexican Chicken P
Pedro Moussaka Moussaka Lasagne
Juan Lasagne Chicken P Moussaka
Donna Pizza Pizza Pizza
There were nine correct solutions, and the ran-
domly selected winner was A Knap of Physics 2 who
can collect the £5 cheque for Mend-a-Bike any time
after 1:30pm on Monday.
Guildsheet Cock-up
A real faux pas was made by Guildsheet this week.
They published the University Prize Crossword set
by Collins, the publishers. FELIX will publish it as
well, except we shall do so on the correct date, for in
the letter from Collins it says, and I quote,
"The competition is so designed that provided the
crossword is placed in an issue of your magazine a
few days before 15 December, Collins will take care
of the follow-up and despatch the prizes."
What Guildsheet has done clearly breaches this
rule, and could well end the chances of an Imperial
student winning the top prize, as we will have had six
weeks to do the crossword while the other univer-
sities will have had 'a few days', presumably about
one week. Do not send the crossword in yet but wait
until it appears in FELIX at the right time. Sending it
before then will ruin your own and all of Imperial's
chances of winning £100 worth of book tokens.
FELIX is published b
y the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed b
y the Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Rd, SW7
Tel 01-580 5Hi extn 1048 or internal 2881. Editor: Pallab K Ghosh; Business Manager:PeterRodgers;AdvertisingManager:HughSoutheyCopyrightFELIX 1983

