News
About a thousand IC students graduated at the Albert Hall last Thursday. At the ceremony Prof John Albery the staff orator
gave an alternative account of Commemoration Day.
Lord Flowers of the Queensgate
By the nine Gods he swore
That the great Imperial College
Would suffer wrong no more.
By the SDP he swore it.
And named a trysting day.
And bade his messengers ride forth
East and West and South and North
To summon his array.
At Wolfsen in far Oxford Sir Henry Fisher lay - -
Cap'n art thous sleep.. >
g there below?
When a letter brought by Buzby Bird came flying from far away:
'Commem Day in the Albert Hall is where you've got to go!'
But whai can ail thee Knight at arms
Alone and palely sitting?
i see pale Dons and Merchants too,
Pale FJonorands death pale are they all.
Who cry, "The Staff Orator sans merci
Hath us in thrall."
So fuller still becomes the Hall, and louder still the din.
As fast from every Public House, the Graduates come in,
And Eastward straight from Wild Blackheath, the warlike message went
And roused in their neat semi-detached The Frisby-Browns of Kent.
And therefore come ye forth in your Triumphs from the North,
In your Volvos, and your Metros, and your Minis painted red.
And therefore have ye come with your Aunties and your Mum,
To get you your degrees for the subjects that you read.
But who is this? Can you not guess?
It is the Dean of RCS.
Welcome wild North Easter!
Shame it is to know
Odes to most Professors,
But none to David Blow.
Dean of the Miners, known of old.
Lord of their far flung battle camp,
Beneath whose filthy hand they hold
Dominion over Davy's lamp.
Begs, 'Regsitrar be with me yet,
Les I forget, Les I forget.'
The Trumpets bray, the Music builds-
The Dean of City and of Guilds -
No hankypanky! No have-if-offsky!
Make way for Henry Sawitowski!
IN MEMORIAM
The Lovedays come from Harlington,
And Baxendell of Shell,
Sir Hugh, Reg Garton and Sir William
With Barringer as well,
Lars Porsena of Clusium came by the District line,
With the stately lord of Luna and Rupert of the Rhine,
Bid welcome to them all.
Don upon Don! Ha! Ha!
Acting Deputy Registrar,
Professor Sir Geoffrey Wilkinson and Henry of Navarre,
While Don John of Austria is marching on the Hall.
Man after man the whole day long their gown clad figures came •
For God! For John Knill! For Silwood! For the Pill!
For Sargent of Chem Eng! And for Sutton of the Mines!
Man after man the whole day long—the prize winners bathed in fame.
There's a breathless hugh in the Hall tonight
For Fisher is wobbling a bit at the knees,
A bumpby stage and a blinding light,
Five hours to go 'fore the last degrees.
The cost of it staggers several banks—
'What can we do please Peter Mee?'
The voice of the Registrar rallies the ranks,
'Pay up! Pay up! And pay for tea!'
Half an hour! Half an hour!
Half an hour onwards!
Crossing the Albert Hall
Came the twelve hundred.
Fellows to right of them.
Fellows to left of them,
Fellows in front of them,
Volleyed and thundered,
'Sink us the lot Master Fisher,
Sink them and split them in twain,
Fall into the hands of God
And not into the hands of Spain!'
Theirs not to reason why.
Theirs not to make reply,
Theirs but to bow and sigh,
'Someone has blundered.'
But 'een the ranks of Tuscany could scarce forbear to cheer,
When Don John of Austria arrived at Wigan Pier.
W J A 1983
iProj John Atbery)
Page 4 Friday, 4 November, 1983 \
rKou T o xr^uc<
l FELIX

