12 Reviews
Look Closely Now . . .
Within the hallowed halls of the Royal
Academy, above the seething mass of the
American Art show is an exhibition in miniature.
It is not a collection of paintings, but the
drawings which preceded them. The collection
has been lent by the J. Paul Getty museum,
which houses a collection of paintings by the
grand masters on the sunny island of Malibu.
Basking in the afternoon heat, the curator
decided to make a collection of drawings, which
has grown to be one of the most valuable and
interesting collections of such items anywhere.
Some 120 of these are being shown at the Royal
Academy - quite a privilege since, in the Jean
Paul Getty museum, no more than thirty are
shown at any one time.
The drawings date back as late as the 1500s
and many of them are exceedingly fragile, being
little more than sketches on scrap paper. Others,
however, are executed with such a mastery of
technique that they could be finished works in
their own right. Often these are simply
preliminary sketches for oil paintings.
When looking at these, the first thing you
notice is how incredibly well the artists could
draw in those days. Having been force fed on a
steady diet of modern art with its unruly daubs
and pretensions, it is refreshing to see something
that really could be described as fine art.
Paintings by artists such as these are often
overlooked because they have been reproduced
so many times, but the drawings beg you to look
closely and admire the real skill involved.
Amongst many relatively unknown artists are
some gems by recognisable names: a tiny picture
of a child with a lamb by Da Vinci and a delicate
sketch by Rafael stand out in the renaissance
section. Rubens' sketch of a Korean man is
unusual, not least because of the mystery of how
a 16th century Flemish painter could have met a
Korean years before there were any links
between the two worlds. The star of the show is
commonly acknowledged to be a near perfect
watercolour of a stag beetle by Durer, but many
of the lesser known pictures are far more
interesting.
Religious images abound, with a variety of
pictures showing God within his billowing
clouds, and an element of humour is often
present. In one picture, for instance, a collection
of peasants bow down before God whilst a
couple of children take a piss unnoticed in the
foreground. Many of the drawings are almost
caricatures, with the features exaggerated to
make them more amusing. A personal favourite
was a little detail of a peasant couple dancing.
In all, this is a surprisingly interesting and
refreshing exhibition, with work by artists
greater than any you could find today. Their
technique was impeccable, their discipline
ICU Bookstore
* CORONATION ST.%
MERCHANDISE
NOW AVAILABLE
Lighters, Bottle Openers,
Mugs, Playing Cards,
and loads more all with
the logo from your
favourite program...
Don't forget Xmas
Card and other gift
lines at superb prices
ij^STILL IN STOCK
Korean Man by Peter Paul Rubens
unknown by modern standards - a perfect
antidote to the freedom that is destroying
modern art. See this exhibition while you can,
and you may be pleasantly surprised.
M A
Jean Paul Getty Museum, Royal Academy,
Burlington House, Piccadilly. Until 23rd Jan,
10am - 6pm daily. £3 students
/ C U
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
BOOKSTORE
I C U EntS proudly presents^^J
*atmosphere\
Comedy Night
Fri 10th Dec
J e f f G r e e n . R i c h a r d M o r t o n ,
S t e v e G r i b b o n
< Tickets £3 a d v a n c e <
numbers l i m i t e d e o hurry! §

