Reviews 13
Jamais Vu
(A one-man show by Ken Campbell)
Brilliant. Absolutely brilliant. This is without
doubt the best show I have seen in the course of
reviewing plays for Felix. It won the Evening
Standard award for best drama last week (the
award statue is actually brought on stage as part
of the proceedings) and it's obvious why.
Forget the fact it's in a theatre which is small
enough to make the evening feel more like a
night out in a comedy club with a single two and
a half hour act. It is a measure of Ken Camp-
bell's skill that he can keep the audience
laughing for the full time without it becoming
boring. What's more, this isn't the usually polite
laughter you normally hear in theatres when a
particularly witty reference to the tempo of
Ibsen's subtext in his seminal, but unpublished
work is made - this is people actually enjoying
themselves, actually crying with laughter.
The show is about Ken's quest to find out
about a tribe in the South Pacific who worship
the Duke of Edinburgh and who speak pidgin
English. He is sent on this quest by a resident of
a mental disorders secure unit who has some
interesting theories on T V detector vans, John
Birt and cycle clips. Sink plungers are integral to
the plot, so much so that, at one point, Ken has
six held on by suction to his 'follicaly
challenged' head (see picture).
The programme at 80p is worth buying if you
are interested in pidgin English. It offers such
gems as 'Puk-puk he rausim belli belong pik!'
(The crocodile is disembowelling the pig!) and
'Hed belong him he stink finish, Daphne' (He
has been dead for a long time, Daphne). It would
spoil it to tell you any more so go and see it.
(By the way, and I don't normally do this,
avoid the Indian restaurant The Grand Indian 2
on Villiers Street like the plague. I had the
misfortune to have a post-performance meal
there and it is was the worst meal I have ever
had - everything was either lukewarm or tasted
of Fairy liquid. You have been warned!)
M J
At the Vaudeville Theatre, The Strand, WC2.
071 836 9987. Tube: Charing Cross. Tickets
from £5. Ends 24th Dec.
Ken Campbell with just one sink plunger
tastefully attached to his head!
The Clearing
"It's a terrible world to be adrift in." Helen
Edmundson's The Clearing follows the gradual
'setting adrift' of Irish families and royalists
from their homes by the Cromwell government
in the 1650s, following the defeat of Charles I.
Our heroine is Maddy (excellently played by
Susan Lynch) who is presented as the very
essence of Irish beauty - full of caprice, yet
sensuous and mystical. She entrances her
husband Robert (Adrian Rawlins) who is
forever the upright English gentleman (or at
least aspires to be).
Initially, the political problems, inherent in
this mixed marriage, are no problem at all; the
baby can be baptised as a Protestant rather than
Catholic because Maddy optimistically believes
that 'your God is as good as mine'. However, as
she begins to fight the deportation of her
friends, Robert ever more insidiously clamours
to keep his wife, son and home, or at least his
son and his home, or at the very least his home.
The issue then is one of contradicting
loyalties. Robert is forever trying to 'keep
afloat', just like Thomas More in A Man For All
Seasons, a play to whose mood and style The
Clearing owes a lot. Particularly carefully
studied are the observations made of the
relationships between the characters. For
example Solomon, a family friend who fought
for the King, explains his differences with
Cromwell thus: "I've fought with men and tried
to kill them... but I haven't hated them." Never
mind the plastic baby; if the use of Tavener's
The Protecting Veil as scene-change music -
yes, scene-change music - makes you want to
scream, if it's not quite as gripping or intense as
you want it to be, it's refreshing to see a modern
play which doesn't have you grappling with
subtext and obscure metaphors. It's a great set,
too. See it.
"They're wet creatures the Irish...full of tears
and rain". This marriage is described elsewhere
as 'an illusory clearing in a nightmare forest',
but Robert's effort to avoid sinking by
swimming with the flow (irrespective, ulti-
mately, of whoever else drowns) reminds me of
the following anecdote: Jimi Hendrix and
Joseph Stalin were setting out on their well-
known journey across Africa, on a path
notorious for lion attacks. Jimi noticed that his
companion was sporting a brand new pair of
trainers. "Hey Joe," he said, "where you going
with those trainers on your feet? Do you think
you could outrun a lion?". "No," replied the
Russian dictator, "I just have to outrun you.".
Mike Servant
Bush Theatre, Shepherd Bush Green, W12. 081
743 3388. Tube: Shepherds Bush. Membership
50p. Cones: £6 cones. Ends 23rd December.
The Iron Man
In terms of writing rock operas, Pete
Townshend has got a pretty good CV: Tommy
and Quadrophenia were two of the best of their
kind. Ted Hughes' fairy tale book is also a rarity
in that an adult can enjoy it every bit as much as
a child. So a combination of the two should be
something to savour. However, instead of
charming prose and powerful anthems, we get a
more muddied, meandering version of a simple
story. For some reason, Hughes' original words
have been discarded in favour of a general
theme of eco-friendly self-belief that tends to
the banal and is far from new or refreshing.
The young cast is led by the excellent
Anthony Barclay as the boy Hogarth. He
befriends the Iron Man and persuades him to
save the world from the evil Star-spirit.
Barclay's performance shows boundless energy
and accomplished singing. The set and
production are low-tech but the show-stopper is
the M a n himself: a 20ft high scrap metal
creation that lumbers and clanks across the stage
drawn by chains. The many children in the
audience seemed happy to wait for his
occasional appearances and ignore the drivel in
between and hence probably enjoyed it the
most.
J i m B
Young Vic, 66 The Cut, SE1. 071 928 6363.
Tube: Warterloo. Tickets from £6.
The Nutcracker will be reviewed in next week's edition

