14 Reviews
The Baby Of Macon
Next Week
To My
Concubine
Coming Up
Mrs Doubtfire
She makes dinner, she does windows, she reads
bedtime stories, she's a blessing in disguise,
she's one hell of a dad. A comedy starring
Robin Williams who has been limited to seeing
his children only on Saturdays. When his
estranged wife (Sally Field) advertises for a
housekeeper, his desperation to be with his
family prompts him to disguise himself as an
elderly Scottish woman and he gets the job.
Tokyo Story
An elderly couple living by the sea visit their
grown up children in Tokyo, but find they do
not fit in. Their children have become selfish
and mean, negatively affected by city living.
The grandparents are only treated nicely by their
widowed daughter-in-law who, despite having
to live in poverty, has retained traditional
values. The grandparents eventually return
home and the grandmother dies, leaving the
grandfather to face the future alone.
Director: Peter Greenaway
Starring: Julia Ormond, Ralph Fiennes, Philip
Stone, Jonathan Lacey
Peter Greenaway is, without doubt, a difficult
film creator. His adeptness at a particular
technique for film-making does not make up for
the fact that The Baby of Macon, his latest
offering, is a very hard film to watch.
Greenaway's films aren't 'real'. The fine-
ness, the gilt, the almost stilted acting, are
baroque and formal. But it would be incorrect to
label Greenaway as purely an art director. The
Baby of Macon is art which reflects life closely -
too closely for comfort.
It's set in the 16th century and narrates the
story of the birth of the Baby to an old woman.
The Baby is soon adopted by his sister who
claims a virgin birth. He is held up as a miracle
child and is exploited by the sister and later by
the church.
This story is acted out as a 'play with music'
within the film. And the film, of course, is a play
to us, the audience. These layers are a striking
technique, bringing us much closer to the film.
But within these layers of the plays threads 'real
life'. For instance, the play has a scene involving
the goring of the Priest's son and another
involving the gang rape of the Baby's sister.
These are in a play, but the actors actually do
murder and rape. It's disturbing and surreal
Little Dreams
This Egyptian film is about the effects of war on
civilians. It is set in Nasser's period and is seen
through the eyes of a young boy. A close look at
human relationships is a strong feature of this
film - in particular the relationship between the
boy and his widowed mother. The characters are
impressive and the scene is well drawn.
The film has an award from the Birmingham
This rather unusual movie has little interest in
story-telling or conventional narrative tech-
niques. It's essentially about the unpredictability
and transience of human desire and the film
portrays this in the story of four drifters.
Nick (Tim Roth) broke up with Carol
(Phoebe Cates) and now goes out with her best
friend Beth (Bridget Fonda). He decides that he
and Beth should move to Nowheresville, where
they might be happier. He leaves a day early,
phoning Carol, telling her that he needs to be on
his own. When Nick returns two days later,
watching both scenes: the audience of the play
admire the life-like acting, not really realising
how real it actually is.
Central to the whole film is the evil of
exploitation: the Baby's sister exploits him, the
Church exploits the Baby, the Priest's son
exploits the sister and, in a bizarre inter-layer
exploitation, the Prince (who is watching the
play) exploits his royal status and condemns the
sister to her horrifying and real rape death.
This exploitation theme is served to us in its
complete rawness. Greenaway's obsessions -
grotesqueness, humiliation, nudity - are present
throughout the film and culminate in the two
previously mentioned and much criticised
scenes. But what Greenaway serves is the real
thing. Hollywood exploits our voyeurism, our
shadenfreude, but only Greenaway takes us to
the limit.
Greenaway has defended The Baby of
Macon's explicitness by saying that this is
experimental cinema. But excuses are not
needed. The Baby of Macon addresses some
fundamental problems and, with its real-artificial
dimensions - is a powerful, sophisticated and
indeed difficult film.
Samin Ishtiaq
The Baby Of Macon is showing at the National
Film Theatre, South Bank, SE1. Tel: 071 928
3232 (Info 071 633 0274). Tube: Embankment.
Film Festival to boast of, and to say that it's
refreshingly unexploitative and extremely
emotive would be little praise for such an
excellent film that surely deserves a very wide
audience. I was very fortunate to be able to
discuss the work with its writer/director after the
show.
Amir Rehman Khan
Beth has already replaced him with painter Zed
(Eric Stoltz). All four characters are forced to
consider what it is they are really after.
The movie is unpredictable and often quite
funny, as wills clash (the title is taken from
Newton's first law). Performances are good and
although the film is slow, it's never boring.
Bodies, Rest and Motion is different to the vast
majority of both mainstream and 'indie' fare in
that the story just doesn't go anywhere, but it's
well worth a look if only to enjoy the trip.
111 illII i l l HIIIMtMIIIIIIII 1,111,1,111,1
Bodies, Rest and Motion
Next week's films from ICSF and FilmSoc are on pages 7 and 9

