16 Reviews
Yo La Tengo
Shaker
Yo La Tengo recently released one of the year's
best albums in 'Painless' (remember Tintin's
10) and now the generous souls have decided to
continue their spate of activity by releasing this
single which contains two songs unavailable
elsewhere.
'Shaker' discards any of their trademark late
night atmospherics and goes for a dark
menacing drone, aching for a release which
never comes. 'For Shame Of Doing Wrong'
treads familiar territory in being a warm,
embracing wash of organ and MBV-esque
vocals. Downsides? It's not long enough...
Ridley Dash
Released on Matador
JPS
Experience
Bleeding Star
Well, this is a surprise - a band from New
Zealand who aren't Crowded House! What's
more, they're actually rather good.
They know how to plunder effectively. 'Ray
of Shine' nicks a Johnny Marr guitar line and
amazingly comes off all the better for it. The
best track here though is 'Spaceman', where
they kick up one heck of a fuzz and still manage
to pull out a great Pop hook. The only lazy
comparison I can think of is The Jesus & Mary
Chain jamming with M B V , (not again, Ed) but
this doesn't go half way towards describing the
ambient intensity this band possess.
Occasionally they lose the plot and the tracks
do tend to merge into one towards the end.
Nevertheless, the subtle mix of light and shade
ensures that there are enough highlights to
satisfy, making this a worthy debut album. (7)
Vik
Released on Flying Nun Records
Nirvana
All Apologies/Rape Me
Hearing 'All Apologies' taken from the recent
'In Utero' album is like reading Revelation
without the books before. It can stand alone -
after all, it juicily wetted our appetites when
served up at their shambolic set at Reading '92.
Jayhawks
Borderline
Labelled simply, the Jayhawks are proud
purveyors of 'country rock'. Proud and
confident on stage, Mark Olson, the lead
vocalist, smiles a lot. A big rubbery grin which
plays across a face reminiscent of a young
Elvish Brando. He smiles because he's happy
and he's happy for the Jayhawks are playing.
They played a set trading everything from
their acclaimed 'Hollywood Town Hall' album,
allowing a jamming fluidity not always
displayed in their plastically circular work.
Sometimes this awakened dullous songs like
'Two Angels' but of more danger was the
dissipation of the excellent 'Sister Cry'. A track
worthy of the Black Crowes ended up more akin
to the Grateful Dead on bad acid. Boo.
Tintin
• M l
The Jayhawks- country rocksters out to subvert the nation - Mark Olson (far left) with rubbery smile
IMMtiMM
S.F. Seals
Baseball Trilogy
Barbara Manning of SF Seals is something of an
underground star in the US and, it would seem,
a huge baseball fan. This provides the evidence:
the band is named after a now defunct San
Francisco team and the three songs here salute
three players. 'Dock Ellis', the only SF Seals
original, is a fairly ordinary sounding American
indie song which would be entirely unremark-
able were it not for the most exhilarating guitar
riff of the year so far.
The best song, however, is 'Joltin' Joe
DiMaggio', a swing jazz number of delightful
toe-tapping simplicity. It's fun, it's groovy, it's
fab! I defy you to find another single which
displays this much diversity or this much
knowledge of baseball. Fantastic.
Guy
Released on Matador
H.P. Zinker
Staying Loose
Uh-ah, I thought, another three-piece guitar
band doubtless peddling the same clapped out
fare. 'Reason', the opening track, almost made
me change my mind in one go. Hendrix wah-
wahing mixes with a light rhythm, pleasantly
unmacho, to create a rather fine song made even
better by lovely urging instrumental bits.
'Trapped' is a slowie, only let down by slightly
wayward vocals, but 'Soulmate' is better. Guitar
rates chime out, interweave and die away leav-
ing faint etchings on your heart. (Pretentious,
moi?)
Roughly half of this album is very good
indeed, the rest is at least passable, which will
teach me to be prejudiced against three piece
guitar bands. (7)
Ridley Dash
Released on Roughneck
Ending 'In Utero', however, it's the last hoarse
rasp of a man who's screamed about being rich,
old and married and then shrugs and says 'Well,
I love you so will you take me back?' Still he
cannot acquiesce completely, spuming his new
found comfort with the line that epitomises the
new Nirvana, 'Married/Buried'. A classic track.
'Rape M e ' is the song the band originally
wanted released on its own single (rather than in
this double A format). The new album's 'Polly',
it welds an EmptyTV-friendly hook with a
sinister lyric about rape fantasy and the essence
of coupledom. Let's hope the rednecks compre-
hend.
The final track on the EP is ' M V , a curious
little number that would no doubt be less
noticeable i f Kurt was singing of 'Mushy
Vegetables' rather then 'Moist Vaginas'...
Owain
Released on Geffen
First the album and then the single, YTTcaught live next week!

