Imperial College Union 17
The Three Wise Men Speak Volumes
Andy Wensley - President
Student Union Reforms: The Bill covering this
has now gone to the House of Lords. However,
it is the Commons who are not going to be on
our side. Work by the Unions on influencing
MPs and Peers has started but has been ham-
pered by a lack of promised back-up from other
organisations, notably the University of London
Union (ULU). This should be sorted out and if
everything else has gone okay by today, our
letter writing campaign should have started and
will be telling MPs and other notables about
student unions, clubs and societies, sports and
all the other activities we think are worthwhile.
Information should be coming to you through
the clubs and societies, in your departments and
in your halls.
University of London Union: Leading on from
some of the problems I've experienced with
ULU, I shall be working with U L U officers in
improving their services and representation to
Imperial College students and our unions.
Interviewing: As the sabbatical in charge of
staffing issues, the appointment of a new bar
manager has taken up a fair amount of my time.
I am happy to announce that a suitable candidate
has been found and we are waiting to hear if the
candidate will accept our offer of employment.
Grants: In the Budget on 30th November, it
was announced that student grants would be cut
by 10%, effectively taking a full grant with
London weighting from £2,845 to £2,560.
Obviously I am lobbying on behalf of Imperial
College students against this cut. How
successful this will be, we must wait and see.
Everything else: Lots of little things that fill up
my days and nights, problems that students,
clubs and societies and student officers. Some
people in College wish to limit the number of
times that we can book certain rooms, namely
the M D H and SCR in Sherfield and the Ante
Room. Currently I am working for an acceptable
result.
IC Radio are having problems with their
Northside Studio. That should have been sorted
out satisfactorily by now. Other than that,
onward, onward into the breach my friends.
If you want to know anything about the
contents of this report, how I spend my time or
basically anything to do with the Union and
College, give me a call on ext 3501 or pop into
see me in the Union Office.
Dave Goddard - Deputy President (Finance &
Services)
The largest part of my time recently has been
taken up with buying a new minibus for the
Union (to replace the one written off over the
summer). Thanks to the Harlington Trust and the
insurance company, we have enough money to
buy one - we're just looking for the best deal
now (and what colour we want, of course). Hans
Rutlin, Transport Officer, and I have also
recently met with the Pro-Rector and the Safety
Director to discuss minibus safety - i.e. they
want us to buy safe minibuses and drive them
safely (please take note - no driving them into
London Buses!).
On the accommodation front, we are
currently concerned about the level of common
room and kitchen provision in the Evelyn
Gardens halls (particularly Willis Jackson). If
you happen to live there and have any views on
this, go and see your housing representative, the
Housing Officer, or me. The more feedback we
get from residents, the better our position when
we discuss these things.
Charles Leary -
Deputy President
(Clubs & Societies)
1.1 have established a safety protocol in conjunc-
tion with the Health and Safety Department.
This will ensure that clubs will be aware of
safety procedures when indulging in their
various activities. Briefings will be taking
place over December and January.
2.1 have investigated the possibility of using the
Natural History Museum's sports facilities for
our societies. Also there is a possibility of a
joint project between Imperial College and
the Natural History Museum to build a sports
hall in South Kensington.
3.1 have visited Silwood Park and liaised with
the student executive there.
4. In conjunction with Carolyne Osner (Sports
and Leisure Manager) I have put out a sports
questionnaire. The College will be forming a
sports strategy during the next year and it is
crucial that student needs form a base for this
strategy. If you have not filled out this
questionnaire then please do so. Spare copies
are available from the Union Office and the
Sports Centre.
5.1 have been involved in the negotiations
concerning the modernisation of the rifle
range. I have been representing student views
to ensure that students come first in any
decision that is made concerning this matter.
6.1 attended the joint Universities Athletic Union
and British Universities Sports Federation
conference in Edinburgh. The two organi-
sations w i l l merge to form the British
Universities Sports Association.
7.1 am currently organising the knockout
rounds for the sports teams that have gone
through the first round of the national
championships.
H A V E Y O U R S A Y I
I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E U N I O N
u n i o n g e n e r a l m e e t i n g
TODAY, 1 PM. UNION
N T S I .

