18 Opinion
Editorial
Paper
The student newspapers within Imperial College
seem to be coming under attack at the moment.
As well as the petition going round complaining
about Felix, Pit is being criticised for not having
enough naked women for the RSM's liking and
Broadsheet is slagging off Guildsheet.
With the editors of each publication changing
every year, the style and content is bound to
change. But people will insist on comparing
everything to years gone by. Things do change
and people have to accept that. If the Pit editors
don't want the pages of Pit adorned with scantily
clad females this year, that's their decision. The
same goes for the other editors. If they want to
do things differently, that's up the them, they are
the editors. That's what 'editor' means - the
person in overall charge of the newspaper.
If people are unhappy about the content, then
should do something about it. They should air
their grievances, not to their mates, but to the
people concerned. It's no good complaining if
the people able to change things don't know
what to change. I mentioned earlier about the
petition that is currently circulating regarding
the quality of Felix this year. None of the people
who I understand to be involved have come to
see me. If they, or anyone else has comments or
complaints, please come and tell me. It isn't
difficult to find me - I tend to spend a large
proportion of my time in the Felix Office (next
to the Union Lounge in the Union Building). I
am perfectly willing to talk to anyone about
Felix. If you don't feel able to come in and talk
to me, then you can always write me a letter. It
won't get ignored and I will take on board any
suggestions you may have.
To be perfectly honest, I'm not totally happy
with the way that Felix has been this term, but
there are a number of reasons for it. Owain
mentions some of them briefly in his reply to
one of the letters on the opposite page. I feel that
it is important for clubs and societies to be able
to publicise themselves to the student population
and as a result, a large part of each issue is
devoted to them. A common complaint is that
there are too many reviews. If you actually look,
there is, on average, one page per review type
(such as cinema, books, theatre) and I think that
it is a useful section.
I am trying to produce a Felix in which there
is something for everybody. I don't expect
everyone to like all of it, because that just isn't
realistic. I am aware that there has been a lack of
variety this term and a few people have already
given me suggestions for changes that could be
made. Next term will see a lot more features and
quite probably some sort of opinion column. I
need people to not only write the articles, but
also people to suggest the ideas. So, if you have
any, please let us know.
Don't Forget
Anyway, rant over with and on to other things. It
appears that there is a U G M today. In case you
haven't seen the posters or you missed the
captions on the front cover, it's in the Ents
Lounge on the ground floor of the Union
Building at lpm. There don't appear to be any
interesting motions for this one; in fact there
don't appear to be any motions at all. But go
along anyway. It'll give you a chance to ask the
Sabbaticals (and any of the other Union officers)
what they've been up to this term and what
they've done for you. They are there to represent
you and put forward your views to people both
inside and outside the College. There are reports
elsewhere in this issue from the Union Office
Sabbaticals which tell you a bit about what
they've done, but go along and quiz them about
them - how much do you really know about their
activities?
Plug
The production of the Felix Christmas Special is
now under way. It will be a larger than normal
issue and it will hit the departments on the last
day of term.
Credits
Printer: News: Puzzles: Last, but not least:
Andy Thompson Andrew Tseng (Ed) Catfish Penguin
Shaun Joynson Sphinx Charlie Ixary
Typesetter: Joe McFadden
Rose Atkins Lynn Bravey Photography: Collators last week:
Michael Ingram Ivan Chan Ivan Chan
Business Manager: The Hub Office Owain Bennallack
Simon Govier Features: Jon Jordan
Owain Bennallack (Ed) Xmas Decorations: Simon Shaw
Advertising Manager: Kristine J Vaaler Simon Shaw Joe McFadden
Steve Newhouse Rachel Mountford Penguin Penguin
Owain Bennallack Michael Ingram
Reviews: Layout & Proofing: Joe McFadden
Juliette Decock (Books) Kin Wei Lee Michael Ingram
Rekha Nayak (Theatre) Patrick Wood Melissa Parcell
Jon Jordan (Music) Michael Ingram Ivan Chan
Marcus Alexander (Arts) Mylan Lester Jon Jordan
SMALL ADS
Christmas Carol Party - video, A V , mince
pies, mulled wine, plus surprise guest. Tuesday
7pm, Holy Trinity Church, Prince Consort Road
(next to Student's Union, Beit).
Paid for your flat over Christmas and now
you're going home? Ring me! I need a flat for
two weeks. Toby, ex-Felix hack, 0332 264327
(day).
Get your broken racket strings restrung this
Christmas and ready for the new year. Contact
Jinyee on ext 4336 or drop by room 227, Chem
Eng.
Female Wanted - to share penthouse flat,
Southside, Prince's Gardens. £70 per week, all
bills included. Single room, large kitchen,
spacious flat, literally across the road from
College. Contact accommodation office.
Bass for sale - Encore EB3 electric bass guitar
(Fender precision copy), ideal beginner's
instrument, £75 inc case and strap. Contact Tom
Hawkins (Biochemistry) on ext 7032 or 071-266
1560.
CAREERS INFORMATION
There are no Careers Talks or Short Courses this
coming week.
Milkround Closing Date One is on Friday
17th December. Hand in your applications on
the day before 4pm. Details of interviews are
put up on the notice board outside the Careers
Office a few days before the interview date.
Summer Vacation Training Opportunities
are now available in the Careers Office. Apply
to UROP for research opportunities.
For further information come to the
Careers Office, Room 310 Sherfield. Open from
10am to 5.15pm Monday to Friday. A Duty
Careers Adviser is available for quick queries
from lpm to 2pm daily.
The Christmas Issue of Felix will be out on the last day of term

