Opinion 19
Grumble, Grumble, Grumble ..
Dear Felix,
I read with a certain ironic sense of
amusement the letter from PIT in last week's
magazine, wherein they blame the poor state of
affairs of Felix on the lack of writers.
At the beginning of this term, I offered my
time, energy and enthusiasm as a writer for
Felix. And not just as a writer, but as somebody
who had a desire to add a whole new dimension
to the magazine -1 did not do this for myself, but
because I wanted to enhance the lives of the
students in College by bringing them subjects
they had no prior interest in.
Within a week, I had written two articles,
within five weeks, I had written two more -1 had
also devoted a lot of time to organising the filing
of information, telephoning art galleries,
arranging for invitations to press viewings, etc.
And yet did these articles get printed? No, the
week after? No! The week after that? N O ! !
Every week it was the same. "Sorry, but we
haven't got enough space", "Sorry, we've got a
very limited number of pages". Well, there may
not have been 'enough space', but there always
seemed to be room enough to print two to three
pages of music reviews (I've got nothing against
music, but this isn't the N M E . Surely other
subjects should be allowed some space as well),
there was always enough space to print reviews
of children's books (the joke may be amusing
once, but more than once? A bizarre way to fill
up pages in a college magazine.)
Interminably tedious there was always
enough space, even, to print full page reviews of
classical music. Now don't get me wrong here -
I listen to far more classical music than popular
music - but, in a college magazine such as Felix,
surely things should be printed with the
readership in mind. These reviews could only be
understood by somebody who not only has a
deep knowledge of the piece of music in
question, but also knowledge of all the previous
recordings done of it. How many people like that
could be found at IC?
Whenever I wrote something, foremost in my
mind was always the fact that the readership, in
general had no prior knowledge or interest in the
subject. I worked hard to make them interesting,
amusing and lively so that anybody could
appreciate them and gain something from them.
If I did not meet those objectives I felt that I was
failing in my job.
And yet, nothing was printed. Eventually,
eight weeks into term and six weeks after I had
submitted my first article, something was printed
(even then, somehow, it was the wrong one - a
draft version rather than the one I submitted for
publication, but that's another story...). By
which time, I just didn't care. OK, so one article
was printed, but would any others appear?
"We're still very short of space..."
I have reached the point now, where I have a
choice. I could just give up entirely, and accept
that I have wasted a large amount of my time (at
a brief count, at least thirty hours), expense and
energy for nothing. Or I could carry on,
struggling against a failing system to produce
reviews and articles which only appear when
they are already out of date...Should I bother?
Yours,
Marcus Alexander, Mech Eng.
P.S. Will this letter get printed? Or will it just be
filed away along with my other efforts?
O w a i n Bennallack, Features E d i t o r ,
replies on behalf of Felix:
Should you bother Marcus? Should anyone
bother? You say you've spent at least thirty
hours directed towards, Felix, fine, I've spent
at least two hours here every day since the
term began and I'm certainly not unique.
Have you ever collated? I can't recall seeing
you swanning about, deftly enlightening us
Philistines as we folded paper during any of
the Thursday nights I was here all night,
eight hours, until six am in the morning.
Yes, we all have our own agenda. I myself
would certainly produce a different
newspaper if I was editor. But understand
that Felix un't what anyone would like to see
in it - it's the best attempt we can manage at
what EVERYONE would like to see in it. I've
edited clubs and societies articles that
neither I nor Felix received any thanks for
running (people assume it's our job - is it the
function of the boat club to take me for a spin
down the Thames some fine weekend?). Did
anyone like or even read those articles?
Following on from this, there are a
certain number of pages to be filled and
certain criteria to be followed when deciding
how best to fill them. Did you know that
nearly all advertising comes in the first term
and has accounted for around four pages in
every issue? Felix, unfortunately perhaps,
requires this additional income. Did you
realise that clubs and societies clearly do
most of their recruiting during this term and
that may account for another five pages an
issue? So there go ten pages, then you have
the cover, then the letters and editorial, and
then the news pages...
If you had asked, we could have explained
that next term things will change as these
constraints diminish. But no, you wrote your
letter in your ivory garret, splendidly isolated
and uninformed.
Yeah, I know about your article because I
admired it and spent more than three hours
proofing and editing it. Was it read? You
admit yourself that you are bringing IC
students 'subjects they had no prior interest
in'. Personally, I disagree. But I have no
problems with you holding your own
opinions on Felix. How about having a
conversation with us next time?
Matt and the Musical Mishaps
Dear Editor,
Due to musical differences, unfortunately
'The Revolutionary Dub Warriors' who were
scheduled to play at IC Union tonight, Friday
10th December, will now no longer be doing so.
But do not fear, this means admission tonight is
back to £1 making that Christmas squeeze much
easier. The night runs from 8pm until 2am with
a bar extension till lam, get there early for the
happy hour 8pm to 9pm.
As I am the Chairman of the Ents committee,
I really need people who use the Union facilities
on our nights (or those who don't 'cos they think
we should be doing different stuff) to come
along to our meetings on a Tuesday lunchtime,
lpm in the Ents/Rag Office, and air their con-
sidered opinions. I do not personally choose the
events we put on, I carry through ideas brought
up by the Ents Committee and the kids, thus the
more input we can get from you the better chance
we have of providing a representative programme
of events for the Union population. I would also
ask the Overseas Society Chairs or Ents people
to approach me with any suggestions of ways of
running events which appeal to their members.
Lastly, don't forget the Christmas End of
Term Shindig with a special comedy night
featuring Richard Morton compering (he won
Time Out's Comedy Award a couple of years
ago), Jeff Green and Steve Gribbon, tickets for
the comedy are £3 in advance but limited. Get
'em from the Union Office. You can come along
for the disco for just £1 and then there's a late
night screening of 'Life of Brian' but you'll
have to pay more. Any queries just call and ask
at the Union Office (and smile), should be a ball
darling!
Matt Park, Ents Chair.
Answers to last
week's
Elimination
Boiling Point (32,24) j .
Jack, Student (10,35) k.
Red Card (3,7) 1.
Cancer, Libra (22,27) m.
Cross Country n.
(18,33) o.
World, Whirled p.
(25,36) q.
Calendar Year r.
(38,14) s.
Spot Check (13, 17)
Early, Premature t.
(19,41)
Skeleton Key (39, 1)
Bear Witness (5, 37)
Cheap, Peach (16,23)
Fail-Out (12,2)
Bean, Front (4, 20)
Safety Belt (29, 6)
Fool, Showers (9, 34)
Draw Lots (8,11)
Breast Stroke (26, 31)
Level, Surgical
(21,40)
Chain Stores
(15, 30)
The word left over was Random
The letters deadline for the Christmas Special is 6pm, Monday

