4 Feature
Sex and the Student Body
Last month, a meeting took place which was
aimed at those involved in welfare within
Imperial College, including wardens, College
tutors and Union staff. The main subject
discussed was the King's College alleged rape
case and the consequences and implications this
and similar cases might have on subsequent
allegations of sexual abuse. The meaning was to
establish some guidelines for staff confronted
with a problem of this kind.
A short summary of the King's College case:
A female student of the named college accused a
fellow final-year student of rape. However, she
was not prepared to go to the police, but
preferred the case to be dealt with by college
procedures, demanding that the man had to leave
the college. The man denied the accusations but
[nonetheless was asked to plead guilty to an*
unspecified lesser charge, apologise to the
woman and leave the university. Subsequently,
the accused student decided to call in the police
and take his chances with a jury, rejecting what
seems to be a plea-bargain. During the trial, it
became clear that the alleged rapist had been a
close friend and trusted confidant of the woman,
and described by her as "sweet" but "sexually
repellent". Apparently they had, on several
occasions before, kissed 'passionately', but the
woman stated that this was as far as she ever
wanted to go.
The man claimed that she didn't object to any
of their sexual activities that night until the early
morning when she fled to the corridor in
distress. The woman stated that she had little
recollection of what happened that night,
presumably due to excessive drinking, until the
moment when she felt somebody attempting to
have sex with her, escaping subsequently.
"No amount of
misinterpretation or
confused body
language can ever
justify an assault."
She insisted that she would never have given
her consent, saying: "I did not consent because I
could not."
Following the scrutiny of the characters and
former affairs of both, the man was acquitted by
a jury consisting mostly of women.
The subject, however, is not to discuss the
justice of the court's decision and it is not my
intention to stir up a surge of letters about the
case. The problem is much more; this and other
recent rape allegations which resulted in
acquittal, whether justified or not, might make it
even harder for rape victims to come forward.
So far, most cases of sexual abuse are not
reported to the police, let alone brought to trial,
and it is unlikely that the ratio will improve
following these acquittals. The public might also
infer that a large proportion of rape allegations
are not genuine, and some men might believe
that they can go free when committing rape. But
rape is a violent act and needs to be treated
seriously by authorities.
The handling of the case by King's College
has received a lot of criticism. It seemed that the
college attempted to cover up the incident to
_save its reputation, trying to deal with an
allegation of rape via an internal tribunal. If you
don't grasp the absurdity of such an attempt,
then imagine a college that intended to deal with
murder by a disciplinary procedure.
The members of Imperial College present at
the meeting agreed that any allegation of rape
should be reported to the police if the victim
wishes the perpetrator to be penalised. The
College should not attempt to deal with such a
serious criminal offence by internal procedures
but should recognise that this kind of incident
does not fall within its jurisdiction. Also, the
handling of rape allegations by disciplinary
procedure could be open to abuse.
John Hassard, Warden of Selkirk and Tizard
Halls and chair of the meeting, stated: "Again,
without reference to the King's case, it is
possible to imagine scenarios in which a woman
might wish to exaggerate a man's actions if she
knew it would not come to the police's attention,
and whatever forensic evidence might be forth-
coming, or to court. If she knew there would be
automatic police involvement, she might be
inhibited - for fear of being found out, or for fear
for the man's future. Even easier is to imagine
circumstances in which a man might rape if he
thought there was little likelihood of police
involvement."
The guidelines which are being prepared will
also contain a statement which affirms that a
person has the right to refuse or stop any sexual
act she or he might feel uncomfortable with,
whatever the stage of involvement. Since it is
believed that a vast number of students have
their first serious sexual experience during their
time at college, such an affirmation is more than
relevant.
One of the reasons that the alleged rapist in
the K i n g ' s College case was acquitted is
presumably that the woman never expressed a
lack of consent; according to her she simply
wasn't able to. Frequently, 'silent' consent is
assumed as long as lack of consent is not
verbally expressed. And even then some men are
Free condoms are available from the Health Centre

