Feature ft
convinced that refusal is nothing but teasing.
However, nowadays women are free to have sex
if they want to and there is less reason than ever
that they should say no if they wouldn't mean it.
When women say no, they mean no.
Of course, the question has arisen as to what
extent consent needs to be expressed. (On some
American campuses it is possible to acquire a
document with the help of which a written
consent can be settled. Is that what you would
like your sexual relationships to be based on in
future?)
That a woman might
sleep around or lead a
man on does not make a
rape a lesser offence.
Particularly worrying was the media frenzy
which met the King's College case, linking this
with student excesses in general. Some state-
ments that were made implied that, after an act
has reached a 'certain' stage, the woman cannot
expect the man to stop.
After the acquittal, Lord Russel, the alleged
rapist's personal tutor, claimed that in certain
'mitigating circumstances' a rape could be less
of an offence, if not entirely excusable. The
approach of the media to appalling comments
such as these has been lacklustre to say the least.
Everybody at the Imperial College discussion
meeting agreed that college members should not
issue any personal comments in the media.
According to a survey conducted by the
London Student newspaper, an appallingly low
number of "75 per cent of both male and female
interviewees believed that if a woman expresses
lack of consent once penetration has occurred,
and if the man persists, that it still constitutes
rape".
John Hassard believes: " N o amount of
misinterpretation or confused body language can
ever justify an assault." Furthermore, that a
woman might sleep around or lead a man on (the
King's College woman was 'accused' of doing
both) does not make rape a lesser offence. That
would be on the same line as classifying sexual
abuse as a 'professional risk' for a prostitute,
legitimising its occurrence.
Of course, the sleeping around of a man
doesn't justify castration either. I mention
castration on purpose. Some men seem to have
difficulties in understanding the threat a rape
poses to a woman. I'm sure every man fears
castration, and a person submitted to such an
experience would undergo a personality change
caused by a trauma from which it may be
impossible to recover - that should give some
idea about the detrimental effects of rape.
After all, there have been cases where men
have been raped (by men - in case you didn't
realise). Imagine this happening to you, and you
will understand the concern women experience
when confronted with this topic.
A further point of discussion was the services
that should be available to victims of assault
within college. It was decided that posters
should be designed which would provide
relevant telephone numbers and advice, and to
hang these up in both the ladies' toilets in the
Union and also in the Halls. Furthermore, a
leaflet should be produced containing
information and advice.
Apparently, there now is always at least one
female Security Officer on duty. However, most
victims will want as few people involved as
possible. Remember that it is your right to call
the police without any regard to College
procedure.
Many victims feel reluctant to report their
case to the police. Most just want to put the
assault behind them as quickly as possible and
many fear embarrassment and intimidation.
However, reporting should be seriously
considered as it might prevent further offences.
If you decide to report, then do it as soon as
possible (the police term this an 'early
complaint'). Try to resist the urge to wash or
change clothes as this could destroy vital
evidence which might forensically convict the
perpetrator. Even though this sounds very
clinical - try to remember as many details as
possible, and how you could describe your
attacker if you don't know his name. Although
shock is inevitable, tranquillisers and alcohol
may both have a negative influence on the
clarity of your account.
If you wish, you can demand to be examined
by your own GP. If you are registered with the
College Health Centre you might want to ask for
Dr Irene Weinreb who is well-known for her
interest in women's affairs. Any counselling
needed will be provided by College; it was also
stressed at the meeting that the perpetrator
should receive counselling.
For many students, coming to college offers
the opportunity to indulge in large quantities of
booze without any restrictions by parents etc.
Often enough, people are even pressurised by
their peers to consume excessive amounts. You
can drink as much as you want. However,
drunkenness is not accepted as an excuse for
anything. And women surely are aware that the
effects of alcohol are well integrated in many
conquering strategies which can lead to
involvements you would never think of when
sober.
Nowadays women are
free to have sex if they
want to...
However, if two of you wish to sleep
together, I can only tell you that somebody who
refuses to use a condom is not worth shagging
anyway. You can get free condoms at the Health
Centre (ask for a condom slip) and for more
urgent cases there are various dispensing
machines within the Union and Halls.
The author would like to thank Minever
Kavlak, John Hassard, Nicky Fox and also Phill
Henry, David Spooner and Owain Bennallack.
Sex?
No, this isn't
Cosmopolitan,
you will not be
instructed on
interesting sexual
positions andfear
not, Felix hasn't
gone all sleazy!
Rather, this
article concerns
the subtle
re-mapping of
the sexual
landscape...
Kristine J Waaler,
the ICU Womeny
s
Officer, reports.
The ICU Women's Officer can be contacted via the Union Office

