II Feature
Equality Now, The Case For Change
In 1991,244 men were prosecuted for
having consensual sex with partners
aged between 16 and 21.
184 were found guilty and 14 were jailed,
some for as long as seven years. Their crime?
Homosexuality. None of them would even have
been arrested if their partner had been a woman.
The chance to end this discrimination is
expected to come this Parliamentary session, if
amendments can be inserted into the
Government's Criminal Justice Bill, announced
in the Queen's Speech last month and expected
to be published shortly.
Acting on the proposals of the Wolfenden
Report of 1957, Parliament semi-legalised
homosexuality with the Sexual Offenses Act
1967. It stated that a homosexual act between
two (and not more than two) men in private, was
not an offense "provided that all parties consent
thereto and have attained the age of 21 years".
The price of this reform was what is now the
highest age of consent for gay men in Europe.
In 1967 although the justification for 21 was
very weak, it was accepted as a political com-
promise. Two further reports to Parliament have
both recommended lowering the age of consent
yet still there has been no change. What
arguments have been advanced to cause this and
how valid are they today?
1. Homosexuality Is A Sickness.
In fact the Wolfenden Report rejected
suggestions that homosexuality was a sickness
and this year the World Health Organisation
officially "declassified homosexuality as a
disease".
2. Young Men Are Still Confused About Their
Sexuality.
To quote the Wolfenden Report: "We have
given special attention to the evidence on a
recognisable age in the fixation of young men's
sexual patterns...Our medical witnesses were
unanimously of a view that the main sexual
pattern is laid down in the early years of life and
the majority of them held that it was usually
fixed in main outline by the age of sixteen."
3. Homosexuality Is Undesirable And Young
Men Need Special Protection.
Wolfenden, again, succinctly challenges this
argument: "We recognise the need for protecting
the young and immature. But this argument can
be carried too far; there comes a time when a
young man can properly be expected to stand on
his own feet...and we find it hard to believe he
needs to be protected from would-be seducers
more carefully than a girl does."
4. Homosexuals Will Seduce Young Men.
This is the official justification for having a
different age of consent for gay men. Surely
unwelcome sexual advances serious enough to
warrant criminal prosecution are equally offen-
sive whether the victim is a man or a woman and
the same law can apply to both.
A more worrying side to the campaign to lower
the age of consent is the effect of failure to
secure a change in the law. At the moment, the
police are turning a blind eye and the
Metropolitan Police Commissioner stated that
enforcing the law "was not an operational
priority". If Parliament decides against change,
"it would be a clear signal to make enforcement
a priority". The result of this would be increased
fear of prosecution in gay men under 21, deter-
ring them from seeking safer sex advice or from
reporting 'queer-bashing' incidents.
The time has come to end the discrimination.
Join the fight for equality now by writing to your
M P and urging him to attend the debate on an
equal age of consent and support the motion.
Rachel Mountford
'The Case For Change' is available free from
Stonewall, 2 Greycoat Place, Westminster,
SW1P1SB. SendanSAE.
• F R E S H H A I R S A L O N •
the best s t u d e n t offer in l o n d o n !
3$
C U T &
B L O W D R Y
£ 1 4 L A D I E S
£ 1 2 . . . . . M E N
Normal price: £28!
1 minute walk from South Kensington Tube Station!!
C a l l : 0 7 1 8 2 3 8 9 6 8
15A H A R R I N G T O N R O A D , S O U T H K E N S I N G T O N , L O N D O N S W 7 3ES

