Clubs and Societies 7
Tremors, Gremlins, Exorcists
Monday 13th December sees the second of
ICSF's video-projected double bills in Chem
Eng Lecture Theatre 1: Tremors and Gremlins.
Tremors is a traditional 'fighting off the
monsters in a small isolated town' (with the help
of the resident gun freak) movie with a big
difference - it doesn't take itself too seriously
and is actually funny as a result. See it if you're
into big killer sandworms or Kevin Bacon.
Gremlins is essentially pretty similar except
its humour is far blacker (and it's set in a small
American town and not a big desert). Festive fun
for everyone as the gremlins torture small
animals, catapult grannies through roofs and get
blended.
The screenings start at 6pm and entry is free
to ICSF members. Membership costs £3 and
gets you access to further video showings next
term (every week), the chance to borrow our
3,000 (not 300 as you may have read in last
week's Felix) books and videos and reduced
entry to our 35mm film presentations including
Tremors and Gremlins
Mon 13th Dec, 6pm
Chem Eng Lecture Theatre 1
your first film free.
Speaking of which, at 7pm on Tuesday 14th
December we are pleased to present The
Exorcist. This is a cheap chance to see one of
the most infamous of all horror films on the big
screen rather than on a bad quality video (which
you shouldn't do 'cause it's illegal so stop it).
The story concerns a young girl apparently
possessed by Satan (well, beds levitate,
cupboards move, she speaks in tongues and does
some pretty disgusting things with a crucifix). A
priest is called in, whose doubts in his faith
increase as his mother's life wanes. Much
vomiting of pea soup and spinning of heads
ensues with some truly frightening moments.
Having said this, the film relies mainly on the
tension for its horror value, but when the shocks
come, they're very icky.
The Exorcist begins at 7pm in the Concert
Hall, 2nd floor, Union Building. Admission is
£1.20 to ICSF members and £1.80 to non-
members.
The Exorcist
Tue 14th Dec, 7pm,
Concert Hall, Union Building
Father Damien Karras (Jason Miller) in
The Exorcist
/ t>A Gneiss \
—Ofc\p—
Due to numerous requests
The Bar will be open ALL DAY
for the last week of term!

