Raggies Go Completely Barmy In Brighton
Clubs and Societies
out yet again. We will be heading to Waterloo
Station to sing carols and raise money for John
Grooms. So come along and join us. It doesn't
matter if you can't sing because we can't either!
We're going along to have fun and raise money
for charity at the same time.
Come along to the Rag Meeting which is
today (Friday) in the Union Lounge at 1.10pm
for more information.
Trailer Time - The Sequel
On Saturday, eight intrepid Raggies braved their
lives in a Union minibus to go to a little known
area of this country called Haywards Heath.
Why did they do this? These noble souls
were going collecting on a Rag Raid in aid of
Oxfam. Once we had finally left London, after
various stops to do bizarre things like phone
Radio 1 in the pouring rain (why can't they
install mobile phones in the minibuses?), we
motored off down the M23 and eventually
arrived at our destination no thanks to Tim the
Navigator ("it was a short cut honest").
We proceeded to collect lots of money,
despite the rainy and windy conditions. Once all
light had gone and we could collect no more, we
headed off to the nearest town (which happened
to be Brighton) in search of some food.
The bright lights beckoned and drew us
fatally towards that money eater, better known
as the Pier. What could we do but enter and we
all came out with far lighter pockets than we
entered with, other than our Treasurer who
seemed to have had a lucky streak and managed
to come out with more than she entered with.
(Perhaps we should let her double our total in a
similar way )
On the way back to the Metropolis, we
encountered many bizarre things such as
strawberry yoghurt and electronic vibrating
penguins. But anyway, many thanks to all who
came and raised £300 for Oxfam and had an
excellent day out.
This Saturday the Raggies will be venturing
Following on from last week's hint at the films
showing at ICU Cinema, we continue this week
with the rest of the line-up. Thursday 17th
December brings the latest offering from the
depraved mind of Quentin Tarantino (Reservoir
Dogs, to be screened in January '94).
Newlyweds Christian Slater and Patricia
Arquette go on the run - with police and
gangsters on their tail. It's a relationship that
begins with a bang (pardon the expression) after
which matters become gradually, though
literally, explosive. To find out more about this
'Thelma and Louise meets Reservoir Dogs',
come along to True Romance (18).
Also showing during the last week of term is
the latest Tom Cruise offering. The Firm (15)
sees Cruise joining an exclusive law practice
with Mob connections and soon finds his dream
job turning into a nightmare. Also starring Gene
Hackman, Holly Hunter and Ed Harris.
In a totally different vein, we see Stallone
hanging on for dear life in Cliffhanger (15). This
film really must be seen on the giant FilmSoc
screen to be appreciated since it is presented in
wall to wall, floor to ceiling Cinemascope.
Since everyone, on the last day of term, will
be feeling rather miserable about the prospect of
having to be with the family over the festive
period and having to control their drinking to
some extent, FilmSoc have decided to screen a
classic piece of comedy. We all grinned at the
parrot sketch, we all revelled in the humour of
Bicycle Repair Man, we fell about as if very
drunk at the thought of those silly walks. For all
reptile lovers, FilmSoc has never been more
proud to present the film Monty Python's Life Of
Brian (15). Never has the true spirit of
Christmas been captured in a more imaginative
and comical way than in this film. The said film
will be screened after the comedy night at 1 lpm.
Footie Match
I C A F C lsts 3 - 3 Q M C lsts
Things did not start well when only nine of the
first team turned up in the morning. The third
team had to be raided for two of their star
players, each one better than the whole of the
first team. We travelled to Scotland to play the
game, where we were met by a swamp of a
pitch and no ref.
Despite prolonged pressure, Q M C scored
first, but Mike Jarvis quickly equalised by a
quality header from one yard out.
The second half followed with total domin-
ation, culminating in a Ben Willis long range
volley from half a yard, following a pinpoint
cross from Richard Craig. Their ref then decided
to add 30 minutes onto the second half. Q M C
then equalised!
Tellis Botzios and Wai Kwok were the men
of the match, having to deal with the thuggery
tactics and random assaults by the Neanderthal-
like opposition. The best moment of the game
came when third team prodigy Roddy Herris
beat four of the best opposition to curl the ball
round the keeper from 25 yards. However, with
the first win of the season looking imminent,
their ref added another 20 minutes on to allow
them to equalise.
We went home feeling robbed but things are
looking up!(?)
Films lined up for January:
In The Line Of Fire Dave Addams Family Values
Dirty Weekend The Rocky Horror Picture Show
Watch posters for details.
See a man with a sink plunger on his head on page 12!

