3
E V E R Y
F O R T N I G H T
No. »l
FtLiX
IMPERIAL COLLEGE 4th May 1956
SHIPTON TO LEAD KARAKORAM
EXPEDITION
E m m
This Easter, Jim Anderson, the President of I. C, payed
a brief visit to the Technical University, Berlin, th« germsn
ecjjiivalent to I.C. As the guest at the Studen's union, he and
representatives from other European Universities weresshovn.
the sights of student life in Berlin; the highlights being a
visit to a power station, brewery and a gin factory.
The Free University in Berlin is of interest. Students
of the Eastern sector, after having suffered much aS the
hands of the Russians, moved to west Berlin where they have
now established their own University. This University is run
by the studsntobody to the extent of appointing ther' lecturers
and Professors.
The visit was one of good will, the Technical University
being interested in establishing a friendly relationship
with I.C. fhey have- offered a scholarship for an I.C.
student to study for a year at their university, starting
November next. The student will receive the generous sum of
250 D. Majdcs per month and will be provided with accomodation
in their Hostel (holds only 30 people). It is hoped that T.C.
will be able to reciprocate in a similar' manner.
Another outcome of the visit was the suggestion that I»C
and German students should exchange hospitality during the
summer vacations, and there is the possibility that tours
to Batlia at reduced rates may be organised. Students inter-
ested should oontact the I.C Union office. The 1.0. Sports
tesms will also be welcome visitors.
( B u d g e t <Z$irihes <Z$iudenis
The Chancellor struck a sorry blow for tht well being of
students in the budget. We are not interested jn Premium Bonds
because after great eoonomy more is spent im a week than earned,
the remainder being taken from National Savings.
We are, however, very interested in the laws concerning
food and drink, and are distressed to find that the potent-
fluid called Berrydown» a type of Cider, had now bean included
with Wines as a source of revenue to the exchequer. The price
rises by 42/« from 8/6 a flagon to 12/-.
This drink has for some time been i n favour as a. cheap
substitute far gin, and has been used ertrWiveily on unsuspect-
ing ladies requesting cider. Tt has a disturbing effect on
the equilibrium ,'which is not noticed until the wiatira attempts
ta reach a vertical position. Thus maidens' fall complet-
ely into the hands (or arms) of the male and are at the latter's
mercy - a dastardly trick.
A young Bedford lady, irho, after a. party at which
large quantities of this drink were on hand, fled torush
back to her abode before closing time. She ran thriee round
the ticket office at nsumaramith Station before finding tee
window.
Smokers are also- vary distressed, i t will mean that Okay
will have to walk now to save enough for a packet, unless they
do this already since bus and treJLn-.fares went up last term.
Some will have vowed" to give up tJkef weed - the success of
their revolution has s t i l l to be tested.
R. S M. ELECTIONS
The R.S.M. held their elections at the end of last tern.
This enabled the Union Officers to be selected before a large
number of miners left for field courses during the summer tens.
Mike Putter and John Nicholls were elected President and
Secretary respectively. Both ere active members of the rowing
dub, and members of the FELIX Board. Hike also arranges for
young ladies to attend the Saturday night hops.
Gordon Green, Founder of SPORT, was elected Vic«-Pr*a4dent.
experienced person pi
BEIC SHIPTON USING A PH0TOTHE0DOLITE.
The students who go to the Karakoram in 3ummer 1957, will
have Brio Ship-ten as their leader. There is no doubt that Ifcv
Sbjipton i s the most experienced explorer who could be obtained
far this region, and his knowledge will benefit his team aou
aidecrably.
Eric Shipton gave a popular lecture i n General Studies,
commanding the second largest audience recorded (it would have
been the largest i f held in the Royal Geographical Society
Building instead of the Huxley). He is essentially an explorer,
and has established a reputation for his work done in the
KaBakoram while others have concentrated on climbing peaks,
although he has'lead several major attempts on Everest.
Since the mep:ars of the Exploration Board are anxious
to get the team training together to make up for .Its lack of
experience, they have been keen to get a leader who w i l l help
them. Mr. Shiptoo says this is the longest in advance that he
has committed himself on an expedition. At present he is 'bjjsy
Sailing a boat up the East Coast of England,so he was. unable
to attend the Mountaineering Club dinner last Friday.
The Exploration Board will now start looking for a dootor
te 'accompany the team on the trip to make up the full crew*
R.C.S. Union presents
3 O T 0 Q D P J E K
****y. new titb,
aetata on sale to R.C.S. nsabera only until Hay 4th.

