P E L I X 3
F e l i x
The Imperial College Newspaper
C i r c u l a t i o n 1200
BILL HUBSOB
M M ' S C O M
this i s the term of peee* Jn the South Kensington block,
fen— that Is oas* EhJMhj OD the. few- oooasions when the
students really run
She change in weather, the extra hour of sunlight, and
seasonal change of athletic pursuits brings relaxation to the
student body. The threat of examinations has l i t t l e deterrent
effect on the undergraduate, and the rowing end putting fac-
ilities kindly provided olose hk will he used to maximum
advantage.
Queenies will no longer bo such a meeting place for the
followers of the good life. Friends, will be absent for whole
days, or take the 74 'bus to Lords after a nominal appearance
tn their departnent. Others will forever be on the 'Bteteiot
line between South Kensington and Wimbledon. These people will
open their books at ten o'clock each nij«rt, and the hoar.'at
which they olose them will slowly progress from midnight,
until by mid-June, when the will finally.'ifall asleep at dawn
for a few hours.
This is the life of people who enjoy themselves to the full.
The are assessed by examiners in the same manner as those who
have worked diligently throughout the hot days and long even-
ings. Mercy will be shown on the latter i f the examination
results are doubtful, but not on the former. This is fair, to
prevent abuse of the examination system. The person who can
assimilate knowledge rapidly, assess its valjte, and apply i t
will succeed quite as well as his counterpart when confronted
by a novel problems The social success of the two also tends
to differ.
To the people in fear of impending examinations, take
heart, and invest in the future. The Woald university Service
has a fund which people may borrow from i f for some reason
they forfeit their grants. The number of people who have to
repeat a year Is quite high - half the people profiled in
FELIX do. They have often had to borrow money from relatives)
get married, or wash floors in South Kensington restaurants.
Perksaw making the grade in spite of this has benefited them,
but i t i3 s t i l l useful to have a source of the necessary
evil in the background.
Imperial College Union is supporting W
.
U
.
S
. at the
Carnival at Bedford College (Regents Park) and is holding
a hop in 3ueenias on the evening of the sans Saturday.
Don't forget you may need its help next year.
VACATION WORKERS please note
It is hoped that a series of unofficial embassies will
be opened abroad this Summer by vacation workers. The
Idea is that itinerant students will be able to look uj
their fellow students i n remote places for a natter over
a glass of the local drink. The resident student w i l l
perhaps be able to roannnond good lodgings or eating
places and and will welcome the company of a fellow
traveller, i f only for a short while.
Would anyone who will be working abroad and i s inter-
ested, please Bend their name, overseas address and dates
of stay, to Felix for publication
SWEDEN. J. fctioB (Phya II), Bruke Hotel GRUMS.
Only 9th. for 8 weeks.
TOUCHSTONE WEEKEfrfl)
Jir. Cecil Rolph'Hawitt, who i s Quest speaker at SUweed
this weekend, left the polio* force in 1945 to become a
professional writer.
He he* the fcOAweiag idontitiaet
t) C M * Inspect* OJUSewlt* tf the City of landon M t k v
in the foree-
•
<
*
) Mfk C.H.HoTjtlt writer i n the New Statesman ant Katie*
en penal reform and, arlartnal lor,
5) Ifr. a,H.CeoU, write* i n the Spectator en
It ia expected that this apparent schizophrenia w i l l
WUBilate eone interesting discussions, -end will poneihle
draw attention to this Touchstone i n the Sunday paper which
has node an extensive study of the mental derengaaents of
It's here again - the exam.term,and question spotting
sessions are well under way already.I suspect that quite v.
number of students would rather play cards far degreee.'Juet
think of i t -
""elljyou've got your f i r s t Charlie"(quietly)"Faas the
aoeo into ny turnups now, I'11 see i f the Profs gams for a
leu'11 have to wait,Mlss Jones i s taking him on for an
upper second"
"Undo another blouse button,Kiss Jones,and keep the old boy's
eye while I deal."
"Well,there you are Sir-two deuces,two sixes and a four to
you;five Kings to Miss Jones.11
PROF:"But w're only playing with one pack"
"Sony slr,that one's a Queen-it should be with a chewed
«4ge like that."
THE BURGESS AND MACLEAN AFFAIR - GREATEST KXFOStB I B s
"It does seem that l i f e in the Universities enoenVages
riotous living,a social l i f e arfl partiaa,and they none Into
the Civil Service infected with their experlenoe* a* under-
graduates."(Mr. Douglas Hoagfctori B.P.)
SOMEBODY LOVES US: Cynics who tnink that industrial
conoerns are throwing *way jaoney rather than pay up Excess
Profits tax in order to spite the Exoheqjuer, will disoover in
their third year that this i s not so. Most of i t seems to be
goinggba/jk via the tax on spirit, so liberally poured down the
throats of possible technical staff. Even i f you don't
approve of this you will probably find yourself helping to
keep British Railways on its feet by having a nice travelling
Easter holiday at the expence of firms leiioh you owrwftaiy
select for their Geographic.il position.
WIPE I0UR FEET: The small piece of 'red oarpet' just in-
side the lower dining hall door of the New Union is not for
an important guest but on t r i a l for the oolour scheme of this
building. Silwood residents would probably have marked this
p a test strip with a request to keep off.
PRINTING DISPUTE: The .sport's page this week is being
typed on a toy portable,following an extended dispute with
the people whose typewriter we used to advertise ,on the
condition of lease of one of their machines. The arbitration
Is s t i l l proceeding.
BUDGET FOOTNOTE* Mines and Civila, in particular, should
note that nxmeyeeatvio" abroad may be subject to income tax •
even i f no residence in Britain i s maintained while working
abroad - MacHillan M.P. Budget.
HENET, the security Officer, recently brought
to' justice twp felon3 who were delaying the construction
of the Sir Roderick Hill building by stealing the builders,
materials. We hope to see more of him inside the quadrangle
from now on*

