4 F E L I X
V I E W P O I N T
of K. B. DESHPANDE
The talk en "Military Planning and Jtomia Weapons*
given recently i n our College by Prof. KLaokett was very
stimulating. I consider that the following.points are very
important far us to think about.
1. The overarowauig of the hall indicated that the
students -were eager to know the views of the Professor on
this important topio in relation to the prospects of war
and peace.
2. The whole idea Behind military planning and conse-
quent military pacts organised by the western Powers seems
to be based on the assumption that the Soviet Union i s the
aroh-enemy and is going to attack them at any time, and so
they should be prepared for instantaneous retaliation or
even preventative war.
3. There is a very powerful section of Westerners who
think that attmic weapons should be used far tactical
purposes
4> There is a general feeling that i n any future world
war atomic weapons will be used and will lead to extermin-
ation of the human race.
5. There is less likelihood of another world war; i f i t
oomes, Westerners imagine that, i t would be only with the
Soviet Union.
6. In the advent of war, the fate of the British people
would be the gloomiest because two or three H-bombs w i l l
be sufficient to destroy a l l l i f e on this tiny and densly
populated island.
7. The technological superiority of the West in atomic
weapons and their carriers no longer exists and hence the
tone of talks for disarmament is now milder and mare
conciliator;' than i t was some years ago. Hence there is now
more possibility of some agreement on disarmament.
8. In answer to the question: what can ordinary people
do to ensure peace? The Professor explained that the whole
aim. of his talk was to stimulate thought on this and
related problems, and to induce men and women to act i n
their own interests.
9. The last point which struck m
e was whether talks
like these would increase the complacency among people to
allow their rulers to continue the production of weapons
of mass destruction as deterrents or for tactical weapons
and to spend a huge amount of public money, or would i t
disillusion the people and cause them to persuade their
rulers to spend the money on improving the standard of
living, in particular in underdeveloped countries.
These are important issues which require close
consideration, particularly by those concerned with science
and teohnclogy.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR.
R.C.S. Union.
5th March, 1956.
Dear Editor,
A word of warning to those who leave their motor-
cycles unlocked in the region of I.C,
Recently, my motor-cycle was stolen from outside the
R.C.3. by a couple of youths, who, later abandoned i t in a
hedge, ten miles from here, in a damaged condition.
I know another chap who lost his machine from this
locality; there are probably others who have suffered similarly
A small padlock may well transfer attention from
your machine.
Tours eto.,
G.N. Spokes.
BESTIAL COLLEGE HOSTEL,
HOTC3 CONSORT ROAD,
To the Editor S. I3J"SINGT0H.
De.?r Sir-,
I live in the hostel, and every mcming T a
m woken
by the sound of large Diesel engines which seem to revel in
their unharmonious cacophony. As i f this were not enough, I
an further subjected to sounds that only a sadistic and
warped mind could conceive for hours on end, until blessed
relief comes as a balm at six o'clock when the noise stops
as i f by magic. This should drive any sane man into Broad-
moor, but the sadists are not satisfied. Oh no! They have
trained torturers who drop iron pipes, bang walls, and even
go up and down on a rope contrivance outside my window,
peering in and grinning in gboBllish humour at me.
Sometimes I a
m even driven into College.
I wont to know. Sir, who these people are, and how they
come to be within the College -rounds. I f you cannot answer
me, I shall have my MeHber of Parliament raise a question i n
the House.
Yours etc.,
Harrassed Resident
P.S. Thy has the Bar been shifted ? It was quite alright
where At was.
To win a wajer, Pete Hooper, a third year fining Geologist,
cycled back to Oclloge from his field trip in Cornwall i n
less than twenty-four hours.
For. completing the 236 miles in 2li hours he von forty-five
3hlllin~s from his oollearues who had made the bet during
a high spirited drinking session the previous evening.
I n s i d e S t o r y
An authoritive source, ths milkman, re sealed at a recent
press conference that "the College has bought three sides
of Princes Gardens?
No one in the College has beejfc induced to confirm this,
and past experience shows this source of information to be
reliable, (e.g. 1954 Derby Winner, Kensington road sweepers
strike, and the Onslow Square murder.)
It appears that the Rector's aim of a thousand residential
students is going to be achieved even sooner than he had
anticipated.
UNION RECONSTRUCTION
With Spring there is less likelyhood of bad weather
delaying the construction of the Union Extension, and the
skeleton should be completed shortly.lt will then be up to
the sub-contractors to make the building useable at the
beginningof the Autumn Term.
The I.C. Dramatic Society are planning to have a joint
production with the Casus Club of "Loftur", an Icelandic
version of the legend of i'aust. This play has been a great
success i n Scajidanavia, but the translation, into English
has had l i t t l e support in two previous provincial prod-
uctions. T:y bringing the play to London, Ifc King, the
producer,hopes to bring i t to the notice of critics
at I.C, and get a West-End production of i t .
This joint production will be the first performance
in the new Union Building next term, and should take pj.ace
at trie end of November;
,-r'U. i?£toVtLV H
f
l
V
I
W
<
?
/
) MAN f\Soi)T T H f ttousE
r
W
A
'
A
/ "
Personal Advertisement.
WASTED: A receptacle, with
capacity of 10 gallons.
Write Editor, FELIX.
Forthcoming Diversions
M O T O R R A L L Y
R.C.S. Ltotor Club Inaugural Rally.
On Sunday May 6th. R.C.S, Hotor Club is running an Inaug-
ural Rally. Competition will sta>-t from the Snack Bar at 12
noon (sign in between 11.15 and 11.45 a»m. please). Total
distance will be about 14C miles finishing at the Union and
will involve road sections without special tests. All members
of I»C. are eligible and further details are given on notices
around the College,
For those who ':ave not taken part in a Rally before or
who would like some hints from an experienced rallyist, a
short talk is being arranged. Details will be posted as soon
as possible

