medical/welfare and Union places in Hall. On the positive side,
serious investigations are taking place into the building of a new hall
on Northside, above the Sports Centre, which will hopefully house
around 125 students. This is becomng a matter of extreme urgency,
particularly in view of the impending plight of Head Tenancies.
On the financial side, the rents for next session have yet to be fixed,
mainly because there are too many unknowns at the moment to make
a sensible decision. Conferences continue to utilise student
accommodation, but it is still not clear as to whether they pay a true
rate for the usage, particualrly in view of the fact that certain
upgradings, charged to the account, are quite clearly attributable to
conference requirements.
The SRC reserve has, thankfully, been preserved as an investment
for future residences and will not be used to fund fire and public health
statutory requirements.
On the whole, an industrious year, but there are so many problems
still to be tackled effectively.
Wardens Sub-Committe
This is a recently devised sub-committee of the Student Residence
Committee that invites all of the Hall, House and Head Tenancy
Wardens, as well as a few other people, to discuss the real nitty-gritty
problems of residences as a whole as well as in particular. In addition,
SRC can refer work to it, for instance sorting out the problems and
lack of working telephones in residences, Southside fire alarms etc.
To my mind, this has been quite a useful talking shop that does have
one or two teeth. Perhaps as if envolves, a few more teeth could be
added.
Services
Union Snack Bar
Following the take-over of the College run refectory in the Union
building, we have staffed and equipped what has proven to be a
popular and lively snack bar which to-date, has been able to cover
costs. This is in no small way due to the efforts of Norman, Julie and
the student staff who have put a huge amount of effort into making the
snack bar a success.
It would appear that the current menu satisfies quite varied tastes
and from time-to-time is added to according to demand. If anyone has
any suggestions or complaints Norman or any of the sabbaticals
would be pleased to hear from you.
STA Travel Office
Into its second year of operations, the travel office in the JCR seems
to be providing a good, comprehensive travel service, ranging from
National Express tickets to Skiing holdays.
For those members of staff and students who haven't ventured into
STA, pop in some time and see what they can do for you.
Telephones
Following the installation of a new exchange in the College and the
changing of numbers and classification of all phones, the system now
seems to have settled down to a reasonably stable level.
However, after repeated attempts and memos numerous to mention
either the new-fangled, all-singing , all-dancing exchange is not
capable of simple time and S T D restrictions or the
Telecommunications manager is using the memos, which incidentally
are designed to save money, as a door-stop. I really fail to understand
how , in a College of Science and Technology, such simple technical
matters are more difficult to achieve than climbing Everest.
Items and Events
University Challenge
Imperial College was invited to take part this year, and our team
comprised Dick Langstaff (Captain), Humanities, Tim Williams,
Mining P G , Simon Errington, Min Tech P G and Duncan Swan, Chem
Eng 1 with Steve Parr, Physics 3 as reserve.
The team proved to be very strong with each member having a
definite part to play. Along the way, Somerville College Oxford,
Queen's University Belfast, Birmingham and Edinburgh were
defeated resulting in a final against Jesus College Oxford.
IC were disppointed not to have won outright but none-the-less
produced a commendable performance to reach the final, a feat that is
a first for the College.
Incost
The 1985 International Confernce on Science and Technology was
to have been hosted by IC Union over Easter, with the subject of
Biotechnology as the main theme.
After having committed a large amount of time and other resources
to organise the conference, the response from delegates of member
institutions was, to say the least, disappointing. Because of this, the
conference was cancelled at the begining of March and arrangements
are to date, being made to select the host for the 1986 conference.
My thanks must go to the College for their promised support, and
derision to three people who enthused about our hosting the event and
failed to pay more than lip-service to the hard work required in
organising it.
Hon Porn Night
This event, whichever side of the fence one sits on, caused
considerable controvery this year, much more so than in previous
years. The College, I C U as well as R S M U , bore the burnt of national
and international notoriety on a scale that was quite frightening in its
possible consequences.
At the twelth hour the event was cancelled by the organisers with the
stated intention that this event, in its present format, would not take
place again on College or Union premises.
College
Refectory Refurbishment
Throughout the year there has been discussion about redesigning
and refurbishing the main College refectories in the Sherfield Building
which culminated in plans and proposals being put to the Hustings
U G M for approval (details attached in minute book).
Approval in principle was given by the U G M that it is feasible to
swop the J C R for the Main Dining Hall, so long as sufficient attention
is paid to recreating a new J C R and is not just an after-thought.
Next years Exec will have to pay particular attention to the
evolution of these plans.
There is considerable scope within the plans to improve the quality
of the food and service, as well as the surroundings. I just hope that
food and service remain high priorities for improvement and are not
confused with nice decor! Furthermore, I would hate to see the day
that the grossly indecent and uncomfortable fixed furniture that
currently sprawls all over the Buttery is adopted for the new refectory.
Various people (who shall remain nameless) seem to think that it is
more important to be able to clean around furniture than the comfort
and ease of the customers. Personally I prefer not to have to dislocate
my hips in order to be able to get into this type of fixed furniture.
Student Manadatory Awards
In November 1984, the government announced that it intended to
significantly increase parental contributions towards the maintenance
grants, to abolish the minimum awards and more significantly, to
make parents pay tuition fees as well (in some cases).
The ensuing furore involving letters to MPs from students and their
parents and demonstration in and around London forced a
climbdown by the Government as far as the tuition fees were
concerned.
Whilst the NUS claimed a major victory, which in my opinion had
very little to do with efforts on their part, the result had implications as
far as U G C funding to Universities is concerned, particularly for
equipment grants.
I was actively surprised that N U S even realised that they ought to
represent students and it only serves to confirm the view that IC is
better off out of NUS.
UGC Visitation, 6.2.85
As part of their fact finding tour, the full U G C descended upon IC
where they met representatives of all sections of the College including
students.
The main points that we wished to put across concerned the
problems of acommodation in South Kensington, the complete
mismatch between grants in London and the true cost of living,
inadequate sports and recreational facilties on campus and problems
faced by overseas student in this country and in London. In addition,
the student representatives discussed academic affairs and problems
of lecturing standards, wastage rates and library facilities.
In general, I think that the U G C were enlightened and a little
amazed at some of the things we had to say, particularly regarding the
problems and cost of living and studying in London. However, it was
made quite clear that the U G C could and would not do anything to
help facilities, particularly in the way of financial support, although
they remained sympathetic.

