Whether or not the visit will prove beneficial to the College as a
whole remains to be seen. In particular, the question remains as to
whether the UGC will continue to treat IC favourablyin the way of
increased selective funding or less harsh cuts.
Teaching Standards
One-fifth of our undergraduates fail to complete the course for which
they originally registered in the correct time. The UGC expressed
concern . The Union made criticisms. The Academic Affairs Officers
and dep reps are fed up of complaining. ProfessorAnderson resigned.
And what have the College done? Abolished the Education
Technology Committee, a committee specifically set up to examine
ways and means of helping and improving teaching standards.
It is quite clearly true that standards, vary from course to course,
from department to department, with some being much, much better
than other. But until the complacent and unrealistic attitudes
presented by some departments are overcome and until some
comparisons are done between courses and departments, the
problems are not going to cure themselves overnight by magic.
The problems of wastage rates are not solely due to teaching
standards. Conversion from 'spoon feeding' at 'A' level to lectures on
a degree course is not always an easy transition for students. It might
be worthwhile putting some resources into helping students to learn,
particularly in how to get te best for lectures and libraries.
Whatever happens, something has to be done to stop the rot.
Students may choose not to come to Imperial because of the cost and
accommodation problems of living in London. They sure as hell
won't come if there is a greater than one in five chance that they won't
get a degree and/or if they are going to be lectured to by less than
satisfactory communicators.
ULU AND GUC
General Union Council is the ULU equivalent of our UGM but that
is where the similarity ends.
So much time has been wasted on so many stupid, irrelevant,
trendly-left, non-student orientated motions that there is no time left
to consider the plight of the lowly student. IC has consistently sent a
full delegation to each and every meeting in the forlorn hope that
something useful may be achived.
However, future relationships and co-operation with ULU look to
be on the up, particularly in involvement with U L U and other
Colleges as far as the various purchasing consortia are concerned.
• The ULU Summer Training School is a worthwhile affair that,
whilst having one or two bad points, serves several useful purposes.
Willis Jackson Remedial Works
For one reason and another, the local authority served a writ on the
College to commence remedial works on the fabric of Willis Jackson
House, regarding fire precautions and public health requirements.
The original plans put forward by the Estates Section would have
involved students having to vacate their rooms and move to other
vacant rooms, some during the examnation period. Obviously , this
was a less than ideal solution.
After many discussion at low and high levels, a much more
amendable solution was agreed upon,whereby work would only be
carried out during vacations. Furthermore, a rolling plan to continue
this type of work on other housing in Evelyn Gardens, again to take
place during vacations, has been agreed by the College and the local
authority. 'A triumph for co-operation and common-sense'.
House Wardens
A great deal of time was spent at the end of last session and over the
summer in interviewing and appointing new wardens to all of the
student houses. Most will now be coming to the end of their first year
and I hope that they have enjoyed their job as well as progressing with
other work (perhaps!).
Evelyn Gardens is at last getting some work done to update and
improve faults after many years of sad neglect. This work is going to
take many years to complete but will none-the-less be carried out with
minimal disturbance and disruption to residents.
The wardens seem to have been able to strike up a good working
relationship with the Managing Surveyor for Residences, Mr Peter
Hallworth which should bode well for the future.
Impossible without:
Union Permanent Staff
This session commenced with five permanent members of staff to
find, including two for the Snack Bar and all but one was filled in time
for the start of session.
It is to their credit that they have settled in as well as they have and
for showing such enthusiasm and committment that is all too often
taken for granted.
In the office, Kathy has settled in particualy well and provides a
constant source of amusement for students and staff alike.
With Jen and Pat, the full complement of seven staff really do make
the Union work and I really couldn't have hoped for more loyal,
understanding and hard working staff.
Dave and Eric
Table tennis and Waitrose trolleys may be how Dave Parry and Eric
Darbyshire will be remembered by you.
To me, these two have been absolutely superb companions and
workmates, never shying from the task in hand and always there with
such enthusiasm and determination.
Further than this, I'm a bit lost for words. All I can say is, thanks
lads—few will every know how such praise and credit you actually
deserve. Two better sabbaticals you'd have difficulty in finding.
I would also like to compliment Dave Rowe on his competent and
professional work this year, as well as his time and efforts in
publications since he has been at College.
The End
There are hundreds of people who should be thanked here and I
apologies for not mentioning their names.
I hope you will pardon a slight indulgence if I were to say that I have
thoroughly enjoyed this year, much more so than I thought possible.
Finally, my thanks must go out to John Smith, Peter Mee, Ieuan
Thomas and Ted Brown, all of whom have made a difficult time much
easier at some stage or other.
And so, it only remains to wish Carl, Dave, Quentin and Hugh
good luck for next year. I hope you enjoy your terms of office as much
as I have. There are low points , but the high points more than
compensate.
Ian Bull
Athletics Clubs
As chairman of the Athletic Clubs Committee, I feel that I should
express my gratitude to the rest of the committee for their tolerance
and hard work throughout the year, to cover up for my mistakes.
When elected (unopposed), I did not have the first clue about the
functions that the ACC fulfilled, so thanks must go to Andy, who did a
brilliant job on UAU. when he was sober, Simon, who attended most
ICU council and finance meetings, Dave Chadwick for running the
Exec Meetings, Paul for transport, Jon for writing all the letters and
Kathy, the ladies Sports rep. Not to forget of course Phil and Francis
for their witticisms on Exec Meetings as well Garry Lawrence and
Cary McHale for representing ACC on College Committees. A special
mention should be made of the Ladies Rugby and Netball captains
who kept me in line by constantly giving me a dressing down when I
was not doing my job.
Club results are always difficult to keep track of, due to the
tendency of club captains to gloss over poor results, and to forget to
inform us of good results. Mention must be made though of the
Volleyball club which performed well in UAU again, Tennis club who
managed their now annual UAU balls up though it was not as drastic
as last year. Rugby Club inflicted more damage on opposition
property than seemed possible, as well as 'borrowing' several items of
equipment. Football Club, not to be outdone, scraped back in to the
first division of the UL Leagues and Ten Pin Bowling, through the
efforts of an enthusiastic club committee, had several good results in
inter-university competitions.
Finance for the academic year 85/86 is looking like being extremely
tight. The last Union Finance Committee meeting imposed a £12,000
cut in ACC (approximately 20% of our grant) by cancelling tours and
reducing travel subsidies . We shall have to wait and see if any further
cuts will be imposed, before restructuring the ACC allocations for
85/86.
The Univeristy Grants Committee visit in February proved to be
fruitless, as the request for funds to build a new sports centre on
campus fell on deaf ears. However, there is a pssibility that College
will take out a loan to finance a new sports centre, and several
locations are currently being considered.

