Deputy President
Introduction
This report cannot hope to contain everything of significance that has
happened this year as that would probably fill a medium-sized book
and also we three have worked on many things together so its not
worth duplicating Ian's and Eric's reports on various bits.
The Union Building and House Committee
This year the plan was to redecorate the top floor and West
Staircase. Having written to Estates Section for quotes, I got two
replies. One piece of work we decided was unnecessary and the firm
quote from Estates for the second was deemed unsuitable by them
before we placed an order. The following quote for that work was
approximately double the first. The committee has approved work of
the following areas: Top Floor, Snack Bar Kitchen, FELIX Office and
the Lounge. Thanks—as in many years, must go to Dramsoc
especially Andy Cave and Bryan Raven for helping out with furniture
moving, repairs and general get-up-and-go.
Early in 1983 the GLC Fire Inspectors started poking around the
building, pointing out various wrongs we have committed and what
we should do about them. These works, coupled with the major
refurbishment promised by Estates in 1986 will give a lot of work for
House Committee to do over the next accademic years.
One of the bugbears of the DP is the use of rooms by clubs and
societies as they do not clear up, break things and move furniture. We
have fined clubs who consistantly break the rules but they still insist on
being stupid. This problem will, no doubt, continue but I hope that
next year's people will be able to at least get the better of it.
Defects and accidents
Having reported about fifty defects, most of them have been dealt
with by the operations group. I also receive all accident reports
concerning students. Some of them are highly amusing, some of them
point up deficiencies in safety rules and procedures and some prove
the sheer stupidity of people. Among the most common are people
breaking glass tubes and cutting their wrist or hand. Safety Council
seem, in their own detached way concerned about this but the
department concerned do not appear to take safety in this sense (ie
small personal injuries) seriously—or maybe chemists are just cack-
handed. (Bog off, Ed)
Union Snack Bar
Last year the outgoing sabbaticals negociated with College for the
Union to take over the running of the Union Building refectory outlet.
We advertised for permanent staff and engaged Norman Jardine as
manager.
After immense hassles with senior College refectory staff over the
state they left the kitchen area in, we managed to get the operation
working for the beginning of Christmas term. Since then, owing to
Norman's total commitment and energy, along with his various
assistants, the snack bar has proven to be a valuable asset to the
Union, both by bringing people into the building and making money
(so far!).
Thanks must also go to Brian Lloyd Davies for providing the
finance necessary to buy the equipment to set the operation up.
Games Machines
This year we have survived two major attempts at break-ins.
Fortunately the security boxes resisted the entry. Thanks must go (as a
registered addict) to Eddie, our supplier, for his prompt servise and to
security for preventing students breaking the machines up.
One suggestion I would put forward is that the Halls, at least,
should combine their forces to prevent duplication of machines and so
provide a better service to their residents.
Telephones
Over summer College installed a new computerised
internal/external exchange. One consequence of this is the reduction
of instruments in the office from nineteen to nine! Over the year the
slowness of college to sort out problems from minor malfunctions to
large-scale disasters has been a real pain.
Fresher's Week
My main reponsibility here was fresher's fair which came off
reasonably well, after various societies had been sorted out, and
people castigated for taking subscriptions. Otherwise the clearing out
after parties and stopping drunkards smashing up the building
provided most of the amusement. The crash pad again operated
quietly with about forty people passing through during the two weeks
it was open in the Upper Lounge. The Met Police again carried out
their bicycle post-coding offer with the result that bike thefts are down
again—no doubt also because of Geoff Reeves selling good locks at
cost price.
Rag Week
As with Fresher's week my main involvement extended to clearing
up after parties. Most of the time it was OK but after Carnival, because
of the mix-up between Guilds and Ents, there was an awful lot to do.
Luckily the groups who had booked the rooms the following day did
not seem to mind as much.
Self Defence Course
Christine Teller last year tried to get this going but, owing to the
slowness of the Special Constabulary in getting someone assigned to
this College. However, with Julia Kerr of WIST and Linda Sweeney of
security we managed to get a course for twenty people which most of
them enjoyed at least. Coupled with this are the rape alarms which we
issue free to female students. Having so few here I think we should
continue to issue them and to continue the Self Defence Courses in
order to provide support for the minority group.
University Grants Committee
This is a quango which gives universities the money to carry out
teaching, researching and to exist. They paid a visit here to 'hear
problems which face IC and cannot be solved internally'. I gave a
presentation on student grants, housing and travel grants, all of which
can be laid at the feet of government policy. The chairman refused all
help, saying only sympathy was available. The rest of the committee
seem totally unaquainted with the problems London University faces
and cannot seem to understand that a cumulative defecit of £2,000
along with a housing shortage might put someone off coming here to
study. All in all I was not impressed with the amateurish way in which
they approached their 'day out' at IC.
Student Services Conference/NUS
During the Lent term a document arrived laying out the
recommendations of a working party set up by a conference last
summer. The recommendations envisaged combining all the various
purchasing cartels into one National Student Services Organisation
(NSSO) creating a central admin office along with NUS Services.
Having had experience of NUS Services (I received a cheque from
the wind-up of NUS Travel last September—they folded in 1976) we
were concerned about the viability of the NSSO. The conference
confirmed our worst fears. The NUS politicos in various Colleges
pushed through a motion excluding non-NUS coleges from NSSO
after January 1987. The NUS sabbaticals are worried about this as it
means that Scotland will pull out and there is a possibility that Wales
and London will do so also. We are trying to set up a separate London
consortium but at the moment it is all up in the air.
IC Union Committees
Council
The management committee of this Union is supposed to represent all
the various sections of the Union. This year it has been noticeable that
some people on it (and UFC) are either i)out to get the best for their
section at the cost of all other parts, ii)more interested in the next pint
than anything else, or iiijblind to all except their own ego.
Council has only functioned this year because of the dedication of
some of the officers and the chairman who has managed to keep the
trivia down to a minimum.
UFC
When we eventually got the accounts for 1983-1984 it was realised that
the Bookshop had not made enough money to be able to pass on any
to the Unions. This amounted to a shortfall of £4,000 between ICU
and the CCUs. Following this the discovery was made that we would
be receiving £228,750 including £6,500 for UAU from College, rather
than £228,750 plus £6,500.
This, along with other factors, combined to give us an expected
overspend this year of £13,500. Accordingly UFC deciedenotto make
up the CCUs' expectation of their Bookshop income and further
moved to extract £1,000 from Pub Board, £1,000 from Equipment
reserve and a 3% cut across Major Sub-Committees. This gave the
Union enough money not to go into deficit for the year.

