The follwoing UFC saw an attempt by us to rectify the anomalous
position of the CCUs who are able to carry over spare money from one
year to the next. UFC proposed policy which, in an attempt to cut
their reserves asked them to pay for their clubs 5 year plans from their
own money and for IC Union after 1987-1988 to take into account
their reserves when UFC decided how much money to give them in the
following year.
This was passed by UFC and the following Council, but overturned
at a stormy Silwood Council during February.
As the sections' estimates started to come in it became clear that we
were going to be asking College for a large increase, especially in the
light of various Government announcements. Myself and the
President talked to the Financial Secretary about our claim but the
latest rumours seem to indicate that we will have a very harsh time
indeed next year.
UFC has taken no action to investigate how this Union could ease
its problems, either by cuts which will not hurt clubs or the central
organisation or how to increase our non-College subvention income.
The members are quite happy to try and defend their own section
against cuts without questioning why these cuts are being asked for by
the sabbaticals. If this Union is to survive as a body providing
subsidised activites for students, UFC or Council (as the management
committee) must address itself to the question of getting money, not
merely distributing it.
Internal Services
The actions and prestige of this committee shows what happens when
you put politicians in charge of something, ie a lot of words, but
absolutely no action at all until one threatens them. I hope Alan Rose
can rescue this once-useful committee.
Transport
The running of the system was transferred to the Hon Sec at the
beginning of the year. The 'priority users' system was destroyed and
outside vans taken on. This has resulted in a huge increase in the usage
of our vans with considerable problems and benefits. Eric and Kathy
have dealt with the users competently, although some clubs do not
appreciate that the vans are there for all and not just themselves. Steve
Lane, as Transport Officer, has kept the vans in working order and to
all these three must go thanks for a vital part of many clubs
operations.
The Cleaners
The cleaners are just about the only people who prevent the building
from vanishing under a pile of dirty plates, cans, glasses and puke
every week. Without them I would have despaired at the state of the
building each morning.
IC Ents
Dave Allen and his cronies have done better this year in keeping their
sabbaticals happy. They have organised the Lounge, gigs, and a
carnival without losing too much money. They have been around to
answer telephone calls and have cleared up after themselves. The only
improvement I can see—if nect year's crew is as good—is in students'
attitudes to Ents. They deserve it.
Bar Committee
This is a sub-committee to Refectory Committee; it cannot make any
policy but can only advise the Refectory Manager, and, via the
Refcetory Committee and Chairman, the Rector.
The bars in this College are a fully commercial organisation. Yet the
support given to them seems entirely amateur. Witness the lack of
crisps for two months, the lack of matches in the Union Bar. After last
year's fiasco over volume rebates it took the committee five months to
extract some management account for this year's trading which
showed some disturbing trends. One possible way around this seeming
lack of interest from the senior refectory staff is to put the bar
managers on the committee so that they can fully see what is planned
and how they can help their operations.
After the student services conference qv in which the NUS muscled
in on cheap goods and services for student unions, the managers have
been negotiating with the brewery reps to disocver what discount we
can command on our own. The results appear to be quite comforting
at the moment but no result will become clear until 1987.
The Deputy President's report continues on page 15
Honorary Secretary
I may as well admit to having written this part of my report last. I
didn't realise there would be so much of it, hopefully it will look less in
typeset form. It hopefully contains a fairly comprehensive account of
what I have done although I can't possibly account for many of the
more menial tasks, to-ing and fro-ing from central stores for instance,
it is disconcerting to note how much time these take up. I have
included a fair few personal opinions and frank comments—I hope
they will not be taken out of context.
Insurance
The task of upkeep of the Union's insurance policies is a major task
and falls into three catagories, the adminsitration of the Halls, Houses
and Head tenancies policy which is not terribly onerous, and the
organisation of both the Union equipment policies and the motor
policy.
At the beginning of the session it was decided to change the
residence policy from being one which covered theft and malicious
damage to one that is an 'all risk' policy ie covers loss and accidental
damage as well. This neccesitated an increase in premium from £5 per
year to £9.50 per year but all those with whom I consulted were in
agreement that it was a good move. The administration of this policy
involves supplying claim from and ensuring that they are adequately
completed before they are forwarded to the insurers—I have received
no complaints.
The Union holds one large policy for the insurance of its equipment
and several smaller ones. The main one covers all clubs and societies
equipment which is kept in or around the building and also when it
anywhere in the British Isles. The main problem is that societies do not
let you know what they own and therefore it cannot be insured. This, I
beleive, has been a problem for many years and is unlikely to improve.
Most claims have been successful despite several long confrontations
with Commercial Union to settle some of them. Despite any problems
with Commercial Union I have found them in general to be very good
and as a consequence, with a UGM's approval, signed a three year
agreement with them which ties us to them for that period but also
keeps the premium at the current level.
Canoe, Board-sailing and sailing club's equipment is insured on a
pleasure craft policy which also insures them on the water, there has
only been one claim and no problems.
Other policies held by the Union although not centrally
administered are the flight policies of Balloon Club and Gliding Club
and that of Underwater club. The latter is of very little interest but it
disturbed me to find that the others cost £1,000 and £2,000
respectively in premiums.
The motor policy has been very little work this year as there have
been very few accidents, the claims on these have all been settled to my
satisfaction. We have also used our policy to cover all external van
hire, this has, in general, only involved one phone call a week and is
much cheaper than using the hire companies individual insurances.
Transport
The responsibility for the transport was transferred from the D Pto
the Hon Sec when we acquired the Snack Bar. It represents a major
increase in workload.
The increase in usage of our own vehicles has increased a great deal
over the past year. This I believe is due to the removal of priority clubs,
the restructuring of transport committee and an increase level of
awareness of its availability. This has caused a strain on vehicles and
on me. The problem of the former has been eased greatly by a most
conscientious and hard-working transport officer whose efforts I
sincerely hope do not go without recognition. The latter is caused by
having to aquire, from other sources, vehicles to satisfy the demand.
The two companies with whom we have discount agreements have not
been able to satisfy the demand so I have often had to go elsewhere.
This has not always been as satisfactory as it might have been, but has
been adequate. During the course of this year one vehicle has been
sold and replaced, this leaves us with two thirteen-seaters and two
seventeen-seaters, one with removable seats, which I think is a good
combination to have.

