Union Duplicating Service This consists of the photo-copier and the
gestetner. The old gestetner, which was a wreck, has been replaced
at a not inconsiderable cost. There is no reason why this should
degenerate into the same state as long as it is looked after, which I
strongly recommend. The only problem with the copier is that Canon
cannot seem to send us any sensible invoices. The service and
maintenance is great.
Parking Permits In theory the allocation of parking permits is dead
easy. Applications are received and most of the permits are allocated,
the rest are allocated pending appeals. In practice there are a number
of problems. The number of applications is about four times greater
than the number of permits, the amount of truth on the application
forms, is minimal in many cases, and finally some people cannot
accept that they can't have one. I am fed up to the eyeballs with
hearing sob stories, very few of which I believe, from people who can't
park their ' A ' and 'B' reg. BMWs and Rovers having driven them all
the way from Earls' Court.
Blue Book, Council and U G M Policy It was my intention at the
beginning of the session to get these all up to scratch but I have largely
failed to do this, I do hope however, to have made a sufficiently good
start at it such that my successor will be able to finish it off without too
much effort. The by-laws are now up to date and internally consistent.
Several changes were made to achieve this but I was disappointed that
the change clarifying the relationship of U F C and Council was
rejected. A tangible product was the formalisation of a departmental
representative from the Department of Social and Economic Studies.
U G M s
I sometimes wonder whether ther is any point in them at all. About
two percent of the Union Membership attend and they don't seem
interested in questioning the Exec, or the Officers who are supposed to
be accountable to them. The most exciting thing that happened to me
was being covered in multi-coloured shaving foam.
Council
Due to the ineffectiveness of U G M ' s this is where the decisions have
to be taken and policy formulated. M y main observation of this
committee, apart form noting the remarkably high attendance figures,
is that disproportionate amounts of time are spent discussing
trivialities whereas suggestions with large potential implications get
passed on the nod. Perhaps this is only to be expected when the people
who say most have least to say and those who do least are most
prepared to criticise. I can only express my admiration of the way
Chris Hendy has handled the rabble and allowed the sensible
discussion and decisions to shine through largely unadulterated.
Union Committees
I am secretary to the following. This entails the taking and
production of minutes. I have, via these minutes, indulged in the odd
personal comment for which I make no apology, I'm only surprised I
managed to limit them to so few. In each case they represented the
feeling of the meeting as I judged it to be, none were subsequently
ammended.
Finance Committee
This is by far the most arduous due to the accuracy with which the
business must be recorded. Despite Dave's occassionally eratic
chairmanship I feel that the committee has been constructive and has
avoided much of the petty bickering and vindictiveness which has
affected it in the past. It remains to be seen whether this will continue
while we attempt to solve the problems which we have inherited.
House Committee
This, I feel, could have done more through time constraints do
prevent investigation of major projects. What it has done has always
been well intentioned and in agreement with the committee as a whole.
Internal Services
This has been an almost complete waste of time. I only hope that
Alan Rose can do better next year.
External Affairs
As above but delete Alan Rose and insert Grenville Mauel.
Catering Committee
This committee has been helped no end by the fact that the Manager
has performed better than we could possibly have hoped. I think that
we have been very lucky in this respect although this is no reason for
complacancy.
Exec Committee
At the beginning of the session a number of disciplinary decisions
had to be made but since then very little has had to be done. There
seemed to be very little point in concerning a formal committee to
rubber stamp bookings.
College Committees
I sit on very few of these and from the performance of some of them
I am glad it is so few.
Governing Body Finance and Executive
This is the exception to what I have written above. I have said very
little at the meetings of these committees but I feel that by observing
the proceedings and by discussions at pre-meetings of myself, Ian and
Dave I have justified my election as union representative.
Parking and Traffic
This committee is absolutely hysterical, the amount of discussion
on hypothetical situations has to be heard to be believed. I feel sorry
for Ieuan Thomas who chairs the committee as I feel he is a well
intentioned bloke but the same cannot be said of some of my fellow
committee members.
Refectory Committee
Simon Perry tries hard, Mooney is evasive and usually downright
obstinate and I sometimes wonder whether there is any point. The
sooner Mooney goes the better.
Suggestions and Complaints
This is a sub-committee of Refectory Committee. It seems that
remarkably few people bother to suggest or complain these days,
Mooney pays lip-service in the form of written reply's to those that do.
He did, however manage to distort one decision that was made and
successfully upset the Union Bar staff in the process.
G U C
Are we really that different from other students? Are other delegtes
really representative of their students? Are We? I think it boils down to
what one's conception of what the function of a students' union is. I
see nothing wrong in expressing an opinion on apartheid in South
Africa (in case anybody gets me wrong here I am very much against it)
or the N U M strike but I think when it overshadows discussions on
teaching standard or student residence there is something very wrong.
I rest my case.
U G C visitation
I was not hugely involved in this apart from at the general
discussion level, I was, however, one of the Union delegation and
worked very hard during the informal conversations with the U G C
members over lunch. I was not over impressed with them as a body of
individuals and did not think that the way that they shut us out with
their time wasting tactics gave them much credit. I had thought that
they were on a fact finding mission but felt that we were treated in a
rather patronising manner, they obviously have very little conception
of what being a modern-day student is like which is hardly surprising
considering what little effort they made to find out.
Incost
We now come to the topic which hsas carried me the largest amount
of dissappointment this year. Having agreed to accept nominal
responsibility for the organisation of this event I was rather pissed off
to say the least the lack of support from the people who had been so
enthusiastic that the event should take place in the first place.
With the help of those few people interested, Jeremy Green deserves
a mention here, I pressed on and secured a number of speakers and
offers of visit. Having done this it was then that, in the light of the
minimal response from the intended participants, we decided to scrap
the event. Since then we have had to contend with a number of Dutch
nutters and Scandinavian loonies who seem to be a pissed off with
us—the feeling is mutual. I strongly reccommend that we never
contemplate organising the event again, not that they'll let us.
In conclusion
Thanks to all those who helped me and no thanks to those who
didn't. It has been pleasing to work with fellow sabbaticals who share,
broadly speaking, a common set of aims and with whom I get on
socially. Enormous amount of thanks to my adminstrative partners in
crime, Jen, Pat and Kathy and to those whose helped in less obvious
ways.

