Academic Affairs
Introduction
Although I've had an enjoyable and challenging year as A A O it is
difficult to construct an annual report. First, there is the question of
who to aim it at, the average, apathetic, blinkered student, or the
interested few that seriously attend U G M s . Secondly, what do I pick
out to write about, after all, it took me, like most of the officers, six
months to get going in the job.
Finance
Academic Affairs is one of the few areas in the Union that does not
feel the economic squeeze directly—it gets no budget. Instead, the
A A O relies on human resources to get things done. Thankfully, this
year I have had excellent help from my three C C U AAOs, namely Jane
Ryder, Luke Walker and Tim Williams. With them, and Ian Bull I feel
that we have coped well at College committee level. It's not always a
question of winning or losing, College often accept our criticisms, if
our arguments are sensible and well argued, and ifwe have the backing
of students in what we press for. I would also like to thank my bunch
of dep reps I believe those who gave most benefitted most!
How to get a first
Undoubtedly, the University Grants Commission visit to IC was
one of the most important points of the year. The U G C have told the
College that it is not taking teaching seriously enough. Now is the time
when we can make our presence felt, to make sure that there is change.
Better lecturing will cost students just a little awareness thought, and
the time to fill in course questionaires—in return the benefits could be
tremendous. Please take time to hassle your dep rep—that provides
valuable feedback which he/she can use at Council, and which my
successor can fire at College.
Sir Keith Joseph
Education is (foolishly) being butchered. Imperial has to cope with
the imposed cuts. This year we have managed to keep the impact on
students, at the academic level, small. College will soon have to
consider losing a whole department, rather than just joint honours
courses. You can all help. Write to your M P about student grants and
education cuts in general. Stop this barbarism.
Graham for President
I consider Acadmic Affairs to be of underestimated importance to
the 'typical' students. It is a field of Union activities that is open to
everyone whether you play rugby, drink quarts of ale, and screw
around, or not. I wish J Martin Taylor and Carl all the best for next
year. With your help I hope they can build on the foundations I think
we have dug this year. I apologise for not having done more, and I
hope I have not let down anybody who helped me. In the six weeks to
go, there is still lots to be done.
Meanwhile, good luck in your exams, and whilst you're in them,
consider who you would turn to if you felt there was bias, or if there
was a pneumatic drill ringing out persistently, or...
Graham Thorpe AAO
Publications Board
This year has been very successful for Imperial College's
publications. Few (if any) universities and colleges can claim the range
and quality of publications that IC possess.
FELIX Dave Rowe's performance this year as F E L I X editior has been
impressive despite many problems he has had to deal with (not least of
which has been his health). As a result F E L I X has managed to remain
one of the best student newspapers in Britain.
IC Radio now broadcast for well over seventy hours. They have more
listeners than ever before and their membership in excess of one
hundred. Inspite of their relatively low budget, they are undoubtedly
among the most successful student radio stations.
Stoic has been damaged by internal squabbling over the last few years.
Fortunately this year this hasn't happened as a result Stoic
membership has grown. Unfortunately the talk of heavy cuts in Stoic's
funding has undoubtably damaged Stoic's moral. Stoic have potential
so the Union should invest money in it.
Phoenix This year's addition is as usual packed with interesting and
entertaining articles and photographs (copies available from all
members of Publications Board, F E L I X office, bookshop etc).
Special mention should be made of the superb review of the Phoenix in
the Spectator.
PG Handbook: This is a new publication that has proved to be very
successful. Early feedback suggests potential P G students have found
the publication a useful aid to deciding whether to become a P G .
AP and Handbook: The production quality of both of these
publications is as high as every. Both editors have revised the written
content greatly so that these publications provide as good a guide as
always to student life.
So far this report has made out that everything is excellant for
publications. It isn't! A perennial problem associated with
publications is the relations between members of various publications.
This year F E L I X and IC Radio have had better relations than ever
before. However there is still friction between STOIC and the the
other publications. I am not sure how this can be prevented. I guess the
individuals concerned will just have to learn to get on with each other.
The second problem is finance. If the Union imposes a cut of, 10%
(as has been suggested) on the Board, a publication will almost
certainly close.
On a personal note I would like to thank everyone who has helped
Pub Board and made this year so enjoyable. I would also like to thank
Dr Steve Cook, Peter Hands, Dave Rowe, Peter Coleman, Martin
Bolding, J Martin Taylor, Diane Love, Hugh Stiles, John Jones, Chris
Martin, Grenville Manuel and anyone else I've forgotten.
Hugh Southey
External Affairs
It is usual at this time of the year for an officer to try and delude
him/herself and others into thinking he/she has done a wonderful job.
I make no such claims, but I do have some points which have come up
over the year which I believe should have attention drawn to.
When I came into office last July one of the first things I had to
contend with were the plans by Sir Keith Joseph to axe the minimum
grant. The letter campaign which was instigated proved fairly popular
with over a hundred letters being sent. I was far more despondent
about the turn-up for the Grants March. (Only 20 people, most of
whom, were Union hacks). Before seeing the media coverage
following the March I was quite disheartened by the apathetic
turnout. However, since both BBC News and ITV could do little other
than present the student protest in juxtaposition to the riots in the
Minesworkers Dispute I now seriously question the value of such mass
meetings. The NUS failed to organise it sensibly and things got out of
control. I recommend that IC would be better off not attending such
events in light of the damage to Students' very creditable position
which media coverage does in the eyes of most tax-payers.
It seems to me that with the present Government's resolution to
concentrate social benefit to those who most need it that students must
strive to make their plight known. I encourage as many students as
possible to write to their MPs putting forward their points. I would
like to see another letter writing campaign put into action by the
Union.
Finally, the relationship with U L U this year has declined to a new
low, while we are not affiliated to NUS and we continue to be be
'billed' as a 'Centre of Excellence' I do not believe that the prejudice
against IC by U L U and other colleges within the University will be
lightened. To a large extent, IC can continue to promote the insular
'University of South Kensington' attitude, but I think that IC must
recognise that some benefits (such as increased buying power) can be
gained from keeping in touch. I believe that a diplomatic stance at
G U C should be attempted.
I should like to thank the permanent staff in the Union for their help
over the past year, and I wish Grenville Manuel every success for next
year.
Jo Claydon
EAO

