Recreational Clubs Postgraduate Affairs
Overall, the year, has gone very smoothly indeed. Initially there
were problems because the Vice Chairman elect had failed his exams
and at the first U G M the prospective candidate withdrew. However
eventually Richard Collcott was elected with Charlie Pollock of Scout
and Guide filling in in the interim.
As last year, chairman's information sheets were issued and, once
again, I feel that they have been a great success. In addition treasurer's
information sheets in the same format were distributed and (for those
who bothered to read them) proved very useful.
Two first aid courses were run this academic year by Roger Serpell
and both had R C C members on them (course fees paid out of R C C
general funds). Overall the number of people taking up the offer of a
free first aid course is up on last year but several clubs still obstinately
continue to refuse this valuable option.
Safety policy documents were once again collected from hazardous
recreational clubs and sent to College for information and approval.
Once again College did not have the common decency to acknowledge
even the receipt of these papers let alone offer any feedback.
Following the furore surrounding the Christmas 1981
Mountaineering Tour death, I had assumed that College were
concerned about safety. Now I believe that they nearly want to be seen
to be concerned and care little for the quality of the measures carried
out at their behest.
The principles of Safety policy documents (and free first aid
courses) were amongst several alterations made to the R C C
Constitution and Standing Orders during the year. The changes
served to overhaul the Constitution and Standing Orders (a task last
performed in 1976) and enshrine a fair portion of R C C Policy in
legally binding black and white.
Clubs in general have ticked over very nicely this year with Brewsoc
in particular doing well to survive following the resignation of their
chairman early in October. Keep fit joined the ranks of R C C early in
1985 and have proved extremely successful—after much publicity in
F E L I X and via posters they now have nearly 100 members and hold
three meeting every week.
The problem of finance as ever cropped up with R C C suffering a cut
of some £750 following the discovery of Christine Teller's
misinterpretation of F and E minutes. This was successfully
accommodated into the contingency budget of the R C C grant but
only by reducing tours to a mere 30% travel subsidy and by being very
hard on supplementary claims. I shudder to think what traumas R C C
will have to go through next year whilst the CCUs drink their way
though their subventions.
I have enjoyed two years as chairman of R C C except, find it
depresssing that so many club chairmen seem to take on their posts
just as ego trips and in order to get a pot in the bar. Too often clubs
seem to be brought to their knees by chairmen who just do not care or
who do not bother communicating with their executive.
To whoever takes the helm next year—good luck!
Hugh Stiles
Athletics Colours
Overall, after a promising start the year has been somewhat
dissappointing as far as social events are concerned. On the academic
front some interesting developments have occurred in the latter part of
the year. I will try to review the year in more detail below.
Finances
Last year's Deputy President decided that PGs were an
inconsequential part of College life and correspondingly cut our grant
to £100. Some hurried meetings and delicate threats, sorry
negotiations, with the present sabbaticals restored us to a grant of
£850 (some £400 up on the previous year!!) for the 1984-1985 session.
Most of this money has been spent on subsidising events run by both
the P G Committtee and departmental groups.
Social Events
We started the year with two very successful discos in the Holland
Club. The Fireworks and Valentines parties at Silwood were much
enjoyed by those who attended. A brewery trip to Youngs brewery,
memorable for Jim Brannigan's connection between a ram and
Princess Margaret and a number of departmental parties have also
been well received. An end of year party and the Silwood, South Ken
cricket match are still to be organised.
PG Handbook
The Postgraduate Handbook made its debut this year and has been
well received from all quarters. Congratulations and thanks to Hugh
Stiles for all his hard work.
Academic Affairs
The College received a slap on the wrist about P G supervision and
thesis completion rates from the U G C . I am glad to say that the
Graduate Studies and Board of Studies Committees are now
investigating these problems and a documented set of guide lines for
supervisors and students alike should soon be produced.
IC Union
PGs have been well represented on most of the Union Committees.
It is apparent however that many of these are leaving or 'retiring' this
year and it is important that PGs involved in various union activities,
take posts of responsibility, so we may continue to be suitably
represented.
The Future
It has become apparent during my two years as P G A O that
postgraduates do not respond to large College run events and in the
future departmental run events are the way for PGs to get together out
of working hours. I shall be fading into obscurity at the end of this year
and try to find my way back to the lab. A meeting will be held at the
end of June to elect a new Chairman and committee. These are
important, interesting and not least, enjoyable posts. If anybody is
interested please see me as soon as possible so I can give you more
details. I wish those elected the best of luck!
Thanks
I should like to thank, this years committee, especially Jim
Brannigan, for his hard work as treasurer for the last two years. Andy
Hamilton and the residents at Silwood for continuing to invite us to
their excellent events. The staff and sabbaticals in the union office for
continuing to monitor my drinking and betting habits. Finally all
those people who have attended the events and socials we have
organised and made the job worthwhile.
Chris Hendy PGAO 1984/85

