Rag
The year started off very badly with the failure of James Benbow the
Rag Chairman elect, and the fact that a Rag Committee had not been
elected for this year. Coupled with this was the non-existence of a Rag
Mag for the Year '84-85 after the first and only time an editor had been
paid to produce a Rag Mag. Efforts were made to recover the money,
but to no avail as Dave Larrington was no longer a student (but will be
again next year), and as such was not under the jurisdiction of I C U .
Tiddlywinks raised £2,100 without any trouble from the Police,
Unfortunately Eros had been removed from Picadilly Circus and so
Ring-a-Roses was moved to the Duke of Wellington Memorial down
the road. Many thanks to Mencap for allowing us the use of their
license.
Rag Week raised about £3,000 M y thanks to: Gareth Fish for an
excellent Beer Festival raising £1,000, Jackie, Dai, Dave, Ian etc for
the Smoking Concert, Dave Peirce for the Mines Revue, S C A B for
S C A B Night, Roger Pownell for Cocktails and to anybody else who
helped organise anything.
Rag Tour it was decided that coach trips to sell Rag Mags were not cost
effective. The difficulties were that to get to any University we would
have to leave early in the morning, we had to charge people to go
(leading to lack of incentive) and had to sell a lot of Rag Mags just to
break even.
On the other hand the Rag Tours occured over a long weekend and
raised over £2,000, and that was selling old Rag Mags. I hope they
continue next year.
Rag Fete raised about £700 even though the weather was not very
permitting. Lord Flowers unfortunately could not appear but Lady
Mary came to open the Fete. This year I thought I'd make the Fete
more spectator orientated, hence the mud-wrestling which was so
popular nobody did anything else. This was a bit of an experiment and
it had some very unanticipated side effects such as Rent-a-Hug and the
covering of everything in clay. I must thank everybody who turned up
to help, especially Maribel who made the day a memorable occasion.
A special mention must be made to RCS who have raised most of
our total this year, due to the strength of the Carnival Committee and
to Sean Davis. I hope Jackie Pierce continues this trend. Guilds have
recently set up a Rag Committee due to the apathy of the V P to Rag
and hopefully this situation will change next year. Best of luck to
Symon Corns. Mines have not done a lot this year but Chris Griffin
assures me that we'll see a lot more of Mines next year.
In total we have raised just under £ 10,000 but I don't have the exact
figure. I hope we can do better next year.
C Burgess
SCAB
The past year has seen the level of activity of The Board's societies
maintained, albeit with adaptations in view of the financial pressure
upon them, and some organisational changes to ensure a more
coherent structure which is able to cope with the financial strains
which reduced financing will place upon it.
The Chamber Music Society has has a quiet year with a lack of
public performances. The demand for both the practise and
performance of music by smaller groups definitely exists, but this
demand has yet to be met. Furthermore, the precise role of the society
and its relationship with the other musical groups is unclear. It is to be
hoped that next year's committee gives these matters the concern they
deserve and ensures an increase in the society's activity. The Debating
Society, whilst having attracted less famous speakers, has increased
the range and nature of the topics discussed and significantly
increased its membership. Subjects ranging from the development of
nuclear power, proportional representation and the existence of
Father Christmas have attracted variable sized audiences illustrating
the desire of students to express their opinions on both serious and
light-hearted matters. The Dramatic Society has continued the trend
of having productions spread through the Autumn and Spring terms,
all of which received good or average attendances. The 1984
Edinburgh Tour overcame a series of difficulties to become the largest
tour so far with up to forty people taking part. The theatre venue,
which the society runs for the duration of the festival, requires
considrable orgnisation but enables the society's own production to
be performed at peak times.
Jazz Club was reformed this year and has begun to find its feet.
Regular jamming sessions have commenced and, although there have
been no Jazz Club perfomances as such, a number of bands using the
club's facilities have played at S C A B night, Southside and The
Lounge. The Music Society, consisting of the Choir and the Orchestra,
with a membership of 280, has had a successful year. The Orchestra's
Christmas concert saw a difficult piece performed well and the Choir
chose a work by Rachmaninov, unperformed in Britain for over forty
year for their Spring performance. That such difficult works were so
well performed is indicative of the increasing ability of musically-
inclined students at College. The Operatic Society performed Gilbert
and Sullivan's The Grand Duke in February, and despite the work
being one of their less well known operas, it received the now
traditional full houses and appreciative audiences. Also, Opsoc
increased the number of smaller shows performed however the year
has been a difficult one with inexperienced committee members
handling the problems they faced ineptly.
Nearly all S C A B societies took part in S C A B night, during Rag
Week, and although the performance of all concerned were good the
evening was not as well attended as previous years. It is essential that
all societies appreciate that this event is for their benefit, to publicise
their activities and requires their encouragement to ensure a good
attendance and an enjoyable evening.
The S C A B Executive took over the booking of the projectors and
the system appears to be working reasonabley well. Repairs to the
SCAB P A system has ensured its continued, heavy use by both Jazz
club and IC Ents, with whom co-operation has been excellent—far
better than the previous year.
The auditing of the 1983/4 S C A B accounts was incorrect, the result
of easily avoidable errors by Finance Section. In future, the SCAB
Chairman is to have the full working papers of the audit which should
ensure that any further difficulties are more speedily resolved. Since
the format of the S C A B accounts was changed at the request of the
internal auditor to meet his specific requirement, I remain bemused as
to how the mistakes occured. After an intial request from Finance
Section concerning the Music Society account, lengthy consultations
have led to the Choir and Orchestra's Finances being held by separate
accounts I remain convinced that this change will be beneficial to both
parts of Music Society.
This year has been a difficult one financially and next year is likely
to see further problems. In these circumstances, it is essential that
junior treasurers keep tight control over budgets and organise
themselves well—to ensure that the senior treasurers time is not
wasted. With societies relying more and more on ticket sales as a
source of income, the role of junior treasurers is crucial—the financial
well being of The Board as as a whole lies essentially in their hands.
SCAB's contingency is small, relative to both its grant and turnover.
Finally, I would like to thank all the members of The Board for their
time and help over the past year with special thanks due to Nikki Scott
for her work on the S C A B Executive and D r Bill Wakeham for his
continued, excellent work as senior treasurer despite ever-increasing
departmental committment.
Nick Shackley

