CLUBS!]
CHRISTIAN UNION
Why the
Cross?
This year the CU has been particularly active
in College—both through publicity and in
activities such as meetings and study groups.
In all the flurry of activity the outline of the
cross will have been pertinent to observers.
Indeed-these days many people wear a cross
around their neck as a piece of jewellery. Yet
2000 years ago this cruciform represented
horror, suffering and death—the cross was
the most horrific piece of Roman execution
ever devised. Where is the beauty in that?
And why do Christians parade this as the
symbol of their faith?
Many questions surround one cross in
particular. The crucifixion of Jesus
Christ?—Why did he die? Why did such a
just and peaceful man have to die such an
unjust and violent death? Was it a gross
miscarriage of justice—or the Hope of the
World?
This Friday, May 17 Paul Perkin, a local
Anglican curate will give a personal view in a
talk—'Why the cross?' This one is worth
missing out on a few hours of revision (7pm,
Union Dining Hall—TODAY! Light buffet
supper provided: no charge)
Q TSOC
•*s
Shocker
And lo,it came to pass that a mighty weekend
was had by all. The visitation ad Dominum
Broadcastae Britanium went really well with
young Martin being embarrassed in front of
(well, strictly speaking, behind) hundreds of
people. Attendance at the Rag Fete was a
little disappointing but it did even things up as
there were more pillocks from **s present
than there were megaheroes from QT.
However we were, and still are, bigger then
them and they were well and truly
vanquished in single combat.
This weekend brings the long awaited
public debut of the astounding Mr Graham
Shields—a man barely alive, we have the
technology, we can rebuild him, but we can't
afford the materials.
Graham will be at Speakers Corner on
Sunday at 3pm to display his incredible
talents. This time he will be there come what
may, riots, plague, shark infested custard, or
abolition of the GLC, announcement of
Mount Pleasant as London's third airport, or
even Everton winning the FA Cup. So be
there next Sunday to cheer Graham on.
(Weather permitting).
BIOTECH
Hands
off
my
genes
Patent Agent Peter Elliott gave a talk on
patents in general and biotechnological
patents in particular to the Biotech Society
last Monday. He made it clear that large new
areas of innovation are being opened up in
the biotechnology field and that by their very
nature patents are at the leading edge.
Patents are a kind of bargain. In return for
publishing an idea the inventor gets a
monopoly for a number of years. The
inventor can sell his monopoly or license it
for royalties. A topical example is that of very
broad patents that exist on a number of
genetic engineering techniques. The patents
belong to two American universities and are
being challenged now by a big commercial
firm which is refusing to pay royalties. A legal
battle could be long, expensive, and highly
significant for future research.
Getting a patent is not a simple matter. An
invention must pass test of novelty, non-
obviousness and applicability to be
considered. The formulation of a patent is
critical, and Mr Elliott gave many examples
of possible pitfalls.
Fortunatly in this country it is relatively
easy to file a patent claim by handing in to the
patent office a description of the invention,
something saying you want to file a patent
claim and ten pounds. Such a claim
establishes priority of invention and gives
protection for a year. Mr Elliott encouraged
anyone with an idea to consider taking this'
step. He did, however, point out that taking a
patent to completion could take three or four
years and tens fo thousands of pounds. Most
applicants are employers. Nonetheless,
there are laws to prevent inventors being
'ripped off' by their employers or others.
Established priority and protecting a
research advantage are useful functions of
the first filing but problems arise about
priority in an academic setting. Commercial
protectiveness present the free flow of ideas
that is normal in university resarch. Mr Elliott
acknowledged that there was a conflict. The
only answer seemed to be to talk to few
people (and only in strict confidence) until a
claim has been filed.
During Mr Elliott's talk we heard about
two kinds of overlapping Europe, The
Budapest Treaty, patent for irrigating the
desert using snowballs from the South Pole
and how inventors used to throw bricks
through the patent office window in the dead
of night watched by the police! (Round the
bricks would be wrapped the patent claim
and this could establish priority over a rival
claim the following day. Nowdays the patent
office is open all hours...). Mr Elliott's talk
was generally well received.
Next Mondy May 20 The Biotech Society
will be presenting a talk on Biotechnology
and the Food Industry by Prof R Righelato of
Tate and Lyle. Tate and Lyle is a sugar
company that has diversified much in recent
years, so the talk should be of broad interest.
Venue: Biochemistry Building, Link 4
Lecture Room, 5.45pm.
ISLAMIC
The bad,
the worse
and
the ugly
The 'sadistic cop' is the hero of most current
TV cinema action films. He (or sometimes
one!) is very honest and incorruptable but
also tough, yet ready to bend the law
whenever necessary to track down an 'evil'
law breaker by adopting their violent and
bloody methods. The theme is apparently
that unjust means are permissible in the
quest for justice! Despite the obvious
contradiction in terms, this theme is still
widely accepted to the extent that it is rarely
queried.
A more general question would be 'can the
ends justify the means?' The answer to such
a question is not straightforward, since it
implicity assumes that 'ends' and'means'are
separable. Only when the aim is naively
defined does this appear to be true. 'All roads
lead to Rome!' However, one aims to use the
shortest, safest and easiest route, even if this
is not explicitly stated. It is rather silly to
serve the law by breaking it, or to serve the
truth by lying.
One of the major aims in life for a muslim is
to keep to the straight path ie the good
means of living are themselves 'aims'. A
muslim asks his lord,
'Guide us to the straight path...(Al-Qur'an
1:6) a minimum of 17 times a day.
Finally, everybody must realise that while
it is 'bad' to have criminals, it is even 'worse'
to have evil police, since the end result of a
combination of the two can only be an 'ugly'
world.
FELIX Friday 17 May 1985 19

