CLETTERS
Letters
Revolting
Drivel
Dear Sir,
I would like to record my protest at the
inclusion of the review of ' A Festival of
Erotica' in last week's F E L I X . There are two
main faults with this review:
1 A review of 'entertainment' such as this
makes attendance at such an event seem
normal—this type of show is attended by
only a small fraction of the population (see
attendance at the Mines' Hon Porn Night), or
are people like myself, who can restrain
themselves from thinking about sex 'once
every fifteen minutes' in the minority?
2 In all the major newspapers, and Criticon
too, each reviewer is named so that
comments and criticisms can be directed to
the right person. I would suggest F E L I X do
the same thing, for the reason above, and also
because I am curious to know who writes
such an article!
Yours sincerely,
Thomas Yeung
Physics 2
Dear Editor,
Thanks for another interesting and
informative publication in the form of
F E L I X 703. The reason for writing concerns
a feature which I believe severely blemishes
the said issue, and perhaps your good name
also (since there is no author associated with
the article in question).
I must overcome the intense personal fear
of being regarded as another Michael
Newman, and make known my objections to
the 'Armchair Perverts' feature. Whilst
commending the author's literary qualities
and entertaining style, I am neither endeared
to this choice of subject nor impressed with
his extremely liberated attitude towards
publication of obscenities. Possibly there is
an audience for this kind of thing but I don't
think this is really what most Imperial
College students want to read (although I
may be wrong).
I do think that a public exhibition of this
kind will discourage the 'better students'
from considering Further Education at
Imperial College: it made me think again
about the type of people students at Imperial
College are portrayed as.
Respectfully,
Malcolm Gray
Elec Eng
Dear Sir,
Shame on you for publishing revolting
drivel! 'Armchair Perverts' (10 May issue).
Our Union newspaper can well do without
such insulting and offensive articles.
Yours Sincerely,
Hilary Todd, Richard Rijnbeek, Neil Murphy,
Malcolm Dunlop, Fran Bageneal, Janet
Yarker, Sandra Chapman
Hope
Dear Sir,
Having heard and read many dismal
forecasts recently, I am using this column to
share the comforting hope which I have
found.
This hope arises through study of the Holy
Bible. It foretold, with reasons, the world
situation precisely. Read thoughtfully
Matthew 24: 1-14, Luke 21:7-19, Timothy 3:
1-7, and Revelation 6, then see if you can
deny the sign of Jesus' 'parousia'—the Greek
for presence, especially of royalty.
It also foretells oncoming events. Check
Luke 21: 28-33; that 'Thy Kingdom' in the
Lord's Prayer will globally annihilate
wickedness soon (Psalms 37: 8-11, 27-29)
leaving a cleansed earth.
Are you laughing? You are proving true
the words at 2 Peter 3: 3-13.
The Bible is free and open to all. I've
mentioned a couple of aspects but there are
so many more. Come along Sunday 9.50am
to Kingdom Hall, Pond Place—just off
Fulham Road, South of South Kensington
Tube, totally without obligation. At worst
y o u c a n b r o a d e n y o u r g e n e r a l
knowledge—at best you can gain peace of
mind and a better life.
Yours after serious study,
M Hayes
Computing 2
Bloody mess
Dear Sir,
Tuesday was the RCS Exec initiation.
Members of the committee decided to wash
off paint, blood etc, and, although not
residents used the first-floor ladies bathroom
of Beit. This bathroom was left in a
disgusting and nauseating state—with blood
stains on the floor, six inch tide-marks on all
three of the baths and solid clots of blood on
the shower floor. The smell is overpowering.
Whilst I recognise any particular group of
people have the right to get totally drunk out
of their minds and take part in such mindless
practices I do feel that to inflict them on the
rest of the College is disgusting, diabolical
etc.
Yours,
Christine Spears
Physics 1
FELIX
In the middle of F E L I X this week you will
find the annual report of IC Union. Twelve
pages of close type, it's not compelling
reading.
Unfortunately, persistence in straining
your eyes to read it all is scantly rewarded.
The reports conform to the format of last
year's and the year before—a list of all the
College and Union committees with a brief
description of what they are. The reports
make interesting reading, though, when they
depart from this format and the sabbaticals
write about what they have actually achieved.
Eric Darbyshire's report is much the best
in this repect—he has written at length about
his own areas of responsibility—insurance,
transport, etc. He has also been quite honest
about what he hasn't achieved!
As a whole, though, the Union has
achieved quite a lot this year and it's a shame
that the annual report doesn't reflect these
successes more vividly.
One interesting difference in opinion between
the sabbaticals can be seen from the reports.
Ian says:
'The role of the U G M still remains as
important as ever...', Eric says 'I sometimes
wonder if there is any point in U G M s at all.'.
Dave Parry doesn't seem to acknowledge
the existence of U G M s at all, in his report.
U G M s are a waste of time. The only
justification for keeping them is that on the
rare occasions that you need them, they are
there.
Rag Fete last week was the most enjoyable
for years. As well as being good fun it raised
£700 for charity—not bad considering the
weather.
The success was largely due to the hard
work of the 'hacks' about whom M Preen
complains in his letter on page 4. I would
point out that the same 'hacks' were still
clearing up late into the night, long after Mr
Preen had whinged off home.
Acknowledgements: Many thanks to Kathy,
Chris, Gren, Pete, Nigel, Tom, Jon, John,
Diane, Pete, Debbie, Ajay, Alan, Judith,
Sarah, all the collators and especially
Rosemary and Tony for working extra-hard
this week.
Felix is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial
College Union Publications Board and is printed by the Union Print
Unit. Imperial College. Prince Consort Road, London SW7.
Telephone 1)1-589 5111 Ext 3515
Editor: David Rowe. Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1985. ISSN 10140-0711.
2 Friday 17 May 1985 FELIX

