CLETTERS;
Rag Fete
Dear Sir,
Re-the Rag Fete 11/5/85
On Saturday afternoon I attended the
College Rag Fete and now feel extremely
disillusioned as to the way College events are
almost entirely 'hack' dominated.
Let me explain. At about 2.20pm (the Fete
was supposed to begin at 2.00pm) the doors
of the Queen's Tower opened, so I followed a
large group of people to the top. Having been
up at the top for a grand total of about two
minutes a certain Jackie Peirce arrived at the
top and started to order everyone down, no
please and certainly no explanations were
given. Let me say that it is a good job that I
am a member of College who has learnt to
put up with the behaviour of a hack, and not
a member of the public whose general
opinion that 'all students are louts' would
only be reinforced by this performance.
To top it all, when we arrived at the
bottom, a 'donation' of 50p was demanded
before we could get out. I do not object to
giving to charity, but I do object to being
ordered to do so.
It wasn't even as if we'd done anything
wrong. If the Tower was out of bounds to
'normal' (non-hack) students then there
should have been someone guarding the
door, or it should have been locked.
I'm most glad that I'm a third year and
thus will not have to endure this inanely
childish behaviour after June, and I certainly
have great sympathy for future students of
this College who, if my three years are
anything to go by, will have to put up with an
even worse 'variety' (drinking or childish
mucking about) of social events. I'm not at all
surprised that College want to cut grants to
the Union, which after all is supposed to cater
for and represent all the students, not just the
few who want to spend every evening
drinking free beer instead of getting an
education, the purpose of attending college, I
thought.
Yours angrily,
Malcolm Preen
Computing 3
Dear Sir,
I write in reply to Malcolm Preen's higly
objectionable and derogatory comments. He
says that he is 'extremely disillusioned at the
way College events are 'hack' dominated. He
has failed to realise that if there were no
'hacks' there, there would not be an event to
go to at all. Without the organisation of the
'hacks' there would not have been a Rag Fete
to go to, and as there were a large number of
stalls there had perforce to be a large number
of 'hacks'.
In response to his criticism of Jackie
Peirce, R C S U V P elect, I would like to point
out that she unfortunately suffers from
vertigo and was severely affected by it*at the
time. She had to go up as she was running the
Queen's Tower at the time. The door was not
left open through any fault of her own but
due to someone who had wandered up earlier
and had got locked in. Her behaviour to M r
Preen is highly understandable considering
the fact that M r Preen should have known
that he had to pay to go up the Queen's
Tower, having been here for three years, and
not trespassed where he had no right to go.
Yours faithfully,
Carl Burgess
IC Rag Chairman
Dear Sir,
I should just like to make three points
regarding the events in the Queen's Tower on
Saturday 11 in reply to M r Preen.
1 The Rag Fete is organised purely as a fund
raising event for charity. I would therefore
assume that anyone with a modicum of
intelligence could deduce that an entrance fee
would be required to go up the Queen's
Tower. As a third year M r Preen should
undoubtedly have been aware of this and
realised that perhaps he should not just
wander in.
2 The Tower is opened up only under strict
conditions that numbers inside be carefully
controlled, and that people be supervised at
every landing. As there were approximately
100 people already in the tower entirely
unsupervised the only course of action open
to me was to clear the building as quickly as
possible.
3 Suffering from vertigo, and having already
been up the Tower less than half-an-hour
previously, I was, to say the least, not
particularly enamoured with the idea of
having to go up it again. I was however as
polite as possible, explaining at every landing
my reasons for asking everyone to leave. As I
was completely ignored by very many people,
some of whom carried on up to higher levels,
it can hardly be surprising that I appeared a
little agitated.
I apologise to anyone who feels I was being
unduly officious but I believe the above
points should clear up any misunderstand-
ings. If however M r Preen, or anyone else
there still feels so terribly agrieved then I am
sure a refund can be arranged.
In closing I should just like to agree with
Mr Preen on one point; I too am most glad he
is a third year.
Yours faithfully,
Jackie Peirce
RCSU VP elect
Dear Sir,
With reference to M r Preen's letter, I
believe that his comments refer primarily to
myself and not to Jackie Peirce. Jackie had
the unenviable and totally necessary task of
clearing the tower before we could start
charging people admission. I believe that she
did this both proficiently and amicably.
Certainly it was not made easy for her by the
attitude of some people present and the fact
that, as I witnessed shortly after showing M r
Preen and friends out, she suffers from
vertigo very badly. Surely this was then an act
above and beyond duty.
If there is any blame to be placed it is upon
myself for deciding to charge a 50p 'exit fee'
for all those who had not paid to get in. This
was an on-the-spot decision made when I
realised that there were approximately 100
people inside the tower who had not paid for
entrance. I interpreted this as a lost revenue
of £50, about one-twelth of the final income
from the Fete, obviously something we could
do without losing. I did not realise that some
people had not been to the top and I
apologise if my attitude caused any offence.
It is a pity that this incident has marred what
was otherwise an excellent day.
Yours faithfully,
John Ingham
Rag Chairman-Elect
1 bo**'? K/OovJ vJtiV
H£ 5 o / 5 / v V Sfi<Jt To
H c 7 1 '
4 Friday 17 May 1985 FEUX

