The Department of Aeronautics,
which is one of the smallest
departments in College, does much
work with Fluid dynamics which is
of general application, and it is the
expertise that has been built up in
wind tunnel design that has lead to a
prestigous contact with Honda.
The Department is also involved in
the design of a new real-time
Simulator which represents a
significant advance over
conventional machines.
ONE O F T H E W O R L D ' S most sophisticated
wind tunnels is being constructed in the
Department of Aeronautics at Imperial
College.
In recent years the Department has
become increasingly interested in non-
aeronautical work, including road vehicle
aerodynamics. This particular interest really
began with tests carried out on racing cars,
which included some for formula one racing
teams like Ferrari, Lotus, and Williams.
There is already a wind tunnel in the
Department which can be used for up to one-
fifth scale testing, but it is in such demand
from racing and sports car manufacturers
that a great strain is being put on its
traditional use for teaching and research.
Also Dr Peter Bearman and Dr John Harvey
are intersted in extending their research
activities to cover the fundamentals of air
flow around cars, so there is a real need for
new facilities.
The new wind tunnel forms part of a joint
project involving the College and the
Japanese car company Honda. There is a five
year contract with Honda, which includes
two years for the construction of the tunnel,
and three years for research. At the end of the
five year contract the wind tunnel will
become the property of Imperial College. It is
unusual for Japenese firms to place contracts
outside of Japan, and the good reputation the
College has built up in this area of work must
have influenced their decision. But also,
within the College as a whole, there is a drive
towards increasing links with industry both
in this country and abroad.
The tunnel has been specifically designed
to carry out road vehicle aerodynamics
studies. It has a test section 5 feet high by 10
feet wide by 30 feet long with the capability to
test one-third scale models, and a maximum
wind speed of 35m/sec. A moving ground
facility based on a conveyor belt system
means the effect of travelling along the
ground can be simulated, as well as the effect
of moving through air. It is also possible to
rotate the moving ground facility to obtain
the effect of cross winds. So conditions that
may be encountered in real-life situations can
be closely reproduced. The whole system is
computer controlled, and it will be possible
to measure wind forces on the cars, and a
detailed pressure distribution on the models
and in the surrounding air flow.
In the past much of the research on
passenger cars has been directed at reducing
drag and so conserving fuel. But as fuel costs
continue to rise car manufacturers are
considering making more lightweight cars
using new materials. It is conceivable that the
weight of cars may be halved, in which case
the design will need to be carefully studied to
ensure stability and safe handling. One of the
major areas of research, using the wind
tunnel, will be looking at the problems of
driving through crosswinds, such as those
encountered on motorways.
In a few days, work on the new wind tunnel
should be completed, and the reseach can
begin.
Simulated Excitement
A high speed simulator, which will have a
computingpower to rival the largest computers
in the world, is being developedby a team in the
Aeronautics Department.
The use of simulators for a wide range of
tasks is on the increase. They are used to design
and test mathematical models of aircraft so
that prototypes are right first time. These
complete models are so complex that using
existing simulators it may take many computer
hours to replicate a manoeuvre of only a few
minutes or seconds. Real-time simulators are
used to train pilots and crews. Modern
simulators are limited by their relatively slow
speed of computation, with the computer's
version of the aircraft's movement only
updated about 30 times a second. There is a
need to update at least 1,000 times a second,
particularly for helicopter simulation.
The team headed by Mr Belcher is in the
early stages of developing a real-time
simulator with the capability of handling 1,000
million operations a second. It will be possible
to simulate 900 processes simultaneously with
a high volume of data traffic between them.
With around 1,000 updates a second it will be
over 30 times faster than existing machines,
and it will be far cheaper because it is
specifically dedicated to this type of
computation. It will havepotential application
outside of aeronautics, and there is interest in
using it to model the spread of disease through
populations.
6 Friday 17 May 1985 FELIX

