IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Annual Report
1984-1985
presented to the AGM Tuesday 21 May 1985
President
Introduction
Once again it is time to put pen to paper and present my report after
almost 12 months as President. Such an annual report is inevitably an
assessment of the many and varied aspects of IC Union that the
President is involved with during the year, as well as comment on
relevant issues of the year.
For the second year running, we have started and finished the year
with the full complement of sabbaticals and more notably, finished
with all four sabbaticals on good terms with each other. This has
resulted in a friendly, working atmosphere in the Union Office as well
as the F E L I X Office, which can only lead to a more effective Union.
The Union and its committees
Union General Meetings
To date, each and every U G M has been closed, even though not
quorate, after all business has been dealt with, which to my mind has
been immensely pleasing. This has allowed the sabbaticals and other
officers to present their reports and to be questioned thereupon. In
addition, a number of motions have been heard, the vast majority
being of direct interest to students at IC. Unfortunately, we have as
yet, not solved the Union's financial problems courtesy of Mirror
Bingo!
The attendance has not been particularly high which may be due to
publicity, lack of interest or any other number of reasons.
Nonetheless, the role of the U G M still remains as important as ever in
being the sovereign body of the Union.
Council
Attendance has been good this year including the meeting at
Silwood, and there have often been lengthy discussions and debates.
Unfortunately, certain members of Council seem unable to see past
the end of their nose and would rather spend hours arguing over trivial
and insignificant points than over policy making issues that could
affect rather more students than themselves.
In particular, the sabbatical Officers reports have tended to be on
the long side, simply because it was felt that reports ought to cover as
much of the work being done as possible. What has proven to be
particularly annoying is that important issues are glossed over to
result in a disproportionately long discussion over relatively minor
triva.
The Executive
Apart from the mundane tasks of room bookings and parking
permits, (tasks which have none the less been performed competently
by the Exec) the other constitutional requirements of the Executive, ie
discipline and policy/decision making where urgency requires action,
have fortunately taken up little time.
The first two terms saw frequent and regular meetings of the
Executive and with, happily only a handful of disciplinary cases, two
of which went to appeal and were upheld.
The Summer term involves considerable extra work for the three
Vice Presidents, Ann, Maribel and Mike, whom I must thank for the
time and effort that they have put in. As a consequence, the Exec has
not officially met this term, since the only business has been room
bookings (a task capably carried out by the Sabbaticals).
Union Finance Committee
This year commenced with putting the final touches to the estimates
, and trying to incorporate a deficit in excess of £6.500, Various

