measures were proposed which, although not popular, were resonably
fair. Yet again, that most widely used of hypocritical expressions,
'integral but autonomous' was bandied about coupled with some
highly selfish and irresponsible behaviour, resulting in the problem
only being half solved.
Admittedly, attitudes seem to have become more resolute as the
year has progressed. However, deep-rooted problems and unfair
practices still remain and must be solved fairly, very soon.
Major Sub-Committees
Once again, it is pleasing to be able to report that the MSCs have
worked well and remained very active, providing all manner of clubs
and societies (as well as those provided by the C C U clubs and
societies) I was pleased to have been able to attend the majority of
their meetings in a supportive rather than regulatory role. It never
ceases to amaze me how much voluntary work is put in by their
executives, particularly Chairmen, and of course by Senior
Treasurers.
Whilst it would be nice to list all their achievements this year, I think
that the annual report of each M S C is a much more fitting place.
ACC
Although last session was the inaugural year in U A U , this session
was the first in which all clubs were eligible to enter.
Last year was extremely successful, with five national
championships, and set a very high standard from which to improve
upon this year.
To date, the level of success has unfortunately not lived up to last
year's although a number of clubs, including Volleyball, Cricket and
Tennis have reached the elimination round for the national finals.
Most importantly, more students have taken part this year and
seem to have enjoyed these new opportunities.
On the 'domestic front', club performances seem to be of the same
excellent standard as previously.
RCC
The baffling array of non-retrospective consumable
supplementaries seems to have been mastered by the R C C clubs who
have remained as active as ever and have been well supported.
In his second year as Chairman, Hugh Stiles has provided
experience and continuity that has been reflected in the smoothness of
operation of R C C .
SCAB
As usual, the societies in S C A B have excelled themselves in their
various productions and debates which seem to have been well
supported by students and societies.
At long last, Nick Shackley's efforts seem to have paid off in the
reorganisation of Music Society funding and accounts. His re-election
as S C A B Chairman should ensure that the decision sticks and is
smoothly implemented.
SCC
Once the trial and tribulations of Ultra Vires were sorted out, the
religious and political societies have continued to cater well for their
own particular interest groups. The administrative title of
miscellaneous societies does not really do justice to the societies in this
category who provide an excellent service.
OSC
The national societies seemed to have catered for many different
and varied cultures and tastes, to a greater or lesser extent this year.
Doris Retsina has put much work into OSC and representing
overseas student interests to the U G C and to College.
Pub Board
F E L I X , the newspaper of Imperial College Union, has been
considerably different to last year under the able editorial hand of
Dave Rowe, and has surprised many people by printing factually
correct, credible news items as well as a number of witty parodies.
As for the other written publications, the Handbook was very well
received, the Phoenix has, by all accounts maintained a very high
standard and the Alternative Prospectus is currently close to
completion.
STOIC and IC Radio have continued to tantalise the eyes and ears
of at least some of the Halls, Houses and the J C R whilst the
enthusiasm of the programme makers remains unabated.
Post Graduate Affairs
After much hard work by Chris Hendy and the P G Committee, the
year got off to a flying start with a very successful party in the Holland
Club during Freshers Week. Support for P G events as a whole seemed
to decline somewhat thereafter, though departmental events look
certain to be popular.
On the academic side, the Rector and Board of Studies agreed to
increase the student representation to include the P G Chairman.
This year also saw the introduction of the 'PG Handbook' designed
to help potential postgraduate students at IC to choose a P G course.
Thanks to Hugh Stiles must be recorded for the huge amount of time
and effort that he put into the handbook.
External Affairs
This year, External Affairs have had a lower profile than last year,
the main activity centering around the Grants campaign in November,
and G U C .
Ents
This year must have been one of the best ever for entertainments,
with all credit to the Ents team which, to my mind, has worked very
well as a team. They have even managed to break even on the year
which is very good going. On behalf of the Ents team, I hope that you
have enjoyed the Carnivals, discos and parties that they have put on. It
was certainly a pleasure to help them when requested.
Academic Affairs
This whole field has been very active this year, with the four A A O s
and the dep reps putting in a lot of time and effort.
The usual perennial problems of teaching standards, lecturer-
training, anonymity of exam scripts etc have been attacked, with
varying degrees of success (or lack of it). It seems to me that if the
College is not interested in improving or safeguarding these areas,
then perhaps we ought to start publicising these facts in the
Alternative Prospectus, THES etc so that prospective students at least
know what to expect!
I do sympathise with the A A O s who could be in the position of
criticising a department or member of staff on, perhaps, one of the
above, and yet being examined by that same department.
House Committee
This committee has the important but difficult job of maintaining
the Union building, a bit like painting the Forth Bridge really.
Equally never-ending is the acquisition and maintenance of
furniture, which migrates around the building at an astonishing rate.
If only people would leave the furniture in the room that they found it
in, everyone would be a lot happier especially the sabbaticals.
Internal Services Committee
Following a reasonably active and useful committee last year, this
year's committee has been a waste of time. The chairman obviously
stood for the corresponding place on Council, and managed to do
approximately nothing for the bulk of the year. In fact, this might as
well have been the 'Contemplate Thy Navel' Committee for all that it
did.
Suddenly when J M T and ISC was criticised, in public at a U G M ,
the oft promised but non-existent noticeboard survey miraculously
appeared, accompanied by a set of ridiculously impractical and
unrealistic proposals.
I hope that as Academic Affairs Officer for 1985-1986 he does more
in this important job than he has achieved this year, and that Rose can
salvage something from the mess that he has inherited.
College Committees
Governing Body, Finance and Executive Committees
These are the top two College committees, each meeting one per
term, and there are three student observers on each of the committees.
As in previous years, we have had opportunities to voice opinions on a
number of issues, and in some cases to force the issue.
These meetings are exceptionally valuable to the student
representatives since much of internal College business is discussed,
often producing immediate action.
College House' Committee
A small committee including representatives of Residence,
Refectories, Estates and Conference. It can often be a short cut to
getting things done when lower-level committees can't or won't
respond to continual complaints and criticisms.

