Athletics Committee
This is a sub-committee of the Governors, that oversees the running
of Harlington, the Sports Centre and the Boathouse through its own
subcommittees.
Athletic Ground Committee
As its name implies, this committee looks after Harlington, the
College sports gound near Heathrow. To my mind, the College
bureaucracy has failed to reach this committee, as many decisions are
quickly and easily carried out. It is particularly pleasing to see that the
reduction in Bar prices last session has been maintained during this
year.
Mick and Ann Reynolds continue to give good service, for which we
all owe our thanks.
Welfare
This appears to be much more of a talking shop than an action
committee, with representatives of the Health Centre, Student
Services, Student Counsellor, Day Nursery and the College Tutor as
Chairman. It does however allow problems that have been
experienced by one sector to be aired so that others may be better
prepared should the same problems reoccur. A useful and informative
committee.
Central Libraries
At the start of session, it was felt that the opening hours of the
Haldane reading room were not as acceptable as they had been and
that insufficient money was available for the purchase of fiction stock.
Remedies for both required money, and I would like to record
thanks, particularly to the College and to Prof E T Brown for their
help.
With the installation of a new security barrier at the Haldane/Great
Hall entrance, the opening hours have been restored to their former
glory ie the same as those of the Lyon Playfair, and an extra grant has
been made for the purchase of books.
The Lyon Playfair is currently installing a computerised lending
system that should speed up and simplify the loan of books. This
should be ready for the start of next session.
Board of Studies
The Board of Studies is the top forum for academic matters and
reports to the Governing Body, under the Chairmanship of the
Rector.
The year started dismally with the abolition of the Joint Honours
Course between Chemistry and Management Science, a worthwhile
and popular course, brought in through the back door.
Throughout the year reports have been received accompanied by
gloomy statistics from admission, wastage rates, and PhD submission
rates. The problems have been noted but little positive action seem to
have come out of it. M y report elsewhere goes into much more detail
as regards teaching standards.
One positive step was the inclusion of the P G Chairman as an extra
student observer on Board of Studies.
Graduate Studies
A sub-committee of the Board to discuss matters of an academic
nature relevant to postgraduate courses and education at the College.
The main topic for discussion this year been the 'nature of a PhD',
in so far as what a PhD is meant to be, what the College should expect
from its PhD students and what the students should expect to get out
of a PhD.
Secondly, the assessment of PhD and the role of the supervisor in
the assessment has been discussed in quite some detail. In particular,
the College has chosen to differ quite significantly from the C V C P
guidelines and from the University of London in the role of the
supervisor in PhD assessment.
Graduate studies committee also recommended to the Board of
Studies that, apart from under exceptional circumstances,
postgraduate students should be registered for the MPhil degree in the
first instance and to be 'upgraded' to PhD after around 12 months on
satisfactory performance.
Many thanks, to Chris Hendy and Hugh Stiles for their time and
effort on this committee.
Committee on Overseas Students
The original remit for this Committee had centred around the
welfare of Overseas students. Recently, this has been extended to
include recruitment which in certain ways, is incompatible with
welfare.
The most recent meetings have centred around the report and
conclusions of the recent recruitment visit to Malaysia and Singapore,
some of which we found to be quite hypocritical and distasteful.
Following the comment and criticism raised, it is to be hoped that
these point have been noted for the future recruitment of overseas
students.
Refectory Committee
This committee has again provided the focus for the activities of
Catering, Bars, Shop and Wine Cellar as well as a policy making body
for the refectory system as a whole.
The computerisation of the refectory stocks has gone from a serious
proposition to a sick joke. Even with the threats of a misconceived
Refectory boycott hanging over their heads, the refectory system has
failed to install and implement what would be a trivial problem for any
undergraduate in the College. I'm sick to the back teeth of
complaining about this and other fundamental weaknesses, as I'm
sure Dr Perry, the Chairman is of hearing me. This whole facade is
pathetic! With all due respect to Simon and the hard work he puts into
refectories, the pleasing generation of a small surplus on the catering
side is in my opinion more due to luck than good management. How
the hell can anyone expect to manage an operation of this scale when
the right hand doesn't know what the left hand is doing, and when
stocks and accounts are only accurately known well after the time that
any effective managememnt interpretation and control could be
effective.
It is pleasing to report that the price rise for student catering has
been kept as low as possible, and has been limited to only one this year.
I'm sure that any amount of computerisation (whilst not being a
panancea for management faults) can only help to reduce the guess
work involved.
Also pleasing is the close collaboration with the Estates Section in
repairing small but niggling faults promptly.
On the whole, a small but pleasing amount of progress has been
made but there is acres of room for improvement. M r Northey can
hardly fail to make a positive impact on refectories.
Suggestions, Complaints and Shop Committees
As its name implies, this is a committee that should take note and
act upon suggestions and complaints for the College refectories as well
as Southside Shop.
In my opinion, complaints about the quality of the food should be
made to the manager on duty at the time and place of purchase. It's all
very well having a letter to say that such and such a food portion was
cold, or small, or whatever, but proves little satisfaction for the
customer and not a geat deal that Refectories can do days or even
weeks after the date.
There have been two failings of this committee this year. One has
been that there has been no official Chairman, which negates any
continuity that it ought to have. The other is that some, (not all) of the
Refectory managers pay little more than lip service to this committee.
Student Residence Committee
Residences this year have been besotted with problems, large and
small.
The year commenced with yet more complaints about the fire
alarms in Southside , which to date are not perfect but are a significant
improvement on their past performance. Security in Southside again
reared its ugly head, and was supposedly going to be cured once and
for all by the use of an electronic key card system. What a farce!
Putting the key card in was no problem. Turning the damn thing
required two hands and a couple of years' experience of weight
training. The next refinement was an electrically operated door bolt
and a nice flashing red light that flashes when the door is left open. It
would use less bulbs if it flashed when the system works! Yet another
truimph for a College of Science and Technology.
Apart from technical cock-ups, there have been a number of
administrative changes this year. A non-residential housekeeper has
been introduced to Linstead Hall. Montpelier now has a postgraduate
warden. A discipline tribunal for residence matters has been
introduced. (This will need careful monitoring by next year's Exec).
Next session will be a difficult year for residences, with the loss of
the Fremantle and Lexham Gardens. To meet the existing guarantees
to new students, considerable reorganisation in residence places was
required, involving a reduciton in the number of re-applicants,

