10 Feature / Clubs & Societies
Declaration of the Bab STOIC
On Monday 23rd May 1994 over 6 million
Baha'is across the world celebrated the 150th
anniversary of the Declaration of the Bab. The
Bab was a young Persian man from the city of
Shiraz in Iran and He declared to be the
forerunner of One who was expected by all
major world religions. His progressive teachings
caused a lot of uprisings in Persia which
eventually lead to His martyrdom in 1850 along
with many of His growing band of followers.
In 1863, Baha'u'llah publicly declared that
He was the Promised One of all Ages, foretold
by the Bab. This was a title in Arabic which
means The Glory of God'. He indicated that
His Teachings were but the latest chapter of
God's unfolding message for mankind and that
it complemented that of previous prophets of
God such as Moses, Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha
and Krishna. He stressed that the time had come
to pursue the common goal of unifying mankind.
His adherents are called Baha'is and are
members of the Baha'i Faith. The government
and clergy in Persia opposed Baha'u'llah's
rising influence and fame. Consequently, He
was banished throughout the Turkish Empire
over the following 40 years until He passed
away, near the city of Akka, in 1892. It is
recounted in many historical documents that
over 20,000 of the Bab's followers were
martyred and later many of Baha'u'llah's
followers suffered the same fate.
Despite the fact that the Baha'i Faith is only
150 years old, according to the Encyclopedia
Britannica it is the second most widespread
religion in the world after Christianity. Baha'is
exist in 220 countries and territories of the world
and come from all ethnic, religious and cultural
backgrounds.
The Baha'i faith teaches the existence of one
God, unknowable in His essence. In
Baha'u'llah's writings, He explains that religion
is revealed to mankind progressively, in
proportion to society's maturity and capacity
and that today the most pressing need is the
principle of the oneness of mankind. A l l people,
regardless of their race, colour, or religion
belong to the same human family. He said: "The
earth is but one country and mankind its
citizens."
In addition, there are many social teachings
associated with His Revelation. Some Baha'i
principles include the equality of men and
women, the abolition of all forms of prejudice,
the independent investigation of the truth and
the harmony between science and religion.
Currently, there is no single Baha'i leader. In
fact the Baha'i Faith has no clergy. However, it
does have governing bodies on local, national
and international levels elected through secret
ballot. The international governing body of the
Baha'i Faith, the Universal House of Justice, is
based in Haifa, Israel at a short distance from the
resting place of the Bab.
VarqaKhadem
Last weekend, the STOIC network was
extended to near its former glory days. A test
card was transmitted to Linstead Hall along with
the sound from M T V .
This means that STOIC will soon be on air to
all the Southside halls. Due to numerous cable,
video and satellite channels in the halls, STOIC
is tuning the system to avoid interference.
A generous gift from London Weekend
Television means that STOIC now has suitable
test and measuring equipment to work with.
If you are interested in helping, please ring
us on our new numbers: 48104 or 071 594 8104.
Victory
Imperial College claimed a double victory at the
Chiswick Regatta last weekend, the latest in a
long line of Boat Club successes.
This time it was the turn of the women's
crews for glory, beating the University College
Hospital crew by seven lengths in the final of
the Novice Coxed Four category. The same
crew, with one substitution, claimed another win
over Thames Tradesmen Rowing Club by one
length in the Senior Three Coxed Fours.
These are the first wins of the summer for IC
Boat Club and undoubtedly the first of many.
2 Exhibition Doad
London SW7
Telephone 071589 8947
Happy Hour
6 - 7pm,Mon - Fri
Enjoy a free glass of wine or beer on
your first visit toyour nearest andnicest
localrestaurant!
We serve goodbottledbeers and wines
by the glass with home-cookedfood.
Snack menu available.
bring this
advertisement
withyou.
2 £
Soulh Ktrmingltin lube
Student
Accommodation Office
Vacancies in College Residences as at 23/5/94
Ref Hall Type Sex UG/PG From Licence
1. Bernard Sunley Twin M UG Now 38-Week
2. Fisher Twin M/F UG Now 38-Week
3. Garden Twin F UG Now 38-Week
4. Holbein Twin M UG Now 38-Week
5. Olave Twin M/F PG Now BES Let
6. Southwell Twin M UG Now 34-Week
7. Southwell Flat Twin F UG Now 38-Week
8. Willis Jackson Twin M UG Now 34-Week
9. Bernard Sunley Triple M UG Now 34-Week
10. Clayponds Singles M/F UG/PG Now BES Let
11. Earls Court Single M/F PG Now 51-Week
12. Garden Single M UG Now 38-Week
13. Penthouse Single F UG Now 38-Week
14. Linstead Single M/F UG 13/6/94 34-Week
15. Falmouth Keogh Single M/F UG 14/6/94 38-Week
16. Falmouth Keogh Single M/F UG 20/6/94 34-Week
17. Falmouth Keogh Single M/F PG 27/6/94 51-Week
For further information, please call in at
Ground Floor, 15 Princes Gardens
Summer vacation accommodation available in Beit Old
Hostel between the 27th June and 23rd Sept

