Clubs and Societies 11
Coming
Soon IS
FilmSoc...
In The Name Of The Father will be shown at ICU Cinema on 11th, 12th and 13th June
IC Boat Club:
Spent In Ghent
Imperial College Film Society has 32 different
films which we will be showing over the course
of nearly 50 performances during the last five
weeks of this term.
Highlights include In The Name of The
Father, The Age Of Innocence, Shadowlands,
Carlito 's Way and The Piano.
Tickets will cost £1.80 and are available
from the Union Office, a week in advance, or
from the ICU Cinema 'Box Office' before any
of the film showings.
If you buy any five tickets (for five different
films) you'll only pay the price of four. (This
offer is not available for tickets bought from the
Union Office.)
Look out for the posters, adverts in Felix or
telephone ext 3527 for further details.
Over the weekend, 7th and 8th May, the Boat
Club competed at Ghent International Regatta in
Belgium. Many top British and European clubs
were in attendance, including the University of
London, the Great Britain lunior Squad, the
Belgian National Squad, and several Dutch and
French top clubs. In addition to these were the
South African, Argentinian, and Chilean
national teams. This ensured that the racing was
of the highest standard; frequently the open titles
winner's were of Olympic final class, indeed the
Belgian coxless pair came fourth at last year's
World Championships.
IC Boat Club, arriving in the midst of finals,
quickly found their feet and acquitted
themselves admirably with four titles from the
weekend, significantly out-performing all other
domestic clubs.
On the Saturday, the 1st VII, racing in small
boats, showed their ability to stay with the top-
class crews when they narrowly failed to have
two pairs, from three, in the five boat final,
despite recording the second and third fastest
times in their tough heats. However, the hastily-
thrown together combination of Ben Poulton and
Luka Grubor showed true grit and overcame
exam-induced fatigue to finish second, very
close behind a Dutch national pair.
In another tough heat, the top men's coxless
four were nudged out of the final by the Belgian
and South African fours, whilst the second four
were slightly further down. Dan Forster, in a
single scull, failed to make the final in a very
high-class event.
In the eights, IC women, troubled with
injury, continued their run of success with a
comfortable win over their school-girl
opponents in a two-boat final. In contrast, the
young and inexperienced men's second eight
had a 'baptism of fire' final, pitched against the
South Africans, Belgians, and a strong Dutch
student crew from Amsterdam. In a close battle
between all four crews, the IC boys missed the
bronze by a whisker, whilst still overlapping the
winner.
Sunday saw a bit more luck on IC's side with
the second men's coxless four recovering from a
poor race the previous day to dominate the final
of under-23 fours and to walk off with an
impressive trophy. Again the top men's four
encountered their bogey-crews in the form of the
South Africans and the Belgians in their heat
and yet again failed to qualify for the final.
In the under-23 pairs, Martin Kettle and Ace
Green made up for missing Saturday's final by
cruising home well ahead of the cosmopolitan
field in a very quick time. The women's eight, in
their straight final, could not match the crisp
bladework of a Thames Tradesmen crew, who
dominated the race from the outset, leaving the
girls in their wash. The men's eight enjoyed the
feel of controlling their final race from start to
finish, boosting their morale.
After an exhausting weekend, IC showed
great promise for the summer regatta season.
Various crews will be competing at these top
domestic events as well as major international
ones such as Duisberg and Paris in the near
future, before descending on Henley in luly.
Zimbabwe
Tour For
IC Rugby
For the first time in the history of Imperial
College sport a tour is being organised to
Zimbabwe. IC Rugby Football Club 1st X V will
leave on the 26th June to spend two weeks
playing various clubs and regional sides around
Harare, including Zimbabwe University 1st X V ,
returning on 10th July.
As well as playing rugby and strengthening
links with the University of Zimbabwe, we hope
to meet up with 75 IC alumni who now live out
there, with the aim of organising a reception or
dinner which would take place during our stay
in Zimbabwe.
The squad will consist of about 18 players,
who have all played for Imperial College this
year. The responsibility for the selection of this
squad will rest with next season's Captain, Tim
Townend (Mech Eng 1) and Andrew
Montgomery, ICRFC Honorary Secretary and
A C C Chairman.
For most of the players in the squad, this will
be their first trip to Africa and so they will be
looking forward to seeing and experiencing a
very different country and culture at first hand.
If anyone has any reliable contacts in or
around Harare, who would be able to provide
two or three players with accommodation or
could possibly help with any other aspect of the
tour please contact Matt Anstead (Mech Eng 1),
tel 071 727 6031 (late or early).
The ENO's Peter Grimes is reviewed on page 14

