12 Clubs and Societies
Yacht Club - EDHEC 1994
Saturday 16th April saw the start of the 26th
EDHEC student regatta, a week long yacht
facing event. More than two hundred boats from
Universities all over the world participated and
the event was held in Les Sable D'Olonne on the
Atlantic coast of France. The Imperial College
Yacht Club was represented there by a team of
eight, led by skipper Thor Askeland and
helmsman Tim Parsons.
The previous day, the team members had
arrived in the small town after long hours of
travelling, only to find that the boat which had
been hired for the race was missing its rig! Yes,
it's that big tree trunk stuck in the middle of a
sailing boat...basically it's what makes the boat
move. Morale was not at its best as we listened
to our invaluable native guide and team mate
Anthony Duyck skillfully negotiating the
necessary repairs with the boat charterers. "Oui,
oui, only a few hours," they assured us. Sunday
morning came and we were still watching
helplessly as the other boats sailed out to take
advantage of the last practice day.
On Monday morning the racing began and,
with our boat, repaired we set sail proudly flying
the College flag, the biggest in the fleet and the
envy of all the other teams. The next two days
saw us slowly but steadily gaining positions in
our class division. The going was tough in the
ocean waves, especially for our bowman Matt
Crossman taking the worst of the weather.
Wednesday evening and, after numerous
delays due to slackening winds, the fleet left port
for the toughest and most demanding race of the
week: the overnight regatta. The sun had already
set as our boat neared the first mark while the
temperature dropped and the wind picked up.
Good tactics and navigation put us in the leading
group of our class halfway through the night but
luck was not coming our way. At 2am, all the
onboard instruments and lights shut down due to
a faulty battery. The problem was solved by
rewiring the engine battery but not before we
had sailed for an hour with only a compass
bearing to guide us. The race continued as the
shifts took turns in the forbidding conditions,
sustained only by the continuous supply of hot
soups and coffee from the galley. The boat was
pushed to the limit in the ten hour long upwind
leg amidst cries of: "She can't take much more
of this cap'n!"
At the second mark the wind played some
bad tricks on us and we lost some positions in
the leading pack. After more than twenty hours
sailing we crossed the finish line in 14th place.
Surprises were still on their way when, on
Friday night, two of the crew, Anthony and
Carlo, returned to the boat slightly intoxicated
from a party and were heard remarking:
"Where's our flag gone?"
"What flag?"
"Oops!"
The following morning we realised that our
flag had become the trophy of an unknown sea
scavenger. The same day, while rounding a
mark, shouts and scraping sounds from the stern
of our boat warned us that another boat was
impolitely trying to climb into our cockpit! Our
protest was discarded for a technical glitch but
the crew made it in one piece to an incredible
farewell party that evening; A+ for the
organisers.
Our final position was 20th out of the 37
boats in our class and in the top 40 out of the
245 teams overall. We are extremely grateful for
the help of the IC Trust, the Marketing
Department, and Mr Vernon McCLure for
making it all possible! The crew members who
worked tirelessly include Natalie Chiang, Rick
Bilby, Carlo Contaldi, Anthony Duyck, Neil
Chamberlain, Matt Crossman, and Emmanuel
Omont. Next year we hope to improve our
position even more!
Annual Dinner
IF you would like to go sailing this Summer..
IF you want to sail / race next year...
IF you can tell great sailing stories (lies)...
IF you will be in the UK in the next year...
Join Us!
Friday 3rd June
Contact Maria Moratis, mm4@doc,
or Yacht Club Pigeonhole
The deadline for articles is Friday, 5pm

