14 Reviews
Peter Grimes
Hildegard Bechtler's elemental setfor ENO's Peter Grimes (Photo: Clive Barda)
The penultimate scene from English National
Opera's Peter Grimes, with its frighteningly raw
focus on a man's descent into insanity, numbs
the senses. Never has anything in an opera house
so immediately disturbed me. We have a truly
chilling assumption of the title role by Philip
Langridge, returning to it in this revival of Tim
Albery's darkly stylistic 1991 production of
Benjamin Britten's first operatic masterpiece.
Langridge employs his hauntingly beautiful
voice to magnificent effect, with none of the
mannerisms that can distort the character into a
raging bear (a la Vickers) or whining academic
(Pears on the composer's own recording). Every
syllable is projected with crystalline accuracy -
The play, although the publicity would have you
believe otherwise, is in no way a 'sexual
tragedy'; it is more along the lines of a tragedy
of love. In the manner of many age old plays it
provides an insight into a royal court; through
the trappings of an enforced marriage which
divides a loving couple. The Royal court in this
case is the ancient Greek court of Sparta.
There is little comedy in the play, although a
clever performance by Simon Treves, as a
Spartan lord lusting after the beautiful Penthea,
provides small doses of humour reminiscent of
Rowan Atkinson's Blackadder with the facial
expressions of John Cleese. Zoe Aldrich,
although extremely good looking, gives a
absolutely sensational!
Working to reinforce this achievement in the
pit was the dynamic David Atherton. Although
the score may have been stripped of some of its
lyrical gloss, what was revealed was something
more elemental and disconcertingly truthful.
Despite a few reservations about the rest of
the cast (Janice Cairns' Ellen was surely a
miscalculation) I cannot imagine many finer
examples of live theatre.
iqqy
In rep at the Coliseum, St Martin's Lane WC2N
071 836 3161. Tube: Leicester Square. Tickets
from £8. Runs until 30th June.
particularly weak performance in the difficult
role as the Princess Calantha, but Tom Bowles
overshadows all with an extremely strong
performance as Orgilus, around whom the plot is
cleverly woven.
The relatively star-studded cast of the
Triptych Theatre Company manage to pull off
this performance of the oft forgotten Jacobean
masterpiece very well. It remains to be seen how
the Royal Shakespeare Company perform this
play later on this year.
Jimbob
Lyric Studio, Kings St, Hammersmith. 081 741
8701. Tube: Hammersmith. Tickets £7 (£5
cones, lhr before). Runs until 11th June.
Falling
Over
England
Julian Mitchell's Falling Over England reveals
the hidden cracks of the 'stiff upper lip' English
culture which we know so well. The plot
follows half a century of the Cowpers, a well-to-
do family unable to escape from what, in the
end, only seems inevitable. The ageing Harry
Cowper, competently played by James
Laurenson, stands - and finally hobbles - like a
metaphor for post-war England itself...declining.
Harry's son, Matt (Daniel Betts), cannot stray
from following in his father's footsteps which
lead him to the very same English middle-class
conservatism he once dreaded. James Laurenson
again plays the ageing Cowper as if to hammer
home this point. Charlotte Cornwell likewise
plays mother and grandmother and she does this
with equal proficiency, but in the end there are
simply too many actors playing too many
different, but incredibly similar, roles.
Falling Over England made me dizzy. But it
let me down gently.
L E M
Greenwich Theatre, Crooms Hill, SEW. 081
858 7755. Train: Greenwich. Ticketsfrom £9.50.
Uncle Silas
If you enjoy melodrama, I believe this is the
play for you. Unfortunately I don't.
Uncle Silas, the book by Joseph Le Fanu, is a
thriller set in the Victorian ages. In the play, we
see a girl tell her life story. Maud, played by
Anne Marie Duff, is a delicate girl and her life
collapses around her when her father dies. In his
will, he leaves Maud a huge fortune but until
she reaches the age of twenty-one, she must live
with her uncle. However, if she dies in the
meantime, the great fortune will be handed to
the poverty-stricken Uncle Silas. Unfortunately,
her thoughts are clouded as she is enchanted by
the mystique and rumour surrounding her uncle.
This thriller has no real thrills until the last
five minutes. It does have its moments like when
the governess, played by Sam Cox, comes out
with humorous one-liners in a peculiar French
accent. I must also give credit to Paul Dart, the
set designer, who moulds the stage to great effect.
Jack
Lyric Hammersmith, Kings St,. Hammersmith.
081 741 2311. Tube: Hammersmith. Tickets
from £7.50. Runs until 11th June.
The Broken Heart
How did the Yacht Club do at the EDHEC Regatta? See page 5

