College Concerts 15
Spirit Of The Psalms
IC Choir's line-up for last term's Verdi Requiem (Photo: Neville Miles)
Around 250 people gathered in the Great Hall
last Friday evening to hear this term's
performance by the College Choir. The summer
term's concerts seem to have a habit of being
underattended as compared with the other terms'
(last term the hall was full to its 600 capacity) -
and I don't believe everybody was hard at work
revising all evening! On the other hand the Choir
was also somewhat smaller than usual (even for
a summer term), with only 65 singers on the
platform. Their orchestra was also smaller than
normal, which at least gave the choir some
chance of being heard!
The first item on the menu was Blow's
Awake, awake my lyre. Almost everything from
this period seems to work well only with the
comparatively small forces that are now the
norm for their performance, and although the
Choir was smaller than its usual size, it still felt
too much for this particular piece. In addition,
they seemed to have only just learned the notes
in time and hence not concentrated sufficiently
on feeling the music and understanding what had
to be communicated to the audience. Eric
Brown, the Choir's musical director, had elected
to use a tenor soloist (the score leaves the voice
part of the soloist to the performers' discretion),
but Philip Dennis's sound, with its
overenthusiastic vibrato, really didn't fit in with
the very pure, young sound of the Choir.
In addition to his famous B minor setting of
the Mass, Bach wrote four 'short' settings
consisting of just a Kyrie and Gloria; the second
item of the concert was the G minor one of
these. Eric again succumbed to the temptation he
always has when conducting Bach, to take
almost everything at speeds approaching the
cataleptic. This is a shame, because all these
settings benefit from the injection of a little life,
which the singers and players just couldn't do
within the bounds of the tempo set by the
conductor. Among the three soloists, the
countertenor William Purefoy was a revelation.
The tendency of countertenors to 'hoot' just
wasn't there and the purity of his tone had many
female members of the Choir going weak at the
knees!
After the interval, we heard the second of
Bach's six motets, Der Geist hilft. Over half of
this piece requires the choir to split into two,
four-part choirs, which is a brave thing to do
with a choir of this size and type (this is an
entirely unauditioned choir). However, it kept
together with only a few hints of nervousness
and once they reached the single-choir section
that finishes the work they sounded much more
assured.
The best had been very much saved until the
last, however. The members of the Choir really
seemed to be enjoying themselves in Bernstein's
Chichester Psalms and, although not every note
was perfect, the spirit really communicated itself
to the audience. William Purefoy, the
countertenor soloist, was again superb and the
orchestra for the most part acquitted themselves
well (the most audible exception being the cello
solo in the middle movement...).
Overall, this was not the best concert ever
given by IC Choir, but the Bernstein made up for
a multitude of sins and among the soloists we
were certainly given a name to remember in
William Purefoy.
Chris Purvis
Star Winds
A fortnight ago in the Great Hall an audience of
about 350 people witnessed the musical offering
for this term from Imperial College Symphony
Orchestra (ICSO) and their conductor, Richard
Dickins. In the second term they performed
Mahler's demanding Fifth Symphony; this term
they opted for a programme of more popular
works.
The concert began with the suite from
Tchaikovsky's ballet Swan Lake. The perfor-
mance certainly conjured up images of dancing
swans but needed more enthusiasm - the final
waltz lacked 'oomph' and the tempo of the first
scene was a little slow. Nonetheless, the whole
orchestra played taut rhythms, bringing out the
syncopation in the score to great effect and
produced a coherent sound. However, the
plaudits in this work go to the woodwind section
who consistently demonstrated very fine playing.
In particular, oboist Andrew Miller exhibited
great feeling in the plaintive opening melody,
skilfully accompanied by harpist Catrin Morris-
Jones.
The second work, Richard Strauss's Second
Horn Concerto, turned the spotlight on one of
the orchestra's six horn players, Paul Gowling.
He shows a lot of potential as a soloist (he has
already performed at the South Bank and next
term begins a postgraduate course at the RCM)
although he could have produced a more
expressive tone. A few of the virtuosic passages
weren't always clearly articulated but there were
remarkably few obviously wrong notes. The
orchestra's strings sometimes failed to get to
grips with the taxing score but not sufficiently to
marr the performance.
After the interval we saw the welcome return
of Butterworth to ICSO's repertoire. Two years
ago they played the rhapsody A Shropshire Lad
and in Friday's concert they performed the
orchestral idyll The Banks Of Green Willow.
Folksongs form the core of this work and the
strings managed to sustain a lyrical sound
throughout. Once again the woodwind added
colour to the performance with some fine solos.
The big finale to the concert was provided by
music from John Williams' memorable score to
the film Star Wars. In this work it was the turn
of the brass and percussion to show their mettle,
notably in the well-known fanfare at the
beginning of the first movement. The strings, in
their big themes, produced a warm rounded tone;
indeed, in this work the whole orchestra seemed
to pull together much better. Richard Dickins
also showed great exuberance, bouncing on his
podium during the climaxes.
The second movement, 'Princess Leia', con-
sisted of a series of well-played solos on horn,
flute and violins and the third movement, 'Little
People', allowed us to hear the distinctive rustic
sound of the cor anglais in Adam Poole's solos.
The players and audience enjoyed the concert
and ICSO can be proud of another high-standard
performance.
James White
What is it like to spend a year in Europe? See pages 6 & 7

