16 Reviews
tmm.
Lush - 'Hypocrite ep': The ep opens with the
infectious Breeders style rock and ends with
ambient business on 'Undertow'. The other two
tracks are more typical of the band but Lush are
getting experimental and getting more
unpredictable and interesting. Ridley Dash
Lush - 'Desire Lines ep': Lush return, their first
track pure pre-ambient Slowdive, the last One
Dove to the note. In between are two classic
tunes, jingling mellowness laced with sparkling,
fluted high vocals. Worth the wait. The Pear
Blur - 'To The End': From the wonderful
'Parklife' LP, a wonderful ballad of delightfully
intimate proportions featuring wonderful
backing vocals by the wonderful Lactitia of the
wonderful Stereolab; a wonderful record.
Wonderful. Guy (does this man need a rest? - ed)
Magnapop - 'Lay It Down': Magnapop return
with another slice of their invigorating punk pop
from the 'Hot Boxing' album. Linda Hopper's
lively vocals are still the best thing about this
band and keep them ahead of the pack. Ridley
Baby Chaos - 'Golden Tooth': Four golden
tracks from the golden foursome who continue
to sustain a hectic pace on and off the record.
This is probably their most developed yet. The
third track, 'No Way', a wonderful romp akin to
Smashing Pumpkins. Stars. The Pear
Therapy? - 'Die Laughing': One of the
highlight cuts of the recent 'Troublegum', this
sees Andy Cairns don his best Bob Mould hat to
deliver a delectable Sugar-y composition. Vik
Sheep on Drugs
On Drugs
The very title sounds as if it is in some desperate
way trying to shock someone...anyone, but if
that were the case it would sadly fail. Despite
the drug-infatuated lyrics present in most songs,
the Sheep seem to deal more with the problems
of drugs - as in 'Slap Happy' and 'Slim Jim'
with its call of "speed kills, but I'm too young to
die" - as well as those of life in the 1990s.
Examples of such are 'Chasing Dreams' telling
the tale of mis-spent youth and "killing time with
car crime", the fairly self evident 'Slow Suicide'
or the musical interludes such as 'Beefcake' or
'Clucking' which contain everyday noises
reflecting urban decay. The combination of such
lyrics with a twisted hybrid techno brings a new
view, as well as responsibility, to the e'd up
ravers which has up until now been disregarded.
Nevertheless, the Sheep have not lost their
view that life is a party as the first single 'Let The
Good Times Roll' shows. It's just that there's
more than one way to enjoy yourself. (7) Bratt A.
• F R E S H H A I R S A L O N •
t h e b e s t s t u d e n t o f f e r in l o n d o n !
C U T 8c
B L O W D R Y
£ 1 4 LADIES
£ 1 2 . . . . . M E N
Normal price: £2SI
1 minute walk from South Kensington Tube Station!!
C a l l : 071 8 2 3 8 9 6 8
15A H A R R I N G T O N R O A D , S O U T H K E N S I N G T O N , L O N D O N SW7 3ES

