Reviews 17
God
Anatomy ofAddiction
Is this post-modernism? God draw on a true
variety of influences: the rigidly structured
clang of industrial music, the mindless scream
of thrash metal, the sprawling repetition of
ambient house and, most notably, the melodic
instrumental freedom of jazz. Indeed, the line-
up of the group is impressively varied with
saxophones, double bass and even a viola
augmenting the usual two guitars, bass and
drums. They slip easily from crunchy metal
riffing through complex percussive rhythms to
squiggling free jazz saxophones/feedback
excursions and back again, but never do the
seams become intrusive. This music is at once
brutal and atonal yet subtle, complex,
accessible and melodic. The best moments are
breathtaking in their spiky beauty, while the
worst occur when the guitars outweigh
everything else, resulting in a new, improved
form of death-metal drudgery.
In a world of retro-rock, God are very special.
Post-modernism was never this fresh. (9) Guy
iMfowm
Nova Mob
Nova Mob
First, I admit that I know Grant Hart as not Bob
Mould from Hiisker Dti; but, after all, it's only
post Sugar that they weren't both simply
Hiiskerites. Grant's released a solo album and
this is the Mob's second, but I'm going to
compare him to Minneapolis' Heroes. It's
Frank Black
Teenager Of The Year
"Now virtually everyone's singing a popular
song, but I still believe in the excellent joys of
punk" was what I heard, first minute, first track.
Funny how you get things wrong. But attention
to detail is a Frank Black trademark. Sadly for
the retrojaded greasers of the NME 'revival', Mr
Black is still playing his own game and I just
misheard. Yeah well, anyone could mistake
'punk' for 'pong'. Frank remains on another
level from the mortals below the majestic sweep
of his fevering imagination.
I bore you with my mistakes because this
album is choked full of all the musical double
entendres from a careerist who has matured into
an art form. He spends our time trying to
persuade us that he can really tell one end of a
joke from a serious idea, whilst remaining
perilously close to them both. Teenager of the
year or a more elderly, rather rotund figure
currently modelling a white boilersuit? And
that's just the album's title. One step back and
one step forward, getting nowhere, still in motion.
'Whatever Happened to Pong?' takes the
intro-page from 'Bossonova' before skidding
firmly away with a burst of shiny harmonica into
solo territory. It's a harbinger of what's to come
on the remaining 21 shots which make up this
double album. Whereas most people crumple
under the freedom offered by that format,
especially outside the confines of a live or
greatest hits cobble-together, Frank just strides
around in all directions (at once). Yet for all his
bustle, these are well worn tracks.
The technocratic shimmer emitted by
'Abstract Plain', the hinting of 'Fazer Eyes' and
the fully wired up circuit boards of 'White Noise
Maker' have always been obvious in his work.
Clever word plays like 'Calistan' and
'Thalassocracy' are evidence of intelligence
rattling round inside a corny synthetic fur-lined
skull. (The latter incidentally being invented
from the root 'thalassic' - of seas, esp. small or
inland.) And the sheer straight down the
highway laughing grace of 'Speedy Marie' and
'Pure Denizens of the Citizens Band' show that
even rock cliches can swing in Frank's pants.
summer and the tatty charade is falling down...
We start with the vibrant 'Old Empire'.
Surging Sugar style joy gives way to the
dubiously titled 'Shoot Your Way To Freedom'.
Drugs, guns, metaphysical seizing of the day,
who knows? The second excellent song is 'Little
Miss Information' which has Grant at his
punning best. He unshockingly now plays guitar,
bassist Tom plays melodic lines, the lead plays
guitar solos and the drummer loves his cymbals
as someone in a band with a grunge-drum-
A boy worried about his growing acne problem
and failure to get a girlfriend ?
Post-angst spread never sounded so young.
That he fetches and doppelgangs
unintentionally between the weirdest collection
of groups is another turn-up from a man who has
launched more than his share of youthful guitar
based ambition. 'Abstract Plain' follows
Nirvana, 'Thalassocracy' is more than a bit of
the Dead Kennedys, 'Superabound' comes with
streaks of Dylan and if 'The Vanishing Spires'
doesn't bring back the late night creepy groove
of Serge Gainsbourgh's 'Je t'aime moi non plus'
then Charlotte G had a stable childhood.
Still like Andy Warhol's repetition of
multifarious screen prints which made art out of
the ordinary, the way Frank Black makes off fast
with our commonsense is all his own. Before too
long it's hard to believe I ever had any. The little
people at the bottom of the garden agree. (8)
Tintin
godfather should. He slows down for 'Puzzles',
a lyrical lament, it is the first track to fall to the
album's wayward charm.
This album just isn't remarkable. The songs
turn irritating as quickly as they hook you in. At
least, the best live band of the year needs you to
turn the volume up. It sounds like a transistor
radio and reminds me of Bon Jovi. It's late May
and I want Don and 'The Boys of Summer'. Just
because you're a legend doesn't let you get away
with music any less special. (6) Owain
You won't be frightened of the real thing after the show

