18 Reviews
Robbins (Liotta) seriously annoys the Warden (Lerner)
No Escape
Starring: Ray Liotta, Lance Henriksen,
Stuart Wilson, Michael Lerner
Director: Martin Campbell
Thirty years from now, prisons are run for profit,
but the growing prison population has become a
problem for the Warden of the Leviticus
Maximum Security facility. Troublesome
prisoners are removed from their incarceration
and sent to the hostile island, Absolom. Here the
island's convicts have grouped themselves into
two factions, the Outsiders and the Insiders. The
Outsiders have become total savages, while the
Insiders have set up a self supporting community
with their own laws and rules.
In comes Marine Captain John Robbins
(Liotta), a decorated soldier who at first seems to
be in the wrong place. However, after murdering
his commanding officer in cold blood and then
upsetting the Warden (Lerner) of the Leviticus
Maximum Security facility, he ends up on this
island. Here he gets captured by the ruthless
Outsiders, led by Marek (Wilson), manages to
escape and then winds up in the Insiders camp,
led by a man just called Father (Henriksen).
However, as the Outsiders have a tendency to
raid the Insiders' camp, this story turns into the
underdogs beating the overwhelming number of
Outsiders with the help of the reluctant Captain
Robbins.
A subplot revolves around Father trying to
tell the world about this prison island which
This is a tragic love story set in St Petersburg
about how an introvert falls in love with the
woman of his dreams, Nastenka, played by
Anna Barkan (alias Nadia from Eastenders).
When they first meet, they tell their life-stories:
the one of the sheltered Nastenka and the one of
the introvert who feels saddened by his life
because he is left to make friends with the city
of St Petersburg. The poetic charm of this lonely
man steals her heart for a slender moment until
her lover from her past comes back to fulfil his
promise to marry her.
There are only three members in the cast, but
I felt that no holes were left unfilled. David
Axel, who plays the introvert, has the sympathy
of the audience despite the character's eccentric
ideas about life. Anna Barkan debuts with this
play and does well, although there were a few
moments of hesitation. Her naive and confused
doesn't exist to the outside world. In the attempt
to expose the Warden's illegal activities, Father
relies on the skills of Dysart (Jack Shepherd), an
invaluable inventor, to build a boat that will
sneak past the Warden's security measures.
There is an interesting performance from
Stuart Wilson: his character, Marek, sadistically
finds humour in outrageous acts of cruelty and
violence and often portrays himself as the
island's concierge. In the Insiders' camp there
are some unusual characters: the junkman, who
scavenges the objects washed up on the shore;
the Irish moonshiner, played by Don Henderson;
and the colony's perfect host, who has a
fastidious nature of cleanliness.
Nastenka worked but, unfortunately, her Russian
accent did not help very much.
The play was funny in a few parts. However,
there were places where the play did not run as
smoothly as it should, which may be because of
the translation from the Russian original.
This is the first offering from Charika to
attempt to adapt Dostoyevsky's White Nights. It
asked questions about the way we love one
another and whether the briefest of moments
with the one you love is all you need. Don't get
me wrong, it doesn't deal with these situations,
but it brings them out to be thought about once
more. The play isn't enlightening or flashy but it
does well for a small production.
Jack
New End Theatre, 27 New End. 071 794 0022.
Tube: Hampstead. Tickets: £5.50-£9.50 (cones
except Sat £5.50). Ends 19th June.
The action scenes are fast paced and
numerous throughout the film, though there is a
look into some of the convicts' darker sides and
their reasons for being imprisoned.
The American main players you've seen
before, but the supporting cast is made up of
English actors that you may recognise from
television. Becoming more popular in action
films is the adversary stereotyped as the English
bad guy. In the case Wilson is ruthless but still
carries a touch of aristocracy.
Magpie
Out today. Odeon Kensington, Kensington High
Street. £6, £6.50 (£3.50 before 5pm).
Anna Barkan and David Axel in White Nights
White Nights
There are more theatre reviews on page 14

