Reviews 19
Rookie Of
The Year
Starring: Thomas Ian Nicholas, Gary Busey,
Patrick LaBrecque, Daniel Stern
Director: Daniel Stern
Daniel Stern, probably best known as the tall
burglar in the Home Alone series, makes his
directorial debut with Rookie Of The Year, a
light-hearted yarn about a boy who gets to play
baseball for the Chicago Cubs. The plot is
suitably unbelievable: ten year old Henry
Rowengarter is a normal American kid with a
normal mum and normal friends. I think we've
all been here before. Then, surprise! Something
weird happens. He falls while trying to catch a
baseball at school and breaks his arm; it doesn't
heal properly and he finds he has the amazing
ability to throw things very very fast. Cue all
manner of japes as the young lad goes to the
major leagues, where he is inspired by has-been
player Gary Busey and learns all about life.
While not the most original debut in cinema
history, Rookie Of The Year is nevertheless an
immensely enjoyable experience and Stern
shows that he has learned much from the comic
geniuses he has worked with in his time. Some
of the peripheral humour may be lost on British
First class leg room isn 't what it used to be!
audiences, I suspect. For example, many of the
players were real and the game can at times be
hard to follow; "Come on guys, it's the bottom
of the ninth and the bases are loaded!" doesn't
really mean that much to me. But, after Major
League and A League Of Their Own, I knew
enough to follow who was winning.
Anyway, all sport movies are the same and
this one has more than enough going for it to
retain your interest, not least the cameo role
Stern gives himself as an accident prone batting
coach. Once again all of the young leads are
excellent, proving that there are loads of good
child actors out there for less than $6m a movie.
The whole tone of the movie is amusing and
the implausible situation is handled with such
skill and humour that you find yourself almost
believing it. It is refreshing to see that
Hollywood can still produce such carefree pieces
of fluff in such a professional manner; one is
reminded immediately of the worst excesses of
movies such as Curly Sue and Can't Buy Me
Love as examples of how it shouldn't be done.
Anyway, well worth £3.50 of anybody's money.
It's better than going to class isn't it?
Tony Grew
Out already. Odeon Kensington £6, £6.50 (£3.50
before 5pm). UCI Whiteleys £5, £5.75 (£3.50
before 3pm).
\1
•L
>
"0Ifis(I*uuU(M
Look Who's Talking Now!
Starring: Kirstie Alley, John Travolta,
Lysette Anthony
Director: Tom Ropelewski
They really shouldn't have bothered making this
sequel. Apparently, it was because Look Who's
Talking and Look Who's Talking Too made so
much money. I can't see this one doing as well,
they've pushed the idea a little too far this time.
This time round, instead of the children
giving the accompanying dialogue (which can't
be heard by anyone but the audience), two dogs
are the stars of the show.
The film still centres around the Ubriacco
family: James, Mollie, Mikey and Julie. Set
around Christmas, life is pretty hectic and to top
it all, the family manage to acquire two dogs.
Daphne is a very well-to-do poodle who sounds
just like Diane Keaton and Rocks is a stray who
is blessed with the vocal chords of Danny
DeVito.
The story so far: James (Travolta) has found
prosperity working as a private pilot for
Samantha (Anthony), the glamorous president of
an international cosmetics firm. Mollie (Alley),
meanwhile is having to look after the kids while
working as an elf in a department store.
Now, Mikey wants a dog for Christmas and
kicks up a real fuss until, in an attempt to pacify
him, James rescues a stray dog from the pound.
At the same time, Samantha leaves her very
poodle with the family, claiming she is unable to
look after it any more. This leaves Mollie in a
distressing situation: two big dogs, two kids and
a husband that is constantly away from home,
flying around the world with another woman.
Just when you thought things couldn't get
any worse, Samantha demands that James flies
her to the middle of nowhere on Christmas Eve,
leaving Mollie to explain why Daddy can't be
home for Christmas. They do live happily ever
after, though, in typical Hollywood style.
You'd probably enjoy this film if you were a
kid of about eight, but I'd suggest giving it a
miss.
Toot & Magpie
Out already. MGM Trocadero £7 (Mon £4, Tue~
Fri £4 before 6pm). Making a million from talking animals
An article on the Baha'i faith is on page 10

