20
1 -
mmj
Sheep
by Simon Maginn
Reviews
Strip Tease
by Carl Hiaasen
This is Simon Maginn's first novel and it shows
great promise. Sheep is a graphically horrific
tale story about an enterprising builder, James, a
promising artist, Adele, and their seven year old
son, Sam. Soon after a tragic holiday accident in
which their daughter drowns, James is
commissioned to repair an ancient, farmhouse
which lies near the cliffs in west Wales. They
move into it, in the hope that a change of
scenery will help them come to terms with the
loss of their child.
Shortly after they move into the farmhouse,
Adele's paintings become more macabre and
James uncovers some strange bones whilst
digging in the garden during the course of the
renovations. The neighbours slowly tell them
what they know about the previous occupants of
the house; of drug-crazed parties, murder and
incarceration. Then Sam has a fit and sees
something that links the past and present in a
shocking way.
I liked it. The story is written in a lazy style
which fools the reader into becoming
complacent and is entwined with descriptive and
graphic accounts of slaughter and decay. It
works well, drawing you to the characters and
making you experience the horror, pain and fear
that they go through when the chilling truth is
revealed. The climax is startling and yet
magnificently glorified. If Sheep is an example
of the books to follow, Simon Maginn should
soon be a best-seller.
IanT
Published by: Corgi
Price: £4.99
People who think feminism is redundant should
open their eyes and then read Strip Tease. It
follows Erin, who is 'stripping to fight a child
custody case', through a series of death defyingly
stereotypical encounters which ultimately leave
a sour, acidic taste in the mouth.
The whole feel is similar to those old sex
pulp novels: 'She looked at the eyes of her
fathers old and ugly friends, their lustfull
glances and her own lush beauty. She would do
anything to get out, anything.' Get dressed and
get a job perhaps?.
I'd love to give away the plot to 'wreck' the
book but, alas, Hiaasen has neglected to provide
one. Basically, Erin and her friends discuss the
problems of bouncing cleavage when dancing,
decide that they have no choice but to wrestle in
vegetable oil for twenty quid and are lusted after
by every male in the book. This kind of rubbish
does neither men nor women any good. If you
want to read about sex read Henry Miller's once
banned Tropic of Cancer which is blunt, brutal,
misogynist and honest. Hiaasen can't get away
with Ice Cream Girl, so he makes Erin a noble,
virtuosu new-woman struggling to cope with
naughty, lustful men by becoming a sex object.
The final insult is when Erin decides that
enough is enough and so lures her enemy (and
the FBI) into the middle of a field to falsely 'cry
rape'; the old male fear and the most dangerous
myth to stick into this trash. I notice I have
failed to make clear that Strip Tease is marketed
as a light hearted comedy thriller. Some people
need to be shown why feminism is still a verb.
Owain
Published by: Macmillan
Price: £14.99 (Hardback)
The City
James Herbert
Illustrated by Ian Miller
First things first. This is not a book that is going
to tax you or make you think. In fact, it would
be possible to read this book whilst attempting
to write a Gaussian elimination program in
Pascal, talking to a few friends and playing
computer games simultaneously. If you wanted
to sit down and read it from start to finish then it
would take you approximately fifteen minutes,
generously allowing time to make a cup of tea
in there somewhere. However, it is not possible
to 'read' it as there are roughly three phrases for
every eight pictures, of which one might be a
spoken word.
Most people have heard of the adage: 'A
picture tells a thousand words'. In this book, the
pictures need to. Luckily, the pictures are of a
reasonable quality and give the book some
credibility. Unfortunately, when the pictures are
weighed against B-movie speech such as,
"Roast in Hell, you sick obscenity" there is no
match.
Now, onto the story line. A warrior-type hero
figure goes into a city which rats now dominate
with lots of big guns and weapons to find his
previous girlfriend/wife/mistress (the book
didn't say much about anything). That was the
storyline. The ending is as startling as accidently
brushing against a weak, battery powered
electric fence and the plot is not original. For
£8.99, you have to really like the pictures to buy
it - but why buy it when you can read it in the
shop anyway.
IanT
Published by: Pan Books
Price: £8.99
Wouldn't Take Nothing For My Journey Now
by Maya Angelou
I knew Maya Angelou as a poet who wrote
'Come. And Be My Baby', one of the poems on
the underground. Of course she's far more than a
poet, not least being an important figure in black
women's literature and even having the dubious
pleasure of writing President Clinton's inaugural
poem.
Her new book is a small collection of short
essays - autobiographical, honest, proud in the
face of mounting odds and occasionally cloying
in moralistic tone. Sometimes this can be quite
infuriating, even though you think she may be
right. Yet Maya does bare her teeth, too. The
public crudeness of entertainers is linked to the
corporate indulgence of the Romans at the
Colosseum in the chapter headed 'Brutality Is
Definitely Not Acceptable'. Here, she is harsh in
her condemnation, but the whole is so strict.
Most of the figures who live between her
pages play out little pieces of life, the classic one
being 'New Directions' where a single mother
makes a future for herself and her children with
determination and acumen. So we all travel the
road of life, taking what directions seem best.
The least travelled path is not valid in itself, but
only if we choose to follow it. I guess that
contentment is to be happy with what you've got.
If Maya Angelou gently reminds us that we
are not all we should be, maybe she is telling us
we need to lose some baggage so that our
journey will be smoother and the final
destination sweeter.
Tintin
Published by: Virago
Price: £9.99 (Hardback)
Look Who's Talking Now! is reviewed on page 19

