Opinion 21
Book Sale No Pleasing Some People
Dear Beccy,
I thought that you might like to know that
planning for the second-hand book shop is
going ahead, but unfortunately the shop will not
be completed this academic year. So that
students do not lose out while the negotiations
proceed, the Union is organising a book fair.
This will consist of two days this term
(provisionally the 17th and 22nd June) when the
major text books from each course will be
bought. It will be followed by two days at the
start of the next academic year when the books
will be sold. The books will be the recommended
texts provided by the academic staff to the
Union book shop. A list of these books and the
price the Union will pay for them will be
published in Felix closer to the dates of the
sales.
Yours sincerely,
Lucy Chothia, Chem 3
S M A L L A D S
Providence Typing. Projects, dissertations,
theses, etc typed at the best rates around. Full
colour capacity and laser printing available.
Emergencies welcome. Call on 071 252 4831.
Singing Lessons for staff and students by
professional singer at UCL. Contact 081 446
6872 or UCL music society on 071 387 7050.
Dear Beccy,
Firstly, thank you for printing my last letter
and even extracting quotes so accurately that
typing errors were preserved, Such diligence
could be warmly applauded if both you and the
News Editor had not both made similar mistakes
in reply. As to the replies themselves, the
'significance of the comment' on submission is
valid. A letter for issue 998 was not printed and
the only conceivable reason was that it was not
on disk. The real point of the letter sadly appears
to have been missed, namely the lack of news
and dirge of features. The News Editor, a man
who must be kept about as busy as the Finland
Mountain Rescue Service, said quite rightly that
'students have a right to know what is going on
in the Union and the College and it is Felix
policy to try and keep them informed'. Either
Imperial is the dullest place in the universe or he
is saying one thing and doing the complete
opposite. How on earth do you expect to 'keep
[the students] informed' with such scant news
coverage? This week we had seven news items
and an apology that shows that what little filters
through to the page is often badly researched.
Surely it must be possible to assign a few
more of your contributors to reporting what goes
on here rather than resorting to the most blatant
space-fillers imaginable, like the dire, one and
half page article on the Times Crossword
Championships. Not really the cutting edge of
radical student journalism is it, Beccy? For
God's sake, what is happening? I though for a
minute it was a brilliant spoof, but alas not. It
certainly deserves space, but nowhere near as
much as it had. If a copy of this issue ever leaks
out of College, IC will be the laughing stock of
the British University system. I know in the past
you said that you were 'trying to produce a Felix
with which there is something for everybody',
but this is ridiculous. Or perhaps I've missed the
hoards of professional crossworders around
here.
We are constantly reminded that,rightly,you
are the Editor. You decide what goes in. You
decide the format and the style, but not in
splendid isolation from the views of the
students. You yourself have admitted that 'a
common complaint is that there are too many
reviews', but have done absolutely nothing
about it. The only reason for the lack of change
must be your own intransigence. There are
plenty of contributors - start commissioning a
more balanced range of material. How about
telling us what's going on at ULU and the other
colleges? If we had more than one College
newspaper here, such a view would be
acceptable. Given its monopoly, Felix must
remain responsive to student needs and requests.
It's time to tear down the turrets on the ivory
tower that is the Felix office.
Simon Baker, Chem 1
MONDAY 6TH JUNE
in rememberance of D-Day
LIVE PIANO SING-ALONG
WITH
JAMIE FROM THE FIRKIN
D-Day Bitter
A B V 4.5%
£1.45
Boiled Beef &
Carrots
£1.70
An exciting new
Science, Technology and Design
publication requires
CONSULTANT
FREELANCE
EDITORS
Please send CV's to
Marta Badia-Marin
Sir Norman Foster & Partners
Riverside Three
22 Hester Road
Battersea
London SW11 4AN

