22 Opinion
Editorial
Firstly, I guess I ought to explain what happened
last week. We had planned to bring out a Felix
similar to this one with all the regular articles to
accompany the special 1000th edition.
Unfortunately, the litho (the machine which
prints Felix) broke down. We'd printed about a
third of the magazine, but there was no way that
the litho could have been repaired in time to
finish it. We decided that the best option was to
carry all the articles forward and include them in
this issue. Apologies to anyone inconvenienced
by this.
Simon Baker really does seem to have a bee in
his bonnet about the state of Felix at the
moment. To be honest, I really don't have the
inclination to reply. I'll just be saying the same
things over and over again. One thing I will say
is in defence of the comments about the features.
Every single feature isn't supposed to be
interesting to every single person. I don't think
you have to be an avid crossworder to read an
article about a crossword competition. Would
you need to have been on holiday to Malaysia to
read the article about it in this issue? I don't
think so. The articles are written to inform
people about something they maybe don't
already know. If you aren't interested, then you
don't have to read them.
Anyway, why has it taken Mr Baker so long
to put pen to paper and complain. He's put up
with Felix for two terms (over 20 issues) without
bothering to say anything. Now, all of a sudden,
he is demanding changes. This is the hardest
time to change things with everyone in the
middle of exams.
As for the letter he supposedly submitted for
issue 998, I have no recollection of it. It
certainly would not have been withheld just
because it wasn't on a disk. What I want to
know is where are the 5,000 copies of the letter
and the box of pritt sticks which Mr Baker
promised would accompany his next letter?
Why is it that the College can see fit to invest
£60,000 in refurbishing the Huxley foyer for a
royal visit, when the money could easily have
been used to do something towards upgrading
student accommodation. I'm sure the money
could have been invested in making improve-
ments. Ask anyone who lives in a hall of
residence and they'll be able to rattle off a great
long list of things that need changing. I know
that a common complaint is a lack of space in
fridges and freezers. How many fridges could
you buy with £60,000? What about the lack of
common room facilities in the Evelyn Gardens
halls? Couldn't the money could have been put
towards doing something about that? Maybe
someone should invite someone from the Royal
Family to look round the halls of residence. It
seems to be the only way to get any
improvements done.
With this new-style Huxley foyer it seems
that the table which used to sit in front of the
pillar is deemed too unsightly to be put back.
The leaves us with a bit of a problem with where
to leave the copies of Felix on a Friday morning.
Last week we were told that we couldn't leave
them anywhere in the nice new foyer. It seems
to be the most sensible place as a lot of people
use that entrance for maths, physics and
computing. It's not as if the copies stay there
very long anyway; most of them are gone by
about 11 o'clock. If anyone's got any sugges-
tions of a suitable place to leave them, I'd love
to know.
Answers to the last
Elimination
a Food, Smoker 11,33
b Spanish Fly 35,1
c Jet, Death 2,24
d Past Tense 14, 30
e Navy, Whale 13,31
f High Five 12,9
g Fingers, Village 34, 37
h Short Term 28, 16
i Plate, Cardinal 26, 39
j Flag Down 10,7
k Break, Intermission 19,41
1 Drop Dead 8,6
m Wear, Where 17, 32
n Work Out 18,3
0 Cares, Races 20,27
P Piggy-Bank 25,5
q Tit, Peep 4,15
r Suicide, Creed 36,22
s Cross Check 23, 21
t Synod, Assembly 29, 38
The word left over was Messages
Free Speech
Dear Beccy,
It has been implied by several
correspondents in the last two issues of Felix
(998/999) that I am a bigot who is incapable of
accepting a multi-cultural society. It has also
been said that I am guilty of not answering
points raised in previous letters.
Firstly, may I say that I am a very strong
believer in free speech for ALL and try to live
my life as much 'live and let live' as possible.
This is why I felt the need to write to Felix in
the first place concerning the attempted
intimidation of RSMU officers by IC Islam Soc.
Secondly, may I say that I agree with much of
what other correspondents have said about
freedom. However, it is they that have been
guilty of not answering my points.
All along, I have been drawing attention to
the 'all animals are equal, but some are more
equal than others' attitude of Islam Soc. I have
still had no response that makes me think that
they really do believe in the freedom they so
openly abuse.
To the Chairman and Officers of Islam Soc, I
would ask two questions:
Would you agree with me, that the death
threat against Salman Rushdie is a blatant attack
on his personal freedom and is illegal?
Secondly, if you agree that it is illegal, would
you publicly state in this publication that you
renounce the fatwa as such?
To the UFC, I would say, if Islam Soc do not
renounce the death threat and incitement to
murder, how can you justify funding them as a
Union society?
I look forward to receiving the answers to
my questions.
Yours sincerely,
Anthony France, Civ Eng III
Credits
Printer: Bromiding:
Andy Thompson Rebecca Walters
Business Managers: Features:
Steven Newhouse Owain Bennallack
Simon Govier Martin Greenacre
Axel Pieuchot
Proofing: Riazul Islam
Wei Lee Lorraine Pater
Tim St Clair
Simon Shaw News:
Rebecca Walters Mike Ingram
Lynn Bravey
Reviews: Simon Shaw
Wei Lee (Cinema) Patrick Wood
Jon Jordan (Music)
Patrick Wood (Opera) Collators:
Fai Fung (Theatre) Mike Ingram
Jules Decock (Books) Simon Shaw
Owain Bennallack
Typing: Tim St Clair
Stephen Se Patrick Wood
Wei Lee
SUBWARDEN
VACANCY AT
LINSTEAD HALL
A lively and responsible postgraduate
student or research assistant is
required for the position of Subwarden
in Linstead Hall.
The work involves social,
administrative and disciplinary skills.
Application forms are available from
the student accommodation office and
should be sent to the Warden along
with two references and a single A4
sheet outlining your reasons for
applying
and relevant qualities.
The applications should reach the
Warden by 10th June.
The deadline for letters is 5pm, Monday

