Opinion 23
Art Thanks Spouting Innane Witterings
Dear Beccy,
The Annual Staff Student Exhibition in the
Consort Gallery opened on Wednesday 18th
May and ends on 17th June. A lot of hard went
on behind and on the scene in order to make it
possible. This is a thank you letter to:
Judith Richards for all her encouragement
and confidence in LeoSoc and for lending us
Frances Bone. A very special thanks to Mithila,
Yoon, Ola, Angela and Mehul (even with exams
impending) and Pradeep L for all their hard
work and help especially on the days leading up
to the exhibition preview.
Dan T for coping with the publicity and
posters so well, Mehul's father for sorting out the
invitations, Anjum, Aneesha, Meilin S, Susan B,
Shemara, Aneurin, Diego, Dan K, Louisa S,
Gwenllian GR, Shan, Peter K, Claire G, Marcus
A, Hourrig and Margaret (from RCA), Rebecca
Walters and Mark Z, Mark S, Zoe, Siow Chong,
Preetha, Tanya J, Caroline, Dave C, Shilpi,
Owain, Shamimabi and Sheila for all their
spontaneous help and selfless support. Eric
Stables, Ainslie Rutledge and Pat Kerridge in
Humanities, Charles and Abigail at the Union.
Mr Parsons and Mr Livermore for coping at
such short notice with shifting and electrical
problems, Sally Taylor and Lesley Meyers in
Catering and Security and, of course, LeoSoc.
Last but not least, a big thank you to all 43
artists who took part this year without whom
there wouldn't have been an exhibition.
Yours sincerely,
Huma Islam, Comp 2
Dear Beccy
Regarding recent incessent rantings over The
Satanic Verses, Salman Rushdie, the price of
fish and the meaning of the universe...
(Felix999).
YES. You are free to spout your innane
drivelings to your hearts content under British
law.
CORRECT. OK, yes there is no provision in
British law for prosecution for blasphemy other
than that directed at the Christian Faith.
BUT (ton moon) there's no provision for
prosecution of blasphemy against the Christian
faith in Islamic countries and I am not free to
spout my innane witterings to my hearts content
under Islamic law. Their penalties against
blasphemy are somewhat more stringent than
ours (which, I would note, no judge worth his
pickle would use anyway). The fact is no-one
here really gives a flying toss in the nineties and
if it wasn't for annoying little twerps like Arash
and Yasser no-one would have read the sodding
book.
In defence of your editorial I must direct
Simon's gaze no further than the front cover, by
far a better candidate for a vacuosity award '94,
with such immortal faces as 'Who Needs
Melody Maker with NME's like us' (vom) and
'A UGM today? Where?! / In The Ents Lounge
at 1 o'clock. Come on! We don't want to miss
it!' (sic), the latter also getting top grades in the
extraneous punctuality of the decade and
probably contributed greatly to the lack of
attendance at our hallowed Union meetings.
Declining standards? What standards. Roll on
the holocaust.
Piers Williams (Chem 1)
Jon (Bruce) Jansen (Mech 1)
Does someone you know deserve recognition
for their work in IC Union?
Nominations for ICU Social Colours are now
open. Do you know someone involved in a
Union activity (a club or society or an officer)
who has given more than is expected within
their job? If you think they deserve to have their
time and effort recognised, drop your
nomination off at the Union Office, 1st floor,
Union Building, before 12pm on 10th June. You
can nominate any number of people for Social
Colours if you think that they deserve them.
Your nomination should include the reason
why the individual should receive the award as
well as their name and department. Once the
deadline for nominations has closed (12pm, 10th
June), all of the nominations received will be
considered by the Colours Committee. The
results will be published in Felix.
Remember, you have until 12pm, 10th June
to send your nominations for ICU Social
Colours.
THE MAGPIE PROJECT
Vacancyfor Laboratory Assistant IV
The MAGPIE project in the physics department
is the largest pulsed power current generator in
Europe.
Its 1.6 million ampere current from a 2 million
Volt supply will be used in the quest for nuclear
fusion and white dwarf star densities.
The job will be unglamorous, primarily being
gofering, form filling, telephoning, cleaning and
manual labour with a small well motivated team.
The applicant will be enthusiastic, intelligent
and trained in Physics or Engineering. Pay will
be via a UROP student bursary.
Applications to be received by Friday 10th
June. The contract begins the 20th June and lasts
8 weeks.
Contact:
Dr James Bayley
Plasma Physics Group
x 6887 / 47650
or x 6872
ANNUAL GENERAL
MEETING
Friday 17th June, lpm
Union Lounge
Please submit all motions to ICU Office,
Beit Quad by 6pm, Friday 10th June

