4 Travel
Moneyless in
Malaysia..
Having one day decided that I was going to do more with possibly
my last summer vacation, the next step was deciding what? So, after
much searching for a bolt of lightning that was willing to hit me, the
answer came to me in simple mathematical terms:
Little money + a reluctance to rob
a bank to provide it
: go stay with a friend
After all, what are friends for? So, after much twisting of arms, I
managed to find a few who were willing to accommodate me. As
luck would have it, a sizeable number of them lived in lands of the
three s's and instantly my mind was made up, Malaysia and
Singapore. However, in the back of my mind was still a small
problem: money, or the lack of it to be more precise. Deliverance
came in the form of a travel bursary from Shell; so X amounts of
gratitude to Peter Ashford and the crew for their assistance.
Getting to Malaysia is fairly easy, but 1 would recommend using
a plane. Just follow these basic procedures and you should be
alright:
i) You part with your money.
ii) For this, you gel some sheets of paper (nicety coloured if
you're lucky).
Hi) Go to the airport and give this to anybody you can find
wearing a gratuitous amount of make-up and with a
demented smile on their face.
iv) Exchange your pieces of paper for an altogether less
spectacular one.
v) Use this new piece of paper to get on the plane of your
choice.
vi) If this seems complicated to you, stay at home.
On a more serious note, with a bit of hunting around the less
glamourous travel agents, you should be able to find a decently
priced ticket (around £400 return) but don't expect any luxuries like
a guaranteed seat. It didn't happen to me, but many friends have
turned up to the airport on the day of their flight only to be told that
there wasn't one. But, in the words of Trevor the Wise (a used car
salesman): "You only get what you pay for, mate."
Now, with any luck you should arrive at Subang International in
Kuala Lumpur brimming with eagerness. A lot of time and money
has gone into the airport and it shows. Unfortunately, I didn't have
much time to kill as there was a large number of suspicious
individuals on my plane who had that illegal immigrant look in their
eyes. I proceeded with haste to immigration before the siege set in.
As I waved a fond farewell to the nice customs men and walked
out into Malaysia, it hit me. Although I had lived in other tropical
countries, that was quite a while ago and Mr Heat along with Mr
Humidity take vindictive pleasure in making one suffer. This is one
The jewel of South East
• Asia, a chaotic jungle of
dreams, skyscrapers and,
err, jungles. But just how
easy is it to 'go east' ?
place where deodorant sales are never down. Loose, thin, baggy
clothes are highly advisable, but don't dress to shock otherwise
you'll soon get that 'I'm a tourist and look it' feeling. Whatever you
do don't go in with your size 12 Dr Martins, the Union Jack
displayed from the majority of your surface area shouting "Ere we
go, ere we go". People will just think your mad, which is probably
very plausible.
I spent the first week in and around Kuala Lumpur. M y friend
lived some distance from the city centre which meant a bus journey.
Now, to be a bus driver in Kuala Lumpur you have to be two things.
The first is to have no immediate relatives and the second is to be
certified as being a few sandwiches short of a picnic. If you're into
near death experiences then this is the ultimate.
Skyscrapers battle it outfor
supremacy while the traditional
shops and stalls in between sit
back and watch it all happen.
Dragging myself around on the first day was an effort; stops at
the nearest watering hole were a frequent occurrence. However, the
sheer atmosphere of the place soon made up for it. The whole city is
a contrast of the old with the new. Skyscrapers battle it out for
supremacy while the traditional shops and stalls in between sit back
and watch it all happen. If you've got money, this is as good a place
as any to spend it. The good was cheap so, taking full advantage of
this, I tried to sample as much of it as possible.
After seeing most of the touristy things with embarrassing
camera in tow for validation of tourist status, it was time to move
on. I had to get to Muar on the east coast so so I made my way
down to the bus garage to see if they could solve my problem. Most
fortunate was 1 as my translator informed me that the next bus was
leaving in ten minutes and I had better get my butt down there now
if I wanted to catch it. Proceeding without delay 1 boarded the bus
while simultaneously thanking my friend. A few minutes later and
we were off into the wild blue yonder until we hit major traffic at
which point 1 decided to fall asleep.
I awoke when the bus driver decided to turn on his radio. That
wasn't too bad but then someone decided he wanted to try out his
new UB40 album which he handed to the bus driver to play at full
volume. So, for the next hour my ears were tortured by such lyrics
as "Every hour of every day I'm yearning more". Anyway, that's
what it sounded like and I was damn relieved when the bus driver
had enough and turned it off.
Read about travelling around the world on page 8

