Travel 5
Arriving in Muar I was greeted by
no-one. It's not a very big town and I
was soon inviting strange looks.
Grabbing the nearest telephone I phoned
my friend who apparently had decided
to play football knowing full well that I
was coming. His kind parents took pity
on me and picked me up instead.
Muar is pretty unspectacular
compared to Kuala Lumpur but it was
good to get some peace and quiet.
Hence, most of the time was spent
eating, sleeping and watching TV. Time
soon passed by and it was time to move
on to Singapore which meant another of
those dreaded bus rides.
This time the stereo was not the
problem, there wasn't one. There also
was no suspension so sitting on the seat
for more than five seconds was a considerable problem. This went
on all the way to Johor Bahru, over the causeway and into
Singapore and, after a while, I was so fed up that I just didn't care
anymore.
Reaching Singapore I didn't really have a definite place to stay.
All I knew was that I was supposed to meet another in my long list
of contacts at some place which was far from concrete. Fortunately,
he had arranged for me to stay at John's (yet another contact) house
and very kindly drove me down there. Being the dope he was, he
dropped me off at the wrong place. After an hour of waiting there, I
decided that something was amiss. 1 then had to go through the long
process of finding a phone. Sorting out the mess took another hour
and this was all at around 11 o'clock at night when I finally reached
a bed and slept.
Next morning, 1 awoke to find John had prepared a full itinerary
and was eager to get going. He is one of the best tour guides I have
ever met and would be glad to write a reference to this effect any
day. Off we set to Haw Par Villa which was a sort of Chinese
Mythology theme park - a good place to sit under a tree and watch
it all happen. There were a lot more tourists here than in Malaysia,
so I felt a little more at ease. After that, we checked out the town
which is a shoppers' Utopia. Anything you want (well, just about)
you can find in the sprawl of malls and markets. The transport
system was excellent, as well with their equivalent of the tube
(called the MRT, Mass Rapid Transport) having a good range over
the island.
All too soon it was time to go. I had to get back up to Kuala
Lumpur to catch my flight out which meant yet another bus ride.
This time they showed a video, but it was in Cantonese which didn't
help things at all, so I slept. After only seven hours I was back in
Exhaustion comes quickly to the 'public transport' in such a hot and humid climate
Kuala Lumpur and signalled a parting gesture to travelling on buses
in general.
Flying back, I reflected on my experiences. Both Malaysia and
Singapore are diverse places to visit and you'll undoubtedly find
yourself wishing you could stay longer. Travel and food arc cheap
along with just about anything else you want to buy. People are
warm and friendly but maybe that's just because they've been
sitting in the sun too long.
There also was no suspension
so sitting on the seat for
more than five seconds was a
considerable problem.
If you do decide to go to either of these places, a visit to one of
the respective tourist boards would be a very wise move (even
Trevor would approve). Don't forget those injections, otherwise you
might find yourself coming back with more than just that very loud
T-shirt and a lovely bunch of coconuts, so don't say I didn't warn
you. Finally, next year is visit Malaysia year so get up, get out and
go, go, go.
P.S. If you want further information about visiting Malaysia or
Singapore, don't ask me but go and find someone or something who
knows what he's talking about.
Riazul Islam
If you want to stick to Europe, read the other article on page 8

