6 Travel
An Education
In Itself
So, you have itchy feet but you
can't afford the time to work
your way around the world?
Well, there is an alternative, as
Martin Greenacre reports...
I've finally made it! What I read in the UCCA Handbook (as it
was then) all those years ago has now been realised. 'Civil
Engineering with a Year in Continental Europe' has now
become reality for me as I arrive at the 'Rheinisch-
Westfalische Technische Hochschule' in Aachen.
560 students attended the introductory lecture for Civil
Engineers. It was said straight away, not only by the academic
but also by the student from the departmental society, that over
half of the assembled students would either fail or drop out
before the end of the degree. 'Degree' is perhaps the wrong
word, as what they call the 'Diplom' here is totally different to
what we would understand as a degree.
No interviews take place. All you need is a good enough
average on leaving school. To study in Aachen you need quite a
bit of luck as well. That is, there is a massive accommodation
problem here and finding somewhere to live has a lot to do with
good fortune. The table tennis room in one of the halls was used
as emergency accommodation for the first month of term!
Thankfully, as exchange students, we get special treatment from
the accommodation office here, paying slightly over the odds
for the privilege. I'm not complaining, however, as the rent is
still under half of that in London.
The student year is structured as two semesters. This year,
lectures ran from 11th October to 11th February and from 11th
April to 8th July. The time between lecture periods is called
holiday, which is code for 'exam time'. So, if you're lucky you
could get no holiday at all. That rarely happens as the German
students choose which exams to do on the basis of the exam
dates. They must eventually do all the exams but, at most, they
sit two at a time and make sure that they have at least two
weeks between them and usually a couple of weeks of actual
holiday as well.
The word 'exam' takes on a whole new meaning in this
country. They call them 'Klausers' and they are hard! In Civil
Engineering each Klauscr examines material from at least two
lecture courses and the associated coursework assignments. The
assignments and exam questions are usually design-related
which means taking the relevant Standards (DINs, as they are
called here) into examinations and being able to work with
them...quickly. Just imagine - a five hour open-book exam,
examining one and a half years of lecture and coursework
material! Come back Imperial - all is forgiven!
In some respects the departments are similar to those in
England. The academics arc all heavily involved in research
which, in the end, largely contributes to the reputation of
individual departments. Teaching methods and standards vary
from subject to subject. Some lectures are musts and some are
right-offs. One thing I remembered from working in England
last summer was something a senior engineer once said to me:
90% of what you learn at university you forget and never have
to use again during your career. This ties in with a quote that I
read recently: "The soul and spirit of education is that habit of
mind which remains when a student has completely forgotten
everything he has been taught" - Professor Sir Charles Inglis.
That situation is exactly the same in Germany.
You can't movefor bars
and night clubs . . . you
could easily spend the
week going to parties
From this point of view, the English system has an
advantage: at least we only spend four years at most at
University, whereas the Germans take an average of six to
seven years to complete their course before they finally start as
practising engineers. They spend an extra year in school, too. If
you add that on to at least a year of compulsory military service
(or it's equivalent), they don't usually finish until 27 or 28
years of age. That's why, when a student moves into a hall of
residence, he/she really makes it home; it gets painted, carpeted
and furnished completely afresh. Understandable, I suppose, if
you're going to be there for seven years! I would estimate that,
for an average German student, the actual time they have free of
lectures or exams during the year is about two and a half
months.
Aachen itself is a great place to be as a student. There are
230,000 people in this town and a quarter of them are students.
You can't move for bars, restaurants, night clubs and cinemas!
You could quite easily spend the whole week going to parties;
there are always several going on. At this time of the year, the
beginning of the semester, relatively little study is going on and
certainly nobody is breaking their back over books! If I'd been
at Imperial College this year, I would already have done six
coursework assignments, with another ten to be in by
Christmas! (OK, a slight exaggeration perhaps!) This does even
itself out, as I will still be pen-pushing in August and
September next year. Trying to explain this to my Local
Education Authority in terms of extra grant for extra weeks is
pretty tricky.
Money is another difference between the two systems. We
may moan about the Government freezing the grant and
Travel cheapy around Europe with Inter-Rail or Euroline tickets

