Travel 7
A French Eye On Imperial College
After one year as an exchange student under the E R A S M U S scheme, I would like t o write a few remarks
about Imperial College and my experiences of this year.
First, let me present myself. I am a physicist and I have followed a mixture of courses in second and third
year physics courses in the Physics department.
Then, what? Well, about your courses. The physics courses are much less theoretical than In France,
except for a few lecturers where they probably are the best I ever had. In general, you do what we call
'Physics With Hands'. It Is an alternative which has Its good and bad points.
One thing I noticed about the exams Is that the mark you get seems to correspond to how well you have
learned by heart the lecture notes. But you get the same problem everywhere. It Is hard to take an exam
which will show your understanding of physical phenomena. Fortunately, the comprehensive papers (I did not
take them but I had a look) are made to complete your degree In this way. It is missing In France.
Now, I must admit, i t is quite hard to make friends with you British. Is i t my fault? Maybe, but I found
lots of friends among European {except Eng\\sh) and asian people. You are said t o have the personality of
people living on an Isolated island. I think i t seems quite true, for geographical as well as 'behavioural'
reasons. However, lots of effort Is made to open this university up t o the wild world: all your clubs and
societies, every exchange scheme, Felix itself that I have read for a year more or less regularly, tend to
prove It.
How, some of you are going to say: "If he didn't like It, he should have stayed at home!" Well, first, 1 could
not have known before coming and second, I think that being there opens your mind and develops your own
personality.
Finally, my last words will go to every person who is going to spend a year or more away from London
and/or their home. Do It Ifyou can afford it! Nothing will replace this experience In your life! And try to enjoy
yourself where you go (I did with the IC Dance Club).
Axel Pleuchot
introducing the student loan system, but the latter is the norm in
the rest of Europe. In the last two months I've met people from
all over Europe and the vast majority of them have to repay all
or part of the money they get from their respective
governments.
Just imagine - afive hour
open-book exam, examining
one and a half years oflecture
and coursework material!
The starting salaries for engineers is significantly higher in
Germany. You can reckon on an absolute minimum of £20,000.
I suppose this reflects the slightly higher cost of living and a
longer time at university, with a qualification in the MSc/PhD
class on leaving. It's not really an issue at the moment anyway
because it is getting so difficult to get a job full stop!
Unemployment among graduates is on the up in Germany,
according to an article in 'Der Spiegel' recently. Luckily that
problem is still a few lectures and a couple of Klausers away for
mc. You never know, it might all be different by then (ha ha!).
On the clubs and societies front there seems to be a
predominance of sport. Everybody seems to keep fit regularly
and you can certainly find a club for every sport under the sun
here. There are at least three student choirs and symphony
orchestras, as well as brass and jazz bands. There are also
foreign student societies, although the percentage of foreign
students is not as high as at Imperial College. Things like
debating societies is something there isn't so much of here,
which is perhaps surprising as German students are certainly
opinionated enough.
The male/female ratio is where RWTH Aachen really falls
down. I'm not sure of the overall figure but, in Mechanical
Engineering for example, which is the biggest department here,
it is about 3% female. That department alone has about as many
students as the whole of Imperial College. Because the
proportion of students here is relatively high, the imbalance
between men and women is something you notice almost
immediately. It is still significantly harder for women to get
into engineering and sciences in Germany.
The Germans are certainly living up to their reputation of
being thorough. This system of university education doesn't let
you skim over any subject area that is even remotely connected
with any particular discipline; they examine you on everything!
If anything, they are trying to shorten the Diplom at the
moment. RWTH Aachen has just tried to get approval for a new
examination system but it was turned down by local
government on the basis of the course being too long. We will
see. In the meantime wc carry on with what we've got.
Martin Greenacre
November 1993, Aachen.
See page 8 for more details. More info available from STA Travel

