8 Travel
The Great Summer
Getaway...
As the great summer vacation looms ever nearer, thoughts turn from
exams and college work to relaxing in the sun and travelling to far off
places like India, Thailand, Singapore, Australia and America.
If you are graduating this year, you may decide that you are going
to take that year out between leaving education and entering the
working world. One of the best ways to spend this time is taking a
trip around the world.
The first thing to do when you have decided to take that round-the-
world trip is to plan where you want to go. Buy or borrow copies of
good travel books, such as the 'Lonely Planet' or 'Rough Guide'
publications. You will find that there will be a book or section on
most major travel destinations in the world. These provide invaluable
information about sights, customs, travel within countries,
accommodation, places to eat and so on.
Having established the areas of the world you wish to visit, the
next step is to plan the actual route. The most important thing to
remember here is that to make use of a round-the-world ticket, you
must always travel in the same direction; no back-tracking is allowed.
Travel is one of life's great educators. How can you possibly
expect to really know a place until you have spent some time there?
Struggling with a phrase book to be understood in Latin America;
trying to get onto the next train out of Cairo for five days; working in
a restaurant in Sydney; driving across America.
The experience and knowledge that you gain by travelling is never
wasted and the memories are pure magic.
Lorraine Pater, STA Travel
For more details and information on round the world travel, drop
into STA Travel on the Sherfield Walkway and have a chat to the
people there.
As June approaches, a students'
thoughts turn to the great British
summertime and how best to avoid it.
If you are short of ideas of what to do
for the next three months, read on . . .
Europe by Rail And Road
Rail travel is still a popular way of exploring Europe and the
time-honoured Inter-Rail card is good value for touring around. This 'go
as you please' pass is available to all travellers under 26 who normally
live in the UK or who have been UK residents for at least six months
before departure. A pass valid for the whole of Europe costs £249.
Alternatively, if you want to explore just one part of Europe, there is the
new zonal Inter-Rail pass. There are seven different zones to choose from:
1. Republic of Ireland
2. Norway, Sweden, Finland
3. Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Denmark
4. Czech & Slovak republics, Poland, Hungary, Bulgaria,
Romania, Croatia
5. France, Belgium, Netherlands, Luxembourg
6. Spain, Portugal, Morocco
7. Italy, Greece, Turkey, Slovenia
A one-zone pass costs £179 for 15 days; two zones costs £209 for one
month; three zones costs £229 for one month.
If you don't fancy the train, why not explore Europe by
coach? Eurolines have created 15 exciting explorer routes designed to
enable you to see as much of Europe for as little as possible. Each ticket is
valid for six months and you can stay as long as you like in each location.
Simply book the first journey in the UK and the rest in the city of
departure at least 48 hours in advance. Choose from the following routes:
London-Dublin-Galway-Cork-London £57
London-Brussels-Paris-London £70
London-Amsterdam-Paris-London £74
London-Paris-Amsterdam-Brussels-London £80
London-Budapest-Prague-London £ 109
London-Amsterdam-Copenhagen-Paris-London £ 125
London-Brussels-Vienna-Bratislava-London £129
London-Copenhagen-Gothenburg-Hamburg-London £ 132
London-Brussels-Warsaw- Amsterdam-London £136
London-Amsterdam-Krakow-Brussels-London £ 136
London-Frankfurt-Munich-Berlin-Hamburg-London £136
London-Frankfurt-Budapest-Vienna-Brussels-London £140
London-Paris-Barcelona-Amsterdam-London £163
London-Amsterdam-Barcelona-Rome-Paris-London £212
London-Munich-Barcelona-Rome-Paris-London £230
Both Inter-Rail cards and Eurolines coach tickets are availablefrom ULU
Travel, level 2, Sherfield Building.
STA Travel can be found on the Sherfield Walkway

