Caving
NYLON
HIGHWAY
Experience the ups and downs of the
1 994 IC Caving Expedition with Robert Rea
Earlier this summer, the college caving club
organised a six week expedition of twenty peo-
ple to the Julian Alps in the former Yugoslav
republic of Slovenia.
The high alpine Limestone or Karst in
the Julian Alps has already proved fruitful in
the discovery of deep systems, boasting the
recently discovered Ceki 2, the forth deepest
cave in the world at -1342m (-4403ft).
Months prior to leaving Britain, several con-
tacts were made with local caving clubs in
Slovenia. This resulted in the club being given
a high mountain plateau to explore by
the Tolmin Caving Club.
Some logistical problems had to
be overcome in moving people and two
minibus loads of caving gear, rope,
food and so on from the lower base
camp in the village of Tolminski Ravne
at an altitude of 900m (2953ft) up to
the high bivvy at 1900m (6223ft). I
will never forget carrying 200m of rope
with two tackle sacks hanging off the
rear of my rucksack up a forest path
and then traversing the southern face of
Mount Migovec on an old disused goat
herders' path and making the final
push up across the limestone pave-
ment, riddled with huge shake holes
and loose boulders (oh, those loose
boulders) then finally reaching the
Bivvy two to three hours after setting
off. After dumping my gear, having a
brew and a tin of tuna, I set off again
on an eight hour jigging trip to install
the rope and extend the cave by anoth-
er 130m vertically.
The principle aim of the trip was
to prospect for, explore and survey new
caves in the Migovec area. Initially, some
members began systematically searching the
plateau, "dropping holes" in search of the elu-
sive master system which underlies the
Migovec plateau. At the same time, another
team rigged the already known cave M l 6
down to the gigantic chamber Galactica at
-473m (-1552ft). The cave was mainly vertical
with a series of "pitches" descending up to
70m (230ft) in one drop, followed by short
passages and large airy chambers.
In total, the expedition extended three
known caves in area. Ml 7, which was a mas-
sive cylindrical shaft filled with snow and solid
ice was pushed from -50m to -95m. M11,
another snow and ice choked hole was extend-
ed from -30m to -63m. Several new passages
were also found extending the Ml6 system.
Three new major caves were found.
"Bullshit Pot", named after the wildly exagger-
ated stories coming from its discoverers, was a
very loose system pushed to -80m. "Brezno
Kratce Majce" or Torn T-shirt cave was a very
tight rift, (hence the name) winding its way
down to -80m.
The third and deepest system found was
White Shiver cave, another huge abyss almost
completely filled by an enormous snow/ice
plug. Iain McKenna and myself pushed this
cave to its end, which was an almost magical
experience which I will never forget.
Once the entrance snow plug was
passed, the cave opened out: into a large snow
slope terminating in a 60m long almost fairy
like cavern at -99.2m. Huge icicles decorated
the roof, one as thick as a tree trunk, while an
ice, waterfall clung to one wall seemingly
frozen in time. Every surface was enveloped in
a thin layer of clear ice which glistened when
caught, by our head lamp beams. Tiny ice crys-
tals sent aloft by our movements created a
sparkling mist to cap it all. But danger lurked
everywhere in this crystal grotto, particularly
the loose rock which at. one point, partly gave
way beneath my feet. The 3m long icicles were
very precarious, ready to crash down and
potentially impale the unsuspecting
caver.
Life at the high bivvy grew on
you. Two day stints at the top stretched
into six days stretches or until you just
smelt too bad. Water was obtained by
melting snow from cave entrances,
although the frequent and violent thun-
derstorms quickly filled our water con-
tainers with marble sized hailstones.
These proved quite dangerous in a
number of ways, from threatening to
flatten our tents and flood the caves, to
getting struck by lightning - as ten
fatalities a year in the area proves. I'm
glad that I wasn't the one to have to
carry up the stick of dynamite that the
local caving club gave us.
This years' expedition achieved a
great deal in extending and discovering
several major caves. Much experience
was gained by all members of the team
in a variety of ways and good relations
were made with the local cavers to
enable us to return to the area next,
year. We would like to thank the
Rectors trust, Exploration Board, IC
trust, Harlington trust and the Char Parau
foundation lor their support. Thanks also to
our patron Dr Tony Waltham, one of the
worlds top cavers and an ex-IC Caving Club
president. Thank you also to Spring Foods Ltd
for their donation of flapjacks — the ideal cave
food, 500 Kcal in one tiny bar! E
M
For further details about the IC Caving Club
email the author rdea@ee.ic.ac.uk or telephone
(0181) 870 0792.
F E L I X 0H0CT9M

