Feature
Proms '94 new music disc roundup
JfPd stayed sitting on thatpewfor another 30 seconds my buttock
fossilized.' Patrick Wood takes a hot bath with John Tavener, and
circulation restored by Sir Peter Maxwell Davies
Why don't, people write like Beethoven any-
more? A common complaint from the many
whose musical enthusiasm withers in the face of
anything written after about 1900. The answer
is twofold. Firstly, modern composers X and Y
are surely not unaware of the short-term
advantages of writing music that, makes people
think, 'Hey, that sounds like Beethoven.'
However, they'd much rather have posterity
listen to their work and think, 'Hey, that,
sounds like X (or Y).' This is why modern music
often sounds weird. Secondly, musicians nowa-
days are surrounded by so much music, live,
broadcast and recorded, in so many different
styles. Hence a composer who has what: he
thinks is a good idea and writes it down
becomes, after familiarizing himself with it,
unsure of whether the idea is genuinely his or
whether it's something dredged up from his
subconscious memory. This is why modern
music contains few 'tunes' in the traditional
sense.
One of the most recognizable and chal-
lenging of contemporary voices belongs to Sir
Harrison Birtwistle. His Earth Dances,
played by the Cleveland Orchestra at this year's
Proms, is a huge orchestral mechanism of
grinding brass and clockwork percussion. It's a
thrilling and sometimes baffling piece, full of
startling and evocative sonorities, and is avail-
able from Collins Classics, who have also just
released Birtwistle's latest large-scale work,
Antiphonies for piano and orchestra. The new
piece (coupled with the much earlier Noinos
and An Imaginary Landscape) doesn't have the
depth and spaciousness of Earth Dances; the
relentless pecking of percussion and solo piano
soon becomes tiring.
A composer who shares Birtwistle's fascina-
tion with ritual is John Tavener, although his
static, devotional musical language is very differ-
ent. Tavener's two-hour cantata The, Apocalypse
was premiered at the Proms a lew months back,
and another substantial choral work, Akathist of
Thanksgiving, has recently been released by
Sony Classical. It. was recorded live at a conceit
in Westminster Abbey last January (a faint rum-
ble is occasionally just audible in the background)
and at the time the publicity proudly announced
that at. its one previous performance, also in the
Abbey, theAkathist had received a standing ova-
tion. So too did it this time round, and being
there I knew why. At, least:, I knew why it. received
a standing ovation from me, which was because
if I'd stayed sitting on that pew for another 30
seconds my buttocks would have fossilized. It's
long, 78 minutes even with a cut, and just
squeezes onto one CD. The
advantage of a recording is not
just that you can listen in the com-
fort of an armchair. Jhe composer
would say I've missed the point,
but this is the musical equivalent
of a hot bath: you'll want to dip
into it. r
riie climax is a long time
arriving, and when it does (track
8), it's brief but glorious.
Much shorter and denser is
Sudden Time by George
Benjamin, new on a 15-minute
CD single from Nimbus. The
work is fragmentary and minute-
ly crafted, but, seems to lose
direction after the promising first
five minutes, and leaves no last-
ing impression. This is certainly
not a problem faced by Mark-
Anthony Turnage. Born in
1960, the same year as
Benjamin, he has just finished a
four-year residency with the City
of Birmingham Symphony Orch-
estra, who play four of his works
under the direction of Sir Simon
Rattle on a recent release from
EMI. Turnage mixes jazz influences into his
highly-coloured orchestral palette: saxophones
strut on with bold tunes, and more than once
an electric guitar underpins the bass-line. The
opening work, Drowned Out, was inspired by
William Golding's novel Pincher Martin, about
a sailor swept overboard. The tidal pull of a
deep, strong cello melody tugs the listener into
the sensational opening pages, and the music
returns to a similar plane, after the less memo-
rable, Rile ofSpring-styh chugging central sec-
tion. The rest of the disc is equally inspired and
approachable.
The same can also be said about pails of
a new Sony Classical disc of music by the late
Polish composer Witold Lutoslawski, played
by the Eos Angeles Philharmonic Orchestra
conducted by Esa-Pekka Salonen. A rich and
tonal pulsing opens his recent Fourth
Symphony, and while it's not all such easy lis-
tening, it only takes a few hearings for the work
to begin to reveal its structure. The more elu-
sive Third Symphony also ends beautifully, but
the best parts of the disc are the gorgeous fifth
and sixth verses of Les Espaces du sommeil
(track 2, 5'28"), a haunting nocturnal passage
of sparkling woodwind flurries and swooning
string glissandi.
I taunting in a more literal sense describes
MaxwellDaeies in the SOs (Photo: LIVT/CliesleiMusic)
Sir Peter Maxwell Davics' The Lighthouse.
This 70-minute opera is based on the unex-
plained disappearance of three keepers from a
lighthouse in the Outer Hebrides in 1900. The
material is sometimes thinly stretched, and the
Prologue drags, but the atmosphere builds
steadily to a powerful and eerie climax from
17'20" in track 5. The disc is from Collins, who
already have a large selection of works by
Davies in their catalogue. An extract from The
Lighthouse features on their half-price sampler
disc 'Maximum Max', which ends with the
wonderful Orkney Wedding with Sunrise, in
itself worth the price of admission. No-one with
a drop of Celtic blood in their veins can fail to
be roused by the bagpipe-led closing pages.
Best of all though is the Collins recording of
Davies' magnificent Third Symphony. His style
in this hour-long, four movement work is
uncompromising and subtle; no batteries of
extrovert percussion here. Rather, the colours
and textures are those of moss and lichen on
weathered granite. The structure is faultlessly
plotted, each movement reaching an eloquent
climax in its final bars: try track 2 from 6'56".
The, symphony seems to chart an elemental
journey, taken perhaps by a modern Bruckner
along remote and craggy coastal paths. It's a
work to come back to and explore many times.
01CT91 F E L I X WM

