Feature
Just when you thought it was safe to go back to school,
Joe Mcfadden makes the Pimlico connection only to
find it's all...
"I love kids,"
Adam deadpanned as
we stepped nervously
into the lion's den of
year 5 for the first
time, "...but I couldn't
eat. a whole one." All,
bravado is so impor-
tant, when you're wondering just what you've
let yourself in for (and whether you're going to
regret it).
Kids**8
Stuff
Like agreeing to join the Pimlico connec-
tion, a scheme which ai ranges lor Imperial stu-
dents to help leathers in science < lapses a! local
schools, one afternoon a week 1 luirelv man-
aged to gel ihrough a ihemiMr, dearer myself;
how was I going to help leach other people?
Still, 1 told myself, it"d all be OK. We'd
had our basic training as .student tutors (I'd
turned up late and had only just managed to
scavenge a choceic biccie when the: training ses-
:;in ;idc<!)
rations and equipment (I'd eaten a Mais I• ti lor
lunch, and had a biro Willi me It (lain I work.)
Most of all, we hatlla golklJ||i||eli|||paj()i- in
Adam, a veteran of tw irpaigns; he
knew the terrain and was coming back for
more. With Chris covering us, Adam and I burst
into the classroom to be, confronted by...
...a room full to bursting with eight and
nine-year olds, all of them suddenly silent, all
of them looking expectantly at, us. Just waiting
for us to do something interesting. Wendy, the
slightly-harassed looking teacher, made the
most, of the lull to introduce us: "Here, are the
students from
Imperial who'll
be here every
W e d n e s d a y
afternoon to
help us with
s c i e n c e
classes. Say
hello children!"
That was all the invitation they needed.
The Ministry's wall of sound had nothing on
these kids; a constant, barrage of questions,
requests, demands, pleas for attention... and
that was even before the lesson had started!
But, before long it settled down, the kids started
some simple -mail) chromatography experi-
ments, and flic, afternoon seemed to fly by!
Liijlllilliilipcof)|||:;ivvho try it, I really
enjoyed u:o Connection (despite
some a complete break
from i iillegf* work, and I fell as if I was doing
something iiirTtil. even whciirthe tutoring I was
doing wasn't particularly 'scientific'. Of com -.i.
there are all kinds of ication skill;,
can learn or improve by tutoring, bin die leel-
V" iA ii-i',:::;-; ; ' 1
'
I iiinmd :II Si Cli-mcnln is M .lame-., a
vw; friendly piimai\ n lu.nl neai Holland
'•'Hrk T::r,r, :. . t S
C
V
C
M
l
f
C
M •
I 111 -i hi mi and you should get some choice as
lo which school and age-group vou lulor.
Betty Caplan
scheme part-time, thinks everyone gains hum
the experience, of tutoring. "The studenls gel to
do something useful, lo help Ihp kid'' and make
relation; ly kids need
because some of our schools are in very
depriv • -de positive
role-models hu ihe Mhnul-i liildren, letting
theui see (hat females, blacks MI id .Asians can
hi-i line scientists, and consider that possibility
for the
The idheme involv& tutoring every
Wednesdas after noon loi IIK hrst two terms.
There is also a joint projei i run with the
Science Museum, which is for two five or six
week periods. Tutors will be based at the muse-
um and plan a school visit to particular galleries
with help from museum staff. So as well as
tutoring in the school to prepare for the visit,
and follow it up afterwards, tutors will also be
able to make full use of the unique facilities of
the Science Museum. Any tutors doing the sci-
ence museum project will get extra training.
You can get more details of the Science
Museum project, at. the training sessions (see
below).
Betty is an exten-
sive help network to solve any problems
Pimlico tutors might encounter: "the whole
scheme is structured to give support to every-
body. For tutors, there is the link-tutor in their
school, and then (here is the link-tutor co-ordi-
nator, and the link teacher. Unfortunately, stu-
dents don't use that support enough, and if
people don't even talk about their problems
then we can't find the solutions';.
Another foriff ilCs^ippriililnci from the
Pimlico Society, which organises social trips,
quiz nights and the Christmas dinner for
Ptmbco tutors. The society's Chair, Kelcla
Bratley. hopes to get, even more people involved
on the social side this year.
Finally Betty points out, that students
should be, aware of what's involved before join-
ing. "It's not something you can do for two or
three weeks; it, is something you have to think
about it. Put if you but: in the commitment you
will get, out of it an enormous amount." Q
Training: where & when?
All training sessions are in Southside conferenc
suite and with no obligation, so come along and
find out more, at thefollowing limes:
Wednesday 5lh October
Thursday 6lh October
Mon 10th October
Weds 12th October
2-5pm
6-8.30pm
5-8.30pm
2—5pm
010CT94 F E L I X MM

