Elimination by Catfish (using an idea I pinched from SphinX)
For those of you that haven't seen this kind of puzzle before, you solve what I laughingly
call "clues" to eliminate pairs of words from the list below, to find the one left over.
Although there may be several possible pairings for any word, there is only one possible
solution. (A London A-Z or Underground Journey Planner may be of some use here...).
For those of you that have...what are you reading this for?
a. The high one or the low? 1. Elm 22. Bounds
b. Stars from a large family 2. End 23. Bridge
c. Good manors? 3. Ham 24. Cannon
d. Vicar's money! 4. Oak 25. Covent
e. Is it falling down? 5. Bond 26. Euston
f. Two with green 6. Farm 27. Garden
g Devonshire pork! 7. Hill 28. Gospel
h. Not much grows here, 1 think 8. Mile 29. Grange
i. Two with park 9. Moor 30. London
j. The holy tree 10. Park 31. Oxford
k. Not Saint but James 11. Road 32. Street
1
. Children's television 12. West 33. Warren
m. Two synonyms 13. Wood 34. Cottage
n. Isn't this in The Hague? 14. Brent 35. Holland
0. The last 1/26th
of a marathon? 15. Chalk 36. Mansion
P- A couple of streets 16. Cross 37. Parsons
q- A chalet 17. Green 38. Ruislip
r. Geese migrate 18. House 39. Sisters
s. Two circuses 19. Seven 40. Caledonian
t.. The abbey allotments? 20. Swiss 41. Piccadilly
21. Boston
Quite
Contrary
Who can doubt that "Dedication", or better
still, "Oooh Dedication", is what you need?
One thing though that this summer has
taught us is that when your slot finally
arrives to play in That Great Smoky Jazz
Club In The Sky, even
the record breakers
amongst us can't refuse
the invitation.
Only two other news
stories from this summer
deserve to grace the
same page as the dearly • H H H M ^ ^ M M H H
departed Norris-phile. "Bicycle Bomb
Blasts Bognor!" screamed the headlines.
"You Must Be Kidding!" replied the nation.
But no, it would seem that somewhat
tardily, the IRA (fingers crossed for a "who
grandad?" in the not too distant future)
had adopted Tebbit's ideology of yester-
year and was getting on its bike.
Intelligence reports suggested that the ter-
rorists had developed bicycles to launch
surface-to-air missiles at Army helicopters.
The Anti-Terrorist Squad duly set up an
emergency hotline for sightings of suspi-
cious-looking Raleigh Choppers...
I think I've found the next Richard
Branson, and as you read this I'll be busily
polishing the necessary silver bullets. The
Daily Telegraph (20.8.94) reported the tale
of thirteen-year-old John Butters, an entre-
preneurial prodigy if ever there was one.
Wanting to earn some summer holiday
cash (no doubt to finance his first mobile
phone) he wrote to high street stores,
offering his unique services. For a modest
fee, he would test in-store security by see-
ing what he could shoplift. Anything thus
procured would be returned, he reassured
them, and the stores would gain an invalu-
able opportunity to
reassess their anti-
theft procedures. Alas,
his offer was univer-
sally turned down. It
remains, however,
only a matter of time
ffl^H^MMHBBMH before Fraulein
Bottomley seizes upon this initiative to test
the NHS anti-illness procedures.
The first step will be to launch an 'all-
new unemployment combating initiative'
(known in some quarters as the 'same-old
statistics massage'). Volunteers who had
been accepted to take part would be given
the teeniest of fractures to the teeniest of
wrist bones. Alternatives would include the
introduction of the Amazonian Maru Maru
virus to their bloodstreams. And then they
would be let loose on the nation's General
Practitioners and casualty departments.
"Obviously it gives us means of statisti-
cally appraising which departments are
responding to specific consumer require-
ments," she will gush. "
I have envisaged a
league table with high points being scored
for particularly tough diagnoses (and of
course bonus marks if they're reached
without expensive radiological or laborato-
ry test). A sort of Operation - The Mad
Doctor's Game! meets Cluedo." Rahul.
F
r
a
t
e
r F
r
i
a
m W
r
i
t
e
s
Whilst the rest of college is reeling with
the impact of thousands of fresh faced
neophytes, all struggling to subsume
themselves in a rapidly fading dream of
sordid bacchanalia, your Frater cruises
urbanely across the shattered lands
around the M40 Westway. The starkness
of the concrete buttresses and cantilevers,
the crudely severe angles of the macadam
tract all serve to bring an almost erotic
twinge to my life. I
t is this rubble strewn
bleakness, the wasted tower blocks, the
dark underground of railway and inhu-
man violence that really give London its
true heart. Whilst the blind eyes of the
tourists loiter, sucking long dead soul of
Oxford Street into their reedy video cam-
eras, I prefer to lurk under concrete,
where I can allow the rumble of traffic
overhead to provide a background to my
arcane rituals. The spirit of London lies
within these spaces, the ones that no-one
sees but without which the Metropolis
could never survive.
I
t is within this terrific violence that the
true artists create. Whilst the police track
down the slashers and shooters who lay
waste to so many lives, those who dream
of creation seek them out, for it is the
undercurrent of death and drama that
spur them to write, to paint and to dream.
After all, how many books can there be
that do not contain within them the tale of
a death, a murder or other ending? How
many films fail to portray at least one act
of violence? Much as the controllers may
try to claim that these things are immoral
- that death and sex should never be por-
trayed on screen, I say otherwise. Life can-
not exist without death, and it is the
immortal tension between the two that
create the true spirit behind all forms of
beauty. Without them everything would
become an perpetual recycling of old
Neighbours plots, with sponsorship by
McDonalds.
So, my dear friends, do not be afraid
of your dangerous surroundings, do not
try to hide the truth from your searching
gaze but embrace the spirit of your
Capital for it holds all of life to you for the
taking.
010CT94 F E L I X WM

