ClubsoSocieties N
e
w
s
Shakespeare
come to
The Dramatic: Society (DramSoc)
is one of Imperial's liveliest
societies: last year we put. on six
productions, helped out with loads
of overseas societies' events and all
the carnivals. In addition to that
we build and run our own venue
at the Edinburgh festival. So to
start of this year we're running
two productions: Hamlet and
Tom Stopparcl's Rosencranlz and
Ouildestem are Dead.
Hamlet's tragic tale is well
known. Hamlet, Prince of
Denmark, plots revenge against
his uncle the King for the murder
of his father but slowly others are
drawn into the plot, leading
ultimately to a tragic conclusion.
Rosenerantz and Guildeiistern
are swept of their feet by the plot
of Hamlet. Where once their world
was rilled by chance now (heir
future is pre-destined. Both arc
confused by the change and
and Stoppard
Imperial
attempt to make sense of it
through the antics of travelling
players. It is not. until the open the
King's letter that they discover
their purpose hut will they stick to
it, now the time has come?
Auditions for both these plays
are to be held on Sunday 9th in
the Ents disco and on Tuesday
11 th in the concert hall both at
5pm. As well as actors we require
technical people too. Set, designers
and constructors, costume people,
lighting and sound technicians. So
if you want to learn how to put a
theatre together this is the place to
be. Our first, technical workshop
will be, on theatrical lighting and
will be held at the end of October.
To get in touch with us come to
our welcome party (8pm Sunday)
in the Ents disco or come any time
to the DramSoc workroom (on die
east staircase just above the
Concert Hall).
FilmSoc: Schindler's List
The film that not only relives history hut creates it can be seen tiiis
Sunday at 8pm showing ICU Cinema. The depiction of Oskar
Schindler, an enterprising opportunist, trying to come to terms
with the madness of the holocaust, makes use of some of the most,
vivid imagery that is ever likely to grace the cinema screen.
Spielberg's artistry is just one of the many features of this epic film.
A horrific event that should not be forgotten, is covered with tact
whilst showing the scale of Hitler's genocide.
Success: the Imperial College Boat Club score on the international circuit
Top Performances by Boat Club
their equipment.
Other individual IC successes
at. the Commonwealths included
j. Wamock's gold in the
lightweight, eight, N. Httoe a silver
in the lightweight quad andA.
Warnoek a bronze for Scotland in
the lightweight, double.
At the World Championships
proper in Indiannapolis, USA,
Imperial College was represented
by Steve Ellis, who returned home
a world champion alter a super-
lative performance from his crew,
the GI3 lightweight eight.
And finally, IC notched up
another win at Henley to add to
the summer's medal haul — the
Temple Challenge Cup for eights,
sealing a highly successful season
for the crew which also included a
couple of oarsmen who had only
picked up the sport at the start of
the, year.
Seven members of Imperial
excelled to win medals at this
year's Commonwealth Regatta in
Ontario, Canada in August.
The all-IC coxless four of M.
Kettle, A. Green, E. Wild and B.
Poulton followed up their success
in the Visitors Cup at, Henley
Royal Regatta by gaining selecion
for the event after performances at
various international regattas
including Paris, Lucerne and
Duisburg where they had beaten a
GB squad crew.
Coming up in the final
against, the Canadian and
Australian crews bound later for
the World Championships, the IC
crew rowed their best race of the
year according to coach Bill
Mason, to pick up the bronze
medal. The four were sponsored
by Maersk, a Danish company
which also helped to transport
This 'fish-on-bikes' vignette is the all new IC Rag logo.
It was designed by Mike Burton, an old boy of the college.
Pink Floyd for Free?
Rag can get you in free to any of the forthcoming Pink Floyd concerts at
Earls Court Olympia, and at the same time you can help save a local
hostel for young homeless people. All you have to do is collect outside
Olympia for an hour before the conceit, then go in and see the show. We
also have tickets for Chris De Burgh, Level 42, and David Copperfield.
Tomorrow morning is Tiddlywinks where, teams of two Tiddlywink
down Oxford Street and Regent Street to Piccadilly Circus where we
perform a huge Ring-A-Fting-A-Roses around Eros. Then we go off to a
secret location and spend the rest of the day attempting to drink a pub
dry (soft drinks too). As an added incentive we will be giving away
FREE RAC BEER GLASSES to everybody who takes part as well as
masses of other prizes. So tomorrow morning sign in at, your CCLI office
and if you don't, have a partner don't worry, we can find you one there.
Other events this term include Live Monopoly next weekend where
you can try to win a skiing holiday in Andorra. Our first Rag Raid of the
year is to Canterbury, a chance to get away from London for a day, and
starting on the 11th of November is our action packed RAG WEEK.
To find out more, or to sign up for the concerts, come to the Rag
meeting this lunch time in the Ents lounge (opposite Da Vinci's in the
Union Building) at 1 siOpm, or visit us in the Rag Office any lunch time.
f FELIX mora

