Standby
T
H
E m
e
n
u
In the start of what could end up as the definitive London
guide, the laddies wander around south ken, paper and pen
in hand...
On the big silver screen, Magpie sits back and considers all
things fast with the new keanu-head flick, Speed, while
Patrick Wood experiences the grit of Ladybird, Ladybird.
There's a change-over of music eds as Vik and tintin spin the
latest singles together and realise, not for the first time, that
they don't really like much music.
In a mix and match which saw the best of the west meet the
wack of the east, tintin was dazed and blown away by the
Boredoms and Sugar, live at Brixton Academy.
After viewing the new exhibition, A Bitter Truth - Avant-
Garde art and the Great War at the Barbican, Marcus
Alexander sends a shell-shocked dispatch.
Combining both her columns into one for this week only,
fashion guru and clubber queen Fiona sets the scene for the
hipsters of the world to unite. Normal operations will begin
next friday when the fashion and clubbing columns will run
on alternate issues. You have been warned.
S n o t i n o u r b a c k y a r d
OK, let's be honest, of all the cool
places that are ace for students in
London, South Ken isn't one of
them. However, seeing as we're all
studying here for three years, we
might as well be positive and make
the most of it. Right. Um, it's clean
and safe for a start and probably
has a lower dog-shit count than
anywhere else in Britain. "But what
is there to do?" I hear you cry!
Well, the N a t u r a l History
museum is ace, especially the
creepy crawly and dinosaur bits.
Launch Pad at the Science
museum is free and it's the nearest
thing to a amusement park this side
of where the nearest amusement
park is.
For those 'all night seshes' you
need not worry about running out
of food because Gloucester Road is
the 24-hour munchie capital city of
the universe; Harts, for absolutely
anything that's yummy, but
especially their chocolate
doughnuts, the 7-11 for their Ben &
Jerry's chocolate chip cookie dough
ice-cream and Burger King for the
obvious. There's also a Texas Lone
Star which makes absolutely
enormous burgers that even Mr
Creosote would think twice about.
Not to mention a Haagen Ddzs, a
24 hour patisserie and the
Sandwich shop opposite the
Huxley building or thereabouts.
Also deserving a mention is this
dead good, dead cheap sandwich
shop run by this little Italian bloke,
FELIX mora
but my co-writer has just informed
me that it burned down last term so
who knows if it's still there. It is
worth bearing in mind that even
H a r r o d s ' food hall is cheaper than
Southside Shop. There are also
shed-loads of restaurants in the
South Ken area but we can't
mention them all, so won't mention
any.
High Street Kensington is on
the opposite side of college and is
home to many a shit shop. It's
expensive, and you're better off
going to Oxford Street, Soho,
Camden or Portobello Road...The
one redeeming feature of this area
is The Churchill, an Irish pub/Thai
restaurant (?!) on Kensington
Church Street; the beer is brilliant,
the food is fantastic and it's rather
cheap. Speaking of pubs you will be
glad to see that I'm not going to
bore you shitless and give you yet
another guide to the pubs in South
Ken. Apart from - go to the
E n n i s m o r e behind Linstead
Southside and take someone else's
cheque book with you.
Finally, some friendly advice to
the fresh faces at college: don't,
under any circumstances, pull
moonies in front of red police cars
as they're loaded to the brim with
anti-terrorist rocket launchers and
you're likely to get blown up. Oh,
and cars with diplomatic plates
have positively no qualms about
running you over. That's diplomatic
immunity for you.
^ j ) flying a w a y f r o m h o m e
Speed is a pure adrenaline rush from start to finish - beginning in an
elevator, then speeding bus and finally to a runaway train. This film has
already been titled 'Die Hard on a bus', but Speed is better, loads better.
The excitement does not come from gun toting extras that die after one
glance at the main character, but from the cliffhanging effects, the
external environment that constantly works against you and over which
you have zero control. That excitement comes from the impossible
position Jack Traven (Keanu Reeves) is placed, trying to save the lives of
innocent victims from Howard Payne (Dennis Hopper), who has a large
interest in money and blowing people up. When things seem doomed to
fail they get worse: an elevator full of people that is prevented from
falling by a small winch and a bomb on a bus that must not drive below
50mph in the middle of Los Angeles rush hour.
The main action takes place on the doomed bus where Annie,
(Sandra Bullock) ends up driving when the original driver is shot by a
crazed passenger. From then on the excitement escalates and a continual
cascade of impossible problems face Keanu and the only question is; how
on earth is he going to save the bus and all its occupants this time?
This is Keanu's second action film, after Point Break, and he has
certainly taken on the role of being the nineties action man. Dennis
Hopper is, as usual, very good as the sociopath who uses novel plans to
extort money. First of all he doesn't use a car full of people but a bus full
of people, then the bus is not wired to go off when it starts but when it
slows down.
This is definitely one film to go and see. The exhilaration is
indescribable and the feeling of being pumped up with adrenaline leaves
you speechless afterwards.
>5
From runaway buses to bureaucracy out of control, Ladybird,
Ladybird (above) takes us down a completely different road. Starring
Crissy Rock and Vladimir Vega and directed by Ken Loach, Ladybird,
Ladybird, is based on the true story of Maggie, a decent mother caught
up in the red tape of the social services. Her four children are put into
care when a lover brutalises her, and when she meets saintly South
American exile Jorge, the authorities can't believe she's finally settled into
a stable relationship. When Maggie and Jorge have two daughters, each
of them are taken into care.
Crissy Rock won an award at the Berlin Film Festival for her portrayal
of Maggie, and at first she is disturbingly good. But the later parts of the
film bring the suspicion that she may be a one-trick pony as in her despair
she rants, swears and generally conforms to a social workers' stereotype
of dysfunctional maternity.
Where Loach and writer Rona Munro succeed best is in the wit and
pin-sharp accuracy of their portraits of ordinary life in the karaoke bar
and on the council estate. Because the screenplay concentrates on
Maggie and Jorge, reducing the social workers and Maggie's children to
ciphers, the film lacks moral complexity and pre-judges any questions it
might raise about the right of the state to interfere in this most
fundamental aspect of our lives. At the end we are simply left with the
feeling that there has to be some sort of a system and it isn't going to
work for everyone.

