Feature
Can you be all at sea at IC?
Yes, you can, as the Imperial College Yacht Club prove every
weekend. All is explained in this tale of vigour and salty vomit.
It is said (allegedly) that Imperial College Yacht
Club (ICYC) was formed 5 years ago by a
group of sailors who wanted boats with beds
that, provided a cheap way of getting to and
from French hypermarkets and pubs in Cowes.
Some things don't change. However, since
those modest beginnings the club has expanded
rapidly, introducing many students to yachting,
both cruising and racing. The club has
competed internationally in the Spi-Dauphine,
Croisiere EDHEC, Jet Sea Cup, Harnble Winter
Series and, most importantly, the British
University Nationals. In addition, the club
organises very cheap tuition aimed
towards passing the RYA
Yachtmaster exams, both theory
and practical, which upon leaving
Imperial and getting rich (?!)
enables you to charter yachts
anywhere in the world!!
The club has a full schedule
for this term, with racing, cruising
and/or training on offer every weekend. Racing
freaks can look forward to the complete
Hamble River Winter Series this term and an
international regatta or two next term (how
does a week in the Caribbean over Easter
sound!!). There are 30 yacht-days worth of
cruising and RYA practical training in the
Solent area spread over 8 weekends in October
and November alone. And of course, the, RYA
theoretical course and exam for Yachtmaster
theory takes place on the weekends of Nov. 26-
27, Dec. 3-4, and 10-11. All of this amounts to
a grand total of well over 400 full student-days
worth of activities.
So, what happens on one of these
yachting weekends?? Well, if there is such a
thing as a typical ICYC weekend, it, would go
like this....
On Saturday morning the club meets at
7am at the car park entrance between the Post
Office and Civ Eng. on Prince's Gate. Once
everyone's woken up and got over the shock of
discovering weekend mornings do exist, (and
that, they're even worse than weekday ones), its
off in the minibus, first stop the Tesco garage in
Barnes to buy food (and lots of coffee), and
then onto Port Solent in Portsmouth. On
arrival, everything's loaded onto the yachts and
then, after a read through of the skipper's and
crew's safety notes, it's through the lock, motor
out the harbour and hoist, the sails. The first,
few hours are generally spent, working on
sailing skills, safety routines, cruising, admiring
the scenery and making sure everyone can use
the heads (the toilet, donchaknow) without
sinking the boat, while the late afternoon is
devoted to a match race between the ICYC
yachts (the result of which decides which crew
buys the first, rounds of drinks). As it gets dark
the yachts enter the luxurious surrounds of the
newly developed Cowes Yacht Haven.
Saturday night is party night, whether
it's squeezing into "The Anchor", drinking real
beer and listening to ever more outrageous
yachting tales along the lines of "..we hit 30
knots in Hurricane Herbert on the 2nd leg of
the '88 Whitbread, upside down and stern
first....spilt, me bloody coffee too!", or pizza,
lager and playing pool in "The Harbour
Lights". Young "Cambridge /
Oxford reject" fogeys could
even head for an evening of
port and cigars at Cowes
Yacht Club, provided you've
got the right blazer, cravat,
and a friendly bank manager.
On Sunday morning
you will wake to the gentle
lapping of waves on the hull and the suffocating
smoke of an ICYC special cooked breakfast in
the making. This guarantees a rush to be above
deck and generally ensures we're out of Cowes
with the sails up by 8am (personally, I'm a fan
of cooking and eating breakfast once out at sea:
it's fun watching someone trying to balance
pots and pans as you gybe, and it's not such a
faux pas to throw up at, open sea as it is in a
crowded marina). The race crew will probably
head off on their own to air their egos and get
"...on the way
back to London
and the only
person likely to
be awake being
the driver (we
hope)."
"I'mafan of
cooking and
eating breakfast
once out at sea"
to the start line,
while the other
yacht(s) will go
off on a long
cruise (checking
out areas such
as the Needles
and the forts)
and do some
RYA practical training. Sunday evening and the
yachts all meet, up back at Port Solent, to
unload and head back to London. After all that
fresh air the minibus resembles a dormitory on
wheels on the way back to London and the
only person likely to be awake is the driver (we
hope).
And so, to the most important question:
"How much does all this cost??". An incredible
25 squids per weekend is the answer (plus £10
annual membership for UG's and £15 for PG's
and staff). All costs are included except
Saturday dinner and booze. Nothing extra to
spend on transport, nothing extra on lunches or
Sunday breakfast, nothing extra on moorings,
and nothing extra for the hire of the beautiful
SUNFAST 36' yachts.
Ijyou'retemptedto find out more, come
and sea (sic) us al our regular meetings on
Thursdays at lpm in Physics lecture theatre 2,
or leave a message on the ICYC answer phone
via the Union on 48060, or a.duyck@ic.ac.uk!!
Jim Cannon (ICYC Chairman).
MM F E L I X 010CI91

