Feature
Approaching the size of a cow
1 J . C 7
The union constitution
has been a battle ground,
fought overfor many
years. Jon Jordan looks at
its history and the state of
the current debate.
The present chapter in the Union constitution's
story started in 1993 when the then Union
president, Chris Davidson, put forward a
proposal for the restructuring of the Union. This
broadly attempted to shift power from Union
General Meetings (UGMs) and the over 50
strong Council to a more streamlined Executive
committee made up of 13 members. Although
there was some concern expressed at the time
by students about the demise of UGMs, the so-
called 'Davidson Reforms' were passed by a
UGM on the last day of the summer term in 1993.
Under the helm of the next Union
president, Andrew Wensley, the 'Davidson
Reforms' were passed, with amendments, by the
first UGM of the following autumn term. To
become official policy the reforms just needed to
be ratified by the College's Governing Body. That
step was never completed and the whole process
ended in some confusion at the end of the last
summer term with the Union having to revert back
to operating under the old, pre-Davidson
constitution.
So to the present situation. Once again the
Union finds itself in the situation of wanting to get
a new constitution passed. The constitution which
is currently being proposed was written over the
summer by the new sabbatical officers with
"significant College input". Briefly, like the
'Davidson Reforms', it seeks to replace Council
with a more streamlined structure. In particular a
new organ, the Student Representative Council
(SRC) has been proposed to replace Council with
the old Executive committee being enlarged and
empowered to carry out the weekly running of the
Union. [For more details see the article written by
the sabbaticals on p.17 in this issue of F E L I X . ]
Before this constitution becomes official, it
must be passed by two UGMs and then ratified by
the Governing Body. The first of those three steps
may occur next Friday, 14th October in the first
UGM of term. There, the new constitution will be
discussed for the first time before being voted on.
Copies of the new constitution can be picked up
from the Union office.
FOR
The arguments for the new constitution haven't
really changed since Chris Davidson started the
whole process off in 1993. Almost everyone
involved with the Union agrees that, the 55
member Council is both too large and
unwieldy, making it practically impossible to
form any consensus on important issues. As it
only meets once a month Council can not react
to any immediate events which need to be
discussed either.
Another related problem concerns the
Union General Meetings (UGMs). They are
seen as being vulnerable to special interest
groups who block vote. This was particularly
evident in October 1993 when the 'Davidson
Reforms' were passed for the second time.
Because the proposed changes were seen as
being detrimental to the power of the
three South Kensington
Constituent College
Unions (CCUs) they
put forward an
amendment, to the
new constitution
and then block
voted it through
the UGM. In order
to guard against such
behaviour a Student
Representative Council (SRC)
has been proposed. This will replace UGMs as
"the governing and sovereign body of the
Union" and provide greater democracy.
The SRC will made up of 55 members,
ranging from the Union officers to academic
and hall representatives and thus will be more
representative of student views compared to the
'hack ridden' UGMs. As the sabbaticals
comment; "fundamentally it [the SRC] is not
unlike the UGM in that any student can attend
and have their say in the running of the Union".
The other bit of the new structure
concerns the enlargement of the Executive
committee. This will grown from 7 to 11
members, meet at least fortnightly and thus be
small enough to carry out the running of the
Union in a way that the old Council could not.
In summary, the arguments for the new
constitution are that it is more flexible and
representative of students' views than the
present one.
A G A I N S T
With this summary in mind it. is interesting that
the arguments against the new constitution are
the exact opposite i.e. it is less representative
than the old as it, effectively concentrates power
in the hands of the 11 strong Executive
committee and removes the only forum of real
democratic power, the UGM.
The fact that UGMs are vulnerable to
block voting is not new, so why is it so
important now? One reason is that over the last
year the attendance at UGMs became an
embarrassment. For a Union with over 7000
members UGM attendances of under 100
suggests that there is a deep disillusionment,
amongst students concerning the Union in
general. Block voting is a symptom of the
problem not the cause. The fact that the Union
can't, get students to attend UGMs
doesn't not seem to be a
sufficient, reason to do
away with them all
together. When the
sabbaticals say,
"fundamentally it,
[the SRC] is not
unlike the UGM in
that any student can
attend and have their
say in the running of the
Union", they totally ignore the
fact that students can only vote in UGMs.
Another connected problem is that the 11
members of the Executive committee could
wield considerable power as they also make up
the core of the SRC. Although the bulk of this
committee is made up of academic reps (17)
and hall reps (15) it. seems likely that the Union
officers could dominate proceedings.
Alternatively, die SRC could become just as
unwieldy as the old Council was. It is interesting
to note that the 'Davidson Reforms' tried to get
rid of Council because its size whereas the new
constitution actually gives the SRC, a body of
the same size, far more power than it. previously
had.
Whatever your opinion the main thing is
to have one. You can get a copy of the
constitutionfrom the Union office and talk to
any of the sabhs about it. Remember ifyou don't
turn up and vote, you are allowingyourselfto be
represented by those who do.
FELIX m o r a

