17 May 2002
Issue 1236
The Student Newspaper for Imperial College
http://www.union.ic.ac.uk/felix/
Nothing to do? Fear
not, Spider Man is
ling. (Page 11)
Adamant To The Fish? If
you want to understand,
read it yourself... (Page 5)
Botulism Busted
The Biochemistry Department is under
investigation by the Health and Safety
Executive (HSE) for alleged breaches of
Government regulations surrounding
research on dangerous substances.
Professor Oliver Dolly, a respected tutor
within the Biochemistry department, has
been suspended by College authorities for
reported irregularities relating to work on
the Class 2 strain of genetically modified
botulism. Although Professor Dolly's work
was conducted in a secure environment it
is alleged that he failed to notify the HSE
before starting work. Exposure to botu-
lism, a highly toxic anaerobic bacterium,
can lead to sudden and horrible death.
Felix has learnt that a junior researcher
raised the question of HSE authorisation
and w a s immediately fired by Professor
Dolly. The College authorities were noti-
fied and an investigation is now being
conducted by the Rector. Professor Dolly -
who w a s escorted from his office by
College Security officers - has been given
28 days to respond to allegations. The jun-
ior researcher is now taking legal action.
The botulism bacterium. Yummy.
Professor Dolly has been working on
botulism derivates for many years, most
recently under a contract funded jointly by
the United States Department of Defence
and a private company (which cannot be
named for legal reasons).
Professor Dolly was a renowned student
tutor, but according to sources within the
department, his tutor group - whose
exams are looming ever closer - only found
out about his enforced vacation through
informal channels.
It is thought that this lack of communi-
cation to the students is due to College
and the department attempting to keep
the situation as low profile as possible,
since it is the second major breach of
health and safety in a year. The College
was fined £45,000 for conducting HIV
research in a lab that was not properly
sealed. They also failed to take appropri-
ate action to remedy the situation once
the leak had been discovered.
Despite the dangers of botulism in its
native form, many people in the U K have
have started to employ its effects by way
of a botulism-derived anti-aging cream.
Botox, which is a botulism based product,
is injected into the faces of celebrities to
tighten muscles, and thus reduce fine
lines and wrinkles. will & Etienne
"Fair trade is not about charity, it's
about giving people the dignity of
working their way "out of poverty,
providing hope for the future."
Next Week is Fair Trade Week

