Fischerspooner
#1
Out now on Ministry of Sound recordings
"Sounds good, looks good, feels good".
However much frontman Casey
Spooner's statement of intent verges on
unashamed hedonism, it's hard not to
take him completely seriously when he
hollers his manifesto at the top of his
lungs at the end of a typically firework-
laden, art-fashion-sex-music Fischer-
spooner extravaganza. For this group of
electro-clash forerunners, everyone and
everything is an understatement.
Spooner (pic above) a n d his main
cohort Warren Fischer must be feeling
ecstatic with their efforts on this album.
Storming right to the top of every
"kewlest" record of the year chart in
2001, the N Y C duo have recently
astounded peers by signing an unprece-
dented U K record deal with Ministry
worth £2million.
Deep breathing, pumping bass, voco-
dal submission, climaxing synthesiser
gasps, throbbing electrobeatz a n d a
lump of humpin' existentialism. Not an
array of overheard noise in the darkest
corners Mech Eng, but a neat, succinct
description of the opening track Invisible.
Other musical highlights include the per-
verted yet sterilised cover of Wire's The
15th, the sombre looming pitchbend
affair Tone Poem, and of course the sleaz-
ified polysexual head rush that is their
signature dance anthem Emerge.
Fischerspooner are the Chinese burn
upon climax, they are heavy eyes rolling
in glass as their mascara streaks under
hot lights. They are that scary looking
latex body paint. They are fervour and
mystery, arrogance and modesty. This
album is called #1 for a reason.
B B B B B Chris
Hundred Reasons
Ideas Above Our Station
Out this Monday on Columbia records
Hundred Reasons, the n e w hope for
British rock, are rough, and I'm not talk-
ing about their looks. This album shows
a lot of promise, but at the moment their
music is still very rough around the
edges.
The main criticism I have is that too
many of the songs sound the same. A s
you go through the album, you keep
thinking that you're hearing one of the
singles (and as there have only been two,
this should show you what I mean). This
is not to say that there's no variation; it's
just that there are certain riffs that
always seem to repeat.
The best tracks on the album are I'll
Find You, Oratorio and particularly
Avalanche. These show how Hundred
Reasons can rock, build songs up and
also do the quiet, gentle melodic things
well.
Avalanche is that little bit different to
the rest, showing off the talent that is
there, and although it is quite gentle, it
acts as a good "calm-down" for the
album after the "get up and rock" char-
acteristics of most of the songs.
We must hope that Hundred Reasons
become more smooth and refined with
practice. But, all in all, Ideas Above Our
Station is a promising debut, and the
band deserve most of the hype that is
coming their way.
B B B B O Tank
music reviews
The Bellrays
Meet The Bellrays
Out now on Poptones
From the unreconstructed rock intro on
the first track Too Many Houses In Here,
The Bellrays make it loud and clear
where they're coming from. There's no
attempt to be clever, no pretence of rep-
resenting any new scene. Listening to
the Bellrays, you wonder if they've ever
heard any music since The Eagles and
Led Zeppelin. Except maybe
Whitesnake. This is rock. A n d it's loud.
The production gives everything a late
seventies pre-metal flavour, in the same
way that Give Out But Don't Give Up
almost sounded like it had been recorded
in the deep South in the sixties (in other
words, it sounds "authentic"). This is
heavy metal as it began, before it
became fully fledged as Iron Maiden or
Guns 'n' Roses. Not a trace of nu-metal,
hip-hop, cyber, industrial or any other
genre that has been sporadically incor-
porated into the gimmicky metal scene.
So, what's the point of this? Musically,
there's not one new idea on this album.
Lyrically, the themes are as dubiously
similar as ever: "If I knew that this was a
dream, I could die tomorrow". Please,
spare us. But, as with all rock, the point
is that it rocks. The blues, funk and early
soul influences are there, with the gui-
tars, the drums, and the half-screamed,
half-croaked vocals. A n d the spirit of
rawk, baby. Pass the JD.
S B 8 B B Robert
Those with a sharp eye will have noticed a slight decrease in the size of the music
section recently, due to a horrible combination of maths exams and cost-cutting
measures. So when I finish exams, I'll do some more work, and maybe Will will give
me some more space. Yes. Dave
The winner of the David Holmes album (Issue 1233) is Jenny Rieger of Biology I.

