reviews film
Editorial
"new Spider-Man movie"
You're stressed. You have exams next week. But your pen and
paper are long lost brothers. They've gone AWOL. You prefer it
that way. So why not go down to the local cinema and watch a
movie?
That's what I was thinking a couple of days ago. Sitting at
home thinking, this revision isn't going to get me anywhere (in
the short term). So I call up the Odeon ticket-line. They list their
movies. I hang up. Unimpressed. I would prefer to hole-punch a
loose pieces of paper than to watch the Scorpion King. I would
rather scribble in the margin than to see Hugh Grant faffing
around in About A Boy. I would rather draw-up an ingenious
and yet impossible revision timetable than to see De Niro sell
himself out again in Showtime. So I went to see The Count Of
Monte Cristo which was good. Sword fights and stuff.
But there are movies to look forward to after the exams. For
instance, Spider-Man is being released nationwide on the 14th
June. The comic book story of Peter Parker, the geek who got
bitten by a radioactive spider and gained supernatural (mainly
climbing) powers, will be hitting the big screens at last.
After being turned down by James Cameron and David
Fincher, Sam Raimi, director of the legendary Evil Dead series,
took the Spider-Man reins and has made an action movie which
has been received well in the US by critics and audiences. This
should be fantastic film with a £100m budget spent mainly on
special effects which push the boundaries of movietech.
So something to look forward to in the summer when you're
Shooters
released 29th April on DVD
Based i n Liverpool, Shooters, directed by D a n Reed is a British
gangster film in the vein of classic gritty British films like Get
Carter or Scum.
Anybody who's ever had dealings with club bouncers will
understand the main characters Big John (John Wayland) and
Dezzy (Dezzy Baylis), who decide to take time-off looking for
trainers to make some quick money robbing a drug dealer's
home.
As you might expect it all goes horribly wrong and they end
up shooting the dealer. What's worse is the drug boss comes
looking for the money and notices Big John driving round in a
new convertible, a purchase which slightly incriminates him.
The real highlight of the film is the fact that all the main char-
acters are played by people the director met on location in
Liverpool which gives the film a real feel of being true to life a
la Ken Loach.
The strong link between drugs and crime is explored in a per-
suasive way without being over the top or sensational. A lot of
time is spent in developing the characters as dreamers who
ain't too clever but are desperate to prove to others that they
aren't lost in a dead end job. The friendship between the men is
also explored, though you are left to decide for yourself whether
it remains intact by the end. Despite being a typical scouse
hardman, Big John's relationship with his ex-wife and daughter
gives his character a bit more sympathy, which I found a
refreshing touch.
All in all it's a fairly good film memorable only for the unusual
(and successful) casting decision and the characterisation. It is
in a similar to the Lock, Stocks and Gangster No.Is of this
world, but different enough to be worth a look. You won't get
any of the Guy Ritchie snappy dialogue, but instead there's a
bleak and gritty urban realism.
I was lucky enough to meet the directors and cast at a special
showing in a small cinema in Soho (oh, the benefits of working
for Felix, luwy!) and was given a free DVD which will be up for
grabs in one of our competitions.
Dave Hinselwood
not watching the World Cup or relaxing in the sun. DafJUS
Felix On Film Shooters Competition
This is you chance to w i n Shooters on DVD. It is one of the
best British Gangster movies ever made and essential for any
gangster movie fan or wannabe. Now just calm down for a sec-
ond I haven't even given you the question.
You can w i n the recently released DVD by answering this
question. Faster finger first: Who stars as Jack Carter in the
year 2000 version of Get Carter?
a) A l Pacino b) Gary Busey c) Sylvester Stallone
Answers to film.felix@ic.ac.uk

