short story
With exams and everything that happens around this time of
year there are no book reviews at the moment. What follows
though is an excellent short story by author Robert Bell. I've
been reading Rob's work for a while n o w and I believe that it's
in the same league as many of the published authors w e see
today. Hopefully in a few years we'll be seeing his name on the
bookshelves.
Give A Dog A Bone by Robert Bell
I hate that damn dog. If I were to be granted one wish, at this
second, I'd have it skinned alive and set alight. But I'm sure,
Dear Reader, if you had to see the dog in question - Speedy is its
name - you'd love it to bits. M y wife did. Anyway, let me start at
the beginning.
On our first anniversary, I waited for my wife, Deborah, in the
lounge of our new home, holding an expensive ring in one hand
and a bouquet of flowers in the other, anxious to give her the
present and then receive something of similar value. Instead,
she walked inside holding Speedy in her arms. Speedy, a gold-
en retriever, had a smooth coat and soft eyes, enough to drive
animal lovers mad.
"Ahh, isn't he just adorable, Henry?" she said. I sat without
showing any emotion, hoping she had bought this animal for
the both of us to keep around the house, not as an anniversary
gift.
"Happy anniversary!" she said, handing the mutt to me. I felt
like smashing my fist through her face. I took the dog, though,
and held it as you would any animal, with my hands underneath
its stomach. That's when it pissed on me. Now, I'm a patient
man - especially when it comes to payback - and I know the
importance of the right time and right place; I smiled, put it
down, and told Deborah that it needed housetraining before it
could be allowed back into the house. I would do the training
myself, I told her. Soon, Speedy would earn its name.
The day I decided to train Speedy was clear and windless, the
sun mild and pleasant, and I told my wife I was taking it across
the road. Let me explain: houses line our side of the road, but on
the other side is the end of a farm, which stretches for a good
half mile. In some parts the field is packed with short, fat thorn
trees and knee-length grass; but elsewhere, such as the area
opposite our house, the grass is shorter, the trees sparser. The
vegetation increased further into the land, though, obscuring
the road from view.
The initial training was successful, and Speedy soon learned
what to do and what not do to. It's amazing how much differ-
ence a swift kick to the stomach makes. After the training, I
took Speedy home; it followed a while behind me, and not
alongside me as it had done earlier. By the time I returned,
Deborah had already left for her weekly game of tennis, so I left
Speedy in the front yard and went to do some gardening work
in the back. I stopped working at five in the afternoon and
walked around the house, admiring my hard work as I went
along. That when I saw what it had done.
The little mutt had dug about ten holes in my garden - the
same garden, I might add, which had twice w o n 'garden of the
year1
. Not thinking straight, I picked up a large spanner and
went to look for the animal. With the weapon in my right hand,
I called and whistled to it, hoping it would come towards me
with its tail wagging and its head bobbing up and down. It was
nowhere to be found.
I searched the garden and house for two hours, in which time
my anger did not dissipate: I felt it grow inside me as a seed
would've in my once-fertile garden. Then, about to give up, I
walked to the field, just in case the mongrel had slipped
through the gate. Sure enough, I found it there. Wagging its tail
and bowing its head in submission, it approached me and
licked my feet. I looked around, and, seeing that none of the
neighbours were watching, brought the spanner down on its
back as hard as I could. Speedy yelped. So I gave it another.
Then one more, just for good measure. The dog stayed at my
feet and continued licking my toes, whimpering and whining
softly.
Now it was time to cover up. I loaded Speedy into the back-
seat of my car and drove it to the vet. Once there, I played the
part of the concerned dog owner whose dog had been run over
by a car. The vet emerged after half an hour and told me Speedy
would lose the use of its hind legs. Not to worry, he said, for he
would fit a brace to Speedy's legs, with four wheels on the bot-
tom. The brace would support the dog's weight, and the wheels
would act as new hind legs, he told me.
Deborah was not pleased when I returned home. She wanted
to know why Speedy had been roaming the streets, if I had writ-
ten down the number of the person who had run over him, and
if Speedy had yelped a lot. I answered all the questions in my
practiced routine, and she stopped harassing me and sat along-
side Speedy. The mutt, of course, was n o w inside the house -
and would have to stay indoors for a few days.
Those days passed without any conflict. I think Speedy real-
ized who the boss was, and it averted its gaze to the floor
whenever I walked past. On a few occasions, I felt like kicking
its legs, just to test them out and see if it had recovered enough
to go outside; but Deborah always managed to be in a nearby
room.
A n d it was in those days, the time it spent indoors, that my
wife came to love Speedy. She spent more and more time with
it, buying hundreds of small, useless items that no dog could
ever use, brushing its hair five times a day, and taking photos of
it from every conceivable angle. Eventually, after endless argu-
ments, Speedy was shifted outside again (she had bought it a
kennel, of course). That's when it developed its love of rain. I tell
you, just the slightest drizzle would lure that dog out of his ken-
nel, and it would run in circles, its front legs working overtime,
pulling those damn wheels behind it.
I'd just fallen asleep - something I'd not done for weeks - when
I heard it for the first time. It was a sharp, piercing sound that
dipped in volume then grew louder. E E K A J E E K . . . E E K A -
JEEK...EEKAJEEK I sat up in bed and gazed straight ahead at
the wall, convinced that a few teenagers were fooling around
outside our window. But a quick peek through the curtain
proved me wrong: Speedy's wheels had rusted. Months and
months of frolicking in the rain had taken its toll.
A n d so, for the next few weeks, as I plotted my wife's murder,
Speedy awoke me every night at around midnight. Let me stop
right here: I have not mentioned the plan to kill my wife, as it is
something I am not proud of. I would never have considered it

