story short
under normal circumstances, but because my business was on
the brink of bankruptcy, and I am a proud man, I was forced to
use Deborah, or rather her Me insurance, as a means to an end,
excuse the pun.
I will not go into the details of how I planned to kill her, but I
will say that the two weeks preceding the murder were the
longest and hardest I have ever had to endure. A n d in that time,
I came to hate the dog. I hated the sight of it, but more so the
sound of it.
I hated the way it hung around my wife like an irritating fly,
following her every move; when Deborah left for her Saturday
tennis match, Speedy stood by the gate for hours, waiting for
her to return. But the worst had to be the holes it dug around
my precious garden - I counted up to twenty holes in one day,
all of them in the middle of the garden, where it was impossible
to repair without causing further damage. Thinking back, I w i s h
I had hammered the dog's front legs, not the hind legs. That
way, it wouldn't have dug those damn holes. The time had
come. A s I've said, I won't go into any details; what follows is a
brief description of the act.
I awoke Deborah early that Sunday morning. I didn't make her
a special breakfast, although I had thought
of it, but gently touched her white, freckled
shoulder at around six in the morning. She
stirred, looked at the time, and frowned at
me.
"I thought we'd start with those walks we
talked about," I said, getting out of bed and
slipping on my pants. She took longer than
normal to get dressed that day, but I didn't
hassle her, and by the time she emerged
from the house, I had mentally rehearsed the
killing a hundred times. At this point I must
add something: the previous night, I had
walked to the field and picked out a sturdy
branch, which I planned to use as a murder weapon, and then
searched for the spot with the most trees and bushes, a place
hidden from the nearby road. I had left the branch at that spot.
Anyway, we walked at a slow pace through the field, as
Deborah made a habit of stopping at every second flower, bend-
ing down, and smelling it. Then she would straighten up and
continue forward with her hands folded behind her back and a
smile on her face. By this time, my heart thudded in my ribcage,
and the last thing I wanted to hear - the worst possible sound -
was the awful EEKAJEEK.. .EEKAJEEK.. .EEKAJEEK of Speedy.
It had slipped through the gate and followed my wife. She
smiled at it, called its name, then patted and kissed and stroked
it for a few minutes. Before long, I spotted the stick on the
ground.
I glanced over my shoulder, made sure that no inquisitive
passers-by were watching us, then bent down and pretended
to do my laces. Deborah stopped alongside me and put her
hand on my shoulder. I think she remarked that the walk was a
splendid idea, that it should be a weekly thing, but I can't be
sure - the sound of blood rushing through my ears drowned out
her voice. Then it was over. I don't remember much besides
Speedy barking and charging at me until I took a few swipes at
him. One image I do remember - one I'll carry to my grave - is of
my wife lying face down on the ground, surrounded by a dusty,
dark pool of her own blood. A n d her hair, I remember seeing
pieces of...well, pieces of her scalp entangled in her blood-
soaked hair.
When it was all over, I searched the area for Speedy, but it
was nowhere to be found. After half an hour, I gave up and
walked to the hole I had dug the night before.
I buried the murder weapon. A s I covered the hole, I noticed
that both ends of the stick were bloodied; I'd gripped the stick
so tightly that the small knots on the wood had dug into my
palm. I made sure my injured right hand did not touch my
clothes, and walked home.
I left my wife in the field. You see, I figured I'd play the part of
the concerned husband whose wife had been brutally beaten to
death across the road from their house. No one would ever think
it was me.
That night I waited for Speedy to come home, but by early the
next morning it had not returned, so I went to sleep for a few
hours. I was awoken by someone knocking on the door. I got out
of bed, rubbed my eyes with my left knuckle (my right hand
beat to its own pulse), and made my way to the door.
It was the police. There were about ten
police vehicles parked outside our house and
across the road, and a small crowd of people
had gathered nearby, some of them shaking
their heads and pointing at me, others cov-
ering their mouths with their hands.
What followed was nothing short of bril-
liance on my part: the policeman explained
what I already knew, then I broke down and
cried. He believed me, I'm sure of that, but
asked me to accompany him to the spot
where my wife had been killed. They had
already taken her body away, of course, but
he wanted me to show him the route that my
wife walked through the field. I agreed and followed him to the
field. A s we approached the spot, I had to remind myself not to
be cocky, as I felt a sudden surge of confidence, brought on by
my earlier play-acting. I stopped at the spot Deborah had been
the night before and pointed the police in the opposite direction
of the stick.
I knew I had them wrapped around my finger. I knew this
would be the last thing I had to pull off before I could sit back
and receive the insurance money. A n d so I brought an end to
the proceedings, informing the officer that I could no longer
bear to be around the area. He nodded and said I could leave. I
sighed and turned around, keeping my eyes on the ground.
With each step I took, I mentally counted down the number of
feet to my house.
Twenty...I walked, head bowed, tears flowing.
Fifteen...I could see the house now, and the voices of the
policemen were muffled.
Ten - EEKAJEEK.. .EEKAJEEK.. .EEKAJEEK.
I stopped and turned, thinking that I had imagined that awful
sound. But I was wrong: it was Speedy alright, and as he
emerged from the bushes and shrubs, my heart sank. The mur-
der weapon was in his mouth.
Speedy had been digging those damn holes again.
"Thinking back, I
wish I had ham-
mered the dog's
front legs, not the
hind legs. That way,
it wouldn't have
dug those damn
holes."

