talk random
Adamant To The Fish
The Bizarre Absurdities of Normalcy.
So, after minutes of hard work I have
stolen some valuable print space for my
own brand of cynical and irritating banter.
I can tell you many things, many things
indeed. I could tell you that January the
27th was not a good day, but that we don't
talk about it, I could tell you strange and
imagined things about strange and imag-
ined things and trust me, one day I will.
For now, however, I will restrict myself to
reality, or rather my perception of reality,
which is often a very different matter.
After that brief and totally pointless
introduction I will divert my attention to
matters at hand, or rather at foot, for you
see I have chosen shoes for the topic of my
discussion given my recent frustration in
attempting to purchase such garments.
Shoes apparently have been standardised
to fit the average man (and presumably
woman, though I made no research into
this area for obvious reasons). I was
earnestly told by the manager of a large
sports shop in this fair city that size
ranges have been cut on both ends of the
scale, as there is simply no demand for
anything outside the range 7-10. I felt it
necessary to correct his inadequate state-
ment as clearly I had demand for such
shoes, being as I was in a shoe shop,
demanding them. At this point all helpful-
ness disappeared from his demeanour and
I felt obliged to depart. No less than ten
other shops brought the same disappoint-
ment although all the fire had slipped out
of me by this point and I was no longer
capable of wittily putting down salesmen,
just blindly and quietly accepting their
rebukes.
This tale of woe is not designed to make
you pour sympathy and tears on the ink of
this page but rather to highlight a disturb-
ing trend in our lives. Everything is stan-
dardised from footwear to television pro-
grammes and frankly it scares me. The old
adage "familiarity breeds contempt"
springs gaily to mind. By shop number
seven I was finding what could have been
a diverting experience about as feature-
less and bland as a relief map of Holland
and how much more contemptuous can
you get than devoting more than five hun-
dred words complaining about it. Soon, I
feel, we will all have to normalise our-
selves to fit into jobs, colleges, marriages
and even bus seats. Some of you may slot
neatly into this mould where others like
me will have to do a lot more squeezing
than should be necessary. Those wonder-
fully interesting soap operas, those deep
intriguing documentaries, those original
and realistic police dramas and even
those simply indescribable make-over
shows will all blend into twenty-four
hours a week of unstimulating, incompre-
hensible grey presented by identical pre-
senters from Newcastle. Your minds will
be anaesthetised by the hypnotic repeti-
tion in all walks of life until you will have
only the vaguest recollection of what real
life was like, all those years ago when
there was colour in your existence, when
you didn't have to bind your feet or even
comb your hair. Sorry, I'm getting carried
away. It is all very noble of me to take a
stand I think, especially since I've still got
wet feet.
They're playing our song
at the Union.
Thursday, May 23
8pm: FREE@The Union
dbs bar open from 8pm
imperial
• college

