FEUX
P H O T O G R A P H I C E X H I B I T I O N
Tola year's Fhotographio Society
Exhibition showed in general a consider-
ably higher standard of photography
than last year's. In part this was
presumably due to a slightly different
hanging policy, whereby a strictly
selected set of prints and slides were
put on show. Since this is an exhibi-
tion whose lowest standard reflects on
the club as surely as i t s highest this
is obviously a good idea. Perhaps a
better, i f a smaller exhibition could bt
produced by carrying this treatment a
stage further. The exhibition i s
s t i l l dominated by the work of a hand-
ful of members. In some few oases
these members themselves are not, I
think, really selective in what they
choose to submit. Their prints accord-
ingly swamp the show, and oertain names
occur on stand after stand. If the
committee really wants these marathon
entries could they not raise another
Glaister-type trophy and present this
for the best panel of prints irres-
pective of subject matter. In this
way. the work of the big producers could
be kept together. Incidentally Dr.
Glaister again provided one of the high-
lights of the exhibition with just such
a one man panel.
I thought the Technical and Record
section presented some ridiculous
contrasts as well as some of the most
interesting prints. Surety a picture
of a flood-lit chateau and another of
the drive gears of a printing u-ess
simply do not belong in the same section.
To place them together seems nonsensi-
cal, and must make the job of judging
the section unnecessarily difficult.
This College at any rate should find
no difficulty in fielding a f u l l Tech-
nical section over and above the nebu-
lous Record photos.
Divorced from their sections and
their authors the prints shown were of
a very high standard. It was a pleas-
arid change to see mounting and titling
helping rather than spoiling good
photographs. Mr. Ginger's task of
selecting the prise winning prints
must have been difficult, and, i n -
evitably, not everyone will have agreed
with his judgement. Prominent amongst
S E N O B A S } 1
the prise winners Mr. Eyoott emerges
as a prolific, proficient, and, one
might almost add, a professional photo-
grapher. His portraiture entry seemed
to me as good a thing as we have seen.
I had a conviction that there were far
too many, but would not like to have to
leave out. Mr. Peacock impressed
with his sure eye for a picture.
Many exhibition prints seem to result
from lucky shots and i t is a pleasure
to see care and planning even before
the exposure is made. There are many
others worthy of individual mention,
but space harly permits an exhaustive
survey.
The transparency sections were aga-
in popular. It i s a pity there i s not
a better way of displaying small trans-
parencies. The public projection/
session did l i t t l e justioe to any of
the darker slides; i t i s unfortunate
that this side of the exhibition was not
handled as professionally as the rest.
Many of the slides seemed to lack the
mechanical finish which would be
necessary in an exhibition print.
This is surprising as some of the un-
mounted speciments were well worth
looking after. The colour section was
remarkably restrained, and there were
some beaufiful studies which were v i r -
tually monochrome. At the other end
of the scale were flower and leaf
studies using the f u l l colour range of
the film involved. There were no
colour prints sham, emphasising the
need for a good cheap and reliable ama-
teur colour printing system. Perhaps
the Agfaoolour system will have put this
right by next year.
(Vice-President's Footnote: The hang-
ing policy followed this year was
exactly as in previous years, the first
consideration being that every entrant
must be represented somewhere, even
though that person may only enter one
print, and that a rather poor one.
TTfth this *rt*a to the fore we then re-
jected some twenty prints. There were
various reasons far this - duplicative.,
bad mounting, bad printing, or just a
bad photograph. We had to be far mors
ruthless with the colour transparencies,
and rejected over half, the main rea-
sons being bed colour balance, or bad
photography.
From this exhibition six prints have
been chosen to represent the College in
the Fifth European Inter-University Pho-
tographic Exhibition being held in
Bristol this Year. I.M.P.)
BOOKS TO SOUTH AFRICA
Isaac is a coloured South African.
He wants to be educated. He i s not a
member of the Dutch Reformed Church which
supports apartheid and therefore cannot
use any library supported by the state.
His family earn about £5 - £6 per month
Books are very expensive and beyond his
reach.
The University of London Union are
collecting books for South Africa.
They will be orated and sent to the
Trevor Huddleston Mission. If you have
any books, especially old school books,
please bring then with you next term.
There will be a stall for collecting
these books at I.C. and there is one
already at U.L.U.
S m o k i n g C o n c e r t
The f i r s * record of this activity
is in the Union minutes fori 898, when,
i t is recorded, the Professors attended
after dinner, in evening dress, and
many of the acts were done by the lecrtu
rers. The Smoking Concert has changed
somewhat from those early, sedate days
but last Friday's Concert, in some
respects, came nearer to the spirit or
the original than some others in recent
years. A varied show was very competently
produced by Michael Amos, and although
the traditional free beer was available,
and consumed, at the back of the Concert
Hall, the audience obviously enjoyed
what was going en on the stage without
being moved to participate physically.
The highlight of the evening was a
fashion show, organised and compered by
Peter Morgan, in whioh he showed fashi
cms, constructed from academic gowns and
purple and white paper, and modelled by
members of ICWA. Also noteworthy were
two sketches put. on by geologists, one
of which was a skit an a silent film,
in whioh the audience was invited to boo
the villain and cheer the hero (and did
the reverse) while a bearded pianist
played ecclesiastically. The other was
a rather gruesome silhouette "operation1
'
in whioh the shadow doctor was seen to
extract strings of intestine-like
objects from the patiets interior even-
tually reaching the root of the trouble
a Mooney chip. Physicists demonstrated
two rook 'n r o l l parodies, which were
almost cruelly close to the real thing,
and the mathematicians produced an epic
of Prehistoric Britain. Maloolm Green
compered the whole show with much
vivaoity
These shows, as was pointed out of
the Guilds Carnival cabaret, only meant
to be seen once and then forgotten, but
while they last, they are extremely en-
joyable to spectators and actors alike.
It is eRCOuraging to see, both from the
audience's reaction and from the parti-
cipation of members of ICWA, that i t is
possible to put on a good entertaiment
at I.C. without descending into unnece-
ssary bawdiness.
TONY NEWSTEAD LEADING THE JAZZ BAND
IN THE QUAD.

