10
COMMENT
Comment Editor Charlotte Morris
Comment Editor Charlotte Morris
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 30 APRIL 2010
I
imagine you’re probably sick to
death of hearing about the elec-
tion by now. So I’m going to do
what I always do when I’m hun-
gover and discover something
people dislike: I’m going to go on about
it even more.
Firstly, let me declare my intent. I
don’t think any one of the parties are
particularly amazing; yes, I hate David
Cameron as much as the next person,
and the day I vote for him will be the
day I get to sleep with Katy Perry. Ac-
tually, if you’re listening Dave- set it up
and my vote is yours (apparently say-
ing I would “cut off my left bollock to
sleep with you” just doesn’t seem to cut
it with the ladies any more). Now that
would be a fair future for everyone.
But I digress. Aside from the obvi-
ous points that everyone always moans
about with elections (such as “all poli-
ticians are wankers” and “I didn’t know
I actually had to register to vote”) my
main problem is with these infernal de-
bates that are on at the moment. I was
genuinely surprised that the blasted
things even went ahead; all three of
the main parties managed to resist the
cries for so long, and then having real-
ised that people weren’t looking for an
election so much as they were looking
for Obama-esque election sexytimes
rather than dependable democracy,
they caved in.
So what is my problem? The debates
just don’t work. In the UK we follow a
“first past the post” voting system. In
the States, televised debates work a lit-
tle better because the voters do (albeit
in a slightly convoluted way) vote for a
President rather than a party, and it’s
the votes for that politician that gets
them elected as the President. Con-
trast that to here, where it’s the leader
of the party with the most votes who
becomes the de facto Prime Minister.
Whilst an election will always have
some focus on the party leaders, the
importance of policies and local can-
didates I fear has been lost. When we
combine this with our tri-partisan
system compared this to the USA’s
predominantly bi-partisan structure,
we’re in big trouble. Because the win-
ning party is decided by simple major-
ity rather than an absolute number, a
party who technically wins still might
not have enough power to pass legisla-
tion without help from across the floor.
So what we end up with is a debate en-
couraging us to vote for the personali-
ties and flair of a man, given we all have
a natural preference for certain styles
of speaking and none of them are so
different or mad to be sufficiently
polarising, the debates have just com-
pounded this lack of a decisive vote.
I’m not saying this would be any better
under a Proportional Representation
system, but at least we’d know what
we’re signing up for.
So, instead we now have a giant per-
sonality contest, but with none of the
personality, contest, or giants.
Even if this wasn’t true, the debates
are so painfully boring, rehearsed and
dowdy that they become politically
irrelevant. Cameron, without fail (or
indeed any sense of irony whatsoever)
cracks out these incredulous anec-
dotes where he met an [insert ethnic-
ity, gender and occupation] at a [insert
location] who told him that [insert key
voting issue] was very important to [in-
sert key demographic], whilst Brown is
positively falling over himself to fallate
Clegg- who in turn is more interested
in fallating himself for trying to do
what everyone else wants to do now a
few months before. In the two debates
I have watched at the time of writing,
I struggled to find a single concise, in-
genuous policy; seeing as we’re voting
for a party and not a person it might
be considerate of their dear leaders to
actually tell us what those policies are.
Meanwhile, all three of them squab-
ble over who said what and when to a
point where it is no longer funny but
tiresome; if I wanted to see three mid-
dle aged, balding men almost come to
blows over economic policy I’d go to
a Soho brothel and watch the punters
discuss who was going to pay for the
orgy. Perhaps that’s just me. A mute,
and by appearance clinically depressed
audience reading questions from cards
like they’re on day release into the
community really doesn’t inflame the
passion for democracy either.
Perhaps the most dangerous prob-
lem, however, is that now we have an
election that has lost its focus. It makes
sense on paper to have these televised
debates in order to reduce voter apa-
thy, and I concede that despite this
being one of the less polarising elec-
tions in history it does appear that it
may well have one of the biggest voter
turnouts for a fair while. For a reason
I can’t fathom people seem to be inex-
plicably tired of Brown, and Cameron
comes across as very sleazy; both of
them have come across as old school
politicians in these debates and cer-
tainly haven’t come out of the whole
thing very well. The Liberal Demo-
crats, seemingly buoyed by the power
they hold over the major two parties,
appear a real alternative, with a wor-
rying lack of perspective on the real
world. Despite that, I’ll be voting Lib-
Dem because my MP is pretty good
(and not Tory). I’m more Labour, if I’m
honest, but let’s not start on Tactical
voting…
It is a worrying precedent; if we carry
on like this I can easily imagine that
we’ll end up in an American system
anyway (brought to you courtesy of
Pepsi and McDonalds). My prediction
this time round is a hung parliament-
and the only way any of you can stop
it is by ignoring these fruitless debates
and reading up on the policies of the
parties and your local candidate. If I’m
completely honest, however, I’m hold-
ing out for a “Total Wipeout” version
of the debates hosted by Richard Ham-
mond, with me sitting in my pants on
a Saturday evening eating Doritos as
David Cameron is catapulted from a
giant red balloon in the middle of Ar-
gentina. Now that’s voting for change.
JaimieHenryontelevisedelectiondebates
“If I wanted to see
three middle aged,
men coming to
blows... I’d go to a
Soho brothel.”
W
e all know that there
is a general election
in Britain, on the 6th
of May.(if you didn’t
know that, you know
it now) And, I’m another of those float-
ing voters. According to the London
Evening Standard, more than 40% of
students in London universities are like
me (as of last week), still not sure whom
to vote for.
I asked my Dad whom he thinks I
should vote for, and he told me to “vote
the party which will devalue the pound,
so that I will have to spend fewer rupees
for your studies”
. What selfless advice, I
thought sarcastically.
Now, I asked his cousin who lives here
in Britain, and she said she’ll vote con-
servatives because apparently Maggie
Thatcher had increased her salary by
many pounds, many decades ago. Fair
enough.
I then asked my dad’s friend, who said
he’ll vote Labour. Reason-”We’ve always
voted Labour”
, he said. Which means
there is no reason. I asked my room
mate and once again “Labour”
. “Why?”
,
I asked. “My uncle is a Labour Council-
lor”
. I asked at least five more friends,
and all their reasons were extremely
personal, that is if they even had any
reason to vote for a party.
Since no party appeals to me per-
sonally, I have decided to vote for
a party based on its policies, for
the benefit of all. After all, its my
first vote in any election (general
or council or whatever) and I am
not gonna “waste” it. I arranged my
preference in the order Con, Lib
Dems and Lab, Conservatives being
the most preferred and Labour be-
ing the least (I think because of Gor-
don Brown).
In this backdrop came the much an-
ticipated first ever Prime-ministerial
debate on ITV. Less interesting than
the American debates, but, believe it or
not, it has had the biggest effect on my
opinion about the main British parties
and their leaders. Cameron simply did
not rise to my expectations; he sucked.
Brown was less grumpy, but still boring
(better than what I expected from him).
The star was of course Nick Clegg - that
dude is a professional. He knew what to
say, and was very calm even when he
criticised the other two parties. At the
end of 94 minutes, there was a huge shift
in my political preference. Nick is now
first, Brown next and Cameron needs to
be kept in the opposition.
But, wait a second, there is one more
debate left and my opinion is not yet
sealed, it is always open for modification
(if needed).
Now, I wonder if debates are going to
be the most decisive factor in this year’s
UK election? Only time will tell.
JehanPasanghaponderselectioncampaigns
“...no party appeals
to me personally,
I have decided to
vote for a party
based on its
policies”

