11
felix FRIDAY 30 APRIL 2010
COMMENT
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
O
n Thursday, the na-
tion goes to the polls
to decide its collective
fate for the next four
years, more or less.
Will we rally together and oust the
incumbent, incompetent collection
of crooks, clowns and codswallop-
ers and sweep in to power...a pitiful
party of pedants, pissants and penny-
pilferers? Oh dear. Will this be a case
of out of the frying pan and onto the
griddle?
Over the years, in an effort to ap-
peal to more and more voters, the two
main parties have moved ever closer
to the political centre with each pass-
ing election. If they were to continue
on their paths until Labour were con-
servative and Conservatives were
democratically socialist in some Mad
Hatter’s Boston Tea Party, I’d be fine
with that. But no, instead they both
gravitate in the unhappy middle such
that any real choice is rendered illu-
sionary. Or maybe you could vote for
Rage Against The Machine. Sorry, I
mean the Liberal Democrats.
But this isn’t a diatribe on the woes
of modern government. Goodness
knows I’m not up to offering piquant
critique on the probable outcomes of
Thursday’s voting – without a swin-
gometer, I wouldn’t know where to
begin! And far be it from me to sug-
gest, advise or command you who
should vote for. However, I do strong-
ly suggest, earnestly advise and impe-
riously command that, whatever your
political leaning, you do vote.
Some people may say that suffrage
is an essential human right and to ex-
ercise it is imperative. Some people
may say that, for all its faults, democ-
racy is the best form of governance
that we have in this modern age and
should be supported. Some people
just have an unhealthy obsession with
signing little crosses in boxes. But as
for me, I say you should vote for the
visceral thrill of having a good moan.
Complaining is one of the great uni-
versal past-times and one we can all
relate to. How often has a friend from
another university asked after your
well-being at Imperial and, instead of
enthusing about the plethora of clubs
and societies, the scintillating social
life and the world-class education, do
you instead squeeze the pathos out
of the mounting coursework, the mi-
nuscule free time and the suspiciously
lecherous lecturers? It is perverse but
we only feel good when we feel awful.
It borders on masochism, the way
we derive pleasure from our own
pain. On any given topic, it is cer-
tain that someone can, and will, find
something wrong. Their criticisms
don’t even have to be logically or
factually correct. If whinging was an
Olympic Event, we’d send a clutch
of Daily Mail columnists and come
home with gold, silver and bronze.
Most of the time, we choose to
moan about the things we can’t
change. Sport, the weather and pub-
lic transport are all popular favour-
ites. And there’s nothing wrong with
this. A good gripe tends to stimulate
conversation far better than a pleas-
ant observation that everything’s fine.
Even if we disagree, we are spurred
on to talk, to communicate, to engage
and the collective human experience
gets just that little bit richer.
But when we start to complain
about things we can change, or could
have changed, things are not so pro-
ductive. Dialogue is generated but it
quickly turns sharp and accusatory. If
we feel so passionately, and if change
or choice is possible, our opponents
cry, why are we complaining over
a pint when we could be pursuing
something better. Why indeed? The
answer is simple; action, any action,
is difficult and vulnerable to failure.
But if we don’t try then we can’t fail.
Moaning about our problems is infi-
nitely safer than trying to solve them.
But that doesn’t mean we won’t be
blow-hards and hypocrites.
That is why your vote is so impor-
tant. It safeguards your unalienable
and fundamental right to complain
and the true satisfaction that only
comes from dissatisfaction. If you
stand up and make a choice and it
falls flat, then oh well. At least you
tried, and then any gripes, groans or
grievances that you may bear can be
vented with impunity. No-one can re-
sent you for complaining when you’ve
ostensibly tried to change your world
for the better.
Really, it is a win-win situation. If
the election goes against you, you
can rant to your heart’s content in the
Union and if it goes for you then, hey,
you picked a winner! Personally, I’m
expecting a hung parliament which
will mean, politically speaking, no-
one will be happy.
So really everyone can be happy!
RhysDaviesreviews the art of complaining
“Some people say
that suffrage is an
essential human
right...”
A
re the local Council out
to get me? Are they de-
liberately reordering the
layout of Kensington’s
roads in order to flum-
mox me as I move around the city? I
stepped out into Exhibition Road last
week and found myself in a Tex Avery
cartoon, being run over by an endless
stream of buses driving in both direc-
tions down what had previously been a
one-way road. Taking the time to dust
myself down before having a piano
dropped on me from a great height, I
noticed that this will be going on un-
til cocking May 2011. What in Christ’s
name for! No-one looks at road mark-
ings anyway, you may as well just
switch the traffic lights off for a week
and let the cars find their own equilib-
rium. It’s how nature intended.
I could really give a toss how Exhibi-
tion Road is laid out, because I’m about
as likely to find myself careering down
it in a Lamborghini next week as I am
to replace David Beckham as captain
at the World Cup. If they want to re-
verse the road markings, or make in-
dicating optional on ‘casual Fridays’ or
whatever, then that’s fine, but actually
directing cars the wrong way down a
road so that they flank me like they’re
Boris Johnson’s 3rd Motorised Division
is just screwed up.
And I know that won’t matter soon
because it’s revision period and so most
of us won’t be seeing any cars for two
months as we return to The Library,
the anti-Cheers where no-one knows
your name or gives a flying wazoo. And
yeah, that’s a little sad because the sun
is out now, the clouds are bubbling up
and the Wild Marquees are coming out
of hiding to make their nest on Queen’s
Lawn like a gigantic circus of bland-
ness, but on the plus side it means I’m
less likely to be involved in a road traf-
fic accident, and that’s probably a prov-
erb or something. It’s definitely good,
anyway.
The plan for this revision season is to
hollow out part of the wall in the Sci-
ence Museum library so that I can cre-
ate a makeshift cocoon during the night
using old Richard Dawkins books and
saliva as a sort of improvised papier
maché. Then in the morning I can
gnaw my way out, disgruntled at the
sensation of awakening with my face
three inches from a copy of The God
Delusion, ready to begin a new life as a
fresh-faced student who is already dy-
ing inside.
This year will be particularly inter-
esting, though, given that it’s my first
year revising alongside my good friend
Caffeine. Caffeine and I had been
casual, meet-up-once-a-week friends
for the most of my degree, but the last
six months have turned us into crazy
Olsen-Twins-film-style best friends,
and we now meet up several times a
day to discuss earrings, makeup and
why my life is now a pitiful drug-addled
shadow of what it was when I started at
Imperial. Oh, and boys.
Since most people seem to make
light of the fact that they can’t function
without caffeine, I suppose I should be
making hilarious jokes about how com-
pletely incapable of thought or self-
powered action I am without a cup of
oily despair every morning, but in real-
ity it’s actually a sad tale of dependency
and having to sneak away to the burly
men and women dealing the drink
down the shady alleyways of the JCR.
I’m fairly sure it’s going to cripple me
over the course of the next six weeks.
Me and my stomach lining are playing
Russian roulette to see which one of us
caves in first from overconsumption of
espresso.
In light of all this, don’t be surprised
if you find yourself outside the Busi-
ness School in three weeks time play-
ing chicken with the cars and the road
markings while screaming fundamen-
tal theories to yourself, because after
a few days of solid note-reading you’re
probably going to crave a bit of excite-
ment in your life and nothing perks me
up like making taxi drivers think they’re
about to regret the last quip they made
about pedestrians.
On the offchance I don’t make it to
the Comment pages in the coming
weeks, remember - if they can’t read
your handwriting, they can’t mark you
down.
AngryGeekonExhi-f*cking-bitionRoad
“You may as
well just switch
the traffic lights
off...let the cars
find their own
equilibrium ”

