12 felix FRIDAY 30 APRIL 2010
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
COMMENT
I
’ve been at home now for a few
weeks; naturally I’ve spent a dis-
proportionately large amount
of my time on the Internet. You
have the few standard sites you
check when you come online. If you re-
ally have nothing else to do, you might
go through them a second time, just in
case you missed something. If you real-
ly don’t want to revise, you might resort
to opening them all in separate tabs and
just refreshing them. As a result of this,
I’ve been able to keep alarmingly up-to-
date with current affairs. During term I
wouldn’t know if a comet hit Scotland,
but over the last four weeks if a priest
molested a child half way around the
world I’d have known in minutes.
Naturally, I can’t have failed to miss
the only two stories for the last two
weeks, Icelandic Volcano and ELEC-
TION FEVER!!!1!!11eleven. I’m now
going to fall into the trap of making a
joke about the two. They could have
just had the one headline for two weeks:
Things eject hot gas. My mum thought
it was funny… Anyway, as I have no real
opinions regarding the Volcano (except
its name, is there anyone at Imperial
who can tell me how to pronounce it?)
I’ll rant about the election.
I want it to be clear that I don’t care
which way you vote. All I want to do
is espouse my opinions on what I’ve
seen; by all means ignore them/write
a response telling me why I’m an idiot.
I’m the first to admit I’m not normally
abreast of politics. I don’t even really
understand how our Parliament works,
but that doesn’t mean I can’t scream
opinions from the rooftops like every-
one else.
My main gripe is the Liberal Demo-
crats’ current campaign strategy. Fair
play to them, they’ve done very well to
make themselves a serious contender
in the election. However, I saw Nick
Clegg on the news a few days ago ap-
pealing to the “Young people/First
time voters” portion of the electorate.
He said repeatedly that young people
could shape the future of this country.
So by voting Lib Dem can we have the
country as we want it? They’re going
to abolish tuition fees and make all
student loans into free grants instead?
Strange, I didn’t find that in their mani-
festo. Not that I looked.
He went on to lambast the “Old Par-
ties” for telling young people that their
votes don’t count and that they’re wast-
ed if they don’t vote Tory or Labour. I
don’t recall either Dave or Gordon tell-
ing me my vote didn’t count. I think
they both just said “Vote for me”. From
my point of view, it seems that Nick
Clegg is campaigning entirely on the
fact that his party isn’t “Old”. Does that
mean they’ll be any different? I sup-
pose we can’t really know unless they
get into power, but as much as they
ensure me that they’re different, they
all look the same to me. Just because
they haven’t had a chance to mess up
yet doesn’t mean they won’t if we give
them that chance.
I dislike this method of campaigning.
Without actually mentioning any poli-
cies, Nick Clegg is manipulating peo-
ple into thinking that he will genuinely
bring change. I realise that this is es-
sentially what all political campaigning
is, but his way of making very vague
promises but assuring us that his party
is different really grates on me.
All of the parties are as guilty as each
other though. David Cameron is being
particularly lazy; he looked at Ameri-
ca, saw that promising change worked
there and has just adopted that. Of
course the Lib Dems scuppered his
plans by doing the same thing and be-
coming serious contenders. The Tories
still say that their change is the bet-
ter one. To determine the difference
would actually require looking at their
policies, which I’m trying to avoid at all
costs.
I don’t really know what Labour
are saying. I watched the first debate
though and David Cameron made
a good point. After Gordon Brown
promised some sort of reform (the
house of Lords?) Dave pointed out
that they’ve had 13 years to do that,
any promises now just feel hollow after
that. Of course, all of the parties prom-
ises are just as much bollocks, but we
know that Labour are just saying theirs
because of the election.
Anyway, enough ranting. We are
scientists so we should try to vote in a
scientific way. Some sort of blind test
where you just see policies and not
whose they are, that would be good.
Chances are you’ve heard some poli-
cies by now so you might recognise
them, but it’s better than nothing.
I recommend everyone interested
should go to http://voteforpolicies.org.
uk, which provides just that service. It
includes the policies of six parties: La-
bour, Conservative, Liberal Democrat,
Green, UKIP and BNP. It gives you 9
issues, of which you can choose which
are most important to you and those
are the areas where you compare the
policies. The results are quite interest-
ing, what have you got to lose? Revi-
sion time?
AdamFalkrecommendsvotingforpolicies
“My main gripe
is the Liberal
Democrats’
current campaign
strategy...”
College Hardship Fund 2009
Money worries affecting your studies?
EU and Overseas students may be eligible for a grant from the
College Hardship Fund (home students can apply to the
Access to Learning Fund.)
We understand that despite careful planning some students may face
higher than expected costs or a financial emergency. In such
cases we may be able to assist with a small award from the
College Hardship Fund which could provide the additional
support you need to continue with your studies.
Summer term application deadline: 7th May 2010
FURTHER INFORMATION AND APPLICATION FORMS:
Web: http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/registry/studentfinancialsupport/hardshipfund
Email: student.funding@imperial.ac.uk
Telephone: 020 7594 8122

