13
felix FRIDAY 30 APRIL 2010
SCIENCE
Science Editors
Science Editors Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
SCIENCE
Science Editors
Science Editors Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Singh has won his battle against the BCA, but the war for libel reform is far from over, says Courtney Williams
8700
Papers have been published
by astronomers using
Hubble making it on
of the most productive
instuments in science
Brigette Atkins
Brigette Atkins Science Editor
Image released in celebration of Hubble’s 20th year
Saturday 24th
April saw NASA cel-
ebrate the 20th
birthday of the Hubble
Space Telescope (HST) with the release
of a picture taken by the telescope of
the Carina nebula. The image shows a
small part of one of the main regions of
star birth in our galaxy. The section of
the nebula pictured stands three light
years tall and is set to become one of
Hubble’s more influential images, plac-
ing it alongside the ‘Pillars of Creation’
in the Eagle nebula imaged by the tel-
escope in 1995. To date Hubble’s mis-
sion of discovery has seen it aim itself
towards 30,000 celestial objects and
produce over half a million images for
its archive.
The history of Hubble however is
akin to the proverbial roll- er-
coaster. Launched in 1990
aboard the space shut-
tle Discovery, it was a
matter of weeks before
the first in a line of
problems for the
telescope re-
alised itself.
An error in the
shape of Hubble’s
primary mirror to
the order a fiftieth of
the width of a human
hair produced an effect
known as spherical aberra-
tion. This spherical aberration
caused significant image blurring and
had to be corrected in 1993 during the
first of five servicing missions to the
telescope so far. In 1994 the entire ap-
paratus was shut down due to the fail-
ure of four out of six gyroscopes which
allow Hubble to aim and 2003 saw the
space shuttle Columbia (one in a fleet
of shuttles which carried out servicing
on the telescope) break up upon re-
entry through the Earth’s atmosphere.
As a result, future servicing missions
were cancelled; being viewed as too
risky with the aging shuttle fleet. Even
before its launch, the HST caused
controversy. Robert O’Dell, found-
ing project scientist explained many
astronomers at the time thought it
better to build 20 larger ground based
scopes than have one less powerful
orbiting telescope, despite the
image clarity Hubble would
be able to provide as a re-
sult of being positioned
outside the Earth’s
atmosphere.
Regardless of
these and vari-
ous other blips
in Hubble’s
history, the
project has
been largely suc-
cessful at increasing
our understanding of the
universe and has revolu-
tionised modern astronomy.
One of the main aims of Hubble
O
n the 15th
of April Simon
Singh, science writer
and Imperial alum-
nus, received the long
overdue news that the
British Chiropractic Association were
bringing to an end the libel case they
had brought against him. His crime?
Writing an article, originally published
in the Guardian in 2008 and now back
online, which questioned claims made
by chiropractors.
Chiropractors claim to treat ill-
nesses by manipulating the spine and
neck. In his article, Singh criticised
chiropractors, and the British Chiro-
practic Association (BCA), for saying
they could treat childhood conditions
such as colic, asthma and ear infec-
tions, despite there being “not a jot of
evidence”. He also discussed the use of
chiropractic techniques in curing back
and neck problems, and the dangers
involved. He cited the high incidence
of adverse side effects and even fatali-
ties associated with them in addition
to the relative low rates of success. He
had recently published a book on the
topic with a former chiropractor, so
should have been considered to be in a
good position to criticise the BCA. In
his article, he referred to their claims
as “bogus”, backing this up with refer-
ences to studies and statistics. How-
ever, despite these credentials and the
scientific basis of the article, the BCA
launched a libel case against Singh, cit-
ing the damage he had caused to their
reputation.
In May 2009 it was ruled that the
wording of Singh’s article implied the
BCA were being knowingly dishonest.
Having launched an appeal, on the 1st
of April this year the Court of Appeal
ruled that his article counted as com-
ment, not fact, so he could use the fair
comment defence. If this hadn’t been
the case, it would have had great im-
plications for others questioning the
claims of companies and organisations.
A precedent could have been set, mak-
ing many more scientists and science
journalists vulnerable to financially
and emotionally draining libel cases.
Although this case has cost Singh
dearly, both in terms of the time it has
taken up and the amount it has cost
him personally (two years and over
£100,000), some good has come from
it. Over 50,000 people have now signed
a petition asking for libel reform, and
the issues surrounding libel law in this
country have been brought to the fore-
front of discussion. Current British
libel laws consider a defendant guilty
until proven innocent, in direct op-
Libel case against Simon Singh dropped
T
he recent spotlight on several libel cases
brought against scientists has generated
pressure for libel reform. In light of the
increased number of such cases and
bearing in mind Imperial conducts research which
may call to question the actions of others, Imperial
College Union is submitting a paper to Council
regarding the action the Union should take in
response to the demand for libel reform.
The paper, available through the Union website,
was proposed by the president and outlines the
Union’s view on the current state of UK libel laws,
their possible effect on students of the college and the
action the Union is proposing to take. In particular
the paper notes the libel cases brought against Simon
Singh and Ben Goldacre (The Guardian’s ‘Bad Science’
columnist) and also expresses concern that ‘[current
libel law] has a chilling effect on scientific debate’ and
the costs involved for anyone defending their wok in a
libel case. The Union even feels some students may fall
foul of these laws due to publications released from
research courses they are on.
The Union proposes action be taken including
the lobbying for the support of MPs and College to
support libel reform and making students more aware
of the issues surrounding UK libel law.
Closer to home
position to the rest of the legal system.
Cases can be long and costly, as Singh’s
was, and incredibly difficult to win.
There are few alternatives to a full trial.
The laws don’t appear to have moved
with the times, either, and do not re-
flect the presence of the Internet as a
source of comment and discussion. In
addition, there is the phenomenon of
“libel tourism” - where foreign defend-
ants use British libel laws to silence
those who criticise them.
It is important to remember that
the case was won not through libel
reform, but in spite of the libel laws
still in place, which Singh described
in his statement on the Libel Reform
Campaign website as “the most noto-
riously anti-free speech libel laws in
the free world”. Currently, the system
almost encourages cases such as the
one brought against Singh, and thus
discourages free speech and stifles sci-
ence, which is by its nature a system
dependent on criticism. This is why,
despite this victory, a great deal still
needs to be done before we can say
that our legal system truly allows free
speech.
For more information visit
www.libelreform.org.
at the time of its launch was to accu-
rately measure the age of the universe.
Not only did it achieve this but Hubble
has also collected data for investigat-
ing galaxy formation and found evi-
dence supporting the existence of dark
matter, dark energy, black holes within
galaxies and exoplanets – before, oth-
er planets orbiting other stars were a
purely theoretical idea.
175,000
mph
The speed at which Hubble
orbits above the Earth’s
atmosphere.
The HST was named after astrono-
mer Edwin Hubble who in the 1920’s
investigated the motion of galaxies
leading to the conclusion of an expand-
ing universe. It cost over $10billion to
build and stands at 43ft long. Having
already had its runtime increased, the
HST is set to be in operation until 2014
when it is likely to be replaced by the
James Webb Space Telescope.
The image of the Carina nebular was taken earlier this year

