14 felix FRIDAY 30 APRIL 2010
BUSINESS
Business Editor
Business Editor Sina Ataherian
Sina Ataherian
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
T
he Conservatives’ recently
diminished lead may not
be enough to overcome
Labour’s advantages in
the current electoral sys-
tem. A key swing vote in recent elec-
tions has been that of small business
owners. In 2010 they are a particularly
important constituency because of the
likely closeness of the race. The Econo-
mist reported last week that “about
6,000 voters in each constituency are
sole traders or own small businesses.”
In marginal seats, that can make all the
difference.
Labour will need to recoup ground lost
with these voters by their proposed in-
crease in national insurance tax. It is pre-
dicted to raise £6 billion for The Treas-
ury, but the Federation of Small Business
predicts it will destroy 57,000 jobs.
It came as little surprise then, that
Shadow Chancellor George Osborne’s
promise last month to ditch the hike
was warmly greeted by business lead-
ers. In fact, 23 heads of major UK com-
panies, later joined by another 45, had
already written to the Daily Mail ask-
ing the Government to reconsider.
The Tories will still keep the tax
hike for those earning above a cer-
tain threshold. This limits the appeal
of their counter-proposal. But at least
they avoided patronising business
leaders as Gordon Brown did two
weeks ago by asserting that if only they
understood national insurance tax,
they would support the hike. Labour
has however won some support by of-
fering to cut business rates (a tax on
premises) for some businesses as part
of the 2011 budget.
“...none of this
happened by
accident. It
was because
of deliberate
choices made
by this Labour
Government“ -
Alistair Darling
With voters likely to take strong
anti-political feelings into the polls
with them on May 6th, Labour has
been struggling to use its incumben-
cy to its advantage on the experience
argument.
It has been trying to argue that since
it has greater recent executive expe-
rience, it is better suited to pull the
country out of its current economic
situation.
In a speech in Edinburgh last
Wednesday, Chancellor Alistair Dar-
ling tried that narrative for one last
time before Election Day. He started
by painting the scene, talking of “the
deepest recession for over 60 years.”
Then came the expected importance
of experience pitch, “Gordon and I
made, the decisions taken, would have
a direct impact on businesses, on fami-
lies, on jobs and incomes. Get them
right and we had the chance of stop-
ping the economy, here at home and
internationally, sliding to disaster. Get
them wrong and the cost would be
paid by businesses and families right
across our country.”
Not one to leave his audience on a
cliff-hanger, they were soon told how
it all ended: “I was right.” Mr Darling
put almost every major debate in mod-
ern political economy to rest, declar-
ing that he had been proven right by
“the record.” He accused the Tories of
being motivated by “ideology,” holding
“embarrassing” views and advocating
“policies which will put at risk the re-
covery the country has worked so hard
to deliver. Policies which will threaten
your job, your living standards and the
public services on which millions of
families depend.”
But some of his comments will prove
less controversial, claiming, “none of
this happened by accident. It was be-
cause of deliberate choices made by
this Labour Government.” You would
not have known it, but he was – with
a perfectly straight face – referring to
the strength of the Labour economy.
The Conservatives’ Big Idea for this
election has come to be what they call
the “Big Society.” It is difficult to know
what to make of it, for several reasons.
Firstly, it is odd that they are tak-
ing such a risk by trying to introduce
voters to unusual thinking when they
have a clear lead in the polls. Also, this
seems a distinctively un-Conservative
vision. The Big Society idea comes
after years of internal disputes over
core philosophy, and seems aimed at
the contemporary middle classes – a
firmly Statist demographic according
to polls, unlike say twenty years ago.
Some of the more bizzare parts of
the Tories’ Big Society include using
“the latest insights from behavioural
economics to encourage people to do-
nate more time and money to charity”
and setting up a “Big Society Bank” and
celebrating “Big Society Day.” But most
of this plan is about the State taxing
citizens, but then letting charities and
“social enterprises” spend the money.
There are two main reasons offered
against State interference in general:
the motivations of the interfering bu-
reaucrat and the impossibility of ra-
tional decision making in the absence
of price information. The Big Society
may be interpreted as the Tories un-
derstanding the former point but still
being unconvinced of the latter.
Big Society
What’s next for Britain’s economy?
In felix’s last business section before the Election, the Parties’ economic and business policies are reviewed
The Business Vote
At a glance - comparing the three major political parties
Labour
- Increase income tax to 50% on earnings over £150,000
- Pledge not to increase income tax
- One-off tax on bankers’ bonuses
- Work internationally to introduce a “global levy” on financial services
- Break up banks in which the Government currently has a controlling stake
- Set up a fund to channel £4bn of public and private investment into firms
- Raise threshold of support for company takeovers to two-thirds of shareholders
Conservatives
- Raise Inheritance Tax threshold to £1m
- Scrap Labour’s planned 1% national insurance rise for people earning less than £35,000
- Scrap Stamp Duty for first-time buyers on homes up to £250,000
- Two-year council tax freeze
- Freeze public sector pay for one year in 2011
Liberal Democrats
- Raise the threshold income at which people start paying income tax to £10,000 per year
- Impose “mansion tax” on the value of properties over £2m
- Increase capital gains tax to bring it into line with income tax
- Set a £400 pay rise cap for all public sector workers
- Introduce a banking levy until banks’ retail and investment arms are separated
- Limit the length of “non-domiciled” status to seven years
- Force regulators to consider the “public interest” when assessing takeover bids
Brown, Clegg (above) and Cameron (below) are going head-to-head

