20
FILM
Film Editor
Film Editor Ed Knock
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 30 APRIL 2010
Whilst the majority of cinema is typi-
cally for pure enjoyment, occasionally
a film arrives which intends to pro-
voke debate about current affairs. The
‘kitchen sink’ dramas made famous by
Ken Loach and chums in the 60’s come
to mind and more recently, troubles in
Africa have been highlighted by films
such as Hotel Rwanda and The Con-
stant Gardener. The atmosphere of
Samson and Delilah is certainly un-
pleasant and is at times almost over-
powered by the bittersweet relation-
ship at the heart of the story.
This debut from Australian director
Warwick Thornton portrays the mis-
erable existence some Aborigines have
to endure in the outback, set against a
bizarre love story between two youths.
Samson awakes every morning with
his head inside a tin of glue; high off
the fumes, he endures his mundane life
by irritating his brothers and throwing
rocks at kangaroos. Delilah, on the
other hand, has been entrusted with
the welfare of her grandmother and
they spend their days painting tradi-
tional canvasses only to be exploited by
the white shopkeeper who sells their
work for massive profit. Deliah soon
becomes the target for Samson’s affec-
tions and though she initially reacts to
this with utmost disgust, her real feel-
ings are much more mutual. After they
both endure brutality in their village,
Samson steals a car and whisks Deliah
away to Alice Springs where they tragi-
cally suffer worse treatment.
The strength of the film lies in the
performances of its two young stars
(Rowan McNamara and Marissa Gib-
son). With no previous acting experi-
ence, they manage to express all the
necessary emotions without a big
script. In fact the dialogue is so mini-
mal that Samson only utters one word
in the whole film – his name, which he
barely manages to do anyway.
Thornton, who is already a celebrat-
ed cinematographer, decides to let the
film’s visuals and sound track speak
in place of the sparse screenplay. You
can almost smell the wretched heat
of the desert which seems to burn a
sense of hopelessness into its inhabit-
ants’ minds. The monotony of village
life is reflected in the steady Ska beats
of Samson’s brothers’ band, who spend
sunrise to sunset playing the same mel-
odies every day. In contrast, the dan-
gerous world of the city is further em-
bellished by ominous sounds whereas
Samson can only exhibit his rebellious
spirit by listening to rock music.
The series of hardships and (out-
rage) the pair encounter become ever
more shocking and intentionally never
make easy viewing. The only person
who shows the protagonists any com-
passion is a bridge-dwelling tramp
who shares his meagre food rations.
Though an opportunity of hope is of-
fered at the end, Warwick Thornton
compels the audience to feel disgusted
The most powerful film of the year
Director Warwick Thornton
Screenwriter Warwick Thornton
Cast Rowan McNamara, Marissa
Gibson
Samson and Delilah
EdKnock
EdKnock Film Editor
Exam Stress Relief
and ashamed at what they are watch-
ing. The suffering of Aborigines has
long been a controversial topic in Aus-
tralian politics and Thornton, who is
Aborigine himself, presents a rather
negative picture of Aborigine life. He
claims it is a film of questions and he
doesn’t present any answers.
The Biblical title is a reference to the
A great slow-burning thriller
Director Roman Polanski
Screenwriter Robert Harris
Cast Ewan McGregor, Pierce Brosnan,
Kim Cattrall, Olivia Williams
The Ghost
EdKnock
EdKnock Film Editor
Infamously finished whilst Roman
Polanski was languishing under Swiss
imposed house-arrest (perfect timing
to break their tradition of neutrality!),
The Ghost is the latest in the recent
trend of political thrillers that prey on
the current distrust of modern politics
and capitalism.
After his predecessor dies in mys-
terious circumstances, a ghostwriter
(Ewan McGregor) is hired to complete
the memoirs of ex-prime minister
Adam Lang (Pierce Brosnan), who is
under suspicion for committing war
crimes during a ‘War on Terror’. The
ghostwriter (he is never named) soon
finds himself drawn into a conspiracy
which could have far-reaching conse-
quences for those involved.
The parallels between Brosnan’s
character and Tony Blair are inten-
tional with references made to Iraq,
his close relationship with the USA
and his showman style of politics. This
could be used as a gimmick by a less-
experienced director, but we are talk-
Iron Man 2
Robert Downey Junior dons
the crimson super suit in a
second helping of high-tec
ass-kicking.
Perfect for: comic book geeks
Robin Hood
Russell Crowe discards the
tights for a serious take on
the legend...with WWII
beach landing craft?
Perfect for: history buffs The A-Team
Finally it has arrived. I don’t
know why we’re excited, the
original was before our time
and frankly a bit shit.
Perfect for: your Dad
ing about Polanski here and he brings
his trademark delicate pacing to con-
struct an intricate web of conspiracies.
There are no Jason Bourne style ac-
tion scenes or conveniently placed plot
twists. Pierce Brosnan is perfect as the
arrogant ex-PM and Olivia Williams is
wonderful as his seemingly innocent
wife. Ewan Mcgreggor is on form as
the unfortunate protagonist, an aver-
age man who reluctantly unveils the
aforementioned mysteries.
The bleak landscape of coastal North
Germany (substituting for New Eng-
land) helps create an alien environ-
ment of politics and the dire situation
the protagonist finds himself in. The
Ghost is a must watch for those bored
of adrenalin fuelled action films.
Aborigine custom of cutting their hair
when in mourning: whether Thornton
is mourning for his people is unclear.
The apathetic white citizens of Alice
Springs may seem a disgrace to cosy
viewers in the UK but we would display
the same behaviour in their situation
The film isn’t without its faults. It’s
hard to understand Delilah’s devotion
to Samson and there’s only so much
misery an audience can endure. If your
faith in human nature isn’t ruined by
the end then you must be a saint. But
don’t shy away from this film because
of its difficult subject matter, it’s chal-
lenging to watch and, once you’ve
recovered, a thoroughly rewarding
experience.

