21
felix FRIDAY 30 APRIL 2010
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk FILM
W
arwick Thornton
has sprung out of
nowhere to be-
come the new dar-
ling of the world of
independent film. With a bag full of
awards from his native Australia and
a film short-listed for the Oscars, he
looks set to become a prominent direc-
tor of this century. Samson and Deli-
lah has created debate in his homeland
and highlighted problems that politi-
cians probably want to pretend don’t
exist. He casually enters the room,
where a small group of journalists have
gathered. “Okay, how are we going to
change the World guys?” He quips,
running his hands through a shaggy
mane of hair, “Did anyone bring a po-
tato salad?”. The room laughs nervous-
ly, everyone knows that the questions
the film raises have no room for light
hearted humour.
I could have been a
contender!
“Have you changed the World for
the Aborigine community with your
film?” Someone quickly replies. War-
wick gazes contemplatively for a few
seconds,
“Yeah I dunno, its a film full of ques-
tions not answers. It was on purpose to
you know that’s the beauty of World
Cinema, some of the most beautiful
films have really made me a better hu-
man being. Films from Outer Mongo-
lia and London, you embrace them and
you can use those films to become a
better human being essentially.” War-
wick speaks inarticulately, he appears
to be a true filmmaker - letting the film
speak for him instead of words. It is ob-
vious that there is no pretentious moti-
vation behind Samson and Delilah.
“Were you sad not to make it into
the final five [of the Oscar Best Foreign
Film category]?”
“Oh totally. I have to be truthful, you
make your first film and then you’re up
for up for contention for an Oscar and
it’s had such a beautiful run whether
we got in or not. A lot of people have
seen the film and liked it but that
would have been the absolute icing on
the cake wouldn’t it?” We receive the
obvious answer.
A little more
conversation?
With questions on the film’s success
exhausted, another person asks about
films content itself. “There is not much
dialogue between the characters. How
did the story turn out, was that due to
their performances?”
“Massive amount, you know what
I mean. It’s still a ninety page script,
even though it didn’t have much dia-
logue so every little nuance, every lit-
tle look, every step is written into the
actual script and so it was a lot more
demanding on them in that respect. I
couldn’t use words like ‘Im happy, I’m
sad, I’m angry’ like we do a lot in cin-
ema to get narrative plots across. They
actually had to act angry, sad, happy
which was incredibly demanding on
the two kids.”
“Had they acted before?”
An Interview with Warwick Thornton
“No, first film they’d ever done”
“How did you go about working with
them in terms of drawing out their
performances?”
“You can teach. If their mind is open
enough you can teach anybody to act,
you know to find that character you
need. The first step is to draw along your
own personal experiences and emotions.
That’s the stuff you want to do on set
when you’re making the film. With Row-
an; he actually is a cheeky, wiry little mad
kid, so he kinda owns a bit of Samson it
that respect. Marissa in real life is this
absolute Mother Earth, nurturing type
of being and that’s what I was looking
for when casting the film. All I had to do
after that, was make them feel incredibly
positive about who they are as Rowan
and Marissa, not Samson and Delilah. So
that when they did stand in front of the
camera, they had the energy and respect
for themselves and they could play any
character.” When Warwick talks about
the children, you can almost see the
pride shining from his face.
Australia, it’s not
all about barbies
on the beach.
I was now interested in what expe-
riences the film had emerged from.
“Was the film based on any of your
personal experiences?” I asked.
“Yeh I grew up in that town, in Alice
Springs and I left school when I was
thirteen and I spent a lot of time at
night on the streets. There is nothing
in Samson and Delilah I haven’t seen
personally in the town. I made sure
that I didn’t write anything I hadn’t
seen in that sense, so that no one could
tell me that this film isn’t true.
“So is solvent abuse quite a big prob-
lem?” I press on.
“It was, its not that bad anymore.
Film Editor Ed Knock meets the new director who is causing ripples of excitement across the Film World
We’ve changed from lead-based pet-
rol to the one that if you try and sniff
it, gives you a really bad headache.
There’s a darker side to that now too,
people are bringing in lead-based pet-
rol and selling them for about 10 dol-
lars a litre to kids, like drug dealers in
a sense.
When Delilah is beaten for her
grandmothers death, is that something
that goes on?
“Yeh that scene I’m kinda talking to
my own mum about. There’s parts of
indigenous law and culture in Central
Australia which I think maybe aren’t
relevant today. In precolonial times,
younger kids were not given but con-
nected to ailing older elders. Their
job was to look after them because
they get to that point where they can’t
hunt. The elder would transfer all the
knowledge, songs and all the secret
laws to that child. That’s the traditional
way and it still happens today as you
can see when Delilah paints with her
grandmother and learns the traditional
songs. But if you didn’t look after that
elder person and she died you received
a beating, that was the traditional way
“How did you find Marissa and Row-
an, did you go out looking for nonpro-
fessional actors?”
Again, Warwick talks about his tal-
ent cast with a sense of endearment.
“Yeh, I wrote the film knowing I would
be looking in communities around
Central Australia for these two kids. I
needed back up, I needed two kids who
had experienced the type of story that
Samson and Deliah go through. They
were both thirteen when we made the
film and it’s thirteen years of research
and rehearsal for the part; they had a
total understanding when reading the
script of what was going on.”
An unpleasant date
with the hairdresser
We ask after what the children are
doing now. “They’re both sixteen,
they’re teenagers - I dunno what the
fuck they’re doing.” He explains in a
deadpan manner. He elaborates fur-
ther, Marissa is set on attending uni-
versity and is learning Japanese, how-
ever Rowan is still getting into trouble,
unsure what to do with his life. War-
wick assures us though that they will
be supported in anything they want to
do .
“How did you persuade that poor lit-
tle girl to make herself ugly?” Someone
cheekily inquires.
“Right from the beginning I said
Marissa, we’re gonna have to cut your
hair off and give you black eyes. She
had incredibly beautiful hair but right
from the beginning she was like “Okay,
I don’t mind, I’m going to be the star of
this movie.” Before the scene she asked
do I really have to cut my hair off. We
said yep, and we’re going to cut it really
bad and you’re going to look terrible.
She understood that you traditionally
cut your hair off when you’re grieving.
We compromised and gave her a ‘Posh
Spice’ hair cut but she understood the
process of the journey for Delilah and
that it needed to be done properly.
Samson and Delilah shares aesthet-
ics and subjects similar to previous
Australian films such as Walkabout
and The Proposition and I was interest-
ed to hear where Warwick had taken
his inspiration from.
“Walkabout is way before my time,
I’ve never been much of a cinema goer
in a sense (‘in a sense’ appears to be his
catchphrase’). I watched Walkabout
when I was twenty five; I never watched
it again so it’s not like I know it back to
front. I take inspiration from all over the
shop, Terrence Malick for example.
The interview soon draws to a close.
Along the way we had a small discus-
sion about Australian politics, which
I felt wasn’t necessary for inclusion in
the interview (as did Warwick). Sam-
son and Delilah is a provocative film
but it is a very personal one for War-
wick, and I have learned that it wasn’t
a piece of exploitation cinema to put
himself in the spotlight. He is a prom-
ising director with a bold vision and
unique style. If Samson and Delilah
was his warm-up act, I can’t imagine
how great the future films he will pro-
duce are going to be.
do that. I don’t have answers, by creat-
ing questions someone might have an
answer. Its a step forward.” His heavy
Aussie drawl carries an air of honesty.
“What’s the response been from the
community?”
“There’s been a lot of shock, but eve-
rybody loves the film in that sense. It’s
a hard film, a dark film but people kin-
da go: if that’s the way it is, it’s fantastic
to have that door opened, to see it and
think about it.” It’s apparent that he
feels a little uncomfortable becoming
a new campaigner for the Aborigines.
“How surprised have you been by the
international reaction?” Someone else
inquires.
“Very, very surprised. We were very
proud of the film when we finished it,
actually having it screened, this is what
we set out to do. Every screening has
been really positive and people seem
to write really beautiful things about it”
“Are planning on taking the film to
the States?”
“A limited release, the last place to
buy it was North America. I don’t
know if it sold because it got into the
finals of the Oscars. We’re in negotia-
tions about that kinda stuff at the mo-
ment. It would be great to show them,
“Every screening
has been really
positive and people
seem to write really
beautiful things
about [the film]”
“When Warwick
talks about the
children, you can
almost see the
pride shining from
his face.”
and still happens today. Delilah did
look after her grandmother very well
and she still got a beating and that’s a
tragedy and travesty in the film. Is this
still right? Is this still current to who
we are today?”

