FOOD
Food Editors
Food Editors Chris Sim & Holly Cumbers
Chris Sim & Holly Cumbers
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 30 APRIL 2010 23
felix
The Pear Tree’s welcoming exterior is definitely matched by its cosy interior
Wine and dine under the Pear Tree
P
ub dinners. I don’t do them
that often. Not that I don’t
like the food. Nor is it that
I don’t like the atmosphere.
It just never occurs to me to
deliberately go to a pub for a proper
sit-down meal. Combining the two
just isn’t my usual cup of Earl Grey.
Ok, once in a while when a big game
is on I’ll have some chips with a beer.
And yes, I do love the places which
do proper hand cut chips complete
with skin and all. And once every blue
moon I’ll have a burger with those
fried potato accompaniments. But
with gastropubs around London re-
ceiving some well deserved praise I
thought I’d break this old habit and a
visit to a recently renovated pub by the
name of The Pear Tree with some seri-
ous foodie intentions.
Traditional British pub décor and an
absence of pretence were the first things
that struck me as I entered, features
which agreed well with me. Slightly dis-
appointing though was that our table
was situated in the main area of the pub
and not the dining area, and whilst one
could say this gives an added element
of atmosphere to a meal – it meant our
conversations had to be conducted at
slightly higher volumes.
Pleasingly, the menu is changed regu-
larly by the owners and the dishes on of-
fer appealed not only to those desiring
a heavy portion of red meat, but also to
those who wish to go for the healthier
option of fish or vegetarian dishes. The
starters provided a prelude to what was
to be a wholly satisfying meal. First
Pubs aren’t the usual location for Chris Sim to have a sit-down meal, though this pub may have swayed his opinion
You’d be surprised how interesting Canarian cuisine can be...
Chris Sim definitely did not regret bringing his tastebuds to these much-stigmatised Spanish islands…
B
efore I left for the Canary
Islands, or Las Canarias
in Spanish, I must admit
that I considered leaving
my tastebuds at home. So
what preconceptions led me to think
of such radical action? I thought of
Western European tourists choosing
to be imprisoned in their hotels or
bronzing on the jam-packed beaches.
I thought of cultureless bars erod-
ing the Spanish flair and traditions.
I thought of classic Spanish cuisine
being carelessly adapted to the tastes
of other Europeans. This last point,
I thought, was surely too unbearable
for the sensory organs on my tongue.
Fortunately for my tastebuds,
easyJet didn’t charge extra for bring-
ing them on the three-hour flight to
these picturesque islands northwest
of the African coast. So I decided to
bring them along. And upon leav-
ing the overcrowded tourist zones
and delving into the eateries of local
Canarians, we were pleasantly sur-
prised by a number of their foodie
gems. First to entertain my tongue-
mounted companions were what I
thought are possibly the most inter-
esting potatoes in the world. Known
as papas arrugadas, or wrinkly pota-
toes, they are simply seed potatoes
(smaller and much sweeter than new
potatoes, probably the first type of
potatoes brought to Europe from
the Americas) slowly boiled, rubbed
lightly with sea salt and casually
drizzled on with two delightful sauc-
es. The first is mojo picante, a slightly
spicy sauce containing olive oil, spicy
paprika, cumin and lemon juice. Lose
the paprika and add some mild cori-
ander, and you’ve got mojo verde.
The former can really give a mild
heaty kick, while the latter is a fan-
tastic embodiment of fresh flavours.
These really do put our everyday
roast potatoes to shame. Supremely
sweet and fluffy in the middle, salty
on the exterior, and when combined
with the mojo sauces; well, it’ll do
your ‘mojo’ a world of good. The next
Canarian treat to dazzle my tongue-
dwellers was a dessert, appropriately
named as bienmesabe. It means ‘it
tastes good to me’ and it really did
live up to its billing. It presented it-
self in the form of an almond cream,
consisting of Canarian almonds, sug-
ar syrup, cinnamon and egg yolks.
Whilst being too rich to eat on its
own, its sweetness balanced by the
nutty and earthy tones are great
when smothered on plain foods like
crackers or toast.
And the fun didn’t stop there for
myself and my symbiotic travel bud-
dies, for we were fortunate enough
to visit a Canarian winery, where we
were treated to a memorable gastro-
nomic experience. Our meal had too
many great dishes to mention, but
my favourite was a large plate lined
with sashimi-style octopus tentacles,
thinly sliced and smothered with ex-
tra virgin olive oil, accompanied by
the perfect amount of local (much
cheaper than the Russian) caviar.
The freshness of the octopus was in-
credible, and its sweet flavour of the
sea even more so.
So, after all, I guess my tastebuds
were pleased I brought them along.
Yours too would also be more than
satisfied, but it’ll take just a wee bit
of extra effort to go out, explore the
local towns, villages and country-
side and find the real flavours of Las
Canarias.
Food: 8.0
Value: 7.0
Service: 7.0
Ambience: 6.5
Overall: 7.25/10
up was a white onion tart with goats’
cheese and salad which was probably
the pick of the first courses. It possessed
a good balance of sweet caramelised
tones from the onion, rich buttery notes
from the pastry and an injection of salti-
ness from the cheese. The duck rillettes
with salami, red onion marmalade and
bread was satisfying but a stronger
duck punch was needed to compete
with the sweet marmalade. The mus-
sels in a white wine sauce had the right
flavour combinations, but the freshness
of the shell dwellers was not quite up to
standard.
The mains were also of a pleasantly sat-
isfying standard. Their Aberdeen angus
beef burger met my expectations, being
full of meaty tones and oozing gorgeous
beefy juices, and was also of a size which
could actually fit in my mouth without
having to crush its environment of fresh
bun, lettuce and tomato. Many of the
accompanying chips were slightly over-
fried; however those that were cooked
to perfection possessed a harmonious
equilibrium of fluffy centre and crunchy
exterior. Also escorted with a side of
chips was a sirloin steak with red wine
sauce. The quality of the steak itself was
of a pretty high standard and, whilst the
red wine sauce had a level of richness, it
was slightly too sweet. Probably the best
main was the salmon fillet with crushed
new potatoes, fennel and purple sprout-
ing broccoli. No faults were in evidence
here: well cooked potatoes, nicely sea-
soned vegetables and fresh, perfectly
pan fried salmon, though it could have
done with a touch more fennel to really
bring everything together.
To finish off our meal, a couple of
memorable desserts made their way to
our table. The home-made banoffee pie
had an excellent balance of sweet toffee
and banana, held together by the des-
sert’s delicious gooeyness. Even better
than this, however, was the chocolate
terrine. It was pretty diminutive, but
both myself and my diners only needed
a small helping to experience the full on,
divinely rich chocolate-truffle-esque
nature of this dish.
The portion sizes were agreeable for
the price, around £5 for a starter, £9-10
for a main and £4 for desserts. We ac-
companied our meal with a refreshing
bottle of Rosé, which, at £15 I thought
was quite fair. Service was attentive by
pub standards though the courses could
have left the kitchen a tad quicker. So to
conclude, I feel that the Pear Tree did
help me to consolidate those two oc-
casions which are normally separate in
my own eyes: a satisfying meal within a
pleasant pub setting.
Papas arrugadas (wrinkly potatoes) with mojo picante (spicy, zingy sauce)

