24
TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor
Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs
Samuel Gibbs
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 30 APRIL 2010
Easter Highlights - The be
W
elcome back all you holidaying Imperialites. I hope you had a
refreshing break or as so many of you were revising, your revi-
sion went well. It’s back to the daily grind from now until the
end of the academic year with the summer term punctuated
by exams and projects.
But enough of that, what did we miss I hear you cry! Well the month of April
held a surprising amount of goings on in the consumer electronics space this
year, including a couple of things from Apple, a few tidbits from Microsoft and an
absolute deluge from Dell. So without pomp and circumstance, let’s get on with
it shall we? Roll the press!
iPhone
W
hilst the great majority of you
were hitting the books, Apple
has been quite busy. A week after
the iPad release the fruity company sent out
invites to an iPhone OS4 event titled ‘Get a
sneaky peak into the future of iPhone OS’.
Now of course, this wasn’t really a surprise
for those keeping up, but what did strike
people in the know was that even though
Apple’s mobile operating system is now
powering three separate devices, the iPhone,
the iPod touch and the iPad, it’s still called
iPhone OS. Still, Apple did its adoring fans
proud with a show and release of the devel-
oper version of the OS.
Apple changed a lot of things in the
iPhone OS, most of them small or not user
accessible, but here’s what you need to know.
For all intents and purposes it’s got
‘multitasking’. OK, in truth it’s not real
multitasking, but on a device with a screen
that small, who’s going to want to run two
full programs side-by-side, if just running
the important threads of the program can
do the job just fine? The dock has been
modified to allow rapid app switching
between those running in the background
and it’s also gotten all 3D on us, just like the
Mac OS X dock you know and love. The
springboard now has Folders too, so you can
bundle apps of your choosing into spring-
loaded folders on your home pages. If you’ve
ever used Stacks on Mac OS X you’ll know
how Folders work. iPhone mail has been
upgraded with multiple Exchange profile
support and a unified Inbox, plus you can
now have wallpapers on your home screen
not just lock screen. I bet you’ve been longing
for that ever since you saw the iPhone right?
Mr. Jobs also unveiled iBooks for iPhone OS
to bring it into line with the iPad, and like
iPhone OS4, the next evolution of Apple’s mob
Apple iPad Launch
W
hilst you were out, Apple launched a little thing called the iPad. You
might have seen our feature on Mr. Job’s ‘magical’ device last term,
which was released in its WiFi only form to avid fans across the US
on April 3rd. Is it as amazing as all Apple fanboy’s hoped and dreamed? Maybe.
The plethora of reviews have certainly been good, but unfortunately the
international release of Apple’s new market defining device has been pushed back
to ‘the end of May’, with official pricing and availability due to be announced
on May 10th. So for the mean time, all I can tell you is what you can read for
yourselves in the gazillion reviews that every Tom, Dick and Harry has rushed to
publish. It’s good, but it doesn’t do everything you’ve always wanted and we’re not
sure what you’ll use it for. Apple put’s this delay down to the iPad’s unexpected
success in the US, with over one million estimated to have been sold since launch.
Of course accessories for the slate device have been popping up left, right and
centre from every manufacturer. Some better than others, they range from basic
stands to DIY keyboard cases that turn the iPad into a sudo-laptop.
But who’s the iPad really for? Well this week there’s been a story kicking
about the technology press of a woman who’s been given back here passion for
readingby the iPad, becoming arguably the oldest early adopter ever. The 99 year
old woman who’s poor eye sight has prevented her from reading books, uses the
iPad’s sizable and bright text to read again. The perfect computer for your mother
then perhaps?
Oh and for those who are interested, Blendtec confirmed it, the iPad will blend,
even if you have to cheat a little bit to get it in the blender.
Better than
Easter eggs
W
elcome back stran-
gers, no need to
hide away. I know
it’s a difficult time
of year for quite a
lot of you, exams and all, so this week
I’ve conjured up a brief ‘I’ve been hid-
ing under a rock revising for a month,
what happened’ guide for you. Think
of it as a little light relief from the te-
dium of study.
Actually, quite a lot has happened in
the weeks of college closure, a surpris-
ing amount really. We’ve had a barrage
of Apple news, which seems to be pret-
ty much normal these days, but we’ve
also seen Dell drop a mother load of
devices in one leak and Microsoft take
its first foray into phone manufacture
with the Kin.
The Kin itself is quite interesting
because unlike Apple, Palm or RIM,
Microsoft is an operating system seller,
not a device orientated company. OK,
the Kin isn’t strictly part of Microsoft’s
Windows Phone series, but it’s still a
phone that Microsoft’s selling them-
selves that could compete directly
with their licensee’s phones. Google
of course is doing the same thing with
their Nexus One, but Google isn’t sell-
ing the OS to its licensees as its open
source. You’ve got to wonder what
companies like HTC, Dell and Mo-
torola think about operating system
vendors selling their own hardware.
Palm, a company struggling against
Android and Apple, was put up for
sale during the Easter break. The Pre
and Pixie, although decent phones in
themselves, hadn’t garnered the suc-
cess needed to put the company back
into good financial standing. Although
the most likely suitor HTC ruled them-
selves out of a purchase, HP swooped
in and bought Palm late on Wednesday
night this week for $1.2 billion. Let’s
hope that HP gets the company that
arguably started the smartphone revo-
lution back on the winning track.
SamuelGibbs
SamuelGibbs Technology Editor
M
icrosoft, not to be left out of the party that was April, announced its
first own-brand phones, the Kin One, a square slider and the Kin Two,
a more traditional landscape slider. Microsoft’s aiming the Kin brand
as a separate device category from the recently announced Windows Phone 7,
targeted at what Microsoft calls, ‘Generation Upload’, that’s the youth of today
apparently. Essentially, the Kin phones are smart-dumbphones, or should that
be dumb-smartphones, either way, they’ve got smartphone like features running
on a stripped out smartphone operating system that lacks critical features that
define a true smartphone. There are no apps for the Kin; neither does the user
have to worry about multitasking or device management. But what the Kin does
provide is a streamlined way to get on the mobile web, life stream and connect
with friends. The Kin is the product of the Danger purchase that Microsoft made
a year or so ago and is the spiritual successor to the T-mobile SideKick.
Both Kin models feature social networking integration with direct pooling and
access to Facebook and Twitter built-in. The phone limits automatic updates of
your friend’s statuses to every 15 minutes, which should allow the Kin to be sold
with cheaper data plans. Limiting network access has also allowed Microsoft to
give the Kin devices ‘weekend battery-life’. Not as impressive as the standard cheap
dumbphone week-long battery life, but certainly a lot better than the standard
barely-a-day’s usage you get out of the current generation of smartphones.
If either Kin pushes your buttons, look for them on Vodafone in the Autumn.
Microsoft’s Kin One (right) and Kin Two (left) for ‘Generation Upload’
Microsoft Kin
Apple’s iPad, available end of May 2010 in the UK

