25
felix FRIDAY 30 APRIL 2010
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk TECHNOLOGY
est of what you missed over the break
L
ove it or hate it, the iPhone is a pretty big part of the modern smartphone
market, and as such is currently the phone to beat. Apple is expected to
release a brand new iPhone in the summer, but normally it’s legendary cul-
ture of secrecy keeps leaks to an absolute minimum, leaving the technology press
to rely on assumption and rumour. This month however Apple’s vice-like grip
slipped and out popped an iPhone prototype. Encased in a custom cover to make
it look like an ordinary everyday iPhone 3GS, the iPhone prototype was dropped
by an Apple engineer in a bar in California, where it was picked up and promptly
sold to Gizmodo for a purported $5000. When Gizmodo unwrapped the now
remote-wiped and non-functional device, they found an iPhone without the cur-
vaceous back of the current generation and a metal strip around it’s edges. As you
can see in the photo above, the front of the device resembles that of the previous
generation, but the rest of the device makes a distinct departure from what’s cur-
rently available from Apple.
D
ell’s been pretty busy behind the scenes over Easter and on April 21st, the
mother of all leaks landed in the laps of the Engadget crew. In the leak
there were details and photos of no less than five previously unknown
devices and more detail on two as yet unreleased gadgets. The bounty detailed
one Windows Phone 7 device, the Lightning, three Android phones, the Thun-
der, Flash and Smoke, plus the previously known Aero and a seven-inch Android
based tablet called the Looking Glass, which will join the previously detailed Dell
Streak Android tablet. Whilst each device has its own merit and target market,
let’s have a look at the two flagship devices Dell’s aiming at your wallet.
e OS4
bile OS X based operating system
Leaked iPhone Prototype Dell’s Device Deluge
Dell’s Thunder lights-up Android
Apple’s iPhone prototype. Could this be the iPhone for you this summer?
the Amazon Kindle and iPhone app, it’ll sync
your reading position between your iPhone
and your iPad. Game Center was another
big unveil, which is aiming to bring you an
Xbox Live-like experience with multiplayer
matchmaking, achievements and all the
goodies you’ve come to expect from modern
online gaming. Now all they need to do is
give the iPhone and iPod touch some more
buttons so the control schemes of iPhone
games don’t suck.
Last but not least Apple took a swipe at
Google and its mobile advertising division
with the announcement of iAds. Essentially
Apple is building an advertising platform
directly into its mobile operating system
and you’re going to love it! OK, I might be
exaggerating just a tad here, I’m as sceptical
as you as to whether this is actually better for
the user, but Apple showed off interactive ads
that are unlike anything you’ve seen before.
Let’s just hope it doesn’t turn the iPhone an
ad-riddled mess like the internet has become.
Like pervious iPhone OS updates, iPhone
OS4 is going to be available as an upgrade
for previous iPhone models. The kicker here
though, is that original (2G) iPhone owners
and iPod touch owners are going to be left
out in the cold. iPhone 3G owners are going
to get a lot of the newfangledness, but you’re
going to be missing out on multitasking,
wallpapers and some other smaller things.
Of course iPhone 3GS and iPod touch 3rd
generation users are going to get the whole
shebang, but it might cost you, we’ll have
to wait till closer to the ‘summer’ launch
window to find out. iPad owners/fanciers,
you’ll get your taste of iPhone OS4 but you’re
going to have to sit tight till the Autumn.
Oh and those living on the wild side will be
pleased to know it’s already been jailbroken.
Apart from its looks, Gizmodo discovered that the prototype device was packing
a front facing camera, a larger camera lens on the back with an LED flash and a
larger battery. The screen itself was marginally physically smaller, but was said to
have a much higher pixel density, laying credence to the iPhone HD rumours. The
volume rocker had also been replaced with two separate buttons, possibly indi-
cating some sort of dual functionality, a dedicated photo button in the Camera
app perhaps. Those of you hoping to slap your current SIM in the next generation
iPhone will be sorely disappointed as it seems, just like the iPad, Apple has gone
for a micro SIM slot. Don’t fret however; all current major iPhone carriers have
announced that they’ll be supporting the new SIM standard.
Of course this ‘find’ didn’t necessarily have to have been an actual Apple
prototype, but its authenticity was confirmed when Apple themselves asked
for the device back. Since then the saga of returning the iPhone and now just
this week, the Police raid on the Gizmodo Editor Jason Chen’s house over the
purchase of ‘stolen’ goods, has raged. What next will unfold and whether we’ll see
this type of device come July is unknown, but I for one am itching to see the how
the rest of this story is going to unfold. Head on over to Gizmodo for full coverage
including a blow-by-blow account of how the phone ended up with Gizmodo.
Side-by-side: Grandad iPhone next to new and shiny.
Dell’s top class entry into the Windows Phone 7 space: the Lighting
So what does the Dell Lightning have in store for us? Well as you can see above
it’s a pretty slick looking portrait QWERTY slider like that of the Palm Pre, with
the required three button Windows Phone 7 control scheme up front. Packing a
4.1 inch WVGA OLED capacitive touch screen, the Lightning is powered by a
1GHz Snapdragon processor, the QSD8250 for those keeping count. Dell saw fit
to give Windows Phone 7 512MB of RAM to play with and on the storage front
1GB of built-in flash plus an 8GB of MicroSD, plenty of space for your apps. Of
course the Lightning also comes equipped with the usual array of toys including
GPS, an accelerometer, a compass, an FM radio, a 5MP autofocus camera and
full Flash support. Looking decidedly
like a Windows Phone 7 launch device
you can look forward to getting your
grubby mitts on it in the fourth quarter
of this year, with an LTE (read 4G) ver-
sion scheduled for Q4 of 2011.
If Android is your thing, and let’s be
honest, Windows Phone 7 has poten-
tial but it’s starting to look a little out-
dated even now, and it’s not been re-
leased yet, then Dell’s got lots for you.
The Thunder pictured left does away
with the sliding keyboard that defines
the Lightning, for a sleeker package.
Like the Lightning however, the Thun-
der packs a 4.1 inch WVGA OLED
screen, but the rest of the specifica-
tions are a little sketchy at this point.
It’ll probably be running a similar
Snapdragon CPU and storage; how-
ever Dell has upped the camera to an
8MP shooter. With Android 2.1 Dell’s
gone all out on the customization with
the device running Dell ‘Stage’ UI ty-
ing into Facebook and Twitter for so-
cial networking and using Swype for its
onscreen keyboard. It certainly looks
classy and has a similar feel to that of
HTC’s Sense UI.
Dell also claims that it’ll have Flash
and a Hulu app on the device at launch,
not that that’s much use to us over here
in Blighty. Give us iPlayer, eh Dell?

