26 felix FRIDAY 30 APRIL 2010
TRAVEL
Travel Editor
Travel Editor Dylan Lowe
Dylan Lowe
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Non, rien de rien; je ne regrette rien
If only that’s true beyond lyrical idealism – Dylan Lowe embarks on a regret trip into the Saharan desert
G
rasping the handle and
gasping nervously, heroi-
cally retaining balance on
the saddle as the beast
took a tumble down a dune
– that ceased to be a concern or a com-
mon struggle I felt obliged to be part of.
The spot of bother, rather, came when I
couldn’t quite figure out 5 Down, Shake-
spearean tragedy (4,4).
There can only be so much enjoyment
while cruising the desert on a camel
before you resort to feigning pleasure,
so many strokes and attempts to con-
verse with the animal before realising it
couldn’t talk and probably wanted you
off its back, so much photography before
finding nothing other than desolation to
capture. It was a mistake – anticipating
the camel expedition like some glori-
fied amusement park ride – though it
wasn’t mine alone: carpet burns, aching
scrotums, motion sickness, they were
all symptoms of what my fellow excur-
sionists would agree as a case of bad
investment.
Yet there we were, sand dominating the
terrain and filling our boots, smog en-
shrouding the Saharan skies and blind-
ing us from a stellar spectacle on the
previous evening, I perching on a saddle
perplexed over a crossword puzzle I was
failing to solve.
So I gave in: “King Lear”, said the
solutions. I cursed myself for the
foolhardiness.
Curious how, like guilt, regrets are the
motivation that send people achieving
extraordinary things and visiting ex-
traordinary places, if only in a redemp-
tive kind of way. I like travelling with
regrets, though in a more innocent man-
ner: finding myself failing to go to a place
I really wanted to visit, and sipping that
bile of disappointment, propels me to
devote some time and effort in returning
to the country for what I have previously
missed out. And one shard of regret, of
disappointment, had taken me back to
Morocco, once again a hitch-hike from
London for the charity Link Community
Development.
Ithadsproutedayearago:Iwasperched
on the customer’s seat, in a room that
never ceased to impart a resemblance to
a hospital ward – even in memory – grap-
pled by the figures the travel agent had
jabbed into a calculator.
Anna, the Morocco Hitch partner as-
of-2009, even gave a squeal at the sight of
the price tag.
With many more agencies eager to
pillage our wallets, which were pretty
empty by that stage, the desert excursion
didn’t quite happen.
This time, though, nothing was go-
ing to stop me. Even if it meant leaving
“Finding myself
failing to go to a
place I wanted to
visit propels me
to return to the
country for what I
have missed out”
behind Tori, my new hitch partner, and
venture into the Sahara among strangers.
We reached base camp after a two-hour
ride. The camel stooped as though bow-
ing after a laborious yet lousy perform-
ance, whose audience rose from their
slumber and feigned a clap or two so as
not to hurt the producers’ feelings. The
Berber nomads, our guides and hosts at
the desert camp where we stayed over-
night, produced a handshake and good-
bye, as each of us descended from the
mountainous mass of fabric that insu-
lated the camel’s hump, and fled gingerly
from the final round of formalities.
That moment felt like an end to my
three-day excursion into the Sahara;
sure, the full circuit which began/ended
in Marrakech didn’t conclude until after
a 13-hour drive through treacherous ter-
rain ‒ though the landscape did shape like
a geological Elysium ‒ in terms of my re-
demption trip the conclusion was drawn
upon the sand the moment I dismounted.
Thus, deliverance. Unshackled, un-
bounded from a repaid debt. But was I
going to get away this time humming
Non, je ne regrette rien with a clear
conscience?
Not exactly.
*
I couldn’t have found a better refuge than
under the shade of a grocery store, just off
the car park - secluded, yet enough hype
for a small touristic town to distract my-
self from the soaring temperature and
migraine.
And with most people from my tour
gone astray and yet to return from the
ksar of Aït Benhaddou, a pit stop en
route to the Sahara, I wasn’t exactly going
anywhere.
And with every repetitive throb that
pounded against my skull, I felt more and
“I didn’t want to
contribute towards
an already existent
begging culture”
more susceptible to the minute details
of observations I was absorbing, and the
sentiments they represented.
I reminisced idle Moroccans by the
ksar, or fortified city, touting and has-
sling, and pondered on ways they could
have better made use of their youth.
I remembered the Lonely Planet en-
try claiming that Moroccans regarded
Asians as the most lucrative of nation-
alities, and lamented that my skin colour
wasn’t exactly doing me any favours.
I scrutinised the money-grabbing
camera posers in traditional clothing,
the shopkeepers, tour bus drivers, wait-
ers, tourists, school children; their attire,
their mannerism, down to the way they
saunter, meander, scuttle –
The girl approached me. I had seen
her earlier, an individual inconspicuous
among the uniform-clad, backpack-slung
children chortling in childly glee. The
dramatics that followed was unworldly,
unchildlike: the smile vanished, shoul-
ders slacked, eyes watered as she steered
towards me just as her peers selected and
pursued their marks across the park.
And before she could even reach me,
she had already extended her empty
palm. She may have muttered something
pleadingly in French, but the gesture
alone was lucid.
I rattled a ritual response.
La. No.
Safi. Enough.
There was little meaning those two
meagre words of Arabic could have con-
veyed. They were the means to reject a
plea and to rid of a nuisance – she did
wince a little from the crudeness before
The desert camp at a visually disappointing sunrise
The breathtaking Dadè Gorge

