27
felix FRIDAY 30 APRIL 2010
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk TRAVEL
Travel Editor
DylanLowe
DylanLowe
Eyjafjallajoek…
say what?
dumping me for a more generous mark –
but those weren’t what I intended. What I
intended, what I could only wish to have
done, was to be more considerate.
I wished I had told her that I didn’t
mean to chastise. I wished I had enquired
about her welfare, her studies, and en-
couraged her to work towards a better fu-
ture.IwishedIhadexplained how Ididn’t
want to contribute, by doling out the
spare change, towards an already existent
begging culture, or her becoming a beg-
gar. Above all, considering I’m virtually
illiterate in Arabic and French, I wished
I had possessed a better understanding of
the languages within her grasp, in order
to speak the then unspoken words.
But then, I didn’t wish.
I regretted.
*
The High Atlas had a way of unfolding
its life story, one rock formation at a time,
as though the mountain ranges were
playthings of nature. The heaps of stone
it constructed, and the landslides where
it had trampled on like a sandcastle dis-
favoured. The technicolour outcrops as
canvases upon which it had crayoned
and painted. Riverbeds the trail of rub-
ble it had left behind as it frolicked, layers
of bedding blankets it had unfurled and
crinkled. Tears it shed on the boulders,
boring and eroding them into the peculi-
arity the locals have affectionately named
‘The Hand of Fatima’. The Dadè valley
and gorge gouged out of a boyish rage.
The van took another bend uneasily
as it raced towards Marrakech against
nightfall. My gaze remained apathetically
fixed on what lied beyond the window.
I was reading the geology like a book. A
children’s book of unspeakable mischief.
It was then when I was hit by an unset-
tling feeling.
Ultimately, I had failed my purpose as
a traveller.
I had failed to read the people.
I had betrayed my humanity when
many more children swarmed us with
pleas and open palms, as we stopped by
the dilapidated Berber quarters of a small
town. I sent them away with scorns, with
enough phrases of the lingo to banish
them back to the slums they belonged.
I failed to understand them. Especially
“...my ignorance of
a place was simply
replaced by my
ignorance of the
people”
when, as I sneaked a glance before my en-
tourage exited the mud brick ghetto, the
beggars transformed back to their natu-
ral juvenile form, seemingly immune to
our aloofness.
For all my fondness and fascination
for the Moroccan people and culture,
my experience with them during the ex-
cursion didn’t exactly leave me singing
praises. Somehow I felt mistreated by my
driver, who would happily charge us for
every piece of information that parted his
lips; I felt disappointed by the camel tour
guides, whose drum beats in a fleeting
soiree couldn’t be more short of enthusi-
asm, whose dialogues couldn’t lack more
warmth and sincerity.
For we were investors of rehearsed the-
atrics and, not only that we didn’t pay for
it, we expressed no interest in taking the
backstage tour.
If only my French was up to scratch, my
Arabic sufficient to propel a conversa-
tion. If only the way I acted had been less
detached, and more like that attitude that
have me welcomed, time to time, to the
hospitality that Moroccans are famed for,
that I have received with gratitude.
If only I could cry ‘No, I have no regrets’
to the heavens and not be struck down by
accusations of hypocrisy.
Sensually, it had been a fantastic jour-
ney: my appetite for natural beauty and
action had been utterly quenched. It
was by no means closure since, stepping
out of the van into the hectic nightlife
of Marrakech, I now bore the burden of
a damaged conscience for my ignorance
of the people that simply replaced my
ignorance of a place. Thus, which might
one day bring me back to Morocco once
again if I must sprinkle some optimism
onto the wound, was what I got out of the
desert excursion – a regret.
Though let’s not forget about that
damned carpet burn that bugged me for
many days to come.
Clockwise from
top: the ksar of
Aït Benhaddou;
camel train
across sand
dunes; signs
advertising for
Berber carpet
shops; the road
to Tamddakhte;
the mud-brick
mellah, or Jewish
quarters, now
inhabited by
Berber families
B
onjour and welcome back to
what is widely regarded as the
most dreaded semester of the
year. Best of luck to you all for
the exams you must endure,
past and future; just try not to die of caf-
feine overdose.
Depressing stuff aside, hope you’ve all
had a wonderful Easter break. And may I
extend my congratulations to those who
successfully hitchhiked to Morocco/
Prague – 36 of you from the London
region and some 1500 across the UK –
many of which I had the privilege to meet
along the way. A massive thank you on
behalf of Link Community Develop-
ment for your fundraising efforts as well.
And speaking about the Easter holi-
days, can there be a bigger scandal in the
tourism industry than that triggered by a
little bit of geological activity?
It has been estimated that, with more
than 100,000 flights grounded, over 10
million passengers worldwide were left
stranded throughout the six-day airport
closures.
Inconvenient, to say the least – what
had set out as a leisurely break acidified
for those who had to squander hours for a
futile wait, had to seek alternative meth-
ods of transport (should have hitchhiked,
people), had to spend extra cash during
an extended, now bitter stay at their holi-
day destination.
For some, however, it wasn’t merely
exams that were missed and work left
unattended.
Hundred of Britons are now reported
to be caught up by the civil unrest that
had stirred up in Bangkok. With 27 peo-
ple killed so far and many more injured
amid the anti-government protests,
holidaymakers who obviously no longer
took pleasure in staying, besieged the
airport as they attempt to secure flights
back home. Such was the desperation
that travellers are prepared to employ
deception to get prioritised over the rest
of those who are stranded, states BBC
News.
‘Rescue attempts’ have been mounted
to bring stranded Britons home, espe-
cially when many other services, includ-
ing the Eurostar and ferry firms, are com-
pletely sold out.
My personal favourite was the short-
lived rescue effort set up by the TV pre-
senter and historian Dan Snow, who
planned to travel across the English
Channel with a fleet of speedboats. As
well as running a ferry service through-
out the day, his intentions included pay-
ing tribute to the 70th anniversary of the
Dunkirk evacuation.
Three boats and 25 passengers later, the
endeavour was prematurely shut down by
French officials for no apparent reason.
BAA has estimated a £28m loss as a re-
sult of the volcanic ash, with the total cost
to the airline companies and tour opera-
tors estimated to be between 1.5 to 2.5 bil-
lion euros by the European Commission.
The effects of the Eyjafjallajokull erup-
tion are by no means a thing of the past:
its blow to the aviation industry, de-
scribed to be a ‘logistical nightmare’ by
a contributing editor of Airliner World,
will take much more to resolve than the
lifting of the air space ban. The disruption
of intricately-designed flight schedules,
crew management, fixed operation costs,
not to mention the tsunami of claims by
estranged passengers over expenses and
cancelled flights: a crippling effect to an
already struggling industry.
And with airlines such as Ryanair ex-
pressing reluctance in paying passengers’
hotel and food bills, and British Airways
alleged to be preferring new passengers
over those with existing yet delayed book-
ings – much to the outrage of the general
public – their financial desperation was
pretty transparent.
Which reminds me: I’m meant to book
my flight ticket to New Zealand this after-
noon. Heh, wish me luck.

