29
felix FRIDAY 30 APRIL 2010
CAT-NIP
Text in to
Text in to 07832670472
07832670472
Email in at
Email in at catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Tweet @felixcatnip
Tweet @felixcatnip
Drunken-Mate Photo Of The Week
Picture the scene: It’s the Easter Break, you’re away with your mates, and you’re all chillaxing with nothing to do. A bottle of wine is opened, the first of many.
Suddenly, in a drunken haze, your feelings overcome you and you are filled with a burning passion. You turn to your friend and whisper, “Do you want to play snooker?”
Got a picture
of your mate
being an
absolute waste
of oxygen?
Well, get your
camera out
and email your
drunken mates
to catnip.
felix@imperial.
ac.uk
Senders must have permission to use submitted photos and
accept full responsibility for them
CAT GOT YOUR TONGUE?
THE ELECTION:
WHO’S GOING TO WIN?
JOKES, LETTERS, OPINIONS – WE WANT THEM ALL!
Email: catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk Text: 07832670472
Facebook: Felix Fan Page Twitter: @felixcatnip
Overheard At Imperial...
Death By Revision Or
Chocolate?
Is it bad that I know all the computers in the Library by name?
Second Year Medic
I ate so many easter eggs, it was bliss! Then I remembered I’m
lactose intolerant and chundered everywah.
First Year Engineer
This degree better be worth it. I can’t remember what the sun
looks like...it’s green, right?
Third Year Biochemist
Some say a world without sin is ideal, but I disagree. After all, there’s only so many problems which can be answered with cos and tan. – Anon.
I was at Kings last night...and there were girls! Girls everywhere! And pretty girls! – Imperial Lonely Hearts.
A: What is mumps?
B: It’s when you get swelling in your balls.
A: Oh.
B: But not if your a girl. – Medics know their Anatomy!
So for it to pass to humans, these people would have to have been very intimately involved with the birds. – A Lecturer on Bird Flu.
A: So what are your plans for the Easter holidays?
B: I’m probably going to go the Library.
A: Oh wow! Is it a weekend trip? Who are you going with? – A Medic and an Engineer.
Is your life so dull you’re eavesdropping on others?
Post your listenings on the “Overheard at Imperial” facebook group

