3
felix FRIDAY 30 APRIL 2010
NEWS
A
s this year’s sabbatical
team prepare to hand over
the reins to those newly
elected, the hotly antici-
pated Summer Ball is one
of the final opportunities for the cur-
rent team to oversee the running of a
major Union event. However, a crisis
is brewing on campus after the ticket
prices for the event were officially re-
vealed online – prices that have been
seen by many as “extortionate”.
tertainments tickets for £70.
Freshers have been taken aback by
the pricing, despite many having lit-
tle prior knowledge of previous ticket
prices, with one noting that, “it’s pretty
expensive despite the acts going.”
Another commented that, “the din-
ner tickets are too much really, consid-
ering the price of the entertainments
only tickets,” before adding, “but people
would feel cheated if they didn’t have a
ridiculously overpriced Summer Ball.”
The sudden increase in price is only
likely to bring further disappointment
to those who still find themselves in
an examination period on 19th June.
In previous years, biologists and bio-
chemists have been subjected to this,
and this summer is unlikely to prove
any different.
Even those previously restricted by
exams have been less than enthusi-
astic over developments, as the fol-
lowing student states, “I’m a 3rd year
Biologist and hence I’ve missed every
Summer Ball the last two years due to
exams. Finally I’m free to attend, and
I can’t really afford it. £90 is several
weeks’ food bill. Looks like I’m not
going!”
Organisers have responded to critics
with the following statement, “This
year we are offering a much-improved
line-up and so if you purchase your
ticket at the first-day discounted rate
you will be paying no more that last-
year’s price of £40. For dinner tickets
we took the decision to no longer sub-
sidise the cost of the meal. This was
a difficult decision but one that was
taken so that all students attending the
ball could benefit from any reduced
costs, not just the diners. The Summer
Ball is a non-profit making event and
is currently budgeted to break-even. If
we find ourselves in a position of hav-
ing sold more tickets than budgeted
our intention is to divert that profit
back into making the event even bet-
ter through free drinks or more acts.
Comparing our ball’s prices to other
London and equivalent Students’ Un-
ions £45 represents great value com-
pared to the line-up we have. I look
forward to seeing you all there!”
Imperial wins BP Challenge
Imperial’s ‘’Meltdown’’ team has
emerged victorious in BP’s Ultimate
Field Trip Challenge. Teams were
asked in the Grand Final, held at the
Natural History Museum, to come
up with innovative, scientific ideas to
address the Carbon Dioxide emitted
from a typical gas fired power station.
Meltdown, consisting of Chris Hunt-
er, Ben Said and Lizzy Riley, presented
an approach using photosynthetic sin-
gle cell micro-organisms which have
the ability to produce components
that can either be sold or burnt to pro-
duce green electricity. The team com-
peted against fifty-two entries in the
UK in total and will now complete a
six to eight week paid internship with
BP North Sea this Summer.
Ben Said, who was ‘’delighted to
have won the Ultimate Field Trip’’,
commented that they had ‘’worked
exceptionally hard since the Autumn
of last year’’ and that they are ‘’look-
ing forward to starting the BP intern-
ship where [they] hope to learn even
more about the energy industry and
the challenges it faces.’’
Alongside Meltdown, Hot Carbon
from Imperial also made it to the
Grand Finals and were another team
to receive job interviews.
David Eyton, Group Head of Re-
search and Technology, BP, com-
mented: ‘’We were really impressed
with the way Meltdown approached
the brief and their consistent perform-
ance throughout the competition.
Their concept has considered both the
economic and scientific challenges we
face, whilst the entry was technically
advanced and well thought through
– our industry is crying out for these
bright young minds. I’m sure we’ll
be hearing about Lizzie Riley, Chris
Hunter and Ben Said in the future.’’
BP was so impressed with the level
of talent at the Grand Final that they
decided to grant all fifteen finalists, as
an unexpected bonus, an automatic
interview with BP upon graduation.
Alex Karapetian
Alex Karapetian
Faculty Union election results
T
he end of last term saw
many opportunities to vote
for your say in the way
things are run around here,
finishing with elections
for Faculty Union positions within the
RCSU, ICSMSU and CGCU.
The RCSU elections showed many
fresh faces willing to get involved in the
faculty union next year, including some
first years running for positions. After
a successful year under the presidential
control of Katya-Yani Vyas, the RSCU
have held many popular events, in-
cluding the Science Challenge, comedy
nights, and the first-ever faculty union
Welfare Week.
After Vyas finishes her presidency at
the end of the year, she will be replaced
by Scott Heath, currently a third year
Chemist. According to Scott, he has
“a great deal of energy and excitement
about becoming next years RCSU Presi-
dent and can safely say all of this enthu-
siasm will be well directed into provid-
ing a bigger and more noticed RCSU.”
The ICSMSU elections saw the big-
gest turn-out of voters ever, with over
1,100 students participating. David
Smith will take over from Anil Cho-
pra in the running of the faculty union
which represents the medical students
of Imperial. Currently a third year stu-
dent, Dave will be taking a sabbatical
year in order to fulfil his (extensive)
manifesto points. Progressing from En-
tertainment Chair in the ISCMSU to
President will no doubt be a challenge,
he hopes to encourage social events for
medics, continue the high standard of
teaching within the faculty and main-
tain the “family environment”’ present
on the Charing Cross Hospital Campus.
After a turbulent year in the CGCU
office with the resignation of Kirsty
Patterson and swift take-over from
Dan Lundy, Engineers will hope to
see a more stable committee for the
CGCU this year.
He-in Cheung, currently a second
year Mechanical Engineering student,
is to take over as Guilds President.
The election was a close one, with He-
in narrowly beating Amaury (Frank)
Fastenakels in the third round of the
single-transferable vote style of elec-
tions. Unfortunately, RON (Re-Open
Nominations) had the most number
of votes for thet position of Web Of-
ficer, but the position will be taken
over by current Live! Editor, Lawrence
Weetman.
Each of the incoming presidents,
along with their committees will of-
ficially take over from this year’s repre-
sentatives on 1st August 2010.
CharlotteMorris
CharlotteMorris
Summer Ball 2010 price hike criticised
Matt Colvin reports on students’ reaction to this year’s increased prices, and how the Union have justified them
Despite this, there appears to be a
general consensus across college that
while the line-up is of a good quality,
the pricing is just too high, as summa-
rised by this comment from another
3rd year, “The acts are OK, but I’m not
sure how different the Summer Ball
will be from last year. It’s got to justify
the price hike, and I’m not sure I want
to gamble my money to find out if it
does!”
It seems that the most expensive
question Imperial students will be
answering during this exam period
is whether the Summer Ball will be
worth it or not.
Touted as the centrepiece of the
Summer Term, this year’s Summer
Ball is promised by organisers to “build
on the success of previous balls that
have cemented the event’s reputation
as the best night of the year at Impe-
rial”, featuring performances from The
Noisettes, Tinie Tempah and Plan B.
However, the pricing of the event has
left many disgruntled, with a significant
increase in ticket costs compared with
last year. Tickets for entertainments
only are being sold for £45, while for an
additional four-course dinner the price
rises to £90. Entertainments tickets for
the 2009 Summer Ball, featuring head-
line act Athlete, were sold at points for
as low as £35 alongside dinner and en-
Freshers have been
taken aback by
pricing...”
Worth seeing
for £90?
The Noisettes
For more information go to
www.union.ic.ac.uk/summerball
Tinie Tempah
Plan B
Breakage
Scratch Perverts
Jo Whiley
and more TBC...
Stamina MC
We’d love to see how his photo turned out too. Alas, we won’t.
Assistant Editor
“Meltdown” receive their awards

