4 felix FRIDAY 30 APRIL 2010
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
NEWS
T
his year’s RCSU Science
Challenge has been a
huge success. There were
over 200 entries into this
year’s essay competition,
and as always they were of an excellent
standard. This year’s competition also
saw the first year of allowing video en-
tries into the competition, which also
showed a large amount of enthusiasm
and effort put into science-related
media.
The Science Challenge Grand Final
was held at the Institute of Directors on
Pall Mall and was a very formal affair.
With a reception and dinner attended
by Imperial students, the winners and
runners up from the schools competi-
tion and the prestigious list of judges
from the competition, comprising of
Sir Keith O’Nions, Rector of Imperial
College, Mark Henderson, Science Ed-
itor of the Times, and Athene Donald
FRS, UNESCO 2009 Woman Scientist
of the Year, a distinguished physicist at
the University of Cambridge. Despite
Andrew Harrison, Fuel Innovations
Manager at Shell, having put forward
a question for the competition, he
was unable to attend the presentation
evening, and so another representa-
tive from Shell took his place, as Shell
were the main sponsor of the event and
helped to provide some of the prizes.
Alongside the judges, guest speaker
Simon Singh was present at the din-
ner, and gave a very entertaining yet
thought-provoking speech about his
current libel case. He spoke about
the importance of science being com-
municated to the public, and gave an
example of a scientific inaccuracy in a
Katie Melua song which he corrected
and re-recorded with her. He also
spoke about his views on libel reform,
which he is (not surprisingly) very pas-
sionate about, and encouraged future
science writers to campaign alongside
him to change UK libel law. Luckily for
him, the news came earlier this month
that the British Chiropractic Associa-
tion, who were suing him for libel, have
now dropped their case against him.
After an excellent four-course meal,
the winners and runners up were pre-
sented with their prizes. The winners
were congratulated on their efforts and
awarded with an all-expenses paid trip to
CERN, £4000 cash prize, guided tour of
Shell, ITV/BBC behind the scenes tour
and a VIP ticket to the summer ball; and
most importantly pride in the knowl-
edge that they have won one of the most
prestigious student awards in science.
Imperial students rise to the Challenge
Charlotte Morris reports on the Science Challenge Grand Final at the Institute of Directors on Pall Mall
Meera Ganeshadevan abandons Union DPE position
Despite an active campaign and even-
tual victory (against RON) in the Un-
ion elections, Meera Ganeshadevan
has had to throw in her job as Deputy
President (Education), more than two
months before assuming responsibil-
ity. Ganeshadevan accepted a summer
internship with Credit Suisse at the
beginning of the Easter holidays, and
will be unable to fulfil the role over the
summer.
Of her decision the Returning Of-
ficer Daniel Hill said “It is very disap-
pointing for a candidate to step down
at this late stage – the Union puts a
lot of time, effort and money in run-
ning sabbatical elections.”
Rox Middleton
Rox Middleton She is the second DPE candidate
to give up after her sole competitor,
Benjamin Stubbens, pulled out of the
race the day before the poll closed,
when he found out that he too had
won an enviable internship with Rolls
Royce.
Ganeshadevan said she was “truly
sorry” and thanks everyone who took
time out to vote for her.
“I hope people can understand why
I am accepting the internship” and no
doubt they can.
More difficult must be for the stu-
dent population to understand why
even the best sabbatical candidates
see the job of running the Union as
no better than a fall-back plan.
Although she was asked to come
in and talk about the situation with
Ashley Brown and the returning of-
ficers, Ganeshadevan refused, claim-
ing there was no point because she
had made up her mind.
Ganeshadevan admitted that al-
though she did not receive the intern-
ship offer until after her election, she
had attended the interview “well be-
fore the campaign started”.
She has explained her decision with
the hope that her earnings from the
internship will allow her to “do what
I really want and that is to go travel-
ling” She said that it was a hard de-
cision to make but she hopes that
“Imperial students can understand
why I felt I should stand down and I
hope they can put themselves in my
position”.
Indeed, it must be hoped that some-
body feels they can put themselves in
Ms Ganeshadevan’s position as Un-
ion President Ashley Brown has con-
firmed that nominations for DPE will
be reopened alongside the elections
for Council Chair, RAG chair and
other officer positions in the summer
term elections.
Current DPE Jon Silver welcomes
inquiries from any full member of the
Union wanting to know more about
standing. If you want to make a dif-
ference, you’ve got confidence and in-
itiative and can represent the student
voice at the very highest level, you
should definitely consider the role.
Also, perhaps, if you’ve failed to se-
cure the internship you were looking
for, and haven’t made any fall-back
plans.
Imperial College Winner: Matt Silver
“Following recent press speculation MyFace wishes to re-iterate that in line with
UK government legislation, the uploading and sharing of personal genomes is
strictly forbidden.
‘Stuff that!’ Anna dismisses the alert. She knows about the offshore social net-
working sites offering new genomic services like full life prediction. Of course
there are ethical issues. As a med student she’s sat through countless lectures
highlighting the dangers of genome disclosure. The long-term depression arising
from an untreatable future diagnosis; families torn apart by the discovery of a
deadly heritable disease; discrimination in the workplace (only last month she’d
read some crazy story about a company pre-selecting candidates on the basis of
mandatory, genetic, cognitive skill-scoring)... And of course any privacy guaran-
tees for an offshore site are going to be next to useless. But a saliva swab in the
post, a small payment and she has a file containing her 3 billion-letter genome
sitting in her inbox. Now she can establish the truth?”
How will genetic advances change medicine and society by 2020?
Schools Winner: Ellen Yueqi Ge
“It crash-landed a spaceship on Earth, crawled on all fours across a hot desert,
and thirsted after ammonia. The brainchild of Robert Grossman, The New Yorker
cartoonist of 1962, could in fact be closer to reality than we think. Up till now, our
largely pre-pubescent knowledge base of extraterrestrial science has surrendered
itself to the whims of human imagination, with the likes of E.T. ever popular as our
alien icon. But the search for life outside our bountiful planet is now stepping for-
ward into the 21st century, and proves to be among the most enigmatic challenges
to modern science. With the constant innovations of novel techniques, the answer
may not be far out of our reach. And who knows? Maybe one day, our scientists
will indeed run face-to-face into E.T.
Life, as we know it, has long been defined by two basic ingredients: carbon and
water. From the simplest amoeba to a fully-fledged adult whale, the lack of either
essential would result in an unthinkable, lifeless bulk.
What are the prospects for finding life on other planets?
The extracts above make up the first paragraphs of each of the winning essays. To read the full essays, or to look
at the runners-up essays, visit www.rcsu.org.uk/sciencechallenge
Simon Singh delivers his speech to a rapt audience at the Grand Final
Ellen Yueqi Ge, 17, collects her
award from Sir Keith O’Nions
Mark Henderson presents Matt
Silver with his award
Meera Ganeshadevan: Truly sorry.

