5
felix FRIDAY 30 APRIL 2010
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Ash cloud forces Civ. Engineers to sit weekend exams
Exam season has already been dis-
rupted before it has even begun.
Heavy ash from Iceland’s Eyjafjal-
lajokull volcano has forced depart-
ments in College to reschedule exams
as students struggle to return from
the Easter holidays on time. Civil En-
gineering have even had to make a
decision to set exams on a Saturday
afternoon.
Air space over North-western Eu-
rope had been deemed unsafe to en-
ter on April the 14th for several days;
students returning to College from
abroad have struggled to reschedule
flights before the 26th of April, Col-
lege’s official start of term.
In response to the natural phenom-
enon, Physics and Civil Engineering
have delayed the start of exams whilst
many other departments are giving
stranded students a later chance to
take exams they miss.
3rd and 4th Year Civil Engineering
students will even find themselves
taking their ‘Coastal Engineering’
and ‘Advanced Hydrodynamics’ mod-
ule exams on a Saturday. Their exam
period was due to start on Monday
26th April but have been pushed
back by nearly two weeks; exams will
now commence on Tuesday 4th May.
The rescheduling of these exams will
mean some students will suffer the
hell of having four exams in four days.
Dan Wan
Dan Wan The department of Physics, based
in the Blackett Laboratory, have also
announced that 1st, 3rd and 4th
year exams will take place later than
scheduled.
1st year Physicists normally have a
five week break between their first set
of three exams and final five exams
later on in the Summer Term, but the
time between exam periods, when a
group project is generally set, will be
shortened.
3rd year comprehensive exams were
due to take place on the 27th and 29th
of April, but will now take place on
the 11th and 13th of May. Final year
MSci students’ exams have suffered a
similar fate.
Many other departments have de-
cided to carry on as initially sched-
uled despite student protests. 3rd
year Biologist and Biochemists have
taken their finals this past week.
Computing students were reas-
sured by email that despite exams
going ahead in the first week of term
that anyone missing these exams due
to travel issues will be allowed to take
the exam at a later date. Final year
students will be notified of a date later
this term whilst younger year stu-
dents missing their exams will be of-
fered the exam full-mark assessed in
September.
“I wish them Icelandic types would
stop pissing off their volcano gods so
much. Don’t they know we have ex-
ams?” exclaimed an unhappy student. If you look really closely in the distance, you’ll see some Civil Engineers scowling and cursing
Editor-in-Chief

