7
felix FRIDAY 30 APRIL 2010
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The leading parties’ policies looking to win an Imperial student’s vote
Labour
The damage done?
Tories:
A careful hypothesis
Lib Dems:
Strength in science
T
he Labour government have already
pencilled in public spending cuts, and
that is unlikely to change whoever
takes power after this General Elec-
tion. £600million is to be saved on higher edu-
cation, science and research budgets, and univer-
sities across the country are now being forced to
offer around 25% fewer PhD student grants come the next
academic year. The announcement made via Chancellor of
Exchequer Alistair Darling’s pre-budget report is seemingly
a U-turn on Gordon Brown’s earlier promise, in which he
pledged a ten-year commitment from 2004 in maintain-
ing scientific funding and the continuation of ring-fenced
budgets.
“Some say that now is not the time to invest but the bot-
tom line is that the downturn is no time to slow down our
investment in science. We will not allow science to become
a victim of the recession but, rather, focus on developing it
as a key element of our path to recovery,” he said. Despite
the funding cuts attracting criticism from those within the
scientific community, Labour are keen to point out that
they have doubled investment in research since 1997, the
year they came into power. However, the specifics of this
statistic have openly disputed by the Liberal Democrats.
However, no one can rest on past laurels and it is the future
funding commitments that the scientifically-motivated
voter will be looking at come May 6th.
So what can Labour bring to the table now?
Labour claim they are “committed to a ring-fenced sci-
ence budget in the next spending review,” and this echoes
Labour’s science spokesperson Lord Drayon’s call to hold
onto current science budgeting levels. For a party with its
hands already on the steering wheel, there is a distinct lack
of figures and detail to their pledges. There is no written re-
assurance that their own 10-year commitment will be seen
through to any extent.
Labour’s separate Science Manifesto states
they are keen to support “excellent re-
search” by “excellent individuals” through
long-term fellowships from Research
Councils. “Maintaining world lead-
ing research at our universities is a
priority.”
‘Innovation’ is big on Labour’s
agenda. They promise to provide
‘focused investment for Technology
and Innovation Centres’, and to also
utilise the Higher Education Innova-
tion Fund to help support university
research projects that have social
and economic impacts. The Science
Manifesto states: “Our future prosperity
will demand excellent science. It is criti-
cal in securing the recovery and delivering
strong economic growth. We are clear:
science will be placed at the heart of La-
bour’s economic growth strategy.
Despite this, no science policies or
issues make it into their definitive ‘50
steps for a fairer Britain’ featured in the
main manifesto.
A
dam Afriyie MP, Conservative’s science
spokesperson, has publically promised
a multi-year ring-fenced budget for sci-
ence, should the Conservatives come to
power. This ring-fence will only come into action
once the new Government has set a new Budget
immediately after coming into power. There was no
assurance of maintaining current levels of research fund-
ing, and hence a Conservative government could be ring-
fencing a decreased level of funding.
Despite this, David Cameron’s
recently published manifesto,
An Invitation to join the Govern-
ment of Britain, mentions future
funding budgets in even less detail,
promising “a multi-year Science and
Research Budget to provide a stable
investment climate for Research
Councils”. The more eagle-eyed critics
have noted that there is no mention of
‘ring-fencing’ specifically; whether this
omission is extremely careful wording
or unfortunate phrasing for the Conservatives is still under
debate. A science budget set for multiple years will provide
the Research Councils with a lot more stability and will allow
them to undertake more beneficial, longer-term strategies
than they could on single-year budgets provided to them by
a Government. A multi-year budget would definitely affect
current undergraduates, from 1st year to 4th year, looking to
a career in academic research.
In an overlap of academic and corporate science, the
Tories also plan to get universities and businesses to work
together with the establishment of a focused research
and development institute. Future PhD students may find
themselves with much more comfortable financial
backing if this plan comes to full fruition, and
will also allow a go-between for students unsure
whether to stay in academic science at univer-
sity or to enter the science-based employment
at for example, a pharmaceutical
company.
In response to CaSE’s letter
inviting him to fully put for-
ward his policies of scientific
importance, Cameron called
science and engineering in
the UK “an absolutely critical
issue”. He gave hints that the
Conservatives would look to
advance in corporate science
able to underpin a currently flailing
economy.
“We need to translate more of our world-class
research into world-beating British products.
And we need to secure the right economic con-
ditions for businesses to create more well-paid
jobs,” he stated. There is a feeling that a young
scientific workforce, i.e. Imperial students,
would be preferred to enter innovative busi-
ness than blue-sky academic research.
C
ompared to the other two parties,
the Liberal Democrats have placed
science-based issues quite firmly
on their election agenda, claim-
ing they want to move to a “knowledge-based
economy” if they find themselves as the next
Government.
Just for starters, their manifesto has a visibly larger sec-
tion dedicated to policies based around science policies.
Science is one of the fronts that the Lib Dems have at-
tempted to capitalise on during this General Election, and
their science spokesperson, Dr. Evan Harris is a popular fig-
ure in scientific circles and has undoubtedly championed
many of the ideas that have already turned many scientists’
heads. Nick Clegg was the only party leader to accept an
invitation by the prestigious Royal Society to speak on sci-
entific issues.
Speaking to felix, Dr. Harris said that the Lib Dem’s “have
repeatedly stated that we think the economy needs to be
based on high-tech, green foundations, and not just on
the financial services.” Though, much like the Labour and
Tory manifesto, the Lib Dems write that “in the current
economic climate it is not possible to commit to growth in
spending.”
Dr. Harris also spelled out how the Lib Dem’s policies
would benefit Imperial students.
“Imperial College is one of the country’s and the
world’s top universities, and the Liberal Democrats
want to keep it that way. Unlike the Conservatives,
we’ve already committed to not cutting the science
budget in the first year of the new Parliament.”
However leader Clegg conceded in a response to
the CaSE letter that “it would be wrong in the
current economic climate to pledge that any
singledepartmentalbudgetwillbeprotected.”
The Lib Dems have laid out some good
news for students looking to go beyond
PhD level. Clegg noted that “there are sim-
ply not enough post-doctoral positions
available to provide adequate job secu-
rity for young researchers” and would
look to resolve this by several methods
including the encouragement of “indus-
try-friendly” PhDs.
On a more basic level, The Lib Dems are looking
to take a step back from a target-driven ethos. They
claim to recognise that the best way to use fund-
ing to its maximum potential is “to enable scien-
tists get on with their work, based on peer review,
rather than using clumsy mechanistic ways to try
to direct research into areas of high economic
impact.
1
THE CONSERVATIVE MANIFESTO 2010
VE
MA
NI
FE
ST
O
201
0
INVITATION TO
JOIN THE GOVERNMENT
OF BRITAIN
Liberal Democrats science
spokesperson, Dr. Evan Harris
has said that “Liberal Democrats
recognise that Science, Technology,
and Engineering have to be key drivers
of our economy as we move out of
recession. A knowledge-intensive
economy is not only more reliable,
but also more rewarding and a better
strategic base in the long-term.”
GENERAL ELECTION

