9
felix FRIDAY 30 APRIL 2010
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
F
or every Imperial stu-
dent continuing in sci-
ence after graduation,
there’s an Imperial stu-
dent looking for a lucra-
tive job or internship in the City.
But what will come of the City
under a new Government? What
will happen to the City’s graduate
job market? Will there even be a
City to look for employment in?
Government policies are a major
factor in business location – and
relocation – decisions for financial
firms. With strong bank-bashing
rhetoric coming from all major UK
political parties, concerns are be-
ing raised that they may flood out
of London as regulations against
them tighten.
A central idea for New Labour
was to limit penalisation of the fi-
nancial sector to taxation, so that
their loss would at least be Treas-
ury’s gain. At their peak, taxes
from the City accounted fully for
one seventh of all Government
revenues. But that plan now clear-
ly lies in ruins – with hundreds of
billions in bailout money going
to the banks. All the parties now
agree on a “consumer-protection”
agency, higher capital holding re-
quirements, and tighter overall
regulations, both domestically and
internationally.
The Conservatives are promis-
ing to give extra powers to the
Bank of England to supervise fi-
nancial companies, ensuring that
they take on less risk. Labour
wants to keep the current “Tri-
partite” arrangement for financial
regulation, consisting of Treasury,
the Bank of England, and the Fi-
nancial Services Authority. In ad-
dition, they will create a new body
with the power to tell banks what
they are allowed to include in their
employment contracts. The Lib-
eral Democrats are swinging heav-
ily towards the latter half of their
name by demanding the toughest
rules of all. They would break up
banks – even ones not owned by
the Government that performed
well during the crisis – and then
force the smaller banks to lend
substantially more than they have
been doing so far.
The question that many students
in particular have been asking is
whether this will drive leading fi-
nancial firms away from London.
There are a few relevant points to
consider. First of all, regulations
are tightening almost everywhere,
not just in the UK. For example,
this is true of Switzerland, which is
the most common suggested desti-
nation for financial firms currently
based in London. Secondly, no one
expects the Government to be as
tough as its talk, especially when
it is itself such a big shareholder
in leading banks. Thirdly, the last
time similar concerns where raised
about a major financial centre los-
ing its influence was New York in
the late ‘70’s. It did lose out slightly
in relative terms, but not in terms
of absolute numbers of employees,
profits, revenue and so on. And it
took well over a decade to recover.
It is natural for Imperial students
considering a future profession
in finance to factor in the parties’
view on the industry into their vot-
ing decision. There are two pre-
vailing views on this. Some may
feel that more regulation will en-
sure greater long term success for
the City, and would favour Labour
and the Lib Dems over the Con-
servatives. In particular, if they
feel the main problem is excessive
risk taking they may prefer Labour,
whereas if they are concerned that
banks are undermining their own
position by not lending enough
then they will find themselves in
agreement with the Lib Dems.
Alternatively, would-be finan-
ciers may consider the banks and
other financial firms as the best-
placed to be making the sort of de-
cisions that regulators would pre-
fer to make instead. They will feel
that fewer regulations will mean
greater success for those looking
to start a career in the field. They
may therefore be disheartened
to see the Conservatives often
matching the other two parties’
bank-bashing. However, even if
the Conservatives keep regula-
tions as tight as they are, they are
unlikely to tighten them further as
zealously as the other two parties
likely will. They are therefore still
the best choice for advocates of
laissez faire, albeit with a massive
pinch of salt.
VOTING TO
SAVE YOUR BIG
CITY DREAM JOB
felix did a little scouting to find out what the people voting actually thought about the General
Election in respect to their current endeavours and future careers.
f
f
E
E
E
What are the students saying?
Previously a mildly-apathetic Tory, the progressive
improvements in the Liberal Democrat manifesto and
manner have gradually won me over. Employing ideas beyond
rhetoric, with a message that actively supports my livelihood as
a student and scientist, the party under the stalwart leadership
of Nick Clegg has come a long way from its period of wandering
in the wilderness during the 90’s and 00’s. I feel content that the
Liberal Democrats offer an authentic opportunity for me to do
more and live more happily, both as a scientist starting out in life,
and as a Briton who cares about our collective wellbeing.
The PhD student
Marcus Shepheard, Epidemiology
When I graduate they will have changed the
NHS for better or worse, and I’ll have to work in
it. The Liberal Democrats’ policies seem to be showy without
any substance - lots of talk about patient contracts and choice
without addressing the big financial concerns we’ll face. There’s
not much between Labour and Conservative health policies, but
the Tories haven’t done enough to convince me that their one off
£8000 for lifetime elderly care adds up - and their refusal to back
cancer targets means I’m voting Labour (tactically, at least).
The Medic
Jaimie Henry, 3rd Year
So much for Conservatives being the most pro-City party; I
think that their policy to go ahead with a banks tax without
international cooperation would be detrimental to London’s
City status – Labour has the right idea on this one. Having said
that, after the recent fraud charges against Goldman Sachs,
international cooperation is probably not a mile off. The most
important factor is the recovery of our own economy and
Gordon’s ‘tax on jobs’ doesn’t help here, so a Conservative
vote for me! Oh, and Lib Dems – what are you thinking about..
wiping out our defence system...?
The Aspiring Businessman
Brad Jones, IC Finance Society President
Although this General Election won’t affect me too much for a
few years now, it is also my first time voting in one. I really do
want to make sure I come out of university with available jobs on
offer, but I also don’t particularly fancy looking at the sum of my
student loans debts either. The Liberal Democrats are obviously
trying to tap into the student vote, and with Cleggmania aside
for just one moment, they are the only party of the three to
announce their plans to phase out student loans. This might
include current undergraduates too, so I’m in. David Cameron’s
right though, we can’t go on like this, with suspicious minds.
This election could potentially decide the most
important five years of my life, but as a foreigner, I
don’t even have a say in the matter. I can’t vote.
I hope to stay here after I graduate, to work as a teacher.
However, it’d be unfair for me to just expect to be allowed
to stay. I just hope whoever’s voted in gives skilled migrants
a chance to prove ourselves in shortage occupations that
no-one wants, like teaching or nursing, just as I’d like to as a
maths teacher. Everyone loves a maths teacher.
The International Student
Fernando Revilla, 3rd year, Maths
BUSINESS EDITOR SINA ATAHERIAN LOOKS INTO
WHAT MAY COME OF THE CITY AND ITS JOBS
The Fresher
Lillie Baines, Biochemistry
Do these Freshers actually care about the Election?
GENERAL ELECTION

