IC takes more trash
The college is to have a new department
called 'The Centre for Toxic Waste
Management'. It will be housed in the
existing waste laboratory in the Civil
Engineering department.
Professor Roger Perry, who is leading
the project and is head of the the Public
Health group in Civil Engineering, told
Felix that the waste used would be on a
laboratory scale and no worse than can
already be found in laboratories on
campus. He said that most of the
unpleasant work would be done in
industry.
Mr S Pollard, who is a postgraduate in
the new centre, explained that there would
be analysis of small quantities of chemicals
such as heavy metal hydroxides. He said
there would be no nuclear waste involved.
As yet, there are no plans to include
undergraduates, though it is possible that
third year projects might be based there.
The Rector, Sir Eric Ash said there was
a possibility that ' U R O P ' or the
'Undergraduate Research Opportunities
Programme' may be involved in the
centre.
During the launch of the centre, Sir
Hugh Rossi, who chaired the House of
Commons Environmental Select
Committee, said that the opening signified
an important 'milestone' in the treatment
of industrial waste. He said that Professor
Perry was acting as 'an entrepreneur' in
filling a gap in the market.
The centre is being sponsored by
'Cleanaway' Ltd, the Wolfson
Foundation, the Department of the
Environment and the Science and
Engineering Research Council amongst
others. 'Cleanaway' chairman M r Peter
Heath said that his company was
supporting the centre as it 'will help
our own business.'
Union out on a limb
There have been no conciliatory moves by
University College London (UCL)
administration in their selling off land on
which U C L Union have facilities. A
spokesperson from U C L U told Felix that
the present facilities can hold 450 people
- catering for about 8000 students. If the
extra outhouses go, this will reduce the
union's capacity considerably.
U C L U added that one of the condemned
buildings called 'The Garage' had just
been refurbished and that another, the
Gym, was in constant use as an
examination hall, especially this time of
the year. They said that all their rooms
were stretched to full use, and the loss of
space would be fatal to a number of
U C L U clubs.
The land is destined to be used by the
Medical Research Council (MRC) and a
pharmaceutical company, 'Eisai'. Mr Fred
Atkins, a consultant to Eisai told Felix that
the affair was 'between the Provost and
the students.' He added that 'if any
company becomes involved with a
university we don't want students
excluded' and that Eisai had already got
a facility in Harvard University in the
USA.
Mr Cox from the M R C said that 'it's
a domestic affair' and that although
nothing was definite the redevelopment
was 'likely to happen'.
Neil McCluskey of IC union
commented that 'it's rather worrying that
a college sells off bits of land belonging
to a student union.' M r Angus Fraser, IC
Managing Director, said that it was 'not
a current plan' to move or reduce IC
Union facilities.
Medical winners
Simon Smith will be next year's President
of St Mary's Hospital Medical School
Student Union after beating Roger Walsh
with 240 votes against 119. The election
saw 65% of the students voting for some
strongly contested posts.
Peter Dzendrowskyj won the contest for
Vice President (Internal and Secretary)
with 192 votes to Dermot McGovern's
172. Lisa Pitkin sailed through the election
for treasurer, after a year as Mary's Rag
treasurer, with 209 votes to Richard
Edwards' 69 and Andrew Hodgeson's 64
votes.
The Editor of the Newspaper for the
National Association of Medical Students
(NAMS News), Nick Stafford, won the
election for B M A representative with 306
votes against Marcus Harbord's 61.
Jeanette Potter wil be next year's
Education Rep and Simon Stockhill will
be Preclinical N A M S Rep.

