Edna Welthorpe checks out this
week's sexy stunner Union
Transport Officer, Mylan Lester...
Italian fashion
from Milan
Fashion
Edna returns, darlings, with the very hottest news
from the fashion scene. This week we profile Mylan
Lester, Union mogul, who has narrowly escaped arrest
by the style police on several occasions. I understand
that since Mylan bought his new summer wardrobe,
the boys in aquamarine have instigated a shoot-to-kill
policy.
A hardened entrepreneur, Mylan needs a veritable
multitude of pockets in which to store all those useful
appliances you need to carry out lucrative business
deals in and around College. Rohan bags are the ideal
trousers for this of course, especially when you're
climbing up and down the Union Building. What he
can't fit into his pockets Mylan crams into his tool box,
working on the principle that the bigger your tool-box
the bigger your tool.
What I usually like to do in my column, darlings, is
to list my model's clothes and where to snap them
up next time you go down the high street, but this
week please remember that only someone with the
sheer charisma of Mylan should attempt to wear his
daring summer collection. After all, when did you last
see Steve Davis wearing reflecting rainbow
sunglasses, a khaki pseudo safari jacket, grey rohan
bags rounded off with purple snakeskin boots for
those happening nights in the Union Bar?
But, luvvies, please, do not-l repeat do not try to
wear any of these dangerous avant-garde garments
at home! They may cause serious injury to your street
credibility.
Another interesting object around Mylan's person
is a large jangling bunch of keys. Now don't be misled
darlings into thinking that the more keys Mylan has
the more doors he can open for you. No! In ah
exclusive study we can reveal that the keyring holds
one key to his toolbox, 20 identical copies of the
Dramsoc Storeroom key, and one for his emergency
supply of Jacob's Cream Crackers. Fortunately
darlings we didn't find the key to his chastity belt
which we are pleased to inform you has been
impounded by the RSPCA.
And finally the black growth above his mouth is not,
in fact, an extension of his nostril hair as popularly
rumoured. Nor even small scale horticulture of organic
cress-no darlings it's an exquisitely manicured
moustache specially done by Uncle Alfi's Barbers, just
opposite Milwall football ground. Salvador Dali eat
your heart out!
WMKmm
Page 10
• A four hundred metre long plant has been
discovered on the slopes of the Cleveland Hills, near
Osmotherley, North Yorkshire. Using pioneering
genetic cooling techniques researchers from
Manchester University have untangled Britain's
longest plant-a growth of bracken. The spread of
bracken is now being taken seriously since it covers
an area the size of Devon and is expanding at three
per cent a year. With two thirds of the plant
underground it is difficult to control. Cutting the
surface growth has no effect, the roots of this
poisonous plant just put up new shoots.
The research, led by Dr Elizabeth Sheffield, have
travelled all over Britain taking genetic fingerprints to
trace the bracken's family history.
• Watch out for pecked milk bottle tops.
Environmental Health Officers have identified cream
loving jackdaws as the cause of over 58 cases of
diarrhoea in three months in one housing development
in Gateshead. The bacteria Campylobacter Jejuni
which lives on the beaks of the wild birds is believed
to be responsible for the outbreak.
• Separate science GCSEs could be abolished
and replaced by a 'balanced science' award. The
influential Association for Science Education which
represents Britain's science institutions and major
companies, has given its backing to the idea which
will almost certainly get government approval. Dick
Morris, Associate President of the School Examination
and Assessment Council, fears that Britain could be
left behind if more pupils do not take science. These
new proposals could double the number and has been
found to be particularly attractive to girls. The
examinations council has advised that the double
science GCSE should become part of the national
curriculum. Only state schools will be obliged to teach
balance science and pupils from the independent
sector may have an advantage in university
applications if they have studied the separate
subjects.
• Have a nose job for £ 6 0 0 , 0 0 0 - t h e government
is. The University of Warwick have been given a grant
to develop sensors capable of 'smelling' the aroma of
beer. Also researching in this field are University of
Manchester Institute of Science and Technology, who
will be unveiling their nose in the next week.
UMIST's effort out sniffed a trained dog in finding
buried truffles in French truffle fields. It uses organic
semiconductors which react to smells in seconds and
is said to be excellent at identifying wines, but the
Warwick group, sponsored by Bass, has the edge with
beers.
• The cost of stopping global warming, could cost
some three trillion dollars a year, more than the US
gross national product. This is the reason that the US
has given for being the only country out of 34 not to
sign an agreement on aid to developing countries. At
the conference in Norway delegates from America
said that it was the only nation which realised what
the real cost would be. British environment minister,
David Trippier, fears that this action could jeopardise
next month's conference in London on CFCs. The bill
for cutting CFCs could be over two hundren million
dollars. Of this the US seems likely to pay twenty per
cent.

