S u m m e r Playscheme
for children aged 5 +
held at Imperial College
We are organising a playscheme for school-
aged children over the summer, the proposed
dates are the second week in July to the first
week in September 1990.
If you are interested and require further
details, please contact:
Anne Dell on 071-589 5111 ext 8263, or
Amanda Pash on 071-589 5111 ext 5050
Ultan McThatcher
Dear Dave,
Liz Warren wondered how many elderly residents
would have voted if election day hadn't been so nice.
Fewer, naturally, but I wonder how many students
would have voted if the polling station was not right
outside their front door? It's true Linstead is very
accessible from Exhibition Road, and the geographical
centre of the ward, but the demographical centre is
further east.
That aside, the ICP did very well, but we knew by
half nine that Conservatives had won: our guess was
Con: 800, ICP: 500, based on rather pessimistic
telling returns. I wasn't at the count the following day,
but I'm sure Ms Warren's description of 'schoolboy
rivalry or football hooliganism' is unfair. The
Conservatives held a council there had been a good
chance of losing, and the relief and jubilation was -
understandably - enormous.
I still think ICP do not appreciate the concerns of
Knightsbridge residents who don't want more halls of
residence, because of the effect they would have on
property values. You may think this is a rather selfish
view, nevertheless it is a prevalent one. Many votes
cast late in the day were anti-ICP rather than pro-Tory.
We increased our majority on the council to thirty.
The Labour leader and his two deputies lost their
seats. Nationwide the results were dreadful, but in
Westminster we did stuff the opposition.
Yours sincerely,
Ultan McCarthy, Treasurer, ICU ConSoc.
A biologist's viewpoint
Dear Dave,
This is in reply to Rob Crompton's Prolife article last
week. We are two second year Biologists and we are
certainly not experts but we hope to put across a more
balanced discussion of the issues involved.
We understand that embryo research and abortion
are very emotional issues but it is also important to
look at them rationally.
We agree with Rob that reducing permission, for
abortion up to 12 weeks, to one doctor and allowing
abortion on demand using the RU486 'Abortion Pill'
is not acceptable as it could well lead to the use of
these options as late forms of birth control.
However abortion is very much a mother's choice,
if her husband respects her wishes he will agree to
whatever the choice. Doctors are there to provide a
rational view on the situation helping parents by
counselling, but then leaving the parents, and the
parents alone, to make the decision.
The parents may want to consider abortion in cases
where the health of the mother and/or baby is at risk,
rape, and in cases of severe abnormality.
It is a very extreme and misleading view, to think
a mother would abort a baby with a harelip or club
foot or any trivial deformity upon a normal delivery,
and quite frankly ridiculous.
Experimentation is performed on both fertilised and
unfertilised eggs but there are enormous differences
in the two and it is sometimes necessary to use the
former. It is important to note only a small number of
the cells in the embryo up to 14 days from the adult
in later life, most of the cells go to form the placenta
and chorion system, which are later discarded, single
cells can be extracted from this group without
affecting the embryo proper.
With all due respect to Rob and Prolife as we are
well informed and rational we do not agree with the
extreme views he expressed. The aim of this science
is to care for unborn babies, as prospective parents
of course we care too.
No one in today's society has the right to impress
upon peoples' minds what they should think. Abortion
and embryo research remain personal subjects which
breed fierce passions in many of us.
Scientists today are offering choices to parents not
ultimatums.
Yours,
Ian Jones and Amy Sumner, Biology 2.
S m a l l A d s
ADVERTISE IN THE FELIX SMALL ADS SECTION
FREE IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF IMPERIAL
COLLEGE UNION
ANNOUNCMENTS
• Where will the animal dump? This annual
monument to bad taste will be happening this year
on Wednesday (23rd) on the Queen's Lawn.
Poppy the goat will be performing the anal
acrobatics for us during lunchtime and the actual
shitting should be just after 2pm. You can place
your bets on where Poppy will relieve herself and
a prize will go to whoever picks the right spot.
Michelle in the Union Office has a grid and a small
donation of 50p to Rag will buy you a square. Rob
Northey has not offered to clear up afterwards.
• Elec Eng Revue is on Thursday 24 May at
6.30pm in the Union Lounge. Tickets from Chris
Greenwood (EE3) or the Elec Eng General Office
(Level 6)-only £ 1 .
• RCS Ten Tors-Good luck boys, I'm sure you'll
do it. Thanks for everything Peter. Cheers Bryn.
FOR SALE & WANTED
• For sale: Raleigh Mountain Bike. 15 gears.
Excellent condition with lock and lights. Also roof
rack carrier for car. £150. Contact John Jones,
Elec Eng 3.
• For sale: Minolta X500 w/ Vivitar 28-210 lens.
Skylight filter and carrying case and Mirage 600
flash. £220 ono. Contact H A Karim DoC UG 3. E-
Mail: zmacw61@doc.
• Wanted: Science Editor to coordinate the
science page. Must be enthusiastic, cynical, but
organised. Literacy would be a useful asset. Start
next term. Unlimited coffee. Negotiable stress. For
details call into the FELIX Office, Beit Quad.
PERSONAL
• Whoop whoop.. .P.S. Save the whale.
MUSIC TELEVISION™
help double Sky
TVs viewing
figures...
Why not enjoy yourfoodfromthe Snack Bar
or a beerfromthe Bar whilst watching MTV
and the other Skyprogrammes in the Union
Snack Bar. Watch outfor specialpromotions
and sports broadcasts.
IC's very own video cafe!

