IC's female eunuchs
Glad
acceptance
Dear Dave,
I have just finished reading the letter 'Coming Out'
in FELIX, and I feel compelled to allay some of the
fears that Jason Fisher has of being rejected. This has
not been my experience.
Having spent several years during my '0' and ' A '
Levels worrying what repercussions might occur if
anyone found out that I was gay, I was determined
to set the record straight when I arrived at IC. when
I had finally summoned the courage to tell a friend,
it seemed as though her reaction would mean sink or
swim in the ocean of acceptance. I am naturally
pessimistic (perhaps there is a reason for this) and so
was pleasantly surprised when she did not 'scream
and run away' as I had thought, but accepted the fact
that I was gay as though I had just told her my shoe
size.
I have encountered this general air of acceptance
in everyone I have told. The majority of friends that
I have come out to have accepted me with no
reservations. As it now seems to be common
knowledge amongst my colleages in the first year, I
am now more relaxed and able to show my true self
to all.
The only slight intolerance I have come across is due
to the classic misconception that gay men are after
every man they see. On a recent field trip to the Isle
of Arran in Scotland, everyone seemed reluctant to
share a twin hotel room with me. As it turned out the
party was an odd number and I ended up with a room
(and bathroom) all to myself for ten days!
I can safely say, hand on heart, that I am glad to
be out to all my friends, and so far has made little or
no difference in their attitudes towards me as a person
and a fellow geologist. Imperial College is not as
intolerant as we are all led to believe. Perhaps more
will come to realise this fact and come out to their
friends. It is in this way alone that we can prove the
stereotypes of gay men to be the lies that they are.
The final hurdle to total peace of mind awaits: how
do I tell my parents?
Yours,
Stuart Joscelyne, Geology 1.
T H E G R E A T I C D E B A T E
WILL YOU
BLOW-UP
YOUR
COLLEGE?
Speakers include: Trevor Phillips,
editor of Ixindon Weekend Television
and Nina Temple, first woman
secretary of the British Communist
Party
I l:.«lpm I | Tuesday 22nd May I
Read Lecture Theatre, Sherficld Building
Bring a leaflet along & you could win a trip to the Laserium, a
Martiiin, or Jeff Wayne's Double Album 'War of the Worlds'.
Dear Editor,
Ian Hodge's review of Warren Farrell (PhD)'s book
Why Men Are The Way They Are was so enjoyable
we literally dined out on it.
The topic was serious (the iniquities of sexual
stereotyping), the arguments were however hilarious
and the conclusions outrageous (that women want to
be sexual stereotypes but men don't). Though we
haven't read the book, if the article is anything to go
by, it is a classic.
Farrell's basic premise, as related by Ian Hodge,
appears to be the same old story: women are to blame
for the way men are, thus absolving men from taking
any action to change their behaviour or their view of
the world. When women first demanded the right to
work outside the home, they were accused of
emasculating the head of the household (the male).
Now women are supposed to subconsciously desire
to be 'kept women', forcing the man to work or
starve. No wonder Ian is confused.
Farrell's evidence about the behaviour of women
seems to be based on reading 'women's' magazines
(but no mention of Spare Rib or Everywoman), If he
wants real evidence about how women behave why
doesn't he study the real live variety rather than the
fantasy of the owners, publishers and advertisers.
Hodge's evidence that Farrell is right is only 'too
much of what he says is true for it to be complete
rubbish'...ho hum! In fact, the classic nuclear family
Gay support
Dear Sir,
I was interested to read recently in FELIX the article,
and subsequent letter, by Jason Fisher about his
experiences of being more open about his
homosexuality. I feel I must commend him for his
courage in writing about this personal subject with
such honesty.
The problems associated with 'coming-out' can
appear almost insurmountable to young lesbians and
gay men. Not only must we learn to value our
homosexuality as something positive and enriching,
which it certainly is, but we must also,
simultaneously, try to combat the prejudices and
misconceptions which, even in this moderately liberal
era, still prevail to a limited extent in the minds of
some people.
The ULU Lesbian and Gay Society is a social group
which is run by, and for, students in London, and
Dear Dave,
I would like to reply to Rob Crompton's article in
last week's FELIX on the Human Embryo
Experimentation Bill. To suggest that any member of
the medical profession would kill a foetus, let alone
a child in the process of being born for 'trivialities such
as hare lip of club foot' is outrageous and I am sure
his comments would offend many doctors and
midwives. As I am sure Mr Crompton knows only too
well, the 24 week abortion time limit is intended to
be relaxed should the foetus concerned be grossly
handicapped and under very special circumstances
only.
Mr Crompton also appears to believe that if only one
doctor were able to give permission for an abortion
up to 12 weeks pregnancy, instead of the two needed
at present, this would reduce the 'significance of an
is an absolute minority in Britain today (less than 10%
of households). In most households the women have
to work to keep the family, as a sole income is
insufficient, but they still continue to do virtually all
the housework [That's Women's Work: London
Research Centre, April 1989). The household
structure which is increasing most rapidly is the single
parent family, the overwhelming majority being
headed by a woman. Within two years of divorce the
vast majority of fathers have lost touch with their
children, which includes, in most cases, the cessation
of maintenance. Where is the shared financial burden
there?
However we have to agree that male stereotyping
is a terrible thing, and that it is arguably now more
severe than the female version, but why is the blame
laid solely at the female door? We bet that if Ian turned
up to College wearing a skirt, he would soon find out
exactly who ridiculed him the most.
Most women have changed. They are wealthier and
many can provide for their own security. You don't
have to be macho, rich or of low intellect to appeal
to that type of person. Please do your bit for mankind
(in the smallest/narrowest sense of the word) if you
really are 'more than willing to change'. We promise
we won't laugh. Go on... burn your briefcase!
Yours hopefully,
Samantha Free, PG Elec Eng,
Kay Leedham-Green, PG Physics.
through which we can give each other support and
advice about coming out. In an article in FELIX several
weeks ago, Peter Brent did an admirable job in
outlining the range of our social activities. The group
is very informal and friendly, and of course we always
welcome new members.
I hope that, as a result of the promenance given to
gay issues in FELIX this term, perhaps a few more
lesbians and gay men at Imperial, who have until now
been procrastinating, will finally decide to take the
first step towards coming to terms with their
sexuality.
The next meeting of the ULU group is on
Wednesday evening at 7.30 in Room 2D, University
of London Union, Malet Street, London WC1.
Yours faithfully,
Michael Phillips,
Treasurer ULU Lesbian & Gay Society.
abortion to the level of a routine method of birth
control'. This is utter rubbish. It is frankly insulting to
suggest that a woman would go through an
experience as traumatic as an abortion more readily
than use contraceptives, how ever 'simple' it may be
to gain permission to obtain one.
Parliament has given enough time to debating the
pros and cons of abortion. The Bill last April was
desigend to settle the disput for some time to come,
but it appears that Mr Crompton wishes to continue
to use emotional blackmail and arguments riddled with
inaccuracies to put his point of view. If he must ram
his views down our throats at least he could try and
use sensible and undistorted arguments to do so. But
of course this must be difficult for a viewpoint based
on emotional intuition rather than rational thought.
Rebecca Hardy.
A woman's viewpoint

