Gold mine
First year students in the Royal School of Mines
(RSM) are to be offered a £1,000 incentive to come
to Imperial College in the face of falling applications.
The funds aim to offset the deterrence of the high cost
of living in London. The number of applicants to the
RSM has dropped by half this year in comparison to
last year.
The money will come from privately raised funds,
according to the Royal School of Mines. The RSM
has calculated that the minimum cost of living in the
city is £3,500 a year in comparison to the average
£300 annual grant that IC students receive. They
added that nearly half the first year students acquire
a £1,500 overdraft. The £1,000 incentive will not be
given to other years as the RSM claims that these
students will have earned money through summer
jobs.
Sports Sab
The new University of London Union (ULU) Sports
sabbatical will be Darren Hincks. He was elected by
the ULU sports council on the 8th May, and he will
hold the position until 1st August.
The sports council is comprised of two members
from each of the 35 ULU recognised clubs and one
representative from each constitjient college, though
usually not all these representatives turn up. Angela
Jelfs, Assistant to the Sports Administrator at ULU,
told Felix that the unusual way in which this sabbatical
was elected would only be for this year.
Ms Jelfs said that Mr Hincks would be paid at the
same rate as the other sabbaticals. 'He will work
extremely hard', she said, adding that his
responibilities will include representation in national
committees, intercollegiate competitions, and ULU
sports council clubs.
CAS update
Students may already be suffering from the staff
cutbacks at IC's Careers' Advisory Service. The
present Information Officer was brought in without
training in March following these cutbacks.
Mark Pickersgill, a Chemical Engineering graduate
from IC, who is now doing the job, told Felix that
'I don't think it's being done adequately.' He said
that this was because he was doing ajob that required
two people.
The Rector, Sir Eric Ash, said 'Universities have
been squeezed mercilessly for over ten years I
don't beleive the Careers' Service has been asked to
do more than the rest of us'. He said that many of
the companies that take graduates from the college
'particularly in the City make little or no contribution
to the University, unlike manufacturing which at least
do something'. He saw 'no reason why college should
subsidise the milk round' and ventured that these
companies might sponsor a post in the Careers'
service.
Designer
awards
The 'Grolsch Question of Style' competition is now
open. There are categories in fashion, photography,
songwriting and creative writing. The closing date
is during this September and all those interested should
contact 'Livewire, 1 Pagden St, SW8 4AT, or
telephone 071 622 4055.
IC Choir
Imperial College Choir will be singing tonight (Friday
18th) in the Great Hall. The programme will include
Lambert's 'Rio Grande', Haydn's 'Maria Theresa
Mass' and Purcell's 'Funeral Sentences'. Tickets are
available from choir members or the Haldane library
at £4 for non-students and £2 for students. Tickets
can also be bought on the door - the recital will start
at 8.00pm.
Mrs Prof
Dr Julie Higgins will become the first woman
professor at Imperial College for three years in
October. Dr Higgins works in polymer science in the
Chemical Engineering department and has been at the
college for 14 years. There are now four women
professors at the college out of over a hundred
professors in total. Dr Higgins said that the bad ratio
was due to the 'small pool' of women professionals
atlC.
Jobs
The sixteenth 'London Recruitment Fair' organised
by the University of London Careers Advisory Service
will include employers from other European
Community countries. It will be held on the 3rd, 4th
and 5th of July from 10.00am to 5.00pm at the
'Business Design Centre', Upper street, Islington, Nl
0QH.
Loadsamoney
The winners of this month's Research Grant Stakes
Trophy are Professor Morris and Dr Dell from the
Biochemistry Department who gain £907,215 over
5 yearsfromthe Medical Research council. They will
be looking into 'Biochemical Analysis'.
The 'Free Market Economy Booby Prize' goes to
the Science and Engineering Research Council who
have given £1,200 over three years to Dr McKinnon
of the Physics department for study into the
'Numerical studies of the metal-insulator transition
in disordered solids'.
Vegan
history
The Natural History Museum will be showing a film
entitled 'Sexual Encounters of the Floral Kind' this
Saturday (19th) at 2.00pm. On 30th and the 31st May
there will be talks called 'Focus on Leaves' and on
1st of June a talk on 'The Folklore of Plants'. They
will all start at 2.00pm. All enquiries should go to
071 938 8896.
Essay, I say
The 1990 'Webh Essay Competition' is now open.
There are two prizes, at £500 and £250. The subject
of the essay must be 'What does the Common
European Home mean for Britain.' The closing date
is 29th June, and enquiries should go to Stephen
Tindale, Fabian Society, 11 Dartmouth St, SW1H
9BN, or telephone 071 222 8877.
Neighbours
The Union will be organising barbecues in Beit
Quadrangle every Thursday evening this term
(weather permitting.) A new barbecue has been
purchased for the events, where sausages, burgers,
chicken etc will be sold, freshly cooked.
STA winner
John Mills of Mineral resources Engineering 3 has
won the STA travel voucher competition. The
handover will be held in the STA office today (18th
May).
Mr Mills told Felix that he had plans to use the
voucher on a trip to South Africa or Ireland.
IC debate
Michael Newman, an ex-IC student, will be
introducing 'The Great Imperial College Debate' on
Tuesday 22nd May at 1.30 in the Read Theatre. The
proposers of the motion that 'IC is a threat to liberal
education' will include Nina Temple, a graduate of
IC and the first woman to be secretary of the British
Communist Party. Opposing the motion will be the
present IC Union President, Neil McCluskey.
Broadcast
Anybody interested in becoming a radio broadcaster
should apply to their local radio station to enter a
competition in which full time students must prepare
a 3 minute tape and a letter explaining why they should
be one of the winners. Prizes include a 7 week training
programme over the summer and a £1000 bursary.
Applicants must be between 18 and 25.

