All's Well That Ends Well
The Barbican Stage is an open stage. This means that
there is no curtain. This, in turn, means that the
director often decides to have some action on stage
before the lights dim. Two children playing with toy
soldiers on a tabletop, on a stage that has echoes of
a playroom (the giant rocking horse sort of gives it
away). The lights finally dim, the kids scarper, the
doors swing shut and the play begins.
Helena is the ward of the Countess Rossilon, whose
son, Bertram, is leaving for the French court, there to
replace his late father. Helena is in love with Bertram,
but feels herself immeasurably below him in status.
Thus she also sets off for the court, planning to use
one of her father's old remedies to cure the ailing king.
This she does and as a reward he allows her to pick
freely of the young male nobility for a husband.
Obviously she picks Bertram, who is not well pleased.
Refusing to consummate the marriage, he leaves for
the Italian Wars, vowing never to accept Helena as
his wife until she has his ancestral ring and a child
conceived of him...
Admittedly, the first half of this play made it
abundantly clear that this was the weak link in the
present Barbican chain. The principle fault was with
the text of the play itself, not one of Shakespeare's
best and more than a little turgid. Unfortunately, the
company go all out to make it more interesting with
soldiers sliding down 'death slides' and highly
pretentious and arty use of mirrors and childhood
fairytale allusions. One is left positively looking
forward to the interval.
The second half is almost a different play. The
standard leaps back up to that of As You Like It, as
the cast work wonders with some very funny lines.
The plot is resolved nicely and movingly, if a trifle
unconvincingly and the whole play is brought to a
satisfying conclusion. Perhaps it can truly said that
All's Well That Ends Well.
Adam T.
The
Kill-Off
Theatre
A Little Night Magic
The evening at the Drill Hall Arts centre (near Goodge
St. Tube) starts with Fay Presto, compere and
magicienne, performing impromptu card tricks and
'vanishing 10p piece' tricks to small groups in the bar
and then in the theatre just as the audience are taking
their seats. But with an inanimate puppet of Paul
Daniels irreverently strung up from the ceiling we pick
up that this is not an evening of the conventional TV
magic that I'm sure bores most students silly.
Along with Fay we have the rest of the Presto Pack.
Richard McDougall, a magician/mime artist who,
despite a dubious sense of humour, is in general
amusing and fairly professional. And then there's
'Fluke' an impressive acrobat/contortionist who puts
on a spectacular visual display combining magic,
music and movement verging on the psychedelic.
There's also a pianist who provides entertaining
musical accompaniment giving the whole show a
quasi-cabaret feel.
But Fay is undoubtedly the star of the show. The
recent rather unfair and out of touch decision by the
all-male Magic Circle to expel her for being female is
no reflection on her skill as an illusionist. Although she
uses somewhat traditional props (like a saw-in-half
box for example), most of her tricks are both good and
original, enhanced by her ever present comic touch.
One minute you're spellbound by her tricks and the
next you're cracking up at some throwaway remark.
A light evening of magical cabaret therefore, which
incidentally is in one of the friendliest venues I've
visited in a long time.
A Little Night Magic on until 28th May with tickets
at £4.00 (concession). The Drill Hall Arts Centre box
office is on 071- 637-8270.
Adrian Pagan.
by Jim Thompson
Crime novels have never appealed to me, people only
seem able to write Sam Spade or Poirot copies
complete with the stereotypical butler, rich landowner
and assorted incidental characters. Jim Thompson is
supposed to be different and his style certainly is.
Each chapter is written through the eyes of a
different character, each telling the same facts as they
effected them. This creates an unusual feel to the
book that makes it interesting, if a little difficult to
read. The difficulty arises when you are halfway
through a chapter and you forget who it is about, is
it the lawyer, the local drunk or perhaps the victim to
be?
Mentioning the victim, there's another oddity about
this book. In most crime novels, at least those that
contain a murder, the event takes place within ten
pages, if not in the second line. Call me old-fashioned
if you like but leaving the actual death until over three
quarters of the way through is cutting things a bit fine.
Add to this the fact that the police, the doctor and
the deceased's lawyer all initially think that it was an
accident the last forty pages make for a very week
ending to what was otherwise a very good book.
There are a nice assortment of characters that all
seem to have a chip on their shoulder, interacting to
give a balanced impression of life in a small American
town with all the seedy happenings that are always
just below the surface. There is the local gossip that
spreads nasty rumours via the telephone, the
illegitimate son who is a bad egg, spending most of
his spare time drunk and the out of town lawyer that
the local attorney is scared stiff of.
Without the week ending this book would have
been quite good, although not as brilliant as the
reviews would have you believe. The style is unusual
and perhaps this is the best reason to read it.
Ian Hodge.

