The Gods Must
Be Crazy II
Film
Theatre
i
Do you remember the film about a Coke Bottle falling
out of the sky? It caused cultural mayhem amongst
the bushmen of the Kalahari. In this sequel, we return
to the same setting, with some of the same themes
(the intrusion of western culture on the' bushmen's
lives, the futility of the bush wars being fought in
Southern Africa) but a greater emphasis on others
(ivory poaching).
Xixo, played by Nxau (the star of the previous film)
goes in search of his children Xisa and Xiri, who have
been carried off on the back of an ivory poacher's
truck. On the way he meets Dr Ann Taylor (Lena
Farugia), a New York lawyer in Africa for a
conference, who has crash landed in the bush whilst
on a joyride with Game Ranger Dr Stephen Marshall
(Hans Strydom).
Also involved are two warring mercenaries who are
playing a bizarre game of hostages with each other
and at times with Dr Taylor. Meanwhile the ivory
poachers squabble and lose their way in the desert,
unaware of their stowaways.
Their paths cross repeatedly during the film, with
the inevitable possibility for farce and
misunderstandings. All is resolved happily in the end,
but only after Xixo's knowledge of the bush saves
them from a roasting.
This new film, like most sequels, is much more
contrived than the original, but is still worth going to
see. The insights into life in the bush compensate for
the tenuous plot while there are several good comic
sequences (watch out for the ostrich) and some well-
paced tense moments. Also the photography,
especially of the animals, is superb.
This is a gently undemanding film: there's no heavy
handed moralizing or excessive violence. It will make
a nice evening out at the cinema.
Toby Jones and Liz
PVT Wars
The agony of post-Vietnam trauma has been much
examined on celluloid recently, now it comes to the
stage. Gately, Silvio and Natwick are three inmates
of a US Army Veterans Hospital, in the 70's. Gately
is childlike and slow without being actually stupid. He
spends most of his time trying to rebuild a radio. Silvio
is psychotic and spends much of his time flashing at
nurses and discussing male underwear. Natwick is an
uptight and spoilt rich boy, who is totally out of place
in the army.
Over the course of several days they start to come
to terms with their injuries and get to know each other
and themselves. Sounds very heavy doesn't it? Well
actually its a dark comedy very much in the M*A*S*H
vein. Thankfully though the injuries and disabilities
themselves of the characters are never the subject of
the humour, that arises from the characters'
personalities and misapprehensions. Targets for the
ramblings of these inmates range from Catholics
(What's the best chat up line for a Catholic girl? Hello,
I'm a priest.) to Scottish Perverts and Kilts through
to sperm/salmon comparisons.
The play is in one act, but divided into short scenes
linked by audio extracts from the characters' off-stage
lives, often humorous, often revelatory. The acting is
good, perhaps aided by the slight caricaturing of the
characters. Initially the American accents are
overplayed, but as the actors get into their stride
things settle down to become much more convincing,
the accents even allowing us to determine where in
America the characters come from.
Moving, funny and tragic, this is a pretty good bit
of theatre from The Design Art Co., and well worth
a visit.
PVT Wars is playing in the Finbourgh Theatre,
Finbourgh Arms Road, SW10. Nearest tube is Earls
Court. Turn left as you leave the station and its about
five minutes walk. Concessionary tickets cost £3.50
(Take student ID) and the Box Office is on 071 373
3842.
Adam T,
Theatre
Sunday in the Park with George
Steven Sondheim is not renowned for conventional
musicals. A musical about pointalist painter George
Seurat derived mainly from his painting Un Dimanche
d'ete de la Grande Jatte is definitely not conventional.
Little is actually known about Seurat, and so the
musical is given plenty of room to manoeuver. The
characters in the first half are all drawn from the
painting. We are given brief sketches of their
characters and their reactions to being painted by
George. Principal among these is Dot, George's
mistress who finds it difficult to cope with his
obsession with the painting.
The first half deals with the creation of this painting,
the second with its recreation as a form of modern
visual art by the great-grandson of George, also called
George. He too has to fight the art-world
establishment, but the battlegrounds are now very
different.
The first half is bizarre-almost surrealistic. Much
of the time we are seeing the world through George's
eyes, elements of the painting dropping in and out of
the set as George develops the picture. Indeed, initially
the stage is viewed through a frame. The set becomes
4 Page
more conventional as we move into the second half
and the modern world. These at least grab you. The
songs don't. They are reasonably pleasant and are
cleverly devised to fit in with what is going on stage.
This is the musical as it should be, the music, spoken
word and action all complementing each other to build
up a theme, not 'the songs are all' attitude of Mr
Lloyd-Webber and his ilk.
What we have is a celebration of creation and the
creator. At times it tends to over glorify the suffering
an artist endures for his art, It then begins to lose
credence and rather comedic and melodramatic
stereotypes spring to one's mind. Imbued with enough
humour to keep it pleasantly lightweight, it is never
boring but is rarely enrapturing either.
This is a pleasant and diverting piece of musical
theatre, and one could do worse than spend an
evening in the National with George.
Sunday In The Park With George is showing in the
National Theatre's Lyttelton Theatre. Student
Standbys cost £8.
Adam T.

