Pretty Woman
Richard Gere is back. After a significant period of
absence, forsaking the silver screen for higher things
like Buddhism and the Tibetan independence
movement, he returns in double helpings with Internal
Affairs and now Pretty Woman. He's rather like the
No. 14 bus-you wait for years and then two or three
come shooting round the corner at once.
In his first major comedy role, Gere plays Edward
Lewis an ethicless corporate raider who, lost on
Hollywood Boulevard, inadvertently picks up Vivian
(Julia Roberts) while asking directions to his deluxe
Beverley Hills hotel. They then discover they have
something in common-they both screw people for
money. Edward decides to take Vivian on for a week
for the princely sum of $3000, primarily as a
companion which isn't quite what Vivian's used to.
Even so, they still end up in bed together on the first
night.
The story progresses as they both push thoughts
of things financial into the back seat and they fall in
love, bringing the positive things out in each other in
the process. If you're thinking that this story has
overtones of Pygmallion/My Fair Lady or even
Cinderella then you wouldn't be the first, but despite
the twee storyline there's a lot to appreciate in this
film, and not just Richard Gere...
For a start the tale has enough variations to set it
apart from its predecessors and enough humour to
have one grinning constantly over large chunks of it.
One particularly amusing episode happens when
Vivian, equipped with Edward's credit card but still
in her 'street' clothes. At first she is shunned by
haughty shop-girls who turn their noses up at her and
turn her out of their bourgeois boutiques. But when
Edward returns with her to another shop, he informs
the manager that he has an obscene amount of money
and that some major sucking up is required:
'Exactly how obscene an amount of money were
you thinking of spending', asks the manager, 'profane
or really offensive?'
'Really offensive' says Edward.
'I like him so much' retorts the manager.
The script also makes the point that prostitutes are
very much treated as second class citizens (see last
weeks FELIX!) and on the whole deals with the subject
very maturely, avoiding trivialising.
Richard Gere carries off his first comic role nicely
still retaining the charisma and that oh-so-slow blink
he showed in earlier films while the leggy Julia Roberts
[Mystic Pizza and Steel Magnolias) is a pleasure to
watch. It was a shame though that we didn't see more
of Laura San Giacomo (Steamy Sexual Dreamboat in
Sex, Lies and Videotape), playing Vivian's Work/Flat-
mate who 'shares her life, but can't quite share her
dreams'. So, Pretty Woman-Pretty Funny-Pretty
Man-Pretty Engaging-Quite Good.
Adrian Pagan.
Breaking Bmk
Leviathan
the Shackles
Film
Ed by Michael Newman
Ah, Imperial. Great institution! H.G. Wells came here
you know. Well, that much is true. The thing people
don't tell you is that Mr.Wells didn't like it very much
here. This book uses this information as a starting
point for a discussion on the present education system
and liberal education principles.
The gist of the argument can be roughly
summarised thus. Education can come at you in two
ways. You can have the information packed into your
brain to be regurgitated all over the examination sheet,
or it can be taught in a way that will develop a genuine
interest in the subject, and develop the repercussions
of what is learned in the subject into the sphere of
everyday life.
H.G. Wells found examples of both at the then
Normal School Of Science. The liberal education came
from Prof. Huxley, whose teaching Wells found
fascinating. Then he moved on to a Physics course
which killed his interest stone dead. Little has changed
today.
Using excerpts from Wells' memoirs and writings,
other documents from IC archives and the editor's
recollections of his own time at college, including
some very interesting tales about the RSM's Hon Porn
Officer, and the Porn Night (That's been abolished
now-they print it in Pit instead) the arguments are
given. It makes for fascinating and thought provoking
reading, so rush to the Union bookstore immediately
and purchase your copy, they're just under two quid.
Adam T.
The press release for this film gives the Chambers'
dictionary definition of the word 'Leviathan': a water
animal, apparently a crocodile (Bible); a huge sea
monster, anything of a huge size, especially a ship or
a man; Satan...and tries to keep its options open by
covering all of them.
Apparently filmed in left-over sets from The Abyss
Peter 'Twenty Seconds to Comply' Weller and his all-
star (nearly) trusty crew (including Richard Crenna,
Amanda 'Max Headroom' Pays and Ernie Hudson (the
fourth Ghostbuster no-one remembers) come into
conflict with what we are told is 'an awesome secret'
and find themselves in a 'desperate struggle for
survival' with a 'deadly and malevolent lifeform'.
That's as much of the plot as you need to know.
Suffice it to say that the story is ripped wholesale from
the godly Alien and stuck underwater.
Somehow the entire plot comes across as not
composed of cliches but a huge lumbering has-been
with only Ernie Hudson emerging radiant from the
wreckage with his brilliant one line reply to Meg
Foster's 'You must have been through hell'—'Bitch
we're still here!'. He does, of course get killed at the
end, leaving Beck (Weller) and Willie (Pays) to live
happily ever after.
On the plus-side the set is brilliant and the effects
are quite adequate, coming from what appears to be
an entirely Oscar lauded team, responsible forAlien(s),
Terminator and varius part os the Star Wars trilogy.
The acting is as good as could be expected (all the
actors are at least competent) but let down by the
script, which is disappointing given the writers'
credentials [Blade Runner and Die Hard).
Nice guest appearance by the Pathetic Sharks (or
some of their relatives) at the end; they pop in for a
quick, utterly unnecessary and one hundred per cent
unthrilling moment at the end.
If you can get in cheap this film is well worth seeing
for the chance to relive your favourite ten action films
(pick any ten, any ten at all).
The Amazing Flying Gerbil Machine.
5 Page

