Thrilled Skinny
Teenage Dream 7"
Yet another sturdy offering from Hunchback records;
Teenage Dream is another 100mph choppy number
from Luton's finest, though not as rip-roaring as their
classic So Happy to be Alive or as splendidly majestic
as their Little Piggies and Cows EP. Teenage Dream
does however have a Gedge-live melancholia, possibly
arising from their tour with the Weddoes last year.
Live, Thrilled Skinny are one of the most fiery acts
around; they recreate the dynamism once forged by'
Swell Maps, Wire and The Fall. Sadly, this is isn't fully
captured on Teenage Dream, but does come pretty
close.
Cyril.
i -
J
The Keatons
Residivistish 7"
The Keatons, mutant descendents of Beefheart, Wire
and the creators of Losf in Space, spawn their first
energetic piece of plastic; anuglar guitars criss-cross
a psychotic flanged bass and grind until, somehow,
a pop masterpiece emerges: dischord, mumbling, a
catchy chorus-Residivistish has it all. It's a crime if
this isn't a hit. Toys is yet another abrasive, sharp-
toothed classic, and the monstrous Dark Sudden
Something rounds off a superb debut. Catch the
Keatons live; it's their most suitable environment; their
pop-art performances are only bettered by the
legendary Residents.
Cyril.
Zoot and the Roots
Borderline 12.5.90 Live
Things looked good. Celebration seemed to crush
rumors that they had sold out in an attempt to get a
recording contract. A cover of Sex Machine proved
their credibility as James Brown wannabies. Then
came Love Of Money. The fans were shocked.
Everyone else danced on. For a while then we were
treated to more or less standard Roots, including the
classic if incomprehensible Groove Thang.
Few were prepared for the massacre that followed.
Following excuses that none of their singles had
succeeded they launched into a horribly twisted
version of Make Me Believe that sounded like bad
imitation De La Soul. The fans nearly wept, the rest
cleared the floor and headed for the bar.
The rest of the unfortunately short session was
seriously good. The venue wasn't particularly busy,
so there was plenty of room to do your own thing,
without crashing into the omnipresent idiots running
around with drinks on their heads. When gig and
encore were finished, the crowd cried for more, all
previous crimes forgotten. To no avail alas. A mixed
hour. When it was good it was very, very good. When
it was new it was very, very tragic. Stick to your
Roots guys.
Adam T.
GUIDE TO ESCAPISM
Friday 18th
Sandkings + HBM The Quad, LSE
Monday 21st
Prong + The Beyond Marquee
New Model Army + Lai Back +
KMFOM...Finsbury Park, Supertent Eurofest
Tuesday 22nd
The Meerkats Camden Palace
Wednesday 23rd
Metallica Wembley Arena
Thursday 24th
Nitzer Ebb Astoria
Cranes + Bark Psychosis The Quad, LSE
Lemonheads + Chapter House +
Vanilla Chainsaws ULU
Friday 25th
Senseless Things + Power of Dreams
+ Popguns Astoria
Some gigs will be good, some bad, none
understanding; though any will suffice for a
bout of exam escapism if so needed.

