Overseas Students Committee Chairman, Wouter van Hulten, investigates fees and hardship fun
London School of Economics. What are the implications for IC, he asks...
Overseas fees at IC
Costs are on the increase and they do not show any
sign of slowing down in the near future. Everyone is
affected by this trend in the economy, students and
Universities alike.
While other Universities are simply increasing their
tuition fees to keep up with inflation, the London
School of Economics has come up with a more
ingenious plan. Over the next three years, the LSE will
be increasing its overseas students fees by more than
inflation. The plan has arisen from discussions of the
Working Party on Overseas' Students Tuition Fees-
made up of Academic and Administrative Members
of the School and student representatives of the
Students Union. Whether such a plan is viable for
implementation at Imperial College is questionable,
since the tuition fees at IC are already far above those
of the LSE. Yet they may suggest a direction for IC
to follow.
The strategy developed, and recently adopted, has
three aims: first of all, to cover inflation; secondly, to
cover the funding 'gap' between fees charged to
overseas students and the cost of their education and
thirdly, to create a fund for scholarships accesible to
all students. The latter point is in addition to the
hardship funds which the LSE has already created, in
view of the disappearing student benefits in 1990/91.
Hardship, Scholarship and Access Funds
Currently, the 4500 students attending the London
School of Economics can apply for aid from a hardship
fund, bursaries and scholarships. The hardship fund
and additional scholarships were created by the
School in 1981 in response to the introduction of the
Overseas Students Fees by the Government. The
School makes an annual contribution of £200,000 to
the fund, appropriately named the '1980's Fund'. LSE
students make their application for financial aid
through the LSE Scholarship Office.
From next year, the School will also be making
claims from the access funds which the Government
is providing. These new funds have been set up
because of the removal of all student benefits, which,
amongst others, include the housing benefit. The
access funds amount to £25m, which is to be
distributed nationally; last year, the benefits claimed
by students totalled £69m.
Again, students will be able to apply for help
through the Scholarship Office. Because of its
expanded role, the Office will attract one more
member of staff this year, thus increasing its number
of staff to four.
How will it work?
For the 1989/90 academic year, overseas students
at the LSE pay an average of £4,874. Next year, this
figure will be increased by 13% (6% above expected
inflation) of which 4.5% will go to the scholarship
fund. In the following years, the overall increase will
slowly be reduced. In three years time, fees will
average £6,847, and the scholarship fund will have
been endowed around £1m. Further details are shown
in the table below.
m
Year Tuition fee for Scholarship
Overseas Students Fund
(£) (£)
1989 4,874 70,000
1990 5,508 321,200
1991 6,169 668,680
1992 6,847 1,033,680
(The tuition fee is the average of the fee charged for
one-year and longer courses.)
Why increase fees?
The reasoning behind the increases is to safeguard the
School's financial position. At this moment, the
overseas student pays less than the income the
School receives for the European Community (home)
students. This 'gap' will be closed. The 'gap' is the
difference between the fees charged to overseas
students and the cost of their education, the latter
being defined as,
UFC funded numbers of home/EC students
IUFC: Universities Funding Council)
The LSE working party also noticed that the general
level of fees charged by UK universities is around
£ 6 0 0 0 , which is found supportable by most
applicants. The School is mainly an institution for the
social sciences, and its fees are substantially lower
than the national average. Thus, the LSE does not
expect a reduction in the number of overseas students
as a result of its fees increase.
The scholarship fund is intended to be need-based,
and students will be awarded financial aid before
arriving at the School. As a by-product of the
increased attractiveness of the School to potential
students, this will also entail an increase in academic
quality.
7 Page

