Imperial College
Obviously, it is of interest to the Imperial College
community whether the implementation of such a
scheme is feasible at IC. After all, the financial
situation of most London Universities is worsening:
Government funding is down (although some
Universities benefit from research awards and other
special grants) and deficits are up. For the students,
the picture is not any brighter: rents are up, the Poll
Tax will have to be paid at some stage, and next year
housing benefit will be gone and student loans will
make their introduction.
However, IC does not even have a hardship fund
yet. Whilst next year, the Government will replace
student benefits by the access fund, which is to be
split up amongst university institutions across the
country, Imperial College has not yet made any claims,
or provided a framework for the allocation of the
monies to students.
The IC Scholarship Office is a one man organisation.
It supports and coordinates the applications of
postgraduates for further studies and research money.
Yet even though the office has never been set up to
cater for undergraduates - who are expected to find
outside sponsorship by themselves - it could develop
its role and expand, to handle all these monies which
HM Government does not want to look after anymore.
It does not also require a lot of imagination to see that,
not too far in the future, even British students will
have to rely on scholarships and loans alone.
Increasing fees
Whatever policy IC adopts, however, the financial
situation of IC and the LSE can not be simply
compared. IC cannot merely copy the remedies the
LSE has found to its problems. IC receives a lot of
money for research and from awards. Much use is
made of expensive capital equipment and the tuition
fees for overseas students are already high (£5,800)
in relation to other institutions. The academics at the
LSE study and teach mostly social sciences and rely
on their brain power.
At IC, top slicing the fee paid by the overseas
student would be an alternative. Imperial College
could start by putting 2 or 3% of the overseas
students tuition fees aside to create a scholarship
fund. It could expand its Scholarship Office. It could
attract more monies from industry for scholarships.
And it should begin by creating a hardship fund. Yet
whatever initiative is taken, it must come from the
administration. Proposals from the side of the
Students Union would simply be brushed away if the
organisation of these changes proved too complex
and expensive. They would also come too late. At this
stage, bickering between the Students Union and the
College administration must be avoided. That is why
action must be taken now.
Finally, some communication between the
counterparts in the two institutions' administrations
could provide some food for thought for the scientists
and technocrats in South Kensington; after all, they
are both part of the London University. Maybe this
does require immediate attention, because IC students
will soon face financial hardship. In this context, the
words of the director of a leading French university
are quite appropriate. On the subject of Universities,
he said, 'Une institution qui ne respecte pas ses
etudiants, ne respecte pas le savoir.', for which no
equivalent translation in English exists.

