10 felix Friday 14 March 2008
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Politics
Genocide and how we should react
A cutting-edge discussion held by the Political Philosophy Society on Genocide and Genocide Intervention
Clockwise from the top-left
Dr. Nigel Eltringham
A lecturer in Anthropology,
Dr. Eltringham has studied the
Rwandan genocide intensively.
His research was published in
2004 in the book “Accounting for
Horror: Post-Genocide Debates
in Rwanda”. He teaches human
rights at a post- and under-
graduate level and is currently
conducting research on the
International Criminal Tribunal
for Rwanda
Hratche Koundarjian
Mr. Koundarjian is the Co-
ordinator of the ‘All-Party
Parliamentary Group (APPG) for
Genocide Prevention. The group
counts prominent MPs such as
the Rt. Hon. Clare Short MP as
members and has cross-party
support.
Mr. John Gorski
Mr. Gorski has served with Royal
Engineers and with NGOs in
countries affected by genocide.
He has first-hand experience in
the Balkan region, specifically
the Kosovo conflict
Dr. James Smith
As co-founder and CEO of
the Aegis Trust, Dr. Smith has
worked with a wide range of
governmental, non-governmen-
tal, educational, and academic
institutions around the world.
Aegis Trust is closely linked with
the UK Holocaust Centre and
does work in Rwanda, documen-
tating the genocide
In the 20th century, Raphael Lemkin
coined the term ‘Genocide’. He was a
Polish-Jewish lawyer writing in 1943.
His concept of this ‘Crime of Barbarity’,
as he originally put it, originated with
the Simele massacres in Iraq in 1933.
When the horrific crimes perpetrated
against the Jews came to be known, the
post-war world, and specifically the
newly-founded U.N., recognized Rap-
hael Lemkin’s ‘Crime of Barbarity’ for
the first time as a crime, separate and
intrinsically different from murder.
Since the Convention on the Preven-
tion and Punishment of the Crime of
Genocide came into existence in 1948,
genocide has plagued humanity, in the
Balkans, South-East Asia, and most
famously in Rwanda. Still, in the 21st
century we find ourselves unable to ef-
fectively confront the all-too-real gen-
ocide in Sudan. On Thursday, March
6, Imperial’s Political Philosophy So-
ciety addressed the issue of genocide,
and asked its esteemed panelists:
What is genocide?
When does civil war become
genocide?
Who has the right to intervene?
When should one intervene?
How should one intervene?
As stated earlier, genocide is a crime
according to international law – this
much is true and was not the focus of
evaluation by the panel. However, Dr.
Smith did flag certain issues that make
even the purely legal definition of gen-
ocide less clear and helpful than one
might believe. To prove that genocide
is occurring, and therefore take ap-
propriate action, it must be shown that
there is a direct intent to destroy a par-
ticular ethnic, racial, or religious group.
While this is good to ensure that a dif-
ferentiation is made between war and
genocide, it creates difficulty because
of the burden of proof it requires. Mr.
Koundarjian made the comment that
Kadhim Shubber “you know genocide when you see
it” but it is not similarly true that you
know intent when you see it. In the
case of Darfur, it must be proven that
the government forces are intending
to destroy the African tribes in Dar-
fur. This is easy when bullets are used,
but, much more difficult, the aggressor
only creates the conditions for destruc-
tion, such as starvation. Both speakers
admitted that there will always be ar-
guments (some valid) against the label
‘genocide’. Indeed, there may be a situ-
ation where genocidal acts occur but
the situation itself can not be labeled
genocide; recent events in Kenya are
an example of this. It is when a pattern
of activities, of genocidal acts, become
obvious that we can begin to use the
word genocide. A repeating pattern of
genocidal activities is enough to prove
intent, asserted Mr. Koundarjian.
While the question of intent attempts
to separate war and genocide, in the
case of civil war the line is extremely
blurred and it is difficult for interna-
tional observers to make a judgement
on the situation. One can begin to dif-
ferentiate the two by examining the
root cause of genocide. Dr. Smith said
that genocide does not happen over-
night, which should be obvious to all of
us. It begins with stereotyping and prej-
udice and follows Gregory Stanton’s 8
Stages of Genocide. Dr. Eltringham
agreed with Dr. Smith but took a much
more human rights-centred viewpoint.
Genocide, according to him, occurs
after a long process of human rights
degradation. In fact, human rights act
as a warning system for genocide and
a signal in a conflict that includes civil
war. In complex crises such as civil war,
civilians become caught in the cross-
fire. If we understand the ideology and
motivations driving the civil war, it is
possible to compare this with the prej-
udice and human rights degradation
that is characteristic of genocide and
make a judgment of similarity or dis-
similarity. Unfortunately, civil war and
genocidal acts have become more and
more linked in the modern day, most
prominently in Yugoslavia and Kosovo.
In many cases genocidal acts are used
as a weapon in civil war.
The bulk of interesting discussion, I
“you know
genocide when
you see it”
The Panel
From left to right, Dr. Smith, Mr. Koundarjian, Chairman Ammar Waraich, Mr. Gorski, and Dr. Eltringham. The discussion was the last in a week of genocide-related seminars

