Felix Easter Eggstravaganza 2008
Welcome to Felix’s annual Eggstravaganza where, purely in the interests of research, we wolf down copious
amounts of ovoid-shaped, chocolatey goodness to let you know which eggs are worth your cash this Easter
Thorntons Classic Collection Cadbury slighty more
expensive than budget eggs
Duc d’O Burnt Sugar (Fairtrade)
Baileys Lindt Lindor (Mixed Chocolates)
£4.99, Milk chocolate egg with 6 chocolates
Shubber-de-do-wop: Tomo is a moron. This egg is not.
streboR: The egg is a bit sickly but the extras aren’t bad.
Hobag: What I imagine chocolate-coated love tastes
like.
Hannah-backwards: Horrible.
Yu: Egg tastes good, extras aren’t too shabby
either.
The Paw: If Van Gogh made chocolate, this
wouldn’t be it. This is too good.
Egg: ★★★★✩
Extras: ★★★★✩
Value: ★★★★✩
£1.99 each (BOGOF), Milk chocolate egg
with relevant chocolate product
Hobag: Like a medium rate whore: gets the
job done well but you still hate yourself for
enjoying it.
Fonzie: Agreed with Hobag. Better after-
taste though.
Not-Casey-Affleck: Standard issue. The
control eggs.
Egg: ★★★✩✩
Extras:★★✩✩✩
Value: ★★★✩✩
£9.99, Belgian milk chocolate egg with box of belgian
truffles
Shubber-de-do-wop: I want to have sex now.
Mckizzle: That’s good shit!
Fonzie: Premium chocolate gets you premium chicks.
Not-Casey-Affleck: Solid performance but diamond
price. Slight Mars Bar after taste to truffles [Objection!!!
– Ed].
The Poon: Not worth the money.
Egg: ★★★✩✩
Extras: ★★★★★
Value: ★★✩✩✩
£3.49, Milk chocolate and honeycomb egg. No extras.
The Paw: Tastes like it came out of a hippo’s arse
Mckizzle: Screw the hippies, this Fairtrade chocolate
tastes like crap! Where are my extras dammit?!
streboR: The name is not its selling point and neither is
the grit-infused chocolate they palm off as an egg.
Hobag: I like this egg like I like to converse with your lab
partner...
Hannah-backwards: Like the name, hate the chocolate.
Egg: ★✩✩✩✩
Extras: ✩✩✩✩✩
Value: ★✩✩✩✩
£4.98, Milk chocolate egg with Irish Cream
chocolates
Not-Casey-Affleck: Nice egg but the truffles let it down.
If you want Easter booze, wash your egg down with a
lager and not this liqueur shit.
Fonzie: I’m gonna go right ahead and disagree with
Casey. The booze rounds off the package perfectly like
stockings on a gorgeous blonde.
Hannah-backwards: Mmm, I drink Baileys for breakfast.
Egg: ★★★★★
Extras: ★★★✩✩
Value: ★★★★✩
£4.49, Milk chocolate egg with Lindt mini-eggs.
The Paw: As sweet as the love your mum and I made
last night.
Mckizzle: Lovely stuff!
Hobag: I want to procreate with this egg and the con-
sume all of my chocolatey offspring.
streboR: Really terrific.
Not-Casey-Affleck: It’s Lindt. You know the drill...
The Poon: Wouldn’t expect anything less than heavenly.
Egg: ★★★★✩
Extras: ★★★★✩
Value: ★★★★✩
Please give generously
to the ‘Felix Needs A
New Camera’ fund

