16 felix Friday 14 March 2008
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
David Paw
Arts Editor
S
o it’s been a hectic week in
the Felix offices. A couple
of months ago a friend and
I were discussing student
media, and came to the com-
mon conclusion that the arts are re-
garded with some degree of incredulity
at Imperial.
The mindset is understandable.
When you’re crunching the numbers
and spending days in the lab without
seeing sunlight, who has time for the
fuss of art? I had spoken to Tom, our
editor, about Phoenix a couple of weeks
earlier, asking what had happened to
the issue that had never been released.
Incomplete, I was told.
My friend and I moved on to this
topic. He then expressed interest in
reprising the title, but only on the con-
dition that I was on board. Of course,
I agreed enthusiastically, and so the
wheels were set in motion.
Two months of phone calls, emails
and nights staring at monitors and
reading and re-reading masses of po-
ems and short stories and we were
good to go. Myself and a new team
had picked our favourites of the writ-
ing that had been sent to us, and ap-
proached known favourites to allow
them to get some exposure and share
the love.
We worked on the layout together,
bickered over covers and decided the
best path forward for the title, and the
experience was completely liberating
from the creative shackles that such a
science-focused environment can im-
pose. We all loved working on it, and
love the finished product.
It doesn’t look like any Phoenix that
has come before. We weren’t trying to
be controversial or draw criticism. We
wanted to produce something that was
fun to read, fun to look at and some-
thing that would add some zest and
zap into the college’s roster of (admit-
tedly already impressive) publications.
We drew our influences from a wide
range of sources - we loved the content
of The New Yorker, the irreverence of
New York Magazine, the manic design
of Zembla and the clean shapes of
Surface and i-D. The product is a sort
of crossroads of these multitudinous
influences but we don’t think it’s too
incoherent. We won’t put a picture of
Bjork in face paint and feathers on the
cover. Promise.
Whathitmethemostwhenresearch-
ing the design was the sheer number of
magazines available. Even disregarding
the number of titles in the mainstream
press, there are still an incredible
number of smaller titles with dedi-
cated followings. What also struck me
was the sheer volume of talented writ-
ers out there; even with the number of
titles available in print, there are still an
awful lot of good writers out there who
go unrecognised. Phoenix aims to sup-
port these writers and provide a crea-
tive platform within the college.
There’s a lot to be inspired by out
there. The first issue of the relaunched,
reimagined and redesigned 21st cen-
tury Phoenix will be here on the first
issue of the new summer term.
Symphonies for beginners
We couldn’t decide whether Fran’s article was about knitting or music. We had a fight. Shit got broken. I don’t know how this picture got here
T
hough there are many
people that consider
themselves aficionados
of classical music, I am
not one of them. And yet,
ICSO’s performance on Friday, con-
ducted by Richard Dickins, convinced
me you don’t have to have a diploma
on the cor anglais to enjoy an evening
of classical music.
A top tip for the uninitiated classical
enthusiast is to purchase a programme;
worth it not only for the insightful tid-
bits of information about the music,
but also as a tool to relieve boredom as
you reach the end of a particularly long
movement (I know I said I’m not the
type to use technical terms. For those
unacquainted, a movement is a sec-
tion of the music; these are separated
by silences during which it is vitally
important that you don’t clap. As a
rule of thumb, always wait until clap-
ping is well underway during classical
concerts so you can be sure you aren’t
clapping in between movements and
embarrassing yourself).
The concert opened with a rendi-
tion of Wagner’s Prelude to Tristan &
Isolde. This piece is quite short, and
I must admit I knitted throughout (I
am knitting my boyfriend a snood),
but the cello section particularly stood
out. The programme reliably informs
me that they are ‘answering a question
posed by the short motif’. However, I
cannot verify this statement. The ten-
sion in my knitting remained roughly
constant. (It is perfectly acceptable, by
the way, to knit or write poetry in clas-
sical music concerts, as long as noise is
kept to a minimum. You should let the
music “wash over you”).
The second piece was undoubtedly
my favourite: Piano Concerto in G Ma-
jor (Ravel). The pianist Charles Owen
was absolutely amazing. My partner
said he swayed too much, but I think
someone with that talent may sway (al-
beit pretentiously) when they play the
piano and, besides, he was just jealous
because after 7 years of lessons his pi-
ano talents only extend to a shaky ren-
dition of The Entertainer. I was capti-
vated by this piece for the whole three
movements and had to put down my
knitting to concentrate. I only wish I
were sitting on the other side of the hall
so that I could see him actually playing.
The first movement had a lovely sultry
jazz feel to it, and was my favourite as
I’m rather partial to a bit of jazz.
After the interval, the audience was
treated to a rendition of Mahler’s Sym-
phony no.1 in D major. Despite the
length, which may have put some ama-
teur classical music fans off, this per-
formance was quite moving, particu-
larly the third movement featuring a
sinister motif from Frère Jacques. This
is praise indeed coming from a person
who admits freely to being bored by
classical music, particularly the qui-
eter and slower bits. However, the last
movement was akin to the last Lord of
the Rings film; it ended a few times too
many. Despite this, the actual finale
was rousing and buoyant.
Overall, the concert was extremely
good. I found that ICSO chose slightly
more discordant pieces than Sinfoniet-
ta earlier in the week, perhaps making
them less easy on the untrained ear, but
the quality of the playing was absolute-
ly fabulous. After much consideration,
I decided to award the best-dressed
section award to the second group of
violins, after one of them spent the
best part of the second half trying to
untangle a beautiful earring from her
violin. Classical music is always full of
drama.
Francesca Buckland postpones her knitting to revel in the ICSO’s aural candy

