arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 14 March 2008 felix
Arts
Plush, posh and decadent in WC2
Where does a girl go to find jaw-dropping culture amidst the carnage of Oxford Street? Rosie Grayburn
visits the gemlike Wallace Collection in Manchester Square for her weekly dose of gallery enlightenment
S
o you’re walking down Ox-
ford Street and you suddenly
have a revelation: “Right! I
have had enough of spend-
ing not a lot of money on
clothes made by children: I am going
to get out of here!” So you take a left
after Selfridges and find yourself in
Manchester Square. On the other side
of the square sits a huge, regency town
house. You know the sort: they appear
in period dramas and contain ladies
sipping Darjeeling in pristine white
dresses. This is the Wallace Collection
and it is very cool.
Hereford House was owned by the
1st four Marquises of Hereford and was
one of their main townhouses in Lon-
don. The Wallace Collection presents
the art, furniture and artefacts collect-
ed over 4 generations of this family. I
think Marquises are far more decadent
than Earls. If Earl Grey was a stuffy
old man like Twinings portray him,
then the Marquis of Hereford was his
younger, more exciting distant cousin
who travelled the globe and courted
lots of exotic females. This is certainly
the impression I get from their collec-
tion here. Visiting the Wallace Collec-
tion is not like visiting any ordinary
gallery in London – it is a mini palace!
In the downstairs rooms, extravagant
musical clocks overlook every expen-
sive fireplace and chime on the hour to
the tune of a 17th Century smash hit.
Eat your heart out, Chris Moyles at
Breakfast: these guys had Mozart’s lat-
est hit to wake them up in the morning
with tinkling ivory and solid gold!
Downstairs you find the 17th cen-
tury galleries. I loved the portrait of
the Earl of Leicester. He was clearly
rolling in it, wearing a beautiful orange
beaded jacket. Unfortunately, the art-
ist probably didn’t like him very much
and had spitefully included a huge,
hairy mole on the side of the Earl’s face
with wonderful detail for each hair.
Other highlights in this gallery are the
Chinese sceptres made in the form of
a sacred fungus and the painting An
Allegory of True Love. This brightly-
coloured piece showed a group of jo-
vial people sitting in the countryside
having a picnic. However, this was no
ordinary picnic. Some of the ladies
present had pulled down their dresses
and were putting off some of the men
from eating by exposing their boobies
and pinching their own pert nipples. I
could definitely see some true love in
the men’s eyes but I still don’t under-
stand the title of the piece.
The Treasure of the Month was
housed in a glass case at the back of
the 17th century gallery. It is a Bohe-
mian Welcome Glass, or a willkomm
humpen. All glasses should be made
like this. It holds about 2 pints and is
engraved with a kind of user guide. The
diagrams on the glass are segmented
into categories of revelry and overin-
dulgence. Gothic inscriptions around
the edge translate as ‘‘Lift me up, drink
me up, set me down, fill me again and
bring me a good brother again” which
refers to the tradition of passing the
humpen to another guest to down.
Sounds like your average night at the
union. This allegory also extends to the
‘overindulgence’ section of the glass
where you see a youth vomiting vio-
lently on a tree. He obviously had too
much humpen.
On leaving the Smoking Room, you
ascend some dark winding stairs that
are worth hanging around on, at least
until you start to look a bit suspicious.
Small paintings line the wall and the
subjects are amusing and varied if you
care to look, and they remind me of
scenes you can imagine coming alive
as if the place were Hogwarts. There
are assassins waiting for their prey, a
Roman feast, a circumcision ceremony
and some cows munching placidly on
some tasty grass. These paintings are
the calm before the storm as the up-
stairs galleries showcase room upon
room of Dutch Landscapes and well-
known masterpieces.
Into the bright first gallery upstairs
you are greeted with the aforemen-
tioned Dutch Landscapes. Inside the
wide country scenes of fields or ocean
the little vignettes around the canvass-
es make you spend more time look-
ing at them than you probably should.
There are women gossiping about the
men, men perving on the women, the
dog taking a piss on someone’s proper-
ty and shepherds making the sexytime
withshepherdesses.These(apparently)
show everyday life in the 1700s, which
is the only thing that makes this inter-
esting, as the art isn’t particularly fine.
Apart from those ‘soap opera’ paint-
ings of everyday life, there are multiple
paintings of mythological scenes like
those where Gods lie around in the
Dutch countryside with their animal
friends while other lesser Gods suckle
goats. Those divine beings are weird.
I am very, very happy when we finally
reach the Great Gallery as I find there
are about three Velazquez paintings in
one corner! Unfortunately they are not
originals, even though they are from
his studio. This means that he or one
of his minions made more than one of
the paintings when they were found to
be popular. I would recommend the
booklets that are available in the Great
Gallery as they tell you interesting
snippets of info about each painting.
With regard to The Lady with a Fan,
they mention that she had a scandal-
ously low neckline for Spanish women
of that time, which meant she was
probably French…
I loved the Portrait of a Flemish Lady.
She sports a humongous lace collar
and she is getting her serious Belgian
bling on as she carries a massive chain
around her waist. Unfortunately for
her, this is probably a chastity belt.
There are several Rembrandts in the
Great Gallery. I hadn’t seen a Rem-
brandt in real life before and there is
a serious wow-factor when you really
look closely. The detail on the fabrics
he paints is remarkable! Another fa-
mous face in this gallery is that Laugh-
ing Cavalier – you would immediately
recognize it if you saw it. His face is so
real – it could be a photograph -, and
he looked as though if I’d cracked one
of my many witty jokes he would have
thrown back his head and roared with
laughter!
On leaving the Great Gallery you
enter a room of miniature portraits.
They’re fascinating in the way they are
like ours that we would perhaps keep
in our wallet of our boyfriends or girl-
friends. I guess soldiers commissioned
them to be painted of their sweet-
hearts if they were off to war. What I
found quite amusing was the variety
in the styles of portrait… there were
two styles. Half the portrayed girls had
buttons done up to the neck or had de-
mure dresses on. They were the wives
or the betrothed. The other half had no
top on or had a cheeky nipple poking
out. These were the mistresses. Those
17th Century soldiers had invented an
equivalent of dirty magazines to take
to war!
I skipped one room full of cityscapes.
Although it was probably historically
interesting I wasn’t going to waste my
time looking at the renaissance equiva-
lent of a postcard of Piccadilly Circus.
The room called ‘The Boudoir’ was my
favourite as all the portraits had really
unusual facial expressions and there
was a really cool writing desk which
had secret compartments hidden be-
hind dummy book covers so you could
store the portrait of your mistress and
other things from your wife. Another
interestingartefactinthisroomwasthe
poster advertising a sale of all furniture
and paintings from the Petit Trianon
chateau. The Petit Trianon was built in
the grounds of Versailles for the King’s
mistress Madame de Pompadour. It
was given to Queen Marie Antoinette
after that. You know the story. So all
her indulgent belongings in this ‘mini’
palace were being sold off - Marie An-
toinette had no use for them anymore,
as the guillotine had unfortunately re-
moved her head. Boo.
Hidden away downstairs under the
restaurant is a small exhibition room
which is currently playing host to an
exhibition called ‘Masterpieces from
the Louvre’. It is a grand name for a
very tiny exhibition. It’s like calling
your pet hamster ‘King Louis XIV’
or your hole of a flat ‘The Mansion’.
I had imagined at least a ‘Great Gal-
lery’ sized exhibition space to display
these ‘Masterpieces’, but instead there
was one well-known painting and a
studio copy of a well known Velazquez
painting in a room filled with generic
French School outputs. The exhibition
is a small fraction of a much larger col-
lection in the Louvre which belonged
to Louis La Caze, an art collector and
a contemporary of Sir Wallace. For the
Wallace collection it is a big deal hav-
ing this association with such an im-
portant organization as the Louvre but
it really isn’t a big deal for anyone visit-
ing it. Stick to the café upstairs.
Now that is a big deal. My tummy
likes the Wallace Restaurant. Thank-
fully someone else paid - it is very
pricey but very, very yummy. It’s popu-
lar with fancy-looking ladies who lunch
and there was a huge waiting list for a
table. You couldn’t have expected any-
thing less from the Wallace Collection
really – you sit on grand wrought-iron
seats and sip delicate tea and munch on
dainty cakes or exquisite light lunches.
The Wallace Collection is a good af-
ternoon’s entertainment sorted, after
you’ve done the galleries, café, lovely
loos and the shop. Next time you’re on
Oxford Street, spare a thought for the
Wallace Collection just tucked away
behind the bustling crowds. It’s a real
piece of heaven away from the chaos
outside.
Masterpieces from Le Louvre: The
Collection of Louis La Caze is on
until 8th May. Admission is free
throughout, but expect to pay
through the nose for a postcard
or a cuppa!
I was inclined to focus more on the restaurant part of the piece but the Ed wasn’t having it. Tosser

