18 felix Friday 14 March 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
Attention – For Your Eyes Only
Indie style in a West End production? Lucy Harrold explores the complex world of The Viewing Room
Timmy waited tentatively for his bedtime story
D
aniel Joshua Rubin’s
claustrophobic play The
Viewing Room is the first
West End outing of writ-
ing company Practicum
Theatre, and has just started at the Arts
Theatre. The theatre is really close to
Leicester Square; if you can find Cran-
bourn Street, you can find it. At the
moment it will also be surrounded by
small geeky people trying to procure
Leonard Roberts’ autograph – but
more on this later. The theatre itself is
kind of cute, sandwiched next to the
photographer’s gallery (which I was re-
ally tempted to visit but didn’t have the
time). Inside you’ll find a theatre that
doesn’t really suit the West End. The
lobby and bar are modern, and there
are only two entrances to the theatre
– the mezzanine and stalls - making it
tiny in proportion to the nearby Palace
theatre where Les Miserables is play-
ing, or the Cambridge theatre where
Chicago is still going strong. Also, in a
departure from most West End thea-
tres, you’re allowed to bring your drink
into the auditorium, although you
might not want to for this play - given
the twists in the plot you might end up
with your beer in your lap! This added
to the style of the play, making me feel
more like I was attending an off-West
End production that could afford to
come to the West End because of its
cast’s calibre.
The set suggests that you’ll be in for a
nice, twee play about an urban couple -
a typical flat not dissimilar to those we
live in. There’s a pull-out futon, a little
kitchen area, the usual. There were also
video screens either side of the main
stage. These were used to great effect
providing continuous coverage of the
stage in pseudo-Big Brother fashion.
The television screens also provided
all of the sound effects for the play.
This seemed like a good idea at first.
However, I was sitting right in front
of one of the screens and so just got
blasted with one earful of sound with
nothing in the other ear. But just as I
was finishing reading the programme,
I looked up to find a huge cage plonked
in the middle of the stage. Well, that’ll
teach me to pay attention. The cage is
the focal point of both the stage and the
play, containing almost a negative mir-
ror image of the outside of the cage.
Inside is a black man accused of a
crime he is adamant he did not com-
mit. Outside are a white couple who
have chosen to have him in their home
as part of their social service. This so-
cial service, the audience learns early
on, is something all people have to
do because of an “ongoing war of our
time”.
There are different ways people can
do their community service, but the
couple choose this so that they can stay
at home. Unfortunately, the audience
do not learn this until quite late on in
the play, and is one of the few prob-
lems in the show. Exposition is seldom
given and, although the play could be
set in any time period, this leads to
some small plot points being lost like
whenever the couple leave the house,
they are wearing gas masks. It is never
fully explained why the gas masks are
needed. A smog of some sort is men-
tioned somewhere in the play but only
as a throwaway remark. I don’t know
whether the writer has chosen to leave
out much of the exposition as a way of
moving the plot along, or to let the au-
dience think for themselves.
The play, as expected, explores the
relationship between the couple and
this new prisoner. But it also explores
the relationship between an ordinary
couple in extraordinary circumstances,
and the relationship between ordinary
people and the government. I can’t tell
you too much about the storyline as
the play is full of plot twists that you
could never guess (the one at the end
was a real shock, but also led to a funny
scenario at curtain call). The audience
is lulled into a sense of security every
so often as you think that the three
characters are starting to get on, when
you’re suddenly ripped out of that re-
lationship by a new incident. The hus-
band and wife could be seen to repre-
sent two mindsets that we often have
about new situations. At the start of
the play Brian, the husband, is an ideal-
ist. He believes that whatever the gov-
ernment says must be correct – he is
taken in by society. On the other hand,
the wife (she has no name, which is an-
other comment on the role of women)
is the dubious one. Of course, these
opinions change rapidly throughout
the story.
James Flyn played Brian Walker, the
husband; his transition from an en-
thusiastic and loving husband at the
beginning of the play to an almost psy-
chotic all-obeying society drone by the
end was seamless and rather disturb-
ing. He was very adept at pushing the
audiences’ buttons to make them em-
pathise with his situation. Samantha
Wright was equally impressive as “The
Wife”. She brought a sense of realism
and also depth to a role that at first
could be perceived as the weak link
in the writing. Although I think this is
one of the writer’s tricks played on the
audience, her character develops later
to allow the audience to become sup-
posedly comfortable with Brian and
the prisoner. Of course most people
will be coming to see this play as they
have heard of Leonard Roberts. Rob-
erts played DL Hawkins in the smash
hit series Heroes (one of my favourite
programs) and has also been in shows
like Buffy (another one of my favour-
ites, noticing a pattern?) and Smal-
lville. I didn’t know what to expect of
Roberts, as his on-screen persona has
carved a niche from portraying strong,
silent types. I found from the pro-
gramme that he has quite an extensive
US theatre career, which comforted my
previous apprehensions. Roberts took
what could have been quite a flat and
shallow role and gave it depth and hu-
mility. His prisoner, although gruff and
mean to some, actually had a sense of
humour, giving a glimpse of his former
self before prison.
The evening I attended was in aid of
Amnesty International, as the themes
of the play are very relevant to the
work Amnesty do concerning unjust
imprisonment in places such as Guan-
tanamo Bay. As part of this, after the
show was a short discussion given by
the director, the cast and QC Michael
Mansfield, a specialist in miscarriages
of justice (who I thought looked a bit
like Christopher Biggins). The writer
of the play also happened to be sitting
at the back of the theatre and piped up
part way through, moving to the row
in front of me (!!) to answer some of
the questions, although he appeared to
get a bit disheartened when he wasn’t
allowed to answer all of the questions.
Themes from the play were discussed
by both the panel and audience and left
me with much to think about.
The play brings up themes of pun-
ishing the collective for the mistakes
of an individual (like when you were
at school and someone did something
naughty yet you all had stay in for de-
tention - I’m still bitter about that). It
also brought up our role in society and
our obedience under a surveillance-
obsessed society. Without giving away
too much of the plot, the play linked
very well to present-day situations of
prisoners around the world who are
given unfair trials due to the colour of
their skin, and because it is generally
easier to throw them in prison. Both
the play and the later discussion also
questioned the role of prison: whether
it is to punish, store or rehabilitate.
The play left you pondering which of
these roles the situation in the play
represented. This was really the think-
ing (wo)man’s play, something rarely
seen in the West End but which should
be encouraged and with concession
tickets at only £10, I suggest you all
see this worthwhile play. It might make
you take a look at your thoughts and
beliefs about the prison system and our
surveillance-blanketed society.
Don’t think her bloke’ll be best pleased...

