arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
Friday 14 March 2008 felix
Arts
After a few nights on le razz, the lynch mob began to get a bit merry. Still, at least it’s not Phantom of the Opera
Just another day on the mean streets of Putney We like France. Please resist the urge to be xenophobic.
Valjean and Cosette decide to flee Paris
to escape the fighting, leaving Marius
to mourn his lost love whilst Eponine
attempts to flirt with him. Both Marius
and Javert join the student rebellion.
End of Act One (phew, I told you it was
long).
Act Two starts with the students
building a barricade (the classic sym-
bol of Les Mis) against the authori-
ties. Cue a bit of a fight. Lots of peo-
ple die, including some big characters
and Valjean, who has joined the fight,
has to carry a wounded Marius away
from the scene. Marius does not die
(hooray!) and instead marries Cosette,
leaving Valjean with nothing more to
after the revolution!
Songs to listen out for
One Day More: You may have noticed
I love big contrapuntal numbers. This
is one of the best.
On My Own: Here’s another song for
you to belt out when your flatmates are
elsewhere.
Empty Chairs at Empty Tables: A
beautiful yet tragic song that has been
used as a symbol for the AIDS struggle
among gay men (listen to the lyrics and
you’ll understand).
I want it now!
Les Miserables is still on in London
at the Queens Theatre with day/stu-
dent tickets (where you buy them on
the day from the box office) starting
at £17.50. If you don’t fancy spending
your Wednesday afternoon off at the
theatre, the 10th Anniversary Concert
DVD is available. There are also two
different copies of the CD in the library
(so go get them now!).
Like it? Try...
I was going to offer you Urinetown, my
favourite musical ever, that parodies
Les Mis massively, but there’s no way
for you to find out about it, so I’ll give
you an alternative:
Phantom of the Opera- OK, I person-
ally hate this show. But it’s another long
running West End “Supermusical”, also
produced by Cameron Mackintosh
and with the same grand bravado as
Les Miserables.
Finally: the long and complicated
plot of Les Miserables explained!
In another Musical Theatre Weekly, Lucy Harrold reveals what those crazy French people are really up to
T
he book Les Miserables
was written by Victor
Hugo in 1862, gaining its
reputation as a rather long
and difficult book. Jean-
Michel Schönberg and Alan Boublil’s
adaptation was first performed in Paris
in 1981 and it bombed. Oh. Cameron
Mackintosh, the producer of shows
such as Cats and Starlight Express
(generally all the big, British Eighties
shows) thought Les Mis could work
in the UK with a bit of tweaking. He
brought it to the Battersea Arts Centre
in 1985 and later to its present home,
the Queens Theatre, where it is now
the world’s longest running musical.
Plot
This is going to take a while - both the
book and the show are notoriously
long. As there is a book, again, you can’t
tell me off for ruining the story. The
show starts with Jean Valjean being re-
leased on parole from the chain gang,
having been imprisoned for the past
19 years. Once released he stays with a
bishop, from whom he steals a pair of
candlesticks (real clever, Valjean). He is
nearly sent back to prison but is saved
by the bishop, who lies for him. This
incident will result in Valjean being
chased throughout his life by Inspec-
tor “stiff upper lip” Javert. Cut to eight
years later and Jean Valjean is now
a well-respected mayor and factory
owner who happens upon a trouble-
maker in his factory - Fantine. She is
thrown out and resorts to prostitution
to pay for the upkeep of her daughter
(Cosette). Cosette is being ‘looked af-
ter’ by the Thernardiers, a rather nasty
inn-keeper and his wife who dote upon
their own daughter Eponine whilst
ill-treating Cosette. Fantine eventu-
ally dies, leaving Cosette in the care of
Valjean.
Nine years later and France has
changed due to their one decent leader
dying (careless?!). A student revolu-
tion is about to begin led by Enjolras
and Marius, a lovesick young man who
fancies Cosette (who is now rich and
boring). Unfortunately, Eponine also
fancies Marius and hence the usual
musical theatre love triangle ensues.
do with his life, yearning for death.
Everyone (including the dead people)
promptly return for a good old sing-
song and some more marching.
Main Characters
Jean Valjean: The story is seen through
the eyes of this reformed prisoner who
acts as Cosette’s guardian
Javert: Jean Valjean’s nemesis and the
policeman who arrested Jean Valjean
originally.
Fantine: Mother to Cosette - dies pret-
ty early on in the play
Cosette: Daughter of Fantine, adopted
daughter of Valjean, lover of Marius
Marius: The heartthrob of Les Mis,
friends with the leader of the student
rebellion and going out with Cosette
Eponine: Daughter of the Thernar-
diers, spends most of the play skulking
around Paris in a large overcoat and
lusting after Marius.
Thernardiers: Owners of the local
pub where they make Cosette work as
a child in exchange for “looking after”
her. Parents to Eponine, who is doted
upon by them, oh how the tables turn

