20 felix Friday 14 March 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
Friday 14 March 2008 felix
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
The Great Culture Crawl
Listening Post, Science Museum
“I like panties… I like sex with animals”… This is the kind of thing you expect to come across when you
visit this amazing new piece of electronic art that has taken up residence on the 1st floor. The idea art-
ist Ben Rubin had was to give the viewer a unique portrait of the internet by tapping into chat rooms
and message boards across the net. These snippets of chatter are broadcast across a curtain of 231 tiny
screens which hangs from the ceiling. The words are accompanied by a soothing musical score and an
automated voice occasionally reading out the odd phrase: “I am horny”…. “I am Mexican”.
I sat there mesmerised for an hour as the 7 cycles took their course. Each cycle brings together differ-
ent arrangements of aural and visual elements each with their own data processing logic. One cycle will
just intercept “I am…” phrases from chat rooms whereas another intercepts 4 letter words. You sit on the
edge of your seat wondering what will come up next, and whether the children in the room will mind
when the automated voice booms, “CUNT”.
Chapter Nine – Easter Frolicking!
Written by Rosie Grayburn, designed by Rosie Grayburn
Amazing Rare Things, Buckingham
Palace
‘The Queen gets out her Natural History’ should be the title of this exhibition. With the help of Sir Dave
Attenborough, Queenie managed to pick out the best paintings and artefacts from the Royal Library which
show how artists managed to help us shape our knowledge of the natural world. The exhibition includes
pieces by Leo da Vinci and 3 other influential artists of that era. They chart the discovery of strange, new
species and document the fascination of all things beautiful and bizarre in nature. This will be of great inter-
est to you Medics and Biologists and other curious souls. Check it out.
Admission is £7.50 for students but that gets you access to the entire Queen’s Gallery, plus you get a royal
audio guide. God save her Majesty!
Viva Lolita@Maddox Arts, Oxford
Street
This new exhibition, curated by James Putnam (former curator of the British Museum), is central to a new
business scheme for the art and music industries. Toni Castells, a music technology lecturer here at Imperial,
will be selling his new CD and with it you will buy shares in a painting! There are only 100 CDs available, each
costing £50 and one will buy you 1% ownership in a painting by Edvard Braanaas. A piece of art has never sold
like this before. It should be interesting to see how that experiment works. In the mean time, go and see the
exhibition because it looks dead cool like.
Glass Gallery and Cast Courts, V&A
If you normally only get as far as the shop or café in the V&A why not delve a little deeper, leaving behind the crowds of kiddies
bouncing around the Sculpture gallery. Turning right at the entrance you walk past the Japanese gallery and up some stairs
into the upper galleries. You find a very different scene up here as you enter the cast courts and come across giant replicas of
Italian Renaissance architecture! It’s quite a shock to find such huge pieces in the V&A when you’re used to straining your eyes
at miniatures. These galleries opened in 1873 as a workshop to replicate works of art such as Michelangelo’s David so that
students could study them without going all the way to Florence, Siena and Rome.
Further up the stairs is the fantastic Glass Gallery. You shouldn’t spend too long looking at the endless cabinets because
they do get rather repetitive but the gallery itself is beautifully laid out and designed. The modern glasses are also well worth
a glance – it’s amazing how they can contort the material into those shapes! Handy interactive screens are at hand to demon-
strate various glassmaking techniques.
A new exhibition arrives at the V&A on the 15th March – China Design Now. It proves to be quite an eye-opener. Watch
this space in Felix Arts for a review… maybe you’ll be writing it for us!
Estorick Collection, Islington
Get into the spirit of spring by visiting a specialist Modern Italian art gallery. Described as “The best way to
spend an afternoon in North London” this small gallery inhabits a beautiful Georgian house and contains 6
smashing galleries, a bookshop (hurrah!) and a café overlooking a beautiful garden (yummy in my tummy).
Sounds divine.
Check out www.estorickcollection.com which details current exhibitions. You thought it couldn’t get any
better? It’s free for students too! [Editor makes groaning sound of pleasure]

