IC Women’s 1st dominate medics with style
Wednesday, February 26 – the day of
medic-bashing had finally arrived. The
IC Ladies 1’s were out in force and
proved too strong an opposition for
the ICSM.
The day kicked off with Preying
Mantis turning up late, flirting her way
onto the bus having still not bought
her Varsity ticket. Moonie obviously
had a lot of pent-up aggression, find-
ing fault with the ACC transportation
in her usual demure manner. Once at
Harlington, the girls settled down into
match-mode with Scotty-the-big-hot-
tie handing out some inspiring chang-
ing room chat.
On the pitch, a poultry medic mas-
cot and a row of hideous scarlet cords
sported by their Men’s 2’s on the side-
line were not enough to distract the
mighty IC Ladies. Some lovely play-
making by Token Lezza and Shoko up
the right wing led to an early goal from
Malvinas in her deadly position on the
P-spot.
As ICSM heads dropped to the floor,
Moonie took advantage with another
classic reverse stick shot. To the med-
ics’ credit they had their fair share of
chances in the first half, but luckily
MJ was completely on fire in goal. As
she had pointed out before the game
– she had a dodgy shoulder, not a
Imperial women’s hockey take the early lead
This year’s clash saw IC as the under-
dogs having played the medics twice
this year in the league and losing one
and drawing the other. The only thing
left to do was to win what was prob-
ably our most important game of the
season.
Not only did 12 players manage to
make it to the union at 10 a.m. but we
also had a self-appointed team ‘manag-
er’ (Fi) and our very own cheerleader
(El). On the bus on our way to Har-
lington Alice C and El taught us chants
borrowed from the RSM to use against
the medics and we were slowly getting
ready for the match. To start the match
we had our longest ever warm up and
looked like a team from the outset.
However, as it was the first match of
the day, we were lacking support and
unfortunately the medics had managed
to bring theirs with them on the early
coach.
ICSM won the toss and started the
game off. It was clear from the start
that they were going to be using dirty
tactics as Maria was struck on the knee
and proceeded to roll around on the
floor. As we weren’t organised enough
to stock up on ice, Alissa had to call the
union to ask for some to be brought
out on the later buses. However Maria
decided to man-up and continue play-
ing, much to Maddie’s delight on the
sideline. I don’t really remember what
happened from then on as I was too
worried about what would happen,
whether I was going to have a heart at-
tack and what I would do when I finally
got my hands on the cup. So the fol-
lowing might not be very accurate.
ICSM managed to dominate play in
the first half, pressurising us to play
down the middle, causing Mala and
captain Amanda to do a lot of run-
ning. We had numerous chances, but it
took about twenty minutes before we
opened the score. All the short corner
practice finally paid off as Mala pushed
out to Bella who scored with a beauti-
ful strike on the goal. That quickly shut
up the medics, including their support
and especially the chicken that was
running up and down the sideline.
This not only calmed our nerves but
proved to everyone that we were going
to put up a fight. The medics came back
hard and kept Mary awake, making
some awesome saves. Izzy played fan-
tastically with Sheena, working hard to
clear the ball away from our D, howev-
er just before half time we were strug-
gling and unfortunately let the medics
claw one back. The half time whistle
blew shortly after, during a medic at-
tack, and was warmly welcomed.
We were privileged enough to have
half-time oranges (brought by Mary,
leaving Amanda to give hers to the La-
dies 1s and Fi to give to the Mens 2s).
As team manager I muscled in on the
half-time talk, praising all the fantas-
tic play, probably the best I’ve seen all
season, but reminded everyone of the
need to mark, especially as the medics
seemed to like their stick tackles, so we
just had to keep hold of the ball for as
long as possible.
By this point the IC support had fi-
nally showed up, and the Mens 2s did
us proud, dishing out as much abuse as
we had received in the first half.
IC came out with a fighting spirit
and it was elegantly shown in the play.
We were working as a team, finally be-
ing able to use Jess and Carina on the
wings as we were no longer forced
down the middle. This was aided by
the chanting, through a traffic cone,
directed at the medics, which included
“what are you hiding under your head-
band” and “who ate all the pies”. Maybe
it was this encouraging support that
led us to push on again. The medics
clearly didn’t like this, and took to in-
juring players to take them out of the
game. Maria got hit on the hand and
had to be taken off as she couldn’t hold
the stick.
This forced Maddie onto the pitch
for the rest of the game, whilst Maria
took full advantage of the ice packs
that turned up on the later buses.
However we fought on as a team and
some inspiring play let Mala feed the
ball to Amanda who took the ball into
the D and scored from open play. The
nerves were all finally settling for IC
as we now took the lead. After a while
longer, maybe 10 minutes, someone
was fouled inside the D, and IC were
awarded a penalty stroke (not entirely
sure why, but we think it was because
the ball was stopped on the line by a
foot, and as we all know that’s just
plain old cheating). Mala stepped up
to take this, the pressure was on, and
some medic was whining about it,
but she got told to pipe down. Unfor-
tunately the pressure got to Mala and
she missed, nearly giving me the heart
attack I was worried about. We had to
hang on for just 10 minutes longer.
IC were clearly tiring, and with Mar-
ia injured, even though she claimed
she could go back on if we taped the
stick to her hand, we no longer had any
subs. ICSM capitalised on this, relent-
5
Varsity Special
Francine Oddy
Hockey
Varsity
Imperial Women’s 1st 6
Medicals Women’s 1st 2
Fiona Jamieson
Hockey
Varsity
Imperial Women’s 1st 2
Medicals Women’s 1st 1
lessly attacking the D. At one point
Mary confused everyone by hiding the
ball under her foot and when she finally
decided to move Izzy had to launch in
and steal it from the two medics lurk-
ing by the goal. However we weren’t
always so skillful and one of the medic
scum struck on goal and it went in. The
first umpire awarded the goal. Mary
and our entire defence contested the
discussion (it had clearly hit a medic’s
foot on the way in) and the second um-
pire was consulted, who disallowed the
goal. That showed the medics that they
couldn’t get away with cheating!
The final whistle blew with IC victo-
rious yet again!
dodgy heart. A shortie goal finally got
through, bringing the scoreline to 2-1.
In typical spirit IC fought straight
back, with Kebab and Womble strong
as ever in defence feeding the ball up
to T*tWan* where she hastily got a
short corner. A cracking strike from
CBum was on its way when kicked by
a defender. Penalty Flick. Cue Womble,
and a certain 3-1. After half-time IC
didn’t let up, with another goal apiece
for Malvinas and Moonie. A deserved
medic goal from a pretty great shot
into the top corner brought the score
to 5-2.
What better end to the most awaited
game of the season, than for skipper JD
to score from mid-D into the bottom
corner. An unsurprising MOM was the
legendary MJ. 6-2 6-2 6-2: try again
next year ICSM.
Roxy Foulser-Piggott going for goal
Arabella Walker levitating, magic!

