news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 14 March 2008 felix
News
Full-time for writing-up student?
Graduating PhD student defends himself against local Council for non-payment of Council Taxes
Tom Roberts
Editor-in-Chief
Matthew Yong’s original Court Summons letter, before a
single persons discount was applied to the amount owed. He
is due to appear and defend himself in court on 20th March
charged with non-payment of Council Taxes during his thesis
writing-up period
UCL Union bans military societies
Controversy as UCLU declares war on student military organisations to protest Iraq and Afghan conflicts
A graduating Imperial PhD student is
being taken to court by his local Coun-
cil for non-payment of Council Taxes
during his thesis writing-up period.
Matthew Yong, an ex-Aeronautical
Engineering student, has been sum-
moned by the Camden & Islington Lo-
cal Justice Area to appear in court on
20th March, charged with owing six
months worth of Council Tax to the
sum of £675.08
The majority of PhD students ap-
ply for “writing-up status” at the end
of their third year, the idea being that
they will have finished their research
and will only need to write their thesis.
If they are successful, they are granted
a six-month period during which they
are not required to pay tuition fees,
however, they have certain student
privileges cut and restrictions imposed
upon them, such as: they are only al-
lowed access to certain areas of Col-
lege; they no longer receive TfL (Trans-
port For London) discounts; and they
are given limited access to their project
supervisors.
The amount and severity of reduced
privileges differs between universities
across the country. Currently, Impe-
rial refuses to award its writing-up
students Council Tax exemption cer-
tificates, hence, the case being brought
against Mr Yong by Camden Council.
Mr Yong strongly disputes having
to pay the six-months worth of Coun-
cil Tax. He is willing to fight his case
stating that: “I will not only be vigor-
ously defending my position, but will
also seek to reclaim costs for having to
take a day off work and commute back
to London to sort this stressful matter
out.” Mr Yong claims to “meet all cri-
teria for being a full time student … as
outlined in Statutory Instrument 1992
No. 548 The Council Tax (Discount
Disregards) Order 1992”; namely that
he has been attending a course which
lasted more than one year, for more
than 24 weeks per year in which he has
completed more than 21 hours of work
per week.
Mr Yong made attempts to commu-
nicate with Camden Council, however
they have not replied to his letters or
emails. Furthermore, he has the back-
ing of his local Conservative candidate,
Chris Philp, Imperial College Union
and his PhD project supervisors who
have written letters of support to Cam-
den Council stating that he was a full-
time student in their views, which have
also received no reply.
Despite these letters, Camden Coun-
cil is resolute in charging Mr Yong the
Council Tax because, according to a
student certificate they received from
College, he is not in full time educa-
tion. When Felix attempted to contact
Camden Council, a spokesperson said
that: “Imperial College have issued a
student certificate until the date Mr
Yong's course ended on 4/7/2007 and
have confirmed verbally to us that
he has not been on a full time course
since that date. He cannot, therefore,
get a student exemption. This has been
explained to him [when he visited us
in person] and as normal practice we
have sent him a summons for non-pay-
ment of tax since that date. We would
be happy to review the position if the
College issued us a further certificate,
which confirmed the writing up of his
PhD constitutes continuation of his
full time course.”
Felix attempted to contact College,
however they were not available for
comment before going to print.
Mr Yong’s case highlights a long-
running issue that many students
studying a PhD have to consider. With-
out funding, PhD students effectively
face unemployment when they start
their writing-up phase, yet depending
on which university they attend, they
are expected to pay Council Tax even
though they are discouraged from
finding part-time employment in or-
der to concentrate on completing their
thesis.
The UK’s universities have differ-
ing stances on the privileges afforded
to postgraduates in the writing-
up phase. For example, Oxford,
Cambridge, Birmingham, Leeds
and Edinburgh Universities class
writing-up postgraduates as full-
time students, whereas Bristol,
Cardiff, Glasgow and Southamp-
ton Universities will not guaran-
tee their students Council Tax
exemption certificates. The NUS
(National Union of Students) is
in the process of campaigning
for a consistent national ruling
that is fairer towards students.
Although the Union and Mr
Yong’s project supervisors
have offered their support,
there is only so much they can
do. The crux of the situation
comes down to whether or not
writing-up students should be
classed as full-time students
or not. Depending on which
London borough a writing-up
student lives in, they may or
may not have to pay Council
Tax. It is futile for Imperial
College Union to negotiate
with Councils because there
are so many in London. Ul-
timately, the decision as to
whether a writing-up stu-
dent should be given full-
time status time lies with
College.
Sabbatical Officers from
the Union are meeting with
College staff in May to en-
courage them to revise
Imperial’s current policy.
However, this may prove to
be too little, too late for Mr
Yong who could be cough-
ing up six months worth of
Council Tax come March
20th.
If you are in similar circumstances
to Mr Yong and need advice, you
can contact Deputy President
(Education & Welfare), Kirsty
Patterson, by emailing her on
dpew@imperial.ac.uk
UCL Union has passed a motion ban-
ning student military organisations
from advertising on UCLU premises
and from recruiting at the UCL Fresh-
ers’ Fair, drawing widespread criticism
from both their own university and the
Ministry of Defence.
The events at UCLU follow similar
motions at LSE and Goldsmiths passed
this year by their respective unions, and
a contrary motion by ICU made last
month pledging to allow the Univer-
sity of London Officer Training Corps
(ULOTC), University Royal Naval Unit
(URNU), and the University of London
Air Squadron (ULAS) to continue to
advertise at the IC Freshers’ Fair. ICU
President, Stephen Brown, also voiced
his strong opinion on the matter, call-
ing the actions of UCLU “an absolute
disgrace”.
The UCLU motion justifies their
course of action by stating that: “For
the Union to use its resources to en-
courage students to join the military or
participate in military recruitment ac-
tivities at this time would give political
and material support to the war.”
The Union’s reasoning has been crit-
icised by media pundits for suggesting
that the military is responsible for for-
eign policy.
The student row has been catapulted
into the headlines of the media by the
recent events surrounding RAF Wit-
tering’s ban on service members wear-
ing uniform in public.
The Telegraph quoted MP and
former infantry commander Patrick
Mercer as saying: “These students are
deeply misguided. They are insulting
the men and women who fight for their
freedom and the democratic rights of
our society.”
UCLitselfhasalsospokenoutagainst
the Union, saying: “This vote was taken
by the student union and refers to un-
ion premises and events only.
“It has no implications for any activi-
ties held on the main campus of UCL,
or sponsored by the university.”
There are various student military
units around the country, and of those,
the London-based wings are amongst
the largest. Whilst student military or-
ganisations are part of the national mil-
itary reserve, students are exempt from
normal rules on active duty, only eligi-
ble for call-up in event of a “National
Emergency.” In addition to this, they
are free to leave at any time, are not ob-
ligated to join the military, and only a
tiny percentage of the total number go
on to enter the armed forces either as
a full reserve or as a career. Most seem
to join these organisations for leader-
ship experience, adventure, and for the
small salary and bonuses that are paid
for time spent gaining skills and trying
out expensive activities.
Opponents of the organisations
point out that the reason for the units
to exist is primarily as a recruitment
tool for graduates and highly-skilled
people who would not otherwise have
considered a career in the military.
UCLU also alludes to the recruitment
policies (that only UK nationals un-
der 30 may join) that conflict with its
own equal opportunity policy. Many
anti-war and anti-arms activists also
believe that support of the organisa-
tions is tantamount to support of the
Iraq and Afghan campaigns, and con-
flicts with policies that refuse support
for arms firms.
Following complaints from UCL
students themselves, surrounding al-
legations of improper procedure in the
meeting that passed the motion, the
General Secretary has been suspended
along with all policies passsed at the
event, pending an investigation.
The ailing University of London Un-
ion (ULU) is also affected by the is-
sue after passing a motion of support
similar to the ICU resolution, with its
president voicing reluctance to carry
out the passed motion.
Andrew Somerville was a member of
the ULOTC from 2006-2007
Andrew Somerville
Deputy & News Editor
URNU rescues their dummy

