fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
22 felix Friday 14 March 2008
Fashion
Fashion Editors – Sarah Skeete and Daniel Wan
Stylish? Cool? Imperial? You what?!
Imperial College RAG Fashion Show
rolls around again, and the medic’s
RAG team once again showcase what’s
going to be in for the new season. They
dressed then impressed the students
and public alike, but most importantly
raised thousands of pounds for Michael
Sobell House of Mount Vernon Hosp-
tial which is a hospice that cares for
patients to the end of their life.
With such a worthy cause as inspira-
tion, four months of organization and
hard work from a team of 75 students
resulted in a spectacle of culture, col-
our, style and humour.
Held at Guanabara in Holborn, the
official name of the 2008 event was
‘Global Disco’. The audience was taken
away from the grey pavements and
buildings of Imperial College and into
the sparkle and shine of Tokyo and Mi-
lan. Each walk featured a different city;
represented through the combined
fashion and music. From Puma and
O’Neill to Sam Greenberg and I Love
Lola, a host of well-established brand
names were showcased alongside the
products of smaller and upcoming de-
signers.
Fashion show co-chairs Alice John-
ston and Josh Wong said they took
some of their inspiration from their
weekend at Glastonbury festival. This
was evident in the event, with the
strong emphasis on music as well as
the fashion, but also with the ever-
welcome reoccurrence of indie-based
designs. They even acquired a dona-
tion of wellies from funkywellingtons.
com to give a final touch to the slight
tongue-in-cheek Glastonbury-themed
walk. The hours of therapeutic pleas-
ure of picking your way through thrift
stores was epitomised in the opening
walk, with Brick Lane-based vintage-
wholesaler Sam Greenberg contribut-
ing. Alternative fashion powerhouse
Urban Outfitters supplied their cloth-
ing for the LA inspired showcase, with
the High Street Kensington branch
providing local support to the Imperial
College RAG fund.
Also, Johnston and Wong commend-
ably followed London Fashion Week’s
lead. A notable addition to this year’s
order was a dedicated walk to ethical
fashion. Adili, an ethical and fair-trade
online house was the sole contributor,
and it was nice to see an independent
company given such prominence in
the show. I mean, featuring Topshop’s
range of three fair-trade T-shirts could
have been a very easy option.
With the image of Imperial College’s
finest-looking students in nothing but
The Imperial College RAG Fashion show was held this week, with some rather impressive results
underwear, from Milan-based Intimis-
simi, still very firmly in mind, the night
ended with a super-hip performance
from the Funkology society. If you
weren’t there, you missed out; it was
like being at some crazy conceptual
university that dishes out those odd lit-
tle things known as BAs.
Stylish, creative, and cool. I never
thought I’d hear those three words as-
sociated with Imperial College in my
lifetime.
Daniel Wan
Fsashion Editor
Josh Wong and Alice Johnston recieving the applause and appraisal
they duly deserve after the final walk [Photographs by Geoff Chow]

