film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
24 felix Friday 14 March 2008
Film
Film Editor – Alex Casey
George Romero: Diarist of the dead
in satire. Sheepish horde psychology is
also at the forefront of this film, dou-
bled by Romero’s usual intricacies on
the human nature and its reflection on
the social self in the context of despair
and the unknown.
Most naturally, the following en-
trance in the Dead series was called
Day of the Dead and it took Romero
another eight years before releasing it.
It was a bit of a change in atmosphere
from the previous two outings, as the
story revolved around a military bun-
ker with army men and scientists, en-
circled by hordes of undead yearning
for their flesh.
The story revolves mostly around an
undead,namedBob,whomthemilitary
had captured and were trying to edu-
cate. The movie dims the line between
the two “antagonistic groups” (human
and undead), questioning whether
there are any fundamental differences
between their natures, in a sordid tale
of morality and army mentality.
Land of the Dead, which appeared in
2005, twenty years since Day, seems to
emphasize variation rather than origi-
nality within the series, but it manages
to literally raise it from the dead. This
outing is the logical step forward from
its predecessor, portraying a world of
severe disparity, in which a two-lay-
ered society survives encapsulated in
the remains of Pittsburgh, while the
undead have taken over the world. A
special salvage vehicle is being used to
retrieve useful items from outside the
“safe zone”, in order to keep life run-
ning on a day-to-day basis.
However, the more interesting bit of
the film develops outside the contain-
ment area, where the undead slowly
but surely develop a sense of social
togetherness, under the leadership of
a pretty commanding “boss”, who ul-
timately finds a way to penetrate the
defence system set up by the humans
and wreak havoc. Despite Romero’s
good intentions and fine execution, it’s
much harder for Land of the Dead to
stand out, in this oversaturated age of
zombie films, which have been blandly
rehashing the same ideas and concepts
With his second film in three years, director George A. Romero would seem to be quickening the pace
given his less than prolific previous output. Felix decides to have a retrospective to prove less can be more
Stefan Carpanu
for years now – with the odd success-
ful exceptions, such as the obvious 28
Days Later.
Funnily enough, both Land and Day,
which had to bear more criticism than
the previous films, were high-budget
films compared to these, having cost
sixteen million and three and a half
million respectively, as opposed to the
one hundred thousand spent on Night
and five hundred thousand spent on
Dawn(inflationnotwithstanding).This
month has seen another Dead film roll
out on the UK screens, entitled Diary
of the Dead. Shot in a blair witchian/
cloverfieldian manner in just over
three weeks, it represents a return to
his roots for Romero. The film tells the
tale of a group of students who, while
producing a horror movie of their own,
come across the real deal. It does seem,
though, that Romero is trying to re-
mind us of all the things he’s said and
done along the years, encompassing
most of them in this latest film, thereby
sacrificing much of its potential origi-
nal feel. At certain points it seems a lot
like he’s parodying himself. Still, there
are interesting bits and good pieces
in this Diary, although it’s hard to say
whether you’ll really feel it’s worth it. I
suppose it comes down to how much
the undead mean to you.
Whatever may be said, though, of
these last two or three films in the se-
ries, it in no way diminishes the artistic
and cultural impact of Romero’s ear-
lier work. Ironically, his first two Dead
films, which came to define a serious
chunk of the horror genre, have not
aged very well, working no longer as
horror films in the present day – the
sad consequence of technological ad-
vances, which affect horror and sci-fi
films more than other genres. Beyond
this however, Romero’s legacy stands
strong.
If its endurance alone isn’t proof
enough for the relevance of the series,
then surely the innumerable remakes,
spin-offs and parodies show how rich a
source it has proven along the decades:
Night was remade in 1990 and again in
2006, Dawn was remade in 2004 and
the Day remake is currently in the
works. Films such as the prolific Return
of the Living Dead series, Shaun of the
Dead or the more recent Fido parodied
Romero’s Dead to different degrees of
success, as did a bunch of many other
similarly-minded flicks.
Moreover, it seems that Diary of
the Dead already has a sequel in the
works, proof of the fact that Romero
never seems to get old in his zealous
adventures within the world of the un-
dead. As opposed to other horror cult
figures (Wes Craven to name one), it is
remarkable that Romero can still carry
the battle with time and society in a
dignified manner, sacrificing no more
than is necessary in terms of quality in
his works of horror, even if the “undead
revolution” has long gone. It’s amusing
to think of how someone could ever
differentiate between “a zombie” and
“an undead”, but that is exactly what
Romero achieved by instilling meaning
and purpose into an otherwise utterly
commercial genre.
While the success garnered beyond
the Dead series was little, he shall un-
doubtedly remain one of the few real
Masters of Horror – the kind of hor-
ror which is more than gore and guts,
more than an amateurish TV Series,
more than a money-making machine;
and yet a little of each of these.
It’s actually quite ironic that the first
‘returning dead’ movie I ever saw was
a parody of the genre. When I reached
the exciting age of ten, a friend tempted
me to watch Return of the Living Dead,
and while I didn’t give in to temptation,
I gave in to my then over-inflated ego,
which had been rattled in its cage of
reputability.
The sheer horror! For almost half a
decade I didn’t want to have anything to
do with the living dead (not that I’d be
overexcited about it at this point in my
life). Only once I had stopped thinking
each night of how far the graveyards
were from wherever I happened to be
spending the hours after dusk did my
interest in re-experiencing ‘the un-
dead’ start reviving itself, and, like any
revival, it went deep and cleansed me
of all my fears – replacing it with plain,
good old passionate despair.
This madness all started forty years
ago, in 1968, with the release of George
A. Romero’s Night of the Living Dead.
A critique of the American war in Vi-
etnam, the film told the story of a small
group of people who retreat to a cot-
tage over night, as the dead come to life
in a most bizarre, sinister and unex-
plainable event. The fight for survival
and the tension between the protago-
nists are portrayed with cinematic flair
by the then first-timer Romero, but it
is the underlying connotations and its
enormous cultural impact which have
transformed this film into a milestone
of the horror genre, not to mention
how it had the same effect on many
people that RotLD had on me – a bit
weird, looking at it from the present.
The second film in the series, Dawn
of the Dead saw the light of day ten
years later. Arguably more popular
than the first, Dawn criticized the
surge of consumerism, as the United
States had become a showcase for the
consumption-driven society. This time
around, another group of people bar-
ricades itself in a shopping mall, as the
dead have gone rampant again, in what
proves to be, above all, a great exercise
Mmm, tastes like chicken

