4 felix Friday 14 March 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix
I
use Windows. Oh, don’t tell me.
You use a Mac. Don’t lie to me
– I can tell. That superior, mes-
sianic glint in your eye reveals
everything. Well, technically
that’s supposed to make our relation-
ship a touchy one, but I’m sure we can
get over it. It’s not as though I’m a par-
ticularly devout Microsoftist; I mean,
sure, I use a double-buttoned mouse,
but that’s just the way I’ve been brought
up. It’s not as though I actually believe
that Bill Gates is the saviour. You could
probably say I’m an agnostic – there
may be a superior operating system out
there somewhere, but we mere mortals
will never know the truth.
That must strike all you Appellites
as heresy. I don’t mind; I’ve been called
worse. What I do mind is the animos-
ity displayed by the three great Mono-
systemic organizations towards their
rivals. The teachings of Microsoft, Ap-
ple and Linux have been so distorted
over the decades: essentially, don’t you
all believe in the same thing?
The faith of the Windosians rests on
the sacred teaching that Bill Gates is
the One Messiah. That he was put on
Earth to spread the light of the four-
coloured flag and disseminate the glo-
ry of the Xbox 360. Contrast this with
The DOS delusion
Gilead Amit
what the Mackintoshites believe. They
hold that Steve Jobs is the true proph-
et, sent to prepare us for the future by
teaching us of the hidden powers of
the half-eaten apple and the mysteries
of the iPhone.
It may be hard for true believers to
see the similarities, but to all objective
onlookers there is no real difference.
Some may interpret the history in one
way, others may do it differently, but
both of the two great belief systems
hold that a “nerd did appear in the
wilderness of the 1970s, and brought
he forth an operating system that did
amaze the people.” If the feud wasn’t
so bitter, it would almost be comical
to see how divisions have arisen over
nothing.
I can’t claim to know much about
Linux. Compared to the followers of
Jobs and Gates, only a few people have
true faith in Linus Torvalds and his
teachings. In any case, my experience
has shown that Linuxians tend to be a
good deal less dogmatic in their beliefs.
Despite, or maybe because of their
clear minority status, most have come
to accept the validity of both other be-
lief systems, and just choose to politely
disagree.
Of course, Linux and Apple have a
stronger bond than either does with
Microsoft – the teachings of Jobs have
recently been interpreted to reveal
that Linus Torvalds is, in fact, a minor
prophet in Appellism. Therefore, his
teachings and operating system are al-
most universally accepted in the Mack-
intoshite world. True, it’s seen as a
somewhat fundamentalist subdivision,
but their comparative pacifism has
gained them no real enemies. Besides,
it’s hard to bear grudges against a peo-
ple whose supreme deity is a penguin.
The point I want to make, though,
is that there are tremendous possibili-
ties for M’ites and W’sians to get along
peacefully. It just takes a little objectiv-
ity. The moment you stop taking the
teachings of Jobs or of Gates absolutely
literally, there is no reason to prevent
you tolerating and respecting your fel-
low technophile. The last few years
have seen a worrying rise in Mac-PC
violence, and I think it’s important to
get this matter under control before it
becomes something bigger.
Now that I’m reaching the end of this,
I’ll be honest with you; I’m more of an
asystemist than an agnostic. I believe
that there is no supreme operating sys-
tem; that all are just as good or just as
bad. Of course, I’m willing to have my
opinion changed, but given the state of
things, it seems unlikely. Some of my
more intense friends hold that actually
believing there is a supreme system is
harmful. They could be right, I don’t
know. It’s certainly very comforting to
think that the computer you own qual-
ifies you as a chosen one, but don’t mix
up comfort with truth.
In any case, remember that there is
more that links you together than di-
vides you; what you believe shouldn’t
drive you apart.
T
he Gaza strip, a small
plot of land lying in the
south-east of Israel, home
to some 1.5 million Pal-
estinians, has endured a
long and turbulent history to say the
very least. It has suffered many long-
term trends of economic stagnation
and desperately low social and welfare
indicators.
However, over the past few months
this situation has witnessed a dramatic
jump in its severity, to the extent that it
has become a serious humanitarian cri-
sis. The root of this recent exponential
decline in living conditions stems from
the stringent blockade imposed by Is-
rael in response to the 2006 election
of Hamas and its subsequent de facto
takeover, coupled with the ongoing fir-
ing of rockets into Israeli territory.
A recent report produced collabo-
ratively by, amongst others, Amnesty
International, Oxfam and Save the
Children has highlighted the dire cir-
cumstances of the Gazan population
with respect to humanitarian access,
poverty, food aid, unemployment, ba-
sic infrastructure and access to basic
medical treatment.
The unprecedented rise of poverty
following the blockade is perhaps, at
firstglance,themoststartlingindicator.
The crippling restriction of goods and
people moving out of or into Gaza has
resulted in the percentage of those de-
pendent on humanitarian aid rise from
62% in 2006 to its present day value of
80%. There are over 1.1 million reliant
on food aid. These figures continue to
climb and the UN estimates that the
percentage dependent on aid will, in
a limited time period, rise “above and
beyond” its current level.
In the same breath, the economic
collapse of Gaza renders any hope of
recovery, whilst under these imposed
restrictions, woefully unrealistic. 95%
of industry is suspended and 3,500 of
the 3,900 of its factories have closed
in the last 6 months due to the ban on
imported raw materials and exports.
Unemployment is set to rise to 50% in
the near future.
Meanwhile, the ability for humani-
tarian aid to be delivered to the Gazan
populace has been severely hampered.
Somewhere in the region of 250 trucks
a day carried commercial and humani-
tarian supplies to Gaza through Sufa
prior to the blockade. A maximum,
which is rarely met, of 45 trucks now
pass through Sufa.
Consequently, the Gaza strip is expe-
riencing a serious electricity deficit as
the power plant depends on imported
diesel. In principle the plant is able to
produce 140MW, sufficient, at least, to
supply Gaza city. However, this was re-
duced to 80MW following the destruc-
tion of the original transformers by
Israel in 2006. In fact, combined with
the restrictions on fuel imports, it now
only produces 55-65MW. This has
serious knock-on effects. Principally,
it has impeded the supply of running
water by some 30% and hospitals face
8-12 hour blackouts each day.
While the report condemns the
rocket attacks and states that Israel
maintains “a right and obligation to
protect its citizens” it stresses that the
intolerable conditions generated by the
blockade amount to an indiscriminate
on-going collective punishment of the
men, women, and children of Gaza. As
such, it claims that the blockade is il-
legal under international law set out
in the Fourth Geneva Convention, as
ratified by Israel in 1949.
Well, what of it? What can we do?
The report concludes that, at the very
Leron Borsten
Working to end the siege of Gaza
least, the UK and EU must publicly
condemn the blockade and its associ-
ated breaches of human rights while
actively working towards an end to
the siege of Gaza. With this in mind,
I would say one thing we students can
do is apply political pressure on our
government to do just that by joining
other Imperial students on the “World
against War” demonstration, one slo-
gan of which is “end the siege of Gaza”,
tomorrow (Sat 15th of March). We will
be meeting in Beit Quad at 11.20am
and leaving at 11.45 to join the main
demonstration. See you there! See
www.stopwar.org for more details.
The Felix Office: Using Macs
before Steve Jobs was born

