28 felix Friday 14 March 2008
The Ting Tings
Koko
29th February, 2008
Reality Check, the debut album
from The Teenagers, if availalbe
from March 17th through Merok
Recordings.
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Music
Katie White and Jules de Martino, oth-
erwise know as The Ting Tings to you
cool young folk, hail from up north
and descended upon Camden Town
last weekend to play Koko. The sexy
duo have a varied musical background
between them: Katie having a stint in
a girl band that supported the likes of
Steps and Five and Jules being involved
with several indie bands. With their
chic look and a great response from
the media, with appearances on Jules
Holland and heavy radio play, our ex-
pectations were high.
Kicking off at around 1 in the morn-
ing, The Ting Tings were loud, ener-
getic and got the crowd moving. They
did not, however, impress us in the
slightest. The core problem with The
Ting Tings is that live they sound like
your mum shouting at you because
you’ve done some stupid shit. Like a
jackhammer that won’t quit, The Ting
Tings made me put their music aside,
for my sanity’s sake, and start to fo-
cus on other things: When is the last
bus home ? Is that a man or a woman?
What’s that smell, is it me? Ranting
aside, we have to admit that it wasn’t
an ideal venue – the sound quality was
poor, and none of the rich texture from
their studio-produced tracks was evi-
dent. So let’s give credit where credit’s
due and look at what the gig could have
been like.
As we’ve already told you, The Ting
Tings are just Katie on vocals/guitar
and Jules on drums/vocals, and togeth-
er they come up with a big sound that
The Editors’ sell-out show at Alexandra Palace
The Editors have it all. Getting signed,
selling truck loads of albums and sin-
gles alike, and embarking on tours
worldwide in a space of roughly 5 years
- they are the paradigm of the rock and
roll dream that millions of struggling
musicians would die for.
The Editors electrified the stage at
Alexandra Palace in every sense of
the word. Being a palace, this majes-
tic venue cannot but exude grandeur,
befitting a four piece that are currently
kings of the castle in the ever-shifting
precarious music industry.
Waiting in the freezing cold for
what seemed like an eternity before
the doors opened was definitely not a
highlight. And if one was to be truly
honest, the two supporting acts, Mor-
bius and Sons & Daughters, were sim-
ply not up to scratch. But, here’s where
it gets good.
When the lights went out, we all
knew that it was time. Time to treat our
ears to colossal noise and scintillating
soundscapes. The Editors showcased
their top-drawer repertoire of songs
both from their debut platinum album
‘The Back Room’ as well as equally
stunning material from their second
album ‘An End Has A Start’ that shot
The Editors
Alexandra Palace
5th March, 2008
Tom Smith (of Editors fame) live at Alexandra Palace
straight to number one after immedi-
ate release last summer.
They took to the stage, setting off to
a flying start with the hauntingly ethe-
real ‘Camera’, taken from ‘The Back
Room’. Synthesizers filled the entire
great hall along with the entrancing
throbbing bassline, hooking the crowd
with a devouring sense of brooding ee-
riness, which was palpably compound-
ed by the smoke that slowly swarmed
around the hall. What a way to start the
ball rolling, if it means sending shivers
down one’s spine. It truly did. “Look at
us through the lens of a camera / Does
it remove all of our pain?” Tom, the
vocalist asks. Surely you can’t wipe out
suffering as easily as a look. Life would
be just too simplistic and colourless. “If
we run they’ll look in the back room,
where we hide all of our feelings”.
Belters with the likes of ‘All Sparks,
Munich’, ‘Blood’ and ‘An End has a
Start’ took to crashing effect as all re-
ceived furiously rapturous reception.
The dramatic swooping soundscapes
with tremendous guitar workout by
frontman Tom’s strong vocal delivery
reminiscent of Ian Curtis, and pul-
sating drums had no trouble spawn-
ing frantic excitement and a dynamic
vibe amongst the thousands that were
present at this hair-raising perform-
ance. With these killer hook-laden
tunes, fans went mental, shouting,
singing and screaming at the top of
their lungs. Heavy chorus crescendoes
and roaring drums and bass dominated
the scene as showstoppers ‘Fingers in
the Factory’ and ‘Bullets’ boomed from
all corners. Everyone was on their feet,
jumping to the perennially-repeated
lines of “Keep with me, keep with me”
and “You don’t need this disease”. The
crowd could not help but also take
an irrevocable liking to the compel-
ling guitar refrain in ‘Escape the Nest
and Bones’ which crushingly took
our breaths away. The set was highly
energetic and the band conveyed a
surprisingly array of different atmos-
pheres. A change in ambience made a
sweet contrast in softer, tender tracks
like ‘Distance’ and toned down ‘Fall’. “I
wanted to see this for myself”. You cer-
tainly should have been there to have
been spoilt and cocooned in the exqui-
site, mesmerising cacophony thanks to
such an electric live set.
As it was Russell the bassist’s birth-
day that night, we all showed our love
and appreciation by singing ‘Happy
Birthday’. What a way to spend your
birthday - playing to your beloved fans.
He wasn’t complaining one bit.
It is the sheer raw power of the music
and the wave of energy that captivated
the thousands of us there under the
thunder and lightning. The night could
not end without an encore. So we had
‘Smokers Outside the Hospital Doors’
to finally appease our insatiable appe-
tite before they departed the stage to
deafening applause.
The Editors live is nothing but terrif-
ic energy, great passionate music and
timeless delivery.
Susan Yu
The Ting Tings standing in front of a wall, by the looks of it
sustains through most of their songs.
With a rich texture most of their songs
amount to a very peppy poppy sound.
Jules is unrelenting on the drums, not
letting the pace slow for a second. This
was obviously great for uplifting the
crowd, but with no real slow-down in
the pace or change in the hugeness of
the sound The Ting Tings leave you
tired, as it’s all a little bit too much. Ka-
tie helped things out with her melodic
breaks but we felt that they could’ve
done a bit more, even if it was just pop
rock.
So, as you might have gathered, the
sound didn’t really agree with us, but
the beauty of live music is that there
is more going on than just the sound
hitting you in the face and in this re-
spect The Ting Tings were pretty cool.
Katie has been known to stop mid-
song to ask fans to stop filming and
start watching them, which should be
saluted. Sadly we didn’t witness such
bitchiness but Katie was pumped up,
jumping all over the place mixing it
up with the crowd. Jules the drummer
was like a crazy toy monkey going wild
every now and again, considering he’s a
drummer he had a pretty big presence
on stage, his mechanical thumping be-
ing a visual heartbeat for the songs.
However, although visually entertain-
ing, we still can’t say we’re big fans of
The Ting Tings.
With nothing interesting going on
musically, those of us who weren’t
completely inebriated and busy throw-
ing bottles at surrounding people by
the stage were close to falling asleep
by the end. If you missed it, you didn’t
miss out.
Chris Birkett & Anthony Lazzaro
(IC Radio)
Reality Check: The Teenagers’ debut album
The Teenagers
Reality Check
Merok Recordings
★★✩✩✩
‘Reality Check’ is the debut album of
childishly-named French indetronica
band ‘The Teenagers’. Being Parisians
who grew up in England, their music
is an odd mix of British indie rock and
twinkling French electro. The album
works and flows well but it doesn¹t
hold to repeated listening. First time
through, the songs spark of novelty
and variety like the world of sex, drugs
and alcohol does to the young, exem-
plified by the band’s varying guitar
dominance and volume. However, on
repeated listening, ‘The Teenagers’
lustful nature abandons you at a party
of wasted skin-loving fifteen-year-olds
and leaves you with the realisation that
it was all superficial. Ironically you do
take a ‘Reality Check’ - perhaps not the
one the band was intending though.
The singles ‘Love no’ and ‘Scarlett Jo-
hansson’ tend toward pop, and after a
few listens it is hard to distinguish them
from generic indie. ‘Scarlett Johansson’
does start promisingly with the spoken
“We know you were born in 84 / Half
Polish / Half Danish” layered over puls-
ing guitars, but after the intro it could
have been any of their songs.
‘Homecoming’, ‘The Streets of Paris’,
and ‘Make It better’ do linger in the
memory. ‘Streets of Paris’ has a driv-
ing narrative that keeps you hooked to
the end and ‘Make it Better’ has a very
catchy electronic bridge. However, the
biggest impression they leave is caused
more by cheap tricks , for example us-
ing the c-word, rather than their music
being something special. No doubt this
will all pander to the interpretation of
‘cool’ of their natural fan base, and just
like in ‘Feeling Better’ where the band
bigs themselves up, a pet hate of mine,
it all smacks of a publicity stunt.
I¹m afraid to say ‘The Teenagers’
don¹t manage to shake the prejudice
that comes with their band name but
all that said it is much better than I ex-
pected. If you¹d like to see them your-
self they are playing Cargo on the 7th
of April.
Sarah-Emily Mutch
The Teenagers: Michael Szpiner, Dorian Dumont and Quentin Delafon

