music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
29
Friday 14 March 2008 felix
Music
These next few weeks are shaping up
to be rather splendid for debut album
releases. Foals’ ‘Antidotes’ has been
slowly climbing up the ranks of my
Last.FM recently, and expectations
are high for Youthmovie’s ‘Good Na-
ture’ which drops next Monday. If that
sounds a little too guitar-based to get
your ears salivating then fret not as
Mit’s ‘Coda’ arrives on the 17th with
some synthy krautrockesque minimal
electronic post punk...
Just to get this out the way before I
start, I love this album. I’ve been trying
to write this review for ages but keep
getting lost in the music every time I
put it on. This is the second week in a
row that Music Felix’s pages have been
filled with contributors waxing lyrical
about Mit and there’s a reason for it -
they’re fucking awesome. I’m sorry to
put it so bluntly and un-poetic-like but
this album really is quite excellent.
Mit make minimal electronic music
that sounds dark and brooding but is
also really danceable. With only three
members - one singer, one drummer
and a moog fiddler/programmer/ad-
ditional drummer - the tracks have
a certain wide and open feel to them
while managing to stay engaging and
impossible to stand still to. Lead singer
Edi Danartono’s vocals are delivered in
a haunting high pitch and with a sense
Mit poised to take over the universe
of urgency that seems to drag the rest
of the music along. Even though the
singing is pretty much exclusively in
German, this album is still definitely
aimed at the British music crowd with
Mit playing in London more often than
their hometown of Cologne. The fact
that the lyrics are pretty much indeci-
pherable to most of us adds so much
to the songs. It removes the connota-
tions and emotions that words bring
After the somewhat lacklustre ‘Ho-
tel’ release in 2005, and the ‘Greatest
Hits’ compilation from 2006, it seemed
safe to contend that the world’s most
chilled-out DJ had slipped into some-
thing of a creative nadir after the glory
days of ‘Play’. However, if the single ‘Al-
ice’ is to be seen as a credible foretaste
of the forthcoming album ‘Last Night’,
then we might reconsider.
Anyone who is even vaguely familiar
with Moby’s back catalogue will know
he has a soft-spot for collaborations.
‘Alice’ is no different, as it features
the rappers Aynzil and the 419 squad
throwing some meaningful rhymes in.
Singles: Moby
and Gnarles
Berkley
Mit
Coda
Half Machine Records
★★★★★
‘Mit’ is German for ‘With’
with them, allowing the vocal sounds
to speak for themselves.
Album opener ‘Beispiel’ starts with
dark atmospheric sounds and whirling
noises which are scarily reminiscent
of the soundtrack to David Lynch’s
‘Eraserhead’. A heavy bass drum en-
ters followed by automatic sounding
drums. A lot of the album has a very
mechanical feel to it with repeating
samples and beats flowing past each
other with ease and regularity, which
contrasts beautifully with the expres-
sive vocals. This works particularly
well on ‘Gibt Es Denn Keine Anderen
Grunde’ where distant screams of ago-
ny fade in and out as if being tortured
by some giant clockwork machine. Mit
have created an album which you can
listen to at home but also on the dance-
floor, with each song working perfectly
either on its own or in the overall con-
text of the album.
Synth heavy tracks such as ‘Park’
have an immediate attraction, but it’s
the songs that seem more unapproach-
able on first inspection that are Mit’s
most accomplished, such as ‘Genau An
Diesem Abend’ which builds up slowly
with repeated vocals until screaming
what sounds like “I like dancing”. Coda
is incredibly impressive as a debut al-
bum and Mit are definitely a band to
watch out for in the next few months.
James Houghton
Moby
Alice
★★★★★
Gnarls Barkley
Run
★★✩✩✩
Gnarls Barkley are of course the prod-
uct of the collaboration between Dan-
ger Mouse and Cee-Lo Green that be-
came a household name following the
release of the infectious single ‘Crazy’.
‘Run’ is our first taste of their latest al-
bum, entitled ‘The Odd Couple’, and
I’d say it is an all right song. It is quite
upbeat, with Cee-Lo’s familiar soulful
singing, and features colourful chants
from a children’s choir, but lacks origi-
nality somewhat. Gnarls Barkley con-
tinue in the same vein as their previous
releases, and don’t seem to be doing
anything particularly new with ‘Run’. It
does however have mainstream appeal,
so it will probably be a success.
Mit Shah
The track begins with a heavy in-
dustrial bass-line, analogous to the
new Nine Inch Nails, which is then
immediately supported by some rap-
ping and what could perhaps be called
‘rap-singing’. The heart-felt “This is the
wrong road / This is a dark road” chant
in the chorus sets forth the socio-polit-
ical theme of the song in a refreshingly
non-clichéd manner.
Although Moby hasn’t evolved much
thematically with this song, it is soni-
cally a lot more heavy and angst-ridden
than his older material (although die-
hard fans will know that he did play
in a hardcore-punk band at one time).
Some fans may not wholeheartedly
embrace this sudden change in style,
however those who appreciate Moby
for the dynamic and genre-defying art-
ist he is will welcome this with open
arms.
Ushnish Banerjee
Achieving success in music without
selling out to the generic indie jugger-
naut must be the holy grail of all young
musicians. Maintaining one’s original-
ity is all too hard when the tempta-
tion of seemingly-easy success by just
squeezing one’s music into the indie
mould with its ready-made scene and
an army of fans is open to all up-and-
coming four-pieces. Ironically, the ones
that do go it alone and try to succeed
while sounding original, often achieve
this so-called originality by borrowing
from the past. Nu-rave Klaxons and
Stone Roses’ sound-a-likes Kasabian
testify to this. This tends to lead to
strangely familiar sounding songs, and
ridiculously convoluted genre names.
Nu-rave is bad enough but the genre
‘post-punk revival’, championed, for
example, by Interpol, is outrageously
a revival of post-punk which itself is a
more introspective and experimental
slant on punk rock. So it seems original
sound is gained only at the expense of
vandalising genre names and borrow-
ing from the past.
Until recently this grave-robbing had
not reached so far as the tombs of the
rock ‘n’ roll fathers of rock. This past
year, though, has seen the re-emer-
gence of rock and roll. Typically inven-
tively, this ‘new’ genre has been termed
rock ‘n’ roll revival. Lost and Found, Ri-
chard Hawley, Kitty Daisy and Lewis,
and Vincent Vincent and the Villains
(VVATV) all hark back to the ‘and the’
bands of the 50s and the innocent roots
of rock and roll.
Happily, this isn’t ‘nu-rock ‘n’ roll’, but
instead a tribute to the sound, spirit
and feel of the early days of rock. These
bands not only sound like a rock ‘n’ roll
band, they also go to great lengths to
look like one. Lewis, of Kitty Daisy
and Lewis has a large Elvis-style quiff,
and VVATV make a point of wearing
authentic period attire at their live
performances.
Music today has become synthesized
and knowing, to the extent that bands
regularly employ people to determine
which single should be released first
in order to rake in maximum returns.
Having existed with only limited suc-
cess since 2003, VVATV cannot be
accused of such gold-digging. Their
lyrics, too, are refreshingly innocent,
talking of pretty girls and sweet girl-
friends and crammed with joyous
“whoop”s and “Wa Doo”s. The music
itself is not all that bad either, packed
with catchy riffs and sharp turns of
phrase.
Formed in 2003, VVATV, formerly
The Double Card Bastards, are headed
by Vincent Vincent (real name: Vin-
cent Cusano) who originally shared his
front man duties with Charlie Waller.
Controversially, Waller was also front
man in rival band Rumble Strips and
the tension and pressures created by
this situation eventually led to his leav-
ing VVATV. Happily, the split proved
an inspiration to VVATV who pro-
duced their first major release ‘Johnny
Two Bands’ off the back of it. It was
not all bad for Waller also, who has
had greater success with Rumble Strips
and tellingly, unlike Vincent Vincent,
has his own Wikipedia page.
In their infancy, VVATV, intent
on staying true to their rock and roll
sound, cannot have expected much
success. Indeed in VVATV’s first re-
lease ‘On My Own’, in 2004, Vincent
Vincent admits “I’m on my own / In
this world of rock and roll!” and sings
“I don’t need anybody’s approval / I’ll
live without it happily”. That is until
late 2006 when they were signed up
by EMI – the first rock and roll band
to be signed by a major record label in
twenty years, thereby confirming its
resurgence. They have since released
singles ‘On My Own’ and ‘Pretty Girl’
and with their album ‘Gospel Bombs’
out this Monday they seem destined to
complete an unlikely success story.
‘Gospel Bombs’ comprises exuber-
ant songs overflowing with verve and
vitality. The songs generally take the
form of a story. ‘Pretty Girl’, for exam-
ple, tells the tale of a girl Vincent sees
in the frozen section on aisle four at the
Tesco store, and always means to ask
for her number “But she didn’t see me
at all”. In ‘Sins of Love Wah Do’, Vincent
airs his views on jealousy with comic
depictions of Adam and Eve, and Bon-
nie and Clyde.
The opening song, ‘Beast’, is as high-
spiritedastheothersbutdarestosound
less rock and roll. It features a trumpet
and flamenco-sounding guitar pro-
duced using Pro-Tools software and
fiercely tells the story of a Beast inside
of Vincent which causes his relation-
ships to fail. Prior to the disappointing-
ly lethargic final song, the penultimate
song, ‘Telephone’ is absolutely storm-
ing, driven by a compelling baseline
and the lyrics “I’m waiting by my tel-
ephone / Waiting for my favourite beat
/ Now when my telephone rings / You
know I just can’t stop tugging my feet!”.
These excellent lines are typical of the
generally high quality song-writing on
this album.
The genre has been done and the
chord progressions are very similar in
each song, but Vincent Vincent and
the Villains do rock ‘n’ roll with such
vim and vigour that this is nonetheless
a very enjoyable record. And with rock
‘n’ roll revival on the up it looks like
they might be one of the privileged few
who achieve that holy grail of sounding
fresh and actually succeeding.
Rafe Martyn
Vincent Vincent & The Villains album
Vincent Vincent and the Villains have a long fucking name. They also have an album
which came out last Monday. The awesome and talented Rafe Martyn had a listen
Vincent Vincent & The Villains
Gospel Bombs
EMI
★★★✩✩
Vincent Cusano of VVATV

