comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 14 March 2008 felix
Comment
A. Geek
M
y girlfriend – genius
that she is – bought
me a New Scientist to
read on the ludicrous
train journey I had
to make this week. In fact, it was suf-
ficiently ludicrous to warrant a piece
itself – twice the length it should’ve
been, misdirected and misinformed,
and through the kind of weather that
would make Noah consider getting the
two-by-four out again. I’m writing this
on the return journey (fuck the fourth
wall) and the train is currently inclined
at ten degrees, stationary, and I’m be-
ing informed of a broken rail ahead
which we’re going to run over anyway.
This may not make the Felix presses.
Anyway, more positive thoughts –
the New Scientist. It’s one of my guilty
pleasures, along with drinking litre
bottles of Lucozade in one go and the
song “Talk Dirty To Me” by Poison. Of
course I’m aware that NS is one of the
tabloids of science journalism, but that
doesn’t make it any less bubbly or fun
to read. You’re more likely to get a plot
for a sci-fi novel out of it than you are
inspiration for any real research, but
the journalism always knows how to
cherry-pick the interesting scientific
events, and their features are generally
worked up with a pleasing Dan Brown-
esque spin on them. This issue, for in-
stance, there’s four pages about their
favourite topic ever – Dark Matter. Is it
real? Is it fake? New Scientist yet again
manages to answer ‘yes’ to both ques-
tions with some great citations and
that really lovely graphic design that
decorates all of their pages.
Yes, I probably would adopt it if it
was a person.
The point is that New Scientist, how-
ever crazy or nonsensical it might be,
makes me happy to be a scientist. Fuck
‘engineering’, and fuck it good; engi-
neers are just scientists who can’t be
arsed to generalise. If you’re going to
design a bridge, then why not make it
easier for the poor sod who comes af-
ter you to design the next one, right?
All right, enough of that. For now.
I’d imagine even engineers get a kick
out of this sort of thing, even if it’s not
from this particular publication. As
you read each article, getting a taste of
those specialisms and subjects that you
left behind at A-Level, or second year,
or graduation, you’re suddenly back in
Freshers’ Week again, surrounded by
dozens of people all with roughly the
same knowledge as you, but ready to
take it in hugely different directions.
New Scientist, like Facebook, joins
the dots. It makes sense of what you’re
doing in context of a larger community
– there are people all over the place,
working in different laboratories, un-
der different grants and in different
languages. But the more you read, the
more you’re struck with that pleasing
feeling that they’re all working on the
same research project. The abstract for
the proposal is just one line long, and
it says this – “We aim to find out what
to do next.”
Is that a bit schmaltzy? It sort of
leaves a bad taste in my mouth, re-
reading it, but the adrenaline rush of
surviving the broken rail dash across
open, boggy countryside is too much
to contain. And it remains that the lec-
turers that I admire end up doing real
things, adding to the pool of knowl-
edge in a tangible way. Some of them,
I’m sure they’d admit, end up piddling
in it rather than pouring in a big bottle
of Stimulation For Mind And Body™,
but it’s all based around the same drive
to do something that’s not been done
yet. And I guess engineers can join in
the group hug at that point, too.
The people that I really admire in this
hellhole – Felix staff aside, for wholly
separate reasons – are those that get a
kick out of their 9am lectures. There
are, to my mind, less than ten people
that meet that criteria that I know of.
When I sit down with them for a
drink in some Chemical Engineer-
ing bomb shelter, or lean back in The
Usual Seat at Starbucks, or sit down at
Waterloo for a post-traumatic stress
coffee, they don’t talk about University
like it’s a job, or an extension of their
schooldays. While they might not all
admit it, they talk about it like it’s a
fundamental reason for getting up in
the morning.
The honey trap with exams is to hide
in your shell and revert back to the fe-
verish A-Level student that you used to
be, frantically focusing on the material,
bemoaning every day you tread into
the library and celebrating each exam
that finishes with a witty Facebook
status update. That’s one of the most
painless ways to get through it, I’ll ad-
mit – I myself may be taking my semi-
automatic and clip-on beard into the
streets when this year’s over and fire a
few clips into the air, screaming.
But don’t make this what Imperial
is to you. No matter what degree or
course you’re on, you’ll be forced to
do something that approaches ‘real
research’ by the time your final year is
up here. At that time, you’ll have gone
further than most people in your field,
and you’ll be looking at something that
not many people ever will.
Whether that makes the exercise
seem all the more futile to you, or all
the more beautiful, depends somewhat
upon your state of mind. But I know
that most of the people I met in my
Freshers’ week back in <insert some
random year in here, Tomo, just to
screw with everyone’s mind> fell firmly
into the latter category back then, even
if they may not now.
Pick up a copy of New Scientist, or
take look around the Bad Science blog.
Flick through the BBC Science page or
volunteer to mentor in local schools.
Fly out to Eastern Europe to ask people
how they feel about their fields, or ask
your personal tutor how their research
is going. Don’t let your three or four
years of being a scientist pass you by.
Dot-to-dot with New Scientist
Linnearse
Presenting the footballer
G
ood tidings to you all
once again. The astute
among you may have
noticed my facelift, the
picture a fortnight ago
was in fact a representation of the de-
lightfully rare Finance Tart group. This
week we’ll be looking at an equally
despicable group of oxygen thieves –
the IC Footballers. Here’s one of their
semi-literate ilk trying to communi-
cate with us:
The Footballer
Fuckin’ WHHAAAY! What am I do-
ing in a place like this – everyone’s a
fucking geek/loser. Except me, my
mates and a few birds I wank over oc-
casionally. So what if I’m only a spotty
yob with three decent A-levels. I’m
fucking amazing at football. I get into
some serious shit on the pitch. We’re
talking antagonising other players here
– swearwords, weak pushing, the lot. I
wouldn’t actually fight anyone though,
I might get hurt!
Anyway, I should be in a higher team
but my one’s a laugh. We have painfully
forced banter and lightweight drinking
games. Which only about 10% of the
club actually take part in. I’m going
to shout homophobic stuff ironically.
Why? Cuz that’s how I roll.
Ey up, there’s some birds in the Un-
ion?!?! Oh they’re American. They’re
not quite as hot as the girls on my hard
drive, but they’ll do. I’m getting laid
tonight… I’m trying on my best ‘game’
with this one. Hmmm, she’s not in-
stantly impressed with me. Could it be
because my wit’s slower than the serv-
ice times at Da Vincis? No she’s defi-
nitely wanting some. Yeah, all girls are
always up for it at all times, that’s what
my diet of Nuts, Maxim and hardcore
pornography has taught me. Gay, it’s
not happening tonight – not because
I’m so socially retarded that I can’t
even chat up a below-average-looking
American bird – NO, because I’m too
fucking drunk! Fuck it; let’s just get my
mates to be rude to those dumb Amer-
icans – if we can’t have them, no-one
else can! “Yeah, you’re ugly AND stu-
pid…hurr huurr!”. They’ll come back…
Ok I’m not getting any action tonight.
I don’t care. I’m a real man. A man’s
man. Real men don’t get laid – they get
pissed on snakebite, act hyper-macho
and scrawl graffiti on the Union toilets.
Fuck. Yeah.
I wonder if I could get a job in the
City, that would get me the ladies. No,
no they only employ people who are
dickheads and have good degrees. I’m
pretty sure I’ve got the former covered.
Given up hope about the latter. God
I’m desperate. Next round of snakey-B
on me lads!
Snakey-B! Awesome-a-saurus-rexicals-of-super-win
In his spare time, A. Geek enjoys reading New Scientist. You should too

