36 felix Friday 14 March 2008
IC wins Inter-Uni Trading Game
A team from IC has won the first Inter-University Trading Game organised by the Imperial College Finance
Society in partnership with the London School of Economics, Oxford and Cambridge Universities
Last Wednesday 5th March, Tan Tsze
Han and Kwa Wee Shzong each won
£1000, a trophy and a day on Merrill
Lynch’s trading floor. They fended off
15 other teams from Imperial, Cam-
bridge, Oxford and the LSE in the
final and over 400 other people who
entered the qualifying rounds, to be
crowned the best traders in a game of
quick thinking, speed and accuracy.
The competition consisted of two
rounds; a qualifying round at each of
the universities which took place two
weeks ago and the final round at the
Merrill Lynch headquarters in London
last week. The platform for the trad-
ing simulations was designed and run
by 7city Learning and Merrill Lynch
kindly sponsored all the events. Mer-
rill Lynch has a very strong network
of Imperial alumni and recently won
the “Here Is The City” award for Best
Place to Work in the Global Financial
Markets category. 7city Learning is a
global financial services training com-
pany providing leading edge solutions
for financial and professional skills
training.
The competition attracted over-
whelming interest at Imperial and
more than 100 students across all de-
partments were selected to enter the
qualifying round. The first round con-
sisted of a US stock trading simulation
and the goal was simple: to make as
much money as possible in 40 min-
utes. The simulation was based on six
stocks using historical market price
data and players competed in teams of
two, buying and selling from a number
of banks.
Hemal Mehta and Kok Yeen Cheek
won the first event and were each
awarded an iPod Nano. They managed
to raise a staggering $67 million, far
outdoing the next best two who made
a profit of $35 million. Four teams of
two qualified for the final round at
Merrill Lynch, being given the chance
to compete for a prize of £2000.
The final, which took place last
Wednesday, proved to be an even
more exciting event. The four teams of
Imperial were taken down to the ven-
ue at Merrill Lynch’s offices in London
and were put head to head with teams
from Oxford, Cambridge and LSE.
The simulation for the final was a
more complex version of the qualify-
ing round trading game. This time
teams could trade between each other
and there were also news feeds. It was
based on a bearish European market
with much less liquid stocks, making
it much more difficult to make profits
and was shown by the fact that only
three out of sixteen teams made any
profit at all.
This made it an even more impres-
sive accomplishment for Tan and Kwa
who managed to make £31.4 million
over the period of an hour when many
The Inter-University Trading Game held in the Tanaka Business School
The participants
Come on lads, we can do it!
Akash Agrawal
www.teachÞrst.org.uk
Do something different?
Accelerate yourcareer?
Put something back?
Inspire a generation?
Change lives?
Take a lead?
Whatever you do,
Teach First.
WillyouÉ
APPLY NOW TO TEACH SCIENCE,
MATHS OR COMPUTING
PLACES FILLING UP FAST SO APPLY ASAP!
FINAL DEADLINE: FRIDAY 28 MARCH
VISIT WWW.TEACHFIRST.ORG.UK TO APPLY
teams made just as big a loss.
The game was followed by the prize-
giving presentation by Christian Di-
nesen, head of European Credit Re-
search and the captain of recruitment
for Imperial who firstly gave a brief
talk about the challenges and risks that
traders face on a continual basis. After
congratulating them on their tremen-
dous achievement, Mr Dinesen award-
ed Tan Tsze Han and Kwa Wee Shzong
with their well deserved trophies. Im-
perial also placed first in the competi-
tion overall by making more than £7
million in total, before Oxford (£4M),
Cambridge (-£4M) and LSE (-£13.6M)
We must all praise the teams for rep-
resenting Imperial in beating Oxford,
Cambridge and the LSE and hope Tsze
Han and Wee Shzong have fun spend-
ing their winnings!

