fantastic demo kits provided by Board-
wise and Severne Sails.
After a long day of sailing, everyone
returned to Hammersmith to get ready
for the Saturday night party, which
was a ‘Cult Classic Movie’ fancy dress-
themed party. The evening kicked off
with some fantastic music from The
Measure (http://www.myspace.com/
themeasureuk) who warmed up the
evening in style. By the time they had
finished, daVinci’s was on fire and after
an inter-uni boat race to cool things off,
the party got into full swing. Another 2
am close and off to bed for a few hours
before getting up and heading back to
the lake.
The conditions on Sunday were just
as good as the Saturday, setting the
scene perfectly for some pedal to the
metal racing for the event race title
and points towards the overall SWA
Club Vass Race Series. The racing was
insane with Imperial’s Baptsite Labat
storming from the back of the fleet in
the final race to finish in second with
only one board length between him
and 1st place. His outstanding per-
formance was enough to secure him
a third overall in his first event. The
women’s competition was equally ex-
citing with close racing and numerous
position changes throughout the day.
Jess Longley, the Imperial Windsurf
President, proved that she could hold
her own against series leader Sarah
Bibby (Southampton) and finished in a
well deserved 2nd place. The results at
this event are a good sign that a land-
locked Uni such as Imperial College
could be a force to reckon with at the
BUSA Nationals in March.
Well done to all that organized in
took part in a hugely successful inau-
gural event and thank you to all the
SWA sponsors, Sport Imperial and
ICU for their support of our event.
Special thanks go to event sponsors
Andy at Aquasport for providing some
fantastic prizes, Paul and the team at
Datchet for being legends and Mark
from Boardwise and John at Severne
for putting on a fantastic demo.
For more info contact: commit-
tee@imperialwindsurf.co.uk and
also see www.swa.co.uk
37
Friday 14 March 2008 felix
Windsurfing finds a new home!
Imperial College Windsurfers host an awesome SWA competition weekend. Involving much surfing,
partying and all-round banter, IC shows other unis how it’s done while also proving it’s surfing worth
When most people think of windsurf-
ing, they imagine crystal-blue water,
sun-soaked beaches, palm trees and
bikinis. The last thing you think of is
good ol’ London Town! This was the
exact reaction of the Student Wind-
surfing Association (SWA) Commit-
tee when the idea of Imperial College
Windsurfers hosting an SWA Event
was proposed in December last year.
However, after discussing the logistics
of such an event, it became appar-
ent that this crazy idea would actually
work and on the 29th February 2008,
the SWA came to London for the first
ever SWA London Event.
Over 100 student windsurfers from
universities around the country gath-
ered in DB’s on the Friday night and
having battled the Friday night traf-
fic from places as far afield as Cardiff
and York, most were desperate for a
drink. Drink they did! The Union was
buzzing until 2am when the lucky club
members who were responsible for
looking after such a rabble had the job
of shepherding 100, now inebriated,
windsurfers back to their houses in
Hammersmith. The event was shaping
up to be a good one!
Saturday was the first day of competi-
tion and as everyone arrived at Datch-
et Water, a large reservoir on the out-
skirts of London with a fantastic view
over Windsor Castle, they were greet-
ed by an amazing sight... The sun was
shining and wind was blowing a good
20 knots making it perfect for running
the 3rd round of the SWA Boardwise
Freestyle Series. This was the toughest
fleet of the series so far and even the
judges commented that this was the
highest standard they had ever seen in
SWA competition. UK Pro sailor Nick
Moffat was knocked out in the semi fi-
nal and in the end it was two London
boys who took the top 2 places with Joe
O’Callaghan (St.Mary’s Uni) narrowly
beating Imperial’s own Chris Beng into
1st place. This result currently places
Chris, who has already won this year’s
Wave Series, at the top of the freestyle
leader board with 2 events left. The
rest of the day was taken up with some
beginner lessons and sailing on some
Totally bodacious surfing
Totally bodacious partying
The Imperial Windsurfers, the pride of Gimperial
Chris Beng

