sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
38 Friday 14 March 2008
felix
Sport
Medicals in seventh heaven
after UH cup final victory
Tries from James Logan, Huw Wil-
liams and Craig Nightingale helped the
1st XV secure their seventh successive
UH Cup final victory. Leading 21-0
the Medicals were forced to work hard
by a spirited Kings Medical (formerly
GKT) side who came back strongly in
the second half with tries from Matt
Morgan and Lucas Rehnberg taking
the final score to 21-12.
Sunshine and showers greeted the
sides at London Welsh’s Old Deer Park
ground for the United Hospitals Chal-
lenge Cup final, the oldest rugby com-
petition still in existence which was
first contested 134 years ago in 1875.
Injured skipper Austin Dekker se-
lected a squad with a pleasing mixture
of youth and experience with centre
James Logan, who led the Medicals to
victory in 2006, being handed the cap-
tain’s armband. Special mention must
be reserved for freshers Ed Pickles,
Craig Nightingale and James Sharp-
les whose excellent performances this
season meant they were selected in the
starting XV ahead of many Medicals’
stalwarts.
Playingwiththebreezeinthefirsthalf
the Medicals started brightly with half-
backs Tom Maynard and Dan Neville
keeping the Medicals in GKT territory
for much of the opening stanza. Strong
ball carrying by Ben Davies and James
Logan gave dangerous wings James
Sharples and Harry Thompson space
out wide, however, the fervid Guy’s
defence led by the back row of Rob
Hone, Mark Halls and Matt Morgan
prevented the Medicals from crossing
the line early on. The set-piece was
also keenly contested with Ed Pickles,
Ruairidh Crawford and Xander An-
Jeremy Bartosiak-Jentys
cock being well matched by their GKT
counterparts in the scrum. At the lin-
eout Rhys Davies and 2nd row partner
Ross Ferry had a ding-dong battle with
Medicals lineout duo Peter O’Neill and
Rob Anderson.
It wasn’t until almost halfway
through the opening period that the
deadlock was finally broken. A mix-
up by GKT centres Pete Robinson and
Adam Staten gave the Medicals posses-
sion in broken play. Making the most
of the splintered defence James Logan
gathered the ball and showed tremen-
dous pace to beat GKT left wing James
Cuthbertson on the outside. Keeping
a cool head Logan ran round to touch
down under the posts making the con-
version a formality for fly-half Dan
Neville. On 35 minutes Peter Russell
replaced Ruairidh Crawford, who had
played 80 minutes against Stevenage
the previous day, at hooker.
After Guy’s had passed up a try-scor-
ing opportunity of their own through
a straightforward handling error the
Medicals were to extend their lead just
prior to the interval. From a well exe-
cuted lineout the backline put the hard
work on the training ground into prac-
tice by running a devastating set move.
With dummy runners disorientating
the GKT defence, Huw Williams was
able to cut a line from full-back, re-
ceive Neville’s perfectly weighted pass
and run in under the posts untouched.
Neville duly added the extras.
Leading 14-0 at half time the Medi-
cals set a game plan to kill off the game
in the second half by playing for territo-
ry and keeping Guy’s on the back foot.
And the opening minutes of the second
period certainly went to plan. Guy’s
fly-half John Kendel launched a high
ball for Lucas Rehnberg to chase, how-
ever, Medicals wing Harry Thompson
stayed calm under pressure to take the
ball cleanly, break a tackle and offload
to put openside flanker Craig Night-
ingale into space on the left wing. The
fleet-footed fresher managed to out
pace the covering Mark Halls and full-
back Mike Forsythe to dive over ten
metres from the left touchline. Neville
made no mistake with the tricky con-
version. Shortly after James Saffin and
Xander Ancock were replaced by the
livewire Graham Corin and weighty
Jeremy Bartosiak-Jentys respectively.
Guy’s driven by the dread of walk-
ing away with another runners-up
medal fought back valiantly putting
the Medicals under sustained pressure
mid-way through the second half. The
pressure finally told as a clean Guy’s
lineout was mauled towards the Medi-
cals line. Despite desperate attempts to
stop the drive GKT were able to cross
the whitewash with No.8 Matt Morgan
able to touch down despite the close
attention of Peter Russell. Pete Gretton
was successful with the conversion to
narrow the Medicals lead to 14 points.
Looking to add an experienced head to
the fold Francois Tudor was brought
on to replace Anakan Navaratnam in
the Medicals’ back row.
The change did little for the Medicals
fortunes as Guy’s piled on the pressure
with the Medicals, playing into the
wind in the second period, finding it
difficult to clear their lines effectively.
It was, therefore, of little surprise when
from an attacking scrum on the Medi-
cals’ five metre line Guy’s exploited
space on the blind side to put wing Lu-
cas Rehnberg in by the right-hand cor-
ner flag. Gretton was unable to add the
extras from the right touchline.
The Medicals, desperate to regain
some control, tightened up the game
by using their big forwards to pick
and go around the fringes of the ruck,
thereby retaining possession and run-
ning down the clock. Much credit
must go to courageous Medicals scrum
half Tom Maynard who continued to
bellow instructions at his forwards de-
spite playing much of the game with a
broken jaw. Everyone at the club would
like to wish Tom a speedy recovery. As
the final seconds ticked away and the
referee brought the contest to an end
the Medicals’ could bask in the glory
of winning the coveted cup for the sev-
enth consecutive year.
Rob Anderson breaking through the GKT line
The IC ladies’ 1st team played their last
game in the ULU Challenge Cup – the
final – against GKT on a cold Sunday
in Chiswick. Initially, IC were able
to dominate, on a sticky pitch which
seemed to be alternately flooded and
bone dry in places, and we spent much
of the early stages of the game in the
GKT half.
It became clear pretty quickly that
GKT were going to be quick on the
counter-attack, and several moments
of panic were had by all – illustrated
by Womble’s cries of ‘oh sh*t!’ when-
ever a GKT player and/or a ball got too
close for comfort. MJ saved the day a
number of times, before IC conceded
Jess Poore
an unfortunate goal from an intercept-
ed free hit – to the disappointment of
our support, sharing their attention
between us and the Men’s 2nd team.
With some more attacking pressure
right at the end of the first half, Malbi-
nas got us a penalty corner, and Cum-
bum stepped up with a strike which,
initially blocked, allowed Malbinas to
nick us a goal.
The second half did bring some
more scoring opportunities, and a few
more penalty corners, but we couldn’t
convert, and there was ever-present
danger from the GKT counter-attack
and the enormous number of penalty
corners they had. Unfortunately for IC,
the threat materialized – even support
from the IC medics, arriving for their
cup final and varsity game couldn’t
prevent the score going to 3-1, with
two goals from GKT. When the final
whistle blew, leaving us with one final
penalty corner to defend, we couldn’t
do any more but keep it out and finish
the game with a respectable – if disap-
pointing – 3-1 loss.
Ladies hockey
miss out to GKT
in ULU cup final
Hockey
ULU Cup
Imperial Women’s 1st 1
GKT Women’s 1st 3
Rugby
UH Cup Final
Imperial Medicals 1st 21
GKT Men’s 1st 12
After beating the 7s three times this
season, the 6s decided to do them a fa-
vour and thrash GKT 5s (fellow relega-
tion candidates). After tolling the bell,
Damian, Fitz, Sim and Turrell came
forth to play for the cause and destroy
some medics.
After a standard shaky first 5 min-
utes, we grabbed the game by the
scruff of the neck and dominated the
rest of the match. Damian and Hardy
were tearing their defence to shreds
and bringing Ward and Sim into play
brilliantly.
It wasn’t long before we got our first
in true old skool 6th team style with
a through ball to Sim who lashed it
passed the keeper. We didn’t create
many more chances in the first half as
they were defending quite well, but I
was happy to be freezing my ass off in
goal as I had nothing at all to do all half.
Sapin, Justin, Field and Tony all playing
brilliantly.
Our second goal came not long after
half time and was a thing of beauty.
Damian “Welshy” Phelan picked up
the ball in midfield and brought it for-
ward. After hearing Rob screaming for
the ball on the left, played a cross field
pass into the space for Rob to run onto,
who put a cross right onto Hardy’s
head for him to nod it home. Hardy
also got our third when Turrell played
the ball to him in the box and he took
it round the defender before poking it
past the keeper.
GKT got back into the game a bit
more, but it wasn’t until well into the
second half before they had their first
shot on target, which I saved brilliantly
with my face. Unfortunately though,
we were cheated out of our first clean
sheet of the season by the ref; our own
David Sapin. His excuse was that he
was enjoying reffing but hadn’t given
a foul yet. He also didn’t realise that
Fitz’s tackle was in the box and was
inch perfect.
Needless to say, I conceded my third
penalty of the season. That was the last
effort on target they had, as we went
straight down the other end and scored
a fourth. Sim swivelled in the box and
lifted it over the keeper out of nothing.
Two or three more goals could have
followed, but to spare them the em-
barrassment, we (I mean Damian and
Mike) decided to only shoot from at
least 20 yards. However, the Sonder-
gaard show continued, climaxing with
him lifting the ball over the heads of
two on-rushing GKT players and mak-
ing them look like idiots.
After the final whistle, Airborne
Ranger rang out across Teddington to
cap off a good season for the 6s. 5th
place in the league and we reached the
cup semi-final. 2nd best team in the
club. Well done lads.
Football
Imperial Men’s 6th 4
GKT Men’s 5th 1
Ricardo Verra
Men’s 6s finish
season in 5th place
The Men’s 6th team celebrating
their victory in... er, Mexico

