39
felix
Friday 14 March 2008
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk Sport
Alone in the gym? Grab a workout partner!
Holly Plumley
Energia Fitness Instructor
When it comes to training in the gym,
there are usually two types of people:
those who prefer to work out with a
partner, and those who prefer to go it
alone.
Having a workout partner has a va-
riety of advantages – it can be hugely
motivating, make your training ses-
sions more enjoyable and can keep you
committed to maintaining the number
of training sessions you do each week.
The choice of who you should share
this time with depends on a few fac-
tors such as training goals. Few work-
out partners are successful at reaching
their goals if one wants to do cardio
while the other focuses on strength
training. You should have some of the
same goals i.e. to complete a marathon,
to lose weight, to gain strength.
If you don’t choose your workout
partner wisely, you could find your
gym visits suffering as your partner
will become more of a distraction than
anything else. Here are some examples
of the types of workout partners there
are and ones I see daily in the gym:
The Spotter
If you are someone who is constantly
pushing yourself by trying to go for
your one-rep max or just progressively
by ensuring you are overloading your
muscles with each session, a spotter is
essential.
A spotter will be there if you start to
falter during a lift, and could poten-
tially save you from a very serious in-
jury. Knowing that this person is there
for you also offers a psychological ad-
vantage because most people, when
they know they will be backed up by a
couple of extra hands, can actually lift
more than they thought they could.
Don’t overestimate how much help
you will actually be getting either.
When it comes to getting you out of
a tight situation, a very gentle upward
pull on the bench press for example will
be more than enough to give you that
little extra to hoist the weight back up
to the top of the lift. So, for confidence
and safety, find a workout partner who
is a good spotter.
The Mentor
If you are new to weight lifting just be
sure that when you choose someone
to show you the ropes, you are choos-
ing someone who knows what they are
doing. While usually a muscle-bound
body is the result of good training and
hard work, some people may not en-
tirely know what they are doing in the
gym and you don’t want to pick up their
bad habits. Also make sure they are of-
fering the right support and guidance
for your specific training goals.
The Socialiser
The worst type of workout-partner-
ship to have is where one of you re-
ally wants to have an intense workout,
while the other would rather spend
more time hanging around, looking in
the mirror and chatting with the odd
set thrown in between conversations.
This mindset is slightly less common,
but every gym usually has at least a few
Sunday February 22nd saw the second
installment of the Imperial College vs
Oxford University chess match. Start-
ed in 2006 to end the Oxford Cam-
bridge duopoly, the Valentine’s Cup
was meant to be an annual fixture.
Disappointingly, following our crush-
ing victory in 2006 on foreign soil,
Oxford copped out of a revenge fixture
last year claiming they would prefer to
play a tournament between themselves
and therefore had no time to play us.
This year, however, they finally roused
enough courage to accept our offer for
a return match in London.
But the landscape has changed in
the university chess-playing hierar-
chy in recent times. Whereas two year
ago we were clear underdogs, this year
many of Oxford’s better players have
graduated and others couldn’t stomach
the journey down to London. Added
to this, a few weeks before the match
it was discovered that one of England’s
top fifty players, International Master
Simon Ansell, was doing a one-year
Masters at Imperial College. With al-
ready a quite strong team and Ansell
leading the way we would start the
match as clear favourites.
Given that we had only found out a
few weeks earlier, we were sure that
having an International Master on
top board would come as a surprise to
them. That is, until I CCed their team
captain in an email to our team! With
all our team names in the address bar,
the cat would be out of the bag as soon
as their team captain would read the
email so a swift cover-up operation
was called for. Realising my mistake,
I decided to recall the message. With
the culprit email sitting right next to it,
however, recalling it just once would
only arouse suspicion. I therefore sent
out forty recall emails to swamp his in-
box and ensure that he would click on
the recall one before even realising the
offending one was there! This did not
work. Not one of the anticpated “mes-
sage recall has been successful” notifi-
cation was received.
The match consisted of eight games
pitting our eight best players against
their best eight. With one point for
a win, half for a draw and none for a
loss, at least four-and-a-half points are
needed for a win. Looking at the make-
up of the teams it was clear that we had
the edge on the top four boards where
the stronger players were playing but
that on the bottom four it would be
fairly evenly matched. This was borne
out early on as I won quickly on board
two and Simon looked to be cruising
on board 1. Three hours in to the five
hour match, Imperial’s Tom Fuller
was crushing his opponent on bot-
tom board and though Simon Ansell
had been held to a draw we were two
up with four to play and looked to be
coasting to an easy victory.
Then, in the space of 15 minutes,
things suddenly went to pot. First
having done well to survive a dodgy
opening IC’s Jason Klimach blundered
a couple of pawns to end up in a lost
endgame. Then Imperial’s Justin Hadi,
a fomer Oxford undergraduate him-
self, fell for a cheap checkmate from a
position that looked certain to end in
a draw. And though Tom cleaned up
on board eight, it wasn’t long before
we were one point down with just one
game left still playing.
In the key game our player, Pe-
ter Levermore, playing black, had a
slightly better position and was trying
to convert it into a win while all the
time being careful to avoid the game
suddenly evaporating into a draw. Try-
ing to break through, this necessity of
avoiding the draw backfired on Peter
as playing the best moves would lead
to a dead drawn position. Instead he
had to accept a lost position just to
keep some hope of swindling a win. It
looked to be in vain as Pete’s opponent
continually tried to force the draw but
finally, right at the death, with both
of these talkative, chatty people. The
most common type of workout partner
you will find is a person who prefers to
workout with someone who is on a par
with their current fitness level, as they
personally find this more motivating to
them since they can push each other,
pound for pound.
The Professional
Finally, the last type of workout part-
ner that you might want to consider is
an actual personal trainer.
If you're new to weight lifting or are
looking to take your fitness to new lev-
els, this could be the best choice for
you. Not only will you receive motiva-
tional benefits, you will get the correct
teaching of exercises. It's also a guaran-
tee that your personal trainer is putting
their full effort into ensuring you im-
prove at the gym.
Check they are qualified by a respect-
able organization – you don’t want to
be dishing out money to someone who
doesn’t really have a good grasp of ex-
ercise physiology and workout princi-
ples. Think about your availability and
find out theirs, as depending on your
needs if you want to have them with
you for each session you’re at the gym,
you need to ensure they have enough
time to accommodate you.
All the instructors at Energia Gym
are fully qualified personal trainers.
Ask at the gym for more information if
you’re interested.
Imperial Chess Team retains Valentine’s Cup
players having just thirty seconds left
on the clock each, white cracked under
the pressure and caved in allowing Pe-
ter to checkmate him.
So the match ended in a tie and as
we were the holders of the cup it was
hastily decided that the rule should be
that the holder should keep it. It was
an epic match which swung both ways
but thanks to some last minute heroics
we could once again drink to a victory
with the beautiful Valentine’s cup at
our side.
Rafe Martyn
IC faced off against Oxford University eventually riding home with the Valentine’s Cup
What type of partner would you like? A Mentor for giving valuable guidance or a Socialiser to talk to about your weekend shenanigans?

