felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Battle for the UH Cup
Imperial Medicals defeat GKT in the final but not without a scrap; see page 38
IC 4s and The Great (Relegation) Escape
Ed Lobb
IC 4s went into their game with UCL 6s
with a clear mission statement – pick
up a point to avoid relegation. Bottom
at Christmas with a mere 5 points, the
4s hopes of staying up looked about
as alive as Jeremy Beadle but a spring
term revival, in which they were the
form team of the league, saw them
with their destiny in their own hands
going into the final game.
UCL had already won the league by
a distance and came to fortress Har-
lington eager to show their class. IC
lined up in normal fashion, with the
4-5-1 formation that had served them
so well this term, and were further in-
spired by the sight of team idol and all
round good guy Flex QC on the adja-
cent pitch.. Both teams started well
with UCL looking dangerous from the
right but ICs defence holding firm.
However, halfway through the first half
goalkeeper Pursey came to the edge of
his box to collect a through ball and
somehow ended up handling outside
the area. The Why Bird claimed a foul
but the ref stood by his decision. The
resulting free kick was swung in, miss-
ing everyone in the box to zoom into
the far corner.
Undeservedly behind, IC contin-
ued to play their game and scored an
equaliser as ridiculous as the passage
of play leading up to it. A long ball was
flicked back to the keeper by the studs
of the centre back, who looked as if
he was trying to show his teammates
the superman move to Soulja Boy. The
keeper picked the ball up and a back
pass was given. From the resulting
free kick, Jonny Hill, eager for revenge
against the team who coined his ‘Fat-
boy’ alias, picked himself up from his
default position on the floor to plough
his way thorough 4 of the men in the
wall, allowing Damian to fire through
the gap to equalise.
1-1 at half time and so far a solid
performance from Aubergine and
his charges. 10 minutes into the sec-
ond half IC were presented with a fab
chance thanks to an error by the UCL
keeper. Matty Smith had time to pick
his spot and hit a rocket that was de-
flected onto the inside of the post – IC
inches from taking the lead. However,
they couldn’t capitalise on their pres-
sure and some poor defending allowed
UCL in down the left side and their
striker fired home off the far post from
the narrowest of angles. IC weren’t
pushing it every way, leaving at least 3
ways they could still push, and 5 min-
utes later it looked like game over as
cross from the left wasn’t cleared and
the ball was slotted in for 3-1.
Captain Scott threw caution to the
wind and changed to a 3-5-2 in search
of desperately needed goals, giving the
team a refresher with 2 substitutions.
With 15 minutes to go, Scott threw
himself up front leaving IC’s defence
about as safe as a hooker in Ipswich,
and they should really have been
made to pay with UCL missing a host
of chances. Inside the last 10 IC were
awarded a free kick on the left corner
of the box. It looked as if no-one was
going to take it, until Chris stepped up
and dispatched over the wall into the
top corner. IC continued to press and
with the clock in the final minute a
long ball from Pursey found Damian in
a 50-50 with the keeper, which he won
to lob the ball over his head and into
the unguarded net.
The final whistle was blown on the
feast of football and IC 4s had earned
the point needed to pull off the great-
est relegation escape in non-league
football. Scott, although not Turkish,
was clearly delighted.
Football
ULU League
Imperial Men’s 4th 1
UCL Men’s 6th 3
A third goal and equalizer for IC in dying minutes saved their season

