6 felix Friday 14 March 2008
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment
Dear Felix,
In Response to ‘Insert Witty Name’s’
Angry Geek Idol article, in the hope
the editor loves divisive arguments as
much as any other newspaper editor
does...
I will leave aside the fact that anybody
could have known what type of person
the writer was from the piece without
thoughtlessly revealing that they were
‘at a show’ because of the artistry of
such a stunningly clever title, matched
with an equally clever pseudonym.
Varsity is an occasion for celebra-
tion, no matter the outcome, because
it promotes competition. I know the
liberal thinking is that competition is
bad and that stupid fat kids shouldn’t
‘lose’ at games because it might dam-
age their self esteem, obviously there
was no axe to grind on that topic! But
it turns out competition is good (ask
any biologist, it will make them happy
as they are hopelessly derided the rest
of the time); without competition Syl-
via Plath would never have been born
so that ‘arty’ non sportsmen could cry
over her poetry before she offed her-
self, sadly she did somehow managed
to reproduce her’s (and Ted Hughes’)
genetic material (twice) before com-
mitting suicide. Competition is why
the human race evolved and continues
to, so in order to spur human develop-
ment I will personally campaign for
a Shakespeare recital at Varsity next
year.
Further to the above, releasing all
that pent up aggression in a rule based
arena stops people committing other
atrocities such as brawling, or writing
bitchy snipey letters to newspapers.
This helps people be accepting of all
people, whether they are people who
get some fresh air and hack a foot-
ball around for a while, or sit with the
mothballs leafing through a poetry an-
thology so they can steal a few obscure
metaphors.
The Farcity of Varsity: A retort
A. Fan
L
ast week was that time of
the year again when the
newly elected Felix editor
is announced. Understand-
ably this is a busy time for
the paper and I will assume that was
the reason for a lapse in editorial dis-
cretion; a view I explain below.
Firstly, to spend 2 and a half columns
of a 4 column article complaining
about the behaviour of rugby players
after having been told that they were
footballers and admitting that you can-
not distinguish between the two, stinks
of incoherent argument.
If conditions really were as bad as de-
scribed (balaclava-clad ‘rugby players’
holding people ‘hostage’) then please
have a word with the bouncers. They
are there purely because it is fully ex-
pected that a Student Union may get
rowdy once in a while – that none of
the professionals (neither the bouncers
nor the SAS) deemed it necessary to
get involved speaks volumes.
However, surely the most heinous
accusation is that sport takes prec-
edence over all else at the university.
Filling the Union bar once a year is no
great inconvenience, especially when
there are at least 10 (15+) bars, pubs or
clubs within a mile of the union; other-
wise Leicester Square is a 90p bus-ride
away.
I suggest that rather than trivially
criticising what you recognise as the
roaring success of Sport Imperial, you
embrace it and work with it to see how
you can develop the Art Imperial you
so bitterly wish you had. Lobby the new
session of Union representatives for
Art activities to be a valid Wednesday
afternoon pastime. If you can demon-
strate reasonable numbers in support
of this I find it hard to see how they can
refuse.
Drinking to excess is something that
the majority of students do on a rea-
sonably regular basis, normally with a
group of friends. The connection with
sport is that these tend to be a group
of your closest friends (almost describ-
able as a team); and more often than
not they are the friends that you genu-
inely will keep in touch with after uni.
If you don’t drink/don’t want to drink
then you are not forced to and from
experience other team members are
invariably tolerant (even if not under-
standing) of this. Asserting otherwise,
or even failing to clarify this, is the
sort of ill-researched speculation that
will only serve to unfairly drive people
away from something that it appears
the majority of other students enjoy
(1100 attendants at Varsity is some-
what impressive by Imperial standards
– competing even with the Arts Week
Barn Dance).
Finally, to the Olympics. An initial
cost of £2bn does not seem unreason-
able when compared with an estimated
immediate £3bn in additional tour-
ist income and creation of 75000 new
jobs. Obviously I cannot explain how
the Government has managed to tre-
ble their spending, but I doubt they in-
tended to do so and incur such public
outrage. However I would put it to you
that equivalent investment in the thea-
tre industry certainly would not reap
anything like that return and that seri-
ous government investment in a sector
as unpredictable as the film industry
is incredibly imprudent in a time of fi-
nancial unpredictability.
I hope this helps to answer any ques-
tions/voice any frustration that others
may have had after reading Felix Com-
ments last week and I encourage you
to note that I am not a member of IC
Rugby and this has not been written
in consultation with them; it is just the
thoughts of one of the many fans.
Letters to Felix
Varsity promotes
competition
Love,
Not-so-angry Sportsman.
Dear Felix Politics,
I'm writing to express deep disappoint-
ment in your coverage of the political
situation in Kenya.
According to Felix, as per 7th March
2008, talks aimed at power sharing in
Kenya have stalled. As per reality, talks
in fact were successful, when both sides
signed a power sharing agreement on
the 28th of February. Since then, Mr
Annan has left the country leaving re-
maining mediation duties in the hands
of Nigerian diplomat Mr Oluyemi
Adeniji, parliament has reopened and
four bills tabled aimed at legal reforms
and the re-introduction of the post of
Prime Minister, which Mr Odinga will
hold. All of this has been covered by
local and international media, and it is
difficult to imagine that anyone actu-
ally interested in the Kenya situation
could have missed it.
The story you ran is more late than
inaccurate, but as journalists you will
probably know that one is just as bad
as the other. In a situation as serious
as Kenya's your article's misleading
nature depicts at best an editing team
that is out of touch with reality, and at
worst one which is happy to uphold the
stereotype of Western journalism, pre-
ferring coverage of African problems
to coverage of African solutions.
I know a couple of you guys person-
ally, and I have great respect for the
work you've done turning Felix around
this year. But in this situation I feel, as
many Kenyans I know at IC, that a cor-
rection and an apology is due.
Regards,
Anthony Maina
Misleading and
mistimed Kenya
article
Dear Anthony Maina
Apologies if the article appeared mis-
leading. We concede that the article
was out-of-date and a caveat should
have been included to inform readers
of the developments in the situation.
As Politics Editor I do not wish to re-
ject contributions but I concede a mis-
take has been made here. We reject the
accusation that we are interested in
covering African problems rather than
African solutions. Thank you for con-
tributing an article on developments in
Kenya for this week.
Katya-Yani Vyas (author of said ar-
ticle) and Kadhim Shubber (Politics
Editor)
Dear Felix Politics,
I am writing to complain about the
Politics article in this week's Felix, on
pages 14 and 15, entitled 'The facts
about the Lisbon Treaty'.
The subtitle describes the article
as a "fair and balanced analysis". This
couldn't be further from the truth. The
article is unremittingly pro-EU.
It is taken as read that European Un-
ion is a good thing, and that British
sovereignty over all areas of legislation,
not just those the EU is prepared to
give us 'vetos' (which aren't all they are
made out to be by referendum-avoid-
ing politicians, see http://www.parlia-
ment.uk/parliamentary_committees/
european_scrutiny/escpn271107.cfm)
is unimportant.
At one point, the author even criti-
cises Britain for having "disrespect for
Europe and our neighbours", commit-
ting the usual pro-EU commentator's
fallacy of conflating Europe (i.e. the
people) with the EU (i.e. the politi-
cians). This is done so opponents of
Lisbon Treaty
article: Unfair
and unbalanced
the EU power structure can be painted
as 'little Englanders', i.e. xenophobes
who hate the French, the Germans,
the Belgians etc etc, rather than op-
ponents of a corrupt, anti-democratic
organisation.
The below link is not my blog, but
I hope you and perhaps the author of
this purportedly unbiased article will
find it interesting: http://eureferen-
dum.blogspot.com/
Ian Grieve
PhD Student, Hammersmith
Campus
Dear Ian Grieve,
We disagree completely that the article
was not a “fair and balanced analysis”.
As an article on the Lisbon Treaty, ar-
guments for and against, and the con-
sequences of the treaty were considered
objectively. The article did not make a
judgement on whether membership of
the EU is beneficial but instead dis-
cussed the positive or negative impact
of the Lisbon Treaty.
The sentence “disrespect for Europe
and our neighbours” is nonsense when
removed from the context of the para-
graph. It was written in relation to the
principle of common EU law for all
members.
Sincerely,
James Goldsack (author of said ar-
ticle) and Kadhim Shubber (Politics
Editor)
Politics satire a
bit too close to
the reality
Dear Felix,
As I was saying the other day, I think
the article in last week’s paper ("Appar-
ently war is awesome...") was inappro-
priate and I was offended by the tone
of the article.
It says that several societies have bro-
ken up which is not true and it has a
quote from "Leroy Weatherfield" who
does not exist. What I found most of-
fensive is that it tries to make a joke out
of the fact that soldiers are dying. The
fact that Prince Harry enjoyed his duty
in Afghanistan does not show anything
about what it is like for ordinary sol-
diers, as he wouldn't have been put
in any dangerous situations. It is also
quite racist, talking about "shooting an
Arab".
I understand that this column may
be supposed to be a satire, however
this particular article is not satire (as
satire should be ironic and intelligent,
and the comments in this article are
merely coarse!)
I am disappointed that articles like
this can get into Felix.
It would be good if you could print
an apology this week from the Politics
Editor for not making it clear if, as you
said, this was a satire. It would also be
good to say that the article was not at
all factual. The Stop the War Society
would like to say that we are far from
breaking up, in fact we are going to a
national World Against War demon-
stration this Saturday! (meeting in Beit
Quad at 11.20am)
Thanks
Caroline
Dear Caroline,
I’m sorry that the satirical article “Ap-
parently war is awesome” offended
you. Of course the article isn’t factual,
it’s a satirical piece not a news article.
Comedians often makes light of dark
situations, like war, and Samuel Black’s
article was hardly ground-breaking in
this respect. I’m afraid I won’t be print-
ing an apology; I trust that the readers
of the politics section are intelligent
enough to spot satire when they read it.
Kadhim Shubber (Politics Editor)
They’ll be cheering Shakespeare
from the stands at next year’s
Varsity apparently

