business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Business
Business Editor – Afonso Campos
7
Friday 14 March 2008 felix
A rough guide to the credit crunch
Afonso Campos talks about economic crises and briefly educates you on the subprime and credit crunch
I
t is possible to speculate end-
lessly about the nature of finan-
cial markets, and we have been
doing it for as long as they have
existed. It is an inherent quality
of relatively intelligent human beings
to question what is seemingly impos-
sible to control. Some have been wildly
successful in this quest. Others… well,
who remembers losers? Regardless
of which side of the fence one may
stand on, the one thing that people
have been trying their darn hardest
to do is predict the behaviour of these
weird collectives of human emotion
and madness of crowds. While decod-
ing the markets is a full-time job for
some people, everyone with access to
anything resembling the news is aware
that there are booms and busts in an
economy. This was a postulate first
put forward by the famed economists
Schumpeter and Kondratieff. It is hard
to predict exactly when these elements
of the never-ending economic cycle
will happen, but it’s not tremendously
difficult to assign rhyme and reason to
their origins once they have happened.
Unfortunately, like with most things in
life, it seems to be much easier to make
predictions and prognoses after the
event. The most important thing to re-
alise and understand is that crises are
absolutely cyclical. In 97 there was the
Asian currencies crisis; in 2000 we had
the speculative Nasdaq bubble burst-
ing, and now we are faced with what
is judged by many to be almost the Ar-
mageddon of financial disasters.
The financial sector is seen as one of
the pillars of modern society as we have
come to know and live it. The image it
projects is one of something truly sta-
ble and solid as a rock. Something al-
most unshakable, if you will. While this
is the reality for the great majority of
the time, the truth of the matter is that
there is probably not a single sector
more leveraged than the financial one.
Banks and other financial institutions
are leveraged on average 20 times; and
this is a conservative estimate. Due to
this astronomical leverage, any crisis
will have quite catastrophic conse-
quences if it happens to hit non-diver-
sified institutions or actually affects all
sectors of an economy.
This so-called ‘subprime crisis’ is an
especially worrying one because it is af-
fecting banks quite heavily. It is hitting
the heart of the financial system – the
investment banks. For the first time in
over 20 years, a bank going bankrupt
is not just a mere possibility but rather
a very disturbing probability. Obvi-
ously the risk of this happening is still
relatively low for two main reasons;
1) governments and global bodies do
not want a run for the money should
a bank fall; and 2) because the extreme
weakening of some banks or lessening
scope of their service will only lead to a
higher level of concentration in an in-
dustry that is far from being dilute.
The subprime crisis has led to a mas-
sive credit crunch that has affected
everyone, from you and me to some
of the most powerful organisations on
this planet. No one in the real world is
completely immune from it, no matter
how deep the bunker in which one may
be hiding. The news goes on about it;
the papers go on about it; even your
wrinkly, old, spinster landlady goes
on about it. And with due reason. The
inability to borrow capital or prop-
erly price any mortgage-backed secu-
ritiy has put a massive damper on the
economy. This dent is far from being
mended. In a few years, however, the
current crisis will undoubtedly fade to
an almost oblivion and in the process
will transform the markets, the rev-
enue model of financial firms and, in-
evitably, the fates and lives of millions
of people who were just watching the
world go by.
This crisis, like most other economic
ones, is not brought about by comput-
ers or by obscure forces. It is the by-
product of something very real – peo-
ple. As long as people are the driving
force behind markets, they will contin-
ue to be difficult to predict. While pat-
terns of behaviour may be found when
looking at the past, the here and now
tends to be infinitely more complex
than anything else. The inevitability of
human nature is an empirical truth.
I hope the very rudimentary explana-
tion of the current crisis below will help
you understand it a little bit better.
The ability to obtain credit has greatly diminished since August 2007
After the housing bubble in the US
burst, risky borrowers of capital
(those spending beyond their means
and with a poor credit record) be-
came unable to pay it back.
As a result, credit risk retainers
such as banks suffered tremendous
losses as borrowers defaulted their
payments. This was due to some-
what irresponsible lending on their
part and by offering tempting condi-
tions to those that could not afford
payments.
Lenders also sold off risk to other in-
vestors by creating structured prod-
ucts using these risky ‘subprime’
mortgages as the underlying asset.
Banks were big investors in these
backed securities
As defaults increased, the value of
these securities declined, resulting
in significant losses for investors in
these products.
Stock markets suffered due to the
uncertainty of the exact amount
lost and investors of all kinds be-
came more weary. Lenders also be-
came more cautious of lending in
all forms, resulting in a difficulty to
obtain credit by all parties.
Inability to borrow expensive loans
led to unwillingness by business-
es to invest large sums of money.
These dynamics put heavy brakes
on an economy since consumer
spending and corporate investment
are key necessities for growth.
The shortest route to the subprime and credit crunch enlightenment
START
FINISH

