politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
8 felix Friday 14 March 2008
Politics
Politics Editors – Li-Teck Lau and Kadhim Shubber
A stable future for Kenya
Kenya shows us that conflict is not inevitable on the African continent
Anthony Maina
In a leafy Nairobi suburb on Sunday, a
tense final was being played out on the
lush greens of the Karen Country Club.
If Yorkshireman Iain Pyman could
continue to hold off the challenge of
Austria’s Thomas Feyrsinger he would
claim victory at the Tusker Kenya
Open, the African leg of the European
PGA tour. It would be Pyman’s first win
on the PGA circuit. But it was neither
the Englishman nor the Austrian that
was causing the buzz in the sidelines.
In attendance and following every shot
were Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki
and erstwhile opposition leader Raila
Odinga, each completely relaxed and
jovial in the other’s company. Bitter ri-
vals only weeks before, the two laughed
and joked like old high-school buddies.
In an address later on that day, they de-
scribed the chaos caused by last year’s
disputed presidential election as “a
thing of the past”, saying the country
was now on a healing process. For the
first time, President Kibaki referred to
Mr. Odinga as Prime Minister-desig-
nate. And significantly, Mr Odinga on
his part referred to Mr. Kibaki as “Your
Excellency”.
Twoweeksearlier,suchascenewould
have been well-nigh unimaginable.
Talks between the Government and
Opposition sides seemed to be head-
ing nowhere, with hardliners on either
side refusing to cede ground to allow
a power-sharing agreement. On Feb-
ruary 26, chief mediator Kofi Annan
called off the talks, sensing that Presi-
dent Kibaki and Mr. Odinga were not
being fully informed on the progress
of the talks by the negotiators they
had picked to make their respective
cases. On February 27, Annan sat both
leaders down face to face, determined
that a solution to the political crisis be
found. In attendance at Mr. Annan’s re-
quest was Tanzanian President Jakaya
Kikwete, sitting AU chairman, but,
perhaps more significantly, the Head
of State of a country where power is
currently shared between the Presi-
dency and the office of a Prime Min-
ister. The speed of the result took even
Kenyans by surprise. On February 28,
in front of an excited press, Kibaki and
Odinga signed the historic agreement
that would see an end to two months
of turmoil and uncertainty that had
pushed Kenya to the brink. Under the
agreement, the President would cede
some of his authority to pave the way
for the creation of the office of a Prime
Minister, which Mr Odinga would
hold. Government positions would be
split 50-50 between the two rival sides,
and the newly-formed coalition would
set national reconciliation as a pri-
mary objective. Celebrations broke out
throughout the country as Kenyans
finally found meaning in wishing each
other a Happy New Year.
Renewed optimism has swept
through the country since. The fear
caused by inter-ethnic tension has be-
gun to dissipate, with each tribe feel-
ing secure and sufficiently represented
in the new coalition government. The
country’s economic indicators bright-
ened up with news of the deal, with the
NSE index improving, trading volumes
approaching pre-election levels, and
Standard & Poor revising its long term
rating on Kenya to stable from nega-
tive. Although the post-election vio-
lence is expected to slow down growth
this year, the future looks bright again
for East Africa’s biggest economy.
Observers have called the long term
sustainability of the deal into question,
and hardliners from each side continue
to voice their dissatisfaction at the ap-
parently weak reconciliatory stances
adopted by their respective sides. But
the signs look good, and there is faith
that this agreement is one which will
last. At the official state opening of Par-
liament, the President’s address was re-
ceived by spontaneous foot-thumping
from both sides of the House, a stark
contrast to the shouting and name-
calling that marred the swearing-in
ceremony weeks before. And in a sign
of their commitment to making the
deal a success, after only six minutes
of debate, Parliament unanimously ap-
proved the appointment of the Com-
mittee on House Business, in which
the President’s Party of National Unity
and Mr Odinga’s Orange Democratic
Movement shared seats equally. “We
have brought Kenya out of the crisis
because we want to see a united nation
that has been a haven of peace,” said
Mr Odinga. The President echoed this
sentiment, calling upon MPs to be-
come “ambassadors of peace” in their
communities, and to spare no effort in
ensuring that the violence that gripped
Kenya is not allowed to erupt again.
There remains a long and potentially
treacherous way to go; extensive le-
gal and social reforms will need to be
implemented by Parliament in order
to address the root causes of the post-
election strife. Kibaki and Odinga have
voiced their desire to see the process
through, but it will be the courage and
will of Kenya’s leaders to place their
country’s interests before their own
that will ultimately give Kenyans a
country they can believe in, and a Ken-
ya they can be proud of.
Left: Kenyatta Centre in Nairobi. After an historic political agreement, Kenyans can look forward to clear and prosperous times again
If you didn’t know where Kenya was before you picked up this issue, now you do.
Alas, it’s the end of another term. What
was my political highlight? Probably
the backlash at last week’s article ‘The
facts about the Lisbon Treaty’ by a cer-
tain Ian Grieve, calling it “unremitting-
ly pro-EU”. I concede - the subheadings
(‘Will the UK lose its veto?’ and ‘Is it a
major transfer of power to the EU?’ for
instance) were geared towards coun-
tering Eurosceptic propoganda. But
aren’t Eurosceptics those people with
scales and lizard breath who go around
spreading misleading rumours with
the aim of winning Daily Mail reader
votes? The answer is yes.
Coming a close second, I guess it
must be that election in Pakistan back
in February which handed victory to
the PPP, party of the recently-assas-
sinated ex-prime minister Benazir
Bhutto, herself accused of flagrant cor-
ruption whilst in office. However, with
no outright majority, and with a leader
who holds no seat himself, the violence
continues amidst the political instabil-
ity; 24 killed and many more injured in
a twin suicide attack just last Tuesday.
On the topic of that much loved sys-
tem of government, democracy, Spain
and Malaysia voted last week, both re-
turning their respective leaders to of-
fice, both with reduced majorities. Ab-
dullah Ahmad Badawi, leader of ruling
coalition Barisan Nasional, resisted
calls to resign after seeing a 90% ma-
jority at the last election in the South
East Asian country crumble to little
over 60% this time around. It means
he cannot make constitutional changes
without support from the opposition.
In local news, Alistair Darling,
Chancellor of the Exchequer, gave his
first budget report last Tuesday, hiking
taxes on ‘gas guzzling’ cars and alco-
hol, increasing borrowing and scaling
down growth forecasts for the next
2 years. The shock-haired politician
blamed the world financial crisis for
his woes, as the rescuing of troubled
bank Northern Rock and rising infla-
tion mar his time at number 11.
It’s been in Politics pretty much eve-
ry week for the past year (+6 months),
but the Democratic primaries continue
in the US. Hillary Clinton left the state
of Mississippi with days to spare before
the polls to campaign in Pennsylvania,
the next large state to vote, facing a
near certain loss. The loss did indeed
come as the state in which 70% of reg-
istered Democrat voters are of African
origin emphatically backed Barack
Obama. In a contest increasingly di-
vided along racial lines, Democrats
fear their nomination contest could
harm their chances come November
and the battle against John McCain.
So, a political thought to leave you
with over the holiday you’ll likely
spend in the library? Genocide, a word
bounced around the tabloids more
than Ms Britney Spears herself, is but
another tool of war. The real crime is
our cultural identity. So why not let’s
put on our rainbow glasses, break
open a chocolate Easter egg and give
one another a hug? After all, if we’re
all the same, there’d be nothing to dis-
criminate against, and hence no mass
killings.
Li-Teck Lau
Politics Editor

