4
R E V I E W S I
A L e p e r ' s T a l e
The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant - The
Unbeliever. (Fontana).
When I first started reading this trilogy by
Stephen Donaldson I thought 'Oh dear! A
Lord of the Rings -American Style'. The map
inside the front cover, the Land with its
magical inhabitants, the volcano and the
threat of an evil Lord Foul started bells
ringing in my head like noon in a clock-
makers. The further I read, the worse it got: a
magical talisman, The Staff of Law, had been
lost during the last battle with Foul and
recently found by this demented creature,
Drool Rockworm, who lives under a
mountain. Sound familiar? But just as I was
prepared to slate these three books into the
ground the story takes a very unusual twist.
Lord Foul's Bane
Meet Thomas Covenant, writer and happily
married modern-day American whose life is
shattered when the doctors tell him he has
leprosy. He becomes an outcast, divorced by
his wife and shunned by the townsfolk who
go to such lengths as paying his bills to
remove any excuse he may have for visiting
the town. Determined to fight back against
s o c i a l o s t r a c i s m , C o v e n a n t m a r c h e s
defiantly into town, but while crossing the
road is run down by a police car.
He awakes in the Land, a virtual paradise,
whose inhabitants hail him as the re-
incarnation of a legendary hero. This is where
Donaldson departs from the traditional good
vs evil fairtytale. There is no straight battle
between opposing forces here. Lord Foul has
a complex forty-nine year plan for conquest
of the Land which involves manipulating the
Land's protectors, the Lords, for his own
ends. Lord Foul tells Covenant to warn the
Lords and also that Drool Rockworm has
found the Staff of Law.
Throughout his time in the Land, though,
Covenant stubbornly refuses that any of it
exists. He maintains that he is dreaming and
that the Land & its peoples are figments of
his deranged mind: believing himself to be in
a c o m a following the car accident.
Being a leper, and therefore without any
hope of being cured, Covenant has to
preserve his precious self-disciplines. A n y
cut or bruise can deteriorate his condition
and lead to a hideous death by cumulative
rotting. He sees the Land as a seduction he
must resist, for it he drops his defences then
he will surely die in the 'real' world when he
wakes up. Each time Covenant steels himself
against the beauty of the Land his resolve is
worn down. The 'Illusion' that his leprosy is
cured, the health and vitality of the
countryside, the trust of the people, all
combine to drive him insane if he trusts his
senses. Never before have I read about a
more unlikely, or more unwilling, hero.
Yet by maintaining his own integrity
Covenant becomes Foul's pawn, unwittingly
causing suffering and betraying those who
trusted him.
The position of the Lords is hardly much
better. Sworn to an Oath of Peace, they find
themselves forced to defend the Land against
Foul using the minimum of force. C a n they
trust Covenant? Do they have any choice?
Plagued by self-doubt, they must join forces
with Covenant against Foul in the hope that
the former will be able to use his magic white-
gold wedding ring. But despite the legends
promising 'salvation or damnation' from the
wielder of the wild magic, to Covenant his
ring remains a painful reminder of his broken
marriage.
The first book sets the scene and
introduces many of the characters that
appear in the following books. O n the surface
it is a simple story concerning the Quest for
the Staff of Law, but many of Covenant's
actions have far - reaching repercussions
which only become apparent in the third
book.
The Power That Preserves
Despite having failed the Land o n the
previous occasions Covenant is summoned
for a third time, two years before the
completion of Foul's scheme. Foul has all but
succeeded in enslaving the Land. The once
beautiful countryside is now held in the grip
of an unnatural winter and Lords' Keep, the
last stronghold, is besieged by a massive
army of Foul's creations.
Without the seductions of beauty,
Covenant summons all his anger, his last
defence, a n d sets out to personally destroy
Foul. The final confrontation was, I felt,
something of an anti-climax, yet was
perfectly in k e e p i n g with C o v e n a n t ' s
character.
At this point I must mention what to me was
the most powerful character in the book -
Lord Mhoram. Initially described as 'a man
who looked as if he could surprise fate itself if
driven to his last' Mhoram bides his time until
the last book. It was Mhoram who, as the
youngest Lord, listened to and understood
Covenant's reluctance to help. It was Mhoram
again, forty-seven years later as High Lord,
who discovered the reason the Lords were
losing the battle a n d unravelled the secret
behind Covenant's 'white gold'.
All in all this is a very powerful a n d
sometimes deeply moving account of a
struggle between the forces of good and evil.
Each character has his/her strengths and
weaknesses which are exploited to create
acts of tremendous bravery or incredible
stupidity. Donaldson describes the Land in a
vivid fashion with more depth than Tolkien.
Certainly the characters are more believable.
The use of symbols, a complex story-line,
true-to-life characters and vivid narration of
momentous events make these books the
most interesting and enjoyable I've ever read.
I strongly recommend y o u all to go out and
buy them.
John Harris
The lllearth War
The second book begins with Covenant
back home, having been released from
hospital. After only a few days he is
summoned to the Land, where forty years
have passed since his last visit. Lord Foul has
now gained control of The lllearth Stone and
uses it to wage open war with a vast army.
We are introduced to Hile Troy, also
summoned from the 'real' world, who is a
brilliant tactician and convinced he can gain a
strategic advantage over Foul's armies a n d
t h u s d e f e a t t h e m . T h e c o n f l i c t i n g
philosophies of Troy and Covenant are
brilliantly handled by Donaldson. The one
believing passionately in the Land and doing
his utmost to defend it, the other doing his
utmost to disbelieve it and yet only narrowly
failing to thwart Foul's plan. Again the story is
complicated by the two mens' relationships
with High Lord Elena, theirtriumphs and their
failures.

