D a y B y D a y
A ROUND-UP OF LAST W E E K ' S NEWS
Wednesday 13th
Tornado jet crash starts sea hunt
Prototype 08 ofthe new 1,400 m.p.h. swing-
wing Tornado jet crashed mysteriously into
the sea 40 miles off Blackpool on Tuesday. An
urgent salvage operation began today to
recover the wreckage of the plane.
The Tornado is being built jointly by
Britain, West Germany and Italy. It is due to
replace all the RAF's Lightning and Phantom
fighters, Buccaneer and Vulcan bombers
over the next few years.
The Ministry of Defence has asked aircraft
scientists at Farnborough to rebuild the
wreckage as it is recovered.
Piers Corbyn sentenced
Squatters' leader Piers Corbyn was
sentenced to 28 days in jail for resisting the
mass evictions in Huntley Street, Camden,
last August. Imperial College External Affairs
Committee brought the Huntley Street
evictions to the attention of students at IC by
showing a video tape last year.
Thursday 14th
Shadow Cabinet announced
Peter Shore was given the portfolio of
Foreign Affairs. Dr David Owen covers
Energy. Mr Healey came first in the ballot for
the shadow cabinet and, as expected, was
appointed shadow chancellor. Second was
John Silkin, the ex-Agriculture Minister.
Third was Mr Shore and Roy Hattersley came
fourth.
In addition to the shadow cabinet
members, there are three other possible
contenders forthefuture leadership. Mr Benn
chose to return to the back benches. Mrs
Williams may come back to the Commons via
a by-election and Mr Roy Jenkins, now
President of the European Commission,
could make a return to British politics within
two years.
Sioux still fight for rights
Viewers of the television programme,
Centennial, will probably sympathise with the
struggle of the American Indians.
Descendents of Sitting Bull, the Sioux
Chief shot by the U S Cavalry in 1890, were
angered by a Washington court award of
millions of dollars in compensation for the
seizure of their lands a century ago.
The Judge ruled that the Sioux are entitled
to $17,500,000 for the 'fair market value' ofthe
B l a c k Hills of D a k o t a , b e c a u s e the
confiscation in 1877 violated the Indians'
constitutional rights. They are eligible to
receive interest which the court estimated
could be as high as $115 million.
The Indians are worried that the bulk of
their award will disappear into the pockets of
Washington lawyers.
Ego amo te; tu es virgo formosa
I love you; you are a smasher. "Latin - the
new tongue of the new Europe" says the
Vatican. They want Latin to be adopted as
Europe's official language - with 30-minute
lessons on TV for three months as an
introduction
I wondered why I was forced to learn Latin
nursery rhymes obviously all those happy
hours chanting amo, amas, amat, amamus,
amatis, amant - were to be for some future
purpose.
Friday 15th
Queen's birthday honours list
Mrs Thatcher gave Diana Neave, widow of
her closest political advisor who was killed by
a car bomb at the Commons, a seat in the
House of Lords in appreciation of her
courage.
Margaret Weston, first woman director of
the Science Museum becomes a Dame.
Jimmy Young was awarded an O B E . Mrs
Thatcher got on famously with J Y & some
political experts believe that his show - on
which all three party leaders appeared during
the election campaign - had more influence
on the result than any other broadcasting
outlet.
Allergic to the 20th century
A new allergy that is beginning to affect an
increasing number of Americans is being
dubbed, "an allergy to the 20th century". An
allergist described the case of Scott Jablin.
He stated that his patient developed a
poisonous substance inside his body
whenever he came in contact with modern
domestic furniture - everything from the
television to the telephone, from chairs to
carpets.
Mr Jablin has to spend every 24 hours
sitting or sleeping on a wooden bench in a
friend's backyard. He breathes bottled air
through a cotton mask with a charcoal filter.
Allergists predict that there are going to be
many more people witn the same problem.
They say that the more garbage we put into
the world the more people there will be whose
bodies break down from it.
Saturday 16th
England beat Pakistan by 14 runs
After a thrilling match against Pakistan,
England finished top of their group B league
in the Prudential World C u p Cricket
Tournament. In the semi finals, played on
Wednesday, England take on New Zealand,
and Pakistan meet the West Indies.
Hippo with a killer streak
Adelaide Zoo bought Albert the Hippo
knowing that he was a difficult creature.
Albert, alias Brutus, is an incurable terrorist
hippo who savagely went on the rampage a
few days ago, crashed through his steel pen
at the zoo and killed a water buffalo who lived
next door. Only then was it discovered that
Albert has a record.
Back in 1973 when he was called Brutus he
broke out of a safari park and slaughtered a
goat, a pig and another buffalo. Later when a
n e i g h b o u r i n g c a m e l peered into his
pen Albert bit his head off.
Sunday 17th
Malaysians tow refugees back to sea
Malaysian patrol boats towed 5 vessels
containing about 2,500 recently arrived boat
people back into international waters.
Announcing Malaysia's new refugee policy
the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Mahatmia
Mohamad, said legislation would soon be
passed to allow the nation's security forces to
'shoot on sight' Indo-Chinese refugees trying
to enter Malaysian territorial waters in small
craft.
Monday 18th
SALT 2 arms treaty signed
The S A L T 2 arms limitation treaty, signed
in Vienna today by the United States
and Russia, was hailed as "a victory in the
battle tor peace" by President Carter and as
"defending the right to live' by Mr Brezhnev.
President Carter now faces a battle in the
Senate. He warned a joint session of
Congress that a setback to S A L T policy would
be "an invitation to disaster".'
Mr Carter faces a bitter struggle to get the
treaty ratified by a two-thirds majority of the
Senate. Opposition to the pact is based
mainly on the grounds that it fails to restrain
Russki arms build up enough.
Tuesday 19th
The End
Britain is facing the prospect of inflation
rising to 17% by the time College restarts next
Autumn. Petrol could have risen to nearly £2
per gallon as Arab oil supplies continue to be
cut back. This week has seen President
B r e z h n e v talking with the A m e r i c a n
President. The 72-year old Soviet leader has
shown signs of ill health. Will he be replaced
by a leader less interested in detente? Jeremy
Thorpe's trial filled the national papers this
week
what new scandal will be
discovered in Oct '79? Next term a new team
will describe how Britain and the world face
tbe problems that emerge from day to day.
A giant problem is the plight of the South
Vietnamese refugees for some just
another item in a world full of news stories -
for the people fighting for survival a
nightmare that won't go away.
Day by Day was written by Jill Dawson and
Colin Palmer News extracts were based on
copy from copy from the Daily Telegraph,
Daily Mail and The Guardian.

