Twittens I Have Known...
from an Original Idea
by Pete Spencer-Phillips
and written by Sheyne Lucock
The astonishing fact that you're still
reading FELIX now at the end of the year
probably means that you're an even more
avid reader than the Editor, who gave up
reading it himself after the first three issues!
So who is this Editor - the face behind page
three? Quite obviously some of you will think
he's a complete idiot and you could have
done much better yourself. Others will have
been continually amazed at the ever
increasing standard of technical excellence
with each passing issue.
ANGELIC
At first, John Harris seemed such a quiet
and unassuming lad, exuding innocence
from somewhat angelic features. Though
things are not always what they seem, and in
this case, could not have been further from
the truth.
PASSION
It all started on the P G Outing to
Cambridge last July which was also attended
by the three sabbaticals. The Beer Festival.
The punting (with someone falling in). The
effect was traumatic. From lagerand lime and
FELIX to real ale and passion overnight.
PERSEVERENCE
During the autumn term, the fact that FELIX
appeared at all is a great credit to John's
perseverence and dedication. Practically
single-handed, often working right through
the night at least twice a week, he produced
issues of FELIX to a standard far higher than
in previous years, which was undoubtedly
responsible for attracting and keeping the
high calibre student staff he has been blessed
with for the last two terms.
FOIBLES
But do FELIX Editors have time for
anything else? Certainly John's main
preoccupation outside the FELIX office is
spending as much time as possible in the
B o t / Z o o C o m m o n R o o m , w h i c h is
conveniently situated just three yards away.
As it approaches ten o'clock there is a definite
speeding up of the metabolic rate, a rythmic
twitching of the drinking paw, a nervous
rolling of the eyes and then - wham! He's
gone! When the dust clears, one is able to
follow the well-worn tracks leading direct to
the serving hatch, where, in the midst of what
appears to be a cataleptic fit, a cup of tea and
a caramel wafer are hustled away to be
consumed with even greater vigour than the
day before. Once more, calm is restored -
until just before three o'clock, when the same
ritual is repeated. Although now, of course,
Mrs A d a m s ' s irresistable charm a n d
tea-making expertise means that the
preliminary drooling is maintained for at least
another half-hour. A n d his Mum can't
understand why he's started to drink tea after
all these years!
While we're on the subject of foibles, John
certainly has plenty, and it's difficult to know
where to start to describe them.
Perhaps the most obsure foibles relate to
the two pictures on this page. The Stockpot
Restaurant is a rather nice, relatively cheap
place to eat not too far from College - just
behind Harrods. S o I can't think why he'd
travel miles to the one near Duke Street ?
Ecstasy!
MORE FOIBLES
The second most obscure foible relates to
the model (illustrated) - one of many he has
built in his spare time - of what is purported to
be a nucleotide (fundamental building block
of DNA) of quite peculiar stereochemical
proportions. Not that John is a biologist, but
prolonged exposure to complex biological
chit-chat over tea twice a day can seriously
affect anyone's mental health - and FELIX
Editors are more susceptible than most to any
kind of royalty - whether they be Duchesses
of Duke St or not!
There's more! He reads dictionaries!
Geological ones. Physical ones. And, you
guessed it, Biological ones! But he doesn't
stop there. He actually bought a copy of an
excellent Biology A-level text-book, and
started to wade through it from chapter one.
It'll be point quadrats in Beit Quad next!
NOCTURNAL
Apart from the P G trip to Cambridge, a lot
of interesting things have happened during
the year. Like there was the time we decided
to go with Roger Stotesbury for a drink in Kew
one night. "Are you sure it's quicker to go to
Gunnersbury Station?" asked John when it
was time to go home. We never found it, but
had to walk all the way back to College, on the
way calling at a Chinese take-away in the
Fulham Palace Road which John assured us
did quite excellent nocturnal chips, having
often frequented it in the middle of the night.
Why? We never did find out, but apparently
it's better than Westminster Bridge at one in
the morning.
He used to go to Barnet a lot, too. Well, it'sa
nice place is Barnet - right at the end of the
Northern Line.
COLD FINGERS
It was probably a taste for adventure that
induced him to spend a frozen weekend
delivering 1500 leaflets in a small seaside
town on the East Coast for a political cause
that he had never expressed a loyalty to,
advertising a meeting with the well-known
gourmet Clement Freud. When your fingers
are that cold, and you get them trapped in that
many vicious letterboxes, then I would have
thought you'd never want to see the place
again. Not a bit of it. Back the next weekend
for an encounter with the man himself, and
more frozen fingers.
CONSCIENCE
The disappointment of never having got it
together with the other two sabbaticals who
also live in Room 434 Linstead (a grammatical
error in one of his first issues which led to all
kinds of confusions & interests) was never
quite overcome in spite of the thrill of marking
up Mel Kinkie's deliciously erotic articles
each week. So he developed a social
conscience to make up for it. From a truly
right-wing reactionary view-point and an
absolute mistrust of anything red or feminist
and Mary in particular, there has been a
steady shift in both his opinions and ideas
never parallelled in the course of history.
Perhaps the most striking event in this
transformation was the result of an hour-long
discussion over a Mooney with Mary one
Sunday night (it takes that long to chew it -
the Mooney, not Mary) on the fine details of
the Single Transferable Vote. Now, believe it
or not, but the new FELIX Society is the only
Union club which elects its officers and
committee by proportional representation!!
He's even got to the stage of beating such
seasoned campaigners such as Mary and
myself at a quite complex General Election
Board Game - but Risk! is probably still his
favourite.
FROGS
New information recently came to light
during a close inspection of his native habitat
in Bath. It was then that Mary realised where
she'd seen those eyes before. Frogs. Lots of
them. They stare at each other for hours,
them probably remembering the days when
he used to catch flies and dangle them on bits
of string for their supper. He also used to have
a meaningful relationship with a large white
rabbit. Used to take it for walkies on a lead.
Into the woods. Say no more.
Usually when you write a profile of
someone, the temptation is to exaggerate.
Fortunately I haven't had to. It's with regret
that one realises that John could end up on
the traditional straight career ladder along
with everyone else leaving all his foibles
behind him. That would be a pity.
Opposite Duke St.
iiiiiiiiiiiiimm i m i l m i m i n i m i m i n i i i i m i m m i m i

