Educational Values -page 7
SJLG.CHESURBS
DEBATES PRESDENT
UNION DEBATE, THURSDAY, 18th M A R C H
IG GOES LABOUR
In spite of an impassioned plea by Mr. Enoch Powell, the Con-
servative one-time "rebel" M P , that the opposition speakers had
consistently evaded the question that " this house has no confidence
in Her Majesty's Government," his motion was defeated by 199 votes
to 130. There were 30 abstentions.
Mr. Powell opened with charges against the Labour Govern-
ment's five months of office. He did concede, however, that its per-
sonnel had an organising ability of the highest order—but the country
was not ready for organised chaos and disorder.
The new administration had implemented even more " stop-go "
policies. And the talking-down of the British economy—to the tune
of $3 billion credit—and the Con
cord review had far from un-
proved our standing abroad.
" The Labour Government," he
said, " has succeeded in spread-
ing alarm and despondency in
British industry" and "discord
and distrust not only in Europe
but throughout the world."
In reply Mrs, Babara Castle,
the Minister for Overseas De-
velopment, began with a long
tirade on the character she was
opposing. She noted that Mr.
Powell had had no confidence in
the previous Government either,
and further gave vent to his
chequered ministerial career.
Thirteen years of Conservative
rule had shown a remarkable
lack of co-ordination. She stated
that when the Socialists came to
power they were faced with the
largest-ever trade gap. Some-
thing had to be done rapidly, even
if unpopular, " T o stop the gap
and prevent the economy running
more and more into the red."
(Laughter.)
In the long-term the Govern-
ment was giving incentives to ex-
porters, had set up a prices-and-
incomes review board, and had
given the British computer indus-
try a big boost. Such, she in-
sisted, were expansionist policies,
not protectionist ones.
David Reich, President of IC
Debates, referred to the present
" Mock " Government as " One in
which the left hand, or wing,
doesn't know what the right is
doing." While the left wing
quibbled over Vietnam, the right
disagreed with the Government
on steel.
" Healthy discussion," cried
Mr. Needham from the floor.
" I'll be dealing with the Ministry
of Health later," Reich retorted,
and described the abolition of
prescription charges as the worst
feature of the Budget. (Hisses.)
" Point of information," begged
the Chairman of SCC. " Y o u
wouldn't have any information
for me," Reich told Mr. Anand.
David Watson, last year's ICU
President, thought Tory Govern-
ments had been too complacent—
" If foreigners don't want to buy
our goods, then they can go else-
where." A n incomes policy, he
stated, was just around the corner
— M i . Powell smiled knowingly.
In comparing the two major
party leaders, he described Sir
Alec " Like a dinosaur that this
emerged into the hard light of the
20th century."
Tory David Pinsent felt that
the Labour Party preferred the
purity of Opposition to power.
Many of their recent actions had
been harmful due to haste.
Hilary Thompson considered
man to be naturally perverse,
and, of the Conservatives, " This
malingering rag-bag is not fit for
government!"
The Liberals were not forgot-
ten. Edward Fortune forecasted
a Liberal gain at Roxburgh, the
Labour candidate losing his de-
posit ! Under Labour, he added,
"London will come to a stand-
still—.and nothing will stop it!"
In summary Mrs. Castle re-
minded the house of the election
pledges already fulfilled—-at a
rate of over one a week.
D.I.W.
A full-scale attack on Mr. David Reich, President of Debates,
was launched by Mr. Uppinder Anand, Chairman of the Social Clubs
Committee, on Tuesday, 16th at the S.C.C. Meeting. Mr. Anand
moved that " I n view of the irresponsible behaviour of Mr. Reich
it is proposed that the financial account of the Debating Society be
frozen. It is also recommended the committee of the Debating
Society reconsider the position of Mr. Reich as president."
Mr. Reich, Mr. Anand stated, was " either not capable of being
President of Debates or irresponsible" and had "generally let his
Society run into chaos."
The cause of the trouble was finance. The Debating
Society had failed to submit financial figures for the half-yearly
check, had failed to collect money from students who had entertained
visiting guests to sherry and luncheon, when instructed to do so by
the S.C.C., and had overspent their publicity grant without approval
from the S.C.C.
Mr. Anand went on to enlarge on Mr. Reich's misdeeds. Mr.
Reich—who was not present—apparently refused to answer letters,
failed to arrive at meetings on time and generally did nothing to
alleviate the financial troubles of his society.
The Debating Society account was overdrawn £2 and some bills
had not been received. The only light Mr. Hilary Thompson, the
Debating Society Treasurer, could throw on the affair was that Mr.
Reich lived away from College and only came to the Union two davs
a week.* Mr. Anand replied that letters sent in December should
have been answered by now.
The motion was about to be put to the vote when Mr. Reich
arrived with profuse apologies. The charges were repeated and he
Continued on p. 12
Barbara Castle speaking during the debate.

