2 FELI X
We Believe In Fairies!
A sparse audience was present at the Debate on 11th March to
concur with Viscount Barrington's motion that " this House believes
in fairies."
Lord Barrington treated the motion scientifically, pointing out
the folly of disbelieving in the existence of fairies merely because
they were not obvious. He cited the peculiar clicking sounds in RCM
—due to metro-gnomes—and the hpuse was reminded of the mean
gold-grasping gnomes of Zurich, responsible for so much recent dis-
tress. In conclusion, he even persuaded the audience that recent
" leaks " in the College telephone system were due entirely to fairies !
In opposition, Michael Scott appealed for commonsense. With
little to offer in the way of argument, he made a number of jokes,
a few of which bore some rele-
SPACE
vance to the motion.
Reuben T. Sawdaye, President
of ULU Debates, supporting the
motion, related two fairy stories
and sat down again. Mike Ed-
wards' main contribution to the
opposition was the deleterious
effect lucky charms made in
Hong Kong were having on
British Industry.
Thrown open to the floorr
several jokes, thinly disguised as
speeches for and against the
motion, ensued. Summarising
for the opposition, Mike Scott
had little to add to his previous
speech, his main argument re-
maining one of commonsense.
Lord Barrington amplified his
main points in support of the
motion and concluded by read-
ing a poem on a leaf—by fairies,
of course !—found beneath the
statue of Peter Pan.
G.B.
F O C U S Mountaineering
Club
A college mountaineering club does not exist solely as a means
to an end. If it did, the club would soon meet its down fall, but if
the members treat the term mountaineering as an excuse for the club
to exist, then it can be a great success.
The I.C.M.C. is just such a club. All its meetings are social
occasions, whether they take place in the Union Bar, at the Outdoor
Life {Exhibition, in Snowdonia or in the Alps.
Most members know every-
body else, and this acquaintance
is not the superficial one of so
many other college societies,
where someone may be admired
for his speech-making or his
goal-scoring. When two people
have helped each other to the top
of a stiff climb, experiencing the
same ordeals, only then can a
real friendship begin.
Why do we climb mountains ?
It is in a search for beauty. The
Scientists and engineers: research workers in new fields of human
knowledge: and practical men to direct huge engineering enter-
prises; the Civil Service needs them all. More, it can provide them
all with work exactly suited to individual qualifications and talents.
The Government is today the largest employer of scientists and
engineers in the country, and has staff working in almost every
field of pure and applied science and engineering. Plant pathology
and naval architecture, thermodynamics and physiology, celestial
mechanics and highway engineering: these are just a few diverse
examples.
Prospects in the Civil Service compare favourably with those
existing in industry: every able scientist or engineer should achieve
a salary of £2,500 within a reasonable period; and an outstanding
man or woman (they receive equal pay) will do so in the earlythirties.
The top posts, which carry salaries of up to £8,000, are open to all.
At each level, there is full scope for the exercise of personal initiative
and responsibility. Laboratory equipment and engineering facilities
are of the highest order. Conditions of service are good and pensions
are non-contributory. Recruitment to the Scientific and Engineering
Civil Service is by interview—there are no written examinations.
There are openings at various levels and for almost every type of
scientific and engineering qualification. To obtain detailed informa-
tion, send a postcard mentioning-age and qualifications, to:
The Secretary, CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
23 Savile Row, London, W.l
In an hour which passed all too quickly Dr. Nicholson explained
some of the difficulties facing astronauts and told of methods used
to cope with their unnatural environment. His talk to WeUssoc
included an interesting film of Colonel Glenn's historic orbital flight
showing Glenn's reaction' throughout and his reaction to the news
from base that he would have to use manual control. Having heard
Dr. Nicholson, one was inclined to sympathise with Glenn.
One of the major problems encountered in spacecraft is that of
providing a breathable atmosphere for the astronaut.
The partial pressure of oxygen must be less than 450 mm. of mer-
cury. Above this level oxygen toxity sets in. A gas must be mixed
with the oxygen to keep the alveoli in the lungs inflated after the
. blood has absorbed the oxygen
from the inhaled gas. Mixtures
of helium and nitrogen with oxy-
gen are commonly used, but the
complexity of the problem is
enormous, and new mixtures are
constantly under investigation.
Another grave problem is that
of withstanding the acceleration
and decelerations involved. The
first ill effects from acceleration
are experienced at a value about
four times that due to gravity at
the earth's surface (four " G ").
This results in a reduction of
bloodflow to the eyes and event-
ually unconsciousness. This is
remedied by the simple expedient
of laying the astronaut on hisback.
This reduces the height to which
the blood must be pumped
and accelerations up to 6G can be
sustained, without loss of con-
sciousness.
The film of Colonel Glenn dur-
ing his orbital flight was interest-
ing, showing as it did how much
could go wrong with a space flight
and how far such a project de-
pends on the human element. In
spite of his extremely thorough
training and preconditioning,
Glenn was quite shocked when
the automatic controls failed to
work, to the extent of forgetting
to lower his visor on re-entry.
Had any puricturings of the craft
occurred, this could have proved
f a t a L
D . S . V I R K .
hills are beautiful in their purity,
their freedom, and their sim-
plicity. They have a power for
drawing out the best that is
within us.
The club has expanded rapidly
since its sisters—the Exploration
Society and the Caving Club-—
split off depleting the member-
ship of the parent club bv half,
and the present number of 55 is
its highest to date. With the
great wave of interest in the sport
just beginning, it should not be
long before the 100 mark is
reached.
The club tries to obtain the
best climbers in the country to
speak at its meetings, Ian Clough,
of the first British party to ascend
the E.iger North Wall, was a re-
cent visitor. A n instruction of
beginners is undertaken both in
'college and in the mountains
themselves.
Highlight of the week is the
bar meet on Tuesday nights.
Epic stories are told over a pint
and the darts board is taken over
for the night.
The Scottish meets at Christ-
mas and Easter and the Alps
meet in the summer are some-
thing out of the ordinary. And
there are whispers of an exped^
tion much further afield for 1966.
G R E G O R Y TOUGH.
SMALL ADS
AUSTIN A 40 Somerset; grey,
superb condition save for slight
duelling scar. Engine just over-
hauled completely. Most effec-
tive anti-theft device; left-hand
drive. Well-appointed and well-
shod. £75 o.n.o. Apply P. J.
Hills, Room 607, Civil Engineer-
ing Department.
DOUBLE ROOM TO LET.
Share of sitting room, kitchen
and bathroom. Hot water, tele-
phone. Linen supplied. 2nd
floor, 39, Stanwick Mansions,
Stanwick Road, West Kensing-
ton, W.14 (EMP 4826).
BRITAIN
TO BLAME
The most important contribu-
tory factor to the troubled poli-
tical situation in Southern Africa
to-day was the formation and
subsequent disintegration of the
Central African Federation. This
was the main point of Professor
Kenneth Kirkwood's lecture on
" Rhodesia's Policy in Race Re-
lations " in General Studies on
March 16th.
The speaker, who is Rhodes
Professor of Race Relations at
Oxford, told an audience' consist-
ing almost entirely of African
students that the bitterness in
both black and white communi-
ties was due to the sudden aban-
donment of high hopes and
worthy objectives by the British
Government. ... _ _
Rhodesia is the nut between the
nutcrackers of militant African
Nationalism to the north and mili-
tant Afrikaner Nationalism tq^he
Continued p. 3, col. 2

