F E L I X 3
TOUCHSTONE WEEKEND
POWER BLOCK DANGER
The ideal for which Commonwealth countries should aim should
be a free association of independent states with a high degree of
technical co-operation. The formation of a Commonwealth " Power
block" could be highly dangerous and should be avoided.
Such were the views which emerged from the most recent 74th
Touchstone Weekend, on 13th—14th March, at Silwood Park. The
guest speaker was Mr. Patrick Keatley, Commonwealth Correspon-
dent of the Guardian.
In his opening speech on " Commonwealth Realities " made par-
ticularly interesting by frequent anecdotes and personal reminiscences,
Mr. Keatley traced the historical
development of independence
among the nations of the Com-
monwealth, leading to the present
time with twenty member
nations and seventy-four depen-
dent countries.
He spoke of the immense differ-
ences in tradition and modes of
government within the Com-
monwealth and considered that
the problem of race relations with
particular reference to Rhodesia
and South Africa was the most
crucial one facing us to-day. The
model of the Commonwealth as a
wheel, with the United Kingdom
at the hub, was out of date and
a more accurate representation
might be that of a lattice.
The next Touchstone Weekend
will be on May 15th-16th, when
Professor Cherry will speak on
" Moral Attitudes in a Technical
Age."
P A U L ROGERS.
NOTHING NEW
With the tragedies of Senna,
Alabama, hitting the headlines
the meeting of ICSFRE on Mon-
day evening was a decided anti-
climax. An audience of 13 (in-
cluding Felix reporter) was
there to hear David Freestone,
from Oxfam, speak on the Negro
and segregation in the United
States, and how that problem
could be compared with the
problem of hunger and depres-
sion in the underdeveloped coun-
tries of the world. It was just as
well there were not more people
at the meeting, what the speaker
had to say .was neither new nor
profound, and not even very
interesting.
He began by recounting his ex-
periences on a visit to the United
States last summer, with the Clay-
ton Volunteer Programme.
The speaker then went on to
compare the Negroes poverty and
oppression with that of the under-
developed African and South
American countries. The solu-
tion to these problems he said lay
in education. In the United states
the Negro schools had very poor
teachers and as a consequence
children would leave hardly being
able to read and write. Because
of this lack of education, these
people could not improve their
lot. Therefore, it was, he said,
the duty of the rich nations of the
world to pour money into the
education of the less fortunate so
that they, in time, would be able
to help themselves.
MAY BALL 1965
Now, only seven years after the first May Ball was held, this
formal dance with the informal atmosphere is fast becoming tradi-
tional. Little wonder either, for this Ball, which starts Carnival
Week events rolling, is a night's merrymaking unsurpassed in the
I.C. Social Calendar.
Simply fill in the application form enclosed in this week's Felix
and return it (together with the very moderate sum required) to the
Hon. Sec., I.C.U. Entertainments Committee, c/o the Union Office.
The ticket will entitle you to spend the night of Friday, May
7th, from 9.30 p.m. until dawn dancing to any of six bands (a cast
headed by the Mike Cotton
Sound, the Paul London Orches-
tra and the New Sedalia Jazz
Band).
Any time between 10.30 and
1.30 a.m., you may indulge in a
*
sit-down buffet and the Gorgeous
Goldway Girls will be giving their
fabulous Limelight floorshow at
1 a.m. Other treats include see-
ing the Carnival Queen crowned,
and merely drinking in any of the
three bars.
To be sure of your ticket fill in
the form and return it now !
STUDENT OFFICERS
UNEXCITING
A pen-pushing and paper job, is
how Roger Hobbs, the Chairman
of R.C.C., describes his job.
His main function is to look
after the organization and finan-
ces of the Recreational Clubs. He
is also their representative on
Council.
There are many summer tours
being arranged and it is also his
job to keep tabs on their organiza-
tion. He sits on several sub-com-
mittees including Student Finance
and Felix and Phoenix Boards
("though God only knows why! ",
to quote).
Mr. Hobbs does not mind-ad-,
mitting that his is a far from ex-
citing job since, to quote, "1 do
not want to be President next
year."
(Continued
from p. 2)
south. In this situation not only
was there racial division, but also,
bitter party division, both black
and white.
Professor Kirkwood compared
the situation with that in Britain
in the early years of the Labour
party. He stressed the need for
African education and suggested
that even minority representation
by the more able African politi-
cians would be better to the pre-
sent situation, where the African
Nationalists refuse any compro-
mise measures.
LIBERAL SEMINAR
New Look Government
At a Liberal Club seminar held at Oxford on 20—21 February,
the view was put that many powers and functions of central and
local government should be given to directly-elected regional assem-
blies, of which there would be about 12 in the country.
These regional assemblies would be financed partly locally by
site value taxation and partly nationally by a block grant from the
central government. Local government would be reformed to ensure
that local problems would be dealt with locally, and that regional
affairs, now dealt with by a conglomeration of authorities, would be
considered regionally ; the abolition of county councils was suggested.
Imperial College was repre-
sented at the conference by Ed-
ward Fortune, President of U.L.
Liberal Federation, and Peter
Towlson, two of four members
from London.
The conference felt that local
broadcasting could play 9. big
part in developing these regions.
And, in order that national econ-
omic and industrial planning
should be effective, a degree of
direction of industry and popu-
lation was suggested.
Rhodesia
This Man is going
to East Germany for
his next vacation
Why? well, for a start, because lie's never been there—
nor have any of his friends. And he's curious. Then there's
money. He doesn't know anywhere else In Europe where
he can live—and live comfortably—on 17/6 a day all in.
Do you?
He's looking forward to visiting Dresden's Zwinger Art
Gallery; the ancient town of Wittenberg; medieval
Meissen; and the Weimar of Goethe, Schiller and Liszt.
To hearing Leipzig's Thomanerchor sing Bach, and the
Berlin State Opera sing anything from Verdi to Wagner.
To watching the Berliner Ensemble perform the works of
Brecht and Weil. He'll explore the bizarre landscape of
Saxon Switzerland, and sunbathe by the tideless Baltic.
And a great deal else besides.
He's busy persuading a party of his friends to go along
with him—then his holiday will cost him nothing at all!
Details from:
JUGENDTOURISTIK,
R E I S E B U E R O DDR,
BERLIN 104, FRIEDRICHSTRASSE 110/112, GERMAN DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC.

