F E L I X - 3
Column
£1,800 G O A L
How many raffle tickets have
you sold ? Our economics ex-
perts have worked out that if
every student in the college sells
ten raffle tickets, we will get
£1,800 net, or about £900 profit.
Surely, it is not asking too much
of you to try to sell tickets to
anybody and everybody you meet
with a bit of luck you'll get rid
of some.
SALESMEN W A N T E D
We are hoping that parties from
the constituent colleges will be
patrolling London most evenings
at the beginning of next term sel-
ling the Carnival Magazine. This
could be good fun and very lucra-
tive but to have any success, we
need good turnouts of " sales-
men." So if you are at a loose
end any evening, either join a
college group, or if you like, just
collect a pile of magazines and
try selling them at your local job
—after all, the landlord can only
throw you out!
NEW FILMS
The rumours of Pink Panther
and 007 for the midnight Film
Festival were all wrong! Un-
fortunately neither film is avail-
able and we will be having the
" Guns of Navarone " and " The
Waltz of the Toreadors " instead.
J U K E B O X
The Juke Box will be in South-
side Snack Bar this year. Whether
there will be coffee on sale in the
evenings depends on whether
there are people willing to serve it.
So come and volunteer, all you
frustrated Sputhside coffee-
makers!
BEGGING LETTERS
There are still a lot of beting
letters for delivery. If you live
in Kensington and haven't yet
taken some round, please call in
and get sOme. The work involved
is very little—all you have to do
is walk down your own street,
knocking on doors, and delivering
letters and it will help us no end.
LETTERS RAEui, £110
Replies to the begging letters
now number 40 representing a
rate of one per cent, and have
raised £110 for I.C. Carnival.
A N Y QUERIES ?
If you have any queries, or
want ..to help don't hesitate to
call in at the Carnival office or
Southside any lunchtime. You'll
always be welcome.
J.H.A.
NEW GROUND will be broken
next year by Felix—and new
blood is needed to lay the seed.
Applicants for staff posts and
bright ideas please to 96 New
Beit with all haste (if no response
then just slip a note under the
door or into the Felix pigeon-
hole in Union lounge).
Will it all seem worthwhile 5 years from now?
At Turner & Newall a man's degree — whether
in science, engineering or the arts — counts
for far more than a passport to a round of
interviews. Our Training Scheme is planned
to employ all his university attainments to
the full, and to be adaptable to his individual
needs.
Just who are T & N ? Turner & Newall is one
of the strongest, most important groups in
British industry. With a large and growing
stake in asbestos-cement, in insulation, in
brake linings and in plastics T & N is closely
linked to all four major areas of economic
growth. To the building industry; the motor
industry; the newer plastics; and to activity in
the developing territories of the Common-
wealth . . . all adding up to a strongly expand-
ing £100,000,000 business with 39,000
employees. Overseas, with 17 companies in
10 countries, T & N has doubled its interests in
ten years.
Earlier Responsibility T & N thus offers
outstanding graduates a career of great scope,
keyed from the first to areas in which expan-
sion is at its fastest... opportunity at its best.
Moreover, under our broad and flexible
training scheme, the graduate assumes
managerial responsibility more confidently —
and certainly earlier — than is often the case in
industry today.
Note to Research Men T & N also recruits
scientists and engineers direct into its re-
search and development branches, whose
projects are particularly closely linked to the
needs of the expanding industries. Opport-
unities for supervising work with a practical
application, as well as for fundamental study,
are thus outstandingly good.
Ask your Appointments Board for further de-
tails, or write direct to: Management Appoint-
ments Adviser, Turner & Newall Ltd.,15Curzon
Street, London, W.1. (Tel. GROsvenor 8163)
The Turner & Newall Management Appoint-
ments Adviser will be visiting Imperial
College, London on Thursday 11th March
1965. If you would like an interview, please
contact the Appointments Office.
TURNER & NEWALL LIMITED
TURNERS ASBESTOS CEMENT CO. LTD • TURNEE BROTHERS ASBESTOS CO. LTD • FERODO LTD ' NEWALLS INSULATION &
CHEMICAL CO. LTD 1
J . W , ROBERTS LTD • GLASS FABRICS LTD • BRITISH INDUSTRIAL PLASTICS LTD • STILLITE PRODUCTS LTD
TURNERS ASBESTOS FIBRES LTD • AND 17 OVERSEAS MINING & MANUFACTURING COMPANIES

