6 FELIX
felix
NEWSPAPER
OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Circulation, 1700
EDITOR
ASSISTANT EDITOR
D. I. WILLIAMS
N. J. WALKER
Business
Production Manager Alan Oxley
Sports Editor Dare Hunt
Late News Editor Ted Needham
Photograpmc
Editor
Asst. Sports Ed.
Subeditor
Robin Webster,
Peter Combes,
Geoff. Bean,
Barrie Pichler
Sales Andrew Mayo,
Jocelyn Mackintosh
Pete Ash
John Cawson Production Asst. Mike Leppard
Graham Bolch
Secretaries: Gill Steele
S-Vogler
Bob Grundy
Melvyn Owen
PETTINESS
Why is it we can become so worked-up over petty affairs, and
yet over matters which affect us all We couldn't care a damn! The
obvious answer is that we are students and, as such, reputed to live
for the present only. But surely, we can behave us adults and get
our sense of values right.
A recent example of-pettiness is the David Reich—Social Clubs
Committee battle (reported on front page). Not one member of the
S.C.C. pointed out that the Debating Society is "having its most suc-
cessful "year ever. Apart from Mr. Anand, no one had any valid
points on the matter. With a little bit of " give and take" on both
sides the whole affair could have been settled long before this.
Technically it seems that M / . Anand and his executive are in
the right, but what good can come from passing a vote of censure
on someone who is, in most eyes, a successful President ? NONE.
It can only upset a lot of people and magnify things out of all per-
spective, as happened last year over Felix.
N.UJS.
In or out ? Once more a motion has been signed by more than
the required 130 Union Members and the motion " that we dis-
affiliate forthwith from N.U.S." will be debated at a Union Meeting
to-morrow.
It is high time that this question was at least settled for more
than the one or two years has has become a custom of the past
decade. The last N.U.S. debate, on 18th February, produced no
really satisfactory answer. Neither side had had time to point out
their respective arguments and neither side produced any good
speeches. Even the proposer lost his notes and had to use the iden-
tical version that was used at the N.U.S. debate in 1963 !
The opposition failed to do anything until after the motion on
18th February. They then tried to give the impression that "They
were robbed."
Again it seems ludicrous that a difference of one in the voting
can decide this issue; especially since a two-thirds majority will be
needej for the costitutional change required if an N.U.S. represen-
tative is to sit on Council.
ANTI-APATHY
We are always hearing the word " Apathy " bandied around in
this Union. But are we apathetic ? Most clubs and societies are
nourishing, increasing their membership every year. Nearly all under-
graduate s.udents are members of one or more societies. Post-
graduates could be called "apathetic" as not many join in Union Life.
But the majority of P.G.s have other interests outside of the Union
(Marriage ?) and anyway have already put up with their fair share
of the pettiness that pervades this Union.
HALDANE LIBRARY
13, Prince's Gardens
Sorry! You won't find text-
books or scientific treatises in
this library, but you willfindoyer
10,000 good books of general
interest including all the latest
novels!
And it's Free too !
Open 11—-S39 p.m. and
until 7.0 p.m. on Tuesday
and Thursday
L A M L E Y ' S
TECHNICAL & GENERAL
BOOKS
ART MATERIALS
DRAWING
INSTRUMENTS
STATIONERY
PAPERBACKS
1, 3 & 5 EXHIBITION ROAD,
LONDON, S.W.7
G0LGUTT
GETTING INTO HALL
"Hall application forms must be handed in by May lstl"—or
so it says on those Bttte notices. Yon may be interested to know
what happens between then and the day you receive a note of accep-
tance or refusal.
Well, Miss Burns first sorts the forms out into different piles for
each hall. When, as last year, some halls are very over- and others
very under-subscribed, the forms are reshuffled on an arbitrary basis
until the application/places ratio is the same for each. By this time,
each hall has appointed a selection committee—^usually consisting of
one departing stude n t
from each constituent College. These people
look through the applications for their hall, and award each appli-
cant marks for participation in College and Union activities, etc.,
and whether or not they think he's a " good chap " and a potential
asset to the hall. Places are then offered to people with the highest
marks, remembering that a certain number of places in each hall
must go to departmentally chosen first year students, overseas
students, people staying on for a second year in hall, warden's nomi-
nations, and so on.
I must say that the arbitrary basis on which forms are farmed out
to the halls' selection committees seems both unfair and unnecessary.
Unfair because last year it led to one hall having to accept candidates
it considered as undesirable—and who were probably less deserving
of a place than many " rejects " from other lists. In addition, at least
one other committee marked people down if their hall was down as
the applicant's second or third choice, although the application was
never ever seen by the first choice hall.
Unnecessary, because the introduction of some form of central
selection system for all halls would eliminate both above injustices
" First time " candidates would put no choice of hall on their form,
which would be niarked by a six to ten-man committee drawn from
all halls, and preferably the union also. It would then be an easy
matter to fit the people with tops marks into available places—main-
taining also a large measure of personal preference for a particular
hall. Candidates for a second year in hall would be selected as at
present.
I have pu osely not named any halls in the above, as this would
probably do more harm than good, and would certainly not increase
anyone's chance of a fairer consideration of his application. This
will only come when the system is altered.
R.C.S BID FOR NINES
Take a quick glance at page 53 of the college calendar, and
it is immediately revealed (wait fpr it )that Prof.. Sutton is head of
the Geology Dept.—which is part of RCS (Bingo!). Surprising,
therefore, to see last week that he has also become Dean elect of the
Royal School of Mines. Of course, it has beep widely felt for some
time that the Geology department should be a part of Mines, and
the staff expressed support for this change some time ago. Under-
lying all this, however, is the fact that the constituent colleges are
becoming more and more superflous to the I.C. of the sixties.
COMMENT
Lest you think NUS is the only thing in the world (God help us),
consider briefly your Union Council. Among others, it contains nine
student representatives, who have to be divided equally between the
three colleges—a ridiculous and unnecessary restriction for a start
There are also three reps from old student associations where one
would surely be enough.
Anyway, on to the last gathering of this august body on March
15th, out of 26 members, six attended less than half the meeting,
and three were completely absent. Although several relatively impor-
tant points were discussed, the number of people who actively partici-
pated and put forward constructive ideas could have been counted
on the fingers of one hand—the rest rhight as well have been
observers. Moral ? I'll leave that to you—I've done enough tub-
thumping for one week.

