F E L I X 7
QRiJiiOJi
There will be a conference on
Lecturing Methods next term.
John Cawson gives his views on
EDUCATION AT I.C.
In England, Science and Engineering are only taught properly
tor the first year or two at school; after this the very method of
teaching contradicts what is first taught The first steps taken into
the maze of scientific learning are devised so that the young student
can cultivate the "scientific method." Experiments are usually
devised by the class making suggestions to the teacher. In this way
the class learns to think for itself, and the experiments show some-
thing that the child has not seen before—notice the number of
elementary books with titles " Finding Out" or " Discovery."
However, this early phase is soon over, and the student has to
get down to " the serious work of learning." Exams press hard and
the spirit of enquiry is soon squashed under a heavy blanket of end-
less facts. From this point on, the only target is the next exam
and the fascination of enquiry is soon stifled.
No Initiative in Science
Until the time comes to enter the sixth form this does not matter
very much, but at this stage the irrevocable choice must be made
between Science and the Arts. To the fifth former making the deci-
sion, the study of the Arts offers
scope for initiative, the study of
science does not. In studying
literature and history, one is put
into the position of a researcher
with a host of different sources to
consult and opinions to be
formed. Although these are very
likely to be unsound, they are
still acceptable and not " wrong."
The science student, however, is
faced only with the prospect of
endless classes, and problems to
be done. He is told continually
" this is right," " you are wrong,"
" this is what you must learn."
It is small wonder that too few
opt for science in the sixth form.
No Better
At University
At university it is no better; if
anything it is worse.
Almost no scope is given for
initiative. One's time is taken up
with interminable lectures in
which one is fed facts, and de-
luged with problem sheets. The
sole aim appears to turn one into
a reference catalogue from which
facts can be drawn at will. In the
laboratories a mockery is made
of the word " experiment." In
the second year light current
laboratory course in Electrical
Engineering there is only one ex-
periment that is true experiment
where any intelligence is re-
quired; all the others merely re-
quire one to follow an instruc-
tion sheet almost word for word.
How Can It
Be Changed?
Can this be changed at all ?
Is it possible to alter the course
so that it can be made more in-
teresting and constructive? I
think it can be, and the sugges-
tions that follow are based on two
observations : one, no use will be
made after leaving college of the
majority of the facts that are at
present memorised; two, it is of
great importance to know how to
go easily about learning those
facts which it does become neces-
sary to know afterwards. I think
that a scheme of the sort outlined
below would go part of the way
towards filling this latter need.
What About
Projects?
The present scheme of lectures
followed by exam could be re-
placed by a system of " projects."
At the beginning of the year one
would be given several projects
which would involve the study of
the different branches of the
subject. This would have to be
backed up by experimental work
done in a laboratory which would
be made available at specified
times. It should be possible to
see tutors frequently, so that help
and guidance could be sought
and given, and at the end of the
year a full report would be pre-,
pared showing the ground
covered, hot unlike a text book.
For example if one of the sub-
jects was "transistor amplifiers"
this would require the study of
the basis of the transistor and the
nature of semi-conductors, and
the maths that this would entail.
Experiments would have to have
been devised and different ampli-
fiers built and composed.
If such a scheme were adopted
it would mean throwing over a
lot of cherished beliefs and ideas
but I feel that in the end the en-
gineers produced would be edu-
cated m the proper sense of the
word although they might
"know" fewer facts. Perhaps it
is not too much to hope that it
might attract a few more into the
vital fields of Science and Tech-
nology.
COLLEGE PROGRESS
The Rector's March Bulletin (obtainable from I.C. bookstall,
price 6d.) contains much interesting information on the progress the
College is making in various fields. Some-, of its contents have
appeared in other forms in past issues of Felix, but much of it covers
fields about which a lot Of students would otherwise be unaware. Staff
changes and Honours figure prominently. The following is a brief
digest of a few selected topics.
THE 1970 COMMITTEE
The Report of the 1970 Committee, which contains no less
than 61 recommendations, is now complete. The Committee, chaired
by Professor Ford, has since May 1962 been considering four fields :
1. Academic policy for undergraduates, including types of degrees,
length and content of courses ;
2. Postgraduate courses;
3. Teaching methods.
4. The arrangement of terms and College hours.
The first three of these were referred to the departments con-
cerned for their opinions, and the fourth to the Registrar. The Board
of Studies has been discussing the Report since November, and will
eventually decide which recom-
mendations to implement.
COLLEGE HISTORY
DEVELOPING
A move was made early in
1558, to produce a full-length and
definitive history of the Imperial
College of Science and Techno-
logy. The first task was to com-
plete the departmental histories;
several of these are now com-
plete, or almost so, and substan-
tial work has been done in the
remainder.
The Archives, in 180 Queen's
Gate, contain much well-doeu-
mented material connected with,
the college's history. A l l those
interested are welcome to inves-
tigate.
BOOMING COMPUTER UNIT
The College Computer Units'
major piece of equipment, the
IBM 7090 started doing useful
york On 11th January. The aux-
iliary I B M 1401 computer ar-
rived in February, and the com-
plete installation should soon be
coping adequately with the heavy
workload expected.
Delivery of the high-speed data
link to the University Atlas Com-
puter has, unfortunately, been
delayed; it is* now expected to
arrive in April.
The Rt Hon. Earl of Hals-
bury will inaugurate the Unit on
Wednesday, 12th May.
$1,000 TO LYON PLAYFAIR
On the initiative of the United
States Embassy, the American
Business Committee to Advance
Education has selected the L i -
brary as the first centre in Britain
to receive major gifts of scientific
textbooks and monographs.
Books to the value of $1,000 have
so far been purchased by this
means and the Library has been
asked to advise on the extension
of the scheme to other universi-
ties.
THE HALDANE LIBRARY
Responsibility for the gramo-
phone record collection has now
passed from the Musical Society
to the Haldane Library Commit-
tee. The Union has agreed to
grant the Musical Society an an-
nual sum of money for the pur-
chase of new records, and a num-
ber of musical scores have been
recently made available.
Other additions to the Haldane
Library include texts and gram-
mars for those interested in
modern European languages, in
particular, Russian, and a num-
ber of novels in French and
German.
Mr. Enoch Powell speaking at the debate
(see front page)

