Burnt to Ashes
Raze Imperial to the ground ! That was
the verdict of the debate held last Tuesday
on the motion 'This house believes that
Imperial College is a threat to liberal
education as fought for by Professor T H
Huxley and should be razed to the
ground'. This was a similar motion to that
proposed by Professor Huxley and his
student H G Wells 100 years ago in the
then Royal College of Science.
The debate was chaired by Mr Eric
Stables, head of the Humanities
department and the motion was proposed
by two ex-IC students, Nina Temple, the
present secretary of Britain's Communist
Party, and Trevor Phillips, Editor-in Chief
of London Weekend Television. It was
opposed by Professor Brian Coles, Pro-
Rector of IC, and Neil McCluskey, IC
Union President.
The arguments called for a less
specialist form of teaching and pointed to
the large number of IC graduates who
leave the country as proof that the college
is a waste of national resources. They said
that a metaphorical razing to the ground
of the college would mean a radical rethink
of the institution's purpose.
Arguments against the proposal pointed
to the respect that industry and government
has for the College. They said that any
changes that are needed ought to be made
from inside IC and that liberal education
was a problem at the grass roots of British
Education.
The motion was passed by 30 votes to
26. Michael Newman, an ex- IC student
who organised the debate, said afterwards
'it went very well and I was very glad that
the motion was passed.'
Taste of success
Imperial College Wine Tasting Society
won first prize in the 'University Wine
Challenge 1990'. Competitors came from
around the country and the IC delegation
beat Bath University (second place),
Oxford, Cambridge and the City
University in that order.
The first prize was a 'methuselah', or
quadruple magnum, of Mercier
Champagne and a trip in a hot air balloon
for the five members of the winning team.
They were Nick Battersby (Elec. Eng.
PG), Paul Barford (Chem. Eng. PG),
Steven Gargett (Physics UG), Kevin
McKoen (Physics PG) and Ian Speirs
(Chem. Eng. UG). The competition was
sponsored by Mercier an Wizard Wines.
All the teams complained that the event
had been arranged at short notice because
a sponsor had pulled out, and the Oxford
team said that 'the competition was biased
towards I C as only IC had tasted 'Wizard
Wines' before. They added that the
proximity to exams had been a handicap,
and had prevented them fielding some of
their best tasters.
The Bath team commented that
spitooning was not very much in evidence,
most of the participants prefered to drink
what they tasted. The competition will
probably be repeated next year.
IRCsome
The construction work in Callendar road
under the Huxley building is for
laboratories and offices of the new
'Interdisciplinary Research Centre (IRC)
for Semiconductor Growth and
Characterisation.' It is due to be completed
by the end of October and it is claimed
that it will not disrupt the college.
Motorcycles, bicycles and other vehicles
will not be able to park in the area any
longer.
The Semiconductors IRC has secured
£2.5 million from the Japanese Research
and Development Corporation in
conjunction with the Physics Department.
The other two IRCs in 'Process Systems
Engineering' and 'Population Biology' are
also funded separately, although the
college will contribute staff and space.
Building for the 'Process Systems
Engineering' IRC will start in June in the
Chemical Engineering Department

