President's report
Welfare
The house hunting information pack is now ready and
available to all those students about to look for
accommodation. The information pack contains
advice on where to look for accommodation, how to
deal with landlords, what to look for in a contract and
how to protect your tenants rights.
Myself and Yve Posner, the Union Welfare Adviser
and author of the pack, will be holding two housing
advice clinics where the pack can be picked up and
questions answered on housing issues. The first of
these will be held in Linstead Hall Dining Hall at 7pm
on Wednesday May 30. The second will be held in the
Basement of Southwell House, Evelyn Gardens at
7pm on Wednesday June 6.
The pack is also available from the accommodation
office and the welfare office.
My thanks go to the following people who helped
in the production of the pack:
Yve Posner-for researching and writing the whole
thing.
Rose Atkins-for typesetting the pack.
Andrew Thompson-for printing the pack.
David Smedley-for coordinating the above efforts.
Everybody from Council of 14.5.90 for hand
collating the 4000 packs.
Nightline
With continued pressure on the University of London
Union it now looks likely that Nightline will be
accommodated in the ULU Building. This solution,
although better than being booted out on the street,
does not solve what I see as the more important
problem: that of the operation of Nightline. College
originally took the decision to evict Nightline on two
grounds:
1. The College wanted the space and felt that it was
time for the other colleges who benefitted from
Nightline to shoulder the burden of housing the
service.
2. Because one of its staff, Mr Malcolm Aldridge,
was acting as the Treasurer of Nightline and because
the Nightline Steering Committee met infrequently it
was felt that College was picking up too much of the
administrative burden.
In taking the decision to evict Nightline the College
appears to put more thought into the colour of toilet
roll it uses than into the effects of the eviction. Certain
key personnel instrumental in executing the eviction
order have done less than bugger all to help Nightline
in their operations. In this comment I am principally
referring to the Rector who has, instead of using his
own influence upon Senate and neighbouring
principals, asked me to do his dirty work by asking
me to force the issue at ULU. This I had no intention
of doing. It is about time College learnt a little about
public relations.
There are several advantages to Nightline in moving
to ULU. The premises are secure and it is centrally
located which makes it easier to recruit volunteers
from the many colleges around that area. It does not
however solve the problem of how to run Nightline
and the persistent problem of ensuring that the
colleges receive the service pay for its upkeep.
Nightline was originally set up at Imperial College
after a spate of suicides by IC students. Since then
it has grown to become a counselling service to many
colleges many of whom pay a contribution to help run
the service. In some ways I had hoped that alternative
premises would not be found and thus force the issue
with a Rector that has been totally thoughtless,
unconstructive to the extent of being almost
destructive, and totally ignorant of the welfare of his
students.
Having said all that, thanks must go to the more
caring members of various colleges: Mr Bob
Westaway, IC Registry; Mr David Goodgame, IC
Senior Tutor; Mr Eran Gill, Nightline Coorindator and
Mrs Anne Conlon, Chair of Nightline Steering
Committee.
Transport
The deadline for van applications for the summer
vacation is today (24.5.90). Allocations should be
completed by Tuesday (29.5.90). Seeing as we have
had several problems this year with people booking
vans and then not having eligible drivers to drive them;
let me explain a couple of things:
1. All drivers must be over 21.
2. All drivers must hold a full-clean driving licence.
3. All drivers must have passed a mini-bus test.
Tests can be booked with the Union van testers all
of whom are full-time students so don't expect a test
at two hours notice!! Indeed at this time of year they
tend to have exams so please leave yourself plenty
of time to arrange a test.
Parking and traffic
Over the last week I have received several complaints
about the developments taking place under the Huxley
Building. The complaints emanate from owners of
vehicles that were parked in the area previously set
aside for cars, motorcycles and push-bikes. I first
heard of these developments only a few days ago
when I received minutes of Parking and Traffic
Committee, held in March, that I unfortunately could
not attend. I have several comments to make:
1. Notice of the works and the necessity to remove
vehicles from the area was only posted one week prior
to the works commencing and took the form of a
single poster displayed at the entrance to the area.
For a college management structure that is trying to
improve communications around College this is
pathetic. What about the person who happens to be
away doing research for a couple of weeks and
chooses to leave their bike under cover in a secure
place, how are they likely to find out about the
proposal to 'skip' their valuable possession? Only
thanks to some members of RCSU have several bikes
been rescued from the College's intentions to scrap
them!!
2. The minutes of Parking & Traffic Committee
20.3.90 assures me that the 50 motorcycles to be
permanently displaced from the area could be
accommodated in the covered motorcycle shed
outside the RCSI building. This certainly doesn't
appear to be the case since the metropolitan police
have informed several owners of bikes that they are
not allowed to park their bike there.
3. Proposals to relocate the pedal cycles also appear
in the minutes; yet how have the powers to be
informed the users of cycles?
House Hunting
Information & Advice
Linstead Hall Dining Hall
7pm
Wednesday May 30
AND
Basement of Southwell House
Evelyn Gardens
7pm
Wednesday June 6

