John Mills (right), from the department of Mineral Resources Engineering, receiving the £100
prize from (centre) Roy Hughes, manager of the college branch of STA and John Sumner (left)
of STA Travel.
NOTICE
Please note that as from May
24, the Residence Finance
Office will be relocated to the
2nd Floor, 15 Prince's
Gardens and will reopen at
2pm on Tuesday May 29.
Sound of
silence
The recent closures in the Haldane Music library have
been put down to a larger than usual number of library
staff being off work due to illness.
Mr Richard Hall, a sub-librarian in the Lyon
Playfair library told Felix : 'We can't guarantee hours
so we concentrate on peak hours'. He added that the
library was looking at a 'self-service' music library
which would not be prone to these closures.
Unhappy
returns
British Rail's Network SouthEast plans to reduce the
time limit on some of its return tickets to five days.
This compares to the present one month limit. The
one month return ticket will still be available, but at
a greater price than the five day return.
UCL update
The Provost of University College London (UCL),
Dr Derek Roberts, has met with U C L Union to
discuss their loss of facilities due to a redevelopment
of U C L land. The union reported that they 'were able
to forward some positive proposals'.
They said that Dr Roberts had 'expressed
commitment to the replacement... .of Union facilities'.
U C L U said that there would be 'short term
accommodation of societies which use the threatened
space' and they could get a new Union Building if
all negotiations go well.
The Medical Research Council's plan to build in
the area is still to go ahead, and no new money will
be obtained by the college until the deal with the
pharmaceutical company 'Eisai' is completed. The
Union stressed that although 'some of the fears of the
students have been alayed pressure must be kept
up to make sure students do not lose out.'
AlexDID H<X\ TAKE
?m-?LM> WEN
YCU WECE A
STUDENT, filtX7
CM A6$0IUT£LV\
CllVE.... J
INVALUA6L£ I
STUFF.
LIKE MAM Of W Ffim&i I WOULM'T )
HM bCT MY X)i(o?i£ WITHOUT Pfa-fttS. '
Shoot!
Environmentally concious photographers should
contact Elizabeth Heron-Anstead, Bloomfield, 12 Old
St, EC1V 9AB or telephone on 071 490 5533.
Winners will be sent on photographic expeditions to
places such as the Indonesian Rainforest and India.
Discredited
There were cries of horror this week as the FELIX
Editor forgot to place the credits at the end of his
editorial. FELIX thanks the following, in no particular
order, for their help this week and last: Matthew
Johnson, Rose Atkins, Andy Thompson, Adam
Harington, Toby Jones, Adam Tinworth, Adrian
Pagan, Sarah, Ian Hodge, Ben Turner, Charles
Tomkins, Liz Warren, Edna Welthorpe, Pete Collins,
Michael Wappelhorst, Jackie Scott, Pete Miller, Mike
Newman, Jeremy Burnell, Richard Eyers, and Neil
McCluskey.
Agnosticism
Last week Norman Bacrac, an ex-IC student, handed
over a copy of a college magazine of the 1960's called
'Scrutiny'. This was the regular publication of the
'Huxley Society' which advocated agnosticism. The
Huxley society was the fore-runner of the present
H.G. Wells Society. Anne Barrett, an IC archivist,
accepted the magazine.
The magazine attacked the opinion that all moral
issues had to be based on religious faith, and its
handover is part of a revival of humanist thought
amongst some students at the college. Students now
hope to reform the original Huxley Society.

