More
coming out
Dear FELIX,
I have finally gained the courage to admit a secret
I have been carrying around bottled up inside of me
for 21 years, and I have you to thank for it. In recent
issues of FELIX, the courage of other members of IC
in 'Coming Out' has given me the strength to do so
myself. So here it is, I am a loony, raving, flaming,
flamboyant, 100% heterosexual. I love women, their
smells, kisses, legs, bums, boobs, voices and minds.
Women, I love you all!
Phew! What a relief off my mind, I always felt I may
be unnatural or perverted, but I feel better about
myself already. I just hope all my friends in Imperial
College will respect me in the morning and that I won't
come to any bodily harm for admitting what I actually
am. Do you think my parents will be understanding
in this matter?
Well, thank you again FELIX for giving me the
strength to be straight with myself.
Yours faithfully,
Andrew Collins, MREII.
No more!
Open closet
Dear Dave,
I view the airing of details of people's sex-lives in
your pages with mixed feelings. Take Jason
Fitztightly's declaration that he is gay for instance. My
first reaction is 'good' because that's one, maybe
two, out of the race (why anyone should want to beat
him up for it is beyond me); but then I wonder why
he is telling us. Does he get a kick from advertising
himself? What's wrong with the Personal column?
The slight vicarious pleasure at the news that
gorgeous pouting Norma Snockers was bonking on
the roof is overshadowed by regret that it wasn't with
me; furthermore, the FELIX revelations mean that she,
or her like, probably won't do it again. Discretion is
the better part of valour, Dave.
However, since the precedent has been set, I should
like to announce my own fetish...I get off on seeing
my letters published in your organ...
yours auto-erotically,
Adrian Redgers, PG Neural Systems, Elec Eng.
P.S. whoever it was that said that £10-15 was very
cheap for a prostitute obviously doesn't live on a
grant.
Please direct any correspondence, hate mail, or dirty
phone-calls to Mr Adrian Redgers, 52 Wrottesley
Road, London NW10 5YG. Telephone: 071-589 5111
ext 5215 (work) or 081-965 7375 (home).
Dave,
My article contained nothing but pure fact, with
nothing added and guaranteed 100% in°'curacy free.
Although it outlined only the more upseung effects
of the bill, it was not subject to any embellishment,
emotive, irrational, ridiculous or otherwise. Harelip and
clubfoot were common grounds for abortion under the
old law, and this is unlikely to change now.
I was pleased to see the considered, reasonable
response from Ian and Amy. It is a shame Ms Hardy
could not have been similarly rational in her reply, in
which, ironically, she accused me of being unduly
emotive.
Anyone wishing to question any aspect of the
article can contact me via Elec Eng I pigeonholes, as
I understand you would prefer further debate on this
matter to take place outside the pages of FELIX.
Irrationally yours,
Rob Crompton, IC Pro-Life.
Mamby Pamby
Dear Dave,
I was thinking about ways in which recent crowd
violence at football matches could be curbed and
wondered if most students agreed with my remedies:
1. Instead of the 'Namby Pamby' community service
(which is so often dished out to these thugs) let's give
these hooligans hard labour. Let them break up rocks
rather than peoples' heads!
2. National Service for all those over 18 for eighteen
months. This would inject badly needed discipline into
a large number of 'soccer scum'.
3. Removal of passports for a limited amount of time
if involved in crowd trouble, home or abroad.
4. Reintroduction of corporal punishment. The idea of
a 16 stone PC wielding a birch would certainly deter
me!
These 'people' are not real football fans. They are
using football as a vehicle for violence which they are
transporting across the country and abroad.
It is only with severe measures, like points 1. to 4.,
that we will ever be allowed back into Europe again.
I do however criticise the Europeans for closing their
eyes to soccer violence in countries like Italy, Holland
and Germany. One reason may be that they know, if
allowed back in, that England would show itself to be
the best footballing nation in Europe as it obviously is.
I'd be interested to hear the views of my fellow
students.
Yours sincerely,
Alan Bailey, Chem Ian ardent Chelsea fan).
BATSMEN
&
BOWLERS
the IC B2's need both!!
Social cricketers for friendly
fixtures throughout the summer
Contact:
John Herrick: ext 5985
Andy Clapham: 081 543 4494 (eves)
Mick Sumra: 071 228 1292 (eves)
S m a l l A d s
ADVERTISE IN THE FELIX SMALL ADS SECTION
FREE IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF IMPERIAL
COLLEGE UNION
ANNOUNCMENTS
• Kensington Committee for Overseas Students
will be holding a Grand Raffle Dance on Saturday
June 2nd. Entry will be £2 on the door and the
grand draw will take place at 10pm. For raffle
tickets call 3919.
• Champagne and oysters. Willy J welcomes
back its ex-inmates and guests for the most
extravagent barbeque in South Ken. For details
and tickets phone Mike (5954) or Rob (4650).
Black tie, £15.
FOR SALE & WANTED
• For sale: IBM compatible XT PC III machine.
640K ram memory, 20 Mbyte hard disk and
controllers card, 2.25" floppy drive, 14" Super 5
high resolution green monitor, 101 keys At
keyboard. The computer is installed with virus
immunise. Guarantee virus free! £650. For details
ring 0327 726140 ext 2189 (day) ask for Jack or
(0372) 274074 (evening).
• Wanted: Science Editor to coordinate the
science page. Must be enthusiastic, cynical, but
organised. Literacy would be a useful asset. Start
next term. Unlimited coffee. Negotiable stress. For
details call into the FELIX Office, Beit Quad.
ACCOMMODATION
• Earl's Court. Shared room for 2. £39/week +
bills from June 24th to End of September. Phone:
071-373 6127 for further details.
• 2 males or 2 females required to share large
room with washbasin in a spacious flat for 6. 5
mins walk from College. £49 p/w each, excl bills.
Must be easy to get on with, tidy, sense of
humour, party animals, (not the typical IC spud).
Contact Southside, ext 22 (ask for Sara or Sarah).
PERSONAL
• Woodstock 90 Dick's Back Garden Harwich
Headlining The Metal Soul Funk Fusion support
TGS (tbc) NH2.
If you would like to give up
smoking come along to our
presentation on the 'whys and
hows' of giving up
MONDAY 5th JUNE
5pm
HEALTH CENTRE
(14 Princes Gardens)
Interested?
Contact Margaret or Jean at the Health
Centre on extension 3091 or 3097
Page 2

