Film
The Witches
What's bald, has purple eyes, a highly developed
sense of smell and wears sensible shoes? Would you
believe, a witch?
So we are led to believe by a cigar smoking granny
recounting her experiences to her grandson in The
Witches, a new film by cult director Nicholas Roeg.
The film begins with Luke (Jasen Fisher-Steve
Martin's deadpan son in Parenthood) and his
grandmother (Mai Zetterling) coming to England after
the death of Luke's parents. They decide to get away
from it all and go on holiday to Torquay. As luck would
have it, the witch-busting granny and her witch-
fearing grandson stumble upon an evil coven of
witches, led by the Grand High Witch (Angelica
Huston). The witches are staying at the hotel as
members of a convention of the RSPCC. This is an
interesting cover considering they detest children
(they think children smell like dog shit) and they plan
to turn them all into tiny mice. When Luke becomes
a 'guinea pig' for their potion the film kicks into gear.
This plot twist allows Jim Henson (he of Muppet
fame), and his team from the Creature Shop to
produce some very neat prosthetic make-up for the
witches and very realistic duo of talking mice.
The story, adapted fromn a book by Roald Dahl,
comes across as a sinister childrens' fairly story made,
primarily, for a young audience. The film also has a
fair quota of comic moments provided by Rowan
Atkinson, who, as the hotel manager does a very close
impersonation of Basil Fawlty, minus the walk, and
Bill Paterson playing an OTT nouveau riche
businessman.
At times the acting degenerates into somthing
resembling a Childrens Film Foundation effort and
some more scary effects, such as Angelica Huston
transforming into a crusty old witch, telescopic nose
and all, are toned down to suit a younger audience.
If you can stand Willy Wonka and the Chocolate
Factory then you are likely to find the film bearable,
if only due to the comic touches and diminutive rodent
double act.
The Witches opens on May 25.
Pete Collins.
Film
An Innocent Man
Tom Selleck plays an all American aircraft mechanic,
who is an all round good egg. Just imagine his surprise
when one day after he's had a shower and is drying
his hair, two nasty policemen break into his house,
mistake his hair dryer for a gun and shoot him. The
policemen check Tom's flat for drugs but of course
find none-then they realise there was some
confusion over their tipoff and they have shot an
innocent man. Realising they might get their kunckles
rapped over this blunder they frame poor Tommy with
some dope and a gun. For those of you for whom the
film was written, Tom is the good guy and the cops
are the bad guys.
Now we have the first dilemma for Tom; should he
plead guilty to reduce his sentance even though he
is an innocent man? No, he says he's innocent and
is banged up for six years. Things are tough inside:
The common stereotype of opera is overdressed,
overendowed German women shrieking
incomprehensibly. This is not entirely true. The English
National Opera (ENO) are presenting the ideal
production to dispel this myth: an English translation
of Mozart's l e Nozze di Figaro' which is based on the
play by Beaumarchais.
Set in the French provincial chateau of Count
Almaviva, four couples play dangerous games of love
and deceit. The Count has a passion for his wife's
maid, Susanna, who is the fiancee of his valet, Figaro.
Susanna's cousin, Barbarina, is in love with the
Countess' page Cherubino who is in turn in love with
his mistress. Also embroiled are Dr Bartolo and his
housekeeper Marcellina who believes that Figaro has
contracted to marry her in lieu of repayment of a debt.
All the action takes place on the day of Figaro and
Susanna's marriage. As can be imagined, high farce
rival gangs, dirty loos, uncomfortable beds, terrible
food-ah how it brings back memories of boarding
school. But Tom has a big problem, Jingles who baits
and hits him. The second dilemma of Tom cometh
forward: should he kill Jingles to gain respect or put
up with him? After three years Tom is released,
looking remarkably similar to when he went in.
Now the third dilemma of Tom looms up: should he
get revenge on those bent cops? Revenge, good lord
how could our hero even consider it. Well don't worry
folks, to justify revenge and make a reasonably good
ending the writers have the cops pay Tom a visit and
be rather unpleasant. After a small shoot-out Tom
catches the nasty policemen and explains the plot to
his wife for those in the audience who are stupid or
were asleep. Suffice to say everyone lives happily ever
after.
ensues, with much hiding in closets and behind chairs,
jumping out of windows, overhearing others' secrets
and the revealing of strawberry birthmarks. The
confusions are finally resolved in the garden at night
when everybody is either hiding from each other or
pretending to be someone else.
This production is excellent. The cast have a strong
grip on the comic scenes and the farce is well timed.
Gregory Yurisich's Figaro was* disappointing. He
seemed ill at ease with the role throughout most of
the middle acts. Lesley Garrett sang a pleasingly
effervescent Susanna, while Valerie Masterson was
superb as the spurned Countess. She was particularly
powerful during the aria in which she laments the loss
of her husband's love. Steven Page as the Count was
workmanlike, whilst Ethna Robinson as the page
Cherubino turned in a sparkling performance. The
main drawback was the chorus, who seemed
This film has a 'made for television' script peppered
with a few naughty words which do not make this a
movie. To dismiss Tom as made for television is
unfair, but after this performance one feels his best
is yet to come. The film really isn't a patch on Three
Men and a Baby, I hope his next epic Quigley Down
Under will be better. The audience laughed a lot, but
there were not many jokes-they laughed at the film,
at Tom in particular. Some of his facial expressions
were so unsuitable, one wonders how bad those on
the cutting room floor were.
The film is trivial but should please Selleck fans and
all those who want to laugh at Selleck. I hope it is a
success for Tom deserves good fortune after bravely
quitting from Magnum.
Charles Tomkins.
Opera
lacklustre and awkward when representing the local
villagers. The staging was, on the whole,
conventional, with few risks taken in either costumes
or set. However the lighting, by David Hersey, was
of a far higher standard, both in the scenes where light
appeared to stream through the chateau windows and
in the difficult moonlit scene.
This is an admirable production sung in English
which would be a suitable introduction to opera for
those who have never quite dared to take the plunge.
It is quite possible to follow the tortuous plot and the
singing gives a good approximation of Mozart's
musical brilliance (even if hardened purists think it
should be sung in the original Italian).
The current ENO season continues until 2nd June.
Toby and Liz.
The Marriage of Figaro

