Theatre Theatre
Absurd Person Singular
A few years ago my uncle was mayor of Tewkesbury,
Gloucestershire. Conservative naturally. He'd go to
see an Alan Ayckbourn play because he'd think it was
'Right Wing Theatre'-ie there'd be no lesbians,
suppressed ethnic minorities or inner city deprivation
thrust down his throat. But he'd be wrong because
Ayckbourn is a playwright with a social conscience-
Okay, he hasn't set any of his plays in an Earls Court
bedsit, but at least the middle-class scenarios he
invents are not without a distinct moral message-
Ayckbourn is 'Left Wing Theatre' par excellence.
Absurd Person Singular is a tale Of social mobility.
In the first act we see Sydney and Jane Hopcroft's
clinical fitted kitchen where no cup or saucer dare
venture out of place. It's Christmas Eve and Sydney,
who could only be described as a social climbing oik,
masterminds the perfect drinks party during which he
brown-noses his socially superior guests-Geoff (an
architect) and neurotic wife Eva, Ronald (his bank
manager) and alcoholic wife Marion and Dick and
Lottie Potter, two tremendously jolly friends who we
never see but whose presence we can always sense.
Needless to say the evening does not run absolutely
smoothly and there are several laughs to be had on
the way, but this is nothing compared to the second
act which perhaps is one of the most memorable
pieces of Ayckbourn you'll ever see.
This is set a year later in Geoff and Eva's homespun-
look kitchen. Prompted by the adulterous Geoff's
decision to shack-up with his girlfriend, Eva spends
the entire act in silence devising an astonishing variety
of ways to commit suicide. Ayckbourn skillfully
manipulates the audience so that instead of
contemplating the horrors of taking one's own life
they are rolling in the aisles as the other characters
unwittingly thwart Eva's suicide attempt with
hilarious consequences.
The third and final act is set another year later in
Ron and Marion's Victorian kitchen. Marion has finally
succumbed to her alcoholism and has taken to her bed
with several gallons of gin while Ronald is sitting in
the kitchen, reading dirty books and wondering where
it all went wrong. Geoff and Eva arrive, marriage
restored but career ruined when one of Geoff's
Clarissa
The second of seven new operas by British composers
at the English National Opera (ENO) had its world
premiere at the Coliseum last Friday.
Clarissa is originally an eighteenth-century novel by
Samuel Richardson, one of the longest in English.
Robin Holloway composed his operatic version of
Clarissa fourteen years ago 'in a storm of passionate
excitement with the subject' (ENO producer David
Poutney). Although the novel is complex and full of
psychological insight its very story is as simple as
'man wants girl; she resists; he rapes her; she dies'
as Holloway tells it.
Clarissa Harlowe is confronted with her family's
wish for her to marry the unworthy and ridiculous
Screwtape. Although a dutiful daughter she resists as
best she can and desires to be left single ('Who
indeed, (...) would marry, that can live single?'). Her
family tries to persuade her to marry, and as she
continues to refuse, her father finally curses her.
Clarissa flees with the help of the libertine and rake
Lovelace.
Soon she discovers that she is trapped again, this
Page 4
projects goes disastrously wrong, for a quick
philanthropic Christmas drink. But when Sydney and
Jane arrive uninvited and full of Christmas cheer, due
to the success of Sydney's building business, the
other characters are compelled to literally dance at his
feet, the outcome reaching an almost nightmarish
level. At this stage of the performance the distinctly
Home Counties audience, who had been laughing
solidly all the way through, were jolted back again into
social reality.
But Ayckbourn also focusses on the three different
marriages and how they are far from ideal, in fact
taking his plays as a whole (all 35 of them) you can
count the number of perfect nuptials on one hand.
While Sydney bullies Jane into despair, Geoff and
Ronald both neglect their wives either through
infidelity or just a plain lack of communication. He also
shows how people throw metaphorical swords at
each other. Just like kids in a playground who exploit
every chink in their class-mates' armour, grown-ups
are not that much different, they just disguise their
blows with words and social etiquette.
Absurd Person Singular is definitely one of Alan
Ayckbourn's best plays in so much that the script is
never flabby and that even if the worst theatrical
company on earth played it you'd still get a
loads'o'laughs. Ayckbourn himself directs this
production and unsurprisingly brings out all the comic
nuances mainly because he wrote them. So one would
expect a fine production with a maximum laugh rating.
And yes, at times, its excruciatingly hilarious but
there's no excuse for having the actors ham it up bit
just for a few cheap laughs. For example he has made
social climbing Sydney so repugnant that you just feel
like getting up on stage and putting the poor bloke out
of his misery. That said, Moira Redmond's portrayal
of the drunken Marion was quite side-splitting and
although the T.V. production a few years ago was
superior, if you've never seen this play GO SEE.
Incidentally, my uncle would like it as well, but don't
let that put you off.
The Whitehall Theatre Box Office is on
071-867-1111 and student standby's are £6.50.
Adrian Pagan.
time in a brothel where Lovelace has put her up. By
staging a fake fire out of Clarissa's locked room (fire-
breather Toby Davies almost sets the Coliseum on
fire!) Lovelace intends to appear once again as the
selfless rescuer. But Clarissa escapes.
The frustrated Lovelace awaits her recapture.
My Sister
Next Door
Opportunity. We all need one to give us a start in our
lives. What if someone sacrifices theirs to give you
yours-and you blow it? Take two sisters. The elder
works in a building society, a steady reliable type,
always aware of the duty she owes to her family. She
passes up opportunities to further her career, to help
her father and send her younger sister to a dancing
school-an extremely tacky and exploitative school.
How does she feel as she approaches middle-age,
unmarried and unpromoted?
The younger sister goes through dance school and
then lives a life of performing in seedy nightclubs,
earning jobs and money in a way that verges on
prostitution. Her sole sense of duty revolves around
overblown and mainly fantastical accounts of her non-
existent success she sends home. Eventually she
returns to the family home, containing only her sister
now, penniless.
This is the premise of the second in the Latchmere
Theatre's season of plays by Michael Burrell. It
consists of two monologues, the first by Anthea, the
younger, and the second by Gwen, the elder. They
are both played with considerable aplomb by Anna-
Barry. Her task is not easy. The sisters are vastly
different, and these differences have to be brought
out while still retaining the essential similarities of any
siblings. This she does. Gwen is a starchy meticulous
pseudo-middle class Tory voter, who tries not to be
bitter that her self-sacrificing attitude has led to the
slow demise of a promising career. Anthea is a
distinctly lower-class slob, who doesn't let much
worry her, -she, while not as grateful to her sister as
she should be, is basically happy.
Funny in the watching, it is only once you have left
the theatre that the echoes of the futility of the human
condition hit you. Splendid stuff.
Visit My Sister Next Door at the Latchmere Theatre,
303 Battersea Park Road, SW11. Leap on a 45 or a
49 bus from South Kensington station, and you will
be transported to this theatre. The box office is on
071-228 2620.
Adam T.
Opera.
Clarissa returns exhausted and begins half dreaming
a duet with Lovelace. But finally she rejects him, and
in a fury Lovelace rapes her. In the aftermath of rape,
Clarissa seeks only death. Lovelace is banished and
defeated.
The premiere audience saw a lively performance
with a wonderful and remarkable Vivien Tierney in the
role of the heroine and a passionate Graeme
Matheson-Bruce as Lovelace. They were multiplied by
five and four respectively by members of the dance
theatre company Second Stride who featured some
balletic elements. The music, which had Wagnerian,
romantic and tonal qualities, was conducted by Oliver
Knussen. At the end of a very respectable
performance the audience cheered eagerly. However,
there were also some rare and not surprising 'boos'.
If you wish to see contemporary and controversial
opera, try this one. It is off the mainstream.
London Coliseum, May 25 (tonight) 6, 29, June 1
at 7.30pm. Cheapest tickets at £2.50 from 10am on
the day of the performance.
Michael H Wappelhorst.

