The Baron of
Cheapskate
'Happy Birthday to you, Happy Birthday to you,' sang Jolly Hockey-Sticks. The head citizens
were holding another Birthday Party in the citizens' office. Reggae Blennerthingy's computer
was two years old-cause for celebration indeed. The sherry was flowing freely and the
Birthday cake was about to be cut. All of the permanent citizens were there, especially
the Not A Lot Goes On members.
'Another day, another sherry,' mused
Hockey-Sticks, as she cut the cake and handed
it to all the boys and girls. The computer whirred
and bleeped in anticipation of its new
replacement. It had work to be getting on with
after all.
Dai Incompetent was slumped in the corner,
dreaming of his recent free holiday in Paris;
Fiona Nickerless was drawing a diagram of her
latest work; and Neil McColostomy was
discussing the new home service with Even
Posher.
Dai dreamed of a nightmare. He remembered
the way the holiday started. Two days before
departure he had been repairing his wine rack
with some superglue. If only he hadn't picked
his nose! Dai had spent the entire conference
with his finger jammed up his nose and there
were photographs to prove it. At least it made
a change from having his thumbs jammed up
his arse, he thought.
Fiona looked over her diagram and decided that, although her legs could bend in that
direction, Prick Nearly's thingy certainly couldn't bend the other way. It was an interesting
idea, however. She folded the diagram and made a mental note to include it in her annual
report.
HCW. SEOtETARY'S RKPCttT TO COUNCIL: 15 Hay 1
T h i s i s what I've been doing most of the t i r
i l o t of fun.
t
Outside in Bite Quad, Pizza Milanese was
building the new citizens' barbeque. He had all
of his tools at the ready as well as a big bag of
cement and a pile of bricks. The construction
was underway. Now all that remained was how
to wire it in to a three phase power supply with
his bare hands.
The citizens would be queueing up for miles
(apart from Dai Incompetent, who had an
appointment with his steak au poivre). Ian
Snackbar was so thrilled by the idea of the
barbeque that he had offered to stuff the
burning parts of it up a sensitive area of Dai
Incompetent. The evening was bound to be a
success.
'Faster, faster,' screamed Rave Beandick, the citizens' manager. The new sign for the
Citizens' Bookstore was fading as the new employee's pedalling slowed. 'Citizens'
Bookstore, Stationers' and Naughty Video Outlet,' proclaimed the neon sign in a provactive
red hue. As the new staff member pedalled faster on the makeshift generator the sign began
to glow brighter.
'Somebody get Dai Incompetent on the telephone. If we don't get this sign wired in soon,
this man's going to collapse,' shouted Beandick.
'There's a Birthday Party in the Citizen's Office. I can't get through to Dai,' came the reply.
'Neither can anyone else,' mused Beandick. 'And all because the Lady loved Birthday
Cake,' he thought...
Fashion
By Edna Welthorpe
Bienvenue encore mes darlings. How are your exams
going? Edna sympathises my loves, she really does.
Of course exam stress can do funny things to people
can't it darlings, and no better example of this is CCU
temptress Cathy McCla.y-or the Pamela Bordes of
City and Guilds college if you prefer.
As you can see darlings, Cathy makes her own
clothes and very inventive she is too I! I Look at those
shorts made out of an old marquee and with that
versatile shirt it's a good job, darlings, that she's the
same size as her sister. Incidentally Cathy says she
gets all her dress patterns out of Viz. Now that's one
that you hadn't thought of isn't it luvvies.
RCSA
SILWOOD GALA
PICNIC
minstrels * jugglers * fire eaters
mono cycle riders * poets * street theatre
marching bands * jazz bands ~k morris dancers
We needyou all to entertain the tumultuous throng
that will be making merry at Silwood. We can only
afford your expenses, but busking is encouraged.
Come to the_party.
Contact Adrian Winchester
303 Sherfield, ext 8629

