Tense, nervous headache ? Drinking too much ? Exams looming upon the horizon ? With help
from Sez Wilkinson and Rhydian Hapgood, Union Welfare Officer, Jackie Scott, explains that
you 're probably suffering from...
Stress at Imperial
At this time of the year, stress is at its peak, but what
is stress, and how do we keep it under control to
prevent it affecting our work?
Stress is experienced when external demands meet
internal resources. These demands can be physical-
six flights of stairs to your hall room, when the lift is
out of order, that leave you panting for breath, with
legs like jelly!! But we are also subject to emotional
demands, which must be met by emotional
resources-the exam-time being the most obvious.
These demands lead to stress.
Stress is not always bad. It goads us into activity,
and gives us the impetus to meet the challenge to
complete a given task on time. But, if the deadline is
too close, or the challenge too great, the stress levels
rise until they become disabling and the task does not
get done.
Any task has an optimum level of stress arousal
which creates the impetus for doing the job but when
the stress goes beyond the optimum level, the task
suffers.
We cannot avoid stress (most certainly not during
exams at Imperial!!. In fact, to be under-stressed
creates its own problems. We must find the optimum
stress level, to ensure we work efficiently and also
safeguard our health. Too much stress not only
prevents us from working effectively, but it brings
with it stress-related illnesses.
Stress claims to be one of the biggest twentieth
century killers, directly linked to heart disease and
cancer, responsible for 75% of all illness in Britain
today. It costs about 40 million working days each
year, and accounts for 50% of deaths in men over 40
in Britain. Stress-related disease is now so prevalent
it is estimated to cost the medical and social services
an average of £55 million a year-two or three per
cent of the gross national product.
The problem however is not so much stress, as a
lack of effective stress control.
The Chinese have two characters in their alphabet
which together depict the concept of crisis. They link
the symbol of danger with the symbol of opportunity.
In every crisis there is the danger of breakdown, but
there is also opportunity for stimulation and growth.
Stress and examination performance are linked
through the effects of stress on study habits. There
are three basic approaches to study:
1. Surface learning
This emphasises note-learning of facts, motivated
principally by fear of failure.
2. Deep learning
This involves an understanding of the underlying
concepts, motivated by interest and a personal need
to know.
3. Strategic learning
This selectively applies surface and deep strategies,
motivated by a desire for success.
Page 6

