A study at St Mary's Hospital Medical School showed
that poor results in previous examinations not only
caused increased anxiety levels, but also the adoption
of surface learning techniques-the strategy
associated with poor examination performance.
So stress can directly affect your exam
performance, by inducing you to work in an ineffective
manner. The bad results this produces result in higher
stress levels in the following examinations and the
problem worsens. Awareness of the stress you are
under and a knowledge of the effects it can have
should enable you to cope with the situation and avoid
adopting bad learning techniques.
The best ways of controlling the harmful effects of
stress are to eat properly, exercise and possibly utilise
one of the many relaxation techniques, such as yoga,
Tai Chi, aromatherapy and meditation.
Exercise has several useful effects. Firstly, if you
exercise regularly you will build up your fitness, and
your body will look healthy. The improvements in your
appearance will give you feelings of self-esteem,
which in turn helps you to deal with problems
effectively. Exercise also keeps your circulatory
system working well, so that you have lower blood
pressure and higher adrenalin levels. The adrenalin
keeps you alert, and aids concentration. Exercise also
produces higher levels of Endomorphins-morphine-
like substances which make you feel good, and reduce
depression.
Be careful, however; you should build your fitness
slowly. Regular exercise will reduce the tension
caused by stress, allowing you to 'let off steam' and
will also encourage deep, refreshing sleep.
A healthy diet is also essential. The table shows you
the major food groups, and how often you should eat
them. Apart from maintaining a balanced diet you
should cut down on coffee, tea, salt, sugar and animal
fats. Appetite is linked to anxiety. Increased anxiety
can increase or reduce your appetite, or cause an
irregular appetite. None of these will help you to deal
with stress. Watch what you eat and eat regularly.
When we become stressed we are also inclined to
smoke and drink more. This is not good, as although
both will make you feel better for a short while, they
will not solve the problem, and can tend to magnify
it by the changes in mood they can cause (or by the
time lost due to a drinking bout, that leaves you
hungover for a weekll.
There are two simple rules by which you can control
stress levels so that it does not affect your work or
social life to any great extent:
1. Be aware of the cause, and make sure you continue
to deal with it in an effective manner.
2. Keep your body healthy, and able to deal with the
stress, by eating properly, and exercising regularly.
It has been shown that the student under the greatest
amount of stress are University students. This stress
is even greater at universities falling into just one of
the following categories:
1. Those in the centre of large cities.
2. Those containing an uneven male to female ratio.
3. Those situated in 'expensive living cost' areas.
4. Those with high academic entrance requirements.
5. Those specialising in medicine, veterinary medicine,
science or engineering.
Every one of these categories applies to Imperial
College. Most of us are under a great deal of stress
whether we realise it or not!
Signs of Stress Food to combat stress
• Do you feel guilty when relaxing-uneasy if GROUP FREQUENCY
not 'on the go'?
• Do you lie awake worrying about tomorrow? Dairy produce Some daily (not all of them!)
• Are you tense....does your neck feel 'knotted
up'? Meat, fish, Alternate the three
• Are you impatient or irritable-do you eggs, beans (3 portions of meat per week
interrupt when others are talking? nuts is enough)
• Do you feel that you have a lot on your
mind-have difficulty concentrating? Vegetables Eat twice a day
• Are you smoking or drinking more-do you
eat in a hurry? Fruit Eat twice a day
• Does your life seem full of crises-are you
always having rows? Bread & Some daily
• Do you find it difficult to make decisions? cereals
Page 7

