F e l i X
FELIX
This issue of FELIX is pitifully small at just 12 pages.
With a large part of the FELIX staff in exams at the
moment, I cannot see an increase above 16 pages
until the end of this term. We are now working on the
last issue of term, which should be worth waiting
around for. If anybody wants an article in the last
issue, could they please let me know as soon as
possible.
Annual Reports
Next week's issue will contain this year's annual
reports. Union Officers should hand in their reports by
Tuesday 9.30am. I shall be in the FELIX Office on
Monday if anybody wants to hand in anything then.
Late reports will be burnt. Please don't waffle too
much if you haven't done a lot this year-it fools
no-one.
The Print Unit
The Print Unit is now booked up until the end of term.
If you have recently received a bill from the Print Unit,
please pay it as soon as possible.
Bound Editions
FELIX produces bound editions each year, which
contain a complete set of the year's FELICES. You too
can be the proud owner of a hard-back bound edition
with your name inscribed in gold on the front for
around £30. Please pop into the FELIX Office for
further details.
The Litho
Enough of the announcements! The FELIX printing
press has been a pain in the proverbial this week. It
has driven our printer up the wall and pissed me off
immensely. Sometimes I begin to think a hundred
weight of potatoes and a sharp knife would be quicker
and easier. (It will probably refuse to print this page
now.)
Sabbatical life
Sabbaticals do not have a fixed number of hours in
their work. You just have to work 'until the job is
done.' I am finding it more and more difficult to accept
this as I see Dave Williams and Fiona Nicholas working
9 to 5 and then pissing off. I hope this year's
sabbatical reports will contain some indication of how
the workload will be more evenly spread between the
three sabbaticals in the Union Office next year. At
present, the Honorary Secretary's Job Description
leaves a great deal of scope for increasing the
workload. Maybe the work assigned to the post of
Constitutional Policy Officer should be placed into the
Hon See's Job Description. There is currently no such
post, since it was abolished without any thought being
given to who will keep policy updated. Ian Morris
spent his Easter udating policy, I don't know what
Fiona did (see page 5 for her report to council-it really
was in the minutes!).
Fiona is a friend who I have been averse to criticise.
I fully accept any blame for not knocking her more
when she deserved it. Her report to council, however,
was too much for me to overlook as FELIX Editor. Last
year's FELIX editor warned Fiona not to concentrate
too greatly upon the social side of her job as Hon Sec
(Events). I believe she has spent a large part of her
time concentrating, and relaxing, on just this aspect.
It is easy to complain that sabbaticals have a right to
a private life, but I cannot accept this argument when
it impinges upon their job.
One of Fiona's most annoying sides this year is her
threats to resign as soon as her judgment is
questioned. The last meeting of the Union's council
saw her making a resigning point of a very petty issue
concerning elections. I can see her telling me that I
should no-confidence her at UGM if I have these
criticisms, but that is not the answer. Where are the
bar promotions, organised by the Hon-Sec and the
Union Bar Manager, which we saw last year? Why
wasn't Fiona at the first barbeque organised by the
Union last week-it was a social event, supposedly?
All this has come far too late in the year to make much
difference. I hope Murray Williamson will bear it mind
for next year, however. I'm sorry Fiona; I'm sure you
hate doing your job as much as I hate doing mine, but
my job is to let people know of this.
People may complain that I have not attacked Neil
McCluskey. He was the sabbatical working in the
Union Office for most of the Easter vacation, for
which he has my praise, not criticism.
FELIX is published by the editor for and on behaif of Imperial College Union
Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit,
Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel. 071-589 5111 ext 3515).
Editor: Dave Smedley. Business Manager: Jeremy Burnell. Advertising
Manager: Chris Adams. Copyright FELIX 1990. ISSN 1040-0711
Pay for your
holiday in
just 9 days...
ARE YOU WONDERFUL?
If you are smart, versatile and tireless, you can earn
HUNDREDS of pounds injust 9 days from Saturday
30th June to Sunday 8th July.
Rates of pay are so good we're keeping them secret
for the moment, but you can earn a small fortune
if you're prepared to work all day and night.
Work will be hard and varied, including food
preparation, counter service, washing up and
portering.
For more details and application form, See Deborah
in Room 106 Sherfield, Catering & Conference
Department.
Mr Whippy
comes to IC
Union!
HOT AND
BOTHERED?
Why not try a choc-ice or
cornetto from the Imperial
College Union Bookstore or
the Caterpillar Cafe?

