The Newspaper Of Imperial College Union Founded 1949
Academics fry as
Governors cook books
One hundred jobs are to be lost at Imperial College, it was
revealed at Governing Body on Friday. The staff cuts are being
introduced as part of a plan to counteract an estimated debt
of £ 3 million by 1988. The College is also aiming to attract an
extra 100 overseas students, in addition to the increases already
planned, in order to offset the debt.
Financial problems have arisen the country, he added.
because of a new pay deal for
academic staff, a shortfall in the
targetted recruitment of overseas
students, and a low grant from the
University Grants Committee. A
paper put to Governing Body by the
chairman, Sir Henry Fisher, proposed
three areas in which money should be
saved or raised. As well as staff
reductions and an increase in overseas
students, it was suggested that the
terms on which research contracts are
carried out be altered.
The first proposal was to reduce the
number of all types of staff by a total
of 100, which, it is estimated, should
save £2 million. Some staff would be
removed from the College payroll, to
be funded by research grants. The rest
of the reduction would be achieved by
voluntary redundancies and voluntary
early retirements, by freezing
vacancies and, as a last resort, by
compulsory redundancies.
Commenting on this suggestion,
John Fecamp of the ASTMS said that
staff cuts would be opposed if they
were caused by College having to
fund pay rises. Technical staff are not
represented on the Governing Body,
and they are subject to a non-
replacement policy, where staff who
leave are only replaced if their post
can be.demonstrated to be important
for teaching or scientific work. Mr
Fecamp explained that during a
similar series of staff cuts some years
ago, College gave ASTMS an
assurance that compulsory
redundancies would be avoided if at
all possible. Any move to introduce
such redundancies would bring the
College into dispute with the
membership of ASTMS throughout
The Rector, Prof Eric Ash, said
that the 5% staff 'cuts' would not be
structured and would not be
implemented immediately. He added
that he had 'no worry' about the staff
which remained being able to keep up
the present level of teaching. He
defended the proposal to increase the
number of overseas students,
explaining that the College is at
present below its target level for both
overseas and other, low-fee-paying
students. When asked about the
availability of accommodation for
these extra students, Prof Ash said
thjat he was sure there would be
enough places for first year
undergraduates to be guaranteed a
year in. The guarantee to first year
overseas postgraduates might have to
be ended, he added.
Student Accommodation Officer
Lesley Gillingham told FELIX that
she had only found out about the
proposal after Monday's ICU council
meeting, at which the paper was
discussed. She that said she was sure
thst all the new undergraduates could
be given places in student
accommodation if the new buildings
in Evelyn Gardens were acquired.
This would probably mean that no
home postgraduates could be given
places, she added.
The planned increase in overseas
student numbers was severely
criticised by ICU Council, and
members suggested that College had
not considered the implications of
such action. Concern was expressed
over overseas students' welfare,
accommodation and overcrowding in
departments. ICU Hon Sec Dave
Colley later described College's
attitude as 'mercenary'.
IC beat the Blues
Imperial College's Boat Club First Eight beat Oxford's boatrace crew to win the "Mackintosh
Trophy" on March 7th. The newly created trophy was awarded to the fastest university crew
taking part in this year's "Reading Head of the River Race."
Free W e d n e s d a y M a r c h 18th N o . 7 6 8

