Reviews FELIX, Wednesday March 18th 1987 1 0
F I L M S
Children of a lesser God
This film is typical American crap
which has predictably been nominated
for hundreds of Oscars. It is the story
of the search for 'true', 'profound' love
between James Leeds (William Hurt),
who is a hearing teacher of the deaf,
and Sarah Norman (Martee Matlin)
who is a completely deaf cleaner in a
school for the deaf and hard of
hearing. Marlee Matlin is actually
hearing Impaired in reality and so are
all the actors who have parts as pupils
at the shcool. This fact makes the film
seem incredible in its badness. It is a
sentimentalised idealised,
glamourised, even pornographic
rendition of romantic love, women,
and deafness. Sarah Norman is
portrayed as mysterious and beautiful'
in her deafness. James falls in love
with her and persists with her until she
reciprocates his feelings. He wins her
over by falling into the school
swimming pool which Sarah likes to
swim in alone and naken (and the
cameraman loves it). When James falls
in the pool he is fully clothed, and the
scene, although 'funny' and 'touching'
has suggestions of the beautiful
sensuous mermaid luring the sensitive
male into the water where she seduce
him. I found this inappropriate and
therefore disturbing. When it is
established that Sarah and James love
each other they move in together and
the film then focuses on the lovers'
efforts to find adequate means of
communication. Sarah's means of
communication are sign language and
sex, and she is brilliant at both. But
this is not good enough for James. At
the height of sexual passion he feels
tie cannot get close enough to Sarah
and wants her to be able to at least
say his name. However, Sarah
apparently dicovered at an early age
that when she tried to speak she didn't
look beautiful anymore, so she gave
up on learning to talk. No matter how
hard James tries, Sarah won't try to
speak. Although one night when
James makes here desperate, Sarah
realm of communication between
speech and silence. What a happy
crappy 'meaningful' ending. The music
throughout contributes in working
emotions up so that no one thinks too
much. It even affected me, and I knew
as soon as the film started that it was
a really bad film: The opening
sequence shows Sarah writhing
frustratedly around in bed with make-
screams at him in a frightening,
horrific way and this convinces James
that he shouldn't make her speak if
she doesn't want to. Sarah goes home
to her mother and, asserting her
independence, gets a job in a beauty
salon painting nails. Ultimately
however, true love prevails and Sarah
returns to James. They agree, in sign
language to work out some middle
up on—and when I was expecting an
honest and serious film about deafness
this came as an immediate eye
opener.
I've got nothing against this female
director's (Randa Haines) attempt to
make a film on an emotive subject I
just think she made it sensational and
self-defeatingly sexist.
Catherine Manolopoulos
T H E A T R E
"Shoestring Budget"
Money, Money, Money! West End
musicals can't survive without it—and
so the punter is forced to pick up the
bill. But you do get dazzling lights, sets
that really work, coming up through
the floor, flying in from the rafters and
everywhere else. The final product?
Slick.
High Society is not a normal stage
musical; anyone expecting a carbon
copy of MGM's hit film of 1956 may
as well save their pennies (and
overdraft) as it's very different.
Richard Eyre (Director of Guys and
Dolls, NT) has taken the original songs
and padded the stage version out with
other Cole Porter songs. It works, to
a degree.
Trevor Eve, of Shoestring fame,
takes over the lead and obviously
enjoys himself, although Natasha
Richardson manages to command our
attention through the majority of the
show. The chorus—in many cases,
Detter singers and dancers than the
stars—manage to keep a discreet
distance for the large part, but
completely take over in That's Jazz.
As a film, High Society didn't have
chorus numbers and so Eyre closes the
first half with Well Did You Ever?,
sung by stars and chorus alike. It
seems a shame that this particular
song has lost its original duet form,
although the chances of Trevor Eve
and Stephen Rea improving upon The
Crooner and Old Blue Eyes rendition
is slim.
The songs that Crosby and Sinatra
made so famous come across nicely
but unfortunately the best number is
not from the film. Angela Richards'
rendition of In the Still of the Night is
haunting and beautifully staged,
simplicity rearing its head high above
the razmatazz. If you can afford it, it's
great fun, and if you can't well never
mind, who wants to be a millionaire.
Desolation
Rose
R2D2
Things are never as complicated as
they seem. The only true complexity
is uncertainty—everything else is
pretension and artificiality. Yet there
is a fundamental human drive which
insists on the hidden meaning and the
mystical interpretation. And this
stems, illogically, from the insecurity
and fear which drives most of us to the
consoling gods of power, wackiness,
and investigation. There are one
thousand and one such gods and all
of them sing in silence or suffer out
of tune.
I browsed through the Serpentine
Gallery yesterday. There was a room
containing three lead spheres, each
half a meter in diameter. The room
was entitled 'The three thoughts' in
the way rooms often are. I looked
around and there were three spheres
in a room...is there any need to
elaborate or to regress into hidden
meanings?
I crawled into the bar once and
there they were. The flies. They were
swarming and buzzing and flying into
walls. The seventeen per cent enigma
which forces one to reach for the
insecticide. But then I am a fly myself.
Be consoled. Be very consoled.
And now the thought of dinosaurs
are plodding about my brain. They are
quite unlike the neural crickets which
chirped only a month ago. 'Raffle
yourself they said. There are no losers
because the winners are losers. In
retrospect the whole thing is satanic.
A prostitution. There is no need to
elaborate or to regress into hidden
meaning.
Can you imagine how impractical it
would be to spend one's life in a suit
of armour? Consider the costs of dry
cleaning, the problems of riding a
bicycle, or addressing the United
Nations in armour. And yet all of these
things seem more practical to me than
the personality armour of the
politician or the short-sighted armoury
of idealism in which the election
candidates hide.
Quick, call the Rag Mag Editor, I feel
a joke coming on. But jokes are not
funny. The only funny thing is life, and
even that's not funny.

