Feature FELIX, Wednesday March 18th 1987 1 4
The power of the press
On the January 24th last year, five |
and a half thousand printworkers of
the Sun, The Times and the News of
the World went on strike and were
dismissed. Rupert Murdoch, the
paper's owner did not need them
anymore. He had been putting the
finishing*touches to a new. high-tech
plant in Wapping in the preceding
months, and simply moved
production there. The unions were
powerless to stop him.
In the 70's this would have been
unthinkable: No-one would have been
prepared to operate the Wapping
plant, and if they had tried, it would
have been picketed en masse and
nothing would have been able to get
in or out. Moreover, nationwide
distribution would have been
paralysed: Murdoch would have been
forced to give in.
This shift in strength was of course
caused by the Thatcher government
and the economic conditions
prevailing since it came to power. The
two main unions involved, the NGA
and Sogat '82, did try to set the
wheels of the once-formidable union
network in motion, but they were
frustrated at almost every turn by the
new Trade Union Laws, Rupert
Murdoch's careful planning and the
change in attitudes since the 70s.
Before they could even call for a
strike, the Union leaders heeded a
majority in a secret ballot or they
would have been liable to prosecution
and the sequestration of their funds
at the hands of Murdoch's lawyers.
They could not get the operators of
the new plant to come out in
sympathy: Years of high
unemployment had made some
unions, especially the Engineers and
Electricians, agree to one-union
factories and no-strike deals with new
investors. All the printworkers in the
Wapping plant came from the
EETPU, the electricians' union. They
were well paid and had no wish to be
re-supplanted by the very people they
had just replaced. They could still
have throttled the Wapping plant by
picketing, but the new Trade Union
Laws forbade a picket to deny access
forcibly to a place of work. The plant
was mass picketed anyway on several
occasions, but it only led to pitched
battles with the police which only led
to bad publicity while achieving
nothing.' As for trying to prevent
distribution, not only were the
distribution workers very reluctant to
'black' Murdoch's newspapers, but
Murdoch had also bypassed them with
an alternative distribution system
using a road haulage firm, TNT,
instead of the traditional railways.
Since they had all been sacked
rather than made redundant, Murdoch
did not have to offer the workers any
compensation or redundancy money.
But as soon as it became apparent that
he held all the cards, he began making
the unions offers to settle the dispute,
since the bad publicity was not solely
confined to the unions, the riots going
on outside the plant were beginning
to tell on the workers inside, and the
security costs of keeping the pickets
out were running very high.
However, all his offers were rejected
by the unions because they wanted at
least some of the sacked to be
reinstated and recognition at the new
plant. Murdoch refused to give either.
He was interested only in redundancy
payments. The deadlock continued
with Murdoch gradually raising the
value of his offers (at one time he
even offered to give the unions the old
Times printworks in Grays' Inn Road,
for them to print a labour orientated
newspaper, but this was refused).
Eventually, the union leaders became
convinced that the struggle was
hopeless, and recommended one of
the offers to their membership. The
rank and file turned it down with an
overwhelming majority in a secret
ballot. This happened several times
until in January this year, with their
very existence threatened by
injunctions and sequestrations, Sogat
and the NGA settled the dispute
without a ballot.
Why had the dispute begun in the
first place and why had Rupert
Murdoch used such ruthless means to
solve it? The unions had been using
their power in the 60s and 70s to win
better conditions for themselves. The
workforce had become more and
more unionised. Strict demarcation
lines were drawn and different
sections of the workforce were run by
different unions. Nobody was allowed
to do another's job. If one small
section of the workforce went on
strike, a whole newspaper could grind
to a halt. This led to great economic
inefficiency. Furthermore, great
advances were being made in the
technology of printing newspapers,
but no British newspaper owner could
intall any new machinery because it
meant shedding jobs, which the
unions would not allow. As a result,
by the 80s, British newspapers were
using 19th century technology and
were chronically overstaffed
compared with those overseas. Rupert
Murdoch owned a large international
media empire of which British papers
were only a part. He was having
financial trouble in America getting
a new venture off the gound and
needed a lot of extra money. The
obvious place to make large savings
was in Britain, where his newspapers
were very inefficient. He needed the
money quickly, so he issued an
ultimatum requiring large reductions
in the workforce. The unions, who
still believed in their own strength,
roared with laughter and were sacked.
Wapping deeply shocked the
Labour movement. It resurrected the
spectre of that which they had spent
the whole century trying to fight: The
ruthless and unscrupulous employer
who made life so miserable for the
masses in the nineteenth century. But
their unreserved support for the
sacked printworkers laid them open
to accusations of attacking the police
and undermining law and order. And
their condemnation of the trade union
laws led to a conflict of loyalties
between democracy (in the form of
pre-strike ballots) and many of the
unions, which were against them.
Bitter divisions opened in the TUC
between the Electricians, who had run
the Wapping plant, and the print
unions. While everyone must have
known that someday Fleet Street
inefficiency had to end, the way in
which it did aroused all their most
deep-seated fears and misgivings.
The Tories, particularly the right-
wing, received the whole affair with
thinly disguised glee, and could
barely abstain from their gloating
enough to make long faces for the
violence that went on outside the
printworks. To many of them it was
revenge for the years of what they
saw as union blackmail.
Wapping has changed Fleet Street
for good. The other owners reacted
to it with extreme hypocrisy:
Condemning Murdoch for his
ruthlessness while using his example
as a threat to make the unions accede
to thousands of redundancies. Some
papers have followed Murdoch out of
Fleet Street, nearly all are introducing
new equipment. Thanks to Eddy
Shah, who had a similar, if smaller
experience to Wapping in Stockport,
and who launched a new newspaper
'Today' using new technology, Fleet
Street will never be the same again.
Wapping has affected industrial
relations not only in Fleet Street, but
nationally also. For better or for
worse with the Miners' strike of
1984-85, it has fulfilled the Tories'
dream of severely curtailing union
power.

