FELIX FELIX, Wednesday March 18th 1987
If a complete story of this year's
sabbatical election campaigns were to
be written it would have to start some
time around the mid 1960s. All this
year's candidates were mere babes at
the time, and all were quite clearly
dropped on their head before their
skull had a chance to harden,
otherwise they would have gone out
and got a proper job instead of
poncing around at Imperial for
another year.
However this account will confine
itself to the more recent events. It is
now 1986, and the unfortunate
children mentioned above have done
a reasonable impression of growing
up and are now bickering their way
through numerous committees at IC
Union—not realising that these
revered institutions were set up to
keep them out of the way of real
students. Some attempt to make a
name for themselves by proposing
silly motions that the Chair stuff a pair
of the president's socks up his nose
(they're just so wacky these
students!). Others threaten to storm
out if anyone disagrees with them—
this rather backfires if no one cares
about their departure.
Autumn is here, and already Ian
Howgate is making a huge effort to
get his name into print. He has failed
dismally in the storming out battle by
charging off into the wilderness at the
Silwood council meeting before
realising he's 30 miles from anywhere
with no way to get home till it
finishes! He's also writing long and
boring letters complaining that the
FELIX news staff are out to get him.
His principal target is professional
drop-out Mark Cottle. As paranoia is
one of the first characteristics of a
sabbatical this appears a good move.
As this term commenced more
candidates started appearing. Alan
Rose (who is to Imperial College
what...err...Alan Rose is to Imperial
College) began to drool at the mention
of a ballot paper. Meanwhile at
FELIX, Chris Edwards (the man who
gave art a bad name) was trying to
take on every piece of artwork in
college. Judith Hackney also seemed
eager, and Grenville Manuel was
taking elocution lessons in an attempt
to lose his phoney "working class"
accent. No one showed much interest
in becoming Deputy President or Hon
Sec, thus proving that three years of
academic work at Imperial doesn't
send everybody crazy after all.
Then the election papers went up.
The starting gun...they're off Alan
Rose immediately put his name up for
Deputy President, for no particularly
valid reason—maybe he was standing
as a joke candidate. If so the joke
probably doesn't look so funny now
that he's been elected unopposed.
Talking of joke candidates going
sour, the first person to throw a hat
into the ring for the job of Chief Pratt
(ie President) was Bill Goodwin, of
Mech Eng 2. With the backing of the
mighty QT Soc joke machine behind
him he stood on a 'Charlie Chaplin'
platform. Ian Howgate also signed up,
standing on any platform he could
find. In addition someone from
Holland who just happened to be
passing through the building put his
name up for Deputy President, and
was promptly disqualified by Dave
Colley, who as Returning Officer had
started on a moral crusade to see that
the torch of democracy burned bright
at Imperial.
Chas Jackson and Symon Corns
decided to run for Hon Sec, despite
the fact that both knew that the post
could be done by someone with the
intelligence of an electric toothbrush.
Miss Hackney and Mr Edwards put
their names up for FELIX Editor. The
FELIX election was targetted for
particular attention by the Rev Dave
Colley because both the candidates
had romantic links with people
controlling the student media. Judith
Hackney was romantically linked
with Dave Jones, this year's FELIX
Editor, and Chris Edwards was
deeply involved with someone who
was running Graffitti Club (himself).
As the papers were taken down the
campaigning started. Bill Goodwin's
posters consisted of the words 'Vote
for Bill' in letters 2mm high on an A3
sheet, obviously unaware that the last
time subtlety achieved results in
Imperial College was 1932. Chris
Edwards had huge flashy posters
which had been silkscreened, but a
silk screen is no substitute for
imagination. The bookshop started to
sell hundreds of black marker pens as
beards, pipes, moustaches and
obscene speech bubbles began to
appear faster than willies at a
barnight.
Symon Corns revealed his true
strategy by producing only two
posters, both of which were put up
in the Guilds Union Office.
The next event was the Hustings
UGM, where all the candidates get a
chance to force their unrealistic
policies down the throats of the great
masses. However the great masses
decided that enough was enough, and
decided not to attend.
The meeting therefore took place in
front of a dismal crowd, with the Rev
Dave Colley getting all upset because
some candidates were getting hit by
paper darts more often than others.
Arch-funster Mark Cottle proposed a
motion saying that an abstain
campaign be allowed, which Howgate
associate Dave Lowrie objected to.
When the meeting had shown that it
thought a 'campaign' should be
allowed (obviously less than
enthralled about the candidates on
show) Dave Lowrie tried to end the
meeting before the speeches had even
started. However a little imagination
by those in control kept the show on
the road, and Lowrie adopted the
usual Howgate rearguard tactic
(storming out to sulk).
The speeches were less than
enthralling. Bill Goodwin managed to
rescue a damsel in distress who had
been carried away by an evil villain,
while Ian Howgate scored maximum
points on the snorometer and no one
got carried anywhere. Alan Rose,
unopposed DP, stood up and managed
to give everybody a lecture on how
amazing and wonderful he was which
gave everyone a good laugh until they
realised that he really meant it.
The hustings for Hon Sec were less
eventful, as both Chas Jackson and
Symon Corns were serious candidates
who wanted to do the job. The same
j was true with the speeches for FELIX
Editor, although some of the claims
made by one candidate must have
been less than serious. Even the
dozing audience were sussed enough
to figure that claiming you single
handedly do everything on the paper,
and then claiming it will be better
when you take over and do
everything, is pushing it a bit!
The next piece of excitement was
the Presidential campaign, where Bill
Goodwin and Ian Howgate started to
run each others' campaigns. Having
been rather left out of the fun so far
nutty anarchist and 'Grensheet' editor
Grenville Manuel decided to object on
the basis that this threatened his claim
to the title of "college's wackiest
man". Meanwhile Rev. Colley was
engaging in some anarchy of his own
by inventing rules to allow joke
publicity and then getting his
committee to overturn them. This
particularly annoyed poor innocent
Bill who had spent lots of money
trying to be a complete joke only to
be taken completely seriously!
It now became clear that the real
contest was between Messrs Colley
and Goodwin to see who could be
most irrational. Mr. Colley insisted
that only he knew the spirit of the
rules while everyone else insisted this
sounded like dictatorship. Mr.
Goodwin struck back by telling
people on an alternate basis that he
was,
1) A joke candidate put up by QT Soc
2) A serious candidate put up by
Charlie Chaplin.
3) A joke candidate put up by Ian
Howgate.
4) A serious joke who was putting up
with Ian Howgate.
5) Next year's president.
6) This year's president.
7) Ian Howgate.
8) ...that's enough serious jokes-Ed.
Miffed by the fact that he was
coming last in everything Ian stormed
out and in doing so produced his only
effective propaganda of the entire
campaign. Then everyone who'd been
taking things as a joke took them
seriously and everyone who'd been
taking things seriously declared it was
all a joke. The election committee
decided it was a farce (which most of
the voters had realised from the
beginning) and invalidated the
election.
No one seemed too upset by the
results of the valid elections.
Meanwhile the defeated crept off to
be consoled by their friends and
Accomodation Officer and union hack
counsellor Lesley Gillingham. So
now we can look forward to a re-run
and the chance to see the same bunch
of professional egotists appearing
soon on walls and leaflets
everywhere—it really isn't so
different from all those old silent
slapstick films they put on TV when
there's nothing else to fill the gaps!

