Featura FELIX, Wednesday March 18th 1987 8
It was during the 1950's that the term
Third World was first coined. A
Chinese Foreign Minister observed
that the world had become divided
into three clear areas, the First World,
that of the superpowers, the Second
World, that of the industrialised
Northern nations, and the Third
World, that of the post colonial,
underdeveloped nations. In more
recent years it has become fashionable
to consider the divide as being purely
between Northern countries, where
"Western Civillisation" was born,
and the Southern nations, which
industrialisation had passed by.
Examination of precisely where the
more modern industrialised nations
fall geographically, shows the divide
to be less clear. Exceptions to the idea
of a strict North-South divide are
manifest in the area around the Pacific
Basin, and the Middle East. Efforts
at lumping nations together because
of their geographical location are
probably too simplistic, and it might
be better to consider the problem of
World poverty in a less divisive
manner. Even the initial premiss, that
come about without full cooperation,
and dramatic alterations in the attitude
of the Northern states. The
industrialised nations, it decided,
must aid the situation by "helping the
developing countries to pay their own
way." The increased interdependence
of the North and South meant that
economic reform on the part of the
North would ensure its own future
economic prosperity.
The Commission questioned the
desirability of maintaining high rates
of economic growth in the developing
nations at the exspense of exhaustible
natural resources, and also to the
detrement of the environment. The
terrible inroads into our finite areas
of rainforest came about as a direct
result of developing nations stripping
a resource which would bring in
valuable income. The morality of
Northern pontification about such a
situation could not be justified unless
they provided suggestions as to
alternatives. Nor could it be justified,
when it was industrial demand in the
North which provided the markets for
such raw materials.
broke in 1973 dealt a heavy blow to
hopes for economic enlightenment in
the North. The irony of the oil crisis
was that although the non-
industrialised oil producing countries
of the Organisation of Petrolium
Exporting Countries were key in
causing the crisis, the economic
backlash struck the other non-
industrialised countries just as hard as
it hit the North.
The poorer nations of the world can
only realise their economic potential
if they are assisted by the North in
becoming producers of goods, rather
than mere exporters of raw materials.
As they become increasingly
prosperous, openings will increase for
trade between the developed and
developing nations. There could be a
period when the North would be
contributing more than it received in
the way of new markets, but
eventually, the Third World would
become sufficiently prosperous that
mutually benefitial trade would be
possible.
The massive debt which developing
countries have amassed in their quest
finance for the developing nations is
likely to dry up, and a large part of
the North's banking system is going
to collapse with it.
The major draw back with much of
the current lending to the Third World
is that the greater part of it is devoted
to investment in programmes which
do not produce financial rewards in
the time allowed to pay off the debt.
The Commission urged greater direct
injection of finance into Third World
economies. This would have to be
carefully monitored, as in order to
.produce satisfactory social
improvement, such a flow of cash
must be directed towards
infrastructure investment. Much of
the wealth obtained by the oil rich
states was observed by the
Commission to have passed out of the
reach of the majority of the people in
those countries, and had little impact
on their standard of living.
The fate of the very poorest nations
on earth was singled out as deserving
special and unique attention. For
many of these nations, their plight is
not just one of poor economy, but one
-SOUTH D a v i d B u r n s
T h e p l i g h t o f d e v e l o p i n g n a t i o n s
the World is comprised of three
groups of nations, has become
outdated, with the advent of emerging
industrialisation in many areas.
Continuing poverty, famine,
national debt and war throughout the
globe have spurred on the formation
of numerous organisations, the
writing of a multiplicity of reports,
and massive aid campaigns over the
past thirty years. Still, many nations
remain grossly underdeveloped, and
desparately poor.
In 1980, one of the most wide
ranging and construcive reports for
many years was produced by the
Independent Commission on
International Development Issues,
under the chairmanship of Willy
Brandt. With opinion from all sides
of the problem, the lamentable
exception being the Soviet Bloc, their
"Programme For Survival" forms
the most objective examination of all
aspects of World development ever
attempted.
The fact that the underdeveloped
nations are dependent on the
industrialised nations in economic and
material terms is of great concern to
the Commission. Over 90% of the
world's manufacturing industry is
based in the North, and although the
Third World has a strangle hold on
raw materials, it relies on Northern
technology to extract them. It can be
seen, and was concluded by the
Commission, that improvement in the
situation of the Third World cannot
The Third World has therefore
been at pains to negotiate more just
economic trade agreements, the
General Agreement on Trade and
Tariffs being a particualar target for
reform. The modest recession of the
early seventies meant that the North
was less susceptible to the South's
demands for fairer international trade
agreements, which they viewed as
detrimental to their shaky economies.
It has always been a problem that the
North is unwilling to make economic
concessions at times when it is
suffering from its own monetary
troubles, and the Oil Crisis which
for rapid economic development is
also a cause for great concern. Nearly
40% of the developing countries' debt
is carried by the private banking
markets of the North. Spiralling
repayments have crippled many
poorer nations' economic growth.
Loans are then taken out to service
loans which are due for repayment.
The whole uncertain business of
borrowing and repayment is just
holding together, and the newly
industrialised nations are barely
managing to hold their heads above
water. However, if the unsteady
accumulation of debt collapses,
of a harsh climate and deteriorating
ecosystem which threatens to make
their lands incapable of supporting the
population. Major programmes of
reforestation, soil management,
energy and mineral development,
communications and improved health
facilities were all recommended.
There can be no question of these
nations being able to support this type
of move on their own, and
international cooperation in the North
to aleviate the crisis is the only
possible course of action.
In all efforts to promote
development in what is, rightly or
wrongly, termed the Third World,
national differences are encountered
which impede the process. The very
fact that many developing countries
already devote huge sums to
armaments to fight their neighbouring
states, hinders their development. It
is the North which supplies those
arms, although disturbingly, the
emerging nations are nurturing their
own arms industries to produce more
finance. The light may dawn on both
superpower blocs, and the arms
supply from the North dry up, but
could we then justify intervention to
prevent the spread of Third World
arms? It is just another illustration that
it is not only the North which has to
come to its senses in the effort to
produce a decent world for all. The
"Programme For Survival" will be
a global effort, if we are all to
survive.

