Featura FELIX, Wednesday March 18th 1987
The death penalty has been abolished
in more than ten countries since 1977,
reflecting the worldwide trend away
from execution as a form of
punishment. During this time, there
has been an upsurge in the number of
death sentences and of executions in
the United States of America.
Amnesty International considers that
the death penalty is a "cruel and
inhuman punishment, brutalising to
all who are involved in the process."
Its unconditional opposition is based
on the belief that no crime, no matter
how repugnant, can justifiably be
responded to by the cruel treatment
of prisoners. The United States come
under special scrutiny, being one of
the very few western states to retain
the death penalty.
The advocates of the death penalty
often claim that it acts as a deterrent.
However, many papers which have
been written on the subject (including
those by official U N and US
researchers) have concluded that most
intending murderers do not consider
the consequences of their actions.
Twenty eight American states
Texas between 1973 and 1977, blacks
who killed whites were at least five
times more likely to receive a death
sentence than whites who killed
whites. In addition, in Florida, blacks
who killed whites were 40 times more
likely to be sentenced to death than
those whose victims were black.
It has been suggested that the
correlation of low social standing with
death sentences is due to the lack of
public sympathy for such people.
However, a far more obvious factor
is their inability to hire good defence
conviction-prone and less concerned
about constitutional rights and wrong
convictions than juries which were
representative of the general public's
view. This was deemed to be a
violation of the defendent's rights.
The practice of "plea-bargaining"
also produces some unexpected
sentences. The prosecuting counsel
may decide to offer not to prosecute
for a capital offence, if the defendent
pleads guilty to a lesser offence or
agrees to testify against a co-
defendent. Texas juries also take into
%
... «&•
fttH
hostage with his accomplice and was
buying petrol at the time of the
murder. The Georgia Supreme Court
found that although he did no commit
murder, he "should not have left the
victim alone with a man he knew to
be dangerous."
The most disturbing justification for
the death penalty is that it is a fitting
form of retribution such "legal
vengance," the repitition of the very
acts which society condemns, appears
to be both immoral and illogical. No
civilised country authorises the raping
of rapists or the burning of arsonists'
property. The taking of human life is
far more serious an issue even than
these matters. The innocent
victims—the families of those on
death row and of those executed, and
indeed, those people wrongly
executed (at least 23 in the USA this
century) receive a far greater
punishment than could ever reasonbly
be justified for the guilty.
Those sentenced to death do not just
suffer the loss of life. They often
spend many years on "death row",
in most states confined for hours in
DEATH IN THE USA
authorise the execution of murderers
who were under 18 at the time of the
crime and there have been several
recent cases of mentally retarded or
ill defendents being sentenced to
death. In one such case, the defendent
had an IQ of only 65, with just 20
fewer he could have been
institutionalised. Three of the eight
known executions of under age
offenders, since 1980, were in the
United States, despite the US
Government having signed
international and national treaties
rejecting such action.
Another argument in favour of
execution is one of economy,
preventing the expense of supporting
a prisoner perhaps for fifty years or
more. This overlooks the fact that
capital trials necessarily involve an
enormous amount of judicial time and
great expense, which can be more
than twice as much as the cost of life
imprisonment. The belief that
execution is necessary to protect
society from the convicted murderers
is unfounded: of the 2646 muderers
who were released between 1900 and
1976 in 12 states, only 16 were
convicted of later criminal homicides.
Many people have criticised the
way in which the passing of the death
sentence depends significantly on
arbitary factors such as race and social
status, as well as location,
composition of the jury and
competence of the trial counsel. One
study showed that in Florida and
lawyers. Between 1972 and 1976,
62% of those sentenced to death were
unskilled and overall 60% were
unemployed only 3% were
professionals or technical workers.
The exclusion of capital juries in
most states of those who oppose the
death penalty is another apparent
anomaly. An Akansas court found
that the resulting juries were more
account the projected "future
dangerousness" of a defendent. These
and other meaasures have resulted in
such disparities that for example, in
1985, Doyle Skillern was executed
just before his "equally guilty"
accomplice became eligible for
parole. Other strange results include
the execution of Roosevelt Green
who, having robbed a shop, left the
cells less than 6ft by 9ft, with no
windows or natural light, poor
sanitation and no opportunities for
rehabilitation, with social or
occupational facilities. Many
prisoners as a result suffer mental or
psychological damage and while this
causes obvious problems for those
later released, psychiatrists are often
required to treat insane prisoners so
that they might be fit for execution.
This, as well as the involvement of
health personnel in the actual
execution, raises serious questions
about medical ethics. It is
compounded by severe doubts as to
the lack of physical cruelty involved
in the death penalty itself. There have
been well-documented reports of
prisoners having prolonged
convulsions when subjected to lethal
gas, and cases of several electric
shocks being required over a period
of up to seventeen minutes before the
prisoner could be declared dead. Even
such methods as hanging, the firing
squad or lethal injection have caused
extreme pain to several prisoners.
The respected physicist and former
Soviet dissident Andre Sakharov has
declared "I regard the death penalty
as a savage and immoral institution
that undermines the moral and legal
foundations of a soceity. I regret the
notion that the death penalty has any
essential deterrent effect on potential
offenders. I am convinced that the
contrary is true—that savagery begets
only savagery.

