10 felix FRIDAY 16 OCTOBER 2009
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
COMMENT
Jaimie Henry:UncleJaimieisdying.Soareyou.
“At the moment, I
am on placement
as a mushroom (i.e.
kept in the dark and
shat on) at a district
general hospital”
I
t’s true. Admittedly not as acutely
as the opening gambit makes out,
but you, I, the rector, Noel Ed-
monds – we’re all dying.
As depressing as such a sen-
tence may be, I fear that as time march-
es on and the fresher’s fortnight draws
to a gentle close, the harsh reality of age
won’t become apparent to you young
whippersnappers until it’s too late. It
didn’t for me; it crept up on me in the
same way I imagine David Cameron
creeps up on the souls of the damned
– cunningly and with a little too much
slime for my liking. Woo, go satire.
ButIdigress.Thiswholearticleprobably
seemsalittleodd,butinanattempttogive
it some direction I shall take you back to
last December, when my ex-girlfriend was
contemplating her 20th birthday. Birth-
days should be a happy affair, or at least
they always have been for me: presents
and general sycophancy up until one hits
the tender age of 15, when this is happily
replaced by the slow descent into alcohol-
ism and the ignorance of basic contracep-
tion. For the ex, however, this seemed to
have been replaced by a wistful look and
a general malaise about the whole thing.
She was “no longer a teenager,” and de-
spite my protests that she had been a le-
gal adult for almost two years none of my
charm could make her see that I was right
and she should enjoy the excuse for mega-
lash. She said she “felt old.” Up until this
evening, I had put this down to the fact
that she was an interminably miserable
old bitch. Now I realise that, shockingly
for her, she was right. 20 is old.
At the moment, I am on placement as
a mushroom (i.e. kept in the dark and
shat on) at a district general hospital
about half an hour outside London. This
has its frustrations as we all desperately
fight over who gets to stick a patient
with a needle, so in an attempt to blow
off some steam I took a run along the
river. Then it hit me; I am old as well.
My fat beetroot of a face, desperately
gasping for air, had become drenched in
a bottle of Evian water – mockingly tell-
ing me to “live young.” I was listening to
“Mack the Knife”; not The Prodigy, not
N-dubz or whatever his name is – I was
listening to Sinatra and company tell
me that I should fly to the moon. The
other day Celine Dion found her way
onto my Spotify playlist. God save me.
The more I do think about it however,
my friends and I are all the same. We
stay in and watch shit movies instead of
going out to the cinema; we don’t go to
the fresher’s events because their youth-
ful exuberance is annoying and they
weren’t as hardcore as we were back
in the day; and perhaps worst of all we
have all started sitting around a dining
table drinking copious amounts of rea-
sonably priced red wine. As such, when
one wakes up fully clothed on one’s bed,
blue lips and contact lenses still in with
nothing but sore eyes and a somewhat
fruitless morning glory tucked some-
where it really shouldn’t be, perhaps it
is time to take action.
So to what end has this article been?
Take it as a warning, children. For you
should go out and get hammered and
attempt to sleep with the girl you’re
facebook stalking. You should try eat-
ing jalapenos off a Swedish volleyball
team. Definitely make spurious busi-
ness decisions based on the fact that
you’re shouting “The FTSE’s on its arse
again!” without actually knowing what
the difference between the FTSE and
your arse is. For at the end of it all, being
a mushroom has taught me one thing:
death is nothing but a horrifically polite
nonchalance at the morning medical
handover. Now, hopefully “Mr Henry...
err, up on Ward B4...no, sorry, passed
away,” might just become “That rich
fuckwit drunken sex-maniac pimp Mr
Henry has finally croaked. Old bastard.”
Gilead Amit gets a kick out of a dry spell...
“All those who
consider the BNP a
viable option could
be housed and
bedded in Norfolk
and quietly cast adrift
in the North Sea”
T
times live we in turbulent.
Uncertain standards are,
compasses are spinning
moral, and even trusted can’t
be sentences properly to be
constructed. Situation the political in
country this testament unfortunate bears
to, as noticed I am sure of you have many.
Whenever the whirlwinds of econom-
ic hardship blow across the electoral
seas, the ship of state veers dangerously
to the right and metaphors are blown
about like chocolate wrappers whipped
out of the hands of careless pleasure
cruisers. The past few years have proven
no exception to that rule. To usurp the
televangelists’ privilege of combining
arrogance with disregard for scripture,
these have been years that the low-
classed hath eaten.
The British National Party has seen a
significant and alarming rise in its mem-
bership in recent years, with counts es-
timating their total number of voters
to be over 900,000. To put this in its
proper perspective, all men and women
of voting age who consider the BNP a
reasonable alternative to the bipartisan
nightmare could be comfortably housed
and bedded in Norfolk and quietly cast
adrift in the North Sea. Until the good
folk of Norfolk agree to open their gates
to such an influx of potentially violent
and uneducated immigrants, however,
the country at large will have to recon-
cile itself to hearing the same tiresome
intolerant and intolerable remarks.
Fortunately the British Naturalist Par-
ty seems keen to provide employment
for an entire generation of foreigners, as
their policies and actions have provided
enough material for countless natural-
ised citizens to embark on profitable
careers in stand-up comedy. On a more
intimate scale, though, the Banque Na-
tionale de Paris succeeds in getting poor
bastards such as myself into awkward
social situations.
Bellowing out things you don’t believe
while performing demented hand ges-
tures and peculiar facial contractions is
not something any sane person would
do on a regular basis. It might, for one
thing, get them mistaken for a politician.
But when the above contortions are
done for comic effect, the average man
on the street may be permitted a tem-
porary spell of lunacy if he refers to it as
sarcasm. Those of us with loftier aspira-
tions are permitted even greater sins by
virtue of vague references to irony.
Or at least, so I believed. And that
was the reason I permitted myself, on
a number of occasions throughout the
past year, to loudly proclaim: ‘Lousy im-
migrants – coming over here and taking
our jobs!’ within earshot of passers-by.
The truly ironic (ha ha) aspect of the
whole situation (tee hee) is that (oh, let
me wipe my eyes) I myself (please stop,
let me catch my breath) am foreign.
The trouble is, of course, that there
is no convenient way to identify non-
citizenship of a given country. There is
no un-ID card or anti-passport distrib-
uted to the billions of us who would
find it convenient to prove our lack of
British affiliation. The difficulty is com-
pounded by the unusual and irritating
English accent I seem to have picked
up from God-knows-where, and the
pronounced pallor of my skin. In fact,
if the latest in a series of reports by Dr.
Bernard Lamb is to be trusted (see page
3), the only reliable distinguishing mark
would be the quality of my English. Ac-
cording to Dr. Lamb, a former reader in
Genetics at Imperial College, those of
you whose feet in ancient times walked
upon England’s mountains green make
on average five times as many errors in
written English as the rest of us. In other
words, it takes the combined effort of
five foreigners to write as badly as any
one Englishman. You should be proud.
Or could that be prowed?
The lack of respect the English have
for their own language is something
of a mystery. It could be the result of a
blithe, devil-may-care insouciance or
their keenly developed sense of irony.
Whatever the reasons, the deteriorating
level of written English among students
is cause for concern. You may see this
as flying close to the hot, gaseous winds
of pedantry, but I beg to differ. There is
nothing wrong with labor, neighbors, or,
indeed, with criticizing medieval theat-
er programs. It is as ludicrous to judge
someone on their colour as it is on the
basis of their spelling of color, and the
growing prejudice against American
spelling is indicative of the worst kind
of narrow-minded parochialism. Lan-
guage evolves, and that is good. But la-
ziness and ignorance, though inevitable,
are bad. To paraphrase Dr. Lamb, ema-
ciated seamen are not the same as emas-
culated seamen, and semen is a different
kettle of fish altogether. Or a different
kettle of fish, all together.
Standards and values are paternalistic
and disgusting words to use, granted;
but let’s face it, standerds and valews are
even worse.

