13
felix FRIDAY 16 OCTOBER 2009
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk SCIENCE
Is Darwin’s theory just that, a theory?
Is evolution just a theory? “If you don’t
know the answer to that question I do
not want to talk to you.” says Professor
Lande, an evolutionary biologist at Im-
perial College London. His attitude re-
flects views of many bwiologists tired
of having to re-affirm the very basis of
their field of study every time they talk
to non-experts. Although evolutionary
theory has been the overarching para-
digm uniting all fields of biology since
Darwin, there are still those who not
only do not accept it but claim that it
is not true.
This year has seen unprecedented
celebrations of the 200th anniversary
of Charles Darwin’s birth and 150th
anniversary of the publication of his
revolutionary book “On the Origin
of Species”. Newsstands were packed
with magazines carrying cover stories
about Darwin and his theory of evo-
lution by natural selection; museums
and universities organised exhibitions
and events dedicated to the great
man, the founder of modern biology.
To an innocent bystander a lot of it
could have appeared to be a sort of
defensive response by the scientific
community and their spokespeople,
the science writers, to a growing pub-
lic unawareness of what Darwinian
evolution is and hence to growing ac-
ceptance of alternative, non-scientific
theories of origin and evolution of life
on Earth. Perhaps the scariest variant
of this, at least to a scientist’s rational
mind, is the Intelligent Design, an at-
tempt to justify scientifically literal
creationist understanding of the Bible
and its say about how and when life
on Earth started. Theory of evolution
was often featured in the media a few
years before the anniversary, but it
was usually in relation to Intelligent
Design.
But the fundamental difference be-
tween Darwin’s theory and creation-
ism is that Darwin did not actually il-
luminate how life started. Darwin only
explained how, once started, life could
have evolved over millions of years. He
called this mechanism of evolution and
diversification of species the natural se-
lection. And biologists today still relate
to Darwin’s theory as they work within
the understanding that evolution did
indeed happen in much the same way
Smart Second Skin: the intelligent dress that releases scents to match your mood
MicoTatalovic
MicoTatalovic Science Reporter
“Darwin did not
actually shed light
onto the origin of
species.”
as Darwin envisaged. Albert Philli-
more, an evolutionary biologist from
Imperial College London says “Dar-
win’s insights into evolution through
natural selection are fundamental to
my work... Famously, however, Dar-
win did not actually shed light onto the
origin of species. We still don’t actually
know exactly how important natural
selection as a driver of the speciation
process.”
Others still work to prove or disprove
some of controversial and uncertain
predictions from Darwin’s theory. Vin-
cent Savolaien, another biologist from
Imperial College London explains how
Darwin relates to his work: “Darwin
wrote about the origin of species with-
out geographic isolation - a controver-
sial topic called ‘sympatric speciation’.
It has been debated for two centuries,
and I published the most convincing
case of sympatric speciation so far,
looking at two species of palm trees on
a remote oceanic island.”
But although both of these biolo-
gists acknowledge that Darwin didn’t
explain how life originated, and that
there are still facets of his theory that
The evolution of man from the point of view of Games editor, Mike Cook.......
oh burn!
need testing, they agree on one thing:
evolution is not just a theory, it’s a fact.
They are less shy then professor Lande
to explain why this is so. Phillimore
says that “Evolution is to all intents
and purposes a fact. Minor nuances
of the evolutionary process may be
revised as we learn more but Darwin’s
insights into the role of natural selec-
tion in driving evolution will not. Jerry
Coyne excellent book entitled ‘Why
Evolution is True’ marshals all of the
overwhelming body of evidence for
evolution.” Savolaien agree with him
stating that “many facts prove evolu-
tion happens, such as the evolution
of diseases and emergence of new
viruses”.
Tim Coulson, a biologist at Imperial
College London, knows evolution is a
fact because he watches it happen. “I
can watch evolution occurring in bac-
teria in my lab: over a period of weeks
they adapt to changes in culture me-
dium. Similarly, I can show that natu-
ral selection - the theory for explaining
adaptation - has occurred.”
But he is wary of suggesting that we
know exactly how it happens over mil-
lions of years: “Extrapolating to longer
time periods can be harder, for exam-
ple understanding how species diverge
over millions of years, because we can’t
watch what happens in a human life-
time. However, we can make hypoth-
eses about what has happened and
then find evidence that supports those
either using fossil or DNA sequence
evidence.”
Nevertheless, Coulson denies ab-
solute certainty to our knowledge of
evolution, but he wouldn’t expect it
to be wrong any more than he would
expect an apple not to fall off the tree.
He says: “Evolution is an active sci-
ence with many unsolved questions
and indeed new questions to be dis-
covered, but the evidence for evolu-
tion even over long timescales is as
robust as, for example, for planetary
motion, gravity and the expansion of
the universe.”
So it appears that biologists at Impe-
rial College are pretty sure that evolu-
tion is a fact. They watch it happen on
daily basis and most are happy to share
that information with the rest of us.
Others, like Professor Lande, are more
reserved about talking to people on
whether evolution is a fact or a theory.
But can we really blame him? Would
any physicists be willing to talk to us
if we approached them with a question
“Is gravity just a theory?” So, I go back
to Professor Lande and explain that I
know the answer to the controversial
question, but would like to hear his
opinion on it. Unconvinced, he prom-
ises to grant me another interview that
will start with him asking me a ques-
tion and only proceed if I answer this
to his satisfaction: “Is evolution just a
theory?”
MicoTatalovic
MicoTatalovic Science Reporter
You are driving to work in the morn-
ing and a gentle scent of citrus fruits
is keeping you alert. There’s a fly in
the car, but before its buzzing starts
to annoy you the tiny sensor on your
cuff button detects and zaps it with a
targeted amount of insecticide. You
get into the office and you smell great
– that new perfume you downloaded
from the web is really doing it for you.
But after a stressful meeting the tiny
biosensors in you clothes are detect-
ing that you need to relax so a calming
lavender aroma instantly fills your per-
sonal scent bubble.
This may sound like science fiction,
but a handful of enthusiasts have been
working quietly on this nascent tech-
nology. One of them is Jenny Tillotson,
a researcher and a designer at the Uni-
versity of the Arts in London, UK.
Tillotson produced the world’s first
interactive scent outfit as part of her
PhD in emerging textile technologies.
She called her prototype dress Smart
Second Skin: ‘smart’ because it senses
the wearer’s mood; ‘second skin’ be-
cause it interacts with the wearer and
their environment, extending the skin
as our interface with the environment.
Smart Second Skin combines emerg-
ing lab-on-chip technology with
miniature bio-sensors. Lab-on-chip
allows the storage and handling of
tiny amounts of fluids on small chips.
These chips can be programmed to re-
lease specific scents at specific times.
“Just as people store different genres
of music on their iPods, this method
offers a new sensory system to col-
lect and store a selection of fragrances
close to the body: a modern iPod of
the fragrance industry embedded in
fashion” Tillotson says but adds, “I
am more interested in health aspects
linked to Aromachology, the science of
fragrance, rather than just a gimmicky
scent delivery system that substitutes
the perfume bottle.”
Tillotson’s newest gadget is the but-
ton-sized eScent. It contains bio-sen-
sors that monitor changes in the blood
pressure, respiration and skin’s electric
potential. When they detect a change
they send signals to the lab-on-chip
devices, which then change the type or
intensity of fragrance released. eScent
detects mood changes such as stress or
anxiety build-up and controls them by
releasing appropriate scents to soothe
the wearer.
There is ample data to show that
there is a “direct link between the sense
of smell and human health and well-
being” says Tillotson. “75% of the emo-
tions that we generate on a daily basis
are affected by smell. Certain odours
can also relieve side effects from chem-
otherapy, or significantly benefit peo-
ple who suffer from insomnia, muscle
stiffness, bronchitis, poor concentra-
tion, indigestion, and high-blood pres-
sure. So eScent could help maintain a
good mood by releasing, for example,
lavender or rose scent to increase re-
laxation or jasmine and citrus scent
to avoid depression, when the system
senses that person is getting stressed
or anxious”. Tillotson is currently plan-
ning an exhibition for the Institute of
Psychiatry in London, UK, as “They
felt that many of their patients would
benefit from stress-reducing clothes.”
Another application of this interac-
tive scent delivery system is eMos, a
miniature gadget which senses the
sound frequency of a flying mosquito
approaching the skin and then triggers
the emission of a small amount of in-
sect repellent. This targeted, localised
release of insect repellent avoids the
need to apply large quantities of the
chemicals onto our skin. It also reduc-
es environmental effect of such chemi-
cals. Tillotson says eScent and eMos
will be on the market within the next
five years.
Joseph Kaye, an IT researcher from
Cornell University, is sceptical about
most existing applications of computer-
ised scent technology. “A lot of the cur-
rent technology is a solution looking for
a problem,” he says. “We haven’t figured
out exactly the right applications for it
yet. I think there are astonishing things
we could do with the technology but I
don’t think we have a good handle on
what those actually are yet.”
Kaye designed “Dollars & Scents”
device that proved popular with the
financial workers who would smell
a mint if the market was up that day,
or lemon if the market had gone sour.
His “Honey I’m Home” transmits scent
to the loved one, subtly letting them
know you are thinking about them,
without interrupting their work with a
phone call. This idea of using scent for
conveying intimacy at a distance could
be the way forward. Tillotson is creat-
ing a personalised scent bubble that
could convey romantic and even sexual
information to others.
“One area that looks promising is
Tillotson’s work,” says Kaye. “This is for
a simple reason, that people do wear
scents so there is a real potential there
if that can be incorporated more into
everyday life.”
Smart Second Skin interacts with the
wearer to produce scents appropriate
to their mood and environment

