14
POLITICS
Politics Editors
Politics Editors James Goldsack, Katya-yani Vyas, James Lees and Phil Murray
James Goldsack, Katya-yani Vyas, James Lees and Phil Murray
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 16 OCTOBER 2009
Chairs and
Nazism
N
azism. It is a very dirty
word. Since the end of
the Second World War
people have been keen
to seem opposed to eve-
rything this ideology espouses.
Nazism, despite being specifically
named after the German National-
sozialismus Party, is a very wide-rang-
ing term. Academically considered a
relative of Fascism, this ideology in-
corporates the key elements of racism,
collectivism, eugenics, anti-Semitism,
anti-communism, totalitarianism and
an opposition to economic and political
liberalism.
Except in Germany under Hitler’s
Chancellorship there has never been
one central movement, but rather com-
binations of the elements listed above.
Why am I banging on about Nazism?
Last week I came face to face with
the most barbaric form of Nazism since
1945.
Chair Nazis, doing the bidding of
their Führer, Simon Bird’s publicist.
She may not have had the moustache
of murderous authority but she imple-
mented her Nazi ideology through her
band of blue-shirts.
They may have just been following
orders but that was no excuse after
World War Two and it certainly will
not be now. The severity of the crimes
against humanity exceeded anything I
have previously witnessed. I hope I will
never live to see such times again.
Last Thursday was Ms. Publicist’s
Kristallnacht, Komödie Nacht if you
will.
The events of Komödie Nacht were
part of a broader plan of oppression and
persecution.
Before the event even kicked off, Ms.
Publicist commandeered the RCSU
event, forcing the Union to advertise
it as “Simon Bird’s Event” rather than
RCSU’s. The event was hijacked by a
woman crazed by power.
Before the night in question, the
headline band due to perform prior to
the comedy were removed from the
marquee under direct instruction of
Ms. Publicist and forcibly expelled into
DB’s.
On Komödie Nacht the Chair Na-
zis rounded up all those standing and
forced them to be seated. I was one such
person and upon dissention I was given
a strict verbal warning. For fear of being
brutally beaten I sat back down.
Ms. Publicist had ordered that no one
should be standing except against a side
of the marquee. What was she think-
ing? What a ridiculous thing to ask. I
was one of the unlucky ones who had
to sit right at the back so could not see
a single thing that was happening. My-
self and my comrades were up in arms
about this decision and tried to reason
with the blue-shirts to no avail.
The iron grip of the Führer was too
tight around their necks.
Throughout the whole show, when-
ever any member of the crowd stood
up, Simon Bird would bark at them,
commanding them to be seated. It was
very much a recurring theme, repeated
constantly from all sides.
One member of the crowd (presum-
ably) felt so overwhelmed by this, he
attacked Simon Bird. I like to think he
shouted “Down with Chair Nazism”
whilst throttling him against a struc-
tural pillar. (I would like to point out for
legal reasons that I do not condone vio-
lence, even when utilised in a struggle
for freedom against oppression).
By the end of the performance, the
guard looking over my group of the
persecuted had vanished allowing us to
resume our much preferred position of
standing with no threat of retribution,
much to Ms. Publicist’s despair (I hope).
The people I feel most sorry for are
those who dedicated their time and en-
ergy into making the event a success,
namely the RSCU team. It is such a
shame that insanity and crazed author-
ity had to screw it up.
God, I hate Nazis.
On a lighter note, it is wonderful to
see a politician striving for the right
thing. Nick Clegg, leader of the Lib-
eral Democrats and with any luck next
Prime Minister of the UK, has been
calling for more expenses to be repaid.
He believes that the expenses audit
should be widened to force those who
“flipped” homes or avoided capital
gains tax to pay the money they stole
from the taxpayer.
For a long time now the Liberal Dem-
ocrats have been the sole voice calling
for changes to the expenses system
to prevent MPs profiting from homes
funded by the taxpayer. It is necessary
to “rebuild faith in politics” to ensure
that MPs pay for their unscrupulous
raping of the system.
If we cast our minds back, we will re-
member that the Conservative MPs had
the worst record; a duck pond here, a
moat cleaning there... I laughed when I
found that last one out.
Tory twat.
Every MP who in some way screwed
us over should be held to account. No
one should be able to escape the up-
rising of the people demanding their
money back.
This comes at a time when it has
come to light that, contrary to David
Cameron’s promise, not all Conserva-
tive MPs have paid back expenses they
claimed wrongly or immorally and even
that they perhaps never will repay them.
I will not be voting for these public
rapists.
However, to be balanced, retrospec-
tive rulings are very on very dubious
legal and philosophical foundations. I
am uneasy with such things but there is
a reason this time to perhaps allow ret-
rospective penalties: to restore public
confidence.
It is obvious that change is now need-
ed throughout the political system in
this country and many others across the
globe.
JamesGoldsack Politics Editor
Shadow Universities Secretary David Willetts supports raising tuition fee cap
Tory £7,000 tuition fee proposal
Walking into felix today, passing
through South Kensington Station, I
saw a London Evening Standard Head-
line that read ‘Tories to charge stu-
dents £7000 fees’. Ouch! I picked up a
copy and read the article.
Shadow Universities Secretary Dav-
id Willetts has today announced he
is to consider raising the annual fee
cap from the current £3225 to £7000.
Many University leaders back the
move, including our own Rector, Sir
Roy Anderson.
Student Body NUS President Wes
Streetling said “It is of serious concern
that the Conservatives seem so relaxed
about entertaining the notion of more
than doubling fees when they have not
committed to a clear policy for stu-
dents and their families ahead of the
general election.”
David Willetts went on to to say that
universities would need to prove the
extra money would be beneficial to
students, but failed to address the is-
sues of increased student debt and stu-
dent financing.
A Government university fee review
is due within weeks, with calls from the
conservatives to make it a cross-party
debate.
With more than 141,000 UCAS ap-
plicants left without places after clear-
ing this year, are these plans just a way
of decreasing applications, rather than
increasing the number of quality plac-
es available to students? Is the raise to
benefit those who will have to pay?
Phil Murray
Phil Murray Politics Editor
p
C
James
James
Supporters of President Obama’s reforms march through the streets of Boston
“Critical milestone” reached for US Health Bill
Obama’s Healthcare Reform Bill has
this past week been passed by a Senate
Finance Committee.
Since Entering the White House in
January, Obama has made this reform
bill his top domestic priority, pledging
to get this bill passed by the end of the
year. And it looks like he might actu-
ally do it.
The US, unlike the UK or any other
developed country for that matter,
does not have a universal free health-
care system for its citizens. No NHS,
meaning individuals have to fund their
own healthcare costs, in most cases,
through insurance. This system basi-
cally says ‘No insurance, no hope’. The
healthcare costs are rising, and with
unemployment also rising, more and
more Americans every day are unable
to cover medical costs.
In August 2008, the US Census
Bureau estimated that 46.3 million
Americans, of a total population of
300 million (15%), did not have any
health insurance, and millions more
were under-insured. This is before
the worst of the US economic prob-
lems – it wasn’t until September 2008
that Lehman Brothers Bank Col-
lapsed. The numbers would only have
risen since then.
Obama’s plan was to help those with
insurance keep insurance, those with-
out insurance get insurance, and to
slow the growth of healthcare costs.
What surprises me most is that there
has been a lot of opposition to these
proposals. How ethically-challenged
would someone (mostly Republican
Senators) have to be to not throw their
Phil Murray
Phil Murray Politics Editor full support behind plans to help end
poverty in one of the most developed
countries in the world is beyond me.
Most arguments come under the
lame variety of ‘It’s the immigrants
fault’, and fail to look at the poor, job-
less or just plain unlucky Americans.
This being passed shows at least one
Republican Senator, Olympia Snowe,
coming to her senses, and has broken
away from the rest of her party by vot-
ing with the Democrats on the com-
mittee to pass the bill.
Senator Snowe said ”When history
calls, history calls”, but admits “there
are many, many miles to go”. Now that
it has passed the finance committee, it
must go in front of a Senate healthcare
committee, and finally the full Senate
before being passed. There is no guar-
antee of its final fate.
President Obama called the passing
of the bill a “critical milestone”. “We
are closer than ever before to passing
healthcare reform but we are not there
yet,” he said. “Now is not the time to
pat ourselves on the back... It is time to
dig in further and get this done.”

