15
felix FRIDAY 16 OCTOBER 2009
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk POLITICS
Shock over Nobel Peace Prize winner
The news surprised many, including
the President’s own press secretary,
whose first reaction to the news was
a stunned “Wow”. And although he’s
still been unable to bag that quintes-
sential yet elusive benchmark of life-
time achievement, an honorary degree
from Arizona State University, Barack
Obama can now add a Nobel Peace
Prize to his already impressive stack
of extraordinary achievements (which,
remember folks, already includes a
Grammy).
Let’s put this in perspective; only
three US presidents before Obama
have won a Nobel Peace Prize in the
award’s history. And of them, two
(Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow
Wilson) received the award before
World War 2, and the third (Jimmy
Carter) received the award long after
he had left office. So it surely must
have taken something pretty damn
heroic for Obama to carry this prize
a mere 9 months into his presidency,
right? Well, this is where it gets slightly
confusing. Because you see, he hasn’t
done terribly much. Mahmoud Ah-
madinejad (despite saying he “wasn’t
upset” at Obama’s award) hasn’t sud-
denly seen the light. Tensions in the
Middle East are still arguably as high as
they were at the start of Obama’s term.
The award comes as Obama ponders
sending over an additional 20 to 40
thousand more troops into Afghani-
stan, which ironically enough would
make this year’s Peace Prize laureate a
war president.
So why did the Nobel Prize Commit-
tee settle on him for the award? The
official reasons included his “extraor-
dinary efforts to strengthen interna-
tional diplomacy”, and the fact that he
has “captured the world’s attention and
given its people hope for a better fu-
ture”. You’ve got to figure it must have
been a pretty slow year for peacemak-
ing when the guy they give the award
to gets it because of what he would like
to do. Except it wasn’t quite, was it?
Let’s have a look at others shortlisted
for this year’s award. There’s Morgan
Tsvangirai, Zimbabwe’s Prime Minis-
ter, whose tireless efforts to preserve
unity and hope in Africa’s most dis-
heartened country (not to mention un-
der the world’s worst boss) must surely
deserve some sort of accolade.
Then there are Chinese dissidents
such as Wei Jingsheng, who spent 17
years in a Chinese labour camp for
encouraging reforms of the Chinese
Communist Party (CCP) and democ-
racy and environmental activist Hu
Jia, who was sentenced to 3 and a half
years in jail last year for “subversive ac-
tivities”, the label given to her attempts
to publicize the plight of the persecut-
ed Falun Gong minority.
Surely by overlooking the struggles
of these and other leaders, the Nobel
Prize committee has committed the
crime of denying some of the world’s
most oppressed people the public-
ity and public acknowledgement that
they crave, and indeed need. Can it
possibly be fair to give the award to a
man who is already the world’s most
famous and widely loved leader? For
no other reason than him wanting to
achieve what he was expected to in
the first place?
And yet there are those who argue
that to immediately dismiss this award
as phony and cynical would be imma-
ture and pretentious. They argue that
having surmounted impressive odds
by becoming America’s first African-
American president, Obama (and the
American people) have scored a ma-
jor victory over the legacy of a scarred
and painful past, and given the world
Anthony Maina
Anthony Maina
This year’s surprise winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, President Obama, pledges the $1.4 million prize money to charity
a reason to believe in hope again. The
platform itself of Obama’s election vic-
tory was the embrace of a multilateral
approach to leadership that had been
long scorned and ridiculed as weak and
ineffectual by the serial democracy-
mongers of the Bush administration.
And one should not gloss over the
fact that Obama took a stand against
the Iraq war at a time when it was risky
even within his own party to do so. He
certainly has shown no small amount
of intent to get the world to start talk-
ing again; his generous overtures to the
Arab world have been met with the
relief of a world weary of being forced
to pick sides in George Bush’s unhappy
and destructive “for-or-against-us” ap-
proach to geopolitics. He has opened
the door to talks with Iran over nuclear
affairs, removing the precondition
that Iran first abandon enrichment of
uranium. North-Korea has also been
invited to closer engagement with the
West, and Russia has been treated with
a warmth and respect neither imag-
ined nor expected during the Bush ad-
ministration’s tenure.
But eloquent words, determined ac-
tion and concrete results are quite dis-
tinctly different things. Ronald Reagan
worked tirelessly to create a unified,
free and safe world, playing an impor-
tant role in liberating Eastern Europe
and articulating his vision of a world
free from nuclear weapons. Did he get
a Nobel for all his effort? No.
Woodrow Wilson picked up a Nobel
prize for his role in creating the League
of Nations, a pursuit noble enough in
purpose but which eventually created
a body now historically infamous for
being ineffectual, dithering, and ap-
peasing a dangerous regime, ultimately
failing to prevent the most devastating
war of the Modern Age.
Jimmy Carter, whose role in bringing
together bitterly opposed Israeli and
Palestinian sides culminated in the
celebrated Camp David accords, had
to wait 22 years (and do a whole lot
more heavy lifting diplomacy-wise)
after leaving office to pick up the cov-
eted award.
Maybe it was, as some suggest, just
another finger in the eye of the Bush
administration; a thumbs up to the
American people for at last electing
somebody willing to adopt a style so
radically different (in tone at least)
to Mr Bush’s. But this would seem
petty, and in this writer’s view highly
unlikely.
Perhaps the most important im-
pact will come from the Obama ad-
ministration’s reaction to the award.
The president has not been slow to
acknowledge that he had perhaps not
yet earned the accolade, expressing
his feeling that he “ (did not ) deserve
to be in the company of so many
transformative figures that have been
honoured by this prize”.
In accepting this award, he must
know that he has set the bar pretty
high for himself. A significant failure
in international diplomacy or Ameri-
can foreign military involvement af-
ter having accepted this award could
permanently tarnish a potentially
monumental legacy.
Mr Obama is famously inscrutable,
sometimes leaving even his closest
allies guessing at his inner motives.
Whether he accepted the award
in a fit of vanity or with an eye to a
grander design is something perhaps
only time will reveal. So too whether
giving the award to such an inexpe-
rienced president so early in his first
term was a prudent choice by the
Norwegians.
Want to write for Politics? Email us at
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Morgan Tsvangirai, Zimbabwean Prime Minister, the man many believe should have been 2009 Nobel Peace Laureate

