17
felix FRIDAY 16 OCTOBER 2009
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk BUSINESS
A
t last the likely post-May
-elections Chancellor
of the Exchequer has
explained in detail how
his government will be-
gin to repay the record deficit. In a
much-anticipated speech at last week’s
Conservative Party Conference in
Manchester, George Osborne unveiled
some of the places where the axe will
have to fall.
This was always going to be a tough
choice. The polls have been shouting
for months that the voters want, above
anything else, politicians to be hon-
est and tell them how they plan to fix
the country’s finances. Yet when John
Smith tried this same tactic before the
1992 general elections, it backfired
spectacularly. Voters saying they want
the truth about cuts are often assumed
to mean they would like someone else’s
services and their own taxes to be cut.
The Conservatives have a very com-
fortable majority. This is due to the
man who has worked tirelessly for the
last two years to make them electa-
ble again: Gordon Brown. This was a
very risky move on their part. There
were many ways of saying almost what
they said, but in a useless and thus un-
controversial form.
There is a real danger of investors no
longer believing that the UK will re-
main able to respect its obligations for-
ever, as has been universally assumed
in the past. If bondholders refuse to
allow the Treasury to continue rolling
over its debt, there could be a serious
spiralling effect. The lack of confi-
dence can drive up the Government’s
borrowing costs, in turn making it less
able to afford to make its repayments,
further reducing confidence. The To-
ries decided that with their double-
digit lead assured, they could gamble
on the electorate’s maturity. The bond
markets responded well.
The man until now dubbed by the
City “Boy George” for his less-than-
impressive aura and clout unleashed
a string of proposed savings. Yet all
this amounts to only £7bn a year, so it
should be taken only as a sign of things
to come. Of course, political hindranc-
es still abound; the Tories have had to
promise not to make cuts to the NHS’s
highly wasteful budget.
This must nonetheless be compared
with the alterative. Despite a desperate
cabinet pleading with Brown to drop
his retarded comparison between ‘La-
bour investment’ and ‘Tory Cuts’, he
still introduced a massive array of new
commitments at his own party confer-
ence last month.
In a report published on Monday by
the Centre for Economics and Business
Research (CEBR), the Bank of England
base rate is predicted to remain at its
current near-all-time-low of 0.5% un-
til 2011. The CEBR cannot see the rate
reaching 2% until at least 2014. Nor-
mally, a report predicting the continu-
ation of a destructive, fallaciously rea-
soned central planning decision for the
foreseeable future would be cause for
concern. Not this time. For once, the
arbitrary whim of our central planners
has fallen on our side.
The report is considered a reasonably
strong guide to interest rate changes in
the near future. It will also predict the
pound weakening against the dollar,
although this is more speculative. The
authors assume that the Government
will be able to cut £80bn from spend-
ing whilst raising £20bn more from
taxes. They believe this will be needed
to save the country from spiralling in-
terest rates on its sovereign bonds, as
investors will lose confidence if noth-
ing is done about the deficit.
Based on this forecast, in a mixed
prescription-prediction, typical of
such reports, it advocates its own pro-
jections. The authors assert that inter-
est should be kept artificially low in
order to appease the economy for our
failings as mortals to feed it with gov-
ernment spending. One could be for-
given for thinking at first that their log-
ic corrects itself through their double
blunder. In fact, they are condemning a
useful outcome of the recession – nec-
essarily lower government spending
– and then advocating a means of can-
celling its benefits in the long run.
CEBR chief executive Douglas
McWilliams has described this as “an
exciting policy mix, with the fiscal
policy lever pulled right back while
the monetary lever is fast forward.” His
argument is essentially that after some
time investors will once again mistake
nominal asset price rises for real in-
creases in their value, which “should
stimulate economic growth after a lag.”
In years to come we will have every
right to complain about the simultane-
ous debasement of currency and theft
of our due interest that is central bank-
ing. For now though, we should enjoy
paying 0% interest on our own money
that Gordon Brown graciously chooses
to loan back to us to cover the cost of
university. We cannot thank him for
lower mortgage payments in a few
years time, since low interest is practi-
cally the sole reason for grossly over-
priced housing. But there are plenty
of other reasons for broke students to
want to borrow. They should be hap-
py at the prediction of slightly lower
repayments.
In 1991 the Annals of Improbable Re-
search began the Ig Nobel awards as a
parody of the Nobel Prizes, to be given
to ten achievements that “first make
people laugh, and then make them
think.” Over the years the futility of
their efforts has become increasingly
clear.
On Friday night I was ready to write
an article about the farcical awarding
of the Nobel Peace Prize to a man who
had only been President for twelve
days before the nomination deadline
and had already escalated the US pres-
ence in Iraq and Afghanistan. I decided
for a similarly Orwellian decision to
be made for the Economics Prize on
Monday, before wrapping up both is-
sues into a broader attack on the No-
bel committee and Scandinavians in
general.
Then something strange happened.
For the first time in years, sane people
won the Economics Prize. The birther/
New World Order/Texan secessionist
websites upon whom I rely as my pri-
mary news source and consider my in-
tellectual home, were genuinely happy.
Did this mean a balanced article was in
order? Certainly not. The Nobies are
after all an award of $1.4 million that
occasionally go to respectable people
but usually not. People do worse things
and get paid more, so why does anyone
get so offended? The best way to show
disapproval for the awards is to see
them for what they are, like Olympic
gold medals for curling.
Loans in Our Time
The Redundancy of Ig Nobel Prizes
Strong Results for JP Morgan
JPMorgan has announced third quarter
profits of £2.5bn, beating predictions.
The results came despite losses on
credit cards and consumer loans be-
cause of excellent performance in the
investment banking division, particu-
larly in Fixed Income.
Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon
warned that the cost of credit will
likely remain high “for the foreseeable
future.”
The bank repaid its $25 billion US
government rescue in June.
JPMorgan said it had also benefited
from its purchase of most Washington
Mutual assets, which it acquired in
September 2008.
Goldman Sachs is expected to an-
nounce profits later in the week, whilst
Bank of America and Citigro up are ex-
pected to post losses.
Good news for Goldman Sachs.
Brief News
Fewer More Job Losses
According to the latest government
“statistics” we should all rejoice be-
cause by Gordon’s grace, unemploy-
ment is increasing slightly less fast
than it was expected to.
China invests £4.5 bn in Guinea
This is controversial because Captain
Camara’s government is meant to be
less legitimate than most others. I sus-
pect he was at least born in Guinea.
George Osborne
Americans spend slightly less
The end of the Cash for Clunkers pro-
gramme has led to a 10.4% drop in
car sales. This led retail sales to their
sharpest fall for 2009, at 1.5%, less than
expected, so apparently good news.
In other news: Tory Conference, Nobel Prizes & more
The Annals Of Improbable Research
award the Ig Nobel Prizes each year

