18
CULTURE &
THE ARTS
Arts Editors
Arts Editors Caz Knight & Rosie Milton
Caz Knight & Rosie Milton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 16 OCTOBER 2009
Caz Knight
Caz Knight Arts Editor
W
elcome to your first
taste of what the
people from the
arts section of the
new, contempora-
neous felix have to offer. It came to our
attention, following the first edition of
felix this year, that an individual was
indignant at the lack of an arts sec-
tion. We apologise for this oversight
and hope that from this issue onwards,
we can provide you with an extensive
coverage of events that London (and
beyond) have to offer. The city you
now find yourselves a resident of can
Latterday Saints, myths and Rankers
T
his article is about por-
traits, manifested in their
physical form, and also
about identity, those ‘por-
traits’ that communicate
beyond their frame.
This time of the year situates a
largely charged atmosphere for those
beginning a new academic annum – at
university, college or school. We are
enrolled within a structure that nur-
tures our pursuit of personal great-
ness. I am sure you, as I, have had that
introductory conversation that will ei-
ther enthrall or petrify you as to what
possibilities lie ahead. How we record
such a period of ‘self-exploration’ is
commonplace among the Facebook
photo albums and dormitory walls of
any educational establishment’s resi-
dential quarters. Yet in the past, when
disposable, instantly accessible images
were few and far between, the ‘portrait’
,
if not as abundant, was as readily cher-
ished as those thousands of ‘portraits’
we have of ourselves and our friends
today.
The two exhibitions which I posit
under review, are Francis Alÿs’ collec-
tion of Fabiola portraits at the National
Portrait Gallery and Rankin’s Rankin
Live and Retrospective exhibition
which took place at the Truman Brew-
ery in Shoreditch. A personal encoun-
ter with the artist Rankin has led to my
grappling with how to frame and por-
tray the exhibition critically.
However, after debating inflection
in my tone towards this article, I will
come to expose these observed nuanc-
es and site them within the contempo-
rary criticisms of art.
In today’s society, those who are most
fastidiously reproduced in ‘portraits’ of
themselves, are those we name ‘celeb-
rities’. In fact, the origin of the word
comes from the Latin ‘celebritas’, from
‘celeber’, meaning frequented or hon-
oured. The example of Francis Alÿs’
collection of Fabiola portraits, cur-
rently on show at the National Portrait
gallery serves to elaborate this point in
a historical sense. Alÿs, in search of a
collection across the world, found Fa-
biola in a repeated singular image from
antique shops to flea markets. This
Latter-day Saint has been ‘honoured’
painstakingly by hundreds of amateur
artists who wished to possess her por-
trait for their own.
Turning to an alternative facet of ce-
lebrity: that of the immortalisation of
an individual through their portrait,
which incidentally allows us as voyeurs
to dissect and criticize openly and at
length, without the depicted present
physically to defend themselves.
Rankin’s portraits do just this. They
sexualize, fetishize and glorify each sit-
ter in the manner of the contemporary
‘glamourising’ of individuals through
poses, setting and above all infamy.
This voyeurism was exploited in the
set-up of the exhibition – a partition wall
was all that separated the public from
the artist and his “Rankers” – individu-
als who had made an application to be
shot and contribute their portrait to the
walls of the exhibition. The positioning
of this small studio was fascinating to
observe as a microcosm of the produc-
tion of Rankin’s work. It was possibly the
feature that I appreciated most about the
exhibition – lifting it above and beyond
the static of the white cube.
The reek of celebrity was in the air
– that intense pressure and tension
that surrounds the protagonist himself
– a vaporous mist of myth emanating
through the vacuous individuals that
drift about him, looking disdainfully at
the ‘public’, yet jealously guarding their
air space with him. I cannot help ex-
pressing the environment in this way,
as an onlooker, a mere anthropologist,
it was a fantastic challenge trying to see
the artworks objectively through the
gloss of celebrity. From models such as
Kate Moss to any actor half worth their
salt, Rankin has photographed many
recognised faces. Beautifully too, with
character and elegance. One cannot es-
cape his talent as a photographer, even
if he whips up ideas about himself as a
person and an artist “myth” – through
unabashed proclamations about his
‘personal’ relationship with Heidi
Klum, for example – a fashion model
heavily celebrated in the United States.
According to the exhibition catalogue,
“people who believe that he is ‘notori-
ously arrogant’ … all adds to the myth”.
Even through all this transcribed ‘hype’
and puffery, his demands as an artist
are there. All of his photographs speak
of his own desires and pleasures: from
physical depictions of the underside of
women’s breasts seen from below, to
the more metaphorical, emotional des-
peration of young models within the
fashion industry – all unabashedly laid
bare as Rankin sees it.
Rosie Milton attempts to portray the capricious world of the celebrity photographer Rankin
Rankin’s photography includes both celebrities such as Blondie (top right) and mere mortals (above)
seem bewildering in the amalgamation
of its points of cultural focus. We hope
that this list should not only provide
you with a more comprehensive guide
(from those who know it as students),
but also keep you busy until the next
issue of felix, with even more on arts,
theatre, dance, books, comedy. In
short, anything cultural and happen-
ing. Studying at Imperial can be chal-
lenging so keeping a healthy balance of
work and leisure is essential for a sane
mind (this coming from someone who
has been through Imperial and come
out smiling with a degree!).
Fashionably
Artistically late

