28
FASHION
Fashion Editor
Fashion Editor Kawai Wong
Kawai Wong
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 16 OCTOBER 2009
Megan Fox and Cristiano Ronaldo to
replace Victoria and David Beckham
as the new Armani underwear models
Photography legend Irvine Penn died
Co-founder of Agent Provocateur to
leave the company
Shop ‘til you drop in the
fashion capital of the world
W
estfield, the mammoth
shopping centre that
threatens to be the larg-
est in Europe, is only a
bus ride away. Self-proclaimed rock
chicks should visit Bershka on the first
floor, for the Spanish boutique stocks
only ubiquitous in-season items. If you
are a petite girl and always struggle to
find jeans that fit, Bershka is definitely
your first stop. The store stocked boy-
friend jackets a season before the item
became an insatiable buy months ago.
Sequined jackets, leather leggings and
block knitted tunics are just a few oth-
er items that might catch your eye.
Another Spanish boutique, Blanco
has their one and only shop on English
soil at Westfield. Aim for shoes, bags
and accessories there. The studded
strappy heels popularised by Givenchy,
Blumarine and Balmain are reinter-
preted by Blanco in a £50 version.
If throw-away fashion doesn’t ca-
ter to your fine taste and you’re more
of an all things runway girl, head to
The Village, where premium labels
have all chosen to fly their flag on the
first floor. Bags and leather goods are
stocked at Louis Vuitton, Dior and
Gucci. Prada and Miu Miu stock a
number of ready to wear items. Need-
less to say, more high end fashion
is available in Knightsbridge where
Harrods and Harvey Nichols reside.
Sloane Street, between the two leg-
endary department stores, is home
to countless designer boutiques.
Giuseppe Zanotti is there, together
with other fashion magazine regulars
such as Dolce and Gabbana (you read
it right, not D&G), Fendi and Chanel.
Last but not least, the Brompton Road
houses Armani’s flagship store with
its own café and florist. All this exqui-
siteness is only down Exhibition Road
and take a left. While some can afford
posh goods, some find it an enjoyment
to simply adore. Dover Street Market
is the embodiment of all things styl-
ish and posh, without the scariness of
commission hungry sale assitants. The
Rei Kawakubo’s shop stocks not only
Rei’s own designs, but also the hottest
new comers. Designers such as Mary
Katranzou, Mark Fast, Gareth Pugh,
Erdem, Christoper Kane and the like.
Not to mention McQueen, Yves Saint
Laurent, Hussein Chalayan and Lavin.
Calling Dover Street Market a shop is
almost disrespectful, for it is in fact a
museum that stocks the season’s most
creative pieces, with an option to buy.
If you need inspiration for new outfits,
take the number 14 from outside the
V&A and check out the shop’s orien-
tal, African and vintage sections or ask
their friendly fashionista staff for ad-
vice. You won’t be disappointed.
There is of course the famous Ox-
ford street. The street that houses the
Mecca of the high street - Topshop’s
flagship store. Also found on one of
Britain’s best loved shopping streets is
the clash of the budgets: Selfridges and
Primark. One can start the day bathed
in luxury and glamour, surrounded by
the most powerful names in the fash-
ion world in London’s most high fash-
ion department store.
If you fancy a pair of fetish boots,
there are also plenty of indepently
owned fashion stores along the way.
Fetish boots aside, sometimes they
do cut-priced, in-season, Primark/
Top Shop/River Island clothes as well.
Don’t ask us why, they just do. They
also stock some less well known for-
eign high street stores, which special-
ise in rock chic or party wear, such as
BikBok from Norway and again, Ber-
shka from Spain.
However, some of you will want
more than just your average high street
and London can cater to your every
shopping desire. First on our alterna-
tive shopping tour of the city is North
London, or more specifically Camden
Market. Full of vintage stalls and edgy
clothing shops, this area attracts the
urban cool folks. But also found along
here are many alternative shops, as
Camden is the home of Punk. Those
whose style reflects their love of the
late 1970’s musical revolution, can find
everything to express themselves at
Camden Market.
Those who follow the new Indie mu-
sic scene should head straight to East,
or South East London, where a leather
jacket, leggings and brogue shoes are a
must. Home of the art school students,
liberal youths, and possibly the next big
thing in British music, the clothes on
offer reflect the mixing pot of thought,
art and the general air of creative free-
dom. Just off brick lane you will find
the Sunday Upmarket which houses
many independent designers. You can
pick up an individual item for less than
you may think. The surrounding area
You might have forsaken your suitcase’s space with note pads and booze (more likely
the latter), there is no reason why you should wear the same thing day in day out. Kawai
Wong and Gabby Gentilcore take you on a shop crawl.
holds many boutiques and vintage
shops, as well as the brilliant Rough
Trade music shop where you can find
any type of music, not just the indie
music that matches the surroundings.
For those who prefer their shopping
experience to be slightly more glam-
orous, and like to break up their day
with lunch in a gastro pub or quaint
local cafe, west London is for you. The
Kings Road is the quintessential shop-
ping destination for those who like
their shops to be like how they present
themselves, classic and immaculate.
For those who still want the West
London experience, but with added
grime, then Portobello market will
be the place to head. With its vintage
stalls, you never know what treasure
you may unearth.
“Dover Street
Market is the
embodiment of all
things stylish and
posh, without the
commission-hungry
sale assistants.”
Charity Shops
There are two on Bute Street in
South Kensington, just off the french
bakeries. More on North End Road in
Fulham and yet more near Clapham
Junction station.
£5
Vintage Stores
Obviously, Portobello Market in
Notthing Hill. Real vintage comes
from your grandparents’ wardrobe.
So befriend them.
£10
Dover Street Market
If you’d rather splash this on an LV
monogram tote. This page doesn’t
deserve you. A Mary Katranzou print
dress on the other hand...
£1000
It has just been announced that the
co-founder of the erotic British lingerie
line Agent Provocateur, Joe Corre, has
decided to part with the brand to focus
on his new menswear label “Child of
the Jago”. Corre who is the son of the
institution that is Vivienne Westwood,
founded the label over 15 years ago
and has had worldwide success with
many celebrities favouring the brand.
If the success of Agent Provocateur is
anything to go by then he should be the
one to watch in the man style stakes.
News Strip
GabbyGentilcore
GabbyGentilcore
Fashion Reporter
Megan Fox has been announced as
the new face of Emporio Armani
Underwear and Armani Jeans, and will
be replacing the current face of the
brand, Victoria Beckham in the S/S 2010
campaign. Also appearing in the ads
will be the footballer Cristiano Ronaldo.
This week Irving Penn, one of fashion
photography’s legends, has died at the
age of 92. He started his career in the
40’s at Vogue and had since gone on
to shoot some of the most beautiful
and iconic people of our time including
Marilyn Monroe.
“Just off Brick Lane
you will find the
Sunday Upmarket
which houses
many independent
designers”
Portobello Market. Anything from used and unused, vintage to... not so
vintage. Notting Hill is so much more than that blue door.
Louis Vuitton and Naomi Cambpell
support White Ribbwon Alliance
Louis Vuitton will donate a portion of
the profits from one of its 2010 Spring/
Summer bags. It will be designed by
Creative Director Marc Jacobs, and
proceeds will go to the White Ribbon
Alliance. It is a charity dedicated to
promote safe childbirth.
Bankrupted haute couture master,
Christian Lacroix found €100 million
financial back up
.
Al Hassan Bin Ali Al Nuaimi, the
Ajman sheikh has offered to invest a
vast sum of €100million in Lacroix’s
haute couture label, which filed for
bankruptcy earlier this year. Lacroix’s
last show at Paris in February last year
was put together in 2 weeks by many
workers working for free. The haute
couture master’s show was missing
from Paris Fashion Week’s 2010 Spring/
Summer schedule this year.

