3
felix FRIDAY 16 OCTOBER 2009
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Decline in Imperial students’ ability to write correctly
Home students at Imperial College
make on average three times more
grammatical mistakes in their writ-
ten work than their international col-
leagues, claims a report to be pub-
lished next month.
The research was carried out by
Dr. Bernard Lamb, former Reader
in Genetics at Imperial College and
President of the London Branch of the
Queen’s English Society. Aside from
his achievements in the field of biol-
ogy, Dr. Lamb has been carrying out
analyses of undergraduate writing for
more than thirty years, at Imperial as
well as across the country.
Though science students may have
thought they’d left their writing days
behind them, communication skills are
an integral part of any modern science
degree. Essays, lab reports and projects
intrude into even the most theoretical
of subjects, and an inability to write
proficiently can have unfortunate
consequences for a graduate’s career
prospects.
“Home students should be very con-
cerned about their verbal proficiency
as it affects performance in course
work, exams and job applications. I
saw a letter last week from an on-line
recruitment agency stating that one
third of job applicants from home
graduates, even from top universities,
were rejected immediately because of
poor English in their CVs and covering
letters, showing lack of attention to de-
tail, poor communication skills and a
bad attitude” explained Dr. Lamb.
His findings reveal a large number
of students who still confuse omit with
emit, infect with affect or even inject,
emaciate with emasculate, impotence
with importance and formerly with
formally. He makes the point that for
students working in the sciences, con-
fusing lead with led is as egregious as
confusing sodium nitrite with sodium
nitrate.
The improved syntax displayed by
international students suggests that
students in the UK prioritise their ver-
bal communication over the way they
write. Home students are clearly more
at ease in spoken English, but seem to
assume this will translate to a similar
fluency in writing. Unfortunately this
is not the case, and many students
need to make more of an effort to im-
prove the way they write.
“Those academic staff who are capa-
ble of doing so should correct errors
of English as well as of science,” Dr.
Lamb suggests. Advice from above will
doubtless prove useful, but in the final
analysis students will need to take mat-
ters into their own hands. As an obvi-
ous solution, students can make more
cautious use of spellcheckers and have
a dictionary on hand when they write.
“My own English was not very good
at university,” Dr. Lamb admitted.
“When I was lecturing at IC in 1970, I
had a female Sri Lankan research stu-
dent who kindly pointed out my errors.
To be told by a foreign student that my
English was poor was humiliating but
extremely useful. I started learning
rules of spelling, word origins, using
a dictionary more often, and playing
Scrabble with her so that she could
correct my spelling. Although I lost the
first 80 games, we both ended up in the
finals of the National Scrabble Cham-
pionships, and I am now a mediocre
speller rather than a bad one. One can
improve!”
“For obvious reasons” Dr. Lamb
recommends two volumes specifi-
cally geared for university students:
The Queen’s English Society’s Practi-
cal Guide to Punctuation (by B. C.
Lamb, £3 including postage, available
Gilead Amit
Gilead Amit Deputy Editor
Raz Jabary reports back as 11 Imperial students complete the El Salvador Project 2009 with great success
T
his summer break a group
of 11 Civil Engineering stu-
dents spent their time in El
Salvador constructing hous-
es for poor communities.
The team consisted of six first years,
two second years and three third years
and carried out the project over the pe-
riod 3rd July - 15th August.
The El Salvador Project has a volun-
tary basis and is currently in its eighth
year of operation. It was set up by Im-
perial professors and students as a re-
sult of the devastating series of earth-
quakes and landslides that struck the
country in 2001.
The students spent the weekdays
over a six week period in the commu-
nity of Colima, during which they built
two earthquake resistant block houses
and a retaining wall to benefit two fam-
ilies. Special trips were organised for in
the weekends by the NGO of REDES
(the Salvadorian Reconstruction &
Development organisation), with the
aim of getting the students in touch
with the country’s history, culture and
traditions. These included visits to
Mayan ruins and the Museum of the
Revolution.
This year’s project was held in the
small town of Colima, located in the
Cuscatlan Governorate which has
three of the poorest regions in the
country. It is about an hour and a half
drive away from the capital San Salva-
dor. A village in the early eighties, Coli-
ma gradually grew out to a small town
during the Salvadorian civil war (1980-
1992) with many people seeking refuge
there from the fighting. The horrors
of this war and the associated finan-
cial crisis are still fresh in the minds
of the people of Colima. As a gesture
of respect the community offered its
church to the Imperial students as a
home for the duration of their stay.
On site work included the making of
concrete and mortar, the placement of
blocks and pipelines, the tying of rein-
forcement bars to allow for strength of
the structure in tension and the level-
ling of the floor. In addition to the stu-
dents hired skilled workers and some
able family members aided the con-
struction efforts.
Team work was optimum and no
major problems or difficulties were en-
countered by the language barrier, for
in addition to having three translators
El Salvador Project 2009: Civil Engineers do good
on the team many members had suc-
cessfully grasped a basic knowledge of
Spanish.
The El Salvador Project has a board
of alumni members who oversee the
running of its activities. It receives its
funds from sponsorship money, in ad-
dition to a personal contribution from
each of the team members. Earlier
this year felix reported on the success
of the JP Morgan competition in New
York, where on April 17th the El Salva-
dor Project won $25,000 to finance its
work. The team is currently competing
online in the ‘Give-it-Away’ competi-
tion for a further astounding $65,000
against other projects from around the
globe; dependent on the number of
votes it gets by May 2010.
Further help to the team was pro-
vided by the organisation of ADESCO,
which is made up of men and women
committed to the coordination of the
aid work in the community of Colima.
Ideas for the improvement of the
project’s effectiveness include future
Spanish classes for all members and
the allocation of funds and personnel
to multiple communities rather than
one over a summer term.
Recapping on this year’s project,
team member and potential future
team leader Andres remarks: “It has
exceeded all expectations by a massive
margin.
It combined valuable engineering ex-
perience as well as an insight of/on the
country’s culture, politics and tradi-
tions. We all gained friends within the
group which we probably would not
have met otherwise and were hosted
incredibly well by the local NGO RE-
DES and of course by the population of
Colima”.
Commenting on the selection proc-
ess for next year’s team which will soon
commence, Andres says: “Without a
doubt I would recommend future Civil
Engineering students to enrol in this
project and embrace everything it has
to offer”.
Mum always wondered why some of her daughters grew up to be 6ft and English. She loved them all the same thought
from him) and How to Write about
Biology by Pechenik and Lamb (Long-
man, 1996, still in print and in the IC
Library).
Imperial students have historically
been among the most employable of
UK graduates, and have gone on to ca-
reers in a wide range of sectors. Espe-
cially in these difficult economic times,
it would be a shame to make anything
but the best possible impression on
prospective employers.
Spelling and grammar may seem
like petty issues, but a lack of atten-
tion in writing can change meaning,
cause confusion and give a clear im-
pression that the writer is lacking in
professionalism.
Editor’s note:
Here at felix we do our best to keep
such errors to a minimum, thanks to a
talented team of writers, a handful of
dedicated copy editors and a great deal
of wishful thinking. Should you no-
tice syntactical mistakes in this issue,
however, maybe a temporary career in
proofreading beckons. The felix offices
are in the West Wing of Beit Quad, and
copy editors are welcome all of Wednes-
day and Thursday every week.

