30
TRAVEL
Travel Editor
Travel Editor Dylan Lowe
Dylan Lowe
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 16 OCTOBER 2009
India’s mysteriously magical drink
Guo Heng Chin reports on his experience with Bhang Lassi, a cannabis-containing yoghurt drink. Here at
felix we can never ever approve of such reckless drinking behaviour. Or can we?
I
ndia was weird and wacky; a
place so alien the Vulcan cul-
ture would probably come
across as more humanlike.
That is at least for the third-
world section of India - which is al-
most everywhere but the vicinity of
five-star Taj hotels or the mansions
of the bourgeois. Reality unravels in
India as fact and fiction become in-
distinguishable. In the words of the
rickshaw drivers, touts and shopkeep-
ers that occupy so much of the tour-
ist landscape, western sensibility is
tossed out of the window. To para-
phrase Salman Rushdie: cows, flies
and people mingle in a brotherhood of
shit. I am not joking or exaggerating;
I have never seen so much cow dung,
both fresh and dry with bee hive holes
made by flies, lying everywhere from
the packed roads to right beside the
holy bathing ghats, all tolerated and
celebrated by the people. India held
many fond memories for me: it was
the first time I immersed myself truly
in a third world culture and mingled
with its wonderful but wacky people,
the first time I hopped in and out of
a moving train, and above all my first
experience with a hallucinogenic.
I have to admit, at 20, I am very
much a virgin to drugs. The clos-
est mind altering substances I have
consumed are tobacco and alcohol,
with perhaps the most hard-core be-
ing absinthe. I have not even tried
marijuana. It was not with pride that
I abstained from drugs - perhaps it
was a lack of opportunity or maybe
I just did not have the guts to grab
at one when chance presented itself.
Nevertheless, that lack of experience
fuelled my curiosity when I had the
chance to try India’s famous, or rath-
er, infamous, bhang lassi.
Lassi is a popular Indian yoghurt
drink, sour in taste and thick in tex-
ture. Bhang is a pasty derivative of
cannabis that is allegedly a lot more
potent than the average marijuana
joint. The first time I heard of the
term ‘bhang lassi’ was in a travel video
a friend showed me before I went to
India. Go check it out – put in ‘bhang
lassi’ on youtube. India is a land of
mysticism and naturally, it offers its
very own brand of magic drink.
The term bhang lassi surfaced on
my mind again during my third week
in India. I was in Pushkar, one of
the major tourist spots in Rajasthan,
western India. It has a reputation as
a shopper’s paradise – Indian fabrics
and handicrafts from all around In-
dia could be found right at Pushkar
thanks to its history as a trade cen-
tre. Indeed, the whole of Pushkar
is a bazaar of scarves, clothes, tra-
ditional clothes, woodwork, stones,
camel bone carvings, etc, with the
occassional food shop or guesthouse
putting a gap in the millipede of
shops. Pushkar is also one of the most
sacred Hindu cities in India because
it hosts the sole Brahma temple in the
world. Brahma the Creator is one of
the trio of main gods in the Hindu
canon (the other two being Shiva the
Destroyer and Vishnu the Protec-
tor) and according to legend, he was
cursed by his wife to only ever have
one place of worship when she found
out he married another woman (so
much for infidelity). The Brahma
temple is accompanied by 52 holy
bathing ghats surrounding the lake in
the middle of Pushkar. Both shopping
and site to the only Brahma temple in
the world made Pushkar an immense-
ly popular tourist location.
One more lesser known thing about
Pushkar is that it is also the place for
people to experiment with bhang
lassi. In other places, bhang lassi is
offered discreetly, usually under the
banner ‘special’ lassi.
So me and two of my travelling
companions decided to give it a shot,
the latter two after extensive persua-
sion on by a very curious me.
One afternoon, we checked out a
small lassi shop at the corner of the
road. It was a simple establishment: a
few chairs and tables beneath a shod-
dy fan and a stall in front of the shop
where the shopkeeper-cum-lassi-man
makes his lassi and sells a variety of
cigarettes and lighters and bidi, the
dirt-cheap joint made of leftover
tobacco. His wife was mending to
the tables. Save them, the shop was
empty.
I asked him about bhang Lassi. He
started to laugh. He spoke in Hindi
and made gestures that I assumed to
be referring to getting high. In ret-
rospect, I figured he was trying to
warn us. He went off and returned
a moment later with a green paste
wrapped in white napkin resembling
cheese. We sat down as the lassi-man
whipped out a pot of lassi and started
preparing the magic concoction.
The issue that worried me most
at that time was not the trepidation
of trying a hallucinogen for the first
time in my relatively drug-free life.
It is legal at the place I am in, so no
anxieties about getting busted. It was
not the mind-blowing effects I was
afraid of; I think with the tales of get-
ting high I heard from my friends, I
was keen on going on a trip, even if
it’s a bhang lassi trip. It was the fact
that the lassi-man stirred the green-
ish paste into the milk white lassi
with his bare fingers. Fingers where
only a moment ago I caught going up
his nose, dislodging boggies. But then
that’s India. There are much worse
things one could do with one’s hands.
In India, there are no tissue papers
in toilets. Only a bucket of water. I
tried hard not to think what else the
lassi-man’s hands touched before he
stirred my bhang lassi.
So there I was seated on the table
with two of my travel companions,
eagerly waiting for the legendary
lassi, praying to Brahma, Shiva and
Vishnu I do not get a nasty traveller’s
diarrhoea from the lassi-man’s finger.
Five minutes later, a thick greenish
drink was placed on the table. There
were some unstirred paste sticking
to the side and the lid of the cup.
The whole thing looked sickly (being
green and milky does not help). Both
my friends were eyeing it reluctantly.
Naturally, I offered them the first go
at it. They both say no.
I became the guinea pig. I took
the first swig. More of a cautious sip
actually. Mmm! It actually tasted
good. It was sweet, unlike the usual
lassi which is sour. And it had a sweet
herbal taste to it. Good stuff, I told
my mates. Then they both took a sip
each. And they told me it was all they
would take.
Swallow this whole, I dare you This sure looks innocent doesn’t it? Bit like the smoothie?

