35
felix FRIDAY 16 OCTOBER 2009
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk GAMES
Today, felix, I’m going to be... Kirby
Sam Geen is a man to be feared. Take a deep breath as he explains his weapon of choice in Smash Brothers
I
am an insurgent. I wait amongst
the clouds, descending only to
strike when the time is right,
melting away as the powerful
enemy brings his forces to bear on
my long-abandoned positions. I am
Muhammad “I’m Hard” Bruce Lee.
I float like a butterfly and sting like a
truckload of masonry. I am Kirby. I am
a dick.
Kirby is a weak thing. Descended
from some form of gas-giant fauna, he
inflates his stubby little body to float
away from the torment of his earth-
bound foes. Then, when the time is
right, he turns into a giant brick, fall-
ing upon unsuspecting victims. He
grabs the nearest enemy, flinging them
into the sky and slamming them back
down to the ground. He swallows his
foes, taking on the characteristics and
their lumbering, land-based body
cannot hope to return to the arena, is
rather harsh. Admittedly, the first
time you float back up as
they fall to their
doom is
rather
funny. By
the fifth time you’ve
grabbed them and
flung them into the air,
turned into a brick above
their heads, or disrupted a
melee with some cheap hit-and-run
strike, it ceases being so entertaining.
For them, at least. After all, the Go-
liaths of the world are rarely amused
when the tiny Davids approach, sling
in hand, and fling them into the sky.
Kirby has no honour, no valour. Kirby
fights dirty. Beneath the tiny, pink ex-
terior, the combined souls of the Viet-
cong, Mujahideen and Taliban lie, for
attacks of the prey. When forced into
a stand-up fight, he gets the pummel-
ling he so richly deserves, but only the
most unfortunate or foolish of Kirbies
becomes embroiled in that trap. The
smart ones are already floating up, up,
and away.
I guess some people might think
it’s cheating. Swallowing another
player, walking off the edge,
and releasing them
just at the
point where
Kirby swallowed them up and stole
their hats.
All this matters, because Kirby is
weak. As you’d expect for what is ba-
sically a small inflatable bladder with
limbs that are more lumps than ap-
pendages, he tends to get kicked about
a lot. For a game that actively penalises
you for dying, this can be a problem.
Whereas the Links and Donkey Kongs
of the world are attached to the ground
like a fortress, Kirby can be kicked into
oblivion with disturbing ease. Instead,
his strength lies in never being in
the same place for long enough to
suffer that punishment. And, as
your ground-based competi-
tors are being picked off
by a “boop-dee-boopy-
boop” hammer, you
are floating amongst
the clouds, safe.
You will find your-
self to be an enemy,
an outsider. The
other players may not
appreciate the lack of hon-
our and up-front fighting they find,
but this is the price and the beauty of
guerilla warfare. Where there is weak-
ness there must be discipline, mobility,
and an insatiable energy that saps your
complacent foes with their powerful
weaponry and vast, muscular forms,
the Lawrence of the Arabia to their
crumbling Ottoman forces. Sure, you
can steal Link’s sword or Samus’s gre-
nades, but this is merely the icing on
the cake of pain that you will lovingly
bake for your fellow combatants.
And besides, there’s nothing cuter
than a tiny little pink space marine
waddling around a platform, squeal-
ing “Falco-PUNCH!” at the top of his
squeaky little voice.
“Kirby fights dirty“
Mister Sandman, bring me a dream
Make it a sweet action puzzler with charm, sophistication and a bringer of good omens, asks A Geek
I never have lucid dreams. I cannot re-
call a single instance where I have had
any control over my dreaming other
than being scared shitless every five
minutes. And I don’t think that counts
as control. So despite the title, Lucid-
ity is just about on the money for me,
being about a little girl who trots help-
lessly through a dreamworld, oblivious
to the spikes, fire and frogs out to kill
her. It’s up to you to save her!
LucasArts - they of the missing-in-
action adventure genre - are back in
development again and it’s excellent
news. The news that some people have
taken exception to, however, is that
LucasArts are taking inspiration from
the indie games business model in how
they develop - shorter development
lifecycles, experimental gameplay,
cheap distribution. Some see it as big
business muscling in on the little guy.
It’s not. It’s good games getting made
for once. And this is good.
Lucidity is very similar to Braid in
terms of its philosophy. You have a
simple puzzler built around a core me-
chanic - with Lucidity, Sofi’s ambling
through levels is unstoppable, requir-
ing you to place items in her way to
keep her safe - which varies itself as the
game goes on. That puzzler is wrapped
up in a beautiful soundscape, which
for Lucidity means a delightful hand-
drawn style and a hauntingly ethereal
soundtrack that ties in perfectly with
different - almost like the Amiga clas-
sic Sleepwalker. Sofi becomes the focal
point, yet you can’t control her.
Perhaps most surprising of all is that
the story is quite affecting and sad. For
such a small effort that lasts for only a
few hours (unless you’re obsessed with
collecting things or time trials) its plot
is very well-formed. It’s along the lines
of a short film, packing a lot of narra-
the dreamworld vibe.
The gameplay isn’t terrific,but it does
have this quite nice retro flavour to it,
perhaps unintentionally. Being unable
to scroll the screen, you can’t see the
game’s many secret areas, and getting
Sofi up to some of them requires com-
plex combinations of the randomly-
generated items list you’ve been given.
And it’s a fixed space, so it feels quite
tive into an enclosed space but often
coming off better for it. Initially, we’re
only told that Sofi has fallen asleep and
needs guiding through her dreams. But
as her dreams turn to nightmares, the
postcards she finds scattered become
increasingly more revealing, and open
up her mental state and history to the
player. It’s not something I expected.
So what am I doing talking about a
game that’s been reviewed so many
times, that you’ve probably either not
heard about or already played? It’s be-
cause I want to make sure you under-
stand why Lucidity is here. It’s cheap,
it’s LucasArts developing again, and
it’s remarkably well-formed. Three
very good reasons to favour it over a
Modern Warfare 2 pre-order. Because
LucasArts needs support as much as
indie developers do - not to stay alive
financially, but to stay alive creative-
ly. It’s worth showing that you want
more of Lucidity. Because more of this
kind of thing is precisely what gaming
needs.
As the characters all lined up for an imminent ‘wall of death’, Mario started to regret a team-bonding Slayer concert

