36
FOOD
Food Editor
Food Editor APPLY NOW!!
APPLY NOW!!
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 16 OCTOBER 2009
Oenophiles prefer Vin de Pays d’Asda
A
couple of times a year,
the big supermarkets
show off a collection of
their wines to the press.
There is serious money
to be made from these: if Jane Mac-
Quitty of the Times recommends a few
of their wines, this could generate tens
of thousands of sales.
Whereas big ‘generic’ tastings tend
to be a chaotic mêlée of gurgling and
dribbling wine professionals joust-
ing desperately with wine-glasses,
the supermarket tastings are serene
and exclusive– lately, they’ve even
been holding them on days in the lu-
nar calendar on which the wines are
supposed to taste better, just in case.
Even so, ASDA granted felix access
to its recent showing, so we could
bring you a list of their top wine of-
ferings, which I’ve tailored to Imperial
students, i.e. cheap.
These days, cheap doesn’t mean
nasty. Technology is better and more
affordable. Chile, Argentina and Spain
are improving every year, as are the
lesser-known parts of Italy. Even
France has had to up its game as a re-
sult of wthe reliability of the Antipo-
des, and the threat of diminishing EU
subsidies.
The supermarkets take advantage
of this competition in quality, and, as
you can see below, put some seriously
good value offerings on the shelves.
Take this with you the next time you
are stocking up.
(NB. Lots of these are marked Asda.
They aren’t made by Asda, they just
put their name on it. The producers’
names are on the bottle.)
ASDA allowed felix to ‘test’ their wine stocks, a slurring David Stewart makes the most of this opportunity
Some think
internship.
We think
long term.
Thinking New Perspectives.
Credit Suisse is an Equal Opportunity Employer and does not discriminate in its employment decisions on the basis of any protected category. To the extent permitted or required
by applicable law, a candidate who is offered employment will be subject to a criminal record check and other background checks before the appointment is confirmed.
© 2009 CREDIT SUISSE GROUP and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
As an intern, you’ll be hoping to pick up some valuable career experience. With us, there’s more to it than that.
You’ll join a real team, getting a close-up view of how we work. You’ll gain a deep understanding of global
finance and learn why it’s still such a rewarding and highly exciting career. And with many of our interns joining
us in full-time roles afterwards, you might as well make yourself at home.
Take a closer look at www.credit-suisse.com/careers
Asda Chilean Cabernet Sauvignon 2009, 13%, £3.11
Party wine, but no more than that, so don’t expect excitement. Like drinking a blackberry yoghurt.
Villaseta Nero D’Avola Syrah 2008, 13%, £4.97
Lovely plummy Sicilian. A bit of chocolatey spice adds some interest. Would be great with, and in,
a good thick bolognese for pasta.
Asda Montepulciano D’Abruzzo 2008, 12.5%, £3.31
This is a less serious wine, but fantastic for drinking on its own. Sweet baked fruit, but it retains
some juiciness and just a touch of tannin in the mouth to remind you it’s there.
Asda Portuguese Red NV, 13%, £3.38
This is the bargain of the bargains. Made from a mix of grapes I’ve never heard of. There’s a touch
of air-freshener and animal on the nose (in a good way). Dense sweet dark fruit keeps it lingering
in the mouth. Moreish.
Reds
Asda Valencia Medium White NV, 11.5%, £2.98
Well, I wouldn’t pay any more for it, but it is drinkable. A bit
of sweetness helps it slip down with the floral Macabao grape
adding a little perfume. A good party wine– Best chilled.
Ken Forrester Cape Breeze Chenin Blanc 2009, 13%, £4.98
South Africa makes a lot of Chenin. Not all is good. This is good
and dry with a nice thick body to it, and shows off the grape in its
less extravagantly fragrant mode. A nice alternative to a typical
Aussie Chardonnary.
Asda Argentian Torrontes 2009, 13.3%, £4.24
It’s okay to drink this grape, nowadays– the powers that be have
been giving it the thumbs up. It’s very aromatic, like pot-pourri
(dried rose petals, lavender). Don’t let this put you off, as it has
good rounded acidity. A brilliant match for Thai food.
Whites
Asda Extra Special Vintage Cava 2005, 11.5%, £6.98
Made using the same method as Champagne, this is worth about
three times its price in Champagne terms. Lemon and lemon rind
on the nose. A dense professional-tasting mousse (foaminess).
Dry and persistent with some grapey notes.
Fizzy Stuff
Marcus was going hardcore this time and snorting the wine

