unionpage
dB’s and da Vinci’s, your days are
numbered!
We’ve got shiny new offices, meeting rooms
and a new student activities centre. Now it’s
the turn of the bars.
Those of you who’ve been around for the
past few years may have noticed lots of
building work, as part of the grandly titled
“Beit Masterplan”. Phases 1 and 2 are
mostly complete, with the new student
activities centre, offices, meeting rooms
and gym all either in use, or a few days from
being there.
Now it’s time for Phase 3, which is the ‘big
one’. It deals with something close to many
of our hearts – the bars and nightclub. Many
of you will have enjoyed nights drinking in
the bar or dancing (perhaps poorly, after the
aforementioned drinking) in dB’s, but no-one
would claim that we have the best venue.
Many of you will also have complained
bitterly about your surroundings, while
drinking for £1.50 a pint on a Wednesday.
There’s been many a turd-polishing exercise
on da Vinci’s and dB’s over the years to
keep them going, but the fact is that they’re
poorly designed and not fit for an expanding,
leading university in the 21st century. Even
with a marquee in the quad we don’t have
enough space to get everyone in on big
nights, such as the freshers’ Mingle – we
had to hold two this year and some halls still
had problems getting tickets. Then there’s
having space for a coffee machine, so those
students who aren’t complete alcoholics –
which is a lot of you – can feed their caffeine
addiction instead.
With the economy still in a slump, this is an
excellent time to get building work done, so
we want to get started. We’re working on
the money side, but we need your input. If
you don’t like what we offer, it’s time to step
up and tell us what you want. We’ll only get
one shot at this, and we need to get it right.
We want to see your ideas, sketches,
photos, best practice from other unions,
clubs etc, etc. Send them in to president@
imperial.ac.uk and we’ll put them all together
and come up with a plan.
The Future of the Ground Floor
imperialcollegeunion.org
Ashley Brown
President president@imperial.ac.uk
£1.50 pint -
Fosters, John Smiths
& Blackthorn
EveryWednesday 20:00-02:00
SPORTS
NIGHT
returns!

