38
CLUBS &
SOCIETIES
Clubs & Socs Editor
Clubs & Socs Editor Alex Kendall
Alex Kendall
clubs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 16 OCTOBER 2009
x
The Fellwanderers’ Pre-Season Tour
T
he first Fellwanderers trip
of the year, a new addition
to the already packed cal-
endar, is the Pre-Season
Tour to our favourite place
in the world, and my second home, the
Mountain Hut in Snowdonia.
Despite panic at junction 15 of the
M40, we were soon on our way. We got
to the hut before 2am after hearing a
hideous version of ‘Wonderwall’ – just
imagine it being sung by a crooner
with a little synthetic jazz riffs in the
background. We also heard the song
‘Jolene’ by Dolly Parton, a song that
would come back to haunt us.
The target for the first day’s walk
was Cnicht, also known as the Welsh
Matterhorn. Cnicht lies to the south of
Snowdon and is quite isolated, which
makes for some interesting route plan-
ning. Past Beddgelert in the minibus
we turned onto the thinnest, steepest
and most dangerous road I have been
on in a minibus (outside Scotland of
course). Even Rachel was surprised,
and Chris cried and screamed that he
didn’t want to die (this may or may not
have happened). After a terrifying 90
degree turn around a house where we
could easily have ripped half the roof
off, we arrived at a car park and I be-
gan the first walk of the year by taking
us into a dense Pine plantation with no
path. Good start. Yvonne kindly sug-
gested after about 5 minutes that it
looked impassable and so back down
to the road we went and eventually
found a marked route.
Yr Arddu is typical of that area, a
rocky rise in the land with no obvious
summit but many high rocky outcrops,
ringed by masses of ferns and heath-
er. We snaked our way through this
lost world, from which we could look
back at Snowdon covered in cloud and
ahead at Cnicht which was clear to the
summit. The discovery of some safety
goggles lying in a heather clump was
truly mysterious. I imagine whoever
was strange enough to actually bring
safety goggles to the Welsh mountains
will be utterly distraught at their loss.
If it was anyone reading this, you are a
true Imperial student!
The slight descent from Yr Arddu
and the ascent up to Cnicht’s ridge is
a land of small abandoned slate mines
, hidden away behind outcrops, their
former roads overgrown tracks and
their slate piles dark industrialised
rock.
It was a short and easy scramble
from there to the summit of Cnicht,
which was well below the clouds. This
was the first time several of us, includ-
ing myself, had been up Cnicht. The
view south gives a completely differ-
ent picture of Wales than the impres-
sion we are used to of Snowdon and
the Glyders, where steep sides become
cliffs and the summits are high above.
South is the country of giant clumps of
rock where it must be easy to get lost.
That’s my excuse anyway.
The descent back to the minibus
went along another flatter ridge past
several lyns and then a drop down to
the valley where we walked through
the woods, on a path this time. Lunch
Using the best of excuses to get away for the weekend, the Fellwanderers discover that summer still exists.
that day was divided in two, and I think
‘second lunch’ is a phrase we should
use more often.
That evening we discovered why it
was the first and last time that I will
ever pack for a trip. I had forgotten
all the utensils and had only brought
enough toilet roll for about half an
hour. Nevertheless, we survived
through the night with enough time
for me to buy some more in Beddge-
lert. Stir fry was followed by cake and
(very well cooked) custard. Everyone
was tired, more from the body-shock
of being thrust straight back into the
world of walking rather than it being
a particularly tough day, so we went to
sleep soon after playing Werewolf.
Saturday was a day of sudden chang-
es in decision, which because they
went so well is a policy I think we
should adopt as a club more often. It
was also a day of cooked breakfast, but
only because we found eggs and beans
in the hut and got up a bit earlier.
The most important decision was
a change of plan to do the Snowdon
horseshoe about two minutes before
the turning. The weather was still
patchy with cloud but there was plenty
of blue and there’s nothing quite like,
or more rare than, Snowdon on a good
day. The car park was packed and so
we set off the slightly less popular way
round of doing Y Lliwedd first. Luck-
ily there were few other people on this
ridge and the views all around were
hazy as we ascended. There was a
chunk of cloud on top but it was thin
and the sun had warmed it into a sau-
na, a nice change from the Fellwander-
ers usual experience with cloud. See
later trip reports for this experience
detailed in full.
First lunch was before our ascent
to the Snowdon summit and Chris
cracked out Wales’ only single malt
whisky, which was good despite being
slightly odd in not having an age.
Emerging onto the final section
of the ascent, at around 1000m up,
there was suddenly only blue above
us and perfect white clouds stretched
away below. Our spirit had even risen
slightly as it collided with the southern
ridge of Snowdon, a wave on a rock.
We climbed the last few dozen metres
elated and had a long sit on top. I had
never seen these conditions, known as
a temperature inversion, in the UK be-
fore. Having one on the first trip of the
year was hopefully a good sign.
Our descent was via the legendary
Crib Goch, which never gets boring.
Most of the group hadn’t done this
famous ridge yet and the conditions
were perfect. Even the scary bit (the bit
that feels like walking over a 900m high
wobbly brick wall) went well. And for
once we actually found the right way
down.
That night was a night of firsts and
lasts. It was the first time (I think) that
jacket potatoes have been dinner. And
apart from a few undercooked beasts
they went quite well and were certainly
filling, though the tuna mayonnaise
took on the appearance of liposuction
fat after too few stirs let the mayon-
naise liquid leak out. Shudder. That
however wasn’t the evil food of the
evening. Peter and I had found cheap
basics Christmas Puddings for desert
which were great on their own and in
no way needed custard. Since I was al-
ready eating when the call for custard
went out Chris stepped up to volun-
teer. God knows what went wrong. Joe
took one look at the horrendous cus-
tard sucking the life and joy out of his
once beautiful pudding and looked as
though life no longer held any joy for
him. He ran out of the front door to
bury it in the garden while Chris ladled
more of the offensive custard onto the
puddings of other innocent victims.
The clouds had lowered by the time
we left the hut on Sunday and so we
drove to Llyn Ogwen to do a section
of the Glyders. By now Jolene had been
played at least 7 times. It was becom-
ing infectious. We spent far more time
than we wanted in the ‘facilities’ at Id-
wal Cottage as the Christmas pudding,
custard and baked beans had engaged
in a violent and unfortunate chemical
reaction in some people’s stomachs.
Our route for that day took us up the
Devil’s Kitchen, a rock fall up to the
Glyders. A path that snakes its way up
through the black stones.
The weather changes the feel of this
walk dramatically and the cloud base
was just above us at the top of the
kitchen. It wasn’t raining and there
was no wind. Upon reaching the col
the wind picked up a bit, but we were
all warm from the climb. Now in the
cloud we took a left turn onto one of
the many paths leading up the barren
rocky slope to the summit of Glyder
Fawr, sticking together as visibility was
down to 20m. Following the cairns
we reached the small stone circle of a
summit shelter and huddled down in
what were actually quite mild condi-
tions for lunch number one.
We followed the ridge path towards
our next peak, Glyder Fach, scram-
bling up the boulder field that stretch-
es all around. The summit plateau of
Glyder Fach has one of the famous
rock formations for walkers in Wales,
the Cantilever, a long slab of rock posi-
tioned like one end of a see-saw, giving
the impression that any extra weight
would tip it. It is, of course, a fantastic
photo opportunity. The sun kept get-
ting stronger and the cloud was always
close to disappearing but never quite
did. Our route down connected up
with the Miners track and then turned
in a giant zig-zag down to the col below
Tryfan where we emerged below the
cloud. A good spot for lunch number
two! We only half-heartedly attempted
to follow the Heather Trail along the
southern flank of Tryfan and kept los-
ing it. The Heather Trail, following its
name, it unhelpfully overgrown along
most of its length.
I hope everyone enjoyed the trip. As for
Jolene,thatbloodysongisstillinmyhead.
Want to join? fellsoc@imperial.ac.uk
The legendary ridge of Crib Gogh. Note the lack of fear.

