39
felix FRIDAY 16 OCTOBER 2009
CLUBS &
SOCIETIES
Clubs & Socs Editor
Clubs & Socs Editor Alex Kendall
Alex Kendall
clubs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
x
O
n the 13th and 14th
June Cheese Soc went
on their first tour, to
Cheddar. We met at
9am on Saturday morn-
ing and many were looking worse for
wear from the previous night. Physics
exams and others had recently finished
and a combination of this and an ICSE
social had led to some hangovers in the
bus. Despite repeated advertising of
the time of departure, by quarter past 9
we were still waiting for two, Alex and
Marita, and bets began to be placed on
who was to be the last.
Phonecalls to the pair meant the race
was on as Marita was getting cash out
in Sherfield and Alex was on his way
from South Ken station. In what was to
become characteristic lateness it was
Alex who turned up latest with Nath-
aniel beginning to drive away as he
arrived, just to annoy him. All aboard
we headed to our next stop, Reading,
to pick up Samir who wasn’t going to
miss his train... At some stage along
the M4 he called. He’d missed the train
and the next one wouldn’t get him in
to Reading station until almost an hour
later than we’d planned.
With the delays in our departure and
the increasing volume of the demands
for a breakfast stop the obvious solu-
tion was a McDonalds visit to waste
half an hour. We reached the outskirts
of Reading and then stopped at the
first available McDonalds where the
greasy food hangover cure was a popu-
lar choice with some notable porridge-
loving exceptions.
Driving on into Reading was where
the navigating became more interest-
ing; in the interests of finding a Mc-
Donalds we had deviated from our
Google Map and were now reliant
on Reading’s signposts to lead us to
a seemingly easy target, the station.
However, we had counted on neither
the massive leaf growth, nor Reading
council’s ingenious habit of placing
traffic lights directly in front of the
direction signs indicating where you
were going at any particular junction.
More by fluke than skill we pulled
into the station waiting area as Samir’s
train pulled into the station. A man
with a parrot on his shoulder then
proceeded to amuse us whilst Samir
got lost trying to find the bus. Some
more interesting navigation later and
we were back on the M4 headed for
Bristol.
Everything was going well until the
low foliage issue cropped up again in
the centre of Bristol. At a critical junc-
tion our sign was obscured by a tree
and despite going round the rounda-
bout twice we failed to make the right
choice. The result: a half hour long
detour up a random road in Bristol, an
educating experience. As we were now
effectively 2 hours late we had to call
and rearrange our factory tour time,
but at least we were back on track and
racing along at the veritable light speed
of 62mph.
Eventually we arrived in Ched-
dar and everyone got out outside the
Cheese Factory for some lunch be-
fore our tour, well at least they stood
around the box of food like sad puppies
wondering where their bowls were,
whilst I paid. As I explained that there
was more of a “self-service” ethos to
this trip – food in box, you eat food –
everyone began to tuck in.
The tour of the cheese factory that
followed was exciting to all lovers of
cheese – especially Alex (next year’s
President) who wanted to go back
to halls with concrete evidence for a
corridor mate that leaving milk to go
off indefinitely would NOT produce
cheese, and indeed it doesn’t. A video
showed us the entire process, from un-
pasteurised milk arriving in a lorry to
the finished product aging in a cave,
whilst a man could be seen actually do-
ing some of it through a glass viewing
window. In fact, the cheese maker oc-
casionally came out to speak to visitors
and we were lucky enough to ask him
a few questions about how the cheese
was made, all of which were answered
in a delightful Somerset accent.
In fact, it is worth noting that this
gentleman named Ande, who has
won world’s best cheddar award for
a number of years, can no longer eat
cheese! He now suffers from diabetes
and has had a massive heart attack
and can no longer consume any of
the superb cheese he spends his life
producing!
After viewing the factory we fin-
ished our tour with the tasting, where
every variety of Cheddar they produce
in the factory could be sampled, in-
cluding the interesting Cheddar with
yeast, tasting like marmite. They also
informed us that if we went to see the
caves we would be able to see their
cheese being aged there in large cages.
I can confirm that cave aged cheese
does has a significantly different taste
to normal cheddar and would recom-
mend that it’s well worth a try.
It was promised that everyone would
have an opportunity to buy from the
shop, the following day, but as the
weather was wonderfully warm we
worried the cheese might spoil. With a
strict agreement to meet back outside
the factory at 4:30 everyone wandered
off to enjoy the town, leaving Nathaniel
and me behind as food box sitters. We
would like to thank Hugh who bought
us both drinks to make the wait more
enjoyable.
At 4:30 everyone was back in the
bus except, somewhat predictably,
Samir, John and Alex. 15 minutes later
they deigned to make an appearance
protesting that they’d had no idea the
correct time was 4:30. Sarcastic com-
ments to the effect that everyone else
had managed to arrive promptly fell on
deaf ears, and with everyone collected
we drove to the Youth Hostel, whose
entrance was perilously narrow.
Nikita and I hid our eyes as Nathan-
iel carefully manoeuvred the bus round
a corner I was convinced it would not
fit around. Cheese Soc simply doesn’t
have the money to pay the £400 fee for
writing off a minibus and there was a
deserved round of applause as he ex-
pertly parked us. During check-in it
transpired that the rooms we had been
allocated were not those we’d been
told about over the phone, but despite
that confusion we managed to get the
boys and girls in separate rooms and
unpacking.
Though it was still early we decided
that making a premature start to din-
ner would be a good way to maximise
the obvious evening activity of cider
sampling. The assistance of many
wonderful cheese graters and John
produced an interesting yet tasty Mac-
aroni cheese, prepared with 5 different
cheeses.
Next stop was predictably the pub
where people had previously found a
Cider Festival was being held and at £1
for half a pint of almost any cider you
could name, what better way to spend
a balmy summers evening? We discov-
ered that the pub had a late licence yet
some still managed to stay until closing
time.
The next morning our appointment
to visit the caves was at 10am and con-
sidering the amount some people had
drunk the previous night, the cooked
breakfast was welcomed by most. After
considerable hassling almost everyone
arrived for breakfast with one excep-
tion, John, who was in as sorry a state
as Toby had been the previous day.
Eventually we arrived to get our cave
tickets and the enthusiastic exhibit
man radioed round all of his colleagues
so that we could split up and still see all
of the exhibits. First stop was the much
revered cave of the Cheddar Man, with
the 100,000 year old skeleton displayed
at the entrance. However, the displays
of stalactites and stalagmites we saw
inside were not quite as impressive as
the amount of time it took Raphael to
go round the caves. Helene theorised
that he was listening to the audio guide
to every exhibit in both French and
English but whatever the reasons for
it most people had retired to Ched-
dars smallest tea house by the time he
emerged.
After some truly delightful scones
and tea, a cultural experience for our
foreign students, we progressed to the
Museum of Prehistory where the most
noteworthy exhibit was undoubtedly
the giant rotating defleshed skull de-
signed, we hope, to show how the pre-
viously cannibalistic people living in
the caves left the skulls of their dead.
Once again Raphael was last out of the
museum; perhaps we just don’t have
the same interest in cannibalism as he
does...
The last stop before lunch was Cox’s
Cave, described as frightening and in
its own way it was; though mostly in
the “how could they make a cave tour
this tacky” way. As you entered the
cave complex there was mood lighting
and, bizarrely, opera which is presum-
ably pitched so that with enough repe-
titions the stalactites will all fall off the
ceiling to spear a school child. How-
ever, this was not the “really scary”
part, marked with a special sign. Here
things went downhill, fast, first there
were the wild animals with red eyes,
and then the disappearing goblins with
glowing eyes. However, the final cham-
ber housed a woman suspended in the
air, with a plastic dragon and strobe
lighting. We emerged having laughed a
great deal and were all ready for lunch.
The remainder of the day was free
and whilst some attempted the gorge
walk with its beautiful views across
the reservoir and fields, others opted
for more leisurely pursuits such as ice-
cream eating and cider vat collection.
When we were reunited for the trip
home everyone had a souvenir of some
description, whether it was handmade
sweets, 5 gallons of cider or our belov-
ed Cheddar.
Happily the trip home was less in-
teresting than the trip there and for
some particularly (oh poor Beth) it
was marred only by Alex and John’s
intent discussion of the relative mer-
its of different classes of starship and
which races could potentially breed.
Or something. Your reaction to the va-
lidity of a 4 hour conversation in this
vein may tell you something about the
suitability of Imperial for someone of
your temperament.
With many thanks to the M4 bus
lane, we made it back almost on
time and wonderfully on budget for
fuel. The first Cheese Soc tour was a
great success and I hope you’ll join us
next year for our next tours, where a
trip to Switzerland has already been
proposed.
Email: cheeses@imperial.ac.uk
The Cheese Society Takes a Trip Round Their Spiritual Home
CheeseSoc’s first trip, here, an example of just a slice of what they get up to.
Your Club or Society Here.
Description of your awesome trip or event here.
There are 346 clubs and societies at Imperial. Want your club to be in felix? Send us a description of a trip, event, tour or social
with some good pictures and everyone will know about it.
Email clubs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Former Cheese president Heather Jones on the first ever tour for CheeseSoc. To Cheddar. Obviously.

