5
felix FRIDAY 16 OCTOBER 2009
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
On Sunday, tens of thou-
sands of demonstrators
marched through Wash-
ington D.C. demanding
greater civil rights for
gays and lesbians. The
protest took place a day
after President Barack
Obama said he would move
to end a ban on gay people
serving openly in the mili-
tary. Since coming to office,
Mr Obama has taken steps
towards addressing gay rights issues, but protestors were saying he has not
done enough, particularly on the issue of same-sex partnerships. The Defense
of Marriage Act, which limits how local and federal bodies can recognise gay
partnerships and determine benefits, has been criticised by gay rights cam-
paigners, including the Human Rights Campaign, as discriminatory.
The world beyond
College walls
Edited by Raphael Houdmont
Eight years in the making, the Lisbon Treaty is finally reaching the finish
line. After Ireland ratified the Lisbon Treaty last week, this time voting in
favour, the European Union is shifting gears. Irish voters backed the treaty,
which aims to make the EU ‘more democratic, more transparent and more
efficient’, by 67% to 33%, a dramatic turnaround from last year’s result. The
Treaty would also create a new position for the President of the EU, for which
Tony Blair, the UK’s former Prime Minister, is currently a favourite. Follow-
ing the Irish ratification, Polish President Lech Kaczynski has signed the Lis-
bon Treaty on October 10th. Mr. Kaczynski, a Eurosceptic, believes that the
treaty will be successful but has stressed that the EU should remain a union of
sovereign states. That leaves only the Czech Republic, where President Vaclav
Klaus has so far refused to sign the treaty unless his country is granted an opt-
out from the EU’s charter of Fundamental Rights. MEPs in Brussels will now
put pressure on him to ratify the treaty before general elections in the UK
which must be held within a year. The Conservative party, which is leading
in the polls, is opposed to the treaty and has promised to hold a referendum
on it if all EU members have not yet backed it by the time it comes to power.
European Union
After a century of hostilities,
Armenia and Turkey signed
a peace accord on October
10th, and agreed to estab-
lish diplomatic relations.
Turkey’s denial that the 1915
killings of over one million
Armenians was genocide has
long angered the Armenians,
and remains a difficult topic
of discussion between the
two countries. But the peace
deal promises to benefit both
nations, as an open border
(closed during tensions in 1994) will provide access to a large neighbouring
market for Armenians, and increased influence in the Caucasus for Turkey.
The accord, which was reached in Zurich, has gained support from the US,
Russia, and the EU (all three sent representatives to help the negotiations
along). But Azerbaijan, Armenia’s neighbour and a close ally of Turkey, has
criticised the agreement. It wants progress with Armenia to be linked to the
resolution of territorial disputes between Azerbaijan and Armenia.
Armenia & Turkey
U.S.A.
felix talks to three loans victms
A
gnieszka is a 1st year
Computing student
from Lancaster, who has
also experienced plenty
of trouble with the Student Loans
Company.
Appalling organisation and mixed
messages from the SLC meant like
the other 100,000 plus students, she
still hasn’t received any of her loan.
Just before her A Level final exams
in June, she contacted the SLC to en-
quire what she should do to initiate
the process. As she was registered
as an EU student holding a Polish
passport, Agnieszka was told to send
over her current passport for clarifi-
cation of status.
The passport was sent by Royal
Mail’s Special Delivery service, and
hence could be tracked. Despite the
delivery status having confirmed
delivery of the parcel containing
her passport, the SLC claimed they
had not yet received it; Agnieszka
checked her personalised account on
the SLC status and said there was no
update of her application.
Further investigation led Agniesz-
ka to the conclusion that she did
not have to submit her passport in
the first place, making the last few
months of waiting an absolute waste
of time and delayed her application
even further. Two weeks into term
and she still hasn’t received her loan
from the SLC. In fact, internal disor-
ganisation has meant that Agniesz-
ka’s means-tested application is still
in preliminary stages; the paperwork
to be filled in by her parents has not
even been sent out by the SLC.
Agnieszka described herself as
“heavily dependent” on her loan
money during term time. The money
was to go on necessary payments to
Imperial College that the majority of
first years should have no problem
meeting.
“I had to ask for an extension for
my hall’s rent fees. However, I’m go-
ing to have to ask for another one as
my loan still hasn’t come. Imperial
knew about the loan delays, but the
two weeks extra still isn’t enough
time. ”
On top of this, Agnieszka is also
uncertain about the situation sur-
rounding her tuition fees. If she
doesn’t get the second extension she
says she’ll have to use her overdraft
entirely.
Agnieszka seemed a very level-
headed and mature first year, and
was in no doubt about her respon-
sibilities, especially financial ones.
The Darlington-based SLC is doing
her no favours however.
“I decided to work for the last
month of my summer holidays, just
to have money for when I started
university. I wanted to go on holiday
instead,” she says with a hint of bit-
terness. Talking about her situation
starts to remind her about “I’m al-
ways told to go to the website or I’m
put on hold for two hours! I might go
up there in person.”

