7
felix FRIDAY 16 OCTOBER 2009
COMMENT
Comment Editor
Comment Editor Ravi Pall
Ravi Pall
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Angry Geek: Feeling good to be back.
“I bet you’ve really
missed people
like me, the c**ts
who write for felix
because ... we have
an opinion”
S
o, I’m back. Hold the fan-
fares. It’s been a few weeks
into term now, I’ve remem-
bered how to hold a pen and
make vague gestures with it
on paper, and I can now hold a conver-
sation with someone for longer than
three minutes. I’m a student again.
Phew.
For a dangerously long period over
the summer, I began to live a bit like
those people do on television some-
times. You know, on the news? When
they interview people on the street?
Those people. With their ironed
clothes and their opinion on Gordon
Brown, and the like. One day I went
and bought a copy of Guardian and ac-
tually read the stories rather than just
looking at the pictures. Fortunately,
that all passed and I’m back to sitting
in my underwear writing out equations
and growing my disgusting, filthy hair.
God. Student life, eh.
Anyway, as I say, I’m settled down
now and boy isn’t it great to be back.
Isn’t it, though? I mean, I bet you’ve
really missed people like me, the c**ts
who write for felix because we’re un-
der the impression we have an opinion
worth communicating. Last week’s
scintillating discussion about how the
British like to discuss the weather, say,
or the detailed explanation of why it’s
crucial that we... the cameras... surveil-
lance society. Oh, it’s all so fresh and
new, I bet it’s hard to pick a favourite.
Much easier to just regurgitate the
opinion in the Union as if it’s your own.
After all, that’s what felix is here for.
Christ, I hate this place. More specif-
ically – I hate you. You really are utterly
pathetic. I mean all of you.
The sex bomb that commented last
week with the spectacularly obvious
advice of “Looking for women? Try
places that women go to.” is just the
tip of the lopsided and melting idiot
iceberg. I watched the students collect
again in groups after a long summer
spent thinking up things to say about
how they spent their summer, and this
great thing happens – the women be-
come performers. So you get this group
of students, right, and it’s the usual
lot – there’s the indie-style guy who’s
of some kind of Asian descent, there’s
the shorter English chap who’s balding
slightly and so ugly that mirrors actu-
ally peel off their silvery backing when
he approaches them, and then the
third guy is generally plucked straight
out of a Microsoft advert. Right. And
they’ve got a female friend. So they
meet her, and they spectate. It’s an in-
formal group conversation, but after
ten seconds the blokes have arranged
in a semicircle around her and they’re
nodding sagely like she’s conducting a
roundtable discussion about how great
it is to have breasts.
And you know what? They’re all
thinking the same thing. They’re all
thinking, like good old Mister Lowe
evidently does, that their dick is the
straightest. That they’re out there.
Lowe might think that you need to get
out of Imperial to do it, but the effect
is much the same – you all think you’re
Shaft.
What the fuck is wrong with you
people. Honest to God. The freshers
have an excuse, they’ve still not real-
ised that all of their ideas are about as
good as Arsejuice Cola, but we’re talk-
ing students in their third or fourth
years here, students who still think
they have dress sense, that they’re
the only ones with the perfect career
planned out, and that the anecdote
they tell about that guy they knew in
secondary school who did the thing at
that place where Miley Cyrus likes to
go is remotely interesting.
It’s not interesting. You are not inter-
esting. Neither are you cool, or alterna-
tive, or valuable as a human being in
any way. The sooner you realise that,
the sooner we can all get back to our
depressing, math-filled lives. Coming
to Imperial to find yourself is like host-
ing an AA meeting in a bar. It’s coun-
ter-productive, you’ll look like a moron
and it’ll all end with you drinking your
problems away.
Not that that’s a bad thing necessar-
ily. I’m just saying, skip out the bit that
requires effort.
Welcome back, all. Missed you.
Ryhs Davies: As Mad as Bicycles!
“Weird people have
more fun. They
do weird stuff,
meet other weird
people and ... do
even weirder stuff
together”
S
alutations and good (insert
time of day here) to you all.
Firstly, congratulations are
in order. Belated, admit-
tedly I slept in...for a week.
To second years and above, well done
on passing your exams and returning
to the warm, fuzzy breast of the Col-
lege. To all you lovely freshers (yes,
that means you), you have my felici-
tations in the felix on your entry into
one of the greatest universities in the
universe. So yes, welcome to Imperial!
I thought I’d start the year off with a
bang. Literally. You have three seconds
before it explodes. Three, two, one...
oh, and good luck.
Ok, who actually just put down their
felix? Own up. Ok, less bang, more
whimper. But this brings me on quite
nicely to my actual point. I, myself, am
a second year, wizened by experience,
physically crippled by excessive book
borrowing – well, a little. This time,
last year, I was a fresh-faced fresher. To
the retrospective shame of the Admis-
sions Office, I knew next to nothing.
But this, I did know; I had a plan.
In my school-days, I was regarded as
smart, affable but generally a bit of a
oddball. I don’t know why. It may have
had something to do with what I did
with the squirrels (in my defence, they
never found the bodies). But I decided
that I would change this perception
people had of me upon coming to Im-
perial. I could start anew! I would still
be friendly, of course, but I would be
quiet. I would take a back seat. I would
blend seamlessly into the crowd. I
would become as boring as the word
brown – which is possibly the most
dull word in the English language.
This was my plan and I stuck to it like
jam to the ceiling. But I soon realised
that the problem with being boring is...
it is incredibly boring! Apart from the
occasional flash mob, crowds don’t do
much – they just occupy space – and
as an individual in said crowd, you are
a nothing. So, a dilemma arose; plain is
boring, exciting is weird. What was a
fresher to do?
In truth, it was ridiculously simple.
We only get so much time on this big
blue marble so it’s important that we
make the most of it. If you do some-
thing weird, at least you’re doing
something. If you’re doing nothing to
preserve your image, in the end, you’re
still just doing nothing. And doing
something beats doing nothing every
time. So I gave up my intricately de-
vised scheme and decided to be my-
self. Yes, cheesy, I know, but everybody
else was taken. I did what I naturally do
(I can’t go into the particulars for fear
of incrimination), and, in the course
of things, I attained a more, ah, inter-
esting perception. Thus, I stumbled
upon my second epiphany of Freshers’
Week.
Weird people have more fun. They
do weird stuff, meet other weird peo-
ple and (with any luck) do even weirder
stuff together. As I reasoned earlier,
doing something beats doing nothing.
Well, doing something weird counts
for double! I’m not one for giving ad-
vice, but you should definitely try
something weird every now and then.
You’ll live longer, thus you’ll have more
time for doing weird things.
I have a feeling I’m preaching to the
converted, even if they don’t know it
yet. Science students are always a lit-
tle different – making numbers dance
against their will, quoting Monty Py-
thon verbatim, gently spooning the
Laws of Nature – and Imperial is no
different. Cumulatively, that’s more
than a hundred metric crazies of weird.
With so much insanity bubbling under
the surface, it makes for a pretty inter-
esting place.
Whatever you do, make sure you do
something. If you’ve been to the Fresh-
ers’ Fair, you know you’re spoilt for
choice. Doing something makes you
interesting (or weird, amoral, criminal
– delete as appropriate), and makes
Imperial interesting. Which not only
keeps me entertained in the short term
but also helps draw in more interesting
people for the future.

