9
felix FRIDAY 16 OCTOBER 2009
COMMENT
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Vicky Masding’ssacrificesforfashion
“I will seek these
babies out in a mass
of bland clothing,
keep them captive
and revel in them.
Maybe not quite
that disturbingly.”
I
do not know about you or you
(my two readers), but I am cur-
rently in love with the embel-
lishment and ornamentation on
clothes I have seen. No matter
how obscene, it seems to have some
kind of allure. Some beading, I admit
can at times be gaudy, obnoxious even,
in its design; yet like those overly cocky
guys performing their nightly ‘gun-
show’ in their tight Ts and wife beat-
ers, there is still some kind of hidden
charm beneath the bravado! ‘Some-
times’ (with slight withering belief).
And so I am hoping this is a true af-
fection I have found, rather than, as I
sadly suspect, my overly suggestible
soul has been convinced by asos.com
to buy anything reflective. Conversely,
I fear this love is no new fling, rather, it
resembles stalker-esque behavior with
growing similarity; I will seek these
babies out in a mass of bland clothing,
keep them captive and revel in them.
Maybe not quite that disturbingly.
Nevertheless, I have chosen to take
them on into the Narnia-like realms of
my wardrobe and accept whatever fate
they shall bring me.
I currently have a jumper that is so
heavily beaded on the shoulders it is
going to add some serious tone to my
upper arm muscles (in relation to their
current state of course…little bit of a
disclaimer there). This purchase was
made in Prague while “inter-railing”
– a term I have taken to using when
describing my Europe-wide shopping
trip.
Budapest currently takes the No.1
prize for its hidden backstreet shops.
One tiny shop in particular, had no
other customers, and for about ten
minutes no shop assistant, so it was
just me in a room full of clothes; a real-
ity I am in no way uncomfortable with.
I was however soon joined by a puppy
sausage dog who was to be my spirit
guide it seems, throughout the shop-
ping experience. Eventually a young
woman did appear, but the overall tone
of the place didn’t change, she was re-
freshingly discreet as shop assistants
go. The only anomaly in this otherwise
perfect Alice in Wonderland style situ-
ation, was the fact I was soaking wet…I
should make it clear this was physical
evidence of my level of devotion to
shopping. I left my youth hostel in flip
flops and a summer dress. It started
raining. I carried on. All day. So it was
far from a fashionable peak for me, in
fact my fashion mistakes are probably
far more note worthy. On one particu-
lar occasion, I purchased some vintage
cowboy boots – sounds fine, until you
hear they were knee high white pear-
lescent leather with cut out design…
my face just contorted at the thought. I
gave them to my mum, she loved them;
I realize this was unwise.
Since being back at Imperial I have
forgotten how to dress. The reason be-
ing that I am Hall Senior in Beit, and
as such I have had to develop a love
for ketchup red and sunshine yellow
t-shirts; a skill I am yet to master. The
only consolation being, that they are
limited edition and in short supply.
As this article has so far been chroni-
cling my life right up to last week, I
shall update you on my current state.
Having woken up at 16:41 (Awwwww
noooo, not a good way to start the
year) due to staying up in the com-
mon room until four with some hard-
drinking freshers, I have had the rest of
the evening to watch Fringe and pon-
der my attire for undoubtedly another
night of complete waste. I had settled
on joggings and a top (I thought I
would keep it vague to avoid mockery)
with flip flops. I have since decided
socks would be an idea and a half con-
sidering the hellish turn the weather
has taken (I think it’s a sign from God
that I should do some work this year,
no particular connection – only that he
controls the heavens or whatever and
I think I’m practically on parole…for-
give my paranoia) Anyway, as if under-
pinning the essence of my day I have
realized my socks are odd, not so odd
it’s cool, just a little bit odd, so that it is
genuinely feeble.
Dominic Cottrell has a passion for psychiatry
“But apart from
a brief phase of
wanting to be a
magician or maybe
a sweet maker for
me it was always
psychiatry”
W
hen I was young,
I wanted to be
a psychiatrist.
My friends went
through phases of
wanting to be astronauts, soldiers or
simply in charge of everything ever.
But apart from a brief phase of want-
ing to be a magician or maybe a sweet
maker for me it was always psychia-
try. To this day I have no idea why any
nine year old should want such a thing;
maybe watching The Silence of the
Lambs made too much of an impres-
sion on me (something I did not talk
about during my interview) or maybe
it was due to an earnest and genuine
interest in other people. The point is
moot anyway, as I don’t think I want to
be a psychiatrist anymore.
In the body of knowledge that is
medicine, psychiatry sits where the
pineal gland used to: for some, it is the
interface between the body and the
mind; for others it is a curious struc-
ture with no real positive purpose. Of
course, neither of these perspectives is
fair. Psychiatrists, along with psychiat-
ric nurses, social workers and every-
one else in the field of mental health,
perform a vital and by and large under
appreciated job. I am not an “anti-psy-
chiatrist” and this is not a critique of
the field of psychiatry as it exists. Such
a thing is beyond the scope of this ar-
ticle, and its author. It is an attempt to
understand why psychiatry is not asso-
ciated with heroic medics as, say, car-
diology or emergency medicines are;
or why psychiatry isn’t considered a
progressive success story like genetics
and immunology.
Of all the medical specialities, few
are as contentious in the public mind.
For one thing, it’s seen as slightly sinis-
ter. I suspect this is partly due to peo-
ple’s fears of being reduced, actually
and symbolically, to a series of neuro-
chemical and behavioural events. This
is the sentiment underlying the epithet
“headshrinkers” or “shrinks”; by offer-
ing drugs to cure depressions, delu-
sions and fears like any other ailment,
there is an implication that it is possi-
ble to cure the things that make us in-
dividual: our irrationalities, quirks and
flaws; the “kingdom of infinite space”
becomes reduced, shrunk. It is worth
remembering that until only 1974, the
DSM (Diagnostic and Statistical Man-
ual of Mental Disorders, the guidebook
of American psychiatry) considered
homosexuality to be a valid symptom
of a diseased mind, not an integral
component of identity.
This brings us to the second reason
why psychiatry is often viewed with
mistrust: its history has been, on oc-
casion, very dark indeed. In its more
repressive form, the Soviet Union es-
sentially created a new and conven-
iently vague form of schizophrenia,
sluggishly progressing schizophrenia
to isolate and silence dissidents in state
run psychiatric hospitals (Psikhushka)
and subject them to degrading and
inhumane treatments. A little before
this, an American psychosurgeon
named Walter Freeman had invented a
new and more efficient means of lobot-
omising patients severing the prefron-
tal cortex to calm excitable patients by
inserting a long thin skewer into the
orbital socket. Before developing the
leucotome and orbitoclast, Freeman
started with an ice-pick. Near the end
of his career, Freeman was reduced to
travelling the country in what he called
– I kid you not – his “lobotomobile”,
searching for former patients to attest
to the efficacy of his procedure. We
live in more enlightened times and it is
unfair to judge the subject on the sins
of the past. However, those looking for
evidence for atrocities in psychiatry’s
past have no trouble finding them.
But, as I am neither a scientologist,
nor opposed to the medicalisation of
certain behaviours, why am I having
doubts about entering the profession? I
suspect it’s because I am unsure of how
to regard many current psychiatric ill-
nesses. I am unsure whether ADHD is
an actual sickness, or a label to sani-
tise the notion of unruly children. As
newspapers proudly announce the
discovery of the gene “for” violence,
intelligence and other things, I grow
ever more concerned that medicine
is taking on too much of a social role:
the pharmacopeia replacing the prison
and neurodeterminism encroaching
upon self-responsibility. Maybe that’s
reasonable and appropriate, maybe our
society has evolved. I doubt it.

