CLUB REVIEW
The names Pendragon, Pickle and
The Gathering might sound more
like characters from some role-play-
ing card game you enjoy with your
science fiction buddies, but they are
also the names of three of London’s
biggest rave promoters. With dec-
ades of collective experience, these
three hold psy-trance-oriented
events all over London and beyond.
They have a loyal set of fans who are
always up for a party, so what better
place could there be for a psy-guy
like myself to spend New Year’s Eve
than around like-minded people, get-
ting rocked and twisted by what I
find to be one of the most extreme
forms of dance music?
In my years at Imperial I have
always found that clubbers, especial-
ly those with similar tastes to mine,
are incredibly thin on the ground.
Since my (only) stalwart club buddy
had flown east to sunnier climes, I
was forced to ship in reinforcements
from my renowned and beautiful
home county of Essex. Actually, they
invited me out, but I’m the one writ-
ing the review.
So off we trotted, up to the north
side of town and Holloway Road,
in search of The Rocket Complex.
Having gone the wrong way once,
we proceeded to walk right past the
place then around the block before
eventually arriving. Yes, it had been
a very long year. Luckily there was
no queue at all. The door staff were
friendly (even if the bouncer search-
ing me did insist on announcing eve-
rything he could feel in my pockets)
and entrance was no hassle.
The Rocket Complex is a students’
union building located on London
Metropolitan University’s north
campus. The place consists of sever-
al downstairs bars, but for nights like
this they also hire out the upstairs, a
sports hall. Add drapes, some disco
lights, two high-powered lasers and
vast stacks of speakers putting out
about the same level of sound as a
small jet engine, and you have all
the ingredients for a great night out.
Except, that is, for the most impor-
tant ingredient – the people.
We arrived just after 10pm, so
admittedly the place had only been
open for an hour, but even so it did
seem to be particularly empty. First
we explored the downstairs areas,
coming first to the main downstairs
bar. Looking around the place it
really could have been any union,
save for the extra decorations and
the day-glo cyber kids wandering
around. In this room we found what
we’d been waiting for – pulsating,
psychedelic sounds.
Psychedelic trance is really quite
crazy music. Originating in Goa,
India in the late eighties and early
nineties, this kind of music was first
produced by the people who stayed in
Goa after most of the hippies had left,
to mess around with music, practise
yoga and probably take lots of drugs.
The resulting style of music, known
as Goa trance, and more recently as
the sound has spread, psy-trance, is
one of my favourite styles of dance.
It’s generally a bit faster than other
styles, and usually includes an
arpegiatted chugging bassline, as
well as as much aural envelopment
as possible – squelchy sounds, dis-
torted acid-tinged riffs and random
vocal samples. The resulting wall of
sound is a relentless attack on the
ears and feet. In clubs with speak-
ers at opposites sides of vast rooms,
all the sqeaks and beeps sound like
they’re flying round your head, at
your head, in your head, whilst the
beats and bass leave you only one
option – dance like a mentalist!
This was exactly what they were
playing downstairs, and it sounded
great. Unrelenting, with few break-
downs, with extra sounds from a
keyboard, it had the few people that
were dancing early on going wild.
Crazy round-your-head sounds an
pressing beats mean crazy dance
moves. People who like psy trance
are way past the attitude, front, and
‘cool’ you find in more mainstream
clubs with more mainstream music.
They dance exactly as you should
– like no-one’s watching! Close your
eyes,letyourselfgetlostinthemusic,
and your body will follow. Limbs go
anywhere and everywhere, people
spin around and jump and bounce
(facilitated by the relative emptiness
of the place at this point). It’s a sight
to behold.
Exploring further, we found a par-
ticularly quiet chill-out area and
snack bar, and a second room of
music, this time much more sensi-
ble and a fair bit slower than before.
Funky house is the best way to
describe it – mostly vocal led, poppy
sounding tunes. It’s all good stuff,
but tonight the psy was the apple of
my eye. Or, ear.
Our next mission was finding the
third room. After a few laps of down-
stairs, and investigation of a few
corridors that turned out to be the
ladies’, we eventually asked some-
one who pointed us to the upstairs,
where the main room had been set
up in the aforementioned sports
hall. Since it was still early, this vast
arena seemed incredibly bare, but
the scene was set and 2005 was
only hours away. The gigantic PA
was booming, the lasers scanned
the air, and gradually we were drawn
onto the dancefloor. The music here
was more of the psy, though subtlely
different. There were more break-
downs, more opportunities for laser-
reaching, as the sound went up and
down into and out of big, euphoric
breakdowns. The beats were more
varied too, with the odd break here
and there. As we danced around,
enjoying the freedom of movement
you get when you’re not jammed in
like sardines, the place was filling
up. Clearly the hardcore ravers were
only just starting to arrive.
By 12 o’clock, the room was pretty
full. Still nowhere near capacity, but
enough people to carry the atmos-
phere whilst leaving plenty of room
for flailing body parts. At the stroke
of midnight, a large net of balloons
was released over the crowd. To
give you an idea of just how bloody
loud it was, whilst standing bang in
the middle of the floor, the balloon I
was holding was vibrating so much
a could use it to tap people on the
head. The mood was great and the
party was ready to kick off and keep
kicking for the next six hours. And
kick off it did.
I have to confess that much of
what came next is a bit of a blur to
me, since I was indulging myself
in the age-old tradition of spending
New Year’s Eve getting off my face. I
do know it was a great night though,
and my friends and I stomped all
through the night. The place had
filled up nicely, still being spacious
and airy enough to let loose with the
dance moves without fear of smack-
ing a fellow reveller in the face.
There was only one real problem
throughout the night, that big-ass
sound system I keep going on about.
It was just too loud. Don’t get me
wrong, a big system is essential for
a good party, and the sound wasn’t
distorted, but the volume was just
a little too much. At about 3am my
friend, guessing that the sound pres-
sure level was pushing 140db (that’s
the same as a jet plane at 30m) sug-
gested we try to find some earplugs
rather than go deaf. To the credit of
the organisers, we were able to pur-
chase some at a stall for 50p – noth-
ing compared to a potential lifetime
of tinnitus.
All in all I was incredibly impressed
by the venue and the night.
Were there any hassles? No. Did I
go wild on the dancefloor? Yes. Did
the DJs rock the crowd? Yes. Were
the crowd exciting, interesting and
up for it? Yes. Do I wish they held
events like this at our union? Oh my
god, yes. Simon Clark
Nightlife Editor
Psychedelic student union...?
Psy-trance is about as extreme as dance music can get. This New Year’s Eve, in search of
some psy, I found myself at a rave organised by some of the city’s biggest names on the
scene, held at the London Metropolitan University’s Union
www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 6 January 2005
14
IMAGINE: New Year’s Eve
The Rocket Complex, Holloway Road
HHHHI
Nightlife clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk
Hmm... anyone look Pickled to you?

