Stephen Brown
President
president@imperial.ac.uk
Hello everyone. I trust that everyone had
an enjoyable first week (back) at Imperial
and that the infamous freshers’ flu isn’t
getting too many people down. Last week’s
Freshers’ Week was one of our Union’s
most successful ever with more people
eating, drinking and getting involved then
ever before. However I’d like to take this
opportunity to outline a few of the things the
Union has planned for the coming term and
provide details of how you can get involved.
I’ve also included details of the Harlington
and IC Trusts which clubs (and in some cases
individuals) can apply to for additional funding
to support their activities.
National Student Survey (NSS)
The Deputy President (Education & Welfare),
Kirsty Patterson, and I will be analysing the
results of the NSS to identify aspects of the
student experience that could be improved.
The NSS was completed by over 50% of last
years finalists and we will use their feedback
to make suggestions to College about what
more could be done for current students from
the departmental up to the College-wide
level. To further strengthen the Union’s case
we would really appreciate your views on
things like feedback, contact time and work
load. If there is any aspect of your course you
think could be improved then please contact
your departmental representative or Kirsty at
dpew@imperial.ac.uk. Complaining to your
friends in the JCR about what a terrible time
you have had in your department might be a
good opportunity for a rant but it is unlikely
to result in anything being changed so please
take your chance to have your concerns
noted and acted upon.
Summer Ball 2007/08
I know June might seem a bit distant but
the Union has already started planning the
Summer Ball for 2008. With roughly 2500
guests and over £10,000 raised for the Beit
Redevelopment project the Centenary Ball
last term was or most successful yet, but
we would like to
better it. To do
this we need your
help in the form of
your opinions on
what you would
like to see at the
2008 event. If
you attended the
Centenary Ball
and have any
feedback please
send it to Chris
Larvin at dpfs@
imperial.ac.uk. For those of you who are
really enthusiastic and want to get involved
with the planning of the next Summer Ball
we will shortly be setting up a Summer Ball
working group where students can come and
feed in their views on how the event should
be organised. If you are interested in serving
then contact Chris who will be able to give
you a bit more information on what the role
entails.
Fancy getting your club some
extra money?
Harlington Trust
Out at the Harlington sport fields there is
a gravel extraction operation, the interest
from any monies gained can be utilised by
Imperial College students. The allocation of
money is overseen by the Harlington Grants
Fund Committee, and it has a maximum of
£50,000 to allocate in any one financial year.
Income from the Harlington Trust is there for
the benefit of students of Imperial College in
relation to sporting, athletics and recreational
facilities. For more information see http://
www3.imperial.ac.uk/secretariat/governance/
committees/harlingtongrantsfundcommittee
or contact Ally at dpcs@imperial.ac.uk.
IC Trust
The Imperial College Trust is an independent
charity governed by a Board of Trustees
whose main objective is the promotion of
charitable purposes for the benefit of the
College; it also gives out support for research
projects in connection with subjects taught at
the College.
Applications for funding from the General
Fund are accepted from all members of the
College. The Trustees consider funding for
a range of activities although applications
projects of a permanent or semi-permanent
nature is particularly encouraged.
Recent examples of funding by the Trust
include:
• A substantial grant to the ICU for the
refurbishment of the Beit Quad
• A grant to the Imperial College Exploration
Board
• Funding for the purchase of equipment by
Union Clubs and Societies
• Grants for tours by Union Clubs and
Societies
The Trust is a good way to receive extra
funding for tours or conferences and will
provide funding of up to £150 per person
for club tours or up to £500 per person for
participation at conferences. The submission
deadline for applications to the next IC Trust
meeting is the 16th October. For details of
the application process see http://www3.
imperial.ac.uk/secretariat/governance/
committees/ictrust/
Elections
Would you like to get involved with providing
strategic oversight for an organisation that
turns over millions of pounds per year? Have
you ever felt that something on your course
could have been a lot better and would like to
do something about it? If the answer to either
of these questions is yes then you have until
Sunday to stand for election to the Council or
Trustee Board. All you need to do is nominate
yourself online at www.imperialcollegeunion.
org/vote and email your friends to second
you. For more information about the
democratic structures of the Union check out
the democracy section on our homepage or
email me at president@imperial.ac.uk.
unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
President’s Update
Get
EXTRA!
this year
You won’t be a student forever, so make sure you make the most of it.
Get an NUS extra card and squeeze the discounts out of every last shop, bathe in the
benefits and wallow in the offers. It’s also an ISIC card, so you can milk it all around the world
too. And now we also include £3 worth of free food and drink at the Union in vouchers!
For more information about all the discounts and to get your extra card for only £10 go to
imperialcollegeunion.org/milkit

