12 felix Friday 12 October 2007
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Mike Cook, Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight and David Paw
Budding culture vulture? Write for us
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Rosie Grayburn
Arts Editor
C
iao bellas! I hope your
first ‘real’ week back has
been highly enjoyable and
lecture-filled. Snort, snif-
fle and cough, you all re-
ply. That’s right, we’ve all come down
with the Lurgy.
It’s the time of year when there is al-
ways a presence of phlegm and snot in
the lecture theatre. “Niiiiice”, you may
all say, but before long you can bet your
bottom dollar some experimental art-
ist will have collected all your sodden
tissues and turned it into the winning
installation for the Turner Prize 2007.
Speaking of which, this prestigious
prize is controversially being exhib-
ited outside London for the first time
in its 22-year history. No doubt to col-
lide nicely with Liverpool being named
European Capital of Culture 2008, the
short-listed artwork is being shipped
across the Mersey to the Tate Liver-
pool from 19th October. Alas you will
be unable to view these innovative
pieces of visual art.
Thankfully the Tate Britain is putting
on an exhibition for all of us left be-
hind, south of the divide. ‘The Turner
Prize: A Retrospective’ will explore the
history of the prize. Previous winners
have included Damien Hurst in 1995
and who can forget the elephant dung
of 1998?
And so onto this week’s gargantuan
Art section: here to cure your malady
with a good dose of Millais, Lloyd
Webber and Ancient Chinese History.
Hopefully it will cheer you up – es-
pecially those of you who downright
refused to buy the Aloe Vera tissues
and now have developed some redness
around your nozzle.
We sent out an army of writers to
various galleries and theatres across
the Metropolis, from the Science Mu-
seum to Camberwell. They returned
from their campaigns victorious and
their exploits are here for your delight!
One of the most exciting additions
to the city’s calendar was the arrival
of the Terracotta Army to the British
Museum a few weeks ago. Jenny Gib-
son reviews the much anticipated ex-
hibition on the facing page. Highly rec-
ommended throughout the press and
thus ridiculously hard to get tickets,
but make sure you go before the Army
retreats back to its resting place in the
Qin region of China.
Meanwhile Emily Wilson visited
Millais’ legacy at the Tate Modern
(don’t get the audio guide, boys and
girls) and Ling Chang Wong ventured
off to the West End in search of new
talent.
A lighthearted addition to the pages
is ‘Student Art in Focus’, which hides
under one very opinionated lady’s
criticism, as Lucy Harrold gives us an
idea of why we shouldn’t sit in on a Sat-
urday night and watch ‘How to Solve
a Problem like Maria’. Exactly. I quite
agree. We should go forth and imbibe
some freshly squeezed culture instead.
Yummy.
Sex, lies and audio guides
Pre-Raphaelite god, Millais, exhibits at the Tate Britain – Emily Wilson investigates
I
f your scientific workload is bog-
ging you down this winter, why
not take a break and indulge
your artistic side? Running until
13th January 2008 at Tate Brit-
ain is Millais, a major exhibition of the
life and works of the artist John Everett
Millais.
For those unfamiliar with the Lon-
don art scene, Tate Britain is the older,
less glamorous sibling of Tate Mod-
ern. Just across the river from the MI6
building that Pierce Brosnan launches
out of for the ‘Q boat chase scene’ in
‘The World is Not Enough’, Tate Brit-
ain is a short walk from Pimlico tube
station (assuming you don’t go on a
weekend when the Victoria line turns
out to be closed, as I did – whoops). It’s
free to get into the main galleries, but
consequently all the bonus extras like
food, drink, exhibitions and souvenirs
are pricey. For Millais, student entry is
£9.
On my visit I also forked out for the
audio-guide at the concession price of
£3. I would not recommend this unless
you want to be patronized and have
medieval-esque music inflicted upon
you, all while wearing uncomfortable
headphones. You’re better off flicking
through the free guide booklet that
came with your ticket and referring to
the handy labels beside every painting.
John Everett Millais (1829-1896)
started out as a child prodigy, becom-
ing the youngest ever student of the
Royal Academy of Art at the age of 11,
but as a young man he came to rebel
against the constrictive styles he was
taught to follow. He was a founding
member of the Pre-Raphaelite Broth-
erhood, along with Dante Gabriel Ros-
setti and William Holman Hunt. These
artists reverted to the style of art that
existed before Raphael, favouring
bright colours and crude honesty, while
maintaining precision and discipline
in their drawing. Millais was quick to
offend the artistic establishment – for
example “Christ in the House of His
Parents”, depicting a down-to-earth
family scene of Jesus, Joseph and a very
haggard Mary, was considered highly
offensive for its harsh realism.
Many of Millais’ works are based
on classic tales of lovers torn apart
by circumstance, all doomed to come
to tragic ends. Behind the embracing
couples are colourful images of nature,
often used for symbolic meaning. In
“Ophelia”, an iconic image of a beau-
tiful woman drifting to her death in a
river, poppies represent her imminent
demise while daisies represent her
youth and innocence.
If this arty-farty nonsense is already
boring you, distract yourself with the
more entertaining side of Millais’ art.
“The Return of the Dove to the Ark”
is, basically, a painting of a woman
kissing a pigeon (as you do) while her
chum looks on in disgust. And there’s
plenty of sex too – “Mariana” is all
about erotic yearnings and longings
for physical passion. Millais himself
stole his subject and wife, Effie, away
from her loveless and notoriously sex-
less marriage to the famous Victorian
art critic John Ruskin. Millais also of-
fers a worrying number of portraits of
young girls, capturing their innocence
of childhood but also their emerging
sensuality (!). Look out for the politics
in his art also, which originates from
the same era as Marx’s Communist
ideologies. The Pre-Raphaelites were
frequently very socialist, as evident in
“The Blind Girl”, a portrait of a young
blind vagrant.
Despite all this scandal, Millais did
seem to sell out later in his career. Pas-
sion and symbolism fade out into the
stuffy portraits of the rich and famous
that made Millais the wealthiest artist
of his time, earning as much as £30,000
a year. As the collection progresses it’s
easy to tire of him, especially the entire
room filled with gloomy landscapes of
the Scottish Highlands. A slightly anti-
climactic end to what was otherwise a
thoroughly enjoyable exhibition.
While you’re at Tate Britain, don’t
forget the permanent collections –
unlike Millais it’s all free. These fea-
ture British art ranging from Tudor
and Stuart portraiture to Constable,
Turner and some delightfully hideous
Lucian Freud nudes. If you enjoyed
Millais, and you think the PRB might
be right up your street, pop into room
14 for a couple of Rossettis and a bit of
Ford Madox Brown.
Millais is on at the Tate Britain
until 13th January 2008.
“Must’ve done my back in when I wasn’t at the Millais exhibition.”
Millais’ beautiful yet haunting depiction of Ophelia floating away from sanity and life... shivers

