arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 12 October 2007 felix
Arts
(Terracotta) Army invades museum!
Jenny Gibson follows the trail of the First Emperor of China, Qin Shihangdi at the British Museum
D
espite the main attrac-
tion of this exhibition
being the intricately de-
tailed Terracotta Army,
‘The First Emperor’ at
the British Museum provides more
than just an impressive look at what
an ancient society was able to produce.
The exhibition explores the founding
of China, looking at the original states
that were united to form the country,
the strengths of the individual states
and the techniques used to create a
country that was ahead of many others
in terms of weaponry, technology, pro-
duction-methods and administration.
The Terracotta Army was found in
1974 by farmers digging a well and en-
abled archaeologists and historians to
develop more of an understanding of
the beliefs of the First Emperor of Chi-
na, Qin Shihuangdi and the methods
he employed to create a huge state and
maintain it. An assortment of life-like
figures of the Chinese people, ranging
from soldiers and cavalry to acrobats
and administrators were buried with
China’s First Emperor Qin Shihuangdi,
along with other items that would al-
low him to continue his life in the same
fashion after his death.
Prior to the founding of China, the
area was comprised of 7 separate states,
and was not unified until 221BC. The
state of Qin, the most powerful, con-
quered the others to form Qin, which
was the foundation of China as we
know it today. The King of Qin changed
his title to the ‘First August and Divine
Emperor’, to separate himself from the
previous Kings and Dukes that had
ruled the individual states and then
took upon the task of transforming the
country into an advanced nation that
was superior to any other.
Throughout his rule, Qin Shihangdi
accomplished many feats, some of
which are still present in some form to-
day. The First Great Wall was built pre-
ceding the Great Wall of China, which
was completed in the Ming Dynasty of
1368-1644. Furthermore, some of the
concepts employed in society and in-
dustry today initiated in Qin. Qin was
one of the first country’s to introduce
quality control; all tools and swords
had the initials of the workers and
supervisory craftsmen embossed on
them so that quality could be traced.
They also introduced the idea of us-
ing standardised weights and meas-
ures. Due to the number of men that
the country had access to through
conscription, mass-production was
able to be utilised to produce weap-
onry, ornaments and the Terracotta
Army; however the often inhumane
methods to reach such advancements
are often criticised. The uncovering of
the tombs made evident the extensive
administrative procedures that were
used and evidently necessary, due to
the vast area of land that was being
covered. All the Qin Laws were found
to be inscribed on 1100 bamboo strips
of a local magistrate.
One particularly interesting aspect
of Qin Shihangdi is his fear of death.
Three attempts to kill him were made,
and as death did not fit in with his am-
bitions for Qin, he made numerous
efforts to prolong his life. The First
What makes it even more stimulating
is that the central tomb which houses
Emperor Qin Shihangdi is yet to be
excavated. New methods of retrieving
the contents without actually opening
it are being explored. However, if spec-
ulation proves true, there may be riv-
ers of mercury mimicking China’s riv-
ers and pearls mapping out the stars in
the night sky within the central tomb.
Considering the impressive items that
have been found until now, including
the 7000 terracotta soldiers, which are
each individually made and slightly dif-
ferent, who knows what could be un-
covered. ‘The First Emperor – China’s
Terracotta Army’ is being exhibited at
the British Museum until April 2008;
don’t miss out on the opportunity to
explore one of the most advanced and
unusual ancient civilisations.
The Terracotta Army will remain
occupied in British Museum
territory until the 6th April 2008.
Tickets can be booked online...
Don’t just turn up or you will be
queuing for hours.
Emperor would drink and eat from
gold and jade, believing that due to
their resistance to corrosion, his own
life would be extended. Furthermore
he took a mixture of pills and potions.
By developing a detailed replica of Qin
underground and constructing a pal-
ace for his afterlife, which was protect-
ed by the Terracotta Army, he believed
that he would be able to carry on with
his ambitious plans into the afterlife.
This exhibition provides an exciting
and informative insight into an an-
cient society that many are unaware of.
This 2000 year old archer was just mid-way through the Ancient Qin hacca before he was ‘terracota-ed’
He really could administrate your ass off, this here Civil Official

