juxtaposition of the screwdriver, rep-
resenting creativity, and the hammer
representing destruction is not only
homage to Soviet propaganda art but
also a biting satire of the apathetic
generation.
These themes are extended in the
presence of the three pillars of modern
disposable culture: newspapers, flat
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
14 Friday 12 October 2007
felix
Arts
Andrew Lloyd Webber stunts the growth of musical theatre, says his greatest critic, Lucy Harrold
The Great British Musical
N
ow is a great time to go
and see a musical, espe-
cially if you think it’s not
for you generally, be-
cause of the vast number
of “Jukebox Musicals” on at the mo-
ment. These are musicals consisting
of songs by famous artists or groups
put into a musical format, ranging
from the cheesy and longest running-
‘Mamma Mia!’ to more rock orientated
shows such as ‘We Will Rock You’ (the
Queen Musical) and the soon-to-open
‘Desperately Seeking Susan’ (based on
the music of Blondie). Although I’m
not a personal fan of this form of musi-
cal, they’re at least a way of getting re-
luctant friends to a show.
In the past year there has also been
a recent influx of new American musi-
cals that have all had critical and finan-
cial success on Broadway. ‘Avenue Q’,
‘Wicked’ and ‘Spamalot’ all arrived last
year, and having seen all three, each ap-
peals to a different type of person who
would not normally like musicals.
Add to that ‘Hairspray’ which begins
previewsonOctober11thfollowingthe
success of the film version, and you’re
spoiled for choice. Yet everybody still
insists they have to see ‘Phantom of
the Opera’ or ‘Joseph and his Amazing
Technicolor Dreamcoat’. Both of these
play in theatres owned by the Lord
himself, showing a false sense of secu-
rity, as we cannot know how well his
shows are doing. Yet there are many
more shows in the West End, although
few original scores.
There are also many more writers
than Lloyd Webber, some well estab-
lished such as Kander and Ebb (‘Chi-
cago’) and new exciting imports from
America such as ‘Avenue Q’ writers
Robert Lopez and Jeff Marx (-these
guys also wrote the Scrubs musical
episode!)
Ask most people in Britain to name
a musical and they’re guaranteed to
answer with an Andrew Lloyd Web-
ber- or rather a musical they think is
by him. No matter how much he likes
to make out, ‘The Sound of Music’ was
NOT written by Andrew Lloyd Web-
ber- neither was ‘Les Miserables’, or
‘Miss Saigon’.
And even then, he only writes the
music for his shows. Tim Rice or Don
Black usually write the lyrics, so if it’s
those poetic words you like so much
about ‘Cats’ (well that was T.S. Elliot)
or ‘Aspects of Love’, that wasn’t him
either. It’s not even as if he is the only
Briton to have ever written a musical,
Willy Russell’s ‘Blood Brothers’ has
been running for 19 years, and Rich-
ard O’Brien (that bald guy off ‘Crys-
tal Maze’) wrote ‘The Rocky Horror
Show’- the ultimate Cult musical. So
why is Webber seen as the saviour of
the West End? And is his music really
that great?
The responsibility for the success of
the Lloyd Webber musicals actually
lies with Cameron Mackintosh- the
true saviour of British Musical Thea-
tre. He produced all those big dramatic
musicals from the eighties; Webber’s
‘Phantom’, ‘Joseph’, ‘Starlight Express’
and ‘Cats’ as well as Boubil and Schön-
bergs’ ‘Les Miserables’ and ‘Miss Sai-
gon’. These were all high grossing but
not that favoured by critics, so many
are left divided on the issue. If Mackin-
tosh hadn’t come along, Webber would
never have had enough exposure to get
things off the ground.
I must admit that not all Webber is
bad, the second half of ‘Jesus Christ
Superstar’ is pretty amazing. ‘Evita’
isn’t bad and I have to love ‘Starlight
Express’ for the cheese and sexual in-
nuendo (it was also the second musical
I ever saw). But in the case of decent
musical score, ‘JCS’ was his second
musical and ‘Evita’ his fourth. After
this, it appears that Lloyd Webber just
recycles his melodies with someone
else adding new lyrics. Examples of
WARNING! The above image of the radiant Julie Andrews is NOT
taken from an Andrew Lloyd Webber show
Student Art in Focus
this include: “Close Every Door to Me”
from ‘Joseph’ echoing Judas’ betrayal
and death from ‘Jesus Christ Superstar’.
“Love Changes Everything” is found in
“I Believe My Heart” from ‘The Woman
in White’ (Webber’s latest musical and
one of his only flops). “All I Ask of You”
from Phantom takes its melody from
“With One Look” from ‘Sunset Boul-
evard’. I’m not saying there is anything
wrong with these melodies, but surely
the point of furthering musical theatre
is to try new and different ideas?
So the future of British musical thea-
tre is left in the hands of a man who has
taken to finding his lead actors through
reality television. Is this really what we
want? It appears to be a comment on
the style of his musicals- made for com-
mercialism and popularity rather than
artistic integrity. He’s like the skinny
jeans of the theatre world- everybody
thinks they should wear them, but they
really do nothing for you.
Go and see a proper musical.
Hairspray opened last Thursday.
This week: Rhapsody in Bog Roll, by Anonymous
“Surely the point of
furthering musical
theatre is to try new
and different ideas?”
Suitably smug ‘smug-shot’ of our favourite musical man. Bastard
“This multi-
layered piece is a
groundbreaking
mélange of
symbolism”
I
n our new feature highlighting
the buckets of artistic talent that
surrounds us here at Imperial (a
bit like air really) we would like
to showcase some amateur art
in our beloved Arts section.
The usual argument for supplying
such joviality is implied thus: we, as
scientists, are starved of culture and all
things non-techie and we require some
nutritious art-based snack to keep us
going through our gruelling lives, out-
side of the everyday toil of lectures,
labs and... well, not art basically.
And so this week we launch Stu-
dent Art in Focus with a particularly
breath-taking piece of photography
from the nu-Ikea house of thought, it
is believed.
This multi-layered piece is a ground-
breaking mélange of symbolism. The
pack furniture and toilet roll.
However, the critical reception
for this work has been mixed to say
the least, varying from “Unutterably
ghastly” (The Guardian) to “Shite”
(The Sun).
The artist was not deterred by such
lacklustre comments and is currently
in preparation for their next exhibi-
tion. Sources say the exhibition space
used will be the turbine hall at the Tate
Modern and close friends say that the
artist is spending time researching at
Argos.
Dr Picasso Jones
Dr Picasso Jones is a lecturer at the
Knockdown Fittings University. His
thesis was entitled: “On the Allur-
ing Shades of Formica.” The piece of art in question: Rhapsody in Bog Roll

