arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 12 October 2007 felix
Arts
“Every man has a potential tache”
This is the wisdom of the Uncle Barry as Ling Ching Wong discovers off the West-End
U
ncle Barry is a story
about a working-class,
middle-aged man who
has the gumption to take
on the single biggest ca-
reer jump, at least considered by any
one person, middle-aged or not– to
Founder of State. Artfully conceptu-
alized by playwright Sam Thomas, it
is directed by Georgina Guy and pro-
duced by Ben Monks; both founders of
their own production company Grey
Light Productions. Performed at the
Blue Elephant Theatre in Camberwell,
the location and layout of the little Arts
House was a memorable part of the en-
tire experience.
Philip Brook is a very convincing Bar-
ry. He wears a stern grey moustache, a
bleak-looking vest and mousy shoes, a
close resemblance to that uptight, pa-
triarchal male relative we all have in
the family. Although without any hint
of employment, Barry has great plans
to set up his own state and garner re-
spect and authority from his members
(population of three). Brook gives the
character of Barry a harsh, hard and
stubborn quality, evoking emotions
ranging from annoyance to pity as the
audience gets to know him.
Uncle Barry finds companionship in
his loyal buddy Mickey, played by the
lovable Matthew Ward. Mickey has
been, for lack of a better word, shoved
into Barry’s elaborate plan without
much say himself. That broad stature,
booming voice and steely stare foil the
meek and sentimental nature of Mick-
ey. Ward wins the audience over with
his tolerance for Barry’s idiosyncrasies
when his partner turns into a dictator.
He surprises us by shedding a tear or
two during the course of the play, in
the most humorous way nonetheless.
The cast is also “fleshed out” by
Pecks, Barry’s adult nephew. Played by
Lee Bane, he is like the rest of the cast-
not as straightforward as our first im-
pression. A wannabe ‘Becks’, he would
probably work better as a Liverpudlian
version of American rapper Eminem.
Pecks is Mummy’s prized (FHM-
reading) son with a knack for solving
conflicts between Mickey and Barry.
Intelligence and diplomacy of this sort
hints at the complexity of his character,
respectfully acted out by Bane.
The closeness of the stage meant au-
dience members were sitting in Uncle
Barry’s living room, as he launches
his state-building strategies. Props
and lighting changes were modest but
skillfully managed. The range of music
played (and sung) contributed signifi-
cantly to the overall entertainment fac-
tor and managed to conjure numerous
laughs from the audience.
What touched me were the attitudes
of the production team. The size and
youth of the company gave me the op-
portunity to meet each one of them
during pre- and post-performance
drinks. The group was spirited and
young, with boundless energy and en-
thusiasm for the process of production
and the hard work involved.
Actors were very hands-on in pre-
paring for their production, as Mickey
and Pecks were spotted milling around
the theatre during the earlier hours
before the curtains rose. The crowd
was made up of Grey Light Production
enthusiasts and a few eccentrics with
probable distant connections to inde-
pendent theatre in London – people
who probably found this night out in
Camberwell just another day out in the
park.
Uncle Barry graces the Blue
Elephant theatre stage until the
20th October. Uncle Barry (Philip Brook) and his ‘kidult’ nephew Pecks (Lee Bane)
Black holes and milking cows
Quantum physics and art? Go forth to the Science Museum and be enlightened, says Rosie Grayburn
I
t’s our dream come true here at
the Felix Arts desk! Science and
art have finally been united by
our favourite institution. The
Science Museum (just round the
corner…) has an on-going arts project
scheme in which contemporary artists
with perspectives on the past, present
and future of science and technology
exhibit their work in various mediums-
film, sculpture, photography...
One of the largest projects is featured
in the popular ‘Who Am I’ gallery (cur-
rently closed in order to fix all those
over-used buttons on the ‘hands-on’
exhibits, including ‘The Great Sperm
Race’), which includes the work of
seven artists, exploring the themes of
genetics, sexuality and identity. All ex-
hibits are made by hand – pen, paint or
cast iron – highlighting the individual-
ity and skill of human beings; the key
theme of this permanent exhibition.
Continuing along this drift, the
newest addition to the museum’s art
portfolio is filmmaker Grace Weir’s
exhibition ‘In my own time’. Created
during an artist’s residency at St. John’s
College, Oxford, she shares what she
has learnt from her unique surround-
ings with her audience. With the main
themes of the exhibition of timekeep-
ing, theoretical physics and Einstein,
four very different films are presented
in a suitably ‘black-hole’-like gallery.
As you walk in, the first screen on
your right shows ‘Picture of the float-
ing world’. With obvious Japanese
undertones, Weir explores the idea of
the passing moment. The photography
is beautiful, following a woman pass-
ing time standing by a tree under the
blossom: a classic Japanese symbol. It
sounds trivial but you really start to be-
come aware of the landscape and time
passing before your eyes in the most
poetic way possible.
The film ‘A little bit of unknown’ is
an interview with physicist Paul Tod
focusing on one the most fascinating
phenomena in modern physics- the
black hole. It cuts from his office to an
observatory, teasing you with glimpses
of far away constellations. What starts
off as simple sharing of knowledge
from scientist to artist turns into deep
reflection on the sublime, unobtainable
beauty of space through a telescope.
Along a similar line is the animation
‘A deep field for the time deaf’. This
is Grace Weir’s first fully animated
film and was inspired by photographs
taken by the Hubble Space Telescope.
She was fascinated to find out how
long it takes for the light to reach our
eyes from these far away bodies, so far
away that the stars may have ceased to
be by the time we see them. Putting
you in mind of that popular nursery
rhyme- you gawp as stars, like jewels,
twinkle away for 20 minutes. It is quite
a treat, especially seeing as the Lon-
don sky doesn’t ordinarily like to share
these gems with us at night. The view
you see is one not seen by the naked
eye, but Weir wants us to look into the
night sky and remember that we are
looking into the past.
The title exhibit ‘In my own time’ is
a slightly more practical film, as you
watch the artist constructing vari-
ous devices for timekeeping in her
own home as she gives a commentary,
spewing out facts regarding time and
space; the main theme being that our
modern methods for timekeeping are
diverging from the natural movements
of the earth.
As we watch a cow being milked, she
tells us that before time was measured
so strictly and followed (by most) so
rigidly, time and space was measured
in “the length of time it takes to milk a
cow” or “the distance a medium-sized
man throws a small stone”. As all this is
relayed, you are very much captivated
and relaxed by the motion of squeezing
that cow’s pink udders.
This exhibition is worth taking some
time out to sit and reflect. I liked what
it stood for. It said, Time is precious:
take more time to appreciate what’s
around you… Take as long as you like.
Or as long as it takes to milk a cow re-
ally, really slowly.
Grace Weir’s exhibition runs until
the 25th November. Go, chillax.
A still taken from A Deep Field for the Time Deaf. Twinkle, twinkle little
galaxy... mmm Galaxy
“Barry has great
plans to set up
his own state and
garner respect
and authority
from his members
(population of
three)”
“You really start
to be aware of
the landscape
and time passing
before your
eyes in the
most poetic way
possible”

