16 felix Friday 12 October 2007
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
The Great Culture Crawl
The Bush Theatre, Shepherd’s
Bush
The biggest small theatre in London apparently! It puts on exclusively new writing
theatre, i.e. all the productions come from new theatre writers, it maybe their first
play or whose work is realised for the first time at the Bush. The theatre nurtures the
work of writers from all backgrounds who write passionate and witty contemporary
tales.
Only 34 years old, it is another easy one to miss being dwarfed by a large O’Neills on
one side and Shepherd’s Bush Empire on the other. The Bush is a very friendly theatre
and one begins to recognise faces on subsequent visits. The Artistic Director a very
sweet and welcoming woman. The Bush, although small and seemingly inconsequen-
tial, continues to attract talent such as Bob Hoskins and Kate Beckinsale. Last Febru-
ary, on a mission for this dear paper, I attended an extremely witty yet poignant play
‘I Like Mine With A Kiss’ (“mine” being the woman’s eggs, but I had to wait until the
closing scene to find that out!) I am always impressed with the acting talent in many
of the smaller theatre companies and the Bush is no exception.
Coming soon – ‘How To Curse’, a modern take on Shakespeare’s ‘The Tempest’,
set in Great Yarmouth about young people. Also, ‘The Dysfunckshonalz’, it’s spelling
reflective of the play’s tale of punk, spilt blood, corporate sell-outs and a fellow named
Billy Abortion. The theatre offers deals for the more financially disorganised or tight-
fisted among us, such as four shows for fifty pounds. See website for more offers.
www.bushtheatre.co.uk
A West End Selection Box
Trying to fit all the major West End theatres onto this culture crawl would be a bit tricky in terms
of trying to fit over 30 theatres onto two tube stops! So, I have chosen three which are showing
some must-sees. Of course once one has come out of either tube station, one can’t see for huge
billboards adorning the front of the theatres- any theatre guide or map can hereby be discarded!
Her Majesty’s Theatre in Haymarket is currently home to Lloyd Webber’s classic musical ‘The
Phantom of the Opera’. If you are one with limited knowledge of musicals, let alone proper plays,
then this is the one to see before you go anywhere near stage productions of ‘West Side Story’ or
‘Grease’. A tragic love story, brilliant music and guaranteed to move you. The theatre, undergoing
a few name changes along the way, is just over 300 years old and is seconds away from equally
bountiful establishment TigerTiger (pfft). I jest; the club is a lot of fun and just as culturally void
as a club should be.
Hop across a couple of streets to Shaftesbury Avenue and we arrive at the Palace Theatre where
the hilarious ‘Spamalot’ is showing at the moment. Another musical, but a far cry off the gravity
of The Phantom, this production is brimming with all the Monty Python humour we all know and
love. Based on ‘The Holy Grail’, it has been deemed “funnier than the Black Death” by one U.S.
magazine.
Named after the notable English playwright, the Noel Coward Theatre in St Martin’s Lane gives
us Avenue Q, the muppet musical. Exceedingly, gloriously politically incorrect, no one is spared in
this comedy. Set in one of New York’s less glamorous avenues, the play incorporates adult themes,
strong language and sexual situations as conceptualised by puppets- hurrah! No under 4s please.
www.hermajestys.co.uk
www.palace-theatre-london.com
www.noel-coward-theatre.com
The Donmar Warehouse, Covent Garden
The Donmar is another gem. Just a minute’s walk from Covent Garden tube station, it is rather easy to miss being nestled
between the trendy boutiques and bars of the beautifully cobbled Earlham Street. Conveniently opposite Belgo’s Central- a
bustling Belgian eatery serving a myriad of beers and other poisons and fantastic chips from my cultural heritage; a perfect
place to discuss the virtues (or lack thereof) of the Donmar’s latest offering.
The Donmar seats just over 200 so there is a very intimate, but by no means claustrophobic, feel to any show you see there.
The Warehouse puts on new writing as well as contemporary reappraisals of classics, drama and a few musicals. One musi-
cal showing at the moment is ‘Parade’ (also reviewed in the previous edition of Felix, by yours truly). It was a credit to the
production that even my musical-suspicious self liked it.
Upcoming productions that should not be missed include Shakespearean classic ‘Othello’ featuring Ewan McGregor as
Iago and also Arthur Miller’s ‘The Man Who Had All The Luck’. If you have never heard of any of these names then get
yourself to a theatre as soon as possible and be enlightened, entertained and impressed.
www.donmarwarehouse.com
Chapter Three – Theatres

