arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 12 October 2007 felix
Arts
The Almeida Theatre, Angel
The Almeida finds itself in North Central London’s trendy Angel district amongst a plethora of bars to
choose for a pre- and post- theatre drink or two. Matt and Matt’s bar on Upper Street (right out the tube)
is a very chilled out place with a slightly Cuban/Latin feel to it, serving cocktails. You are also several stops
from clubbing loci Farringdon (Turnmills and the infamous Fabric).
The Almeida seats about the same amount as the Donmar and with small theatres comes a completely
different experience to what is served up in some of the larger West End theatres. For one, most of its pro-
ductions are relatively unheard of to those not in the know, and the plays have a slightly more “arthouse”
feel; that should in no way discourage you from sampling its delights. I had the pleasure of seeing my Mexi-
can Adonis Gael Garcia Bernal (‘Bad Education’, ‘Babel’) in ‘Blood Wedding’ by Lorca.
Currently showing is ‘Awake and Sing’ featuring Stockard Channing, of ‘Grease’ fame, but do try and see
‘Cloud Nine’ later this month, directed by a highly talented Thea Sharrock who did a fantastic job on ‘The
Emperor Jones’ at the National. It is set in colonial Africa (why oh why, do they never specify one of its 50
countries??!) and modern Britain, giving us a foray into same-sex sex, Queen Victoria and grandmothers-
how can you resist?
www.almeida.co.uk
The Bloomsbury Theatre, Euston
“Your local theatre in London”, it is linked to UCL and offers a huge variety of shows cover-
ing comedy, drama, music and dance. With seats for over 500, there is plenty of leg-room to
ensure a comfortable performance. Whether you are into opera, stand up comedy or dance
there will always be something to interest you. The theatre puts on shows produced by twenty
different companies per month, which is probably more than the average theatre in London!
The Bloomsbury has been the setting for notable comedians such as Lily Savage, Eddie
Izzard, Ricky Gervais and Jimmy Carr in filming their DVDs. With a bar on both levels, the
audience need not exert themselves too much. One can even order interval drinks in advance
at a reduced price: wow! Canapés and light snacks are also offered. Those of you with a love
of dance might want to see ‘Transtango’, which brings the philosophy of the tango to a cosmo-
politan London setting and combines video projection with the distinctive music associated
with the dance.
Felix is trying to wrangle some press tickets to see this performance so watch out in future
issues for its review. If not, beat us to it and see it for yourself. I’m sure many will remem-
ber the ‘Horrible Histories’ book series from their childhood (for those who don’t, the series
brings history in a comical and engaging way, through the medium of literature, to young
‘uns). Unfortunately, the ‘Awful Egyptians’ and ‘Ruthless Romans’ are drawing to a close but it
gives one an idea of the original type of theatre offered at the Bloomsbury.
‘Othello’ seems to be the toast of the theatrical town at the moment, as the Birmingham
Stage Company performs a gripping rendition of the classic. From 13-19th October, tickets
are ten pounds for students, a possibility for this weekend perhaps.
www.thebloomsbury.com
Shakespeare’s Globe, Southwark
“Suth-ark” is where the Globe is situated, further east along the riverbank from the National
Theatre. An absolute must to attend the theatre once frequented by the fans of theatre and lit-
erature’s messiah (open to discussion) back in the Tudor times. A beautiful building recreated
to what it would have been over 400 years ago, it is partially exposed from the elements with
a thatched roof covering a percentage of the audience. The stage and seating are attractively
made of wood.
Those viewing Shakespeare’s plays (yes, one can only see Shakespeare here) standing will
have to pray for no rain or fork out for a seat under the roof. Having experienced ‘Macbeth’
standing, one’s enjoyment is increased by being closer to the actors and getting a very unique
theatrical experience. Seats are also available in front of and indeed behind the stage- “The
Gods” is where Queen Elizabeth would have sat to be seen. The Globe’s shop (and bar) prom-
ises to further your enjoyment and understanding of the plays. Unfortunately the theatre’s
season ended but a few days ago on October 7th, so those keen to go will have to wait until
the slightly warmer months. However tours are offered of the theatre, so log on to find out
more.
www.shakespeares-globe.org
Next Week – Bookshops
The National Theatre, Embankment
Don’t be put off by the not-so-architecturally-pleasing concrete mass sitting on London’s Southbank! Not your traditional
design for a theatre and not even located in the West End! The National is a personal favourite and all misgivings you have on
its exterior are extinguished upon entering this establishment. A short walk across the bridge and then along the river from
Embankment station, the theatre is set amongst other distractions such as a permanent second hand book sale, free talks,
the National Film theatre and a skate park, for those so inclined.
The National itself is home to three auditoriums (Olivier, Lyttleton and Cottslowe) and puts on the classics, new plays and
also musicals. Airy, with spaciously high ceilings and modern, it offers a whole host of cafes, bars and restaurants selling
sumptuous treats to keep you going through your show. While you wait, be entertained by a live band or stroll through the
artwork on display throughout the theatre’s foyers.
Never having been let down by the National in any way, I thoroughly recommend a visit in-lieu of any work you were plan-
ning to do. Past productions include ‘History Boys’ (featuring the original cast who went on to appear in the film) and ‘The
Emperor Jones’ (reviewed in a previous Felix). It’s forthcoming play ‘War Horse’ explores the roles of animals in war and
begins later this month.
www.nationaltheatre.org.uk
Written by Caz Knight, designed by Rosie Grayburn

