music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
Friday 12 October 2007 felix
Music
Foals live and Sum 41’s new album reviewed
This week Felix was sent on a mission
to see Foals, an up-and-coming band
some of you may know and the rest of
you will undoubtedly know soon. They
have been called the ‘best new live
band in the UK’, so Felix was under-
standably excited before the gig about
seeing them.
They play dance-influenced music
which is percussion-led and features
high-pitched, technically complex gui-
tars parts which provide the melodies
along with occasional synths and keys.
The support band were ‘Metronomy’,
an electro outfit who were great fun to
watch. They all wore touch activated
lights on their chests which were used
in synch with their fun dance act to
provide an interesting viewing spec-
tacle to go with the foot-tapping beats
and synths they played. Unfortunately
the crowd was not yet in the mood for
dancing, but I would definitely keep
an eye out for a headline tour from
them in the future which would be well
worth checking out. Before coming on
to play, Foals appeared on-stage and
did their own soundcheck, which is
unusual for a band of their size, leading
some in the audience to become dis-
appointed thinking they had already
started, but it wasn’t long until they
arrived onstage ‘properly’ to rapturous
applause before launching into their
traditional intro song.
This started as a purely instrumental
song which layered up sounds in a ca-
cophony of noise until it was stripped
down to a frenetic beat and tune which
set the pace for the rest of the show.
Crowd favourites ‘Balloons’ and ‘The
French Open’ were dispersed with ear-
ly on, and a lot of new songs from their
newly-recorded debut album were also
included. A personal highlight for me
was ‘Two Steps Twice’ – an old song of
theirs during which the whole crowd
seemingly danced as one during the
climax which was a perfect blend of
a sing-along chorus and irrepressible
beats. The band were always moving
around while playing – seemingly bat-
tling with their guitars for prime stage
space, wielding them highly strung
like weapons being jerked around the
stage.
The mostly young crowd – possibly
influenced by the band’s recent appear-
ance on Channel 4’s ‘Skins’ - are rabid
for more of the ‘classics’, and are duly
rewarded for their enthusiastic recep-
tion to the new songs with fan-favour-
ite ‘Mathletics’, whose furious tempo
leaves everyone exhausted. The band
then finish off a relatively short set with
the incendiary ‘Hummer’ which leaves
everyone wanting more. The guitarist,
Jimmy, then re-appears back on stage
apologetically saying “I guess you guys
are expecting an encore, but we’re a
new band and we don’t have any more
songs!”. The crowd is disappointed, but
then the rest of the band re-emerge
and tell us “this is a new one and we’ve
never played it live before – so it might
be sh*t”. It isn’t, and provides a fittingly
euphoric end to an exhausting evening
of non-stop dancing and singing which
I look to forward to repeating again the
next time they tour!
Toby Prudden
You could be mistaken for thinking
that ‘Underclass Hero’ is Deryck Wib-
ley’s first solo venture; Whibley alone
graces the cover (with spit delightfully
hanging down from his mouth), Whib-
ley alone is accredited almost the en-
tire music and lyrical content and the
first in line in the thank-yous is his wife
and punk-pop starlet Avril Lavigne.
However, ‘Underclass Hero’ is Sum
41’s fourth album. The opening track
on the album is the title track ‘Under-
class Hero.’ It sounds scarily similar to
phenomenally popular ‘Fat Lip’ from
2001’s ‘All Killer No Filler’ that is ar-
guably the prime reason for the main-
stream success that they have received.
Perhaps they tried to use the same win-
ning formula, but unfortunately ended
up with pretty much the same song.
Next up is ‘Walking Disaster,’ which
just seems to re-emphasise that Sum 41
haven’t really moved on. It’s all a bit too
emotional – hating your dad, your par-
ents not caring, etc. Not only that, but it
is has striking similarities to a speeded-
up version of Blink-182’s ‘Adam’s Song.’
‘Count Your Last Blessings’ however
is where Sum 41 launch the energy-
charged and catchy material that they
are known for. Combining the fast lyr-
ics and drumbeat with gently and slow
repetitive piano they seem to have
come upon a winning combination.
Unfortunately, despite this track, the al-
bum takes a turn for the worse with ‘Ma
Poubelle’ perhaps because it’s one of
only two songs co-written with slightly
odd-ball drummer Stevo; Whibley was
presumably obliged to accept some
sort of contribution from other band-
members.
I knew that I would like this album
before I had even heard it. Perhaps it
was my under-developed teenage music
taste that has still now left me suscep-
tible to the cheesy punk-pop charm of
Sum 41.
This is definitely an album for those
that loved Sum 41 the first time round
and the kiddies that were never there
the first time round. Sum 41 is touring
England this October and will no doubt
play a winning combination of new and
old material alike.
Jenny Gibson
NME Student Quiz
In a search of Britain’s Brainiest
University, the UK’s favourite
weekly music magazine will be
testing students across both
music and general knowledge to
reveal where the most intelligent
young minds are studying this
year. Students need to go to
www.nme.com/students to take
part in the quiz, then compare
themselves with other students
nationwide. The overall winning
student gets £500 along with
any other prizes dish out.
Foals
Scala
★★★★✩
Sum 41
Underclass Hero (Island)
★★★★✩
Album Review
Live Review
Top left and right: Foals from differing angles. Bottom: Sum 41 looking brooding

