games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
26 felix Friday 12 October 2007
Games
Games Editors – Azfarul Islam and Sebastian Nordgren
Azfarul “Az” Islam
Games Editor
T
ake a deep breath, la-
dies and gents. If you
can’t smell it, then your
nose is probably red, sore
and runny already. That
means pretty much one thing: winter
has cometh.
Normally, this heralds the most de-
rided of times. Who would want to
leave the warm, snug sanctity of their
beds in order to trudge through sharp,
icy winds that bite at your face with
malice? Wouldn’t you rather bask in the
reassuring glow of your TV or monitor
while partaking in an intense shoot-
out. With a mug of hot chocolate get-
ting colder on your desk, of course.
See, winter is really a glorious time
of the year for any gamer worth their
memory card. The slow summer sea-
son transitions into an autumn that’s
usually marked by a few peerless games
– in this case, we’ve been blessed by
the one-two knockout combination of
BioShock and Halo 3 – a near-ultimate
culmination of brains and brawn in
pretty much one go. And that Metroid
Prime 3 didn’t go unscathed by praise.
But don’t start looking forward to the
piddling interest rates offered by Nat-
West; you’ll need to keep that cashcard
warm and working. This is the time of
year when developers pat themselves
on the back and let years of hard work,
broken whips and fair treatment vio-
lations come to fruition. Throughout
the next few months we’ll be treated
to a deluge of awesome videogames
that will redefine the industry as we’ve
known it, or at least make us grin with
unrestrained glee.
This week, Sebb explodes with ex-
citement as the PC receives a dose
of unadulterated joy with the likes of
the impossibly gorgeous Crysis, the
comically genius Team Fortress 2 and
more. I’m not normally a PC gamer,
but I have to say that Team Fortress
2 really appeals to the side of me that
adores artistic titles like Shadow of the
Colossus or Psychonauts. Amazingly,
the game comes lovingly bundled
with some rather fantastic titles that
are worthy enough on their own. The
price? Well, you’ll have to read the arti-
cle to find out!
Felix Games also shows other sec-
tions that not all the stuff we write is
made up during moments of pure de-
lirium: we do that reporting thingama-
jiggy as well. This time around, you’ll
find out how the British Champion-
ship Gaming Series Final went down
at Bromley. It’s interesting to observe
how a gargantuan mainstream media
outlet like SkyOne interpret a passion-
ate pastime. There’s obviously some
smoke and mirrors involved, but we’ve
prodded enough to see that there’s def-
initely potential in a concept that has
steadily been gaining popularity on the
other sides of the pond. We iz jurnal-
istz, after all.
Our commitment to the Indie gam-
ing scene is as strong as ever as we
check out yet another addicting gem –
the rather humorously named Bloxorz.
Hope to see you start writing for Felix
as well!
This
Week
Q4 ‘07: A PC gaming story
Sebastian Nordgren is here to remind you that the fight’s hardly finished
I
t’s that wonderful time of the
year when student loans have
just come through and are sit-
ting in your bank account,
mocking you with their exist-
ence, and the games industry thinks it’s
fair to release three-quarters of the tri-
ple-A titles in the same month. While
we at Felix fully believe in financial
responsibility, we also know that we’ll
be surviving on beans on toast for the
next couple of months after the gaming
feast being served up in what is known
as the pre-holiday season, or simply as
Q4 2007.
While Valve’s always been known
for being rather generous with their
offerings, packaging Counter-Strike
Source with Half-Life 2 and bundling
Day of Defeat Source with the game of
the year edition – The Orange Box is
just a bit ridiculous. Included are (deep
breath): Half-Life 2, Episode One, Epi-
sode Two, Portal and Team Fortress 2.
If you’re of the type that reads reviews,
you’ll know that that’s a combined to-
tal of around 470% of amazing gaming.
And, for what you’re getting, it’s a bar-
gain as well, costing only US$40 (about
£20 – Az Ed.). No questions, just buy
it – even more so if you haven’t already
played HL2 or Episode One.
If you haven’t seen a trailer of Crysis,
do that first and come back after. Go
on. Done? You didn’t do it, did you?
No, didn’t think so. Then you’ll just
have to take our word for it – Crysis is
so beautiful that it makes real life look
like it could use a few more pixel shad-
ers. Rumours have it that the name
comes from a combination of the first
reactions people have when they see it
– they cry wonderfully-rendered tears
of joy, and they despair at the impend-
ing financial crisis of upgrading their
computer to be able to smoothly run
the game at full detail. Our advice for
you, dear reader, is not to be foolish
and buy a new computer to run Crysis,
because it won’t. Also, the game fea-
tures live (and hence killable) chickens.
Our prediction is that it will replace
‘cs_italy’ as the premier chicken-killing
simulator available.
Infinity Ward have firmly established
themselves as one of the biggest devel-
opers around, and it’s with a sense of
excitement that we look forward to the
modern warfare version of Call of Duty.
It’s looking like a Battlefield-killer in
multiplayer, with impeccable balance
and perks that allow you to do all sorts
of cool stuff, but as always with Call of
Duty – the single-player is where we’ll
be. Call of Duty does war better than
anyone else, and it’s a safe bet that this
will be the closest you’ll get to Iraq
without wearing camouflage.
With all the other games being
shooters, it’s good to get a bit of vari-
ation with a (wait for it) shooter RPG.
Hellgate: London is set in our beloved
city after it’s been invaded by the forces
of Hell, creating a festering pit of evil,
carnage and other bad stuff (so not all
that different, then). Created by the
team that made Diablo 2 the addic-
tive force it is, Hellgate looks to single-
handedly resurrect the online ran-
domly generated dungeon crawl genre.
Good money is on the titular hellgate
being located in South Kensington,
between the Natural History Museum
and Royal Albert Hall.
And another non-shooter, would
you believe it? World in Conflict is an
original take on the RTS genre, do-
ing away with everything that doesn’t
involve blowing stuff up. No resource
management, no base building and no
formations. The concept practically
clamours for the game to be played co-
operatively, with each player choosing
a specialization (air, infantry, etc.) and
then using regenerating resources to
buy units and tactical aids. God, that
almost sounds like something an ac-
tual magazine might write, so here’s
the kicker – there’s nukes. Big, pretty
nukes.
Back to the shooters, then. Unreal
Tournament III is actually the fourth
Unreal Tournament, but Epic have
chosen to forget the rather awkward
Unreal Tournament 2003. This one
does away with some of old gameplay
modes and replaces them with WAR-
FARE OR SOMETHING RATHER,
an amalgamation of Onslaught and
Assault, with a bit of Bombing Run
thrown in for good measure. The new
iteration promises bigger, stompier
robots, while still retaining the clas-
sic deathmatch feeling that made the
original Unreal Tournament a classic.
For deathmatch purists, Epic promises
that the movement has been made less
floaty than Unreal Tournament 2004,
with feet planted firmly on the ground
most of the time. Don’t worry, dodges
are still in.
Amongst a metric assload of great
games, it’s easy for games like Enemy
Territory: Quake Wars to be over-
looked. Although it does borrow some
things from its Quake namesake, don’t
be deceived. This is more Battlefield 2
than Quake 4, creating an interesting
amalgamation of the objective-based
gameplay of Enemy Territory and vehi-
cle-based Battlefield. It’s a game that is
played at a frantic pace, but with none
of the glitches associated with the Bat-
tlefield series. For people who thought
that Battlefield 2 was too slow, this is
the game you’ve been waiting for.
Also, while we’re at it, you DID buy
BioShock, right? If you haven’t, go buy
it. I mean, it’s been 2 months, why
haven’t you got it yet? So, there you go
– even the most skint of you will find
something to spend your hard-earned
(hah!) student loan money on in the
upcoming pre-holiday season.
Words fail to describe how freakin’ awesome Crysis looks
PC Gaming’s back... and he’s brought some friends
CGS UK F.I.N.A.L.S. Bloxorz
PC Gaming Roundup – Q4 ‘07 Advice

