news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 12 October 2007 felix
News
Media awards
nominations
released. Felix
loses crown
Imperial College website revamped and ready to relaunch in December
College is in the process of having a
new website designed to replace the
existing one at www.imperial.ac.uk.
The redesigned website will be launch-
ing on 10th December.
College has commissioned web de-
sign company New City Media to build
the website. The project has been run-
ning since February 2007 and the build
is far along enough for students to view
Tom Roberts preview pictures of what the website
will look like when it eventually goes
live. To have a look for yourself and
even leave comments about the web-
site, head to https://www7.imperial.
ac.uk/commsblog/blogsThere you’ll
find the Web Redesign blog which
is kept up-to-date with the latest
developments.
The aim of the web redesign project
is “to modernise the visual design and
make it easier for users to quickly find
relevant information”, something that
the imperial.ac.uk has been crying out
for for ages.
With the current design, something
as important as finding your exam re-
sults can turn into a struggle for even
the most on-the-ball web users.
Typing “exam results” into the ex-
isting search engine throws up over
twenty thousand results, the first ten
of which don’t link to the Student Self
Service where results are viewed on-
line. Strangely enough, the first result
generated happens to be “Student Ap-
peals”; perhaps College is trying to
suggest something.
Unless users have a direct link to a
part of the existing website, it is very
difficult to navigate meaning that
large areas of imperial.ac.uk remain
inaccessible.
Hopefully the redesigned website can
address these issues and students won’t
have to spend precious minutes surfing
the web in circles.
The Imperial website’s current design
Does the Imperial website’s new look inspire you?
Nominated: Last year’s Felix
Travel writer Peter Dominiczak
On Monday, the nominations for the
2007 Guardian Student Media Awards
were announced.
At last year’s awards ceremony Felix
was awarded Student Newspaper of the
Year and the editor at the time, Rupert
Neate, also walked away with Student
Journalist of the Year.
However, this year Felix has only
been nominated for one award. Peter
Dominiczak has been nominated as
Student Travel Writer of the Year. Mr
Dominiczak’s articles documented his
unconventional trips to places such as
Lithuania and even Somerset where he
met a man simply known as Big Iain
and together the pair set about frolick-
ing in the countryside.
Imperial’s student news website Live!
(live.cgcu.net) was also nominated for
Student Website of the Year. The nom-
ination comes after a year in which the
Live! editor Ashley Brown was threat-
ened with lawsuits for some of the
website’s content.
The 2007 Guardian Student Me-
dia Awards ceremony takes place on
Wednesday 21st November.
Receiving mixed messages
Accessibility, fees and fairness: opinions clash over future of the UK’s higher education
This week has seen yet another resur-
gence of debate over the controversial
direction of Higher Education in the
UK. But students, and potential stu-
dents, have been left with a distinctly
mixed message, some points of which
leave a sour taste in the mouth.
A series of government policy state-
ments and ministerial comments fol-
lowed the predictably regular story
about Oxbridge: this time centred on
the publishing of statistics showing
that one third of Oxbridge’s student
intake comes from only 100 schools,
the vast majority of which are private.
These announcements were intended
to re-iterate the government’s policy of
university education for those who are
able, regardless of their background.
This culminated in Wednesday’s
launch of a blueprint for Universities to
forge “partnerships” with a local acad-
emy, with Cabinet MP John Denham
urging universities to adopt one of the
government’s new, partially privately
funded, secondary schools. Several
universities, including Imperial Col-
lege and UCL, have expressed interest
in the scheme, which is designed to
form “deep-rooted” links between top
universities and local schools. Several
other Universities have been unmoved
by Denham’s encouragement, prefer-
ring their own methods for attracting
state-sector students.
Meanwhile, in this week’s Sunday
Telegraph, the Rector, Sir Richard
Sykes, criticised “Mickey Mouse” de-
grees, whilst advocating not only an
increase in top-up fees, but an increase
in the interest rates that students pay
on their loans.
“The system has to change,” said the
Rector, who, pulling in £305k a year,
has the second highest salary of all UK
University heads. “It will then make
people think twice before they go off
and do damn silly courses that are no
good to them and won’t get them a
good job at the end of the day. It would
mean university is not just a nice four
years off.”
Sir Richard has a history of being
outspoken in his support of increas-
ing the cost of higher education to the
student. On Sunday he advocated an
increase of the top-up fees from £3000
to £5000 after the review in 2009.
An increase in the interest paid on
student loans (effective immediately
after graduation) would see a dramatic
increase in the cost, to the student, of a
University education. Debt is already a
major concern for students in general,
with loan repayments continuing many
years after graduation, even for a de-
gree alone. For Masters and PhD stu-
dents, calculation of exactly how much
debt they can afford often dictates
the path of their career. With such an
increase in the student loan rate, sug-
gested at a level just under bank rates,
we could see students paying off their
debt well into middle age.
These two conflicting points of view,
coming respectively from the Cabinet
Minister for higher education, and one
of the most influential university heads
in the country, show the incongruity
between the attitudes of educational
chiefs and government policy. A con-
flict which appears to be leading nei-
ther in the right direction.
Prevalent student opinion shows a
general detachment from both sides.
The government obsession with the
magically arbitrary figure of 50% of
pupils going on to University seems to
care little about the quality and value
of the courses involved, and students
feel their degrees become devalued in
general.
Whereas the Rector’s abrasive com-
ments exhibit the kind of arrogance
which the top universities in the coun-
try are attempting to purge from their
reputations. Whilst many sympathise
with his dislike of gratuitous degree
courses (such as David Beckham stud-
ies), there is a distinctly sour taste left
in their mouths over his apparent view
of degree courses as nothing but a busi-
ness plan for maximum profit. Many
are concerned by his lack of obvious
academic sentiment: the concept that
the advancement of humanity is a valu-
able and noble pursuit in itself, without
the endless pursuit of economic profit.
Thus he cements the image of Imperial
College Plc., a place of business, not of
learning.
The effect of these views on educa-
tion in general is as yet unknown, but
some fear that the future holds a wor-
ryingly Americanised system. A system
where it is impossible to progress in any
career without a degree, but attending
university is massively expensive. This
kind of system penalises the poorer
students more than any other, exactly
the effect that the aforementioned
measures are designed to avoid.
Whilst such debate rages on about
the future of higher education in the
UK, the student body is undecided
about what it wants: we at Imperial like
being the elite, but dislike being treated
as a business case and milked dry of
our income for years to come.
The Union voted on Monday to re-
voke our current policy on tuition fees
(current policy being that the Union is
opposed to any increase in the amount
that students are charged for educa-
tion), pending an investigation into
our true opinion on the matter. Until
the students body decides what it real-
ly wants from its education, it remains
helpless over how much it is prepared
to pay for it.
One obvious question is posed, how-
ever: is anyone sure of what they want
education to actually achieve. Even the
government seems to have difficulty in
making up its mind.
Andrew Somerville
News Editor
Intense revision for the new Nursery Rhymes A-Level

