felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Charles Murdoch
Winning start to rugby season
Imperial College Rugby Club Men’s 1st take on King’s Medicals, see page 34
Mosquito leads to mosquito bite leads to Malaria, a tropical disease
The weekend before the BUSA and
ULU seasons begin, ICHC ventured
into a new game of friendly hockey.
Friendliness isn’t exactly new for our
club (some may say certain people
have a bit too much club love…) but
the idea of playing pre-season fixtures
to prepare for our first competitive
games was new.
SundaysawourladiesfacealocalSur-
biton side. The game gave Unicycle her
debut in between the posts and many a
fresher joined our happy team upfront.
Moonie showed the young’uns the way
forward by clinching victory with two
stylish goals - a reverse stick in the first
minute and a decisive strike off the fi-
nal short corner to secure a 2-1 win.
The men on the other hand went
head to head in a fiercely fought game
of IC 1’s vs IC 2’s. Once again fresh-
ers and old hands were given a chance
to dust off their sticks and show what
they were made of in a semi-compet-
itive environment, under the beady
eyes of our coaches. All of this with the
hope that teams could be decided and
Wednesday would see a flying start to
the season.
The matches ended with the usual
frivolities and rigorous post match
IC played ‘friendly’ hockey
“training” in the union. Always an es-
sential part of any hockey.
Imperial Hockey is always looking
for new members, no matter of expe-
rience or competitiveness level. There
are teams to cater for all. We are par-
ticularly looking for goalkeepers, (male
or female, experienced pro, ex-cricket
wicket keeper, or just someone that
way inclined) For more information see
www.imperialhockey.co.uk, or you can
just join us in the bar on a Wednesday.
Too many “CV clubs” at IC?
At the recent Clubs and Societies Board
(CSB) meeting an issue was raised as
to the formation of new clubs. There is
a fear that many of the new clubs that
form, purely exist for the personal gain
of those that founded it, and it seems
to be particularly evident within the
medical faculty.
The issue was raised when nomina-
tions for the New Clubs Committee
(NCC) were about to be held at the CSB
meeting on the 9th October. Creation
of any new clubs or societies would
have to go straight to the NCC where
they would decide if the club or society
would become part of the union.
Guy Martin, the medical clubs and
societies president, raised the fact that
many of the medical clubs that have
been formed in the last couple of years,
have had to be shut down since they
were considered to be inactive. The re-
ality is that final and penultimate year
medical students would create a new
club just so they could use it on their
CV, and hence have a better chance of
getting a job once they graduate. One
such club that was mentioned was the
Tropical Medicine Society, however
it was suggested that there might be
Jovan Nedić
Sports Editor
many more.
It was suggested that the NCC should
consult the relevant faculty as to the va-
lidity and intention of the clubs, before
they were granted union membership
status. This would, in hindsight, stop
the so called ‘CV clubs’ being formed
and waste union money that could be
used elsewhere.
The NCC itself would consist of one
member from the faculty unions, one
clubs and societies chair and a final
member from the CSB. The elected
members of the NCC were Tim Wills,
the Medical Student Union President,
Andy Mason and Eugene Chang.
Hopefully common sense will prevail
and that all these new ‘CV clubs’ will be
exposed earlier, before valuable Union
money is spent on creating attractive
CV’s for people who are too lazy to get
involved in a proper club or society. Moonie taking a shot

