4 felix Friday 12 October 2007
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix
The problem with democracy
F
or my Fresher readers, pre-
pare to be alienated. Those of
you who voted in last year’s
Union elections – yes, all
twelve of you – I understand
that you thought voting ‘Felix for Felix
Editor’ was funny. I get it, there was a
funny man on the posters and every-
thing. It’s hilarious, after all, when you
do something silly in a serious situa-
tion. It’s like farting whilst giving evi-
dence at The Hague, or wearing a spin-
ning bow tie when you go to speak at
your grandfather’s funeral.
However, real democracy – yes, the
kind that actually affects things – is
subtly different to the Union elections,
and so before I hear one more person
tell me they’re going to vote for Boris
‘Gosh, Golly and Bilge’ Johnson in the
mayoral elections “for a laugh”, let me
run through a few of the finer points.
First of all, unlike the Union elec-
tions, I can’t avoid the fallout if you get
your way. That means that if you dick
things up this time “for a laugh”, I can’t
just stop eating in the JCR for twelve
months and wait for them to bring
back wholemeal rolls again. It’s an en-
tire city, guys, and the only reason you
know Boris’ name is because, in order
of importance, he has silly hair, he was
on an episode of Have I Got News For
You, and he shagged someone he wasn’t
supposed to. Now, whilst I accept that
those three attributes cover 70% of
Kensington and Chelsea’s inhabitants,
that’s not exactly how choosing a po-
litical candidate is supposed to work.
And I know, I know, the papers call
the other guy “Red Ken” and say bad
things, and the papers are always right
because the other day they told you to
buy a man’s trenchcoat from Marks
And Spencer and then that cute guy
smiled at you in Starbucks. I get it.
Thing is, though, they’re occasionally
wrong about stuff, and even if you dis-
like Ken “Face Like A Cabbage That’s
Been Through At Least One, If Not
Two, Digestive Systems” Livingstone,
it doesn’t really follow that you should
vote in some nincompoop as some
kind of spiteful backstab.
I have a friend who, on regular occa-
sions, tells me that this country is great
because of its proud history of Democ-
racy. Not real Democracy, obviously,
the fake kind where people ask your
opinion and then spend four years
subtly getting you to look the other
way by pointing and shouting “Taxes!”
but Democracy nonetheless. Needless
to say, she hasn’t been in this country
for an election, because if she had she’d
realise just how much of a joke it’s be-
come since we were lopping heads off
of Kings and the like.
Presumably the desire to joke-vote
your way into oblivion comes from the
A quick thought on life
S
o, life. What is all about?
We all go through phases
in which one feels like one
is on the top of the world.
This can be taken literally or
metaphorically.
On the flip side, you do also get times
when things just don’t go as planned or
things just fall apart. It is weird though,
because as with most things in life, you
either make it or you don’t. It is as sim-
ple as that.
A lot of the time, you don’t realise
something is important until it is gone.
We take so many things for granted
without realising that we would never
be able to get by without these ubiq-
uitous gems in life. Things like family,
Susan Yu
friends and good health. Without these
treasures, I reckon, life would be con-
siderably drab and colourless.
Death on the other hand is a totally
different story. Experiencing some-
thing as profound as death ultimately
brings a different perspective on life
in general. Fragile and temporary as
a snowflake some might think. To
see a loved one go it is undoubtedly
devastating.
It’s funny you begin to notice things
like this do happen as you metamor-
phosize and grow into a fully-fledged
adult. Life is never simple. Always
with so many twists and turns, never a
straight path. Damn.
Personally, I take life as it is. I just
go with the flow. Who knows what is
around the corner, heh? ‘To be or not
to be’ is the question that we ask our-
selves every single day. Life entails so
much, whether we like it or not. Love,
friendship, grief, euphoria and the
rest.
To some people, one’s existence is the
sole purpose of living unlike most peo-
ple who endeavour to get the best out
of what is on offer. Why are we here is
a question that all of us have asked our-
selves one time or another I’m sure. To
some, God is the ultimate answer. He
is the Creator and we are only here be-
cause of Him and Him alone.
Others would think otherwise. We
are here all due to chance. Evolution
and Darwin seem to come into the
equation if you think along these lines.
Biologists would have some ideas about
this. Are we here to make a difference
to the world or are we alive simply for
the sake of being alive? Who knows?
Well, I reckon that we are here for
a purpose and that is to live life to the
full in whatever fashion we think is
best. Yeah, rock and roll till sunrise!
With this in mind, nihilism is definitely
not the way forward.
Being a fresher at university is defi-
nitely a totally different phase in life,
the pinnacle – meeting new people,
getting used to a new environment and
establishing a new way of living. Can’t
wait for what life has in store for us!
A. Geek
notion that your vote doesn’t actually
count, as if the auditors at the Polling
Booth look at each card and just say,
“Well, he’s voted for Boris, but this
guy’s a kidder. Put it in the incinerator,
Geoff.”
The idea that one voter is insignifi-
cant was fine when it made you stay
at home and not give a toss – that was
bliss, it meant that those of us that did
vote could just tell you to where to
shove it when you complained about
the government six months later. Now
you’ve decided to be post-modern and
individual by voting for someone you
find amusing, without realising that
everyone else is going to do the same
thing. Don’t get me wrong – people are
just as cripplingly lazy in real elections
as they were in the Union ones – but
there’s nothing the general public likes
more than doing pitifully ridiculous
things en masse. See also: war, religion,
buying throw rugs for sofas and Diet
Coke.
Now, at this point you may be think-
ing, “But if everyone votes for Boris,
that’s democracy, right? Whatever we
wanted him for, at least we chose him.”
And that’s fine, if you’re an idealist
who thinks that Greece had it right all
along.
Unfortunately, we don’t live in a
futuristic utopia where people take
drugs to purify their minds and make
clear-cut decisions about which col-
our to paint the living room. We live
in a world where people take normal
drugs, paint the living room disgusting
variations on the same shade of beige,
and vote for whoever they’re told to.
So don’t try and tell me that the peo-
ple get what they wish. The people get
what they’re told to wish for. And on
that note, I’d ask you – be careful what
you wish for. You might get it.
“
I can’t just
stop eating in the
JCR for twelve
months waiting
for wholemeal
rolls to return
”
A good madman is hard to find
I
think that any self-respect-
ing university should have
its own campus madman. Or
madwoman.
By ‘mad’, I don’t just mean
the scruffiness of absentminded pro-
fessors, or the hairstyles and fashion
sense (stretching those two terms to
their respective breaking points) of be-
wildered undergraduates. I don’t even
mean those poor souls studying medi-
cine, though what better definition of
insanity exists I know not.
No, I mean mad in the strictest sense
of the term – a good, old-fashioned
gibbering, odoriferous, potato-wear-
ing outcast, with an endearingly nick-
named carrot dangling from a leash in
their hand. The last of these is optional,
though all the best continental lunatics
seem to be carrying them this season.
Personally, I find that a university
crackpot is just as valuable a figure as
a lecturer; more so, even, as no one
lecturer can claim to be known to the
entire student body, whereas campus
loons the world over are familiar faces
to millions.
These individuals, as bothersome
as they can be on occasions, play a vi-
tal role in ensuring student cohesion.
Their antics provide daily amusement,
and their presence an excuse to put
a premature end to uncomfortable
conversations. Some of you may be
running away with the idea that I am
referring to actual psychopaths – dan-
gerous knife-wielding giants for whom
asylums (and showers) were invented. I
ask for no such extravagance. A simple,
carefree, pamphlet-distributing fanatic
is all I desire. And look at what we have
to offer in exchange for an hour or two
of entertaining buffoonery every day;
a guaranteed audience, a fantastic ad-
dress in the heart of London, institu-
tional tenure – what more could any
simple, ordinary maniac ask for?
Now, I know that not every university
has the time or the inclination to scour
the neighbouring regions for a person
worthy of the position. But surely, in
the centre of a city such as London,
creeps, weirdoes, stalkers and engag-
ing hoboes can’t be too hard to find?
Being new to Imperial College, I do
not know what to expect on the mad-
person front. Having heard only good
things about this institution, however,
I do not doubt that the crucial position
has been filled, and, surely, by a person
of some international standing. If not,
then I am convinced that such a pres-
tigious university must make up for the
lack of this one individual eccentric
with a general atmosphere of insanity.
I feel it will be a fun and intersting four
years.
Gilead Amit
Boris Johnson: Voting is no joke

