©
2007
Accenture
All
rights
reserved.
Getting satisfaction from a job well done.
Just another day at the office
for a high performer.
Our clients include many of the
world's largest organisations and we'll
prepare you to take a central role in
developing innovative business and
technology solutions that improve
the way they operate. Professional
development is a key part of the total
rewards package we offer. You'll get
continuous training both formal and
on-the-job to enable you to do your
job well. And you'll gain satisfaction
from working on some of the largest,
most challenging projects.
For people with the right intelligence
and personal qualities, there's no
career quite like consulting. If you're
genuinely interested in business and
technology, with typically a predicted
or actual 2.1 and 320 UCAS points or
equivalent, prepare for a future
where high performance is all in a
day's work. And you'll be rewarded
well, with a salary of £31,000 plus an
additional £10,000 bonus.
Come along to our presentation and
you can talk to us, find out what
life's really like here, and discover
what we'll expect from you.
To attend our event text ‘EVENTS’ free
to 60505 or go online to register
and find out more.
Accenture is committed to being an
equal opportunities employer.
Visit accenture.com/ukgraduates
Graduate careers in consulting
Graduate Careers in Consulting Presentation
Sherfield Building, Senior Common Room, Imperial College,
South Kensington, London, SW7 2AZ
Monday 22nd October 2007 at 6.30pm
Join Accenture, one of the world's leading management consulting, technology services and outsourcing
companies, for a career that keeps you motivated and moving forward. Work on vital assignments for top
class clients and help them achieve high performance. Push yourself, while developing your skills and
confidence. Work with the best people worldwide to solve problems and do what hasn't been done
before. If this is your idea of a typical working day, Accenture is the place to work.

