Email Nigel on advice@imperial.ac.uk
Email Kirsty on dpew@imperial.ac.uk
Welfare
Welfare Editors – Nigel Cooke and Kirsty Patterson
9
Friday 12 October 2007 felix
Dishonest landlords beware!
Moved into a house which isn’t all it’s
cracked up to be? Is ‘short distance
from local amenities’ more than a
stretch of the imagination? Has the
fresh lick of paint already started peel-
ing off the wall?
Finding the perfect student accom-
modation in London is nigh on im-
possible. Typically students spend five
minutes flitting in and out of property
after property until finally settling on
the best of a bad bunch. How do you
know if you can trust the integrity of
your landlord? Is this really a nice,
quiet, residential area with a low crime
rate? If only you could find someone
who has lived here before and could
give you an honest opinion.
StudentSay is a new initiative created
by a student at Imperial who became
‘disenchanted’ with the Private Hous-
ing Market and decided to do some-
thing about it. After years in the stu-
dent housing system he and his friends
put together a website where you, the
tenant, can give an honest opinion on
your accommodation experience with
a particular landlord, in a particular
area or even at your university.
Based in Sheffield, the website aims
to include all cities and universities
where students’ are living in rented
accommodation. It provides an ever-
expanding resource for students to
search for accommodation that comes
highly recommended by their peers
throughout the UK.
An added benefit is that you can do
this far more easily from home – know-
ing that you can trust the views of real
life students rather than the sometimes
overly generous jargon available from
an estate agent!
With categories such as ‘distance to
your local pub’ and ‘mobile phone re-
ception’ it takes into account all the
things a student house really needs.
With quick and easy tick boxes and a
star rating system it lets you choose
from a multitude of different criteria
for reviewing your student accommo-
dation experience and means that you
can do it in a matter of seconds. The
handy tips are great too for reminding
you about aspects of the decorating
you may have forgotten about or tell-
ing you how to recognise damp.
On top of this you can also read up
on articles giving advice on all aspects
of university life. Current articles in-
clude advice on student bank accounts
and how to save the environment with-
out endangering your wallet. You can
Thanks to the new website StudentSay you no longer have to
take your landlord’s word for it if he or she’s up to some shifty
Kirsty Patterson
Deputy President (Education &
Welfare)
S
o, Fresher’s week is over. The
sound of you dancing to your
favourite tune, having a drink
or joining a society are gone
and now you are faced with
lectures and getting down to some
hard work at the institution that is Im-
perial College.
Many of you have probably had one
of the most exhilarating weeks of your
life. You will have made loads of new
friends and have settled in quite com-
fortably to student life. For some, how-
ever, this may not be the case.
It is natural in many aspects to feel
homesick at certain times of our lives
and leaving home for the first time and
living with people you don’t know in
a big strange city like London can be
a difficult and daunting experience to
come to terms with.
Not being around things that are fa-
miliar to you can often bring on feel-
ings of loneliness, anxiety and sadness;
this may put doubts in your mind as to
whether you have made the right choice
in becoming a student at Imperial.
All is not lost however. These feel-
ings may only last a week or so until
you have settled and there are methods
and tips you can use to help make you
feel better, below is The Information
and Advice Centre’s top tips for trying
to avoid or get over homesickness:
• Try to get out there and see what
the College and Union have to offer.
Nigel Cooke
Student Adviser
Information
and Advice
Centre
Joining a club or society is a great way
of meeting new people and can help
stop you thinking about home.
• Acknowledge your feelings but
try to convince yourself that it is just
a phase. Feelings of homesickness al-
most always pass if given time.
• Talking to people about your feel-
ings can sometimes help. So make sure
you talk to a trusted friend regarding
your feelings. This can often make
things seem better. If you feel you can’t
talk to anyone make use of the Col-
lege’s counselling service. You can also
talk your concerns through with the
Student Adviser at the Information
and Advice Centre on campus.
• Try to establish a routine as soon
as possible. Often keeping busy helps
to take your mind off thinking about
home.
• Keep in touch with your friends
and family. In some cases they can of-
fer you support and reassurance. How-
ever, make sure that this is the right
choice for you as sometimes talking to
your friends and family back home can
worsen your homesickness.
• Give yourself some time. Don’t rush
to make any rash decisions like quit-
ting your course and leaving. It could
just be a short phase that a lot of peo-
ple go through during their first time
living away from home.
• Remember that many people suf-
fer from homesickness at sometime in
their lives. There will be other students
on your course and in the College who
are also experiencing the same thing.
Feeling this way does not make you in-
adequate. Plenty of people are experi-
encing the exact same thing.
If you do have feelings of homesick-
ness and you feel it is more than just
a phase and you want to seek some
impartial advice on how you can go
about coping with these issues, please
feel free to contact The Information
and Advice Centre for advice. Our ad-
vice is totally impartial and we can talk
through your worries with you.
If you feel you need more emotional
support rather than practical advice it
may be worth contacting The Imperial
College Counselling service on: 020
7594 9637.
Just remember there are people avail-
able who are willing to help, you don’t
have to go through it are not alone!
also pass on your own gems of knowl-
edge by writing for tthem and sharing
your experiences of life as a student. As
StudentSay is brand new you can really
have an impact on its development and
have your voice heard. There is no time
like the present and the success of this
great enterprise really comes down to
you and how many other students in
the local area fill it in!
StudentSaywillbelaunchedthisterm
on the Imperial College Union website
to make it easy to find and to add to
the services available through Imperial
College Union. Watch out for links ap-
pearing soon and be sure to check out
or review your accommodation when
making a move.
Is it Freshers’ Flu? Is it a hangover? No, as a matter of fact it’s meningitis
Meningitis is inflammation of the lin-
ing surrounding the brain. Put simply,
there are two main strains:
Viral meningitis is more common
and is rarely life-threatening. Contact
with someone who has viral meningi-
tis does not increase your chances of
developing the disease.
Bacterial meningitis is very seri-
ous and needs urgent treatment. The
most common cause amongst students
in the UK is meningococcus, of which
group C (“MenC”) causes the most
outbreaks. However the other groups
of meningococcus, and indeed other
bacteria, can cause meningitis. So
even having the vaccination (which is
against MenC) does not entirely pro-
tect you.
Septicaemia is blood poisoning
caused by bacteria multiplying in the
blood. When this is meningococcal
septicaemia it is an extremely serious,
life-threatening condition.
These bacteria live naturally in the
back of the nose and throat. They are
David Hayton
IC Health Centre Assistant GP
normally spread by close and pro-
longed contact by coughing, sneez-
ing and intimate kissing (hence the
outbreaks in the student population!).
However catching or carrying the bac-
teria does not mean you will develop
meningitis or septicaemia; only occa-
sionally do they overcome the immune
system and cause these diseases. They
do not survive outside the body so they
cannot be caught from buildings, toi-
lets and swimming pools etc.
• Dislike of bright lights
• Drowsiness, confusion/disorienta-
tion, fits
• A rash that does not fade with the
glass test
People with septicaemia may devel-
op a rash. This can start anywhere on
the body and look like tiny blood spots
(like pin-pricks). These go on to join
together to look like large bruises. The
glass test can be used to see if a rash
might be due to septicaemia.
Press the side of a drinking glass onto
the spot/bruise and see if it fades. A
septicaemia rash does not usually fade
(although it is possible that the rash
may fade at first but later change into
one that does not – check again later).
Do not wait for a rash. It may be the
last symptom or may not appear at all.
Since people with these diseases can
be very unwell and unable to seek help,
we need to keep an eye on each other.
If you are unwell yourself, make sure
someone knows you are ill.
We all need to be aware of the symp-
toms and many have a low threshold
for seeking help. It is of course far
better to be safe than sorry. However,
these symptoms are very common and
panic is never helpful.
If you are aware of the symptoms
above, and suspect someone may have
meningitis or septicaemia, call for help
as soon as possible.
To help prevent meningitis and sep-
ticaemia, get yourself vaccinated! We
cannot stress this enough. Although it
is a common misconception that those
who have had the meningitis vaccina-
tion cannot get meningitis, the vacci-
nation does significantly reduce your
chances of getting this serious disease.
Furthermore, the more students that
get the vaccination, the fewer cases
will occur – even in those who have
not been vaccinated (it’s called herd
immunity).
If you are under 25, you can get
the MenC vaccine at the Imperial
College Health Centre for free
Thankfully, meningitis and meningo-
coccal septicaemia are rare. They may
be difficult to spot as symptoms are
similar to those of flu. Look out for:
• High temperature, fever, possibly
with cold hands and feet
• Vomiting, sometimes diarrhoea
• Severe headaches
• Neck stiffness (unable to touch the
chin to the chest)
• Joint or muscle pains, sometimes
with stomach cramps
The current StudentSay website at www.studentsay.co.uk
Meningococcus bacteria. Avoid this, get vaccinated!

