14 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
20.03.2015
Science Editor James Bezer & Lauren Ratcliffe
Science
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
What’s your angle? Willows and biofuels
The true scale of climate change
and its impacts on our planet
has escalated in the last 50
years. Scientific advancement has
been at the forefront in efforts to
achieve a more stable climatic future.
Biofuel development symbolises a
significant movement towards this
future. However, growing evidence
indicates that this supposedly
sustainable, green solution is not quite
as great as people hoped.
Essentially biofuels have a “solution
to climate change” prestige; but in
reality act as poor alternatives to
fossil fuel use, diverting attention
from what real action needs to be
undertaken. The core issue is the
change in land use required for biofuel
production. Monoculture expanses
remove essential biodiversity from an
area and use damaging petrochemical
fertilisers and pesticides. This has
resulted in food price elevation,
additional greenhouse gas emissions
as well as the removal of land from
small local farmers.
But lets not be too pessimistic.
Studies have looked at the different
biofuel forms, from corn, sugarcane,
to woody coppice and accessed the
fuels sustainability in terms of
the fuels environmental impacts,
direct and indirect greenhouse gas
emissions. The scenario is very much
apple and oranges; different biofuels
have their own pros and cons. The
willow tree has been the subject of
much research into biofuels as it
stands out by vastly reducing the
degree of land-use change, being able
to tolerate adverse environmental
conditions, such as poor infertile soils
and windy slopes. Thus the Willow
can be cultivated in infertile areas
reducing deforestation pressures.
Novel scientific evidence indicates
that willow trees growing at an angle
of 45 degrees produce up to five times
more starch-rich gelatinous fibre –
increasing biofuel yields. This stressor
response enables the trees to stay
upright when tilted at such an angle.
This could reduce the amount of
land required for biofuel production.
However, it is still unknown exactly
how this happens.
Researchers at the Natural History
Museum, University of Surrey and
Rothamsted Research Centre used
high resolution 3D imaging via x-ray
micro-computer tomography (CT
scanning ) to see microscale changes to
be observed, these cause a macroscale
response. Findings indicated
that tilting induced stress, which
prolonged the life of cells involved
in the production of starch rich
gelatinous fibre. The next step would
be to use an even higher resolution
CT scanner and see which willow
tree species produce the most of this
starchy fibre. Specific selection of
such species will increase further the
productivity of willow biomass biofuel
harvesting.
The willow tree represents just
one alternative biomass source for
biofuel production. There are many
others including fuels derived from
manure, and recycled oil. Therefore,
investment targeted towards more
unsustainable biofuel forms should
change. Studies such as those shown
by the willow tree represent a single
small-scale advancement to achieve
a more energy sustainable future and
reduce climate change impacts. Never
the less, these small-scale changes
should not be disregarded in there
importance. They represent progress
in the right direction. They are
important stepping stones to achieve
the future vision, that is globalisation
of clean energy.
DOI: doi:10.1186/s12870-015-0438-0
Jane Courtnell reports on research into alternative energy sources
Warm oceans found on Saturn’s moon Enceladus
CECILY JOHNSON
SCIENCE WRITER
Microscopic grains of silicon-
rich rock detected by
NASA’s Cassini spacecraft
have provided the first clear evidence
of hydrothermal activity occurring
outside our planet. A four-year
analysis of data from Cassini’s
instruments, alongside laboratory
experiments and computer
modelling, was published in Nature
this week by scientists at the
University of Colorado Boulder.
The Cosmic Dust Analyser (CDA)
instrument has been detecting
tiny rock particles for a number
of years, as Cassini orbits Saturn
and its moons. Data from the mass
spectrometer showed that they are
primarily composed of silica, which is
commonly found on Earth as quartz
or sand. The size of the particles,
which range from 2 to 9 nanometres
in radius suggested that they were
created by a specific process.
A very specific range of conditions
is required for particles of this type
to form on Earth. Silica particles are
created when water with less than 4%
salinity, high levels of silica and a pH
between 8.5 and 10 undergo a large
temperature drop from an initial
high of around 90°C. The researchers
believe that this process is also
occurring on the floor of Enceladus’
oceans, where hot water at the rocky
core of the moon comes into contact
with cooler waters above.
The seawater permeates and
interacts chemically with the crust
of porous rock at the ocean bottom,
forming new minerals. The solution
then travels through a region of
colder water before being carried
up to the surface, where the silica is
expelled in Enceladus’ ice geysers.
“It’s very exciting that we can use
these tiny grains of rock, spewed
into space by geysers, to tell us about
conditions on – and beneath – the
ocean floor of an icy moon,” said
the paper’s lead author Sean Hsu, a
Research Associate at CU-Boulder’s
Laboratory for Atmospheric and
Space Physics (LASP).
“We’ve known from quite
early on that Enceladus was the
source of the material in Saturn’s
[outermost] ring… based on the
ring’s composition, although we
didn’t know the exact mechanism
for the material transfer”. Ongoing
geological activity on Enceladus,
which is Saturn’s sixth-largest moon,
was first detected by Cassini in 2005.
Geysers 125 miles tall spray water ice
and vapour, salts and other organic
materials into space from warm
cracks on the moon’s surface.
The 6 mile deep ocean that is
now understood to generate these
particles is also believed to contain a
variety of chemicals associated with
the development of Earth-like life,
including carbon dioxide, nitrogen
and methane. This latest study adds
to the tantalising body of evidence
indicating that environments which
can support living organisms could
possibly be found on one of Saturn’s
moons.
“These findings add to the
possibility that Enceladus, which
contains a subsurface ocean and
displays remarkable geologic
activity, could contain environments
suitable for living organisms,” said
astronaut John Grunsfeld, associate
administrator of NASA’s Science
Mission Directorate in Washington.
“The locations in our solar system
where extreme environments occur
in which life might exist may bring us
closer to answering the question: are
we alone in the Universe”.
DOI: 10.1038/nature14262 The new findings make Enceladus a potential home of life Photo: NASA
CT scan of willow showing fibre (brown) and vessels (blue) Photo: BMC
Plant Biology

