THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 15
FELIX 20.03.2015
Politics Politics Editor Joshua Renken
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Scottish National Party:
what you need to know
You’ve probably heard by now that
the upcoming General Election is
the most unpredictable and arguably
one of the most important in recent
UK political history. Minor parties
are winning a large number of
votes, diminishing the chances of an
outright single-party majority in the
process.
It is therefore very likely that
some kind of coalition or minority
administration will have to be
formed. Failing that, there could even
be a second general election later on
in 2015 if any three party “rainbow”
alliances fall through, but this is very
unlikely.
The coalition negotiations that
are expected to take place after the
public vote on 7th
of May will have
far reaching consequences for all of
our lives, at which point only the
top politicians will determine the
consequences of the mandate from
the people. If cross party talks do have
to occur, it will be messy and possibly
quite cheerless, because every party
will have lost the election and nobody
will get the government they want.
So what has this got to do with the
SNP? Well, the Scottish National
Party has been steadily gaining in
the polls in Scotland, to the point
where they are expected to win
almost every seat north of the border.
This is a disaster for Labour, who in
2010 won 40 of the 59 Scottish seats,
but this time round are looking at
only winning a small handful of
constituencies, if any.
The SNP first got into power in
2007 as a minority government, but
in 2011 they increased their support
to become a majority government
(64/129 MSPs), the first ever seen
at Holyrood. The SNP has the third
largest party membership in the
UK (93,000) and now commands
strong majorities in many Scottish
constituencies.
So many in fact that the SNP are
expected to see their representation
in Westminster increase from six
seats in 2010 to more than 50 in 2015.
A party that can only be voted for
by less than a tenth of the United
Kingdom’s population is going to
have the third highest number of
seats in the House of Commons come
May, and could be the kingmakers in
coalition talks.
In 2010 the Lib Dems had enough
seats to create a shared majority
government with the Conservatives,
but this will not be the case in 2015.
Nick Clegg’s party will see their
parliamentary representation half,
while the Scottish nationalists
practically clear up north of the
border to win a similar number of
MPs that the Lib Dems currently
have. The First Minister of Scotland
and Leader of the SNP Nicola
Sturgeon will be hugely influential in
the subsequent negotiations that will
take place after a hung parliament is
called.
Labour and the SNP combined
could possibly win enough seats
for a slim majority in the House
of Commons, but politicians on
both sides have always said there is
virtually no prospect of a coalition,
mainly because it would not further
the interests of either party.
Sturgeon explained that although
she couldn’t imagine a coalition
between the two centre-left parties,
she could envision a Labour minority
government that deals with the
SNP on a vote-by-vote basis to get
things passed through the House of
Commons.
This ‘confidence and supply’
alternative would allow Labour to
pass vital actions such as the budget
without having to concede ministerial
posts to the Scottish nationalists.
A few days ago Ed Miliband
officially ruled out the possibility
of a formal coalition agreement
between the two parties, saying “there
will be no SNP ministers in any
government I lead.” This will also put
a stop to Conservative ads showing
Ed Miliband in the pocket of Alex
Salmond, the former Leader of the
SNP.
Leader of the SNP and First Minister of Scotland Nicola Sturgeon is about to become very important in UK politics. Photo: Jeff J Mitchell via Getty Images
Joshua Renken gives a brief overview of what you need to know
about the SNP before heading to the polling station this May
A Labour-SNP-Lib Dem three
party coalition would be almost
guaranteed to get the seats required
for a majority government, but Vince
Cable has called a Lib Dem-SNP deal
‘inconceivable.’ A Conservative-SNP
post-election deal is even less feasible.
The SNP was founded in 1934
during the merger of the National
Party of Scotland and the Scottish
Party. They have gained support in
Scotland over the last few decades
and finally came to power on a wave
of anti-establishment, anti-austerity
politics.
One of the most talked about, and
potentially problematic, demands
of the Scottish Nationals is for
the unilateral disarmament of the
UK’s nuclear weapons programme,
Trident. More generally though,
as a socially democratic centre-
left party the SNP want more
progressive personal taxation, free
higher education, an increase in the
minimum wage, heavily reduced cuts
to public services, voting from the
age of 16 and, most notably, Scottish
independence. At the very least in
this parliament the SNP might accept
further devolution of powers to
Holyrood, as is currently going on.
SNP Leader and First Minister of
Scotland Nicola Sturgeon took the
helm as Alex Salmond’s successor
after his swift resignation following
defeat in the Scottish independence
referendum, when Scots voted to stay
in the UK 55:45. Sturgeon has said in
interviews that she will not rule out
the possibility of holding another
referendum for the break up of the
UK, the prospects for which look less
attractive for Scotland than they did
last September due to the recent drop
in oil prices. Scotland’s success as an
independent country is closely tied to
how much revenue could be created
from their oil reserves – the amount
of which is not precisely known, and
this fall in prices would spell disaster
for government expenditure plans.
The take home message here is that
if Labour is the biggest loser after
the election, a minority government
backed by the SNP is looking far more
plausible than an actual coalition.
Scottish nationalists are going to be
a powerful and controversial force in
Westminster and will complicate the
already difficult situation further.
We have had minority governments
before, but the next administration is
set to be one of the least stable in our
history.
Your vote on 7th
of May really
matters; please do not waste the
opportunity to voice your opinion
at the ballot box. Uncertain yet
interesting times are ahead in British
politics. Good news for journalists,
bad news for the rest of us.

