42 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
20.03.2015
What is going on inside
the Blue Cube this week
We have an exciting stretch ahead of us,
with lots of chances to come together and
truly collaborate, propelling ourselves into
the bright future.
Dealing with the Media
As we all know, dealing with the media is
highly stressful, so we’ve put on a special
course to give you some helpful tips on
how best to “keep calm and avoid the
question”, as we like to say!
Simply head down to the Basement Studio
for 2pm on Tuesday for the course - Bree
Porter (Vice Provost (Media)) has offered
to play the part of a wily journalist for the
practical component, so don’t worry - we
won’t allow any “real” media-types in!
Don’t forget to bring your yoga mat as
usual, and green tea will (of course) be
provided.
Student Media Consultation Meeting
On Thursday, to tie in with our media
training we’ll also be holding a special
consultation meeting in the Fifth Floor
Executive Suite.
All members of the Faculty are invited to
this meeting, where we’ll be discussing the
future of our Student Media outlets, and
how we can best tackle this thorny issue
going forward.
We’ll also be holding a vote on whether
to expand the Vice Provost (Media)’s remit
to include Student Media, or whether to
appoint a new Vice Provost with exclusive
responsibility.
All-Staff Briefing Cancelled
Our weekly staff briefing has been
cancelled by the Vice Provost (Arbitrary
Excuses) due to a room booking error.
Rest assured, the person responsible for
this week’s meeting (which was scheduled
to take place at the Imperial West campus)
has been fired.
I’m sure you can all agree that the Imperial
West campus is just too far away for staff
to have to travel to for anything - even
a meeting so important as the All-Staff
Briefing!
What is going on outside the
Blue Cube this week
Students everywhere are likely to be
celebrating our Varsity win this week - yet
another victory for Imperial!
Alice Gast: Thought of the Week
“I was delighted by the success of “Student
Volunteering Week”, which saw students try
their hands at community projects while also
celebrating the student volunteer movment as a
whole - a wonderful idea that does great credit
to all involved. Student volunteering is rife at
Imperial, and it’s something I sincerely hope
continues to thrive. I just wish someone would
volunteer to do my job.”
The weekly newsletter of the Faculty Building
Blue News
Provost Post
of the Week
Every week, a member of
our esteemed Provost board
shares their thoughts with
our collaborative, cohesive
community. This week, we
welcome Earl E. Coaches,
Vice Provost (TranSport)
who has been working hard
this week on providing
transport for Varsity. Who
knows where he found time
for this column!
Hello all! With the passing
of another hugely successful
Varsity, it was suggested to me
that now was as good a time
as any for me to try my hand at
this column lark.
Unfortunately, I’ve been rather
busy organising the coaches
to and from the big headline
rugby matches at the Stoop,
Twickenham, so I only just
managed to get this done in
time for the deadline - unlike
our coaches, haha!
Firstly, I’m sure you’ll all be
pleased to know we had no
window-based incidents on
any of our coaches - each
pane of glass remained firmly
unsmashed, unlike certain
members of the faculty!
The Vice Provost (Student
Behaviour) was a particular
stand-out of the evening,
especially that moment
where he - [unfortunately,
this paragraph had to be cut
for reasons of space . On an
unrelated note, the Vice Provost
(Student Behaviour) has now
been suspended pending an
investigation into his rumoured
pitch invasion. - Ed.]
Secondly, I expect that by
now that everyone will have
heard of the success of our Early
Bedtime Initiative.
By scheduling coaches to
leave the ground during the
headline match, we were able
to ensure the entire crowd got
home safely, with plenty of time
for a good night’s rest before all
of their 9am lectures the next
morning!
This is the first year we’ve
trialled this initiative, and
it appears to have been a
barnstorming success - with the
bonus result that the women’s
teams were able to play on
without the pressure of a rowdy,
boisterious crowd.
Hello all,
Welcome once more to Blue News, our weekly accumulation of all the
happenstances happenstancing across the wonderful world of Imperial.
Following on from our hugely successful Women@Imperial campaign,
which championed all those of a female persuasion at Imperial, we’re
delighted to give all you lovely Blue Cube workers an exclusive first peek
at our next “viral smash hit” (as those lovely boys in the Communications
Department keep telling me it will be): People@Imperial.
In this visionary new campaign, we’ll be taking a look at all of the
wonderful people contributing to College life, not just the women - we
are all about gender equality after all! This new campaign comes replete
with an exciting “hashtag” (the boys in Comms tell me this is how we can
communicate with our educational partners - or “students”, as they like
to call themselves).
Yes, that’s right - for all of you users of the social media, you can just use
#ImperialPeople in all of your daily communications, and soon it’ll be
trendy across the airwaves. Let’s hope that this new campaign helps
increase awareness of all of the work done at Imperial - not just that
done by women!
Speaking of work being done at Imperial - and excellent work at that -
we must give enormous praise to all those involved in the Varsity this
week. The wonderful boys and girls in the Marketing Department did a
stellar job this year - I couldn’t go anywhere without seeing one of their
delightful posters, while the official match programme was a treat.
Particular congratulations must go to those responsible for arranging
sponsorship of the event - despite the financial losses incurred by
certain members of the faculty being unable to contain their excitement
(amongst other bodily fluids) on the coach, the sponsorship totals raised
were so vast that all losses were incurred by our sponsors, not us. Drinks
on us! Or on our sponsors, anyway.
Have a productive, cohesive, collaborative and happy day!

