THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 47
20.03.2015
FELIX
46 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
20.03.2015
Kunal Wagle reports from the Stoop as the 1st XV win 32-10
Late tries add gloss to College victory
Two dominant periods at the
start and end of the match
ensured that Imperial College
claimed a more than comfortable
victory over the Imperial Medicals
at The Stoop on Wednesday. Having
scored an early penalty, the College
then put away two unanswered tries
before the Medics hit back to give
themselves a chance at 15-5 at half-
time. Another try two minutes into
the second half for the boys in red
had the College worried. But their
overall superiority shone through in
the end as they went over three more
times before the end of the game to
underline their great performance,
though the Medics may feel slightly
aggrieved that the final score looked
so one sided after an encouraging
performance.
After a 39-5 drubbing just two
weeks ago the Medics would have
been hoping for a fast start, but they
had anything but. They were initially
ill disciplined in their own half, and
on the third time they were punished
with College captain James Cox
slotting over with a fairly straight
kick 25 yards out from the try line.
The Medics did threaten after
that, but often their moves were
scuppered by either ill-advised or
misguided offloads. In the end they
were punished by the College, who
were rewarded for an excellent
move, starting with a break from
the halfway line, with a try from
centre Sam Moorby. Cox kicked the
conversion.
College advanced dangerously
almost straight from the kick off,
only to throw it away with a knock
on on the 5 metre line. If the Medics
breathed a sigh of relief at that
moment, it was shortlived. College
were in a destructive mood, and
weren’t going to be stopped. A driving
maul just two minutes later did go
over the line. Despite Cox missing
the conversion, the scoreline was
beginning to look very bleak for the
Medics at 15-0.
With the game already almost
out of sight, the Medics launched
a spirited comeback. Having been
camped out within five metres of
the College try line for almost three
minutes, stand in captain Vernon
McGeoch went over to get the medics
on the board on the half-hour mark.
Again, the conversion was missed, but
at half-time, the medics were still in
the game.
What had been a fairly one sided
game until half-time became a lot
closer after the break as the Medics
ended a driving move by breaching
the College defence and making
the score (after the conversion was
missed) 15-10.
However the Medics, for all
their effort, just couldn’t keep the
momentum up. After a prolonged
period of play without much action
beyond either side’s 22 yard line, the
College managed to break through
the defence and a large break away
resulted in their third try of the night,
pushing the gap to 12 points with just
twenty minutes to go.
The Medics continued to push, but
a series of penalties on the five metre
line resulted to nothing, pretty much
summing up their night. The game
was in danger of petering out but the
College came to the rescue, adding
additional excitement at the end of
the game. In the last four minutes the
College ran through the tired Medics,
adding two more tries close to the end
of the game to finish off the game
with a resounding 32-10 win. A cynic
might say that these tries added gloss
to the score, but in reality it showed
the true gulf in performance of the
two teams on the night itself.
Man of the match was awarded
to the College centre Sam Moorby,
whose strong performance proved
one of the major difference. He
scored two tries as well, making him
a worthy winner of the award, despite
captain James Cox also having a
storming game.
Speaking to Felix after the game,
ACC Chair and Rugby Honorary
Secretary Oli Benton said of the
win “While the lead up to this years
Varsity has been less than ideal, the
performance on the night put all
those worries to bed. Building off
the back of a comprehensive beating
of the Medics a couple of weeks ago,
IC brought their positive attacking
rugby back to the Stoop. With
the customary high levels of sand
ensuring the pitch wasn’t boggy, the
College backs played aggressively
behind a solid platform provided by
the forwards. Particular mentions
must go to the scrum half Durkin,
who was always a threat, the flyhalf
and captain Cox, who marshalled
the game with customary aplomb
and Moorby who brought his usual
physicality with some excellent hard
running and support lines.”
The first match saw the College convincingly beat the Medics 32-10 Photo: Ben Lester, throughbenslens.co.uk
Photo: Ben Lester, throughbenslens.co.uk
Kunal Wagle is on hand at the Stoop as College win women’s match
Late resurgence not enough for Medics
Alate resurgence from the
Imperial Medicals was not
enough to prevent a victory
for the Imperial College team in the
first ever Varsity fixture held at The
Stoop for women’s rugby. It was a
low scoring game of ten-a-side rugby
that was decided on a few beautiful
breakaway tries. For long periods
of the game it looked as though the
College could score at any moment.
But, having gone two tries down
before half time, the Medics rallied
after the break, and a last gasp try
ended the game at a close 15-12.
However, the Medics could point to
a couple of dubious decisions in the
lead up to two of the tries that College
scored.
It was a cagey opening as both
sides appeared nervous on their
first appearance at the stadium. The
College grabbed the early initiative
and appeared permanently camped
inside the Medics 5 metre line for
nearly five minutes, followed by a
big dash to the line. The move would
come to nothing however, as the ball
was turned over to the medics, the
first of many turnovers in a scrappy
game. The medics then broke away
(another common feature in the
game) but were eventually penalised
on the halfway line for holding on.
It looked as though it would take
a moment of brilliance to break
the deadlock and the College duly
delivered. Having turned the ball over
on their own 22 the ball was chipped
over the Medics and duly collected
by College. After a massive seventy
yard break the College eventually
went over the line after a few phases
to send their bench into raptures.
The conversion was missed but the
deadlock had been broken. It was 5-0.
But it wouldn’t stay 5-0 for long.
Straight from the kick off the College
were back on the attack, and this
time they would receive instant
reward as a couple of smart offloads
led to a College try under the posts.
The try again wasn’t converted,
but the College went into halftime
immediately afterwards already
looking too far beyond the Medics
side.
There would have been some who
were worried about whether the
medics could make a comeback in
the second half, but their fears would
prove to be unfounded as the medics
started the second half strongly. A
period of possession just after the
restart didn’t lead to anything, but it
would eventually be them who struck
first blood in the second half.
It took nearly eleven minutes, but
through that period the medics were
comfortably the better team, rarely
venturing into their own half. But
once they reached within 10 metres
of the College try line there was no
stopping them. They went over after
three or four phases, thus pulling the
game back to 10-5 with it all to play
for in the last ten minutes.
All the Medics hard work would
be undone just a few minutes later
after the College completed a good
move on the 22 line with a break to
the try line. But it seemed harsh on
the medics, as tv footage strongly
suggested that there was a knock on
and offside in the build up, which
should have resulted in a penalty
to the medics. The medics will feel
hard done by when combining this
with the first try, which had a hint of
offside when the chip went through.
The controversial try would prove
to be a knockout blow to the medics,
although they fought valiantly until
the last, going over for a consolation
try at the very end of the game.
Deserved MVP was the Medics fly-
half Katherine Fok, who then kicked
the only conversion of the game to
leave the final score 15-12.
Winning College captain Alice
Liberman said “We had great fun
playing our varsity match. The game
was fairly even and a good challenge
both teams could learn from. We very
much appreciated the opportunity
to play at the stoop and would like to
thank all the supporters who cheered
us on!”.
Elisabeth Robinson, captain of the
Medics team said “As a team we were
very pleased with our performance
despite losing. In the first half our
defence was relentless, three held up
tries later and IC still didn’t score. If
it hadn’t been a cheeky IC break, final
scores may’ve been different.
“In the second half we dominated,
rarely venturing into the ICSM half
and bringing the score back up to a
respectable 15-12.
“Keeping the pressure up was
gruelling, especially as IC had lots
of subs. But we had an epic time and
can be proud of a game of rugby well
played.”
The College scored two of their tries with big breaks from near the halfway line Photo: Ben Lester, throughbenslens.co.uk
MVP Katherine Fok was indispensable with the boot for the Medics Photo: Ben Lester, throughbenslens.co.uk

