10 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
20.03.2015 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 11
20.03.2015
FELIX
Editor Philippa Skett
Features Editor Ben Howitt
Features
features.felix@imperial.ac.uk Editor Philippa Skett
Features
features.felix@imperial.ac.uk Features Editor Ben Howitt
George Butcher investigates the mental health support at Imperial
What does it mean to have a mental
health problem at Imperial?
If you have 400 Facebook friends
aged 16 to 24, the chances are
that 14 of them have generalised
anxiety disorder, 35 of them have
self-harmed and 24 of them have
attempted suicide. Over our life time,
a quarter of us will suffer from a
mental health problem.
Felix has investigated what it means
to have a mental health problem at
Imperial. We’ve interviewed several
students who have used the system,
and also to members of staff who
provide help in one form or another.
Based on students’ experiences, we’ve
followed the route they might take
through Imperial’s support system.
The front line of help is the
personal tutor. In most departments,
every academic and some post-docs
are expected to take this role. Some
students we’ve spoken to found their
personal tutor incredibly supportive;
others said they didn’t know them;
and others that they were actively
unhelpful. Although new personal
tutors receive training, long-standing
tutors often rely purely on past
experience. Whilst the vast majority
of personal tutors are extremely
helpful, they still need support too.
Often a personal tutor will direct
a student to the student counselling
service. It’s a confidential service
provided free to students – and we
have heard of people who had a very
good experience, but also from those
who didn’t benefit from counselling.
It’s not for everyone and shouldn’t be
seen as the only option.
Every student we spoke to had
visited the Imperial Health Centre
and for most, it was the turning
point in their experience. Whilst
NHS operated, it receives funding
and support from Imperial. The GPs
are recruited specifically because
of their expertise in working with
young adults and are equipped to
diagnose your problem and refer
you to appropriate treatment, be
it Cognitive Behavioural Therapy
(CBT), psychoanalysis, counselling or
something else.
The funding of the health centre is
currently under review for the first
time in eight years. It is vital that it
is given continued support and its
unique position to help all students
here is recognised. Students we spoke
to who had to move to a different GP
surgery after graduating found the
new treatment was lacking.
It’s getting closer to exam time –
this is the point when students are
most at risk. Imperial’s examination
system is not best set up for ill
students. Whilst it’s possible to resit
an exam you fail whilst ill, if you sit
an exam and pass, even if by a small
amount, it’s not possible to resit that
exam without retaking the entire
year. This places an added stress on
students; should they sit the exam
anyway and hope they do ok or drop
out and try again in September?
Registry should allow students with
a known problem to resit exams in
September, even if they passed the
first time.
Often students turn to the Union’s
Advice Centre. Run by staff, this
is a useful service for students to
get impartial advice when their
department can’t help. However,
despite having a Deputy President for
Welfare, and welfare representatives
in every constituent union (CGCU,
ICSMSU etc), no students are given
any formal training. This is a missed
opportunity to create a peer support
network.
There are many people doing
good work at Imperial, be it at the
counselling service, the health centre
or academic departments. But there is
room to improve still. Personal tutors
should be encouraged to take up more
training. The Health Centre and the
Counselling Service need the support
to run the services they provide at
minimal waiting times. Registry
should change the way it treats ill
students who sit exams anyway,
rather than needlessly adding more
stress or pressure at a time when it is
most unhelpful. The Union should
continue its good work at the advice
centre, but should also make an
effort to train its student welfare
representatives.
Our mental health is something
we all have a part in, and we should
all – students, staff and academics –
continue to improve one another’s.
Health Centre
Every student we spoke to had used
Imperial Health Centre at some point in
their journey and their experiences were all
positive.However,there are concerns that
the relationship between Imperial and the
Health Centre could be weakened.
Having a health centre closely linked to the
University is a huge advantage.They are able
to work closely with the counselling service
and the disability advisory service to get
students to the right help quickly.
They’re used to Imperial students with
mental health problems; a GP we spoke to
had seen six new students with a mental
health problems that week alone.They have
existing links with Imperial’s senior tutors,
and know who to speak about a particular
students’needs.It makes absolute sense for
this service to be linked to Imperial.
Imperial funds the health centre so that it’s
able to treat all Imperial students,not just
those who live outside of its NHS catchment
area.However,a recent College review
recommended that students see GPs local
to their area.It remains to be seen if this
recommendation will be adopted.
This would be extremely bad for students’
welfare.Students living further from Imperial
are more vulnerable by the nature of being
further out; and this will be more relevant
when 650 freshers move into North Acton
next year.
Every student we spoke to who had received
treatment both at the Health Centre and at
other GP surgeries found the help at Imperial
vastly better.
One student said,“I was in Battersea–I took
two months to get CBT...I went to the health
centre to see a GP and it was much quicker,
three or four weeks.”
Another said,“I moved out of the London
jurisdiction and had to redo the process...it
was then a complete nightmare”.
Our investigation would challenge the
recommendation that students are better
getting treatment elsewhere.Mental health
treatment is not equal across NHS surgeries
and all students deserve equal access to
treatment irrespective of where they live.
Counselling Service
The counselling process invites you to discuss
any issue troubling you with someone trained
to listen and respond to you.It gives people
the opportunity to air problems that till then
have been stuck inside them.There’s nothing
you can tell them they haven’t heard before.
One student told us that when they went,
the service was“a huge help”.However,by its
nature,counselling doesn’t provide practical
advice.This can sometimes be frustrating,
one student said,“they told me that my
problems were too big for them to handle”.
It’s important that the counselling service
works with the health centre to help all
students.
Last year they saw 540 students,which was
an increase of 6.7% the previous year.College
is responding to this need; the counselling
service tell us they’re hoping to increase the
number of appointments and decrease their
waiting times.
College is expanding the role of the
counselling service to also provide‘mentors’
who can give students practical advice to
deal with problems.This will take effect next
academic year.
Advice for other students
We asked students we met what advice
they would give to other students in similar
situations to them.The overwhelming
opinion was that whilst,“when you are
depressed,it’s easy to feel that there’s
nothing that can be done”,it was important to
realise that this wasn’t the case.
The stigma around mental health makes
it harder to come forwards.“It’s hard to talk
about it–it’s really competitive–makes
you feel weak,that you can’t handle it like
everyone else”.One student said,“The main
problem is lack of awareness and students’
lack of willingness to talk about it”.Breaking
through this stigma and telling someone
about your problem is the hardest part.But
when people did,it undoubtedly helped.
A recent graduate said to,“Talk to people,
definitely someone academically.I’d also talk
to some of your friends.”Speaking to friends
can be difficult; it’s difficult to know how
people will react and sometimes it’s not the
reaction you want.One student said,“I was
sleeping loads,I was self harming...it was a
pretty horrible time but I managed to hide it
from everyone,it came as a shock when I told
some of my friends.”
They told the story of when they spoke
to their new partner,“someone asked me
out–I panicked and said yes...spent the
whole day worrying I had to tell them...
ended up blurting it out...it was horrible,but
incredibly helpful”.People around you may
also be able to give you advice,“my boyfriend
suggested I go to the doctor so I went to the
health centre...I saw the GP there who was
fantastic”.
Academic departments
“[Revising was] the first time I thought of
dropping out of university–but my personal
tutor was very supportive,the undergraduate
department was great”.
Departments play a big part in our mental
health.Often the triggers come from a
student’s degree,and the senior tutors and
undergraduate offices are very experienced
at helping students with problems.
Speaking to a personal tutor was for many
a surprisingly positive experience.Others
hadn’t built a relationship with their tutor
so they spoke to the senior tutor or another
supervisor.It’s important to remember
that since mental health problems are so
common at Imperial,the departments have
a huge amount of experience helping (yes,
genuinely) helping students like you.
“Tell the department–they can do so much
more than you think”said one student,“the
department are experienced,you’re not the
first person to have problems”said another.
Sadly not all personal tutors are as helpful
as they could be,“I think I’ve been quite
lucky with a personal tutor...a friend’s tutor
just asked a group“so is anyone considering
suicide?””The senior tutors in particular
are well supported by the other services at
Imperial.“I was never expecting a shoulder to
cry on–but [my personal tutor] was good to
get direction from”.
The departments are of course crucial to
speak to at exam times.If you sit an exam
and pass it–even if only just and you have an
extenuating circumstances–it’s not possible
to resit that exam without retaking the year.
This is unfair and puts an un-needed stress on
students at exam times.
One student we spoke to sat their exams
after being persuaded to do so by their
department.“I cracked on the first day [of
exams],I wanted to drop out of the year,it
took a lot of persuasion to get me to not do
that...Very last minute they got me a room to
myself...I took all my exams in solitary...the
exams were shit–but I passed every single
one! (Well apart from one)”.Of course they
hadn’t done as well as they deserved and
went on to retake the entire year,but taking
them had nonetheless helped at the time.
Departments don’t always work,in which
case the College Tutors are the best place to
turn as they are external to the department.
Every student we spoke to did have a positive
experience from them.
Students can only retake exams if they fail, regardless of the effect of mental health issues. Photo: Neville Miles
Felixasks students
We found strong signs of a stigma around
mental health problems here at Imperial–
which is daft because so many of us suffer
from them.“The main problem is lack of
awareness and students’lack of willingness to
talk about it,”said one student.
A quarter of people suffer from a mental
health problem in their life-time.Since you’re
most likely to do so when you’re young and
under stress,there’s no doubt that many
people you know here suffer from one,even if
you don’t yourself.
“There is a stigma,it’s why I won’t admit it
openly...given how competitive people are in
my year,I think they’ll see it as a weakness.”
This is a common problem faced by students,
but particularly men.For example,depression
affects both genders equally–but 75% of
suicides are men.Another student said,“I
didn’t speak to many people,my flat mate
and my parents,I was embarrassed...My
parents know,my sister knows,my boyfriend
and a couple of my friends”.
People who are not well shouldn’t have the
additional stress of how society around them
judges them.
Reducing stigma is a big part of the
‘Mentality’campaign (a Union initiative)–but
it’s something we should all play our part
in.“Educate yourself”was a simple solution
offered by one student.It’s not hard to learn a
bit about common mental health problems.
Don’t look down on it and be supportive to
someone who comes to you.If someone’s
brave enough to talk to you about their
health,respect them for it and take them
seriously.
It’s not easy to bring up someone’s health.
One student said,“even now I recognise
symptoms in other people,but I can’t talk to
them about it...I find it difficult to bring up
even if I know they’re struggling”.
Be brave–talk about mental health. Left: Imperial College Health Centre received positive comments across the board. Right: if personal tutors aren’t giving the support you
need, you can also speak to year or College tutors. Photo: Jody Kingzett (left), Karsten Seipp (right)
College-supported external support is available from Wise, SANE and the Samaritans, and
Imperial College Union have recently launched a mental health campaign, ‘Mentality’.
Photo: Daniel Fryer
Is there a mental health stigma?

