E T T E H S
Dear Sir,
Looking from my Southside window,
I am disgusted by the litter to be seen
diaf ignring the face of Princes hardens.
The usual imbeciles are to feline - the
irresponsible, untidy and despicable dart-
throwers. Cannot something "be done about
these anti-social menaces ?
Writing the day after, the axmuS,
Aeronautical Society Dart Contest however,
I in no way blame them, for they cleared .
up their mess in a moat praiseworthy Muu*r«
Tours faithfully,
M. B. Sogers
(368, Keogh)
1 m m
BSSRS
She British Society for Social Res- .
ponsibility in Science, founded by a
group of scientists #10 sought to do
something about the increasing brutality
and menace of science, held its* inaug-
ural conference at th® Roval Society
last Saturday* Addresses were given on
"the drift from science" and attention w
s
drawn to th© isolationism of scientists,
which has lead to errors in government and
public decisions* Members were shocked
to hear of the use of the social. soienose,.
often unconsciously, to suppress dem-
ocratic ideas e.g. in the US, A number
of plans for action by the BSSRS were put
forward and i t was agreed the* society
could not afford to be timid, Politic-
al and educational activity were discussed.
The aims of BSSRS include the stimul-
ation of awarenes a of science's social
sigdfficance and the effect of politico-
economic pressures on i t . They intend
to urge the reform of science education
at a l l levels, ICO students can join
BSSRS at a special 10/~ rate (forms
from the Union Office)«
IC's Br» Stephen Rose, a founder member
©f BSSRS, has recently been" appointed to
the chair of Moohemistry at the Open
University,
P h y s i c s 1 S w i m
Ireparations are well adv&need
for the Phys. I Channel Swim. J.Bowler,
R, Fisher, P. lonnen, P. Sfarwoodj, J*Singh,
and V, steiner hope to leave France on
the 3rd, 4-th or 5th of Slay to raise money
for Carnival. Southern T.Y. are h®2|>isfg
with publicity ©n 2nd May but beoanas af
£1J0 expenses more sponsors are needed.
So far, a clear £120 have been raided and.
Stev® Cann, Phys. I, is keen to find more,'
arm
O
Sweden
Delegates from I.C* arc- urgent-
ly needed to attend a conference from 28th
Sept, to 5th Oct, organised by the Lund
Institute ©f leohnology in Sweden te MB*
pare the technical education of European
"countries, I.C. has been invited to send
2 delegates,, one each from Slec. Eng. and
Civ. Eng, who must have studied here for
at least 2 years. AH expenses will be
covered in Lund, Apart from discussions
and lectures, there will be two parties,
dinners, travel arouag Southern Sweden,
and several free afternoons and evening*
Anyone interested should see Mas Eughea
in the Union Office as soon as possible,
preferably before tomorrow.
France
Students are aLs© required to
take part in two events in France this
summer, organised by the Central Bureau
for E&uteatioaal Visits am ^XS&ahgea.
The first is she International Youth Keot-
inge of Avignon during July* fbe other
is th® offer of free places to t
*
@ British
Students to visit various parts of France.
Details of these and a i l ftthar
exchange schemes can be seen in the Union,
Travel Bureau, open Monday 1.0 - 2,0 p,m,
and Thursday 1*0 - 2, J) p.m. in Coassittee
Room B (next to the bar) or from the
Central Bureau for Educational Visits and
Exchanges at $1 Victoria Street, S.W.l.
COMMITTEE MISS
I.C. "PROTESTERS"
Sub-Committee C of the Bu?lia-
mentary Select Committee on Education ant
Science enquiry into 'student relations'
popularly said to be enquiring into stud-
ent protest, has postponed a proposal
visit to I.C. yesterday, 3 M ooraaittee
including Fred Willey and Van Straubenaese
asked to meet 'a wide-spread of opinion
from staff, students and the authorities*•
The staff reps, were t© have included
Brofs. Coles and Ford, Dr. Sewey (A0f
Secretary) and Sinclair Gkxjdlad, the aut-
horitiesincludod Lords Sherfield and
Penney and Dave Harris. ICU President
Sox Lowin ohtsa Lilas Campion, Martin
Bland, Dermott Gorr, Rob Colling©, Jon
Shields and himself as 'representative* cf
student opinion. Members of the
left-wing have expressed surprise 'chat
the committe© will not meet any real pro-
teaters.

