T H E F A C T S
The laws of different regions have some things in common: robbery and murder,
for example are practically always forbidden. This is because people are practically
unanimous about certain rights, which are called human rights becase we possess
them in virtue of our humanity, independently of the law. As well as necessarily
embodying many less fundamental rights, laws unfortunately often fail to protect
human rights and even threaten or deny them. An example of a denial in national law is
the apartheid laws of South Africa; an example of a failure to protect in international
law is the United Kingdom's suspension of its obligation to respect some of the most
important rights in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, including
the right to freedom of expression. There are also countless cases in which govern-
ments and their agents abuse human rights in breach of their own laws.
The rights most worth citing in practice are legal ones, since those in power are
usually constrained by nothing else short of violence, and discussion of more theore-
tical rights tends to be prolonged. But human rights can be worth citing even when
they are not legally binding, firstly as a step to their incorporation into law and
secondly because of governments' occasional sensitivity to public opinion.
The task of enforcing and improving the laws related to human rights, which is
neglected or opposed by most governments, is undertaken by different organisations
at the global and local scales. The most important defender of fundamental rights on a
global scale is Amnesty International, founded by a British lawyer, Peter Beneson, and
others, as a result of their observation that governments accused of abuses of human
rights often took the trouble to issue denials, thereby showing themselves sensitive to
public opinion. The organisation was founded to implement the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights and the principal activity of its individual members is to send, three
times a month, tens of thousands of letters from 150 countries reminding a govern-
ment of its duties towards a non-violent citizen imprisoned for his opinions. The
success of this method, which is due partly to the large numbers and partly to its being
applied only to the most indisputable violations, is the main example in the world of
effective non-legal defence of human rights.
O n the national scale other organisations try to respect for human rights in
the ordinary law. The main one in Britain is the National Council for Civil Liberties,
which also provides individual legal help to the victims of unjust or misapplied laws and
reports illegal acts by the police. Like each of the national sections of Amnesty
International, the N C C L has a head office and its members may also be members of a
local, group.
Charles Penman
SOCIALIST SOCIETY
T H E 'DISAPPEARED PRISONERS'
The 'disappeared prisoner' is the name we
give to members of our families who have
been taken from our homes, in front of our
eyes, or in their work places, colleges and
universities, with eye witnesses or strong
proof of their detention. The people who
detained them were members of the military
intelligence services. They are being held in
secret and all our efforts, such as writs of
habeas corpus, affidavits of kidnapping, and
letters and interviews with government
officials, have been flung back in our faces
with the following answer: 'The person has
never been detained.' There are variations
such as: 'He has left the country.' or 'He has
gone into hiding.' 'He has been kidnapped by
a band of extremists' and so forth.
This is of the many appeals by the families
of the 'disappeared' in Chile. But this is not
soley a Chilean form of repression. Hitler
invented the method 'Nacht und Nebel',
('night and fog') in 1941 as a means of denying
martyrs to the French Resistance. Detainees
were transported to Germany secretly,
vanishing without trace. There is as yet no
comprehensive record of political 'disappear-
ances' in modern times although sufficient
evidence exists to indicate that this means of
repression is widely used.
But no global survey or legal analysis of the
problem, though clearly of value, could
convey the tormented hope of those who
wait, the parents and friends desperately
trying to find out about their loved ones.
Their experience of loss is real and
immediate and is aggravated by uncertainty.
On the one hand, there are the mass graves
that are occasionally unearthed, and on the
other hcind, the hope that is derived from
reports that a 'disappeared' prisoner has
been seen or heard in custody.
The term 'disappeared' is in quotation
marks because these prisoners have not, in
the usual sense of that word, simply
vanished. Someone knows where they are,
whether they are still in secret custody or in
nameless graves. Someone knows whether
they have been or are being tortured,
whether they died under torture. And there is
someone, in authority, who is responsible!
Page 10
ADOPTED PRISONER
FIRMIN AWADON OF BENIN
The Amnesty International group's adopted
prisoner is Firmin Awadon a student at the
University of Benin, a one-party state in West
Africa. In 1979 the government ordered all
students to work on state farms during the
holidays when they were needed by their
families to work on their own farms.
Consequently there was a strike by the
students that summer which resulted in
indiscriminate arrests at the university.''
Awadon was held for 8 months without any
explanation and he has still not been
charged. From time to time he has been told •
that he is innocent of any crime and is about
to be released. The civil prison of Contonou
where he is held is overcrowded and sewage
is buried in the courtyard although according
to Awadon money is provided for it to be
taken away. Consequently many prisoners
die from preventable illnesses, there being
hardly any medical treatment and no food
except what visitors bring in.
The arrested students have often de-
manded as political prisoners, not to be kept
among violent criminals in the civil prison.
After one of their protests they were beaten
up in the courtyard. Awadon still suffers from
the head injuries which he received.
Firmin Awadon is adopted by three groups
of Amnesty International, the other two
being in West Germany and Italy. Our
activities have consisted of many letters to
his government, some to the prison gover-
nor, a visit to the Beninese embassy in Paris
and aid, such as clothes, books and money to
. him. A letter from the foreign minister inviting
Amnesty International to talks in Benin this
year suggested that the authorities were
embarrassed by the large quanitties of mail
from Amnesty group members and others;
and by the bad name which the press gave
them.
Since last summer there have been hints of
an improvement in Awadon's treatment and
prospects for release and he has been able to
communicate almost openly with us. We
have just learned that he has been admitted
to hospital for treatment of his head injury.
We invite students to help him on 8 and 9
December by writing letters and signing a
petition.
"Okay, okay—have your say, and I'll re-pack your thingsfor
the Hunting Lodge.'
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL
Amnesty International seeks the release of
people imprisoned for their beliefs, who have
not used or advocated violence. It also cam-
paigns for fair trials and against inhuman
punishments.
It is financed by individuals' and groups'
subscriptions and is independent of all gov-
ernments and political parties. Individual
members may belong to one of their
country's local groups, some of which adopt
a prisoner and work for his release.
The Imperial College group's adopted
prisoner is Firmin Awadon of Benin, who has
been detained without charge for four years
because he was thought to have protested at
his government's impositewi of farm labour
on students during the vacation. This year
the group cycled to the nearest Beninese
embassy (in Paris) to raise the matter with
the cultural attache. It continually demands
his release from the Benin authorities and
seeks publicity of the facts to shame the
government.
The group also takes part in the 'urgent
action' scheme for prisoners facing torture or
imminent execution and in special actions
such as the current campaign against
repression and torture by the military
authorities in Uruguay.
The group has a noticeboard outside the
Junior Common Room and meets in the
Brown Committee Room of the Union at
5:30pm every Tuesday. It is showing a film
'AI: Prisoners of Conscience' at 12:45 on 5
December in ME342, and collecting money
on 8 Dec.
ADOPTED PRISONER
ANATOLY SHCHARANSKY
In spite of fashionable (and healthy) criticism
of the 'Western System', there are many
aspects of our lives that we take for granted.
It is assumed that hard work and excellence
in any creative field will be rewarded, whether
it be by professional prestige, or by financial
renumeration. Discrimination by colour,
race or religion is deplored by the vast
majority of people. For such discrimination
to be a policy of the State is unthinkable.
Perhaps most important of all is the
assumption that it is always possible to leave
a country where one is unhappy. Imagine
then living in a country where people of a
particular race are labelled from birth as
being a 'danger to the state', and as being a
legitimate target for persecution. Imagine
living in a country where intellectual
achievement is avoided, for fear of being
drawn attention to, or being made party to
'State secrets'.
Anatoly Shcharansky is a mathematician,
chessmaster and computer scientist who has
had the misfortune of being born a Jew in the
Soviet Union. On graduating from the
Institute of Physics in 1972, he refused to
work in his profession, so as to avoid
'classified' work. He applied for a visa to
Israel in 1973 and was refused, on the pretext
that he had 'access to classified material'.
Over a subsequent period of four years he
served 12 prison sentences, all without
charges. His wife Avital left for Israel on 5
July 1974, the day her visa expired. In May
1976 he became a founder member of the
Committee for the Implementation of the
Helsinki Agreement knowing full well the
risks of speaking up for human rights in the
Soviet Union.
After a period of KGB harrassment, and
slander in the national media, Shcharansky
was arrested on 15 March 1977. Even Soviet
law stipulates that a prisoner may not be held
for more than 9 months without trial.
Shcharansky was held incommunicado for 16
months. At the end of the that time, a trial
was held in a closed court. Leonid
Shcharansky, Jew, scientist, 'traitor of the
motherland', 'Anti-Soviet Agitator', and'Spy'
was sentenced to three years in prison
followed by ten years in labour camp-'strict
regime. He is still serving that sentence,
having been transferred to Christopol
Prison to Perm Camp in March 1980. In his
internment he has been beaten up, put on
starvation diets and spent time in solitary
confinement, in hair-raising conditions. In
January 1979 Shcharansky lay down during
the day (due to sickness) thus breaking a
prison rule. He was placed in a punishment
cell and was deprived of the right to family
visits. By April 1980 he was reported to have
weighed 61
/2 stone, and to look like a prisoner
of Auschwitz. In the meantime his family's
property was confiscated, and his father
died. In 1982 he was held in the notorious
'Kartser' punishment cell for 75 days. This is
considered to be such a severe tribulation
that the maximum period of confinement
allowed by Soviet law is 15 days. The guards
observed this law by letting him out
for three hours every fortnight.
From September 1982 till January 1983
Shcharansky went on hunger strike. In the
face of growing international concern, the
Soviet government realised that he could not
be allowed to die. In the effort to help him
regain his appetite, the prison guards tied him
up, beat him nearly unsconscious, forcefully
pried his mouth open, and pushed food down
his throat. This process caused wounds and
lacerations, which would not heal in his
condition, causing him unbearable pain. '
We, in the free world, must do what little
we can do to help him, and other victims of
oppression behind the iron curtain. His wife
Avital has spoken on his behalf all over the
world. She has had audiences with our Prime
Minister and with foreign ministers from
many countries, in June 1982 she received
the British All Party Parliamentary Award
for Soviet Jewry.
Anatoly Shcharansky will be the subject of
the SCC Human Rights motion on Tuesday
at the UGM. On Wednesday, Vivian Bendall
will be talking to the Conservative Society at
1:00pm, Huxley 340. We shall try to collect a
petition on his behalf. You will be able to see
us, and answer questions at our stall on
Thursday.
NCCL
Most people living in Britain consider this
country to be one where people are relatively
free, the police are humane and the laws are
fair. Most people would be amazed to hear
that Human Rights is an active concern here.
The watchdog for human rights is the
National Council for Civil Liberties. Amnesty
International will only intervene in cases
where someone has been imprisoned for his
views alone, without using or advocating
violence. NCCL campaigns include Data
Protection, Equal Pay, Capital Punishment,
Rubber and Plastic Bullets, Illegal acts by the
Police and Gay Rights. There is also a vast
amount of NCCL literature on all aspects of
Human Rights, which is all very reasonably
priced.
NCCL has a small full time staff in London
and a network of local groups throughout the
country. Subscriptions and donations fund
all NCCL operations. Membership is £7.00
for students, and members receive the
newspaper Rights quarterly. NCCL is the
only permanent and independent organisa-
tion in Britain working to protect and extend
your civil liberties. It urgently requires the
help and support of everyone who can give it.
For more details write to NCCL, 21 Tabard
Street, London SE1 4LA.
FELIX Friday, 2 December, 1983
I Page 11

