Mens 2 v UC won 5-4
Four players arrived for our team, as we had
this down as an easy win. The vermin,
however, turned out their first team and IC
were in trouble. The heroic Sports Editor,
meanwhile, was persuading his mate, John,
who hadn't played for seven years, to turn
out.
With IC deep in the shit, the cavalry arrived
and promptly lost theirfirsttwo games! Their
second game, however, inspired the team to
great heights of brilliance, as they came
within an ace of beating UC'sfirstteam's best
pair.
At this stage, IC were 4-2 down, but an
inspired team clawed their way back into the
game, winning all their last three games
despite being miles behind in all three.
Afterwards, a jubilant team celebrated in
'the Sun', which ended up with Phil trying to
lie down on the tracks, and later puking on
the tube, and John (no, not me!) causing great
embarrassment to a girl called Yvonne who
turned out to be from Tizard staircase 4!
What a small world. Yvonne, if you want to
see John again, leave a note for me in the
FELIX Office, and I'll give you his room
number!
Mixed 1 v LSE won 5-4
Dear Mr Scott
I am glad to see that you are at last showing
your victims some mercy. The constant
stream of 9-0 victories were examples of the
capitalist profit motive at its most hideous.
The worst excesses of capitalism and
imperialistic degradation, also manifest
themselves in Anne's compulsive eating,
Jane's chainsmoking, Janet's disgustingly
short skirts, Dominic Demento's insanity,
Steve's haircut and Lee's complacency.
I beg you to change your ways or we of the
Penguin's Republic of Tierra del Fuego will
have no other recourse than to take up chess.
Yours sincerely
Fish Lieutenant Salvadore Winston Puke
Mens 3 v St St Georges
After three 9-0 victories and one 8-1 victory
so far this season, St Georges thought they
were in for an easy time. They hadn't
reckoned on the underhand nature of our
club however. Careful team selection meant
that three first team players were eligible to
play, as well as one other second teamer. The
look on the once confident St Georges faces
. as shuttles flew past (and into) their ears with
awesome power, was a joy to behold, as was
the curry we had afterwards.
As a matter of fact, our normal third team
would have thrashed them, so it wasn't really
worth the fuss.
The Chess Club have chickened out of then
challenge darts match against us. As I have
already branded them as Horlicks Drinkers, I
shall have to go really over the top and
denounce them as listeners to Peter Powell! If
that doesn't provoke them, nothing will.
No badminton tonight, next Monday or next
Friday. Still, never mind, there's always the
Club meal, Thurs 8th Dec. Names to John
Scott via Chem pigeonholes.
Page f4 M B H B H H B ^ ^ H H B H H i
I didn't see where the first shot came from,
and I wasn't going to hang around for the
second. Just a 'zing' as the bullet ricocheted
off a boulder, followed by the lazy echoing
boom of the explosion.
I pulled on my ski goggles, and sped off
down the glacier, zig-zagging to make things
as difficult as possible for the marksman. Out
of the corner of my eye, I saw movement,
above and to my left. Skiers! Coming out of
the forest, obviously trying to cut me off. I
only hope Pierre had been able to sabotage
the helicopter and the cablecar.
Christ! I slew desperately to the right as an
allegation of plagarism from the Sci Fi Soc
exploded dead in front of me. At this rate I
wouldn't make it back to England in time for
the Ski Club pre-holiday dinner, on 8
December. Meet 7:45pm Southside Lounge.
It was then that I saw the crevasse
(Michael Heseltine)
IC vs Kings won 968-942
Last Wednesday IC's top sporting club (piss
off-Sports Ed) shot against Kings College in
what has now become an annual grudge
match. Both teams fielded members of the
national squad (Gordon 'Ton' Bowser is still
awaiting selection), so obviously there was
going to be some first class shooting on
display.
Geoff Kolbe (IC) opened with 197, other
members of ICRPC weren't quite up to this
• standard, but Tom Figgs and Gordon (Club
Captain, contact via Elec Eng letter-racks)
both shot 194. Other scores for IC were A
Hamilton 192.5, S Harrison 191, and club
alcoholic G Jones 183 (not counted).
Matthew Guille (kings) showed himself up by
shooting 197 after telling everyone he would
get 200. The rest were below the standard we
normally expect from Kings (ie crap).
Forthcoming attractions: club handicap
knockout—Steve will buy a pint for the
person who knocks Huggs out in the first
round. Club dinner is on 7 December. This
event is not to be missed. More details down
at the range.
; Hockey
A strong third squad voyaged to Norbury in
anticipation of playing the Bank of England.
However on arrival we were informed that
due to a megacock-up by the Mr X the fixture
was not here but at Roehampton. As the pubs
were also shut at this time were were not
amused! Watch out next week for 'the
revenge of the thirds'.
IC First XI Rap
Didn't you miss out a 'c' there?-Sports Ed
On Saturday, we did go
To the foreign climes of Walthamstow
It's a rap, it's a rap
London Hospital there to meet,
Who without doubt we'd surely beat,
It's a rap, it's a rap
The kick off we nearly missed,
'Cos most of us were all still pissed
It's a rap, it's a rap
Dave Griff 'woke up still quite tight
And in his state, couldn't find the light
Neither could he find the door,
So he pissed all over his bedroom floor,
It's a rap, it's a rap
With our 'Carnival' skipper barely alive,
He wasn't in bed till half past five,
It's a rap, it's a rap
Looked very tired, did 'young gun' Rob,
He's spent his evening on the job,
Whoo! Whoo! It's a wham rap!
Even before we had awoken
Our defences had been broken
It's a rap, it's a rap
A corner — a shot — Aled's ball,
But fortunately that's not all,
To counter-attack we were set,
But alas he threw it in the net,
It's a rap, it's a rap
Their no 9 thought he was in the hunt
But like the ref, was a great big c~t,
It's a rap, it's a rap
In the second half, we controlled the game,
Bu the scoreline remained the same,
We f—king lost! We were crap!
This is the end of the IC Rap.
(Sung to the tune of any Wham! hit—see Rob
Clarke, Mech Eng 1, for details.)
IC II v RSM I
Sat 26 Nov
Score 1-1
True to current form, IC started off badly and
allowed a competent RSM attack to notch up
an early pigskin between the posts.
As the first half progressed, the defence
settled down under the guidance of Ron
Wiggins. Barry Tuzio and Bob Dhillon had
an excellent game leaving keeper, Paul
Simpson, with little to do.
The midfield quartet of 'Biggies' Brady,
'Chopper' Wadsowrth, 'Skin' Johnson and
David Hardy held a very strong RSM
midfield by sheer industry and commitment.
Five minutes into the second half, IC
returned some of the RSM pressure leading to
a Steve Rimmer corner being slammed home
by the ominpresent Tony Wilkinson. In the
final stages of the game Steve Rimmer and
Jim Downing gave the RSM defence a lot of
trouble and both were lucky not to score.
At the end of the day, cliches aside, both
sides are to be congratulated on an excellent
game of football with the 1-1 scoreline
reflecting a well-balanced match.
'Roving Raconteur' David Hardy
{Friday, 2 December, 19831 \FELIX

