Allom Cup Regatta
The Allom Cup Regatta for U L colleges was
held last Saturday on the Thames at
Chiswick. The major success of the day was
the Women's Novice Four who won their first
ever event. Having spent all last year training
and racing enthusiastically, they finally put
everything together when it mattered and
cruised to victory in every round.
The men's first novice eight won one race
but were beaten in the second round. The
second eight had difficulties when one
oarsmen fell off his seat and lost in their first
race.
Novice Sculler Andy Wright and the pair
Steinlechner and Bowden lost to members of
the ULBC squad.
Vesta Winter Regatta
Back at Putney the first VIII was competing
in Elite B VIII's at Vesta Winter Regatta over
a 1,000m course. In the first round IC beat
Vesta RC by 1 '/4 lengths despite having lost '/2
length on the start due to the some dustbins
stearing by the cox Harrison.
In the final against Thames RC the cox did
it again nearly losing the race by taking the
Middlesex bend far too wide. Fortunately
strokeman Downing had other ideas and the
eight sprinted in to win by 3 feet—a bit too
close for comfort.
Secretary's Report:
The Bowling Club A team again proved the
staying power of IC when they made their
annual trip to Birmingham for the gruelling
12-hour marathon. After 22 games, they were
pleasantly surprised to find that they had
beaten two teams from traditional rivals
Brunei. Individiual accolades go to Yoga
Shan for placing well in a very strong field
from all over England. The highlight of the
rip, however, was during the return leg, when
our captain, Mark Stanley, scored well; the
exhausted opposition putting up only token
resistence.
On Wednesday 23 November a rather
depleted team travelled to Shooters Hill for
the third London Colleges League Race.
After the first two races IC was first in the first
divison and fourth in the second division.
Due to some missing runners, the remainder
had to fight to maintain these positions. It
was a cold day and the course very hilly,
which seemed to suit Jon Lea because he
finished 13th out of about 170 runners.
However, the other pitiful souls either tired
from weekend races or fighting injury ran less
well. Still, it seems lady luck is on our side
] because our closest rivals were missing a team
member, so rumour has it. Next term there
are two more LCL races which we would like
to win so we could do with some support.
The next race is tomorrow at Leeds, where
last year we won some beer for travelling so
far. If you fancy running its not too late to
sign up—see the noticcboard at the bottom of
the stairs in the Union Building.
IC 2nd X V vs Saracens 1st C) XV
Won 6-0
Fifteen corpses eventually showed up on
Saturday morning (after having an average
four hours sleep) and followed Mark Hudson
on to the pitch; his bleached locks the only
object which could be focused on through
bloodshot eyes. IC seemed to shake off their
hangovers in the first ten minutes and had
stormed ahead by the end of the first quarter
with two lokng (but straight) penalties by M
Hudson. IC dominated the rest of the first
half but failed to improve the points tally due
in the main to a novel interpretation of the
laws by the referee.
"»In the second half it was the same old story
of club sides forwards dominating due to
superior strength and size. In the last 20
minutes Saracens had a succession of five
yard penalties but ferocious tackling by IC
prevented them from scoring. Then to the
relief of everyone the final whistle signalled
another win for Hudson's heroes all of whom
proceeded to die in the changing rooms.
IC 1st X V 17 Saracens 10
Dave McGee's men looked tired and
dishevelled. Battle-weary and exhausted,
hardly able to summon an ounce of strength
to over-worked muscles. Yes, the Carnival
had certainly taken it out of the team when we
met on Saturday morning!
Despite muscular opposition to physical
exertion (known as the Mark Hipsey
Syndrome), we set about our task with much
fire, determination and many Medisport pep
pills. The first setback came when the ref
awarded them a penalty, the first of many
(ahem) interesting decisions. Undaunted, our
reply was swift, when a bouncing ball was
quickly snaffled up by Mark (Baby Face)
Hassle to score in the corner. The 'Sarrys'
quickly replied with a try and penalty to take
the lead.
A penalty (yes, we WERE given one) pulled
us within one point and it stayed this way
until the last ten minutes, when Mark (not
Rotten Row again! Hipsey linked with a fine
run from 'Daddy' Davies, to score in the
corner. The game was sealed in the last few
minutes when Paul (Greased Lightning)
Seccombe left us (and the ref) to cheer him on
as he kicked up the line and fell over onto the
ball.
Charlie (Why does everyone pick on me?)
De Rohan was the victim of a vicious and
unprovoked attack, but all in all it was a fine
revenge for last week's tonking at Blackheat
Dust Bowl.
Just when you thought it was safe to go
back onto the rugby pitch, there came a more
terrifying and hideous danger—ICRFC.
IC v Borough Road 67-64
| After annihilating Hackney College 97-21 in
a friendly match we ventured out to Isleworth
to take on the most consistent team in the
league who hadn't lost in God knows how
long.
They opened the socring but soon realised
I we were not going to submit easily. It took
seven minutes for us to push ahead, and from
then on we never looked back.
Another Scott Brodrick American special
right on half time gave us a six point lead, and
the first five minutes of the second half saw
possibly the best basketball an Imperial
College team has ever produced when we
steamrollered to a 16 point lead.
The game looked sealed but it was from it.
Borough Road ground down our lead until it
looked as if we had blown it when they were
one point behind, with possession and 50
seconds to play. But a tight defense and a
calm basket from the Iceman Ken Jarret
brought about our historic victory.
Credit must be given to our coach 'H' who
held the team together when the pressure was
on.
Water
Ski 1
1
1
' On Sunday 7 December we will be launching
our new boat onto the Thames at Bayswater.
Thanks are extended to the Canoe Club for
their generous loan and help with modifica-
tion. This will be our main boat until next
year, when we will seek to acquire a larger
towing boat.
Cricket
In last week's orgasmic episode, Ted Helsby
received a National Health Service enema, and
. Phil Eastland got nicked for a double murder.
Read on, if you can
Captains Log
Star Date 26.6.83
Best remembered for Phil 'Chunder King'
> Eastland's epitath to a pub which had just
i held some adult games. Also remembered for
| Steve Barnett achievement of talking for fif-
|teen minutes to non-English speaking, per-
I plexed German girls, before he realised they
did not understand a word.
On entering Chinese establishment asked
take off shoes and socks, to prevent
'/ always stop at the tense moments, don't I?
• This serial is almost as exciting as 'Jackanory't
Will the rancid barefeet on display make the
food go off? Find out next week,

