Faulty Fremantle
The details of the Fremantle story are still not clear. The Union are ref jsing
to comment so all we have is Andy Walker's side of the story. He claims that
Michael Arthur told Gaynor to get rid of him because he was doing too good
a job of trying to improve conditions at the Fremantle.
Much as I would like to believe Andy Walker's story his account doesn't
really hold water. Undoubtedly the friction between himself and Michael
Arthur had a large part to play in his departure. However he was probably
asked to leave over an incident which we will probably never find out about.
Andy Walker's allegations against Michael Arthur may just be sour grapes
but nevertheless dp bear some examination.
As Warden of the Fremantle, Andy Walker certainly has been banging his
head against a brick wall when dealing with Michael Arthur. For all his faults
as Warden, Andy Walker has genuinely been concerned about the condition
of the Fremantle to the extent of calling in surveyors behind Michael Arthur's
back and leaking stories to FELIX.
Part of Michael Arthur's job is to obtain and fill as many new residences as
possible and he will react strongly against any moves to have any of the
rooms closed on the grounds that they are uninhabitable. Michael Arthur
may be arrogant and may run head tenancies like the Gestapo but he does
have a problem in that he has two contradictory jobs. On the one hand he has
to act as the College landlord, which entails filling rooms, collecting money
and, in extreme cases, evicting people. On the other hand, he is in charge of
the Union's Welfare Service, attempting to improve conditions for students
and help them with any legal problems they may have (including hassles with
landlords).
In light of the constant problems students have had with Michael Arthur,
not only this year but ever sincejie became a College employee, the Union
should think about dividing the two jobs completely. There is quite clearly a
conflict of interests. Let College employ someone to deal with the running of
student residences while the Union employ someone (preferably not Michael
Arthur) to deal with student welfare independent of College.
FELIX
There will not be a FELIX next Friday. There will be a special Christmas
issue on the following Wednesday. Any help in collating on Monday evening
(8:00pm) will be much appreciated. From now on there will be a new policy in
publishing articles and adverts. Priority will be given to those clubs which
supply people to collate (usually done 9:00pm Thursday evenings).
If you have got a FELIX then count yourself lucky. The regular printer has
fallen ill so I have had to reduce the print run in order to get FELIX out on
time. Please pass on my apologies (and this copy of FELIX when you have
finished with it) to any of your friends who haven't got a copy.
Credits
J Martin Taylor, Simon Neild, Diane Love, Jon Jones, Hugh Southey, Claire
Moss, Jon Burgess, Carolyn Aldred, Robin Graham, Steve Barnett, Charles
Penman, Ulysses, Nick Shackley, Miranda Bellchambers, Michael Newman,
Tim Noyce, Guy Riddihough, Maz, Tony the Temp and all the collators.
Pallab Ghosh
UNIVERSITY PRIZE CROSSWORD
1 9 8 3
COLLINS DICTIONARIES offer prizes of a copy of Collins English
Dictionary (value £ 1 1 . 9 5 ) for each of the first TWO correct solutions
opened from those submitted by readers of this magazine. In addition,
all winners' names will go into a National University Magazine Draw, the
winner to receive £ 100 worth of Collins books of his or her choice.
In tries must be postmarked not later than 15th December 1983 and sent
to Collins Publishers, P.O. Box, Glasgow G4 0NB, marked University
Prize Crossword.
1 2 3 4 5 6 I 7 e
9
i4~~ 16
2
1
2 4 1
26
N A M E
A D D R E S S
U N I V E R S I T Y ! '. '.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.['.'.'.'.'.'//.'.'.'.'.[ I
ACROSS DOWN
1 Nymph pursued by Altheus thus 1 Lively piece performed in hall,
enters region (8) e.g. rondo (7)
5 Diarist evenly moving North (6) 2 Immoderate former tax I have
9 How fortunate Dixon was as reduced (9)
university lecturer (5,3) 3 Astronomer often consulted
10 Queen's tutor in role of Dr. by card-players (5)
Johnson? (6) 4 Place for the Open University
12 English critic and poet included (5,7)
in Hugo's selection (S) 6 Roman emperor gives new order
13 Reference work authors use, to save Spain (9)
perhaps - nothing's omitted 7
Composer finds king hard-
(10) hearted (5)
14 One fulfils light entrance 8 Greek goddess in Meissen pieces
requirement for Oxford college (7)
(5) I 1 Eric Blair — saint or oil-
16 Gazing into pool, he made a producer? (6,6)
bloomer (9) 15 Monstrous work of Hobbes (9)
18 Pound for this sort of poetry'? 17 Collection of scholarly contribu-
Yes, oddly enough (4,5) tions written by Plato (9)
19 Site of ancient games, where 18 Few university teachers, initially,
Hercules strangled lion (5) listen to phonetic alphabet (7)
21 Hostilities leading to fall of 20 Where you'll find a wicked
Paris (6,3) fellow such as Juan? (7)
23 This African tribe has no 22 Hatred, so to speak, for this
corruption (5) old music-hall (5)
24 Mohammed's favourite wife 23 So records turned up for rocky
- she who must be obeyed (6) Egyptian tomb (5)
25 Prophetic complaint (8)
26 Kipling's hero has on ring
worn by Japanese (6)
27 Ostentatious old boy of Rugby'.' I
(R) :
This week's puzzle is Collins' University Prize Cross-
word. Notice that the solution to 13 Across has 9
letters not 10. See, we're not the only ones who make
misprints!
FFl IX is aubtished bv the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit Prince c
?n
sortRd,SW7
T ^ ^ M t l ^ n l J m o7irtJrn^2S81. Editor] Pallab K Ghosh; Business Manaser:PeterRod3ers;AdvertismgManaSerM^^

