By
Juvenal
It was a quiet morning in Cheapskate, with
the Baron still absent since he was being
wined and dined by the neighbouring rulers.
The citizens were hard at toil for over an
hour. The large kettles in Surefield were
being filled in preparation for the morning's
drinking. And in the citizens office, the
President-Gormless Layon—was having dif-
ficulty with her knitting.
'Damn, I've dropped another stitch,' she
wailed. 'If only The Witch was here. Pristine is
so much better at knitting than I am, she's
doing everything else for me, I'm sure she'd
do my knitting too.'
It was at the very moment that this thought
ran through Gormless' mind that the
Bitch—whoops—Witch of Southside rode in
on her broomstick. She rested against a
large, locked cupboard that took up so much
of the room ' n
the cramped office and mused,
as she did every morning, why it was that she
did not get a citizen's permit to park like all
the other of the citizens represenatives.
'Don't leave it there, darling,' cried Mrs
Jolly Hockey-Sticks, 'it'll stop us geting at the
drinks.'
'Don't mention such potions,' wailed The
Witch, as she rested her head upon her large,
newly purchased desk.
'Why ever not,' replied Mrs Sticks,
offended by the snapish reply she had
received.
'I was drinking with the citizens last night,'
said the Witch as she slowly rubbed her
aching forehead.
'You should stick to sherry, dear, you
never get a hangover after drinking that,' said
Mrs Hockey Sticks who was an expert on
such matters.
But the mention of sherry not only affect
the Bitch. Sawnoff Levis also paled at its
mention. He had so looked forward to
working under two women, even if one of
them was gormless and the other looked like
a horse. But their perpetual desire for the
FELIX]
lucrative pickings of their jobs, for the
Baron's feasts where they foolishly agreed to
so many of John Secretary's wishes, and,
most of all, their desire for the evil brew,
sherry, perterbed him.
'If it was Guinness, I might think
differently,' he mumbled, 'but what all those
groats that have been spent, wasted'. Indeed,
only recently had Mrs Sticks purchased a
new stock while pretending it was for the
party at which all the citizens representatives
were entertained.
But the citizensOfficewas not the only part
of the Baron's kingdom that was troubled. In
a room, discreetly tucked away on a remote
part of the land, Dong Lark, the Baron's
Secretary of Estates, was having difficulty
completing his crossword when his identical
twin and deputy, Headbang Cameroon Lark,
appeared at the door being a fearful
expression.
'Expenditure of energy, four letters long,'
mumbled Dong staring, perplexed at the
puzzle.
'Work,' replied Headbang pleased with the
speed of his thought.
'Never heard of the word,' snapped Dong.
Headbang frowned, confused by his
master's reply. He coughed, cleared his
throat, closed his eyes and prepared to
deliver the bad news.
'Something has come up,' he said
nervously.
'Then put some scaffolding around it,'
replied Dong still concentrating on his
puzzle.
'It is about the Citizens' Electrical
Building , said Headbang anxiously.
'What of it?' asked Dong raising his head
from the page for the first time.
'It is crumbling—it's very foundations are
weakening by the hour and it will soon
collapse completely,' wailed Headbang.
'How did you find this out?' screamed
Dong furious that his peaceful morning's
effort on the crossword has been so
disturbed with such trivial news.
'Two of my menials were sent to carry out
urgent repairs to the Baron's castle. Lady
Marigold has complained that the new paving
stones were the wrong colour. But they went
to the Electrical Building instead and while
drinking there some plaster fell on their
heads. The whole place is crumbling,' wailed
Headbang.
This sort of thing wouldn't happen if you
didn't keep sending menials out will-nilly. We
must always be selective about what we do.
Otherwise we'd be mending things all over
the place.'
'It wasn't my fault,' said Headbang, sulking,
'I didn't know that they couldn't follow my
instructions. What are we going to do?'
'Do?' replied Dong, surprised by the
question. 'We'll do what we always do:
nothing.'
• • H i Friday, 2 December, 1983 WOMB
BEHIND
CLOSED DOORS
The Sherfield Mole
• Wallowing in a trough
(or the Council Sherry Party)
Each year the members of Council engage
College Administration in a lively contest on
home ground in the Union Upper Lounge. I
had arrived early to have a glimpse of the
Admin side in training. Team manager
'Honest' John Smith fielded a surprise team
whose leading members were Fred
Hollingshead (fly-half), John Davidson
(hooker), Hermitage and Tavener (full
backs) and Lloyd-Davies (full-up). John
Smith refused to divulge any details
concerning his mystery £25,000 new signing
to fill the difficult position of Services
Manager.
While the training continued I mingled in
the directors box with Lady Flowers and
College Archivist Mrs Pingree. The shrill
doyen of level 4 provided me with expert
knowledge of this fine sport.
However, our attention was distracted by
Mrs Hardy-Smith intoning Jolly Hockey
Sticks, the traditional starting signal with a
quick break a pass went from Hermitage to
Hollingshead, Lloyd-Davies overlapped
brilliantly and went for the line. He placed his
glass on the table with panache and after
being refilled converted with a quick twitch of
his wrist. Thus after only two minutes Admin
led by two sherries to nil. The rest of the first
half was mostly positional play with Tavener
dominating till he could no longer continue
after his personal total exceeded twenty-six.
He was carried off the field by stretcher with
no discernable signs of agony. The IC
fightback was led by play coach Gaynor
Lewis and half-wit Ian Bull. Though I do feel
that the tactic of a joint scrum didn't pay off.
At half time both teams were sponged
down with avocado dip and muched celery.
The second half with both teams beginning to
fall over and talk to tables. Only Lloyd-Davies
continued bringing his fine liver into play. But
it was not needed as Admin romped home 12
cases to 4. Mrs Hardy-Smith secreting the 24
cases left over in the Union sherry cabinet.
I have since heard that ICU are thinking of
replacing their teram manager. Miss Lewis
was too plastered to comment.
Page 5

