'Pack of Lies' by Hugh Whitemore, at the
Lyric Theatre, Shaftesbury Avenue.
Based on a true incident, Pack of Lies is
the story of Bob and Barbara Jackson, a
middle-aged couple leading a contented, if
unambitious life in Ruislip. Until one day
without warning, a gentleman from Whitehall
calls, the enigmatic Stewart. He informs
them that their neighbours may be harbour-
ing a spy, and that he needs their front
bedroom for surveillance purposes—just for
a few days. Reluctantly, the Jacksons
agree—a decision that will cost them their
happiness and ultimately, it is suggested,
caused the untimely death of Barbara.
For the neighbours, are not just anyone,
but are Peter and Helen, the Jacksons'
closest friends, outwardly a warm-hearted,
generous Canadian couple. And when
Stewart's girl-agents move in, and the 'few
days' stretch into weeks, and then months
Barbara comes under increasing strain,
equating her betrayal of her friends, with
their betrayal of the country.
Judi Dench as Barbara, changes from a
comfortably settled housewife, into a ner-
vous, twitching wreck. Hurt at being
deceived by those whom she trusted, she
becomes increasingly withdrawn. She clams
up with Stewart (Richard Vernon), the
Secret Service man, who soothes with
reassuring, but such manipulative courtesy;
and becomes tense with her husband
(Michael Willilams) wtio stands impotently
by, smiling hollowly, obviously trying to 'put a
brave face on things'. Only sometimes does'
the pain show, as when having a terrifying
row with her daughter, she screams 'I'll never
be able to trust you again!'
For Stewart, with his out-of-place refer-
ences to 'family silver', and Thelma and Sally,
his coolly competent agents (pla'yed very
much in the glam 60s Avengers style by
Elizabeth Bell and Penny Ryder), it's just
another mopping-up job. They're not too-
concerned about the well-being of the
Jackson family, they just want a successful
task, smoothly accomplished, overlooking
the personal effects that their operations
might have.
Pack of Lies is a fine, sensitively judged
new play by Hugh Whitemore—a worthy
successor to his successful Steuie.
FELixBHinHHHHHI
Theatre
'The Unknown Soldier and His Wife' by
Peter Ustinov, produced by Dramsoc.
A gentle satire on the ways of war and men
The Unknown Solider and His Wife tells the
tale of that unlucky combatant, whose death
is used to glorify whichever bloody war has
just been fought. In this play, the whole
business is made even more ludicrous, for
not only does the 'unknown' soldier have a
wife (with the inconvient habit of appearing,
noticeably pregnant, at her husband's
funeral), but also he gets killed by his own
side.
We trace his story through the ages: a
luckless legionary in Roman times, later
getting entangled in the French revolution,
finally emerging as a nameless citizen into a
cold, totalitarian state of the future.
The Unknown Soldier is rather misplaced
in his military life. He prefers speaking
poetry to his wife (played with warm sincerity
by Corinne Lander), to singing bawdy ballads
with his comrades. Here, David Simmons
gives a fine portrayal of the dreamy sensitivity
of this philosophical figure, who should never
have gone to war. He picks flowers instead of
spying; he chats to the enemy instead of
killing them. Understandably this does not go
down well with Sergeant who then proceeds
to flog him to death. Exit Unknown Soldier.
But not for long, for where there's a war,
there's an unknown soldier.
There is a wonderful wealth of chancature
in the play: the randy, but sanctimonious
Archbishop always prepared to bend his
religious scruples to suit either himself or the
power-hungrey General; the arrogant, know-
all Rebel (determinedly at odds with
everyone else; the (or rather,'ze') crackpot
Inventor devising ever more efficient meth-
ods of extermination.
Dramsoc have tried hard for this produc-
tion, with some good cameo performances.
Unfortunately, some humour is lost in
mistiming of lines. Also, at times, the stage
has a tendency to look cluttered, with some
awkward exits and entrances. Of costumes
and scenery, I know now1» as they were not
ready for the preview performance I saw.
On the whole, though, The Unknown
Soldier is well worth seeing, full of finger-
poking Ustinovian fun. It will make you think
too, but not so much that you cannot laugh.
The Unknown Soldier and His Wife takes
place from Wednesday 7 December to
Saturday 10 December at 7:30pm in the
Union Concert Hall. Tickets are £1.50,
available on door, or from IC Union Office.
Claire Moss
MayDays by D a v i d E d g a r , at the
Barbican Theatre.
MayDays is the first production by an up
and coming playwright to be performed by
the RSC for twenty-two years, and as such it
has been lavishly produced for the Barbican
with no expense spared on sets and effects.
The play moves from 1956 to the present
day, telling the story of the development of
Communism and the Soviet State, and how
America and the Western World saw it,
through the words and deeds of the politically
strong student youth of the time. Martin
Glass (played by Antony Sher) is the central
character, developing from a curious public-
schoolboy to a middle aged, middle class
father of three for whom the idea of revolu-
tion has long turned stale.
I get the feeling that it is precisely for this
type of man that the play was written. Such
fervent student activity has become an ex-
ception these days and I would readily class
this as a play through which the middle aged
(now decidedly better off) can reminisce in
the plush surroundings of the Barbican thea-
tre.
The play is ambitiously produced. How-
ever, the large number of scene changes,
though swift, still drag the play out and, along
with the continuous dramatic music, the pro-
duction would have been more suited as a
'film or television play. Unfortunately I arrived
late and had to watch the first act on a tiny
television screen in which all the actors shone
like the Angel Gabriel. Once inside the thea-
tre, I was surprised to find how swamped the
actors were by the stage and how isolated
and distant the individual sets could appear.
Many props do not a stage set make, and the
play could easily have been produced with
few or no props at all.
MayDays is hardly an evening's light en-
tertainment, and only the politically well-
versed will pick up everything first time
around. Never mind, there is always plenty to
look at. I wish the play every success in
London and hope it will eventually move to
Stratford Upon Avon.
John Burgess
Peter Ustinou as the Archbishop in the
original production of 'The Unknown
Soldier and his Wife'.
{Friday, 2 December, 19831 I Page 7

