The Student Newspaper of Imperial College Nol022 24FEB95
Powermacs PilferedfromHuxley
B Y A N D R E W S M I T H
A n estimated £30,000 of
computer equipment was
damaged or stolen from the
fourth floor of the Department of
Computing in the early hours of
Saturday morning. Further
damage was prevented when a
postgraduate student heard the
intruders, saving some of the
department's m u l t i - m i l l i o n
pounds equipment from being
targeted.
The authorities have acted
with considerable speed. O n
Wednesday evening Camberly
police arrested two suspected
intruders. They were said to be in
possession of three serial coded
Sun workstations.
Two people were seen
wandering round the department
during the previous afternoon
asking about Powermacs, five of
which were later stolen, but they
were not reported to Security.
Both K i n g ' s College and
University College London are
known to have had Powermacs
stolen in separate, but possibly
related, incidents in the last two
weeks.
Unlike other departments in
college, the Department of
Computing keeps records of the
serial numbers of all machines,
which has enabled certain
machines to be recovered. They
are now considering tighter
security measures after the cable
and lug system proved
inadequate. Measures suggested
include attaching alarms to
computers, or installing stronger
restraining systems. A different
type of computer, which was held
by a sturdier security lock, was
abandoned after the intruders
failed to detach it from its bolts.
F E L I X has been assured by
Dr Sloman, Assistant Director of
Computers and Communication,
that no confidential information
was held on the hard drives of
the stolen equipment. A l l files are
held in the department's central
computing service which were
backed up the previous night, so
only one day's work should have
been lost.
D r Sloman said that
attempts to retrieve the lost files
were proving to be very time
consuming, but that all would be
recovered eventually. The effects
of the theft on students should be
m i n i m a l . Some of the stolen
equipment has already been
replaced, and the rest is expected
in the near future. One benefit:
first year computing students
have had coursework deadlines
postponed!
In a further incident i n the
H u x l e y B u i l d i n g Imperial
College Security scored a success
with the apprehension of a
dangerous intruder. After being
spotted attempting to break into
a tea-room the trespasser was
challenged and attempted to
escape.
W i t h the College's mobile
response unit promptly attending
the scene they were able to arrest
the intruder, who was i n
possession of a screwdriver and a
long-bladed knife. Supervisor
Dockman made the arrest of the
male suspect who alleges that
someone let h i m into the
building using their swipe card.
This incident, together with
the allegation that the computer
thieves had explained their
suspicious activity by saying that
they were looking for toilets, has
raised concerns that both
students and staff are not being
vigilant enough. M r Terry Briley,
Deputy H e a d of Security,
repeated the advice to all college
users to check the identity of any
suspicious persons, especially
when allowing them access to
locked buildings.
'Welcome to Imperial College Airport', writes Ivan Chan. The £32,000 ASW 24 'competition class' glide
under the Imperial College Unionfiveyear plan with help from a donation by the Harlington Trust. It will
itsfirstmission in a couple of weeks time. "The cheapest way to fly is to learn as a student. 40% of theflight
cost is subsidised by the Union", Wendy Yates, Captain of the Gliding Team explained. The annual mem
is £29 and each flight costs on average £18. The gliding club is recruiting new members, with an opportun
first flight with no obligation to join. Anyone who is interested is welcome to go to the regular meetings on T
1pm in the Aeronautics building Room 266.
B news one&two&three • editorial&credits three • cat&mouse four • incoming five • clued up
six Bs-files: coffee strikes back seven • ELECTION EXPLOSION: last years sabbs and
manifestoes eight&nine&ten&eleven • feature: blue twelve&thirteen • feature: election
aftershocks - a diary fifteen • xtra curricular sixteen&seventeen • standby: natural born
wranglers eighteen&nineteen&twenty • eightdayguide twentytwo&twentythree • sport twentyfourQ

