Feature
L
ast night I seemed to die. Lying in
the gloom of night, I watched as
images drifted from my sleep bound
eyes and left me alone. Sinking into
the dream world I felt infinite space
fold around me, cool andfilled with peace. Gazing
into this atmosphere I seemed to be entirely apart
from anything. Where was I? Just as I voiced that
question, a shambling figure appeared at the blue
horizon.
W i t h his trademark tuxedo and his
scruffy, collapsing coiffure I recognised my
guide; for it was none other than Yves Klein -
artiste, creator and voyager extraordinaire.
When alive, Klein had proclaimed himself the
'Master of the Void', and at once I realised
that this shimmering emptiness around us
was his empire, his domain. Greeting me, he
said, "We are cast outside the phenomenology
of time!". He recounted to me tales of the
events that brought him to his rule.
"Avec le vide, les
pleins pouvoirs"
Albert Camus
K l e i n became an artist in the truest,
most pure sense of someone who does not
create art, but lives as a work of art himself.
Originally trained in Judo, he made his first
decisive step on this path when, whilst lying
on a beach near Nice, he took possession of
the sky. Concentrating on its limitless blue, he
turned it over and signed the back. From that
day forth his true aim as an artist was to take
possession of space, what he termed the Void.
Leading me forth, he explained; "I am the
painter of space. I am not an abstract painter
but, on the contrary, a figurative and realist
painter". We arrived at his first great
paintings, the monochromes. Huge canvasses
impregnated solely with his own special
colour, International Klein Blue. It was as a
printer that he had discovered the profound
effect of ultramarine blue. He patented his
own pigment and became its master, for blue
was the perfect representation of the Void.
Looking at these paintings the colour seemed
to shimmer and extend beyond them, glowing
with an intangible intensity that one can not
believe. I could see that the Void is not empty,
but rather is fulfiled, replete with the power
he trapped within this colour.
Klein led me further, past his attempts
to represent the space that he wanted to
occupy. He left a gallery empty once, simply
with the walls painted white. Entering it
through blue curtains, he explained that the
room contained "the sensibility of
immaterialised blue". O n again, and a
shadowy figure appeared. This clumsy man
explained that he was an art dealer, that he
wished to buy some space for himself. I
watched this incongruous pair as Klein sold
A D
him a certificate in exchange
for a palmful of gold bars. The
dealer burned the certificate,
whilst the artist splendidly
threw half the gold into the
River Styx. Yes, K l e i n even
sold the Void, such was his
desire for possession.
M y tuxedo'd guide again ^
took me on. We passed his
countless other experiments.
His attempts to create art with
a flame thrower, burning
images into boards. H i s
playful red and gold paintings,
w h i c h fail to generate the
resonant power of his original
colour. Entering a small,
private chamber we witnessed
as an orchestra played but a
single note. Meanwhile
beautiful, naked models
draped their bodies over
sheets, leaving blue patterns
from paint smeared across
their skin. These were his
anthropometries. Strange,
enigmatic paintings made by
the pressure of the models
themselves, reminiscent of the
Turin Shroud, Hiroshima and
much besides. He offered an
explanation; "The essential
mass is the trunk and the * at.
thighs. It is there that we find '/m:
the real universe". I stared at
the paintings awhile. In true life, as opposed
to reproductions, they have an eerie
sensibility to them. The images are literally
life sized, and so echo the creation that forced
them into existence.
Drifting, I began to understand the
nature of Klein's obsession. The Void has an
irrepressible power. It is like death; but at
once alive, cool and meditative. It is not the
stark nothingness of black, but overpowers all.
What intrigued me was why his chosen
colour, blue, seemed to portray this concept so
fully. I turned to ask but as I looked he
clambered onto a wall and leapt away. Soaring
into space, he vanished into the empty world
that he had finally conquered. Left without a
guide, this nothing surrounded me.
f F E L I X 24FEB0S
feature
E A M O F
BY MARCUS ALEXANDER
"In the pandemonium of image, I present
you with the universal blue, Blue an open
door to soul. An infinite possibility,
Becoming tangible."
T
he blueness closed i n . The
darkness of death, full infinity.
I panicked. Is this it? The end?
I groped for an answer to my
questions. " W h y blue?" I
shouted. Eventually answers
came drifting through space, words and
voices. Blue movies, blues music, blue jeans,
blue blood; but these are not the answer.
Picasso entered a blue period, his images
posed in haunting attitudes of despair and
gloom. Again blue means death. Then other
artists began to speak, and at once people
arrived. Derek Jarman, the film maker, took
me through his garden at the boundaries of
the nuclear Dungeness. Whilst dying of Aids
he made his film 'Blue', a paean to the colour
and its infinitude. Through his disease, for
which he was taking thirty pills a day, he too
could see the Void. As we looked at the
shingle flowerbeds, he stated that "blue
walks into the labyrinth". Blinded by his
illness, he wrote the chapter 'Blue' of his
book 'Chroma' in the darkness of a hospital
bed.
A strange flower
poked through the
pebbles; it was a
Bavarian gentian. This
was a gift from D . H .
Lawrence, who wrote a
poem about sinking
into death. The gentian was its colour, a blue
so deep it emanated darkness. It seemed that
this colour is resplendent in the peace of
dying. The razorblade voice of Trent Reznor
of Nine Inch Nails echoed my sentiments
over the airwaves.
"Let me guide
myself with the
blue, forked torch
of this flower down
the darker and
darker stairs, where
blue is darkened on
blueness..." - D . H .
Lawrence
Leaving the artists behind I drifted up
through history and science, each attempting
their own answer. I saw shiploads of the
original blue arrive at an ancient port, the
blue which inspired K l e i n . It was
Ultramarine, this name meaning 'beyond the
sea'. Pigments were rare and expensive in
those days, but this was one of the most
costly of all. Beyond the ocean the stones of
lapis lazuli were mined. Ground to a powder
and mixed with oils they made a paint more
blue than any other.
I met a mystic on the path, and he told
me that blue is the shade of Binah. Intrigued,
I listened as he explained that Binah is one of
the ten 'sepiroth', emanations of deity. They
construct the Tree of Life, a complete
representation of the universe. The blue sea
of Binah, or understanding, incredibly again
represents the void! It is the third sephira, in
which the space of the universe becomes
fulfiled in creation (it can be thought of as
the addition of the third dimension, but
much more besides).
Passing into modernity I saw
neuroscientists dissecting the eye to help me
with my exploration of blue. They showed
me a graph; its lines showing the response of
the three cells that detect colour i n the
retina, the red, green and blue cones. The
blue response lies out on its own, not
overlapping significantly as do red and green.
If one wants to stimulate the red or green
cells to their maximum, the other will also be
excited and the colour impure. Blue cones
however can give a maximal stimulation
alone. As the scientist talked on, I asked
myself, "Is this the answer? Is this why blue
is so great, so powerful, why it embodies the
emptiness of death, of the void?". Can it be
that simple? Can science ever hope to answer
my questions?
I felt something drift across my face
and awoke with a start. Lying on a beach
near Nice, I watched as one thousand and
one blue balloons float past, beneath the clear
sky. In reverse, across that expanse of space, I
clearly saw a signature, and my dream
flooded back. I knew at this point that my
intuition was right, that science alone could
never offer an explanation.
Yves Klein can be seen at the Hayward
Gallery. Check Eight Day Guidefor details. Q
"Everything's blue, in
this world, the deepest
shade of mushroom
blue, spilling out of
my head." - Trent
Reznor
2TO3S F E L I X MM

