Feature
The Exclusive FELIXGATE Diaries
Why do a group of
otherwise sane people
spend two weeks sticking
posters on walls? The
truth about Sab elections
-you'll never vote for
any of them again...
fact as the evening progresses, Paul strikes me D a y 1 1 , 1:3:94
as the most potent figure of any campaign.
Ruthlessly efficient, he takes no holds with
any other camp Before h i m all other
campaigns must quiver and die.
Already this election has seen a lot of
pointless arguing, feinting and faints. We still
have 2 weeks and 2 days to go. Could be a
lifetime?
„ «ovow
Day 1, 2 5 : 2 : 9 4
%7 » * « 3 V * ,
'nSt%
* Shock"
Is this day 1 of the
elections? W e l l papers come
down today so it must be the
end of the phoney war and the
start of something else I guess.
A l l manifestoes have to be
complete too. Owain earn-
estly informs me he needs 50
words 'from the proposer'. At
11 O'clock I sit down to start
b u i l d i n g a myth for the
voters. I do 52 words. It's a bit
jumpy in the way it introduces
the fearful editor but it should
do.
Owain doesn't arrive in until
1.30. By that time Joe is back and
doing some posters but all I can get
out of him is a gruft yawn when asking
what he's doing. A h the nature of secrecy.
Owain takes me over to Computing and
we go through the manifesto. It's pretty
punchy but a new 'Jon Jordan' bit is thought
up, even if little of it comes from me. At 2.30 I
have to leave to fall asleep in a lecture.
We're back in the F E L I X office at 5pm.
A lot of candidiates have turned up to get their
publicity, which is released today. Kamran,
Lucy, Joe and Owain are all there; mighty in
early enthusiaism. Lucy's posters are out first
and are an absolute eyesore. She compounds
this by highlighing her name on them with a
felt pen. With 500 posters and eight 'lucys' per
poster that's a lot of pointless work.
The poster teams rush around various
buildings, blue-tack asunder. The U n i o n
building is closest and it gets an unfair
pasting. Then us Owainites head out to the
walkway and the JCR. The latter, Owain's
spiritual birthplace, is singled out for special
treatment. Our campaign manger, Paul, drives
us on with his perfectionism. Twice I've seen
him remove posters and raise them by two
inches. What does his bedroom look like? In
D a y 4, 2 8 : 2 : 9 2
This doesn't really count as an election
day as I'm only in college for a couple of
hours. Owain tells me that his posters have
been defaced in the JCR with the addition of
whiskers - he's proud of the fact but old fears
are returning about whether he choose the
right photos', too effeminant? I suppose it
could be his whole face which is the problem,
I don't ask. I don't want to get in that deep.
D a y 7, 2 9 : 2 : 9 4
Owain is again sure that he has lost. He
wants to run away to sea. I try to encourage
him. The moustaches in the J C R are still
annoying h i m greatly. He moves crabbily
round the office, mutters, throws features
away amd moans again.
It's a day of radios and pressing the
airwaves so we go down to ICRadio to be
grilled by the great irish bloodhound, Declan.
By the time we get there the studio is
resplendent with burning deputy presidents
and their promises. Joe looks worried, as is oft
his want these days. Owain immediately goes
to the toilet. They finally both go into the
studio as the now slightly smouldering D P
candidates come out. I head back to F E L I X
to hear the interviews. Everyone's crowded
around the radio and it's a hostile audience
r young Bennallack. There's general
laughter when he confuses 'offfset' and
web offset' printing but he does O K .
Joe's up next and between them it's
hard to tell. Anyway how many
people are listening?
D a y 1 2 , 8:3:95
Today is hustings day,
something I only remember
10 minutes prior to the event.
As F E L I X editor is on first,
I'm on first, first. Bravely
talking to the mic, I produce
twenty seconds of uncertain
flannel. Owain's better for the
next minute but ends slightly
hesistantly. We then go out and
Owain, i n his usual parnoid style,
asks me how he was. M y uncommitted
' O K ' produces a reply of 'You're a great
right hand man'. We go into Da Vinci's to
wtach a soundless Joe on STOIC.
By the time I return it's presidental
questions. The stereotypes are clear: Paul
Thomas, the insider has been to all the UGMs,
Lucy, concerned dogooder, has done three
U G M s whilst Kamran, waster/outsider has
been to none and he's proud of it.
I try to reject it but Kamran plays his
anti-presidental game very well. Who wants a
desk pres - let the Union sort itself out, let's
have a president who goes out and meets
people. Paul is ignored, L u c y becomes
something of a joke (was that skirt a mistake?)
and all the questions revolve around Kam. He
answers as few as possible and always says
"Cheers", in a 'vote for me, I ' l l buy you a
drink' sort of way. Finally all the boring PGs
stop asking questions about P G groups and it
breaks up. Next up is the feared St. Mary's
hustings on Thursday.
to be continued...
24FEB95 F E L I X MM

