X t r a C u r r i c u l a r
SMteB.
Talking About Problems
Keys: Distress, Fears, Support
Talking About Problems - Don Adlington,
Student Counsellor
In some
respects it
seems a lit-
tle odd that
u n i v e r s i t y
s t u d e n t s
should be
thought to
need a range
of support
s e r v i c e s
w h i c h are
more com-
prehensive,
b e t t e r -
staffed and
more accessible than those available to their
peer group outside. Virtually all universities
have an extensive medical service, staffed by
doctors and nurses who put a high value on
talking to their patients - hardly an image of
general practice recognisable to the con-
sumers of National Health Service medicine
in the country at large. Most universities have
well-staffed student service units where stu-
dents can expect assistance and sometimes
advocacy in their dealings with bureaucracy.
Most universities, including this one, have
appointed counsellors whose brief, in essence,
is an open-ended commitment to helping stu-
dents with personal problems. Again the con-
trast with the world outside academia is very
great.
How can we justify this allocation of
scarce resources in favour of the most articu-
late, intelligent, and able sector of the school-
leaving population?
Another way of phrasing the question
perhaps is this: what is so special about uni-
versity students? There are two sorts of
answers, I believe. The most tendentious and
value-laden one involves the economic argu-
ment that university entrants are themselves
scarce resources and that as an advanced
technology-based society we are fully justi-
fied, even obliged, to afford them extra sup-
port and protection. The other sort of answer,
and the one I am most interested in, concerns
the peculiar nature of a student's occupation,
that is, sustained, systematic and high-level
learning, and the interaction between the
learning process and anxiety, distress and
other emotional disturbances. I do not
believe that on the whole the contingent life
problems that students have to cope with are
significantly different from those of the rest
of their age group - indeed it can reasonably
be supposed that they will not, on average, be
as bad. To be sure there are some occupation-
F E L I X 24FEB95
al hazards associated with the intellectual
high-flyer; for example academic excellence
may have been attained partly at the cost of
the neglect of other sorts of skills, particularly
social skills, and it is true also that some
kinds of stress, inseparable from university
study, are not risks to which non-students are
exposed.
The residual, but solid, justification for
professional helping services in universities is
the degree to which the students' central
activity - study - is impaired by factors
which would be far less disabling in terms of
work disruption for someone whose occupa-
tion was serving in a shop, digging holes in
the road or working behind a bank counter. A
bereavement, a broken love relationship, or a
parental divorce is equally traumatic for
everyone, and the immediate emotional
impart is precisely the same. For the univer-
sity student, however, and particularly per-
haps for students at colleges like this, where
the work is cumulative and sequential, even a
relatively short period of distress-related inef-
ficiency can have a quite disproportionate
effect.
Other common, but less obvious, sources
of distress and anxiety may also undermine
the capacity to study in a highly insidious
way.
For example, the student who finds it
difficult to make friends, or who feels in
other ways out of step with what is perceived
as normal, may find some of the more
mechanical tasks associated with work quite
easy to cope with, but find it virtually impos-
sible to sit and concentrate on work that
requires abstract thinking. "I can't concen-
trate", "my mind wanders off on to other
things", "I spend hours just looking at my
notes, taking nothing i n " are very familiar
phrases to those whose job it is to help stu-
dents.
These sorts of problems can be infinitely
varied, but in practice there are some well-
recognised patterns into which most people
fit quite easily. Besides the sorts of problems
already mentioned - the fracture or threat to
key relationship, and the difficulties engen-
dered by isolation and the fears associated
with it - 1 have in mind such problems as:
• Anxieties about one's choice of course,
and possibly about the next move in life, now
that all the more or less prescribed ones are at
an end.
• Coping with the competitiveness in acad-
emic work and learning to recognise the
appropriateness of the level of degree one
hopes to achieve.
• Coping with the emotional demands of
other students and friends and finding some
sort of formula for dealing with the more neg-
ative aspects of human behaviour.
• Mundane worries about money and
accommodation, about the planning of one's
time and the need to recognise that time and
energy are finite resources and that invidious
choices may have to be made.
There is no doubt that for all these sorts
of difficulty, and many others, there is much
to be said for talking to someone. People gen-
erally, but scientists and technologists in par-
ticular perhaps, tend to underestimate the
simple value of talking. Many of us, at times
of difficulty, almost automatically turn in on
ourselves - partly out of pride (the powerful
impulse to keep up an appearance of compe-
tence), and partly out of the inappropriate
rational argument that talking cannot change
hard reality, cannot alter the substantive
roots of our unhappiness, cannot alter 'the
facts'.
Talking is important and effective in a
number of ways. First, it enables people to
express, and therefore to ventilate, their
(often angry) feelings. Providing this is done
in the right sort of setting, and with the right
sort of response, it helps to liberate the ener-
gy required to tackle difficulties constructive-
ly. Second, it is often by talking about things
that we are able to sort out one strand from
another and make some sort of coherent pic-
ture of the situation. Third, this more or less
conscious sharing of feelings may well lead to
new ideas, new information, new initiatives
for tackling problems.
There are many people i n College to
whom students can talk - their colleagues
and friends of course, but also tutors, war-
dens, doctors and student service staff. You
can also talk to me. I am not paid to do any-
thing else, and my work is entirely confiden-
tial. If you would like to see me, my office is
at 15 Princes Gardens, and my telephone
number is 49430.
That's Entertainment
Keys: Cupid, Regurgitate, Love
So here we are again, Dazed and more than a
little confused, but still just about prepared
with a weeks worth of wonderful events:
Friday - Bad Taste Night, Shaft
Tonight is Bad Taste Night. Forget your
credibility, leave your designer wear at home
- it's a night of flares and crimplene.
Kicking off with the return of everyone's
favourite... Stevie Starr, the Regurgitator.
You will believe a man can swallow everyday
items and bring them back whole. There's
only a limited number of tickets priced £2.50,
so be early. £1.50 with Entscard.
Then it's time to get funky with 'Shaft', a
night of 70's and 80's excess with all your fave
past hits. Re-live the heady days of disco, new
romantics, ska and pure pop. £1 entry and
freebies galore to those dressed to the nines.
Monday - Live Football
Live football on Da Vinci's big screen. 7pm.
Tuesday - Pub Quiz
£50 cash prize to be won courtesy of S T A
Travel at Da Vinci's Bar Trivia. 8pm.

