If rn Curricular
Wednesday - Club Spanque
You've gotta do what you gotta do... Club
Spanque. 9pm-lam, free.
Thursday - Cocktail Night
An evening of quality and distinction.. D a
Vinci's cocktail night. 5-1 l p m . Where else
can you get 'Sex on the Beach' in March?
Friday - Star Trek, Regurgitator
A night of surreal contrasts... In Da Vinci's at
8pm watch out for Klingons with our special
Star Trek Generations promotion night. A
chance to check out the promotion video and
lay your hands on exclusive CDs, posters, t-
shirts, etc.
On a less reverential note, there's Bust-a-
Gut live on stage i n the Ents Lounge with
that sharp dressed man Sean Lock as seen
supporting those up and coming stars
'Newman and Baddiel' at Wembley Arena.
More than ably supported by the guitar-
wielding Helen Austin. It's £2.50 (or £1.50
with an Entscard) to get in and a free bottle of
Newcastle Brown to the first fifty through the
door. Then dance the rest of the night away
with 'Atmosphere'. £1 to get in and bar until
1.00am.
©0(2.5} CgQgJLb
Head of the Nene
Keys: Coxed, Won, Crews
The Imperial College Boat Club had a very
successful day at Peterborough, Head of the
Nene. The senior three-men's crew went off
ahead and finished ahead, quite an achieve-
ment considering the open crews behind
them. The Imperial domination of Novice
races continued with the novice four a close
third, despite it being their first row i n a
coxed four. T h e novice eight won easily
which just shows the strength of the coaching
at I C B C ; thanks K a r l ! The women's first
eight won their section by an emphatic
minute and a half, destroying all opposition.
The second eight finished third in their divi-
sion, overcoming problems getting through
some lesser crews.
Yfogya 8og
Introduction to Yoga Society
Keys: Health, Enthusiasm, Zest
Yoga is an ancient health-art developed and
perfected over the centuries by wise men of
India. It is not a religion or a magic or mysti-
cism, but the practice of Yoga can improve
your health and your appearance. For thou-
sands of years it has been used to preserve
zest and enthusiasm of youth into middle age,
to promote clear-thinking,and to encourage
resilience in old age.
Not only does the regular practice of
yoga make you look and feel younger and
healthier, but, through gentle exercise and
non-strenuous postures, it assists all your
muscles and organs to work at their full
potential. Yoga has the ability to refresh and
relax you, soothe your nerves, calm your
mind, and give inner serenity and strength.
The Yoga session lasts for one and a half
hours, in which many stretching and balanc-
ing poses are performed. During these, the
main focus is the breathing and it is clearly
understood that during these exercises one
should not force or strain in any way. At the
end of the lesson, there is a period of deep
relaxation, i n which it is possible to 'let go' as
many muscles and thoughts as possible. This
is a very rewarding process as it is rare that
one truly reaches a state of true relaxation
without first being shown how.
Our classes are given by an experienced
instructor who is accredited by the British
Wheel of Yoga. Yoga is a non competitive
discipline that can be enjoyed by all ages, stu-
dents and staff alike, and beginners are
always welcome. Please come along and try a
class for yourself; we meet on a Tuesday
lunch time at 12:15 i n southside gym.(£3
membership, £1.50 per class)
<ih|D©0©
Hong Kong Exhibition
Keys: Economical, Political
If you came into college last week you proba-
bly noticed all the red and blue posters along
the walkway and the Chinese Society's exhi-
bition held last week on level 2 i n the
Sherfield Building. Our exhibition and semi-
nar, called 'The Next Lap', looked at how
Britain faces the problem of handing over
Hong Kong to China. The future economical
and political development of Hong K o n g
were also the top issues of this exhibition.
Many people saw our exhibition and
more than fifty attended the seminar. As a
society, we hope that you enjoyed yourselves
and that you learned something about Hong
Kong. May I end this report with a thank you
to everyone who helped us with the event
and all those who came to the exhibition and
seminar.
M a n 3.0(3
Forthcoming Attractions
Keys: Junior, Lion, Nightmare
This week's line-up at Filmsoc has a light-
hearted theme. The Nightmare Before
Christmas starts us off at 8pm on Sunday,
with T i m Burton's humourous yet twisted
perspective on an invasion of Christmas by
the inhabitants of Halloween Town. If this
sounds a little depressing don't let it put you
off, all we provide an opportunity to feel real-
ly happy on Wednesday at 8pm.
Disney continue to amaze by producing
such loveable films so frequently, but once
again they have created a classic, The Lion
King. Besides all the obvious fun and games,
James Earl Jones adds to the film with his
booming and powerful voice being used per-
fectly to portray Simba's father.
Another man with an awful lot of power
is Arnie, who stars in Junior on Thursday at
8pm. It was believed that he could only act in
one genre but he disproved that i n Twins
and, with the help of Danny DeVito, he re-
strings his comedic bow. Emma Thompson
also shows up with another of her darling lit-
tle performances.
If you are interested i n helping us out
with the films and getting in for free, e-mail
filmsoc@ic.ac.uk. You can also check out the
latest line up on our web page,
'http://www.su.ic.ac.uk/Ents/cinema/'.
a o s g
Bladerunner - Directors Cut
Keys: Cyberpunk, Human, Rain
Yet another perennial favourite (assuming
you all turned up last Tuesday). Set in a not
too distant future - cyberpunkish in its bleak-
ness and continual rain - the film questions
what it is to be human and who has the right
to decide. Even if you have seen it already -
this is one of those films that a big screen def-
initely improves. See you there!
The film is on Tuesday 28th February at
7pm in the Union Concert Hall. Entrance is
£1.50 for members or £2.00 for non-members.
Membership for the year is £3 with the first
film free, and also gives you use of our library
of 3000 books/videos/graphic novels. For
more information see:
http://www.ph.ic.ac.uk/moontg/ or email
icsf@ic.
(Macro (jtojb
Say hello to the Micro Club
Keys: Amiga, BBC, Advice
While some clubs like to sit on their unmen-
tionables and appeal to one type of person,
the IC Micro Club is for everyone.
So what does the Micro Club have to
offer you? Well, in addition to the chance to
play the latest P C software - as well as classics
on the PC, Amiga and occasionally the BBC
Micro - we offer advice on anything from re-
writing configuration files to buying and
upgrading complete computer systems.
Although there are people i n the club
room at most times of the day, we have regu-
lar meetings on Wednesday lunchtimes.
Come and see us on the top floor of the
Union Building, past Stoic and HamSoc, or
find us on the W W W on:
http://www.su.ic.ac.uk/clubs/societies/rec/mic
roclub/icmc.htm.
24FGB95 F E L I X MM

