Standby
glory bound
On reflection to be labelled 'the world's greatest living painter' may not
be the praise it initially appears to be. Perhaps it's best seen in an
eulogical light - after all you only get crowded when you're expiring, both
in an artistic and literal sense. Indeed the case in favour of Willem de
Kooning, for many the current title-holder, is undermined by the fact that
aged 90, he is suffering from senile dementia. Not that I'm suggesting
that de Kooning isn't 'living' in the full sense of the word, it just seems
surprising that in his present state he's still making paintings which are
seen as being consistent with his 'non-demented' work.
Ironically however, this consistency is something that de Kooning has
tried to develop throughout his career. As one of the key members of the
so-called Abstract Expressionist movement, he was continually trying to
find a new non-rational creativity. His canvases are splattered with thick
scabs of paint which he manipulated with palette and hands. To be
honest you wouldn't be surprised to find out they had been done by a
group of particularly enthusiastic six year olds, but that was the point.
De Kooning's early work is the most accessible. In the first room, the
figures captured have, at least, a certain brute humanism that belies the
cubistic kaleidoscope he applied to their limbs. By the late 1940's though,
de Kooning was already making his way towards new horizons. As his
'abstract urban landscape' series controversially showed, the synergy of
style when applied to the human figure resulted in a beast of gigantic
proportions. Woman I (1950-2) forces the mannish form into the
background, leaving it dependence on the concrete reality around. It's a
very powerful painting, although one you can't help hating.
By the late 50s, de Kooning had started to paint his characteristic
land and seascapes and make money. As you pass the years, the enigma
of trying to work out the meaning of titles like Spike's Folly II fades as you
drifts in and out of rooms which are increasingly filled with 'untitled'
works. For all the calmness that these rooms inspire you get the
impression that the change of focus from human to natural forms
weakened de Kooning's power immensely. By the end both he and his
works are washed out and lifeless. 0
spike's folly II [1960]
fame for half a nation
Belgium - a land famous for its
sprouts, its chocolate, a silly-
moustached fictional detective and,
most of all for its lack of fame. Until
now that is because, you see, five
guys named dEUS have arrived.
The LA2 is fuller than I have
ever seen it before; a motley
collection of hacks, indie kids and
rockers vying for attention and a
view. They clap politely for support
band, Reef, and then wait with
palpable anticip-ation. Why? Quite
simply, because these Belgians
don't sound like anyone else on this
earth.
Take 'suds and soda', 'via', and
'hotel lounge' - three singles that
try to define an indefinable band,
the three songs that move everyone
from awed stillness to awed frenzy
and back again. The first steps
nimbly from violin intro to noise fest
to anthemic chorus. The second
takes a cunningly melodic verse and
inserts a cunningly inharmonious
chorus to illustrate its lyric of "I
skipped the part about love"
('borrowed' from REM's 'low'), while
the third is an anti-ballad of the first
order. (Any song where people can
get their lighters out, wave them in
the air, and yet seem like they are
doing the oddly appropriate thing
has got to be worth its weight in
gemstones.) All are played precisely
but with the feeling that they
deserve, and more importantly,
conjuring up the feelings that they
deserve too. And as if to prove that
there are no boundaries where this
band are concerned they play a
"punk rock song" in the encore - its
tongue-in-cheek delivery belying its
serious nuances.
Listen to the album, buy the T-
shirt and see the band that take the
'twerp' out of Antwerp...
Thanks to their new album,
smart, sleeper seem to have been
in every music press journal around.
Which is strange since each mag
seems content saying how mediocre
the album actually is.
The songs don't show anything
new in terms of style. It's genuine
middle-of-the-road guitar based
indie. Some of them are quiet with
a loud bit in the middle whilst some
are all loud and distorted guitar. A
lot of the tracks sound sound quite
similar; in particular the first two,
'inbetweener' and 'swallow'. I didn't
even notice that the song had
changed until I looked at the track
number playing. This is definitely
not a good sign because it shows
that Sleeper are immediately
struggling for ideas. Mind you, it's
not all bad - 'inbetweener' is
actually quite good and perhaps
shows promise.
A lot of hype has surrounded
'delicious' which has those now
infamous lyrics, "...we should both
go to bed 'til we make each other
sore..." Let me say one thing about
this song - it's probably the best on
the album! So if you bought the
single then you'll know about the
quality of the rest of the songs. If
you didn't then it might be worth
just getting the single and perhaps
leaving the album alone. I do hope
that we see more of Sleeper,
though, because Louise Wener is a
bit of a babe. (6)
Some might suggest that
brands of vacuum cleaners aren't
the thing to name bands after. Well,
Hoover isn't terribly inspiring I grant
you but in the land where every-
thing's bigger and better (that's
notably not 'over here') growls a
domestic sucker called v e l o -
d e l u x e . And after some dusty
dealings, the debut album from the
band of the same name has finally
been released in Britain.
In the wider scheme of things
superelastic is right on the button of
classic american guitar noise.
Deluxe headman, John Sfrohm
(once of Blakes Babies) has had
time to mature and get scratched up
in equal measure and it shows.
'Dirtass' concludes the opening
quartet of straight fuzzbombs as it
growls into action; "I feel sick and I
feel dirty, might be dead before I'm
thirty". Not a particularly novel
sentiment granted, but it captures
the feelings involved as well as
anything. The following track,
'alibi', lays bare the opposite
yearning; "caught in a lie, when life
becomes a lifestyle you're my alibi".
Whilst other tracks show similar
stylistic variations; a slower R'n'B
inspiration for 'desiree' and
country-rock for 'angels', all are
firmly subservient to the overall and
underlying theme.
Enough groups have tried to
carve albums out in the indie-rock
plains that it's become embar-
rassing on occasions but
'superelastic' is marked as genuine
stock. (8) 0
2HFEB9S F E L I X E H

