The Ghosts of Elections Past
Owain Bennallack F E L I X Editor Interrupting Owain, Ithrust his man- Lucy Chothia President £ven before I have a chance to give
plucks it offthe wall. Is this to remindyou of whatyou are supposed to be d
ifesto before him whilst the photocopier gently whirrs behind. Well then Mr Bennallack, were you true to it?
"
I think that I have followed the spirit of it!" Do you enjoyyourjob? "...[pause]....[still waiting]... I think that
I am the type of person who only enjoys things when they're finished." So this is a rewarding porf?"This is a
real low paid high opportunity job" he says, adding "I'm glad I did it, it's just that it's all over in six months."
Regrets? "That I didn't manage to put 'Arty Toss' in the manifesto." Anything else?"M really."
Felix Editor & Print Unit Manager: Owain Bennallack Proposed by: Jon Jordan
promises were theyfulfiled?"\'ie done as much as I could possibly do... although I haven't done as m
wanted," butquickly adds,''when I stood I was really naive." Do you think that helps? "In so
be a bonus as I have managed to achieve a lot more than I would expect looking back on it." Andhow woul
you like to be remembered? "That I created a stable basis for future sabbaticals to go out and do thing
President: Lucy Chothia Proposed by: Max Sahibzada
Interviews
by
Micheal
Ludlam
understanding belw
colleges and ICU set
"Iresponsibility.mil 1
1
tin an account with no bank charges
7 ll is difficult tor any group other
than finis to arrange an event. I will
set up a complementary board In
advise and help organise an\
student evenl
K
. The Union paid for the rcfui
hishmcm of the Sports Centre, but
ihc Sports Centre is run hy College.
ing clubs .
vill improve pnslgraduat
c Union pays 4
<
l
p to NalWe:
its use. 1 hdicw
•hould benefit It'
idisc Kensington
Ian Parish DP(C&S) m h ealing his Danish Pastry h e reods his ekclio„ p k a . So did E > o n L o o k
W(F&S) _ Don thinks that he has Milledhis promises. "
I think I have m
he do everything? "Mi's there's not a lot that's of interest in here," pointing to his manifesto. "It is more
work than I expected." Do you enjoy being a DP ?: "Yeah," be saysgrudginglybut quicklyfollows "the day to
day stuff seems a bit of a hassle...sometimes I just want to go into my room and scream." However says he
enjoys not being "a smoll fish in a big sea" as he was expecting. "The Union pulls a lot of weight." So would
youstandagain if youcould?"\ would probably get bored with it." Andthe mostboring Wtf'Room bookings,
they are the bane of my life."
a positive difference to the running of the Union." (Accompanied by snorts of "yeah yeah" and
David Goddard, former DP F&S, who is still lurking in the office). When ask
no hesitation: "It's a good laugh, I'm on top of it now." He expresses a wish lor a two yea
does notput himselfforward."] wouldn't want to do it again, no!" So is this job rewardin
assumption to make." Andareyou still 'genuinelyinterestedin Union finance'?"]}? to
Deputy President (Clubs & Societies): Ian Parish
itforUn.
te Dalton
Proposed by: Kate Dalton
Deputy President (Finance & Services): Dan Look Proposed by: Greg lies
I am a third year geologist and, in
the past three years I have been an
active member of ICRadio
including regularly doing the disco
ai Southsidc bar on Friday nights.
At present 1 am Ihc Honorary Junior
Treasurer for Ihc Publications
Board which has allowed me a
baptism into the mysierious world
lhal is union finance.
A question often asked to
candidates hy fellow students is
"Why do you want to do that ????",
often wiih ihc
: expletives mid-s.
roth of the matter
ices genuinely inlc
:. The
s that u
tried (o deny it to myself, but to no with the union at present is the
avail!) apathy of many of its members I do
Aside from thai J see this not propose any miracle cure for
position in two ways. Firstly as a this, but I woUtd try to use my
chance to make a positive difference posilion as a member of the ICU
in the running of (he union and exec to improve this situation to
secondly as a personal challenge to the best or my abiliiy. I realise that
myself. in order to get more people
If I am elected the mosi involved with the union it may be
important thing that I would try to necessary to change it so as to
ensure is an increase in openness by accommodate more of the student's
the union. I personally find it needs as well as promoting its
frightening that this year the union current services better,
received a grant just short of 1/2 Unfortunately I do not have the
million pounds, yet how many of us space to expand on these points and
know how it was actually spent'' other issues, however. I ant
The other major problem I see (cut atthe JOOlh word)
Manifestoes for the Sabbatical
Elections 1995
On the next pages are the manifestoes from this year's candidates.
Read them carefully and if you have any questions, make sure you get
in touch with the candidates to get an answer. Hustings are Monday
27th February, 6pm in ICU Lounge & Wednesday 1st March at Wilson
House Rec Voting is 6-7th March, 10pm-5pm in all departments.
All Posts: N e w Election
Hil Ian and Dan here, your current
Deputy Presidents. At the last
meeting of Union Council we were
appointed campaign managers for
New Election. Since this time we
have been trying to contact him (if
indeed he is a he) to discuss the
campaign - but to no avail.
However, despite this startling
lack of communication with the
sabbatical candidate there is one
thing we can guarantee on his
behalf. You are no more likely to
see him if he is elected (How many
of the other candidates will dare
make that claim?)
So, why vote new election?
New Election is standing for all
posts. If he gets elected there will
automatically be a second election
for that post, held during the sum-
mer term. This will enable you to
take your pick from a new crop of
candidates, the theory being that
they will be better than the last lot.
Therefore, if you feel that the can-
didates standing for any post are
not up to the job, VOTE NEW ELEC-
TION.
Of course, there is a disadvan-
tage; if New Election does win we
have to go through all of this
again. So please, for all our sakes,
think before voting.
OK! That's enough of the bor-
ing, positive side of the campaign.
What you really want to hear from
us is what we think of the candi-
dates. So here, exclusive to Felix is
the negative part of our campaign,
where we spread unsubstantiated
lies and malicious gossip about
each of the other candidates.
The first person we'd like to dis-
cuss is <cut at the 206th word!>
I f F E L I X

