b o o k s
Enigma's C o m p u t i n g Reviews
Sams Teach yourself Java2 in 21 days
Laura Lemay
Core Web 3D
Aaron E. Walsh
Well another book in Sams range, this
time on Java2. I gave it a shot over
Christmas to do a bit every day to try
and test the 1 -hour tutorials,
to the maximum. To my surprise I
found that this wasn't a very difficult
thing to do; In fact quite an obtain-
able goal. The book was well laid out
into its chapters; It had some nice sec-
tions on Swing and some really inter-
esting examples, with everything well
set out and easy to read. But I wasn't
particularly impressed with the con-
tent. It does some basic Java code
working up to some more complicated
examples, a lot of the time not even
explaining how every line of the code
works. (Very shocked to find some of
the sample code from the website not
working!)
Buy it, but buy it with another Java Book. This will only teach you the
basics and you should have more from this at £22.
"Sams stop drawing pretty pictures or convincing us we can learn this in
21 days and concentrate a little more on some content . Remember: Its
Quality not Quantity that matters."
Maybe a little harsh...
Enigma
Rating: 5 / 1 0
Difficulty: 5 / 1 0
Prior Knowledge: Javascript might help
This wonderfully book designed for pro-
fessionals or the everyday hobby helps
advance your web pages in the best 3D
way possible. This is the most detailed
and concise overview of 3D technolo-
gies in one book. To some this will
probably be a Bible.
The book ranges over histories, tech-
nologies and their applications in the
world, providing a fantastic foundation
for 3 D c o m p u t e r g r a p h i c s . It t a l k s
about the main 3D technologies in usei
today: V R M L , J a v a 3 D , M P E G - 4 , andf
the f o r t h c o m i n g X 3 D . But w a t c h
out...There is a lot of code here, it is)
amazing stuff.
If you are interesting in this area of
computing then B U Y THIS B O O K .
It cannot be faulted for what it has to
offer.
Enigma
Rating: 8 / 1 0
Difficulty: 7/10
Prior Knowledge: HTML, Java.
coi»e
WEB3D
B O O K S ^
The following books are avail-
able from:
Books Etc,
26 James Street
Covent Garden
London
Competition Winners
mm®
In the first issue after the festive period we ran a competition to win 3 sets of 10 books on a short introduction to Philosophy, kindly given to us by the
Publishers, Oxford University Press. The answer to the question "What was the famous work of Karl Marx?" was "Das Kapital". Due to the over-
whelming amount of entries I decided to also allow the answer "The Communist Manifesto" (although that was a joint work with Friedrich Engels). The
first three correct winners drawn out of the hat were: Oliver Scott-Simons (Maths 3), Al Warman (Civ Eng 4) and Steve Bell (PG). Could the winners
Ptease come and collect their prizes from the Felix office behind the nitrogen tank and Physics Department. Hopefully next month a similar competition
will be run to win a different set of books in the Very Short Introduction range from Oxford University Press.
Fear and Loathing in America by hunter S. Thompson
Hunter S. Thompson has vowed never to write an autobiography, so these letters are the closest we will get to his
account of a life that stands as a testament to hard living and great journalism. Along with Ken Kesey and the late
William Burroughs, he takes a brickbat to the romantic notion of 'live fast, die young'.
This, the second monster volume of letters, covers the juiciest of years. 1970: Thompson runs for Sheriff of Aspen
on a platform that includes the Sheriff's right to take mescaline 'whenever it's Right' - and loses narrowly. 1971: the
Mint 400 motorcycle race that became the lurid, unforgettable Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas. 1972: the Nixon-
McGovern Presidential election.
So the letters - to friends, enemies, editors and agents - fill in the gaps not just of 'Las Vegas', but also 'Fear and
Loathing on theCampaign Trail' and the 'Great Shark Hunt1
collection - Thompson's three stone-classic books. A s
well as showing the birth of alter-ego Raoul Duke, and the germination of the Gonzo style, they detail every tor-
tured detour in Thompson's search for the Death of the American Dream. He eventually concludes that Richard
Nixon himself is the Death of the American Dream, though personally the revelation that the Las Vegas trip was
|done entirely straight and sober comes pretty close. The more one reads, the more it becomes clear that, far from
a cartoon figure, Thompson is likely to be seen as a major literary figure of the 20th century. Outrageous and ego-
maniacal, sure, but a committed and astute political observer. I put him somewhere between Thomas de Quincey
and Samuel Johnson, whose quote stands of course as the epigraph to Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas: 'He who
gets rid of the pain of being a man'. I'd say Thompson is more man than most.
• N i x • 22nd January 2001 Books

