C
L A B O U T
S t a r W a r s : R e v i v i n g t h e n u c l e a r a r m s r a c e
(Pugwash Public Discussion 8/12/00) - Summarised by Maurice Pigaht meeting, Dr. Alexander Konovalov (President of the Institute for
During the cold war, the U S horrified the world with it's dabbling in anti-
nuclear missile technology, through the infamous SDI programme
also known as Star Wars. These defence systems were designed to shoot
down incoming ballistic missiles. Recently the U S has revived these ambi-
tions, officially aimed at defending against so-called 'rogue states'. Such a
system, however, would be catastrophic for international relations, particu-
larly with Russia. It would also force China to increase its nuclear weapons
stockpiles, so that they remain a deterrent. This in turn would trigger a
response from India - wary of China - to respond by increasing its own
nuclear arsenal.
Pakistan would then feel that it has no choice but to follow suit. Although
the U S has temporarily put its current National Missile Defence (NMD)
project on hold due to technological difficulties, it is far from being aban-
doned.
There was a fear in the 1970s that an American N M D system would render
Russia's nuclear deterrent useless. This would spell out catastrophe for the
dogma of nuclear deterrence (I don't destroy you because otherwise you'll
destroy me). The only option for Russia under these circumstances would
appear to have been to attack the United States before this defence system
was completed. This is why the A B M treaty, signed in 1972 and a corner
stone of nuclear relations, limits N M D systems on both sides.
Of course, as usual there is a loophole. Both sides were permitted to cancel
the treaty, giving 6 months notice. The U S has not done this yet and does
not even seem convinced of the necessity to do so before violating its treaty
commitments, although it would seriously threaten US-Russian relations.
On the 8th December British Pugwash (Conferences on Science and World
Affairs) held a Public Discussion Meeting on American N M D plans. At this
Strategic
Assessments, Moscow) pointed out that the real threats to the United
States are not addressed by N M D . These are nuclear but also (and profc,a
.
bly more likely) biological weapons being delivered by: Smuggling a war-
head, short-range cruise missiles, civilian aircraft, small ships and finally
Inter-Continental Ballistic Missiles. Only the last of these could be inter,
cepted by the suggested N M D system. Clearly this is a major draw-back}
it is to be used against 'rogue' or terrorist attacks. Even Air Marshall Sir
Timothy Garden, also speaking at the meeting, considered the project 'pour-
ing
money down the drain', pointing out the potential of far more effective proj-
ects in furtherance of international security through diplomacy. He also stat-
ed that, as N M D would be ineffective against Russia's huge arsenal or
'rogue' and terrorist attacks, it can only be seen as targeted against China.
This, he pointed out, was far from helpful to international relations and secu-
rity, or indeed to the regional situation between China, India and Pakistan.
The ineffectiveness of N M D was further underlined by Richard Garwin
(Formerly Prof of Public Policy, Harvard University). He described simple
countermeasures, such as deploying recoils (a simple balloon will do) and/or
multiple warheads would undermine the system. Furthermore, N M D would
not be useful against biological weapons as they can be delivered in small
bomb droplets.
The consequences of N M D are clearly far from trivial. The dangers of
Nuclear Weapons, although part of a topic going out of fashion, entail the
death of millions of innocent people, and environmental contamination on an
unrivalled scale.
For more information or to be kept informed about future Student Pugwash
( S c i e n c e , E t h i c s & W o r l d A f f a i r s ) e v e n t s c o n t a c t Student-
Pugwash@ic.ac.uk or Maurice.Pigaht® ic.ac.uk
w y
i
http://www.download.com:
You will find everything you need to download from utilities to games,
whether for a Mac or a P C (and yes, you can download winzip in case a mod-
ern institution such as IC does not provide your computer with powerzip).
http://vourwallpaper.com/index.html:
A nice website featuring a good selection of wallpa-
pers (movies, pop culture, sport...). Yet, the best about
this site is their link section - be sure not to miss it. So
PLEASE, get rid of this awful greenish-bluish desktop
of yours!
http://www.monpa.com:
Ever fancied dancing with cats, wandered why cats
paint or admired bird art? Check this out: the museum of non-primate art.
Why not sending a "splat!" to your best friend (see bird art, and click on
splat!)? Oh by the way... no need to send me one.
http://people.ne.mediaone.net/speter1/worldnewspapers.html:
A more intellectual site (yes, there are intellectuals among us • n°
offence), yet it can be highly useful. This is a major site where you can find
something like 250 different newspapers online from all over the world
Especially recommended to all of you international students to keep y<"
inform about your country. Also, it is a good way to save money (you 0311
read The Times, Independent, The Guardian...).
,
http://www.diaimask.com/sp_fset.htrnj:
Get 2 pretty pictures of you (that is the hardest
bit), and the Digimask system creates a 360-1
degree model of a person's head, which will a"*
a fully animatable 3D replica of the your face to I
displayed on a computer or TV-screen. For eg"
centric, narcissi or passionate lovers wiWn
9
have their girl/boyfriend's face on their screen!
You know a cool w e b s i t e ? Feel free to email me the addfe S
(angelie.baral@ic.ac.uk)
X i w e h a r b r l 1 X
wep S I G H ! J
Clubs & Societies Felix • 22nd January 2001

