Why me? Manic Depression
Losing my mind
Y
ou may not know how common it is, or how
many people our age suffer from it, but
Bipolar Disorder is damn serious and can take
over every minute of your life, wreck your
degree, friendships, relationships, and even kill
you. I'm telling you my story in the hope some
of you are going to recognise it and get help
before it's too late.
I can't really say when it started, but I'd go
for sometime around the age of 14. I was
bright at school, and I suppose I still am, so I
hardly noticed when I got "high". I'd just gradu-
ally get more and more energy and slowly work
myself into a frenzy. It w a s usually during
homework, or while doing some kind of exer-
cise. I'd just fling myself into work and rush
through it all like I w a s king of the world.
Sometimes it was useful, but being that hyper
meant I was prone to making some incredibly
stupid mistakes. Running was a pretty good
way of getting rid of all that surplus energy, but
I also had a tendency to make stupid mistakes-
not noticing loose paving stones and cars until
the last possible moment- I'm pretty surprised I
rarely got hurt.
I said bipolar, but I didn't call it that for years.
Of course it had a downside, and it was deep
down, and it was fast. I'd just be slowing from a
high, when I'd think about something bad, and
get hooked on it. It could be something I'd said,
done, or even a shoelace undone (I'm not kid-
ding). Suddenly this w a v e would just come
over me, and just take over all my thoughts. It's
Pretty difficult to explain a serious depression
1 0
someone who hasn't had one, but you can't
pull yourself out of it", it's like quicksand. It
takes you over; you suddenly feel the world's
9°ln
g to end, listen to depressing music, stay in
y°U r
room with the curtains drawn- you're just
Paralysed by this horrible black wave. I didn't
fl
suicidal, but I was always terrified I would,
Pecai
about
%. It
u s
e I knew there was very little I could do
jt
-1 went on like this until I got to univer-
e
d, lik
Nothi
and
w
a s one of those things I took for grant-
e
having a h e a d a c h e or something.
l n
9 I could do, just lie down, go for a walk
I o n S t a
^ a w a
y f r o r n
P e o
P ' e u n t i
' i t :
passed.
Periods of time would pass without any-
thing happening, and I would assume it had
gone away. I was always wrong. I just kept two
tapes in my bag; " H a p p y a l b u m " and " S a d
songs" and wallowed in a mood when neces-
sary.
It was only when I got to university that
things got more interesting. I had what's known
as "mixed manias". Think of it this way; you've
got two dials "mood" and "mood energy". You
can have high mood and high energy (a high),
low mood and low energy (depressed), low
energy (mood ceases to exist- you get with-
drawn, this is one mixed mania) and high ener-
gy and low mood. This is probably the most
dangerous one and you can start doing and
saying absolutely crazy things. With me I dis-
covered a fondness for hurting myself. I'd
either start punching or flinging myself at solid
objects or people in clubs, or sit at home and
dig sharp objects into my arm. It was only by
cutting that I could really calm myself down and
get some sleep, and I spent an eternity wash-
ing blood out of my sheets!
By the second year my mood swings were so
frequent I was having serious trouble going
about my daily life. I'd get obsessed with some
idea- going running, going to the pub, cleaning
out the fridge- but by the time I got ready to go
I'd just suddenly crash again, and just sit in my
room and cry. I don't even want to think about
how my College work went down the pan.
I only really realised I needed help when I
went out with some friends and had a serious
attack of the crazies. Fuelled by (some) alco-
hol, I was alternating between crying, with-
drawn, enthusiastic and headbutting walls
every five minutes. It didn't help that it was
exam time- G o d knows how I passed. S o o n
after the exams I went to see a psychiatrist at
the Health Centre. I couldn't believe I was see-
ing a psychiatrist, but given what I'd been
through in the past months I stopped caring.
He told me to read a book called An Unquiet
Mind by Kay Redfield Jamison. Although the
timescales vary (they can be anything from 4
mood swings per year to four per day), it was
just like a page out of my life. So there it was,
in black and white; "Bipolar Affective Disorder
type II with ultra-rapid cycling).He put me on a
mood stabiliser.which made me really tired at
first, meant I couldn't drink and m a d e me
embarrassingly clumsy for a few weeks. I was
on the verge of giving up when I first felt what
should have been a horrible wave of depression
on holiday, but somehow it was more gentle.
After a few months of upping the dose I was
still getting depressed, and eventually they put
me on an antidepressant, which seems to be
kicking in now. I still have to go for therapy
every week, which is a bit embarrassing, but
it's nice to be able to s o u n d off about my
stresses once a week.
Here's the facts; about 1 % of the population
are believed to suffer from manic depression
(or bipolar disorder as doctors call it). It mostly
affects the most talented and intelligent peo-
ple, and has done throughout history. For
e x a m p l e , I w a s at a V a n G o g h exhibition
recently, and it w a s fascinating to s e e his
moods. W e had his painting "manias" where
he'd churn out a dozen bright yellow pictures in
a month, and his depressions, where he'd pro-
duce one sad, brown and red introspective self
portrait in a year. The tragedy is, it's relatively
easy to treat- there was no need for his life to
be destroyed by his bleak moods, self-harm
and eventual death if he'd been alive today.
I think you could argue that I haven't been
exactly compos for about the last four years.
All I can remember about a lot things that hap-
pened in my life involve loads of time spent
going up a n d d o w n all the t i m e - I think I
wrecked a lot of my teens because of it. I can't
help but wonder what my life would be like if I'd
got help years ago. I'm pretty certain of one
thing though, if I hadn't got help when I did, I
wouldn't be around to write this.
I'll leave you with this thought. If 1% of the
country have this, that means 100 people are
thinking very deeply right now. It's probably
even more, b e c a u s e Imperial s t u d e n t s are
more intelligent and creative, so more prone to
it. But you don't have to go through all this any
more. You can get your life back.
Ed's note: All articles in this series are
anonymous, but you can contact the author
through Felix. If you wish to contribute contact
me- all enquires will be treated in the strictest
confidence. More information on psychiatric
disorders can be found at www.mind.org
Nix • 22nd January 2001 • Pulse

