10 Reviews
It's A Great Big Shame
Mike Leigh is best known as a film director,
which is unfortunate as much of his best work
has been in the theatre. His latest offering is a
funny, complex and moving examination of
gender roles and the cruelty of love. Set in the
late nineteenth century and the present day, it
follows two couples who inhabit the same house
at different times and their marital problems.
The first act initially appears to suffer from
an over-riding desire to romanticise Victorian
London, and indeed it is easy to sit back and
watch the antics of various chirpy Cockney
characters. Kathy Burke, as the dubiously
named Nellie Bucket, gets and deserves the
lion's share of laughs. She gives a stunning and
noticeably assured performance and she is much
the star of the show. Nellie is described as a
waif, though her circumstances are never fully
explained. She dresses as a man, rarely bathes,
is apparently slightly retarded and is a figure of
ridicule. Most of the scenes take place in the
pub of Mrs Clack, a strange but essentially
charitable woman who gives Nellie odd jobs.
Several characters come and go, among them
the object of Nellie's misplaced affections, Jim.
When Jim marries, Nellie goes into a decline,
and that's all I'm saying.
The second act changes scene to 1993, and
the couple now before us are young, black and
restless. This part of the play suffers from
serious under-writing and the characters are
sketchy. Special praise though for Gary
McDonald as Barrington, an intensely nervy and
hilariously shy bundle of raw aggresion who
comes into the lives of Joy and Randall.
Despite its faults though It's A Great Big
Shame is well worth the effort, and the theatre
itself is both stunning and cheap.
Tony
Theatre Royal, Gerry Raffles Square, E15. Tel:
081 534 0310. Ends 20th Nov. Cones £2. Michael Gunn and Paul Trussell on a rotating horse and cart
1 P N J
[ J D
Oleanna
These days Shabba Rank's misogyny and
homophobia are acceptable on the radio, and
Benny Hill, we're told was actually a comic
genius. Unlikely bedfellows for American
playwright David Mamet, but is his new play
another nail in the coffin for Political
Correctness?
A male lecturer, David Suchet, and his
female student, Lia Williams share the stage, his
office. She is having difficulty with his course
and in the first act he makes the ultimately
regrettable decision to help her. But the first act
is much more than just a prelude to the explosive
second. Suchet arrogantly expounds his views
on amongst other things, the nature of eduction,
only giving Williams opportunities to speak so
that he may interrupt.
Quaff the interval drink leisurely at your
peril, because early in the second act we learn
that Williams has found Suchet's behaviour
improper and has reported him. And herein lies
the only niggle about the play. She is the stroppy
little Ms. of "dubious sexuality" who objects to
what she feels is his intellectual snobbery and
sexist attitude. Then when she has the audacity
to tell him not to call his wife "baby", any sane
man or woman would snap. Like the stark stage,
the characters are black and white so there is no
conflict of sympathy.
But even simply establishing goodies and
baddies with just two protagonists and an array
of thought-provoking ideas to be chewed upon,
is no mean feat.
Director, Harold Pinter, commands faultless
performances from Suchet and Williams. The
second act has a sustained intensity that is
draining for both actors and audience, so the
climax, whilst inherently disturbing, is a
welcome release.
Mamet seems to fear the danger of Political
Correctness and it would be naive to think there
aren't any. Ludicrous directives demanding
'personholes' and not 'manholes' are a waste of
everybody's time. But personally , I'd prefer an
excess of PC to none at all.
Rahul
Duke of York's, St Martin's Lane, WC2. Tel: 071
836 5122. Tickets from £5.
SplotSoc's achievememts can be found on page 16

