Reviews 11
Wkmmittft
illlll Sill
The Life of
Stuff
To say the most important thing first: go and see
it - it's brilliant, outrageous, and sometimes
quite disgusting. I never thought that I could
like a play where a chopped off toe is mistaken
for a Marks & Spencer sausage whilst
somebody else is trying urine-diluted Black
Label.
The scene is set in and on top of an old
warehouse which is to be converted into a
nightclub. Some quality recreational drugs are
supposed to be there, home-made by a student.
This is also the chance to see some guy in
underpants preparing for his new life as an
exotic dancer on Ibiza, who set a van on fire
without knowing there was someone still in it.
The actresses and actors were all brilliant;
Holly actually reminded me of a friend of mine
for some vague reasons i f not for her
"metaphorical view of a vision", or was it the
real story. Evelyn, on the other hand, has
unusual associations with polythene bags.
It's tasteless, but I loved it. It was great.
Kristine
Donmare Warehouse Tel: 071 867 1150. Ends
6th Nov. Student stand-by £8.
Flight
Mikhail Bulgakov's Flight is set during the
Russian Civil War, between the autumn of 1920
and the autumn of 1921, when the Tsarist White
Forces were facing defeat at the hands of the
Bolsheviks.
The title of the play refers to the flight of
several individuals from the Bolsheviks to
Constantinople. A man and a woman fleeing
from Bolshevik Petersburg land in the hands of
the ruthless White General Khludov, but were
saved from his brutality by the advancing Red
Army. They, and members of the White Army,
escape to Constantinople which is yet another
nightmare as these Russians face poverty and
degradation.
The story unfolds in a series of eight scenes,
termed 'dreams' by Bulgakov. Director, David
Graham-Young's staging of these dreams brings
out the nightmarish effects of the Civil War
upon these characters.
The versatile cast interact with great timing.
Max Gold as Charnota, Steve Hodson as
Korzukhan and Peter Tate as Khludov were
particularly good. A moving experience in the
intimacy of the Lyric Studio.
B.J.
Lyn'c Studio, Lyric Theatre, Hammersmith. Tel:
081 741 8701. Cones £5. Ends 6th Nov.
Frank And
Martha
Were Brothers
The plot revolves around "the ugliest twins that
ever lived", charting their progress from birth to
adulthood. The play hinges on opposites,
similarity and differences. The actors do their
best with the play. The first five minutes ois
spent talking about virtually every vile thing I
could think of.
The play tries to contrast love/hate,
male/female, truth/lies and life/death. The twins
follow the same path until early adulthood,
where their paths diverge, until both meet again
having achieved very similar things through
opposing methods.
Unfortunately, although the idea was sound,
it lost a lot in its transition to the stage, and left
the audience slightly confused. If you like
shouted obscenities, this play is for you. I don't.
The play ended paradoxically with a one
word soliloquy on itself: Bollocks.
Flossie (with thanks to Guy Smiley).
Camden Studio Theatre. Tel: 071 916 4040.
Tickets from £6.50. Ends 6th Nov
1
• F R E S H H A I R S A L O N •
the b e s t s t u d e n t offer in l o n d o n !
i if** ^
G U T Sc
B L O W D R Y
£ 1 4 L A D I E S
£ 1 2 M E N
Normal price: £2SI
1 minute walk from South Kensington Tube S
Call: 071 823 8968
15A H A R R I N G T O N R O A D , S O U T H K E N S I N G T O N , L O N D O N SW7 3 ES

