14 Clubs and Societies
Dance The
Night Away
Imperial College Dance Club is a multi-racial
club boasting membership of about 200 students
in a similar ratio of men and woman.
We offer classes at different levels in Latin,
Ballroom and R o c k ' n ' R o l l taught by
professional teachers. The lessons are friendly
and relaxed and everybody have a great time.
As well as classes, we arrange social gatherings
from small and frequent social dances to big
events such as a London Ball and Dinner Dance.
We also have dance teams where students
can test their dancing skills at a highly
competitive level. Last year, out teams literally
stormed all major inter-varsity competitions and
many of the dancers started from a beginners
class at Imperial College.
If you wish, you can even take medal tests at
the end of the academic year and people pass
them with flying colours!
So, sound like your kind of club? Even if it
doesn't, why not have a go at it anyway? We
will be surprised if you won't find that dancing
is fun!
The classes are now on in J C R . The
rock'n'roll class will start at 6pm on Monday
8th November in Union Dining Hall.
6pm-7pm 7pm- 8pm 8pm- 9pm
Monday Latin Silver/Gold Competition Technique
Monday
(Bronze) Gold Star
Tuesday Beginners Intermediate (silver) Intermediate (social)
Thursday Beginners Improvers (bronze)
Debate and be Damned
Orgies, debauchery, drunkenness, corruption.
No, Imperial College Union is not so far
removed from the collapsing Roman empire.
And continuing in this great tradition is the
Debating Society honing its knives of the sharp
put-down or tasting of the sweet mead from a
watertight case.
Whether you are a lion of the floor waiting
for some ill-fated christian to give you his life
and faith to maul and chew, or a Mark Anthony
holding the mob in the palm of your hand, or a
dispassionate observer upon whose yea or nay
the gladiators will live or die, the debating
society wants you.
This term at Imperial College we will have
lunchtime debates at l p m in the Brown
Committee Room on the motions:
"This house believes that human dignity is
more important than human life " - Tuesday 26th
October
"This house believes that women are better
suited to the bedroom than the boardroom." -
Tuesday 23rd November
In addition we have evening trips to other
debating societies within the University of
London and will be taking part in inter-varsity
competitions throughout the year.
If you are interested, get in touch with Chris
Hodge (Chemistry II U G , through the Union
Office pigeonhole or 071 701 6841) or come
along to an event, everyone is welcome and it's
free.
Cycle Club Success Story
The Cycle Club has had a successful start to the
year with a win and a top ten place for our riders
at the Viking Wheelers cycle-cross at Elthorne
Park on Sunday. James Arthur (Physics II) won
the event, overtaking the second placed rider on
the final lap of four. His victory was especially
noteworthy as it was his first race. Duncan
Emery (Physics III), this years Cycle Club
captain, backed up the win with eighth place,
despite two falls on the first lap.
With a full winter of training and racing, the
Cycle Club hopes to build on this win. The first
major event is a tour of the South Downs Way
over this weekend. Training rides also take place
every Wednesday at 1.30pm and Saturday and
Sunday at 10.30am starting from Beit Arch.
Anybody who is interested in joining the Cycle
Club should contact either Duncan Emery or
Simon Ibbotson (both Physics III) though the
departmental pigeonholes or the Cycle Club
pigeonhole in the Union Office.
Hype Weekend
With the end of another hectic week dawns the
beginning of a hopefully hype weekend for all
of us. What better to start it all off than with a
trip to the Union tonight, Friday 22nd, to see
one of the most interesting, new bands on the
circuit: My Life Story. The night will contain all
the usual Atmosphere attractions - the Ents
Disco 'til 2am, late bar 'til lam - along with
what should be a truly entertaining slice of pop
melodies from the band. Their debut single 'Girl
A, Girl B, Boy C was single of the week in
both N M E and Melody Maker, so the advice is:
See them now and tell all your mates.
There's time to get your tickets in advance
for just £2 from the Union Office, or £2.50 on
the door. Ents card holders will get a pound off.
See ya there.
Don't forget the Monday nights specialist
disco, 9pm 'til 12am in the Ents Lounge (check
flyers for details). And Libido on Wednesdays -
9pm 'til lam, with bar 'til 12am. Both these
nights are free.
Mf Life Story
Friday 22nd Oct
Tickets £2 in advance
(from Union Office)
£2.50 on the door
Student Union Reforms explained on page 21

