16 Clubs and Societies
Smoking Beagles - Imperials Own Dogs Of War
Paintball is a relatively new game to the U K (it
has been around for five years). IC Splotsoc has
been around for four of them. The idea behind
the game is to capture the opposition's flag
which is positioned in their flag base while
retaining your own. We use C 0 2 powered
markers which 'fire' paintballs - these burst on
impact marking the player / tree / barricade.
The common presumption of non-players is
that paintball caters for the Rambos of society,
those people with dangerous paramilitary
tendencies. However, i f you expect a crash
course in subversive thuggery y o u ' l l be
disappointed. It's the ultimate non-contact sport
and strength has nothing to do with it - success
is dictated by your skill and accuracy with a
paintball marker, and sometimes a small amount
of tactics.
On Sunday 25th July eight paintball teams
gathered for the Brass Eagle 5-man No-Pro. The
teams present were two Shadow Company teams
from Wales under the names of Peanut and
Cobnut, Plague, Copycats, Leftovers, Imperial
College's own Smoking Beagles, Silverados and
Rush. Fifteen minute games were played on four
fields. At the start of the day it was announced
that the winners would not only receive a trophy
but also two free airline tickets to the Costa del
Sol, the Algarve or Canaries - a very nice and an
unexpected surprise.
Round one resulted in only two teams, Peanut
and Smoking Beagles, maxing (eliminating all
the opposition by marking them with paint and
then getting their flag back to base); the other
four teams drew. The first round also saw the
only penalties of the day, a hot gun for the
Leftovers to add insult to the injury of being
maxed.
In the second round Peanut maxed Rush for
the loss of three players, Cobnut beat Plague
losing only one, and similarly Leftovers came
back from negative points only losing one player
to the Copycats. The Smoking Beagles didn't
lose a player against Silverados.
Round three resulted in only one max, the
Smoking Beagles versus Copycats, with the
former again not losing a single player. Rush
were four points (one elimination) short of a
max over Cobnut, and a close game between
Leftovers and Silverados gave the latter their
first win. Plague held Peanut to a draw on Field
Four, an awkward field with little cover across
the middle. Peanut, Copycats and Leftovers
maxed their games and the Beagles and Rush
drew in round four.
In round five both the Beagles and Peanut
kept up their unbeaten record and the Silverados
and Leftovers also both won. In the following
round Peanut suffered their first defeat of the
tournament to the Leftovers, a game which later
proved to be decisive in the final placings. In a
hard game the Beagles maxed Cobnut with a
well timed push. Copycats scored their second
max over Silverados on the very even field three
and Rush drew against Plague.
In the final round Plague maxed Silverados
on field one, Rush also finished off with a max
over the Copycats. The Leftovers maxed for the
fourth time in as many rounds, this time beating
Cobnut. The crucial game of the final round was
between Shadow Company Peanut and the
Smoking Beagles. If Peanut could max and lose
no one they would tie for first place with the
Beagles. This game took place on field four.
Peanut won the toss and the Beagles were left
with the end that no one had won from all day.
Long-ball (firing from one end of the field to the
other with no team moving forwards) ensued
and Peanut went one down after about five
minutes. Nothing much happened until the last
two minutes when the Beagles pushed hard
down the right and centre, forcing Peanut
players back into the bottle-neck at their end and
finally taking them all out and scoring a flag in
transit, losing no players. So at the end of the
day Imperial College's team came out on top in
convincing style, unbeaten and triumphant.
We meet in Southside Upper Lounge every
Tuesday lunchtime 12.30pm-13.30pm. The first
trip will take place on Saturday 30th October.
This promises to be a seriously fun day at a very
reasonable price and includes hire of equipment,
overalls, lunch and tea/coffee all day for only
£10. If you are interested come and see us in
Southside or phone Warren Hirst on ext 4116.
You've seen the film
*"You've read the book...
...NOW TASTE THE FOOD!
Thursday 28th October, Main Dining Hall, Sherfield
12:00 - 2:00 p.m.

