Clubs and Societies 17
Rag - Free Carter Then Flee South!
Monopoly Madness
Last Saturday, Rag once again sent enthusiastic
students onto the streets of London in aid of
charity. Many people formed teams of between
four and six and signed up to take part in Live
Monopoly to collect money for Mencap.
The aim of the day was to answer lots of
questions from the various sites all around the
Monopoly board - which aren't as close as
previously thought! Some people, when they
couldn't find the answers, made up a response
instead and these provided much entertainment
for the markers, as did the treasure that was
brought back. Items included several postman's
sacks, perfumes, wet floor signs, posters and a
policeman's helmet (not a real one,
unfortunately). Our favourite was the chocolate,
but we're still fighting over who gets to eat it!
Bonus marks were gained for having a
mascot or collecting in fancy dress which
several people did, including the Sexual
Chocolates team who all came in dinner suits or
ball dresses
A l l in all it was a teriffic day out which
ended in style with a party organised by Mencap
and Rag in the Union Building in the evening.
Overall, Imperial students raised more than
£1600 for Mencap, so a huge thank you and
congratulations to everyone who took part.
Special thanks must go to all those who
helped on the night, especially Chris Lewis and
Adrian (sorry I don't know your surname) who
helped on the door and Phil Arnold with his
magnificent counting machine. Sorry about the
graffiti and the toilet seats!
Free Carter Tickets!
Something else people may be interested in is a
collection at the Carter U S M concert tomorrow
night. If anyone is interested in getting into the
concert for free by collecting for W.W.F. then
come up to our office (2nd floor, east staircase,
Union Building) at any time or as I said above
come to the U G M today at lpm in the JCR. We
usually have our meetings on Friday lunchtimes
at lpm in the Union Lounge and everybody is
welcome, especially since we will be holding
elections for Hall Representatives soon. Hall
Reps coordinate the Rag events in halls which
involves motivating people and organising
teams for the inter-hall competitions such as the
Halls Dirty Dozen which is where each hall of
residence sends out a team of twelve people and
collects somewhere for twelve hours (or less)
and the hall that raises the most money during
the day wins an amazing prize, probably a barrel
of beer!
Raggies Go Mad
Down South
Tomorrow, anyone who wants to get out of
London for the day for free and have an
excellent time in the process to come and join
the Rag team. On Saturday 23rd October we are
going down to Poole in Dorset on a R A G RAID.
"What is a Rag Raid?" I hear you ask. Well,
we all clamber into a minibus and drive off
leaving the grime and smog of the city behind
and muck around down by the seaside,
collecting for R.A.D. (Royal Association for the
Deaf) while we're there.
We are leaving at around 9am, which is a
fairly reasonable hour for everyone. If you are
interested then come and sign up in the Rag
Office (2nd floor, east staircase, Union
Building) at lunchtimes or see us after the U G M
today at lpm in the JCR. Places are limited, so
you'll have to hurry!
Rag Week Preview
You may have lots about this infamous R A G
Week - but how much is true and how much is
just rumours? Well let me tell you a little bit
about this period. The aim of R A G Week is to
have fun all around college whilst raising loads
of money for charity whilst we're about it! A l l
sorts of mad things go on and anyone can get
involved as joining R A G doesn't cost a penny -
just a little bit of time but you get so much out
of it. The week starts of (3rd November) with a
huge Beer Festival organised by the RCS which
promises to be excellent; also you can sell (or
buy) yourself for 24 hours in the Guilds Slave
Auction the 4th November. During the week
there are three big parties. Firstly the Guilds
carnival (5th November) - Geno Washington the
Hypnotist is performing followed by a band.
Then there's a Bar extension in the Union on
tuesday 9th. Finally on friday 12th the Great
Rag Bash occurs in the Union. On the last day
of R A G Week the S.N.K.P.J. (Sponsored Nude
Kamikaze Parachute Jump) takes place. This
involves running back from Harrods wearing
only a Parachute! If you fancy getting involved
in any of these event then come and see us in
the R A G Office any lunchtime or Wednesday
afternoons and we'll give you loads more
information. R A G Week is for everyone so do
take part and have FUN!
Rag
M e e t i n g
There's no Rag
Meeting today
because of the
U G M at lpm in
the JCR.
We will hold a short
meeting afterwards
where we will hand
out certificates and
prizes and answer
any questions you
may have.
Don't miss the Oleanna review on page 10

