19
Clive Anderson Has A Break And A Chit Chat
"I am forty, balding and dull," confesses Clive
Anderson on IC Radio this week. "I just hope
women can see through that."
Interviewed for a new celebrity series on IC
Radio, he also admitted a fondness for Carol
Vorderman, co-presenter of Notes and Queries.
"I wanted an attractive and intelligent woman to
Thanks to Channel 4 for the photo
Mountaineering
For some incomprehensible reason the
Mountaineers weekend to the Roaches was two
places under-subscribed. S&G's ploy to steal
Mountaineering Club's potential members (by
going away the same weekend) backfired when
they discovered that they hadn't booked a
minibus. As the two clubs were planning on
heading for destinations half an hour apart, it
was agreed that those who couldn't be squeezed
into a car would travel with the organised party.
Fitting thirteen people into a thirteen seater
bus was like trying to fit unlimited free food into
an already half full stomach. Some deserved
cramp relief was provided by a burst tyre and
more relief, if that's what you call it, came from
a truckers eat called Holly's.
Those that bivvied enthusiastically chiselled
their way out of their frost covered sleeping bags
in the morning in order to be first on the crags at
9am, while the others thawed in a cafe first and
balance me out!" he jokes.
Have A Break - Have A Chit Chat presenter
Bryan Crotaz talks with him for two hours this
Tuesday. He asks:
Was Clive a sad hack at Cambridge? "I resent
being called a sad hack," retorted Mr Anderson.
"But yes, I suppose I was..."
Does he think a wig suits him? "I look very
young in court. When I put a wig on, I have a
rather babyish face. I haven't got much hair and
on TV it's even less - it gets bleached out by the
light. I get it completely the wrong way round: I
look ancient on T V which is a disadvantage
when you are supposed to be youthful, but in
court I look rather young."
The series of eight celebrity interviews will
be broadcast every Tuesday between 5pm and
7pm. Guests will include journalist Michael
Buerk, artist Tony Hart, science writer Johnny
Ball, author Terry Pratchett and possibly
superstar Michael Caine.
The Clive Anderson interview will be
broadcast as the first in this series next Tuesday,
26th October.
When asked how he would want his epitaph
to read, M r . Anderson initially dodged the
question. "I asked David Frost the same question
arrived with the crowds. The Roaches, famous
for its classic climbing, boasts some of the
boldest leads you can get. Everyone attempted a
range of C l i m b s of all levels with varying
degrees of success (with only one minor
hospitalisation caused by a banana skin at the
top of an E4). We climbed all day in splendid
sunshine until a vivid sunset and sub-zero
temperatures lured us to the nearest pub serving
food.
S&Gers drew straws for the privilege of
staying in a field rather than a hut. There was
thick frost again in the morning but another
sunny day of climbing ahead. If it didn't involve
scaling smooth vertical slabs or overhang^ ten
times worse than a scrumpy jack hangover then
it involved using a nutkey to unwedge yourself
from a very tight chimney.
On the journey back, the foetal position
adopted by everyone due to the S&G takeover
and he gave other peoples' answers." When
pressed, he finally answered flippantly: " O h . . . a
brilliant and joyful skinflint."
Listeners are invited to send suggestions for
questions to forthcoming guests to Bryan Crotaz,
c/o IC Radio, Southside. Suggestions for future
guests are also welcome.
Photo by Mike Chamberlain
resulted in several blue mountaineers on delivery
to Beit Arch.
See the Mountaineers notice board by the
climbing wall for details and lists for future trips
or meet us in Southside on Tuesdays from 9pm
Ski Sunday
On Sunday 17th October the Imperial College
Ski Club beat teams from Cambridge, Norwich
and London when the two Imperial teams came
in 8th and 9th in the Team Dual Slalom event at
the Kings Ski Club National Races. The team
consisted of Phil Barnard, Crispian Lord,
Charlotte Woodbridge, Jonathan Parr, Fred
Westerberg, Mark Baylis, William Campbell
Jones, Nick Hubscher, Ian Haines.
Club Rescues Scout and Guide
Slots are still available for sport and recreation in the
Union Gym and Southside Gym.
Any clubs, societies, departments or halls of residence
wanting slots, contact the Deputy President (Clubs
and Societies) as soon as possible.
Three Colours: Blue is reviewed on page 4

