Feature 21
Student Union Reforms
Andrew Wensley, Imperial College Union President, gives his personal view
on the government's current proposals for student union reform. He explain
the objectives behind it and the possible effects on unions such as ourselves if
such a system was put into action.
John Patten's intentions to reform student unions
were formally announced to the House of
Commons on 1st July 1993. These reforms were
to reinforce choice in student unions. They
aimed to abolish the 'closed shop' of student
unions by giving students the power to choose
whatever collective involvement they wanted. At
the same time, they would protect the taxpayer
from supporting activities of a campus union
that were unaccountable, either democratically
or financially, or which represent essentially
political activities on campus.
These reforms to be implemented would have
these three objectives:
i) To limit the purposes for which public
funding can be used.
ii) To avoid public fund being used for
affiliation to the National Union of Students
(NUS) or other campaigning organisations.
iii) To make student unions more accountable
and fully representative.
While we stay not affiliated to the NUS, I
feel we cannot comment on the second proposal
other than to say this: I believe there have been
abuses in the past of the role that student unions
play at both a local and national level. However,
this is not reason enough to rule out a collective
national voice for the students of the United
Kingdom, a collective voice that speaks on
issues that affect students as students. Reasons
for this are stated later.
As for the first and third proposals, I believe
Imperial College Union (ICU) should support
these objectives wholeheartedly, but the means
through which the Secretary of State wishes to
achieve the objectives are not only impractical
for ICU, but will have an opposite and very
damaging effect.
Since ICU is not a corporate body, but in fact
an integral part of Imperial College, it must
comply with rules and regulations laid down by
the Governing Body or its nominee. I C U has
worked very closely with the College to develop
policies, controls and procedures which achieve
the objectives that the Secretary of State hope to
obtain. However, the implementation of the
proposals in detail will jeopardise, and in many
cases, destroy activities to the detriment of
student well-being and to the College and to the
objectives sought by the Secretary of State.
The reforms would define four areas of
Union activity to be 'core'. That is to say they
would able to be funded by public funds. These
areas of activity are to be:
Internal Representation
Sport
Welfare
Catering
Internal representation would involve the
funding of, for example, elections for Union and
College Posts and a proportion of sabbatical
salaries dependant on the time spent on 'core'
areas.
Sport is simply the funding of sports and their
related costs, be they the running of sports
grounds or the clubs themselves. In essence,
most costs associated with sport.
The third item is welfare. This broad
definition would cover such obvious services as
the ICU Advice Service, a 'nightline' telephone
helpline and personal attack alarms. However, it
also covers other less obvious areas such as the
introductory arrangements for first years,
provision for specific minorities within any
University, for example students with children,
overseas students, graduate and mature students.
These provisions would have to take the form of
social events, support and advice services. A l l
these activities would be 'core' funded so long
as the support related to operating within current
systems and not campaigning for changes within
national policies.
Finally, and perhaps bizarrely, catering is
included as a core service. Although currently,
the student union is not allowed to fund catering
activities with its block grant, under these
proposed reforms they could. Funny old world,
isn't it.
But what would this mean for our student
union?
If you belong to a club that isn't sporting in
nature then there would be no funding for it
under these proposals. To put it bluntly, it would
be perfectly fine to play rugby but not to play
Hamlet. Clubs and societies such as the
Orchestra, Wine tasting and Debating could not
be supported under these proposed changes.
Likewise, any of our religious, political or social
clubs could not be funded. A l l of these clubs
have their aim as the desire to improve
awareness in their subject, part of the process of
encouraging democratic values. None of these
clubs could be supported with public funds. If
you wanted to join one of these clubs, it would
be on a voluntary 'opt-in' basis, you want to
join, then you pay your way.
If you go to see any of the DJs, bands or
events that Ents put on, remember these have
always been costed to break even. Under the
proposed changes, since entertainments are a
non-core activity, they would be charged for
room space. Since no public funds could be used
to cover any potential losses, a profit on events
would have to be made to cover any future
losses. There's always the danger that when you
put an event on, not enough people would turn
up to make it worthwhile financially.
Whilst I say we should support the principle
of making student unions more accountable,
financially and democratically, I would question
highly the means used to implement this under
these proposals. For instance, to ensure correct
monitoring of public funds, whenever a 'non-
core' activity used 'core' services, they would
have to charged a proportionate cost. This is in
order to avoid paying hidden subsidies to non-
core activities. In essence, this is acceptable until
one realises the cost of enforcing such a system.
To ensure the correct cost is charged, one
would have to check every room after it was
used in order to proportion out such costs as
heating, space usage, wear and tear, even the
cost of next year's redecoration. A l l this would
take time. As we have all learnt, time is money.
The first implication of such a 'cost charging'
system would be an increase in the
administration costs of the Union. Currently they
are one of the lowest in the country for a union
of our size.
To put it in simple figures, the income for our
Union for the coming year is over £500,000. A
lot of money in anyone's language. All of the
Union's expenditure meets strict criteria laid
down by the government and College to ensure
no misuse of funds takes place. Under these new
proposals, up to half (over £250,000) of today's
expenditure could be deemed 'non-core'. That
means we would have to find that sum of money
from non-public funds, from somewhere else. If
anyone has a quarter of a million pounds kicking
around, I'd love to hear from you.
So there you have it, a brief run through the
proposed reforms. I personally support two of
the three objectives, but the way they are to be
implemented would be to the detriment to
students, to the Union and to life at Imperial
College.
What are we doing about it?
Already we have had a multitude of meetings
with other Unions, with College and with the
government. A l l the affected parties, both
Universities and Unions, have made deputations
to the government. But do you want us to? Such
a question will be put to students at the Union
General Meeting today in the Junior Common
Room at lpm.
Competition to win gig tickets - see page 7

