22 Editorial
Editorial
For those of you who didn't realise why
hundreds (although it seemed like thousands) of
people invaded the whole of Imperial College
yesterday, let me explain. It was because of
something called 'Commemmoration Day',
which means that people who graduated last
summer decide that it would be fun to spend the
day going round in posh clothes and a gown
with a pretty coloured hood. Not only that but
they also get to spend two and a half hours
sitting in the Royal Albert Hall waiting to walk
up to the front and have their name read out.
Sounds thrilling, doesn't it! Not only have I
had to put up with the generally overcrowded
Union building, but all day I've had people
coming up to me and asking me why I'm not
dressed up and why I'm not going to the
Commommoration ceremony. I don't know if
it's just me, but it all seems a bit pointless.
Maybe if I'd worked a bit harder during my
three years here, I'd feel differently about it, but
as far as I'm concerned I've finished my degree
and that's it.
One good thing about Commemmoration
Day is the Commemmoration Ball. I'm taking
tonight off so that I can go (shock, horror!). As
you probably know, it takes women ages to get
ready and they're still late, so I'm off now.
Thanks to everyone who is going to be
collating, I really appreciate it.
Secret Diary OfA Fresher
Aged 18 and 3/4
Don't Forget
The clocks go back by one
hour this Sunday
Saturday 2nd October
Dear Diary,
Moved in to hall today. M y room is tiny. One of
the hall rules is no pets, probably so that you
can't find out if there's enough room to swing a
cat. There's one advantage though, I can make a
cup of coffee and toast, put a tape in my stereo
and reach over for a copy of Felix without
getting out of bed. Met the warden, who's about
40 and dresses like a fashionable teenager, of the
1950s. Oh well, I suppose he means well. I
knocked on the door next to me and introduced
myself. It's occupied by a girl called Theresa.
She looks like she should be studying Sociology
instead of Physics. I think that, despite the six
layers of really baggy, grey jumpers, and skirt
down to the floor,that she's actually quite thin
(bitch). She seemed okay really, even though
she's got green hair. She talked for ages about
vegetarianism. I explained to her that I was a
vegetarian but I'm one that eats meat and fish.
Well, it's the thought that counts, isn't it?
Sunday 3rd October
Dear Diary,
Got up around llam.Laughed at those looking
very green in the kitchen as I cooked a fried
breakfast. Went to Hyde Park with four others,
to feed the ducks. Everyone had to talk for five
minutes about themselves. I told them my
hobbies were under-water basket weaving and
hamster juggling. I also mentioned that I'd spent
last year teaching English to Amazonian
Pygmies after I cycled across the Sahara. They
all believed me but I think the bit about
water-sking across the Atlantic might have
stretched it a little. Rob 'who-lives-
across-the-hall' said he wasn't getting a grant so
he was in debt straight away instead of after the
second week. I don't think my money's going to
go far so I'm thinking of getting a job as a
temporary postwoman for Christmas. It won't be
much but it's better than walking the streets!
Theresa said she wanted to work with exploited,
malnourished children, I suggested MacDonalds
but she didn't seem to like the idea.
Monday 4th October
Dear Diary,
Had to register today. Spent an hour and a half
in a queue full of people I didn't know. One prat
started busking, it would have been okay but he
only knew John Denvers 'Leaving on a Jet
Plane'. I think everybody in the queue wished
that he would be, preferably one that was going
to Guatemala. There was a bloke behind me who
kept going on about Socrates while I smiled
sympathetically. The one in front was a little
more interesting, being an out and out Marxist.
Talking to him was a real education. I've now
realised what imperialist capitalists my parents
are, shoring up the corrupt and decadent facist
state in which we live, exploiting the workers by
forcing them to slave for meagre wages while
their bloated plutocratic masters reap the
benefits. I sent them a letter telling them this. I
also asked them for 50 quid as well 'cos my
cheque books not come through yet.
Credits
Rose Atkins
Andy Thompson
Steve Newhouse
Andrew Tseng
Lynn Bravey
Paul Dias
Shaun Joynson
Jon Jordan
Owain Bennallack
Joe McFadden
Kamran Malik
Rehka Nayak
Samin Ishtiaq
Charlie Leary
Tony Grew
Mike Chamberlain
Richard
Juliette Decoch
Diana Harrison
Phill Henry
Ivan Chan
Kin Wei Lee
Collators Last Week:
Jaymz 'n' Tamsin
Penguin
Jon Jordan
Owain Bennallack
Part time vacancy
Part-time sound and lighting engineer
required in London area. Some technical
experience an advantage, must have full
driving licence - possibility of vehicle being
provided. Some lifting work involved.
Applicant must be available during term-
time and vacations.
Contact:
Hans Beier or Jane Polley
® 0453 751865

