Reviews
Dragon: The
Bruce Lee Story
Jason Scott Lee (Bruce Lee) and Lauren Holly (Linda Lee)
Starring: Jason Scott Lee, Lauren Holly
Director: Rob Cohen
Making a biopic can be a dangerous business.
For a start not everybody is going to agree about
the events on screen. And there are so many
pitfalls. We have all seen directors fall into the
twin traps of sentimentality and over-
simplification. I have to admit at the start that I
suspected Dragon: The Bruce Lee Story to be
guilty on all counts. What a pleasant surprise it
was when it turned out to be one of the most
enjoyable, funny and touching film biographies
for a very long time.
In retrospect, the plot is just a little bit far-
fetched. Young Bruce Lee leaves his home in
Hong Kong and settles in San Francisco's
self-contained Chinatown. Dreaming American
dreams and washing dishes during the day, our
young hero fills his evenings studying to
improve himself and managing to find some
time to lay some amazing 'Asian babes'.
This annoys the cook who attacks Lee
(basically just an excuse for another excellent
Kung-Fu set piece); the poor lad is sacked and,
with the help of the owner, goes to college.
There he meets the alarmingly blonde Linda;
they fall in love and get married. Together they
start a fight school and break the rules by
teaching whites and blacks. Lee invents a new
form of fighting, is temporarily handicapped,
moves into TV, goes back to Hong Kong, has a
son, has a daughter, makes 'Enter the Dragon',
becomes embarrassingly famous, moves back to
Hollywood and dies mysteriously.
The most notable thing about Dragon is
probably the fact that it is completely impossible
to dislike anything about it. It is a total triumph
of the art of captivating your audience. Any
hostility you may harbour will melt in the face
of such a wantonly assured and enjoyable film.
This is largely due to the steady direction of Rob
Cohen; the fight scenes in particular are handled
perfectly with just the right amount of humour.
But the film belongs to Jason Scott Lee, who
here turns in a performance worthy of just about
every accolade you can think of. It is notoriously
difficult to credibly portray a real person, and
the results can often be quite startlingly bad -
the Kevin Costner effort in 'JFK' will live in my
mind forever. The other extreme can be just as
counter-productive, as anybody who watched
'My Left Foot' and felt the urge to jump up and
shout ' W A N K E R ! ' at Daniel Day Lewis can
testify. Lee is quite simply stunning, and quite
frankly gives one of the sexiest performances of
the year. He clearly avoids becoming obsessed
with detail and instead attempts to convey
something of the essence of the legend. This boy
will go far, and has already been talent spotted
by some of the biggest names in Hollywood.
Everyone else is excellent too, especially Robert
Wagner as a back-stabbing producer, though he
will always be that bloke from 'Hart to Hart' in
my mind.
In conclusion, this film is just the best I have
seen for a long time, kicks the ass off 'What's
love got to do with it' and should be compulsory
viewing for the entire planet.
Tony
Three Colours:
Blue
Starring: Juliette Binoche
Director: Krzysztof Kieslowski
"Blue" is the first of a new trilogy of films by
writer- director Krzysztof Kieslowski whose
previous works include " A Short Film About
Love" and "The Double Life of Veronique".
Named after the three colours of the French flag,
the films of the various hues are meant to
correspond to those values that the colours of the
flag are meant to represent: liberty, equality and
fraternity.
In "Blue", Juliette Binoche plays Julie - a
woman who loses both her husband and child in
a road accident which she herself survives. The
film tracks Binoche's attempt to restructure her
life, form which she tries to remove everything
that would remind her of the past by abandoning
friends and moving to a different district. I was
not impressed by the performance given;
Binoche seems simply to be in an angry, sulking
state throughout, showing virtually no change in
emotion.
The film flits from one idea to another from
scene to scene, with hardly a story to speak of
but perhaps this is the writers attempt to
emphasise the emptiness of Julie's life. A key
aspect, though, is the music that Julie's husband
- a famous composer - was working on and had
not completed at the time of his death, and
throughout, the camera wander towards blue
objects of some significance, drawing attention
to the title of the film. In particular whenever
Julie has a recollection of the past, the screen
turns completely blue and is accompanied by
deafening music, supposedly composed by her
husband. I just was not progressing and the
impression was given that the fact that the man
hadn't completed his score was more of a
tragedy that the loss of his life.
Technically, "Blue" is outstanding, with
innovative use of both sound and pictures but
overall, it seems like an insignificant jumble of
view thrown together and then punctuated with a
conclusion that comes "straight out of the blue"
with little to do with what had appeared earlier
in the film. If you want to see a really good film
about music and emotions, watch "Un coeur en
hiver".
Amir Rehman Khan
The latest recording of the WarRequiem is reviewed on page 8

