Music 7
A N T H R A X C O M P E T I T I O N
We at Felix, being prompted by altruistic
motives for you, our caring and faithful
readership, have tickets to give away. There
are two pairs of upstairs tickets, worth £20,
for the visit of Anthrax to the Forum on
Friday 12th November. A l l you worthies
have to do to win, win, win is answer this
trivium: Which Scottish island was used to
test Anthrax during WW2?
About as tricky as a dead cod, but there you
go. Answers to Anthrax Competition (Music
Ed.) at Felix.
Soul Asylum
Grave Dancer's Union
This is an album which slipped out some time
ago but which is now being re-promoted, so to
speak, to tie into the current U K tour.
With half a dozen other seminals, Soul
Asylum have been hailed as 'Godfathers of
Grunge', and like The Replacements and Husker
Du, success only arrived years after the debut. In
that time though their music has evolved from
murky obscurity to a more popular stance.
On 'Grave Dancer's Union', Booker T and
his amazing Hammond Organ feature
throughout, as do the ludicrously named Golden
Smog Choir. Apart from the single 'Runaway
Train', also check out ' 9 9 % ' - the schizoid
lament about imperfect relationships. This is a
heartfelt album that boldly betrays its roots and
manages to embody both the beauty and futility
of life in one fine collection. (8)
Timille
Released on Columbia
OSoul Asylum are presently supporting The
Lemonheads and headline at the Astoria on 27th
Oct. Tickets cost £8.
This week's happy Grandfathers of Grunge - Soul Asylum
The Levellers
This Garden
Yes kids it's here. The new Levellers' single has
been bestowed upon us from on high, and yet
again it's a shamefully transparent pastiche of
folky old toss and mid-eighties dance rubbish.
Never mind though, they were at the poll tax
riots and I'll bet their mums let them out all
night sometimes.
I want to go out and buy it, then mouth the
words in pubs when it comes on the jukebox
and catch all the other saddoes eyes as they do
the same thing over a pint of real ale, then
demonstrate my social consciousness (and
empathy for the celtic peoples) by slipping
comfortably into a black Fair Isle sweater and
not shaving. Look on the bright side though, at
least it doesn't sound like Runrig.
G L Y P H M A C
Released on China Records
Sultans Of
Ping EC.
Michiko
This single is quite good. There we are, but I
suppose you want to know a bit more than that.
Famous for five minutes last year with their
wacky single 'Where's M y Jumper', the Sultans
play tongue-in-cheek-pop-rock with a big dose
of cynicism thrown in. They're better live than
on record and this single isn't as good as their
debut album. However, it's still groovy even
though they are sounding more and more like
Half Man Half Biscuit. You might want to give
this single a listen but I'd advise you to check
them out live first, by which time the new album
will be out and you can buy that instead.
FOB
Released on Rhythm King Records
H H 1
Skyscraper
Lovesick
A visceral assault on two sides of blue vinyl
combine subversive guitars and strained vocals
(including the occasional glimpse of Holly
Johnson.) 'Lovesick' is an angry reaction to the
blind sentimental fool phase and the subsequent
realisation that you were nothing but a victim of
spiritual robbery. The dizzy heights of stardom
may not be in their grasp, but they know the
story of my life.
Camille
Released on Incoherent Records
Bryan Adams
Please Forgive Me
Is Bryan Adams the idol which Middle America
has craved and the rest of the McDonald
munching world fawned for? Still it's the
bombastic glam for this M T V generation so
give the man some credit, only some mind.
Tintin
Released on A&M
Sepultra
Chaos AD
Sepultra are angrier than ever; angry at the
oppression of the Third World, angry at the
ongoing slaughter of South American people by
their police and governments, angry at the
ubiquitous repression of free speech and
individuality.
Unsurprisingly this anger is evident in their
music. 'Chaos A D ' is the Brazilian foursomes
most brutal to date. Alex 'Fudge Tunnel'
Newport's assistance in the rhythm guitar
department has resulted is a sound approaching
(but never quite equalling) the sickening,
detuned intensity to be found on Entombed's
magnificent 'Wolverine Blues', whilst retaining
Sepultra's trademark crunch.
The songs tend to be slower than on previous
offerings, for the most part making their impact
with sheer crushing bludgeoning power rather
than breakneck speed. There is also a greater
mix of styles than ever before; from the all-
acoustic 'Kaiowas' to the hardcore rattle of
'Biotech Is G o d z i l l a ' with lyrics (and
presumably title) by Jello Biafra.
All in all, Sepultra's strongest, heaviest and
most mature collection of songs to date.
Smashing. (9)
Freddy Cheeseworth
Released on Roadrunner Records
Win bookstore vouchers or a bottle of whiskey - see page 20

