8 Classical Music
Horror and Consolation
Baroque specialist John Eliot Gardiner turns his hand to a modern
masterpiece in his new recording of the War Requiem. The outcome is
radiant, reports Patrick Wood.
The shattered bells on the disc cover were victims ofallied bombing during the Seco
By the end of the Second World War, the centre
of Coventry had been reduced to rubble by
German bombing. The remains of the cathedral
were too ruinous to be restored, and instead a
second church, designed by architect Sir Basil
Spence, was built next to its burnt-out shell.
This stark juxtaposition of the destruction of
war, and the consolation and justification offered
by Christianity is also to be found in the War
Requiem, the choral masterpiece commissioned
from Benjamin Britten to celebrate the
consecration of the new cathedral. Wilfred
Owen's lacerating poems, with their reek and
horror of the trenches, and their subversion and
occasional implied negation of established
religion, do not sit easily alongside the Latin text
of the Missa pro defunctis. Selected with care,
they provide an apt and disturbing reflection on
key aspects of the liturgy, and this conflict
contributes to the unsettling power of the work
as a whole.
One of the best examples of this occurs in the
Offertorium; after the choir's fugal 'Quam olim
Abrahae' comes a setting of Owen's version of
the Abraham and Isaac story. From amidst
glittering harp and woodwind, the angel appears
to stay Abraham's hand: "But the old man would
not so, but slew his son, / And half the seed of
Europe, one by one."
In the War Requiem, Britten has succeeded
not only in making a deeply-felt statement about
his pacifist beliefs, but also in seizing the
imagination and emotions of an audience vast by
contemporary music standards. Within months
of its appearance in 1963, the composer's own
recording had sold 200,000 copies, and today
performances are not infrequent, despite the
huge forces involved.
The work requires three distinct and spatially
separated groups of performers; the first, a boys'
choir accompanied by organ, the second, a
soprano soloist, large chorus and orchestra, are
used for the Mass, while the third, tenor and
baritone soloists and chamber orchestra, are
reserved for the interpolated Owen settings. This
may cause difficulties in the concert hall, as a
venue large enough for the chorus and orchestra
to be given free rein does not have the intimacy
required for the chamber group. The problems of
balance are more easily solved by careful
microphone placing and mixing in the studio,
and the new Deutsche Grammophon recording,
with John Eliot Gardiner and the North German
Radio Symphony Orchestra, is the latest of
several successful digital versions of the work.
The shattered bells on the cover, victims, this
time, of allied bombing, are preserved in the St
Marienkirche in Lubeck, where the new
recording was made at a live performance during
last year's Schleswig-Holstein Festival. In fact,
it's impossible to tell that an audience is present
at all, as there's not so much as the faintest rustle
of a sweet-wrapper. What is immediately
obvious is the superb recorded sound - clarity,
naturalness of perspective, and huge,
uncongested climaxes. D G are promoting this
issue as one of the first to use their new 4D
Audio technique. Perhaps I should explain this,
since this is a College of Science and
Technology: It involves a 21-bit A/D converter
actually on the recording platform, giving a
"galvanically separated digital network which
ensures interference-free transmission". So now
you know. Whether the quality of the recording
is due to this new technology or to the skill of
the engineers, I am not in a position to judge, but
whatever the reason, the results speak for
themselves.
This is without a doubt the most purely
beautiful of available versions, right from the
bells at the very opening, clean and bright in the
spacious acoustic. Tenor Anthony Rolfe Johnson
makes a lovelier sound than any of his rivals; the
poignant 'Move Him Into The Sun' from the
Dies irae is especially ravishing. But, perhaps
because brass and choir are too intent on
producing a beautiful sound, the crucial opening
section of this movement just isn't savage
enough. Simon Rattle and the CBSO on EMI are
supreme here, the stench of the pit seems to waft
at their very heels: sour brass, spitting chorus,
it's sulphurous stuff, and Rattle unerringly paces
each seismic convulsion. He is less successful,
however, at drawing out the work's beauty; his
acoustic is dryer, and in the Agnus dei, for
example, he is plainer than Gardiner and the
luminous Rolfe Johnson.
To go from Gardiner to Britten's own
recording is to move into a different sound-
world. Closer-miked (boys' choir very upfront,
almost brash), weightier and darker, the 30 year-
old Decca recording wears its age well, although
there is inevitably tape-hiss, and some
congestion in loud passages. The reading is the
most urgent and pungent of all (try the acidic
woodwind flourishes at the beginning of the first
Owen setting), but tenor Peter Pears is a
drawback, despite his many textual insights, due
to his tendency to become constricted and nasal.
Of the modern versions, closest to Britten's is
the Gramophone award-winning Chandos
recording by Richard Hickox. His first-hand
knowledge of Britten's operas stands him in
good stead, and this is the most dramatic and
involving version as far as the Owen poems are
concerned. 'Abraham and Isaac' is gripping in
its theatrical concentration, and Hickox revels in
every sudden shift of mood. And in 'We've
Walked Quite Friendly Up To Death' he finds
the swagger which eludes Gardiner (soloists
Philip Langridge and John Shirley-Quirk are
excellent here). The opening of his Dies irae,
too, has more bite. But in the big moments of the
second half, even Hickox has to yield to the new
D G set. Under Gardiner, the 'Osanna' is a
glorious explosion of rippling brass (Hickox and
the L S O sound strained at this point) and the
final Libera me gathers inevitable momentum
towards a huge, totally unrestricted climax.
If blood and thunder are your first priority,
then it has to be Rattle. For a deeper insight into
this awesome masterpiece, my desert island
choice would be Hickox (which is also the only
version to offer any fillers - the Sinfonia da
Requiem and the Ballad of Heroes. Otherwise
it's 85 minutes of music on two CDs, not great
value). But for sheer beauty and splendour,
Gardiner's new recording demands to be heard.
Rag's latest acheivements can be found on page 17

