12 FEATURE 5th December 1997
Crude on Campus
Roger Geffen reports on how IC is linked to Oil Companies, and why we should be
worried about it.
This week in Kyoto, Governments from around
the world are meeting to discuss climate
change. They are taking part in the Third
Conference of the Parties to the Convention on
Climate Change. They have a mandate to set
targets and timetables for limiting the emissions
of greenhouse gases, as we enter the 21 st cen-
tury. Yet the prospects do not look good. The oil
companies have waged a highly effective cam-
paign to block effective political action. The
industry is addicted to its enormous profits, and
carries on regardless of the devastation it caus-
es to the environment and to people, particular-
ly in the Third World.
A week ago, a Nigerian dissident named
Oronto Douglas visited Imperial College to give
a talk about the oil industry. He was here to tell
students what they - and Shell Oil in particular -
are doing to his country. Oronto is a voice who
Shell and the Nigerian dictatorship would dearly
love to silence, as they silenced
Ken Saro-Wiwa before him. That is
why it was important to hear what
Oronto had to say.
Nigeria is ruled by a military
dictatorship, propped up by the oil
money which forms 90% of its rev-
enue - Shell accounts for nearly a
half of this. For 30 years Shell has
relentlessly polluted the Niger
Delta and profited from its rich
resources at the expense of local
people. The tribes of the Delta
once lived by farming and fishing.
Then the oil companies came and
laid high-pressure pipelines
through their villages and across
their fields. For fifteen years the
Delta region suffered an average of
four oil spills every week, j
Agricultural land is now contami-
nated and the rivers polluted with
petroleum and oil. Fish stocks have
been decimated and cholera is rife.
Exploratory and other work has devastated
more rainforest, mangrove and wetland habitat,
threatening the biodiversity of the Niger Delta.
Shell operations have killed endangered species
such as fishing owls, chimpanzees, manatees
and pigmy hippos. Unsurprisingly, the company
has found itself the target of protest. In January
1993, 300,000 Ogoni people (one of the many
tribes of the Niger Delta) rallied against Shell.
The company responded with frequent appeals
to the country's notorious Mobile Police Force
to stamp out the protests, but was soon forced
to withdraw from Ogoniland. When General
Abacha seized power in a coup later that year -
annulling the results of recent elections and
imprisoning the winner Chief Abiola - he set up
a new Internal Security Task Force to carry out
"ruthless military operations" against the Ogoni
to reinstate "smooth economic activities" in the
region. The military began a campaign of terror
against the Ogoni., including mutilations,
gang-rapes and an estimated 1800 murders.
At about this time, four Ogoni elders were
killed by security agents. Nine other Ogoni lead-
ers, including the renowned writer Ken
Saro-Wiwa, were subsequently arrested and
charged with murdering the elders. The Ogoni
Nine were imprisoned and tortured for nine
months before being brought to trial before a
kangaroo court in January 1995. They were
hanged amid international condemnation on
November 10th.
Shell claims to have no influence on Nigerian
politics. Yet at one point the company sought to
bribe Saro-Wiwa's brother with an offer to
release Ken if MOSOP (the Movement for the
Survival of the Ogoni People) called off its
protests and declared that there was no envi-
ronmental damage in Ogoniland. Moreover,
World fury as Nigeria
sends writer to gallows
1|| Ken Saro-Wiwa among nine
• . hanged by military junta
The Independent front page, 11/11/95
Shell was recently forced to admit that it has
provided both logistical and financial support to
the Nigerian military, after years of denying this.
Twenty more Ogoni prisoners await trial
accused of the same murder charge as Ken
Saro-Wiwa - 19 have been imprisoned without
trial for between 2 and 3 years, in appaling con-
ditions. Yet protests continue in Ogoniland, and
have recently spread to other parts of the Niger
Delta.
The same contempt for people and the envi-
ronment is in evidence wherever the oil compa-
nies operate in the Third World. Whether it is BP
in Columbia, Texaco in Ecuador, total in Burma,
Mobil in Brazil - the details may vary but the
basic picture is the same. Previously uncontact-
ed indigenous peoples, who have lived in har-
mony with their jungle environments for genera-
tions, suddenly find their lands have been taken,
the habitats on which they depend for food and
sustenance are cut down, and their people are
infected with diseases against which they have
no immunity. The population of the Cofan peo-
ples has been reduced from 70,000 to 30,000
in thirty years. Meanwhile the U'wa people in
Columbia are threatening to commit mass sui-
cide rather than allow Shell and Occidental to
plunder their lands.
But even when operating in Western coun-
tries, the oil industry still causes a litany of
destructive environmental impacts at every
stage of the process. Exploration for oil involves
seismic testing using vibrations and explosions,
which drive whales from their feeding grounds
and have been known to kill turtles in the Gulf of
Suez. Marine extraction involves the release of
55,000 tonnes of oil into drill cuttings and
muds, poisoning sea-bed ecosystems with
arsenic, cadmium and mercury. Oil
spillages during transport at sea are
a routine occurrence.
Occasionally these hit the news
when they occur close to environ-
mentally sensitive coastlines. Oil
refineries are major sources of air
and water pollution. The city of
Whiting in Indiana has a permanent
layer of oil floating above its
groundwater, thanks to the Amoco
oil refinery there. Yet more prob-
lems arise from the disposal of
redundant oil infrastructure - the
case of Shell's Brent Spar oil plat-
form epitomised the industry's lack
of concern about where it dumps
its rubbish.
Arguably, the most significant
environmental impacts come from
consumption of the industry's core
products - fuel oil and petroleum.
This produces a host of pollutant
emissions, notably the toxic cock-
tail which spews out of the world's 500 million
exhaust pipes. These cause a range of impacts
on natural and built environments and on
human health. The most worrying pollutant
emission however is the one which causes no
immediate damage whatsoever - carbon diox-
ide. Since pre-industrial times, concentrations
of this greenhouse gas have increased from 280
to 350 parts per billion. This is almost certainly
linked to the rise in average global temperatures
which has taken place over the same period. In
1990, a United Nations-appointed panel of
2,500 climate scientists reported that an imme-
diate 60% cut in greenhouse emissions was
needed to prevent further global warming. Two
years later at the Rio Earth Summit, the world's
politicians' responded by setting a target to sta-
bilise emissions at 1990 levels by 2005 - effec-
tively a 0% cut in 1 5 years. However, very few

