industrialised coun-
tries are likely to hit
this target.
Meanwhile the US
Government look
set to undermine
even the limited
progress made to
date at the forth-
coming Kyoto sum-
mit, following a
massive lobbying
campaign by
o i l - d o m i n a t e d
industry PR groups.
The best known of
these - the terribly
g r e e n - s o u n d i n g
"Global Climate
Coalition" (GCC) -
has spent $60 mil-
lion in the run-up to
the climate summit.
Exxon, Chevron, Mobil,
Texaco and Shell are all
members, as are Ford,
General Motors, the
American Automobile Manufacturers'
Association, Dow Chemicals and Union Carbide.
The methods used by groups like the GCC
are: exploiting the uncertainties in the scientific
debate on climate change, frightening the politi-
cians with dire predictions about the costs of
limiting greenhouse emissions and insist that
the burden of responsibility for averting the
problem lies with the third world - where most
of the growth in future fuel consumption is
expected - and not the industrialised world -
which created problem in the first place.
This strategy is almost beneath
contempt. But the confusion sur-
rounding the scientific evidence
probably does merit a few words.
We know with certainty that our rate
of greenhouse emissions far exceeds
what our planet can absorb.
Atmospheric greenhouse concentra-
tions and hence global temperatures
are therefore bound to rise - indeed,
they would continue to do so for another 60
years even if we made that 60% cut tomorrow.
And it is now pretty clearly established that
man-made global warming has already started;
the IPCC recently stated that "the balance of
evidence suggests a discernable human influ-
ence on global climate."
What we do not know for certain is how
much or how quickly temperatures would rise in
response to a given level of greenhouse emis-
sions; nor what the effects these temperature
rises would have on our climate systems.
However, the best estimates from the IPCC and
others predict average rises of 1.5 - 4.5 C if we
continue with "business as usual". This would
increase the incidence of extreme weather
events; ecosystems would collapse under the
pace of change; tropical diseases would spread
to traditionally cooler climates; millions would
be displaced as environmental refugees due to
Unwanted gas from oil wells is 'flared', resulting in respiratory difficulties for
locals and contributing to global warming.
famine, flooding and other disasters; wars over
water would replace wars over oil.
The irony is that, as sea levels start to rise,
the countries which have profited from causing
the problem will be able to afford flood
defences etc, whilst third world societies who
still lead low-impact lifestyles will be least able
to fend for themselves.
So what does the rector of Imperial College
have to do with all this? Imperial College proba-
bly has closer links with the oil industry than any
other higher education establishment in Great
The Rector of IC, Sir Ronald Oxburgh,
is a non-executive director of Shell
Transport and Trading.
Britain.
• IC is believed to carry out more than twice
as many research projects for the oil indus-
try as any other college;
• IC provides more recruits for the oil industry
than any other college in Britain apart from
Aberdeen and Robert Gordon Universities -
both local to the North Sea oil fields;
• The Rector of IC, Sir Ronald Oxburgh, is a
non-executive director of Shell Transport
and Trading.
So when Oronto Douglas spoke to us last
week, he was in effect telling us what our
Rector's company is doing to his country.
Oil is an inherently destructive business. By
accepting oil money, we as students become
part of the problem. Our education and
research is no longer a pure, value-free quest
for knowledge. It is about serving the needs of
an industry whose core activity involves claiming
ownership of a sub-
stance which has
resided inside our
planet for millions of
millennia, extracting
it, turning it into
money and releas-
ing it as pollution.
Selling the free
goods of the earth is
bound to be enor-
mously lucrative.
And the lure of
petro-dollars drives
people to kill.
We should be
researching the
alternatives - wind,
wave, biomass and
particularly solar
energy. Some will
argue that renew-
ables will never be
able to meet the growing
demand from developing
countries if they are to
achieve their legitimate aspi-
rations to western standards of living. All the
more reason to devote further research into
methods of energy conservation, and on eco-
nomic activities which are less demanding on
energy.
The oil companies are exploiting the finan-
cial dependence of educational establishments
resulting from the funding gap left by central
government. Yet if Imperial College is to get out
of its Faustian contract with the oil industry, we
will undoubtedly need to ask how to replace the
funding - just as many sporting bodies are hav-
ing to do in the absence of tobacco
sponsorship. There are several possi-
ble answers. We should use our
influence with the oil companies to
persuade them that there is no future
in ever-increasing oil consumption,
neither for them as businesses, nor
for life on earth as we know it. We
can make it clear that we will have no
part in their plans for continued
growth into the 21 st century; we can point out
that future graduates will no longer be attracted
to work for companies whose reputation is
rapidly sinking to that of the once prestigious
nuclear industry. On a more positive note, we
could offer our expertise in helping them to
research the renewable energy sources which
have got to turn to in the future.
But continuing with the status quo is not an
option. It is sometimes claimed that an oil-free
future is "unrealistic"; the opposite is in fact the
case. Continuing oil-exploitation is not only
immoral from the point of view of the Third
World; it is also an environmental impossibility.
The future lies in a different direction, and we
must choose it however much it may cost us in
the short term.

