16 MUSIC 5 December 1997
ALBUMS
m BRYAN ADAMS
Bryan Adams Unplugged * * *
Bryan Adams:
time for a
rest?
B
ryan Adams; no introduction
needed. If you haven't
heard of him before, you're
either pre-teen, foreign, or were
living in some back-water village as
Everything I Do... blasted record
books left, right and centre. So, you
will no doubt already have your
own views as to his pros and cons.
The question is whether or not this
album is going to change any opin-
ions.
This is an 'Unplugged' and gen-
erally this means an acoustic 'best
of, but this is debatable. The name
Bryan Adams goes hand in hand
with songs like Run to You and the
aforementioned Everything I Do...,
but unfortunately neither of these
made it into the Unplugged ses-
sion. However, Summer of '69 did
make it in, and what a rendition it
was. Then things start becoming a
little strange. Following rousing
performances of I'm Ready, Cuts
Like a Knife, and Back to You,
comes 18 Til I Die - but this one's
dead on arrival. Over fancified by
more strings than you can shake a
stick at, it really wasn't written with
violins and cellos in mind. Then,
things get stranger still; Bryan
Adams - country &. western musi-
cian extraordinaire. What he's
doing with / Think About You does-
n't bear thinking about.
The characteristic guitar wield-
ing Adams does come back for the
final act, which includes the classic
ballad Heaven.
Adams knows his fan base is
pretty much carved in stone and
with this he only seems to want to
steal a few Michael Bolton follow-
ers. If you like Bryan Adams, you'll
like this. If you're undecided,
remember that this is really a 'best
of that doesn't contain all of his
best. CI
Derek
ADEVA
New Direction * *
A
deva, the queen bee diva is
back in town ready to sting a
few souls with her latest
album New Direction. She first
appeared on the charts with her
soulful presence with her single
Respect and followed that up with
her debut album Adeva which gave
her platinum status in the U.K. That
is all very interesting but what does
her album sound like?
New Direction starts with the
feel good factor of some commer-
cial house tunes. There are a few
boppin', movin', groovin' tracks
but overall they all sound similar
and lack musical variety. The whole
tempo of the album then hits the
brakes and switches on to the Soul
Train sounds with the funky track
Don't Think About It. This is a
groovy laid back chilled track pro-
duced by the UK soul stars, D-
Influence whose musical skills
we're definitely feelin'. 1 was pleas-
antly surprised by this number but
there was more to come with
Friday Night, Saturday Mourning
another tune to look out for. This is
joint hip hop effort produced by
Karl Gordon who comes out with a
wicked boombastic classic track
sounding similar to the sounds of
Yvette Michelle and Funk Master
Flex. This definitely boosts the
respectability of this album, show-
ing how impressive Adeva's voice
is with an R'n B flava. The album
disappointingly finishes with yet
another deflated garage tune, Nu
Birth remix of Don't Think About It,
lackin' severe inspiration. Adeva
has got some appealing, funky
sounds which are just raped by the
majority of howling house tunes on
this album. Looks like Queen Bee
Adeva has just stung herself! H
Nim
COMPETITION WINNERS
The kicky winners of the Moby
and Wildhearts T-shirt compos
we ran a couple of weeks ago are.
. . . . . .
Will Smith (ISE 3)
who knew that;
Richard hall is
Moby's real name.
And the following win Wildhearts
i. ,.; .n . • . i f l
N. Kent (Maths 2)
V. Bansal (Chem Eng PG2)
Paris Dellgianakis (Comp I)
THA BOMBI • SOUL, HIP HOP AND R'N'B
Hey, how ya doin'! Hope everyone feels good.
Its that time of the week again, that Friday
feeling. (A quick shout out to all the West
Coast G's and now back to the column.) Last
week I was feeling lazy and so you only got my
top ten, this time round normal service has
been resumed and you get the old style back
and in full effect.
Going straight in to the news and happen-
ings. I got some news that is gonna break
some boys' hearts, the big bad mama Foxy
Brown is officially engaged to be married to
Dogg Pound member Kurupt. Foxy is current-
ly touring stateside with The Firm as part of
the Bad Boy tour, while Kurupt is in the stu-
dio, his last project was over seeing the high-
ly successful Gang Related Soundtrack, which
by the way is tha bomb. Just released on the
big screen is 'Nothing To Lose' staring Martin
Lawrence & Tim Robins from what I been told
this is funny but ain't nothing to write home
about. In addition we also have 'Def jams
How To Be A Player' staring Bill Belllamy, this
is pure crap, Bill Bellamy can't act for shit so
save ya money and wait for the release of
'Soul Food', which is meant to be blow those
two out of the water.
Back to the music and released this week
is the new Salt'N'Pepa album Brand New.
There's been a gap of about two/three years
since their last album Very Necessary and
they have picked up where they left of, this LP
is full of some first class stuff, and will
undoubtedly spawn many successful singles.
Next up is compilation tribute album In Tha
Beginning, the album is described as a tribute
to rap and is made up of covers of old rap
classics. Featuring the likes of The Wu-Tang
Clan, Snoop, Puffy, Cypress Hill, Bone Thugs,
and more, just looking at the line up this is
sure to be a success on some level. For all the
soul men (and ladies) the essential buy for
this week is the new Babyface joint, entitled
Face Unplugged, just as it sounds this is the
MTV unplugged gig he did in September. For
those who don't know Babyface is Mr Soul
himself, he has written for nearly every major
soul/R&JS artist, and it was he who penned
the Boyz II Men hit 'I'll Make Love To You',
which stayed at number one in the US for a
record 17 weeks. On this Mister Babyface
gets together with his friends and does the
acoustic thing on all of his own classics and
the classics he wrote. This is a must.
Time to move into singles territory. First
up we got those Motown men, Boyz II Men,
with A Song For Mama this is just as you
would expect, the boys are masters on the
vocals and the production is tight, but this
wouldn't be my choice for the second single.
It's lifted from their album Evolution and for
those trainspotters it was also showcased on
the Soul Food Soundtrack. Dru Hill release
their third single 5 Steps; now I don't like Dru
Hill and I don't like this, but I would advise
buying it for the So So Def mix of In My Bed,
this was a monster over tha summer. Busta
follows up the successful Put Your Hands....
with a favourite of mine Dangerous. Some
people been telling me that Busta has lost his
raw energy, but you know what I don't give a
fuck tha boy got it and'When Disaster Strikes
is a must have. BLACKstreet still doin' it,
these boys are tha definition of tha bomb,
vocals are of the highest class, the production
is out of this world, for me they're the great-
est R&B band in the world at the minute.
Their first album was a classic; this second
one has brought them more mainstream suc-
cess and is rated as one of the best albums of
the year. As we draw to the close of the year
they have release of their cover of the Bealtes
classic Money Can't Buy Me Love, this ain't
bad and should do well in the charts, espe-
cially now at Christmas.
Its the 5th December, only twenty days till
Christmas Day and only two weeks of term
left, nice! That's me finished, see you around,
Milen

