5 December 1997 MUSIC 17
SINGLES
Blue Seed - The Only Ones
Quiet verses, then a loud chorus. It's been done
before. Bush have done it and look where it got
them. The verses are alright but only in that I
have no particular opinion of them. However,
the chorus is drowned out by a mass of distor-
tion making whatever else that might be present
inaudible. Why does the guitar player always
insist that he has to have his amplifier louder
than everything else? Blue Seed do not rock.
They suck.
Elliot Green - Come On
This is bog standard stuff. A whining string-
bending riff accompanies the verse and the cho-
rus tries hard to be uplifting. However, I don't
think Elliot Green's delivery of 'So, come on, get
with what you want!' is going to get teenagers
jumping up and down. Mind you, some bloke
once said, 'You gotta roll with it', and got away
with it.
Lightning Seeds - What You Say
Shrewdly placed as track one on their current
Best Of.... Album, JL/7<e You Do, you'll only have
to listen to this a few times before you find the
tune banging around in your head. Not in the
same vein as their usual happy-go-lucky singles
but a quality Seeds tune nonetheless. However,
forget about this single. Do yourself a favour and
buy the album.
Peach - On My Own
This is number one in Israel It's currently the
fastest rising single in the US chart and gets
more airplay than any other British band.
Impressed? No? Neither am I. It was released
over here a while ago but the UK ignored it.
That's because we're not fooled into buying
commercial drivel just because it's got a sexy
lead singer, an easily hummable tune and some
stupid lyrics. On no, not us!
Monk and Canatella • Who's Who?
I'm a firm believer that you can judge some CDs
by their cover. I saw this and thought it'd be
some sort of quirky song with samples from
Horror B-Movies and spooky noises all thrown
together and then completed by a gothic voice-
over from the singer. I was right. I'm actually a
powerful psychic in disguise, you know. Give me
another cover!
T H E E S S E N T I A ! C H O O N
Naomi - Personal Touch
Oh dear! I can tell what this sounds like just by
the name alone. This is some poncey manufac-
tured woman singer, probably kicked off some
soap opera, telling us she's happy, free and
loves her man. Wrong! This is, in fact, a cracking
little stomper of a track. Naomi is only 19 years
old and could show some of the recent female
angst fakers how to do it properly. 'I don't need
your personal touch!' she screams. Oh, hit me,
Naomi, let me be your slave, hit me Er, sorry
about that.
The Saw Doctors - Simple Things
'It's the simple things that make it all worth-
while.' The familiarity of the Irish accent makes
sure that this song comes across as genuine.
Take note, people. A softly sung little ditty with
just a light drum beat, an acoustic guitar and a
gushy theme. It works, you know.
Sheryl Crow - Tomorrow Never Dies
I can't tell you why but this is definitely a '
James Bond song. Maybe it's because
she sounds like some classy under-rated singer
in some late night smoky bar. Maybe it's
because of the seductive guitar sound. Maybe
it's because of the dramatic violin break. Or
maybe it's just because I actually knew it was
the latest James Bond song. Who knows?
Sparks vs. Faith No More - This Town Ain't Big
Enough for the Both of Us
Stupid! Stupid! Stupid! This track is ridiculous. It
sounds like an attempt at mock-rock-opera or
something. I cannot stress how annoying this
track is. Initially, you appreciate its comedy
value but then you come to realise that at the
end of the day it's just a huge pile of horseshit.
112 - If Cod Will Send His Angels
1 feel that I should like this song. There's not
really that much to have a go at. 1 mean, at least
I'm not listening to some third-rate indie band
trying to do a cover of Pretty Vacant. Well, actu-
ally, maybe that'd be better. It'd be interesting.
I wouldn't fall asleep during it. There's only one
real reason why I don't like this song: It's boring.
Robbie Williams - Angels
'Tonight we have a young man by the name of
Robert Williams. He is currently working as a
professional entertainer. He has sung before in a
5-piece dance act. However, this didn't work
out and tonight he's hoping that this could be
his next big break. So, Robert, tell them who
you're going to be.' 'Well, tonight Matthew, I'm
going to be Elton John.' No, but seriously, this is
a half-decent effort from the former blobster.H
Dennis
CLUBSCENE - CLUB REVIEW
PM SCIENTISTS
WEDNESDAYS @ SMITHFIELDS EC1
T
he people responsible for this
night had clearly put a consid-
erable degree of effort into
providing the discerning club-goer
with a quality night out. For my
money, there cannot realistically be
a better musical combination in a
club than the darkest jungle to get
hot and sweaty to, coupled with an
eclectic spectrum ranging from the
abstract to the just plain phat for
you to chill out to.
The problem was that it was all
just too ambitious. I cannot see
how this basic blueprint would
work in a club with a capacity
below 500, and squeezing half this
number into Smithfields would cer-
tainly not have been comfortable.
The likelihood of this scenario,
however was only slightly greater
than that of a syndicate of flying
pigs winning the Lottery. Let's face
it, how many out there can afford
to throw caution to the wind, go
out on a Wednesday night and give
it all they've got, without the
prospect of getting up on a
Thursday morning hanging high
above their heads? On the evi-
dence of this night, not many. I left
this club feeling a tad depressed
and disillusioned.
Despite everything, the music
WAS good (playing Gary Numan's
Cars gets a pat on the back from
me for sheer audacity), and once
on the jungle dancefloor it went
beyond being merely a minute
patch of desolation and I finally
stepped on it. I quickly got very
into it and found myself being taken
to that plateau that all clubbers
know and love. And although they
quite severely lacked quantity, the
heads that were there went part of
the way towards making up for this
in quality.
It's just a crying shame that
excessive ambition on behalf of the
promoters led to blatant oversights
which quite simply ruined the expe-
rience for me. 1 feel 1 can, however,
recommend this night to you if you
are part of a group of like-minded
individuals with a love for the music
and a complete disregard for
Thursday morning lectures. If you
fit this bill then you will definitely
have a wicked night, just be sure to
invite me along.. EE
Mart

