5 December 1997 MUSIC 19
CLUBSCENE - COMPILATIONS
JACKPOT Presents 'GUERRILLA'
Mixed by Phil Perry & Danny Howells. * * * *
:*.3*1X, J V J K T C K ^ * E > A J N M T . UO^'iirixt!
1.1JANNY MOWELL5 (SOUetCH)
CLUBSCENE - SINGLES
T
his double CD has been put
together by one of the leading
lights in the underground elec-
tronic music scene. One of the orig-
inal purveyors of progressive house
music in the early 90's.
The first CD is full of original
classics from the Guerrilla label, tak-
ing us back to tunes that have heav-
ily influenced today's dance scene.
Using only tracks from one label 1
thought there were bound to be
some weak tracks. But I'm glad to
say 1 was wrong and was reminded
how many classics Gorilla have
notched up over the years. It makes
you wonder why the label closed
down with tracks like Fuzzy Logic's
Obsessions, React 2 Rhythm's
Whatever You Dream and Dr
Atomic's Schudelfloss .
A high standard of mixing by Phil
Perry is maintained throughout the
CD which is worth the money alone,
but amazingly you get another qual-
ity CD for the same price. And this
really is a bargain.
The second CD is made up of
remixes of Guerrilla tunes, many
from the first CD, but you'd be mis-
taken to think that this one sounded
similar to the first. It has a totally
different feel; still in the realms of
progressive house this but this time
it's right up to date.
Starting off on the break-beat
side of house music, again with
some superb mixing by the up &.
coming Danny Howells, you take a
hypnotic journey through all areas Of
house music, the pace gradually
building throughout the CD and cli-
maxing in excellent hard house/
techno with remixes from the likes
of Digweed, Carl Cox 8^ Van Dyke.
All in all, this is one of the very
best mixed compilations around at
the moment. No cheesy fillers, no
lame un-involved mixing and no hint
of commerciality - it is well worth
checking, a nugget of gold in the
mountain of commercial compila-
tion rubbish being put out for the
Christmas rush. This is one out of
the many mixed CDs I've received
over the past month that I will actu-
al listen to again and again. It's nice
to see Jackpot keeping the vibe
alive.
To see the Jackpot crew in
action you can catch them at their
weekly outings to Subterrania, 12
Acklam Rd, Ladbroke Grove,
London. 10pm-3am. F!\c\
Jo Public
•0 I' II M r mm » G A 1
Prisoners of Technoiogy(P.O.T) • • • •
Delicate Beats/ What does it All Mean
(Fresh Kutts)
Release Date: Out Now
P.O.T have come up with another two absolute-
ly storming tracks. Delicate Beats is on that
jump up tip again, but with fresh arrangements
and another funky fresh original b-line, it's
gonna' be massive. What does it all Mean, has
a more stepping feel to it, and that b-line that
can't help but get all twisted out of shape &get
you jumping all over the place. Wicked.
USA. West Coast/East Coast
(Formation) • • • • 1 / 2
Release date: Early Dec.
USA, a subsidiary of Formation, has finally
released West Coast/ East Coast a absolutely
massive tune that I've heard the likes of Fabio
dropping for the past year or so. This dark step-
per cuts back &. forth between amen breaks,
squelchey bass tones and spin backs.
Guaranteed to send any crowd crazy, sounds
quite superb in the mix. Well worth checking.
John B. fazz Sessions EP
(Formation Records) k k k k
Release date: Early Dec.
This 3-track EP is designed to give us a taste of
John B's forthcoming album. VCS is a very syn-
thetic piece; acid-washed and stained with
sprinklings of a distorted bassline, this is techno
translated into breakbeat language! Jazz
Sessions combines both the synthetic and
organic elements, with crazy bassline madness
and an excellent breakbeat fighting for attention
over some punchy samples. And that's just the
beginning. Once this track actually kicks off,
there's no stopping it!
Intermolecular Forces. 10*1/10*2
(Molecular Rec.) * * *
Track 10*1 is very minimal and very hypnotic,
with the barest of back beat and not much
else. This one is strictly for the head strong.
/0*2 is a bit more easy going, if you can say
that about a techno track, with fast driven
beats and off-key strings a must for all techno
heads.
Punk Floyd. Piper At New Cross
(Euktech) • • • 1 / 2
I liked this one, hard 'n' fast beats, cool bendy
sounds setting a nice hard house / techno
thing going on. A track that stands out from
many more plain techno tracks I've heard. This
will definitely keep an up-for-it crowd going
mental on the dance floor.
Techno/House
Random 2 - The Gary Numan Remixes
(Beggars Banquet) • • • •
This is the second EP of remixes of the 80's
pop maestro's work. The B-side contains two
brilliant remixes of Cars. Mike Dearborn com-
pletely mashes up this old hit and gives it a
dark and sinister 4/4 edge. Meanwhile Dave
Clarke leaves the basic structure of the track
more or less intact, but spices up the funk fac-
tor!
Dale Lawrence - Theorem (+8) • • • •
Richie Hawtin's Canadian label serves up this
offering of deep and mystical vibes to continue
its abstract musical journey. Mantra One is a
minimal yet very rhythmic track. Os can best
be described as aural beauty; gentle and allur-
ing. Think of the most beautiful sunset you've
seen and imagine it as a piece of music. Clone
is a serving of more minimal beats with a funky
twist that surprisingly works very well.
Sima. Give You Myself.
(Mo's Music) • • •
This track is too strongly in the song style for
me, but the Skunk Dub mix saves the day.
Stripping away those over-used lyrics and
replacing them with a looped sample of the
vocal and adding fatter beats makes sure that it
works out alright in the end.
S-J. I Feel Divine
(React Rec.) • • • 1 / 2
You've a host of mixes to choose from on these
two 12". Either a Hard house/Trancey 12" or a
Garage/ House 12". M y favourite is the Baby
Doc mix in a hard house style which works well
with S-J's lyrics. The best of the other 12" is Tall
Paul's reworking. The Dem 2 garage mix is just
too weak 'n slow with no punch and not enough
to keep the floor moving.
Hi-Life Feat. Da Scat Cat. Crosswordz/
Believe Me. (Boom Dynamite) k k k k
This is one of the best garage tunes I've heard
in a while, fat 'n' funky. Clean crisp beats and
nice vocals. With two mixes of each you can't
go wrong. These tunes have got some seriously
fat 'n' fresh b-line business going on Believe Me.
Slam Mode. The Pink Horizon EP
(Deep Worldwide Music) • • • •
All the tracks here are soulful and groovy 6am
house music designed to bring you back down
to earth rather than take you higher! Ceres
Aquatica is a light and stylish little number with
seductive strings. Anemone Blanda is a deli-
cately produced track, definitely designed to
soothe and chill out the listener. Space lets the
side down in my opinion, sounding as if it is try-
ing to be a "trancey" house track, but failing to
sound convincing. That aside, this EP should not
be ignored. EE JP & al;ck

