5 December 1997
FICTION
FICTION 27
I've Got Today by Caspar von Wrede
The three figures stepped into the
night and were immediately enveloped by
the bitter cold. As the icy air washed over
their faces the warmth of the dimly lit
restaurant had already become nothing
but a distant memory. A neon sign above
them flickered sporadically and briefly
illuminated the flurries and confusions of
myriad snowflakes that endlessly fell
from an inky sky. The smallest of the
three figures gave an exclamation of
childish glee at the sight of the newly fall-
en snow, whilst the remaining two stood
hand in hand. With the child running
ahead, and the parents following, they
began carefully making their way over the
glittering layer of white, which crunched
softly under the soles of their feet.
The young mother snuggled up close to
her husband for she could already feel the
darkness sapping her warmth through the
thin overcoat.
"Carol, stay with us", she
called to her four year-old daughter whom
the snow-specked darkness was threatening
to swallow. Her voice was weak.
"How bad is it today?" the young man
asked his wife quietly, in case the child
heard him.
"It has been worse", she coughed fee-
bly, and hoped in vain that he had not heard
the wince of pain that followed. "But I think
I'll need those stronger pills". The man
squeezed his wife's waist with the one arm
he had laid around her.
"Of course. Honey, we'll pop down to
the hospital first thing tomorrow.'' He tried
to sound casual but in reality it seemed a
cord had tightened around his heart. He
knew that his wife was suffering excruciat-
ing pain and that her death loomed ever
closer. They both realised the futility of the
medications she was taking at the moment
but they were prepared to try anything that
would inspire hope. The list of cures, that
had been tried and failed, had grown longer
ever since the cancer was diagnosed, short-
ly after their marriage. Now the
disease had been pronounced terminal and
they both found it very difficult to come to
terms with the fact that, in the near future,
they would be separated forever.
"We'll try and get home soon; it must
be the cold that's making it so bad". His
breath hung in the air like the lie he had just
told.
The young girl with her inexhaustible
supply of youthful energy, was busy making
snowballs. She was not aware of her par-
ents' apprehensions, nor of the cold that
would soon begin to bite. Her face was
alight with her glowing vitality whilst the
snow frosted her white blonde hair.
"Daddy, where is the car? Are we going
home soon?"
"Yes, my sweet, the car park is just
beyond that road". The carefree voice of his
daughter had, as always, dispersed the
gloom that had settled on the young man's
soul.
The three of them came to some broad
stone steps that led into an empty square.
A deserted road junction was just visible
through the darkness and falling snow
beyond the square. A rank of sodium arc
lamps stretched into the gloom along with
the empty roads. Their lights, high above
the ground, glowed diffusely and were sur-
rounded by a halo of falling snow. They
caused the whole scene to be bathed in a
supernatural orange light.
It is so silent, thought the man, as he
helped first his wife and then his daughter
down the treacherous steps. Not a breath
of the icy cold air stirred, whilst the feature-
less expanse of orange-tinged snow
stretched away before them. It almost looks
like a vast stage, he thought, I wonder what
scenes will be acted out upon it tonight.
The trio trudged silently
across the seamless blanket of snow
towards the deserted junction, where a sin-
gle traffic light glimmered forlornly. The
snow had settled on the lanes of tarmac
and it was obvious that no snow plough or
grit spreader would clear this road tonight.
As they reached the curb, the young
woman was suddenly racked by a coughing
fit and doubled over. The young man knelt
before her and anxiously peered into her
face which was contorted with pain
"Julie? Are you all right?"
Neither of them could see that the
young child had stepped over the curb and
was crossing the road.
"Yes, it's Okay, I just need to rest"
For a brief second a car's headlights
swept through the snow far ahead of them.
The man looked up In their direction and
they reappeared, two malevolent eyes cut-
ting swathes into the driving snow.
Soundlessly the lights glided towards him
and his wife who was kneeling in the snow.
For a fraction of a second he had the illu-
sion that the car would hit them
but then he saw it would pass harmlessly by
on the road. Then his eyes fell onto his
daughter who was still crossing the road
and the adrenaline erupted hotly into his
blood.
"JESUS CHRIST! CAROL! GET OFF THE
ROAD! CA-"
The car was coming too fast, the child
was too far away. He stood transfixed, his
last words caught in his throat. It seemed to
him that the sands of time had slowed to a
trickle. The car came on with an unerring
slowness, yet his limbs locked solid as he
tried to leap forward. The blood was
pounding in his temples. He knew that what
was unfolding in front of him now was being
burned indelibly into his memory, to haunt
him in his nightmares and every waking
hour for years to come. He tried to shut his
eyes but was not surprised to find that
nothing happened. The picture before him
remained crisp and almost unnaturally
sharp. He could see everything down to the
tiniest detail. He saw that one of his daugh-
ter's shoelaces was undone and that she
had a small pink plaster on her little finger.
He saw the individual snowflakes as they hit
the car's windscreen and exploded into tiny
drops of moisture.
The car had slowed to a inexorable,
maddening crawl. It seemed to him it
would stop before it ever reached the child,
yet he knew it to be untrue. His imagination
raced and already he could see and hear
what was about to happen next. In his mind
he saw the car's wet bumper touch his
daughter's leg and crumple the thin
trousers that covered it. He imagined the
cold steel on the child's thigh and the soft
snaps as the delicate bones fractured. He
saw the girl's foot begin to drag in the snow
as the car advanced steadily further. He
heard the soft thud as the radiator grille
butted into her torso. He could perfectly
imagine the tiny rib cage dent and expel the
last, warm breath from his daughter's
mouth. He imagined the tiny heart crushed,
caught in mid beat, desecrated. He could
see the small head, with its wispy curls,
whiplash onto the bonnet and crack. He
imagined the blood burst forth, and fan out
in the slipstream. He heard the patter of a
million droplets and saw the crimson
smear, dark on the snow.
Then, mercifully, his mind blanked,
overloaded with the grotesque images that
crammed into it. There was a blissful sec-
ond of blackness, a mental vacuum, and
then for the first time he heard the car. It
exploded into his brain, a mechanical roar,
the scream of thumping pistons, the whis-
tle of hot exhaust and the muted concus-
sions deep inside the engine block. His
lungs were suddenly filled with dense,
fumes and he choked and vomited into the
snow.
An eternity later his wife sharply hitched
in breath beside him. Now she will scream,
thought the man as he slowly opened his
eyes. The first thing he saw was the car that
had wildly slewed into the junction. His wife
did not scream, however, she only sobbed
once, heart-wrenchingly, and then she
stood up and ran into the road.
For there stood the girl, untouched. The
mother gathered her into her shaking arms
and held her close. She felt the warmth that
the child radiated and the vitality that
coursed through its body.
As she stood in the sifting snow, inches
from the fresh tyre tracks and feeling the
inextinguishable life that pulsed in her arms,
the young woman felt, for the first time in
years, hope.

