Issued by Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited, regulated by the Securities and Futures Authority, Morgan Stanley is a registered service mark of Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Co.
GLOBAL REACH IN-DEPTH CAPABILITIES LOCAL INSIGHT INDUSTRY EXPERTISE
CAREERS IN BANKING
Careers in Global Investment Banking
There are few truly global investment banking firms. But with
operations in over 40 countries, Morgan Stanley financial
analysts will have the opportunity to experience globalisation at
first hand with a world leader.
After initial training in New York, up to 50 motivated graduates
will join our global team to work on projects based in London., or
Frankfurt., or Paris., or Milan., or Hong Kong.
At Morgan Stanley, it's a small world.
Beatriz Reyero-Del-Rio, Financial Analyst
Beatriz spent her first year working in
Equity Capital Markets and has now
moved to the Mergers and Acquisitions
department.
"In my first year I worked on the
US$4.5bn privatisation of the Spanish
company, Telefonica, working out of London and Madrid.
Everyday I am faced with new challenges and am rewarded with
greater responsibility."
Beverly Foo, Associate
Beverly joined as a financial analyst after I
graduating. She has worked in the
Mergers and Acquisitions and Corporate
Finance departments in both London and
Hong Kong.
"During my time at Morgan Stanley I
have worked with a diverse range of clients in Europe, Africa and
Asia, giving me the international experience I sought' with a top
investment bank."
Jason Windsor, Financial Analyst
After one year based in London working
with our Corporate Finance and Mergers
and Acquisitions departments, Jason
moved to the Singapore Office.
"In Singapore I gained diverse experi-
ence working on energy and infrastruc-
ture projects both with governments and private corporates."
Simon Merchant, Senior Associate
Simon's analyst years were spent in the
Real Estate group and the Mergers and
Acquisitions department in both London
and San Francisco.
"The analyst programme offered me both
diversity and a vertical learning curve - a
great foundation for a career in business."
Application Procedure
To apply to join Morgan Stanley's Investment Banking division
as a financial analyst, please send your C V and covering letter to:
Sarah Duckworth
Graduate Recruitment
Morgan Stanley
25 Cabot Square
Canary Wharf
London E l 4 4QA
www.ms.com
Deadline for applications 12th December, 1997
MORGAN STANLEY
Beijing Chicago Frankfurt Hong Kong Houston Johannesburg London Los Angeles Luxembourg Madrid Melbourne Menlo Park Milan
Montreal Moscow Mumbai New York Paris Philadelphia San Francisco Seoul Shanghai Singapore Sydney Taipei Tokyo Toronto Zurich

