E T H I C S :
E
thics, together with the process of
knowledge, is one of the most
important philosophical topics
ever discussed by the human kind. It is
mainly about the behaviour of a human
being with respect to another human
being, or inside society.
Socrates, for instance, said that
every man that is provided with a bit of
rationality cannot do but good things.
More recently, Immanuel Kant set the
basis of ethics from a non-religious point
of view saying, for instance, that if a man
saved the life of a friend, it would not be
an ethically-right action. But if that man
were to save the life of his worst enemy,
it would be a perfectly ethical action
because that man recognises the impor-
tance of human life above any temporary
contingence.
The problem is that philosophers
sometimes have quite different ideas.
Niccolo Machiavelli concluded in 1500
that morality and ethics are not
"absolute" values but "relative" to the
temporary situation, and this is particu-
larly true for a king or a head of a nation.
That is to say that if we need to kill, say,
20 terrorists in order to save a whole
city, then that will be a perfectly moral
action.
Now, we have to remember that
Machiavelli is considered the founder of
modern politics and all nations, including
the so-called democratic nations use
political homicide as a means to achieve
their purposes, to ensure the national
safety and so on. This is the philosophi-
cal basis of many problems of our age.
What we should discuss, in order to
find some solutions to these problems,
is whether ethics has to be considered a
"relative" science (Machiavelli's opinion)
or if it has to based on firm principles
that cannot be discussed at all (Kant,
Christian way of thinking). It may be very
interesting to go through some examples
of these different schools of thought and
to see the possible consequences.
Consider respect for human life: if
we think that ethics has firm principles,
then on any occasion we cannot accept
the deliberate killing of another man, no
matter what the contingence. Then, if we
had the chance to go back in time and
kill Hitler, we would be unable to do that
although it would prevent the second
world war and millions of deaths.
If we think that ethics has a relative
basis, we would be able to do this "sad-
but-useful homicide," but another huge
problem arises. If there are not precise
ethical laws, who decides what is right
and what is wrong? In this case, we
could say that the ethically-right actions
are the ones that are good for most peo-
ple, the ones that cause "least damage".
In this case, the Americans executed a
perfect action when they killed thou-
sands of Japanese by H-bombing as their
purpose was to save as many lives as
possible by finishing the war in this way.
We can easily notice that the same
approach can be used to discuss other
problems,for instance abortion. As long
as we agree that a human foetus is a
(potential) human being, we cannot
accept abortion if we adhere to Kant's
"Is it ethically
right to explore
space when three
men out of five die
early because they
don't have enough
food to keep alive?"
school of thought. According to
Machiavelli, if we think that the bearing
of this child will bring so many troubles
for him and for other people, (for exam-
ple because his mother doesn't want
him or because he has an illness, that
will cause him permanent pain) we can
abort the birth. In recent years debates
on abortion and the death penalty have
become more violent.
During this century, in both science
and humanities, we have seen the apol-
ogy of the relativistic approach to every
problem. Einstein stated that that time is
not an "absolute" entity. Freud investi-
gated the secrets of the human mind
and discovered how big the influence of
the environment on the development of
personality is, and how little is the mind
knows. Still, in 1997, a lot of fundamen-
talist groups are flourishing, stating that
their ethics and codes of laws are the
right ones, and according to these state-
ments they feel free to persecute who-
ever disagrees with them.
Moreover, is it ethically right to
spend huge amounts of money on space
exploration, when on this planet three
men out of five are destined to die early
because they don't have enough food to
stay alive? This is not the case if human
life is considered the most important
value, because EVERY SINGLE LIFE is
unique and after it is finished, it will
never repeat. There is nothing to regret if
we think that everything is relative and
every one of us is lucky with respect to a
Third World man, and unlucky with
respect to a rich business-man. Then
what are we supposed to do?
What we know for certain is that reli-
gious ethics are not a safe-harbour for
most of us. Most people are unlikely to
steal because it is forbidden by the law
or because it is a socially reprimandable
action, rather than because it is forbid-
den by religion. Therefore it is TOTALLY
up to us. If we were a society made of
gods, a society in which every single
man is able to choose what is best for
everybody and not just for himself, then
laws wouldn't be necessary. As Socrates
said, if we use a bit of rationality, only
positive things would exist.
But we are here on this planet: 6 bil-
lion thinking beings. Men watch the sky
and ask why they are here. They see a
comet and think how similar they are to
it. A sudden apparition, a wonderful
show of bright colours and an equally
sudden disappearance. But while we
stay here, we must find the best way to
interact with other beings like ourselves.
We should try to respect their individual-
ity and at the same time pursue com-
mon happiness. When we formulate
laws, we have to take into account our
imperfect and selfish nature, but also our
natural right to freedom, since none of
us were born in chains and none of us
were told at birth that we were superior
to others.
The problem remains unsolved now,
in the same way that it was thousands of
years ago. In fact, it will probably remain
unsolved as long as those imperfect
creatures called men are part of this uni-
verse.
Mafreo Floris

