film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
Friday 30 January 2009 felix
Film
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
18 felix Friday 30 January 2009
Film
Film Editors – Zuzanna Blaszczak and Jonathan Dakin
The Reader
Director: Stephen Daldry
Writer: David Hare
Cast: Kate Winslet,
David Kross,
Ralph Fiennes
Coming soon:
The chick-flick is still not dead, as
movies like He’s Just Not That Into
You remind us once more.
Milk HHHHK
Director: Gus Van Sant
Writers:Dustin Lance Black
Cast: Sean Penn,
Emile Hirsch,
Josh Brolin
Fancy writing for felix Film?
We still need writers for the Film We Love section of felix Film. So if
there’s a film you just can’t stop talking about, a movie that inspires
you, a feature that changed your life or one that is your only remedy
for a miserable day, we would love you to write about it and have
the guts to share it with the rest of Imperial, whether you are a
student or a lecturer.
Please send a few hundred words about the film you love to:
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
HHKKK Stefan Carpanu
I saw The Reader without realising that
it’s an adaptation of a book by Bern-
hard Schlink and maybe allowed me to
watch the movie with an unprejudiced
and unexpectant eye, and that is why I
found myself loving it for what it is, not
being disappointed by what it isn’t.
The main premise of the film is a love
affair in post-war Germany between
a 15 year-old Michael Berg (David
Kross) and a much older, single and
slightly mysterious Hanna Schmitz
(Kate Winslet).
The affair only lasts for a summer
but the episode is one that leaves a
lasting mark on Michael and his whole
life. This is because Michael does not
only have to deal with the heartbreak
caused by Hanna leaving him, but
more importantly with the fact that,
as it turns out, she was a female guard
in the concentration camps in Poland,
seemingly responsible for the deaths of
hundreds.
I use the word ‘seemingly’ deliberate-
ly, and this ‘seemingly’ is at the heart
of what makes The Reader so striking.
Stephen Daldry and Kate Winslet have
achieved something amazing – in the
film they weave a story that manipu-
lates and jumbles the audience’s feel-
ings and thoughts so that on leaving the
cinema you’re one great bundle of con-
fused emotions, not knowing whether
to stick to your old, hard-set morals, or
to give in to the view of people as being
grey and never black and white.
What’s absolutely brilliant about the
film is that up front it can be seen sim-
ply as a love story, but if you analyse
the feelings it extricates and you real-
ise that you’re sympathising with the
wrong characters, then you’ll under-
stand on your own skin what a moral
dilemma actually is.
They cannot be talking about the same movie...
Critically acclaimed, nominated for 5 Oscars including Best Picture, The Reader left some of us in felix Film
visibly impressed, while others were left wondering at Hollywood’s power to ruin a perfectly good book.
Hanna Schmitz (Kate Winslet) has an unexplained obsession with
being read to. When Fiennes does the reading who’s to blame her?
HHHHK Zuzanna Blaszczak
Film Editor
It’s a weird day and age we’re living
in. Films are being remade only one
year after the originals are released
simply to suit the “American” market
(whereby American really means any-
one who’d rather watch a film in the
English language), Uwe Boll is still in
the movie business, Jean Claude Van
Damme has received his first “fresh”
rating from Rottentomatoes and Hol-
lywood’s policy of sticking its nose in
Holocaust films remains unchanged.
How ironic is it that a film based
on a book that deals primarily with
the question of the German issue of
guilt over World War II is produced
by Americans, directed by the British,
and acted out by a cast full of German
actors, only for all of them to be speak-
ing English? Actually, the manner in
which words are coated with shady ac-
cents best symbolises the fundamental
problem of The Reader: it’s well shot,
well acted and nicely put together –
and that’s about it. The source mate-
rial amounts to an involving read and
Bernhard Schlink’s book is an intrigu-
ingly effective tale of alienation and
discovery, which hides at its core an
issue that could truly amount to be-
ing the cornerstone of an exceptional
film. Stephen Daldry chooses though
to focus on the story of Michael and
Hannah, thereby reducing both the
scope and the depth of the underly-
ing theme, pertaining to the fate of the
German people as a whole. The search
for a sympathetic character, which
Hannah is anyway given her predica-
ment, is overstressed and diminishes
the impact of several key scenes, as
if it isn’t allowed to portray a morally
ambiguous (and oblivious) person on-
screen without neatly cutting off the
edges and flattening it to a comfortable
degree. Moreover, when it tries to be
smart, it simply spits out a bunch of
delicate questions, just to drown them
in either silence or sentimentalism.
It might be that as a reader of the
book, I longed to see more of its inter-
esting half and less of its rather conven-
tional part. Fact is, Ralph Fiennes, Kate
Winslet and David Kross apply them-
selves well in portraying their charac-
ters, and the interpersonal level of the
film is fairly satisfying. A fine sound-
track emphasises the story’s emotions,
but in truth, The Reader could have
been so powerful that any soundtrack
would have been muted by the events
unfolding on screen. As it stands, it is
little more than an adequate drama of
vague interest.
As soon as I had bought my ticket, the
man at the box office handed me some
stylish and cool-looking, plastic 3D
glasses. I was so excited! So was every-
one else. We waited nervously through
the adverts and trailers, until finally
a huge sign appeared on the cinema
screen that read ‘Please put on your
3D glasses’. Everyone ripped them out
of their plastic cases and shoved them
onto their face and in a matter of sec-
onds the film company logo flashed on
the screen, cogs turning and letters fly-
ing: all in amazing 3D! The audience let
out screams of delight as the opening
credits flew towards us, and from that
point on we were all captivated.
Okay, so I have seen a 3D film be-
fore. It isn’t something new. In fact it
has been around commercially since
the 50s. But with dwindling moviego-
ers, Hollywood has had to try to make
a special gimmick in order to get au-
diences back inside theatres and 3D is
the one they have chosen. But this is a
new style of 3D: it is Real-D, a special
system that does not need two projec-
tors like conventional 3D films and
this means that normal cinemas can
get these special projectors, hand out
3D glasses and everyone can enjoy the
3D action.
It has to be noted that My Bloody Val-
entine is the first-ever 18-rated movie
made in 3D and, boy, does it earn
that certificate. This is an extremely
gory, splatter film and if you are eas-
ily squeamish, I would not recommend
it. Within the first 5 minutes there is
a hospital full of murder victims: their
chests ripped open having had their
hearts pulled out by a pickaxe-wielding
psychopath. It seems that a cave-in in
the local mine has driven him insane
and since it happened on Valentine’s
Day, he just couldn’t help but be festive
and so go on a killing frenzy. But once
his 15-minute murder spree – one that
involves heads and eyeballs flying to-
wards the camera – is over, we move to
10 years later when the murders begin
again. But can the same man be behind
it? Or is it a copycat?
The plot is fairly lame but this is a
horror movie – a remake of a Canadian
film of the same name, and you can’t
escape the fact that most horrors do
not have astounding or original plots.
But what it lacks in realism and char-
acter development, it makes up for in
violence and this never seems to end.
The film utilises its 3D-ness to amaz-
ing effect – pickaxes fly at you, blood
sprays at you, even a severed jaw is
thrown directly at the camera. The
splatter is sometimes just a bit too
much but it really suits the 3D style
of the film, so the audience can just
about forgive the overall nastiness of
the movie.
There is one brilliant scene involving
sex, a mirror, a midget, a completely
naked woman running around a park-
ing lot and, of course, the murderer
and his pickaxe. You just have to see it
to believe it!
The reason I gave this film 3 stars is
because it is not a great film, it is just
standard stupid horror fare and so the
film actually earns 2 stars. In years to
come it will probably be remembered
for being the first of its kind, but for
My Bloody Valentine 3-D
HHHKK
Director: Patrick Lussier
Writer: Todd Farmer et. al
Cast: Jensen Ackles,
Jamie King,
Kerr Smith
Jonathan Dakin
Film Editor
nothing else except for the fact it was
really grisly. The extra star is for the
3D, because it works so well.
I would highly recommend all horror
fans to watch this film, as they would
probably love it.
But for those of you who can’t stand
seeing people’s heads being forced
onto the blade of a pickaxe, I would
wait until the 3D films that are suitable
for children come out later in the year.
Then you can truly enjoy the awesome-
ness of 3D, without holding your hands
over your face in fear.
As soon as the credits rolled, eve-
ryone let out words of amazement. I
left the cinema smiling – 3D had won
me over!! Has the novelty of the film
brought people back into cinemas?
Well the fact that my screening of
the film was packed and so was the
next one, judging by the queue as I
was leaving, it proves that people are
keen to see Hollywood’s new gimmick.
Either that or people are just bloody
disgusting.
Bloody, gritty, gory and scary... and also in 3-D!
Have you ever wondered if Jensen Ackles looks as amazing in 3D?
Based on a self-help book that all
women seem to know was once used
in an episode of Sex And The City, He’s
Just Not That Into You is a romantic
comedy that chronicles many different
people and their attempts at relation-
ships. Set around Gigi (Ginnifer Good-
win from Walk The Line), a woman
who keeps misunderstanding men and
how interested they are in her, she asks
a local barman (Justin Long, appeared
in Die Hard 4) for help on how to un-
derstand men better.
Other plots include a married cou-
ple who are going through a rough
patch and a couple who decide that
they should break-up because the man
doesn’t want to marry the woman. The
film has a stellar cast including Jenni-
fer Aniston, Drew Barrymore, Ben Af-
fleck, Scarlett Johansson and Jennifer
Connelly to name a few.
Itseemslikethisfilmisaimedatthose
who saw Sex And The City: The Movie,
as I am sure everyone in this film will
learn about life, but most importantly,
love (cheesy!). And they said the chick
flick was dead! So if you love schmaltzy
rom-coms, or need some lessons in
relationships (although film felix can-
not guarantee you will be taught them
from this) then He’s Just Not That Into
You is the movie for you!
Milk is the inspirational story of gay
rights campaigner, Harvey Milk, which
has been nominated for numerous
awards, including the Oscar for Best
Film. It follows the final eight years of
HarveyMilk’slifeandisfocusedaround
a recording he made, to be played only
in the event of his assassination. Dur-
ing these years, he embarked on a cam-
paign for gay rights in America, driven
by the phrase “My name is Harvey
Milk and I want to recruit you” and,
after several attempts, he became the
first openly gay man to be voted into a
position in public office.
The film is heavily informed by the
Oscar-winning documentary The
Times of Harvey Milk (1984). The long
list of friends and family acknowledged
in the credits, as well as the historical
consultation of at least two of the main
characters, demonstrate how well re-
searched the film is. However, direc-
tor Gus Van Sant (Good Will Hunting),
does not simply deliver an informative
historical drama. We also gain insight
into the personal life of this inspiration-
al man, making him human and engag-
ing. This is supported by a believable
and emotive performance from Sean
Penn (Mystic River, 21 Grams), which
has earned him an Oscar nomination
for Best Actor, as well as a superb sup-
porting cast.
As with any film based around such
Recruits needed: Milk
wants you! (not in that way)
a powerful story, it would be easy to
assume that this is enough for suc-
cess. However, Van Sant does not give
in to such complacency and combines
careful research with a brilliant cast to
produce a thoroughly moving film. My
advice is to go armed with a large sup-
ply of tissues.
Jonathan Dakin
Film Editor
Apparently he was married to Madonna once (Penn not Milk) - WTF?
Catherine Luckin

What does the scheme entail?
 Undergraduates/Postgraduates undertaking a 3 week placement in June/July
in a school/college
 Working alongside experienced teachers and assisting in classroom teaching
 Groups of up to 10 students can be placed in one school
 Placements arranged by Exscitec
What are the benefits of the scheme?
 Receive a £600 tax free bursary for completing the 15 day placement
 Receive a free CRB Disclosure check
 Have something different for your CV
 Develop new transferable skills and communication experience
 Gain first hand experience of what a career in teaching involves
Support secondary school Maths, Physics or Chemistry in London
For more information or to apply contact Sarah Cooper: Pre-requisites : A- Levels in Maths, Physics or Chemistry
sarah.cooper@exscitec.com
01730 235683
Links : www.tda.gov.uk / www.imperial.ac.uk/outreach / www.exscitec.com
Student Associates Scheme (SAS)
Student Associates Scheme (SAS)
The majority of placements are in the London Region – Placements outside
London can be accommodated by request

