26 felix Friday 30 January 2009
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Technology
Technology Editor – Richard Lai
Richard Lai
Technology Editor
F
irst of all, I would like to
apologise about the uninten-
tional rotation of one of the
pictures last week: somehow
the image format converter
decided to rotate the picture by itself
and it managed to slip under our radar.
All I can say is that shit happens once
in a while but the image should have
served its purpose anyway (the TV was
still as thin!).
Speaking of shit, it’s been a bad start
to the year for many companies. Even
large companies like Microsoft and
Intel had announced that about 5,000
of each of their employees would have
to leave, although neither had reported
any financial loss; ASUS and Sam-
sung reported their first-ever quarter
loss of about $100 million and $674
million respectively but both had ex-
pressed that there would be no layoffs;
the worst sufferer of all was probably
AMD, which reported a staggering
$1.42 billion loss and has laid off 9% of
its work force (1,100 jobs).
So how will this affect us? For start-
ers, we may experience a technol-
ogy slowdown which means fewer new
gadgets coming out this year.
However this may also mean more
effort will be concentrated on the
fewer products. For instance, Palm
had gone quiet for years until their an-
nouncement of the Pre smartphone at
the CES and many critics agreed that
the Pre will be the company’s saviour.
Expect to see it in stores in this half of
the year.
We are also expecting many other
interesting technologies and gadgets
to emerge at some point this year. To
name a few; USB 3.0, SDXC memory
cards, Windows 7 (which I have been
playing with and frankly it’s stolen
more features from Mac OS X), mind-
controlled games (as mentioned in last
week’s felix), more Android phones
and more energy-efficient gadgets.
Apart from these, I can’t really think of
anything else. Do send me an e-mail if
you feel that I have missed out some-
thing very obvious.
Apart from the obvious ones above,
have you ever thought about what fic-
tional technologies you would love to
see becoming reality? The other day I
thought of a reader that could convert
your thoughts into a Powerpoint slide-
show or Flash animation, thus saving
you from those lonely hours in front of
the computer screen.
My second idea was a “drinkable
sleep”: basically, if you’ve been up all
night (which is what’s happening to
me these days) yet you don’t have the
time to recover in the middle of the
week, you could drink a bottle of this
goodness that gives the same effect
as one night’s sleep. I would actually
pay good money for this stuff because
life’s too short with those wasted hours
at night. A lot of the times I wished I
could be watching Family Guy instead
of sleeping.
If you have had similar creative im-
aginations, please do send them in at
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Shit happens
sometimes
ASUS vs. Pegatron
The Taiwanese requiem of Steve Jobs’ fight against Apple?
I
f you have never heard of Pega-
tron, you should have at least
heard of ASUS, the company
behind the successful Eee PC
netbook franchise. And why
should you find this article interesting?
Well, the story shares a similar back-
ground with Apple’s rise and fall: recall
the year 1985, when Apple stripped
co-founder Steve Jobs of his manage-
rial duties over a power-struggle with
the then-CEO John Sculley and so Jobs
resigned. In the same year he founded
NeXT Computer, which went head-
to-head against Apple with their own
computers and software. Interestingly,
by the end of 1996 the failing Apple ac-
quired NeXT and six months later Jobs
replaced Gil Amelio to become inter-
im CEO (or more popularly known as
“iCEO”). Today, Jobs is the permanent
CEO of a healthy Apple Inc. which is
worth $80 billion.
Such fascinating story is about to be
replicated on the Taiwanese soil. Steve
Jobs’ counterpart is ASUS co-founder,
Tung Tsu Hsien, who is now the chair-
man of the one-year-old Pegatron. The
origin of ASUS is quite interesting and
not often talked about, so allow me to
tell you how it all started, which should
help you understand the potential im-
pact of Pegatron;
The year was 1989 and Taiwan had
just finished celebrating Chinese New
Year. Tung, along with Ted Hsu, Wayne
Hsieh and Liao Min Hsiung, were Sen-
ior Engineers at Acer and they all saw
theopportunitiesofferedbythebloom-
ing market of Intel’s 386 microproces-
sor and Microsoft Windows. The four
made final discussions over the public
holiday and decided to resign, in order
to start up their own motherboard de-
velopment business. ASUS was thus
born on 2nd
April in the same year and
rumour has it that such name (a trun-
cated “Pegasus”) was specifically cho-
sen so that Acer still lists alphabetically
above ASUS – a noble homage to the
founders’ ex-company.
Even though opportunities seemed
to be everywhere, the four bright en-
gineers struggled to get attention for
their young company, as hardly any-
one saw the motherboard as a mon-
eymaker. Eventually, ASUS decided to
manufacture their own motherboards
instead. This led to their first Intel 486
prototype motherboard at the end of
1989. Funnily enough, such develop-
ment was made possible by Acer’s co-
founder and General Manager, Jonney
Shih, who provided generous funding.
ASUS then took their 486 board to
Intel to try their 486 prototype proces-
sor on it (Intel Taiwan had the one and
only engineering sample for Asia back
then). While Tung and his team were
waiting in a corner, they overheard
that Intel’s own prototype mother-
board went kaput, so they volunteered
to have a look and – to Intel’s surprise
– managed to fix it. It was this mira-
cle that established the strong link be-
tween ASUS and Intel today.
So what has gone wrong with to-
day’s ASUS? Jonney Shih is partly to
be blamed. After Tung’s many years
of begging, Shih left Acer and became
chairman of ASUS in 1994. It was just
over a year ago when he decided to
split company into three units: ASUS,
Pegatron and Unihan.
Such restructuring was meant to let
ASUS concentrate on the laptops and
systems, with Pegatron taking care of
motherboard and component manu-
facturing, and Unihan handling sub-
component and chassis production.
Many thought that this was just a plot
to reset all employee pensions (there is
no Taiwanese law which states that all
companies have to offer pension plans),
but it appears that there is a darker side
of this story.
According to Taiwanese magazine
Business Today, during the split an-
nouncement meeting in 2007, Shih
and Tung already showed signs of
their icy relationship. The magazine
claimed that Tung was forced to ac-
cept the chairman role of Pegatron, a
components company when his real
passion was in the establishment of the
ASUS brand. The reason for this oust-
ing? So that Shih could let his brother-
in-law, Jonathan Tsang, take up Tung’s
ASUS vice-chairman role, thus leaving
Tung out of any executive decisions
over ASUS. Even though Tsang had
also given financial aid to ASUS in
the early days, Tung had many rough
patches with Tsang as President of
Marketing. Apparently he went against
the wishes of several key staff over the
laptop business and ended up with a
few significant resignations; but there
was nothing Tung could do about the
board’s decision of his own ousting.
Thankfully, Tung’s renowned friend-
ly, caring management-style influenced
a handful of loyal, talented ASUS staff
to move to Pegatron. With some of
these people he formed PEGA Design,
which will take in orders for design-
ing laptops, desktops, modems etc. for
any companies, starting in February.
With enough orders, Tung could then
let Pegatron do the manufacturing as
well so that they are not working just
for ASUS. After all, this was how ASUS
started before they released laptops
under their own brand (for instance,
they still manufacture MacBooks as
well as doing R&D for Apple).
We look forward to the day when
Tung establishes his own brand again
and hopefully overtakes ASUS, just like
Steve Jobs did with NeXT and Apple.
ASUS co-founder Tung Tsu Hsien and ASUS chairman Jonney Shih
Original image from Business Today
Which netbook?
Since the launch of the Eee PC, other
companies quicky followed ASUS’
trend and released their own netbooks.
Whilst most share similar specifica-
tions, there are a couple of things that
you should watch out for:
Seeing is believing: make sure
1.
you check out the real thing in
person, paying special attention
to the keyboard, touchpad, heat
dissipation and LCD.
Brand reputation: after-sale
2.
service can vary from one coun-
try to another for any company,
so use Google to check your
destination’s feedback!
Warranty: obviously, the longer
3.
Acer Aspire One A150 HP Mini-note 2133 Advent 4490 ASUS Eee PC 901 MSI Wind U100
Intel Atom N270 1.6GHz VIA C7-M ULV - 1.2GHz Intel Atom N270 1.6GHz Intel Atom N270 1.6GHz Intel Atom N270 1.6GHz
120GB HDD, 1GB RAM 120GB HDD, 1GB RAM 120GB HDD, 1GB RAM 20GB SSD, 1GB RAM 120GB HDD, 1GB RAM
Linpus Linux SuSe Linux Windows XP Home Xandros Linux Windows XP Home
802.11b/g 802.11b/g, Bluetooth 802.11b/g, Bluetooth 802.11b/g/n, Bluetooth 802.11b/g, Bluetooth
8.9” LCD, 0.3MP webcam 8.9” LCD, 0.3MP webcam 8.9” LCD, 0.3MP webcam 8.9” LCD, 1.3MP webcam 10” LCD, 1.3MP webcam
3x USB, 5-in-1 card reader 2x USB, SD card reader 3x USB, 4-in-1 card reader 3x USB, SD card reader 3x USB, 4-in-1 card reader
3-hour battery, 1.26kg 2-hour battery, 1.2kg 2.5-hour battery, 1.12kg 6-hour battery, 1.1kg 2-hour battery, 1.0kg
1-year UK-only warranty 1-year UK-only warranty 1-year UK-only warranty 2-year UK-only warranty 2-year UK-only warranty
£189.00 (Amazon) £199.99 (Misco.co.uk) £229.99 (PC World) £261.74 (Amazon) £278.48 (Amazon)
the better, but sometimes you’ll
have to pay a bit more (like the
ASUS and MSI).
I consider the netbooks on the right
to be the best value. I won’t bother rat-
ing them, as there is little physical dif-
ference between them apart from HP’s
weaker CPU; it is really down to your
budget and your ergonomic preferenc-
es. Value-wise the Advent 4490 does
seem to beat the rest of the group, but
then again the brand is only so-so, so
do double-check with online feedback.
If you have recently purchased a net-
book, reviews are always welcome!
Online Game oftheWeek
Dogfight 2 - The Great War
http://is.gd/hyW8
Addictive games are often simple,
which is why Dogfight 2 has won
my heart. Your plane can fire bullets
and drop bombs with bonus points
awarded for special manoeuvres.
Go try this beautiful game over the
weekend!
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Food
Food Editors – Afonso Campos & Rosie Grayburn
Afonso Campos
Food Editor
Weddings, banks
and you’re a liar
Sachs campus presentation “for
the food” or the Boston Consulting
Group skills session because you
heard “there’s a shitload of awesome
food there dude”. While at the
presentation however, you forget you
even mentioned food and scribble away
any religious word the HR rep standing
10 feet from you spews out.
The blasphemous use of food
as an excuse to do something is a
cowardly act that innervates me quite
severely. There is nothing wrong with
wanting to go to a stupid cousin’s
wedding, becoming a banker or going
to that nerdy Sci-Fi Society meeting or
that perhaps overly hacky ePortfolio
review. The food at these events is
more often than not, undeniably good
and available in copious quantities.
As a foodie, this is something that is
nigh on impossible to pass on. There
is also the mini-food conundrum.
It’s like a burger, only smaller and as
a result, irresistible. Or small cocktail
sausages. Or even tiny little banoffee
pies. For some unbeknownst reason
or other to anyone, as human beings
we are genetically predisposed to
fall madly in love with miniatures
of mundane things, and in the world
of gastronomy this is not any different.
Our insanity levels are driven through
the roof at the thought of a salmon and
cream cheese finger sandwich the size
of your thumbnail. Our eye is locked
upon these heaven-sent little bits
of paradise and our mind wanders.
Becauseofthepurityofspiritinwhich
such delicacies must be consumed
I consider it to be completely
disrespectful when one pretends to
hate the environment in which they
are to be eaten, in a feeble attempt to
attract respect. Grow some balls and
learn to feel proud of the things that
you do genuinely enjoy and care about.
Like I was told at a 22.5 mile cycle last
Saturday, harden the fuck up.
Maladies are not Malaysian
more fun locked in a bamboo cage
playing Russian Roulette with Christo-
pher Walken; and although I am sure
that genuine, authentic Chinese food
holds many delights, the luminous
orange gloop, gristly nuggets of meat
and stodgy batter synonomous with
migraine-inducing, MSG laden take-
aways are definitely not one of them.
Prawn crackers are not bad mind you.
Anyway, being the oriental infidel that I
am, it was with some trepidation that I
made my way down the stairs of Melur,
a restaurant solely concerned with the
definitely unfamiliar fair of Malaysia.
Turns out I needn’t have worried.
The food was delicious. The owner
Sam, a wonderfully warm native
of Kuala Lumpur, had immediately
settled my nerves with her talk of
staying true to that what she knows and
loves, sourcing, wherever she could,
authentic ingredients and resolutely
steering clear of that all too familiar
scourge of modern cuisine – “fusion”.
Her commendable philosophy is
reflected in a reassuringly concise and
wallet friendly menu, the pick of the
Melur HHHHK
175A Edgware Road
Eat-in or take-away
020 7706 8083
Best: The grilled spicy mackerel
Worst: Chicken and prawn noo-
dles (yet, not that bad)
Price: Under £20 per head
starters being the chicken Satay. A dish
I have always viewed with suspicion,
this was a million miles away from the
depressing super market guff I have
previously been subjected too, with
juicy chunks of marinated chicken,
char-grilled and served alongside a
bowl of wonderfully unctuous, freshly-
made peanut sauce with hints of
lemongrass and chilli. The spring rolls
weren’t bad either.
With the mains ranging from an
apparently just-a-bit-too authentic
fish-head curry (not one order
received to date) to the more familiar
noodles and curries one might expect,
there is something here to suit just
about everyone. For the veggies,
the aubergines cooked in Sambal, a
traditional chili sauce, are definitely
worth a crack whilst for those slightly
redder in tooth and claw, an aromatic
bowl of chicken curry would certainly
satisfy. The grilled spicy mackerel
was my particular highlight, with its
wonderful smokey flavour countered
beautifully by the fish’s oily character.
Only the chicken and prawn noodles
left me somewhat underwhelmed, but
even this was far from bland.
A starter followed by a main,
together with a rice dish and the Roti
Canai (traditionally made layered flat
bread with a curry dip) would be more
than enough to silence even the most
tenacious of appetites and probably
still see you get the best part of a fiver’s
change back from a twenty. However, if
you are one of those always with room
for dessert, you could certainly do a
lot worse than go for the somewhat
unusual but warmly soothing option of
sweet potato, yam and sago cooked in
coconut sauce.
Casually appointed and, with most of
the other diner’s conversations audibly
academic in nature, Melur is most
definitely student friendly and, with
a fully licensed bar and the chance to
win free meals and musical tickets in
February and March, it is certainly
worth a visit.
Apart from the odd slither of raw fish
and a dash of wasabi, my culinary
worldliness tends not to stretch much
further east than the Bay of Bengal.
Not that I haven’t dipped my toe, so to
speak. I mean, I have even travelled as
far as Hong Kong, but if I recall cor-
rectly, my gastronomic development
was at a somewhat nascent stage at the
time and I pretty much lived off fried
chicken and cheeseburgers (I know, I
know). Yes, I’ve eaten Thai food with
its red and green shades of blandness
and, as for my experience with Viet-
namese, frankly, I think I’d have had
David Wallis teleports us across the world to Kuala Lumpur
T
his is what will happen; I
will give you a scenario,
and you will play along
with it and take it in your
stride to gracefully accept
any assumptions I might make about
you. More likely than not, they will
be correct and I can imagine it will be
hard to accept that someone you never
met (me) knows so much about you,
based on perhaps only one criterion.
It’s freaky, it’s deranged and it’s a hell of
a lot like astrology, palm reading, tarot
or the crystal ball. One thing is certain
though, you will cringe at the thought
of the person you have become.
You didn’t use to be a cynic before
coming to Imperial, but the thought
that someone with 4 or 5 As at A-Level
has a different opinion to you is enough
to make you reformulate your entire
belief system.
Imagine someone starts
slagging off Investment Bankers,
financial institutions or making
mention of how these destabilised
a previously perfectly sound
economy. This little situation, I
am almost positive, is something
you have experienced, given that
Imperial seems to be full of wannabe
communists loitering around hallways
and aimlessly wandering around the
Sherfield Building, pretending to not
be interested in sneaking into the
careers office to seek assistance in
finding a high flying job in a world they
supposedlyandoutwardlyhate.Yousee
this happening around you and start
feeling despondent and dejected about
having sent 14,000 investment bank
graduate applications. You feel even
worse when you somehow get suckered
into pretending you hate the industry
or how you only went to the interview
“for the food”. You find yourself actively
and loudly proclaiming your (fake)
abhorrence for finance, but again you
supposedly only went to the Goldman
I, science
OUT NOW!!
Get your copy
from the Library
The view of the restaurant from the bar
27
Friday 30 January 2009 felix

