clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
29
Friday 30 January 2009 felix
Clubs and Societies
28 felix Friday 30 January 2009
Clubs & Societies Is your club cooler than the cat that
got the cream? Write to us.
clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Clubs & Socs Editor - Alice Rowlands
IC Winds concert blows us away
Anna Gooding reports on the Coldstream Guards band and IC Wind bands power performance
I
mperial College Winds is a
group of enthusiastic brass,
woodwind and percussion
players who meet weekly to
rehearse. The music we play
ranges from folk songs, film scores and
marches, to concertos and beyond. So
far this term we have been concentrat-
ing on the Wind Power repertoire but
our concert on the 24th of March will
include Philip Sparke’s A Lindisfarne
Rhapsody which will feature our prin-
cipal flautist Phin Chooi.
In September one of our trumpeters,
Mel Tamplin (a member of staff in the
College), had the idea of arranging a
workshop day with a professional wind
band. He contacted The Coldstream
Guards who agreed to come down to
Imperial and spend a day teaching us
all they know! He mentioned the plan
to friends and other staff colleagues,
and what had started as a small event
escalated into the exciting spectacle
that took over the College on Wednes-
day night.
The Coldstream Regiment of Foot
Guards is the oldest corps by continu-
ous existence in the British Army, hav-
ing been formed in 1650. The band
of the Coldstream Guards performs
regularly at state ceremonial events
across London and beyond, and has
just recently returned from a tour of
the United States of America. Due to a
wealth of talented musicians, the band
can appear as a small fanfare team, a
marching band, a jazz band or, as was
seen on Wednesday, a wind band. The
band is directed by Lieutenant Colonel
Graham Jones MBE who lead Wednes-
day’s afternoon rehearsal and evening
concert, as well as having joined us
at two Tuesday evening rehearsals
previously.
The day began with intimate re-
hearsals in small sections based in the
Union and in the Blyth Centre. Some
of our band members even managed
to have one-on-one tuition with a pro-
fessional musician. At lunchtime six of
the Guards performed three fanfares,
two on Dalby court and one under the
Queen’s Tower. We stood back and
watched in awe whilst selling tick-
ets for the evening’s concert to other
equally impressed staff and students.
In the afternoon we all joined together
and rehearsed en masse in the Great
Hall. As the two full-size wind bands
came together, there were around sixty
players on one stage and we made a
truly formidable sound.
The concert began at 6.30 with the
Guards looking very smart in their su-
perb red uniforms and IC Winds dolled
up in their Wind Power T-shirts. Lieu-
tenant Colonel Graham Jones joined
us on stage wearing an all black uni-
form with white gloves and donned
with medals. We opened with HRH
Duke of Cambridge March: an uplift-
ing, jolly march which set the scene
for the concert. The programme took
a lighter turn with Echoes of an Era
which featured several popular Beatles
hits including With a Little Help From
my Friends, When I’m Sixty-four,
Michelle, Yellow Submarine and Hey
Jude. The arrangement showed that
Beatles music really has stood the test
of time, with the audience appreciating
each popular and familiar tune. This
was followed by Imperial Echoes a
short march which was chosen for the
evening’s performance to represent
the new link between the Band of The
Coldstream Guards and Imperial Col-
lege London.
The next piece was an arrangement
of Welsh, Scottish, Northern Irish and
English traditional tunes - A Very Brit-
ish Tribute. The selection included
Danny Boy, Londonderry Air, World
in Union and I Vow to Thee My Coun-
try. The arrangement was written by
the Guards’ band master and featured
a tremendous male vocal solo. Lord
Professor Robert Winston was then in-
vited up on stage to join the band for
My Funny Valentine on his alto saxo-
phone. This arrangement was a real
trombone show-piece which featured
the Guards’ principal trombonist Col-
our Sergeant David Desmond.
Next jazz singer Victoria Hart joined
us to perform a selection of three
pieces from her new album, ‘The Lost
Gershwin’. Victoria Hart has become
affectionately known as the “Singing
Waitress” due to exchanging her job
in a restaurant for performing in front
of George Clooney at a Cannes party.
Her music is described as pop, with
influence from the 40s and 50s swing
era. She performs at various jazz festi-
vals and has appeared at Glastonbury
Festival. The selection we played on
Wednesday was from her new album
which is a collection of rare Gershwin
songs. She sang beautifully and looked
extraordinarily glamorous in a slinky
long black number.
Cossack Fire Dance was a real crowd
pleaser, featuring several amazingly
talented soloists including a clarinet,
a euphonium, a trumpet and a trom-
bone. It was an exciting and enjoyable
piece and the audience joined in with
some enthusiastic clapping! A fantas-
tic rendition of Crown Imperial ended
with an organ solo which filled the
whole room with a sense of grandeur.
The piece has been played at the Coro-
nation of King George VI and that of
Queen Elizabeth II, and now at Impe-
rial College London!
Finally the concert closed with the
traditional play-off for the band of the
Coldstream Guards, the Regimental
March, representing the link between
the band and the regiment, followed
by The National Anthem. The guests
departed from the Great Hall buzzing
with enthusiasm for wind bands and
music in Imperial College!
A few lucky members of the band
made their way to the Tanaka Foyer
where they were wined and dined
in true Imperial style. Lord Profes-
sor Robert Winston rounded off the
evening with a particularly amusing
and memorable speech. Meanwhile, in
the SCR, the rest of the musicians were
having a real knees-up with a fantastic
meal laid on by the same team. Finally,
after a very long and tiring day of re-
hearsals and socialising, we all made
our way home for some well earned
rest.
All-in-all the day was a huge success,
from rehearsals to concert to dinner.
The concert was attended by over 350
people who came and enjoyed the re-
sults of our labours. The money raised
will be used to provide a music schol-
arship for an Imperial College student
which will be known as the Coldstream
Guards Scholarship.
IC Winds would like to thank Mel
Tamplin for his vision, dedication and
enthusiasm, the College Events team
for putting together such a wonderful
day and of course Lieutenant Colo-
nel Graham Jones and the band of
the Coldstream Guards for coming to
share their expertise with us.
To see video clips and read more
about Wind Power, visit www.impe-
rial.ac.uk/news. If you’re interested in
Imperial College Winds, would like to
see us again or want to come along and
get involved, there’s more information
on our website: www.union.ic.ac.uk/
arts/windband.
“What had started
as a small event
escalated into the
exciting spectacle that
took over the College
on Wednesday night”
“The programme
took a lighter turn
with popular Beatles
hits including With a
Little Help From my
Friends, When I’m
Sixty-four, Yellow
Submarine and Hey
Jude”
“The guests departed
from the Great
Hall buzzing with
enthusiasm for wind
bands and music in
Imperial College!”
Lord Professor Robert Winston performs “My Funny Valentine” to all on alto-saxophone
IC Winds and The Coldstream Guards produce a lot of Wind Power in the Great Hall
picture by ian gillett
picture by ian gillett
I
watched the weather report for
the weekend shortly before leav-
ing for Wales. There was one
word which stuck out: storm.
And yes there it was, a giant
white twirly thing approaching Wales
from Ireland.
This thought was momentarily for-
gotten as I met friends old and new
at the union and we prepared for de-
parture. Nathaniel then revealed his
‘brilliant idea’ and said that because of
the greater numbers of people on the
trip, we would be strapping our bags to
the roof-rack, secured with a tarpaulin
called Gilbert and a set of straps called
Bloody-Difficult-To-Use. It was a good
idea for the windless streets of London
and gave us much needed room in the
minibus for the 6-hour trip. The dinner
break in Warwick was characteristic of
the fellwanderers in that food was fol-
lowed by an urgent trip to stock up on
alcohol and chocolate.
Arriving at the hut at 1:30am, after
minimum problems getting visas at the
heavily-guarded Welsh border, sud-
denly Gilbert became our foe. In strong
wind and driving rain, Chris and myself
climbed onto the roof to undo Bloody-
Difficult-To-Use and toss off Gilbert to
get at the bags. In the space of 5 min-
utes all the bags were wet. There then
followed the several rituals of turning
round the minibus, finding beds and
making tea.
The Saturday morning greeted us
with driving wind and low cloud. We
were doing the Nantlle Ridge behind
the hut and within walking distance,.
The surrounding mountains were suit-
able eerie as we gathered outside to
start the walk. Cloud obscured every-
thing more than 200m above our heads
and the dampened light brought out
the cracks in the rocks and the nearby
houses. It was not raining but every-
thing was damp, the kind that gets to
you straight away. Dom had other plans
and wore 7 layers to keep warm, which
quickly reduced him into a sweating
wreck which was de-clothed as quickly
as possible.
Our ascent up to the ridge into the
cloud was steep. Gavin compensated
for tiredness and cold by bringing out
a bottle of port and hurriedly opening
it. This and Jim’s Father Christmas hat
gave us a festive look which was a brave
effort since we saw hardly anyone else
on the hill that day. Once in the cloud
we were relying on the maps and even-
tually found our way up a grassy slope
to the lunch spot inside a walled circu-
lar pen. Everyone held their breath as
Jim tried the fig jelly which somehow
had found its way into the rations, but
he gave it the thumbs up. The lunch
break was followed by a scramble along
a ridge, using wet rocks as hand-holds
and creeping along through the strong
wind. The views sometimes cleared
down to the valley, but mostly the only
vision we had was grey streaking past
and whistling through the rocks.
We descended out of the clouds into
a forest, which was a welcome change
from the sodden grass of the hills. Our
course followed a clever idea that some
crazy hill-person thought up to annoy
everyone else – the stream and the path
were the same thing. After descending
this with much slipping, we eventu-
ally found a proper path which took us
through the woods and back onto the
hillside. And there it was, in the dis-
tance; the pub. The warm fire and lo-
cal ales immediately took the damp out
of us and the group soon divided into
those who got puddings, and those
who simply fell asleep. A quick drive
back, beautiful cooking by several ‘vol-
unteers’ under the whip of Charlie, and
the tutoring of the club in Australian
card games, took us into the night. Af-
ter a few hours of sweltering under the
heat of the stove which was burning at
a balmy billion degrees Celsius, every-
one slowly drifted off to bed.
On Sunday we tried to do the Gly-
ders. It was the shortest day of the year.
For those that do not know the Glyders,
they are a few mountains which form
a ridge several miles long and have
some of the most beautiful views in
Snowdonia. Their peaks are covered in
thousands of boulders littered around
like shattered egg-shell and which
make even the calmest days seem mys-
tical. This was not a calm day.
We got up onto the ridge via the
Devil’s Kitchen, a beautiful climb up a
cliff surrounded by the black buttress-
es of the Glyders and Y Garn. At this
point the wind had not picked up and
the climb had a very lord-of-the-rings
feel as the cloud came down to meet
us. This led to some classic discussions
as to who would be the group Golum,
which I will not repeat here. It would
have been easy to believe we were in
middle earth as we saw no one else
on the hills, except for a giant spider
called Shelob that had to be defeated
before lunch.
The rocks, sky and grass were a
soggy grey and soon we were too. As
the group stretched out we lost our-
selves in the mist and all too often, all
I could see of the others were darker
patches in the dark grey, in front and
behind. The wind was the worst part,
and by lunchtime we were pretty damn
miserable. A few of us got warmed up
by climbing over the top of Castell y
Gwynt, a picturesque of somewhat
absurdly dangerous rock formation
above a thousand foot drop. This led
to the sensible decision to get off the
mountains as fast as we could. Chris,
map in hand, led the charge with the
battle-cry of a hardened hill-walker
and strode off down a slope. Soon we
were all lost. This wasn’t actually Chris’
fault but a more general joint fuck-up
by all the map readers, and the prob-
lem that what was meant to be a slope
was actually flat.
We gave ourselves confidence by
murmuring ‘I think it should be a bit
more to the left’ and eventually found
the lake which meant we had gone too
far. It was only a matter of tracking
back a bit to find the path down top
the valley, and we were finally on our
way out of the cloud. Spirits perked as
we descended and began to get a view
of the road far beneath us, the happiest
I have ever been to see a car.
Two hours later and we were safely
installed in a café in Capel Curig which
had hot chocolate and cake, and whose
shop stocked more wine than anything
else. We all slowly warmed up. That
night was much like the last and in-
volved us being visited by werewolves
from Moldova and Austria. I am
pleased to say we used the shortest day
of the year well.
Monday was our last day in Wales
and the morning was spent pack-
ing and loading up the minibus. This
meant the annoying task of replacing
the batteries of all the fire alarms that
go off regardless of whether there is a
fire or not. We managed to finish this
in good time, and Nathaniel returned
from driving Heike to the station, look-
ing surprisingly perky from having got
up at 4:30am.
It was a short drive to Llanberis from
where we would be starting our last
walk. The Pete’s Eats Café was open
and welcoming but, true hill-walkers,
we went straight past it and wandered
through some fields towards a hill next
to Snowdon. The prospect of walking
straight into a café upon our return
gave us the needed inspiration to go
back up into the grey mass that hung
above us. Our approach to the hill was
easy enough, with views back down to
Llanberis and of the lowest few hun-
dred metres of Snowdon. The plan had
been to climb up to the ridge via a scree
slope which looked good on the map.
What we had not realised was that be-
tween us and the scree slope was a bog,
crossed by several streams flowing into
the lake at the base of Snowdon. This
seemed like a bad idea for the final day
before a long drive back to London, so
instead we went straight up the steep
hill to our right which would eventu-
ally lead to the summit we were aim-
ing for. Covering this slope was our
old friend Gorse, which was helpfully
spiky. We used our hands to climb the
slope and nothing much eventful hap-
pened before we took shelter in a stone
shelter on top for lunch. There is no
need to describe the views; they were
the same as the previous two days. We
spent a good few hours in Pete’s Eats
before boarding the minibus for the re-
turn journey. It was good to see the ice
cream shop open in December. Only
Wales.
All in all, the winter tour was a great
success. The company, the food and
the luxury mountain hut made up for
the grim weather. Even though there
were hardly any views for the three
days we walked and we were constant-
ly buffeted by gales, rain and cloud, I
think everyone secretly enjoyed the
weather. There were a few other people
on the hills that weekend, but certainly
no other groups of 19! All those 19 cer-
tainly showed that we love the hills for
their own sake. You could almost say
‘we choose to go to Wales in December
and do the other thing, not because it
is easy, but because it is hard’.
Walking with their heads in a cloud
Fellwanderers made their way to Snowdonia for a winter tour Alex Kendall tells felix about their adventures
You would think this lot might have learned by now that walking in Wales in the winter is likely leave them very cold and wet.

