clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
311
Friday 30 January 2009 felix
Clubs and Societies
30 felix Friday 30 January 2009
EWB must be the best society at Im-
perial. What other society gives you
the opportunity to live in far-flung
parts of the world with local people for
weeks over the summer, gives you free
events like the photo exhibition last
Monday, organises talks for you with
some of the most influential people in
the world, and gives you all the other
miscellaneous treats and events that
Engineers without borders
Joe Corcoran tells felix how Engineers Without Borders are
“removing the barriers to development using engineering”
E
ngineers Without Borders-
Imperial is one of around
20 university branches that
makes up Engineers With-
out Borders-UK. The focus
of EWB is “to remove the barriers to
development using engineering”; what
makes us unique from various other
charities with similar aims is that EWB
is run by students, for students. EWB
is not just for engineers – many of our
placements are not degree specific
and can often just require mathemati-
cal competence, a scientific outlook
or project management skills. Almost
all of our other events can be enjoyed
just as much by non-engineers as
engineers.
only EWB could? (On that note if any-
one would like to come on a trip down
the London Sewers, let me know!)
Most people associate EWB with the
summer placements in international
development. The beauty of an EWB
placement is that they utilise the skills
you picked up by nearly killing yourself
to pass Imperial exams. This tends to
mean that you’re doing something that
not a lot of people in the world could
do and hence you are probably doing
something of genuine worth and use-
fulness. You can rest assured that, on
the whole, EWB placements are more
useful than the majority of other gap
year voluntary schemes where you pay
a UK company to fly across the world
to pat a baby lion on the head. Engi-
neering development is notoriously
hard to get into as a graduate with
little experience. EWB gives students
the opportunity to gain that first bit of
experience that is invaluable when ap-
plying to graduate organisations like
RedR.
If you would like to find out more
about placements, come along to the
2009 Placements Launch event on 9th
Feb, Mech Eng Room 342, 5.30pm.
Speaking of RedR, as you read this
Martin McCann is probably speak-
ing in Mech Eng Room 342 (Fri 30th,
12.30-13.30). Martin McCann is the
chief executive of RedR and must be
one of the most experienced and quali-
fied men in development and disaster
relief in the world. This promises to be
an informative and inspiring talk so if
it’s not too late; get running and come
listen! If it is too late then not to worry,
become a member and we’ll let you
know when our next talk is!
EWB really does have something for
everyone, engineer or not. We have
when applying to the likes of ARUP
or Mott MacDonald, a couple of our
biggest sponsors. EWB is such a well
known and deserving cause that at-
tending any national events is bound
to see you rubbing shoulders with all
the right people.
Last summer three Imperial students
went on EWB placements. Amongst
these was Patricia Steven, 4th year
Mech Eng, who conducted an impact
study into the existing improved cook-
stove in Kathmandu, Nepal. The work
included background research, com-
munity surveys, field testing, results
analysis and reporting. Patricia reports
back ‘Practically everyone studying at
Imperial has the opportunity to go on
an EWB placement from first year en-
try summer placements to advanced
post graduate work. Working with
EWB as a student is the best oppor-
tunity you have to gain a placement in
development and it is certainly an ex-
perience that I will never forget.’
If you would like to get involved in
or have any questions, please email
guilds.ewb@imperial.ac.uk
just launched our schools outreach
programme, had a successful photo ex-
hibition, guest speakers dropping by al-
most by the week, got a weekend train-
ing workshop coming up and that’s not
to mention the social events! We have
been out for an authentic Ethiopian
meal at the weirdest restaurant I have
ever been in and have camping trips,
nights out and the EWB ‘Battle of the
Bands’ in the pipeline.
On a more superficial note, with the
credit of everything mentioned above,
getting involved in EWB provides a
gem of a line on any CV. Especially
“You’re doing
something that not
a lot of people could
do and are probably
doing something of
genuine worth”
“If anyone would like
to come on a trip
down the London
Sewers, let me
know!”
S
o when did you first
find out what an en-
gineer was? Several
non-engineers have
told me that if they
had known about engineering
while at school, they might have
chosen it for their degree. With
this in mind, three of us from
EWB set off to Christ College,
Finchley on Wednesday 21st to
do a workshop on ‘Water for the
World’, including a presentation
on water sources, treatment and
appropriate technology. After
this, we created crude water
filters out of plastic bottles and
several filtering materials. They
were used to filter muddy water,
with varying results!
The aim of EWB outreach mot-
to is “to Inspire Today’s Youth to
Engineer a Fairer Future”. A lot
of people, especially children,
don’t know what is involved in
being an engineer, maybe due to the range of jobs that can be done by one. The skills that are learned
by engineers can be used outside the traditional workplace and this is what EWB aims to get across.
Engineers can make a real difference in people’s lives by helping to build electricity generators, water
supplies or whatever is needed by people who can’t afford (or don’t have the skills) to do it themselves.
The outreach programme aims to get young people impassioned about international development and
the possibilities of taking an active role in improving people’s lives. Although this may not be as exotic
or glamorous as spending a few weeks in a far-flung part of the world, spending a couple of hours mess-
ing about with plastic bottles and muddy water can be quite rewarding and breaks the monotony of an
otherwise dull week at Imperial!
Every year EWB has a photo compe-
tition of images taken by students on
placements in international develop-
ment. These photos illustrate the pow-
er engineers have to change the world
and go some way towards capturing
the incredible experience of going on
an EWB placement. The exhibition has
travelled around other EWB branches
around the country but at Imperial the
exhibition had an addition role almost
unique to the college. It has been said
that EWB is the most powerful force
in keeping graduates from moving
into banking. The photos show the
huge impact any engineer can have in
changing the world for the better; no
placement volunteer can lead a con-
tent life in banking after experiencing
the power they posses as an engineer.
The photos captured all the aspects
of an EWB placement; not only the en-
gineering worked on, but the culture,
the country, and most importantly the
people and the impact that it has had
on local life.
This year’s winner was Joe Mulli-
gan with his photo of school children
crossing a bridge he helped build. As
Thalia Konaris, former Imperial stu-
dent, and former co-CEO of EWB-UK
explains ‘Soweto East School Kids was
chosen because it has a very original
and appealing composition, it visu-
ally captures the essence of the project
combining final product with its most
critical users and also because it high-
lights the term appropriate in technol-
ogies for international development.’
We were fortunate enough to have
the exhibition sponsored by the Insti-
tute of Mechanical Engineers. Andrew
Lamb the CEO of EWB-UK spoke at
Engineers Without Borders – Joe Corcoran, EWB-Imperial President “removing the barriers to development using engineering”
the event in front of the packed Mech
Eng Concourse saying ‘It is so good to
see so many students from the cutting
edge of science and engineering here
taking an interest in development. I
hope they are all inspired by the photos
to go and use their skills to make the
changes the world desperately needs.’
The Institute of Mechanical Engi-
neers were so enthusiastic about our
exhibition that they asked if they could
host a day of the exhibition and re-
ception evening. Last Wednesday the
Marble Hall at the IMechE HQ was full
to the brim with senior representatives
from various institutes, companies and
charities involved in development. Ri-
chard Cunliffe, an Imperial student
who has been on an EWB placement
spoke at the event and tells us that ‘it
is great to have the opportunity to ac-
tually show so many important people
the good work EWB has done. I’m sure
EWB-Imperial and the IMechE will
have plenty of opportunity to work to-
gether in the future.’
Andrew Lamb told assembled stu-
dents: ‘The population of the world
has tripled in my grandmother’s life-
time and it’s going to at least double
again just in my working life. 1.2 bil-
lion people don’t have access to safe
drinking water, 2.4 billion people don’t
have access to safe sanitation, 820mil-
lion are underfed and 1.1 billion people
are overfed, 3 billion people have never
made a telephone call and 3 billion
people have no grid electricity supply.
One out of every two people on this
Earth lives in a city and one-third of
them, about 1 billion people, are living
in slums.
The greatest engineering challenge
of our time is not the Burj Dubai, is not
the London Olympics or Crossrail, the
return to the Moon or a manned mis-
Exhibition of photography taken on
Engineers Without Borders placements
Joe Corcoran
Imperial EWB President
clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Clubs and Societies
Thomas Hills talks to felix about outreach projects run by Imperial
Engineers Without Borders in local schools
PHOTO: Steve LONG
PHOTO: Tim Sadler
PHOTO: Tim Sadler
Lily Ryan-Colins working with members of the El Abra community
PHOTO: Dan Reader
PHOTO:Drew Corbyn
EWB volunteers help to assemble a wind turbine in the Philippines
Andrew Lamb talking to students in the Mech Eng foyer
sion to Mars, the development of car-
bon nanotubes or new forms of fuel.
The greatest engineering challenge of
our time is captured in these photo-
graphs this evening. It’s the challenge
of people. We have to work together
to inspire engineers to meet this chal-
lenge. And there’s a great deal of work
to be done.’
Some of the photographs featured in
the exhibition can be see below. Below-
top, titled ‘Chimney Construction’, was
taken by Dan Reader. The image fea-
tures EWB-UK placement volunteer
Lily Ryan-Collins as she works with
members of the El Abra community in
Ecuador to construct a chimney for a
new cooking stove being demonstrated
in the community.
Today around 700 million people are
at increased risk of acute respiratory
infections because of smoke inhalation
from burning wood and fuels in the
home. EWB-UK have been engaged
in the design and dissemination of im-
proved stove and chimney designs for
over four years in partnership with an
Ecuadorian community based organi-
sation FAMUSOD.
Below-bottom is a photograph
by Drew Corbyn, titled ‘Philippines
Windpower’, the photograph shows the
assembly of a wind turbine on top of
the tower before erection in Buli. Drew
Corbyn has spent the past year work-
ing with Sibol ng Agham at Teknolo-
hiya or SIBAT, Inc. (Wellspring of
Science and Technology) a non-profit
and non-governmental organisation
engaged in the promotion and devel-
opment of appropriate technology in
the Philippines.
The photos will be used on the In-
stitute of Mechanical Engineers ‘En-
generation’ website to inspire 14-19
year olds to become engineers.

