news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 30 January 2009 felix
News
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
2 felix Friday 30 January 2009
News
News Editor – Kadhim Shubber
Felix was brought to you by:
felix 1,422
Friday 30/01/09
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London
SW7 2BB. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, 17 Brest
Road, Derriford, Plymouth. Registered newspaper
ISSN 1040-0711. Copyright © Felix 2009.
LOLCATZ
of
the
WEEK
Editor in Chief: Jovan Nedić
Copy Editors
Louise Etheridge
Jonathan Lloyd-Williams
Zoë Dobell
Sasha Nicoletti
Dina Ismail
Daria Nakariakova
Politics Editors:
James Goldsack
Katya-yani Vyas
Arts Editors
Caz Knight
David Paw
Emily Wilson
Business Editor
Luke Dhanoa
International Editor
Hassan Joudi
Fashion Editor
Dan Wan
Coffee Break Editor
Ravi Pall
Nightlife Editor
Catherine Jones
Puzzles Editor
Charles Murdoch
Clubs and Socs Editor
Alice Rowlands
Sports Editors
Jack Cornish
Mustapher Botchway
Photography
Sami Michaels
Tom Roberts
Science Editors
Mićo Tatalović
Daniel Burrows
Film Editors
Zuzanna Blaszczak
Jonathan Dakin
Food Editors
Rosie Grayburn
Afonso Campos
Technology Editor
Richard Lai
What’s On Editors
Rachel D’oliviero
Lily Topham
Music Editors
Peter Sinclair
James Houghton
Deputy Editor: Kadhim Shubber Associate Editor: Gilead Amit
The Student Accommodation build-
ing, situated in Princes Gardens next
to Weeks Hall, has been the victim of
some stealth attacks by a mysterious
phantom menace. The building, which
also accommodates graduates on Mas-
ter’s courses, as well as the main ac-
commodation officer for Imperial, was
left without any water over the week-
end for no apparent reason.
On Monday morning, the hall man-
ager Vladimir Jarina and a water tech-
nician, that’s a plumber to you and
me, went to investigate the problem.
It was found that someone had been
tampering with controls to the main
water pipe outside the building, which
is situated under the road. At this time,
no one is sure who did it, or even why
they did.
This wasn’t the first time the water
supply to the building had been affect-
ed, but it was, however, the first time
that there was no water supply for a full
day and a half. The fact that someone
was able to access the main water sup-
And finally: Phantom Menace cuts off
water to part of Princes Gardens
The world beyond
college walls
Edited by Hassan Joudi
Sri Lanka’s 26-year long civil war looks like it is coming to an end as the
Sri Lankan Army closes in on rebel held territory.
The Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), also known as the Tamil Ti-
gers, have been fighting for a separate country for the ethnic Tamil minority
since 1983, and has controlled various swathes of land in the North-East of
the island. But this most recent military offensive by the Sri Lankan govern-
ment has pushed the Tamil Tigers and civilians living in those areas back into
an ever-shrinking corner.
Claims by the Sri Lankan government that there have been ‘zero civilian
casualties’ have been met with scepticism by the Red Cross and other aid
groups who say shells fired by the army have landed in a 35 square kilometre
no-fire zone where thousands of civilians have gathered for safety. The Unit-
ed Nations have confirmed that their staff members working in the no-fire
zone to deliver aid have also been caught up in the fighting.
Sri Lanka
St Mary’s Hospital, part of Imperial
College Healthcare NHS Trust has re-
cently been involved in a major inter-
national study.
The study, which involved eight hos-
pitals around the world, managed to
prove that the use of a ‘safer surgery
checklist’ would reduce deaths and
complications after surgery.
The use of the checklist led to deaths
falling by an average 40 per cent after
an operation . Professor David Taube,
medical director at Imperial College
Healthcare NHS Trust has already
stated that:
“We are now implementing the safer
Muaad Abdula
News Correspondent
Imperial College Union have once
again become the subject of negligent
security, this time regarding confiden-
tial data on sections of the Imperial
College server. CGCU News website
Live! has revealed a concerning breach
of database security that allowed them
to access files and folders marked as ‘In
Confidence’ and ‘Sensitive’.
Live! claim to have been able to gain
unchallenged access to important in-
formation relating to Union finances,
disciplinary procedures, payroll and
Union bar sales.
Initial suspicions of open access
arose when volunteer Union Officers
were discovered to have unexpected
amounts of access to these confidential
files. Furthering the suspicion, Live!
Editor Kirsty Patterson additionally ex-
posed Union server security measures
by accessing files from the Live! Editor
College account. Though the Union di-
rectory is normally hidden from view
on supposedly non-privileged College
accounts, basic mapping functions
were able to locate these folders and
files, and hence readily available to any
staff or students.
The most alarming folder lacking
suitable permissions were those desig-
nated to the Union General Manager,
currently Peter Haldane. Within this
folder, confidential documents relat-
ing to named disciplinary and written
warnings were found. Folders enti-
tled ‘Staffing’ and ‘Finance’ contained
Union staff contracts and payroll
specifics.
Screenshots on live.cgcu.net show
the extent of access Patterson had. The
Live! Editor has its own College ac-
count and simply should have not been
able to gain the level of access evident
in the screenshot. Only present Depu-
ty President of Education and Welfare,
Hannah Theodorou, and appropriate
College ICT officials should have had
the correct privileges for the docu-
ments specifically flagged up by Live!
This is not the first time Union con-
fidentiality has been breached due to
negligence. At the start of the current
academic year, boxes of Union docu-
ments were found in and around closet
rooms housing air-conditioning units
in the West Wing Basement of Beit
compound. These closets were unse-
cured and their contents unbeknownst
to the Media Group whom use the
West Wing Basement.
For this latest lapse in security how-
ever, there is debate about who is ac-
tually to blame. Imperial College ICT
department are said to be ultimately
responsible for all data protection
within College; this including the Un-
ion. However it is claimed Union staff
should have been responsible for di-
recting ICT in limiting the appropriate
data access.
The Union is squarely claiming no re-
sponsibility for this fiasco, which could
Confidential Union
files lacking security
Dan Wan
News Correspondent
potentially lead to much wider-spread
consequences. The possible legal im-
plications of potential public viewing
of the information in question is some-
thing only time will be able to conjure.
Patterson herself was quick to realise
her own role in the situation, stating
that, “having discovered information
of that confidential nature was in those
folders, I knew the legal implications of
students being able to see it.” She took
a course of action but also condemned
the faults made, stating, “I immediately
contacted ICT, though it should not
have taken someone poking around to
expose the lacking of security”
Live! and felix have taken the respon-
sibility to ensure all confidential and
sensitive areas on the Union server
have been appropriately “secured” be-
fore publication. Union President clari-
fied this by saying, “As soon as we were
notified of this problem we worked
with ICT to secure the folders in ques-
tion. Since then we have ensured that
all sensitive and confidential files are,
and will continue to be, secure.”
CGCU website Live!’s screen capture of the open access to Union
servers. Confidential DPEW files and folders are displayed.
Saturday 31st January is the day Iraqis will go to the polls in local gov-
ernment elections.
About 14,000 candidates are competing for only 440 seats in local provin-
cial councils and for the last few weeks Iraq’s streets have been awash with
party campaign posters, and TV stations have been filled with politicians
vying for votes. These elections are being seen as an important test for the
country’s young democratic
political system which was es-
tablished after the war in 2003,
as well as for the performance
of the Iraqi Army and Police in
keeping voters safe.
Saturday is also widely seen as
a precursor to national elections
to be held at the end of 2009,
which will mark the completion
of a full 4-year term of Prime
Minister Nouri al-Maliki’s gov-
ernment which was formed af-
ter the last national election in
December 2005.
Iraq
Zimbabwe
The cholera outbreak in Zimbabwe has now caused more than 3,000
deaths according to the World Health Organisation (WHO), a body of
the UN.
The water-borne disease has affected larger and larger areas of Zimbabwe
since August 2008, a result of the collapsing water, sanitation and public
health system. This comes in the midst of an ever worsening economic situ-
ation, where 80% of Zimbabweans are unemployed, and those who do have
work find that their salaries are worthless.
But this week the main opposition party the MDC, led by Morgan Tsvanga-
rai, has agreed to join a unity government with President Robert Mugabe and
his Zanu-PF. The power sharing deal will see Mugabe remain as president
while Tsvangirai assumes the position of prime minister. It is hoped that this
newest agreement will bring to an end the months of political wrangling and
failed agreements that has occurred since national elections in March 2008.
St Mary’s try out new ‘safer
surgery checklist’
surgery checklist across the Trust and
we hope other hospitals in the UK will
do the same.”
From the video example on the
World Health Organisation website
the ‘checklist’ basically consists of a
summary of the patient’s history, op-
erative procedure and treatment plan
at three stages.
One advantage of this is that it reit-
erates to the surgeons and other staff
involved exactly what is going to be
carried out. Although the results are
impressive to say the least, there is
nothing groundbreaking here. The
‘safety surgery checklist’ basically con-
sists of a series of “safety nets” which
highlight what everyone in the operat-
ing room should be concerned about
Surgeons taking extra care to ensure that the operation is as safe as possible
Holocaust
Memorial Day
event held at IC
The date of the 27th of January was
chosen in 2001 in the United Kingdom
as Holocaust Memorial Day. Held each
year on the anniversary of the libera-
tion of Auschwitz concentration camp,
the day is characterized by memorial
services and remembrance events all
around the country, centred in 2009
around a national service in the city of
Coventry.
To commemorate the day, the Jewish
society at Imperial organized a can-
dle-lighting preceded by a talk from a
Holocaust survivor. Mr. Otto Deutsch,
who was barely eleven when the Sec-
ond World War started, grew up in a
Vienna where the Nazification of nor-
mal society was at its most frightening.
With great calm and gentleness, Mr.
Deutsch spoke of his youth in Austria,
having witnessed both the public hu-
miliation of the Jewish citizenry and
their determined fight to hold onto
their dignity.
As one of the 10,000 unaccompanied
Jewish children allowed to leave Nazi
Gilead Amit
Associate Editor
Germany for the United Kingdom in
the 1939 Kindertransport, Mr. Deut-
sch openly gave thanks to the Brit-
ish parliamentarians of the time who
fought to save as many of the children
as they could.
Mr. Deutsch’s story ended on a tri-
umphant note: having been forced to
flee Austria in 1939, he returned later
in life to become a tour guide in the
‘beautiful city of Vienna’. Standing in
a country that had once tried so hard
to eliminate him and all those like him,
being able to greet tourists with the
words: ‘welcome to my country’ held a
special significance.
Having finished his story and an-
swered questions from the thirty-
odd students and members of staff
assembled, Mr. Deutsch was asked
by Yoni Weiner, the President of the
Jewish Society, to light the candle of
remembrance.
As a final word to his audience,
Mr. Deutsch dedicated the flame to
all those lost in the Holocaust and to
victims of hatred the world over, and
thanked those present for having come
to listen to his story.
Holocaust survivor Otto Deutsch, telling his story to a rapt crowd
Jovan Nedić
Editor in Chief
regarding the patient.
Nonetheless, the importance
of recalling the main details of a pa-
tient’s care in the operating room can-
not be stressed enough. The power in
this simple checklist is that it assumes
nothing about the patient. This is yet
another step in trying to minimise any
risk that vulnerable, unconscious pa-
tients would be exposed to.
Being able to reduce deaths and ma-
jor complications after surgery has
obvious benefits for both doctors and
patients. The ‘safety surgery checklist’
will hopefully become a useful pre-
ventative measure to complications as
well as helping to avoid horror scenari-
os such as the rare case when mistakes
do happen.
ply is a mystery in itself, and the hall
manager has speculated about install-
ing a camera in the hope of catching
the menace. Only time will tell if this
will capture the culprit and their iden-
tity revealed to the public.
The menace is lurking in the bowels of Princes Gardens

