felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
It was a bleak grey day at Harlington
and IC were in high hopes for the New
Year after an upsetting first term not
recording a single win. It was the re-
turn game of their heaviest defeat in
2008 against top of the league Oxford
University Greyhounds. Pre-game the
focus was high and the tension mas-
sive, silencing the changing room.
IC would receive the kick off and
instantly the nerves showed, letting
Oxford retrieve the ball. Poor com-
munication in defence saw the Oxford
number 8 run in under the posts in
the first two minutes. It looked like it
Nicholas Johnstone
Rugby
1sts win
at last!
ICURFC’s talent and determination
finally pays dividends as they outperform
Oxford Greyhounds at Harlington.
Rugby
Imperial Men’s 1st XV 22
Oxford Greyhounds 1st XV 10
would be one of those days, but for the
first time this season IC heads didn’t
fall. A good chase from the kickoff and
sustained pressure produced mistakes
from Oxford giving IC a penalty which
Alex Johnstone kindly slotted.
The first half carried on much the
same way with great pressure from IC
keeping their opposition firmly in their
half. Oxford’s saving grace was the boot
of their fly half pinning IC back when
they got possession. When IC kicked
the chase was strong even from more
unlikely members of the team, prop Joe
Sanders chasing his own hack through
and winning a penalty. The pressure
gave IC three more kickable penalties
in the first half, all neatly put away. In-
discipline from Oxford in their own 22
gave IC a penalty on their 5m line. The
excitement got the better of the IC fly
half Joe Brown who took the decision
Quintin Head 2009: It was a risky
move but Trapmore was confident the
short term losses would result in long
term gains. Quintin Head was ICBC’s
first head race of the year and was the
designated purification race where all
bad form was cleared out of storage
and released in a total squad spring
cleaning.
International coaches concede that
rowing detoxs are harmless but ques-
tion the value of a ‘Detox-Row’ due to
lack of supporting factual evidence.
‘New-age’ or ‘Alternative’ rowing is
a relatively new concept but ICBC is
keen to keep it’s finger on the pulse of
modern rowing. Crews were quick to
adapt to the system displaying poor
rock-over, short strokes, late catches
and lack of rhythm.
The three racing crews masterfully
fulfilled the brief and finished down
the field with the highest result of the
day third in WS2 and N.
‘Viper’ Fieldman coxed the senior
women’s 8+ (Louise Hart, Rachael Dav-
ies, Ellie Dorman, Erica Thompson,
Stef Menashe, Clarice Chung, Chris-
Trapmore’s ‘Detox-Row’ cleanses crews
tina Matteotti & Chloe Symmonds).
The transfer from men’s to women’s
boats had Fieldman struggling to make
calls; “That’s good boys, eh, I mean
girls… Whatever, just row”.
They came third (14:24.9) behind
boat house neighbours Thames RC in
second (14:29.2) and the overall WS2
winners City of Oxford (14:19.8).
Pressure has been on the women’s
squad this year with seats hotly con-
tested for the Women’s Head of the
River in March. Their ability to follow
through the guidelines of the ‘Detox-
Row’ is a credit to all involved.
Temptations to perform well and
dominate the race were brushed aside
in true ICBC spirit.
The three novice boats were all suit-
ably dissatisfied with their execution of
rowing. The novice women narrowly
escaped being coxed by Officer Duffy,
a predicament which may have per-
manently ended website race reports.
Luckily the weathered hands of Libby
Richards took control of the steering
and cruised to a solid sixth place fin-
ishing (17:11.2) behind winners King-
ston Grammar School (16:33.6).
The almost 40 second deficit was
ample time for the classic-mistake-
stockpile to be exhausted.
Imperial I under the management
of Cox Reddy came third in 14:06.8
behind University of Bristol in second
(14:05.0) and Emanuel School in first
(13:56.5) in the novice (N) category.
Imperial II were coxed by Kate Wylie
and came an impressive 11th in the
same category (16:15.3), truly ridding
themselves of all rowing afflictions.
There were even rumours of an early
crab, but that may have just been fod-
der generated to impress coaching
staff.
The ‘Detox-Row’ was deemed a huge
success and ICBC’s inadequate-rowing
reserve was severely depleted over the
4km race from Hammersmith to Chis-
wick Bridge.
Following the bismal performances
all crews reported improved health,
energy, vitality, resistance to disease,
mental state, digestion as well as a no-
ticed improvement in weight loss.
Stroke Louise Hart was even exhib-
iting signs of a new maternal instinct
after spotting Trapette Lucy at training
the following morning; “Aw… I can’t
wait to have children.”
Christina Duffy Cox Fieldman was initially dubious
about the visit but was relieved to dis-
cover that he was a few inches taller
than Lucy; a first for Henry at the club.
Trapmore’s manly reputation may be
slightly tainted after being spotted car-
rying ‘Monkey’ and a miniture pink
umbrella around the gym. However it
is thanks to Capital T’s foresight and
avant-garde tactics that there remains
only skill, prowess and savvy rowing
manoeuvres within club members to
utilise on race days. With the row-
ing toxins purged and sarcasm levels
reaching new heights, normal winning
operations will now resume.
Continued on page 36
Photo by Tom Roberts
WS2 8+ prepare to boat

