comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 30 January 2009 felix
Comment
4 felix Friday 30 January 2009
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
Jovan Nedić
Editor in Chief
What is the
point of the
letter C?
Imperial Girl pays to look
attractive, so dinner’s on you
U
ni has brought a great
deal of opportunity to go
on dinner dates. Though
these are often varied in
conversation and cuisine
there is one common nut that I have
yet to crack about dinner dates – who
pays the bill?
The date has gone smoothly so far
(which was uncertain) but the certain
bill is in the process of arriving. Now- I
don’t know how every girl feels but I
know some find this the most awkward
part of the date. Let’s break this down
into the different situations.
This is your first dinner date with
this guy, perhaps the first date at all.
The ceremonial bill paying act is often
an indication of how they feel about
the relation and even how they judged
your company for the date. Bad as it
may sound, I expect the boy to pay on
the first date. Without a doubt. Even if
he thought my company was compara-
ble to a slug.
Okay okay, maybe I am a tad spoilt.
Talking to a friend who often finds
it awkward I found that there are a
number of techniques that girls have
learned to employ in order decrease
the awkwardness of the situation. Two
of my favourites are the after-dessert
powder room escape and the other
is the gesture of looking around in a
huge Mary Poppins sized hand bag
for a wallet they just can’t find amidst
every other imaginable item you could
expect to get into a bag... Oh diddums!
I call this the bag drill.
You know maybe it’s a culture thing.
Many of my European friends stand
guard to the fact that they would never
consider letting a girl pay, friend or not
friend, first date or not... Gosh I am
making the French seem exponentially
more desirable! Not that they needed
my help.
If it is possible it is perhaps it’s nice
to wait a few months into the relation-
ship to start letting the girl “go-dutch”
or even pay for the dinner.
I know the guys reading this by now
are probably thinking, “you have to be
kidding me”, “we would be broke by
“My European
friends would
never let a girl
pay. Gosh – I
am making the
French seem
exponentially
more desirable!
Not that they
needed my help”
I
’m honestly not sure why my
parents bothered taking my
brother and me on holiday each
year. It’d end up with a guaran-
teed tantrum, floods of tears,
burst blood vessels, and an unjustified
harassing by Immigration Officers. No
more complaining though, because I
have escaped family holidays: my per-
sonal interpretation of annual Hell-on-
Earth. For a few years now, I revel in
the choices I get: whom I travel with
and to where.
Whom do I thank for this new-found
international freedom? Irish entre-
preneur and Ryanair Chief Executive
Michael O’Leary. In fact, the same
Michael O’Leary that Kawai Wong
had apparent nightmares about in her
comment piece last week. Granted, any
dream about an Irish middle-aged sug-
ar daddy is probably not the epitome
of bliss. If this man is the devil himself,
spank my arse and call me a Satanist as
I gladly fall to my knees at his achieve-
ments. He has opened up the rest of
the Europe for students, amongst the
ever-increasing number of people liv-
ing on a tight budget (I promised my-
self I wouldn’t mention a certain eco-
nomic crisis in this article, but it looks
like I’ve failed).
Ryanair is marketed as a no-frills
budget airline. It does not pretend to
offer the very best air travel service,
because in fact, there isn’t much of a
service that they provide. It is more of
a ‘make sure everyone is in the glori-
fied tin can they call the plane’ job.
Hence, I expect a little hassle when I
fly with Ryanair. I expect to race the
American family for seats on the plane
when boarding. A little elbow here, a
little knee-jerk there. It’s all part of the
fun of flying no-frills. When you line
up at the terminal gate priming your-
self for the sprint across the runway
to the plane, there is an open declara-
tion amongst fellow travellers; one that
says “we’re all poor, but we also want
to go on holiday, so we are taking this
questionable flight at 5.30 on a Sunday
morning to get to Xante.”
Kawai should not complain. I do not
see any justification of her fanciful
grumble on the detriments of budget
air travel. She admits herself that she
knows exactly what is to come when
she books her cheap flight to Milan.
I think any monkey that understands
the ethic of these increasingly emerg-
ing budget airlines knows what to ex-
pect; all of the above hustle and bustle.
She claims she must “physically
trawl” her bag directly off the plane
onto more public transport to her ho-
tel. I like the fact I can choose whether
to place a bag in the hold. If I’m vain
enough to think I need more clothes
than sense, I will pay the extra £8. The
costs are only “hidden costs” if you
can’t be bothered to look and read your
e-ticket, e-confirmation, and e-every-
thing else they load your inbox with.
The airports that Ryanair flights land
at are peripheral city airports, hence
cheaper for Ryanair, and hence us. I’m
quite sure they wouldn’t commission
flights out to the middle of Rural Ar-
seholia. The second or third airport
of a large European city will always,
without fail, be a taxi ride away from
city centre. Even Heathrow, the busi-
est airport in the world pushes its tag
as “London Heathrow”. Most Ryanair
flights now land in the destination
city’s main airport. Dublin and Berlin
for example, two major destinations,
use the same runways as British Air-
ways or Lufthansa.
Kawai’s article insinuates a lack of
professionalism and effort on the Rya-
nair cabin crew’s part. Contrary to
Kawai’s experience, every time I have
flown with Ryanair, the stewardesses
have indeed had “the decency to tie
up their hair”. Not that it would bother
me if they hadn’t. I don’t term ‘being
decent’ as having hair tied up, ‘airhost-
esses’ or not. Budget airline cabin crew
are professional enough. If you act like
a cock to cabin crew because you think
they are undermined as people due to
their occupation and employers, you
deserve a bit of a bite back. These peo-
ple are, as well as trying to flog every
single fucking thing under the sun to
you from a catalogue, trained to take
care of you as you perilously float sev-
eral thousand feet above ground.
I fail to see how it is Ryanair’s fault in
you spending the first day of your holi-
day asleep in your hotel. Did the hor-
rors of unkempt stewardess hair keep
you awake for the rest of the time?
So, the next time you’re in the “Z-
deck” of a budget airline plan (because
by your own admission you will make
the “mistake” of taking one again), en-
joy the polyphonic Irish music as you
settle into your horrifically coloured
seat, be a tiny bit tempted by the £12
stuffed airplane in the catalogue, and
keep in context what you have paid in
comparison to what you are getting;
cheap international freedom.
Ryanair will never usurp the giants
of airspace as one of the major inter-
continental airlines. It is simply not in
their business plan to do so. Despite
being a self-proclaimed “commoner”,
Kawai sadly emits a skewed vapour of
snobbery from her writings. I’m sorry,
but an article that is seven eighths rant
about how shite Ryanair is, and one
eighth of, quite frankly, weakly ex-
plained fears of market domination by
budget airlines does not make happy or
satisfying reading.
I believe the point I am making,
and not directly to Kawai because she
writes commendably, is that a rant can
be an excellent read. I would know, be-
cause most of my Comment pieces and
Editorial columns end up as vents of
anger. But they need to be in context of
the subject matter. It is so effortless to
get carried away in the stream of hate-
riddled consciousness, so much so that
a piece loses sight of the initial point
the author initially set out to put across
to the readers.
As I step back into the shadows of the
felix office for another week, I take no
bow, but neither a whimper of shame
for the writings of the felix team or the
student body. felix will always print
your views, opinions and expressions.
The ones you have been meaning to
write for months, the ones you’ve writ-
ten on the spur of the moment, and
especially the ones on issues you most
care about.
Dan Wan will fly cheaply and expect nothing
P
erhaps you missed me.
That’s understandable. Per-
haps the start of term was
all a little too much for you,
and you felt a bit scared, a bit
retreating. And then, to make matters
worse, the smiling, friendly demeanour
of good old A Geek isn’t even there to
comfort you at the end of week. That
can be a little shocking. But it’s alright.
Daddy’s right here.
Though I’ll be honest, I’ve not been
in great shape recently, hence my ab-
sence. Yeah. I’ve taken a few knocks
lately, a few shocks to the old system,
and I’m getting old so I can’t always
take them on the chin like I used to. For
instance, the other day I was exposed
to a member of the Imperial Business
School for thirty-five minutes – that’s
only ten minutes below the lethal dos-
age, remember. Doctors have spent the
last week flushing my systems and try-
ing to heal up as much of the damaged
brain tissue as possible, but they’ve
said that I could be affected for life.
It’s a sad truth that one in three of
us will be affected by the life-changing
trauma of the Business School at some
point in our lives. Many often are com-
pletely unaware of the Business School
infecting their degree for many months
– early symptoms, such as new lectur-
ers dressed in suits, or courses offering
Angry Geek survived, but not everyone does
skills in ‘management’, go missed by
most students thanks to a poor educa-
tion in the severity of the condition.
Last week, my girlfriend found thick
textbooks with diagrams of ‘group lay-
outs’ in them on my desk at home. I’d
brought them home a few days ago and
left them there not realising. When my
she noticed this, we immediately called
the doctor’s surgery and they agreed to
admit us the following day. Unfortu-
nately, it was already too late. The next
morning, before my admission to the
hospital, I went back to Imperial with-
out realising which lecture course was
affecting me, and found myself in the
middle of a classic case of a Business
School Teaching attack.
My girlfriend rushed me out and to
Accident and Emergency as soon as
we realised, of course, but at that point
much of the damage had been done.
I’d been exposed to damaging analo-
gies with nonsensical explanations for
otherwise extremely simple concepts;
faltering and vague promises that
management affects every part of my
life and is really useful; and excerpts
from the Financial Times, or ‘the silent
killer’ as it’s known in medical circles.
I was rushed to St. Thomas’ Hospital
in London and treated with an inten-
sive course of antibullshitics, regular
doses of Engineering Mathematics,
the end of it”. But if you see, we spend
a lot more money on things that you
get to enjoy about women. We have to
spend on cosmetics (not just make-up,
maybe creams), we have to shave/wax/
tweeze...
I could go on. All this to look attrac-
tive... so a dinner isn’t too much to ask?
No?
You see, I don’t deem paying the bill
as a monetary act; more as a symbolic
act of how much effort or commitment
the person wants to display to you. Just
if I turned up on a date making no ef-
fort to look nice; hairy arms, messy
eyebrows, uncombed hair.... Exactly.
I’m more than happy to pay for a round
of drinks before or after the meal just
not the main event. I’ll do the frills, you
bake the cake.
There was this one time I was out
on a friendly dinner date with a guy
friend. The bill came to the table next
to us and the guy pulled out his card
ready for the waiter. The card was re-
jected and there was this awkward si-
lence. The girl rushed to her bag and
pulled out her card.
By this time the whole restaurant
had quietened down. I’m not sure who
felt more embarrassed, the guy or the
girl. Because that is exactly it, the fact
is that the girl looked embarrassed be-
cause it is a bit taboo.
The best dinner date I have ever
been on was when a guy from the city
took me to a plush oriental restaurant
and didn’t expect a thing afterwards.
Walked me home and didn’t even try
to make a move on me even though it
was a really flirty atmosphere.
If any guys have made it to the end of
this article, I congratulate you. I realise
this isn’t the most guy-friendly column
in felix, but it’s all about diversity as
one columnist wrote. Valentines day is
round the corner and if you are taking
a girl out, spoil her for the night. She’ll
appreciate it more than you can tell.
and a series of therapy sessions where
I was assured that money was not eve-
rything, that Imperial did still contain
scientists, and that unfortunately, ac-
creditation with professional bodies
comes at a price.
I was one of the lucky ones. But the
difficult truth is that thousands more
like me are struck down every day by
the addictive qualities of the Impe-
rial Business School. Many have been
sighted sneaking out of their depart-
ments to attend ‘Entrepreneurship’
courses, something which worries the
local police authorities.
“We see people loitering around
the entrance here,” one security guard
explained to me, “pretty much every
day. Sometimes they, you know...” he
pauses while he tries to find the words,
but he just can’t, “Ach, they’re throw-
ing their lives away. Good people, you
know? One day, they’re walking past
in jeans and ironic t-shirts, and you
think, ‘Yeah. There goes one of the
good guys.’ but you’ll come by late at
night, and there they’ll be, hunched in
a corner by the revolving doors, trying
to inject champagne or some shit right
into their eyeballs. Makes you sick.”
While the BBC’s Panorama team
conduct investigations into the spread
of Business School dealers through-
out Imperial, or ‘lecturers’ as they’re
known, all I can do is beg you to stay
vigilant, and keep an eye on your
friends. If you’ve not seen one of your
classmates in regular lectures, or if you
fear they may be reading the Business
pullouts from their newspapers instead
of the cartoons page, please don’t hesi-
tate to get in touch by emailing anan-
grygeek@googlemail.com.
Together, we can combat Business
School teaching. Forever.
“The harsh truth
is that thousands
more like me
are struck down
every day”
We thought we’d lose him. The management speak attacked his central nervous system. We were scared.
Wanted: dead or alive or cooked in garlic butter
A
week ago, Swirly was just
a lowly slime-mongerer,
rummaging in bins in
search of credit card de-
tails. It is now rumoured
that he is the next Robert Mugabe and
is slated to have strong connections
with Mauritian gangsters.
How did he achieve this sudden no-
toriety? Using the profit made from his
identity theft business, Swirly hired
two moronic accomplices who were
able to integrate him into human so-
ciety. That’s right readers, Swirly is a
snail!
He has purposefully targeted the gul-
lible and simple-minded members of
the British public, luring them with an
adorable fluffy pink façade. Even stu-
dents of Imperial College, renowned
for their high levels of intellect, have
fallen for this cheap ruse.
The two accomplices, who cannot be
named for legal reasons, assisted Swirly
in scouring the Nation for those of an
impressionable nature. This search
naturally took him North, specifically
to Manchester, where the population’s
Neanderthal mentality made the ma-
nipulative process considerably easier.
Although he originally set out to infil-
trate a city with a comparatively lower
average IQ, the burning car on the side
of the A57 even dissuaded the appar-
ently fearless Swirly from entering
Liverpool.
Nevertheless, with Swirly’s power
growing day by day, it is imperative that
we make a stand against this malicious
moist menace! It is understood that
he possesses one weakness, known to
only to his most devout followers. MI5
are working tirelessly to bring down
this up-and-coming dictator.
His ridiculously meteoric rise to
fame has caused a stir within the Im-
perial fraternity, and a small, dedicated
band of freshers have rallied to oppose
his tyrannical rule. Those few among
us, who have been brave enough to
stand against this cult leader, have
formed a coalition group and are cur-
rently recruiting members to assist in
our guerrilla operations. If you can of-
fer skills and expertise in snail hunting,
molesting or general mutilation, join
the alliance today: ‘Swirly is a C**t!’.
This group may be found on a certain
social networking site, whose name
cannot be mentioned for extreme se-
curity reasons. Our group is offering
a monetary reward for anyone able to
capture this fiend.
Help us eradicate this disgusting
parasite from society, and we can fight
together hand in hand.
Warning: They may have taken the
North. If you are situated above Milton
Keynes, it may be too late for you! It’s
your own fault.
Forever keeping the peace,
Crusaders of Mollusc Eradication
C.O.M.E.
“Keep in context
what you have
paid compared
to what you are
getting; cheap
international
freedom”
Y
ou might have to bear with
me on this one, as it might
seem that I am a little cra-
zy or, heaven forbid, poor
at English!
In the 19th century, a Serbian linguist
by the name of Vuk Stefanović Karadžić
went about to reform the Serbian lan-
guage. At the time, the used alphabet
was Cyrillic, yet the main problem was
that the literary level in the country
was very low. Words were not spelled
in an intuitive way and as such, made
it a very difficult language to learn if
you were not brought up on it. In 1818,
Karadžić reformed the whole language
with the basic principal that “you write
as you speak and read as it is written”.
In essence, the entire Serbian language
was made phonetic!
The current state of the English lan-
guage could, at least by foreigners, be
described as in the same way. Unintui-
tive, unclear and extremely difficult for
people to learn are some ways of de-
scribing it. Heck, I’m still learning the
ins and outs of the language and how
I can gain access to the ‘wealth’ and
‘richness’ of the language.
As a quick side note, I don’t really
see the point of using elaborate words,
either spoken or in written text. By
using these complex words instead of
their simpler counterpart, you are ef-
fectively excluding a large proportion
of the UK...
The relatively high levels of illitera-
cy in the UK compared to the rest of
Europe got me thinking. What would
happen if Karadžić was still alive and
did the same to the English language
as he did to the Serbian. Would the lit-
eracy levels rise, would people find the
change easy and would foreigners find
the language a lot easier to pick up?
But where would you start? If you ask
me, I would start with the letter C.
Think about this question: is there
any word in the English language
where the letter C cannot be replaced
by another letter in the English lan-
guage, or where it is not used to make
a ‘CH’ sound?
I have asked this question to a few
people and the initial response has
normally been “You’re an idiot!”. But
after they thought about it for a while,
they began to realise what I was try-
ing to say. Honestly, what is the point
of the letter C? Most of the words that
we managed to come up with could
either have the letter K or the letter S
instead. For example, looking at the ti-
tle of the piece next to mine, the word
‘attractive’ could quite as easily be spelt
‘attraktive’. Another example would
be the word ‘decision’ which could be
spelt as ‘desision’. As a solution, an idea
I had was to not scrap the letter C, but
instead make it a ‘CH’ sound and re-
place all the words affected with either
‘K’, ‘S’ or ‘CH”. So, for example, ‘much’
would become ‘muc’.
For those of you with an A-Level in
English might try and use the argu-
ment that the ‘C’ creates a soft sound
in a word. But why can’t it just have a
T infront as is the case of ‘pence’, which
could just be ‘pents’.
The most likely argument against
change, I imagine, would be that any
changes to the language would destroy
it. But would it destroy it even more or
would it mean that it would be easier
for people to learn. After all, it is the
most widely spoken language.
Anyway, this can go on for a while, so
I leave it to all of you to find me a use
for the letter C, because at the moment
I’m really struggling.
He might be tyrannical, but anythings better than the Ant People!!!

