6 felix Friday 30 January 2009
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
Friday 30 January 2009 felix
Comment
“In this last twelvemonth my
accent, affectations and appearance
have so confused the general public
that I have been taken for German,
Australian, South African, and one
memorable evening, for Welsh”
Ka Wai Wong has a question. Does smoking
weed make you worse than a drunk driver?
F
un time. I’m going to ask you
to misbehave. All you have to
do is to select the behaviour
that is conceptually less like-
ly to do harm to the others.
Here are the choices: A. Drunk driving
and B. Smoking marijuana.
Have you picked a side? An over-
whelming number of people I spoke
to agree that drink-driving is the more
sinister of the two. Side-effects of alco-
hol? We can spell them back to front.
The tardiness in sensation. The faux-
beautification of a minger you danced
with in the club. The egotistic text to
your ex-boyfriend saying how terrible
a person he has been. Translate it to
the drink driving experience? You can’t
react quickly enough to the chicken
crossing the road. The traffic light
becomes a beautified mixture of red,
yellow and green. An over-take seems
more doable than usual because you
are Lewis Hamilton. The consequenc-
es? You can have a KFC for breakfast.
You have created a chaos at the junc-
tion without sieving through your
physics textbook. Above all, you have
crashed your car.
The government is worried about
Skunk. It is a strain of cannabis that is
cultivated differently to the traditional
variations. Skunk has a significantly
higher THC level, which is the bad
boy behind the inexplicable funniness
of a milk bottle and the fondness to
all things sweet. The government has
also drawn the public attention to the
“possible” link between marijuana and
schizophrenics. Is this what they are
worried about?
What about the “definite” link be-
tween alcohol and cirrhosis/liver can-
cer/raucous behaviour/aggressiveness/
loss of memory/aging of skin? You are
going to quote me wrong now, aren’t
you. “A glass of red wine a day helps
reduce the chance of coronary heart
disease.” OK, what then if you are a lei-
sure cannabis user?
What is the ratio of people admitted
into hospitals for brain damage caused
by smoking marijuana to people get-
ting treatment for alcohol related in-
juries/diseases? Get into an A&E on
a Saturday night and see for yourself.
Frankly, the government should show
more concern to the Camden popula-
tion. How much do you think the gov-
ernment has spent on patrolling the
streets and sending off ambulances to
rescue yet another blue whale stranded
in a mixture of bile and undigested Ke-
bab on the curb? £3 is quite enough to
cause failure in linear motions if you
don’t care what type of alcohol fills
your bloodstream. To get stoned? £3?
The Dutch. They are liberal, aren’t
they? I don’t recall bloody faces and
men dressed in puke as common sight-
ings on the streets of Amsterdam.
Stoners are usually tourists, and their
hands are too shaky to even fathom a
fistful punch. But I hear Lonely Planet
is about to open a new section called
“Urban Zoo – Guide to Drunken Birds
in London.” Logically speaking if there
are any chemicals in need of restrict-
ing, cannabis shouldn’t even appear on
the priority list. Why is there no MP
debating the effects of chronic alcohol
drinking then? Oh wait, I have heard of
their wine cellars…
I know you are all experts in reading
graphs. But allow me to patronise your
clever brains by moving your finger to
the alcohol and the cannabis dot. What
can you see? Alcohol is more likely to
cause harm and dependency than can-
nabis. It is not just me arguing using
my brain muscles then. I have some
pharmacologists standing behind my
back.
Despite all my efforts arguing, I re-
ally am not giving you a pat on the
back for smoking illegal drugs. My
finger, however, lingers on the discrep-
ancy between law and reality. 1) Refer
to your selection above, does it seem
socially less acceptable to drink-drive?
2) What does the dependency-harm
graph tell us about alcohol and canna-
bis? 3) Trace your finger on the graph.
Tobacco is eviler than cannabis. But
all you people who are on par in terms
of tar saturation with the late Einstein
may be relieved to find that tobacco is
nowhere to be seen on the illegal drug
classification list.
The punishment system, however,
acts in a slight contradictory manner
to my arguments above. So what if I
tell you now, that if you are caught in
possession of marijuana, you can be
jailed for up to 5 years and face an un-
limited fine? What if you drink-drive?
You are liable to a half year sentence
and a £5000 fine. Provided you didn’t
hit anything. It reminds me of my
caveman friend’s house rules. Pulling
little sister’s ponytail equals ground-
ing for the rest of one’s puberty, minus
all pocket money. Ironing little sister’s
face equals steak dinner being replaced
by sausages. Are you rethinking your
choice of misbehaviour now, hum?
While we scientists and engineers
abide to the laws our wig-wearing
counterparts make; why is it that they
can so conveniently ignored the paper
we strive to publish? Have flamboyant
sentence structures and unpronounce-
able Latin words come above facts and
figures?LinguisticallyCannabisismore
dangerous than Ketamine. Therefore
Cannabis has been upgraded from a C
to a B. Scientific finding doesn’t appear
to agree so.
Has the wig-wearer tweaked the in-
nocent scientist’s nipple and go “mix
all the test tubes you want. It really
doesn’t matter at the end of the day”?
Why do we bother with an anomaly
result then? Let’s just go “Cannabis is
likely to be therapeutic. Because, uh.
Yeah.”
Of course it is not the lawmaker’s
fault. People who spent 6 years in Law
Schools are unlikely to have heard of
Web of Science. The problem with us,
is that we are too preoccupied in our
lab and too preoccupied to be cynical
to translate pub-debates into the real
world. And this is not a question about
cannabis and alcohol anymore. We are
easily the most logical individuals on
earth. Why are we letting people who
merely have bigger mouths and bigger
hair dictate unreasonably what condi-
tions we ought to live in without the
prior consultation of scientific facts?
You may fold your hands and sit in
front of your computer to wait for the
citation number to go up. But isn’t a
constructive way to convey to the gen-
erally scientific inept public the pro-
posed truth of the universe. We can
contribute our knowledge construc-
tively to socio-political issues. We can
begin here. This time and space. As
students. We live in our own scientific
and cynical world. Yes, we know what is
happening on the news. We care about
Gaza. We will put up a wall and have
students scribble a few apologetic con-
dolences on it. Yes, I am all for Obama
but wearing an “I Heart Obama” t-shirt
will jeopardise my hard-earned geeky
stature.
No. People, we can take our drunk-
en political debates out of the pub.
If people can’t hear us on paper, let
them see us in real life. Let them hear
our say. You want more freedom on
your stem cell research? Stop moan-
ing about the lack of it amongst your
best mates in Biochemistry, who have
exactly the same viewpoints as you do.
It is comforting to live in a box where
your arguments are nodded upon by
your friends. Not too much so when it
comes to persuading the law-makers
to grant you more flexibility amid your
bid to save the world.
I understand the lawmakers toil away
to balance everyone’s opinion before
sealing the envelope. And I am sure
there are many politically active scien-
tists out there. But it certainly doesn’t
hurt to have a few more.
Gilead Amit feels proud of
his Exonian heritage
I
am very disappointed with my
adoptive country. Which is not,
I scramble backwards through
barbed wire and under heavy
machine gun fire to point out to
you, this one. That fact may come as
a surprise to you. It possibly may not.
It all depends on how easily surprised
you are and how excruciatingly little
you care. By way of justifying this rev-
elation I feel bound to mention that I
have been mistaken for an Englishman
in the past. In this last twelvemonth
my accent, affectations and appear-
ance have so confused the general pub-
lic that I have been taken for German,
Australian, South African and, during
one particularly memorable evening in
the company of a gentleman who was
scraping the literal barrel as assidu-
ously as the figurative one, for Welsh.
On a whim I decided to humour the
poor soul by injecting a sparkling lilt
into my otherwise staccato tones and
passed myself off as Huw. My imitation
of a Mumbai taxi-driver was, I discov-
ered later, the talk of the party.
But, despite the stuffiness and self-
deprecation of my character, my parti-
ality for triangular sandwiches and the
graphic and obscene acts of depravity I
allow myself to inflict upon our com-
mon language, I am not a native of
this sceptred isle. This fortress, built
by Nature for herself against infection,
has no place within her walls for the
likes of me. With my distaste for tea,
my unhealthy attitude towards crick-
et and my preponderance for cheap
stereotypes picked up from continen-
tal travel guides of the prewar period,
I am kept safely at arms length by the
officials at HM Border Agency.
No; I am not a part of what Napoleon
would doubtless have called this nation
of jobseekers. I am Exonian. I was born
a Wylander, but the many happy years
spent in Exonia have won me a small,
brightly coloured passport complete
with the decorations and official im-
prints characteristic of that glorious
country. It is a treasured possession,
whose place in my heart is second only
to the complementary ID card distrib-
uted to me at the same time. It is tes-
tament to my pride in my nationality
that my fingers invariably close around
this card whenever I mean to present
my college ID. Though my heart swells
with pride at the sight of it, the door to
the computing suite never ceases to be
unimpressed. The arrangement of my
wallet, however, is perhaps a question
for a happier hour.
As an Exonian national, whether liv-
ing at home or abroad, there are cer-
tain obligations I am legally required
to fulfill. It was therefore strongly rec-
ommended to me that I register with
the nearest consulate or embassy as
quickly as possible upon a change of
address. I have been reachable in NW1
as of September – across the road, as
it happens, from the Exonian embassy
– and yet, what with one thing and an-
other, it was only this morning that I
brushed off the top hat and spats to pay
His Excellency a visit.
I must explain that fear has played a
significant part in my procrastination
over this vital social function. Hav-
ing neglected to register within the
first two months after moving in, the
thought crossed my mind that it would
be impolite of me to disturb them after
so great a delay. Their reaction, more
to the point, might also not be entirely
favourable. After two more months
had passed, I decided that it would be
unfair to burden them with the addi-
tional paperwork, and nobly hid myself
from their view.
Having experienced unpleasantness
at the cold, merciless and hairy hands
of Exonian officials in the past, the
phrase ‘once berned, twice shy’ springs
to the keyboard in an attempt to justify
such hesitation. But, having fortified
myself with a shot of Humphrey Boga-
rt walking purposefully away from the
camera, and steadied my nerves with
an hour spent watching laundry both
shaken and stirred in a large tumbler, I
crossed the threshold of my designated
home away from home at half past ten
this a.m.
And this is where the tagline kicks
in. The experience was, all in all, terri-
bly anticlimactic. I walked through the
double doors today in the desperate
hope that hysterical bureaucracy and
diplomatic kerfuffliage would provide
me with some incident worth relating.
It didn’t need to be much – a trench-
coated agent lurking in the corner,
armed men escorting me off to some
abandoned mountain retreat for fur-
ther questioning: something, anything.
Anything humorous, exciting or inter-
esting would have gone down a treat.
In my desperation, dear readers, I
had clearly forgotten what my country
stands for. While I would be loath to
propagate the insulting generalizations
that have plagued my countrymen for
generations, I think it only fair to in-
form you that when one considers the
Exonians, originality, humour and ex-
citement do not race to the fore of the
mind. These are not a people welded
together by the spark of creativity.
The tiny hall of the embassy was in
consequence a nanocosm of Exonia –
the same people, the same depressing
decorations, the same varnished wood
panelling and crystallized glass surfac-
ing, the same orderly piles of recycled
grey paper and floppy off-white hard-
back books found in any government
office back home. My chances of find-
ing something amusing to relate from
its interior are about as good as my
chances of finishing a sentence without
needing to replace the comma key on
my keyboard due to overuse.
The result of my dreary yet merci-
fully short session with the uniformed
and uninformed official is that I might
still be here next week; the necessary
forms are still on my desk. We’ll see.
Slutty Pumpkin is an addict
“I couldn’t help
but wonder: Is
Facebook the
new drug of this
modern society?
How much can
we rely on this
virtual world?”
T
he other day, after spend-
ing more than two hours
one afternoon checking
my best friend’s brother’s
ex-girlfriend’s sister pic-
tures on facebook, I realised that I had
a problem. It’s like when you first real-
ize that you have an addiction, you al-
ways think it is harmless at first, that it
is just a little reward. The next stage is
when you finally convince yourself that
there is a problem and that the situ-
ation needs a change. So there I was,
feeling like a drug-addict in front of
my computer screen, with an immense
guilt and a single question: „Does this
girl have any single picture with her
new boyfriend? And if yes, where are
those pictures? I need to see them.“ I
stopped my train of thoughts right
there and closed internet. It was time
to change my habits and spend more
time reading or doing the things I
did before this incredible Facebook-
phenomena started. But after search-
ing in my memories for some time, I
realised that I didn’t remember what
those things were. I couldn’t help but
wonder: Is Facebook the new drug of
this modern society? How much can
we rely on this virtual world?
Facebook is supposedly a social-
oriented website aiming to encourage
and facilitate networking and bond-
ing between people. With its many
applications and its extensive profile
options, it’s become very easy to show
every single picture that was in some
long-forgotten folder in your laptop or
to inform the world on your immediate
personal status. As with any addiction,
there are also different grades of Fa-
cebook addiction. For example, I have
to admit that I usually only check my
profile a few times a day but in short
sessions, never more than ten minutes.
But I have already met people who
reply immediately after you write on
their walls. Each single time. Does this
mean that they are permanently con-
nected? If this is the case, these people
would be at the most advanced stage
of addiction, and I fear it might not be
reversible anymore.
All right, Facebook has something
addictive about it, but what are the ef-
fects of this new drug? We know it is a
sophisticated tool for networking and
communication purposes. On Face-
book, your profile is some sort of pres-
entation card where you share your
interests and you create a story, your
story. But the problem is that it only
represents a very narrow and selective
fraction of reality. Some aspects might
get distorted and this makes snap
judgements and prejudices far easier.
Every time that I don’t know a person
very well and go to their profile, I al-
ways end up making up their story with
the few pieces I find. And most of the
times I can even describe the person
in one word: crazy, fat, ugly, slut, bor-
ing. Facebook has a huge scope, many
people are not aware of this. If before
people’s lives and passions didn’t leave
the four walls of their home before,
now it can reach hundreds and some-
times thousands of people. There is a
considerate lack of privacy and need
of exposure nowadays. But we need to
stop sometimes and think: is this the
way I want people to see me?
Escaping Facebook wouldn’t be the
solution. It would be a very lonely and
already-lost battle. I think we have
to learn to live in these two parallel
worlds –the real and the virtual one-
with our two identities and try to keep
some consistency. If the gap gets too
big, people might develop a wrong idea
of you, and that’s something we don’t
want. I would even say that Facebook
is that drug that Neo used to take in
“Matrix” in order to jump between re-
ality and the virtual world. Except that
we shouldn’t jump from a building. It
might hurt.
felix has facebook. That makes us hip and cool... right?
“You may not have known that if
you are caught in possession of
marijuana, you can be jailed for up
to five years and face an unlimited
fine? What about if you drink-drive?
Well then you are liable to a half
year sentence and a £5,000 fine”
Is this worse than having a drink and then getting in the car?
The foreigners’ view of the English, c.1931. Bowler cups, tea hats and horizontal Morris dancing
Imperial College London has made available to you the services of a
NHS dental surgery with special weekend and evening appointments
for students to fit around their academic and social commitments.
• Registration and first appointment free
• Fillings and root canal treatment £44.60
• Crowns and any lab work £198.00
Please call 07964 543103 to book your appointment with Dr. Szasz
and mention this advert.
Imperial College (NHS) Dental Surgery

