politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
8 felix Friday 30 January 2009
Politics
Politics Editors – James Goldsack & Katya-yani Vyas
H
ello all and a particu-
lar welcome to those at
the Silwood Park cam-
pus, who I hear are avid
readers of felix. I had a
chance meeting with one student there
while I was back home in the West
Country.
Earlier in the week I went to an
event held by the CU which gave or-
dinary, rational people the chance to
grill a Christian. Admittedly this year
it was a HUGE improvement over last
year, the panel for which was made
up from immature, self-righteous and
frankly slightly crazy Christians. It set
me thinking. Why can people get away
with anything when they claim motiva-
tion due to religion?
News flash for you: your views are
not special. Religious beliefs are no
more valid than other beliefs for which
evidence is limited or beliefs which are
completely subjective.
The religious always seem to get
away with – sometimes literally – mur-
der in the name of their God and peo-
ple stand off and say nothing. Unless
it’s the Jews, you anti-Semitic jerks. Be
warned, I will claw you.
It seems both religious and racial
comments have fallen under the iron
grip of political correctness.
It is supposedly “acceptable” for a
cashierinasupermarkettorefusetosell
alcohol to customers due to their own
religious beliefs. Sainsbury’s is there to
buy booze from and if you can’t sell it
then GET ANOTHER JOB. If anyone
else refuses to do a part of their job for
no good reason they would be fired.
But oh no, not if it’s a religious
reason.
You know these new atheism adverts
on buses? One bus driver in London
refused to drive a bus with such an ad-
vert due to his belief in God. Instead
of allowing everyone to have their
own views and accepting these, this
one person caused one hell of a hassle
for the bus company which was kind
enough to give him the day off then re-
timetable him to ensure he only drove
“God-friendly” busses.
Normally I would not mind any in-
conveniencing of private companies as
public transport should really be re-
nationalised. It just makes sense.
However, at least have a good reason
to do so, not because of some insane
delusion and the inability to accept
anything contrary to it and holding
your own religious conviction above
everything else. There are more im-
portant things in life. Again, this bus
driver would have been fired if religion
had not been mentioned. George Bush
killed many innocent Afghanis and
Iraqis because God told him to bomb
the hell out of those nations. Well that
is ok then. Go ahead. Kill as many of
those dirty Arabs as you like.
Religion has left conflict and death in
its wake around the world. A force for
good? Seriously, get a grip on reality,
and do it soon.
If there is one thing I cannot stand,
it is the mixture between state and re-
ligion. As I pointed out strongly last
week, America have it bad. Strangely
despite having an official state reli-
gion here in the UK, you do not get the
James Goldsack
Politics Editor
Car production lines such as this could soon grind to a halt indefinitely
James Goldsack
Politics Editor
same feeling of theocracy as in the US,
except in the House of Lords. But then
anyone with enough cash can find an
opening there these days.
A recent news story involved the
Georgian Orthodox church. A TV
show entitled “Top Ten Best Geor-
gians” included in its shortlist 18 saints,
13 of which have so far made it into the
top 50. Upon reading that far I had
assumed it was anti-religious people
getting annoyed with how many saints
were in the shortlist to begin with. On
the contrary, the head of the church,
Patriarch Ilia II, has called for the pro-
gramme to be banned as it is “unjus-
tified to make the public put them in
rank order”.
This is a joke in itself. Saints were
just people who the church puts a title
on, they were still JUST PEOPLE.
The story gets worse still. Many
Georgians consider the church above
the law. Out of the two institutions,
the church and the state, which do the
citizens have a degree of control over?
Which has a fixed agenda? Which can
adapt when necessary? Which should
have greater authority? If you did not
answer “The State” to all of the above
questions, I do not think I would let
you look after my kids. Crazy people.
A member of the House of Lords,
Lord Ahmed, voiced concern over
the broadcast of the film Fitna, which
equates Muslims with terrorists. In-
stead of allowing a free debate to un-
fold, he threatened the organiser. The
concerns of one man have overridden
our right to free speech. No one is mak-
ing a fuss about this as Lord Ahmed is
Muslim.
Ahmed’s fury over this “extremist”
event is ironic as he caused controver-
sy in 2005 over hosting a book launch
by anti-Semitic author Israel Shamir.
I am not saying that Fitna is correct,
or even that Islam is a violent religion.
My problem with this is hypocrisy and
the way this man and others like him
are immune due to their delusional
beliefs.
No other belief would be granted
this much power. Certainly no other
delusion would. The power granted by
this belief is obviously not only used
for bad but often, and I do mean of-
ten, it is. Think of the people who are
dead due to religious conflict. The fact
that people are so self-righteous due
to their religious belief leads to these
atrocities. Think of the corruption of
the early church. Think of how religion
has divided us and held us back from
progress. Judaism and its runt off-
spring Christianity and Islam all advo-
cate violence in some way. This should
not be respected.
I have no problem with the religious,
only with the religions, the institutions,
the hierarchy, the theology. Who am I
to tell people what to think? But then
who is that priest to tell you?
Politics in many countries is guided
by religion: the Middle East, US, Geor-
gia etc. Even we have our laws and
morals founded in Christianity.
Equally, political views should be on
the same level as those of the religious.
Your fascist conservatism is no more
correct than my caring socialism.
But I am right.
Religion, get
out of my face
Car makers’ warning
Tens of thousands of car workers could
lose their jobs as the motor indus-
try collapses unless the government
gives more financial help to the failing
companies.
Union leaders warned that help is
desperately needed, more than the £2.3
billion loan guarantee package already
promised.
Tony Woodley, joint leader of Unite,
said immediate financial support was
needed to keep workers in jobs. The
money already pledged was a welcome
start.
Business Secretary Lord Mandelson
hosted a summit in central London.
The problem facing the industry is
falling car sales amid a worsening eco-
nomic climate, leading unions to warn
of an employment “catastrophe” if the
measures do not have an impact soon.
Several plants are on extended shut-
downs, with companies including
Honda, Nissan and Jaguar Land Rover
among those badly affected.
GKN, an engineering group which
supplies parts to car makers includ-
ing Land Rover and Ford, announced
on Wednesday that it had cut over 200
jobs in the UK since October and may
have to lay more people off in the com-
ing months as the recession deepens.
Aston Martin became the latest
manufacturer to cut production, with
workers at its factory in Gaydon, War-
wickshire, starting a three-day week.
The government announced on
Tuesday an offer to car manufacturers
of loans of up to £1.3bn from the Euro-
pean Investment Bank and guarantees
of support of up to a further £1bn for
lending.
Mr. Woodley said as he left the meet-
ing, at the Department for Business,
Enterprise and Regulatory Reform,
that tens of thousands of jobs were
now at risk because of the “collapse” in
car sales.
Lord Mandelson was asked to offer
immediate financial support but Mr.
Woodley said more should be done
to help access credit to encourage car
sales.
Mr Woodley said: “These are the big
issues now. The government has lis-
tened intently to what we said.”
“We have made it clear that yester-
day’s announcement was a good start
but it will not in itself be quick enough
to offset potentially tens of thousands
of job losses. We need an immediate
cash injection” he continued.
“The message is “well done – but
there is much more to do’.”
Business Minister Pat McFadden
said: “We understand the importance
of the car industry and we want to do
everything we can to help.”
“We also have to remember the im-
portance of the supply companies
which have factories around the coun-
try” she added.
Tom Purves, chief executive of BMW,
described the meeting as “very con-
structive”, adding: “We are all working
in the same direction.”
“We have seen an unprecedented
drop in demand and the government
understands that.”
Asked about the government pack-
age, he replied: “No-one can say
whether it’s enough or not enough. The
conversations we had about taking ele-
ments of the package on over the next
two weeks has been very beneficial.
“I agree we need to take action quick-
ly - the government understands that”
he asserted.
Many car workers across the country
are hoping he is correct.
More money is desperately needed to save jobs in the UK
Car sales have dropped in the US as in the UK, with unsold cars stacking up and the industry floundering
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 30 January 2009 felix
Politics
Release of Iraq war minutes possible
Katya-yani Vyas
Politics Editor
An information tribunal has ordered
the release of cabinet minutes from
2003, disclosing secret government
discussions in the build up to the
Iraq war. This is following a long and
grueling campaign arguing that that
the public’s right to know what was
said is more important than the bu-
reaucratic rules stating that the discus-
sions should be kept secret. According
to current law, such information need
not be released until 30 years after the
incident in question has occurred.
The decision that details of the ses-
sions on 13 and 17 March should be
disclosed was upheld by the tribunal
but the request has been strongly op-
posed by ministers, who are arguing
that the Freedom of Information Act is
not intended to allow for the publica-
tion of this kind of information.
Whether the invasion was allowed
under international law is a highly
controversial issue and one that was
debated within these meetings. The
attorney general at the time, Lord
Goldsmith, issued legal advice saying
that according to international law the
situation was allowed, having previ-
ously warned of the questionable le-
gitimacy of the war.
The government now has 28 days
to appeal, meaning that it is not yet
guaranteed that the minutes will be
released. In addition, the tribunal de-
clared that this would not set a prec-
edent for the publication of all cabinet
minutes and that these were excep-
tional circumstances encompassing
legal pitfalls and public unrest over
the issue. Previously, Richard Thomas,
the information commissioner, had
ordered the government publish the
minutes provoking an appeal to the in-
formation tribunal.
A decision as to whether to publish
the minutes will now have to be made
by ministers: the alternatives are to
appeal to the high court, or to issue a
ministerial veto banning publication.
The Freedom of Information act that
came into force in 2005 allowed the
government to veto the publication of
such information, but this clause has
not been used thus far.
Thomas commented: “I welcome the
careful consideration that the informa-
tion tribunal has given to this impor-
tant issue. I am pleased that the tribu-
nal has upheld my decision that the
public interest in disclosing the official
cabinet minutes in this particular case
outweighs the public interest in with-
holding the information.
Disclosing the minutes will allow the
public to more fully understand this
particular decision. I am also pleased
that the tribunal reached the same
conclusion as I did in relation to the
publication of the handwritten notes
of the meetings.”
The mood amongst the opposition is
that the government need to acquiesce
to this particular demand with some
welcoming the tribunal’s ruling com-
menting that it could be “critical” to
how the decision to go to war is per-
ceived by future generations.
Suggestions that over-looking the
30-year time limit risked damaging
the effective running of government
have been denied, arguing that the
Iraq war is a case characterised by its
uniqueness and therefore should be
treated in an according manner. Lib-
eral Democrat foreign affairs spokes-
man Ed Davey welcomed the tribunal’s
ruling, saying that “many people were
still angry about the Iraq war.” adding
that “the people who took these deci-
sions, which were incredibly contro-
versial, should be held to account,” He
expressed his disappointment with the
Labour government pointing out that
in his opinion “the Labour government
has put up a wall of secrecy, in the years
since 2003, and prevented the full facts
from coming out.”
On behalf of the Conservatives, Wil-
liam Hague mirrored the Liberal Dem-
ocrats calling for a full inquiry into the
war stating that it would be one of the
first actions of a conservative govern-
ment should they gain power. How-
ever, he did make it clear that this was
a special case surrounded by excep-
tional circumstances; “I don’t think in
general that cabinet minutes should be
released a few years after the decisions
are made. Ministers need to be able to
speak to each other frankly and if this
happens regularly, cabinet minutes
will become much less revealing over
time.” A more useful approach, Hague
believes, is to have an inquiry with the
power to peruse the secret documents,
in an attempt to learn from the mis-
takes made.
The government will be subjected to
the close scrutiny of the media and the
public and will have to make a rapid
decision as to whether to comply with
the tribunal’s demands, keenly aware
of the consequences no matter which
option they eventually decide on. It is
certain that a tense atmosphere will
be pervading the halls of 10 Downing
Street in the coming weeks.
Protesters in Trafalgar Square London against the war in Iraq, a microcosm of the mood rippling through the country.
An American soldier standing guard in Iraq, a situation that is reproduced all over the country regardless of public unease over the situation.

