Science
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 felix Friday 30 January 2009
Science
Science Editor – Mićo Tatalović & Daniel Burrows
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 30 January 2009 felix
A feedback system in the ear protects
us from damage to hearing caused by
loud noise, new research has shown.
The discovery raises the possibility
that drugs targeting this system one
day could be used to protect musi-
cians and others from permanent
hearing loss. The ear transmits sound
waves into the cochlea, a spiral-shaped
organ filled with fluid. The cochlea
contains two types of hair cells. While
the inner hair cells respond to vibra-
tions in the fluid, converting them into
neural signals, outer hair cells amplify
the vibrations.
Scientists have known for some time
that stimulation of the outer hair cells
by feedback pathways emanating from
the brain dampens the amplification.
However, the function that this serves
has remained uncertain. Scientists at
Johns Hopkins University in the US
investigated the role of the system by
creating genetically-modified mice.
Dr Paul Fuchs and his team intro-
duced a ‘gain-of-function’ mutation
in a gene that encodes a receptor
protein called nAChR. The alteration
Mars and Mercury:
planetary leftovers?
Clubbers could pop
pill to save hearing
Researchers who studied the ability of
bees to recognize faces say the discov-
ered mechanism of ‘averaging’ might
lead to improved artificial intelligence
systems.
The study, published in PLoS One,
showed that honeybees can recognise
human faces even when they had seen
them before from other angles. They
do that by averaging the previously
learnt views, according to lead author
Adrian Dyer of Monash University in
Australia.
“The relationships between differ-
ent components of the object often
dramatically change when viewed
from different angles,” Dyer said. “It is
amazing to find the bees’ brains have
evolved clever mechanisms for prob-
lem solving which may help develop
improved models for AI face recogni-
tion systems.”
“Most current AI recognition sys-
tems perform poorly at reliably recog-
nising faces from different viewpoints,”
he added.
The brain of the bee with its 1 mil-
lion neurons is only 0.01 per cent of
the human brain but previous studies
by Dr Dyer and his colleagues sug-
gest that bees accomplish relatively
sophisticated visual tasks. “The bee
Weak electrical stimulation to the
brain allows people to learn complex
movements faster and remember them
for longer, a team of scientists from the
US National Institutes of Health have
revealed today.
Writing in Proceedings of the Na-
tional Academy of Sciences, they hope
that their technique will dramatically
improve recuperation from traumatic
brain injuries that can cause sufferers
to lose basic motor skills.
The researchers, led by Dr Leonar-
do Cohen of the National Institute of
Neurological Disorders and Strokes,
have found that by stimulating a region
of the brain known as the primary mo-
tor cortex, the region that controls our
movements, whilst someone practises
a new skill can significantly decrease
the amount of time it takes them to
learn and remember it.
Motor skills, like walking and talking,
often require years to learn so that we
do not have to think about them. But
people who have suffered brain trau-
ma can lose these skills, and it is only
through lengthy and often humiliating
training that they can be relearned.
Dr Cohen hopes that his painless and
noninvasive technique, called tDCS,
which uses weak current to excite
cells near the surface of the brain, will
Increasing demand for electric vehicles
and portable electronic devices is driv-
ing a parallel need for environmentally
friendly batteries. But combining im-
proved performance with safe, eco-ef-
ficient operations is a tall order. Michel
Armand of the Universite de Picardie
Jules Verne, France, and his team,
showed that a sustainably sourced or-
ganic version of the ubiquitous lithi-
um-ion battery could provide the an-
swer (Nature Materials, DOI:10.1038/
NMAT2372).
Armand’s battery, built around a nov-
el lithium-hydrocarbon anode, delivers
up to three times the typical minimum
energy capacity needed for practical
applications; but is environmentally-
friendly too. The organic acids used to
make the electrode are readily synthe-
sised on a sustainable basis from abun-
dant recycled plastics. They also ap-
pear as a metabolic by-product when
bio-organisms act on common hydro-
carbons like benzene.
The team say their device generates
less heat and is more thermally stable,
compared with conventional Li-ion
batteries with titanium or pure carbon
electrodes. That makes it an attractive
option for hybrid vehicles, where the
presence of petroleum fuels alongside
electricity makes battery meltdown
unthinkable.
We glimpsed the consequences of
thermal instability in 2006, when a
manufacturing defect in Sony laptop
batteries caused some devices to burst
into flames.
Lithium-ion batteries must show no
memory effect, so they retain their ca-
Electric shocks to the brain
lead to faster learning
Scientists predict foetal death rates
could be reduced if domestic violence
is nipped in the bud. A team of sci-
entists from the USA and Cameroon
have found further evidence of a link
between domestic abuse and adverse
pregnancy outcomes. Victims of abuse
were found to be 50 per cent more
likely to suffer foetal loss. These wom-
en were also at higher risk of repeated
incidents of foetal death, particularly
when subject to emotional abuse.
Using a statistical approach, the team
estimated foetal death rates could be
reduced by around a third with swift
and effective intervention. This effect
is predicted to be strongest in victims
of sexual abuse, where almost half of
foetal loss is preventable.
The study, published this week in
The Lancet, analysed data from the
Cameroon Demographic Health Sur-
vey, 2004. Women of varying ages and
educational backgrounds from across
the country were interviewed under
strictly private and anonymous condi-
tions. Victims of abuse were asked to
identify the actions of their spouses as
emotional, sexual or physical violence.
From the 2,562 women surveyed,
over half were victims of abuse. Physi-
cal violence was identified as the most
common form, affecting 39 per cent
of the women. Such abuse was more
likely to be inflicted upon older and
better educated women and accounts
were more prevalent among wealthier
groups.
Emotional violence, such as public
humiliation and verbal threatening,
was found to have the strongest nega-
tive impact on foetal survival. Worry-
ingly, such practice is often regarded as
an integral part of traditional culture in
some African communities.
The scientists warn of “the erroneous
idea…[of] underestimat[ing] the invis-
ible scars of emotional and psychologi-
cal abuse on human beings, women in
particular”.
was designed to cause the receptor to
respond more strongly to the release
of transmitter molecules from the
feedback pathway. The researchers
then tested how the mice were affected
by exposure to 100 decibel sounds – a
normal level for a rock concert. Mice
that carried the mutation had less sen-
sitive hearing but were also less likely
to suffer from hearing loss caused by
the loud sound. This result led the
A new theory suggests that Mars and
Mercury could have formed out of the
“byproducts” of Earth and Venus, ac-
cording to Brad Hansen, an astrono-
mer at the University of California, Los
Angeles, who presented his research
earlier this month at the annual meet-
ing of the American Astronomical
Society.
Current scientific consensus says
that the Earth and other planets were
formed around 4.5 billion years ago,
from a gigantic disk of gas and dust
that surrounded the Sun. The force of
gravity caused the minuscule particles
of dust to come together, eventually
forming pebble-sized objects that in
turn grew larger and larger in order to
create the planets.
The theory is not without its prob-
lems, however. Scientists normally as-
sume the initial dust disk was the same
thickness throughout, but crunching
the numbers in a computer simulation
shows that this would result in plan-
ets of similar size with circular orbits.
In fact Mars and Mercury are much
smaller than Venus and Earth, and or-
bit the Sun in an ellipse. This discrep-
ancy is normally explained away by the
presence of Jupiter, the largest planet
in the solar system, which exerts a
heavy gravitational force. Hansen be-
lieves he has a different answer.
In his model, the dust disk is not
uniform; rather it is clumped at dif-
ferent distances from the Sun. He sug-
gests that Earth and Venus formed in
a particularly large clump, known as
researchers to conclude that the feed-
back system normally functions to
protect our ears from noise-induced
damage.
“We think this pathway could be a
therapeutic target for protecting from
sound damage,” says Fuchs. “There is
a real chance of finding ear-specific
drugs in the future.” Until then, he sug-
gests that clubbers and concert-goers
would be prudent to wear earplugs.
brain is actually very good at learn-
ing to master complex tasks,” he said.
“That may point to efficient processing
algorithms.”
“Computer and imaging technol-
ogy programmers who are working
on solving complex visual recognition
tasks using minimal hardware resourc-
es will find this research useful,” Dr
Dyer said.
The researchers used sugar rewards
to train bees to focus on one certain
face from either one perspective or
from two different angles (0° and 60° or
0° and 30°), then presented them to a
novel angle (30° and 60° respectively).
Only the group of bees, whose novel
angle (30°) was between the original
angles (0° and 60°), were able recognise
the face, indicating that they averaged
the previously learnt views.
Bees model for AI
vision?
an “annulus”, capturing much of the
proto-planet debris as they immerged
from the dust.
Not all of the material is captured
and some particles can be ejected into
a different orbit. It is these ejected par-
ticles that would go on to form Mars
and Mercury – Hansen estimates that
only 10% of the initial material would
make up these two planets, with the
majority gobbled up by Earth and
Venus.
Climate models
fail to predict
earlier seasons
Researchers at Harvard University and
the University of California have dis-
covered that over 60 different climate
models used by the IPCC have failed to
predict hotter and earlier seasons be-
tween 1850 and 2007.
Analysing global temperature meas-
urements compiled by colleagues
at the Climate Research Unit at the
University of East Anglia, the scien-
tists discovered that winter tempera-
tures have increased more rapidly
than summer temperatures. Winter
temperatures have risen by about 1.8
degrees Celsius – almost double the
summer rise.
“It indicates the models are missing
some important process” said Profes-
sor Peter Huybers, assistant professor
of earth and planetary sciences at Har-
vard. “There could still be surprises”
Huybers and his colleagues also dis-
covered that the seasons are on aver-
age coming 1.7 days earlier over land
than 50 years ago.
Biologists, who have noticed sooner
bird migration and the earlier arrival
of spring buds, have also observed
changes in the seasons. Snow has
been melting and sea-ice breaking up
earlier and these observations have all
been explained by how fast the Earth
is warming up.
However, scientists now know that
this is all as a result of earlier seasons
as well as individual months warming
at different rates.
The researchers, who published
their work in the journal Nature, have
examined possible mechanisms for
the moving seasons. However, cur-
rently they have managed to only ex-
plain part of the mechanism thought
to be responsible. They believe that a
pattern of atmospheric circulation in
the Northern Hemisphere known as
the Northern Annular Mode may be
part of the cause.
shorten this process considerably.
Cohen’s team made their finding
when they asked 24 volunteers to learn
to play a targeting computer game over
five days. The 12 who received tDCS
did not learn the game any faster whilst
playing it but between practise sessions
they retained the skills better than
those only given “sham” stimulations.
By the end of the process, the speed
and accuracy of the tDCS group was
significantly higher, and the difference
in performance was still as apparent
three months later. Although the tech-
nique has yet to be tried during recu-
peration, Dr Cohen is confident that
the results will be positive.
Prenatal screening
of domestic
abuse victims in
Cameroon
pacity when recharged from a partly
charged condition. Performance of the
organic battery dropped off only slow-
ly during repeated recharge cycles, in-
dicating a desirable reversibility of the
chemistry. ‘Before and after charge’
X-ray diffraction measurements con-
firmed the structural stability of the
electrode.
The team also say their device is
lighter, the novel chemistry allowing
replacement of heavier copper compo-
nents with aluminium ones elsewhere
in the battery. That makes all the dif-
ference in an electric vehicle, where
every gram counts.
Increasing demand for electric vehicles is driving a need for eco-
friendly batteries
Researchers at NYU have found that
although people are keen for addi-
tional genetic testing for life-altering
and threatening medical conditions
such as mental retardation, blindness,
cancer and dwarfism, they are less in-
terested in prenatal genetic testing for
positive traits including tall stature,
superior athletic ability and superior
intelligence.
“Our research has discovered that al-
though the media portrays a desire for
‘designer babies’, this does not appear
to be true among consumers of genetic
testing services,” says Feighanne Hath-
away, a genetic counsellor at the NYU
Cancer Institute.
In the study, published online by the
Journal of Genetic Counselling, 999
participants completed a survey to
assess their attitude towards repro-
ductive genetic testing. The results
showed that 75% of the respondents
would elect for the screening of men-
tal retardation, 56% would screen for
blindness and 51% would screen for
cancer. In contrast, only a minority of
respondents would want genetic test-
ing for enhancements such as athletic
ability (10%) or superior intelligence
(12.6%).
The researchers recognise that con-
sumers may have followed their own
personal values or belief systems when
assessing choice for genetic tests. They
are also aware of the ethical concerns
regarding prenatal testing for life alter-
ing conditions. The authors concluded
that, “it seems unlikely that the ‘Age of
Designer Babies’ is near at-hand.”
Parents want genetic testing,
but not designer babies
Is Mars made up of Earth and Venus’ leftover materials?
Sam Wong
Arko Olesk
David Kinahan
Jessica Hamzelou
Jacob Aron
Chloe Sharrocks
Louisa Garnier
Dr Tim Jones
New organic batteries to be
developed
Artistic impression of what the shocks will do to the brain
The loud noise created by this band will be a thing of the past
The results of a climate model The original article on Designer Babies

