14 felix Friday 30 January 2009
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 30 January 2009 felix
Arts
And you thought there couldn’t be
a family crazier than yours...
Lucy Harrold goes to see the very long but award winning
theatrical production August: Osage County
Bunch Movie fame, which got me
quite excited, although he has one of
the smallest parts. If, like me, you opt
for a matinee of the play because you
actually want to get home a sensible
time, beware you will be sharing the
auditorium purely with gray-haired la-
dies who lunch and the National lobby
with school groups. These old ladies
generally sit around you and natter
about whether Tracy Letts, the author,
is male or female. For the record, Tracy
Letts is male. He just has a girls’ name.
August: Osage County focuses on
the reunion of the extended Weston
family after its patriarch, alcoholic
academic Beverly (again with the girls’
name?!), goes missing after hiring Na-
tive American housekeeper, Johnna,
to look after his unorthodox house.
Beverly and his pill pushing, mouth
cancer suffering wife Violet rarely eat
and have the windows covered over
so that the stiflingly hot house is in-
determinable between day and night.
Act one is concerned with the family
rejoining at the Weston house. First to
arrive are middle daughter Ivy, whom
Violet think is too dowdy and boring,
and Violet’s sister, Mattie Fay, and her
husband Charles. Later the other We-
ston children return; eldest Barbara
with husband Bill Fordham and daugh-
ter June, and youngest Karen with new
fiancé Steve Heidebricht. Finishing off
the family gathering is Mattie Fay and
Charles’ son Little Charles.
The entire show happens within one
glorious set; a lifesize, minimalist,
three story doll’s house complete with
veranda and loft conversion. The light-
ing is sublime, and has to be to cope
with what happens in the play.
Through the next three hours and
W
ell hello there
chaps, haven’t seen
you since before
Christmas! And
how WAS your
Christmas? Can you even remember?
Mine was a pleasant food-filled, wine-
fuelled season of festivities. But does
anybody else find Christmas gets a lit-
tle more anticlimatic with each year
you age? Gone are the days when you
spent all of Christmas Day hypnotised
by a Barbie camper van or a Power
Rangers Megazord.
These days presents are either stuff
you bought for yourself (and your par-
ents write you a cheque for around
Boxing Day), or the contents of your
Amazon wishlist, which doesn’t arrive
in time. I’m still receiving CDs in the
post I didn’t order myself – not that I’m
complaining. On the bright side I’m
old enough for my parents to ply me
with booze of significantly better qual-
ity than what gets served in my student
flat. And there’s always money from
obscure elderly relatives, a portion of
which I spent on getting something
pierced. Hurrah!
Beyond Christmas there was New
Years Eve, which I spent in London for
the first time. What could be better
than standing in the streets watching
Boris’s head projected on a building,
giving the same garbled speech repeat-
edly, while swigging out of a can of
Stella? This NYE was a great deal more
restrained than previous editions. Like
that year I drank far too much Bailey’s
Emily Wilson
Arts Editor
and... ahem. Never mind.
Back to what I’m supposed to be
talking about: ART! Now, I’m getting a
little fed up of people telling me “but,
Emily, I don’t like art – I’m a scientist!”.
If you are the kind of person who pre-
fers science to art, the arts and culture
pages of Felix are still worth a read. I’m
constantly trying to bridge the art/sci-
ence chasm and pander to you folks.
This week I review the Hunterian Mu-
seum at the Royal College of Surgeons.
I do appreciate a nice museum of pick-
led body parts and freaky mutations.
Doesn’t everybody? No? Several times
in the past I’ve reviewed the Wellcome
Collection, which is like the Hunterian
Museum for the squeamish and prone
to fainting. All of the medicine, none
of the gore. If you’re not keen on medi-
cine then right on our doorstep, over
at the Natural History Museum, there’s
the Dawin Big Idea exhibition, which I
am positively itching to go to. And let’s
not forget the Science Museum. I hear
there’s some sciencey stuff in there.
If you don’t like science at all and
you’re at Imperial due to some ter-
rible drunken mistake, we’ve got arty
art too! In this issue Lucy Harrold is
at the theatre again, seeing a play rid-
dled with drugs, paedophilia, incest…
all our favourite things. We’ve also got
Emilie Beauchamp on Annie Leibovitz,
photographer to the stars.
Whether you’re more into arty art or
sciencey art, we’re always looking for
new writers and contributions – email
us!
Art/Science
Mashups
three acts we learn many home truths
with Tracy Letts completing the en-
tire list of subjects to cover in modern
American theatre. Alcohol – check,
drugs – check, violence – check, pae-
dophilia – check, incest – check. Why
does everything have incest now? Each
member of the Weston family has their
own problems to bring to the melting
pot of dysfunction with very few of
them being resolved. Most plays start
with introducing the problem and
spend most of the time analysing and
solving the problem- that is they follow
“Propp’s theory”.
The theory of Vladimir Propp was
that every piece of storytelling can
fit into seven different basic stories.
Each of these stories has thirty one
plot points and a certain number
of “character types”. August: Osage
County not only throws Propp out of
the window but then takes chunks of
broken window pane and stabs him in
the heart. I think this helps to make
the three and half hours fly by – the
storyline and characters do not follow
the norm.
There isn’t a single bad link in the
company, probably attributed to the
long period of time they have spent
developing the piece. The cast could
really pass off as a regular, if rather
disturbed, family. I took a while to feel
comfortable with Deanna Dunagan’s
Violet. She swings from being off her
head in the opening scene to being
completely normal in the next. Even
considering the character’s drug and
heath problems this seemed extreme.
She eventually settles down into a com-
fortable middle ground and establishes
herself as the star of the show, with her
monologue at the dinner table as a dis-
Annie Leibovitz: living a dual life?
Emilie Beauchamp sees the Annie Leibovitz: A Photographer’s Life exhibition at the National Portrait
Gallery as not just a gallery of celebrity photographs, but as an insight into a very personal life
M
any artists are known
primarily by their
masterpieces rather
than by their name.
This is especially the
case in photography, where so many
authors’ rights are given to agencies
in the tangle for celebrity. Therefore, if
I mention Annie Leibovitz, not many
would know exactly who she is, how-
ever famous she is in the field of por-
trait photography. Already established
by the mid-70s, she worked as chief
photographer for the magazine Roll-
ing Stone before working freelance for
Vanity Fair, Vogue and The New York-
er. During that period she snapped
celebrities such as the Beatles, the
Rolling Stones, Nicole Kidman, Dan-
iel Day Lewis, Queen Elizabeth II and
uncountably more. Some may say that
if you have not been before her lenses
you are not quite a star yet...
The exhibition Annie Leibovitz: A
Photographer’s Life 1990-2005 was
first presented at the Brooklyn mu-
seum in 2006 and is now being fea-
tured at the National Portrait Gallery
until Sunday February 1st. Most of the
pieces displayed are part of her iconic
A
three and a half hour play
where not very much
happens and one of the
characters mainly speaks
nonsense–doesn’tsound
too appealing, does it? Yet somehow I
was desperate to see August: Osage
County. It sweeped the Tonys winning
Best Play, Best Leading Actress (Dean-
na Dunagan), Best Featured Actress
(Rondi Reed), Best Director (Anne
D. Shapiro) and Best Scenic Design
(Todd Rosenthal) and was awarded
the Pulitzer Prize for Drama this year.
The National Theatre’s production has
brought over much of the original cast,
including Dunagan and Reed, and sup-
plemented it with experienced players
from the original Steppenwolf Com-
pany where the play originated.
This includes Gary Cole of Dodge-
ball, Talladega Nights and The Brady
To be honest I always preferred Orange County
Possibly Annie Leibovitz’s most famous photograph
HOW COOL IS THIS? Who knew we had a theatre named after us??
turbing yet realistic centrepiece.
I also felt drawn to Ivy and Little
Charles as the black sheep of their re-
spective families. Sally Morton and Ian
Barford gave beautifully understated
performances culminating in a touch-
ing romance and one of the biggest plot
twist of the night (I won’t give anything
away but WOAH!).
Comingfromafamilyofthreedaugh-
ters, I spent much of the play worrying
that my family would evolve into the
chaotic Weston family (little chance of
that – for a start my family is teetotal).
As the middle child I saw a lot of myself
in Ivy, and her character made me re-
alise some things about myself I didn’t
like too much. But this is what a good
play should do; affect you so much that
you start to question yourself and your
surroundings even after you leave the
theatre.
portraits collection, always elegant and
grandiose, denoting an atypical, often
provocative, collaboration with the
subjects and featuring amazing light-
ing work. Some of her most famous
photos are the nude and pregnant
Demi Moore cover for Vanity Fair and
Whoopi Goldberg submerged in a bath
of milk, but sensibly all of her art has
been widely acclaimed and all her cam-
paigns were successful.
However, what makes the exhibi-
tion truly interesting are the personal
photographs that are displayed. In fact,
while the period 1990-2005 was very
successful career-wise for Leibovitz, it
was also one full of ups and downs in
her personal life. From child memories
to the death of her father and of her
partner Susan Sontag, as well as the
birth of her three daughters, Leibovitz
exposes pieces of her private life and
shares with the public the story behind
the camera. Portraying scenes often
intimate but always touching, they
contrast deeply from her commercial
works. The latter being bigger than
nature and cosmetic, her personal art-
work is of a fragile, almost naive truth.
In any case, she depicts perfectly bal-
anced worlds every time...
Most of the personal stories dis-
played concern Leibovitz’s partner, or
lover as she later declared, writer Susan
Sontag. They met in 1989, both already
established in their respective career,
and Sontag is said to have had a huge
influence on Leibovitz from then on.
Shortly after they met, Leibovitz start-
ed exploring different, deeper themes
such as the siege of Sarajevo during the
war in the Balkans, a publication of a
collection (entitled Women) explor-
ing the characters of women from all
classes all over the world, and even
experimention in landscape photog-
raphy. In 1998, Sontag was diagnosed
with breast cancer and then started the
long journey until her passing away in
2004. Leibovitz loyally photographed
various phases of the illness and ac-
companied Sontag at every stage.
What could seem at first like a curi-
ous documentation of the illness might
be interpreted as a way for Leibovitz
to separate herself from the situation
or even escape it, but feels more like
the natural continuation of the genu-
ine relationship between her, Sontag
and photography, as well as a manner
in which to go through mourning. In
that sense, the exhibition itself is an es-
sential part of that process, displaying
photos of Sontag from the first doc-
tor’s appointment to her lying on her
very death bed. Surprisingly enough,
these are far from being disturbing;
witnessing a desire to face what lies
in front and in the end say one last
goodbye. More joyful memories are
also displayed such as Leibovitz’s three
daughters, the first born when she was
51 years old, followed by twins from a
surrogate mother 3 years later.
Overall, it can seem from her exhibi-
tion that Leibovitz was living a dual life
through her photography: provocative
and superficially aesthetic, or reflective
and beautifully simple. Maybe Sontag
helped her to reconcile her two sides,
and in the end Leibovitz declared in
the exhibition’s book: “I don’t have two
lives. This is one life, and the personal
pictures and the assignment work are
all part of it”. Was it really? For the
slightly excessive amount of £9 (don’t
forget your student ID!), you can judge
for yourself until February 1st...
Annie Leibovitz is on at the
National Portrait Gallery until 1st
February 2009.
Here is one of the nasties in jars from the Hunterian Museum at the Royal College of Science (flip over the
page for the main review!). I’m not sure what it is, but it certainly has a fine set of tentacles
We leave you the choice: obvious joke or mature respect for an artist?

