arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
16 felix Friday 30 January 2009
Emily Wilson gets a few graphic lessons in anatomy and medicine over at the Royal College of Surgeons
W
ho likes medi-
cal oddities? I do!
I’m a big fan of
dead things in jars,
and there are jars
aplenty in the Hunterian Museum at
the Royal College of Surgeons. This
was my second visit, and I’ve come to
regard it as one of the best museums in
London. The galleries are sleek, shiny
and modernised. Every item is clearly
labeled and explained, which is im-
pressive given that the sheer quantity
of STUFF here is astounding. It’s much
bigger than you would expect from a
little-known, tucked away gallery. It’s
all free to get into and rarely gets busy.
This museum makes for a very relaxing
Saturday afternoon excursion, assum-
ing you’re not too squeamish to handle
it.
For any medical history buffs out
there, the museum holds mostly ma-
terial gathered by the distinguished
surgeon and anatomist John Hunter
(1728-1793). He spent much of his
time collecting animal specimens and
arranging them into a teaching mu-
seum. His museum contained nearly
14,000 specimens of over 500 differ-
ent species of plants and animals. The
government purchased his collection
in 1799 and it is now owned by the
Royal College of Surgeons, with the
museum opening in 1813. A little nug-
get of trivia for you: Hunter died after
suffering a fit during an argument at St
George’s hospital over the acceptance
of students for training. The material
on display now makes up only about a
quarter of Hunter’s original collection.
He sold a lot of his minerals, paint-
ings, prints and books himself in 1794
(he needed the money, and apparently
he preferred his bits of animal). Some
specimens were disposed of since his
death due to poor condition, and a lot
of skeletons and fossils were lost during
bombings in 1941. If you’re interested,
the museum is crammed full of infor-
mation about Hunter’s life and work.
So... to the body parts in jars. You
name it, they’ve pickled it. Every ani-
mal, every body part, every disease,
every weird and wonderful mutation is
covered. Just to name a few, you can see
“part of a lion’s oesophagus”, “the trunk
of a young crocodile dissected to show
the viscera” and “intestinal worms at-
tached to portions of whale intestine”.
There are whole sea cucumbers, spi-
ders, wasps, termites, sea anemones,
sea slugs cuttlefish, centipedes, various
beetles... Then there’s half a dodo skel-
eton plus some skeletons of similarly
extinct flightless birds such as moa and
solitaires. There’s also some evidence
of gruesome animal experimentation,
such as “sections of cockerels’ heads
with transplanted human teeth em-
bedded in the combs”.
Visitors will be delighted by the
veritable freak show of mutations and
defects on display. “Skull of a 25 year
old man showing enlargement due to
hydrocephalus” is impressive. It looks
like the skull of one of the aliens out
of ‘Mars Attacks!’. Next to it is “model
of Chinese patient with parasitic twin”,
who looks unsurprisingly gloomy. The
skeleton of Charles Byrne (1761-1783),
the Irish Giant, is an awesome 2.31 me-
tres tall (7’ 7”). This chap suffered from
pituitary gigantism. Despite request-
ing that he be buried at sea, his body
was bought by John Hunter for £130
(cheeky!). Then there are paintings of
midgets, siamese twins and a man who
weighed 52 stone.
The impressive range of foetuses
includes guinea pig, porcupine, aard-
vark, anteater and armadillo. There is
in addition to the huge selection of hu-
man foetuses in jars, all different ages.
Their eyes are clenched in a grimace
and their little mouths are gasping
open. Generally things are arranged
according to what bit of anatomy we’re
looking at. “Mammary organs” is a
good section. Have you ever seen the
nipples of a minke whale or a fruit bat?
I have now.
Downstairs is mostly bits of dead
animals, but upstairs we move on to a
focus on human pathology. Clearly the
best case is the one with all the sexual
organs. Three favourites are “a uterus
and vagina dissected to reveal closure
Here are some of the jars on display – a teeny tiny crocodile and a headless bird. Don’t worry, there’s human bits too, so you’ll be among friends
of the vaginal opening of the uterus”,
“the end of a penis showing syphilitic
ulceration” and “condom made from
sheep’s intestine, late 18th century”.
Lovely. A lot of the contents of these
jars are so warped and diseased they
are completely unrecognisable. And
it’s not all things that used to be alive.
There is an extensive range of surgical
apparatus and medical instruments,
often highlighting how surgery has
progressed over time. Some of the in-
struments are enough to make even
the hardened among us wince.
The end of my journey around the
museum addresses the living patient
and modern surgery, which is a con-
trast to most of the museum but still
utterly fascinating. There is up to date
material on microsurgery, minimal
access surgery, transplants, cancer
surgery and stem cells. There are also
some videos of surgery. I watch a solid
10 minutes of “removal of large benign
brain tumour”. I have to look away
from the screen quite often, particu-
larly when the scalp is getting peeled
away from the skull. The drilling into
the skull makes me shudder. The actual
poking about inside really isn’t so bad,
and I actually laugh when they extract
the (larger than you’d expect) tumour,
flick it into a jar and send it off to some
poor laboratory slave to tinker with.
Overall, this video made me feel sicker
and dizzier than all of the museum’s
jars put together.
If you’ve made it all the way through
this article without me repulsing you
then you’re well prepared to see it for
yourself. This is undoubtedly one of
the best museums London has to of-
fer, and you don’t need to be a medic
(or a lowly biologist like myself) to en-
joy it immensely. I highly recommend
it to anybody in search of an unusual
weekend attraction, and I hope many
of you will go and experience it for
yourselves. Say hi to the armadillo foe-
tus from me!
Pop over to the Royal College of
Surgeons near Holborn and see
their Hunterian Museum. Entry is
entirely free to all.
“Penis with syphilitic ulceration”
Here is the big man himself, John Hunter, figurehead of anatomy and surgery, and also pickler of cool dead
things. Not many people end up with multiple museums dedicated to them. Something to aspire to?
Summer Ball 2009
20 June 2009
buy now from imperialcollegeunion.org
Entertainments Only
£30
from
27 March
£35
from
15 May
£40
Dinner & Entertainments
£65
from
27 March
£70
from
15 May
£75
On sale now!
Imperial College London

