Letters
Another AIDS
rant
Dear Bill.
]t is' T O : duty. I think, foreact to the disgraceful
. aixusMifiri's of nav colleagues about rav criticism
of A I D S Day". . . ' '
AIDS is certainly one of the most grave diseases
of our time: everybody r js a potential AIDS
patient. 1 expected therefore a more scientific and
less nMt<irrt<TpprQach.j.hat'sAvhat I meant by 'a
shame foY.-lC'.", •
As for the,.svringes being.'distributed free of
charge' there''is nothing to be so proud of. IC
students shouldn't be encouraged to use syringes
except for Biology labs, the number of drug
addicts in IC must be tiny because drugs and hard
work don't mix, the experts say.
\\he^.M.r.Fisher, writes: 'If (AIDS Day) stopped
one unwanted child from being born (it is) well
justified'^*he liimself casts full light o n the
meaning of my exclamation 'Irrelevant!'.
As for their 'slogans': 'Free—no money'
trumpeted in their letters, how about the posters
which swamped IC? How about the hosting of
the organisations?
As for a position in the 'Welfare Committee'
M r Fisher, thank you but ' Y o u can include me
out'!
As for the 'questionnaires', M r Fisher's proud
announcement that they will soon be publicised
indicates that the Council didn't grasp the
average IC student's reaction to the aforesaid,
and that this fiasco might be repeated!
After all that, my dear colleages, have pity upon
me; as the French say: 'ceci est mon opinion et
je partage'.
Truly, yours,
Emmanuel Saridakis, Physics \.
PS. I would like to congratulate, by the
occasion, the Publication Board of FELIX, for its
enlightened approach to College life and the
ordinary students' views.
Are you on
the Pill?
Dear Bill,
The four doctors at the Health Centre were all
very upset to read the letter from Anna Roberts,
and your editorial criticising us. N o we're not
obsessed with sex and 'personal problems', but
it is true that we are all aware that personal
problems, sexual problems, stresses a n d
psycholgical problems can produce and/or
aggravate physical symptoms. So we often open
up this possibility by asking relevant questions.
However we certainly don't intend to offend any
of our patients and can w e ask any and ail
patients who have been offended in the way you
say has happened to come and discuss it with
us (making an appointment to do so with
whichever doctor they find most agreeable/least
objectionable!).
Our only objective is to try to help our
patients—sometimes, however, the real problem
is quite different from the apparent problem, and
if we're to be able to help we need to ask
questions that may o n occasion prove
embarrassing.
Yours sincerely,
Raana Cillon, Director, Health Centre.
I am sorry that you found the Editorial offensive.
I will be sending you the names of those
students who are unhappy with the way they
were treated and are prepared to discuss the
matter with the Health Centre—Ed.
Letter lunacy
Dear Bill,
The Three Twits strike again! I read with a
certain amount of disgust tht Messrs Baker,
Morris and Brereton were contemplating sending
the Friends of Palestine and the Islamic Society
letters concerning the anti-Jewish graffiti. W h y
just them? Why not every Society? Indeed, why
not every student? I do hope that the Union is
not trying to point fingers at the above societies,
and if they are sending the letters, then this has
to be clear discrimination a n d ever false
allegation. Last year I saw the Star of David
graffitied onto Islamic Society posters. W h y
weren't the Jewish and Christian societies sent
similar letters by the Union?
Also i n last week's FELIX, M r Nelkon
compared present day Israeli's with Nazi
Germans. Looking at the systematic destruction
of Palestinian villages a n d the subsequent
removal of their occupants into appalling camps
and the more recent Israeli policies i n the
Occupied Palestine, he doesn't seem to far off.
The Israelis have always portrayed themselves
as the oppressed, and one would think that they
would remember their own past and put an end
to the continued oppression in Palestine.
Saeem A Siddiqi, Civ Eng 2.
Chosen people
Dear Bill,
Last Friday, the U N Published a report
condemning Israel for 'Killing children and
torturing detainees'. It is easyto see why certain
people tried to cloud the whole issue by using
the anti-semite graffiti incident.
I would like here to express my disgust at both
the grafitti and the foundless accusations which
I shall not bother to answer. It is, however,
interesting to see why and how such an incident
was used to launch an anti-Arab anti-Moslem
campaign in College.
Taking on one fool at a time, let us start with
the racist graffiti posing as a letter by M r Nelkon.
The understandable indignation and horror give
way to some flawed and racist reasoning.
By first mentioning the Mufte of Jerusalem, M r
Nelkon seeks to land the guilt on the Friends of
Palestine and the Islamic Society. H e then
proceeds to justify the very atrocities which set
out to overshadow and dismiss. So, since
Palestinians 'bear the legacy' of the Mufto of
Jerusalem then any act against them is justified
as revenge for the Holocaust. The link is made
through a Nazi madman and all of a sudden
today's generation of Palestinians stands accused!
He also dismisses the comparison between the
systematic killing of jews and the 'treatment of
Arab refugees' on the grounds of quality as much
as quantity.
We are, all of us, God's chosen people M r
Nelkon. He loves us all. Two wrongs can never
make a right and I am not willing to wait for the
Israeli army to kill six million Palestinians so M r
Nelkon could be convinced.
As for the Exec, their letters of 'concern'
targetted at FoP and Islamic Society, in the
absence of any proof, are at best amusing, and
at worst a clear demonstration of where their
racial prejudices lie.
I am glad to see that FELIX is an open forum,
and that it allows such unfounded accusations
and smear campaigns to be answered.
Yours sincerely,
Amin El-Kholy, DoC 3.
A dose of
Allums salts
Dear Bill,
Last week's edition of FELIX contained a letter
written by M r A Allum attacking the endeavour
to fight effectively against loans. In response I feel
complelled to oppose this somewhat petty
vitriolic nonsense.
M r Allum asserts that SWSS succeeded i n
hijacking the Water Polo Club for their ' o w n
political ends'. I can only presume that there
'political ends' are a desire to stop student loans
from being introduced because unfortunately for
Mr Allum I also attended the first anti-loans
meeting and do not remember the discussion
veering off the subject of loans.
It is the threat of big marches through central
London that can force the Tories to back down.
Take the French student in December 1986: the
2.5 million strong student strike, and the massive
demos that f o l l o w e d forced the Chirac
government to back d o w n over its proposals to
restrict entry into higher education. Thankfully,
there weren't many French students who thought
that interviewing Jacques Chirac's education
secretary on a French version of STOIC would
change anything!
M r A l l u m also writes highly of I C U ' s
'independent stance'. If the exectutive had 1) A
genuine desire to fight loans, and 2) A little bit
of insight, they would have realised that if the
forces of argument could defeat loans, this issue
would have been over long ago. Instead, Baker
and C o indulged i n the pointless lobby of
Parliament and the equally pathetic 'piss u p ' in
the Union Building on the 16th (apologies to
Bernie Grant).
If this is the attitude of people like M r A l l u m
then I'm not surprised that many lefties complain
because 'their causes' happen to be the causes
affecting the well being of student life and unless
concerted action is taken against loans now,
students, especially those living in an expensive
part of L o n d o n , will be made to suffer
immeasurably.
Ronan Banerjee, Materials Science.
Page 2 FELIX February 24 1989

