Forgotten by society, ignored by politicians, threatened by greater violence, the prostitute is out in the cold. What are we doing to help? Matthew Johnson investig
Can't buy me love
Prostitute, whore, harlot, hustler, hooker, meretrix,
courtesan, woman of pleasure, fallen woman,
working girl, call girl; she may not have a prestigious
profession, but she definitely has the oldest. No
matter what century or. which country you look at,
you will find women selling sex. From Mary
Magdelane to Cynthia Payne, history is full of
examples. In Victorian London, it is thought that there
was one prostitute for every three men, quite a
contrast to the prevailing public morals! But just as
the question is universal, the diversity of our reactions
is equally broad. In some countries prostitutes are free
to carry on their trade in peace, in others they can pay
with their lives. We cannot look at this in isolation.
Sex, money and marriage; the issues lie just too close
to home.
Who are the victims of this trade? Is it the prostitute
who values her body at the level of a simple
commodity? Or possibly the client, who, so frustrated
by a lack of sexual fulfilment, is forced to such
desperate measures? Maybe even the whole of
society is degraded, its structure and morals
threatened?
Policing
Although payment for sexual intercourse is not itself
illegal, the whole range of legislation (see boxl, makes
it very difficult for a prostitute to stay on the right side
of the law. This makes her much more vulnerable to
criminal exploitation, and generally renders her safety
in doubt.
The effect of the Street Offences Act, 1959 is to
give the police draconian powers in their treatment
of prostitutes. It is not necessary for a prostitute to
actually tout for trade to be arrested. It is enough for
her simply to be seen loitering in an area, where a
constable suspects her to be for the purpose of
prostitution. Any woman who becomes known to the
police can easily be victimised, for when such a case
comes to court, it will simply be her word against that
of the police. It literally gives a mandate to the police
to arrest her as often as they please.
More recently, with the introduction of the Sexual
Offences Act, 1985, the emphasis has at least started
to move in the opposite direction. The police have
been targetting the clients as well as the women. The
bill now going through Parliament, is intended to
further tighten this legislation.
The police, however, have already developed a
fairly effective way of dealing with the clients. Rather
than push them through the legal system (which they
do on occasions), they use a joint method of formal
warning and the sending of letters to their homes.
It is accepted by the police though, that the long
term effects of such action is fairly minimal. When
there has been a blitz on one area, the result has been
that the trade has simply re-established itself in a
neighbouring area. Overall the legislation has been
aimed at reducing the nuisance to the public, but
without tackling the problem at source, these
measures have only had minimal success.
The Government is supporting the new Sexual
Offences Bill to stengthen the 1985 act on kerb
crawling, and so it is likely to become law in the near
future. Apart from this, there is no other action either
planned or discussed by the Government. Not only
that, none of the major political parties has a policy
either. Prostitution is clearly a difficult issue for any
politician to enter into, (sexual matters normally end
in resignations, not in increased popularity!) At the
moment the law forces prostitutes into a dangerous
underworld, and affords them little protection. As far
as these women are concerned, nobody in power
seems to care one iota.
afforded few rights. However, the injustices do not
finish there. Once charged with the offence of
soliciting, a woman is attributed the legal title of
common prostitute. This is a label that sticks for life,
and can be brought up at any time, and for any charge.
If you have raped someone, committed grevious
bodily harm, or even murdered, then your conviction
cannot be mentioned for fear of prejudice. If you have
for the money. The financial climate is an integral part
of the problem. When Mrs Thatcher came to power
in 1979, she pledged to lower taxes in order to
encourage enterprise. Moving into the twelfth year of
her government, many people are starting to re-
examine the basis of her approach. A low tax
economy may be effective in germinating new
business, but the stark reality is that less of the
Life on the Game
Clearly the decision to enter into prostitution is not
an easy one. So what is it that makes a woman decide
to go on the game? The major incentive is of course
money. Charging an average of £ 1 0 to £15 per client,
it is possible to earn considerably more than a
common nine-to-five job. Working hours are often
more flexible, and in general shorter. This can be of
a significant help to single mothers, who are more free
to arrange their work around child-care arrangements.
But this is really where the advantages cease. Going
on the Game, is akin to becoming a second class
citizen. The powers afforded to the police almost give
them the right to arrest her on sight. She could be
going to do her weekly shopping, and still be arrested
for soliciting. These cases can and do occur. The
prostitute is thrust into a criminal underclass, and
been convicted of soliciting then you are a common
prostitute, and must prove your innocence.
Perhaps even worse is the treatment prostitutes
receive from society in general. People often value
themselves by the work that they do. The prostitute
does not have this luxury. If she is asked what she
does in life, she must lie or risk immediate
condemnation. This secrecy becomes a common
feature of her life. What does she do when her
boyfriend (or girlfriend) asks the same question? If she
has children, then she risks having them taken into
care, being marked as an 'unfit mother'. She does not
lose basic needs, they just become harder to fulfil.
Poverty
Prostitution, however, is not simply a social issue. As
we have seen this difficult life is often only taken up
country's wealth is spent on public services: hospitals,
schools, disabled people, single mothers. The gap
between the rich and poor gets even larger, and more
women are forced onto the game. Of course not all
women choose this option, but for those close to the
poverty line, the incentives can be great. It is no
coincidence that recent increases in prostitution have
coincided with declines in state benefits. With the
freezing of child benefits, the pressures on single
mothers are particularly bad.
It is an amusing reflection that these women have
taken the name of 'Thatcher's Girls'. Perhaps the
great lady should be proud of the initiative that these
women have shown in exploiting such a strong and
lucrative market.
Sex in Society
At first it might seem difficult to decide why our
treatment of prostitutes is so bad, but when viewed
in the wider context of general perceptions, the
problem becomes a little clearer. Judeo-Christian
society has always had a discrepancy between its
treatment of men and women. From the mention in
the old testament, of wife amongst oxen and sheep,
to the glorification of the Virgin Mary, unsullied by
sexual experience, justice for women has been hard
to come by.
Britain in particular is known in Europe for its puritan
attitudes. Sexuality is never an easy topic, but the
British seem to be more paranoid than most. Sex is
dirty and sinful, and only to be sanctioned under the
need for procreation (and then only within the safe
walls of matrimony). Our language is still strewn with
such references: dirty magazine, dirty joke, dirty old
man (almost as if old men had less right to sexuality
than younger men). With the decline of Christianity,
and the growth of secular society, these values are
on the wain, but it would be naive in the extreme to
believe we have already outgrown them.
Historically, the onus for limiting sexual intercourse
THE LAW
Sexual Offences Act, 1956
• Illegal to encourage someone to be a
prostitute
• Illegal for man or woman to control or
direct prostitution, or to gain financially
from it.
• Illegal for a man to persistently solicit
a prostitute in a public place.
• Illegal for anybody to be involved in the
running of a brothel, or for a tenant or
landlord, to allow their premises to be
used as such.
Street Offences Act, 1959
• Illegal for a prostitute to loiter or solicit
in a public place for the purpose of
prostitution.
Sexual Offences Act, 1985
• Illegal for a man to persistently solicit
a woman for the purposes of prostitution,
from a motor vehicle (kerb crawl).
At the moment there is a bill for amending
the Sexual Offices Act, 1985. It will make
it an offence for a man to solicit from a
motor vehicle on any occasion, and not
only when he had been doing so
persistently.
It should be noted that there is no law
against the payment for sexual
intercourse.

