fell on the woman. It has always been she who reaps
the penalities of unwanted pregnancy. Her lover can
easily desert her, and has traditionally done just that.
With modern means of contraception, such dangers
have all but been eliminated. The more recent risks
of sexual transmitted diseases (STDs), and particularly
AIDS fall on both man and woman. The imprint of
those older influences, however, remains strong.
Consider for example, the overwhelming positive
image of a male sexual conquistador, a Don Juan or
Rudolf Valentino. Contrast that with the
corresponding female image; a woman who goes to
bed with many men. She is nothing but a slag and an
easy lay. When young men were told to go and 'sow
their wild oats', their female counterparts were told
to save themselves for marriage.
These gender sex roles are clearly distorted and
unjust, both to men and to women. But much as we
would like otherwise they still prevail. It is for men to
a very positive role in educating their clients to the
possible dangers.
Hillary Kinnel (Central Birmingham Health
Authority), 'We have found that working and former
prostitutes to be the most effective communicators.
The clients tell us that they learn about HIV from the
prostitutes themselves. If Health Authorities can find
ways of making resources available, prostitute
women should be enabled to educate and deliver
services themselves, and not only to their clients.
They have a great deal to teach us all about the true
sexuality of the society we live in.'
The next consideration is, if prostitution were de-
criminalised, would it be beneficial to enforce a
registration scheme similar to that in place in
Germany, making health checks compulsory on a
regular basis? The question might well be decided on
political expediency rather than practical issues. It
could be difficult to be seen relaxing laws on
others. This is a commendable cause, and should be
encouraged. That young girls have been persistently
propositioned, simply because they have been in an
area frequented by prostitutes, is worrying indeed.
This among other problems must be tackled. However
we have to be clear of exactly what our aims are.
Although Christianity is now a minority religion, its
influence is still strong. Prostitution goes against such
teaching, and some people would be pleased if it were
banned outright. Many more feel uneasy, and would
favour legislation to discourage it, but we must
consider such arguments carefully. We also have a
large Moslem community who would discourage the
consumption of alcohol, does this mean that we
should consider banning that?
Where the actions of some citizens infringe upon
the freedoms of others, then we must act to protect
those affected, that is the purpose of the law, but
when those actions take place in private, between
lust, and women to choose. When a prostitute goes
on the street and offers herself for sex in return for
money, all she is doing is exploiting this situation. It
would be pleasant if the sexual needs of all people
were catered for within respectful and loving
relationships. The realities are that this will never be
the case either for men or for women.
Sex Education
Since the discovery of AIDS in the 1980s, we have
become aware of a new danger in sexual relations.
This issue though, must be treated with care, as we
have already seen how it can be used as a stick to
beat an already oppressed minority. Despite much
evidence to the contrary, AIDS has been labelled as
the gay plague, revenge from God on the unholy;
regardless of the fact that in Africa the primary
transmission method has been heterosexual sex.
There has been no evidence to suggest that the
degree of HIV infection is any higher among
prostitutes than among the general population. The
statistics supplied by the Department of Health, show
that the number of cases of HIV infection attributable
to heterosexual transmission in Britain stood at 167
in September 1989 (including partners of bisexual
men, and intravenous drug users). Clearly having more
sexual partners increases the risk of catching the
virus, however wearing a condom during sex
substantially reduces them. The material of which the
condom is made is impremeable to the virus, and
providing that it stays in place during intercourse
without breaking, then the chances of passing on the
virus are negligible. Many prostitutes use condoms,
and, in addition, they are more than usually skilled in
their use. In fact it has been observed that far from
being a danger to public health, prostitutes can have
Page 12
prostitution, without applying some counteracting
restraints.
If we look at the practical criteria, the evidence
weighs against it. Where drop-in clinics have been
opened, such as the Praed Street Project connected
to St Mary's Hospital, the response has been
excellent. Legislation is more likely to be effective in
dissuading women from coming forward than
encouraging it. Those not willing to be registered by
the State as prostitutes, would be even less likely to
come forward.
Dr Sophie Day (St Mary's Hospital), 'Licensing will
create a two tier system.' This indeed has been found
in places where licensing has been applied.
We should also consider for whose benefit such
measures are taken. It has been shown that the
chances of male to female transmission, are much
higher than female to male transmission. Thus not
only are the women much more at risk of the disease,
they also have a much lower chance of passing it on.
The medical evidence is clear, people don't die from
AIDS by having sex or from injecting drugs. They die
through ignorance of the dangers and ways to avoid
them. The advantages of de-criminalisation would be
that, without the fears of prosecution and police
harassment, more prostitutes would come forward for
medical help, and would receive necessary advice.
This is adequately summarised by a comment from
Dr Helen Ward (Royal Infirmary, Glasgow).
'The definite advantages of de-criminalisation far
outweigh any possible disadvantages.'
Thoughts for the Future
Nobody pretends that it is possible to legislate
prostitution out of existence. The stated aim of
existing laws has been to reduce the nuisance to
***mmimm«~.. '-' Mas
consenting adults, then they must be left in peace.
At the end of the twentieth century, we are well past
the time when the state shold be meddling in the moral
behaviour of its citizens.
The legislation so far has been ineffective in two
major regards. Firstly, it has largely failed to remove
the nuisance of prostitution from the streets,
managing to keep it moving from area to area.
Secondly, it has substantially degraded and
endangered the life of the prostitute, forcing her into
an already overburdened legal system. The obvious
solution would seem to be to repeal the section of the
Sexual Offences Act 1956, referring to the keeping
of a brothel. The prostitutes would then be able to
carry on their trade in private. This would not only
remove the need for women to walk the street, and
so remove the nuisance of kerb crawling, but would
allow these women to carry on their lives without
coming into continual conflict with the law.
It would be a courageous government indeed that
dared to take this step. Puritanism retains a firm grip
on public morality, and the moral backlash might be
severe. However, there are some very compelling
reasons why we should risk such a reaction. Firstly,
it might eventually succeed in removing prostitution
from the street, freeing both police and the courts to
get on with something much more useful. Secondly,
it would free an already oppressed minority. Finally
and perhaps most importantly, it would promote
better health practices amongst prostitutes, far
outweighing the problem of any possible increase. So
far, large government health campaigns have only
been marginally effective in increasing awareness.
Perhaps prostitutes could succeed where the ad
agencies have failed?

