Downright slaggings and bussed-in grannies. Local elections are even dirtier than IC Union's. Liz W
gives an inside view of the IC Party campaign.
Knockers and Tellers
History was made last week when Imperial College
put up candidates for the local council elections in the
two wards where their halls of residence are
concentrated: Knightsbridge in Westminster and
Courtfield in Kensington and Chelsea.
Although we did not win, we certainly fulfilled one
of our aims, which was to make our local councillors
sit up and take notice of the students and their needs.
One of the victorious Conservatives candidates in
Knightsbridge said on polling day, 'If I win I'll certainly
be around to talk to you. You've shown us we can't
ignore you.'
The elections also gave some of us a fascinating
insight into how elections are fought: a whole world
that is hidden from the ordinary voters who simply
turn up at the polling station and cast their vote.
Having decided that my revision could look after itself
for a while, I promised to spend the whole of Thursday
May 3rd, polling day, working for the good of the IC
Party. My obvious enthusiasm to turn up before 8 am,
when polling started, also earned me the further
privilege of being asked to attend the count the
following morning as one of the IC Party's counting
agents.
Arriving at quarter to eight, I headed for the nerve
centre of operations, the party 'committee room',
which had been set up in the Union President's office.
There was a second committee room for the
Courtfield ward in Evelyn Gardens. From here the
actions of the various helpers were coordinated
throughout the day by the election agents, Union
President Neil McCluskey and Union Council Chairman
Tom Yates.
My first task was being sent over to the polling
station to 'tell'. This involves collecting people's
polling cards, polling number or name and address.
These are then ferried back to the committee room
where they are checked off against the electoral roll.
They are also checked off against lists of known
supporters. Usually for a party this means the people
who have said they will vote forthat party when
canvassed prior to the election. In our case we were
checking off the names of students in halls, since this
was where we thought our support was most likely
to be.
This leads on to the other main process, 'knocking
up'. Lists were made of all those students who had
not yet voted and we then visited their rooms
reminding them that the election was happening and
asking them to go and vote. This process began
around lunchtime and continued throughout the day
until polling closed.
•Oft,
WBBBBBBM
WBBBBEBBEMm
I hadn't realised just how effective knocking up can
be until after I came back from covering my first hall.
Only about five people from the hall had already voted
before knocking up began. A lot of people didn't seem
to be in and I spoke to only a dozen or so: this was
a little dispiriting, as about seventy people lived there,
but at least most of them had said they intended to
vote. A few minutes after I got back to the committee
room, some telling returns came in; about half the
student votes were from people in the hall I had just
been to. My doubts about slogging up and down stairs
and talking to people I had never met before receded
somewhat.
Later we left notes in the rooms of those people
X H H R E i S U L T S
Votes Cast Knightsbridge Votes Cast Courtfield
Bailey Liberal 39 Conservatives 880; 855; 830
Cooze Labour 100 Liberal 627; 627; 519
Finley ICP 420 Ken and
MacKeith Liberal 37 Paula Young ICP 279; 254
Michaels Conservative 852 Green 185
Moreland Conservative 857 Labour 189; 182; 155
Owen ICP 404 Residents Action
Searle Labour 74 Party 55
Total Votes Cast 1419
Linstead Hall 1143
Kinnerton Street 265
Postal 11
who were out, telling them we had called and this also
seemed effective in encouraging the students to vote.
Towards the end of the day, knocking up becomes
ever more vital and can dig out those people who
might otherwise not have bothered voting. It also
became frantic as we had too few helpers to cover
all the halls as often as we would have liked. One of
the helpers met two others on the sixth floor of
Linstead. 'What are you doing here?' he asked. They
replied that they had just started knocking up the hall.
He told them that he had just finished it. It had taken
him an hour and a half, so long we had forgotten we
had sent him!
I became very aware of why all these activities were
so important since I had to explain to a large number
of students during the day just why it was I wanted
their polling cards or their name. This helped relieve
the tedium of sitting outside the polling station, as did
having to constantly redirect people because the
entrance to the polling station had been altered from
previous years.
Another aspect that enlivens telling is the chance
to chat to the other tellers who are there. The Labour
Party and the Liberal Democrats hadn't sent tellers
since they didn't expect to poll many votes and
wouldn't want to knock up, but I had some very
interesting conversations with the Conservative tellers
who I found myself matched with. It was a pleasure
to meet one resident who said she thought the
students were very courteous 'since they always turn
their music down around eleven o'clock at night and
don't bother us at all' and who seemed more than
happy to share her local area with us. This was very
Page 13

