different from the normal way we encounter the
locals: complaining about the noise our parties make.
Telling is basically a co-operative affair, since it is
impossible for each teller to get every number. We
soon worked out a fine system whereby we wrote
down the numbers and the Conservatives received the
cards. Telling is also a chance to hear the comments
people make as they leave the polling station, which
can be very funny. I think the IC Party provided some
particular gems on this occasion. One voter, on being
told that every Conservative vote was crucial since
the students were turning out and voting for their own
candidates, was heard to exclaim, 'Do the students
have votes? How terrible! It shouldn't be allowed!'
Later an old lady pushing another in a wheelchair, who
had been brought to the polling station by
Conservative helpers, was heard to say as they left,
'There, that wasn't so painful, was it?' Another
Conservative voter was heard to say, 'I know
students have to have the vote, but why do they have
to have it here?'
Another area that produced a certain amount of
amusement was the name of the party. Actually
standing for 'Independent Counsellors', but
abbreviated to ICP on the ballot papers to ensure the
students knew who they were voting for, there were
some rather odd guesses from some of the other
voters as to what it might stand for. These ranged
from 'Independent Candidates' (quite close) to
'International Communists' (we're a bit worried that
might have created the wrong impression).
During the day the two committee rooms kept in
touch with each other by telephone and exchanged
helpers as the number at each site fluctuated. In the
early evening, the Evelyn Gardens committee room
was to be augmented by two paid students. Tom,
directing the Union Office committee room, phoned
up Neil in Evelyn Gardens to ask if they had arrived
and to request the return of some helpers he had sent
down there earlier. Suddenly Tom exploded into a fit
of expletives and starting shouting 'They're not
supposed to do that, it's illegal. You'll get five years
in prison. More to the point I'll get five years in prison!'
Calming down a little, he explained (to the
enlightenment of both Neil and those of us sitting in
the committee room who were bemused by this
outburst) that it is illegal to pay canvassers and that
knocking up could be classed as canvassing. This was
apparently what the paid helpers were doing. Tom
then reverted back to demanding the students were
taken off knocking up. 'If the Conservatives find
out....' Eventually Neil managed to get a word in
edgeways and point out that the students had actually
agreed to work for free and that the law wasn't being
broken at all. Tom flopped back into his chair in relief.
During the day, the members of the local
Conservative party also provided us with a lot of
amusement. When I started telling at 8 am, I met the
local branch chairman. He seemed a little surprised we
had sent tellers, but confined himself to remarking,
'Oh, so you're the people who are giving us a run for
our money, are you?' The second teller had a long
argument with one of our other helpers, in which she
appeared to believe both that students were very
important (because they had votes), but that they
were really second class citizens (and shouldn't have
votes) because 'they're only here for three years,
while we've lived here all our lives'. She completely
misunderstood that while individual students are only
around for three or four years, and most only get the
chance to live in hall for one year, the student body
as a whole has been in the area since at least the
fifties when many of the halls were built, probably
longer than most of the so- called 'long term'
residents.
During the morning Tom and others had been
addressing first year lectures, urging those in hall to
vote. In at least one lecture theatre he received
rapturous applause. Meanwhile ex-Union President
Page 14
Sydney Harbour-Bridge attempted on at least two
occasions to talk to students but on arriving the at the
designated lecture theatre found that the lecture had
moved.
Because of these efforts, there was a rush of
students voting as they returned to hall for lunch.
Suddenly, between 12.30 and 1.30, we realised we
had nearly half the votes from the Linstead ballot box,
meaning we had about 40% overall. (There was
another, smaller ballot box in Kinnerton Street, on the
other side of the ward.) The Conservatives, in their
committee room, must also have realised it as well
and began to panic. Although it is normal for them to
bring in by car those voters who have difficulty
walking, and although this normally happens in mid-
afternoon, some of our returning tellers remarked
stand Vv
~' - L S e r p e n t i n e d
have turned out and are voting for their candidates
and, you know, we're in danger of losing this ward
for the first time ever, and that would be terrible'.
The amusing side for me was that, having been in
the committee room, I now knew which polling
numbers belonged to students. There were several
young people who weren't students, but looked like
it. Needless to say, she didn't ask them and so her
telling returns, on which she was marking definite
Conservative votes, looked far worse than I felt the
real situation was.
Finally nine o'clock and the end of polling crawled
on. We trudged back to the Union Office with the last
telling sheets and then headed to one of the
candidates' flats for a celebratory bottle of
champagne, some food and story swapping.
0
Gallery
^f"— *#l4eTfional " Coslbrookctale J _
X
I i
The count itself was held in Porchester Hall, north of
Hyde Park, and began at 9 am. We had been warned
that our ballot box was not likely to be opened until
at least 10.15, but we decided to arrive early to work
out what was going on. In the event, the
Knightsbridge box was not opened until after eleven,
so we had plenty of time to look at everything as well
as get a cup of coffee.
I arrived first and after wandering around to see if
I could find the others (our two candidates, John
Finley and Chris Owen, and Tom, the election agent),
I watched what was happening. I had already talked
to a friend who had given me a good idea of how the
count works, so I rapidly picked up what was going
on. They had just opened the first set of ballot boxes
and the counters were straightening out the ballot
success of the IC Party.) Feeling a little smug with my
superior, if recently gained, knowledge, I explained.
Each teller is given a template. This is a strip of card
divided into blocks matching the size of the blocks
containing the candidates names on the ballot paper.
Each of the blocks on the template is coloured
according to the corresponding candidate's party: blue
for Conservative, red for Labour, green for Liberal
Democrats and white for all other parties. The
counters hold the papers against the strip, instantly
being able to identify which candidates have been
voted for by colour and saving them the difficulty and
possible error of reading the names. Each paper
containing a 'ticket' vote, that is a vote for all the
candidates of one of the three parties mentioned
above party, goes into a box labelled with the
ha
rather unkindly that 'it looked like they'd been digging
them out of the grave'. I am sure they would not have
got some of the older people out to vote if it had not
been such a glorious day.
As evening drew on, we realised that our share of
the votes had fallen somewhat and we knew that we
were unlikely to win unless large numbers of the
surrounding residents had heeded our canvassing and
had deserted the Conservatives for us. This seemed
unlikely. However the public face of the Conservatives
was still panicking. This was an old lady who was
stopping obvious Conservative voters after they came
out of the polling station and asking them which way
they had voted. (This is not illegal; asking them on the
way in is, however.) When they replied that they had
voted Conservative, she would harangue them 'Oh,
do please tell all your friends to vote. The students
The Evelyn Gardens polling station appeared to have
produced as many amusing incidents as Linstead. A
Liberal Democrat candidate, having realised that we
were knocking up in the halls of residence, tried to
gain admittance to do some canvassing. In vain.
Students sitting at windows on the ground and first
floor completely ignored his impassioned pleas.
Knocking on one door, it was opened by Ken Young,
the warden. With a sinking heart the Liberal Democrat
recognised him as one of the IC candidates. Bravely
ploughing on, he asked if he might come in to canvass.
He received a curt no and a slammed door in the face.
Later he was evicted from one of the other halls when
found wandering about by the warden.
We retired to bed eventually. Westminster is
sensible and holds its count the following morning
rather than into the small hours after polling closes.
papers, counting them into bundles of fifty and
clipping them together with clothespegs. This was to
allow the total number of papers to be counted to
ensure that they matched the numbers of papers
handed out at the polling station. When it came to our
box, they initially miscounted and had to recount,
finding an extra five votes, which seemed to satisfy
them.
At this stage, Tom arrived and I explained what had
happened so far. Tom then surprised me by asking
how they actually counted the votes, since each paper
had two or three crosses on it. At this point he
revealed that he had never helped in elections before,
beyond doing a few hours telling and had no idea how
the count worked. (I would never have guessed. Tom
ran the committee room in an extremely professional
manner and deserves a great deal of the credit for the
appropriate colour. All other votes (mixed parties,
independents or containing less than the maximum
number of votes) go into the 'non-ticket' box. The
ticket votes are then counted into bundles of fifty and
clipped with clothes pegs of the appropriate colour.
Any 'doubtful' votes, where the voting intentions
are not entirely clear, are adjudicated on by the
returning officer in the presence of the election
agents. The non-ticket votes are then counted. This
is done by giving each pair of counters a sheet with
the candidates' names and a grid of small boxes. One
counter reads off the names on the ballot papers and
the other marks ticks against that candidate's name.
These are then totalled and added to the ticket votes.
IC caused some confusion because our votes were all
non-ticket. This meant that instead of having about
200 non-ticket votes they had considerably more to
deal with and it took quite a lot longer than usual to
count. Our totals on the sheets looked particularly
satisfying. But of course we had no ticket votes to
add to them. After the votes are counted, and if the
result is close, the election agents are told the results
and have the opportunity to ask for a recount. This
happened in Bayswater, one of the first wards to be
counted. Then the results are announced by the
Returning Officer from a microphone in the middle of
the floor.
The counters sit facing outward at tables arranged
in a large rectangle. While they are counting, the
observers stand on the other side of the table.
Observers are not supposed to talk to the counters,
except to point out any mistakes in allocating papers
to the boxes. I seemed to be spending most of my
time rescuing votes for the Liberal Democrats from
the Conservative box.
When the results are announced, the observers
from a particular party usually cheer their candidates
if they think they've won. The Labour cheers were
exultant and joyful and they clapped and stamped
their feet. The Conservative cheers were altogether
different and disturbing: they had an element of small
schoolboy rivalry or football hooliganism about them.
The subtext implied 'We stuffed the opposition' and
seemed very ugly in comparison. The whole election
count experience left me with the impression that
Conservatives en masse are some of the most horrible
people in the world.
We didn't think we'd win, and we didn't think we
could put up much of a cheer, as there were only four
of us compared to more than a hundred Conservative
supporters. However we promised each other that we
would cheer if we got over four hundred votes,
believing we'd got a little less than that. When John
Finley's name was announced with 420 votes, we
managed to raise a jubilant shout. I'm sure the rest
of the nearly silent hall thought we were completely
mad.
The two Conservatives were returned with around
850 votes, while Chris Owen also got more than 400
votes. We were easily the second party, with the
nearest candidate, from the Labour Party, receiving
100 votes. We left soon after the Knightsbridge result
was announced. Lady Shirley Porter, Leader of the
Council and the Conservatives, was flouncing around,
trailing crowds of pressmen behind her. The shot of
her draped over the ballot boxes like a movie star,
which appeared on the front cover of the Evening
Standard, was typical of her behaviour throughout the
morning.
The news from the Kensington and Chelsea count
was less good. Ken and Paula Young had only
managed seventh and eighth out of thirteen, behind
both the Conservative and the Liberal Democrat
candidates. Some of this could be blamed on the fact
that the Liberals were a much stronger second party
and some on the fact that a smaller proportion of
students were eligible to vote than in Knightsbridge.
So, what did we achieve? Well, we didn't get our
candidates elected, but we can still feel quite proud
of ourselves. We got 60% of the students in Princes
Gardens to turn out and vote. Since the overall turnout
was 50%, this means we got more of 'our' electorate
out than the Conservatives did of 'their' support. We
also proved it is possible to mobilise the students on
major issues and disproved the tag that we're all
apathetic. We got 30% of the votes cast and were
clearly the second party. We scared the Conservatives
out off their smug indifference and made them fight
to keep a seat they seemed to think was theirs by
divine right.
Perhaps they really will come and talk to us and find
out what we want. Perhaps the next time we apply
for a bar licence or planning permission for a new hall
of residence, our local councillors will provide us with
a voice on our local council. If we've achieved that,
then we really have achieved something.
Page 15

