We love you,
we need you
S m a l l A d s
ADVERTISE IN THE FELIX SMALL ADS SECTION
FREE IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF IMPERIAL
COLLEGE UNION
ANNOUNCEMENTS
• Why did H.G. Wells blow up Imperial College?
See the bookshop display. Buy the book 'Breaking
the shackles' and read the evidence (only £1.95).
Come to the Great IC Debate on May 22.
• Tom Yates, Happy Birthday on the 12th. Your
pension book has arrived. Please collect it from
the FELIX Office c/o features.
WANTED
• Bicycle wanted: I'd like to buy a secondhand
bicycle immediately. It must be low-ish and
preferably a ladies bike. Please contact Sarita C,
Room 234. Linstead.
• Cox required for racing women's crew. Contact
Diane on ext 7425.
ACCOMMODATION
• Six person, twin bedroom flats available in
Hamlet Gardens for 90/91 session, £49 pp p/w
(exc bills). Contact warden on 081 746 3205.
• Single room in large Fulham flat with 3 IC PGs.
Non-smoker. Rent £47 pw. Call Anna 071 731
1375 ansaphone or 071 955 7087 day.
FOR SALE
• K nebworth concert tickets 3 tickets at £ 3 3
each to see Pink Floyd, Paul McCartney, etc.
Phone Chris Eddy EE IV (071 373 0879).
F.A. CUP
FINAL
Saturday May 12th
The UNION BAR will
be open from 12 NOON
until 11PM
The match will be shown live
on a 50" screen
Neil Lavitt
Please return Andy
Thompson's 'Mighty
Lemon Drops' tape to
the FELIX Office.
Andy has started
making threats
Dear Dave,
It is hard to catch all of the missiles which you throw
in the general direction of the Administration, and
perhaps specifically towards me. Just now and again
I feel I should react to one or two. Take rents: students
are fully involved in giving advice on this issue; but
the decision has to be taken by the chap who carries
the ultimate financial responsibility. It has to be the
Rector-it always was. I can't tell you how much I
would like to pin it onto someone else...
You say 'rents are rising'. If that statement is to be
meaningful it has to be set against changes in the rpi
(roughly reflecting the costs incurred) and the level
of student grants. The decision for 1990/91 is that
the average rent in College accommodation will rise
by 2.8%; the maximum rise, in S Kensington, will be
4.5%; the increase in student grants is 7.4%; the
October to October increase in rpi will probably be
around 9%. In essence, the real rent for next year has
been reduced-in the face of a mounting deficit in the
student residence account. That was not an easy
decision for me to take. I cannot assume that all
members of the Governing Body will see it as
responsible. No doubt they will tell me.
The suggestion that services to students have been
cut more, than the overall cut sustained by the College
over the last few years, again does not bear
examination. However what worries me most is the
grating tone of voice-the waves of nihilism which
seem to inform your comments. Your suggestion that
'I do not believe this College has any further wish to
educate undergraduates' is so very remote from the
truth, that it is a puzzle to know where to start. It's
worth asking why any of us chose to work in a
university in the first place. If one seeks a career as
a researcher, one can work in many different kinds
of institutions which do not have any link to
education. The reason, for the vast majority of us, for
Dear Editor,
Last week I submitted the article entitled
'Homosexuality-is the stereotype true?'. Atlhough
it was probably a little clumsy in its ideas it was meant
to put forward the view that homosexuality, and gays
in person, aren't as bad as they are often suggested
to be. The reason for writing the article was primarily
to put forward that view but I had also hoped to use
it as a vehicle for 'coming out' myself. However at
the last moment bravery went out of the window and
I asked for my name to be withheld. So what stopped
me? Good old fashioned fear of course. Not just the
fear that I could have the shit beaten out of me (that
is possibly one painful outcome), but more importantly
the fear of being rejected by those around me, i.e.
those on my course and in my hall. That fear is one
probably everybody can identify with and thus it is not
surprising I remained anonymous.
seeking a university career is that we enjoy teaching,
both at undergraduate and at postgraduate levels.
Before I came here I did rather a lot of teaching
myself-first year students as well as MSc students.
I worked with a group of PhD students. When I leave
here I hope to do a bit more of both. Most academic
staff see the opportunity to teach as a privilege and
not as a chore. It is true that the College has a greater
stake in research than do most universities in the UK.
That is why we are Imperial College and not the
University of X. That commitment to research is not
instead of a commitment to teaching. The search for
the new is wholly supportive of the mission to portray
what is known-to those for whom it is new.
Your stance to 'The College' and its inmates is so
often a caricature of reality that I do wonder whether
you ever talk to any of the people concerned-that
after all is what editors normally do. Let me put it
personally. I think we have only met once, and that
briefly, at the very beginning of the academic year.
It's easy to make an appointment with me-especially
if you are prepared to get up early. I might, or might
not be able to persuade you of the commitment of my
colleagues, and myself, to all members of the College.
At least it would help you to get facts right (eg who
sits on the Management Planning Group).
In a sense it is easier to build up a caricature in your
mind, to feed it with guesses, then to see it in print,
providing further corroboration of those dark
suspicions. It is easier than exploring the truth. But
Dave, truth is, not infrequently, a good deal more
interesting than fiction.
Yours sincerely,
Eric Ash.
So who does sit on Management Planning Group?
I am still certain that no Union representative
does.
But why do I want to come out anyway? A number
of reasons I suppose, but especially that it feels I am
denying part of myself and being made to feel dirty
and ashamed when I do anything to justify those
emotions. I haven't had any 'relationships' but even
if I had, would that really make me worse than
everybody else? However the main reason why I want
to come out is that being gay very often means
keeping your feelings (anger, pain and joy) to yourself
and very often struggling on alone. So I suppose like
many other people, gay or straight, I'm just looking
for a little extra emotional support and of course for
people to say it doesn't matter. Whether that will be
the case is another point entirely. If nothing else,
perhaps I will learn a hard lesson in the benefits of
keeping my mouth shut!
Yours,
Jason Fisher.
Coming out

