Rag's fate?
Dear Dave,
As the person ultimately responsible for Rag Fete
I would like to throw some light onto the events
surrounding it. In January I wrote to the conference
office giving them the date for Rag Fete as they
wanted to know so as not to book something that
would clash with it. I went to see Mr Northy's
secretary about the details of Rag Fete at the end of
March. Mr Northy's secretary (who was very helpful)
checked up in their diary and said that there was a
function provisionally booked in the MDH and that I
should come back a few days later. Unfortunately
College shut down before she could find out definitely
and I could get back in contact with her-so Rag knew
about the problem from then.
Rag Fete then ran into a second and far more serious
problem-nobody was willing to do bugger all for it,
aside from the CCUs and ICCAG (who represented the
majority of what went on at last year's Rag Fete). The
only part of the Union to respond to requests for help
with Rag Fete came from Wing Chung who said they
couldn't think of anything they could do at Rag Fete
so they wold make a small donation towards it which
was heartfelt and I would like to thank Wing Chung
on behalf of Rag for their donation. Last year's Rag
Fete made just under £800 (excluding costs such as
posters etc) and I seem to remember the weather as
being quite nice. We really could not hope to raise
more than last year's fete and so doing it again this
year would require a lot of work by a lot of people to
raise the same amount of money that could be raised
by ten good collectors in an afternoon. The Leukaemia
flag day in London on May 12 gave us the opportunity
to raise more money than Rag Fete would have for
less work. So for these reasons Steve Farrant and
myself decided to cancel Rag Fete. Unfortunately only
two people (mummy, the superstar she is, and myself)
were willing to spend a couple of hours or so to go
out and raise money.
When I asked at the last Rag meeting whether
anybody would be willing to raise any money
tomorrow, nobody was forthcoming and many came
up with excuses like 'But it's the FA Cup final'-this
would not bode very well if we had tried to run Rag
Fete and money would be wasted if nobody turned up.
This is really the main problem with Rag-if no one
is willing to put a bit of time in for Rag then no money
will be raised. Rag was very active last term-by the
end of term we were running two Rag raids a week
and we raised a lot of money but were relying on a
very small group of people. Rag would raise a lot more
money if a lot of people were willing to put a small
amount of time into Rag every now and then, if only
just to show they care.
I would like to remind Dave Williams he is an ex-
officio officer of Rag and receives minutes so should
know what is going on. I would also like to
congratulate Joe Fernley and John St Hill for their
election as C&G and RCS Vice Presidents-they have
already put in as much work for Rag as the current
VPs have done since October.
Finally I would like to make a plea: if nobody gives
a shit about Rag no money is made for charity so if
anyone has got any time to spare tomorrow and is
willing to help raise some money for Leukaemia
research could they either turn up at the Rag meeting
today in the Lounge or at 10.30am tomorrow in the
Snack Bar.
Love and course work hassle,
Hal Calamvokis, Rag Chairman.
None so
blind
Dear Dave,
We are writing to you concerning the letter No
Benefit Given as published in last week's FELIX. The
writer of the letter raised a number of valid points. It
is very difficult to get reasonable accommodation and
the accommodation office is not much help. All this
means that the writer of the letter will have to use
his or her initiative and go out into the private sector.
Unfortunately we do not think that the writer of the
letter has any initiative at all. It seems that (s)he was
unaware that housing benefit was being scrapped for
students. If (s)he had actually read FELIX this year
(s)he would have found out all about the Student
Loans issue.
Your editorial in FELIX 845 said on the subject of
student loans, 'This means that you, yes YOU, will
see your grant rapidly devaluing with an instant loss
of Housing Benefit...'. You went on to encourage your
readers to do something about it, to turn up to the
EGM on Loans, to write to their MPs and to generally
get off their apathetic backsides.
Throughout the first two terms almost every FELIX
contained something about loans. As editor you have
done your job well in informing us, along with Neil
McCluskey, who has done a great deal of work, with
reports in FELIX and in UGMs if anyone bothered to
turn up.
The writer of last week's letter has no right to
complain that the Union officers were doing nothing.
A number of them spent a great deal of time writing
to every Tory MP personally. All the debates in the
House of Commons and even the Standing Committee
were attended. If the writer hadn't been so lazy (s)he
would have know that his or her Union officers have
got views about it.
Perhaps the author of the letter should have signed
it: 'Brain withheld by request'!
Yours,
Names not withheld,
Joe Fernley, Chris Browne.
Thanks
Dear Sir,
I would like to take this opportunity to thank
everybody for support and encouragment throughout
my campaign for IC Deputy President. The list is
endless, but there are a few people I think merit a
special mention. In particular, I would like to thank the
St Mary's crew for introducing me to two of the curry
houses in the area, and the FELIX team for a very
enlightening artwork session. And also, Julian Dyson
for representing me at the count, which I was
unavailable to attend due to 10% of my degree (!)
having to be typed up and handed in the next day.
As to the criticism I received from Benny 'Krueger'
Titner (FELIX passim) regarding the possible nightmare
he predicted, he should remember that there's one
think that people hate more than a sore loser, and
that's a bad winner!
If we learnt one thing from the campaign, that is
that we can run an election in a week, so Union please
remember for the future. Anyway, it was interesting
to compete, losing is not all gloom and doom.
Keep smiling,
Spenser Lane.
More thanks
Dear Dave,
At the local elections last week we failed to elect
any Councillors. However, up to 60% of the eligible
students turned out and voted, and it scared the
opposition badly. Our councillors in both wards are
now highly receptive to our needs as well as those
of local residents, and we met them on amicable terms
as competent human beings, so a lot of good was
done by the process.
I hope that those who confused us with the
Architectural Monstrosity Party or the Utter Lunatic
Group have overcome these handicaps-I'm glad to
see there are so few students like you around.
Now-the credits (sorry!): a very very big thank you
to every single person who voted. It's done the
College a lot of good, and I hope it wasn't too painful.
Thanks are due to many people, who dropped what
they were doing to help. These include, but are not
limited to, Ric Davis, Murray, Dougie, Ben Turner,
Jackie Scott, Liz Warren, Louise for dropping her
dinner, Rose for typesetting the oddest things, Andy
for printing DayGlo, Jen, Michelle and Fi for
addressing a lot of labels, Dave Smedley for arranging
the printing of everything with very little notice and
vast grace and patience, Syd and Cosmic for all the
work, John and Chris and Ken and Paula for standing,
and for all that that entailed, and above all, Neil for
doing absolutely everything well and smiling through
it.
Thank you all very much indeed.
Love,
Tom Yates, Space Physics PG.
Disgrace!
Dear Mr Smedley,
We strongly believe that you, as FELIX Editor,
should have withheld certain aspects of the 'Delator
Column' of the last issue (no 867), produced under
the pseudonym of Carolyne Toynbee.
The subject material of the first paragraph was of
a highly personal nature, and we find it offensive that
peoples' private lives can be exploited in a manner
which so strongly resembles the gutter press. If you
are going to stoop to publishing such material then you
should at least have the courage to admit the true
identity of the authors.
This column has come close to causing offence
before, but we feel that the naming of the people
concerned, without obtaining the prior permission, is
totally inexcusable, particularly as the article would
have been far more effective had their names not been
mentioned.
You have shown total disregard for the personal
feelings of the people concerned, and we believe that
an apology is in order. We trust that you will never
lower yourself to this level again.
Yours sincerely,
Jane Hillier (ME1), Neal Hewitt {MFD, Mark Bland
IME1), Dan Homolka (M2), Phil Sharp (Ml), Richard
Jones (Phyiscs 2), Malcolm Myers (EE2), Martyn
Reynolds (Phyiscs 2), Gaurang Chadba (FED, Nina
Mukhojee (EE1), Tara Wright (ME 1), Alison Sampson
(ME1), AledJenner (CE1), Alex McLintock (DoCV,
Eye Davison (EE1), Zayeed Alam (CE1).
Rumours of strawberry emotion lotion and
handcuffs have reached the FELIX Office. A £ 5
note is waiting for the best anonymous informer
on the subject-Ed.
Page 17

