SplotSoc splat the reds
On April 29 Splot Soc's postponed trip to Premier
Paintball on the Kent coast took place. After exams,
storms and flood we were finally there, and with
perfect weather. Well, almost perfect. John Preston
was forced to remove his cammo jacket and play in
a rather conspicuous white t-shirt. Splot Soc was split
into two teams, red and yellow, at eight and seven
players.
Game one saw both sides make an unsettled start.
Luke Morales of the reds achieved the distinction of
the first player to be killed on the day. After some time
the reds made a breakthrough and Karl Gill returned
the flag. Game two, played on the same area, had the
yellows make a hesitant attack which soon collapsed
as Gavin Watson returned the flag for the reds.
Game three was played in trenches, with a stream
separating the sides. A stalemate developed, but the
late capture of a bridge allowed Lester Lim to return
the flag for the reds. Game four, also in the trenches,
looked like becoming a certain win for the yellows.
Warren Hurst captured the red flag, but was shot
returning it. Some lucky long range shots by the reds
then evened the sides and reduced the game to a race
between Gavin Watson (R) and Pat Hall (Y), which
was won by a matter of seconds by the reds.
Game five saw the reds defend a village, with the
yellows making little progress in attacking it. Game
six had the yellows defending. Some clever individual
play by Steve Halkyard confused the reds for some
time though they eventually stormed the village and
returned the flag in the dying seconds.
Game seven was the 'Top Gun' competition-every
man for himself. Warren Hurst of the yellows won the
title convincingly with six kills.
The final game was played over the whole site, with
both sides searching for a neutral flag, and then taking
it to the enemy base. This also looked like being a
certain victory for the yellows when Warren Hurst
found the flag straight away and a charge on the red
base began. Warren was then shot and the flag taken
up by John Preston (Y). He was also shot and the flag
fell briefly to Adam Wacey (R). He was shot by Craig
Breed (Y), who then took the flag on a final run on
the red base. Before getting there he was shot by
Vince Ting (R), who then took the flag and ran the
whole length of the site to put the flag in the yellow
base.
This gave a final score of red 920, to yellow's 150.
A good day was had by all and further trips to this
superb site are planned in the future.
ProLife—embryo research
Don't pass this article by. It is not a pointless
discussion, it involves life and death, and you have
the chance to help save some lives.
The Human Embryo Experimentation bill, along with
the attached Abortion amendment clause which came
before parliament a fortnight ago proved to be a
disaster for all those who respect the life of the unborn
child. Once more; parliamentary procedure was the
enemy of those seeking to improve the rights of the
unborn. Confusion amongst Pro-Life MPs led many of
them to mistakenly vote in opposition to their true
intentions. As few as 31 MPs were present during
parts of the debate, although the bars were very busy,
so many of the remainder relied on the less than
objective summing up statements to decide their
votes. Consequently, Britain now has the most liberal
abortion laws in western Europe.
Although the time limit for abortion was reduced to
24 weeks, all restrictions on the abortion of potentially
handicapped foetuses were removed, allowing
abortion up to birth in these cases. The horrific effect
of this is that if, during a normal delivery, a baby is
seen to be handicapped in any way, including
trivialities such as hare lip or club foot, it may be killed
even then, for it is not until 'detachment from the
mother' that it receives protection under the Infant
Life Preservation act. Although most mothers come
to love their handicapped child, it is recognised that
they often experience temporary feelings of shock and
Page 18
fear upon hearing that their child is handicapped, and
it is whilst in this unbalanced state of mind that the
mother will have to make the decision to allow
abortion, a decision she may later regret. This
amendment was passed as a measure to 'decouple'
the Abortion act from the Infant Life Preservation act.
It's terrible effects were not dwelt upon during the
summing up before the vote.
Experimentation on Human Embryos up to 14 days
from fertilisation will now be allowed. MPs were
convinced by a report on the potential for screening
against genetic disorders offered by such
experiments, even though to date only the gender of
the embryo can be detected and simple statistics can
show that it would take hundreds, even thousands of
years of continuous screening to remove the simplest
disorders from our race, assuming detection will
become possible at all. Another report, showing that
the study of human eggs rather than embryos has far
greater potential for the elimination of disorders, faced
delays in publication and was not released until a
couple of days after the debate. Although it would
seem to make the experimental use of embryos
redundant, it was not considered by those who voted
on the matter.
However, all is not lost. The select committee is due
to report on May 22, and further amendments may
be tabled at this point. Pro-abortionists are proposing
to allow just one doctor to give permission for an
abortion up to 12 weeks pregnancy. This, along with
the RU486 'Abortion Pill' will allow abortion on
demand during these first 12 weeks, reducing the
significance of an abortion to the level of a routine
method of birth control, this must be opposed. Pro-
life members will be tabling amendments to limit the
effects of the bill, by proposing to ban the use of
embryos in drugs testing and raising pressure for a
vote to include a time limit for abortions involving
handicap.
It is imperative that you write to your MP urging
him/her to support the pro-life amendments and
oppose the one doctor clause and to press for a vote
on time limits for abortions in exceptional
circumstances. No MP will want to admit to having
made a mistake when voting for this bill, so tell them
that they were misled by Kenneth Clarke about the
benefits of embryo experimentation and the motives
behind allowing abortion up to birth in some cases.
A brief letter is all that is needed, I urge you to spare
a few minutes during the next week. Even those of
you who do not oppose abortion surely cannot agree
with the proposed degree of liberalisation. Please give
us your support. The address for writing to all MPs
is the House of Commons, London SW1. Don't waste
this chance to help save some lives.
Rob Crompton, Elec Eng 1, President IC Pro Life
Society.

