F e l i X
Prostitution
I found myself surprised and disturbed by this week's
feature on prostitution. On the surface, I was most
shocked by the fact that a prostitute on the streets
will charge only £ 10-15 for sex. I then felt disgusted
with myself. By thinking that £10-15 was a low price,
I had accepted that sex is a commodity with a price
upon it. Can you place a price on somebody's pride
and self-respect? Is prostitution something to be
ashamed of anyway? It is easy to take a moral attitude
on behalf of 'society' but it is not so easy to take one
on behalf of the prostitute. The sad fact is that the
prostitute is the loser in an all too frequent story of
poverty and social stereotypes.
Over this week I have begun to feel torn over the
issue of prostitution. I feel sickened by the way that
prostitutes are driven underground and victimised
within our society, and yet I still cannot bring myself
to accept a valuing of sex in monetary terms. To agree
with prostitution you have to be able to divorce sex
from love. Maybe it's an old-fashioned viewpoint, but
I do not believe they should be separated. This may
seem a very religious stance to take, but I do not see
why the church should have a monopoly on this
precept. People will inevitably argue against
prostitution on the basis of religion, but I still feel that
if you search within yourself, you will find far stronger
reasons for opposing it.
In an ideal world people would not have to enter
prostitution. Sadly, an ideal world is just that; a world
in our minds. The most that Britain's prostitutes can
hope for is an improvement in the country's benefits
system and the removal of the labelling of 'common
prostitutes'; those people we still see as guilty until
proven innocent.
FELIX
My term of office is rapidly nearing its end, much to
my own relief, and that of others, no doubt. I find
myself more and more disillusioned with the college,
the students' union and this purile microcosm which
I find myself trapped in. The only thing that I still see
as worthwhile at times is the production of FELIX. I
often wonder why we report on a large part of the
goings on around the college. So much of it seems
so trivial, and yet so many people get so upset about
it all. I am coming to the conclusion that FELIX should
promote greater discussion of topics outside the
college. Imperial seems to be the home of the navel
contemplator, maybe this week's issue will raise a
few heads.
Staff Photograph
This year's staff photograph will be taken at lunchtime
next Wednesday. Anybody who has worked on FELIX
this year is welcome to turn up. We will meet in the
FELIX Office at 12.45pm. The whole process should
only take about half an hour away from your revision.
Credits
Many thanks to last week's collators from the Royal
College of Science Union. Unfortunately I did not take
a list but I recognised Nick from Broadsheet and Sid.
I'll print a list next week, if somebody sends me the
names. Thanks this week to Matthew Johnson for the
feature on Prostitution. Matthew spent a lot of time
finding information on the subject and I believe his
efforts have resulted in the best feature so far this
year. Thanks also to Liz Warren for helping with the
prostitution feature and for the feature on the local
elections. Thanks to Doug King for driving the
getaway van; Adam Harrington for news; Adam
Tinworth, Toby Jones, Ian Hodge, and the amazing
flying gerbil machine for reviews; Sarah and nothing
but the Sarah for Music; Michael Newman for the Nina
Temple interview; Andy Thompson for printing at
ridiculous hours and coping with the flood in the print
unit without tearing his hair out; Rose Atkins for
typesetting and putting up with my grumpy mood this
week; Edna Broadbent, and everybody I have
forgotten. I now proclaim this the best FELIX so far
this year.
FELIX is published by the editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union
Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit,
Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel. 071-589 5111 ext 35151.
Editor: Dave Smedley. Business Manager: Jeremy Burnell. Advertising
Manager: Chris Adams. Copyright FELIX 1990. ISSN 1040-0711
GOOD LUCK
From the Union to Rory
Macnamee and Catherine
for their wedding on
Saturday.
Stag night in the Union
Bar tonight
MAKE A
FlyingSTART TO THE
NINETIES . . . .
from
PARIS
BERLIN
MADRID
NEW YORK
LOS A N G E L E S
T E L AVIV
HONG KONG
SINGAPORE
o/il'
.£40
£60
£65
£106
£150
£89
£264
£240
rtn
£65
£89
£108
£198
£300
£149
£528
£480
SKI - O N E W E E K from only £79
W E E K E N D B R E A K S from £65
Don't MISS O l ' T THIS S U M M E R -
SeatS TO ASIA AND AUSTRALASIA SELLING EAST
B0()k NOW TO S E C U R E YOUR SEAT
ULU T R A V E L
SIIKKKIKI.I) lit'llJ IINC;
IMI'KRIAI. COU.KGK
@) E3 ULU TRAVEL
Accommodation
for October 1990
A selection of fully furnished,
self-containedflatsfor 3,4,5,6,
7 and 8 sharers. Also bedsits in
the Fulham, South Ken and Earl's
Court Areas. Prices range from
£43 p/p p/w.
For further information and
appointments contact:
(071) 731 4073 or 731 0292

