College
wasters
The College staff publication, Network, is to recieve
a 20% increase in its budget for next year, according
to figures submitted for the next Finance and
Executive sub committee. The increase represents
£3000 onto Network's current £15,000 budget.
Mr Eric Stables, the editor of Network, said that
4000 copies of the magazine were produced every
month. M r Stables told Felix that he did not know
the figure for last year's Network budget, but he said
that far less than £15,000 was used. He said that there
were 'no plans to use that amount'. Mr Stables said
that there were plans to start advertising in Network
'to stabilize the financial situation'.
Last year, Felix was budgeted for £12,167. The
proposed increase is 12.9% to £13,734 for next year.
The College's budget also proposes an increase of
12.5% from £32,000 to £36,000 for the HUB office.
Lady Clare Ash, who co-ordinates HUB, said that
she 'didn't know what the figures are based on.' 'I
think someone has made a mistake.. I would be much
amazed if we spent half of that,' she said 'Most of
what we do pays for itself,' she added
University
slammed
A recent report in the 'Daily Telegraph' has claimed
that the University of London is on the verge of
disintegration. The report says that the more powerful
colleges in the University are being slowed down by
the cumbersome bureaucracy of the system and are
making overtures to leave.
In the report Sir Eric Ash, Rector of Imperial
College, made a statement condemning the centralised
administration of the University. He also said that the
University does not have the status its talent deserves.
The report concluded that the future for the
federation of London Colleges looks grim.
Disrupting
meeting
Imperial College Manufacturing, Science and Finance
trade union (ICMSF) will discuss the possibility of
'disruptive action,' at its branch meeting on the 23rd
May. The talks are in response to a dispute with
College authorities over redundancies.
Three members of staff have been given severence
terms for compulsory redundancies from the recently
bought company 'Imperial Biotechnology Ltd'.(See
Felix 865, 21 March and Felix 858, 9 February).
Ms Susan Sharp, ICMSF Branch Secretary, claimed
that all other alternatives had been turned down by
the college, and that the M S F 'reject that it is
unreasonable to accept alterations..none of which are
of significant cost considering college resources.' She
said that it 'was likely' that the members of the ICMSF
would agree to disruptive action starting from any time
after the meeting on the 23rd May. The action would
affect examinations and conferences.
Page 2
Union
funds cut
Imperial College Union will get £10,000 less than it
asked for from the college next year. Dave Williams,
ICU Deputy President, said he was unsure of the exact
figures but told Felix that ICU had asked for £452,026
next year, a 9.5% increase on the £412,900 it was
given last year.
He said that the college will probably grant a 6.2%
increase, or a shortfall of £10,000. He said that this
was because the college thought the £100,000 surplus
that ICU had accumulated 'looks bad'. "Through good
housekeeping we have accrued the reserve—let's
spend it on students,' he said, and added that the
surplus was to 'be spent on specific projects' like
refitting the Union Dining Hall. The money will also
go towards writing off half the snack bar debt.
He said 'they will force on us or make us accept
the position to reduce the surplus'. The shortfall will
either be taken out of the surplus or from the union
clubs.
Malcolm Aldridge, IC Senior Assistant Finance
Officer, said the college was facing a very large deficit
next year and savings had to be made. He said that
the union's surplus was 'roughly 25 %' of their grant.
'We have not "instructed" the union to withdraw its
reserve.. I am extremely careful not to tell the union
how to run itself, he said, 'It's up to them if they
run down their reserves or find other ways of
economising.' He was asked why the college was
under such financial constraints. 'It boils down to
Government's funding of higher education not keeping
up to the pay demands of academic and other staff,
he said.
Hay fever
study
Hay fever sufferers are in demand from the Centre
of Environmental Technology. The centre is studying
the symptoms of the allergy over the summer and
needs students who will be living in London over the
summer vacation to act as subjects.
There is no problem if you are taking medication
for the condition. All interested parties should contact
Geoff Gunner at the Centre for Environmental
Technology, 48 Princes Gardens.
Grotty
initiations
The Royal College of Science Union (RCSU) initiated
next year's RCSU executive in the time-honoured way
last Tuesday.
This year's 'mixmaster', Nancy Reading, said that
the mix which was poured over Sid Hiimae
(President), Gina Mortley (Honorary Secretary) and
John St Hill (Vice President) contained beer, milk,
cooked pigs tails and squid, escargots, blue spaghetti,
rice and the left overs from passing lunchers.
IC Party
second
The Imperial College Party (ICP) came second after
the Conservative Party in the Local Council Elections
in the Knightsbridge ward of Westminster. Dr P J
Finley, warden of Beit Hall and ICP candidate attained
420 votes, compared to 852 for the next highest,
Conservative, candidate. It is estimated that 60% of
the students in the ward took part in the election.
In the Courtfield Ward, the ICP came 7th after the
Conservative party which gained 2595 votes between
3 candidates. Ken Young (ICP) got 279 votes and
Paula Young got 254 votes. This means that probably
280 students voted out of 520 in the ward.
Dr Finley told Felix: 'By god, we scared the pants
off them'. He said that the ICP had 'put down a
marker' and had ensured that the other parties would
take notice of them next time. 'It was fun both
Tom (Yates) and Neil (McCluskey) have worked very
hard,' he added.
Tom Yates, ICP co-ordinator said 'I'm bloody glad
we did it. .we acheived a lot through it short of actually
getting a councillor in. If we hadn't done it they would
never know that IC had a greivance.'
World
record
Craig Shergold, a seven year old who is dying of brain
cancer, has an ambition to gain an entry into the
'Guiness Book of Records' by receiving the biggest
number of Get Well cards.
All those who would like to help should send a card
to Craig Shergold, 36 Shelby Road, Carshalton,
Surrey SN8 1LD.
Bloody
success
The mass blood transfusion organised by the City and
Guilds Union (C&GU) last Tuesday 8th was 'a
storming success' according to Chris Greenwood,
Academic Affairs Officer of the C & G U .
154 people turned up and 132 made donations after
the obligatory checks were made. This translates into
about 100 pints of blood. The next mass transfusion
will probably be in November.
Stop me &
buy one
The Union Snack Bar ('The Caterpillar Cafe') will
be serving ice cream within the next three weeks, as
soon as new refrigerators have been installed. There
will be the usual range of ices sold at the
recommended retail prices.

