University College Union loses
room space - one way or another
University College Union (UCU) is to lose a third
of its building in a deal made by University College
administration. A U C U spokesperson said the union
will lose its gym, its theatre workshop and an area
called 'the Garage' which is used for dances and other
large scale events. U C U caters for 8000 to 8500
students.
According to the spokesperson, the College has not
decided to compensate the union and will make about
£4 million from the deal in a 'goodwill gesture' the
buying company will give for the use of college
facilities.
The spokesperson claimed that the loss will severely
affect sports and theatre. 'Where are students going
to learn to write and act? It will kill it,' they said.
The spokesperson added that the gym was used for
70 hours a week , and the University of London Union
(ULU) next door could offer only 16 hours a week
at awkward times as a replacement. 'We will kick
up a fuss if the Provost (Dr Derek Roberts) is
unwilling to help.... Students are going to lose out
and quite a few societies are going to die.' The
spokesperson said that the Union was not opposed
to the redevelopment but to the loss of Union facilities.
Mr Steven Montgomery, Director of External
Services at UCL, denied that the company concerned,
Eisai, a Japanese pharmaceutical company, was going
to affect the union building. He said that they would
be housed in two new buildings adjacent to the union.
He added that a redevelopment planned by the
Medical Research Council (MRC) would involve
demolishing some of the Union building. He said that
these plans were only in formation, but part of the
Union building would have to be demolished anyway
to make way for an Interdisciplinary Research Centre.
Mr Montgomery said that much of what U C U had
said was 'patently untrue', but admitted that he
couldn't 'guarantee the space for their exclusive use
will be identical to now'. He added that there would
only be disruption during the building work and that
it was 'absolutely vital' that the M R C was housed
close to the Biology, Pharmacology and Physiology
departments of the college.
9 B
mm
'VHrt
Dr Derek Roberts, provost of University College
He stressed that the MRC 'was not committed', but
that plans would be finalised before the end of the
year.
In response, the U C U spokesperson said 'I don't
care what he says—we understand it as the Provost
explained it to us basically nothing can go up
without demolishing our facilities.'
Mr Fred Atkins, a consultant to Eisai, told Felix
that nothing had been agreed as yet and nothing had
changed hands, though the college would 'benefit
IC Union goes
shopping with Dai
The Union Office is considering the purchase of a
new computer system. Dave Williams, IC Deputy
President, said that the 'current technology is slow
and inefficient.... they (the computers) are beginning
to wane in their operation'. He said that the new
system will be able to expand and develop and he was
looking at a maximum price of £25,000, though this
was dependent on funding by the Industrial Relations
Committee equipment fund. He said that the system
to be used had not yet been decided, and he estimated
that the old equipment would be sold off at £300 per
computer.
Reggie Blennerhassett, Union Finance Officer, said
that he thought a £10,000 system was more likely.
This would include two personal computers between
the two financial staff in the office linked to a personal
computer in the Bookstore. He said that the old
computers would be used by the Honorary Secretary
and the Union President. The remaining computer
would be available to Union Club executives. The
restricted access on this machine would be to guard
against hacking and computer viruses. He said that
no-one would buy the old computers at £300 a piece.
substantially' from any deal. 'I see no reason why
the Union should be so upset', he said and added that
there were already two similar establishments on the
college campus. He said that the company had nothing
to do with redeveloping the union building and would
only be involved in using land that was presently
occupied by prefabricated huts.
He said that the decision would be made by the end
of May. 'At this stage it is all conceptual,' he added.
2nd issue
of RASP
RASP, a magazine produced by graduates to help
graduates choose their career path, is distributed free
with FELIX today. This issue concentrates on media
careers in print journalism, radio, film and advertising
sales. The articles are written by graduates from an
unbiased standpoint. Copies of RASP are also
available from the FELIX Office.
Page 3

