As you seat yourself in the reasonably comfortable
Barbican theatre, the scene is already being set. On
a pristine black stage a group of actors in evening
dress gyrate gracefully. They retire to the back of the
stage as the doors close in their eerie fashion, and the
play commences. Thus unfolds a commonplace tale
of wicked uncles and brothers, shepherds, fools, cross
dressing and love. Rosalind lives at the court of her
uncle, Duke Frederick who has usurped Rosalind's
father. Rosalind is banished after she falls in love with
Orlando, the youngest son of a friend of the usurped
Duke. She then flees to the forest of Arden where her
father is hiding. Orlando also flees there because of
his maltreatment at the hands of his elder brother,
Oliver. When they meet Rosalind is disguised as a
shepherd boy, and so Orlando doesn't recognise her...
As you might have guessed Shakespeare comedies
can have somewhat complicated plots. In this case
much of the above is nigh on totally irrelevant to the
main thrust of the play, and is only used to set up the
situation that develops in the forest. Its certainly a
much lighter play than Coriolanus, and one that leads
Page 4
Coriolanus
Rome. Long before the days of the Caesars it is little
more than a city-state at war with its neighbours, the
Volscians. Famine has hit the city and the plebeians
are up in arms against the ruling classes, the
patricians. Most hated of all is Caius Martius. The
outbreak of war halts the riots and in the siege of the
town of Corioli, Caius Martius earns himself the title
'Coriolanus'. He soon finds out that the wartime hero
has less of a role in peacetime and before long he
looses all popularity with the people. His own
arrogance leads to his banishment from Rome and
plans for revenge.
Coriolanus is the last of Shakespeare's tragedies
and quite probably the most political. It is a tale of the
people against the ruling classes and the destruction
of a man who is an anachronism, the last remnant of
a dying system. The Tarquins have been driven from
Rome and the republican system is beginning to rise.
Caius Martius Coriolanus is a man of great military
prowess. An arrogant man but one who hates to hear
himself praised. One who sticks to his own principles,
refusing to bow to the people even when it will lead
to his political destruction. A complicated and many
faceted character that could have easily degenerated
into a one dimensional stereotype in the hand of a less
talented actor than the one who turns in such a superb
performance here, Charles Dance. He even looks
exactly right for the part, that 'lean and hungry look'
that was to worry Caesar many generations later, and
manages to dominate the stage at all the right
moments for example as he stand at the open gates
of Corioli, drenched in blood.
More light is shed on this central character by the
equally splendid Volumnia, played by Barbara Jeffard.
She comes across as a woman who is very different
from the traditional female role (as personified by
Virgilia, Coriolanus' wife) she actively drives her son
into battle so he can win the glory that she desperately
wants. A strikingly forceful portrayal that is thrown
into sharp relief by the later scenes where she has to
beg for the safety of the city.
The rest of the patricians make little impact but they
do not play nearly as an important role as the
plebeians, the mob, the common people. They are
portrayed as people whose opinions are easily swayed
by the orator, but who have great power when they
to you leaving the theatre with a generally healthy and
optimistic attitude to life in contrast to the very dark
ending of the Roman affair.
As the play progresses and more and more of the
central characters end up in the forest, the segments
of the black stage are lifted away revealing a grassy
environment beneath. Eventually, at the beginning of
the second half, we have a pastoral scene complete
with anorexic triffids and some extremely naff flying
butterflies.
Against this changing background the characters
themselves change. Rosalind moves from the
restrained girl at court to the ebullient and perky
'Ganymede', Celia from the formal girl at court to the
carefree shepherd girl and even Orlando from
embittered younger brother to enamored lover. The
cast manage all this without any problem especially
Sophie Thompson as Rosalind, who gives an
enrapturing performance. Also of note is Mark
Williams as Touchstone, the fool, who transfers the
humour of Shakespeare's words into even funnier
gestures.
Theatre
act together. Careful casting has allowed individual
'characters' to emerge while still retaining a group
identity. They also carry spears when required with
great finesse.
Their representatives, the Tribunes, are conniving,
cowardly and often extremely funny. The RSC really
are able to lift apparently bland lines to great comedic
effect. There are times when one is able to forget that
one is listening to formalised language from three
centuries ago. Their clothes changing from plebeian
black to patrician white after they banish Coriolanus
is also a nice touch.
The costumes throughout reflect the important
class divisions in the play. Apart from those
mentioned above, the warlike Volscians are dressed
in blood red, and the patrician women are dressed in
a white/black mix that possibly implies a slightly lower
station than their husbands. Interestingly the only time
Coriolanus appears dressed mainly in black is when
he is fighting-the only time he has the approval of
the plebeians. The actual design of the costume
reflects traditional Roman dress without slavishly
following it, giving us a slightly abstract period sense.
The intimidating scenery and climactic music all add
to the sheer dramatic force of this production. Terry
Hands and John Barton have taken a difficult play and
produced a superb slice of theatre. This really is a
must see. The RSC at their very best.
Adam T.
Theatre
A fairly gentle, almost pastoral, romantic comedy,
it has a wonderful sense of fun that seeps out into
the audience, infecting them. A glorious production
whose only faults are those inherent in the play, and
those butterflies, of course.
Adam T.
As You Like It

