Internal Affairs
Film Book
Who watches the watchmen? A loose translation of
a rather well known latin phrase, it makes a point. In
the case of the Los Angeles County Police it's the
Internal Affairs Division to which Raymond Avila
(Andy Garcia) has just been promoted. Assigned a
partner-Sergeant Amy Wallace-he starts work
investigating a cop who is suspected of planting
evidence, using excessive violence and taking drugs.
Soon though, the investigations start to focus on
Dennis Peck (Richard Gere), a well respected,
streetwise cop who seems to be a little too well off.
The closer Avila gets the tougher things become, until
eventually his wife becomes involved.
A cop thriller with a twist (cops hunting cops), the
film is rather liberally sprinkled with stereotypes and
cliches. The cop whose marriage is in difficulty
because of the amount of time he spends working,
the butch lesbian ('tactfully' referred to as a 'dyke'),
etc...None of the roles are particularly involving, each
performing much as expected, and never giving any
of the actors a real challenge. Thus, unsurprisingly,
acting is perfectly adequate throughout.
This should have been enough to kill the film stone
dead. Somehow it wasn't. The plot, not so much a
whodunnit as a 'how's he gonna get him' movie, has
sufficient twists to keep one interested. The violence
is sickening without being graphic, merely serving to
highlight the nauseating nature of Peck's actions. It
is one of two devices used to relieve the incredible
tension that is built up at certain times through the
film, and by far the most common. The other is
humour, but good 'ole comic relief plays little part alas.
It is this tension that is critical to a film of thriller genre,
and this film has it in abundance. So what we have
is an above average film, which somehow contrives
to be more than its component parts and which is well
worth a look 'if you like that sort of thing'.
Adam T.
Reanimator II
Film
This film has everything: Necrophilia, a fruitbat, small
cute furry (dead) animals, gratuitous amputations and
buckets-count them, buckets-of blood.
Reanimator 2 follows on in the same vein (sorry)
as its predecessor with the continuing adventures of
Herbert West (mad scientist) and Dan Cain (poor
misled soul). This time the boys aren't reanimating but
creating (so we're told) and naturally they decide on
a fine figure of a woman (in great horror tradition). To
achieve this noble goal Herb takes to petty pilfering
from the hospital morgue (a sequence of
unimpeachably good taste) and takes them to the
CELLAR. The CELLAR, as you might expect, is chock-
full of much extrovert glass tubing and fluorescent
liquid. We are then treated to some very bad scientific
method and much hysterically unconvincing
rationalisation (the amniotic fluid of a lizard
reanimates, would you believe?). It is at this point that
the acting begins to come into its own; Jeffrey Combs
as Our Man deadpans through the best lines in the
movie 'She is my creation! I will not be shackled by
the failures of your God!' and is nobly supported by
Bruce Abbot as the Faithful But Unfortunate Sidekick,
Dan Cain. Claude Earl Jones plays a cop who senses
There Is Something Wrong and flips his badge at
everyone (and everything). Mel Stewart plays the
pathologist No-one Will Believe when he stumbles
across the secret of the Reanimation fluid and brings
the head of Dr Hill from the first film back to life.
Special Effects are by Screaming Mad George, who
not only brings an eyeball and four fingers to life but
also a whole CELLAR-full of bizarre freaks. Things to
look out for: 1) the genuinely disturbing asylym
sequence 2) The maiming of the dog 3) The heroine
backing away from something nasty into something
nastier 4) the odd fleeting reference to H P Lovecraft
to whom this whole story is apparently due, albeit
with severe editing 5) Various gratuitous spurts of
blood 6) The line 'My God, they're using tools!'. One
of the notable sequences is when the Bride finally gets
up and running (well not quite) and goes through an
elaborate Greek tragedy about the sadness of being
unloved, half skinned and dead. This is made all the
more tragic by the fact that the cast are busy losing
their lunches and/or gibbering and the audience,
similarly.
Reanimator 2 (which features the appalling subtitle
Bride of Reanimator) is badly acted, badly scripted,
delightfully camp and absolutely brilliant. If you can't
take the gore stay out of the CELLAR. Oh yes....there
really is a fruitbat. Watch out for it.
The Amazing Flying Gerbil Machine.
Why Men
Are the
Way They
Are
by Warren Farrell, PhD
The simple answer is that women make them that
way. Every day women push men to conform to the
mould, and the pressure is great, you either conform
or are called a wimp or jerk.
The basic concept that is the hub of the book, is
the fact that men and women both have a primary
fantasy, something that they want desperately to
come true. Man's is to have sex with beautiful
women, preferably more than one, and for women it
is to become secure, normally in financial terms.
This may seem sexist, misguided and in this modern
society, old fashioned, man the provider of money in
return for sex with a beautiful woman, but too much
of what he says is true for it to be complete rubbish.
Take the issue of women's magazines, in his words
'female pornography'. How can women buy
magazines like 'House and Garden' which advocate
marriage and home life and yet ask why men expect
them to become housewives?-They want to
themselves! Even the supposed liberated new woman
magazines confirm that a woman's ideal man is one
with money that can provide her with security, giving
her the option to work or not. This option is never
considered by a man, you work or you starve, is this
fair?
'New Woman' is for liberated working women who
want to be treated equally with men. If this is true why
is it that the majority of the advertising is for beauty
and fashion products? Does wearing the latest French
perfume make the office more productive? The male
equivalent, in terms of business, something like
'Business News' is full of adverts for office chairs,
computers, all things that are slightly more useful and
relevant.
Warren Farrell explains all this and more, including
a good chapter on the 'new sexism', the sexism
against men that is not perceived as such by women.
Why is it fair to ridicule men about his intellect but
to do the same to women is deemed sexist. I
recommend all women to read at least this part and
if they see no truth in it, there is no hope for equality.
Women may find what he says hurting and unfair,
reacting against it by saying 'I'm not like that!', but
the truth hurts. Women have double standards-they
want men to be open with their feelings but if they
go too far they are called weak and feeble. They also
complain that they have changed, so why can't men?
The answer is that men would be more than willing
to change but what exactly do women want?
Reading the book as a man I have empathy with
much of what he says, most of it is common sense
if you are reasonable. Is it unfair to expect women to
pay their way, to share the financial burden as much
as they want men to share the housework?
I recommend this book not only to women but men
as well, but don't take everything to heart or it could
damage your life in a way it was never intended to.
Ian Hodge.
5

