Who moved
the ground?
5.5.90
Who Moved the Ground? were undeterred by a setting
lit by a strip of fairy lights and with only two monitors
to hold back the raging masses. Tonight this pub
hosted five youths, full of determination, conviction
and down-right cockiness.
During the exhausting two hours set, Who Moved
the Ground? showed their talent for taking what is
best from the best of the indie scene and putting it
together in an irresistable combination. The Birdland-
ian intro swelled into a melodic energy and an
enthusiam only Neds could match. The crowd was
ravenous for more. Other songs had more than a hint
of Dinosaur Jr. but with the determination of New
Model Army.
Numerous covers included the Stuffies' Unbearable
and 51st State by N.M.A. adding to both their own
zest and energy. Nevertheless, their own songs were
so engulfing and varied that covers were unnecessary.
As well as Richard (lead vocals and guitar) both the
other guitarists took lyrics with the bassist's Another
Day being the best slam so far.
The greats have to rest. During the break, even the
ice-cubes were warm and mist threatened to short
everything as the lights dimmed again. Pint glasses
trembled to their verson of Happy Birthday to before
settling down to showfficte-ishqualities. The last half
included a raunchy Just Like Heaven by The Cure'for
all you wierdos' and The Cult's She Sells Sanctuary
which literally shook the place. With Shadows came
a change of mood for the more powerfully sinister and
then back to moshability with The Man Who Lost His
Job. The climax came with a new song which varied
from almost sedentary to manic Bomb Disneyland-'\sh
with total togetherness.
They left us completely dehydrated to a racing 99
Red Balloons, too exhausted to clamour.
If you like the best, watch out for Who Moved the
Ground? as they hit London.
SJH.
Lenny Kravitz
competition
WIN A CAR for a week of your choice courtesy of
Streets Ahead, if you are the winner of this
competition. All you need do is answer the following
question:
Who is Lenny Kravitz married to?
Runners up will receive one of 30 copies of Let Love
Rule album or one of 30 copies of an exclusive Live
in Amsterdam limited edition bootleg LP.
Send your answers with your name, address,
telephone number and COLLEGE by June 30 to
'Streets Ahead' competition, 8 Granville Park, London
SE13 7DA.
Entrants must have held a full clean driving license
for a year and be in full time education.
My Bloody Valentine
Glider EP
Standing in the Indie charts at number two the new
EP, Glider by My Bloody Valentine carries four tracks.
What was the best track, Soon, has just been
destroyed in a dance remix entering the network chart
at 42. With some of psychedelic pop's best, the EP's
worth looking at but forget the single.
GBH.
The Cure
-Entreat
The Curel What more need be said? This free promo
contains all the tracks from Disintegration, bar four,
recorded live at Wembley last summer. They have
been well mixed to capture the introversion of studio
and the spontaneity of live performance.
It is available from HMV. What more need be said?
Except 'You should have been there'.
SJH.
Winners
The winners of the Jesus Jones competition are
Stuart Harrison, Matt Rammell and Chris Store with
runner-up Liaket AN. Please come to the Felix office
any time today (Friday) to claim your prizes.
A LIQUIDISER'S GUIDE TO GETTING
MARRIED
Friday May 11
Underneath What + We Are Going
to Eat You Astoria
New Fast Automatic Daffodils ULU
Sat May 12
I've Lost Sarah Bull & Gate Kentish Town
Sunday May 13
Mega groovy gig of the week:
The Wedding Present + The Darling Buds +
Mega City 4 + The Groove Farm + A whole
host of other groovy bands Brixton Fridge
Tuesday May 15
Cut Cut Emma Trap Door
World Domination
Enterprises Islington Powerhaus
Thursday May 17
Nearly just as groovy:
Jesus Jones + Ned's
Atomic Dustbin Kilburn National
Peter Murphy Town & Country Club
The Family Cat + Cud ULU
Page 6

