Michael Newman interviews ex-IC student and secretary of the British Communist Party.
Nina Temple—interview
On Tuesday May 22 1990 a very historical event will
take place at Imperial College. Over one hundred years
ago, in the wake of the creation of state education
in 1870, students were busy debating at Imperial
College the purpose of education and whether the
College fulfilled it. One of the students, who helped
to initiate the debate, was a poor trainee science
teacher called H G Wells. The arguments were very
relevant to the students, as they were amongst the
first trainee science teachers for the new system.
Some, like Wells, had won scholarships that were
meant to encourage bright working class people to go
into teaching. Only several years before teachers were
'trained' like apprentices, on the job as pupil-teachers.
Something Wells started off as.
What also made the issue particularly exciting to the
students was that their Dean was Professor T H
Huxley, a genius of a scientist, writer and teacher who
fought for free schools for all. He was a working class
hero, promoting free libraries and museums as a part
of the education system. He most importantly saw the
purpose of education not to train but to liberate, to
free the mind through excited inquiry and questioning.
He consequently fought against the state support of
religious schools and against religious preaching in
state schools, these were an anathema to his concept
of developing open minds. This, to him, was liberal
education. Wells was greatly inspired by Huxley's
ideas and teachings.
Because it was during the throes of the beginning
of state education there was a lot wrong with the
methods and philosophies used. Exam results were
used to determine how much money the schools
would get. Cramming, rather than learning and
understanding, was the predominant activity "of
students and pupils. Wells' bitter disappointment at
the lack of liberal education at Imperial College led him
to write harsh criticisms of it in his autobiography. He
also describes its destruction in the first serialisation
of War of the Worlds and in the short story Argonauts
of the Air.
On May 22 you can hear the arguments come back
to life. Have things really changed over the last one
hundred years? How relevant are Wells' criticisms
today? Can we learn something about what is
happening in the changes in education now by looking
at the past?
One of the speakers in the debate is Nina Temple,
an ex-student of the Royal School of Mines. She is
the first woman to become Secretary of the British
Communist Party. As a student she was a communist.
What was it like at Imperial College for her? Read her
interview. Come and hear her speak, alongside Trevor
Phillips ex-ICU and NUS President and now Editor of
LWT, proposing that the College should be 'razed to
the ground'. You might be surprised, you might find
yourself agreeing with her, and H G Wells.
Win free tickets to see the martian lasers 'destroy
Imperial College'
By picking up one of the leaflets advertising the debate
you could win tickets to see the fantasy laser show
based on Jeff Wayne's Musical Verson of War of the
Worlds at the Laserium, or you could win the double
album! See how the Martians might have destroyed
your college.
M. When were you at Imperial College?
N. I think I finished in 77.1 studied material science,
in the Royal School of Mines.
M. A very male dominated college?
N. Yes, dreadful
M. Was there a lot of sexism.?
N. When I was there the freshers' fair at the Royal
School of Mines was a dreadful experience. In fact
I nearly left after the first day because they had all
these very public school type, male, rugby, ritualistic
introductions to the college. And there was the Master
of Pornography...
M. He was there when I was there.
N. The President of the Royal School of Mines had to
drink a piss pot full of beer in front of the students.
I thought it was absolutely dreadful. There were other
women on my course, we formed quite a tightly knit
group that went around pulling down the pornography
in our part of the college. It was a very common thing,
one of the tutors used to keep a lot of pornography
in his draw in the lecture hall. So one day to embarrass
him we put all the pornography up behind the heavy
electronic backboard. When he came to push the
button all his secrets were revealed. And there was
the male only bar, the Union bar. Part of it, a room
Page 7

