beyond the bar was male only. It was quite
extraordinary, having been brought up in a girl's
school in central London, with peace and love. I didn't
know very much about the college before I came. I
came late. I hadn't applied to go to university that
year. I had decided to take a year off, and then I
thought I might as well get on with it. I went through
on the clearing. I went in to meet one of the members
of staff, who was great, he was a very eccentric
Indian Professor, who made me a cup of tea. I felt very
at home with him and he showed me a lot of the
equipment, the electron microscope that I was very
interested in. So I decided to go, completely
unprepared and knowing nothing about the culture of
the place. So it was a bit of a shock.
I had some very good friends who were men there,
all the men there weren't like that. In fact it was the
mining students who were most like that. Material
Science were a kind of civilised enclave in the RSM.
M. Why go into Material Science?
N. The kind of science I did at school was very
modern, it was Nuffield Science. In the physics course
they had a unit on materials. Even in those days it
seemed sort of likely that silicon chips and materials
would be more important in the future than they were
at that time. So I was quite interested in it. The
science I learnt at school was very investigative. The
teaching methods at Imperial, in the lectures, were
just sitting there writing down what the teachers said.
For me it was like going back to the stone age. I
enjoyed the practical side of things at Imperial College.
The open ended projects.
M. What did you intend to do?
N. I was quite into science. I suppose I thought I might
be a material scientist. At the end of the day I was
to fall into the opposite direction really. I was also very
interested in politics in those days.
M. Did you get involved in student politics?
N. No, not at all. I had lived in London so I was very
involved in lots of politics outside the college, so I
never really got involved in the student's union.
M. Were you a Communist then?
N. Yes
M. Was that known, at the college?
N. It became known quite quickly after I was there.
People were quite shocked. I think they thought I was
the first one that had ever been to the Royal School
of Mines. The political ignorance among some of my
fellow students was quite shocking. It was quite a
long time after the coup in Chile. A woman, who was
quite intelligent, was saying to me 'Oh there is a
Marxist government in Chile, isn't there', about five
years after the fascist coup! I suppose people just
weren't interested in it, they were interested in their
subjects.
And when, the first time, I told them I was a
communist, quite soon after that I took a day off
college, a bomb went off at Oxford Circus and they
literally thought it was me, in some way. They weren't
sure it wasn't me anyway. They just weren't used to
it. Once they got to know me later they respected me
for what I am.
M. Was there a women's group or an active campaign
to change the College?
N. There was a women's group in the student's union,
but I never really got involved in the student's union.
They operated on an IC level. I just, sort of, survived
with a much more informal group of women friends
who just did things that we felt needed to be done.
M. When I was at college I know that there were some
young women who did leave because they felt that
the attitudes of the place, especially the ignorance in
terms of politics and social issues were so strong, they
just couldn't stand it.
N. Yes I did think of leaving. But I suppose I am just
a very stubborn person. I don't like to see people drive
me away from something I have chosen to do.
M. How long were you there for?
N. Three years
M. Did you know Trevor Phillips? Was he there when
you were there?
N. Yes, he was the President of the student's union
when I was there. In fact it was my last year that he
was President.
M. So it was quite political then, because it was in
the NUS?
N. Yes, but the student's union did not involve the
students very much, that was the problem. There was
a section that was political, the ICS (Imperial College
Socialists) was always the more political sort of bit.
Certainly the students from Mines were never
involved in IC Union, they were involved in the Mines
Union. The main union never actually engaged a very
large number of students.
M. Do you think that what you found at the college
was a reflection of the nature of science and
technology?
N. I think it was probably an extreme reflection of
science. Well, I mean, I hope that the place has
changed quite a lot since then. I know that there isn't
a male only bar now, which is an improvement.
M. They have the plaque up there. They proudly
exhibit the plaque on the shelf at the back of the bar.
They still have men only drinking clubs. When I was
there they still had the 'Hon Pofnographer' and they
organised 'Hon Porn Night'. One year they had a
foreign students bar night on the theme of South
Africa, they were going to draw a line down the bar.
Some were going to blacken themselves up and stand
one side, the others standing on the other. All the
societies got together and protested, and involved the
press. Reuters phoned up and the Rector Lord Flowers
put pressure on the Union to stop it, though it was
not democratically stopped.
M. What do you think of the involvement of the
college with companies linked to South Africa?
N. I thought it was dreadful. I was involved in an
occupation of the South African Embassy when I was
at the School of Mines. I got in because I said I was
a student there and I was interested in working in
South Africa. So it was no problem at all, straight in!
I pulled my banner out later on. It was an Anti-
apartheid demonstration.
They showed us some films sometimes about South
African gold mines, which were meant to impress us
with the technology and everything. It was dreadful,
the conditions that people were expected to work in,
the temperature and the humidity. They have to give
the black workers physical training to survive down
there. I think that most people would be horrified,
including the non-political white students.
M. Would you recommend any young woman to go
to Imperial College?
N. I think it would depend on what they wanted to
do really. I think in terms of becoming an engineer,
yes. It is the best place to go in terms of the quality,
especially the equipment. I think the fact that the
college is doing so much military research means it
has a lot of very high tech equipment that other
colleges don't necessarily have. I think they would
have to go with their eyes open about what it is like,
and hopefully be a part of opening it up and changing
it.
M. When you were at the college did you realise the
history of the place? H G Wells or T H Huxley?
N. Something of it. Not a great deal. Like I said, the
RSM basically saw itself as a very different entity. I
didn't find out about IC as a whole, I was more kind
of in the RSM!
M. Do you ever relate what it was like, in terms of
politics and social, to what you do now?
N. Yes. I think you are very much formed by your
history, your experiences. Being at the college helped
make me into a feminist. I found other women gave
me strength to have self-confidence to do things I
would not have been prepared to do on my own. I also
went on industrial training with ICI, I did a summer
working with them, and a project with them in May
last year. I found that a valuable experience, in the
sense that they gave us a lot of training about how
ICI was run, union, planning, the environment etc.
They also took me around a lot of the industry in the
North West. I was based in Runcorn. That helped me
get the feel about what industry is about, which if you
are talking about politics is quite important.
M. In the Communist Party itself are you, in terms of
the management structure, the person with the most
experience in terms of industry, science and
engineering?
N. I think I am the only person with a science degree,
but there are other people who have worked in
industry longer than me, as workers in industry.
M. Are some people surprised when you tell them your
background? Are your opponents outside the party
surprised about your background in material science?
N. I think they find me a surprising person to be head
of the Communist Party anyway. I don't know
whether it is just the fact that I have a science degree.
I think it is more the fact that I am a youngish woman.
They don't expect me to be interested in doing this.
Mother of two...
Page 8

