Neil McCluskey goes on about Local Elections, Loans, Athletics, Welfare, Nightline and yet more E
The President rambles
Welcome back to the summer term and the first in my
series of concluding reports. Good luck to everybody
who has got exams. For those of you that have
already finished, have a great time, relax, enjoy the
sun but do have a little consideration for those
students still doing exams.
Local Government Elections
Most of you will have noticed that Imperial College
had candidates standing in the local council elections.
John Finley and Chris Owen in the Knightsbridge Ward
of Westminster and Ken and Paula Young in the
Courtfield Ward of Kensington and Chelsea.
Although we did not succeed in actually getting
councillors elected we most certainly worried a
number of parties and got ourselves recognised as a
credible, well organised and extremely large group of
residents. Most prospective and elected councillors
were respectful of the fact that, of the residents
presently living in halls of residence appearing on the
electoral roll, well over 65% turned out to vote for
their own candidates.
This operation has certainly got you, the students,
noticed and will go a very long way to maintaining
discussions on the matters that we would have
wanted discussing if our own councillors had been
elected. Those discussions will start very soon.
Thanks must go to a very large number of people.
Primarily you the students who went out to vote.
Secondly to the candidates for standing. Thirdly to the
helpers both before-hand and on the day. In particular;
Tom Yates, Liz Warren, Doug King, Michael Paton,
Claire Stewart, Jackie Scott, Sydney Harbour-Bridge
and everybody else who ran round halls persuading
people to vote.
Special thanks to David Smedley and the FELIX
crew for producing promptly, cheaply and efficiently
much needed publicity.
I feel that this is an exercise that should certainly
be repeated in future and from now on close relations
should be maintained with the councils concerned.
Loans
The student top-up loans bill has passed through
parliament and is now law.
From reading a letter written to the FELIX Editor
(4.5.901 it appears that at least one student is still
unaware that along with the top-up loans scheme,
students are to be removed from the state social
security system. This student also seems to be of the
opinion that a student union can wave its magic wand
and persuade the government to change its mind.
Sadly my magic wand is limp and lifeless from the
vigorous activities of recent months, so a miracle I
cannot thus perform. I wonder how many more
students are deaf, dumb, blind and brainless enough
not to notice the situation they're going to be in come
October 1990!!
On the subject of removal of benefits it is likely that
this amendment to the social security act will be
discussed in Parliament some time in May or June.
Judging from the replies we've had from MPs it seems
unlikely that the government will change its mind. All
we can hope for is that discussions will go on for so
long as to delay the bill until the parliamentary recess.
I have already requested at the College's Governing
Body that College sets up a hardship fund, along
similar lines to the housing benefit, into which it can
put the government 'access' funds (funds put aside
by government to replace the state benefits).
Students presently claim approximately £ 6 9 million
per annum and the access funds only total £25 million
per annum!
Athletics & Sports
Harlington-Contracts have now been signed to start
work on the astroturf. Work has already begun even
though we have not yet got local planning permission.
Southside Gym-There are plans in hand to convert
Southside Gym into a commerical fitness club with
preferential rates for students. This is likely to affect
a number of clubs but hopefully not too adversely.
Talks will be held soon to discuss everybody's
requirements. The fitness club could generate a large
amount of external income for disposal on student
clubs/societies. If anybody has any ideas then please
come and talk to me soon.
Welfare
There are no formal welfare campaigns this term but
from a week's time onwards a house hunting
information pack will be available from the Union
Welfare Office. This contains essential information on
the do's and don'ts of entering into contracts with
landlords, etc. Yve Posner and I are also hoping to
stage a 'roadshow' in Evelyn Gardens and Prince's
Gardens to promote the pack to unsuspecting first
years who have probably never rented a place (other
than at College). Well, somebody's got to do what the
accommodation office should be doing.
Nightline
Further discussion with College Welfare Committee,
the Nightline Steering Committee and the Rector have
led almost nowhere. Anne Conlon, the Chairman of
the Nightline Steering Committee, has tried
unsuccessfully to find alternative accommodation but
the Rector is still insisting that the notice to quit at
the end of June will be enforced. What does
UGM/Council think of the idea of adopting Nightline
as a Union society, picking up the administrative
burden ourselves and possibly even having Nightline
in the Union building? Incidentally, the last of these
suggestions I'm reluctant to implement since, if
Nightline is to remain on campus, it might as well stay
where it is!
Elections
Congratulations to Ben Turner on being elected
Deputy President. His posters have caused a minor
hassle but I fully support Fiona in her decision to allow
the posters to be used. I refuse to be drawn into
further discussion on this matter as the event is not
over and all posters should have been removed. Good
luck to all the sabbatical-elects in their exams.
Neil McCluskey, ICU President.
ASSISTANT
SUBWARDEN
Selkirk & Tizard Halls
Positions available starting in September
We are looking for bright, enthusiastic,
hardworking, organised people who are interested
in students' welfare and who can solve students'
problems sympathetically and effectively.
These positions pay nothing, but do come with free College accommodation.
Application forms are available from the:
Student Accommodation Office, 15 Princes Gardens
NOW
Completed forms should go to:
The Warden Selkirk & Tizard Halls, Prince's Gardens SW7 1LU
Closing date: Friday May 18

