Graham Rickard's second goal, which
effectively killed off Goldsmiths. IC increased
their lead to 6-.1 with a rasping shot from
Malcolm Carr and the third from Graham
Rickard.
TEAM: Veats, Curran, Beer, Armstrong,
Lakin, Griffiths, Niccolls, Esberger, Carr,
Rickard, Saunders.
Jim Beer
Football
Fourths
On a bitterly cold day IC travelled to play top
of the table LSE 3rds. After a slow start IC
took the lead on the quarter hour, Graves
bundled the ball across the line after the
goalkeeper could only parry a Burns cross.
This lead did not last long and L S E
equalised after a dubious penalty was
awarded against Maddy for allegedly holding
an opponent.
At half-time neither side appeared to have
the upper hand but early in the second half IC
scored two quick goals. After a breakway the
ball broke for McNicholas who shot the ball
home from inside the box. The best goal of
the game was the result of our next attack, a
cross from the left was cleared to the edge of
the box where Buckley fired a fine shot past
the goalkeeper.
McNicholas scored his second of the match
when he tapped home a rebound. Burns
finished the scoring late in the game, a pass
from Hawa found him unmarked in the box
and he placed his shot wide of the advancing
i keeper.
TEAM: Brown, Berns, Maddy, Lay, Chown,
Graves, Buckley, Dolan, McNicholas, Burns,
Hawa.
Burns
Football
Sixths
AFTER a two week lay-off the Sixths made
heavy work of this match, but emerged
victorious thanks to a well-taken hattrick by
Sixths top scorer Mike Roche. The game
started badly for IC when Westminster scored
following a long hopeful clearance. The
Sixths soon gained control of the game and
equalise when Roche broke away and
lobbed the ball over the advancing goalkeeper.
With Milner heading almost every drop kick
back into the Westminster half the Sixths
were able to pile on the pressure and soon
took the lead when Davies's well judged cross
was headed in by Roche. Westminster began
to fight back in the second half but found the
Sixth's defence very difficult to penetrate
though they scored from a penalty to make it
2-2.
The Sixths continued to go forward,
Chamberlain and Gartside both had shots
saved before Roche restored the Sixth's lead
when he thundered the ball in past a bemused
goalkeeper. The Sixths remained on topforthe
rest of the game and were unfortunate not to
win by a bigger margin.
TEAM: Hampton, Higham, Bradley, Audin,
Davies, Tinkler, Milner, Gartside, Davies,
Roche, Chamberlain.
Sport Erratum
In FELIX 569 we reported a snooker score of
3-0. We have been informed that the result
was not a whitewash, but 3-1.
Results:
Saturday, December 6
Rugby
IC 1st XV V Esher 4-7
IC 2nd XV V Esher 0-50
Football
IC 1st XI V St Thomas 2-0
IC 6th XI V QMC 6-4
Hockey
Ist XI V Old Creightonians 0-0
2nd XI V Ashford 02
3rd XI V Farnham 1-5
Results: Sunday, December 7
Hockey
1
1st XI v Southgate (Middx Cup) 0-9
Football Firsts
ORGANSMIKOV in his usual complimentary
mood, was worried by the absence of our two
normal centre-backs, but his worries were
unfounded as Reeve and Griffiths com-
fortably dealt with the St Thomas forwards
who, in the whole match, produced only two
threatening shots on goal. Any tension that
always accompanies a cup-tie was broken
early in the second half when IC scored two
goals in five minutes. The first was a solo
effort from Andy Hartland, who ran from the
half-way with the ball and nonchalantly
deposited it in the net. Ged Elliott scored the
second, to make it 2-0.
Firm tackling from Curran and Smith stifled
a final fling from St Thomas with Bateson and
Elliott controlling midfield easily. Upfront,
Dean, played a steady centre-forward role
while Rickard, who came on a substitute in
the last few minutes to provide an outlet for
Kenny Dick's abuse, showed how falling over
the ball could be interpreted as trying to
score a goal.
The result means a semifinal place for the
first, next year and, apart from one more
league match, the end of a very successful
term.
T E R M : Orgasmikov, Curran, Reeve,
Griffiths, Smith, Elliott, Dick, Bateson,
Rowley, Dean, Hartland. Sub: Rickard.
Squash Club
TO PROVE that IC Squash Club does play
matches, here is the report of IC III vs IC IV
match played last Wednesday in Division
Four of the ULU Squash League.
IC III 5 IC IV 0
Obviously, you might say (obviously), a
straightforward thrashing of the I Vs. Not so. A
spirited performance by the IVs led by Mike
Dickens, who lost 9-6 in the fifth to Wayne
Jones, resulted in a tense match, with
markers giving vocal encouragement to
players at certain stages. Needless to say,
both teams consumed approximately their
own weight in cheese and pickle sandwiches
after the match. '
Next term I'll try to get all results printed,
which might include an IC V team and an IC
Ladies team in the ULU Leagues.
Don't forget, I've still got fifteen gut-stung
classic 003s (similar to grays light blue)
selling at £14. Room 131, Falmouth Hall.'1
-
Rich Thompson
Capt, IC Squash Club
Sailing
IC v Cambridge University
IC TRAVELLED up to Cambridge for their last
match of this term, and recorded their first
win of the season. Conditions were light, and
in race one, IC held a commanding position
by the first mark. IC finished first, second and
third. In race two, the team started badly. The
Cambridge boats eventually took first and
second. The third Cambridge boat finished
last, but after some argument about penalties it
seemed that Cambridge had won tne race.
However, IC made no mistake in the
deciding third race, with Chadwick and
Murray holding comfortable first and second
throughout. Kennedy was hounded by all
three Cambridge boats, but stayed out of
trouble, enabling IC to win comfortably.
T E A M : Murray, Butler, Kennedy, Mills,
Chadwick, Younghusband.
Table Tennis
LAST THURSDAY, the seconds played the
closest match of the season so far, and their
opponents, Texaco I had been going through
a very tough time. The final score was 5-4 to
Imperial College.
Andy from the seconds played a marvellous
game in which he won all three sets, saving
two set points against his opponents and in
one of the sets, the scores were 15-21, 26-24,
and 21-16-
Chat had two good wins after losing one
set and Gary lost all three sets.
The victory gained by the seconds has put
them back in the promotion race and there
will be two more matches before they climb
up to the top of the table tennis league.
Water Polo
ON DECEMBER 1, Imperial Water Polo Club
played a friendly home game against
Borough Road College, the sports college
from Isleworth. Our opponents got off to a
good start with three goals scored from long
distance in the first quarter. Chris replied to
this with two fine goals from the 'hole'. In the
rest of the match our passing let us down a bit
and our marking could have been better.
The final score was BRC 8, Imperial 5.
A return match will be played on February
21, 1981.
Novice Regatta
THE NOT Ladies Team went along to the
Reading Universities Novice Regatta only to
find a nasty draw awaiting them, including an
extra race. However:
Race 1 Southampton University lost by
quite a bit.
Race 2 Jesus College Cambridge First
Novice Boat lost by lots and lots (despite
practising five days a week).
Race 3 Queen Mary College London lost
by a canvas (i.e. only just).
Race 4 Unfortunately, due to that extra
race and a universal attack of lassa fever in
our crew, Clare College Cambridge (almost
all) novice crew didn't lose by any margin at
all.
We thought getting into the top four out of
eighteen university boat crews was bloody
marvellous.
Friday, December 12, 1980 Page 11

