Exploration
Society
China, Thailand, the Patagoniari Andes, Ice and
Greenland, Kenya and Central Africa are all the
sort of places the IC Exploration Board and
Society want to help expeditions set out to. Now
is the time to start planning for 1982/3, even for
those with relatively simple objectives.
Some of the above sound formidable, but with
the help of the huge amount of experience and
the numerous contacts that exist in and outside
the College (at the Royal Geographical Society
and British Museum for instance) they are within
anyone's capabilities.
Substantial backing as well asfianancialhelp is
available from the Exploration Board for
'expeditions' in the widest possible sense of the
word. The opportunities range from those
involving scientific and engineering orientated
projects (e.g. environmental studies, hydrology
and communications) to those wanting to climb,
cave, carry out underwater salvage work or just
to undertake a difficult journey.
For next term we intend to organise several
meetings concentrating in turn on some of the
places mentioned. There will be speakers with
personal experience to the country, able to give,
an intersting talk with good slides, as well as'
suggest the sort of thing a student expedition
might undertake, outline the problems and
answer questions.
Anyone with ideas, experience, specialist
knowledge or just plain interested please come
along. Hopefully these meetings will provide the
seed for one or two expeditions. It will be a
worthwhile development if some muftidisciplinary
expeditions can be formed from those in different
years and on different courses.
Take China for instance — a feasible
proposition considering the links the College has.
An attempt was made two years back and
considerable progress achieved. However, it
foundered since the leader left for Hong Kong —
in theory to gain information — but was so
enticed he stayed. So, why not try again? The first,
student expedition ever to China!
If you have any ideas in the meantime, go ahead
and follow them up. You can contact me,
chairman of the Explorataion Society, through
the Mech Eng 1 pigeon-holes.
Max Balfour
Scaramouche
Solutions
Last Week's Solution
On the face of it, White appears to have a valid
mate in two by 1 N-B6. Whatever Black replies,
then White mates with 2 R-R8.
However, if Black can castle, she can avoid this
mate.
Now by the rules of chess, Black cannot castle
if she has moved her king or rook. So if she can
castle what was her last move? Not with the pawn
on KN2, certainly, for this pawn hasn't moved. So
it must have been with the pawn on QN4. This
pawn cannot have come from QN3, or else White
illegally left herself in check at the end of her
previous move. Nor can it have come from QB3
(capturing) since White still has all sixteen men.
(A lot of otherwise complete entries missed this
point.) So Black's last move was P(N2)-N4 which
allows 1 PxP en passant, check. The rules forbid
castling out of check, so 1... K-Ql is forced, and
mate follows with 2 P-K7.
So there are alternative solutions, depending
on Black's last move. If Black played P(N2)-N4,
White should play PxP en passant, whereas if
Black moved king or rook last, then White should
play N-B6.
Out of forty-five entries, six were absolutely
correct and the winner is Jeremy Moss,
Chemistry 1, who can collect his prize from the
FEUX Office.
Count Scaramouche
Consider the number of ways of spelling
EHCUOMARACS in one quarter of the diagram.
There is only one choice of E. From that E you
have a choice of two Hs, and from each H you
have a choice of two C s . . . etc.
So EHCUOMARACS can be spelled out in 2">
ways. So SCARAMOUCHE can be spelled in the
same number of ways. So taking all four quarters
of the diagram into consideration; there are 4.210
ways, except that the four 'straight' spells have
each been counted twice. Hence there are 4.210
-
4=4092 ways to read SCARAMOUCHE in the
diamond.
Cubes
Since 3S
+7^K)3
=370, itis obvious that 33
+73
+l3
=371.
Shot in the Dark
Four.
Inspect a jar from the middle shelf. If it's fixer,
inspect all the jars from the top shelf. If it's stop,
inspect the other two jars from the middle shelf.
But if it's developer, you must inspect another
jar from the middle shelf. If this is stop, take the
remaining jar from the middle shelf. If it's
developer, then inspect two jars from the top
shelf.
A little thought will convince you that this
method will always provide you with at least one
jar of each chemical.
Bathtime
Neither; the clear patch is still exactly the right
size (half the size of your face).
Cockroach Vol-au-Vent
John and Rae cross together. John brings the
torch back. Steve and Liz cross together. Rae
brings the torch back. John and Rae cross
together. Total time: 12 minutes.
Trousers
Zero. If six of us get the right trousers, then so will
the seventh.
PogeS FELIX, December 12, 1980

