Liz's Wee Bit
THE FIRST U G M of next term will take place on
THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 1981 at 1:00pm in
Mech Eng 220. The motion deadline for this
meeting will therefore be Tuesday, December 16,
1980. This is to enable Exec News to be ready for
distribution at the start of next term.
There have been several incidents of insurance
companies attempting to sell their wares within the
Halls of Residence. No company has received
official permission to do so. Any approaches
should be treated with extreme caution and
should be reported to the warden or sub-warden
immediately. Any further information on this
matter can be obtained from John or myself or
from the hall wardens. Should anyone wish to
check up on any dealings made with such a
company please get in touch with Michael Arthur.
Hope you all have a pleasant holiday — I'm
heading home to the frozen north! See you next
term.
Liz
Matters Raised
John Bull Promotion
This went very well, with 144 gallons of beer being
sold out by 9:45pm, and Southside Bar being
fuller than I've ever seen it. 1 hope you all enjoyed
it, and will come along next term to the tasting of
the new Taylor Walker Recti Ale, which is to be
organised along the same lines. Many thanks to
IC Radio for providing fun and games, and to all
the barstaff for working so hard.
Bookshop
A new manager has been appointed, to start on
January 1, and I look forward to seeing what new
developments he will bring. We are also
disucssing the possibility of selling regalia
ourselves, so will any clubs, soceities, halls, etc.
who have their own ties please discuss it amongst
themselves and report back to me as soon as
possible.
Amusement Machines
Can I again ask anyonefindinga fault to report it
immediately, so we can get it fixed straight away.
Abo to those who push 2p pieces, combs, etc.,
into the coin slots — it's not worth it, because you
won't get a game, you'll just bugger it up for
everyone else.
In answer to Mr Webb's letter last week, I'd be
quite happy to spend a couple of hours every
luncthime in the Lower Lounge, playing pinball
and being sociable, but unfortunately, I've got lots
of other more important things to do (Ha! Ha!
Ha! Ho! Ho! Ho! - Ed) (He can come and read my
job description if he doesn't believe me).
However.n point is that even if I had time to
check all the machiens, say three times a day,
there'd still be a gap of several hours before a fault
was detected, whereas if its reported as soon as it
hapens, it can be fixed immediately.
Student Union Financing
From what Dr Rhodes Boyson told John and I
this afternoon, next year will see us back on the
suvention scheme and getting an equivalent (i.e.
adjusted to account for inflation) amount of
money to this year, which is exactly as planned
for when we went to 'per capita' for one year. The
overall picture is that everyone should be getting
the equivalent of what they are getting now,
which makes NUS and their 11,000 marchers
look pretty silly.
Nearer home, the estimates for next year will
have to be prepared pretty soon after Christmas,
so aD club and society chairmen please start
thinking about it now.
Cleaners Cupboard
I was surprised to read in last week's FELIX that
Sherfield Security think I've got the key to the
JCR Cleaning Cupbaord, as I most certainly have
not, and indeed wasn't aware that it was missing
as neither security nor anyone using the room
had reported it. Please can ayone experiencing
similar problems in future please metnion it when
picking up their room deposit etc. — then
perhaps we might be able to do something.
Cheers for now, and have a good Christmas.
Rae
SCC
The following societies have failed to send a
representative to the last two full S C C meetings
on October 16, and December 4, 1980:
Amnesty
Budhist
French
Gay
Labour
I am thus investigating whether these societies
are still active. Unless a representative from each
of the societies contacts me before the next SCC
Executive Meeting, I shall propose to the
executive that these societies be abolished, and
this may then be considered at the next full SCC
Meeting. The dates of the next meetings are:
SCC Executive: Tuesday, January, 20, 1981
SCC Full Meeting: Thursday, January 22, 1981
Bryan Steele
Hon Sec SCC
ICYHA
LAST WEEKEND we journeyed up to Snowdonia
for our final trip this term. We arrived late after
midnight at Snowdon Ranger Youth Hostel and
on the Saturday we went up Snowdon, eagerly
ekxpecting a magnificent panorama from the top
(very rare), as the sky was reasonably clear. The
weather, however, having sensed our hopes, saw
fit to lower cloud, before most of us had arrived;
and not until we were on the way down did it
disappear.
The second day we went to Llyn Ogwen where
we separated into three groups. The first group
went up to Devil's Kitchen, Glyder Fawr (999m),
Glyder Fach (994m); the second group did some
rock climbing near Llyn Idwal and the third group
walked arouind the lower slopes of Llyn Ogwen.
The wether remained cold but dry over the
weekend and the hostel and the food (which we
cooked ourselves) were great.
All the weekends have been thoroughly
enjoyed by those involved, and have included this
term places like the Peak District, Brecon
Beacons in South Wales, the Downs and a
successful cycling weekend in East Essex. Also
the large numbers wishing to gok on weekends
has kept the prices very reasonable.
A week ago we had our annual Christmas
Dinenr at the Carvery in the Rembrandt Hotel,
which went very well, and at the last butty
meeting the weekends for next term were
decided. These are, with provisionald dates as
follows:
January 9: Dorset
January 23: Yorkshire Dales
February 6: Shropshire/Welsh Border
February 20: Somerset
March 6: Lake District
With the exception of the Lake District, where
we shall be camping, all these weekends will be at
youth hostels. There will also be more cycling
weekends arranged and our Easter trip is
expected to be in Scotland.
For more information about these weekends or
membership, come along to our regular Thursday
Butty Meeting in Southside Upper Lounge at
12:30pm.
Finally, ICYHA wishes all its members a really
enjoyable Christmas.
Compiled by Phil Webb
Results: Wednesday, December 3
Football
IC 1st XI V Goldsmiths I 4-0
IC 2nd XI V Goldsmiths II 6-1
IC 4th XI V LSE 5-1
IC 6th XI V Westminster 3-2
Hockey
Guilds V LSE 5-0
RCS V Royal Holloway 1-2
Ladies V Guys 1-3
Football Firsts
Fresh from their emphatic victory last week
IC travelled to Goldsmiths College confident
that they c o u l d defeat the only other
unbeaten side in the league.
As usual IC got off to a slow start and were
grateful to Organowski for a fine save early
on. The games was a somewhat scruffy affair
with few dangerous attacks mounted by
either side and IC were perhaps rather
fortunate to score the vital first goal. It was
Elliot who scored after sneaking behind the
Goldsmiths defence to meet a careful cross
from Reeve and slot the ball inside the far
post.
The second half saw a much more open
game which allowed the new front line
formation to combine well. Dean headed on
to Hartland who calmly slipped his shot past
the keeper. From then on IC were in complete
control with many attacks stemming from the
potent Smith-Elliot partnership on the left.
The third goal came with Dean shooting
under pressure after being well led by
Rowley.
Soon afterwards Hartland intercepted a
tepid backpass and scored his second goal
giving IC a comfortable 4-0 lead. Goldsmiths
didn't give up and were awarded a penalty
after Smith brought down a member of
Goldsmiths strike-force. Organowski dived to
his left and saved the well struck penalty.
TEAM: Organowski, Reeve, Smith, Mulhall,
Ward, Bateron, Elliot/Dick, Dean, Hartland,
Rowley.
FootballSeconds
This match saw the welcome return of
Graham Rickard to IC soccer, after an injury
which he incurred during the trials at the start
of the season.
Early IC pressure paid off when Martin
Curran broke through a massed defence and
delicately chipped the keeper. Rickard was
quickly back in form when he scored the first
of his three goals with a typical diagonal run
across the penalty area followed by a shot
just inside the post.
A determined Goldsmith's midfield fought
back, however and produced a couple of
scores in the IC defence with one shot
rapping against the post. Another good
forward run by Martin Curran made the score
3-0 for IC when his hard low shot found the
corner of the net.
After the break, Goldsmiths attacked with
more purpose and a curling shot was unlucky
to hit the bar. The resulting corner was not
cleanly cleared and a close range shot made
the score 3-1. IC immediately replied with
Page 10 FELIX, December 12, 1980

