EVERY
FORTNIGHT
No.48. E A S T E R E D I T I O N .
I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E
B U S I N E S S A S U S U A . L .
As had been planned, the visit of H.R.H. The Duke of Edinburgh
did not disturb the work of most of the College. His gleaming
black Austin princess NGN 1 arrived a few minutes late at
the Union Entrance, where the Rector and Viscount Falmouth,
Chairman of the Governors,were waiting to greet him. Lord
Falmouth moved forward to open the door, but almost as soon
as the car stopped i t was thrown open by the Duke, who
stopped briskly out. After posing for our photographers,
the party moved to the Rector's Room in the Union, where
Prof. Read and the three Deans met the Duke.
The first visit was to Chem. Eng. where exhibits of
flame propagation i n gases, explosion pressures, high pres-
sure research and work on the extension of the Callendar
Steam Tables (a product of the College) were on show. The
party than drove in three oars to the Mines, where our sor-
respondent reported: "Despite the efforts of a miner who
arrived after motoring a l l the way from Cham. Tech. Assis-
tant Prof. Sheppard met him at the door. Asst. Prof.
Pryor was unfortunately i l l after arranging some excellent
work. The Bessemer Lab., recently painted and rebuilt was
spiek and span without much special "bull" needing to be
donejto remind the Duke that the service atmosphere pervades
even academic establishments. The Duke, after confessing
ignorance, was able after his tour to ask some very pertinent
questions. He was easy to talk to, and eager to find things
out, except in the assay lab. where he i s understood to 1-ive
summed the scene up in one terse phrase, and hurriedly turned
away. At the expiry of the allotted half hour, tha Duke was
politely but firmly urged away, regardless of what he may
have really wanted to do. Perhaps there are advantages in
being an impecunious student."
I C W A D I N N E R .
As reported in the Evening Standard, the annual
dinner of the Imperial College Women's Association was held
on Friday, 6th March, and as on past occasions was notable
for several amusing speeches. In proposing the toast to
the Association Mr. de Reuck stressed the importance of
minorities, especially such minorities as I.C.W.A. Reply-
ing to this toast the President, Mies Turnbull, apologised
for her lack of linguistic capacity and hoped the gentlemen
would excuse her i f she spoke in English rather than in
French. In her welcome to our distinguished guest, Mrs.
Helena Normanton Q.C., Miss Entwistle made i t clear that
the College i s vitally interested in the bar, she also
cleverly contrived to persuade the men of I.C. that we think
they are wonderful, as of course we do. These speeches were
a fitting introduction to that of our distinguished guest,
whose flow of witty remarks and sound common sense w i l l not
aoon be forgotten.
After the dinner the company moved to the g
y
m
'
, for
dancing, to find there a gift "to the Association*. We 3hould
like to record here our appreciation of this eadrras guest who
was ao beautiffully displayed then and on the following
night. Among the spring-like decorations and with such dis-
tinguished companions we feel that Percy must have enjoyed
his change of air and have forgotten for a while his body-
less state. „ A h u g e g e m naao'ot stolen from Bart's.
After lunch in Queenie's, the party went to the Guilds,
•where, in the C i v i l Engineering Department work connected
with the design of a new dam was on show. Later, in the
lech. Eng. Dept. a gas turbine deve1
opment project was viewed.
It was here that the small failure occurred, about which the
Duke ejq^ressed concern in his letter via General Browning,
his aide, to the Rector after the v i s i t . On the way through
the Goldsmith Lab., His Royal Highness suddenly stopped in
his track, turned, and went over to a heap of rubbish which •
was lying on the floor. Several students were working on i t .
He spoke to them, asked about i t , and described i t as a "won-
derful contraption". This was Bo's Finest Hour.
Then, over to the R.C.S. where an exhibition was
staged showing the history of the dyestuffs industry,
founded by William Perkin, discoveror of mauve in our
laboratories, 1856, and ]ater developed in Germany following
the death of the Prince Consort, who alwaya had an eye on
British science. Research on chlorophyll-type colouring
matter was also shown« »;
Our impression, gathered from several people who
came in contact with the Duke, was that he was keenly interes-
ted in what he was shown. He i s known to be alive to tha
scientific world's problems, and to be sympathetic. The
other week he spoke about the need to make Science "a l i t t l e
more fashionable". He could not have been referring to our
being out of date. Perhaps ha meant that i t i s remote from
national l i f e ; that i t i s tucked away i n dark corner*.
Maybe his v i s i t , unofficial and so. l i t t l e publicised as i t
was (Lord knows why!) w i l l help to do something about i t .
Above: The Duke and the Rector pose with Prof. Briscoe,
outside R.C.S.
To ieftjt The Duke with the Rector on the way to Cham.
Tech.
^otograpHs "by P.K.N .Ward.
ELECTIONS
In the Elections held by R.S.M. last week, (trsW-
tionally held early, as so many people are away on field
work during the Summer Term), Dick James was elected
President. Derek Hughes is Vice President and Mike
WoakeB Secretary.
The U.L Elections were held the previous week.
Next year's U.L. President i s U.K. Clark of Sir John
Cass College, and Jennifer Copeman of Bedford College
Vice President.

