fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
18 felix Friday 23 January 2009
Fashion
Fashion Editor – Dan Wan
Leather Aviator Hats
May-day! May-day! I was
trying to find an image of a
mental, old lady modelling
these hats, but alas, I couldn’t
find one. Why are these so
popular with crazy, elderly
women? I saw one the other
day wearing these hats, she
was thrashing a bin in a vain
attempt to ‘rid the Nazis from
bins because that’s where
they belong.’ A long message
short, I reckon these could
look hot on someone that is
not crazy and not collecting
their pension. Girls only. Guys
will just look like knobs.
Lookbook.nu
A site where people post their
own ‘individual’ style. You can
catch out the very few with a
real sense of dress but most
are just self-indulgent, emo
kids not satisfied with the
coverage their ‘angles’ get on
myspace. For the egomaniac
that wanks in the mirror.
Patent Trainers
A strong prevalence of Italian
and Japanese tourists are
wandering around London
adorning shiny shoes. A plain
‘no’ in the aesthetics depart-
ment. Your shoes need to be
stylishly understated. Not ‘I
can see my own ugly face in
my upper’. I don’t dig them,
and no one should. If I see you
in them around College, be-
ware of STAMP-STAMP TIME.
SHIT
If you’re like me, you’ll grab a basketful of stuff in Urban Outfitters and Topshop, head to the till
and tell the cashier that “my mum just died, so can you pity me by putting these in a bag and let
me walk away casually with it please…?” Of course the next thing you know you’re being escorted
out of the shop.
Remember that the Oxford Street Topshop has a “vintage” section but bollocks to that, because
charity shops exist for a reason. There are two areas near to Imperial with a high number of these
shops, these are; a) North End Road (last time I checked there were at least 3 within 50m of each
other) and b) Clapham Junction – at least 10 within a mile radius. Fish out stuff from discount bas-
kets, fish out stuff in the over 50’s section. To prove my point, check out the photo to the left. This
bag cost £7 but is worth a million to me.
The areas of Notting Hill and South Kensington have plenty of charity shops dotted around also
and they even sell unwanted designer clothes. However allow me to patronise your clever brains
by stating the obvious; 1) the risk you run by visiting these charity shops near the homes of bank-
ers and rich French/Americans, is that the price tags are outrageously marked up to match the fat
purses of the aforementioned and 2) If you feel so compelled to visit a charity shop around you
now, enter “Charity Shop” on Google Map and enjoy a good day of bargain hunting! Oh last but
not least, you should visit a charity shop on a Tuesday or Wednesday, as people clear their houses
over the weekend and so the nice, charity-shop volunteers spend the Monday sorting the dona-
tions out ready for selling.
The Art of Cheapskating. Stylishly.
The rule with H&M and Zara is to never buy
anything full price. (Yes, you eager cheapskates – I
know H&M is pretty cheap already but it won’t hurt if
our wallets weigh a little more, will it?) The appeal of
H&M is its trendiness, for Zara it is its tale on chic-clas-
sic; and for both, their ‘unique’ fashion pieces. During
January sales, shops usually dig out stuff they didn’t
manage to sell last or last-last season and plunge the
price through the floor to around 10% of its original.
On the right is a military poncho coat I got from Zara
last January (for £2.75!) and a crazy, frilly, chiffon shirt
from H&M (£5!), that never fails to turn heads and
transform its owner from Reese Wetherspoon to Gwen
Stefani (OK, not quite… but you get the idea).
The coat comes from TRF, the youth line of Zara but
the poor thing was buried under piles of boring Zara
basic t-shirts. Part of the reason it was cheap was be-
cause a button on the front had snapped in half but the
crown badge is enough of a focal point to distract from
the little flaw.
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Fashion
Fashion Editor – Dan Wan
SICK
The ultimate mode of cheapskating is be-
friending your nan or your grandad. Sit through
another one of their Second World War stories
and casually drop in “Um, I wonder what you
wore in your glorious youthful days?” and of-
fer a ladder to climb up to their attics and raid
their unwanted items. There’s nothing wrong
with topping your boyfriend jeans with a 40
year-old piece of knit wear. My nan used to be
a tailor so I am a proud owner of this 30 year-
old coat pictured above. Of course it is always
nice to pay a visit to your grans anyway, no
doubt.
The credit crunch, the recession, the Gaza
Conflict and exams. All the gloom in the uni-
verse seems to have jam-packed itself in to
an angry Jack-in-the-box and punched hard
in our innocent and unsuspecting faces.
But before we all become Prozac addicts,
why don’t we up our endorphin levels by
treating ourselves to a little retail therapy? A
therapy that this time, isn’t going to affect the
size of our grocery baskets. A therapy that
will remove the drabness of your wardrobe,
reinstalling it with rays and rays of golden
light.
I have to boast about the god-
like status of TKMaxx but I will
keep my thrill contained in two sen-
tences. Here is what I got last week from
the “SALE” section for £20. Wait, no – 2D
just doesn’t do justice to this item’s mag-
nificence. You will have to open your little
eyes and look for a person milling around
campus wearing a short, fur coat. All I can
advise is for you to abandon your news-
paper and visit a TKMaxx near you now.
Kawai Wong realises that everyone is down in the dumps, but reckons you can still look hot on the cheap.
19
Friday 23 January 2009 felix

