food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
26 felix Friday 23 January 2009
Food
Food Editors – Afonso Campos & Rosie Grayburn
Rosie Grayburn
Food Editor
Beanz Meanz
learn to spell.
onto plates, top with tortilla chips
and cheese then grill until the cheese
is melted and bubbly. Serve with beer
and a DVD.
3. Shanked Lamb. Slow cook 2 lamb
shanks (or other cheap lamb cut)with a
tin of baked beans, a tin of tomatoes, a
glass of wine and a glass of water for 2
hours. Season to taste and serve with
greens and mash.
4. Aubergine Bake. Fry cubes of au-
bergine for 8 minutes then remove
from the pan. In an ovenproof dish,
mix together 1 tin of baked beans and
1 tbsp of hot pepper sauce. Layer 250g
frozen green beans on top followed by a
tin of butter beans and then the cooked
aubergine. Slice 250g tomatoes and
layer on top of the aubergine. Sprinkle
with thyme, parsley and pepper then
sprinkle with 50g of grated Cheddar.
Bake for 30 minutes at 200˚C. Serve
with salad or steak. Sounds gross?
Tastes yum.
5. Cassoulet. Fry 8 herby sausages
with 1 onion until cooked. Add some
pepperoni and cook for 2 minutes. Tip
in 2 tins of baked beans and 2 tbsp of
tomato puree. If you’ve got any wine
lying around, add a glass of that too.
Cook for 10 minutes then sprinkle with
50g breadcrumbs and grill.
Following in a similar ‘pulsey’ vein,
David Wallis has conjured up a superb
Mirepoix for your delight in this week’s
food section. On these cold winters
nights, snuggle up with a Mirepoix.
Also, this week Natalia Jardon inves-
tigates the new branch of Canteen on
Baker Street serving plentiful portions
of hot, tasty food with healing prop-
erties! We seem to have recruited an
army of gastronauts to our cause here
on the food pages. If you fancy writing
about a restaurant, or sending in some
recipes please get in touch. We love to
hear from our readers and we won’t eat
you if you do get in touch. However I
do like offal, so any spare kidneys..?
By the way, have you noticed the nice
decor at the base of this column? Our
friendly neighbourhood burger ven-
dors have offered Imperial’s students a
whopping 20% off the bill for the next
term! (I can’t believe I just said whop-
ping.) Anyway, please take the oppor-
tunity to use your student ID. We don’t
get the opportunity very often!
Feeb a Colb, Starb a Feber
salad, to potted duck and a pint of
prawns, the starters are varied and en-
ticing. But don’t be fooled – the starter
could well be a main course. We went
for the ‘hot buttered Arbroath smokie’-
and thank god we chose to share. It’s a
fish you don’t get often, full of flavour,
and though the melted butter was vis-
ibly present it felt amazingly healthy.
Perhaps it’s worth to note here that
service was fabulous, our waitress was
exceptionally sweet and more than
willing to offer her personal prefer-
ences. Timing was balanced between
waiting a little and arriving before we
noticed the absence of plates.
The day roasts, fish and chips, and
pork belly are renowned at Canteen,
but we ventured for the salt beef with
vegetables and haddock with spinach
and mashed potatoes. All delicious,
but none of us could finish them- the
plates were simply too plentiful. The
quality of their meat, the freshness of
the vegetables, meant that no fancy
sauces were required to enjoy the fla-
Canteen HHH
55 Baker Street, W1U 8EW
0845 686 1122
www.canteen.co.uk
Best: The tremendous treacle
tart
Worst: The mash
Price: £20 per head
vours. However, it is often the simplest
things restaurants get wrong. Pota-
toes are wholesome and easy to cook
but somehow the mash didn’t get the
‘yum’ reaction. It was slightly salty and
a bit too mashed if you know what I
mean- that sort of suspicious synthetic
texture you get if it’s perfectly smooth.
The sauce came on the side- and left
with the plate untouched. The had-
dock didn’t need it.
By the end we were seriously debat-
ing about what to choose for dessert.
Guinness cake, bakewell tart, brownie
sundae or a Neals Yard cheese platter.
With our bellies rumbling, we opted
for treacle tart- and never turned back.
Served with a small dollop of jersey
cream, it was lemony enough and not
too sweet. Sublime.
They say feed a fever, starve a cold.
I reckon that I had a fever coming –
because, unlike yesterday, I now feel
on top form. Sometimes high quality
comfort food does so much more than
elaborate cuisine.
L
ike most of us, I’m fighting
off the coming of a flu, a
cold, bronchitis, and other
horrible winter illnesses. So
Tuesday night, after walking
in the blistering cold and feeling my
organs freeze, I wasn’t exactly keen on
trekking all the way to Baker Street –
even if it was for a warm meal. It’s the
latest sibling of the original Canteen
of Southbank. But although it does at-
tempt to keep the simple, clean décor
and the ‘chic’ canteen format of the
first – something is not quite right. It’s
difficult to place the finger on what’s
wrong – but the lighting could have
been softer, and the counter in the mid-
dle seemed a bit distasteful. The idea is
to display all their delicious treats in it,
but as a centre-piece of the restaurant it
can be quite off-putting. We reserved,
but there was no need to. It was a quiet
night, but then again it was a weekday
and it’s only just opened.
The menu is printed on paper ta-
ble mats, and in a red leather menu a
venerable wine list is displayed. Being
students, house red was the pick of
the day – and it beats most expensive
pub bottles. Sinking comfortably into
our seats, we took a look at the menu.
At first glance the list looks so long it
seems impossible to ensure quality of
the dishes – but many are actually re-
peated as starters. I urge anyone who
still believes England only offers for-
eign or creative fusion food, to go to
Canteen ASAP. It goes back to Brit-
ish basics. From mackerel and potato
Survive the Winter? I need a Mirepoix… Onion,
carrot and celery, when finely chopped with some
garlic and thrown into a hot casserole, already siz-
zling with slithers of bacon, spluttering away in a
mixture of butter and their own piggy fat... there
can surely be few more salivatory stimuli. Mirepoix
to the French, Soffrito to Italians, this combination
of the humblest of veg represents the holy trinity of
hearty, earthy, warming winter sustenance and onto
of its sturdy foundations can be crafted some seri-
ously life-affirming monuments to deliciousness.
From slow-cooked meaty stews, to stocks, soups
and sauces, the possibilities are as varied as they
are tasty. The recipe below is but a simple yet un-
believably effective example of what you can do
relatively cheaply. However, when you find yourself
deep in the throes of Seasonal Affective Disorder,
and are in serious need of some new year cheer,
then fewer things could seem more valuable.
Serves 4
3 fat cloves of garlic, finely chopped
1 Onion, finely chopped
2 carrots halved lengthways and sliced
2-3 sticks celery, finely chopped
1 leek halved lengthways and sliced
1 potato peeled and cut into 2-3cm cubes (soak in
cold water for 5 mins before cooking and drain.
This stops the soup from being too starchy).
Fresh Herbs – good sprig of rosemary, 2/3 sprigs
thyme, handful chopped sage leaves, 2-3 bay
leaves
2 tbs olive oil plus a good knob of butter
Glass of red wine
1.5 litres vegetable stock (cubes are fine)
1 x 400g can of borlotti beans, drained and rinsed
A good handful of fusilli pasta (or macaroni, bits of
broken spaghetti or other small pasta)
Mirepoix
5-6 good handfuls of chopped kale (or you could
use chopped cabbage, chard or covollo nero. You
could also chuck in a few handfuls of spinach too)
Lots of freshly grated parmesan cheese
Salt and freshly ground black pepper plus extra vir-
gin olive oil for drizzling
Heat the oil and butter in a large deep frying pan over
a medium – high heat and add the chopped bacon.
Stir occasionally making sure it doesn’t stick.
When the bacon starts to crisp up and the fat has de-
veloped a nice golden hue, add all the chopped veg
and the herbs. Stir occasionally to prevent sticking
and to ensure even cooking. Season with a little salt
and several turns of the pepper grinder.
Once the veg has started to soften, but not colour,
add the wine and allow to cook-off for a few minutes.
Now add the stock.
Once simmering, add the drained beans. Leave to
cook uncovered for five minutes before adding the
pasta and kale (or whatever). Allow to simmer, for 10-
15 minutes (You can check that it’s cooked by tasting
a bit of potato which should be soft and crumbly to
the bite but not sloppy and dissolving).
Remove the bay leaves, rosemary and thyme stalks
where practical and adjust the seasoning if it needs
it (I’d suggest another good few turns of the pepper
mill) before serving into warmed bowls.
Sprinkle with as much Parmesan as you fancy and
finish with a nice swirl of extra virgin olive oil. Make
sure you have lots of crusty bread to hand and a
glass of the same wine that you cooked with.
Written and Created by David Wallis
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
Friday 23 January 2009 felix
Food
Natalia Jardon-King takes a prescription of Pie and Mash
Who wouldn’t feel instantly better after a plateload of that? Doctors
should prescribe pies, treacle tart and Guinness cake.
M
y culturally barbaric
(self-quoted) col-
league wants to learn
how to make a ‘lasa-
gg-neee.’ He bought
one reduced the other day in Tesco
and it was “well nice”. However, when
I started to describe the complexities
of a cheese sauce to him my attempt
to sway him onto freshly-cooked food
wenttitsup.Thisgotmethinkingabout
students and how feeding yourself well
does not come as a priority when you
spend three years away from a well-
stocked fridge. When we come to uni-
versity laden with freedom, a bank loan
and all that responsibility, we forget to
look after number 1. We end up with a
poisoned liver and a disgruntled belly.
To be fair, you can do what you bloody
well like with your body but while I’m
here I may as well try to tell you a little
bit about cooking good food even if it
does fall on deaf ears.
Today is all about Baked Beans, the
classic student staple. Firstly I would
like to vent my anger regarding a little
known brand of said beans. Why, for
the love of all things edible, did they
have to change Baked Beans to Baked
Beanz? I don’t want the cooked break-
fast Mafia on my plate with Sausagez,
Eggz and Tomatoez. The world’s gone
mad, innit.
Well anyway here are my five ways
with baked beans for you to attempt.
1. Tuna Crunch – Stodge at its finest.
Mix a tin of tuna and beans together in
a pan and heat with a handful of grated
cheese until hot and sticky. Pour the
stodge into a grill-proof bowl or dish.
Bash together a packet of ready salted
crisps and mix with another handful
of grated cheese. Sprinkle this mix-
ture on top of the tuna/beany combo
and grill until top, bubble and golden.
Serve with bread and a bit of salad, if
you like.
2. Beany Beefy Nachos – TV food
for a night in. Fry 1 onion, 1 pack of
mince, 1 cubed carrot, 1 clove of garlic
and a pinch of paprika. When the meat
is browned and the veg is softened, add
a tin of beans and a tin of chopped to-
matoes. Cook with stirring for 10 min-
utes then add 200ml water and a stock
cube. Simmer for a further 10 minutes
then season to taste. Pile the mixture

