clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
311
Friday 23 January 2009 felix
Clubs and Societies
30 felix Friday 23 January 2009
Clubs & Societies Is your club cooler than the cat that
got the cream? Write to us.
clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Clubs & Socs Editor - Alice Rowlands
During the holiday season, we are
bombarded by appeals from chari-
ties – often, each as worthy as the last.
So what makes Medecins Sans Fron-
tieres special? Its purpose is, accord-
ing to Secretary General Chris Stokes,
to “[concentrate] on saving lives now
until they can be rebuilt tomorrow.”
MSF provides medical and humanitar-
ian relief in an emergency situation,
which is phased out as need declines.
Its credo specifies that intervention
is based on human need, irrespective
of political or religious boundaries, in
terms of donor, geographical area (it is
currently active in over 60 countries)
and recipients.
The scale and diversity of MSF’s
projects sets them apart from other
NGOs in the field, as does their com-
mitment to raising awareness about
the situations in which MSF volunteers
work.
Field missions, composed of medical
and non-medical volunteers, are tai-
lored to the situation according to the
findings of a reconnaissance team. The
medical staff are national healthcare
professionals, who provide the frame-
work for continued support, and inter-
national volunteers.
The international volunteers take
sabbaticals from 6 weeks up to several
years to provide medical aid in some
of the world’s most acutely affected
regions. The non-medical logisticians
make the medical volunteers work pos-
sible. Their remit includes establishing
and co-ordinating a supply chain (in-
corporating medical equipment, food
and safe water), training long-term
staff to ensure the sustainability of
missions and educating the population
at risk. This is as challenging than pro-
viding medical aid, given the nature of
the situations that MSF tackles: a lim-
ited or damaged infrastructure, such
as after the 2005 Pakistani earthquake;
frontlines in armed conflict, for exam-
ple, during Lebanon, where MSF ex-
perienced hostile fire whilst providing
medical aid to Christians and Muslims
from 1976-1984; and active hostil-
ity from local groups, like in Somalia,
where the deliberate killing of 3 MSF
operatives forced them to withdraw
international operatives last August.
Here, although MSF continues to pro-
vide primary health care, treatment for
the malnourished and displaced as well
as water and supply relief, thanks to the
courageofnationalstaff,theheadofthe
mission there, Kenneth Lavelle, decries
the political situation that limits them
to “immediate life-saving needs…most
certainly inadequate when taking into
account the gravity of the situation”.
The scale and diversity of MSF’s
projects is astounding: in 2007, they
carried out 8,447,106 outpatient con-
sultants and dealt with 340,689 in-
As fighting intensified in the Demo-
cratic Republic of Congo during 2008,
an estimated 250,000 civilians fled
their homes adding to the million al-
ready displaced. Fuelled by the coun-
try’s rich mineral resources and lack
of cross country communications,
armed groups led by General Nkunda
have clashed in eastern DRC in North
Kivu. The reasons for this new upris-
ing are unclear, at least partially based
on an attempt to rid Congo of its Hutu
rebels; however, its effects are all too
evident. As well as the war wounded,
many are suffering under the atrocities
of both sides including mass rape. Not
to mention the malnutrition endured
by countless civilians across the coun-
try, increasing the spread of diseases
such as cholera.
MSF has been in the DRC since 1987.
The resurgence of fighting has made it
very difficult to ensure aid is reach-
ing those who need it most as they are
often in hiding or constantly on the
move. MSF has strengthened its estab-
lished projects (such as HIV and sexual
health service) and opened a new one
in Masisi in North Kivu. MSF staffed
began to work at the Masisi hospital
in which had to more than double its
maximum bed capacity. Mobile teams
are also sent out to treat people when
they are deemed to be relatively safe.
M
SF, like many charitable organisations, have numer-
ous projects ‘on the go’ at once. Their projects are in
countries across the world, from places as close as
France to war torn countries in Africa.
Here are some of the cases from what MSF consider
to be the worst humanitarian crises:
In Somalia, some of the worst violence in over a decade was seen
in 2008. There is a lack of basic healthcare and a prolonged drought
has exacerbated problems. Many have been left susceptible to mal-
nutrition and disease. To tackle this health centres have been set up
in residential areas which provide a source of healthcare to those
who need it most, as well as providing a source of clean water for
many.
War in Iraq has displaced four million people and there are big
gaps in healthcare provision in certain areas. MSF runs surgical pro-
grams for war wounded patients, numerous burns units in both Iraq
and Kurdistan and is supplying hospitals throughout the region.
Cyclone Nargis in 2008 left Myanmar in a terrible state. MSF has
worked to probide food, shelter, water, healthcare and support. HIV/
AIDS is also a big problem here which MSF is attempting to tackle
through education and support.
Northwest Pakistan has seen some terrible fighting over the last
year and many of the residents have been displaced elsewhere.
MSF has been treating the war wounded, providing clean water and
opening mobile health clinics.
There was a devastating earthquake in Balochistan recently, leav-
ing 40,000 homeless. As a charity, MSF has been working to provide
emergency medical support and relief supplies.
These examples represent a mere fraction of the work that MSF
does worldwide. Continued support of their work is vital to provide
some relief for the people who are suffering.
Imperial’s Friends of Medecins Sans Frontieres (FoMSF), which
formed in 2006, is an ICU society that provides a platform for Impe-
rial students to contribute to the work of MSF through various activi-
ties such as fundraising events, guest speakers, and film screenings.
We are part of the wider National FoMSF.
The individual FoMSF societies at different universities across the
UK & Ireland share the same two aims: Firstly, raising awareness
about MSF’s work and to encourage students to consider working
with MSF and similar NGOs (non-government organisations) in the
future; and secondly, raising funds for MSF’s general work and their
campaigns.
Imperial FoMSF have a number of events planned for this year
including: A fundraising roller-disco, sales of Krispy Kremes on the
South Kensington Campus, ‘Who wants to save a million lives’ raf-
fle – the best prizes that you’ll ever see – a screening of the award-
winning documentary ‘Invisibles’, produced by Javier Bardem.
Saki Onda writes about Imperial’s Friends
of Medicins Sans Frontiers
Friends of Medicins Sans Frontiers
Imperial’s Friends of Medicins Sans Frontiers discuss activities on campus and MSF’s role in the wider world
patient admissions, encompassing
preventative and curative responses.
This is illustrated by MSF’s cohesive
meningitis programme in Sub-Saharan
Africa, where they vaccinate, treat out-
breaks (preventing epidemics from
developing) and collect statistics (ena-
bling epidemiological tracking).
MSF manage complex chronic dis-
ease such as HIV/AIDS patients co-
infected with tuberculosis, working in
situations with otherwise inadequate
healthcare access, such as in refugee
aid camps.
MSF also provides emergency hu-
manitarian assistance, like blankets,
hygiene kits, safe water (which may re-
quire new wells and treatment plants
to be set up) and the establishment of
therapeutic feeding and rehydration
centres. Their Campaign for Access
to Essential Medications pressurises
pharmaceutical companies to fund the
continued production of existing drugs
and the development of new drugs tar-
geting diseases that primarily afflict
developing countries.
MSF’s establishment in 1971 was
largely due to doctors’ frustrations with
the International Red Cross (IRC) dur-
ing the 1967-1970 Nigerian civil war.
The Nigerian government enforced
a blockade of the secessionist Biafran
region, resulting in appalling human
suffering. The IRC can only maintain
its impartiality – and hence access to
certain locations or individuals in need
– through a refusal to comment on
the situation. These doctors, however,
believed that their silence made them
complicit in their patients’ plight. Ever
since, raising awareness of humanitar-
ian crises is central to MSF’s activities,
through presentations by volunteers,
publications and lobbying the diplo-
matic community.
An excellent example is southern
Sudan, where MSF has maintained
missions since 1979, decrying civilian
torture an executions whilst providing
relief for disease (including TB, ebola,
cholera) and famine against a back-
drop of government interference and
fighting.
Although MSF may work alongside
a Ministry of Health, to maintain full
control of its projects and the ability to
speak out, it cannot be affiliated with
any political, religious or economic
entity. 80% of MSF’s funds come from
private donations: their activities col-
lectively consume €600m per year.
This explains why the work of fun-
draising groups, like the IC FoMSF,
are so important to the organisation’s
continued success. It is also a source
of hope: newspapers are full of reports
re-enforcing the perception of human-
kind as being “tribally” divided – by
nation, race and religion, the situation
in Gaza being the latest example.
The fact that individuals donate to
save the lives of others with no con-
nection to them selves is proof of the
underlying brotherhood of man.
Kaushali Trivedi
On the evening of Friday 14th No-
vember, the Imperial College Iraqi So-
ciety made history – it conducted the
first ever Iraqi Cultural Exhibition on
campus.
The ten-man committee managed
to organise probably the largest, most
varied interface of London-wide con-
temporary Iraqi organisations in the
space of a few hours. With the pres-
ence of over 17 different organisations,
the IC Iraqi Society gathered crowds
of Iraqis and non-Iraqis from all ma-
jor universities in London, as well as
families and businessmen, and nearly
200 people attended to hear it from the
horse’s mouth – how to get involved in
major projects on Iraq today, as well as
Iraqi culture and heritage.
Representatives from the British
Museum gave first hand information
on the current Babylonian Exhibition,
which aims to run until March 2009.
The British Institute for the Study of
Iraq (BISI) gave an insight into archae-
ological heritage and contemporary
issues surrounding the preservation of
artefacts. This contrasted with student
based organisations, such as the Stu-
dent Iraqi Medical Association (SIMA)
and Kurdish Studies and Student Or-
ganisation (KSSO), who represented
student networking organizations in
their respective fields. Other UK net-
working organizations included Iraqi
Academics Association and Iraqi Pro-
fessionals, and Iraqi culture was cov-
ered by Zipang and Culture for All, as
well as calligraphy and textiles (by Aziz
al-Naib and Najlaa Khalil respectively),
producing an enticing amalgamation
of talents. We were also delighted to
welcome Al-Iraqiya TV Station, one of
the largest Iraqi international broad-
casters – who filmed the event and
More recently, more than thirty peo-
ple are suspected to have contracted
the deadly Ebola virus. An MSF team
of nine Ebola specialists from Kinshasa
and Brussels is currently working in
Western Kasai. An isolation ward in
the village of Kampungu is being built
and the medical team is also providing
care to all people suspected of having
the disease. There is no cure for Ebo-
la, so supportive and palliative care is
provided.
To highlight the plight of the Congo-
lese people, MSF has launched Condi-
tion: Critical, a series of personal testi-
monies, videos and pictures that allow
those suffering to explain firsthand the
conditions they are enduring. To find
out for yourself, visit:
http://www.condition-critical.org/
interviewed many of the organisations
and attendees.
In addition, the audience enjoyed
a gift of Iraqi strings music and Iraqi
poetry, combined with a delightful
cuisine of Iraqi delicacies to create the
formula for the perfect evening.
Unfortunately, the vibrant evening
could not last forever, and yet the end
of the event did not mark the end of
ties. By far, the underlying element of
the whole evening was “unity,” and in-
deed, the efforts of the attendees were
not put to waste; the British Red Cross
signed up several keen members, as
did the politically orientated Iraqi
Prospect Organisation and up to seven
other charities (e.g. Kubba Foundation,
Iraqi Orphan Foundation and IC Mar-
MSF in the Democratic Republic of Congo
Iraqi Soc exhibition
row), in order to facilitate future dona-
tions, involvement and commitment.
Furthermore, the organisations
themselvesweredelightedtomeeteach
other, and this assisted the exchange of
ideas and contact details, thus promot-
ingfuturecooperation.Diplomatsfrom
the Iraqi Embassy were also present to
witness the success and build relations
with such active professionals.
Overall: an evening of vivacity, at-
tended by several zealous organisa-
tions, London students and profes-
sionals to enjoy and learn about Iraqi
histories and contemporaries. A mag-
nificent achievement for IC Iraqi So-
ciety, and an event that will no doubt
show its face again in the years to
come.
Mohammed Jawad
Kelly Ameneshoa
FoMSF Secretary
A Kenyan child receives treatment in a Medicins Sans Frontiers hospital. For more information about MSF visit see www.msf.org
“Saving lives
now until they
can be rebuilt
tomorrow”
Visitors enjoyed food as well as the exhibition
I, science
OUT NEXT WEEK
“Raising
awareness of
humanitarian
crises”
Andrew Peetamsingh discusses MSF’s
ongoing projects around the world
A child receives treatment after an Ebola outbreak

