sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
36 Friday 23 January 2009
felix
Sport
37
felix
Friday 23 January 2009
Good afternoon Ben, first things
first how have you found this
year in the Medics 1st team?
It has been a good year. It has been a
challenging first half of the season for
the first team, but the hockey club is
going well both on and off the pitch.
What are your main challenges
you have come across this year?
The first thing we have had trouble
with is numbers this year as we have
quite an old team. So we have quite a
lot of them away on placements. A few
of the games last year we had almost
half the team away. We had to make
the best of what we had.
I don’t think the results are reflec-
tive of our play this year. We have lost
most of our games by only one goal
in the last five minutes which points
to a lack of concentration. I hope the
next half of the season will be a bit of
a turn around. Almost all our games in
the first half of the season were away
games, so hopefully we will do better
this half.
More on personal issue, how
have you advanced from first year
medical student to your current
position as 1st XI captain?
I actually started with rowing in my
first year but I played a lot of hockey
at school and I decided to start row-
ing as a break. I always had quite close
contact with the hockey guys and re-
ally just progressed from there. Again,
it was quite an old team when I started
in second year but it soon became a
young team when they all left. In my
third year I played a quite a big role
playing centre midfield and this year I
went one better.
Why did you leave the rowing
club?
The rowing was good. I had a lot of
fun rowing but it was too cold and the
early mornings were too much for me.
Even though the Medics rowing is a bit
more relaxed than the IC rowing, there
are still some early mornings and I’m
not a morning person.
OK. With the medical students
having six years worth of stu-
dents how have you found that
in developing your team. Or do
you think it has had a negligible
effect in comparison to IC teams
who only have three maybe four
years?
Yeah… although they only have three
or four years the IC team have a wider
selection to choose from. Six years is
good because you get a lot of experi-
ence and knowledge from the older
years and that’s really good for both the
hockey and social side. It is almost like
a family base as a club.
If you are there for six years then
you get to see the club develop and
progress. We are still an up and com-
ing club and we have a committee for
the first time this year so we are mak-
ing tracks now towards a tour hope-
fully coming up in September.
How long the club has been in
existence?
My club captain will tell you it was
established in 1909, the actual date is
unsure. This is our centenary year.
Any celebrations lined up?
We are always celebrating! The tour
will be a good start so September is
going to be to Barcelona with about
30 guys to a student camp with four
games in a week so it should be good.
Moving on to the big day – Var-
sity. How do you realistically see
your chances against College?
Good. I know Jack doesn’t see it as a
problem at the moment. They did, last
year, take us apart really in the first half
but I take full responsibility for that
with a poor formation choice. But we
changed it in the second half and we
coped with them very well and the sec-
ond half score was 2-1 to us.
We have got a coach in now which
we have had for a few sessions and I
think realistically we are going to get
better and better. We have got a full
strength side for the match at Varsity –
I am excited. I think we could do well,
but as far as I know we have never won
Varsity. Last year we did come close
however as it was tied with the ULU
Cup Final and we only lost on flicks.
Now to the flagship event, how
do you think the Medical rugby
team are going to get on?
I know a lot of the medics rugby guys
and I think they are going to do an-
other good job. It was close last year.
Too close but great to watch. I’ve been
there every year and it gets closer and
closer. I think the medics have still got
an edge.
Where do you see the hockey club
progressing before you graduate?
Any hopes of promotion or are
you aiming to stay in your BUCS
league?
Before the start of the season, we
were quite keen on moving up the
BUCS league but because of our diffi-
cult first half of the season, we’re look-
ing to survive in our BUCS division
which I think is a reachable goal.
Next season we want to solidify our-
selves in the league and then move up
to the top. I think we could push for
promotion depending on the intake.
We only tend to get one or two out-
standing freshers that can make it onto
the first team. As a medical school, I
think the league we’re in is very good
– making a first division league is chal-
lenging, especially with the likes of
ICHC who are very good, and Canter-
bury who are also very good.
How much have Sport Imperial
and the union supported you?
They’ve been really good. If you
ever need to get hold of them, you
can email, phone, anyway you need to.
They’re always available to help with
hockey matches and they’ve provided
us with our kit for the last season, and
this year’s 1st team shirts.
What are the unenjoyable aspects
of being 1st XI captain?
I actually don’t like two aspects -
Taking training I find quite stressful
and I miss playing my own game. Also
I do find it difficult to pick the team es-
pecially as we’ve got a very strong 2nd
With a little over a month until Varsity, the Medical Schools hockey 1st XI captain Ben Saunders is
interviewed by the unbiased, non-hockey playing sports editor Mustapher Botchway.
team. They’re doing well this year so its
hard to not be able to include some of
their better players.
On a lighter note, what are the
main hockey social events of the
year?
In October we go on a tour to Ox-
ford where we play a mixed team but
we spend a couple of nights there and
that’s an awesome weekend. We had a
Christmas curry which was very good.
The big one is the AGM in April/
May time and is always very good.
We’ve actually secured presidents who
we invite along. We also join up with
the girls club and have speeches at the
end of the year.
Where do you see ICSMHC in
relation to the other Medic sports
teams? On both a social and
sporty side?
The best!. We’re doing well actu-
ally, we’ve made ourselves much more
known in recent times and on the
social side of things we very promi-
nent. And we’re pushing on the sports
department.
Why is it that the Medics have
two separate clubs for men and
women as opposed to ICHC
where they are joint? Are there
any plans in joining them up?
I don’t actually know why that is but
we do have a close relationship with
the girls team. They come with us to
Oxford. But I guess one of the benefits
is that if you’re going for a night out, as
enjoyable as it is to have girls there, you
don’t necessarily need them to go out
drinking (Ed - Controversial!). I think
we have a close enough relationship
with the girls team that I don’t think
there’s any need for us to join together
into one club no.
In felix recently there was a de-
bate on sporting excellence and
inclusion. What are your opin-
ions? Should College concentrate
on being the best at sport or on
being as inclusive as they can?
Ask the captain -
Ben Saunders
I think it is really important to be re-
ally inclusive actually. It is always good
to promote Imperial as a team going
out no matter who you are - IC, ICSM
or RSM. Having such teams will only
promote Imperial and I think realis-
tically if you are going to go for pure
sporting excellence then you need to
combine ICSM and IC. But I don’t
think that is necessarily the way for-
ward. Because as much as you would
get a super team you would have a lot
more people left out and you couldn’t
have six hockey teams going out every
week I wouldn’t have thought. It would
make Varsity less special if we were
combined.
Between IC and the Medical
Ben, a former ICSM rower, has been in the 1st team
since his second year when he decided that rowing in a
boat along a river in the early morning didn’t satisfy him
sufficiently . He has been instrumental in the growth of
the club over the years which include the establishment
of a committee and a president. With the first overseas
touronthehorizonlaterthisyear,JackandMustapherare
both sure that his mentionable IQ of 140 has served him
well (random statistics courtesy of the good ol’ ‘book).
FACT FILE
Name: Benjamin Saunders
Team: ICSM 1st Men’s
Hockey
Position: Midfield
Date of Birth: 12/12/1986
Hometown: Eastbourne
Course: 4th Year Medicine
Height: 6”1
Weight: 83kg
On the 7th December an Imperial
Devils team lacking many of its regular
players made the long journey to Car-
diff. We knew that the Red Hawks were
unbeaten this season and were leading
our Division by two points. We knew
the game would be a tough one, with
some of us still remembering our only
other trip to Cardiff- a physical en-
counter that we lost by an impressive
24-0 score line.
Despite a long trip that saw us arrive
late and having to get straight on the
ice Imperial started strong. We spent
long periods in the Cardiff zone- pull-
ing off cycling moves that would have
bought a tear to the eye of Vince. How-
ever we failed to create many scoring
chances until Freddie fed Virya on the
blue line with a cross ice pass from
the behind the goal where Virya un-
leashed a great slapshot which passed
the helpless Cardiff goalie. We took
this lead to the first intermission with
mixed feelings- we were playing some
of our best hockey of the season and
keeping Cardiff caged back but were
still just the one goal to the good.
The second period started well with
Freddie picking up a superb goal of his
own to settle Imperial nerves, how-
ever on the very next shift a drop in
concentration saw Cardiff pull back
within one with a simple rebound after
Ruth made the initial save. Cardiff had
obviously not been happy with their
performance and decided to try and
play a more physical game in this pe-
riod. However this soon turned against
them when they quickly racked up
the penalties. Imperial knew they had
to utilize these opportunities, particu-
larly with two long 5 on 3 advantages,
but the pressure was too much. Simple
passes weren’t being made and plays
were easily broken down. The best
chance fell to Freddie on a breakaway,
but his early shot came off the inside
of the post.
Cardiff had worked hard to kill the
penalties and were back at full strength
but shot themselves in the foot when
some confusion behind the net saw the
puck fall to Chris Pinnick in front of
the goal who took his time and made
no mistake to score his first goal to
make it 3-1 to Imperial.
Many of the team thought this was
the bit of luck we needed but it was
not to be. Cardiff soon had their first
powerplay of the game and scored
quickly to stay within touching dis-
tance. This seemed to bring Cardiff,
and the small crowd, to life and the rest
of the period saw Imperial come under
intense pressure that saw Cardiff draw
level on a shot through traffic.
The second intermission could not
come soon enough for Imperial that
faced a stark choice: play like we did
in the first period and go home with
the win or play as we did in the second
and face the remarkably foggy roads of
Cardiff pointless.
We made the first choice and came
out playing hard, keeping the pressure
on Cardiff and reducing them to long
shots from the point. The home crowd
were finally silenced when Freddie
deked the goalie out of his pants and
rolled the puck into the net. He then
completed his hat-trick and a four-
point debut with a beautiful finish in
off the bar under heavy pressure. De-
spite the two goal lead we knew that
Cardiff had the potential to get back
into it and we had to play strong until
the final whistle.
The team played some great posses-
sionalhockeyintheoppositionendthat
saw the time fall away. Cardiff man-
aged a few decent chances but Ruth
and the defence held strong. With less
than two minutes on the clock and a
face-off in our end, Cardiff pulled the
goalie but after a couple of attempts
Imperial killed the game off with Tom
scoring the empty-netter to make the
final score a convincing 6-3.
While this was performance was cer-
tainlynotperfect,itwasagreatteamef-
fort after a long road trip, with every
player really digging deep. Ruth once
again earned (wo)man-of-the-match,
after making 33 out of 36 saves despite
carrying an injury.
This was the last game of an excel-
lent term for the Imperial Devils who
have now played each team once (with
three of these four games played away).
We finished with a 3-1 record that sees
us heading Division 2, ahead of Cardiff
on goal difference by virtue of Tom’s
empty-netter. Hopefully we can con-
tinue this form into 2009, a year that
will also see us entering a Division 3
team for the first time!
A couple of ice hockey reports to digest
Ice Hockey
Imperial Devils A 6
Cardiff Red Hawks 3
Chris Beardsell
Ice Hockey
Imperial Devils B 6
Streatham Night Wolves 11
Paul Gilmartin
nomenon unknown to them this sea-
son, and concede again. However, they
continued to go for it and had chances
to win the game, with the Lapin going
close from a corner and Marvin’s set
pieces causing problems.
The game ended 2-2 with the 4s by
far the happier team and both squads
roll into 2009 looking to build on a
mixed start to the season.
Credit must go also to the subs -
Tom, Jose and Raam seeing that the
5s were amply supported throughout,
even though they were denied a run-
out.
ULUs flagship teams battle it out...
Continued from back page
After the success of the A team ear-
lier in the week the B team set off to
what was for many their very first ice
hockey match with hopes high. While
only a friendly match, the game would
provide a great indicator of what to ex-
pect from the team for their upcoming
season. As soon as we saw the Night
Wolves on the ice we knew this game
would be much tougher than anticipat-
ed with many large players with known
experience and other players display-
ing good skating ability.
After a short and somewhat disor-
ganised warm-up the game got un-
derway and proceeded to provide the
crowd with plenty of action as one of
the worst starts to a hockey match in
history took place. 2 and a half min-
utes of running clock time gave Impe-
rial a modest 4-0 deficit courtesy of
some skilled solo efforts by the Night
Wolves, some weak defending and an
inadequate warm up for our goalie.
This could also be put down to a cer-
tain amount of intimidation felt by
some of our players in their first com-
petitive experience. Once some of the
more experienced players gained some
composure Imperial started to give a
much better display, involving some
good passing and getting the puck in
their end. Despite a lack of clear cut
chances this was a great improvement
on the opening few minutes. Some
solid defending and great saves by Ri-
chard meant we only conceded 1 more
goal before the end of the period.
The team came off for the break
with much more confidence and it be-
gan to feel like we may be able to save
some pride from the game with a solid
performance required in the second
period. Unfortunately an early lapse
in concentration meant they scored
quickly from the face off and this pe-
riod looked to be going the same way
as the previous.
However nothing could prepare the
screaming crowd for the slick, smooth
andaccomplisheddisplayofhockeyIm-
perial showed after this. Many chances
went begging in front of goal until a
move involving most of the team fall-
ing over at some point led to Ales pass-
ing the puck from behind their goal, a
cheeky flick from Sophie’s skate saw it
land on Punil’s stick and he punished
the defence for leaving him open by
slotting it low into the far corner. Filled
with confidence the whole team pulled
together and created chance after
chance but it fell to Rich B. to punish
the Night Wolves with a superb solo
effort, darting from our end, through
their defence and finishing high in the
corner past a bewildered goalie. The
game had really started to get going
but the Night wolves managed to get
one back in the last 20 seconds to fin-
ish off the period all square with the
match at 6-2.
Anticipation was high for what we
could achieve from the third period
with us getting better the longer the
game went on. Night Wolves scored
another after a few minutes with a
rebound from some good saves from
Richard. Next it was the turn of an-
other defender to get on the Imperial
score sheet as Andres took advantage
of a poor line change by the opposition
to storm up the ice with great intent
and only the goal on his mind, show-
ing great composure to deke the goalie
and finish smoothly for another Impe-
rial goal. In the next quarter of an hour
it was clear both teams were starting
to tire, with them scoring 2 more but
a scramble in their zone dropped the
puck onto James Freedman’s stick and
he put another one in the net for Impe-
rial. Then in the last few minutes they
scored again, but not long after Chris
Pinnick got hold of the puck hunting
for the goal he seemed to have been
chasing all game after his success with
the A team. Getting into their zone he
looked threatening but made the smart
pass to Toby only to receive it back in
a great position and didn’t need a sec-
ond chance to fire it home with a great
shot.
The final score was 11-6 but this
score line did not reflect the way Impe-
rial had got themselves into the game
and begun to dominate a vastly more
experienced team. Man of the match
went to Richard for keeping us in the
game on many occasions with some
great goaltending in his first match,
credit also goes to the defenders who
did a superb job of keeping them at bay
but it was a team effort and everyone
rose to the occasion showing great
promise for the new season starting
this term.
School there is always a divide
between them. Rugby and netball
are better on the Medics side, yet
why is it not the same for hockey
and football?
I don’t know actually. Football and
hockey are quite similar games in
a way apart from the size of the ball.
The running lines and how the play
goes are very similar. It might be due
to the wide selection choice available at
Imperial. I believe it is a big thing that
when you come to the medical school
and you play rugby they do look out for
you.
It is not particularly known for hock-
ey and football and I guess because
there is a smaller spread of people we
don’t get such a range.
Ben Saunders is definitely in this picture.
ICUAFC 4th XI. The flagship ULU team
Toby Clemson duly nails an opponent
Please send in high resolution photographs
with your sports reports to
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk

