4 felix Friday 23 January 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News
The world beyond
college walls
After Israel’s unilateral ceasefire on 17th January, and a completion of
its troop pullout on the 21st, Palestinian residents are returning to their
homes in the Gaza strip.
It is estimated that tens of thousands of Gazans are homeless as apartment
blocks were reduced to rubble in areas where the Israeli Airforce did strike,
and where battles with Hamas militants took place. Additionally, half a mil-
lion Palestinians are without
water, electricity supplies are
also patchy and humanitarian
aid supplies from donor coun-
tries are trickling through the
Rafah crossing with Egypt.
Meanwhile Amnesty Interna-
tional has accused Israel of war
crimes by indiscriminately using
white phosphorus munitions in
densely populated areas, some-
thing which the Israeli Defence
Force is already investigating,
and in Kuwait City, a meeting of
the Arab League to discuss how
to help rebuild Gaza ended in
discord as its 22 members failed
to agree on a plan.
Palestine
Edited by Hassan Joudi
None of the doctors responsible for the
Medical Training Application Service
(MTAS) fiasco will face disciplinary ac-
tion from the General Medical Council
(GMC) because their bad decisions
weren’t made in a clinical setting, jun-
ior doctors have been told.
The useless MTAS system, which
was meant to match junior doctors to
training posts, left thousands of quali-
fied doctors jobless. It was condemned
as unfair and inefficient, suffered
technical failures and serious security
breaches which left applicants’ per-
sonal details exposed on the MTAS
website.
The junior doctors’ pressure group
Remedy spearheaded the campaign
for an investigation in to what was the
most called-for professional referral to
the GMC in medical history.
However, the GMC rejected the de-
mand for an enquiry into the role and
performance of the doctors who were
involved in developing the system, tell-
ing Remedy:
“The allegations of misconduct must
be concerned with poor performance
in a clinical setting.”
Dina Ismail
News Correspondent
The meeting of Union Council last
night voted overwhelmingly in favour
of creating a new Sabbatical position
to divide the role of Deputy President
(Education & Welfare). The paper, pre-
sented for the second time in as many
meetings, was passed with 36 votes to
2, with one of these votes being made
via proxy and therefore not privy to the
debate during the meeting.
At the previous meeting in December
some members of Council felt that the
paper was rushed and ill thought-out
and, despite winning over a simple ma-
jority vote, it did not receive the two-
thirds required to pass. Current DPEW,
Hannah Theodorou, said that it was
“tough to make a decision on whether
to bring the paper back to Council”,
stating that her reason was not because
she thought that the Council had made
the wrong decision, but because young
undergraduates who “don’t understand
the ins-and-outs of Union politics” felt
upset that the paper had been rejected,
and wanted it to be re-submitted.
Council Chair, Afonso Campos, re-
linquished the Chair during the dis-
cussion and vote on this paper as he
did not feel that he could be un-biased
in his role. felix Editor in Chief, Jovan
Nedic, stepped up to the position to the
objection of Deputy President (Finance
& Services), Christian Carter. Mr Cart-
er claimed that the Felix Editor was
similarly unable to claim neutrality due
to his comments at previous meetings
and the Sabbatical Review Working
Group. Mr Nedic quickly defended his
position, stating that he had to remain
neutral as the editor of felix, and only
stepped in with opinions previously in
order to speed up the meeting.
The revised paper addressed many
of the issues that had been neglected
at the previous meeting. Most impor-
tantly, ICU President Jenny Morgan
has confirmed that “if we don’t have
assurance that we’re going to have the
money from the NUS pot then we will
not create these new positions”. The
council requested that this assurance
come in the form of written confirma-
tion from a senior member of college
staff by February 9th - before nomina-
tions for the position open. The paper
will be circulated to the Trustee Board
via email for their approval to allow a
decision to be made at College Coun-
cil in time for the upcoming Sabbatical
Elections.
The original papers to Council called
for one of the new positions to be the
Deputy President (Education and De-
velopment), however it was proposed
to change it to Deputy President (Edu-
cation) just before the final vote took
place. After a bit of a discussion it be-
New Sabbaticals for
Education and Welfare
Lawrence Weetman
Live! News Reporter
came clear that it didn’t really matter,
with a vote of 15-14 making the posi-
tions Deputy President (Education)
and Deputy President (Welfare).
The issue of the NUS affiliation
money was also raised. Many students
based their decision on NUS disaffilia-
tion on the fact that the money could
be used for other Union matters. Dep-
uty President (Clubs and Societies),
Lily Topham, asked whether the rest
of the NUS affiliation money would be
available to the Union after the DPE
and DPW roles had been funded. Miss
Morgan confirmed that the Union
would fight for the full amount, how-
ever ruled out an increased budget for
the Union building re-development, as
this does not fall within the scope of
the Union’s subvention.
Deputy President Education and Welfare Hannah Theodorou passing
round papers showing the hectic schedule that the previous role has
PHoto by Sami Michaels
The British government has shelved plans to exempt MPs (Member of
Parliament) from certain parts of the Freedom of Information Act.
After losing a case in the High Court last year, the House of Commons
(lower house) was on the brink of publishing receipts for every expense claim
made by an MP since 2005, putting them on the same level as other paid
British public officials like civil servants and MSPs (Member of the Scottish
Parliament). Initially assuming all-party support, the government’s proposed
change to the law would have blocked pending requests for more informa-
tion under the Freedom of Information Act. But in the weekly Prime Min-
ister’s Questions on Wednesday 21st January, Gordon Brown said he would
not press ahead with the proposal, citing the withdrawal of support from the
opposition Conservative and Lib Dem parties.
Critics were sceptical of the government’s proposed changes, saying they
were deliberately announced this week, when the news headlines were filled
with Obama’s inauguration and Heathrow’s third runway plans, in order to
“bury bad news.”
United Kingdom
Netherlands
A Dutch court has ruled that Geert Wilders, a right-wing politician,
should be prosecuted for inciting racial hatred.
Three judges from the Amsterdam Appeals Court weighed Wilders’ anti-
Islamic rhetoric against his right to free speech with regards to his 17-minute
film “Fitna”, which was released in
March 2008. The film showed verses
of the Muslim holy book the Quran
interspersed with images of terror-
ism; the judges reversed a decision
from last year, and this time ruled
that Wilders’ had broken the law, thus
setting the stage for what is likely to
be a highly charged trial.
Wilders, who is the leader of the
Freedom Party which has 9 out of
120 seats in the Dutch Parliament, is
an outspoken critic of Islam. He has
made controversial statements about
Muslims before, calling for a ban on
the Quran in the same way that Hit-
ler’s “Mein Kampf” is banned, and
saying “I’ve had enough of Islam in
the Netherlands; let not one more
Muslim immigrate.”
GMC rejects call for enquiry into MTAS
Many have found this stance to be
a baffling duplicity of standards in
accountability.
Earlier last year TV psychiatrist Raj
Persaud was suspended from practice
over plagiarism in a book and various
articles he had written for medical
journals and newspapers, which was
hardly a ‘clinical setting.’ Many recent
cases that the GMC has handled relate
to doctors’ conduct entirely unrelated
to patients. Cases from 2008 include
several doctors suspended for motor-
ing offences, financial misconduct and
another who looked at porn via hospi-
tal computers.
These were clearly cases of wrong
doing, but the cost to the health service
has been negligible compared to the
harmful impact of the failed MTAS.
Demonstrators against the enquiry into the MTAS fiasco
The Beauty Of Democracy
Obama’s Inauguration
The biting cold meant that at 3am, 9
hours before the swearing in, I was
huddled with a group of students
from Michigan who had driven down
to Washington that evening. We joked
that the first black President of the
United States might have a lot in his
in-tray, but at least he had a warm bed
to sleep in that night. Hours before
we had met in a Ghanaian live music
bar where a 53-year-old black D.C.
resident grabbed the singer’s micro-
phone and emotionally declared that
the mistakes of the past didn’t matter
anymore because “something beauti-
ful is going to happen tomorrow”.
America has a guilty past and
Obama’s election is an answer to the
questions that this guilty past invites.
Has equality been achieved? Is there
still discrimination? Where is there a
ceiling? Something that I heard over
and over in Washington is that peo-
ple never thought it would happen.
Obama had asked them to hope, but
most of all they had been scared of
past racial and political demons com-
ing back to haunt them again; scared
of being let down.
For my generation, the generation
that used new information technol-
ogy to help put Obama in office, this
was always a peculiar idea. Without
the memory of segregation and the
experience of discrimination the no-
tion of skin colour being a barrier to
office had been frightening but alien.
For the 70 year old grandmother from
the South who stood her own in sub-
zero temperatures amongst a group of
teenagers the end of racial discrimina-
tion had never been powerfully prov-
en. Her generation had dreamt of that
one day when their children might be
judged solely on their character but
that day had never been symbolically
demonstrated. For as long as Martin
Luther King Jr’s dream remained just
that both in reality and in the African-
American consciousness, the proud
American ideals of freedom and
equality would be tainted with the
sweat and blood of black slaves. The
election of Barack Obama is not lib-
eral America’s apology for slavery but
it is, in the words of Vice-
President Al Gore, “the re-
demption of the revolution-
ary promise that all men are
born equal”.
But this inauguration was
more than the realisation of
a dream. It was the vindica-
tion of American democ-
racy. Americans have over
the last 8 years been forced
to ask questions about the
purity and the future of
their democracy. The 2000
election increased politi-
cal cynicism. 9/11 brought
with it the spectres of
torture, increased security and lost
rights. Hurricane Katrina exposed a
divided America and made a mockery
of the government’s ability to uphold
its duties to its citizens; ‘were black
Americans still treated as second-
class citizens?’ we asked. For the past
8 years Americans have been asked to
contemplate their decline to an un-
democratic and totalitarian state.
At the inauguration, we witnessed a
peaceful and stable transition of pow-
er. Something that seems simple but
that still in this day and age remains
special. The success of democracy in
America and its ability to deliver the
will of the people was proven and with
the strong commandments of the new
President, “Starting today, we must
pick ourselves up, dust ourselves off,
and begin again the work of remaking
America,” the mistakes of the past did
seem less important than the bounti-
ful promise of the future.
Less important too were the divi-
sions between Republican and Dem-
ocrat, Conservative and Liberal, or
Obama and McCain supporters. Of
course, these distinctions did exist
but they were not public. Democrats
did not boast to me that they now
controlled the American executive
and legislative power and Republi-
cans were not begrudging in their
celebrations. On inauguration eve, a
McCain supporter was being verbally
abused by an over-zealous Democrat
as a “redneck”. A baying liberal mob
did not spring up, instead onlookers
jumped to his defence. Here was the
truth of Obama’s 2004 con-
vention speech, the mate-
rial evidence of the fact that
there is not a liberal America
and a conservative America
— there is the United States
of America. Obama has ap-
pealed to the best in Ameri-
cans, he has called on them
to work hard, to believe, to
hope, to remember the ide-
als on which the country was
founded. And Americans of
all colours have responded
by uniting with pride in their
nation.
This inauguration, howev-
er, was momentous not only because
Obama is the first black President and
not only because of the unifying rhet-
oric and actions of the Commander-
in-Chief. The inauguration was truly
historic because it marks an era of
struggle for the American people that
threatens their way of life but also
holds infinite potential.
This is the struggle to renew Ameri-
ca’s place at the forefront of the world
culturally, politically and economical-
ly. It will require the upgrade of infra-
structure, increased quality of learn-
ing, the creation of a green economy
and the healing of America’s cultural
and political divisions. This is the
struggle to preserve America’s moral
leadership and its government’s cred-
ibility both at home and abroad.
In front of a 1.8 million strong crowd,
Obama laid out the means by which
America would engage in this strug-
gle and he left us in no doubt of the
outcome. This generation has a duty
to carry forth the great gift of freedom
to future generations, Obama told us,
and that neither terrorists, nor cyn-
ics, nor the stale political arguments
of right versus left would prevent
America from rising to the challenge
with pride, tolerance and strength. In
short, we heard Obama say, the chal-
lenges of the present and the future
“will be met”. And there in the biting
cold, on the National Mall, we shared
the moment and we believed him.
Kadhim Shubber
“The success of democracy
in America and its ability to
deliver the will of the people
was proven. The mistakes
of the past did seem less
important than the bountiful
promise of the future ”

