comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
Friday 23 January 2009 felix
Comment
6 felix Friday 23 January 2009
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
Jovan Nedić
Editor in Chief
S
itting waiting for the 74 at
Hyde Park Corner on Sunday
and with little other than the
cold to numb my boredom,
the bold orange and pink let-
tering of the British Humanist Associ-
ation’s slogan, branded across a page of
the London Lite got me thinking: who’s
worried?
Before you assign this article to that
genre of ever increasing popularity,
the ‘adverticle,’ and write me off as an-
other whacked out, fundamentalist
Christian, with more enthusiasm than
friends and less social skills than facial
hair, let me suggest that the irony sur-
rounding the advertising campaign
surely makes my question valid.
Maybe I’ve missed the mark com-
pletely. Maybe all those people who
gave money to the £136,000 campaign
funding the adverts did so because they
No more on the
matter
There’s probably no God so
stop worrying and enjoy life
with Nathan Sherwood
weren’t worried? I’m told there are a lot
of people with no worries and a lot of
spare cash around these days, right?
And surely the people who worked
on the advert must have realised that
someone from the population of Lon-
don was going to try and sue them for
it. If they really weren’t worried would
they really go to all this trouble to tell
us ‘Stop Worrying’?
And as for enjoying my life, I want
to know whether the men and women
who spent hours working to produce
an advertisement about a God they
don’t believe is real had a lot of fun do-
ing it.
Seriously though, it strikes me that
the people who are most worried
about the existence of a God are the
people working hardest to tell us not
to worry because there isn’t one. And I
can sort of understand why they might.
If there is a god you wouldn’t want to
be the one responsible for denying that
he or she exists; that would be like go-
ing home at Christmas and not just not
buying either of your parents anything
to go under the tree because you don’t
think they’re there but actually putting
posters up around their house denying
that either of them was real; you can
see how they’d be annoyed.
If there really is no God then I guess
we’re not really left with any other
choice than getting on with life, but
if there’s probably no God surely it’s
worth making sure that ‘There is a
God. But don’t worry, he offers eternal
life.’ isn’t a more accurate slogan?
During the first week of February the
Christian Union has organised a week
called ‘FREE’ on campus because this
guy called Jesus convinced well over a
billion people he is God. I suspect he
may have had slightly more impact
than all the adverts on all the sides of
all the busses have ever achieved. May-
be it’s worth finding out what he was
really about.
The Links Club would like to announce their award for any student within the City and
Guilds College who is an active member within the Guilds or who has excelled on the
sporting front.
The award is a bursary of £250 and will be presented to the eventual winner at The Links
Club annual dinner in June 2009.
Candidates must submit an application no longer than 250 words, either by email to
honsec@linksclub.org or hand it in to the CGCU office in a sealed envelope by 1st May
2009. Entrants must outline why they believe they deserve the award.
The Links Club
Imperial College London
W
hat shocked me
the most about the
post-US election
mediacoveragewas
not so much that a
disproportionately large number of
black people were interviewed but that
the majority gave reaction of such jubi-
lation and fervour at having “one of us”
in the white house, that finally people
are going to realise, as one African-
American lady put it, “black people
ain’t just criminals and drug dealers,
we are smart and we do deserve to be
treated better”.
It is true that people cross to the
other side of the street when it’s dark
and they see a six-foot plus black man
walking towards their general direction
and a black man working as a lawyer or
found reading a book that had nothing
to do with sport or rap could be ribbed
for “acting white”. The question is:
Amin Elmubarak believes
you can be anything!
Trying to ascertain a behavioural set
for a white society seems futile when
we all know that the French, Swedish,
English and Irish are all different in
their own way. So why is it acceptable
to try to define a way of “acting black”?
Is this racism or just the rest of society
taking their queue from black people?
For this, I’m afraid we have to take
a quick trip through history. Black
people came from Africa, where they
belonged to different tribes. Each with
its own history, culture and tradition
and therefore its own identity and own
way of acting. Although the concept of
slavery existed for thousands of years,
it tended to be the product of captured
losers in battle and the Arab trade
routes through the present-day Middle
East saw a thriving trade in slaves just
as it did in spices and cattle. However,
the migration of Africans from the west
of Africa to Bristol and then present-
day America saw slaves being captured
not only by the “White man” but also
by more powerful African tribes that
sold them to white slave masters in re-
turn for harder-to-find resources such
as weapons and other products.
Back across the Atlantic, the new
owners cared not from which part of
Africa their slaves originated or what
dialect they spoke. As far as they were
concerned, they didn’t speak English
and that was that. Some just got on
with their new roles, as they felt help-
less whilst others tried to resist and
were subsequently broken down. The
result was generation after generation
that were neither allowed access to
their heritage nor accepted into this
world that they found themselves in.
History saw the slow transition from
slavery, to the freedom of slaves to the
civil rights movement then….. noth-
ing. Not because there were any rules
that prevented black people from pro-
gressing but because black people in
America suddenly found themselves
sharing a country with their white
counter-parts, where they are sharing
the same law, the same land, services
and hopes for the future but when they
looked back, they did not a similar his-
tory nor could they find an identity
that they could relate to as it was an
existence without any freedom, neither
of thought, ideas or traditions.
Though Obama’s victory was in the
political arena, the hope for change
that he embodies goes beyond the
credit crunch, international terrorism
and global warming. It would be naïve
to think that Obama will completely
change American foreign, environ-
mental or economic policy over one
four-year term.
However, the immediate change
that he has instilled is a new sense of
belief:
The young generation’s belief in the
power of the vote; the world’s nostal-
gic belief in America as a vanguard for
justice; But most of all, African Ameri-
can’s belief in their abilities.
To borrow the words of Jay-Z:
“These are oppressed people, what
it represents is that we as a people
are now part of the American dream.
It’s not “Oh the black man is hot!” – I
hate it when people on T.V. say that.
For a kid in the Marcy Projects right
now can say, you know, maybe I can
be the President because for a part we
were left out of the American Dream
at a certain point. Because for a part
it was lawyers and doctors…. Wow,
that’s a black lawyer or a doctor, I can
do that too. Now the dream is you can
be ANYTHING and it’s not cliché. You
can be anything you want to be in the
world, you’re not left out of the Ameri-
can Dream. I think it’s more important
than anything. The Hope of that.”
History, as well as recent events such
as the credit crunch, have shown that
the world is like a pond: when a stone
is dropped in the middle, the ripples
will spread and affect every leaf on its
surface. The American president may
not write the budget for the UK, Ger-
many or France, but the ripples of any
event in America will filter towards us
sooner or later.
On the 20th of January 2009, “the
son of a man who would not have
been served in a restaurant” stood on
the steps of the same Capitol Hill that
was built by the whipped and bloodied
hands of black slaves “to take a most
sacred oath”. Who knows when those
ripples of hope will spread worldwide.
“Obama has
instilled a new
sense of belief
in the young
generation”
T
his is a story about love
and hate. About two
players in a game, linked
only by the deep bond of
a chemical dependency.
About a crime that breaks no law only
the spirit of honest men. About one
man’s journey to the brink of despair.
This is a story about right and wrong.	
For a long time now there has been
an issue that has troubled most of us.
That has niggled just below the surface,
sufficiently out of sight to not warrant
a cure. Something that we can all re-
late to but are equally powerless to do
anything about. The problem I want to
raise is the state of the union. 	
There are those among us who be-
lieve there is no problem. That the un-
ion has its faults but it is like a doddery
grandparent who we still love, despite
their rampant racism and funny smell
(the grand-parent and not the union of
course). But in truth things are worse
than that. The line was crossed for me
last term. We all know too well of the
stress a degree at this institution en-
tails and some deal with this stress in
different ways. My way, and I’m fairly
certain I’m not alone on this one, is al-
cohol. So how is it that at a time when
we are all penny-less from buying
Christmas and teetering on the edge
of insanity due to enormous workloads
that the union feels it necessary to pe-
nalise us further by charging £11 to get
through the door. The fact I could have
a mince pie and mulled wine for my
£11 will not dig me out of debt or end
my stress-induced depression. This ex-
ploitation needs to end; we should not
be mugged by a group who apparently
have our best interests at heart.	
Now you may hear the supporters of
the union claim that the money goes
towardsthecostofpaying“performers”
on ticketed nights. Published accounts
show that “entertainments” cost the
union over £94,000 in the year up July
07, receiving only £46,000 back in in-
come. I’m no accountant but that looks
like a bad piece of business to me and a
new strategy is needed. You need only
to remember what the union booked
that totalled this large amount to see
where things went wrong. I refuse to
believe how someone with such little
musical ability as “Alexa Chung” was let
near a set of decks let alone paid for it.
What made it worse for her, and even
more apparent of her complete lack of
talent, was that she was followed up by
Will Kay, who I am assured was not be-
ing paid £4000+to play a CD contain-
ing, among other hits the “Raw-hide”
theme (£4000 is the fee reported in the
London Paper for Ms. Chung’s service
at an alternative venue). Maybe if the
union focussed on the abundant in-
house talent like Will and DJ Abyss
among so many others, it could reduce
ticket prices by dropping musical no-
bodies like Ms Chung. I’m not trying
to dictate union policy here, I for one
am partial to a bit of Colin Murray on a
Friday night, but we shouldn’t be made
to pay through the nose for people who
are not really entertaining.		
You may think that this article has de-
scended into a mindless rant but I am
not of the angry-geek mould. I do want
this solved and need not write into to
theses hallowed pages again. My solu-
tion is obvious, lower the price of end
of term events, by employing more
IC talent and dropping the gimmicks.
The union must learn that rotating
mechanical animals, be they bulls or
reindeer or Easter bunnies, do not get
people through the door. Neither will
the talent vacuum that encompasses
most radio 1 DJs. The potential of
cheap night out with mates will inevi-
tably draw people in. It is a simple case
of priorities; the union should be serv-
ing us not us serving them as we spunk
our student loans on outrageous entry
prices. 	
We begrudgingly accepted the in-
crease in this year’s alcohol prices and
the move from Carlsberg to Fosters as
a sign of the times and I for one think
the unions drink pricing is great. If only
I could get through the door without
pissing away my money on the ticket
cost. The trouble is there is not much
we can do. If we boycott, as I did this
Christmas, we achieve nothing. I plod-
ded round to the Queens Arms, gasped
at the price of a pint and skulked home
in a huff. The powers that be in the
union will see boycotting as student
apathy and continue on in there mind-
less ways. And so this is my question to
you. What can we do? I have raised the
issue, given it a platform, now we need
to push on and sort this mess out. Is
it really reasonable to expect a student
that reaches the end of the year, when
the cupboard is at its most empty, to
pay £35 for a ticket for the last night at
the union? I refuse to believe that that
amount of money could ever come
close to offering value and that the cur-
rent state of affairs is criminal. I think
it is a robbery in the making and since
we know the criminal and know the
crime it is time we had our justice.
Different Class: four grand don’t come for
free...
“My solution is
lower the price
of events by
employing more
IC talent and
dropping the
gimmicks“
“There is a God.
But don’t worry,
he offers eternal
life.”
T
he following are extracts
from the recently-trans-
lated Book of Obama, a
religious text dating from
the early 21st Century.
Possible errors in translation are not to
be attributed to this publication.
1:1. And lo, on the forty-third day,
the Saviour of Men came unto his
people. And the praise and exulta-
tion poured forth as the mighty ocean
waves pound against the shore, or as
the cold winds of January bite shrewdly
at those for whom no earmuffs have
been provided.
1:2. “We are your people,” shouted
the multitude, “for yours is the power,
and the glory, and the life everlasting.”
“Woohoo”, came the cry from the back
of the crowd and from isolated pockets
near the front. And the throats of the
people went hoarse with the intensity
of their delight, and they were reduced
to waving small oblong pieces of cloth
on sticks to indicate their jubilation.
1:3. And the Saviour emerged onto
the balcony of the temple, where but
lately he had stood waging battle with
nonbelievers from both sides of the
aisle. His gait was purposeful and his
frame was elegant, and as he walked
tall at the side of his wife the thoughts
of the masses remembered how much
more attractive she was than those
who had come before her, and how
pretty she looked in that golden dress
with the fabulous matching coat and
the divine dark green gloves which
so many women thought were daring
and yet so becoming at the same time,
weren’t they just?
1:4. And as the chosen couple ad-
vanced to their seats, there was much
waving and flashing of teeth, and the
raucous joy of the people was trans-
mitted to television sets all over the
world, in the attempt to make the
Ascension of our Lord a truly family-
friendly event.
...
3:8. “What is your name, old man?”
asked the Saviour of Men of the man
to his left.
“I am George, son of George; for ten
generations in this land of the house of
Bush.”
“Ah,” quoth the Chosen One: “truly,
for I have seen your effigies - there is
indeed great wonder to be found in the
sight of a burning Bush.”
And the people did groan loudly as
ones affected by pain, and yet laughed
in spite of themselves with the laughter
of the faithful. “Truly,” shouted a lone
voice from the congregation, through
tears of mirth and of suffering, “His
wisecracks are as cheap oil over trou-
bled waters, and his puns sparkle like
the stars in a sky free of excess carbon
dioxide, acidic pollutants or smog.”
“Yea,” chanted the masses, “we are
indeed blessed.”
...
4:3. And He regaled them with his
exploits among the Pharisees and the
moneylenders in their golden temples
on Wall Street. How he made them
overturn their own trading tables and
run, panicked, out of their houses of
sin and extravagance.
“Tell us, O great one,” the people
cried in astonishment, “how did one
man accomplish such a feat?”
“I stood among them, and in front of
their eyes transformed a live bull into
the stuffed carcass of a bear.” And the
people saw in him the innocence of a
child, but not in a racist way, of course,
that goes without saying.
...
5:6. At the Capitol did he deliver
the Sermon on the Hill, which poured
forth with words both soothing and
invigorating, both calm and watchful,
both peaceful and redolent with power.
Albert. “Blessed are the meek, for they
will be too timid to enter the long and
tiring legal procedure needed to estab-
lish that they are the ones next in line
to inherit the Earth.
Blessed are the peacemakers, for they
will be called sons of God.”
5:7. At this, a great wind roared over
the assembly, which sent forth chills
into the hearts of men, whatever their
skin colour, gender and sexual orienta-
tion might have been. And the Saviour
of Men looked over at George, son of
George, and delivered unto the people
his well-worn message:
“Change we needeth. Can we accom-
plish such a feat?” And the voice of the
people returned as one:
“Verily we may!”
...
7:5 And the Messiah turned unto his
friend Joseph, and did purge him of
the Vice which was to have been fixed
to his name forever more, and looked
upon him with devotion.
...
7:8: “And what say you unto Hillary?”
Asked Joseph. “Come forth, Hillary.”
And Hillary stepped forward and was
embraced by the Messiah as having
seen the light and renounced the ways
of darkness she had hitherto followed.
“And what words have you for Rahm?”
Enquired Joseph. “Step forward,
Rahm.” And Rahm advanced unto his
Master and was accepted as among the
chosen, to stay at the right arm of the
Saviour until disaster, old age, or bad
publicity brought on by his uncontrol-
lable temper would drive them apart.
...
9:11: And the voice of the Saviour of
Men rang out loud and clear in the icy
stillness of the morning. “The reign of
Satan is ended. Get thee behind me,
Satan.”
9.12: And the people did cheer him
with the name he had taken as a mor-
tal, and repeated the name of Obama
as the Saviour of Men ascended to the
Great White House.
Gilead Amit engages in some light archaeology
T
he subject of Israel and
Gaza is always going to be
a controversial one. The
conflict in the Middle East
has raged for decades,
with roots going back millenia, and the
topic’s lengthy history makes any con-
cise coverage impossible.
Emotions are also easily aroused on
all sides, and with debates on the topic
flaring up so easily, I made the decision
last week that the conflict currently oc-
curring in Gaza will only be covered in
one week’s issue. My decision to limit
to one week meant that I ensured all
the comment pieces selected were ones
I deemed to be very well written and
covered all the points considered nec-
essary. Effectively we had both sides of
the story, and to add to the neutrality
of the page as a whole, I included the
piece by Amin Elmubarak which main-
tained a fairly neutral tone. As a news-
paper, I didn’t want it to seem that we
were coming down unequivocally on
one side, and I believe that we were
able to achieve this.
My feelings about the page were ce-
mented when I received several letters,
comments and opinions about them
throughout the week. As expected,
both sides were claiming inaccuracies
in what the other had to say with not a
single one claiming any errors or prob-
lems with the one by Amin. In fact, so
many e-mails were sent to me that if I
were to print them all, it would take up
6 pages.
As you can see, and as already men-
tioned, there are no comment pieces
about the conflict this week. To those
of you who did write in, a big thank you,
and it is a big thank you for two main
reasons; firstly you are all reading the
paper which makes me feel happy, and
secondly you all feel strongly enough
in what you believe that you speak out.
The problem is that I don’t want the
paper to be over-run by this one top-
ic, which it easily can as the topic has
been fiercely argued for years.
So apologies once again to those
of you who did submit something
this week, and I hope you can under-
stand why I have put an end to the
discussion.
As one eagle-eyed reader pointed
out, the newspaper needs to point out
when it makes a mistake. Apart from
the various spelling and grammar mis-
takes that creep through (which we
don’t really apologise for since they’re
always going to happen – as a side note,
we are working on a new system which
should reduce the number of these!)
So apologies for last week. Firstly the
error in the Politics section regard-
ing the tank. The caption under the
picture of the tank on page 11 of last
weeks issue (1,420) read “Israeli tanks
preparing for an increase in hostilities
with Palestine”. We apologise for the
mistake made as the tank in the picture
was actually a tank from the Indian
military. So to all of you who wrote in
to point this out, apologies.
Secondly there was the comment
made by Politics editor James Gold-
sack referring to the Jewish communi-
ty as “our big-nosed friends”. He has is-
sued an apology in his Politics section,
which can be found on page 12.
Thirdly, on the story entitled “Heath-
rowexpansionplansaffectICsports”by
Charles Murdoch, he wrote that Sport
Imperial were planning on moving the
sports ground to the London Borough
of Ealing in a place called Norwood
Green not Northwood Green.
As I said, to all of you who have e-
mailed in pointing out these errors, I
am, as ever, grateful for your help.
To finish off my column, I thought I
might use this opportunity to tell you
all of the big events coming up this
term, the main two being ArtsFest
Week (16th-20th February) and Var-
sity (25th February). These two events
showcase two of the biggest things at
Imperial; it’s every growing creative
side, and the sporting rivalry between
the medical school and Imperial. Keep
an eye out for posters in the coming
weeks.

