8 felix Friday 23 January 2009
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment
I
was going home the other day
after a tough day at Imperial
when I saw this man talking to
himself. A decent-looking guy
with a no-brand sweat-shirt and
no-brand sneakers. We could say he
was normal. He even looked young,
no more than 30. As I went past him,
I didn’t even turn back or act suprised
since this was no surprise to me at all.
I realised that I had seen lonely slow-
walking normal-looking alone-talking
people almost everyday during this
past week. I couldn’t help but wonder:
are we all freaks or is there something
to freak about?
We all know that the world is cur-
rently in a difficult financial position,
we all know that the climate change is
speeding up the end of our dear planet,
but are these the reasons for the high
level of freaks I encountered this week?
Y
ou understand, I am only
human. And humans can-
not resist a little bargain.
My dollar-sign eyes glis-
ten as this appears on my
computer screen - “your flight status is
confirmed”. I punch my fists in the air
and swing my t-shirt above my head.
Ha, a £40 return flight to Milan.
Blood drains from my face when
the adrenalin of slashing a good deal
ebbs away. I realise what I have done.
Yet again. 100 years on from Jack and
Rose, technological advances have put
an end to epic travelling. Unfortunate-
ly not with a budget airline. They send
you 3 centuries back to the Z-deck on
a transatlantic steamboat. On the eve
of departure, I toss and turn in my
bed, soak my linen with cold sweat as
Michael O’Leary opens my suitcase
and toss my shower gel, t-shirts, tow-
els, nighties, underpants, sunglasses,
flip-flops and bikini into an open fire.
“Why didn’t you pay for checked lug-
gage? Why didn’t you pay for speedy
boarding? Why didn’t you…”. He puts
a numbered stamp on my forehead
and a fearsome looking witch pushes
me onto the aircraft. I have never been
more cheerful to wake up to a 4am
alarm clock. What a nightmare. Wait,
or is it the actualisation of truth?
Why am I such a fool? Knowing full
well in advance that ground travel will
probably cost me an extra £40 if not
more. Yes, booking with BA will cost
me £100 one off. But I will fly out at
more humane hours, and I can march
on to the aircraft with dignity. The
airhostess to welcome you on board
at least has the decency to tie up their
hair and look presentable. I get to
booze on the house, I get to have a lit-
tle sandwich, I get a few glittery points
on my AirMiles portfolio. And if I am
thick enough I can even ask for toys or
register myself as an “unaccompanied
minor” and suckle on the stewardess’s
breast.
But the damage has been done, I have
to physically trawl my 0kg bag through
the door to catch the next tube, bus,
train, coach, plane, coach again and
then bus. I always, always angrily
punch the passenger seat in front of
me just to vent my frustration on how
impossible I am. How many mistakes
do I need to make before I ban myself
from the Ryanair website? I lie on my
hotel bed in Citta Alta thinking about
Bush. “Fool me once, shame on…”. I am
too exhausted to admire the scenery
outside my hotel window. I have wast-
ed another £40 for sleeping through
the day in a hotel room.
I am no business person. But I hap-
pen to know that in 2006, Ryanair
launched a hostile take over for Aer-
lingus. Aerlingus had a close shave
then, the decision rejected only by
European Commission reasoning that
Ryanair will attain Irish air monopoly.
The Irish Government dumped three
quarters of the previously govern-
ment owned company’s shares onto
the stock market in 2006. Since then
Ryanair has become the largest share-
holder of Aerlingus at 29.5%. Allow
me to reiterate my sheer ignorance in
how the financial market works, but it
would be an utter nightmare for pas-
sengers if the budget airline ideology
continue to dominate our air traffic. I
prefer to check in how ever many bags
as I see fit, without a hush-puppy look-
ing clerk pulling another £20 off my
plastic. I prefer the lovely snacks and
drinks and toys. I prefer the ‘Catch Me
If You Can’ airhostesses. I prefer to pay
for a ticket with an honest price tag
with no hidden costs.
And for you stripey suit wearing kids
out there jumping up and down in pro-
test to what I have said above, yes, I
acknowledge the fact that Ryanair has
its beautiful side too. Ryanair has cre-
ated tourist destinations in rural parts
of Europe that no one has envisioned
any form of business would be able to
flourish at all. But stripey suit wearing
kids probably never have to travel in
Economy Class, let alone with a budget
airline. You don’t understand us com-
moner’s pain if Ryanair manages to eat
its way up the food chain and degrade
the service our sons of the world so
rightly deserve.
Aerlingus is no Alitalia. It continues
to trade favourably on the stock mar-
ket. I fail to see why it needs a blue
and yellow smiley with two devil horns
stuck up their rear exit.
A
pretty ubiquitous thing,
the wall. Surrounded by
them for most of our dai-
ly lives, whether walking
down wall-lined streets
or sitting in the enclosure of them, how
many of us consider the significance
of walls on our well-being, psyche, or
even world history? With great walls,
wailing walls, and wonderwalls; there
must be more to them than first meets
the eye.
Paleolithic man rebelled against na-
ture by constructing walls where he
wanted to stay; one of his first tech-
nological advances. From the days of
high-tech protection measures, walls
have evolved to now have many rai-
sons d’être: surprising maybe, but
consider…
The most prominent of modern day
are those around territories, a mark
of ownership on the land. A really
big barrier keeping out the undesira-
bles and protecting those within. Like
your neighbour growing big pine trees
around their garden to stop you from
peeking in, it says a lot.
Stay with me now – there’s a point.
Like children in an argument that find
Wonder walls – more than just a catchy
tune for Quick Nic
they’re getting nowhere turning their
backs to each other, walls in difficult
situations rarely solve a lot. My exam-
ple being the days I’ve gone not talking
to my sister. With closed doors there’s
no need for communication; therefore
it doesn’t happen. We’ve lost our com-
munities for the same reason and have
replaced them with virtual ones where
ease of communication is the name of
the game. I personally like to hear the
lol, see the :@ and feel the (}), it lets me
feel real, un-virtual if you will. Walls
are letting us live our separate lives
without any need for real face to face
interaction.
Without this communication noth-
ing gets solved; because unlike children
forgetting the stolen Pokémon card;
whole populations rarely forget their
problems and it’s even harder to at-
tain the forgiveness of those wronged.
Walling the problem up as Emperor
Akbar did to legendary dancer An-
arkali (Mughal-E-Azam, a must-watch
Hindi film) only serves to exacerbate
the problem, creating the ideal breed-
ing ground for extreme feelings to take
hold. Who knows what could happen
then?
Imagine around you, the walls crum-
bling down. Your magnolia stained,
flower printed bedrooms disintegrat-
ing. The faces of your favourite girls
and boys (or your revision notes as the
case may be) crumpling. You may get
caught in the debris of what was once
your home. The cold streaming in, tak-
ing hold. Nowhere to sleep and escape
the harshness that our ancestors long
ago faced. As the adage goes, you don’t
know what you’ve got till it’s gone.
I’m saying this so that I’m not too
harsh to walls. Perhaps it’s not walls
that are to blame, but people. When
the giants fight it’s the civilians who
lose what’s dearest to them. Walls may
have evolved but only as mankind has
dictated; whether to impose them-
selves or for the safety and warmth of
our homes. Some walls are worth fight-
ing for; God knows I love mine.
The writing on the wall doesn’t have
to be so ominous. We should appre-
ciate our homes and good lives; real-
ise that everyone has the right to live
free of fear, to have a roof over their
heads and walls to love, not hate. Well
done then to the group of people who
ran the peace wall, “Peace by pieces”,
where people could express their feel-
ings on the recent tragedies and oth-
ers could be made aware, then go on to
do something about it. Rather cleverly
these people chose to use their wall as
a means of breaking down the ones
in our minds. It was very successful
and hopefully has driven the students
to stand and say we at Imperial want
nothing but peace.
Our first show of solidarity will be
tonight on Queen’s Lawn where there
will be a Vigil from 5 till 6.
Maybe being another brick in the
wall isn’t so bad after all.
Does the political and social situation
of a country reflect on the amount of
freaks running free on the streets? In
order to find an answer I had to look
for examples extracted from my life.
Back home, I used to have a neighbour,
a good-looking 30-something woman
with child, who used to get drunk and
start singing songs in an unknown lan-
guage in her garden until late at night.
Then one of my English teachers at
school had such sudden mood changes
that some days she would praise you
as her best pupil and other days she
would forget your name in the middle
of the year. And these were only a few
examples from my past. The fact that
they happened when everything was
peaceful and not altered by any credit
crunch means that there might not be
a close relation to the stability status
of the world and the number of crazy
people out there.
I decided to investigate my present
and see if I could see a difference. Un-
fortunately, I have to say that it has
gotten even worse. I have met some
serious freaks at Imperial during my 3
years here. Even though I have to ad-
mit that most of them are harmless,
it makes me very sad when I discover
a freak among the people I call my
friends. There was a person whom I
considered a close friend last year and
who suddenly stopped talking to me.
At this point I obviously didn’t know
about her freak identity, I thought that
something had happened or that I had
made some mistake. But later on, some
people told me that she had stopped
talking to them too. And then I dis-
covered that half Imperial had been
rejected by her. I instantenously felt a
feeling of relief “it’s not me!“ but then
many new questions came to my mind.
How do you handle such mood-swing-
ing freaks? Can they be friends with
normal people?
In order to find answers, I went and
did some research in the literature.
For those who watch Friends, you will
immediately think of Phoebe. Yes, she
would come into the harmless freak
category, but she is also a funny, crea-
tive and very caring person. And thus
she had friends. In ‘Friends’ I trust and
thus I decided to fight for those freaks
who might come up a bit strong the
first day but then have lovely person-
alities. Being freak doesn’t have to play
against you, it can also be a charming
asset you can use, and create some kind
of lovely unpredictability around you.
Unfortunately this is not always the
case. It is not even usually the case. But
it happens, and you have to give people
a chance. And besides, the amount of
freaks having gone up at the same time
that the credit crunch has been intro-
duced into our lives, who is to say that
these are not directly correlated? It is
possible that it is not even their fault
if they have been infected by this crazy
virus, it is clearly the subprimes’!
Are we all freaks or is there something to
freak about? - Slutty Pumpkin
“How many
mistakes do I
need to make
before I ban
myself from
the Ryanair
website?”
Kawai Wong: Ryanair, fool
me once, shame on...
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science
Science Editors – Daniel Burrows & Mićo Tatalović
Idle computer power can now be put
to good use, thanks to a novel scheme
set up by scientists at Harvard Uni-
versity investigating new solar-panel
technology.
Willing volunteers can download a
simple program to their PC or Mac,
so during screen-saver mode it runs
calculations used for research into or-
ganic solar cells. Some of the energy
otherwise wasted in the home can ac-
tually contribute towards developing
renewable energy sources.
The Clean Energy Project went live
on 5th December 2008, and is part
of IBM’s World Community Grid
(WCG), which aims to ‘advance re-
search of humanitarian projects’. Other
WCG projects include aids and cancer
research and disease-resistant crop de-
velopment. So far the grid has attract-
ed over a million volunteers, notching
up an estimated 203,000 years of oth-
erwise unused computing time. IBM
ranks the grid in the top 5 supercom-
puters in the world.
Organic solar cells are a lighter and
more flexible alternative to conven-
tional silicon cells. The lead researcher
behind the project, Professor Alan As-
puru–Guzik, notes that current organ-
ic solar cells have a relatively low effi-
ciency of 5-6%. He hopes to improve
Olivia Sharp
Science Reporter
The Clean Energy Project
The eco-science
column
on this figure, as an efficiency of 15%
would make them viable commercially
and sees ‘a systematic path towards
breakthroughs in performance of or-
ganic solar cells’.
The Harvard University team use
computational chemistry to look
through thousands of potential mo-
lecular materials which can be used in
solar cells based on organic molecules.
The cells need compounds with spe-
cific features to efficiently capture and
store energy and experimentally test-
ing and manufacturing each molecular
combination would be highly time con-
suming. Their theoretical calculations
can determine whether the molecule is
a good match for solar panel use.
This is where the home computer
comes in. By connecting your compu-
ter via the Internet, a downloaded pro-
gram runs these calculations that feed
back to a central database. Numbers
are run concurrently on two comput-
ers and compared, to avoid hacking
activity. Aspuru–Guzik has estimated
the team would take 100 days to scan
one of the thousands of compounds
without the World Community Grid
but with the help of donated comput-
ing time from around the world, their
calculations may be completed within
2 years.
If you would like to contribute your
idle processing power, go to http://
cleanenergy.harvard.edu/go/.
Obama makes room for
science in the White House
Sneak peak of the Spring Issue of I, science out next week
The new president has filled prominent positions with eminent
scientists in a statement of intent on climate change
Barack Obama has pleased scientists
and environmentalists across the world
with a series of appointments that sug-
gest an intention to make science a
high priority during his presidency.
The decisions appear to signal a radi-
cal shift away from the attitudes of his
predecessor George W. Bush, who has
been accused of allowing U.S research
to stagnate and of stubbornly ignoring
the evidence on climate change.
Announcing his choices in a radio
address, Obama said, “It is time we
once again put science at the top of our
agenda and worked to restore Ameri-
ca’s place as the world leader in science
and technology”.
The incoming president also stressed
the importance of respecting scientific
evidence in the process of making
political decisions. “The truth is that
promoting science isn’t just about pro-
viding resources – it’s about protect-
ing free and open inquiry. It’s about
ensuring that facts and evidence are
never twisted or obscured by politics
or ideology. It’s about listening to what
our scientists have to say, even when
it’s inconvenient – especially when it’s
inconvenient. Because the highest pur-
pose of science is the search for knowl-
edge, truth and a greater understand-
ing of the world around us. That will
be my goal as President of the United
States”.
Chief among Obama’s appointments
was the selection of Harvard physi-
cist John Holdren as Assistant to the
President for Science and Technology
and Director of the White House Of-
fice of Science and Technology Policy.
Holdren is a world-renowned expert
on climate change who has been an
outspoken proponent of the need to
take action. In an article for Scientific
American last October, Holdren wrote
“the Bush administration has wasted
the last eight years. It should have been
taking decisive action but engaged in-
stead in systematic understatement
of the danger: it has made ridiculous
assertions that the U.S should not do
anything that China does not agree to
do and has stubbornly insisted that no
action should be taken to improve cli-
mate change ‘if it hurts the economy’.”
For his lobbying work on environmen-
tal issues, Holdren was awarded the
Tyler Prize in Environmental Achieve-
ment in 2000.
In addition to his work on climate
change, Prof. Holdren has also taken a
keen interest in science policy, as well
as being an active opponent of nuclear
proliferation. In 1995, he accepted the
Nobel Peace Prize on behalf of the
Pugwash Conferences, an organisation
that brings together influential schol-
ars with the aim of reducing the danger
of armed conflict.
Along with two other distinguished
scientists, Harold Varmus and Eric
Lander, Holdren will co-chair the Pres-
ident’s Council of Advisors on Science
and Technology (PCAST). Varmus re-
ceived the Nobel Prize for Medicine in
1989 for his work in cancer research
and has also served as Director of the
National Institutes of Health (NIH).
Lander, a professor of biology who was
involved with the Human Genome
Project, is the Director of the Broad
Institute, a centre for genome research
set up as a joint venture between Har-
vard University and the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology (MIT).
As his Energy Secretary, Obama
has chosen another Nobel laureate,
Stephen Chu. Chu, Professor of phys-
ics and molecular and cell biology at
the University of California, Berkeley
(UCB), is Director of the Lawrence
Berkeley National Laboratory. He has
been an outspoken advocate for find-
ing scientific solutions to tackle cli-
mate change and has enthusiastically
supported research into alternative
fuels. It is the first time that a career
scientist has been selected to run the
Department of Energy.
“President­
–elect Obama has set the
tone and pace for moving our coun-
try forward with optimism and calm
determination,” Chu said. “With these
virtues, the United States and the
world can and will prevail over our
economic, energy and climate change
challenges.”
In addition, Obama has created the
new position of Assistant to the Presi-
dent for Energy and Climate Change, a
post in which he has appointed Carol
Browner, a former Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency
who has also served as Al Gore’s Leg-
islative Director. Meanwhile, envi-
ronmental scientist Jane Lubchenco
will take control of the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration
(NOAA). In the past, Lubchenco has
openly criticised the NOAA for not
doing enough to prevent over-fishing.
Members of the science community
were quick to welcome Obama’s choic-
es. “John Holdren, Jane Lubchenco and
Steven Chu are, by any measure, a sci-
ence dream team for the new adminis-
tration,” said Peter Frumhoff from the
lobby group Union of Concerned Sci-
entists. “They all are among the top in
their fields and understand the critical
role that science must play in inform-
ing policy decisions.”
Others are eager to ensure that
Obama backs up his talk of action on
climate change with policies that will
genuinely lead to significant reduc-
tions in America’s carbon emissions.
James Hansen, a climatologist who
heads NASA’s Goddard Institute for
Space Studies, has written an open
letter to the President and First Lady
outlining proposals that he believes are
necessary to bring down atmospheric
carbon dioxide levels. Hansen insists
that “cap and trade” measures are in-
sufficient and that much tougher ac-
tion must be taken. He recommends
phasing out coal power stations that do
not have carbon capture and imposing
a carbon tax at the source of the fuel
to reduce demand. In addition, he ar-
gues that the President must support
the development of safe nuclear power
plants.
The letter can be read in full on the
website of Columbia University, where
Hansen is a Professor of Earth and
Environmental Studies. Prefacing the
letter, Hansen wrote “(Michelle and
Barack Obama) are equally smart law-
yers and if we can get either of them
to really focus on the actions that are
needed, the planet has a chance”.
Sam Wong
The 44th President of the USA, Barack Obama
I, science
OUT NEXT WEEK

