politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
12 felix Friday 23 January 2009
Politics
Politics Editors – James Goldsack & Katya-yani Vyas
I
would like to apologise for any
offense caused by my column
last week. My racial stereotype
was not intended as derogatory.
I am descended from one of the
12 tribes myself and my column was
written in defence of Israel. I assumed
that in context and with the use of the
term “friends”, it would be obvious that
it was meant as a joke; in bad taste,
perhaps, but still inoffensive.
I am now aware that for such a tricky
topic I should not have used such hu-
mour, but if you can’t laugh at times
like this, what can you do? When I next
use a stereotype I shall ensure it is ob-
viously tongue-in-cheek.
However, this is only a student news-
paper, no matter how good or how
professionally we take it.
A couple of errors were also pointed
out from last week’s issue and I apolo-
gise for these as well. The photograph
of a ‘tank heading into Gaza’ was not in
fact Israeli – which any self-respecting
tank expert would know. Imagine a dif-
ferent tank rolling into Gaza and there
you have it.
Now that I have grovelled enough, I
shall turn my attention to the Inaugu-
ration of Barack Obama. Almost 2 mil-
lion people flocked to see the Founding
Fathers spinning in their graves.
I am all for change, progress, de-
mocracy (despite its problems, a topic
for another day perhaps) and Obama.
If he had not won I would have been
devastated.
However, my problem is more with
Katya-yani Vyas
Politics Editor
Gaza’s skyline illuminated by fire and smoke from Israeli bombs
James Goldsack
Politics Editor
the nature of presidency in the US.
The Founding Fathers, whose names
are always brought up at occasions
such as these had struggled to create
a nation not under God but of secular
governance with faith separated from
state.
At the inauguration, what did Obama
have to swear the oath upon? Yes, a
Bible. What was the most common
phrase to be spoken during the whole
address? “God bless the United States
of America”.
It made me cringe.
The original vision of secularity is a
far cry from today where the presiden-
tial candidates have to be Christian to
get any support, and where dollar bills
have religious slogans plastered over
them.
What has happened to the principles
of the fathers of democracy and the
land of the free?
This is not the only problem I have
with the presidency as a concept.
Presidents now have too much
power, far more than allowed by their
much-loved constitution. The checks
and balances originally found in the
system are no longer there. A presi-
dent was supposed to be for use in
situations where rapid response is nec-
essary, when a parliament could not
move fast enough.
This is one of the reasons why the US
system is a corruption. They fight cor-
ruption elsewhere in the world but fail
to look in their own administration to
find the real criminals.
I am very
sorry...
Israel withdraws
Obama’s inauguration and the media frenzy
The inauguration of Obama paves the way for the glorifcation of freedom of speech
“A sporadic peace” was the phrase
being thrown around by commenta-
tors after Israel declared a complete
withdrawal of its troops from Gaza.
This comes after a three-week assault
against Hamas militants and could be
a stepping-stone towards some kind of
resolution. Israeli troops will remain
near the border as a strategic measure
in order to prevent any further attacks,
spy planes continue to fly over the area
and the navy have not ceased the ran-
dom bombing of Gaza’s beaches.
The withdrawal happened early on
Wednesday, with an Israeli military
spokesman telling the media; "The last
of the Israel Defence Force’s soldiers
have left the Gaza Strip, forces have
been deployed outside of Gaza and are
prepared for any occurrences." A state-
ment that was a reaction to reports that
the Israeli navy has continued to fire
shells at Gaza from the Mediterranean,
in what the military has described as a
deterrent measure. The last armoured
units and foot patrols left three days
after Israel and Hamas separately de-
clared ceasefires on Sunday. Officials
had promised that they would have
vacated the area before the inaugura-
tion of the new US president, Barack
Obama.
The reasons for this are no doubt
centred around Israel’s desire to avoid
possible tension at the start of a new
era of diplomacy with its closest mili-
tary ally. George Bush, Obama’s pred-
ecessor, endorsed Israel's right to enter
the Gaza Strip in its efforts to defend
itself against rocket fire from Hamas
militants, providing Israel with the
confidence to carry out military meas-
ures. The pressing question is, how
will the new president act to resolve
the situation? It expected that Obama
will move quickly to appoint a Middle
East envoy, possibly the former senator
George Mitchell, who, on behalf of the
Clinton and Bush administrations, was
a key figure in trying to bring about an
end to Israeli-Palestinian violence.
Around 1,300 Palestinians have
killed and thousands made homeless
since the 22-day long offensive be-
gan. Medical officials in Gaza stated
that the Palestinian dead includes at
least 700 civilians. Ten Israeli soldiers
and three civilians hit by cross-border
rocket fire were killed in the conflict.
It is this contrast in the numbers of
casualties on either side that has pro-
voked an upsurge in outrage against
Israel’s military actions. Recently there
have been protests around the Israeli
embassy in Kensington, and a 24 hour
vigil was held on High Street Kensing-
ton to remember those that had died
in Gaza.
During the 24 hour vigil, a smaller
protest was also underway nearby.
Having attended the event myself as an
observer, it was difficult to make out
much of what was being said amongst
the sea of frantically swaying placards
and aggressive chanting. I did however
notice a sign that appealed to us to
“Stop the Holocaust in Gaza”, showing
a distinct lack of taste, in addition a car
drove by bearing the phrase “Kill all the
Jews”. It became increasingly evident
that this particular protest had become
less about politics and more about cul-
tural fanaticism. Whilst attempting to
gain some sort of coherent perspective
from one protester I was subjected to a
torrent of aggression and rogue saliva,
I was called ‘an imperialist warmonger’
and most amusingly, accused of being
in league with ‘the Zionists’, a response
to my asking what the main reasons for
their protest were: a slight over-reac-
tion, perhaps.
It seems that the situation is mov-
ing forward, Hamas having stated that
progress is being made with continuing
talks in Cairo over Egypt's proposal for
a deal that would guarantee that Gaza’s
border crossings be re-opened, includ-
ing a terminal on the Egyptian frontier
that had served as the main exit from
the territory. So is peace on the hori-
zon? I sincerely hope so.
Raz Jabary
With Barack Obama’s inauguration
as America’s 44th President let us all
briefly think back to the modern dem-
ocratic developments in the Western
world in the past century, those that
have now resulted in the election of
a citizen from a minority race to the
highest office of the most powerful
country in the world.
When having lived in this country
for a while, one occasionally tends to
forget how blessed we are to live in
such advanced economic, political and
cultural circumstances.
It was the media that changed peo-
ple’s perceptions in the past about ma-
jor issues and that gave a substantial
stimulus to the power of public opin-
ion. It is the media today that delivers
events around the world straight to our
living rooms and it will be the media in
the future that will prevent people such
as the recently re-sentenced Chemical
Ali to get away with the cruellest acts
against humanity.
Like the freedom of expression, one
does not tend to respect the role of the
media unless one looks back at what
was going on in a time of insufficient
report coverage. Would the American
public have fully supported America’s
previous wars if they had been tel-
evised like the conflict in Vietnam?
Would the Holocaust have been such
disastrous if people in every corner of
the world were able to follow live cov-
erage on the suffering that the Jewish
community had to go through in Nazi
Germany?
Unfortunately, the media has often
been victimized in widespread acts of
propaganda in various former and on-
going conflicts around the world. This
emphasizes the necessity for us here in
Britain to optimally utilize the oppor-
tunity to say what we think, to be criti-
cal of what we are told and mostly to
set the example to regimes that harshly
redeem lobbying opportunities for
their own populations.
Let us all spare a brief moment to
think about the many means of written
communication that exist today and
that have at some stage been a benefit
to each one of us, from the university
prospectuses that you consulted when
you were in sixth form to that crucial
BBC report that changed your view of
the world in which we live.
The development of the media as a
tool of indirect communication has
increased lateral understanding and
brought humans from different ethnic-
ity and religions, different traces and
nationalities all closer together. Let us
be thankful for that.
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 23 January 2009 felix
Politics
Obama’s inauguration and first days in office
Barack Obama opened his inaugural
address by telling the country of the cri-
sis it has fallen into, that of “gathering
clouds and raging storms.” President
Obama said that the economic crisis
was not only a result of “greed and ir-
responsibility on the part of some,” but
instead a consequence of “our collec-
tive failure to make hard choices and
prepare the nation for a new age.”
Those in the United States have been
hankering for lower taxes yet greater
services, an impossible task. Obama
is showing a new side, a break from
this politics: “Our time of standing
pat, or protecting narrow interests and
putting off unpleasant decisions - that
time has surely passed”.
Obama’s first speech as president
showed that he is determined to at-
tempt to create a new kind of politics
for a “post-partisan” America. This
idea is not necessarily going to sit well
with those in the Democratic party
who wish for a cleaner break from the
Bush presidency and the painful times
that came with it.
“On this day, we come to proclaim
an end to the petty grievances and
false promises, the recriminations and
worn-out dogmas, that for far too long
have strangled our politics.”
The speech also contained a simi-
larly blunt message to the world. “To
the Muslim world, we seek a new way
forward, based on mutual interest and
mutual respect,” he said.
Obama challenged the regimes of the
Middle East to a new test: “Know that
your people will judge you on what you
can build, not what you destroy.” He
also offered a path out of corruption
for those nations or oligarchs willing to
change: “We will extend a hand if you
are willing to unclench your fist.” How-
ever, unlike the Bush administration’s
insistent promotion of democracy,
President Obama has a hard term ahead with the financial crisis and the war on terror to contend with
The Capitol building, where Obama was sworn in as the 44th President of the United States of America in front of 2 million spectators
president Obama appears to be taking
a gentler approach.
Also in the inauguration speech,
Obama said that “For those who seek
to advance their aims by inducing ter-
ror and slaughtering innocents, we say
to you now that our spirit is stronger
and cannot be broken; you cannot out-
last us, and we will defeat you”, helping
to evade fears that America will now
appear weak in the face of terrorism.
Obamahasbeenlikenedtomanypre-
vious presidents, such as Kennedy and
Lincoln. His speech was akin to those
of early American presidents, plain
but bold. “What the cynics fail to un-
derstand is that the ground has shifted
beneath them - that the stale political
arguments that have consumed us for
so long no longer apply.”
After the celebrations of inaugu-
ration night, President Obama was
launched immediately into the reality
of his new job. His first task was to call
the leaders of Middle Eastern coun-
tries including Egypt, Israel and the
Palestinian Authority.
The president has pledged “active
engagement” for a fragile cease-fire
between Israel and the Palestinians in
Gaza.
“In the aftermath of the Gaza con-
flict, he emphasized his determina-
tion to work to help consolidate the
cease-fire by establishing an effective
anti-smuggling regime to prevent Ha-
mas from re-arming, and facilitating in
partnership with the Palestinian Au-
thority a major reconstruction effort
for Palestinians in Gaza,” press secre-
tary Robert Gibbs said in a statement.
Obama’s first presidential meetings
concerned the economy and Iraq and
later signed a series of executive orders
and directives to implement new ethi-
cal rules for his administration, keeping
his campaign promise to bring greater
transparency to the White House and
declaring “a new era of openness” in
government.
The Senate voted 94 to 2 to confirm
Obama’s nominee for secretary of
state, Hillary Clinton, allowing her to
begin work on foreign policy issues in-
cluding the conflict in Gaza. Presiden-
tial aides are preparing an executive
order to begin the process of shutting
down the Guantanamo Bay detention
facility in Cuba. The Obama admin-
istration has instructed military pros-
ecutors to seek a 120 day suspension
of legal proceedings including those
against Khalid Sheik Mohammed, the
avowed mastermind of the September
11th attacks. In an appearance at the
Eisenhower Executive Office Building,
Obama signed further executive orders
to tighten rules on lobbyists, freeze the
pay of senior White House staff and
expand release of documents under
the Freedom of Information Act.
“Transparency and the rule of law
will be the touchstones of this presi-
dency,” Obama told senior staff mem-
bers. The orders “will not by them-
selves make government as honest and
transparent as it needs to be,” he said.
“And they do not go as far as we need
to go towards restoring accountability
and fiscal restraint in Washington. But
these historic measures do mark the
beginning of a new era of openness in
our country.”
“What a moment we’re in. What an
opportunity we have to change this
country,” Obama told members of his
senior executive staff.
Lawmakers grilled Obama’s nomi-
nee for Treasury secretary, Timothy
Geithner, who came under criticism
when it was revealed that he had
failed to pay some taxes for four years.
Geithner acknowledged making the
errors and apologized to lawmakers
for making them spend time discuss-
ing his taxes. However, he spent the
bulk of his confirmation hearing warn-
ing about the need to act boldly to con-
front the country’s enormous financial
crisis.
“If our policy response is tenta-
tive and incrementalist... then we risk
greater damage to living standards, to
the economy’s productive potential,
and to the fabric of our financial sys-
tem,” he said.
Obama is planning a major address
to a joint session of Congress within
the next few weeks in order to lay out
his plans for reviving the economy and
jump-starting the financial system.
Upon entering the White House,
President Obama read a note that
former president George W. Bush had
left for him in the left desk drawer, a
tradition dating back several presi-
dents. The note was in an envelope
marked “To: #44, From: #43,” accord-
ing to a statement from the President’s
press secretary. The White House did
not disclose the contents of the note.
James Goldsack
Politics Editor

