business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
14 felix Friday 23 January 2009
Business
Business Editor – Luke Dhanoa
Who’s funding the
Gaza conflict?
Luke Dhanoa
Business Editor
The Gaza conflict has flared up again,
and the peace process in the Middle
East has taken a step back, again. The
international community is worried,
again. People are arguing, again. And
all the while, innocent people are get-
ting killed. Again.
Usually the things you see or read
about the conflict are full of emotion-
ally tainted depictions of the politics or
the history behind the war, but luck-
ily for you, this isn’t one of them. This
section is not concerned with the cor-
rectness of any side or who has a right
to the land or any of the politics; this
section is concerned with the econom-
ic context of the conflict and nothing
more. So without further ado, it’s time
to start following the money.
The US
One of the largest and most document-
ed financial streams into the conflict
comes from the U.S. and thanks to the
transparency of their government you
can just look up how much it spends
on the USAID website.
U.S. to Israel
Of the $8.9bn the US deployed in in-
ternational AID about $2.4bn was
directly given to Israel [USAID 2008
financial reports] with “virtually all”
of the money to be spent on weapons
(up to 75% of which are U.S. produced)
[Parade, December 14th 2008]. And
over the next 10 years the U.S. govern-
ment plans to donate $30bn to Israel,
presumably mostly for weapons.
On top of the direct funding, the U.S.
government has guaranteed almost
$12.5bn of Israeli loans, meaning that
it will contribute $12.5bn to help Israel
pay off pay off loans to third parties
should it need to.
U.S. to Egypt
In 2008 the U.S. gave $1.7bn of aid to
Egypt, $1.3bn of which was earmarked
to military budgets. It is not clear how
much of this money has to be spent on
U.S. produced weapons but USAID
has definitely led to Egypt being the
only military power in the region that
is comparable to Israel. The budget is
supposed to allow Egypt to combat
weapons smuggling to the Gaza strip
but considering that Egypt ranks 115th
of 180 in the 2008 Corruption Index
it’s conceivable that a residual amount
of the U.S. aid to go into arming Pales-
tinian fighters.
U.S. to Jordan
Jordan receives $688 million of U.S.
Aid, $326m of which goes to “fighting
terrorism” and $163m goes to unspeci-
fied causes. It is unlikely that any large
amount of this money gets to Gaza, es-
pecially given that Jordan is a relatively
uncorrupt country (ranking 47) and it’s
ideological differences with Hamas.
Israel, Jordan and Egypt to the
U.S.
So why is the US pouring so much into
the conflict? Usually people assume it’s
for political gain, but America benefits
fiscally too. If we look at the Aid fig-
ures it’s pretty clear that a lot of “for-
eign” aid money never actually leaves
the U.S and the vast majority of it goes
straight to private American com-
panies that produce weapons or aid
products, which get sent to unstable
regions. An absurd amount of USAID
is turned into government subsidies
for the U.S. weapons and agricultural
industries. For these corporations it is
beneficial for the conflict in the Middle
East to continue for as long as possible.
There are entire weapons ranges based
around the conflict with tanks specifi-
cally designed for fighting in the 139 sq
miles strip and guns like the Uzi being
crafted for no other purpose than to
fight in the Palestinian territories.
Other flows into the region
From hereonin cash flows are much
smaller and much more difficult to pin
down. European governments do do-
nate to the region but are scrutinized
far less by the press making reporting
difficult. Even less transparent are gov-
ernments like China and Russia who
are also suspected of adding funds to
the conflict but are almost impossi-
ble to trace accurately. Nevertheless
it is widely accepted that official non-
U.S. bodies provide relatively small
amounts to the region.
Arab states to Hamas
It is estimated that Hamas has an an-
nual budget of about $70m [The Coun-
cil of Foreign Relations] with about half
coming from Saudi Arabia. The US
State department has claimed that Iran
and Syria provide the rest of the groups
funding and The Graduate Institute of
Geneva has also identified Bahrain,
Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, and the United
Arab Emirates to be donors.
Private Benefactors to Hamas
Hamas’ provision of social welfare and
education has enabled it to market
itself as a charity to private benefac-
tors across the globe and it receives
considerable funding from Palestin-
ian expatriates and others around the
globe, with notable cash streams flow-
ing from Europe. Several sources have
stated that donations from individuals
are not used as part of the war effort
but these reports are of course difficult
to verify.
Hamas to Arms Traders
Several groups have stated that Hamas’
war budget is about least $3m, but pos-
sibly runs slightly higher. While this
may not seem much, because of the na-
ture of the way Hamas fights, relatively
low funds can still be devastating. This
money is spent on cheap weapons, am-
munition and other militaristic mate-
rials to support its campaign against
Israel’s sovereignty. Because it is con-
sidered a terrorist group by most of
the international community it does
not purchase supplies openly and must
resort to private arms traders. This
has led to Hamas using Chinese made
rockets in attacks and a mixture of
small arms from around the world.
Aid
Aid is almost invariably sent to the ci-
vilian population of Gaza after a con-
flict where civilians have been involved.
The UK has responded to the crisis
with $37m of aid to Gaza and the in-
ternational community has stepped up
to help the civilian population recover,
including Israel. It is a curious funda-
mental of the relationship between the
two countries that (out of necessity)
Gazan casualties are received in Israeli
hospitals.
But as is the case with weapons, aid
is also often used as a means of laun-
dering money from governments to
private companies. The difference,
however, is that aid usually has a stabi-
lizing effect on troubled regions.
So what does it all mean?
Hopefully, this article will not have
changed your political views on the
conflict, but will have underlined that
the conflict goes far beyond Gaza.
As with all wars in today’s globalized
world, Gaza creates economic ripples
that reach people all over the planet
and implicate us all. Money flows
through this conflict and washes it’s
way back to us. It’s important not to
forget that the UK is one of the largest
arms dealers in the world and that the
weapons we produce are being used in
the Middle East to kill civilians.
Gaza (like all conflicts) has ben-
efactors. There are large numbers of
people all over the world that depend
on the Gazan conflict for their liveli-
hoods and will take any news of peace
and progress as bad news; People who
profit from the continued pain of in-
nocents in the Israel-Palestine arena.
And if these people happen to be in
positions of power over the conflict,
then the troubles of the Middle East
will continue far beyond their politi-
cal lifetime. Perhaps they already have.
And if that’s the case, then perhaps we
should stop trying to look for wrong-
ful parties on either side of lines in the
sand, where people have done terrible
things for their beliefs, but in board-
rooms and offices, where people have
done terrible things for a profit.
I
n the current economic situa-
tion, people are going to have
to learn to cut back and keep an
eye on their cash flows. As a stu-
dent you have to do this anyway,
but to help you on your way felix has
put together a little guide to set you off
in the right direction.
1. Budget.
Budgeting is the most effective way
of keeping on top of things. Just sit
down, and work out exactly how much
money you will have to spend each
month (take all you incoming cash for
the year and split it evenly between all
the months of term). Then for each
month, deduct rent, tuition fees and
other essentials bills. Then deduct 10%
of the remainder to give you a rainy
day cushion – do not touch this money
unless you have to. What you have left
over is how much you can spend per
month on variable expenses like food,
clothes and going out. Once you know
this figure, you’ve pretty much fought
half the battle – the other half is stick-
ing to it.
2. Second Accounts.
A good way to make sure you stick
to your budget is to set up a second
bank account and have your “budget”
transferred to that account at the start
of each month.
So you have two accounts, one with
the bulk of your cash that gets spent
on core expenditure, like fees, bills,
rent and the like and that your loan
gets paid into. Then you have a second
account that all your food, going out
and other random expenses get paid
from each month. To do that just set
up a “standing order” for the amount
you budgeted to be sent to your second
account.
So when you get cash out of the ma-
chine you know exactly how much you
have to last the end of the month and
how close you are to keeping on top of
things. If you’re spending too quickly,
just cut back on luxuries till the end of
the month.
3. Exploit your student status.
Always, always, always ask for a stu-
dent discount. Don’t be embarrassed
or weird about it, just do it. The worst
that can happen is you pay the same
price you were about to pay anyway.
We don’t count as NUS students so
you’ll have to turn on the charm with
staff at McDonalds if you want your
free hamburger.
Make sure you register for student
sites like studentbeans.com and check
them for student deals. You’d be sur-
prised at how much you can get.
4. Flirt with barstaff.
Barstaff at clubs often charge you
whatever they think you’ll pay for a
drink, or whatever the hell they feel
like charging you. If you flirt (without
coming across as creepy) you’ll get
charged less. If you’re particularly good
at it you can get all kinds of discounts.
I once went rock climbing for free off
the back of some expert flirting with
the receptionist.
5. Freecycle.
There are lots of ways to freecycle,
and almost all of them start with a
google search. You never know what
people are giving away till you look.
6. Buy pre-loved stuff.
Gumtree.com and Craigslist.co.uk
are the bread and butter of pre-owned
stuff. You can get all kids of stuff here
– cheap. And as an added bonus both
sites have “for free” sections where
people just give things away.
7. Live like a real Londoner.
London is one of the most expensive
cities in the world and average London-
ers don’t go to all the expensive places.
Find cheaper things to do. Better yet
find free stuff to do. Just google “free in
London” and you’re away.
8. Recycle properly.
Fact: Everything has more than one
use. If you cannot find an alternative
use, you aren’t thinking hard enough.
Get creative. I once fixed my shower
using pieces from my old guitar and no
one has ever noticed. I know a guy who
built a table out of old phonebooks and
some plywood – and it’s the greatest
table ever. I once found a guitar in the
street lying on a pile of rubbish and
after a clean and some new strings it
sounds gorgeous. Keep your eyes open
and your brain in gear and the world’s
your oyster, as well as the rest of the
seafood platter.
8 Tips for getting
through the
Credit Crunch
15
Friday 23 January 2009 felix
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film
Film Editors – Zuzanna Blaszczak and Jonathan Dakin
Pure optimism and buoyancy captured on film
Slumdog Millionaire HHHHH
Director: Danny Boyle
Writer: Simon Beaufoy
Cast: Dev Patel
Freida Pinto,
Anil Kapoor
Priya Garg
I absolutely love this film. From the
first minutes to the last seconds, it was
breathtakingly beautiful and heart-
breaking atthesametime.DannyBoyle
manages to capture the hectic chaos,
noise, dirt, colour, vibrancy, dark and
light of a Mumbai slum alongside the
scenic beauty of modern India.
Jamal’s colourful story is shadowed
by poverty and the grimy underbelly
of gangsters and guns which accom-
pany him from a very early age. But
the director makes sure that positivity
always manages to shine through the
unspeakably terrible things portrayed.
Throughout his life Jamal’s love for
Latika, the slum girl we see huddled
in a puddle during a thunderstorm,
brings him through whatever happens,
driving him to seek her out and draw
them back together.
The Millionaire premise, although it
sounds ridiculous, is what opens and
closes the film so like a book, the film
is open and shut with the same feelings
and thoughts – that happiness and love
can push you through any despair. In
watching this, any day-to-day sadness
you may feel is infinitely superseded
by the misery that Jamal and his com-
panions have to go through. It is their
youthful outlook to never let anything
get them upset which makes them so
amazing and reminds you that in the
Western world, we are incredibly self-
centred and over-concerned with what
is trivial, always greedy for more when
people with nothing have the ability to
live each day content with the small
things.
Dev Patel does a great job as the
older Jamal, the ‘chai–walla’ reflecting
on his life from a toddler to a teen-
ager in hardship and struggle, to being
the richest slum-dog in India. Truly
though, it is the performances by the
real-life street-kids, young Jamal, Salim
and Latika, who really steal the show.
They are outstandingly believable and
it simply feels like you are an outside
observer dropping in on their lives in
the middle of a crowded dusty street in
India, rather than viewing a polished
film script.
Icannotrecommendthisfilmenough.
The soundtrack gives me goosebumps
and the trailer brings tears to my eyes.
If you enjoyed City of God, you will love
Slumdog Millionaire. A secret venture
into the lives of people that we don’t
hear about enough, portrayed by those
who seem more real than any of the
other actors and actresses in the Holly-
wood blockbusters around. Worthy of
all the hype and nominations, this film
will exceed your expectations, leaving
you touched and in awe.
If you want a true taste of India,
make sure you catch this outstand-
ing piece of cinematography before it
leaves the screens to be replaced by the
usual blockbuster drivel.
Dev Patel as Jamal and Freida Pinto as Latika give solid performances; is this the beginning of new careers?
The director who brought us Trainspotting and 28 Days Later ups his game by a notch to deliver a
movie that has achieved the impossible – it has got the critics and the audience raving simultaneously.
It’s been a bittersweet time for come-
backs in the last few years, with two
tough guy legends putting their careers
back in front of the camera for nostal-
gically redemptive efforts in Rocky
Balboa and JCVD. However, both Syl-
vester Stallone and Jean Claude Van
Damme have always had a healthy
following and their movies generally
boasted an unhealthy number of se-
quels or clones. The same cannot be
said of Mickey Rourke, a genuine has-
been, whose career just might have
reignited following his performance
in Darren Aronofsky’s film. Moreover,
the load of awards garnered in the last
few months, including a Golden Globe
for Best Actor in a Motion Picture Dra-
ma, have put Rourke in pole-position
for an Academy Award in next month’s
Hollywood showdown.
The Wrestler tells the story of “an
old, broken down piece of meat of
a man”, Randy “The Ram” Robinson
(Rourke), a fighter past his prime who
lives alone in a trailer, estranged from
his daughter and works part-time in a
grocery store during the week whilst
spending his weekends wrestling and
signing autographs. Ironically, most of
the money he earns goes on all sorts of
medications which allow him to keep
wrestling, leaving him little time for
anything else. His only social contact is
an exotic dancer in her forties, Cassidy
(Marisa Tomei), a character in a similar
predicament to Randy’s, which brings
the two together. After summarily
painting this background to the film,
an offer for a rematch with his former
“arch-enemy” puts things into motion
and Randy’s life seems to be finally go-
ing somewhere as the film begins to
unfold into a gritty tale of sorrow.
Whilst Rourke’s performance is the
unrivalled centre-piece in the pic-
ture, the fairly bleak atmosphere and
rollercoaster-like ride of emotions are
trademarks of Aronofsky, as show-
cased in Pi (1998) and Requiem for a
Dream (2000). The themes of solitude
The Wrestler HHHKK
Director: Darren Aronofsky
Writer: Robert D. Siegel
Cast: Mickey Rourke
Marisa Tomei
Evan Rachel Wood
Stefan Carpanu
In accordance with new EU fishing
quotas, this week we take a short peak
into the exotic jungle of World Cin-
ema. Will it be a plethora of rare and
endangered species, driven to extinc-
tion by the Hollywood bulldozer? Or
simply another collection of contrived
metaphors and personification? Let
the planets decide!
According to Wackipedia, the term
“World Cinema” generally refers to
non–English speaking films, those
outside “the anglosphere”. That’s An-
glosphere, not to be confused with An-
glersphere – which is essentially a giant
hamster ball for fishermen. It’s always a
pleasure to see how the English-speak-
ing community can set itself apart, as
though there is something amazingly
different between it and everyone else.
In Germany for example, they don’t re-
fer to South Park: The Movie as World
Cinema, simply because it wasn’t origi-
nally in German.
But that aside, what does World Cin-
ema actually mean? Some interpret it
to be simply “arty-farty foreign films”,
others as a masterclass in martial arts,
and some see it as an excuse to watch
blood drenched shockers – think Bat-
tle Royal. Whilst this unfairly excludes
the majority of cinema, there is some
truth in these examples with each dis-
playing some tell-tell traits. If you’ve
ever sat down to watch a film and won-
dered why the director decided to tape
a Quality Street wrapper over the cam-
era lens, then you may well be watch-
ing an arty-farty film. Presumably this
style adds a certain “dynamic quality”
that can’t be achieved with those silly
plain glass lenses.
If the film excessively uses wire-
work and complex choreographed se-
quences, then you are almost certainly
watching Crouching House of Hidden
Flying Dragon Tigers. If the character’s
head is missing, then it’s definitely Bat-
tle Royal. If all of the main characters’
performances are lacking in dimension
and the actors only have four fingers,
then you’re probably watching The
Simpsons Movie again. Not that The
Simpsons Movie could possibly be con-
sidered World Cinema – it is far too
popular for a specialist label.
For an English-speaker, unexposed
and fresh to the concept of subtitles,
foreign cinema could be the antidote to
some Hollywood’s not-so-great works,
showing us that films don’t have to be
like Dumb and Dumberer. Of course
there’s a lot of crap out there as well,
even the film industry isn’t immune to
statistical fluctuations but occasionally
you come across those Crunchy Nut-
flakes of wholesome goodness that sat-
isfy the aching hole left by Hollywood
Happy Meals (although in this metaphor
‘Supersize Me’ becomes an intractable
paradox...).
I would recommend if you haven’t al-
ready seen it and you don’t mind insen-
sitive gore, watching Battle Royal. It’s a
surreal film based upon a very surreal
premise. Who knows, it might lead you
to a ground-breaking epiphany about
humanity and the world. Even if it’s
just realising that there are people out
there who are dreaming this stuff up.
Weird.
Anyone got any comments? Ah who
am I kidding, no one has bothered
writing in yet.
Finally a drama for real men
Stuart Higgins
and loss, which are also central in his
previous works, transform the world of
The Wrestler into familiar turf for the
New York-born director but the ques-
tion which permeates the film asks
what is real and what confers purpose
to one’s life? Wrestling, as a mix of il-
lusion and glory, represents an ideal
scene for such a question and Randy
an appropriately fleshed-out character
to draw the lines.
The film ultimately builds up to an
impressive finale which is poised to
give birth to mixed feelings and a sense
of reflection to its merits and its mean-
ings. Whichever the case maybe, as the
lights came back on, I felt a moment of
satisfaction pass fleetingly by me, just
like a subtle nudge to better endings.
Film Cynic Clinic
Mickey Rourke, as Randy “The Ram” Robinson, goes airborne.

