16 felix Friday 23 January 2009
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 23 January 2009 felix
Arts
Caz Knight
Arts Editor
T
he second term’s, second
installment of the new,
concise felix arts. In this
busy term, we are opting
for quality over quantity:
you may see fewer pages but what you
do read will be great stuff.
First, and most importantly, I would
like to apologise profusely to my good
friend and arts connoisseur, Rosie Mil-
ton for a mistake in last week’s issue.
The Magnificence of the Tsars review
was advertised as being written by me
however, the article was written by Ro-
sie (people familiar with my articles
may have noticed a marked difference
in style and perception concerning
art!). We are very sorry, Rosie.
My recent trip to the National Thea-
tre to see Every Good Boy Deserves
Favour, reinforced some conclusions I
have made concerning how we, as hu-
mans/biological entities, enjoy art (be
it theatre, concerts and anything else
that falls under the category).
The brain, our processing organ, is
like any muscle in our body – it gets
tired. After extended periods of use
and a dip in its only source of fuel,
glucose, its ability to concentrate or
engage enthusiastically in tasks is im-
paired. At least in my case. No wonder
then that tiredness will kill any enjoy-
ment and appreciation of the culture
that surrounds us.
Once tiredness sets in, I turn from
art lover to art despiser. Therefore, it is
worth considering whether one is suit-
ably refreshed before visiting a gallery
or production.
The size of an exhibition or length of
a play will also try our patience if it is
unending.
Of course, one cannot reduce Shake-
speare’s great works to one hour sum-
maries just for the sake of this genera-
tion’s attention-deficient personalities,
used to everything fast- from food to
Internet connections.
I went to see the Francis Bacon exhi-
bition at the beginning of the academic
year and found that ten large rooms of
his work is just too much to take in and
enjoy in one sitting. Especially as one
is not permitted to re-enter the gal-
lery space after a coffee break, as is the
norm in all exhibitions where a ticket
is required.
Every Good Boy Deserves Favour is
one of the shortest plays I have seen.
At one hour five minutes it flies by, yet
packs in just as much as a longer play
without seeming rushed. I left feeling
uplifted with energy, left to go and pur-
sue the rest of the evening.
A relatively recent play to appear at
the West End, Ivanov, also adapted by
Tom Stoppard from Chekov, is three
hours of beauty but leaves one emo-
tionally drained and ready for bed.
In my experience, the smaller exhibi-
tions have always been the more enjoy-
able for myself (content permitting), as
I leave not resenting them for sapping
all my mental energy in trying to digest
a large amount.
Reviewed here are two pieces from
theatreland; my review of Tom Stop-
pard’s previously mentioned EGBDF
and stand-up comedy from Bill Bailey.
Hopefully, this ‘abridged’ version of
arts will satisfy your hunger and leave
you wanting more next week. Expect
photography from Annie Leibowitz
and a sneak peak into dance institution
Sadler’s Wells.
Short but sweet
He’s got soul but he’s not a soldier
Bill Bailey makes squeal even the most stony-faced at his intimate show, Tinseltown, says Jessica Bland
B
ill Bailey says he has been
unemployed for twenty
-three years; I say that Bill
Bailey has been one of the
most intelligent comics on
stage for the last twenty three years
and it is this intellect that has made
his show at the Gielgud Theatre such
a success.
Often accused of gimmickry and un-
necessary diversion by critics, Bailey’s
stand-up shows sell out large arenas on
the back of his TV persona rather than
good reviews.
But as Tinselworm nears the end of
its West End run, this reviewer cannot
see anything other than a well-honed,
well-balanced, couple of hours await-
ing the final few audiences.
Perhaps this is just because practice
makes perfect. After a couple of years
of touring, Bailey has had enough
sense to cull the stuff that is not getting
laughs. But there is more to it than that.
The Gielgud is more intimate than the
big venues Bailey has often performed
at previously and it is in only in this
kind of space that he shines. It is here
that the comic who made us squeal
at the television in Black Books (stage
version rumoured to be coming soon)
or as team captain in Never Mind the
Buzzcocks, comes to life.
Bailey has an unassuming, almost
nervous demeanour. This insecurity
draws you in; it makes you feel like you
are listening to the old-rocker guy be-
hind the bar at your local. That is, until
he suddenly drops in a comedy gold
nugget, so bright that your eyes start
to water.
Whether its the hoodie in a “solip-
sistic trance ” or a rant about song lyr-
ics that “wrangled like an unreplaced
Glade plug-in”, Bailey cracked even the
most stoney-faced audience members
Never mind the Buzzzzzcocks. Tinseltown, move over for Tinselworm
sat near me (including my father, who
apparently hasn’t laughed so hard since
seeing Mr Izzard circa. 1997).
Even the musical interludes were
improved since his stadium tour. Dem-
onstrating the nonsense of The Killers’
chorus “I got soul, but I’m not a soldier”
by replacing it with “I got Ham, but I’m
not Hamster” has been a stalwart of his
act for sometime.
But it was the other ludicrous sug-
gestions he threw out this time that re-
ally made the joke: “I got May, but I’m
not a Major” being my favourite.
There is only just over a week left to
see Bailey at his best, so if you can get
tickets (and I recommend seatwave.
com if you want to try)
Go, giggle and be thankful that Lon-
don still has somewhere other than
arena venues – somewhere just right
for bringing out what makes Bill Bailey
so truly great.
Joseph Millsom, as political dissident Alexander Ivanov in Every Boy Deserves Good Favour, looking
uncannily like John Malkovich
Notes on a schizophrenic society
Tom Stoppard mixes side-clutching humour with poignant ethical dilemmas in his play Every Good Boy
Deserves Favour at the National Theatre. Caz Knight is very impressed.
A
triangle-player worth
millions with his own or-
chestra? No. A triangle-
player worth millions
with his own imaginary
orchestra? Still, no. A lunatic triangle
-player with his own orchestra sharing
a room in a psychiatric hospital with a
political dissident? Now, that’s some-
thing to write about.
Tom Stoppard and Andre Previn’s
collaboration is a play, performed in
conjunction with and bound up by a
symphony orchestra. First performed
in 1977 starring Ian Mackellen as po-
litical dissident, Alexander Ivanov, and
Patrick Stewart as a Soviet Union em-
ployed ‘psychiatrist’, this production
is a union of exceptional creative tal-
ent with the ever sharp, hilarious, and
fast-paced writing of Stoppard, teamed
with the score composition of multi-
talented, Oscar-winning composer
and conductor Andre Previn.
After months of reading about Rus-
sian political dissidents and the group
arrested in Red Square in August 1968,
following protests against the Warsaw
pact invasion of Czechoslovakia, Stop-
pard met Victor Fainberg who had
survived years in the prison-hospital
system after being pronounced in-
sane on account of his protests. Once
free, Fainberg doubled his efforts for
his colleagues still under abuse in this
system. One of them, Victor Bukovsky,
had served consecutive hard labour
and prison terms for his revelations
about the abuse in A Manual on Psy-
chiatry for Dissidents, co-written with
a fellow prisoner (also a psychiatrist).
The play is dedicated to both Fainberg
and Bukovsky.
Alexander Ivanov is a political dis-
sident imprisoned, released and then
re-imprisoned in a psychiatric hospi-
tal for his own political protests. He
is deemed mentally ill on account of
his opinions which, according to his
doctor, are his symptoms. He will be
released on the condition that he ac-
cepts being mentally ill and that his
treatment in the facility was satisfac-
tory and effective. Refusing to do this,
given his barbaric treatment by USSR-
employed wardens, the hospital get Al-
exander’s son, Sacha, to persuade him
otherwise.
Performed at the National Theatre,
the Olivier’s revolving stage is made
excellent use of in rotating the entire
orchestra over the course of the one
hour play, amid which the action en-
sues. This creates a gloriously eerie
and surreal effect enhanced by dry ice
aplenty and the trance-like dancing of
Alexander’s cell/ward-mate (also Alex-
ander Ivanov) to his imaginary sym-
phony orchestra, played with endear-
ing conviction by Toby Jones.
The surrealism is enhanced by the
obscure image of seeing a sublime sin-
fonia in the middle of a grim, East-bloc
prison-cum-loony bin.
The Southbank Sinfonia, led by Si-
mon Over, have made a stunning ef-
fort to entwine dialogue in with the
beautiful music that brings the play to
life from within the first few seconds,
after an introduction of a few bashed
out notes on the triangle from the
‘conductor’, Ivanov. The Sinfonia are
successful in their aim of discovering
new possibilities for the way in which
classical music can be performed, yet
never compromising their quality or
seriousness.
The presence of the orchestra in
the play does more than delight our
ears. When it was first performed, it
would have been a potent comment
on a highly orchestrated society which
did its best not to upset the West and
maintain an image of control and or-
der: they had no political prisoners,
only those unfortunate enough to suf-
fer mental illness.
The notion of an orchestra quickly
becomes associated with the insane.
When it is brought to light that the
hospital’s doctor plays the violin in
one, the orchestra’s connotation is re-
inforced with one of corruption as well
as of madness, with dissidents the dis-
cordant notes that must be eliminated
to allow smooth play.
The play evokes arguments regard-
ing the age-old debate of freedom of
speech but Every Good Boy Deserves
Favour is as much a comment on to-
day’s Russia as it would have been in
1977. The ‘bad old days’ referred to by
Sacha’s teacher regarding those of Sta-
lin, are also now – according to Buko-
vsky, it was, and still is, a schizophrenic
society where one thing is thought, an-
other said, a third one done.
The hilarity of Stoppard’s writing
does sometimes leave the gravity of
what prisoners of conscience like Bu-
kovsky and Fainberg would have expe-
rienced forgotten. Yet, Joseph Millson’s
unwavering seriousness and intensity
as the dissident Ivanov brings these
horrors back every time he speaks, giv-
ing us a production that has us giggling
and grinning one minute and ready to
bring down unjust political systems in
another.
Toby Jones as Alexander Ivanov, conductor of his imaginary orchestra: “I’ve always had an orchestra!!”
Political dissident, Alexander Ivanov: a discordant note in an orchestrated society

