Reviews 11
Made you look, made you stare, made you lose you underwear...
Blink
Starring: Madeleine Stowe, Aidan Quinn,
Peter Friedman
Director: Michael Apted
A corneal transplant returns the gift of sight to
Emma Brody (Madeleine Stowe), but with this
gift comes uncertainty and confusion.
When the bandages are first removed, by her
specialist, Dr. Ryan Pierce (Peter Friedman), all
she sees is a bright haze and a disfigured face.
Nothing she sees is coherent and after a couple
of days little has improved - she has sight, but
she is unable to register what her eyes see until
hours or days later, a phenomenon known as
'rectro-active' vision.
One night, a disturbance in her neighbour's
flat makes her investigate. Unknowingly she
sees someone leaving the building but, because
of her rectro-active vision, she is unable to tell
who it was. When Emma's neighbour is found
dead in her flat, Detective John Hallstrom
(Aidan Quinn) begins to realise that Emma is the
key to finding the killer.
After picking out a policeman in a line up,
John still believes that Emma did see the
murderer despite his sceptical colleagues. From
then it is a race to stop the murderer from
Starring: Hugh Grant, Andie MacDowell
Director: Mike Newell
You've probably heard of this English film
because it's been a surprise hit in the United
States. Four Weddings And A Funeral was made
on a shoe-string budget of £3.75 million and has
already made well over $30 million across the
pond. Its success in America is as much
attributable to a shrewd marketing strategy as a
sensational script.
The story follows the exploits of a group of
friends as they attend four weddings and one
funeral. One of the group, Charles (Hugh Grant)
is apparently not suited for marriage. He is
continually late for every engagement and has
never committed himself to a long-term
relationship.
However, at the first wedding, Charles meets
Carrie (Andie MacDowell), an American girl
who captivates him. A night of passion is not
enough to keep them together and they don't see
each other again until the next wedding two
striking again as Emma becomes the next
possible victim.
The filmmakers used computer graphics and
animation to create Emma's actual sight. The
hallucinations and the out of focus effects give
the viewer a greater understanding of what
Emma is having to cope with. All she sees are
shapes with no meaning and then, when her
mind finally registers the images, they appear to
her out of the blue, adding to the confusion. New
images flood her mind that have no meaning, for
months later. Again, they sleep together despite
Carrie having just introduced her new fiance.
The third wedding is Carrie's, the fourth is
Charles' and the funeral is for a friend of Charles.
Andie MacDowell's performance is put to
shame amidst those of all the British actors and
actresses but I suppose she had to be there if the
film was to get previewed in the States. Hugh
Grant plays Charles admirably with the innocent
charm demanded by the part. Four Weddings
oozes with stereotypical Britishness. Rowan
Atkinson's appearances as a vicar are brief but
memorable. The scenes range from central
London to English country villages to Scottish
highlands.
Four Weddings is a hoot but with screenplay
by Richard Curtis it was a dead cert. The facadic
situations of official functions provide a rich
seam of comic circumstance.
If I had a reservation it would be the
romance. The mush between Charles and Carrie
is taken a little too seriously considering the
absurd nature of their relationship.
what is beauty to someone who has previously
never seen anything before?
The film centres on Emma and John's
passionate relationship as well as the effects of
her having sight rather than on the murderer.
This is a shame since the murderer's motive is
one of the more complex ideas of the film and
could have been explored more deeply.
Magpie
Opens at the Odeon West End today. Tube:
Leicester Square. Ticketsfrom £7.
Andie MacDowell and Hugh Grant take part
in a wet T-shirt competition
Well worth even the extortionate central
London prices for cinema tickets.
Sphinx
Opens today. Odeon Kensington today. Tube:
Kensington High Street. Tickets from £6 (£3.50
before 5pm).
Four Weddings And A
Funeral
Coming Soon: A Home Of Our Own and Look Who's Talking Now

