12 Reviews
Ode To Compassion From
Music's Grand Old Man
Sir Michael Tippett is the Grand Old Man of
British music. His larger-than-life image is built
on his status as one of the world's greatest living
composers, as well as rumours of eccentricities
such as cars abandoned in high street traffic jams
and tattered sneakers worn beneath ceremonial
robes at honorary degree ceremonies. I saw him
once a few years ago in the foyer at the Royal
Opera House; nattily bow-tied, frail, leaning on
the arm of a companion, he was twinkling
cheerfully at a fan who had stopped for a few
words.
He is 90 next year and planned celebrations
include a new production of the Trojan
masterpiece King Priam. Among the record
companies Chandos, typically adventurous, have
begun a cycle of the four symphonies with
Richard Hickox and the Bournemouth
Symphony Orchestra. The second release is the
hour-long Third Symphony of 1972, coupled
with the brief Praeludium for brass and
percussion.
In the manner of Beethoven's Ninth
Symphony, which it quotes, Tippett's ambituous
Third contains a vocal finale. The texts are the
composer's own and are intended as a reflection
on the Beethoven/Schiller Ode to Joy. If
universal brotherhood seems, in the light of the
horrors of this century, to be beyond us, then
differences must be overcome and problems
resolved, through mercy and compassion. This
could be trite or profound; the quality of
Tippett's invention ensures it is
the latter.
The Chandos release faces
stiff competition from Sir Colin
Davis and the London
Symphony Orchestra, whose
account of the Third comes as
part of a three-disc, mid-price
Decca set of the symphonies.
Davis is more aggressive in the
tumultous first movement and
the energetic brass interjections
have a wilder glee. But Hickox
is suppler in the hurtling string
lines, high violins have a
sweeter bloom and the
Bournemouth winds are surer
and crisper of ensemble than
their London counterparts. Rich
though they sound, however,
Hickox's brass are blown away
by the stunning virtuosity of
LSO horn and trumpets, which
gives Davis the edge in
punching home the climactic
fanfares at 7'00" on track one of the Decca.
Of the soprano soloists in Part II, Faye
Robinson for Hickox is brighter, Heather Harper
on Decca warmer and more secure. In the crucial
last section, Hickox is the more convincing,
better than Davis at drawing together the threads
of the symphony's second half: Beethoven,
Richard Hickox conducts the Bournemouth Symphony Orchestra
in a new recording of Tippett's Third Symphony
Miles Davis-inspired flugelhorn blues and
wistful murmurings recalled from the slow
movement of Part I. Try the inspired final
minutes from 6 ' 1 5 " on track eight of the
Chandos: this is visionary music and Hickox is
more likely to convince you of the fact.
Patrick Wood
Warm Welcome For ENO's
Sunny New Cost Fan Tutte
• m
Cost nook: Richard Van Allan as Don Alfonso
English National Opera's new production of
Mozart's Cost Fan Tutte is a sunny success. It
deftly conveys the humour and irony in this
slightly wicked trial of female fidelity. Don
Alfonso, a cynical (pragmatic?) old philosopher
idly professes that the lovers of his two young
friends are, like all women, wantonly fickle.
Outraged, our Romeos agree to put their darlings
to the test in an increasingly insane intrigue to
woo them in disguise (and what disguises!).
According to Mozart and librettist Da Ponte,
the women ultimately melt under these
compulsions, only to be humiliated by the final
revelation. Despite the multiple betrayals, both
pairs of lovers conform to the convention of
marriage with their original partners, wiser and
stripped of any lingering innocence.
A dubious moral is cunningly subverted in
this refreshingly lucid presentation. Nicolette
Molnar, making her directorial debut with the
company, ensures it is the women who have the
last laugh in a wonderfully inventive coup de
theatre that it would be a crime to reveal.
The cast of young singers is uniformly
strong, effortlessly combining the demands of
director and composer. Over all is cast the sage
influence of Richard Van Allan's sovereign
Alfonso.
A delicious evening's entertainment and
warmly recommended.
Ralph
In rep at the Coliseum, St Martin's Lane,
WC2N. 071 836 3161. Tube: Leicester Square.
Student Standbys £14.50. Until 9th June.
Read all about the Boardsailing Club successes on page 7

