Reviews 13
,.,...,.„,. — _ l .... i L ... J msmmssmsssssmmsm^ssm^msmsi•••••••••• mssssssssssssssss^sssms^mssssss^sssssR
• l l l i i i
Darwin's
Flood
"The history of ideas is full of hijackings," says
Snoo Wilson laying down his trump card in the
programme notes. As for the most hijacked
characters, run away and play with Jesus Christ,
Charles Darwin and Friedrich Nietzsche.
It is Darwin's last night on earth, he has a
dream, he has been taking acid. Well, the last point
isn't strictly true but, considering what occurs,
he's been eating more than cheese before bed.
Nietzsche arrives, syphilitic and dribbling
mad, in a wheelbarrow. His sister and her
husband are in tow with 150 racially pure
Germans. A l l off for a new Aryan Utopia in
Paraguay. Except that they have all fallen into a
village pond in Kent.
Roll up, roll up. Next Jesus arrives, seem-
ingly fresh from a leg of the Tour de France,
cycle and all. As he says in his broad Irish
accent, when you have all of human existence to
choose from, why come back with sandals and a
beard? He popped in to comfort Emma Darwin
on her soon to be realised bereavement. Are you
getting the idea? A l l we now require is escort
girl Mary Magdalene, lowered in by helicopter
to fulfil Nietzsche's carnal cravings. The boat is
full, let the play really commence.
If the first half is satisfying, the second is
absolute technicolour, whizz-bang, comic
theatre. The compact set explodes more than just
metaphorically, gains wings and flies away. I'm
left wondering if Spielberg is paying the special
effects budget. Bang your bones said Darwin
when excited, my whole skeleton is in uproar.
The cast gets progressively more surreal and
Freddy Nietzsche and Mary Magdalene go beyond good and evil
the whole thing evolves into the best thing this
reviewer has seen in the last 160 million years.
Switching evenly from high brow to side-
splitting in the blink of a line, the plot doesn't
fall away and whatever end remains is poignant.
The whole thing is rounded up with a blast from
They Might be Giants' 'Birdhouse In Your
Soul'. A more apt a choice could not be imagined,
yes you're the only bee in my bonnet. If you
have never been to the theatre and are never
going again this is your one change of greatness.
Tintin
The Bush, Shepherds Bush Green, W12. 081 743
3388. Tube: Shepherds Bush. Tickets £9, (cones
£6) plus 50p membership. Mon-Sat 8pm. Initial
run until 4th June.
Wkmiitmd.
Anthony and Cleopatra
One Nil.
Shakespeare adaptations are like Arsenal
Football Club: you either love them or you hate
them. But, while the Gunners were parading
their handsome winnings in sunny Copenhagen,
I was experiencing a rather different North
London Italian Job and, although the seating
arrangements were a touch more intimate (the
Courtyard Theatre is a fifty all-seater affair), the
entertainment was as grand and international as
any European trophy. Anthony and Cleopatra
(or Cleoparrtra, in the parlance of Sean Garvey's
Caesar) is a brave adaptation of the least
performed of all Shakespeare's tragedies.
In an attempt to make the play more
accessible, Adrian Brown, adapter and director,
like a pressurised England manager, has dropped
all but the central players in the squad. From an
original cast of forty plus, there are now eight
actors playing nine parts. The individual and
team performances are most convincing during
the lighter moments. But, because of its very
slim lined nature, the play seems (inevitably)
lacking in its more sombre scenes. Despite all
this (and the cliched army motif) I would
recommend Marc Anthony over boring Arsenal
any time. But then again, I have always admired
improvisation and prefer to watch Tottenham
myself.
L E M
Courtyard Theatre, 10 York Way, Nl, 071 833
0876, Tube: King's Cross, membership 50p,
tickets £7, concessions £6. Ends 28th May.
Four Weddings And A Funeral is reviewed on page 11

