14 Imperial College Union
The Fun Just Keeps On Coming!
Are you interested in the Union? Maybe you are
a member of a club or society. Maybe you're a
year rep in your department. Would you like to
help run a part of the Union? You can gain
valuable experience doing just that, experience
that employers are looking for. Perhaps you've a
great idea for how you could run an existing
activity better? Or perhaps you fancy running
something yourself. If you think that way, then
there is a chance coming up soon...
Imperial College Union needs strong student
officers to serve the student body effectively.
These officers work with the sabbaticals and
staff of the Union to ensure that all the Union's
activities are organised and run well.
In the box is a list of the posts available for
next year with a bit about what they involve. If
you are interested and want to know more,
contact the Union Office and ask to speak to any
one of the sabbaticals, Andy, Charlie or Dave.
If you want to stand, then sign your name up
on the 'nomination papers'. These are pinned up
opposite the Union Office, first floor of the
Union Building. You need someone to propose
you and ten seconders. The election (or
ratification if there is no opposition) is to be
held at the Union General Meeting on Friday
20th May. It will be at lpm in the Ents Lounge
ground floor of the Union Building.
If you want to know more about any of the
posts, please do not hesitate to contact the
Union Office, extension 3500.
Union positions up for grabs
at the next UGM
Academic Affairs Officer
This post has the responsibility of
co-ordinating the academic affairs within the
Union. By working with the Academic and
Departmental Representatives, you can help
solve problems that students currently face in
relation with their course. You are required to
sit on several College committees, all of which
will value the views that you represent.
Union General Meeting Chair
This officer chairs all the General Meetings of
the Union - the most important meeting that
the Union has. Good communication skills are
needed as well as a spot of diplomacy at times.
Accommodation Officer
The Accommodation Officer works to
improve the housing conditions of Imperial
College students, both in and out of halls. By
working with closely hall representatives,
College staff and Union officers, you can
make an difference. If you've had problems
while you were in a hall of residence or had
difficulty finding accommodation out of
College and want to make it easier for folk in
the future, then this is the post for you.
Transport Officer
The Transport Officer is in charge of
managing the Union's minibus fleet, ensuring
that they are kept safe and on the road. It helps
to have a driving license (just a bit!) and you
do really have to have a Union minibus
license. If you're interested and don't have a
license, don't worry, that can be organised.
Handbook Editor
This post has the responsibility of organising
and editing the Handbook on behalf of the
Union. You will gather information from clubs
and societies, Union Officers and a whole
range of people throughout College. The post
is paid since you do have to work over the
summer. Not everyone can say they've edited
a publication with a print run of over 4,000!
0
ONLY £3.25 for 24 or 36 photos
In by 3pm Back by 4pm next day
Matt or Gloss
ASK AT BOOK ENQUIRIES DESK FOR DETAILS
i C U
In by 3pm Back by 4pm next day
Matt or Gloss
ASK AT BOOK ENQUIRIES DESK FOR DETAILS
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
BOOKSTORE

