Opinion 15
Editorial
Superstition.
Being Friday 13th May, there are no doubt lots
of people going around clutching a lucky
rabbit's foot or a four-leaf clover and avoiding
all the cracks in the pavement. There are
probably some people who won't even venture
out of bed today for fear of something awful
happening. Why is one day in the year worse
than any other? And why the number 13? (My
old school had a lower and upper year 12 instead
of a year 13 because it was thought to be
unlucky for people taking their 'A' levels.)
But then there's other superstitions like not
walking under ladders and throwing salt over
your left shoulder if you spill it. Some people
will do anything they can to stop the worst
happening. I guess that's why people read their
horoscopes - they want to know what to expect.
I personally think it is all in the mind. How
can breaking a mirror bring bad luck, and how
can one horoscope in a newspaper apply to one
twelfth of the population? They are all so
general that you can read almost anything into
them and twist them to your particular
circumstances. And why are they never the same
from one paper to another? Maybe it'd be a bit
more believable if different astrologers managed
to come up with the same predictions. After all,
they are working with the same set of stars.
Just in case you are superstitious, there won't
be another Friday 13th until January next year.
More Publicity.
Has anyone noticed how Haagen-Dazs ice cream
is more expensive if you buy it from the shop
itself than if you go a couple of doors further
down Gloucester Road to Harts? Maybe you are
paying the extra for the tasteful creamy-yellow
plastic spoons and foil coated paper bag you get
with it? Admittedly it is better than the wooden
spatulas and plastic bag you get from Harts, but
even so, I don't think it's worth the extra.
Credits
Printer: Puzzles:
Andy Thompson Catfish
Business Managers: Sphinx
Steven Newhouse Photography:
Simon Govier Diana Harrison
Proofing: Features:
Wei Lee Dennis Saw
Tim St Clair Reviews:
Lynn Bravey Wei Lee (Cinema)
Simon Shaw Jon Jordan (Music)
Patrick Wood Patrick Wood (Opera)
Owain Bennallack Fai Fung (Theatre)
Joe McFadden Collators Last Week:
Diana Harrison Penguin
Rebecca Will Towler
Bromiding: Tim St Clair
Andy Thompson Simon Shaw
Rebecca Patrick Wood
News: Ivan Chan
Mike Ingram James Limn
Lynn Bravey Mike Mkpadi
Simon Shaw
Missing The Point
Dear Beccy,
In response to Yasser Hatami's letter (Felix
996), I would just like to say that he has
completely missed the point.
Regardless of what was contained in Salman
Rushdie's book, in this country it is
unacceptable to murder another person. This is a
fairly basic fundamental of the British way of
life or, for that matter, any civilised society.
I know that it has been said before, but if you
want to live in Britain, then you will have to
obey our laws, whether you like them or not. If
you want to live according to all Islamic laws,
then perhaps you should try moving to Algeria,
where I hear that they are now killing people for
not adhering strictly to all details of the Islamic
dress code.
Please also feel free in your inevitable reply
to this letter, to insult my mother. I know what
she is really like and can guarantee that I am not
so insecure so as to feel the need to kill you.
Yours sincerely,
Anthony France,
Civ Eng III
PS. There are now 24-hour armed guards
patrolling the house and its surrounding area.
C A R E E R S INFORMATION
Vacancies. Don't worry if you were too late to
apply for the Milkround, we are writing to
employers asking for details of their remaining
vacancies and you should apply in May or June
at the latest. Ask to see the Vacancy File in the
Careers Service.
Penultimate Years. Start thinking about your
future now. If you don't know what you want to
do, come to the Careers Service and try our
computer careers guidance system, PROSPECT.
Careers Talk For Penultimate Years. There is
a Careers Talk this week from lpm to 1.50pm.
No booking necessary, just turn up. Tuesday
17th May. The Civil Service by Mr John Cryer
of the MoD. It will be held in the Sherfield
Committee Room 317B.
Alternative
Ice Cream
Dear Beccy,
After last week's Haagen-Dazs PR blitz I
thought it appropriate to mention a rival
American ice cream 'Ben & Jerry's'. B&J's has
a homemade taste that Haagen-Dazs lacks and
in addition Ben and Jerry treat their workers
well and give sizable donations to environ-
mental groups and Third World charities. B&J's
is starting to become available in U K shops and
should be almost everywhere by the summer.
Perhaps the only thing it lacks is sex appeal but
the picture of two grinning bearded ex-hippies
on the lid makes up for that.
Jacob Tompkins,
Third World First
For Further Information come to the Careers
Service, Room 310, Sherfield, open from 10am
to 5.15pm, Monday to Friday. You can also
book a short appointment of up to 30 minutes
between 2pm and 4pm on Mondays, Tuesdays
and Thursdays, or a longer appointment of up to
an hour at other times. Please note that the lunch
time Duty Periods restart in the Autumn Term.
S M A L L A D S
The Nancy Reverb, one of the bands who
played at Rag Fete (who were unfortunately
interrupted) are playing at the Marquee on 19th
May at 8pm and at the Powerhaus on 23rd May
at 11 pm.
Central Libraries Book Sale. Outdoor sale of
books 9am to 4.30pm, Wednesday 18th May.
Answers to last
week's
Elimination
a Spot, Venetian 17, 41
b Arms Race 4, 16
c Battle, Tablet 29, 35
d Treasure Island 40, 33
e Brood, Brewed 20, 30
f Snare Drum 25,8
g Wild Life 19, 13
h Heavy Metal 21,23
i Deal, Truth 6,27
J French Kiss 32, 10
k High Spirits 9, 37
1 See, Rag 2, 1
m Washing Line 39, 14
n Deed, Tenet 7, 28
0 Tomb-Stone 18, 26
P Bone, Goodbye 5, 36
q Never-Land 24, 12
r Rising, Lamp 34, 11
s Doctor Who 31,3
t Muse, Reflect 15, 38
The word left over was Laugh
The deadline for letters is 5pm on the Monday before publication

