Science 5
Why did it take so long? Finding
a gene with an unknown function
amongst a background of 100,000
other genes is no mean feat. The
gene (now that we know) is 210,000
bases long (a base is a letter in the
genetic code A , C, T or G) and the
human genome is 3,000,000,000
bases long.
Considering that the gene could
reside in either strand of the double
helix DNA, it would be concealed
somewhere within six thousand
million bits of information. It would
take up only 0.0035% of the human
genome. It would be like looking for
an unknown word that spans 52
pages in 800 volumes of The
Complete Works of Shakespeare
and the word could just as well be
backwards.
But even that analogy is
inaccurate for, whilst we have The
Complete Works of Shakespeare in
print, we do not have a base
sequence of the human genome.
So how was it done? The location
of the gene was homed into using a
technique called linkage analysis.
This powerful tool came about as
geneticists like Thomas Hunt
Morgan discovered that gene-pairs
deviate from Mendel's Second Law
of Inheritance. Why is it that we
never see people with jet-black hair
sporting blue eyes? A rather naive
conclusion would be that the genes
for brown eyes are linked to black
hair. (Naive because we have not
performed a statistical analysis on
the human population to ascertain
this casual observation.) So, if every
sufferer of HD has black hair, we can
conclude that the H D gene was
linked to the genes for hair colour.
And if we knew on which of the 22
pairs plus two chromosomes the
genes for hair-colour resides, our
search would be narrowed down to
about 35 volumes of the bard's
works.
That is the concept of linkage in
rather crude terms. In fact, the H D
gene was first found to be linked not
to some visible trait, but to a certain
variant (a polymophism) of a
segment of D N A (known as G8) on
chromosome 4. This was done using
the then freshly emergent tools of
molecular biology (and a rather large
slab of luck); and it took more than
three years of sifting through blood
samples of Macaraibo Venezuelans.
G8 can be thought of as a marker -
much like black hair - and this result
was first published in 'Nature' in
November 1983.
It was to take another ten years
and a score of scientists working in
several countries, using G8 as a
springboard, to pin-point the gene.
Now we know where the gene is and
what it looks like, but we still do not
know what function it codes for.
What does this breakthrough
mean? It means that if you were that
person in the beginning of the article,
we could tell you if you carried that
time-bomb. Perhaps more
importantly, if you were a carrier,
and was with child, we could tell you
if your foetus has inherited the
disease gene.
The work, really, has only begun.
For in sequencing the gene, we now
have a handle with which to study
what it actually does. This may lead
to some medical therapy (gene
therapy?) in the future when we may
be able to cut the fuses off the
Huntington's Disease gene before
the clinical symptoms rear their ugly
heads. Or we may be able to replace
the disease gene with a normal one in
the fertilised embryo. In addition,
like our studies on cancer, dissecting
the disease process would
undoubtedly lead to our
understanding of some very basic
biology, like the ageing process.
Perhaps in The Complete Works
of Shakespeare the gene would start
as: "The web of our life is of a
mingled yarn, good and i l l
together..." and when we have
discovered how it originate, all's
well will end well!
/
/ft.:/''.
Further reading:
Genome: The Story of our Astonishing Attempt to Map all the
Genes in the Human Body. Jerry E. Bishop and Michael Waldholz.
1990. Touchstone Books (Simon & Schuster).
This book gives a wonderful historical account of the Wexler story and
how the search for the HD gene has led to the most ambitious
intellectual endeavour this century - the mapping of the human
genome.
Huntington's Disease. Chapter 3 in Advances in Human Genetics,
Vol 20. James F. Gusella. 1991. Plenum Press.
The state of play in 1991. Gusella provides a very clear account of the
disease, but the genetics portion is quite jargonised. The sections on
clinical symptoms and epidemiology, however, are very good.
A Polymorphic DNA Marker Genetically Linked to Huntington's
Disease. Gusella, J.F. et al. 1983. Nature 306: 234-238.
The original paper describing the G8 marker. Rather technical.
The End of the Beginning. In News and Views. Peter Little. 1993.
Nature 362:408-9.
A short and incisive article describing the search. Rather jargonised,
but it describes the process leading up to...
The Huntington's Disease Collaborative Research Group. A novel
gene containing trinucleotide repeat that is expanded and unstable on
Huntington's disease chromosomes. Cell 72:971-983.
Finally! The gene sequence. This paper, however, is extremely
technical and complex. Get a biologist/biochemist/medic to explain it to
you.

