Clubs and Societies 7
Bic National Student Windsurfing
Championships - Clacton 1994
After achieving a respectable array of results in
the B U S F competition at Christchurch on
16th/17th April, coming 4th overall in the team
event, the Imperial College Boardsailing team
headed for the B i c National Windsurfing
Championships held at Clacton over the Bank
Holiday weekend.
This event was organised by the University
of London Windsurfing Club, which includes
several IC students. It is the second time the
event has happened and this year everything was
bigger and better, with a marquee on the front, a
PA system and lots of prizes supplied by various
sponsors. More than 20 colleges were
represented with over 100 sailors taking part.
Even though the wind wasn't up to
expectations, the May Bank Holiday sun was
intense and bodies were bronzing rapidly - after
all, that is what windsurfing is all about isn't it?!
Over the three days freestyle, slalom and
course racing disciplines were run for the more
accomplished sailors in division 1, with slalom
events for the novices in division 2. Imperial
was well represented in all events and not just on
the beach. Will, in particular, was the first to
make a name for himself b y dancing with
anyone (or anything) in the bar on the first night,
including an Elvis look-a-like.
In terms of windsurfing events, the novice
team achieved an impressive second place in the
overall rankings. In division 1 the freestyle event
was convincingly dominated by Imperial with
the first four places going to Tim 'sail 360'
Wilkes (4th), James 'everything' Slaughter
(3rd), James 'railride' Mayhew (2nd) and Dan 'I
like to somersault through the boom' Laurijssen,
who is now the British Student Freestyle
champion - well done Dan!
The remaining slalom and course events were
run depending on the state of the wind and an
overall ranking was constructed. After proving
his competence at freestyle, Tim Wilkes went on
to win the title of B i c National Student
Windsurfing Champion with Imperial coming
second in the team event.
Unfortunately, Imperial didn't win any prizes
in the ladies events, simply due to extreme
under-representation, like we had no women! So
if there are any women out there who are
interested in windsurfing or just like to do it
standing up, then contact Imperial College
Boardsailing Club through Paul Cooper, Mech
Eng III. You never know, you may become a
future windsurfing champion.
The weekend was not all windsurfing though.
On Sunday night there was a Mayor's reception
(free food!) followed by a team pub crawl
competition around Clacton, ending up in a local
nightclub where we danced and drank the night
(and most of the morning) away.
As for the coming months, the Boardsailing
Club is pretty well wrapped up until the start of
next term, so all that remains to be said is: "See
you at Freshers' Fair!"
Dune in May from icsf
A film review is a delicate thing. Know then that
on Tuesday 17th May at 7pm in the Concert
Hall, icsf are pleased to present David Lynch's
epic film Dune.
The story revolves around the desolate, desert
world of Arrakis (also known as Dune) which is
the sole source of the hallucinogenic spice-gas
melange. The actual spice production remains a
mystery to the Spacing Guild who, along with
the Emperor of the Known Universe, regulate its
supply to their Navigators who use it to travel
without motion; only the enigmatic Fremen
inhabitants of Arrakis understand its connection
to the giant sandworms which patrol the planet's
surface.
Into this hostile world are thrown House
Atreides to take over spice mining after the
seeming departure of their sworn enemies House
Harkonnen. As Paul Atreides, son of a noble
duke and a Bene-Gesserit witch, is plunged
deeper into the web of political machinations
which surround Arrakis he begins to question
whether he is the messiah so long awaited by the
Fremen and, i f so, can he marshall their
scattered tribes to end the mining on Arrakis and
transform the desert planet into a paradise?
Gorgeously shot and stunningly designed,
this is a film to be seen on the big screen. Lynch
proves that he can sustain a lengthy film without
resorting to weirdness with his excellent
direction of every aspect: visuals, sound, acting
and effects combine impeccably.
Oh yes, I forgot to tell you...admission is
£1.50 to icsf members and £2 to non-members.
Membership is just £3 and includes free entry to
Dune along with the chance to borrow over
3,000 books, graphic novels and videos from our
library in the corner of Beit Quad. The dream
unfolds Tuesday at 7pm.
Bic National Student
Windsurfing Results
Team Positions:
Division 1
1st Plymouth
2nd Imperial
3rd East Anglia
Division 2
Sheffield
Imperial
Plymouth
Individual Positions (Imperial):
1st Tim Wilkes
5th Will Harvey
6th Raul Payri
8th Dan Laurijssen
10th Jo Graham
13th Ian Wickens
12th Miguel Ortiz de Latierro
19th James Mayhew
23rd Marco Villargordo
25th James Slaughter
If your Diary entry is incorrect, please let us know

