10 Reviews
A new concept in reviewing this week from my
fevered mind, a smorgasbord of cluttered
albums. Heading off first with Dig's album Dig
(see photo below).
You don't need to be au
fait with the current music
scene to know that there's
a veritable glut of indie-
styled metal bands
scampering out of the
woodwork and into the
clutches of the major
record label executives
and, by now, the cry of
"yes, but this band have a
special quality about them"
is becoming a cliche-
beyond-cliche in the
popular music press.
Unfortunately this
particular cliche does not
apply to D i g , although
many others certainly do. I
mean, let's face it, do we really need more songs
with that infamous semi-threatening bass line
and barrage of squealing, wah-wah guitars,
while someone hollers "I'll stay high" over the
top? Every now and again they tease us with
some inspirational dashes, such as the surf-
guitar sound in 'Ride the Wave'. Nevertheless,
at the end of the day, like their record label
Radioactive, too much exposure to this could
seriously damage your health. (5) Vik
The progression of snow queens gets one
longer. Stina Nordenstam starts her album,
And She Closed Her Eyes, with geographical
nonsense (see photo right). 'When Debbie's
Back From Texas' may be more than a mere air
fare away from her native Norway, but it marks
the beginning of a
remarkable journey. Words
so shy that they sound
hardly formed float and
quickly conquer. "I could
think of a few things to
believe in, but I don't know
about love," she sings with
all the uneasy certainty of
the spurned. You may have
to check what they actually
are but the music is as
compelling as glacial
momentum. The whole
thing is shot through with
the kind of beautiful
absurdity which means so
much and is so precious.
"Not quite on Main Street"
perhaps, but an exile only
to the coldest corner of a bleak heart. (8) Tintin
"Time and Pills - let's waste a year," says
Swell's David Freel on 'Kinda Stoned' from
their album 41. Maybe that is why it's taken me
so long to review it. A garage band without an
engine, Swell do everything gradually. The first
minute of the first track proper is a long straight
strum. The first track unproper, 'In The Door,
Up The Stair' is exactly that. Someone opening
a door and stepping up some creaky wooden
« stairs, maybe the same
stairs which are on the
front cover. Definitely so.
What is slowly done is
properly done.
The penultimate track is
'Down The Stairs, Out The
Door'. In between are ten
crafted pieces, taut with
warm acoustic riffs and
slow electric guitars. A
phone rings, the band talk
to each other. Like I said,
there is no engine here. It
is a stationary glide around
the block. When you're
already deeply in love with
the place you're at, what's
the point of moving on. (8)
Tintin
Dog Eat Dog are another Noo Yawk
hardcore/rap/metal hybrid, so what's new? Well,
a horn section for a start. Lacking Biohazard's
ferocity or Life Of Agony's sheer genius, they,
have carved out their own niche by mixing up an
alphabet soup of influences to produce All Boro
Kings, their first album. Fuelled more by beer
than righteous anger this breathes fresh air into
the often oppressively PC rapcore scene. Dog
Eat Dog's social commentary is tempered by the
need to have a good time. Musically fat,
friendly, AC/DC riffs mix with hip-hop rhythms
and the saxophones which set them apart from
the crowd. Every track is a rousing anthem to
shout along or pogo to. The sparse production
captures the loosely jointed joie de vivre of the
live show. (7) Freddy C
Brothers and sisters!
W i l l y'all welcome the
heart and soul of New
Orleans: Aaron, Charles,
Cyril and Art, the mighty,
mighty Neville Brothers -
Live On Planer Earth. Ow
right! Funk, funk, soul,
rock, reggae, jazz, gospel,
soul, funk, funk, soul. It's
all here, people. Yes, sir.
Y'all be groovin' now, ya
hear? Peace! One more
exclamation mark! Yeah!
There's 'Sister Rosie' for
the Brother's mutha, his
queeen, his daughter and
strong wimmin every-
where! Nobody rides on the
back o' the bus, no more. Then there's 'Brother
Jake', 'Voodoo' and 'Yellow Moon'. Y'all be
fightin' back them tears when yo' hear Brother
Aaron's virtuoso rendition of 'Amazing Grace'.
Amen. One tapped one's foot a lot. Like James
Brown without shotguns. Funky but harmless. (7)
Sphinx
Helium - Private Prude: There
are some serious twisted
moments at the end of the
rainbow owned by Helium.
This mini album has tracks like
'Baby Vampire Made Me' and
its companion 'Wanna Be A Vampire Too,
Baby' - a sort of grown up gritty slap in the face
to Winona and Annie Lennox's Dracula
weakness. Helium get you involved in such
weirdness as you would not believe. Muses to
their madness, Mary Timony croans away,
affectionately high pitched, whilst the bass/
drumming lads torture away the background.
The perfect beast they build is the product of
three eight-mile-high Bostonians as they trawl
through some pseudo Taoist concepts. This is
the Dalai Lama with a stratocaster and a bottle
of Jack Daniels. Cool in an art school way. Tintin
Ivy - Get Enough: A n ex-Melody Maker
single of the week and for once we go along too.
This is a beautiful two and a half minutes of easy
pop forever stranded on 7" of white plastic. Get
Enough is vacant enough to fill a head and with
the edge to give a bloodied kiss. The purest
record I have heard for a long time. Tintin
Frank Black - Headache: While his first solo
album saw the former Pixies' frontman
distancing himself from their unique sound, this
does nothing but recall it. He seems far more at
home now and, despite the title, the tunes are for
more celebratory than on his recent work. Ridley
Portastatic - Naked Pilseners: Simplicity is
all. Portastatic is the work of one man,
Superchunk's Mac, in his bedroom with no more
than a guitar or two and some drums and it's
beautiful. The guitar strings have space to chime
and the melody finds room to weave its way into
your head, until all of a sudden it's over.
Unusual, interesting, varied and excellent. Guy
Galliano - Long Time Gone: Definitely more
Clare Short than Prince Charles this one. The
guitarist takes more than a cursory nod towards
'Crosstown Traffic', but we can allow him that
one. Brilliant groove. Remember those lazy
summer Sundays down at Dingwalls.
^
1 Vanilla Trainwreck - Kiss Me:
Starting on the chaotic escalator
of sound does little to make this
accessible. Things settle down as
the grooves turn but this is for all
those puritans who think
Pavement have sold out. Tintin
Stabbing Westward - Control: Stabbing
Westward? Heading upwards by the sound of this.
They've toured with Front 242 and Therapy? and
fuse the best elements of both, inventive keyboard
loops and a menacing bassline, into an engaging
piece of semi-industrial, techno-metal. Vik
Inch - Linger. Heavy guitars clashing with some
neat bifurcations of direction (that B.Eng didn't go
to waste) don't do enough to roll Beethoven for this
one. Too much neo-California grunge clogs his
ears. As for him being deaf, forget it: Tintin
I'm on the corner like a fallen Marishino cherry

