21
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 16 MAY
TELEVISION
newal and cancellation
urite shows will be back for another season or not. So here is
etwork shows and how well they are faring over in the States.
Two freshman shows are set to
return; the surprisingly good Reign,
a reimagined tale of Mary Queen
of Scots, in which good-looking
people breaking up has more
consequences than merely broken
hearts, as kingdoms and lives hang
in the balance. he 100, which tasks
100 juvenile delinquents to possibly
repopulate Earth after a nuclear war
destroyed the planet 97 years prior to
the show’s events, is deservingly on
the network’s renewal list.
Popular superhero Oliver Queen
(Stephen Amell) and his show Arrow
is set for season 3, although the happy
news could not be shared for Amell’s
cousin, Robbie Amell, whose show
he Tomorrow People, which was
arguably more interesting than Arrow,
was cancelled after just one season.
Star-Crossed, which tried too hard to
be a clever analogy for modern society
and politics, and then failed miserably,
will not get a follow-up season, and
the network’s spectacularly bad idea
of adapting Sex and the City as some
sort of a prequel with he Carrie
Diaries, is inally getting the axe after
two seasons.
What was once the hottest reality
television of primetime is no more,
although American Idol is still
getting its fourteenth season despite
dwindling audience viewing igures.
he same cannot be said for he X
Factor US. Simon Cowell’s plan to
take over the States with his own
singing talent show is getting pushed
out after three years of questionable
ratings.
Not a huge batch of drama shows to marvel at. Sleepy Hollow will return for a
second season, the network is refusing to put he Following out of its misery,
giving the show an ill-advised third season (the Joe Carroll madness has gone on
long enough), long-running procedural Bones will return for its tenth season, as
will Glee, a show that is getting progressively worse, for its sixth and inal (thank
god) season.
On the comedy front, the network has
done better. Golden Globe winning
cop comedy Brooklyn Nine-Nine has
been renewed for a second season,
Zooey Deschanel and her quirky
sitcom New Girl is set to return for its
fourth season, and Mindy Kalig, the
hyperactive mess of an OBGYN who
is entertaining to watch, will be back
for he Mindy Project in its third
season.
Although posting some dismal
numbers as of late, NBC certainly hit
the jackpot with he Voice, pairing the
reality show on Monday nights with its
excellent new drama, without doubt
the best new series of the 2013/14
season, he Blacklist, starring the
formidable James Spader. Consistently
delivering strong ratings, it came as no
surprise when NBC decided to give
this show a second season.
FOX is known for its successes with
its long-running animated shows.
he Simpsons will be entering its
astonishing season 26, whereas
Family Guy is set to debut its
thirteenth season in autumn 2014.
Notcomingbackforthenexttelevision
year is the well-reviewed but under-
watched military sitcom Enlisted
which debuted at an awful Friday
night slot, as well as the controversial
Dads which was heavily criticised for
its content. Greg Kinnear’s comedy
vehicle Rake hit the lowest of the
low viewing igures towards the end
of its thirteen-episode run, which
explains why FOX decided to dump
it. Also canned are Surviving Jack
and Raising Hope the latter of which
had a good run (four seasons) and
really showed of the comic potential
of Garret Dillahunt and Martha
Plimpton.
NBC is trying to recreate the franchise success of Law & Order with its Chicago
series and at the moment they have Chicago Fire and Chicago P.D. going into
the third and second seasons respectively.
A long list of shows getting cancelled
over at NBC. Michael J. Fox’s return
to television didn’t attract much
audience with he Michael J. Fox
Show, nor was anyone really interested
in Sean Hayes’ Sean Saves the World,
Jonathan Rhys Meyers’ comeback role
as the title character in Dracula was
met with lukewarm reception, and it
would seem the name J. J. Abrams is
no longer working its magic on the
television screen, as Revolution and
Believe, both executive produced by
Abrams, were given the axe. Crisis,
an absurd thriller starring Dermot
Mulroney and Gillian Anderson has
also been cut.
he darkly chilling, potent thriller
Hannibal will be back for season
3, starring Mads Mikkelsen in the
titular serial-killing cannibal role,
with Hugh Dancy trying to lock him
up. NBC’s answer to ABC’s Once
Upon a Time, Grimm is returning for
season 4. Comedy shows Parenthood
and Parks and Recreation have both
been renewed for their inal seasons,
so a tearful farewell to those excellent
sitcoms.

