“Keep the
Cat Free”
SPORT
Editor: Kunal Wagle
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk 16/05/14
Issue 1576
felixonline.co.uk
Felix reviews the Premier League Season. Oh, and there’s
Cricket as well... and Cross-Country...
IC once again brought home the
bacon at BUCS regatta, capturing the
Men’s Victor Ludorum and inishing
2nd in the medals table over the three
days and inishing with the most
BUCS points of any university in the
country (again) despite the absence
of big lad Henry ‘gully’ Gooder and
token chopper Ben Spencer-Jones.
he big BUCS extravaganza began
as always after half the squad had just
inished their exams and the other
half were beginning the next week.
Only one thing was on everyone’s
mind – knocking Durham of the top
of the overall victor ludorum. Not to
win it for themselves but just to ruin
any foundation to Durham’s claim
that they are ‘he most successful
undergraduate rowing programme in
the country’ (lol good one lads).
he trip began with a convoy of 3
minibuses illed with mens squad,
womens squad and novice women
and after an (for once) entirely
uneventful journey, which required
some big tunes and large amounts of
French abuse to drivers Paul Jones and
Fabien Evrard to liven things up a bit,
we arrived late on Friday evening in
Nottingham.
Day 1
Every morning saw an unnecessarily
early start for everyone with time
trials starting at 8am, but especially
for IC’s not-so-big lads who had to
weigh in at 6am, the only upside
being Stu Whitelaw had actually tried
booking rooms for 50 people over 2
days in advance, rather than being
surprised at there being nowhere
available to stay near Nottingham (as
happened last year when there was
some big event in Nottingham which
every University in the country was
going to or something). Anyway, again
everything somehow went to plan.
he irst medals of the weekend
came in the lightweight singles. In
the Intermediate lightweight single
inal, despite having a gentleman’s
agreement to save their legs for the
lightweight 4, Myles Holborough
saw red and sped of in front of Le
Captain Paul Jones, taking the silver
medal, whilst Paul cruised to 5th
place, putting in a cheeky sprint to
overtake an Irish guy who had blown
out of his tree. his was followed by
a bronze medal for Wilf Kimberley in
the Champ light single.
Big dogs Mel Wilson and Michelle
Vezie brought home the irst medal
for the women, capturing the bronze
medal in the champ women’s pairs.
his was followed by Jade ‘Chubba’
Hubbard and Nicola Mason, who did
well to inish 6th in the inal of a savage
champ lightweight doubles event.
Newbie Sorcha Cotter began
the irst of a series of phenomenal
beginners’ results for the weekend,
just the wrong side of a 3-way tussle
for bronze, inishing 5th, and 51
seconds behind a Cambridge girl who
was deinitely not a beginner. She
was followed later by the ruddy lads
men’s beginner four (Shobi Grinstead,
Juha Leppanen, Nico Lautard, Giles
Mortimer & cox Lucy Osbourn who
went in hard and were leading until
the 1500m mark where they just didn’t
quite have the power to hold on. Big
2 man Juha Leppanen can only be
described as blowing out of his ring
piece, with some unbelievable tekkers
in the 100m.
he irst of the weekend’s golds
came from the men’s lightweight 4
(Paul Jones, Myles Holborough, Wilf
Kimberley & Tim Richards), who
successfully defended their title for
the 5th year running. his year saw
not only an IC/UL showdown, but
also a showdown between brothers,
with Tim Richard’s younger brother
James Richards stroking the UL boat.
his race showed Tim to be the better
brother, as IC cruised through a fast
starting UL to take the gold.
he second of Saturday’s big lad gold
medals came from the women’s champ
4 of Mel Wilson, Michelle Vezie, Isa
von Loggia, and powerhouse Lily
Beadle. Despite being 2 seconds down
of the start on some large UEL girls
from Texas, the girls ploughed back
through to snatch the gold by a second
(it would probably have been like 10 if
Isa wasn’t a UL chopper).
he inal race on Saturday was the
blue ribboned event, the men’s 8. In
the semi-inals, the lads had stormed
through UL to take 2nd place and
looked to be in the hunt for the
medals. Unfortunately UL had clearly
been saving themselves and had a
storming inish to take the bronze
medal, pushing IC back in to 4th place.
Day 2
Saturday evening saw a blow to our
VL eforts with illness striking down
MVP Mel Wilson and Lidia Cammack.
On top of this, fat lad Harry Mayne
had seen a good bulking opportunity
on inding Mr Halls’ barbecue,
weighing in at a solid 75kg back at
the hotel. his called for some serious
sweating down, with Harry adopting
the Dan Powell 4am makeshift sauna
technique. With only seconds to spare,
the men’s lightweight 8 managed to
weigh in and inally get some food in.
his clearly didn’t even phase Mr
Mayne as the lightweight 8 (Fabien
Evrard, Harry Mayne, Nico Lautard,
Romain Barnoud, Paul Jones, Myles
Holborough, Wilf Kimberley, Tim
Richards & cox Ellie Smith) brought
home the irst of a gluttony of silver
medals, just losing out to UL who
were deinitely entered in the right
event and had deinitely not bent the
rules (rules are made to be broken
right?). Kimberley & Richards still
couldn’t quite crack the light double
and took the silver medal.
here was a tussle for the bronze
medal between two IC girls in the
intermediate singles - Michelle Vezie
and Isa von Loggia. Despite a big
inish from Isa, Michelle just managed
to hold on to the bronze. Imagine the
places she could go if she actually
rowed at IC.
he two big results of the day
however came in the intermediate
mens double and the Beginner mens
8. Ben homas pulled Harry Mayne
along to a big 1st half, getting 5
seconds up on the rest of the ield and
trucked to victory, bringing home the
only gold of the day.
Words can’t really do justice to
how big the beginner men went
this weekend. he men’s 8 (Aris
Aristodemou, Nicholas Robertson,
Rob Mcpherson, Nico Lautard, Shobi
Grinsted, Juha Leppanen, Tom Peake,
E-Jazz Ahamadeen and cox Lucy
Osbourn) brought home the silver
medal, missing out on a gold by only
0.66 seconds. Bear in mind that in the
last few years, the D-inal was a decent
result. here were a number of other
strong results with the men’s coxed 4
inishing 4th, and the women’s 8 and
light 4- inishing 6th.
Day 3
So as we got up at the crack of
dawn once more, the mood was a bit
melancholy - it appeared the overall
VL trophy was beyond us. However
there was some light at the end of the
tunnel as IC lead the contest for the
men’s team championship over UL
by just a handful of points (the trophy
for this was bigger than the VL trophy
anyway) and the Monday events
looked like they were in our favour.
he biggest morale boost of the day
came from an event IC is starting to
have a bit of a tradition in – the men’s
beginner single. Filling some seriously
big shoes previously illed by the likes
of Tom Jones and Paddy Hudson was
Rob McPherson, who also more than
doubled his total number of singles
outings throughout the day. Lifting
the rate to 24 for a big inish, Rob
took the bronze medal (rumours that
he started his massive sprint to the
line when he saw Yewande Adesida
watching from the bank are yet to be
conirmed). Disaster almost struck 10
meters from the inish after a collision
with a buoy 10 meters from the line,
but McPherson managed to hold
himself together and stay upright.
he Richards/Kimberley lightweight
dream team combined once again
in the lightweight pair. However in
contrast to previous year they had
some stif competition, inishing 2nd
to an Edinburgh pair who had beaten
also beaten them in the double the
day before. However, the lads weren’t
going to let themselves get beat at
sweep. It was nip and tuck all the way
to the 1500 where the boys put in a
big lad push to get half a length up.
his proved to be a coup de grace as
the Edinburgh bowman blew and got
pulled across 2 lanes, with Kimberley
blowing 50 metres later.
After a quick walk, rehydrate and a
couple of collapses from exhaustion,
the pair then went straight in to
the lightweight 4x with Paul Jones
and Myles Holborough to attempt
to defend their title for the 4th year
running. On seeing everyone getting
tired, Holborough knew it was time
for an inspirational speech. It began
something along the lines of “Come on
lads we’re gonna f*cking win this one,
F*ck UL” and was followed by some
more expletives that I’m told can’t be
put in, despite being highly amusing.
Anyway, the speech clearly worked as
the boys led Edinburgh out of the start
and inished with clear water, with 3rd
place 15 seconds behind.
Stepping up to replace Rory Sullivan
as token club geezer, Ben homas
teamed up with Tom Jones for the
men’s (intermediate) pair. Despite
Tom Jones just getting worse and
worse down the course, the boys put
in a DJ Sully style big inish, taking
down Newcastle and winning the
silver medal behind Queens Belfast.
Other strong performances came
with a bronze medal from Michelle
Vezie and Isa von Loggia in the
women’s champ double, 4th place in
the women’s champ coxed 4 (Michelle
Vezie, Isa von Loggia, Lily Beadle
& Jade Hubbard) and 5th for the
Hubbard/ Mason duo in the light pair.
A special mention has to go to the
novice women, who just missed out
on the inal, and inished 2nd in the B
inal.
So, all in all we inished with the
men’s vICtor LADorum trophy, 2nd
in the medals table and 3rd in the
women’s team trophy and 3rd in the
overall VL. his of course called for
a big celebration on hursday night,
with MVP Seb de Traford ending
up wandering around in Vauxhall
pretending to a secret agent. I’m
looking forward to seeing our new
social sec in action next year. Well
done to everyone who raced once
again, especially the beginner guys and
girl for stepping up to the occasion big
time. Our thanks must go to all the
parents who helped out once again
and made the annual weekend of hell
bearable. Cheers then.
gILES MoRtIMER
StU WhItELAW
Rowing reaps the rewards at BUCS Regatta
Wilf Kimberley reviews the action as the men bring home the Victor Ludorum trophy, but the College miss out on the overall prize

