10 COLLEGE HIERARCHY F E L I X F R I D A Y 7 T H M A R C H
Could you define for me what your job as
Director of Personnel entails?
Providing a service to those who wish to appoint
people. From approval of the post right through to
issuing a contract and supporting departments in
their relationships with their staff. Developing
College policy and strategy to make sure that the
College remains competitive in the job market.
How long have you been at IC in your current
position? What was your previous job?
I have been here for 13 months, and before this
I was the Executive Dean of the NHLI (she was in
favour of the merger, seeing it as an opportunity
for a good alliance).
What was your first job, how much were you
paid and how long did you hold it?
My first job was as a mathematics lecturer at
Goldsmith's College on a salary of £1,016 pa, a
fortune in those days. I went on to become the head
of department, then the Dean of Science and
Mathematics. I was there for 20 years. As a stu-
dent, I did all the traditional student vacation jobs:
working in a laundry, doing the Christmas Post.
Df Marion Kimbertey
> s;«rarchy
mtn| Body
eelor
j Deputy Rectors
_J Directors
ffl-Ei Or Rodney Eastwood
* _J Ion Caldwell
* _J Lynda Davies
< _J Mike Hansen
J Vernon McClure
Mttl of r>t*u«r1«H
homes and two grandchildren.
Which do you prefer - doughnuts with jam or
doughnuts with holes?
With Jam, I suppose, though I don't have a par-
ticularly sweet tooth. I suppose the sharp taste of
the jam, I like sharp jam, it contrasts with the puffi-
ness of the pastry.
What was the last book you read?
Alan Bennett's Writing Home. I tend to have
the real Dr Marion Kimberley
please step forward...
Sabbaticals from Kings to remove the ULU post
of Womens' Officer?
The problem is that there are arguments both
ways. There is a plus side to positive discrimina-
tion, yet we don't want to disadvantage half the
population. It would be better if there was an equal
ops officer rather than just a womens' officer.
How will the new Asylum and Immigration Act
affect your work?
On an operational level, it means that we will
have to be a bit more intrusive into peoples lives,
and personally, I don't like that. Other than that, it
is highly unlikely to affect anyone employed by
IC.
Where were you born and brought up?
Bournemouth
Where did you go to university? What did you
read?
Westfield College, in the University of London
where I read maths, and also my Doctorate.
Who has had the biggest influence on your life?
My mother and father for their strong principles:
honesty, hard work and fairness. My parents were
unusual for their generation, they had a forward
looking approach to things and they were very
open especially about things like sex.
What do you do in your spare time?
Haven't got any at the moment. I used to sing in
a choir and go to concerts, the theatre, cinema and
aerobics, before my husband died we used to go
What do think of the recent attempt by the dinghy sailing. Children: one at uni, two with
One summer I even worked in a Max Factor facto-
ry - it gave me a headache. Oh, and when I was 14
I played the piano for ballet classes.
Do you enjoy working here? What are the chal-
lenges that face you?
Yes, though there is too much work to do. I have
spent this year restructuring the division to make it
easy. The expectations for the senior staff are oner-
ous though once my division is restructured the
workload should be more reasonable. I have 33
staff in my division which will increase by a third
after the mergers.
Has you role within College changed while you
have been here?
It has changed much yet! I have spent the whole
year analysing what the division does, what
College does. The current workload means that
'fire-fighting' dominates my day.
When, if ever, you leave here, what would you
like to be remembered for?
I would like to be remembered for having made
a difference for the benefit of people. I would like
to see a balanced esteem given to others, that is
staff other than academic staff. Also the imbalance
of women at the senior level should be resolved. IC
should be more progressive on women's represen-
tation.
Does this make it more difficult working here?
Not really, I have spent all my life working in
this sort of environment.
five on the go at once and fall asleep reading one
of them.
What is your favourite book?
I don't have a favourite and I don't like thrillers,
but I do like a mystery with a good plot. Hold on,
I've just thought of my favourite, it's Testament of
Youth by Vera Britten.
Could describe an anecdote typical of you time
as a student.
I can remember three things that stand out from
my time as a student. When I was at Westfield
College, in Hampstead, we had to wear gowns to
lectures. We had to cross from our halls and I can't
tell you how many times I impaled my gown on a
door handle.
Secondly, when we had fire drills in these hous-
es, we were hoisted out of the upper story window
in a canvas seat.
Lastly, when the Queen came to open the new
science department, the local authority spent sev-
eral days repainting the local bins and road mark-
ings. I found it amazing that they thought that the
Queen couldn't handle seeing a bit of dirt.
Are you a monarchist?
No, I am against any form of hereditary system.
Succinctly as possible, how would you describe
today's students?
The very nature of my job means that I don't
come across student's very often, only in lifts! The
student I know best is my daughter who is bright,
responsible and nice to know, and I assume
Imperial College students are the same.

