F E L I X F R I D A Y 7 T H M A R C H LETTERS & NOTICES 13
Letters to Felix
art societies
Dear Felix,
With a hint of amusement and a
large helping of shock I read the
interview with Smita Chaturvedi. I
feel it necessary to educate the new
D.P. (Clubs and Societies) elect of
the actual size of the art societies
within in Imperial College Union.
To dismiss the "art societies" as
both small and withdrawn, highlights
the candidate's naivety and arro-
gance with respect to the Clubs and
Societies of the Imperial College
Union.
In order to give some idea of the
error made in dismissing "they" (art
societies) as small, I would like to
point out that one such society,
ArtSoc with 200 members each year,
has one of the largest, if not the
largest membership base of any club
or society within the Imperial
College Union.
Finally, a big hint!! This is a rec-
ommendation to all the potential
Sabbs; talk to the "ARTS Societies"
before dictating what you think they
need.
Yours most artistically,
Lucie Purcell
ArtSoc Chair
SftW attacked
Dear Felix,
I am writing to ask why the first
page of the review of Mars Attacks!
in Something For The Weekend last
week, gave away the entire plot of
the film. This totally spoiled my
enjoyment when I went to see the
film last weekend. In my opinion a
review should tell the reader general-
ly what the film is about and whether,
in the opinion of the reviewer, it is
any good. It should leave the reader
to find out most of the plot when they
see the film, especially the ending!
P. Hickman (chem 2)
finance figures
Dear Felix,
I am able to report that Clark Kent
is not the Director of Finance of the
University of Nottingham.
I have checked and on a compara-
ble basis they have 60 staff in their
Finance function which compares
with 78 in ours. Given the difference
in the sizes of the organisations I
reckon that puts us on a par.
Although we are always trying to
improve our effectiveness, the Simon
Baker statistic of last week is I am
afraid a Benchmark Too Far.
Best wishes,
Mike Hansen
Director of Finance
licensing laws
Dear Felix,
This letter is to clear up any
rumours that may be flying around,
after the early closure of the bar in
the Union on Friday night. The
Union bars currently operate on
Special Order Exemptions, which the
local licensing authorities issue at
their own discretion. Last Friday,
they decided only to issue a bar
extension until 12:30am. Having
already obtained the rest of the
licenses for the remainder of term,
can I assure you that the Union run
bars will continue to open until lam
on a Friday night, and 2am for the
Easter Carnival on March 21st.
Secondly... Congratulations to
POG for getting loads of mileage out
of a nothing incident at Abandon!
The drug issue is one that I have no
real strong opinion on, but as the rep-
resentative of the Union on licensed
premises, the bottom line is that
drugs are illegal and my decision was
taken to prevent any action against
the Union.
Speaking personally, I have no
interest in what students do in their
own homes, but once they jeapardise
the Union's licence (and our ability
to open to 750 students every Friday
night) then I have a duty to act, if
only to allow us to continue to open.
Thank you for allowing me the
opportunity to explain the Union's
position.
Mark Home
Events and Marketing Manager
obscene bureaucracy!
Dear Felix,
A few weeks ago I attended a short
First Aid course, given at this college
by a visiting speaker. I was rather
bemused by the appearance, at the
end of the session, of a great wad of
forms and questionnaires to be filled
in, demanding to know, amongst
other things, my ethnic origin. This is
just typical of the type of bureaucra-
cy we are up against in IC these days,
which constantly hinders people try-
ing to go about their daily business. I
was very annoyed about this, so I
decided to make an official com-
plaint about it.
A little research showed that the
form originated from the offices of
CRAP, the college's Committee for
the Retardation of Anything Positive,
situated on the top floor of the
Sherfield building. I gave them a call,
but was promptly told that they
would not pay any attention to me
unless I used the proper procedures
to state my grievance. They directed
me to a small, open-fronted shelter
outside the building, where I was
informed that I would have to fill in
and return, in triplicate, a lengthy
form called Biennial Officially-
Licensed Log of Complaints at
Kiosks (Supplement).
So I duly photocopied my
BOLLoCKS and was just waiting in
a queue to get them stamped when I
was accosted by a woman from the
Completely Overfunded But Bloody
Lousy Environmental Research
Society (COBBLERS), who asked
me to fill in a 40-page questionnaire
about my attitudes to deforestation. I
Didn't Express an Opinion, because
by this stage I was absolutely fuming
about the amount of time I'd spent on
this. But she thanked me anyway and
allowed me on my way.
With the completed forms I head-
ed up to the CRAP office to return
them. But on arrival I realised that I'd
forgotten my damn swipe-card, so I
couldn't get in. What's more I had
also rather absent-mindedly left
behind my driving licence, birth cer-
tificate and a photograph of myself
signed by a professional person who
has known me for at least 24 months,
so there was no hope.
In the end I just had to send the
things off in the post. I thought I'd
heard the last of the whole business
until yesterday when I received
through my letterbox a Federation of
Universities and Colleges Official
Finalisation Form, telling me that my
complaint had unfortunately not been
upheld, and that they were very
sorry. It took me ages to work out
what the hell it was on about as by
this stage I had completely forgotten
that I had ever made a complaint. In
the meantime I thought to myself that
it's a good job that the Federation
don't also represent kindergartens, as
that would spell something rather
rude.
Yours sincerely,
James Clarke
Letters may be edited for length.
Deadline for letters in Felix 1083
is Friday 14th March.
Letters may be e-mailed to our
address: felix@ic.ac.uk
Please note that there is no
Felix next Friday.
A special Easter Felix is out
on Wednesday 19th March.
Felix is produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board.
Printed by Imperial College Union Print Unit, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road,
London SW7 2BB. Telephone: 0171 594 8071
Copyright Felixl997. Telephone/fax: 0171 594 8072. ISSN 1040-0711
NEWS: ANDREW AND M A R I A ; FEATURES: A F U A , HAMISH; ILLUSTRATIONS:
STAVROS; PUZZLES: D U N C A N ; GRAPHICS AND LAYOUT: DAVID; W E B EDITOR:
LEON; PHOTOGRAPHY: AI.DOUS, LILY A N D LING; SPORT: SIMON AND M O ;
COLLATING LAST ISSUE: D A V I D AND PIERS
Reception work available in the Union Office next
term. Experience of the Union and the way it works
would be an advantage Please call into the Union
Office and see Michelle Lewthwaite, Office Manager,
or call her on ext :- 48060
Imperial College & Science Museum Libraries
The major demolition work on the Library building was successful-
ly completed in February. In order to complete the electrical instal-
lation to the new floors, the power supply to the building has to be
turned off for two days. To minimise disruption to services this will
be done at a weekend.
THE LIBRARY WILL BE CLOSED O N SATURDAY 15 M A R C H 9 7
Please note: Quiet study facilities for IC students will be available
in the Senior Common Room, on level 2 of the Sherfield Building,
on Saturday 15 March between 09.00 and 18.00 hours.

