6 NEWS FEATURE F E L I X F R I D A Y 7 T H M A R C H
Long-term problems; Short-term goals
KAIZEN
There are three major problems with
nationalised industries. During the
80s, gas, water and electricity all
needed quite desperate cash injec-
tions. They were known for their
inefficient work practices and in
most cases a very poor customer ser-
vice was provided even when there
was a great demand for their prod-
ucts. The government of course had
the solution - Privatisation.
To get investment in the system
that prevailed under the Tories one
had to approach the Treasury - a
body not known for saying yes. The
Treasury of course feared that by
appearing to shell out they would be
subsidising and promote inefficien-
cy. Thus the water industry had
Victorian drains that leaked and BT
had exchanges liable to failure. In the
present day, London Underground
have stations and trains in need of
replacement. The state of the system
after years of neglect was the main
push to sell. Get industry to pay for
the investment which the govern-
ment wouldn't pay for with our taxes
while at the same time making
money to pay for the next round of
tax cuts. The real difference of course
was to remove the treasury from the
equation and the culture of under
investment that prevailed.
With privatisation, BT' 5 and the
electricity generators over manning
levels were brutally exposed. "The
holiday camp atmosphere that was
characteristic of a nationalised com-
pany disappeared" said the minister
responsible for privatisation. The old
inefficient management was
removed to be replaced by a progres-
sive, business orientated manage-
ment which had to be brought in; in
order to privatise the industry.
Something that was possible where
ever the profits were to be directed.
Once again the real change was a
change in culture.
The last reason for privatisation
lies in the introduction of competi-
tion in what is a monopolistic mar-
ket. Competition is said to promote
an increase in consumer service and
value for money. This is essentially
impossible for most of the cases
mentioned above, where you can
only have one gas pipe to your house.
Even for BT it has had limited suc-
cess where the only serious con-
tender has slowly been forced out of
the market. Only for national or inter-
national calls have other market con-
tenders found market share.
There is nothing about a nation-
alised industry that prevents it
becoming efficient. It is up to the
people at the top to see that this is
done. The vast number of column
inches recently devoted to Tory
sleeze surely indicate that their minds
were on making as much money for
themselves as possible. An efficient-
ly run business can pay for its own
investment program. Sometimes,
external investment is required but
with a mature relationship with the
treasury taking a long term view to
cut costs there is no reason why this
cannot be achieved. The Post Office
is very successful making vast profits
for this countries tax payers. With a
co- operative relationship with its
unions it is able to maintain wage
costs at industry levels while still
remaining competitive, branching
out into new product areas and
investing in new cost conscious tech-
nologies.
Other than to provide seats on the
boards of newly privatised compa-
nies for deselected ministers,
(Norman Lamont has already been
offered a seat on the board of British
Gas). This is beginning the question,
why privatise? The role of the gov-
ernment should be more as a change
agent - an efficient leader looking to
provide an efficient service to its
shareholders. At the moment the crux
of political debate is purely in ideolo-
gies. A government should also be
judged on how well it runs the com-
panies it is responsible for. However
this seems to be lost on the press at
this moment, clamouring to shout
that 'Just look at how bad nation-
alised industry is and how badly run
it is', also 'Nationalised industry is a
bad investment'. There is no truth in
this soundbite, its inefficiency due to
the undermanagement, it left to rot
until the costs of not doing anything
about it become too great. The pre-
sent governments policy is top gain
cost effectiveness by cutting costs -
and let the service live with it. If the
financial cuts are not properly won
with efficiency gains then it will
inevitably lead to a drop in consumer
service. Government should be at the
heart of business, promoting and car-
rying through change.
As an aside.... Closer to home
and smaller scale, almost the same
thing is about to happen in our own
college. No such problems exist in
our efficient, well run book shop.
Since Sherfield had handed over con-
trol of the loss making business to the
union, it has been turned around to a
business which made over £50,000
for union clubs. This year it is set to
more than double this figure. Just as
this happens, a Sheffield initiative
determined that it would be even
more profitable for the shop to be
tendered out. This with no consulta-
tion and no guarantee that there
would be A N Y money forthcoming
for our union. Where the efficiency
gains are to be made come from
undercutting our own second hand
bookstore and using our own internet
provider. This action by sherfield
seems only intent on redirecting the
profits from our clubs to itself to help
fund its own £100m pa level of
bureaucracy. Protect our union and
protect our bookstore.

