F E L I X F R I D A Y 7 T H M A R C H NEWS FEATURE 9
HIGHTIMES?
The issues surround drug use may enrage large sec-
tions of the population, but are of little interest to the
young people of the country, and perhaps students in
particular. Their exposure to drugs, whether through
taking them themselves, or just being around them,
means that many students are plainly indifferent to the
issues* Derivatives of many hard drugs were openly
for sale in chemist's stores last century, and it was
considered a normal social habit by many Victorian
'genteel' folk. Although the Police generally turn a
blind eye to much soft drug taking, the penalties for
drug trafficking are naturally harsh, with profits con-
fiscated and possible life sentences for offenders. All
this is a world away from the average casual user, with
many equating it with normal tobacco smoking. Write
and tell us you views.
Drug taking is considered a harmless hobby by many people today,
and for the most part, with people having the odd spliff at parties, it is
relatively innocuous. Few people would doubt that the harder stuff is
dangerous to your health and is known to be addictive. Only a tiny
minority of people addicted to heroin or cocaine started out intending
to be addicts, and a smaller minority of these would not have previ-
ously been taking soft drugs.
This is the problem with legalising cannabis or any other soft drug.
The question we need to ask is not whether occasional users will be
harmed if they only stay on comparatively safe drugs (although they
are all far more dangerous and addictive than tobacco and alcohol),
bul whether a change in the law vvill actually be of any help to any-
one. It won't,; the law is the there to protect people. If it is compro-
mised by legalising soft drugs, the public will consider them safe and
usage would sky-rocket.
More people would naturally move onto harder drugs, providing
the drug-dealers with just as much, if not more profit than they were
making already. This is certainly the case in the Netherlands, with
many of the original proponents of Europe's most relaxed drugs laws
regretting their decision due to the increase in drug trafficking, and
hard drug usage. Heroin addicts often share needles, transmitting a
plethora of diseases, including AIDS. Would the taxpayer have to pro-
vide for fresh needles and other equipment to prepare these cocktails
of doom? The legalisation of narcotic substances compromises the
essence of society and family values- and is another step down the
path so disintegration.
IS DRUG PR0HIWI0U OUTDATED?'
In America, pharmacies are called drugstores. This is of course,
exactly w hat they are. They sell drugs of various kinds to people
to help with ailments or as an important part of their treatment.
Recreational drugs are no different and often less dangerous than
their medical counterparts.
Drugs have been taken by people since the Stone Age. and it
is only because many of them are now banned that all the crimi-
nal problems associated with them: gang warfare, murder, cor-
ruption, and prostitution have proliferated. Were drugs to be
legalised, it could be controlled by high taxation, hence bring
extra revenue for the Government.
Drugs could be properly marketed and packaged, with suitable
government warnings and age limits. Advertising could be
restrained under the same rules as cigarettes, given that they kill
far more people with cancer, emphysema and heart attacks. It is
not surprising, given the stresses of modern life, that more and
more people take drugs as solace. It is not only the young or
"delinquents' that take drugs: it is a fashionable habit among
many highly-paid city traders.
Are we to penalise such a section of our population, whose
only crime was to indulge in a personal habit. Surely it is a ques-
tion of liberty.
<PRo
AMTI>

