TRE EftRQR
OF
C H E A P S K A T E
One morning, as the clouds began to break
and sun shone down over Cheapskate's
symbolic tower, Baron Weed stepped out
onto the veranda and stared across the lawns
that confronted him. Taking a deep breath,
trying desperately to clear his head after a
most enjoyable e v e n i n g with his
contemporaries, the Baron noticed with
pleasure all those signs of the approaching
Spring which he knew so well: flowers,
poking their heads through the soil, Lady
Marigold's announcement of plans for
forthcoming holidays—on her own—and the
concerned expressions of the citizens, as the
murmur of 'examinations' spread like an
unstoppable cancer througho'ut their
number.
'And no committee meetings for a whole
fortnight,' thought the Baron. 'And with any
luck the newspapers will stop criticising me.
The cuts are too bad—and I am preserving
the status quo. What more do they want?'
Reminded of his failed attempts to control
FALIX the Baron concluded that the media
would always be a,- thorn in his side and
returned to his study to sulk.
The thoughts of spring were concerning
others that day. Gormless Layon, President
of the Citizens Association, was sitting in the
Citizen's Office talking to Mrs Jolly Hockey-
Stocks about the behaviour of her suitor, Ian
Balls. Her agonising was to little avail since
Mrs Hockey-Sticks was in the usual drunken
stupor she was to be found in at that time of
the morning.
'Spring—when a young man's thoughts
turn to love!' Gormless announced forlornly,
recalling how her suitor Ian Balls had spent
the previous evening drinking and playing
cards with his new-found friends Eric Sloth
and Dave Paralytic.
Page 10\
For Gormless had begun to worry. Ever
since his election, Balls had never been quite
the same to her. No longer did she find twelve
red roses outside her door in the morning.
Gone was the time when Balls would appear at
her window, having shinned up the drainpipe
waving a box of her favourite chocolates.
Now Gormless had to ask him to get out of
her chair, enquire if they could possibly have
a 'nice, quiet night in-to^-iher' only to be told
that he was off drinking again. He was even
making all the decisions without telling
Gormless what he had done. Gormless was
depressed. 'Thesonly one think ferret (hie!)'
exclaimed Mrs Hockey-sticks. She took the
large rusty key hung permently around her
neck and weaved her way sinusoidally
toward the sherry cabinet.
Gormless glanced out of the window and
spotted Pristine, the wicked bitch—whoops,
Witch of Southside, gliding across the sunlit,
gleaming tower, astride her broomstick.
Pristine threw back her hands in joy. Her
long, black hair blowing in the wind and her
teeth glinting in the sunlight, warning all of
her presence, she was joyous at the prospect
of what was to come. For she had obtained a
rare herb, that only appeared briefly at the
start of spring, which was to be the basis of
one of her most powerful spells yet.
Swooping down low Pristine flew through an
open window and landing softly on Jo
Henawhatshername. Beckoning Gormless,
Pristine put her broomstick in the corner and
went into her office. There, above a
smouldering log fire, hung a huge steaming
Unable to contain his excitement,
Huge jumped for joy
cauldron. At its side, Huge Pigeon—the
citizens' representative in charge of pleading
fqr better gruel—was jumping up and down
incessantly, unable to contain his
excitement.
'Ooo, Pristine are we actually going to do
something? What do you want me to do?
Shall I call a committee meeting? Oh, just
think I'll be able to put my face all over the
front cover of FALIX again! Oh goodie.' His
boy-scout eagerness and endless willingness
to oblige those in power merely irritated his
idol and mentor Pristine who found him an
unnecessary interference in her plans.
Ian had spent the previous drinking and playing cards with his new found
friends Eric Sloth and Dave Paralytic.
I Wednesday,
jumping around and cm
she cackled, adding the final ingredients.
Such remarks merely washed over the
irrepressible Huge who, obliging as ever,
hopped up to the door, nearly slamming it in
the face of the recently elected Dave
Paralytic.
Paralytic was a man born long after his
time. Bearded, of almost tramp-like
appearance, he shuffled from one posl to the
next, merely trying to find somewhere to sit
down and have an easy time. And like so
many other people with that ambition, the
citizens' office was his final port of call.
'Have you seen Eric?' he enquired of Jo
Henherwhatshername who had barely
recovered from Pristine's unexpected
arrival.
'I think he's in Sawnoff's office,' she replied,
rubbing herself where the sharp end of the
broom had found itself.
Paralytic peeped round the door and
found his colleague and playmate Eric Sloth,
curled up by the printing matchine fast
asleep. 'Practising for next year I suppose,'
Paralytic shrugged.
Later that morning the door to Pristine's
office flew open and Huge leapt out shouting
'I've got it, I've got it. All the other citizens
representatives have failed but I've achieved
the impossible.' Unable to contain his
excitement, Huge jumped around for joy and
promptly knocked a couple of glasses and
kicked the already suffering Jo in the shins.
Pristine, however, emerged and having told
Huge to shut up, proceeded to explain her
achievement.
'I put all the figures I had into the pot and
with a little encouragement and a touch of the
magic formula I discovered when I was doing
someone else's job a few years ago I
produced these results.
Quite literally by magic Pristine had
produced out of thin air a most important set
of figures—numbers which revealed
that the C i t i z e n s c o u l d run one
of V i c t o r M u n c h e y ' s gruel outlets
at a profit.
'I'll go down as the most important
President, er, Vice-President for years'
announced Pristine proudly.
'And I'm bound to get President's job,' said
Huge, who had by this time managed to hop
his way into Pristine's cauldron.
'All we now need to do is get Simon
Perrier's approval and we're home and dry,'
said Huge. But his complacency was
unjustified for Pristine had foolishly left one of
the windows of her office open out of which
had blown a sheet of paper containing details
of the plans. And later the same day, that
very piece of paper was upon the desk of
Dong Lark, the Baron's Secretary of Estates.
'We're going to have something proper to
do again!' said Dong, most pleased at the
prospect. 'Do you remember all the fun we
had when we refurbished the Citizens'
Refectory last time?'
As ever, Dong was addressing his twin and
deputy Headbang Cameroon Lark.
'Oh. yes,' replied Headbang looking up
from his crossword puzzle. 'All that knoc king
things down and ripping things up—and we
didn't have to take any notice of anyone else.
Headbang spread the tablecloth across
Dong's desk and started putting out all of the
china. Tea time was a great tradition for the
March 21, 1984
home with his conscience satisfied.
Late that same evening, long after
Southside Tavern had closed and the citizens
had departed to their rooms, two shadowy
figures appeared from nowehere and merged
in the darkness of the adjacent gardens. After
whispering one word they contorted their
arms and shook each others hands in a most
unusual fashion. The larger of the two
handed over a small document containing
the most delicate of secrets. As the recipient
walked away, disappearing quickly into the
night, the other stood a short while watching
the other depart. Drawing items from his
pocket he lit a cigarette, the brief burst of
light revealed the grotesque features of
Victor Munchey, the chieftan of all the
Baron's kitchens. For he knew how to stop
Pristine's plans. J q b e c o n t i n u e d
Headbang spread the tablecloth accross Dong's desk and started putting
out all of the china.
two of them, taking up the majority of the
afternoon. Together, they began to discuss
what they were going to do to the refectory.
'Well,' said Dong having tasted the tea
which had been so dutifully prepared for him
and found it satisfactory 'I think that we need
a new door in the place—and some more
lights.'
'Oh yes, replied Headbang nibbling at his
toast 'and let's get rid of all those awful chairs
and tables—they do get in the way. Perhaps
we ought to put a partition down the middle,
to separate off the bar?\
'Now that's a very good idea—HI get
someone to draw up the plans. And we can
use up some of that scaffolding lhaf s lying
around the place—perhaps uuild a climbing
frame...."
'Oh, don't be silly,' replied Headbang
distressed at the thought of citizens crawling
all over the scaffolding of which he was so
proud.
'Although we could get rid of a few tiles
here and there. Why don't I get someone to
stand at the bottom and catch them from the
Electrical building. It'll be rather like a game
of cricket.'
'Oh, now you're just being silly. If you're
going to be like that I'll walk out. Don't you
know it's your turn to pour the tea, I'm always
doing it '
While Headbang and Dong sat arguing, the
news reached John Secretary of Pristine's
plans through his network of spies and
informers. He had been out-manoeuvred and
was not amused.
'Gormless really ought to know her place.
The only possible solution to these matters is
to close the refectory—it's always worked in
the past,' he announced. The only thing
listening was a small rat which had been
scratching around John Secretary's
dungeon desperately trying in vain to find a
few crumbs. The rat departed, leaving John
alone. But solitude was a most agreeable
state for him—especially when scheming. He
concluded that he did not wish to bloody his
hands further and decided to arrange for
others to stop the plans before they even got
off the ground. One telephone call was
enough for John Secretary to depart for]
the grotesque features of Victor
Munchey, the chieftan of all the
Baron's kitchens. ' __
• M M H H H M B M H M i P a g e

