Easter Eggstravaganza
Welcome to the double-spread Ulysses, with some brain-
twisters for you to try over the vacation when you're bored with
revision. The prize puzzles are marked with an Easter bunny,
and are worth £ 5 each, for which I am once again grateful to
Mend-a-Bike of Park Walk. My thanks for this term to Perola,
Anatoly, Sharpshooter, Omar, Scaramouche and anyone else
who has given me a puzzle, and thanks to anyone who has
attempted any of the puzzles.
Good luck, everyone, for the last time this term, and happy
Easter to you all.
I shall be retiring as Puzzles Editor at the end of next term. If
anyone would like to take over, could they please contribute a
couple of puzzles next term, and drop in to the FELIX Office
some time next term to see myself or Dave Rowe.
C P Simpson of Physics 2 was the randomly selected winner
of the last puzzle, and can collect his £ 5 cheque, courtesy of
Mend-a-Bike, from the FELIX Office any time. Solutions for the
prize puzzles to the FELIX Office by 1:00pm on the first
Wednesday of next term please.
if-
13
f
v
This cross-number puzzle requires logic, calculation and trial-and-error, and the numbers are
so interlocked that practically every one of them must be used to get the solution to 2 down. The
puzzle concerns a farm which has been in the Davis family for some years. A part of the farm is a
rectangular piece of ground known as the Potato Patch. The year is 1939; 4840 square yards =
one acre; 4 roods = one acre.
Across
I. Area in square yards of the Potato Patch.
5. Age of Martha, Father Davis's aunt.
6. Difference in yards between length and breadth of the Potato Patch.
7. Number of roods in the Potato Patch times 8 down.
8. The year the Davises acquired the Potato Patch.
. 10. Father Davis's age.
II. Year of Mary's birth.
14. Perimeter in yards of the Potato Patch.
15. Cube of Father Davis's walking speed in mph.
16. 15 across minus 9 down.
Down
\1. Value of shillings per rood of the Potato Patch.
Square of the age of Father Davis's mother-in-law.
Age of Mary, Father Davis's other daughter.
Value in pounds of the Potato Patch.
j6. Age of Ted, Father Davis's son, who will be twice the age of his sister Mary in 1945.
7. Square of the breadth of the Potato Patch.
8. Time in minutes it takes Father Davis to walk i y 3 times around the Potato Patch.
9. The number which, multiplied by 10 across, gives 10 down.
10. See 9 down.
12. Additions of the digits of 10 down plus 1.
<J3. Number of years the Potato Patch has been in the Davis family.

