IC Scoop U A U Trophies!
Having won the SE regional play offs, IC
Volleyball team qualified for the finals at
Loughborough University on 2nd, 3rd and
4th March.
The first match of the tournament was on
Friday at 6:00pm between Birmingham and
IC. Probably because of a long minibus
journey, IC tooka while to get into the game
and lost the first set. However after a very
closely fought second set IC went on to win
the match 2-1.
After this, the team were looking forward
to an early night in readiness for the next
day's matches. However this was not to be.
Christos had forgotten his Unioncard and
had to return to London to get it, while
everyone worried if he would make it back in
time for the first match on Saturdays.
On Saturday morning IC beat York fairly
easily 2-0, but had a much tougher game in
the afternoon against Manchester, eventually
winning 2-1. Thus IC came top of their pool
and were through to the semi-finals.
The tournament was organised on a pool
system; there were two pools of four teams
(winners of their regions), winners and
runners-up of each pool go into the semi-
finals. Matches were played best of three sets.
In Pool 1: IC won and Birmingham were,
runners-up, beating Manchester and York.
In Pool B: Nottingham, East Anglia,
L o u g h b o r o u g h and S o u t h a m p t o n .
Southampton (last year's winners) were very
confident; Loughborough had a very well
drilled and impressive team which included a
Polish ex-international. As expected
Loughborough easily won their pool,
Southampton coming second. Thus, IC were
to meet Southampton in the first semi-final
on Sunday morning.
Saturday evening was 'quietly' spent in a
local public house.
In the semi-final, Southampton as last
year's champions, were under considerable
pressure to win and thus did not.
IC's attachers were especially in good form
and the match was won 2-0.
In the other semi-final Birmingham
stunned everyone by beating a not in form
Loughborough team 2-0!
So IC were to play Birmingham again; in
the final scheduled for 3:00pm in a differetj
sports hall. Birmingham had a lot of vocal
support, especially from their girls team, but
they lost the first set 15-3! Dominit Song
especially was in devastating form for IC
despite injured fingers.
However, IC lost concentration and the
second set. The third set was much more
closely fought and went to IC. Birmingham
won the fourth after an amazing comeback.
In the deciding set, IC got off to a good
start—possibly inspired by the enthusiastic
support offered by Speedy Stevie and Mini
Mike from the bench; superior blocking and a
more varied attack eventually gave IC the
final set and match.
Thus IC won the title in an amazing first
entry to the U A U competition, in an exciting
five set final.
Hang-gliding champs: T e a m ( L to R b a c k ) Dave Evans,
Dave Thomas (front) Mel Burton, Dave Rusby, Karl Briers.
On March 3 and 4, the first inter-university
hang-gliding competition was hosted by
Swansea University.
Our Captain, Dave Rushy, went first for
IC and was only the second person to land in
the circle. Our hero, Dave Evans (The Black
Baron) on his inflatable, went next and
landed slap-bang in the centre of the target
to get maximum points. Closely following
came Dave Thomas, Mel Barton and the
solid base to our team, Pete 'get on a diet'
Edwards, who, after relieving themselves of
lunchtime ballast, all performed incredibly
well to boost our points total. C o m m -
iserations to K a r l , who was about to
compete when flying was called off.
The IC Team consisted of Dave Rusby,
Dave Evans, Dave Thomas, Mel Barton,
Pete Edwards and Karl Briers. The final-
scores of the top three teams were: Imperial
180 p o i n t s , P l y m o u t h P o l y 168 a n d
Manchester Poly .138.
Page 16J
,On Friday 9 March, IC Judo Club went to
the U L U building to fight in the annual
inter-colleges competition.
The IC Ladies, Sarah Parker, Caroline
Scott, K a t h r y n M a r k h a m and G a b b y
Shields set the evening off to a good start.
They took the bronze medal in their event.
The contests produced some interesting
Judo, Including a Ju-Jitsu leg-breaking
technique from Caroline.
In the men's event, the IC B-team Ray
Kowe, Jim Dawson, Paul Mellor and Chris
Dunn drew the hardest teams, including our
own A-team. In spite of the far more
experienced opposition, the B-team put up a
good fight. Ray and J i m did very well
against much higher grades. Despite this,
they failed to gain promotion from their
pool.
The men's A-team, Ian Nevitt, T i m
Stockings, Graham West, Andy Binding and
Terry Corbitt moved into position. The
crowd hushed. After some teething trouble
with Brunei, the teams from Q M C and an
impressive " A l l stars" team were suitably
dispatched. The semi-finals saw L S E dealt
WMWednesday, March 21, 1984WJM
with in a similar fashion. The finals brought
us up against QMC again, who didn't seem
to have learnt their lesson from the earlier
rounds. A quick past-midnight demons-
tration of Judo reminded them soon enough
and IC collected gold for the third year
running. Ian and Tim did especially well,
often'winning against, heavier players. Terry
also won a l l his contests in his own
inimitable style.
U L U
A t h l e t i c s
C h a m p i o n s h i p s
Univ of London Union will be staging their
athletics championships on Tues and Wed 1 and
2 May (6:30pm start) at Motspur Park. Cost is
50p per person per event.
Universities Athletic Union will be staging
their athletics championships on Sun and Mon
6 and 7 May (11:00am start) at Crystal Palace.
Anyone interested in taking part may inspect
the timetable of events in the Union Office, and
should do so as soon as possible since the entries
must be in by 20 April.
Please see Ian Bull in the Union Office at
lunch times for further details.
I FELIX

