M e w s
• ,118 zgnijiKl m 9
2
5
3
1
3
m 9flj irigin (miq qc
.) t o o l ) i -jjnrj frlgite
ts8 i s f c i u M
irum n u q m i
Facelift forComputing ftc/ecfory Prices Up
Professor Sayers new
Professor Bruce Sayers, current
head of the Electrical Engin-
eering Department has been
appointed as the new head of the
Computing Department, to take
office from 1 September. H i s
brief is to build a full scale
department of Computing and
Information Technology and to
increase the departments range
of activities. In addition a new
Chair in the Management of
Information Technology will be
created within the department.
The Computing Department
has an international reputation
in the f i e l d o f S o f t w a r e
Engineering. H o w e v e r the
R e c t o r b e l i e v e s that the
department 'has surrounded
itself in a brick wall', and that it
is missing many of the opp-
head of DoC.
ortunities that exist in other
fields. Professor Sayers has
specialised in the applications of
computers to medicine, and is
expected to widen the scope of
the department.
The new Chair in the Depart-
ment of Computing is to be the
Kobbler Chair in the Manage-
ment of Information. Professor
Igor Alexander from Brunei
University will be the first holder
of this post. His aim will be to
improve the performance of
British Industry in turning
developments irt high technology
into products.
Professor Lehman is to take
up the currently vacant position
of P r o f e s s o r o f S o f t w a r e
Engineering.
God Against Porn
boo* no rt
8fll lo vbu
fcOOW to VI
Twenty-seven students picketei
Mines Review on Friday night
The picket was organised by the
Catholic Society, the Methodist
Society and the West London
Chaplaincy as a protest against
what they saw as the exploitation
of women.
People taking part in the picket
1 met first in the Civil Engineering
building at 7:30pm. There they
made placards and discussed
tactics for the protest. The
protestors then moved to the
walkway, where they lined up
against the J C R wall.
Many of the people entering
the JCR talked with the pickets.
Most of the exchanges were light
hearted and cordial. Unfor-
tunately two of the people
Page 4 • • H H I H H n i
entering the review exposed
themselves to the picket.
In comparison with last year
the picket was a low key event.
There was no sign of the large
police presence of last year. In
addition to this, none of the
union sabbaticals were present.
However all were within easy
reach of the picket.
A n R S M U spokesman stated
afterwards that five hundred
people had attended the review.
He suggested that the reason for
this high attendance was the
publicity generated by the picket.
However several of the pickets
said that they had seen people
turn back when they saw the
picket.
niq a q&l nwoti imq i;
b69 qf.)squ-jTjqi;tj:
liw gbrtirn IUO (lit
,901) at lBfl! srtttUvn9vs
Refectory prices will rise by 3% next term, despite protests by student
representatives. The decision was announced by D r Simon Perry,
refectory committee chairman, during last Thursday's refectory
committee meeting.
In recent yeaVs, retectory prices have been linked to the Financial
Times shopping basket index, an indication of the amount of money
an average housewife spends on food each week. Over the last twelve
months the index has risen by about 7%. Since food costs account for
about 45% of the price of a refectory meal, College officials have
decided that a 3% price rise is required.
Earlier this year the Union agreed to a price rise of 2%%
and a formal dinner price rise of 53
/4% as aresult of wage rises. The aim
of this was that prices for students should not go up by more than 4%,
the student grant increase. College now say that a further 3% rise for
one term wi'1
mean that students will have payed less in total than had
they been faced with a 4% rise at the start of the year.
The Union feel, though, that the current system for assessing when
price rises are needed is irrelevant and illogical. In their view the price
of food purchased for a university catering operation cannot be linked
directly to the price an average housewife pays for her shopping.
The Union believe that a better system, based on the new
computerised accounting system that M r Mooney is trying to install,
could be used.
The index used to gauge inflation is not the only thing that the Union
objects to, though. In their view the price rise is not necessary because
of improvements in efficiency that have taken place. The Union
believes that the savings made over the last few years have not been
passed on to consumers.
One example of such savings is a large purchase of pre-cooked meals ,
made recently. These meals were sold to College cheaply, to dispose of
a discontinued range. However the only price cut that has been
promised by Mr Mooney, so far, is 15p off the priceof chicken curry in
the Union Bar.
The most recent argument about refectory prices is part of a broader
argument about the financing of refectories. The Refectory
Subcommittee chairmen, including Union sabbatical officers and a
member of the academic staff have been continually pressing the
College refectory system to produce more useful financial
information. In past years no information relevant to individual bar
and refectory outlets has been available. Without such information it
is difficult to imagine how College have been able to make informed
management decisions with the refectory system. In the most recent
argumentative discussion, I C U Deputy President, Christine Teller
asked what the objectives of the refectory system were. At present,
College appear to be uncertain as to whether each refectory and bar
outlet should function on a breakeven basis, whether the overall
college catering should break even or whether the bars should
>
Anti-porn demonstrators outside the JCR.
Wednesday. March 21. 1984 b n N B M H n B B i I FELIX

