Y I H E a V Y I I Q I E
E O R T L I N E T H E A T R E
- Set in those halcyon days of the late 1920s
where for the upper-crust, life was a heady
mixture of tennis, and bright young things,
'Mr Cinders is a light-hearted musical
comedy. The Cinders of the piece is Jim, the
despised 'poor relative' of the Lancasters,
who drudges for them in return for his keep.
His luck changes when he falls in love with a
millionaire's daughter, disguised as a house-
maid in the establishment. Meanwhile he has
to contend with the Lancasters: Aunt
Agatha, stout snobbish termagant who'
henpecks her pleasant, but ineffectual,
husband, and Jim's cousins—the odiously
smug Lumley, and the twittish Guy. There
are several twists and turns in the plot,
including a fancy-dress ball, a jewel robbery
and various thwarted romances; but in the
time-honoured manner, all ends happily.
The period atmosphere is one of this
musical's more engaging features. It was
revived last year at the Kings Head Theatre
and is now enjoying a successful run at the
Fortune. The play was first performed in
1929, however some of the humour has not
aged well, but otherwise its setting is
welcome escapism. Touches of the 20s
include the ensemble number ' O n With
Dance' where the cast perform a brisk
Charleston, with nice precision. The songs
are generally good with the snappy rhythms
of the period, though are sometimes
inadequately supported by weak singing.
Perhaps the best, if certainly the best-known,
is 'Spread a Little Happiness' which has been
popularised by the rock artist Sting in recent
years.
Lonnie Donegan makes a a splendid M r
Cinders, if somewhat over-mature at first
sight (is love this blind?), bringing a finely-
judged warmth and humour to the part.
Christina Mathews as his partner, has a pert
charm and a clear true voice.
In conclusion M r Cinders is worth seeing if
you like this type of show, and can bear the
odd old joke and occasionally uneven pace.
Point to note: Don't go to matinees, unless
either you like children or are prepared to put
up with the sound of little mouths munching
peanuts and singing along with Lonnie
Donegan, during the performance.
"Loving Couples?-It takes all sorts.
Christina Mathews and Dennis
Lawson in 'Mr Cinders' (right) Tom Bell
and Lynn Farleigh in 'The Man Who Fell
in Love with his Wife' (far right).
FELIX
Rents by Michael Wilcox at the Lyric
Theatre, Hammersmith.
A play of raw wit and humour, Rents
provides a sympathetic insight into the lives
and loves of a homosexual couple in
Edinburgh. Phil, the elder of the pair and the
dominant partner is a drama student; while
Robert, a support-seeking 18 year old who
works as an assistant in a local boutique. To
supplement their meagre income, they resort
to pilfering goods and acting as part-time
'rent-boys' or male prostitutes.
Despite their infidelities and open
promiscuity, theirs is a relationship of mutual
dependence if not of trust. They share their
cheap bedsitter contentedly, until Phi! casts
his attentions on to Richard, a visit, ig college
lecturer from Newcastle. When he is invited
back to the flat, his influence, and the
insecurity and suspicions of the pair, start to
split the couple up.
Michael Wilcox's play never judges, but
only reveals, the sometimes sordid reality of
this Edinburgh sub-culture. Realism is added
by a street-plan in the program, detailing the
various locations, and a backdrop silhouette
of Edinburgh itself.
Simply and effectively staged, the lighting
is cleverly used to highlight characters, or
centres of action. A few chairs make a cafe,
then with the addition of a bed, the flat itself.
Some people might feel the subject matter, or
its physical and verbal explicitness in
presentation, inherently distasteful; but it
would be a shame to avoid this multi-faceted
play for these reasons.
The Lyric Theatre Hammersmith offers
excellent value for students, with tickets
costingly only £1.50 for Saturday matinees
and bookable in advance. Highly convenient
for all Hamlet Gdns dwellers too, being only a
ten minute walk away.
Claire Moss
Wednesday, March 21, 1984
The Man Who Fell In Love With His Wife
by Ted Whitehead at the Lyric Studio.
This new version of Ted Whitehead's
television drama 'Sweet Nothings' stems
trom an original idea from about three years
ago. Since then it has been 'extensively
rewritten' for the small studio below the
Lyric's main theatre.
The production centres around Tom
Fearnon's relationship with his wife, Mary.
An underloved and thereby intensely jealous
man, Fearnon hounds his wife in an attempt
to uncover an affair between her and a male
work colleague, which he is convinced is
taking place. The inevitable separation which
follows drives Fearnon towards a nervous
b r e a k d o w n . C o u p l e d with financial
difficulties due to his inability to hold his job,
he is impelled to seek psychiatric help, which
in turn, leads to a reunion with his wife.
As a play adapted from the small screen to
the stage it is surprisingly undynamic.
Separation and divorce are two well hacked
themes in television drama and it is difficult to
create an impact on a screen-dulled audience
unless the two parties actually come to
blows. Although it has been reworked
specially for the stage, the production still has
its former air about it, but its intensity is lost.
This is unfortunate because the well designed
set and the physical size of the Lyric Studio
allows a high level of intimacy between
audience and actors. All the cast have much
experience in T V work, and all are fairly
familiar faces, although Anna Lindup's
performance of the couple's daughter is
perhaps a little too well acted in the light of
her objective role in Whitehead's play.
The show runs until 24 March. Those who
saw the original version for television three
years ago are unlikely to find any differences
in the reworked stage play other than
cosmetic changes. But if you have not yet
seen the production, then I can recommend
it as an involved if perhaps uninspired look at
the problems of middle aged marriage.
John Burgess
B ^ H M M H H ^ H a ^ H H n R Page 8

