FF.LIX 5
POOH'S CO*1M£ft
Refectory prices : The
Cynics are Defeatists
In my article on refectories two weeks ago ("The
Refectory Price Syndrome: Trust is needed"), I suggested
tentative proposals which, if endorsed by the College
and the Students Union in a spirit of unprecedented
cooperation, might ease the refectory price escalation
(not "solve the refectory economic crisis at a stroke"
as one 'silly billy' (if you'll forgive the pun) put it)
and improve the quality ot the meals and the service
available in the refectories, especially Southside. I
sketched out a rough embryo of an idea declaring that
it would still need to be developed by both the College
and the Union officials if it were to emerge as a
mutually viable proposition.
I am pleased to record the groundswelI of support
for the idea amongst not only IC students (-some of
those who approached me were total strangers) but
also the College refectory staff, the Bar staff and
the highest echelons of the College administration.
I further stated "Doubtless smug little cynics ...
will point out the difficulties." Mr Peter Teague and
Mr Bill Gerrard (see FELIX last week) have clearly
identified themselves as such. Frankly, I am sickened
by their defeatism'.
Mr Gerrard s ambitious "repudiation" is a mochery
of fact when he says "Mr Teague put the basic idea
Mr Williams was suggesting to these people last
summer! V This is just not true'. Did Mr Teague at
that time offer to campaign to fill the refectories if
the College kept the prices down? No. Therein lies the
vital difference. Mr Teague and the other leaders of
this Union have the power to do this because they
enjoy the grass-roots support of this Union. It is
therefore almost the ultimate carrot to dangle in front
of the College. It's an excellent bargaining standpoint
and I wonder if Peter realised this when he discussed
the matter with the College last summer; I wonder if he
realises this now. After all, in order to negotiate
successfully one has to have something of value, to offer.
It is up to the Union's leadership to recognise that
it does have something to bargain with.
As for Mr Gerrard's idealogical objections, I am
unable to endorse his philosphical pretensions. When
the whole of the education sector is under financial
attack from the government, I believe that it is
inappropriate to look at Imperial College as an Us v.
Them (ie Union v. College) kind of confrontation.
"College provides the refectory service, so it's up
to them to solve its problems" - this is an attitude
I cannot support. The NUS is telling Student Unions to
stand together with local Trade Unions so that they (the
Student Unions) will be able to apply greater pressure
to the Colleges and Universities. Has anyone ever
thought of standing together with the Colleges and
Universities themselves. For that is exactly what I
believe this Union should be doing. Often in the past
(take Norm Sayles" year as President, for example)
the Union has approached the College practically cap
in hand asking for this, that and the other. More often
than not, College has coughed up the goods. So isn't
it about time that this Union began to show its
appreciation just a little, instead of spiking it with
nails and recklessly perpetuating the refectory
account loss?
Sorry, Mr Gerrard. I'm unconvinced. I must however
applaud the fact that you are prepared to air your
views explicitly and foster discussion on this
controversial issue.
Mr Teague on the other hand appears to have
adopted a disappointingly low profile on the subject.
I am glad to see that he does not want the refectories
to be closed. Pity he cannot recognise that he is
accelerating things to that situation. We appear
to agree that the first obstacle is the quality of food.
Fair enough. But just because Mr Mooney refuses to
admit that there is room for improvement in Southside
meals does not surely mean the end of the matter. I
I believe that this Union is entitled to expect from its
elected leadership some determination and a measure
of negotiating ability. This Union should not have to
tolerate .such morbidity as "Well I'm sorry, but Mr
Mooney refuses to admit that the food served in South-
side is below par, so there's little we can really do."
That is just shying away at the first fence because
if looks a little high. If Mr Teague could convince the
Rector that Southside food is substandard, do you
believe that Mr Mooney would stick to his story? Try
it and see.
When one of the refectories does close, it will be
principally IC students who will suffer as well as
the associated refectory staff who will lose their
jobs. Today's defeatists will turn to the College, say
"It is your fault for making excessive price increases"
and waggle their fingers at Mr Mooney. tie in turn will
face this Union and say "It's your own fault for
pinching my customers. You have succeeded in making
staff redundant and seriously inconveniencing your
own Union members." Give it some thought. Write and
tell FELIX what you think.
And as for JJ Stuart of Maths 1, write on!
MIKE WILLIAMS
Mutters
Arising
The Haldane Library and
the Union
D i d you know that the
Union supplies the cash for
the buying of " f i l e under
popular" records and fictional
recreational books? Y o u did
not — oh dear! Well we do and
so the moral of the story is —
if you want a particular piece
of p l a s t i c , fill in the request
form which is available in
the Library. That is the only
way that our book and record
buyers can find out what
you want.
Xmas Hall Dinner
T h i s mad extravaganza
w i l l take place on Tuesday
9th December. It is a D J
affair and for a mere £2.55,
a five course special can be
yours. Forms are available
form J e n or Pat in the Union
office and it is first come
first serve! Oh y e s ! Y o u w i l l
be limited to nine guests, s o
try not to bring the whole
family along; just your
father's side.
Floor reps
There is a certain motley
crew who are supposed to
represent the views of the
Floor at C o u n c i l , U G M ' s e t c .
T h i s ooes not mean that they
represent the maintenance
department, but that if any o j
" o r d i n a r y " (horrible word)
members feel that something
should be d i s c u s s e d , the
Floor rep, having no specified
field o l responsibility, should
be the person to raise that
topic w i t h . They can then
take it further if necessary.
T h i s year's elite are:-
UGM
T h i s takes place next
Thursday and our delegates to
NUS conference must be
elected at this meeting.
Motions going to conference,
e s p e c i a l l y those with amend-
ments tabled by IC a l s o
have to be d i s c u s s e d .
Assuming that- I can stagger
through the rest of R a g Week,
I hope that I w i l l see you at
the U G M — either that, or send
me a wreath.
John
T O U C H S T O N E
Can we afford our
Architectural Heritage?
Guest speaker:
R.W. McDowall
on the
29th and 30th November
at
Silwood Park.
Those interested In going
please forward your name
to M i s s Hilary Burgess in
Sherfield 546B. Int. 4180.

