Feature
The Phoenix Arises
The fires have burnt long and low but in the
shadows of the dark side of the dust smotes a fiery
form becomes apparent. Yes, at last, a summer late,
someone has lit a barbeque and the veggieburgers are
grilling nicely. In the meantime Phoenix, the Arts
Magazine of Imperial College, has come out too...
This Monday the college will be 'swamped' by 1000 fiery Phoenices. That
our arts magazine is limited to one copy per seven students may seem
unfair but quantity is rarely a constituent of Quality. The few artistic
souls who have added to this years issue have all produced decent work -
occasionally remarkably so - and the randomly selected snippets here
only hint at what's on offer. Check out a copy for the big picture.
We, as editors, tried to bring the word 'Art' back to the fore and to a
degree I think we've succeeded. Our theme (that of the mythical birds
life-cycle) revealed some interesting angles to submitted work and in the
main I think our textual experiments were worthwhile. Having gone on to
edit a weekly publication not a F E L I X throw away from here, I can verify
that the annual sister experience is a much mellower one. And somehow
more satisfying, in that one can always delude oneself into believing that
maybe a few people will keep a copy of Phoenix around with them, that it
isn't completely disposable. For this reason, Phoenix is available (to
those darlings desperate to ensure they own one of those 1000 issues) from
the F E L I X office today, Friday. General release is Monday morning.
"They're below the average s i z e ,
she said.
"You're b e a u t i f u l . "
she said.
"Not so bad y o u r s e l f "
she said,
but looked at the f l o o r .
We took out our lenses.
(page 12)
Meet the editors! All contributors and other interested parties come to the
FELIX office at 8pm Monday night to discuss and backslap before going on to
the bar. In addition, anyone interested in editing the next issue, due out this
spring, should talk to Owain or jon in FELIX with all haste.
Owain Bennallack & jon, Phoenix Editors, 1993-1994.
D e a t k •-ides a block <Sat]illac,
TRegal os a funeral p a r a d e .
B u t tkaf's only tke r*efu>*n journey fot* our* beloved/
jDeatk knows fkat fke funeral convoy is only a mockefy of ifs O a d i l l a c ,
W e c a n only carry fke body/
W K e r e a s if a l r e a d y kos fke soul/
I have lost my religion.
Sometimes I think that this is aU
just the road to hell, that - for
what I've done - hell has to be
much, much worse. This is the
road to damnation, to eternal
damnation. Our slogans, of
course, say differently. We do all
this for god and love, according to
them, to protect our children and
crush the heathens. But Milo's
side probably say the same thing.
(page SO)
Misuse it
waste it,
shuffling in
the dark with
yourpoems
prints and
prose (all
poor, all
doomed not
to die but to
be forgotten)
and pretend it
makes you
special and
pretend you
really care...
(editorial)
L o c k e d up \v\ tke black boot of its C a d i l l a c
(page 29)
Eventually the dream of heaven started to fold, as the teaching
disintegrated into myth and the apparent necessities of life took
over. The new enlightenment he sought lay within debauchery, in
the joys of inebriation and drifting stupor. He had found his drugs,
and they were ones of debasement rather than ascension. He
spent his time in semiconscious talk and gropings, of half
remembered pleasures in the sickened dawn.
(page 8)
"Oh, gross!" he said, "There are bodies in here!". "Yes of course," one of
the others said, "I'd forgotten about those - I remember pictures of them
in books at school now, bodies now fossilised by the hot ash." Both the
others had arrived and were looking between the thin vertical bars at an
irregularly arranged room full of the petrified citizens of Pompeii. Most of
them were lying, or curled up; in tense, desperate, agonised positions. The
friends all found them a little disturbing, and felt guilty at the invasion.
(page 30)
I8DOU01
! F E L I X H

