Feature
It used to be T luv mum' on your arm and a stud in your ear but today tattoos
and heavy metals are beyond convention.^S ^checks out the drills and spills
"You can pick your friends, you can pick
your nose, but you can't pick your friends'
nose" or so says Andy Dickson to each of his
customers. Unless, of course, you are Andy in
which case picking other people's noses is a
regular part of the working day. And judging
by the queues outside his door it's a pretty
lucrative business.
Down in the basement of Kensington
Market, a whine reminiscent of a dentist's
drill greets the innocent punter. But here
the group of anxiety ridden clients seem
to be restricted to the young and
beautiful... the day may be long but it
is certainly never dull.
Apparently imagination is
always worse than reality (going by
that eerie whine it would have to
be) and the first five minutes are
the worst. The pain and the ritual
are part of the culture of the
thing. "Anyone can buy a T-shirt,
you've got to be brave to have a
tattoo". As the vibrant image of a
cobra wound itself around a
client's left breast she could only
agree.
From 10am until 6pm
Andy and John realise the
designs dreamed up by endless
customers. As they say, the only
limits are the size of your wallet
and the depth of your
imagination. This is for life, and
it's definitely a cult thing. Like
doctors, they see parts of bodies
every day, and work is work. On
the other hand, women are urged
to ask for Andy Dickson -
something to do with size and age
(his, as compared with John's).
Our Andy supplies tattoos,
studs, rings and barbs. And some
great statistics. At a going rate of £60 a
time, the pair pierce two or three
penises each week, and (at just £30) ten
clitorises. Price differences are, of course,
affected only by level of difficulty and have
nothing whatsoever to do with personal
preferences. Navels and noses (for a quality
body piercing ring) set you back only £25. A
simple stud in the nose costs a fiver. Ex-client
(regular) now girlfriend, Jeannette, wears a
ring through her nipple during the day and a
barb for evenings of fun. She assures us it
doesn't hurt.
Tattoo prices range (rapidly) upwards
from £20. Arm bands for example are a
minimum £100, and take anything from two
to five hours. My temptation, a florescent
tattoo, will remain in my imagination as only
one out of the 2000 tattooists in Great Britain
is prepared to do one. Florescents have a
nasty carcinogenic habit.
Whiter based skin results in brighter
colours, black is more effective on black
skin. Bottoms are tougher (because the skin
has to bend here) whereas arm skin is
suppler and thus less costly to adorn.
Anything under the trouser line is £5
more. Whether this too is gender
specific is yours to discover. The best
jobs are done in one sitting, so deep
imaginations and wallets may also
require far reaching depths of
patience.
On the other hand, many a
daring client may find there is
rather more pleasure in this thing
than may have been expected...
From the client who
handcuffed herself to the chair and
refused to leave 'unsatisfied' to the
woman who howled with pleasure
like a dog, these men are not short
of offers. Andy tells, smiling, the
story of a client with a bird
tattooed Tow on her groin', who
returned an hour later to declare
"that was the most wonderful
sexual experience 1 have ever had in
my life, I had to go home and
change my knickers." Similarly
there are those that simply jump up
and strip off all remaining apparel.
Among the most memorable is
the 50 year old banker from a highly
influential bank, whose name I cannot
reveal, who now bears a grotesque
women in bondage gear emblazoned on
his stomach.
Both guys are adamant, "Nothing
phases us anymore, we've seen it all".
Perhaps this will serve as some defence
against the tattoo groupies that travel the
world to visit and bed famous tattooists, or
the rather unusual parties they get invited to
as a result of certain piercings.
1 feel it is time to disconnect the images
of fat and bearded bikers from that of the
local tattooist.
IC men - this is your summer job.

