Feature
The Imperial College Twilight Zone
There are paranormal forces at work in
Imperial College! No, I'm not talking about
the staff. I mean The Unexplained (my
lecture notes?).
Let's start with my door. Strange forces
are at work. If I wrench my door open and put
a large heavy bin in the way, do you think it
stays open? Remember, this is a Hall door.
Okay, logical progression - what do y'think
happens if I need to close my door? If I've
somehow managed to pick a sexy young male
(what, at IC?) and want a bit of privacy, does
the door stay shut? That's asking T O O
MUCH, isn't it? These forces extend to the
kitchen, where the Laws of Hall-Physics state
that an oven (or fridge) door is always open
when you want it to be closed, and vice versa.
Ovens also have the alarming habit of turning
themselves off. You walk in starving after a
particularly nasty lecture, switch on the oven
- with a note on it saying "please do not turn
this oven o f f - and what happens? After
finally managing to persuade the fridge door
to open and staggering back with some food,
you find the oven you were trying to preheat
is stone cold. No-one turned it off - it just
happened.
A new life force has evolved in our
kitchen sink. The biologists have concluded
that it is a new sentient rapidly breeding form
u n i o n
M I on
of rice. Leave just one grain of this in the sink
overnight, and by the next morning the
plughole will be blocked. Something as
simple as washing-up water? No - every
single person in hall who has ever cooked rice
claims that they tip their left-over rice into
the bin before commencing the washing-up.
So where is it coming from?
"Chaos theory says the flap of a
butterfly's wing in Miami could
cause a whirlwind over Japan.
Well, if this is true, God alone
knows what the whirlpool in our
bath could do..."
Consider now some thermodynamics -
the central heating. If you are going out for
the day, never ever leave your room without
opening the window first. Otherwise you will
return from a hard day's shopping/night's
drinking only to find that you have crossed
over into another dimension and have become
entrapped in the Sahara desert.
You have to be careful just stepping
into the bathroom. Chaos theory says the flap
of a butterfly's wing in Miami could cause a
whirlwind over Japan. Well, if this is true,
God alone knows what the whirlpool in our
bath could do. World, beware!
And there's more. Hall is haunted - it
must be. Why else would you step into a
descending lift, only to go up to a level where
no-one is waiting, then back to the start
where the lift doors jam open as the lift fills
with a sudden chill? The only rational
explanation is that the lift stopped to collect
the ghosts of some students from the top
floor. Even more worrying is the number of
times someone has run to answer a ringing
phone, only to discover that THERE IS NO-
ONE ON T H E O T H E R END! Must be a
warning from the spirit world...
Scariest of all, though, has to be the fact
that anything brought into the hall from
outside suddenly picks up the habits of the
things already here. Sainsbury's appears to be
a fairly normal place. Food from Sainsbury's
appears to be safe - yet, bring it back to hall,
put it in the fridge, and it develops Hall
Habits. Food spontaneously moves around
and has even been known to vanish
completely, reappearing a few days later. The
mind boggles.
If you have observed any similar,
shocking occurrences, send them to Astro,
care of F E L I X . WE DEMAND TO KNOW
THE TRUTH!
Hieet:ing
ing
to be held Today, 1:00pm.
Venue: Union Lounge, Union Building, Beit Quad.
This will include the second reading of the new constitution, disCUSS
Friday night entrance fees to the Union and any motions
given to the president beforehand.
all welcome
I
8
I
1
0
U
9
4 FELIX MM

