Xtra Curricular
who: Japan Soc
What: Bounenkai
Keys: Party, Endurance, Food
» - For all you who haven't heard about
I • or experienced a Bounenkai, let me
j l^jr% enlighten you. It is an end-of-year
party, of which there are many in
/ | » Japan. They are a great opportunity
I I ". for Japanese business people to
throw off the burden of their hard
. regimented jobs at the end of the
_>^j»» year and have a good time. Well all
^ us hard working students here have
nearly struggled through our first
term, and definitely need a break, so what
better way to do so than to have a great party
- in the name of culture.
First in the culture stakes, we will be
having traditional Japanese food (included in
the ticket price - vegetarian option available).
Then there is the Endurance game - a chance
to prove just how tough you really are. Don't
worry, no one died last year. Then there is
Neruton, a Japanese form of dating game - no
Cilia Black, not blind, not (very) embarrass-
ing and a lot of fun.
As well as these, there will be other
games, and a disco till very late. Everybody is
welcome, not just Japan Society members. It
is only £5.00 for members, £6.00 for non-
members and it will be held on Saturday the
3rd of December from 6.30pm in the Union
Lounge. Tickets should be bought as soon as
possible, so we can order enough food. They
are available from any Jap-Soc committee
member and will be on sale will be on sale in
the JCR at lunch times.
For more information contact Shingo Potier,
Mech-Eng II pigeon holes, email sjpp@ic.ac.uk,
or telephone 0171-373 3893.
who: Boardsailing
What: Weekend trip to Clacton
Keys: Essex, Beer, Windy
Imperial College Boardsailing Club organised
this year's first weekend trip from the 28th to
the 30th of October. The weather forecast for
those days was wet but windy, so we managed
to persuade 15 people to come along.
On Friday afternoon we packed the van
with boards, sails, masts, other equipment
and of course our own belongings (beer). We
then left for Clacton-on-Sea, Essex, with high
hopes, especially regarding the Essex
University boat house where we were going
to sleep (or rather - spend the night) during
the weekend, thanks to their hospitality.
Dinner consisted mainly of beer, fish and
Surfing: IC Surfers go to Essex to explore their talents with Boardsailing and women
chips, and at this point we were prepared for
what would be a major event in the weekend.
As we expected, there were quite a lot more
girls at Essex Union than at IC, although
some people were disappointed by their
looks. We all danced until the disco was over
and some like Jim, Will or Alaric gained what
I should call 'close friends'.
Saturday was entirely dedicated to sail-
ing. The temperature was low, but around
mid-day we had some decent wind. It was a
good chance to try our new boards and sails.
That night we had chilli for dinner, after
which some left for the pub, some for a night-
club and some simply stayed in.
We all woke up late and tired on Sunday
morning, but didn't prevent us from sailing.
We had the strongest wind of the whole
weekend, and it even felt a little warmer! The
beginners had a good opportunity to improve
their skills, whereas the more experienced
ones were just speeding along. When it got
dark, we packed the van and returned home
with a big smile in our faces. It had been a
great sailing weekend.
If you feel interested and want to try
windsurfing, just come to our weekly meeting
at Southside upper lounge, on Tuesday's at
1.00pm.
who: Overseas
What: 6-a-Side Football
Keys: Hyde, Islamic, French
Recently, the Pakistani Society furthered its
reputation as a cosmopolitan society by
organising a football tournament between
other social groups. In particular, Faraz
Khan, our sports representative coordinated
with other sports officers to such an extent
that a total of 6 teams took part, and that
included two from the Pakistan Society itself.
The other four were the French, Sri Lankan,
Indian and Islamic societies.
The first round occurred on Wednesday
26th October. The six teams were split into
two pools with each society playing the other
two societies in their respective pools once.
The top two teams from each pool qualified
for the semi-finals. From pool A the Islamic
and French societies qualified. The French
society more than proved their worth by
thrashing the Pakistan B team 8-0! From
pool B the Indian and Pakistan A team were
successful. These four contenders were given
a week's respite after which they reconvened
in Hyde Park for a final showdown.
A tough battle ensued between the
French and Pakistan teams. At the end of full
time the score was two all with a late equalis-
er coming from the French. This forced the
games into extra-time in which the French
blasted through our defence to end the game
5-3.
In the other semi-final, the Indian team
was caught napping in the first half and paid
dearly for it with the Islamic Society team
hammering in three goals. A controversial
second half followed in which the Indian
team failed to match the might of the Islamic
team but nevertheless scored two exciting
goals. This left the finalists to be the powerful
Islamic Society team and the determined
French players.
The final was fast-paced with much
innovative play and action. The defence of
both teams in the first half was impenetrable
but early in the second half the Islamic boys
broke the dead-lock. This must have dis-
heartened the French greatly as they came
back like a team on fire. Their war-like cries
MM FELIX mum

