2J2JShop
Photocopying at your service
Open
12.00pm until 2.00pm
Our new photocopying arrangements should suit you!
We now have a staff member available for two hours a
day to smooth along all things copyable.
Copy We are able to offer guiloteening, full
assistance and a 'pick up later' service to all card-
equipped copyists for two hours each lunchtime.
(Copying outside of these hours self-service only).
is located in the F E L I X office, in the north-west corner
of Beit Quad. Photocopy cards are available from your
MSC chair/treasurer or private cards can be bought
Cash only from F E L I X .
Rates: A3 1 Op
A4(<100) 5p
A4 (<300) 4p
A4 (>300) 3.5p
Coloured paper at no
X-tra cost. Bulk prices
refer to copies of one
original...
Close Quarter
Combat
Wing Chun Kung Fu
By Renowned Kung Fu
Teacher Sifu Andrew Sofos.
"The art of war is of vital importance to the state. It is a
matter of life and death, a road either to safety or to ruin.
Hence it is a subject of inquiry which can on no account
be neglected."
Sun Tzu 500 BC
"Don't neglect this marvellous opportunity for you to
learn a practical and highly treasured martial art. Surely
you life is worth more than £2.50 per lesson."
Sifu A. Sofos 1994 A D
For further information come
to classes at the union gym:
Wed 1.30-3.30pm
Fri 4.30-6.30pm or call 081 885 4126
Join the Table-Tennis Club!
Practise session and further details:
Wednesday, 23rd ofNovember, Concert Hall,
Level 2, Union Building, 1.00pm.
Membership £3.00 for the year.
Contact:
Charles Whatling Mech. Eng. 1
The Wing Chun Boxing
Academy
A decade of History at IC
Over the past 10 years we have done more
than just teach self defence and martial arts.
We pride ourselves in using our extraordinary
/%&!f^ skills to help the less fortunate people in li
"J Through our charity work performed here in
the Union Gym we have had, the Lord Mayor
of London, the Mayor of Westminster and the Mayor of
Haringay attend and witness breathtaking feats and
raising thousands of pounds for charity. Celebrities and
VIP's have also walked the grounds of IC. Such to the
extent that master Sifu Sofos was awarded "progress
with humanity" by the Mayor of Haringay.
We have encouraged the growth of Scholarly work
with our endless efforts to get students more aware,
confident, and set a realistic approach in tackling their
exams. We have also helped students through way of
counselling how to deal with emotional upheaval and
depression.
We have instructed "women self defence courses" free
to students of IC, which again is in the pipeline. Look
out for further details. Why not join a winning team,
with a reputation of great spirit. We will endeavour to
find you the road to spiritual enlightenment through
the motions of Sofos Wing Chun. Kung Fu.
For further details come to classes at the Union Gym
Wed 1.30-3.30pm
Fri 4.30-6.30pm or call 081 885 4126

