The S-Files
°Boundanes
°Darling buds of I
D
a
y
°6od in the machine
Crossing the great divide
CROSS DRESSING
SPRING IS HERE
BIRTH O F C H A O S
This week the S-Files investigates interdisciplinary boundaries in sci-
ence - and the consequences of crossing X over. We focus on one sci-
entist [Robert dlay] who has successfully broken the mould and helped
found a new science.
In the past, science has been deterministic. It was thought that a set of lin-
ear rules would eventually lead us to understand the world [a°b»eureha]. Science was
straightforward, rigidly divided into disparate disciplines. Now, science trail blazers
cross interdisciplinary boundaries and investigate non-linearity in subjects from
economics to epidemiology. New disciplines in science are erupting [chaos, complexity
and artificial life] on the strength of these changes, and their practitioners have a diverse
set of backgrounds. Chaos is one such discipline.
Robert (
T
l
a
y
FRS, Trustee of
Natural History
Museum & Kew
Gardens, Editor
of the journal
'Nature'.
Crossing oner?
"I started as a
Chemical Engineer at Sydney University and
became a professor in the Physics depart-
ment. I gave a seminar at Imperial College
[Silujood Park], and met lots of biologists
there. They had formulated lots of interest-
ing ecological questions...what's the relation
between diversity and stability, what's the
limits to niche-overlap and competitive simi-
larity? Many of these questions were formu-
lated in analytical hard°SCience terms but
they lacked people with the background to
solve them. So by accident I blundered into
Ecology. Pure accident, no design, at a time
when it was ripe for someone like myself."
Hard us soft science?
I'm in an unusually good position to talk
about hard°soft science, having
had a complete career in
both.
I think these dichotomies are
by and large nonsense. They are artifacts in
the minds of people who usually don't know
what they're talking about. Training in
Physics teaches you to see the world as a
complicated place but with underlying sim-
plicities. You try and identify the complicat-
ed situation and ask "What are the things I
think are really important?". You express
that with precision, which usually means a
mathematical model, then you test it against
the world to see if your original assumptions
were right. There's a great deal of soft science
in Physics, a great deal of hard science in
Biology. What I've done in Ecology is no dif-
ferent from what I did in Physics: making
mathematical metaphors to see where they
lead me"
hyperef
03 James Gleick: science writer &
editor, wrote Pulitzer Prize nominee
'Chaos: Making a New Science'.
\>) S-Files Winners (-:/
Congratulations Paul de Cort. your plug and play potato wins this week's competition. You
win a copy of "The Internet Golden Directory" (Donated by ICU Bookstore). Special com-
mendation goes to the 'emasculator' and an artfully inscribed, obviously defunct keyboard.
Competition
In this week's fabulous competition we are giving away an extraordinary bit of computer
hardware. Decorated with our exclusive 'S-Files' logo, it is a practical and stylish addition
to any office or lab. The first person who wants the keyboard, can have it.
M Credits Cditor-:NatashaLoder [isthatohGran?] Guru l.oieuj:Tim°Tash admf= Hilary Thanksdlarh
When the 'butterfly effect' was discovered, long
range weather forecasting was doomed. Small per-
turbations in a non-linear system such as the
atmosphere can multiply to have a huge overall
effect; so a butterfly flying in Asia could cause a storm over
Chicago. The implications of this effect weren't realised until a
crucial paper was discovered by James Vorke, who coined the
term ChaOS.
Meanwhile, Robert ITIay was working on simple popu-
lation models. An infamous story (recounted in Gleich S book
£0) is that, intrigued by the effects of a growth parameter
(lambda) on his model, he wrote the problem on a corridor
blackboard for graduate students. "What the Christ happens uihen
lambda gets bigger than the point of accumulation?", when the non-
linear parameter (lambda) was low, his model settled to equilib-
rium, while increasing lambda made the model oscillate
between two values. These 'bifurcation sequences' continued to
double as lambda increased, until a critical point - the point of
accumulation - when the final system was maddeningly unpre-
dictable. May was stumped. He offered $10 to anyone who
could figure it out.
"Nobody ever got the ten dollars. In 1973 I went to Maryland
to give a seminar about population dynamics. I said 'I under-
stand this (the bifurcations) but I don't understand what happens
after the point of accumulation...'. James Vorke was in the audience
and he had not understood the bifurcation sequences but he said "I
know what happens next". Between us, we had the complete picture
and we began to realise how extraordinarily important its implications
were. Gradually we became aware of S or 6 other people who had
known of the mathematical phenomenon, none of them with the
slightest sense of what it all meant. As Jim Yorke was fond ofsaying,
'we weren'tthefirst todiscoverchaos, we werethelast"
May's most important contribution was his 'messian-
ic' Nature paper, in which he urged that chaos should be
taught as part of standard scientific education. Try as we might,
we can't boil the world down to a set of linear equations.
"The world mould be a better place if all
students mere given a pocket calculator and
encouraged to play with nonlinear equations"
1
8
1
1
0
1
1
9
1 F E L I X HI

