ARTS Editor: Arianna Sorba
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 FRIDAY 28 SEPT
Arianna Sorba
Arts Editor
5 POSTERS FOR YOUR BEDROOM WALL
1. Chinese Girl
Now one of the most popular art
prints of all time, the original Chinese
Girl recently sold for almost £1 million
in a London auction. It was painted
in 1950 by Russian artist Vladimir
Tretchikoﬀ after he spotted the model
for the painting in a laundrette.
he quirky contrast between the
girl’s blue skin, red lips and gold
collar, combined with that fabulous
hair, mean the painting has come to
embody the 1950s kitsch aesthetic.
In fact it’s so iconic that if you
look carefully you can ﬁnd it in the
background throughout popular
culture, from Father Ted to Monty
Python to a David Bowie music video.
2. Tennis Girl
Popular for perhaps a slightly diﬀerent
reason, Tennis Girl started life as a
calendar published for the Queen’s
Silver Jubilee in 1977. But it soon went
the 1970s equivalent of viral, and sold
over 2 million copies across the world.
It’s not just the impeccable timing
of this photograph that makes it so
successful. It’s very intelligently com-
posed, with the afternoon sun beauti-
fully framing the girl in a halo of light,
cutting her ﬁgure dramatically against
the soft greenery of the background.
here are, after all, plenty of posters
going around that have a bum in them.
Not all of them have stood the test of
time quite like this one.
3. Lord Kitchener Wants
You
Lord Kitchener, or to give him his full
name, Field Marshal Horatio Herbert
Kitchener the 1st Earl Kitchener, was
the British Secretary of State for War
during World War One. And he want-
ed you.
And with that moustache, who could
dare say no? he image, originally
gracing the cover of the inﬂuential
London Opinion magazine, became
one of the most iconic posters of all
time when it was used extensively -
and successfully - to recruit millions
of volunteers to ‘Kitchener’s Army’.
he boldness and simplicity of the
image, with that terrifying pointing
ﬁnger, have since spawned countless
imitations.
4. Campbellʼs Soup Can
Andy Warhol produced his set of
32 Campbell’s Soup Cans prints in
1962, at the very birth of the Pop Art
movement. Displayed together, the
32 images are identical save for the
ﬂavour– but it is apparently widely
known that his favourite was tomato.
he mechanised printing method
used for production and the
banal subject matter meant many
contemporary critics said that it
wasn’t even art, let alone good art.
But, 50 years later, people are still
talking about the clean lines, striking
imagery and cultural symbolism
of Warhol’s work. So he must have
done something right. (Can you spot
another version of Campbell’s Soup
Can on this page? If so, you win ﬁve
points and an air of smugness. -Ed.)
5. Nighthawks
Painted in New York in 1942, Nighthawks is a real beauty of an Edward Hopper
painting, and easily one of his most famous pieces of work.
he contrast between the murky gloom of the street and the harsh light
inside makes the picture ooze a kind of mysterious, melancholy atmosphere.
Eerie shadows are cast onto the pavement by the same unnatural light that also
illuminates the lonely ﬁgures inside the diner. here’s a sense of isolation in the
picture, as all three guests seem to be lost in their own thoughts, but there’s also
a sense of quiet dignity in their stillness.
And the worst poster for your bedroom wall? KEEP CALM AND [insert
something stupid here]. Just no.
Arianna’s Offers
National heatre “Entry Pass”
Membership for 16-25 year olds
that gets you £5 tickets to all their
productions, access to exclusive
workshops and events, as well as
the usual discounts in the shops
and cafes
Royal Opera House “Student
Standby”
Students can sign up to gain access
to any unsold opera and ballet
tickets a few days before the event
for just £10, as well as advanced
booking periods for every single
performance
Check out these sweet deals from
world-renowned dance and theatre
venues that can get you cheaper
tickets, better seats and more. Sign
up for free! More to come next
week!

