11
FRIDAY 28 SEPT
ARTS
@feliximperial
facebook.com/FelixImperial
Fred Fyles investigates the new Designers in Residence
W
hat makes us
who we are? he
answers that
i m m e d i a t e l y
spring to mind
are personal, intimate inﬂuences -
our parents and siblings, friends and
teachers; but there is one unlikely
ﬁgure that has a profound and almost
invisible impact on our lives - the
Designer. From the clothes we wear
to the cars we drive and the websites
we visit, the designer has an enormous
role in forging our individual identity.
It is this theme, one of ‘identity’,
which has formed the basis of the
Design Museum’s Designers in
Residence programme. Running
since 2008, each year the programme
selects four up-and-coming
designers, exhibiting their work and
exploring what design means to us.
Perhaps the most direct link
between designers and identity
is found in the realm of product
design. How things are made, and
how we interact with them, helps
to form a sense of both individual
and national identity. his idea of
interaction has been explored in the
work of Eunhee Jo who, after studying
in her native Seoul, completed
part of her Design Engineering
Masters at Imperial College.
For the residency, Jo designed a
speaker system and lighting array that
examine what the future of product
identity may be. Rather than use the
glass and steel that seem to be the
prescribed vision of the future, she
has researched the use of fabrics as a
form of technological interface. he
lights and the front of the speaker,
for example, are both covered with
a soft fabric that responds to tactile
inﬂuences – intuitive gestures such as
swiping back or forth allow the user
to change songs, lower the volume,
or illuminate the lights. Jo has spoken
about the idea of ‘emotional design’
in her work, and the fabric allows
another level of interaction with the
product, creating a bond between the
object and the consumer. “I imagined
the vision of the future to be very
organic”, says Jo of her work. “he
fabric I use in this project is more
like skin”. With current developments
in smart textiles, it seems that this
vision of the future may not be far oﬀ.
While designers have a strong
inﬂuence in our lives, the most
powerful inﬂuence on our identity
over the last ten years has undoubtedly
been the role of the internet in our
lives. With over 80% of households
in the country having access to the
internet, more people than ever before
are using it as their own personal
space, to express, confess, and emote.
In our ‘post-internet’ world, personal
identity is conﬂicted - we constantly
experience a relentlessly intense
barrage of information, making
it diﬃcult to know who we are.
Adam Nathaniel Furman, the
second designer in residence, was
born in 1982, placing him at the
forefront of the millennial generation,
and his multi-faceted work identiﬁes
what it is like to be a young person
in today’s world. Alongside a collage
ﬁlm that bombards the viewer with
images, videos, and sounds, Furman
has created a ﬁctitious character who
blogs about the anxiety of modern life.
hese themes lead to his main work –
a series of colourful, complex ceramic
vases, produced using 3D printers.
Bulbous or angular, colourful or
monochrome, these vases display the
wide range of inﬂuences that can be
found through the internet, and reﬂect
the culture-mashing that has been
brought on through globalisation.
Everything in Furman’s work - the
blog, the video, and the designs for
the vases - exist in a digital format,
reinforcingtheroletechnologyplaysin
forging our identity, and the shift away
from handicraft in modern design.
While Furman’s pieces focus on
what it means to emote and connect
across the world, there is a dark
underbelly to the internet that is not
mentioned; everything we do on the
internet, every click and every ‘like’,
can be converted into valuable market
data. In this way our internet identity is
mined by multinational corporations,
who can then deliver targeted
advertisements straight to our screen.
homas hwaites’ work explores
this idea, but ﬂips it on its head and
adds a delicious lick of black humour.
He has created a series of theoretical
products that monitor our lives,
and guide us towards better choices.
Named Nabu - after the Babylonian
god of wisdom and writing - the key
piece in the collection is a wireless
router that connects permanently
into a household’s devices, gathering
data to form an idea of their identities.
After a few weeks it begins to
place restrictions on the internet
and television, forcing people to
avoid what Nabu decrees to be ‘bad
decisions’ - a bit like Richard haler’s
‘Nudge heory’, taken to the extreme.
he instruction manual for Nabu
emphasises the centrality the icon-
like router should play in life, forming
wicked parallels between the internet,
religion, and government control. Two
other pieces further this idea - a purse
controlled by Nabu that prevents
reckless spending, and a pair of
boots that recommend ‘pilgrimages’,
helping the wearer become a better
person. While these devices may
seem outlandish, hwaites’ work
forces the viewer to question how
we make decisions, and whether free
will truly exists in the Internet Age.
While these three projects are
resolutely looking towards to future,
Chloe Meineck’s work takes a diﬀerent
direction, instead going back in the
past. For the residency she developed
a ‘Music Memory Box’, which
links personal objects to sounds,
creating multi-faceted memories.
Meineck is particularly interested in
using the device with Alzheimer’s
patients - since many studies suggest
that memories of music remain
unimpaired in those with the disease,
the box can become a form of therapy
for the patient, their carers, and their
family. he work uses Radio Frequency
Identiﬁcation (RFID) technology
linked to MP3 ﬁles to transform
memories into something tangible.
Meineck hopes that the box could
play an important role in helping
the family to cope with the eﬀects
of the disease; “for their families
there is a sense of capturing as
much as possible”, she says. “As the
dementia gets worse the ownership
changes, and the family members
start owning the box”. his work
shows that, although most modern
technology seems to be continuing
its unstoppable march of progress
towards the future, there will always
be a role for reﬂecting on the past.
As the world becomes more and
more connected, and we are assaulted
with more and more information,
it becomes harder to keep track of
personal and national identities.
he designer tries to make sense of
this confusing world, condensing
the unstable miasma of modern
culture into something tangible,
something permanent. he four
designers displayed at the Design
Museum are paragons of this idea
of the ‘new designer’, and it is ideas
such as theirs that help maintain our
identity in this post-internet society.
An Eye for An Identity?
THE DESIGN MUSEUM
What: Designers in Residence 2013
Exhibition
Where: The Design Museum, London
When: 4th Sept 2013 – 12th Jan 2014
Price: £10.75 Adults, £6.50 students
THE DESIGN MUSEUM THE DESIGN MUSEUM THE DESIGN MUSEUM
Adam Nathanial Furman
Produces ceramic vases using 3D
printers. Examines the identity of
young people in today’s world.
Eunhee Jo
Designed a speaker system made
with a fabric touch interface.
Inﬂuenced by emotional design.
Thomas Thwaites
Created “Nabu” - An intelligent
internet router that tracks and
censors web traﬃc.
Chloe Meineck
he Music Memory Box links
objects to sounds. Aids the
families of Alzheimer’s suﬀerrers.

