MUSIC
Editor: Simon Hunter,
Riaz Agahi, Stuart
Masson, William
Stocker
music.felix@gmail.com
12 FRIDAY 28 SEPT
The Felix Music guide to London
Four of t
Gig Venues
Plastic People
Situated below a Vietnamese restaurant,
just oﬀ Old Street, Plastic People is a
tiny club that is dark and claustrophobic.
Speakers hidden in the walls ﬁll the space
with impeccable sound. he club has just
undergone refurbishment so should be
brand spanking, not that you’ll notice
though; it’s too dark. Expect nights encom-
passing disco, house and twisted techno.
Oh, and dress to sweat.
Coronet
If you like your club nights huge then the
Coronet is a good place to start. Situ-
ated in the heart of Elephant and Castle
the Coronet is an ex-cinema that still has
many of its 1920’s Art-Deco features. Due
to its size the Coronet attracts big names;
both bands and DJs. Grab a bunch of
mates, book a night and at 5am when the
music stops you’ll wonder where all the
time went.
XOYO
Located just oﬀ the big Old Street rounda-
bout, XOYO in Shoreditch is deﬁnitely
worth the trip east from South Ken for a
big weekend night. Split over two ﬂoors,
the main room is down in the basement
with the more chilled out second room
and (very cramped) smoking area on the
entrance level. Nights vary from live indie
bands to monthly raves hosted by Bugged
Out! and EYOE. he only downside is the
often long queues coupled with the over
touchy bouncers, but once inside you’re
sure to have a good one.
Corsica Studios
With the entrance through a small door
under the railway arches just minutes’ walk
from Elephant and Castle Underground
station, Corsica Studios is a small club
with a huge personality. Inside there’s the
main bar, 2 nice size rooms with a great
sound and a decent sized outdoor area all
interconnected with a maze of white brick
walls. he crowd is always friendly, drinks
are reasonably priced and entrance rarely
goes above £10, meaning if you want a big
night with great music without breaking
the bank this is the place to go.
Clubs
Café Oto
Café Oto is the jewel in the crown of
London’s experimental scene. Time and
again it has proved worth a 40 minute trip
to Dalston. his is in no small part due to
its civilized atmosphere, where good gig
etiquette is the rule rather than the excep-
tion. More notable, though is its reputation
for presenting the upper crust of unknown
artists as well as momentous collabora-
tions and residencies from some of the
biggest names in free jazz and experimen-
tal music.
Birthdays
Although a bar which I’ve heard has
recently entered the burger serving scene,
the basement makes for a rather ominous
gig venue. I remember my ﬁrst experi-
ence there; walking down into the dimly lit
basement to be enveloped by a pulsating
wall of sound. In a way the venue lends
itself to this, representing how live music
was meant to be: intimate, cramped,
sweaty, intense and thoroughly enjoyable.
Union Chapel
Union Chapel is a fully operational church
in Islington. It is a gig going experience like
no other. Instead of a can of lukewarm Red
Stripe you can have a ﬂapjack and choose
from a selection of speciality teas. Instead
of standing for hours waiting for the bands
to start you sit in pews. In keeping with the
environment they tend to have fairly folky
or downbeat music and it’s the perfect ven-
ue for such acts. So when your favourite
folk singer comes to Union Chapel, don’t
think twice about grabbing a ticket!
Old Blue Last
he Old Blue Last is the place to be seen.
Located in Shoreditch, this pub / live ven-
ue hosts the best in up and coming bands
along with some more esoteric favourites!
hey’ve played host to Arctic Monkeys,
Foals and Hot Chip before they hit the big
time. You’ll be able to ﬁnd the freshest new
acts in everything from hardcore punk
to indie pop. here’s something new and
exciting on almost every single night. Best
of all, the majority of gigs are free!
Riaz
Masson
Stocke
music.felix@gmail.c

