13
FRIDAY 28 SEPT
MUSIC
@feliximperial
facebook.com/FelixMusic
nʼs best music venues and shops
the Best
Deviation
Last year Deviation, the club night headed
by Radio 1 DJ Benji B, moved from its
small weekday night slot to XOYO. he
night runs on the ﬁrst Friday of every
month and in the past has showcased
some of the best DJs and producers from
London and around the world, including
Jackmaster, Jamie XX, Mala and Actress.
While the night usually focuses heavily on
the bass-centred house and techno, up-
stairs there’s also usually some grime being
laid down to get stupid to.
Club Nights
Floating Points Residency
A neuroscience PhD student by day,
Floating Points hosts a residency at Plastic
People every last Saturday of the month.
he man has exceptional taste and crate-
digging skills, ﬁlling the club with rare
Brazilian beats and undiscovered disco
gems. Every now and again Floating Points
enlists guest DJs to add a further twist to
the night. Past guests include DJ Food and
Marcellus Pittman.
OneMore
OneMore is a relatively new and excit-
ing underground event held in the now
disused Hearn street car park and more
recently at the Scala. Combining the best
underground DJs around with sell out
crowds of ‘old school ravers’, OneMore is
a monthly night with an atmosphere and
lineup like no other. If you’re looking for a
night in an unconventional setting coupled
with a high quality sound with a truly pas-
sionate following then look no further.
White Heat
White Heat is a weekly club night held on
a Tuesday night at Madame JoJo’s in Soho.
here’s usually a couple of great bands
playing in the early evening and then the
resident DJs take over. Playing a mixture of
alternative electro, hip-hop and indie it’s
inately danceable and it’s hard not to have
fun. If you’re struggling to enjoy yourself,
then there’s some impressive drinks deals
(I’m talking £1 tequila shots) that will cer-
tainly help! here’s also a sister night at the
Lexington on a Friday called White Light.
Phonica
Phonica is conveniently located in Soho’s
Poland Street. Just about the perfect place
to go when it comes to recent releases in
electronic music, providing great and often
rare records. he selection manages to
strike possibly the best balance of quality
and quantity in London and probably best
of all, is that the shop has turntables with
headphones set up to allow previewing of
the records, perfect for those vinyl only
editions.
Honest Jon’s
Honest Jon’s is both a label, which has re-
leased the likes of London-based badman
Actress, as well as one of London’s best
record stores. he shop, located on Porto-
bello Road, is best known for its amazing
selection of jazz, with quality recs from
the knowledgeable staﬀ, but has a solid
electronic range in addition to some real
gems of experimentalism and obscurity in
the ‘Oddities’ box.
Rough Trade East
Rough Trade East is an independent
record store just oﬀ Brick Lane. At 5,000
square feet it’s pretty massive by independ-
ent standards, so it’s possible to waste
(or lose) hours browsing. here’s a great
selection of indie, post-punk and alt rock,
with smaller specialist sections ranging to
doom metal and post-hardcore. here’s a
great selection of vinyl and a fair trade café
if you need a break from browsing! hey
also have lots of free release shows, with
65daysofstatic, Local Natives and Savages
having played in recent months.
Music & Video Exchange
Music & Video Exchange is exactly that.
You can sell unwanted CDs and records
to them, but, perhaps more excitingly,
you can pick up second hand goods at
ludicrously cheap prices to restock your
collection! here’s a large quantity of shit,
but if you’ve got the patience then you
can uncover some absolute gems at good
prices. With branches in Notting Hill,
Soho and Greenwich, you’re always close
to the world’s greatest bargain bin!
Record Stores

