BOOKS
Editor: Maciej
Matuszewski, Eva
Rosenthal
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
14 FRIDAY 28 SEPT
The Science Fiction, Fantasy and Gothic Horror Society present their fa
Your Autumn Genre Literature P
A man chosen by his ability to walk bow-legged is dropped into
an alien world. he strange inhabitants are ruled by a dictatorial
government, which tightly controls all information. And they are
at war with the human race. Mowry’s mission is simple: be as
annoying as possible.
Not so easy, when the fearsome secret police are after him, or
at least the grassroots terrorist organization he’s fabricated. But
Mowry, like a wasp, can cause disproportionate trouble for his
size. Mowry makes criminal contacts, steals documents, and
etches extremist anti-government slogans on buildings. All the
time maintaining his disguise of another species.
InWasp,youstepintoMowry’sshoesandseeeverythingthrough
his eyes. You can’t help but root for him. his is a narrower focus
of interplanetary war than most sci-ﬁ I’ve come across, but no less
thrilling for it.
hough this book was published in 1957, and the Cold War
themes of spies and torture cells are strong, this book seems very
relevant to today. Wasp thumbs the nose at censors and security-
conscious states. One man wreaking havoc across a country
appears ridiculous and the contrast between Mowry and his
shadowy opponents, whose administration is crumbling under its
own paranoia, is hilarious.
his book is fast paced. When taking breaks I had to exhale
and wait for my pulse to stop racing before trying anything that
required focus.
Fans of hard sci-ﬁ might be disappointed. here is little very
modern technology and at some points it feels like Mowry could
have been dropped into Nazi Germany or 50s Soviet Union. here
are typewriters. However, the alien phrases and names throughout
maintain the feel of the exotic. his is a book not to be missed.
Rosemary Ware
Harry Dresden is the only Wizard in the Phonebook. Probably
more importantly, in Jim Butchers Dresden File series, he is also
one of many real Wizards (though the others tend not to advertise
it). he series, now more than a dozen books long and starting
with Storm Front, tracks his progress as a Private Investigator of
the paranormal and a slowly maturing Wizard of some power,
though little ﬁnesse. Without giving too much away they’re great
fun short reads for anyone that enjoys a little Urban Fantasy; the
vampires are more interesting than Buﬀy’s let alone Twilight’s
sparkly buggers, the faeries are just hilariously conniving and
Harry’s sarcastic, Star Wars quoting, humour manages not to get
old despite never really growing up.
Don’t go in expecting too many surprises at the structure though;
Harry is going to get beaten up, repeatedly and increasingly
severely until he’s an angry walking zombie (not literally, though
there are those too) of a man that just wants to get through the
trouble, rescue the girl and sleep for a few weeks. Despite this
slightly predictable nature, the books always grab me and I ﬁnd
myself sadistically wanting to watch Harry struggle through
with ever more ridiculous injuries and enjoying the entertaining
characters that surround him. Some of these are shamelessly
stereotypical, for instance Harry, who it turns out is not highly
regarded in Wizarding circles – in part due to his chequered
past – himself freely admits to being a bit old-fashioned when it
comes to women (but then if you’re a wizard and anathema to all
modern technology you’re allowed to be a little unenlightened on
some things right?). One of the main recurring characters Karrin
Murphy is a diminutive Chicago cop with a black belt and an
attitude. Oh, and Harry has a literal faery godmother… which as it
turns out isn’t generally a blessing.
Anyway, I’d highly recommend it as something fairly light but
massively engaging.
Alex Savell
At ﬁrst glance he Prestige doesn’t seem like a science ﬁction
story. Indeed, most of it isn’t. But the story of two stage magicians
battling to out do each other in a lifelong rivalry at the turn of
the twentieth century, as turned in to a ﬁlm by Christopher Nolan
in 2006, is a wonderful tale of stage magic, illusions, unreliable
narrators and Nikola Tesla. Tesla!
Unlike the ﬁlm, the novel has a section set in contemporary
England, with the descendants of the two magicians meeting and
trying to piece together the events of a century ago. his serves as
a framing device for the story of the magicians, and also provides
a climax for the book as a whole. he magicians in question
are Alfred Borden and Rupert Angier, and their stories are told
through the notebook of the former, written many years after most
of the events in it, and the diary of the latter, charting his life in a
more direct, in-the-moment way. he two accounts of their lives
are given one after the other, making you check back to see the
ﬁrst’s account of an incident the second describes, and wonder
which version is closer to the truth. Although, of course, the lesson
the book tries to teach you is that neither narrator can be trusted
fully.
he science ﬁction in the story is very muted, only appearing
near the end. And although it’s something very far away from the
realm of possibility, it feels very grounded and real. Knowing the
man Tesla was, really would it be too surprising to ﬁnd out he’d
invented a technology we don’t even have today? hat said, the
ﬁnal scene of the book in the modern day does go a bit far. he
technology Tesla invented is used at the end in a way that makes
little sense in the context of the world previously established. And
whilst it does lead to a chilling ﬁnal image, it is rather silly.
Overall though, a good read. he style is very believable – the
author has put thought in to how a notebook and a diary of those
sorts would read. Anyone who enjoyed the ﬁlm will love the book,
and at a light 350 (or so) pages, it’s perfect for devouring in a
couple of afternoons.
Tom Rivlin

