15
FRIDAY 28 SEPT
BOOKS
@feliximperial
facebook.com/FelixImperial
avourite books from their library
Picks
Are you a seasoned veteran of the fantasy genre? Do you want
to feel really confused even though you’re more than half-way
through the book? Do you want more characters than there are
equations in your heavily theoretical dissertation? Are you crazy?
If the answer to any of these is “yes” then pick up the ﬁrst book
in Steven Erikson’s Malazan Book of the Fallen series, Gardens
of the Moon.
It takes some time to get into Gardens of the Moon, mainly
due to Erikson’s way of exposing the story (which is throwing
you straight into the deep end and giving you very little help). It
was only when I got to part two of the book that I really started
to appreciate the characters. here’s Kruppe the consummate
idiot who’s simultaneously the smartest guy in the book; there’s
Whiskeyjack who just wants a peaceful life away from the
ﬁghting; there are the immortal Ascendants with their power
games.
Whilst the setting of the book is based far from reality as we
know it, and despite the inﬁnitude of sentient species, Gardens
of the Moon and the books that follow are really quite human
in nature. Strip away the magic and the complexity and what’s
left is a story of human suﬀering, the futility of war and quite a
touching story of loyalty and friendship.
he great thing about the Malazan series is that it’s already
complete. Unfortunately, it’s ten books long and each book
makes War and Peace seem like an easy read. However, if, like
me, you get a kick out of overcoming the challenge of reading a
series that has more words in it than atoms in the universe, then
you’ve picked the right book.
Meera Patel
Neil Gaiman’s latest novel for adults has already, quite rightly,
received a great deal of praise. The book follows a young boy
growing up in a large house in the country with his sister
and their parents. However, when the suicide of their lodger
awakens an ancient and dangerous spirit he must find help
from the Hempstock family who live down the lane and are far
more than what they appear to be.
While this may seem to be a rather standard and simple
premise the novel, as might be expected from Gaiman’s
previous work, goes far deeper. Told in first person and drawing
heavily from the author’s own memories of growing up this is
a highly personal work exploring how children perceive the
world around them. Juxtaposed with the simple rural setting is
Gaiman’s well known fascination with myths and legends. These
more fantastical elements are masterfully used to emphasise
both the feelings of wonder and helplessness the protagonist, as
all children, feels when faced with the world around him. The
author is careful never to explain too much – leaving us with
the same feeling of wonder and strangeness. As in most good
books we are left with more questions than answers.
This is a very short novel but not a word is wasted. Gaiman is
a master of both style and narrative. The prose instantly draws
you into the story and envelopes you with a incredible feeling
of magical and melancholy nostalgia. This is an amazing book
– one that you’ll almost certainly want to read in one sitting.
Maciej Matuszewski
One of Banks’ stand-alone science ﬁction works, this is a novel
of many facets. Set in the isolated but heavily colonised hrial
solar system the book follows Sharrow – an aristocrat and former
commander of a military ﬁghter squadron. Faced with a vendetta
by a militant religious order known as the Huhsz, she gathers up
her former war buddies to ﬁnd the only artefact that will appease
the Hushz’s anger – the deadly and mysterious Lazy Gun.
he ﬁrst part of the book, as Sharrow and her friends scour
the solar system for clues to the location of the Lazy Gun, has
a wonderful feel of adventure to it – which has, in recent years,
unfortunately become less and less common in science ﬁction
works. he novel’s premise gave Banks full reign to exercise both
his imagination and writing skill. As the story progresses we
encounter more and more strange and wonderful cultures and
settings – such a city built solely on abandoned naval vessels, a
planet almost entirely covered with a gigantic plant, or a millennia
old castle inhabited by an order of monks forever chained to its
walls. However, Banks’ main skill was making all these settings feel
believable and ﬁt together into a consistent picture.
Indeed, soon the novel begins to paint a detailed and powerful
picture of a complex yet decadent and near stagnant society. At the
same, thanks to Banks’ well known mastery of characterisation, we
get to explore how this society impacts on our protagonists – and
how they impact on it. his interplay between the two leads to the
more serious consideration of themes such as loss, the corrupting
inﬂuence of power and the helpless that even the powerful feel
when faced with a massive and complex universe. One could
describe this novel almost as a character study – but one in which
in which the characters include not only our protagonists but the
very setting itself.
his is a unique book – at times light and action ﬁlled, at times
darker and more thoughtful – but always highly engaging. Even
amongst Banks’ many other highly acclaimed novels, this stands
out as one of the best.
Maciej Matuszewski
Find all of these, as well as 9000 other
books, 2000 DVDs and 500 graphic novels,
in the Science Fiction, Fantasy and Gothic
Horror Society’s very own library. Located
in the West Basement of the Beit Building
it is open every weekday during term time
from noon to 2pm, and often in the eve-
nings. Check out icsf.org.uk for more infor-
mation. We hope to see you there!

