TELEVISION Editor: John Park
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
16 FRIDAY 28 SEPT
Long live The White Queen? Not quite
John Park Television Editor
The White Queen
Laughed at and ridiculed for its as-
tonishing amount of historical inac-
curacies, BBC’s expensive produc-
tion of The White Queen, based on
a series of historical fiction novels
written by Philippa Gregory came to
a close on Sunday 18th August, with
a swift cancellation notice from its
network, which isn’t all that surpris-
ing since a) this cost an absolute for-
tune and a heck of a long time to put
together, b) the ratings and recep-
tion were hardly something to boast
about, and c) for the most part the
main stories were concluded satisfy-
ingly with no loose ends left behind.
What once looked and sounded
so promising at the start became
dishevelled and downright dull in
the period of ten weeks. There is so
much to cover it seems, in this 10-
part mini-series that the show often
finds itself warping through time,
only keeping the audience in check
with time-stamps at the bottom of
the screen. It powers through the
significant historical events, ticking
away at the boxes
The Lancaster and York fami-
lies are at war for the control of the
English throne. When the mad King
HenryVIoftheLancasterfamilyfalls
and Edward IV (Max “son of Jeremy”
Irons) of York takes over the throne,
it’s more challenging than ever to
have absolute power over the coun-
try. There are hidden plots at every
corner, and in the day and age where
yourownfamilymemberiswillingto
betray you for more money and au-
thority, it’s clear that you can trust no
one. Thus putting matters into fur-
ther turmoil is the fact that Edward
IV has not one, but two brothers:
George (David Oakes) and Richard
(Aneurin Barnard), both with goals
and ambition of their own, which is
neveragoodsignwhentryingtorule
a peaceful kingdom.
King Edward IV’s impulsive mar-
riage to Elizabeth Woodville (Rebec-
caFerguson,quitetherisingstar),lat-
er dubbed The White Queen (their
courtship starts with attempted rape
and later ends up as true love), is not
a popular one. They’re from oppos-
ing families, plus there’s a rumour
going around that Elizabeth and her
motherJacquetta(JanetMcTeer)fre-
quently practice witchcraft.
The sudden rise in ranks of Eliza-
bethWoodvilleisnottakenlightlyby
Richard Neville the Earl of Warwick
(James Frain), known as the King-
maker, for his instrumental role in
helpingEdwardIVsecurethecrown.
Betrayalssoonfollow,andalsotossed
into this deadly ring of scheming and
treachery are his two young daugh-
ters, Isabel (Eleanor Tomlinson) and
Anne Neville (Faye Marsay) who are
bound to be pawns in their father’s
viciuos games.
But wait, that’s not all (still with me
so far?). Praying and praying for her
son’s rightful claim to the throne is
Margaret Beaufort (Amanda Hale),
mother of Henry Tudor, a God-
fearing, devout Catholic lady who is
single-handedly trying to orchestrate
her son’s victory. Further messing
with your head is the addition of an-
other Margaret, this time Margaret
of Anjou (Veerle Baetens), the wife
of mad King Henry VI (remember
him?), now exiled to France, quietly
plotting a comeback with her young
son.
Even all that, doesn’t begin to cover
all the characters who eventually en-
ter the picture for the many, many
conflicts that ensue. Whereas Game
of Thrones had a way of making eve-
ryone stick to our mind, The White
Queen, despite some good perfor-
mances in the ensemble doesn’t
quite succeed. Everything moves at
such an awkward pace, sometimes
ploddingly, sometimes alarmingly
quickly, that it’s difficult to have a
firm grasp on who’s who until at least
quite a few episodes into the series.
It’s no doubt intriguing, once you
can take the time to wrap your head
around the setting and find yourself
deeply rooting for whichever charac-
ter for whatever reason. It might be
wise to brush up on your knowledge
on the War of the Roses to prevent
getting completely lost in this dense,
multiple story-arc costume drama.
Staying faithful to Gregory’s books,
a lot of the action takes place off the
screen,sodon’tgointothisexpecting
some grand battles or big sieges, be-
cause where the action lies is in con-
versations and plotting that happens
behind closed doors, inside cham-
bers, dark alleys and forests.
And with every episode richly
packed with facts and events, it is
clearly a historical drama wanting
to be taken seriously: a task compro-
mised due to its many startling and
quite frankly, embarrassing errors
and goofs. Zippers on clothes and
plastic clips may be easy to overlook,
but concrete steps and shiny metallic
poles are not. Looking squeaky clean
at every turn, the series’ general at-
mosphere fails to really capture the
look and ambiance of the era, and
the sugar-coated, tidied up produc-
tion doesn’t resonate.
But despite the errors, this blood-
less, sexless (a lot of the violent, racy
scenes were edited out for English
audiences since, you know, we’re all
prudes) show marches on, aware of
thefactthatithasplentyofstoriesleft
to tell. And the actors all do a decent
job, although the best ones (McTeer
and Frain especially) are sadly short-
lived and don’t last throughout the
series.
The series finds itself a neat point
to finish off on, and although there
are plenty more events that the show
could have focused on had there
been a renewal, BBC made the wise
decision to put this costly, confused
show out of its misery.
The White Queen is out on DVD

