FRESHERS’ PULLOUT
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
STUDY HABITS: A Definitive Guide
Shiladitya Ghosh talks about the techniques and myths of studying
Y
ou’re freshmen now.
No more school for you
– all grown up! (Yeah,
right. Still a teenager,
aren’t you?)
Ever since you got your school-
leaving grades and (congratulations!)
your Unconditionals, all everyone’s
been talking to you about is how to
prepare for the “big jump” from school
to University: what laptop/tablet/
Macbook you should buy, which self-
help book (wait, no one reads books
anymore–morelikelytobeaBuzzfeed
article) contains the best tips you need
for strategically managing your time,
how to most eﬀectively customise
your Spotify ‘studying’ playlist, which
energy drinks you should get used to,
what are the best “alternative’ sleeping
cycles that might work for you, and so
on.
However, all this clamouring about
details doesn’t necessarily lead to a
successful studying strategy – indeed,
it can even backﬁre. People can work
themselves up and feel so daunted by
the seemingly-immense prospect of
college studies that they unthinkingly
go with the ﬂow and throw money
around in an attempt to embrace tips,
tricks, and gimmicks – anything that
they’re told will give them an edge.
However, during your time here, you
will see that people religiously sticking
with these techniques, even when
they aren’t working so well, will be
killed oﬀ by George R. R. Martin, start
falling by the wayside and struggle
in the crunch period building up to
Summer Finals. So, Felix shall attempt
to disillusion you and clear up any
misconceptions you might have about
the art of studying at Imperial before
it’s too late.
While studying in the College
Library with your peers is known
to have undoubted positive eﬀects,
it isn’t for everyone. Furthermore,
sitting with a latte in Starbucks with
your iPod and lecture notes before
you is inevitably going to result in
you fruitlessly doodling on the fruits
of your free printing credit and
Instaspamming people about how
you’re getting no work done. Which
they knew 2 hours ago when you
frolicked oﬀ.
So, the other option besides not
studying at all, is to try to study in your
room.
How to make it work:
- Be blessed [citation needed] with a
single room in Halls
-Haveself-controlregardinginternet
usage – including Snapchatting
- Set a good personal deadline to
ﬁnish your assignment i.e. if you
expect to do the 3 assigned questions
in an hour, aim to do it in 45 minutes
instead
- Keep communicating with other
studious people working on the same
assignment, to pace yourself/have
some troubleshooters handy
How to watch it all go up in smoke:
- Have a roommate (they may be
well-meaning but they are a fount of
opportunities for distraction)
- Have leftover chores causing
mental anxiety – like cooking dinner,
or doing your laundry, oh wait you still
haven’t cooked dinner yet, but now
it’s time to iron your clothes!! Maybe
you’ll just copy the tutorial answers
tomorrow morning.
- Have a TV/gaming rig in your
room (…just one more match on
FIFA, I promise…)
he average student boasts about
how many all-nighters s/he’s pulled.
he better student boasts about how
few all-nighters s/he’s pulled. While
Imperial is notorious for working you
harder than most other places, and
practice makes perfect, what you’re
studying isn’t rocket science (okay,
tough luck, Aero Eng. crew), but it
can’t be reliably mastered at 0430hrs
after you’ve chugged 3 cans of Red
Bull just to ﬁnish the introductory
question of your project report.
Eventually you will ﬁnd your
timetable to be scattered throughout
the day, with lectures and tutorials at
any random time between 9am-5pm,
and then clubs/societies meetings/
trainings anytime thereafter – in
which case, you may not even get
opportunities to have powernaps
after staying up late. And any peer
I’ve seen who’s taken the gamble of
powernapping at 11pm (to wake up at
2am and continue working) has failed
hilariously.
Some of you might fancy yourselves
to be night owls, which is great for
you, but unfortunately you do tend to
have lectures, tutorials, and exams in
the morning more often than not ->
having sleep deprivation wouldn’t be a
good start to the day.
Furthermore, deliverables (that’s
what projects and submissions that
are ‘counted’ tend to be called) are
generally due in the evenings, so you
may well ﬁnd yourself struggling
to be productive on a sleepy Friday
afternoon, rushing to complete and
turn in an assignment after all your
ineﬃcient late nights… unless you’re
adept at being productive while the
sun is out. Get some work done during
the day, folks.
Firstly, regarding laptops: it really
doesn’t matter if you use Windows
or Mac. Whatever you’re personally
more comfortable using, is the best
bet. Period.
Secondly, all you’ll really need is
a decent computer with a decent
internet connection (Long Live
Imperial-WPA/LAN!) to access your
lecture recordings (may/may not exist
yet, depending on your department),
Blackboard material, and lecture
notes/web resources.
Fancy-schmancy tablets, iPad
Minis, Galaxy Tabs, all have the odd
circumstantial perk but they aren’t
necessary in any way. Many ﬁnancially
less-well-oﬀ students do well without
them all around the world, and even
if they had the money, aﬄuence
wouldn’t necessarily help.
Good ol’ pen(cil) and paper, coupled
with aforementioned computer
(equipped with internet access) and a
handy printer (available in the College
Library and your Department), are
unbeatable.
You may have long-practised
absorbing academic information in
your headphone-generated enclave,
but according to recent scientiﬁc
studies, listening to music is little
diﬀerent from keeping your ears open
to white noise in your surroundings –
in fact, the regular changes in pitch,
tempo, timbre, voices etc. makes your
brain work harder to keep up with it
all (albeit subconsciously) in addition
to internalising the wisdom from the
textbook before you, thus draining you
of energy. You’re at Imperial; you’d do
well to trust science. (Disclaimer: one
of the studies referenced was done by
the University of Phoenix, so do take a
pinch of salt with this.)
From personal experience though, it
can help to be plugged in to an aural
landscape while doing project work
in the library for instance, as you
aren’t distracted by friends constantly
walking by or chatting (because you
can’t hear them), and when you’re
doing project work, it’s not so much
mental acrobatics you need to do
at this point (that should have been
done when you were working out how
to even do the project) as much as
strategizing,formatting,summarising,
and writing what you already know.
As you may have realized, all the
above is true to a certain extent and
applies more to some and less to
others. However, it is worth being
well-informed about how things can
go wrong before you have to learn the
hard way (by messing up your ﬁrst
year grades – it ain’t pretty to have to
see your batchmate have to leave the
college so early.)
Lastly, one of the only good ways
you can take a break from studying,
is by writing for Felix. Look at this
snazzy paper & pullout; wouldn’t you
want your name on it too?
#1: Studying Venue
#2: Studying Time
#3: Studying Gadgetry
#4: Studying Music
JOE LETTS
Felix needs you!
Want to join FELIX? Great! We need regular writers, section editors,
photographers, illustrators, copy editors and more! email me at
felix@imperial.ac.uk to get involved.
Trying to revise for Fluid Mechanics, but hey itʼll be ﬁne to doodle for a while right? Iʼm staying mentally active!
28 FRIDAY 28 SEPT

