TELEVISION Editor: John Park
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
32 FRIDAY 28 SEPT
Under the Dome Bates Motel The Bridge Hannibal Ray Donovan
The body count keeps going up and up
In a plot that combines elements of
Lost and The Simpson Movie, the
residentsofChester’sMillfindthem-
selvesenclosedinamysteriousdome
that appears out of the blue. Cut off
from the rest of the world by this
mysterious, indestructible structure
that encloses their town, it’s not long
before civilisation starts to shows its
cracks and disintegrate into chaos.
At the centre of it all is Dale “Bar-
bie” Barbara (Mike Vogel), a new-
comer to the town who is seen bury-
ing a body when we first meet him.
Journalist Julia Shumway (Rachelle
Lefevre) wants to know everything
that’s going on (kind of a must for
someone in her line of business), ra-
dio station workers Dodee (Jolene
Purdy) and Phil (Nicholas Strong)
are trying their best to make contact
with the outside world, Sheriff Linda
Esquivel (Natalie Martinez) is naïve,
Mayor Big Jim Rennie (Dean Nor-
ris) steps up to the position of power,
his son Junior (Alexander Koch) has
an unhealthy obsession with Angie
(Britt Robertson) who’s clearly not
that interested, whilst Angie’s broth-
er Joe (Colin Ford) and his friend
Norrie (Mackenzie Lintz) start hav-
ing sudden onset seizures. Weird.
Each character seems to have a
story to tell, and with an explosive
pilot episode the series seems to be
off to a flying start. But as the show
progresses there is a notable quality
drop, failing to keep up with the mo-
mentum its early episodes set, which
establishes a threatening, uneasy
mood, leaving the audience hungry
for more of what the dome and the
crumbling society will have to offer.
But by in large the dramatic ideas
still keep the suspense going, al-
though it’s now time for answers.
A modern reimagination of a much
beloved classic film (Psycho) is never
a good idea; but the creators have at
least done an admirable job of not
completely demolishing the original
material with their new tv series,
Bates Motel.
It takes a while for everything to
kick off and reach the more inter-
esting part of the season’s story arc.
Norma (Vera Farmiga - deservedly
nominated for an Emmy for her fan-
tastically brave performance) and
her son Norman (Freddie Highmore
- just as good) relocate to Oregon.
Having bought a motel, Norma
wishes to renovate the place, and
start a new chapter with her son,
leaving their horrific past behind
them. Enter Dylan, Norman’s half-
brother, and hello trouble.
The most intriguing narrative
strand here is the two distinctly dif-
ferent mother-son relationships
between the three characters: with
Norman+Norma there are subtle
hints the audience is shown that the
attachment these two share might
not be entirely appropriate. With
Dylan (Max Thieriot) on the other
hand, Norma is someone else, which
further highlights the strikingly
strangebondFarmigaandHighmore
so skillfully portray.
But it’s a shame the show decides
to leave this theme unattended for a
lot of the season’s episodes. More in-
terested in the close-knit surround-
ing townspeople and what they get
up to, the season seems to be going
somewhere when they introduce all
theseshadycharacters,butintheend
no big climax ever quite materialises.
It’s slow, but certainly worth it.
The light goes off and a body’s
dumped on the Bridge of Americas
that serves as a crossing between
El Paso, Texas, and Juarez, Chihua-
hua in Mexico. Immediately tak-
ing charge of the situation is Sonya
Cross (Diane Kruger), an El Paso
detective. But as she discovers more
details surrounding the case, the
more complicated everything gets,
for which she needs the help of Mar-
co Ruiz (Demián Bichir), a Mexican
detective.
You’ll never guess just how much
of a can of worms a single body can
open up. Buried evidence, unsolved
cases from the past, government
conspiracy, red herrings, a mighty
resourceful killer etc...the show
reaches far and for the most parts it
absolutelysucceedsinsellingthesto-
rywithcredibility,alotofitthanksto
its grounded leads.
Kruger’s Cross is a detective with
Asperger Syndrome, making normal
social interactions difficult for her.
She’s a stickler for rules, and has a
clearsenseofwhat’srightandwrong,
what’s legal and illegal. And the awk-
wardness she feels even with close
colleagues of hers is oddly touch-
ing, and her frequent bursts of blunt,
frank truths give room for laughter.
Mismatchedbutpartneredupwith
her anyway is Bichir’s Cruz, a more
easy-going, rule-bending man from
across the border - and it’s this bud-
dy-cop angle that works so well.
No character is squeaky clean, they
all have human imperfections, and
whilst the long-winded investigation
as well as the large cast take up a lot
ofepisodestofullygelasawhole,this
isafreshtakeonabuddy-copdrama.
Before Hannibal (a cool and suave
Mads Mikkelsen) met Clarice, there
was Will Graham (a brilliantly unsta-
ble Hugh Dancy), a story previously
covered in The Red Dragon, but
NBC’snewdramatakesalltheblood,
gore,andgutstoawholenewlevelof
graphic sadism in their remake.
Graham has the special gift/curse
of being able to very accurately rec-
reate a murder scene in the point of
view of the killer. It’s his skill to em-
pathise with, and truly understand
the nature of the vicious, dangerous
people out there committing hei-
nous crimes. Having an agent like
Will as a consultant is great news for
Jack Crawford (Laurence Fishburne)
of the FBI when hunting down the
most wanted men and women, but
every case takes a toll on Will’s own
sanity.
Concernedforhismentalwelfareis
his colleague Dr Alana Bloom (Caro-
line Dhavernas) and this is where
Hannibal Lecter comes in, a brilliant
psychiatrist asked to treat Will. Little
dotheyknowthatwhatLecterserves
up at his picture-perfect dinner par-
tiesis100%purehumanmeatcarved
up, seasoned, and cooked to culinary
excellence.
Thebrilliantlysuspensefulcat-and-
mouse game the two lead characters
play take some individual stand-
alone episodes to truly get going. But
with outstanding twists, turns and
downright horrific images, Hannibal
stands out from the rest, as a must-
see police drama, even if you have a
lowtolerancelevelforunpleasantim-
ages. Plus as a massive bonus there’s
Gillian Anderson making wonderful
special guest appearances.
“How does it feel c***s*****?” says
Mickey Donovan (Jon Voight, in his
mightiest presence with peculiar ec-
centricities), as he sticks a gun into
a priest’s mouth, firing it shortly af-
terwards. We just saw him released
from prison a minute ago, and yet it
seems he’s back to his old habits.
Soon after there’s another body.
This time a female. The man lying
next to her, a sports star now in a
flurry of panic, dials Ray Donovan
(an excellent, excellent Liev Schreib-
er). And boy did he call the right
person; for Ray is a professional fixer
for the rich and famous of sunshine
L.A. He’s the taller, bigger, more
brutal, white, male, cable version of
Olivia Pope in “Scandal”
. By “cable”
it means there’s more violence, more
sex, more drugs, more swearing.
Ray Donovan is a fascinatingly cru-
el, cynical family drama that packs
in all the familiar dark and twisted
events of late and creates convinc-
ing characters to play out such sce-
narios. It’s certainly a show that will
make you feel better about your own
family. What Donovan and his fam-
ily have to face on a daily basis ring
shockingly true to some of the top
headlines today.
What complicates Ray’s life further
is the unexpected early release of his
father Mickey, who he despises for
reasons unknown to the audience.
His wife Abby (remarkably fierce
Paula Malcomson) warms to Mick-
ey’s presence, not quite knowing the
full picture, since Ray’s the secretive
kind of guy who keeps everything
locked up.
Every narrative advancement is
perfectly judged and paced, with
rich, layered characters played by the
faultless cast - simply unmissable.
John Park reviews a few more summer television hits

