FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
34 FRIDAY 28 SEPT
57th BFI Londo
D
ear freshers, welcome to
London. And to those
returning, welcome back.
And what a way to kick
oﬀ the misery that is October with
British Film Institute’s (BFI) stunning
57th London Film Festival. With ﬁlms
that are sure to be contenders when it
comes to the big awards, the London
Film Festival has that rare appeal of
having a huge public presence. It’s
easy to score some tickets (although
the big gala screenings might be fully
sold out by now), so keep an eye out
for those screenings that will be shown
all across central London cinemas.
his year, London will be graced
with the presence of the legendary
Tom Hanks who is both opening
and closing the festival with his new
ﬁlms. Other key talents expected to
attend include Emma hompson, Judi
Dench, Sandra Bullock, Joel & Ethan
Coen, Carey Mulligan, Ralph Fiennes,
Joseph Gordon-Levitt, amongst many,
many more. So roll out the red carpets
and watch this space as Felix Film
attends various press screenings to
bring you the most up-to-date reviews
of ﬁlms from the Festival.
he Festival is also known for
helpfully classifying each participating
ﬁlm into diﬀerent themes: this year
consisting of Love, Debate, Dare,
Laugh, hrill, Cult, Journey, Sonic
and Family. So plenty for everyone to
choose from!
For more information regarding
tickets and venues, visit the festival
website bﬁ.org.uk/lﬀ or call 020 7928
3232. Good luck, have fun, and make
sure you send us your thoughts on
whatever ﬁlm you manage to watch -
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Directed by Paul Greengrass, a man who knows how to make expert thrillers
with budgets both big (The Bourne Supremacy, The Bourne Ultimatum) and
small (United 93), Tom Hanks plays the real-life American Captain Phillips
whose cargo ship was seized by Somalian pirates. What ensues is tense stand-
oﬀ, gut-wrenching survival drama, and a heart-thumping rescue mission that
may or may not go as planned. Watch as Hanks heroically stands oﬀ against the
villains and looks out for safety of his ship’s crew.
Ever wondered how ‘Mary Poppins’ the novel became Mary Poppins the hit
musical ﬁlm starring Julie Andrews, which won her the Best Actress Oscar? Walt
Disney (Tom Hanks) must negotiate and compromise wisely with the author of
the novel, P. L. Travers (Emma hompson) to bring her words to screen, by no
means an easy task as creative control over the published work proves diﬃcult.
Word is, the ﬁlm is full of wonderful performances, heartwarming insight, and
an entertaining behind-the-scenes story.
Opening Night Gala: Captain Phillips Closing Night Gala: Saving Mr Banks

