35
FRIDAY 28 SEPT
FILM
@feliximperial
facebook.com/FelixImperial
on Film Festival
Accenture Gala: 12 Years a Slave
Director Steve McQueen has had tremendous successes in the past with Hunger
and Shame and for his third feature he seems to have struck gold with his
unflinching, brutal, and powerful telling of the true story of Solomon Northup’s
harrowing life as a slave. Already a smash-hit at Toronto, Chiwetel Ejiofor’s
powerful leading performance has been praised, as well as McQueen’s frequent
collaborator Michael Fassbender’s chilling portrayal of a ruthless plantation
owner. Get your hopes up for this one.
American Express Gala: Philomena
Dame Judi Dench once again shows oﬀ her never-ending acting prowess in
Stephen Frears’ new witty, touching drama about the titular character (Dench)
looking for her long lost son she had to give up for adoption decades ago. Steve
Coogan provides support as a journalist helping her on her journey, and the two
strike up an unlikely friendship along the way. A ﬁlm that “breaks your heart and
then repairs it”, it’s no wonder the Weinstein brothers snatched this up to release
in time for the competitive Oscar race.
American Airlines Gala: Gravity
James Cameron was reportedly floored by the technical marvel of Alfonso
Cuaron’s new space drama, so it must be good. In his rave statement he
compliments the ﬁlm’s space photography as well as the human dimension in
which the ﬁlm creates “an absolutely seamless portrayal of a woman ﬁghting
for her life in zero gravity”. Matt Kowalsky (George Clooney) and Ryan Stone
(Sandra Bullock) are on a mission in space when a freak accident leaves them
stranded on limited oxygen. Will they survive?
Festival Gala: The Invisible Woman
Ralph Fiennes’ sophomore directorial eﬀort deals with the ﬁnal few years in
Charles Dickens’ (Fiennes) life, when he reportedly shacked up with a mistress
(Felicity Jones) young enough to be his daughter. Scandalous back during the
time of traditional values, their relationship had to be a secret which is why very
little is known of the actual relationship. But Fiennes bravely tackles the theme
with strong performances and a potent period mood to mesmerise and captivate
the audience.
Centrepiece Gala: Inside Llewyn Davis
Having already received quite the critical acclaim at this year’s Cannes Film
Festival, the Coen brothers’ new hit will be screened in London. A melancholic,
soulful look at the American folk music scene in the early 1960s, Llewyn (Oscar
Isaac) is a struggling musician trying to make it big as a solo artist, although
the troubles and obstacles that keep heading his way are preventing him from
achieving his goals. Unwanted impregnantion of a married woman, losing of a
pet, are examples of what he needs to worry about.
May Fair Hotel Gala: Labor Day
Jason Reitman (Juno, Up in the Air, Young Adult) moves away from his usual
comfort zone of directing oﬀ-beat dramedies for a much darker feature ﬁlm
starring Kate Winslet and Josh Brolin. When a depressed single mother (Winslet)
kindly takes in an injured, intimidating man (Brolin, who else?) to their home,
this little chance encounter will change everyone’s lives forever, including that of
her young son Henry’s (Gattlin Griffith). It’s thrilling, melodramatic, with a hint
of romance, all weaved together skillfully.
Film
Forever

