FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
36 FRIDAY 28 SEPT
he big Palme d’Or winner of this
year’s Cannes Film Festival, Blue is
the Warmest Colour, famous for its
almost 3-hour length, plus the many
extended, incredibly graphic lesbian
sex scenes, headlines the Love section
of the Festival. It’s a ﬁlm so powerful
and worthy that the Cannes’ Jury
awarded the top prize not only to
the director (Abdellatif Kechiche),
but also to its two incredible stars
(Adèle Exarchopoulos, Léa Seydoux).
You don’t need a bigger stamp of
approval than this. What’s it about?
We follow the life of Adèle (newcomer
Exarchopoulos), as she explores her
sexuality and has her life turn upside
down when Emma (Seydoux) enters
her life.
Meek’s Cutoﬀ, although no-one saw
it, was a critical hit back in 2010,
and director Kelly Reichardt follow-
up feature is Night Moves, leading
the ﬁlms in the Debate section. Eco-
terrorists Josh (Jesse Eisenberg) Dena
(Dakota Fanning) and Harmon (Peter
Sarsgaard) execute what they believe
to be an excellently planned act. his
is until the media storm that sparks
from their actions has unpredictable,
unintended results. It’s a slow-burning
(much like Reichardt’s other ﬁlms), yet
taut political thriller that makes you
think and question each character’s
motive and the blurred lines between
right and wrong.
Bruce Dern won the Best Actor prize
at this year’s Cannes Film Festival,
in Alexander Payne’s (Sideways, The
Descendants) moving black-and-
white father-son road-trip drama.
When the forgetful, boozy Woody
Grant (Dern) becomes convinced that
he won a million dollars and that he
also needs to travel to Nebraska (the
ﬁlm’s title) from Missouri, his son
David (Will Forte) reluctantly agrees.
Payne has a knack for working his
magic in turning a touching narrative
into relatable drama minus the corny
cheese, rather than resorting to over-
the-top, sentimental melodrama.
He knew he was trouble when he
walked by…but Franck (Pierre
Deladonchamps), a handsome
romantic enjoying his time at
his usual spot on a popular gay
cruising beach in southern France,
immediately falls for the dangerously
seductive Michel (Christophe Paou),
a mysterious stranger towards whom
he feels irresistible sexual attraction.
hrow in a murder, and that’s how
we get Stranger By the Lake, an eerie,
provocative erotic French thriller that
embodies everything you’re searching
for when looking at something ﬁled
under “Dare”. Like its characters
the ﬁlm is full of risks and is all the
more shocking because of its direct,
confronting style.
With an all-star Australian cast
including Aaron Pedersen, Jack
hompson, Hugo Weaving and Ryan
Kwanten, director Ivan Sen’s new
thriller Mystery Road deals with racial
tension and wealth gap, always a ﬁrm
starting place for basing your grizzly,
grounded cop thriller on. Jay Swan
(Pedersen), an Aboriginal cop, having
returned to his hometown after years
of absence, is to investigate a brutal
murder of a teenage girl – this leads to
nowhere pleasant, as corruption and
conspiracy cloud the mystery even
more. It’s a compelling, unﬂinching
cop drama, which explains its place
leading the hrill ﬁlms of the Festival.
Vampires seem to be everywhere
these days but don’t go in expecting
the norm when watching Only Lovers
Left Alive. Eve (Tilda Swinton) and
Adam (Tom Hiddleston) are vampires
reunited after some period apart.
All seems well, until Eve’s sister Ava
(Mia Wasikowska) turns up to spoil
the fun between the two. Basically,
the sister’s acting as the third wheel,
and no one likes that. here’s a strong
theme of dark sensual gothic romance
running through this off-beat drama,
and the remarkably well-cast Swinton
and Hiddleston put on impressive
performances.
Other notable titles in LOVE:
Adore, Gloria, On My Way, The Past,
Grand Central, The Spectacular Now
LOVE
JOURNEY
DEBATE
DARE
THRILL
CULT
Other notable titles in THRILL: All is
Lost, Pioneer, Kon Tiki
Other notable titles in CULT: Grand
Piano, The Zero Theorem
LAUGH
Joseph Gordon-Levitt is just so
talented that he directed, wrote and
even starred in the leading role of his
ﬁrst directorial feature ﬁlm, Don Jon.
All Don (Gordon-Levitt) cares about
is his body, his pad, his ride, his family,
his church, his boys, his girls, and his
porn – which is ﬁne for him, until
he gets caught in a compromising
position by a girl who could be “the
one”. he girl being played by the sassy
and conﬁdent Scarlett Johansson,
Gordon-Levitt has assembled himself
quite the cast, including Julianne
Moore and Tony Danza, putting
together a hilarious, emotional and
conﬁdent debut.
Other notable titles in LAUGH:
Enough Said (featuring James
Gandolﬁni’s last on-screen
performance), Drinking Buddies
Can you handle the truth? Will you have what she’s having? Want to make us an offer we can’t refuse? You’re the king of the
world? You’ve always relied on kindness of strangers? Not in Kansas anymore? Tell us all about it: film.felix@imperial.ac.uk

