SCIENCE
Editors: Philippa Skett,
Keir Wren-Little,
Fiona Hartley
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
4 FRIDAY 28 SEPT
Keir’s Summer Science
Keir Little
Science Editor
Corkscrew molecules emit circularly
polarized light
Molecules than can emit and detect circularly-
polarised light may be the next step forward in
technologies such as computer displays, which
currently waste over three quarters of light energy by
passing it through ﬁlters for colour and polarisation.
Dr Matthew Fuchter from the Department of
Chemistry and Dr Alisdair Campbell from the
Department of Physics have recently published
papers in Nature Photonics and Advanced Materials,
which show how conventional light-emitting
polymers can be doped with a helical chiral molecule,
whose handedness determines the direction of
the emitted light. Similar molecules can be used
as transistors to detect circularly-polarised light.
Circular polarisation is the basis of 3D cinema
and television, and this discovery could lead to the
development of lightweight, eﬃcient 3D displays, such
as for mobile devices. he use of circularly-polarised
light in ﬁbre optic cables could double their capacity for
carryingdataandsuchlightcouldbeusedfortransferring
data in next-generation quantum computers.
Bird brains similar to mammal brains
Computational neuroscientist Professor Murray
Shanahanhasdevelopedtheﬁrstevermapofabird’sbrain,
andcomparedittothoseofhumansandothermammals.
Several bird species (surprisingly, including pigeons)
show high intelligence and ability for reasoning,
problem solving and use of tools. From anatomical
studies of the pigeon brain, Professor Shanahan’s
team build a map of the key processing areas, and
found that the bird hippocampus is very similar
to the mammalian one and that the nidopallium
caudolaterale plays a similar role to the hippocampus
in decision-making, despite having evolved diﬀerently.
Professor Shanahan says, “Birds have been evolving
separately from mammals for around 300 million years,
so it is hardly surprising that under a microscope the
brain of a bird looks quite diﬀerent from a mammal.
Yet, birds have been shown to be remarkably intelligent
in a similar way to mammals such as humans and
monkeys. Our study demonstrates that by looking at
brains that are least like our own, yet still capable of
generating intelligent behaviour, we can determine
the basic principles governing the way brains work.”
“Do you like
writing about
science? Or
watching
people write
about it? Then
send an email
to our editors
at science@
felix.imperial.
ac.uk to get
involved!”
Tired or drunk? You might
be feeling quite creative
Fiona Hartley
Science Editor
Imagine: it’s 9am and you enter the
lecture theatre that will be your home
for the next year. Maybe you went
out to Ministry or you had a few too
many pints in Metric. Perhaps you just
stayed up late getting to know new
people in halls or from your course.
Either way you’re knackered. Maybe
you’re even still drunk!
If you’re suﬀering from a vague feel-
ing of guilt because this isn’t the work
ethic you should be starting with for
your new degree at Imperial, then fear
not. Being tired or drunk doesn’t have
to keep you from getting your work
done. Here’s why.
Creativity
Conventionally, creativity is linked
with great literature, art and music.
Many historic artists and musicians
were known to drink We’re all sci-
entists here at Imperial, so when re-
search suggests that being tired or
drunk can improve creative thinking
you might think, “So what?” But sci-
ence depends on creative thinking for
its advancement. Creativity is coming
up with novel ideas, and that’s how
you solve problems.
Contrary to what your intuition
might suggest, research published in
hinking and Reasoning in 2011 indi-
cated that people are actually at their
most creative during what the authors
termed their ‘non-optimal’ time of
day. In other words, if you’re a night
owl – which many of us are – then it
is during the morning that you’re best
able to solve insight-based problems,
due to your grogginess. Similarly
those who consider themselves early
birds answer such questions more ef-
fectively in the evening.
he research was carried out by
asking 428 undergrads whether they
thought of themselves as morning or
evening people, and then asking them
to solve six questions, three of which
were insight puzzles and three of
which were focused analytical prob-
lems. Furthermore, the students were
tested at diﬀerent times – one group
between 8:30am and 9:30am, the oth-
er between 4pm and 5:30pm.
he students’ performance on ana-
lytical tasks like long division was
unaﬀected by time of day, but if they
were an early bird or a night owl then
they were more successful at solving
the creative puzzles at their least op-
timum time. Furthermore, students
with no preference for the morning or
the evening didn’t show any diﬀerence
in success at solving the insight prob-
lems between each time of day.
Why? Well, it’s your inability to con-
centrate and your wandering thoughts
that allow you to work out creative in-
sight puzzles. Here’s an example:
A man has married 20 women in a
small town. All of the women are still
alive and none of them are divorced.
he man has broken no laws. Who is
the man?
he answer is a priest. Did you get
it? Sleepy students, whose brains
aren’t entirely focused on the prob-
lem, consider many more associations
between ideas than alert students and
are more likely to answer this puzzle
correctly. Even being bored can have
this eﬀect.
his is actually very similar to what
happens if you’re mildly intoxicated
and presented with an insight puz-
zle. In 2012 Andrew Jarosz and a team
of researchers from the University of
Illinois at Chicago tested the link be-
tween alcohol intoxication and crea-
tivity. heir inebriated subjects per-
formed worse than sober subjects on
working memory tests (like driving
a car), but solved the insight puzzles
presented to them both more often
and in less time than their sober coun-
terparts.
Now, this isn’t encouragement for
you to get absolutely wasted every
single night or to always stay up re-
ally late. Getting those creative juices
ﬂowing via tiredness won’t help you
to copy down notes or grind through
a problem sheet, although a caﬀeine
boost probably will, as it deceives
your brain into thinking you have
more energy than you really do. But
what tiredness and intoxication will
help you produce is a good idea for
the projects, presentations, designs or
essays you’ll have to do over the year.
So you might want to take into ac-
count whether you’re an early bird or
a night owl when you’ve got creative
work to do. And you might as well
try to make going out and having that
drink work for you in more ways than
one.

