43
FRIDAY 28 SEPT
TECHNOLOGY
@felixtechnology
facebook.com/FelixImperial
Max Eggl is dismayed after the Appleʼs offering at the latest keynote
Y
et another Apple keynote has
come and gone, and once again
there is a sense of frustration
in the air. At least that bitter taste on
the tongue is one I have gotten used
to after Steve jobs died, along with
all his intuition, drive and creativity.
For all the fancy technical terms that
Apple likes to throw around, they
once again managed to frustrate.
Everything they revealed, was known
two months in advance. Every cut
and ﬁnish, every new touted feature,
even the name of the new products
were leaked friggin 2 months ago. No
wow, no oohs or ahs, no wonderful
innovation that bowled us over. I
remember in the past, the keynotes
where something unexpected would
come up, and I would sit there thinking
to myself “How epic is that?!”. Now
it’s just like, “Yeah saw that already a
while ago, and even then it was pretty
boring.” Apple used to innovate, now
they are just following the market and
this keynote proves it.
Let us start with the two products
they released, the iPhone 5S and 5C.
Firstly is the fact that they revealed
two phones simultaneously a good
sign or a bad one? One on hand it
shows that they are ready to bow
to consumer demand in a strange
fashion, on the other hand it means
that they are willing to follow their
competitors. Time will tell if this was
a good strategy.
So the 5C. When I ﬁrst heard of
the 5C I thought that the C would
stand for cheap, meaning that Apple
would ﬁnally release a budget phone.
Basically it a rehashed iPhone 5,
with very similar specs, and the big
diﬀerence being the plastic colour
palette that the iPhone 5C utilises.
he colours add something new and
interesting to the iPhone and the
very fragile glass construction that
were used in previous constructions.
However the “purpose” of this phone
is what has me so annoyed. Basically
this is Apple’s attempt at a phone
that everyone could aﬀord. However
contradictory to hopeful reports that
this may really be something truly
aﬀordable, Apple decides to slap
another hundred dollars on the price.
£469 for the 16GB and £549 for the
32GB. You are really telling me this
is your cheap phone? C’mon people,
think realistically here. You can get a
great phone in the Nexus 4 for half
that. Apple has decided that since they
have the fruity logo that they stick on
the back of the polycarbonate body,
that they can overcharge everyone. I
mean why even do a cheap phone if
all you are going to do is really make
it unaccessible for those who really
looking forward to it. Either do it
right, or don’t do it at all. he sad
thing is, probably a ton of people are
going to buy it anyway.
Now about the iPhone 5S. It actually
looks like a really good phone. he
specs are up there with the top
phones. he 64 bit processor seems
like a really good new addition, and I
really would like to see how graphics
intensive software runs, especially
with the next generation of games.
he ﬁngerprint sensor also looks like
a handy feature, and one of the only
things I got excited about. However
these two things really are the only
standout features of this phone.
Everything else is just catching up
with the competition. When looking
at this phone, all that was going
through my mind was: “Yeah, well this
is nice, but it would have been really
innovative and amazing if this would
have been the iPhone 5. And you know
what the really sad thing is? It would
have even been possible.” At least it
isn’t as much of a disappointment as
the 5C, and I can see it being quite
successful. However, what’s up with
the “Champagne” colour? It just looks
cheap bling. What happened with the
understated beauty that Apple used
to perfect?
Generally looking at the keynote itself
you can also see how precarious their
position
here used to be a time, were Apple
stood impervious, invincible to
doubts or pressure from investors/
competitors. he only time other
companies or products were
mentioned was in graphs or tables,
illustrating Apple’s dominance.
However now snide comments and
jokes are needed for the Cupertino
company to feel like the top dog.
Sounds like a schoolyard bully doesn’t
it?
Furthermore, to gauge the hype
and excitement surrounding this
keynote, all you had to do was look
at the crowd, and compare it to the
reactions of previous keynote crowds
to tell that something has changed for
the computing giant. Laughing was
rare, and cheering was even rarer and
that was because to be honest, there
was nothing to cheer about!
All in all its another disappointment
for me. I have been a loyal Apple user.
I have bought several iPhones, own a
macbook, the whole shebang. I used
these, because the products you used
actually were the bees knees, there
were things on these devices that
other companies either didn’t have or
ripped oﬀ from Apple. Now I watch
in dismay as Apple falls further and
further behind in anything remotely
Are we seeing Apple crumble?
The News Bubble
Maximilian Eggl
Yong Wen Chua
Technology Editors
Probably the tightest partnership in the smartphone market today,
Nokia and Microsoft have gone even further by the latter buying the
smartphone part of the former. he Redmond based company hopes
that this acquisition will help the windows 8 phone compete against
iOS and Android with a tighter integration of software and hardware.
Ex-Felix Technology editor, Jason Parmar, who now works at
Microsoft (who predicted a similar outcome with his article on
NokiaSoft in 2011) declined to comment on the tech giant’s latest buy.
original. iOS 7 was a step in a good
direction, but that’s only a part of the
experience. I am so tired of looking
at my iPhone and thinking how
many things would make this thing
better. he thing I have learnt from
this, something I guess I should have
understood a while ago is; empires
never last forever, even ones that seem
so inexplicable great like Apple. Soon
something else will come to push
this faltering giant of his throne, be it
sooner or later.
General news from around the tech world, so you can keep up
to date with the newest, wierdest and most futuristic things
around.
NokiaSoft - MS buys part of Nokia
Samsung watching the time?
he Korean heavyweight has released a new accessory to complement
its existing devices. Featuring a 1.6” LED screen which can play apps,
messages etc., this smartwatch sees Samsung jump ahead of Apple
the wearable tech world. However its low battery life and inability to
pair with non Galaxy devices, make this device a bit of a hassle to use.
I wish it had, but among many things, brightening my day was not among them

