Spencer Bennett goes on a lads holiday (they even got matching shirts)
T
our began on the ﬁnal
Friday of the summer term.
Amongst the celebrations,
that are usual at this time
of year, there was a sense
of trepidation amongst some of the
younger members of the touring
party. What lay ahead was the
football club’s summer tour to Poland
by the end of which this feeling of
trepidation had been truly justiﬁed.
After a feast of Librarian’s Michelin
starred Bizzquick© the 22 of us began
the journey to Krakow. K.Arthur ar-
rived just in time with another story
to add to his growing anthology. he
hostel staﬀ in Krakow were treated to
our unique culture of box (which the
Union’s patrons enjoy week in week
out) with the traditional tour addition
of bong. Our ﬁrst night in Krakow was
the scene for one of the great discov-
eries in human history. To the list of
Columbus and the Americas, Newton
and gravity, Fleming and penicillin,
the discovery of Shakers by ICUAFC
can be added. Georgia, who just hours
earlier had been reduced to tears
by a mop, was now delighted whilst
S.Campbell and Marius formed a per-
sistent wading team.
Sunday saw our ﬁrst footballing en-
counter of the week against Poland.
Spirits were high before kick-oﬀ and
after an extensive warm up we locked
horns with Poland. After a bright start
by ICUAFC the experience and tech-
nical ability that is common at inter-
national level allowed Poland to gain
the upper hand. Despite Gayson’s best
eﬀorts ICUAFC found themselves 2-0
down at half-time. With some Spanish
ﬂair coming oﬀ the bench and Librar-
ian taking 5 minutes to calm down
the second half performance showed
some signs of improvement with
chances spurned by Reply all, Spaniard
2 and (most impressively) Dr. Love. Dr.
Love’s maraud from centre back went
unnoticed by the Poles and his gamble
at the back stick so nearly resulted in
a headed goal. he eﬀect of chasing
the ball began to show in the last 15
minutes and a disappointing perfor-
mance ended in a comfortable win for
Poland. hat night the Spaniards’ mis-
ery was compounded by their national
team’s appalling performance. Na-
poleon’s DJing was well received but
Shakers beckoned. Later, Emmanuel
Frimpong watched on in disgust as
Sausage and Crab committed animal
rights atrocities on Krakow’s pigeons
although Sausage’s commitment to
this cause must be commended. he
line “can you blow up my shark” was
surprisingly successful until Spaniard
1 decided this was dishonourable and
conﬁscated the prop.
Jewsuf deﬁnitely not completing the
shooting challenge was followed by an
afternoon of pint-seeing in the most
beautiful city in the world. K.Arthur
abused a free-hug initiative and Sergei
quoted his doctor more times than is
decent.
he next day saw ICUAFC’s sec-
ond match of tour this time facing up
against some local street youths. A
rousing rendition of the national an-
thems was followed by a cagey open-
ing 30 seconds after which Sausage
had had enough and decided to give
the youths a head-start by throwing
the ball into his own net. Marius’ se-
lection policy was being called into
question when Sausage produced an-
other goalkeeping clanger to see IC-
UAFC 2-0 down early on. he massed
crowds watched aghast as Gruby Lysy
produced a spectacular overhead kick
and Spaniard 3 took an unprovoked
dive. In the second half goals from
Librarian and Marius, the ﬁrst a deft
chip over the keeper and the second
a casual pile-driver from range, were
not enough to earn victory against the
tenacious youths. Live music helped
us forget the day’s defeat and our ﬁnal
night in the most beautiful city in the
world saw Librarian bring dishonour
on his family as No stood watch from
his outpost in shakers and Georgia’s
selﬁes reached new heights.
he coach journey to Wroclaw
began with some shock revelations
which Blue Steel found diﬃcult to
accept. Napoleon was crowned the
second most hated man in the club
(Myles Jarvis just pipping him) and
“6/10, house party” was repeated
several times. A combination of
S.Campbell’s awful musical taste, a
four hour wait in traﬃc and the ne-
cessity for Spanish penises never to
piss alone meant that morale was low
upon arrival in Wroclaw. his was not
helped by Spaniard 1’s determination
to shower his homeland in honour
regardless of the accuracy of his tales.
However, the beauty of Wroclaw com-
bined with Shambolic’s love of hotties
led to a pleasant evening. he next
day’s dinner was rudely interrupted
by some unwelcome visitors who were
suitably punished for the presence.
Crab made a swift exit to propose to
local children leaving a furious Blue
Steel with the bill. By this point bowel
control was becoming an issue with
K.Arthur and No retiring early.
Our ﬁnal encounter saw ICUAFC
take on Wroclaw Institute of Tech-
nology. As both teams felt each other
out in the opening stages it was the
home side that were nearly gifted an
early goal by a hilarious misjudgement
by Phone Shop in goal. Charging out
of his area our stand-in keeper could
only watch as the ball bounced high
over his head. Fortunately, ﬁnishing
ability appeared not to be an entry
requirement for our opponent’s team.
With Gayson pulling the strings up
top and Spaniard 1 having the game
of his life ICUAFC gained the upper
hand without ever threatening the
goal. On the stroke of half time the
home side grabbed a goal that proved
to be decisive. Despite a late maraud
from Phone Shop and goal line hero-
ics from Georgia and Dr. Love a 1-0
defeat was the only reward for a solid
performance which was always going
to have an end of tour feeling to it.
Having been mesmerized by Librar-
ian for the previous 90 minutes the
bumper crowd of 17 showed their ap-
preciation, as did the rest of the team,
and he was inevitably awarded player
of tour. Honourable mentions to Dr.
Love, Emma’s ﬁt, Georgia and Sausage
(Sausage!) who also gave inspirational
performances over the week.
here was time for just one more
piwo before the squad headed home
to bask in the memories and pain that
the previous week had created. A wise
aeronautics PhD student once said
that by the end of tour you will want
to go home. He was yet again proven
correct.
Tour de Football: Poland Edition
MACIEJ WITKOWSKI
“Keep the
Cat Free”
28/09/13
Issue 1553
felixonline.co.uk
SPORT
Game to edit? Be Sports Editor, email felix@imperial.ac.uk
Felix wins a trophy at the support
staff BBQ.

