POLITICS Editor: Kartikeya
Rana
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
6 FRIDAY 28 SEPT
When the Arab spring took place two
years ago, Syria saw an opening to be
free from the Assad regime. hey saw
how eﬀective the protest had been
in Egypt, Libya and elsewhere, and
thought that they could be able to
form their desired government in due
course.
However, Assad has been brutal in
the way he has been dealing with the
protestors. here has been a civil war
taking place in the region for far too
long. here are 2 main groups taking
part in this war: he Free Syrian Army
and the supporters of Assad. he con-
ﬂict has worsened due to the use of
chemical weapons. Both sides are too
busy blaming each other for the use
of chemical weapons. he Huﬃngton
Post claims that 110,000 lives have
been lost in this war but the exact
numbers are unknown. It’s unfortu-
nate to see how the revolt that started
during the Arab Spring has unfolded.
he chemical weapons dilemma:
he international community has
been ambivalent about being involved
in Syria due to its past failures in the
region.
US interference in Middle Eastern
conﬂicts has often ended up having
the opposite eﬀect to what was ex-
pected when they went in. As a result,
the western public is against military
intervention in Syria. Americans do
not want to see their country get in-
volved in a war which does not im-
prove the US standing in the region.
Furthermore, after the Iraq war, they
have become suspicious about their
The summer in politics
Well hello there all you freshers (and everybody else)! Here comes yet another year of Imperial. A small amount of us
do tend to have an interest in politics surprisingly enough. So if you are one of those people who likes to learn about
world affairs or likes to have a drunk rant, like I do, about how good or bad things are around the world, then read
on. Now is the time to empower yourself with every bit of information needed to thwart those who don’t agree with
you. How? By reading up on the most important issues of course.
Just an aside for all freshers: This year will pass way too quickly. No joke.
Politics Editor
Kartikeya
Rana
government’s international interest.
his has caused a number of prob-
lems for President Obama. He openly
stated recently that it would be ‘the
last straw’ if the Assad regime used
chemical weapons against its own ci-
vilian population. However, now there
seems to be ‘substantial evidence’ to
show the use of these weapons. As
a result, Obama has been trying to
gather votes for an air strike in Syria.
his seems to be an uphill battle for
the president as there is overwhelm-
ing opposition to such a strike. he
UK parliament has also voted against
an air strike in Syria. his has made
matters even worse for him.
Russia has also shown a ﬁerce oppo-
sition to American intervention. he
Russian president, Vladimir Putin, has
asked Syrian oﬃcials to submit their
chemical weapons to international
agencies. As a result, Obama has
stated that he would put an air strike
on hold if Syria submits its chemical
weapons.
My Take:
US should not take part in air strikes
in Syria. Assad already has enough
time to prepare for such an air strike.
he only way the air strike would be
eﬀective would be if there are ground
troops to support the air strike. Fur-
thermore, there are worries within
the Syrian public that the air strikes
would result in further civilian casu-
alties. Russian authorities, I believe,
have provided an alternative which
the international community should
respect.
The second important
story – Egypt after the
Arab Spring:
A very rosy picture was painted about
the path towards which Egypt was
headed after the Arab Spring. How-
ever, people are becoming more and
more pessimistic about the future of
the country.
Months after Hosni Mubarak was
ousted from Egypt, democratic elec-
tions were held. he Freedom and
Justice party, the political wing of the
Muslim Brotherhood, came to power
with Mohammad Morsi as their lead-
er. A new constitution was drafted
which the West has not been in sup-
port of, as it gave he Freedom and
Justice party immense power.
Mohammad Morsi was also losing
support at home for the same reason
as well as his inability to deal with the
economic issues. his resulted in a
massive protest around Egypt and re-
sultantly military intervention.
he Egyptian military and democ-
racy:
he Egyptian military took over the
parliament on July 3rd. he head of
the armed forces, Gen. Abdul Fattah
Al-Sisi, announced that the constitu-
tion has been revoked and an interim
government headed by Chief Justice
Abdul Mansour has since been put
in place whilst a new constitution is
drafted. his has led to widespread
protests across Egypt with Islamist
groups setting up camp in various
suburbs of Cairo. he military crack-
down on these tents has also lead to
a loss of a number of lives. he BBC
states that according to eyewitness ac-
counts, at least 40 people have died in
the protests.
My Take:
I am quite worried about how this
situation will play out. It is neces-
sary that the Muslim Brotherhood is
made part of the democratic process
to prevent them from being dragged
further underground. his could turn
them more fundamental in nature and
give them a concrete reason to act in
such a way. However, the idea of hav-
ing them in power is also dangerous to
secularism in the region.
I’m not against the military inter-
vention, although I am against the
manner in which it is currently being
conducted, but it is very important
that the Muslim Brotherhood remains
part of the democratic process to
maintain stability in Egypt.
The third story – Scotland
independence debate:
A referendum is to be held to see
whether Scotland should stay in the
UK. he Scottish public will be asked:
‘Should Scotland be an independent
country?’. hroughout summer, there
was an ongoing debate about where
the Scottish vote was headed. Accord-
ing to the BBC, the Holyrood parlia-
ment supports the vote. here is a
strong belief that the Scottish public
will be voting overwhelmingly to stay
in the UK.
My Take:
I am deﬁnitely in support of the refer-
endum. It would give a reason for the
aggravated pro-independence protes-
tors to calm down, regardless of how
the referendum goes. If the vote goes
in their favour, then it would prove
their point as valid. However, if the
vote goes against what they expected,
then they would have no reason to
complain. I don’t understand the rel-
evance of such a long winded debate
about this issue. Let’s just have the
vote and see how it goes.
The final story – Edward
Snowden:
Edward Snowden used to be a Nation-
al Security Agency contractor but ﬂed
to Hong Kong after revealing informa-
tion about extensive phone and Inter-
net surveillance by the CIA. he idea
of having their privacy being breached
without prior consent caused public
outrage in the US and the rest of the
world.
He also recently revealed informa-
tion about the US and UK government
‘cracking online encryption’. his has
sparked further debate about internet
security. People question as to wheth-
er the technology could be grasped by
people outside the intelligence agen-
cies and what implications that could
have.
My Take:
he case of Edward Snowden is one
of civil disobedience. He believes that
what he has done is something that
will uphold the liberty and freedoms
of the US citizens. However, it is dif-
ferent in the sense that he has ﬂed
the country rather than staying his
ground for what he believes is right
(as has been done by civil disobedi-
ence leaders of the past like Martin
Luther King). What makes his depar-
ture more suspicious is the fact that he
has ﬂed to Russia. Now I don’t know
what his intentions are but I am rather
suspicious of them.
Also, the fact that he is losing sup-
port at home shows that not everyone
believes that what he is doing is right.
It is one thing ﬁghting for a country’s
right and another to leak information
that can hamper the same country’s
security.
hat doesn’t mean that these demo-
cratic governments have come out as
the good guys. It is quite scary to see
how much power this gives the gov-
ernment. Any information could be
taken out of context by the govern-
ment to prosecute their fellow citi-
zens. his would weaken the power of
the democracy and it is essential that
something be done about this.
hat’s all from me for now. If you have
any comments, please contact Felix.
Main Story – Syria
or
a

