9
COMMENT
@feliximperial
facebook.com/FelixImperial
Let the world hear your voice sing
I
t’s not just the stories making
international headlines that
are important to Imperial
students. As well as giving
diﬀerent viewpoints on current
events, Comment showcases any
other issues that are signiﬁcant to
your life. Whether you think that
the food in the JCR is actually pretty
good, or you feel strongly that lab
demonstrators don’t get the credit
they deserve, there’s always space for
an opinion. Whether you think that
the Union could be doing something
better, or you’re pretty conﬁdent
that the Student Loans Company
has made it their personal mission
to make you miserable, we want
to know. I personally, am outraged
that all the paper towel dispensers
in Blackett and Huxley have been
replaced with hand dryers over the
summer, and will quite happily wax
lyrical about this for quite some
time. I think big, you see. Students
care what other students think, and
so why not share your perspectives?
At Imperial, we’re so accustomed to
such diversity that it’s easy to forget
that everybody oﬀers something
unique. Although you might not run
into the huge spectrum of people
here everyday, the variety means that
there are a lot of interesting things
to be said, and Comment can be the
place to say them. Whether you had a
mind-altering experience in hailand
on your gap yah, you’ve just moved
to the UK from deepest darkest Peru,
or you spent the summer sleeping
until noon and watching Jeremy
Kyle in your pyjamas; everyone sees
things diﬀerently, and everyone
has something interesting to say.
Encountering other views, however
controversial, helps to shape yours,
whether they alter your opinion, or
clarify existing ideas in your mind.
Some topics come up in Comment
year after year: sexism, TfL, and the
workload at Imperial, to name but a
few. As long as these issues persevere,
it’s important to continue to feature
and discuss them, to stir up debate,
rather than become complacent
and let important topics fade into
obscurity. If you think something
should change, Comment is your
opportunity to tell people why you
feel strongly about it, and maybe
Tessa Davey
Comment Editor
avey
Editor
convince them to feel strongly too.
As Freshers, we sit through dozens
of introductory talks that tell us that
we’re the pick of the educated litter.
(Freshers, a game for you: send me
an email at Comment and tell me
how many times in your ﬁrst week
you were told you were the best. he
smuggest department gets nothing at
all, but I will tell you which it is!) If
such intelligent people won’t stand up
and put forward their opinions, who
will? We as Imperial students love to
complain, but are generally reluctant
to take action. Anyone who’s ever been
slightly dissatisﬁed with their course,
yet whined when the SOLE survey
came around is guilty of it (and that’s
pretty much everyone). So why not
break the mould, and do something
about these frustrations for a change?
Comment Online
Over the summer holidays
Felix has been hard at work
publishing new articles wvery
week on our website, including:
Democracy and the lack of
representation
by Kartikeya Rana
Honour before pragmatism
by Eogan J. Totten
How can academic institutions
prevent future scientific farce
and outrage?
by Eoghan J. Totten
To have a look at our paper on the
internet, as well as some of our
online only articles, head over to
felixonline.co.uk
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
Editor-in-Chief Joe Letts Layout Chief Tim Arbabzadah News Editor Aemun Reza Features Editors VACANT Business Editor James Tsim Science Editors Philippa Skett, Keir Little, Fiona Hartley Politics Editor
Kartikeya Rana Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Michael Chung Comment Editors Eoghan J. Totten, Tessa Davey Arts Editor Arianna Sorba Books Editors Maciej Matuszewski Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Simon
Hunter, Riaz Agahi, Stuart Masson, William Stocker (Interim) Television Editor John Park Film Editors John Park Games Editors Maximilian Eggl, Calum Skene, Imran Rashid Technology Editors Maximilian Eggl, Yong
Wen Chua Travel Editor Chris Richardson Sports Editors VACANT Online Editors Philip Kent, Annina Sartor, Stephen Ball Puzzles Commanders VACANT Copy Chief Annina Sartor Copy Editors Carol Ann Cheah,
Tim Arbabzadah Illustrators Hamish Muir CMYK’EDALLTHEPICTURES Tim Arbabzadah
Welcome to a new year with Felix
W
ow! hat’s all I
can say! his is
myﬁrstissue,and
I’m continuing
the Felix spirit
by writing this editorial just before
I send the paper oﬀ to the printers.
his ﬁrst issue has been a huge
learning curve and a fantastic
way to stress and scream (well
moan), something I haven’t
been able to do since last term.
So,welcomeFreshers(andreturning
readers) to Imperial College 2013/14!
he summer has certainly been
eventful in terms of a new series of Big
Brother (although personally I don’t
watch such tripe, anymore), a very
rainy week or two in September (with
Joe Letts
Editor-in-Chief
s
hief
many more to come I’m sure) and
exam results both for current students
and our new cohort of younglings.
Congratulations, you made it through
your exams with minimal fatal injury
and have made it to campus! It makes
me feel like an old man, but I have to
tell you Freshers, cherish your years
at Imperial (especially your ﬁrst year,
things only get harder from here).
Yes, you will be leaving behind old
friends and loved ones, but look at the
amazing opportunities you have here:
Life-changing friendships, a chance to
make a real-life nemesis, a fresh leaf
and a chance to really maximise your
life’s potential. You might think you’ve
worked out your identity already and
maybe you even walk around thinking
you’ve already sorted out your life
plan, but don’t be so certain. You’ll
meet such a wide variety of people
and be able to take part in so many
diﬀerent activities (we have over 300
clubs for goodness sake!) that you’ll
ﬁnd yourself changing into a new
person over the course of the year.
Now, as much as you’re here to
have fun, apparently you’re also here
to study as well, or so I’ve heard.
Granted, Imperial College is a place
of learning, and, as you’ll see in the
pullout we’re doing pretty well for
ourselves in the worldwide rankings,
however sometime we forget that
learning doesn’t just have to take place
in the library. Not to say that you
shouldn’t study but I hope that over
the course of the next few years while
you work towards your Geoﬀ Hurst or
your Trevor Nunn (or your Desmond,
ouch) you also take time out to do
something fun, like write for Felix.
hat’s not shameless plugging, honest.
hat said you’ll ﬁnd your time here
at Imperial very stressful, but don’t
be afraid to ask for help if you’re
struggling, your department has
excellent support staﬀ who are often
very friendly, and the Union also has a
support service and is available to give
advice to students, as well as providing
cheap cider and a place to hang out.
It’s time for me to stop writing now,
the printer’s about to call and I don’t
like to keep him waiting. Especially
since he might not print the issue, look
at what you might have missed out on!
Anyway, I hope you have a fantastic
time at Imperial and on behalf of all
the students who work at Felix (see
below), welcome to Imperial College!
Wehopeyou’llenjoyreadingFelixeach
week and maybe you’ll get involved!
FRIDAY 28 SEPT

