The Student Newspaper of Imperial College ol024 10MAR95
Blocked
B Y T H E NEWS T E A M
The results of the sabbatical
elections were announced late
onTuesday night, as previously
reported in Wednesday's special
F E L I X 1024E. The winners are:
(for President) Sarah White ; (for
Deputy President Finance and
Services) Matthew Crompton;
(for Deputy President Clubs and
Societies) T i m Townend; (for
F E L I X Editor and Print Unit
Manager) Rachel Walters.
The controversy that follo-
wed the declaration continued
the next morning, with members
of Elections Committee exp-
ressing grave concern over the St
Mary's vote. T h e i r U n i o n
officials have defended their
traditional 'block vote', where
they openly advise students how
to vote. They feel that it is the
only way in w h i c h St Mary's
point of view w i l l be taken
seriously by candidates from the
South Kensington campus, and
in previous years they have kept
the process fairly discrete.
This year, on opening the
ballot box, those counting the
votes found 'sample voting slips'
amongst the ballots. These
papers, signed by Claire
Maloney, Mary's President, and
Rahul Joshi, V P External Affairs,
indicate the procedure for voting
in the IC system.
The note includes the
comment: "you may wish to
consult this slip for voting
guidelines. T h i s is purely
intended to serve as a sample,
and obviously as the S M H M S
SU [St Mary's Hospital Medical
School Student's Union] do not
(continues on page three)
It was all blood, sweat, tears and beers on the night that the sabbatical election results were announce
Jordan. As the count carried on upstairs, the candidates dropped pints like flies below. Above, three of th
than merry winners; I. to r., Rachel Walters, Tim Townend and Sarah White. Insert Matt Crompton - just
Staff Asked to Waive Rights
B Y M I C H A E L L U D L A M
Contract Research Staff (CRS)
are up in arms against changes
that college has made to their
terms and conditions. The staff,
who are employed on short terms
of about two years, are angry with
the new contracts which contain
clauses that waive their right to
protection against unfair
dismissal and statutory
minimum redundancy payments.
D r Julian B o r r i l l , who is the
Association of University
Teachers ( A U T ) contract
research staff representative at
Imperial, said: "there is no
justification for this." However,
those C R S who have been in
employed by college for more
than seven years are set to
benefit. They will be entitled to
college redundancy pay worth
two and half times the statutory
minimum.
The changes have been
introduced to bring Imperial into
line with St Mary's, who have
had this type of contract for a
long time. Some research grant
holders claim that as the
redundancy pay comes from
departmental budgets and not
the college, departments could go
bankrupt with burgeoning
payments. W i t h even the
Department for Education itself
against such waivers, recognising
that it does not reward staff, the
changes are being fiercely con-
tested by the A U T at Imperial. In
a meeting on M o n d a y they
devised a draft four point plan for
contract staff that they would like
to see college accept. This list
includes: that no-one should
have to sign any kind of waiver;
that no improvement i n
conditions of service in one
group of workers should reduce
that of others; that redundancy
pay be the responsibility of
college and not that of individual
departments (as was done
recently with maternity pay); and
that Contract Research staff
should enjoy the same
redundancy pay as other staff.
"It has made a lot of people
angry," said Julian Borrill. But
Rob L e t h a m , IC's Senior
Personnel Manager, said that the
A U T had been "fully consulted
in the proper manner" and that
he thought that the union
executive "were out of touch with
their members."
It has been suggested by
some w i t h i n college that the
unfair dismissal waiver could be
used as a way of removing staff
(continues on page three)
Q news one&two&three • editorial&credits three • incoming five • s-files seven • clued up
nine • feature: fables for our time? ten • feature: make believe, the rca, art and ic eleven
• feature: before their time - the oscars twelve • cartoon: radio for the deaf thirteen •
xtra curricular: including the final dose of Don Adlington fourteen&fifteen&sixteen • standby
eighteen&nineteen&twenty • twelve day guide twentytwo&twentythree • sport: go4it! twentyfour H

