Feature
Fables
RENAISSANCE MAN IS DEAD. Modernity, and
even more so this era of post-modernity, is fast
and impatient. Thatcher's Children have a three
minute attention span and an overwhelming
desire to make themselves employable.
Hurtling towards a career, they never pause to
gain a love of knowledge for its own sake and,
as the constraints of three-minute television
expel meaningful content from our screens, a
dedication to specialisation minimises the
breadth and profundity of our education. A lack
of formal training in other spheres need not
prove problematic; the truly intelligent ought to
be able, if they so desire, to explore other fields
for themselves. Too often they do not desire and
many even feel contempt for other academic
disciplines.
This close-mindedness to the potentiality
of alternative worthwhile experiences should be
of particular concern to Imperial students. The
comforts of academic excellence should be
tempered by the hole that the absence of half
the curriculum leaves in our cultural life. In this
environment the full range of interdisciplinary
discussions is lacking ... debates about the
mechanisms of consciousness between
philosophers and neurophysiologist will never
be heard in the JCR. But we should also be wary
of concentrating too much on the sciences;
beliefs in the intrinsic superiority of one's own
discipline are unfounded and idiotic whether
expressed by physicists or English students.
Fables about this dedication to a
particular conception of the worthwhile abound
in literature. The obsession of Moliere's Miser
with wealth, Dicken's Mr. Squeers with the
infliction of cruelty upon youngsters, Osbourne's
Jimmy Porter with class origins and Dr.
Frankenstein with the creation of life are classic
for
examples. These characters are possessed by a
single idea of the worthwhile, whether applied
merely to their own lives or to those of everyone
around them, and even when there is much else
to commend them we find them unnervingly
unsatisfactory. In general these tales include
characters with a broader outlook which is why
the comedies of Ben Jonson stand out by the
savagery of his attack upon humanity's
shallowness. Unlike Shakespearean romantic
comedies Jonson populates his highly satirical
work with ignoble characters, most of whom
display no ability to understand another's
conception of the worthwhile.
follow societal conventions, dedication to
political schemes, beliefs in religious virtues and
concentrations on their professional honour are
all shown to be shallow when breadth of
experience and knowledge are lacking.
Conventionally applauded attributes are
warped by their inability to see anything else
beyond them. Yet this forceful social com-
mentary is tied to neither the depressive
cynicism that pervades so much modern work
nor to the particular nature of his time. The
character traits he ridicules still exist and the
manner in which he does so is surprisingly close
to modern tastes. The play's power to persuade
is closely linked to Jonson's comic invention;
laughing at the characters that we see how
pathetic they are.
Time?
Vo/pone is possibly his greatest comedy
but the attractive characters in it are only so
because of their corrupt brilliance. An obsession
with riches and a corresponding contempt of
other possible goals dominates the lives of the
principal characters. This single mindedness
leads them to variously perjure themselves,
dupe others, disinherit their son and attempt to
prostitute their wife. It is not just greed which is
displayed in this fashion however. Desires to
The subject matter is atemporal and it
remains a relevant fable for our time. In the
light of debates about the breadth of experience
that Imperial students acquire, Volpone and so
many other works of literature can be
interpreted as saying that we should be wary of
narrowness of interests as scientists, but also
that this is a potential problem for others just as
much as for us. If we must have a goal let it be
that we maintain a diversity, and not merely an
excellence, in our lives.
Matt
The Dramatic Society is performing Volpone at
7.30pm in the Union Concert Hall on the 14, 15,
17 and 18th of March. Prices are £3.50 (full)
and £2.50 (cone).
I C U R A G p r e s e n t s
Remember
What A Difference
A Day Makes.
5jj
C
a
s
i
n
o
ool Prizes
D o o r s 7 : 3 0 p m
F r i d a y 1 0 t h M a r c h
£ 2 . 5 0 o n t h e d o o r UNION BUILDING £ 2 w i t h R e d N o s e

