Feature
Believe
Genuinely curious about
condom-clad
wheelbarrows?
Kaizen attempts to
make sense of a Royal
College of Art
exhibition...
The difference between the Royal College of
Art and the building I had just walked out of
was startling. Inside, the exhibition hall is
light, spacious and attractive, but a neutral
backdrop to any work of art hung there.
Imperial College buildings are in contrast
functional to the point of obsession, with
electrical cables and piping flowing along the
same conduits as the people.
The experience of walking into a gallery
was not new to me. This particular exhibition
was different, involving many artists who
were new to England and, what's more, still
alive! The curators had titled it ' M a k e -
Believe'. This is the opening line from the
gallery pamphlet:
'The childhood game of make-believe offers
the chance to escape reality and to assume the
central role in a story of our own making.'
While going round the exhibition, I
kept thinking why, and for what purpose? As an
engineer I have always tried to find out how
things worked. But in this context asking why
seemed irrelevant.
Some of the works were easy to dismiss
as rubbish. But, when I moved beyond the
obvious appearance of the image, I found
there was more to it. For instance, a new
green wheelbarrow in the centre of the main
gallery looked as i f someone had just
abandoned it there. It held lots of old
discarded diaries and had a condom wrapped
around one handle. The guide announced:
'Wardle invites us to peer into the private
life of a stranger from the past, the author of the
1950s diaries' life being exposed unashamedly.
The episode of a condom drying on a wheelbarrow
arm is re-staged here to act as a humorous
materialisation of an embarrassing moment. But is
the author's story an embellishment of the truth or
even a lie? Or are the diaries themselves fakes?
The act of make-believe is in fact the fulcrum of
the work and these questions remain unresolved.'
As I walked around I realised anyone
could derive their own meanings for the
exhibits. I am used to being able to
understand how things work, but the ideas
expressed here eluded me. Maybe it was the
language used to describe them that was
unfamiliar to me. These are phrases from the
guide (pic'n'mix - you don't have to use them
all):
'It takes a sort of dark, morose image, with
a structural symbolism conceptualising the
banality of everyday images'
'Her gallery installation creates a darkened
space in which we assume the intimate role of fly
on the wall'
'The chairs in the piece actually encourage
you to sit down so in effect you become part of the
work'
I can't claim to be able to critically
evaluate the displays; I can't say it was
critically worthy. I went with no particular
agenda other than genuine curiosity. I was
able to appreciate it on a certain level - I
know what I like - but to talk about anything
other than its immediate aesthetics, or my
initial reaction, would place me completely
out of my depth. A n y analysis I did could
easily be dispatched.
One exhibit was a video by Andrea
Fraser, who took on the role of a curator
showing us around the Philadelphia Museum
of Art, criticising some of the works therein.
She considers the use of form and space for
each object and is very convincing. Only
when she uses the same language for the
water fountain, public toilets and windows do
you begin to suspect her analysis of the
exhibits. I got the impression she could
convince me a toothbrush was a work of art if
she so wished.
Using words in this way was foreign to
me. It wasn't universal at all, completely
unlike the engineering concepts I was used to.
Although something in the back of my mind
rejected it, I felt drawn to use the guide's
vocabulary as an aid to my understanding.
But, i f I was to use their emotive words,
would I not be confined to criticising the
work solely on their terms?
I
0
U
1
H
R
9
5 F E L I X M

