<2M>
This Year's Success Story
Keys: France, Hamble, Yuppies
This year has been an incredible success for
the Imperial College Yacht Club. We have
seen a two-fold increase in its student mem-
bership since the previous academic year and
have become one of the largest clubs in the
ACC. The main reason for this sudden expan-
sion is the funding provided by the
Harlington Trust, which has enabled the
Club to cut the cost of sailing weekends from
over £40 to just £25 and go sailing much more
often. This means that the Club has achieved
one of its most important goals, that of intro-
ducing the sport of sailing to the largest pos-
sible number of students at the lowest prices
possible (i.e. very low, to fit with student
budgets!).
Since the beginning of last term the Club
has organised 14 sailing weekends, with more
to come. No less than 100 students have gone
sailing with it, more than half being total
newcomers to the sport of sailing. The low
cost of weekends is not the only reason for
their success; they are also a good opportuni-
ty to get away from the oppressive greyness of
London life and the pressures of the College
schedule. To enjoy a sport that is as ecologi-
cally friendly as it is exciting, the students
who have tried it just keep coming back for
more. Our booking system crashed miserably
due to the demand at the end of last term!
The Club's programme to produce expe-
rienced skippers also received a boost this
year with the successful completion of the
Yachtmaster shorebased course and V H F
license course by more than 20 members. A
long passage to Weymouth was also carried
out for the purpose of Yachtmaster training
MM F E L I X I0M95
and a gruelling but incredibly popular pas-
sage to France by three boats is being
planned for next term.
Competition-wise, we have also seen a
greater involvement in high profile regattas
with the Club now having a well-established
team which raced in the Hamble winter series
last term. The results of the nine-week long
championship were not astounding, as there
was a very high percentage of professional
competitors participating i n the series. The
racing abilities of our crews were proven
when both the Club's teams charged right
into the finals of the Sunsail winter series in
December. Unhindered by gale force winds
and countless equipment failures we obtained
fifth place out of the twenty boats that had
reached the final. This term the team is train-
ing hard for the forthcoming Student
Nationals at the end of March where we have
a strong chance of tarnishing Portsmouth
University's year long winning record.
The Yacht Club is presently chartering
boats, but it was recently decided at the A G M
to launch another proposal for the acquisition
of a boat by the College. Last year a similar
proposal was met unfavourably by the
Sherfield yuppies partly because of the kind
of boat requested and partly because of the
low membership attained by the Club since
its birth i n the late eighties. This year the
Yacht Club Management Committee will be
submitting a revised proposal and, combined
with the rising popularity of the Club
throughout College, we have a higher chance
of success. The acquisition of a boat, which is
an inevitable consequence of the continuing
expansion of the Club, will make it possible
for our members to appreciate the fuller
aspect of sailing's 'way of thinking'. That is
the hard work, organisation, responsibility,
teamwork and a good dose of fresh air that
comes with the owning and maintenance of a
boat.
[DcyaGflcjjQQ
DramSoc and OpSoc Present
Keys: Volpone, Festival, Grease
Spring has sprung (not), the grass is wet and
DramSoc and OpSoc bring you the second
Imperial College Drama Festival. For your
delight this year we bring you something old
(Volpone), something new (Liam's Shady
Dealer), something borrowed (Sketches) and a
revue (Another Hundred People).
Volpone
Volpone is the fox. Popular mythology paints
a picture of a cunning, predatory beast and
Ben Jonson humanises this imagery to create
a consummate con artist. In Elizabethan
times Venice was considered the wealthiest
and most corrupt European city; this is the
stage onto which Volpone is thrust. Around
this cental charmer, Jonson weaves a tale of
greed and inhumanity, a brilliant, hilarious
satirical comedy. A n overpowering lust for
wealth drives the central characters to fight
over a supposedly dying man. Only Volpone
and his assistant Mosca know that Volpone is
tricking these greedy vultures out of their
remaining riches. Their unflagging invention
keeps them on top, but will they be able to
stay there?
Jonson was a comic master and his brand
of humour is closer to Blackadder than Much
Ado About Nothing. Dramsoc's production
provides a chance to see the best work of this
great playwright and, more importantly, to
have a good time.
Volpone is showing at 7.30pm i n the
Union Concert Hall on the 14, 15, 17 and
18th of March. Prices are £3.50 (full) and
£2.50 (cone).
Liam's Shady Dealer
When you meet someone in a park and the
offer you, how shall we put it, certain sub-
stances to, provide relief from your troubles.
Do you accept? Liam did. And what happens
when you do? D o you forget your troubles?
Liam didn't. How does your life continue?
Better or worse? Liam can't tell. Do you have
any choices left? Liam doesn't know.
Liam's Shady Dealer is presented along
with a little light relief. Sketches is exactly
that. A set of manic comedy scenes linked
together with little snippets of improvisation.
One critic described it as laughter on the edge
of disaster so come along and see what you
think.
Liam's Shady Dealer is showing on 16
March at 8.00pm and on 18 March at 3.00pm.
Another hundred People
Fresh from the success of Cabaret OpSoc
bring you Another Hundred People. T h i s
delightful revue brings together songs from
the musical Grease and Five Guys Named Moe
to create an all singing all dancing extrava-
ganza.

