Xtra Curricular
Qlag.
Comic Relief and Rag Tour
Keys: Shaved, Bell-Ringers
Anyone who is anyone will be going to the
Comic Relief Party in the Union tonight. If
you've seen our posters then you'll know that
a casino, disco, and eating competitions will
be among the attractions. You can even get a
discount on the entry price if you wear your
Red Nose. So come along and join in the fun,
as it's all in aid of a very good cause.
Tomorrow is the first of our collections
for the Inter-railing prize. We have permits to
collect in the streets of Wimbledon, Putney
and Wandsworth among other places, for the
Royal Hospital and Home based i n Putney.
Don't miss out on your chance to win the
holiday of a lifetime. We are also collecting
for this charity on 17th March , in the City.
This will be a great chance to raise loads of
cash as you can get money from all the rich
business people in the pubs!
If you would rather collect at a concert
then we have permits to collect at the Prince
(or should that be "the artist formerly known
as Prince"!) concert on the Wednesday 22nd
March at Wembley.
Finally, as promised, here is a short
review of that magnificent event that was the
Rag Tour. So much happened that I can't
possibly tell all here but if anyone would like
to know the full gory details then the log
books are in the RCS office. The tour eventu-
ally got underway with the first minibus leav-
ing at 12.15 on that fateful Friday after sever-
al group photos and a rendition of the
"Kangela".
First stop was in Leicester where half the
minibus passengers stormed the campus
while the other half trundled off to
Loughborough. We then all descended on a
Nottingham pub as Rag Mag selling is very
thirsty work! Once our temporarily disap-
pearing Rag Chair had been found we all pro-
ceeded to Leeds where we met up with the
second minibus and Paul Thomas, our ex-
RCS president, whose house we stayed at.
Those people who didn't want to squash into
the living room decided to sleep i n the
minibus - a very good idea in February!
The next morning was mostly spent try-
ing to find a greasy spoon cafe. Those in York
succeeded, but we who went to Sheffield
ended up eating fish & chips for breakfast.
After sufficiently terrorising the local stu-
dents and selling them our Mags we all met
up in Bradford where they were having a beer
festival - oh dear, what a shame! After a hard
day's work(?) and several pints we all piled
into a great curry house along with Paul
Thomas who later left and didn't return. We
still don't know whether he ever made it
home!
Most unfortunately it was Matt Szyndel's
21st birthday that evening so we tried being
really nice to him but he insisted on being
handcuffed and having his legs shaved; hence
his new nickname "smoothie legs". One other
member of the trip also managed to lose half
his moustache - very clumsy! Many thanks
go to Chris Bragg's mum for putting up with
20 rowdy students that night and even pro-
viding us with food. We also made our mark
in the local pub where we sang and played
drinking games.
Sunday involved a trip to another greasy
spoon, followed by tours of the halls i n
Manchester and Liverpool. We had a final
photo session outside Liverpool before the
two minibuses went their separate ways. The
first one returned to L o n d o n and whilst
doing so the occupants of the minibus man-
aged to compose many new songs! They also
made friends(?) with a bus load of bell-
ringers from the Royal College of Music. The
second minibus went to Keele and
Birmingham among other places on their way
back on the Monday. Altogether the tour was
very worthwhile as everyone enjoyed them-
selves and raised a total of over £740 for the
Rag nominated charities.
3(BW 80(3
Festival of Purim
Keys: Haman, Esther, Hillel
Coming up next week, on Thursday 16th
March, is the festival of Purim. This festival
commemorates the rescue of the people from
the hands of Haman by Queen Esther and
Mordechai, when the people were living i n
Persia.
This is one of the most joyous festivals of
the year, because total destruction was avoid-
ed. On it, the book of Esther is read twice,
once at night and once i n the morning,
money is given to the poor, gifts of food are
given to friends and a large feast is had in the
evening. The tradition is to get dressed up,
wear masks and get very drunk, so much so
that you cannot tell the difference between
your friends and your enemies. T h i s is
because the positions were switched in the
story, and the role of G o d was hidden
throughout.
In honour of this festival, there is a
P u r i m Party i n H i l l e l House, Euston on
Wednesday 15th March. There will be service
beforehand, which commences at 8pm. For
those dressed regularly the price is £2, but for
those in fancy dress the price is just £1! So
come along dressed up, where there will be
alcohol, food and dancing aplenty.
That Friday, to mark the end of the
"Fifty Days for Fifty Years" project, there is
an evening meal in Hillel House, with a talk
by Ben Helfgot, an Auschwitz survivor. The
price is just £3.50 so please call the London
Region UJS office on 0171-388-4919 to book
your place. If you wish to stay over there are
facilities available.
Before all of these events, Hilary Curtis,
who works for the British Medical Council, is
coming to talk on the subject of Aids and
H I V i n the community. T h i s w i l l be on
Monday M a r c h 13th at 12.30 p m i n the
Management School, 53 Princes Gate. We
look forward to seeing you at all of these
events!!
For more details on any of these events,
or the Jewish Society, email jsoc@ic.ac.uk or
http://www.su.ic.ac.uk/clubs/societies/scc/jsoc
.htm
Q
G
O
O
Q
N o w That's Entertainment
Keys: Celidh, Comic, Ferret
More kicking than a week with Cantona,
more exciting than a Rosenthal hat-trick and
infinitely more attractive than Peter
Beardsley... the week ahead with I C U Ents.
Friday - Comic Relief
As premature as ever - a week early but it's
the thought that counts. A Rag/Ents Comic
Relief special event with many attractions
and tons of goodwill - watch out for those
posters for more details.
Sunday - Sing-a-Long.
A night of fun in the Union Bar, with a live
Sing-a-Long from that very nice Jamie (of
'The Ferret' fame) and free chilli potatoes
and popcorn - so why not do something a bit
different this weekend?
Monday - Live Football
Live football and a beer promotion i n D a
Vinci's.
Tuesday - Bar Quiz
As we kindly give Dan a night off for good
behaviour, we have quite a different night of
questions. The Time Out/K Cider Student
Challenge, with cases of K Cider and travel
prizes to be won, and it's free!
Wednesday - Club Spanque
Be a Spanquer. Club Spanque, 9pm-lam, free.
Thursday - Cocktail Night
Sophistication a go-go! A night of quality and
distinction - ICU's ever popular, excellent
value cocktail night.
Friday - Irish Celebration
A night of Irish celebration as I C U gives
itself over to shamrock shaped hedonism for
St Patrick's night. We start early with this
term's last Bust-a-Gut Comedy Club with
Matt Welcome, Tony Roach and Ian Stone.
Three top comedians for just £2.50 or £1.50.
If you're amongst the first 50 in you get a free
bottle of Newcastle Brown. 8pm.
Then, throw away your inhibitions with
top Celidh Band 'The Haymakers', on stage
at 11pm. A rabble rousingly good time is
guaranteed! To encourage your involvement,
Murphys will be £1 a pint while stocks last
and there'll be Irish food available. Don't be
bitter, just get there early!
IOmRR95 F E L I X H I

