Xtra Curricular Feature
Post-Graduate students and their problems -Pon_Adlington
Keys: Unboundedness, Romantic, Pragmatism, Strigmatic
Pressure: Should I cut the red wire or the blue wire?
Besides the normal life hazards to which all
students are exposed, advanced course and
research students can experience difficulties
which are more or less peculiar to them.
Research Students
When I first came to work in the university, I
naively assumed that I would not be seeing
many PhD students. I was wrong, and I have
talked to hundreds of them over the past 20
years, and continue to do so. I will simply list
the difficulties which arise most frequently in
practice.
• Misunderstandings, and occasionally
overt conflict between research student and
supervisor, are a potent source of anxiety and
distress. It is the salience of this relationship
which most sharply distinguishes the day-to-
day life of the research student from all other
students. Where it works well - and I have no
doubt that in the great majority of cases it
does - this relationship can be stimulating
and immensely productive, but conversely if
serious tensions arise things can become very
difficult.
• The essential 'unboundedness' of research
in both the ultimate scientific/philosophical
sense, and the more mundane 'how do I
structure my working day' sense seems to me
to be the other fundamental change which
the research student has to accept and cope
with. The need for pragmatism in putting a
boundary on a research project is sometimes
in tension with some sort of ideal in a studen-
t's mind, and this may throw up serous diffi-
culties at the writing-up stage. The slightly
perfectionist quality in some students' make-
up, which has served them well on taught
courses, can actually be something of a bur-
den at research level, where the capacity to
compromise is sometimes important.
• A capacity for tolerating the mundane is
not formally recognised as a required qualifi-
cation for PhD work, though I believe that it
is in fact so. Virtually all research students
have very good academic records, and moving
on to a P h D programme is the culmination of
long-held hopes and ambitions. There is (and
there should be) a strongly romantic element
to it. But the early stages of research can be
very unromantic and plodding - chasing up
equipment and other material resources; lit-
erature surveys; the failure of initial ideas for
research topics to crystallise - and it is easy to
become a little bit disillusioned and frustrat-
ed and to begin to question whether one has
made the right decision.
• Students who enjoyed a full social life
during their first degrees sometimes experi-
ence a powerful sense of physical and social
isolation when they move into research. This
varies according to the relative gregariousness
of the individual, and also depends strongly
on the ethos of the particular research group
in which he or she is working.
• Uncertainty about 'normal' working
hours and vagueness about entitlement to
leave give rise to bad feeling from time to
time. Most research students simply fit in to
an existing pattern, but some students find
that the existing pattern tends to eat into
time which they had previously seen as their
own. Partly for this reason, P h D students
sometimes feel that despite the name they are
not really students at all, and for reasons
which from their point of view may or may
not be valid, they effectively exclude them-
selves from participating in student life out-
side their laboratory or research group.
• Research students sometimes feel that
supervisors are not always sensitive to the
time parameters within which they are oper-
ating - parameters usually dictated by rigidly
restricted funding. Problems of time and
money are very acute and clearly predictable,
especially for some overseas students, some of
whom may have used up a third of their
assured funding following required taught
courses, before beginning research at all.
• From time to time a student comes to
recognise that the decision to do research,
made for impeccable motives, was in fact a
mistake. This perception may be shared by
the supervisor, an agreement having been
made that the student should disengage.
Even though this is accepted as the right
decision and in the student's own interests,
there is sometimes an irrational but very
powerful stigmatic sense of failure, which can
complicate other career initiatives.
There are a number of things to say
about all this. One of them is that most of the
potential sources of worry I have discussed
briefly here have long been recognised. Some
of them are dealt with very clearly in the col-
lege's booklet 'Research Students and
Supervisors; their 'Responsibilities and
Duties'. Research students should have a
copy - if not ask for one at the Registry.
Second, all research students have chosen to
do what they are doing, and what they are
doing should on the whole be satisfying and
certainly should not be the source of protract-
ed tension and anxiety.
Seeking help
The College Tutors - Dr Gareth Jones in
Physics and Dr Margaret Goodgame in
Chemistry - have a college-wide responsibili-
ty of the same kind as your supervisor and
may be approached directly.
However, there are other people in col-
lege on whom you can make demands - and I
am one of those. M y work is entirely confi-
dential. I can see people quickly - usually on
the same day - and I am paid to do nothing
else but talk to students. I strongly believe
that talking is very important in a crisis. It is
a relief in itself to talk through one's anxieties
- to share the worry if you like - in a safe
place. It is a way of identifying problems
clearly, and it sometimes throws up new ideas
for dealing with difficulties. My office is at IS
Princes Gardens, and my telephone number
(direct dialling) is 071 594 9430.- See last issue
of FELix/or more details on seeking help.
MM F E L I X iomnR95

