Inspiration has not been kind this week so I'm
scraping the bottom of the barrel here. These
two recipes are of my o w n design and therefore
favourites of mine. They're also exceedingly
easy to make, nice and green and fresh and
might even be knocking o n the door of heathy
eating. The name Brixton carbonara c a m e about
because I invented it in Brixton and it's got
cream in.
O h and by the way, both of these are sauces
meant to go with pasta.
Brixton Carbonara
You will need:
» 2 rashers of s m o k e d bacon
«" 1 small aubergine
•* 'A green pepper
* 2 cloves of garlic
^ '/z a small tub of thick cream
The first thing to d o is to slice the aubergine and
then cut the slices to make chips about W
thick. Put them in a bowl and sprinkle with lots
of salt as usual to remove as m u c h water as
possible. This will take about half an hour so
take your time with the rest of the prep.
Mter
Cut the bacon and the peppers into strips,
crush and chop the garlic. This is probably a
g o o d time to get the pasta on as cooking the
sauce won't take very long.
Rinse the aubergine thoroughly in plenty of
water, drain it and for best results dry in a tea
cloth.
Pour 3-4 tbl of olive oil into a pan and heat
at max power. W h e n the oil starts to smoke put
the aubergine, bacon and garlic in together. Stir
the mixture continuously so it doesn't stick and
burn. Turn the heat d o w n and continue to fry
gently for 10 minutes to make sure the
aubergine is properly cooked otherwise it tastes
astringent and not nice.
Then add the pepper (green) and a g o o d
pinch of ground pepper (black). Continue frying
for another 2-3 minutes and then add the
cream. Fold this into the mixture, leave until it
just starts boiling and immediately stir into the
pasta which you've just c o o k e d and drained.
Courgette Splat
You will need:
®- 1 courgette
»? 'A onion
*" 1 clove of garlic
Start off by grating the courgette with the
thin side of a cheese grater. Slice the onion as
finely as y o u can and crush and chop the garlic.
Put enough oil into a frying pan to cover the
base and heat up until it smokes as usual.
Throw in all the ingredients, turn the heat up as
far as it will go and stir like m a d . The courgette
will start to go soft and turn even brighter green.
M m m m m ! A d d a large pinch of salt and some
pepper. For an extra layer of flavour add a small
tablespoonful of chilli sauce (I don't like giving
products free advertising but nobody's given me
any money and 1 have to say Encona is way
ahead of the competition). Continue stirring
until the courgette has gone limp but not
mushy, 5 minutes total at most, and all is ready.
THOUGHT FOR THE DAY
Technology vs Art. Place your bets now.
"Turn that bloody TV off! G o out
and get some fresh air! Honestly,
we never watched TV in m y time!
W e used to read books! Have y o u
ever actually read a book?" O n and
on goes the tirade of the angry par-
ent. M o s t of the time, this well-
rehearsed piece of m e l o d r a m a is
used, not for any philanthropic or
caring purposes which might gen-
uinely benefit the harassed off-
spring in question, but for the real-
isation of more selfish ends. These
usually fall into the category of
either a) Ready Steady C o o k is on
and they're w o n d e r i n g what to
make for dinner, or b) Richie
Benaud is demonstrating four dif-
ferent types of leg-spin delivery on
BBC2 and it's something that the
breadwinner of the household has
always wanted to be able to do, but
never got round to reading a book
about it. Perhaps he was too busy
watching television. This, however,
just demonstrates the allure of
today's forms of entertainment
when introduced to youngsters. In
modern society, increasingly less
and less effort is required for one
to enjoy oneself as the rate of
growth of technology seems pro-
portional to the rate of growth of
adolescents' waistlines. M i d d l e -
class pursuits have deviated away
from such cultured leviathans as
the theatre, literature, art and sport
towards hobbies which are theoret-
ically more exciting and exhilarat-
ing, but in practice are probably just
less hassle. Let's consider a few
cases in point:-
Theatre, you're d e a d . Willy
Shakespeare, for all his soulful,
telling a n d really very accurate
analysis of the human mind, social
intercourse, love, hate and the rest
of it, as well as his going a long way
towards shaping a definitive ver-
sion of the English language, would
probably spin a full 900 degrees in
his grave to learn that kids these
days w o u l d rather watch
Neighbours. Although y o u could
forward quite valid arguments
regarding the differing social places
o c c u p i e d by light and "heavy"
entertainment, and point out that
lots of kids still love going to see
pantomimes, my argument might
nevertheless constitute an explana-
tion as to why arts graduates have
extreme difficulty getting jobs
involving anything other than
squirting ketchup o n t o 100%
flamegrilled pryon patties. Even
actors themselves are being
replaced by silicon equivalents: the
cost of the stadium scene from the
film Forrest G u m p was reduced
considerably by hiring a fraction of
the extras required to fill the stadi-
um, putting them in their seats, and
then electronically duplicating them
around the whole arena. Regular
readers will also have learned of my
passion for Resident Evil 2, the
intro for which is so scarily lifelike
that within ten years films will prob-
ably be made starring digital actors
indistinguishable from real ones.
RADA, you have been warned.
Literature, you've p o p p e d your
clogs. Although this is not entirely
true (some might say not true at
all), as virtually everyone I know
enjoys a g o o d thought-provoking
read from time to time, I reckon
the early bird that is the micro-
processor has gobbled up quite a
few potential bookworms. The fact
remains that thousands of playsta-
tions are sold every day, and peo-
ple playing these must necessarily
spend less time doing other stuff.
The stereotypical computer nerd is
but another example of the decay-
ing effect of the computer. 1 was
o n c e speaking to a psychology
graduate w h o told me that a study
conducted into the social effects of
arcade m a c h i n e s s h o w e d that
s o m e teenagers were forming rela-
tionships with their favourite
arcade cabinets which were direct-
ly equivalent to the friendships that
they really should be making with
other boys and girls. I'm sorry, but I
refuse to believe that Chun-Li is
really that g o o d looking.
There y o u have it. Technology,
like fire and water, is a fantastic
low-cost servant, but a very soul-
less, draining and stagnating mas-
ter. You lot reading this will gradu-
ate, and ultimately be responsible
for h o w the above changes are
implemented. 1 implore y o u , here
and now, to keep the dream alive..
All Campbell

