ICLUBS AND SOCIETIES
Consoc
Consoc, the College's biggest political society,
has invited London MP, Vivian Bendall, to its
stall at Tuesday's Freshers' Fair. He will be
there to answer any questions you may have
on the Conservative Party and Government
policy both nationally and in London. Don't
miss this unique opportunity to speak directly
to a member of the Government. Also read
Consoc's Freshers' Handbook, distributed
free to all freshers and join the most dynamic
political society in College. If you have any
questions, don't hesitate to contact me
through the Chem Eng letter-racks. See you
on Tuesday, or at our Wine and Cheese Party
on Monday, October 12 at 6:30pm in Mech
Eng 702, where you can meet your new local
M P , M r Peter Brooke.
William Cortazzi
Chem Eng 3 (Chairman)
Industrial
By now, you may have already seen some of
the Industrial Society magazines floating
around College. If you want to join come along
to Freshers' Fair and pick up a form from our
stall. We will also give you a diary of the
autumn term's events.
Our first venture this year, took place in
August when fourteen of us visited a Shell gas
rig, thirty miles from the Norfolk coast. This
was enjoyed by a l l , even the legendary
Michelin man and his mechanical marvel.
T h e first e v e n t t h i s t e r m will be a
presentation by two people from the Industrial
Society headquarters, Julia Cleverdon and
Peter Nessbitt, which will take place in Chem
Eng LT1 at 6:00pm on Tuesday, October 13. I
hope to see you there!
Red Cross
The imperial College Red Cross Society exists
to train staff and students in the basics of First
Aid and Nursing and to uphold the traditions
of the International Red Cross which is the
largest voluntary organisation in the world.
This term we will be arranging courses in First
A i d and N u r s i n g w h i c h are open to all
members of the College and will enable you to
gain a good working knowledge of these skills.
Our courses are informal and entertaining and
lead to a standard government recognised
First Aid or Nursing Certificate.
Here at IC we have a large active uniformed
detachment of trained First Aid personnel who
provides First Aid and Nursing assistance
throughout the London area as required. We
are fortunate in possessing a fully equipped
Ford Transit ambulance which is regularly
used to transport elderly and disabled people
all over the country and to stand by at sport
events, race meetings, etc, where First Aid
may be required. We work in close conjunction
with the College Health Centre and the vehicle
is used to attend any accident or emergency
within the College campus. Would you like to
train to drive and man this vehicle? If so please
do come and see us at Freshers' Fair and to
our introductory meeting on Thursday next,
October 8, at 6:00pm in the Bot/Zoo Common
Room (which is on the left under the archway
leading to the Union Building), where we will
show some films, tell you all about the Red
Cross and hopefully provide you with some
light refreshments. This meeting will also give
you tin opportunity to ensure your place in this
term's First Aid and Nursing courses.
Our Nursing course which is held at the
Health Centre, 14 Princes Gdns, commences at
6:00pm on Monday, October 12. This will be
an eight week, two-hourly course under Miss
Pat Kilshaw, S R N , Principal Nursing Oficer of
th Health Centre.
The First A i d course c o m m e n c e s on
T h u r s d a y , O c t o b e r 15, at 6:00pm in the
Bot/Zoo Common room and consists of six,
two and a half hour sessions under Red Cross
Instructors and a visiting doctor.
Come and see us on the Queens Lawn at
Freshers' Fair and at the introductory meeting
next Thursday.
Science Fiction
Hail fellow S F lovers (or even likers). Do we
have a term for you! After seeing us at the
Freshers' Fair, you can come to our films:
Alien (October 13, F R E E to members); 2001
(November 10); and Bedazzled (December 8)
The latter two will be 20p to members, and all
films 50p to non-members. This means that if
you want to see all three films you save £1.10
for your £1 membership, i.e. you get more than
your money back on this term alone.
M e m b e r s h i p also entitles you to cheap
copies of our fanzine, N M E , free use of our
extensive(ish) library, and a chance to play silly
games (eg S F Call My Bluff and Superhero's
What's My Line). Also, join us at conventions,
B S F A meetings, etc.
See you, Elsie, Sorter of Chaos.
ICCAG
One quality apparently important in an IC
student is apathy. B U T changes are on their
way. Through the Action Group you can
fight back and do something constructive!
Amongst activities last year were: blood
d o n i n g ; b u i l d i n g a d v e n t u r e p l a y g r o u n d s ;
draughtproofing old peoples houses; helping in
a play group; concerts in hospitals; and, IC's
famous soup run! Don't miss the Freshers'
Soup Run (This Tuesday night, meeting in
Falmouth Kitchen at 10:30pm). Find out how
much fun it is, driving round London in a
cramped van (great way to get to meet some
new people) with soup slopping around your
feet, then finding that London's down and outs
are not what you expected.
If you have any questions or ideas, come
and have a chat at the I C C A G stall at
Freshers' Fair and watch out in FELIX for
future events. Y o u don't have to come to
everything, just turn up when you can.
Make the effort and fight apathy at IC! See
you soon!
Judo
The first Judo Club session will be held at
6:30pm on Tuesday, October 13 in the G y m .
on the second level of the Union Building.
Everybody from beginners upwards is
welcome. If you don't own a Judogi (judo suit)
bring along an old rugby shirt and a pair of
trousers.
We will be holding a demonstration in the
G y m during the Freshers' Fair, so if you think
you might be interested in Judo come along,
talk to some of our members and watch the
demonstration. If you can't make it to the
Freshers' Fair, just turn up to any practice
session (Tuesday or Thursday, 6:30pm, Gym)
or contact Martin Johnson, via Metallurgy
letter-racks.
Gliding
I C G C aims to cater for anyone who is
i n t e r e s t e d in gliding, whether they are
complete novices (as most people are when
they start) or experienced cross-country pilots
(which most keen beginners can attain after
only a couple of years flying), whether they
merely want to enjoy themselves or whether
they have their eyes set on the next world
championships! For the first two weekends of
term (10-11 and 17-18 October) we have
arranged for two, dual-control gliders to be
made available at Lasham, for anyone who is
interested in finding out about gliding. To find
out more about these weekends (eg, cost and
travel arrangements) and any other aspect of
gliding come along to our first meeting of term
of Thursday, October 8, at 5:30pm in Aero
266, when an introductory film and talk will be
given. Alternatively you will always be most
welcome to any of our meetings, every other
Thursday in Aero 254 at 5:30pm.
W h o s e h a n d is t h i s ?
It's the hand of the oldest man in the World,
One hundred and fifteen years old, he
lived through the period of H.G. Wells'
meteoric rise to fame. He was privileged
to have lived in the era of "The War of
the Worlds" and "The Shape of Things
to Come" and a period of rapid scientific Jl***/^**- , « « g
advancement and discovery the likes of ^ v+<3k
which the world will never witness again.
Such a shame he lived on the top of a ^
mountain in the Andes and couldn't
read.
But had he been a student at IC with
two A's and a B he would have probably
enjoyed H.G. Wells Society's highly
illuminating and entertaining lectures
every Monday night.
Don't miss Wellsoc's first lecture
"Facts and Fallacies in Science" by Prof
E r i c Laithwatte, our P r e s i d e n t , on
October 12.
t
C
^
>
t*C««^v tf*. f**yr*>
4C*«.(" tU+wff&*4.*J
i'f-V-'-J-Kj--.-'' -vwiJlAt^huH.
FELIX, October 5, 1981 Page 11

