1. Choice of half-price Student Railcard or
£5 Book Token
2. Cheque Card when you bank
your first grant cheque with us
3. Free banking - even if you overdraw up to £50
4. Cashpoint card
5. 35% off The Economist
OnlyLloydsBank
offersnewstudents
allthesebenefits
Ifyou're going to be afirstyear full-time student,
you'll need all the help you can get when you start
university or college. So when you open an account at
Lloyds, we'll offer you an unbeatable exchange of
benefits especially planned to meet the needs of new
students
Ifyou open your current account before
31st October 1981, we'll give you a voucher to buy your
British Rail Student Railcard at 50% off- a saving of £5!
Or, ifyou prefer, a £5 Book Token.
When you pay in your LEA or SED grant
cheque and are 18 or over, we'll give you a Cheque
Card to guarantee your cheques up to £50.
While you are a student we'll handle your^
current account free of normal bank charges
provided you stay in credit-even ifyou
arrange to overdraw by up to £50 you'll
still pay no bank charges, but you will
have to pay interest on any money
you borrow. (Writteri details of our
credit tmro available on request.)
You'll also get a Cashpoint card to withdraw
cash quickly at more than 700 places around Great
Britain, including college campuses. Many are open
outside normal banking hours and hundreds are
availablefromMonday to Saturday.
Plus 35% off the subscription price of 1
1 issues
of The Economist-you pay just £5. This offer is open
to all students who are Lloyds customers.
The staff at any Lloyds Bank branch will be
happy to explain how we can help you
manage your money efficiently during your
time as a student, and beyond.
We hope you'll agree that, when
you have to make every pound stretch a
long, long way, our special package of
benefits for new students is very attractive.
Find out more at the sign of the
Black Horse.
Railcard voucher and Book Token offers
I not available at Lloyds Bank {tranches
in Scothmd.
:S<. R;ink Limited,
nrnkird Street/London E C 3 P 3BS.
A t t h e s i g n o f t h e B l a c k H o r s e

