CLUBS AND SOCIETIES
Chess
Just a short note to all you past and
prospective Chess Club members to tell you of
our early events. The Chess Club will now be
open every lunchtime 12:30T:30pm, and all
Tuesday afternoon (during Freshers' Fair),
and Wednesday afternoon. We are in the
Brown Committee Room on level three of-
the Union Building (turn left out of the lift). If
you are interested, please come along and
have a game (of chess). Also on Monday,
October 12 at 6:30pm, in theChessClub,there
will be a Freshers' Lightning Tournament—
absolutely, free—for anyone wanting to play for
the College.
Methodist
Welcome to Methsoc—your local, friendly
Methodist Society (and not the society for
'pink cocktail' drinkers). We meet every
Wednesday for a talk, discussion or social;
with lunch always provided. Speakers we have
invited for this term include two ministers from
Hinde Street, and David Winwood from
M A Y C .
Other activities for this term include weekly
prayer meetings/bible studies, trips to the
cinema and theatre and a visit to London Zoo
(to return our Chaplain). We also hope to
leave bustling London for a weekend away so
that mind, body and spirit may be replenished.
Methsoc will be represented at Freshers'
Fair in the guise of a human coffee machine.
Take a break from aimlessly wandering around
the mass of stalls for a free cup of coffee and
find out what Methsoc is all about.
On Wednesday, October 7, we are having
our first meeting of the year at which you will
be able to sample our unique lunch (free to all
first timers) and get to know old and new
members as well as Methsoc itself.
Anti-Apartheid
Welcome to IC. You have, no doubt, heard of
apartheid which, as an Afrikaans word, means
'separate development' but, in reality, spells a
system of vicious oppression of the blacks in
South Africa. Such a policy of deliberate
discrimination against a racial group,
enshrined in the constitution of a state, has not
been seen anywhere in the world since the
time of the Nazis.
But isn't South Africa so far away from IC?
Why bother about apartheid when, after all,
you are here to get a degree? Well, since you
are intelligent enough to make your way here,
it seems likely that you are also capable of
attaching a meaning to 'world peace', etc, and
that you occassionally think of other things
apart from your academic subjects.
Many students here, who belong to the Anti
Apartheid Group, believe it is basically unfair
to condemn a man to a life of misery and
oppression simply, and irrationally, because
his skin colour is of the "wrong" type. We also
know, from recent European history, that a
ruthlessly executed policy of race hatred has
the capacity to throw the whole world in a.
state of war and conflict. This is not a political
view. It is essentially a 'human' problem. Thus,
membership of the Anti-Apartheid Group
includes socialists and liberals, religious people
On Friday we might make an adventurous
trip to outer suburbia and visit Richmond ice-
rink. Details at Wednesday's meeting.
Saturday meet at 3:00pm by Queens Tower
(gives you time to go tiddlywinking) for an epic
journey across the vast expanses of Hyde
P a r k , t h r o u g h t h e m a z e of L o n d o n ' s
sidestreets to Hinde Street; the home of our
beloved Chaplain. He will come forth and
serve some culinary delight, after which we will
escape into the world of the cinema.
All Wednesday meetings are held in 9a
Princes Gardens (above Nightline). Everyone
is welcome. For further details please contact
Steve Palmer, C h e m Eng 3, through the Chem
Eng letter-racks.
CND
O n October 26 1980, 80,000 people came
together in L o n d o n to m a r c h under the
banners of C N D . T h e y came from many
different branches of politics and society, to
protest against the continuance of the arms
race and especially the new developments of
Cruise missiles and Trident submarines. Since
then a European-wide movement has grown
up which has shown the massive grassroots
support for disarmament throughout the
continent.
Saturday, October 24 is the date chosen
thisyear for another such demonstraton. The
I C C N D G r o u p , founded after last year's
march, is helping to organise a series of films
and speakers around this day. This will again
be an o p p o r t u n i t y for everyone at I C to
consider some of the issues involved and
perhaps a chance to join and help run I C C N D .
The success of this group depends on your
involvement.
The introductory meeting for the group will
be early in the term—look out for the notices,
see us at Freshers' Fair or contact me, Martin
C a s e y , P h y s i c s P G (int 4183) or J o h n
Waterworth, C C D 2.
as well as agnostics, a n d several others
without a label who abhor race hatred and
neo-Nazism.
You may want to join the Anti-Apartheid
Group out of sympathy for the oppressed
people of South Africa. This is commendable.
But an equally important consideration is that
of enlightened self-interest. Who doesn't know
today how inter-connected the whole human
race is? It doesn't even require a war in the
Gulf for oil prices to rise all over the world. So
what will happen to you if (or when) the
holocaust comes to South Africa? Because the
blacks in South Africa desire freedom as much
as other people elsewhere—by peaceful means
if p o s s i b l e , a n d if n o t , by a n y m e a n s
necessary—apartheid will surely crumble.
Already many Africans in South Africa who
have attempted to use peaceful channels to
effect change have been " b a n n e d " , shot,
i m p r i s o n e d , or e x i l e d to the n o t o r i o u s
Robbens Island. Perhaps the best known is
Nelson Mandela. School children who have
protested against oppression were shot down
in Soweto by the South African government.
A n d only recently S o u t h Africa invaded
Angola in a reckless exercise that could have
led to the involvement of at least one major
world power. Do you need further persuasion
of the ugliness and danger of apartheid?
Yes or no, we'd like to see you at Freshers'
Fair, or later on in some of our functions. Last
year we made some impact. Let's have your
support this year, have a nice stay at IC!
Makean appointment with the
AFRO-CARIBBEAN
SOCIETY
Freshers' Reception
FRIP/W. O
C
T
O
B
E
R 9
* BaH £ Prit\k& ,Mech try hbt|er,6P .m
# F i l m 5hew:
A Warm December, M
e
c
K E
n
<
? 12.0,
Jewish
What are the mysterious 8th and 9th
stories?
If you have read the Freshers' Handbook you
may have seen the "seven stages" in my article
based on the/creation story. (You haven't?
Well do go and read it. Hours of hard work
went into these few paragraphs.) N o w anyone
who has peruse d the opening verses of
Genesis know that the creation took place in
seven days. Notwithstanding this, Imperial
College Jewish Society, stopping at nothing to
use an unoriginal theme for a Freshers' F E L I X
article, proudly announces that we do not stop
at seven stages. There exists an eighth stage
and a ninth stage. If you want to be given the
eighth stage (it's subtle hint time) or to find out
what the ninth stage is then come to the
Jewish Society stand in the Freshers' Fair. For
now I shall say no more hoping to see you
there.
Jonathan M Miller
U N I V E R S I T Y C H A L L E N G E !
Are you a budding intellectual ready to make a
complete fool of youself on TV? If so contact Jen in
the Union Office by October 16 to enter yourself
for selection for the great Imperial College Univer-
sity Challenge team. The team will be selected by a
written test using University Challenge type ques-
tions.
The British Red Cross Society
Meetings and Courses
Thursday, October 8
Introductory evening—talk on the R e d
Cross in Britain and particularly at I C ,
together with films and light refresh-
ment.
Bot/Zoo Common Room, 6:00pm.
Monday, October 12
S t a r t of 8 - w e e k , 2 - h o u r l y n u r s i n g
courses leading to Red Cross Nursing
Certificate.
Health Centre, 14 Princes Gdns, at 6pm
Thursday, October 15
Start of a 6-week, 2l
/2 hourly First A i d
course leading to R e d Cross First A i d
Certificate.
Meeting and courses are open to all
staff and students of Imperial College.
For further information contact Roger
Serpell, Aero Dept, Int 3707.
FELIX, October 5, 1981 Page 13

