F E L I X S C I E N C E 1 0 '
Cannabis: A scientist's view
Cannabis usage
The pros
- Alcohol and tobacco are more addictive.
- It can help make various medical conditions
more bearable to live with, for example can-
cer, HIV, MS, glaucoma.
- Cannabis appears to be good for the heart.
The cannabis plant
The cons
- Cannabis is psychologically addictive.
- Users can show aggressive behaviour when
in withdrawal.
- Cannabis use could lead to 'harder' drugs.
- It has a higher tar content than tobacco and
so has a higher risk of lung cancer.
- Users can have trouble controlling blood
pressure and so are prone to fainting.
A scientific history
The cannabis drug is from the plant Cannabis
Indica, probably first found in India and relat-
ed to nettles. It has been grown for 'medicinal
and recreational' purposes for thousands of
years. Most of British cannabis resin ('black',
'soapbar', 'hash') comes in from Morocco, with
the herbal cannabis ('grass', 'weed', 'skunk')
coming in mainly from Jamaica. There is an
increasing trend for 'homegrown' cannabis.
Most cannabis is smoked, often along with
tobacco, but it can be eaten, often with much
stronger effects. These effects include
increased talkativeness, relaxation and height-
ened experiences of sound and colour.
The main psychoactive ingredient in
cannabis is called THC, but this is only one of
over 400 chemicals. THC interferes with brain
functions by producing signals very similar to
that of the brain's neurotransmitters, but with
a random pattern. The effects last for about
four hours and there is no 'hangover' as such.
Sometimes the effects of a high cannabis
dose can be unpleasant, producing hallucina-
tions, panic, paranoia and nausea. Some users
have short-term memory loss because the
parts of the brain controlling memory have
been disrupted. Some research has suggested
that prolonged use can permanently affect the
memory and the ability to learn.
Cannabis smokers inhale far more tar than
tobacco smokers and so there is an increased
risk of lung cancer.
Currently cannabis in its herbal and resin
form is a class B drug carrying a penalty of up
to five years in jail for possession. The Home
Secretary, David Blunkett has, however,
recently suggested moving it down to class C,
and experimental schemes have been intro-
duced in some areas to relax police regulation
of the drug
Medicinal uses of
cannabis
It seems likely that soon the British
Government will introduce legislation to allow
the use of cannabis for medicinal purposes. It
has been shown to help reduce nausea associ-
ated with chemotherapy, help increase the
'Skunk'
appetite of AIDs sufferers, help relieve eye
pressure for people with glaucoma, and to help
relieve muscle pain.
The condition that cannabis has been asso-
ciated the most with is Multiple Sclerosis. MS
is incurable and sufferers have balance prob-
lems, muscle spasms, incontinence and
tremors. A large number of sufferers have said
that cannabis helps ease these symptoms, par-
ticularly spasms, pain and bladder control. But
many are breaking the law while attempting to
ease their suffering.
Doctors can prescribe Nabilone, containing
THC, but patients complain about 'getting
stoned', because the pain relieving ingredients
have yet to be separated from the 'mind bend-
ing' ones.
For more information see bbc.co.uk/science
Research proposal competition:
"Why I need 16 contact lens holders"
Winner - Wai-mei Chan
In response to angry farmers, grounds-men
and gardeners, a research opportunity has aris-
en in the prevention/minimisation of crop and
flowerbed damage by moles. I propose to
select 16 moles to experiment (humanely)
upon from a mole community. The aim will be
to train them to apply their contact lenses once
they have surfaced and ascertain whether they
have disturbed a place of agricultural/horticul-
tural significance or a designated mole habitat.
If they find that they have done the latter they
will know that they can dig more extensive bur-
rows there, however if not, they will know to
leave that site as delicately as possible, never
to return, and pass the message onto other
moles.
As contact lenses will be easily scratched
and damaged in the harsh conditions of a bur-
row under construction, it is necessary to have
funding for 16 contact lens holders, which can
be attached to the moles via utility belts. (The
lenses being funded by the Moles' protection
league). Let me prove that people and moles
can live together in peace.
science.felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

