TP
F E L I X 11
Atomic clocks
We'll meet in a moment... err... in 5,345669543 seconds
The current most accurate clock (NIST-F1 foun-
tain clock) neither gains nor loses a second in
nearly 20 million years. Rather accurate. To
understand how this super clock reaches such
accuracy let's first remind ourselves what a
clock is. All clocks have two basic components:
The nist-1 clock
a constant process to mark the increments of
time and a means of keeping track of the incre-
ments. For example, your grandfather's pendu-
lum clock increments time with the oscillation
mechanism of the pendulum. Christian Huygens
(a Dutch scientist) made the first one in 1656
and its error was less than one minute a day.
While Huygens' clock (or your grandfather's
pendulum clock) is a mechanical clock, the
atomic clock is a quantum-mechanical clock. In
other words, its working is based on quantum
physics (physics of the ultra small). Essentially,
the incremental component is given by the radi-
ation frequency that causes the maximum tran-
sitions of the clock's atoms (NIST-F1 uses
Caesium 133) to another state. In English?
Well... According to quantum mechanics, sub-
atomic particles can only exist in discrete states
and not at in between states (electrons have two
hyperfine states). Generally, an atom remains in
its hyperfine state. But when prodded by elec-
tromagnetic radiation at a specific frequency, it
will switch to the other state. For Caesium the
specific radiation frequency is 9,192,631,770.
Or in other words, when the radiation frequency
is 9,192,631,770 a maximum number of
Caesium atoms undergo a "hyperfine state"
transition. As frequency is expressed in [s-1]
(per second) it is obvious (...hopefully) that the
9,192,631,770 beats define exactly 1 second.
The idea of using hyperfine states for a clock
was first proposed by U.S. physicist Isador Rabi
in 1945.
After this preamble, you can now understand
that an atomic clock: 1) filters atoms by select-
ing those in one hyperfine state, 2) radiates the
selected atoms by microwaves, 3) measures
how many changed atoms there are (fluores-
cence detection), 4) tunes the microwave gen-
erator to the frequency that causes the maxi-
mum transitions. This optimal frequency (or
number of oscillations) represents 1 second.
So now why do we need such accuracy?
Innumerable communication and navigation
systems as well as synchronising systems
(between computers,...) rely on it. One exam-
ple is the GPS (Global Positioning Satellites)
system. GPS determine the position of a receiv-
er anywhere on Earth by timing the arrival sig-
nals from four GPS satellites and doing a quick
calculation to triangulate its position. Each
Clocks clocks clocks...
nanosecond (billionth of a second) of error
translates into a GPS error of one foot. Thus
each of the 24 GPS satellites contains four
atomic clocks.
More information on clocks:
http://physics.nist.gov/Genlnt/Time/time.html
Want to check your computer's clock against
the official U.S. atomic clock?
http://www.time.gov/
Frangoise Mei
Research proposal competition cont.:
Runner Up (sorry no prize but I thought I'd print it) - Edward Hunt
Inspired by the character "Eyeball Paul" from
the Kevin and Perry movie, I have devised an
experiment to establish whether drinking shots
through your eyes really does get you drunk
faster than conventional consumption.
First I will round up 32 sober imperial stu-
dents (!) and lead them to my underground lab.
Each will be thoroughly examined in mental
coordination using the classic book "1001
Tricky Tongue-Twisters for Kids". They will then
in turn be given a small amount of alcohol (left-
over undrinkable Tesco Value Vodka). Half will
be given ordinary shot glasses and half will be
given contact lens cases full of vodka. These
cases (which must be the double ended type)
will be ideal for delivering a swift alcohol shot
to each eye. Each sucker will, after their shot,
be given a twenty minute exam in tongue-
twister dexterity by my lovely assistants. It will
be noted, for each subject, how long after the
shot it took for their mental abilities to drop.
The expected outcome of these tests will rev-
olutionise the drinks industry. I will release a
new line of spirit packaging based on lens case
design and become fabulously, fabulously rich.
The remaining profits will go to Imperial
College, removing any need to merge with any-
bugger, ever. Result!
Inspired by these wacky ideas? For the next
issue, with a prize of a £10 HMV token, tell sci-
ence.felix@ic.ac.uk why you need 30 bicycle
helmets...
science.felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

