C O F F E E B R E A K F E L I X
M K I I by Bobby Cyclops & Dr Hot Fudge
T H E G R E A T F E L I X Q U O T E S Q U I Z
T H E QUOTES H A M M I N G S
1. "Cover me, Porkins!"
2. "Sweeping patrols between each of these bunkers - they'll have the
whole sector wrapped tighter than an Eskimo's nad-sac."
3. "When things are at their darkest, pal, it's a brave man that can kick
back and party."
4. "Remember you told me to tell you when you were acting rudely and
insensitively? Remember that? You're doing it right now."
5. "Nobody fucks with me!"
—"Well, maybe if you find the right girl"
6. "Crazy! I mean like so many positive waves maybe we can't lose!
You're on!"
7. "There are three rules I live by: never get less than 12 hours sleep,
never play cards with a guy who has the same first name as a city,
and never get involved with a woman with a tattoo of a dagger on
her body."
8. "In Paris, it's good to smell like you've been fucking"
9. "I'm also known as, uh, Benny the Groin, Sammy the Schnazz,
Elmer the Fudd, Tubby the Tuba, and once as Miss Phyllis Levine."
Bonus Question. In what Bond film was his family motto revealed?
(1 point)
A N S W E R S T O G F Q Q 1 2 4 7
1. Prot/Kevin Spacey - K-PAX
2. Garth Algar/Dana Carvey - Wayne's World
3. Thulsa Doom/James Earl Jones - Conan the Barbarian
4. Rigby Reardon/Steve Martin - Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid
5. Philip Marlowe/Humphrey Bogart - The Big Sleep
6. Charlie/Jim Carrey - Me, Myself & Irene
7. Dr. Hannibal Lecter/Anthony Hopkins - Red Dragon
8. George W. Elam/Biggs - Commando
9. Donnie/Jake Gyllenhaal - Donnie Darko
10. Joe Friday/Dan Akroyd - Dragnet
11. Winston Zeddemore/Ernie Hudson - Ghostbusters
A dark cloud looms over the Felix office - it is the ferric colour of a dirty
pint, and is chanting "come to the pub, come to the pub" over and over
again. A sentient gas you say? I say a Class III full roaming vapour, and
a real nasty one at that. We'd better charge the proton packs and crack
open the trap soon, or our ass is grass... alternatively we could knock off
to the bar. In either case I must finish this paragraph eventually - and
there is no time like the present (unless you happen to be a resident of
Hill Valley, which I'm not). Forgive my ramblings, for, despite the mis-
leading title, we aim to educate, captivate and stimulate you in this short
burst of literary diarrhoea. Let me first let you in on a little secret...soon
there will be a new player of Ultraleague, but it will not be human. Allow
me to explain - for the last few months we have been constructing a quiz
playing intelligent algorithm which goes by the acronym G.I.Z. (for rea-
sons which will become apparent in later issues). G.I.Z. has been quiet-
ly watching you readers, evaluating your weaknesses...waiting. Watch
out for him. Time is passing and I have said too much, but let me add
this...I can't stress enough the importa- B.C.
Sorry about that readers, he managed to sneak some smarties in with
his medicine this morning so he's not fully dosed up. There will be no
more talk of this algorithm character, it will be a cold day in hell before
I see G.I.Z. on my page. H.F.
& BLOW
BY OUR TOP STYLISTS
£20 LADIES
£17 MEN
Normal Price i$5
A
C
C
E
S
S V
I
S
A M
A
S
T
E
R
C
A
R
D C
A
S
H C
H
E
Q
U
E
S
'Still the best student offer!
15a Harrington Road
South Kensington
London SW73ES
(1 Minutt walk from
South Ktnsinpon Tubij
Telephone 020 7823 8968
coffee.felix@ic.ac.uk The Great Felix Quotes Quiz

