F E L I X
Felix Crossword 1248
U I I I I M I I I I I By Mummy Huffwell
tm mmmmm/w
Across Down
1 You also desire rise. (7) 1 Extreme sport is surprising-
5 Jesus himself ate fish. (5) ly absorbed by Lawn
8 Rant about station plan Tennis Association. (5)
during move. (15) 2 Comedian Laurel fooled
9 Checker of sound has time with dessert. (5,2)
to repeat. (7) 3 Dish: Two ducks with bone
10 Leaves strapped, returns stir fried. (7)
without penny. (9) 4 Growth achieved by big
11 Pop sore angrily before blokes in a strange num-
barrel maker picks up ber. (11)
crap. (6,7) 5 Wash hair in fake shit, we
12 Nasty Ken rucked with lust hear. (7)
for weapon. (13) 6 Arouse and rightly raise
17 Fashioned country under- part of tackle. (7)
garment is most sophisti- 7 Suction is erratic inside air
cated. (7) conditioner. (7)
18 Biting sounds like it's 10 Problem hoover captivates
expensive to college. (7) one after pleasure, about
20 Behind the Spanish prop, time! (11)
hide fictional character. 12 Bird smells wafted with
(15) tender loving. (7)
21 Public bathing beaches 13 Defenceless man rued
provide solid experience. attack. (7)
(5) 14 Custodians (Queens) are
22 Streakers shockingly stun after middle of castle. (7)
Sid. (7) 15 Relative penetrating the
editor is reproached. (7)
16 A king hidden in wild trees
shoots again. (7)
19 Ice cream held by trick
paper. (5)
It's hard to say for whom the horn extraction was more painful.
Having retreated to Sarcophagus Huffwell in anticipation of a long
quiet holiday with Boris at the crossword reins, imagine my sur-
prise to be woken by frantic knocking on the lid. Finding it hard to
believe that I could have pulled for the ninth time that day, I got
out slowly.
It was on the way to A&E that I was put in the picture. Boris the
Inquisitive Goat had, it transpired, got a bit too inquisitive whilst
out grazing the streets of London, and rightfully paid the price.
Although somewhat irresponsibly wearing an T-shirt suggesting
that Boris's type might not be unwelcome sexually, you do have to
absolve the recipient of one of Boris's rather large and pointed
appendages from all blame. The upshot of all this is that your
favourite goat will be recuperating for some while. Next week help
is at hand in the form of a hunky tanned warrior, or at an outside
chance, a can of dog food. Obviously I'm hoping for the former.
This week's winner is Tigger Sempers, Chemistry III, who emailed
in her answers. Had she brought them to the office in Beit Quad
West basement she may have glimpsed the delicious Bobby
Cyclops, motivation for anyone to solve a crossword. MH
Answers to 1247
Across: Aphorism, Gadget, Sordid, Language, Downcast,
Tuvalu, Reins, Overreach, Detention, About, Raider, Knapsack,
Cup of Tea, Tribal, Spread, Litigate.
Down: Propose, Ordinance, Indian, Molotov Cocktail, Geniture,
Guarana, Trebuchet, Redirection, Embossing, Iterates, Tripper,
Up Coast, Past It.
coffee.felix@ic.ac.uk Make sure all entries have your name, department and year clearly marked

