0 4 F E L I X
Lord Mayor's Show
The first Lord Mayor's Show was in 1215,
after King John had granted a Charter allow-
ing the City's citizens to elect their own
mayor. The Charter stipulated that the new
mayor must be presented to the Sovereign for
approval and to swear loyalty to the Crown.
Saturday 9th November 2002 saw the 675th
Lord Mayor's Show and City & Guilds College
Union once again co-ordinated an entry on
behalf of Imperial College. This year's float
celebrated the 100th birthday of Boanerges,
affectionately known as Bo1
, one of the vin-
tage vehicle mascots of the Faculty of
Engineering.
Generators purred into life, lights lit up, silk
flames started billowing around and the air
around the float was filled with floating voic-
es whispering "testing" into the microphone.
The rest of the students accompanying the
float began to trickle in, including members
of Skate Soc (on skates...) and Juggling Club
(to juggle). After 1 lam the float finally began
to move off, edging forward with Clementine
and Jezebel bringing up the rear. Clem
appeared to find itself the chosen base for
STOIC, who were along to film the event.
In true Imperial College fashion one of our
generators chose this particular moment to
fail, shutting down the all important sound
system (probably much to the relief of the
marching band in front). With panic rapidly
setting in as we pulled out into the main pro-
cession Bo' and Derrick set out to make up
for the absence of sound with quick-fire
usage of their horns while enthusiastic stu-
dents scrambled over the float to try and
repair the broken generator (we are engi-
neers, after all). A few minutes later this plan
of attack was abandoned and the team start-
ed to work on moving the sound system over
to the other generator. The lights and silk
flames were reluctantly unplugged, leaving
four hideously expensive pieces of silk hang-
ing forlornly across the side of the float.
Inevitably the wires were too short and the
power plugs in the wrong place, but eventu-
ally the sound system came back to life and
everyone on the float was able to breath a
sigh of relief.
The rest of the parade went almost without
incident, with Honourary Secretary Dan
Lehmann calling the 'Boomalaka' to welcome
the new Lord Mayor as we passed his stand.
The weather held out surprisingly well given
the torrential rain the day before and the
crowd lining the streets were entertained by
the antics of Skate Soc (equipped with their
Fred and Barney Flintstone costumes) as well
as by Tom Williams and Mustafa Arif sitting
on Derrick and leaning radically from side to
side every few seconds pretending to turn
corners. The BBC proceeded to do their part,
capturing the Imperial procession on screen
for nearly a minute.
It was well past mid-day when we finally
pulled over to stop for lunch. An adjustable
spanner borrowed from the RCS Motor Club
was put to work on the broken generator and
after much cursing and hanging over the front
of the float it spluttered into life. The return
parade back to London Wall took about an
hour and passed mercifully almost without
incident though sadly the BBC didn't get a
chance to capture our float in its full two-gen-
erator glory, with silk flames billowing. As
always the show was great fun for those who
took part and superb publicity for Imperial
College. Assuming the money can be found,
there can't be any doubt that we'll be back
again next year.
More information on the show can be
found on-line at http://www.cgcu.net/lms/
Oliver Pell
erlal
d j : b a r : f o o d
a m b i e n t o r s o u l : f u n k : j a z z e v e r y W e d n e s d a y a n d f r i d a y
o n t h e f i r s t f l o o r o f t h e u n i o n b u i l d i n g
p l u s : new c a t e r i n g menu s e r v e d at your t a b l e
Panini served with Salad I Chips/Potato Wedges/Onion Rings/Mushrooms
Rice, Nachos or a T o r t i l l a Indian Samosa served with Salad ant
Pizza: Gourmet and Vegetarian | Side Salad, Hot Dog Spicy Chicken F i l l e t Burger
felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

