F E L I X C O L U M N 0 5
Paradigm Shift
Who are we?
We're the "worldview surveys
team" from His People Society. If
you're not sure what a worldview
is then Jason has written about
these strange creatures on the
right. We are Christians and mem-
bers of His People church (the one
that meets in the Drewe lecture
theatre at Charing Cross). Besides
this we run small groups in halls
and we do worldview surveys,
which is where this comes in!
Over the next months, years or
possibly page, depending on the
popularity of "Paradigm Shift",
we'll be publishing our results and
other "interesting things" to keep
away the boredom during your
lectures, or make it worse depend-
ing on your worldview!
What do we do?
he survey contains nine ques-
ons, from which it is possible to
determine one's worldview. The
questions will be considered in
uture "Paradigm Shift" articles,
provided it lasts that long! There's
about six of us on the team and
we go out on Wednesday after-
noons, armed with our clipboards
to find some respondents. Surveys
typically last between ten minutes
and two hours and are normally
enjoyable for everyone involved.
They usually end up more like
conversations than just questions
and answers, because the whole
idea of them is to find out why
people believe what they do, and
they're often interested in finding
out the same about us too! So if
you've got a deadline in two hours
and you see the clipboards coming
towards you then my best advice
is to run for your life!
What is a worldview?
I like the formal definition by John
Sire in his excellent book "The
Universe Next Door" in which he
asserts that a worldview is a set of
presuppositions which we hold
about the basic makeup of the
world. In other words, a worldview
is first of all an explanation and
interpretation of the world and
secondly, an application of this
view to life.
In some sense a worldview is
like wearing the correct pair of
spectacles; it must provide the
correct prescription for making
sense of the world and like a pair
of spectacles must offer focus.
Supernaturalism
Hello and welcome to worldview
of the month. Dictionary.com says
that supernaturalism is "The belief
in a supernatural agency that
intervenes in the course of natural
laws." This doesn't help much,
though, because we've only got rid
of the -ism! To go further we must
define what the supernatural is.
What do you think about when the
word "supernatural" is men-
tioned? Ghosts and goblins? Well
Dictionary.com doesn't exactly
mention these, but it does say:
l.Of or relating to existence out-
side the natural world.
2.Attributed to a power that
seems to violate or go beyond nat-
ural forces.
3.Of or relating to the immediate
exercise of divine power; miracu-
lous.
So it's quite a broad worldview,
with Islam, Christianity, Judaism,
Hinduism and Buddhism being
the major supernaturalist reli-
gions. Of course many people
believe in something beyond the
natural world without falling into
these categories and the sheer
quantity of films and books that
have references to the supernatu-
ral shows that there is a genuine
interest in it. For this reason HPS
have organised an event entitled
"Shadows of the Supernatural".
For more info look out for posters
along the main walkway or con-
tact: john.hermes@ic.ac.uk.
Contacts
We hope to start up online surveys
within the next month, but if the
suspense is too much for you to
bear then send us an email and
we'll come and survey you!
Similarly, if you have any com-
ments or questions then don't hes-
itate to click that "send" button.
Our email addresses are
sam.gilliland@ic.ac.uk (that's
me) and jason.robinson@ic.ac.uk
Sign-up for t*Ht messaging j
with the Union j
and Jump the Q or j
get Special Promotions & deals on Union events j
Fill in this form and drop it into the Union Reception or go to www.headporter.com and select Imperial j
imperial I
• • • college I
u n i o n :
Mobile:
Surname:
Email:
Undergraduate Postgraduate: Graduation Year
Data Protection Compliance Policy
Introduction H e a d Porter Ltd has taken every possible step to ensure the security of your data. W e have our own
secure server, with the highest levels of encryption; at no point could you be e x p o s e d to any interception of your data. W e
will never disclose any of your personal details to any of the lifestyle companies using the system or any third party, and are
fully registered with the Data protection commission. For further details on our full privacy statement please read below.
R e g i s t r a t i o n H e a d Porter Ltd is registered with the Office of the Data Protection Commissioner under the Act, no.
Z 6 6 3 3 6 1 X . T h e Data Controller for the purposes of the Act is Head Porter Ltd. The Data P r o c e s s o r s (acting on behalf of the
Data Controller) are the Staff of H e a d Porter Ltd. All Data Processors have, in accordance with Part II of Schedul e 1 of the
Act, signed an agreement that they will not use this data in any way other than that specified in this document.
P u r p o s e T h e use of data submitted for the H e a d Porter Ltd Database will be for the stated purpose(s) listed and agreed
to at the point of submission of data, principally to provide information on events and promotions in and around your
College. Additional services made available to users will not make use of the submitted data beyond that for which the data
subject gives approval.
Individuals are required to create accounts (sign up) on the server in order safely to guarantee their approval for the
public appearance of data or otherwise and to enable the Data P r o c e s s o r s to instigate checks of status (student or
otherwise) to be made if necessary for the above purposes.
T h e data submitted into the Head Porter Database may be entered or processed by the Data P r o c e s s o r s where necessary.
Data relating to individuals will never be made public this is the case for each item of data. This information will remain
confidential to the Data P r o c e s s o r s at all times.
Data t r a n s m i s s i o n Data will be submitted via the H e a d Porter Ltd W e b site to the database of users, on the H e a d Porter Ltd
Server, to which only the H e a d Porter Ltd Data Processors have a c c e s s . To ensure exceptional security and full compliance with
the Data Protection act the highest levels of available security have been implemented to safeguard the security of the data both
during transmission, storage and retrieval, and to prevent unauthorised a c c e s s . Storage of passwords is b a s e d on a match
system whereby an entered password is encrypted and then compared with the previously stored, encrypted password on the
system. In this respect, stored passwords cannot either be viewed by any individual except the data subject, or even by the
server software itself. H e a d Porter Ltd will not transmit personal data to any third party without exception.
Data s t o r a g e Data will be stored on the server a s long as is necessary for the above stated purpose(s). Obsolete data may
be archived on to the server.
felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

