Friday 16 December 2016 13
culture.felix@ic.ac.uk felixonline.co.uk/culture
felix
C U L T U R E
Our writers and editors (as well as FilmSoc) choose their favourite films of the last twelve months,
from big hitters to those that may have slipped under the radar...
1. Arrival
Intelligent sci-fi films are rare, with ones
involving aliens rarer still. Arrival uses
these foreign beings to examine how
language shapes our view of the world,
how it can be the source of conflict but
also how it can be the solution. This
year, miscommunication has divided our
world, which is why Arrival is not just
important, it’s necessary.
2. Paterson
Paterson is much more a poem than
it is a film. It doesn’t have a captivating
plot or complex character development;
it follows a bus driver/poet around in a
quiet city for a week. It doesn’t ask grand
questions about life, instead it fills itself
with gentle musings about how we see
the world around us. It’s cinematic people
watching, it’s contemplative, but above
all, it’s enchanting.
3. Toni Erdmann
Toni Erdmann is both an outlandish
comedy and heart-breaking tragedy.
What’s truly impressive is that these two
elements form a duality; it doesn’t switch
from one to another, both comedy and
tragedy coexist throughout. This har-
mony is used to explore deep, existential
thoughts, ones that remain long after the
film has finished.
4. The Little Prince
In a world that promotes a fast ascent
into adulthood, full of its toils and pres-
sures, The Little Prince reminds us that
becoming an adult doesn’t have to mean
giving up your dreams and imagina-
tion. A gorgeous animation mixed with
delicate stop motion, The Little Prince is a
delight both for the eyes and the soul.
5. A Monster Calls
Making a great film that centres around
death is always difficult, but by focusing
instead on how people deal with grief,
A Monster Calls tells a story we can all
learn something from. Heavy, emotional
scenes are balanced by animated stories
that use vibrant watercolours to create a
visually stunning film with an incredible
amount of depth.
6. The Forbiden Room
Guy Maddin’s audacious new film spins
German expressionism, Pythonesque comedy
and a good dose of dream logic into a labyrin-
thine maze of eccentric short films, nested inside
one another like a giant Russian doll. It’s an
exhausting watch but it’s endlessly inventive with
a cathartic finale revealing that it is a film born
of a deep and ecstatic love for cinema itself.
7. Son Of Saul
For the majority of László Nemes’ intense
debut feature, the camera is fixed on the
face of Saul, a Jewish prisoner and member
of the Sonderkommando at Auschwitz,
forced to dispose of bodies from the gas
chambers among other duties. His sur-
roundings are slightly out of focus, but the
horrors of the camp aren’t hidden. This
is a powerful film, that takes a while to
shake off but a much needed watch.
8. Kubo and the Two Strings
The art of telling a simple story exceptionally
well has been lost in recent years, but Kubo is
here to prove that it can still be done. The hero’s
story, complete with loveable sidekicks and
horrifying villains, is told using stop-motion ani-
mation on a larger scale than ever before and
the result is staggering beauty.
9. A Bigger Splash
With Tilda Swinton, Ralph Fiennes and more
on a gorgeous Italian island, Luca Guadagnino
couldn’t go wrong with A Bigger Splash, a
sexy, mysterious relationship study. The film
looks fantastic, whilst the performances are
studies in contrast: restraint and release;
menace and embrace; heat and frost.
Eventually tension builds and the temper-
ature is pushed up and up until it has no
option but to boil over.
10. Anomalisa
Anomalisa isn’t an easy watch, but that
doesn’t mean it’s not worth it. For ninety
minutes, it lets you see life from the perspective
of an exceedingly isolated man, one who sees
everyone as the same, all speaking the same
voice. At the risk of being too alienating, it
doesn’t let up; it perseveres through the pain to
leave you with compassion for those too lost to
ask for help.
Your favourite films of 2016
\\ Onyx Films
\\ Amazon Studios
\\ Apaches Entertainment
\\ Frenesy Film Company
\\ Snoot Entertainment
Alex Heib, Max Lewis-Clarke and Meryl Anil

