Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Are you a non-final year undergraduate or Master’s student?
The Union and College want to hear about your experience of Imperial -
outside of lecture theatres and laboratories, and this is your chance to tell
us. The Student Experience Survey covers various areas relating to your
life at Imperial and the services and opportunities provided by the Union
and the College.
Participating in the survey will only take around 10-15 minutes and is your
opportunity to make a difference to the rest of your time at Imperial and
that of those that will come after you. All responses are anonymous, no
personal identifying information is kept with your response. Once you
have completed the survey you will have the option to enter a prize draw
to win one of the following prizes:
A 4 x £50 Amazon vouchers A 10 x £30 Amazon vouchers 2 x £20
A Union Shop vouchers A 6 x £10 Union Shop vouchers
imperialcollegeunion.org
Student Experience Survey – Amazon vouchers to be won
Nominate someone great for a SACA
Autumn Term nominations for the Student Academic Choice Awards
2017 are now open!
Who has been a great lecturer, or an amazing administrator, or a top-
notch demonstrator? Has someone in College helped you through
tough times, or gone the extra mile to explain a concept or support your
research? If there’s anyone who stands out to you, then let them know -
by nominating them for a Student Academic Choice Award (SACA).
Every nominee will receive a famous SACAs mug - and the shortlistees
will be invited to the glitzy SACAs Ceremony in May 2017
. You can
nominate as many people as you like, in as many categories as you like
- and if your nominee is shortlisted, you might win a free ticket to the
Ceremony! The eight awards available are Best Supervision, Tutoring,
GraduateTeaching Assistant,Teaching for Undergraduates, Support Staff,
Innovation,Tutoring, Best Feedback and BestTeaching for Postgraduates.
To find out more about previous SACAs winners, and to nominate go to:
imperialcollegeunion.org/sacas
JANUARY SALES
imperialcollegeunion.org/januarysales
Visit our shops and venues to get great deals that are easy on the wallet this January!
Union banner 14 Jan.indd 1 14/01/2016 16:33

