40 felixonline.co.uk/millennials millennials.felix@ic.ac.uk Friday 25 November 2016 Friday 25 November 2016 41
millennials.felix@ic.ac.uk felixonline.co.uk/millennials
felix M I L L E N N I A L S
felix
M I L L E N N I A L S
SEX
| dildo edition
I know that times are tough when you go back home for the holidays. You’ve got used to having your freedom and privacy
during term time, and maybe even got used to having a bae that keeps the sexual frustration at bay. Maybe you’ve got
used to being able to use that corn-on-the-cob shaped vibrator that you got “as a joke” Secret Santa gift, but the thin walls
in your parents’ house mean that any buzzing will be extremely embarrassing. But don’t worry. The illustrious felix Sex team
has you covered, and we want to make sure you’re kept sexually satisfied over the holidays.
Christmas tends to mean lots of food in the house, and that means plenty of excess fruit and veg that you can squirrel
away to have your way with. Whether you’re a top or a bottom, a giver or a receiver, we’ve tested all the fruit and vegeta-
bles you might possibly want to use to scratch that itch, so you know what you’re doing.
Being presented with a carrot, parsnip, courgette, banana, and
cucumber and told to go and have fun is always a strange way to
start the week. Parsnips particularly, are a very unerotic vegetable,
and I can’t say that I was immediately excited to
stick it up inside myself, even if – luckily – it was a
particularly fat one. But with an “Alexa, dim the lights
in the bedroom to 50 percent”, the mood was set.
Parsnip
This seemed like it would be
the disappointing younger
brother to the carrot. Still
firm, very wide at one end,
narrow at the other - how
would this possibly match up
to the consistent girth of the
carrot? But surprisingly, this
one was a winner. The shape
and wide base made it very
easily maneuverable which
definitely paid off in spades.
Unfortunately, it has a distinc-
tive smell that was off-putting,
and you can’t snack on it
after.
There’s definitely a lot more
to be explored in the realm
of wonky parsnips (thanks,
Jamie Oliver), and even the
straighter, skinny ones seem
like they could be put to good
use as a butt plug. Clearly a
good multipurpose vegetable.
Overall a surprisingly 3.5/5
Courgette
Courgettes come in a vari-
ety of sizes and curvatures.
I was presented with two of
similar sizes: one curved, one
straight. Fucking a cour-
gette made me nervous – it
doesn’t feel sturdy enough to
withstand the action, although
I was pleasantly surprised
to find them perfectly intact
once I was done with them.
The straight courgette has
no real advantages over
the carrot (unless you like
the sensation of flexing your
pelvic floor muscles against
something that gives), but the
curvy courgette really outdid
itself. If you get the angle
right, that little courgette can
hit that G-spot just the way
God intended.
Overall a curvy 4/5
Banana
Thanks to their use in sex
ed classes, bananas have a
relatively unsexy reputation.
Thanks to Brexit, the EU will
stop dictating the straight-
ness of our bananas, which
makes the whole thing overall
positive, because a curvy
banana is a gift from the
Gods. They’re way easier to
position than a courgette, and
have a convenient handle for
ease of use. But bananas are
definitely a one time use only
phallus. There’s definitely a
risk of skin splitting if you’re
enthusiastic, so if you want
to eat it afterwards, pop a
condom on it. It might be a
bit mushy and warm, but that
potassium makes it a perfect
after-sex snack.
Overall remains a 4.5/5
Cucumber
I went into this knowing that
cucumbers are probably the
most fetishised vegetable for
fucking. Unless you’re a bit of
a size queen, a whole cucum-
ber is a bit unnecessary. But,
there’s no denying that it is a
very satisfying fruit to bang,
and the size does make for an
easy hands-free experience.
A bit sturdier than a banana,
without a strong smell, and
a fruit (not a vegetable) that
can be eaten for replenishing
hydration afterwards – the
cucumber lives up to the
hype.
Overall a cool 4/5
Final thoughts
If you’re really that desperate, just about any of these vegeta-
bles will get the job done. The carrot would have always been
my go-to, but I was surprised by how much pleasure a well-cho-
sen vegetable can deliver.
Carrot
I had high hopes for the
carrot. Firm, solid and
straight, a carrot is a pretty
predictable makeshift dildo,
and I think the one that
people are likely to have
tried before – I know I have.
Maybe I should spend more
money on heating, but the
carrot started out pretty cold,
which was definitely a mood
killer. Lesson 1: warm your
vegetables gently before use
(I used a hot water bottle).
The other problem was that
carrots have a surprisingly
strong, distinctive odour, and
definitely leave some orange
staining (preventable if you
stick a condom on it). How-
ever, with all of this aside, a
nice big carrot definitely gets
the job done, and doesn’t
suffer any damage in the pro-
cess. Maybe don’t slip it back
in the vegetable crisper, but
you could definitely get away
with eating it as a midnight
snack.
Overall a predictable 3/5
Tossing
fruit salad
Princess Consuela Banana Hammock
Final thoughts
I’d be lying if I didn’t say all melons were salvaged after their cherry popping (though if we only had
the piel de sapo to play with it wouldn’t have survived to tell the story – would fuck again). Moral of the
story? If you’re thinking of introducing a third person into a relationship maybe start with a piece of fruit.
When the idea of this piece was first presented to
me, I’ll be honest, I thought it was a joke. But it all
became very real when I was presented with a sack
of melons to “do with as I please”. So I took the melons home and tried to have my way with
them. My company for the night, let’s call him domtop360, instead of protesting and saving us
the embarrassment of fucking fruit, was actually quite amused by the concept and decided to go
along with it. So we carved some appropriate sized holes and started mushing. For reference,
domtop360’s mouth was 4 stars. Tutti Fruity
| fleshlight edition
Galia
We started off with one of the most intimidating-looking ones: the galia melon, all green and scaly, like a small innocent armadillo rolled
up in a ball. After some encouragement, I stuck my penis in the hole we had carved out and after making some confused facial expressions
passed the violated melon on to domtop360. The Galia was a bit rough. The seeds weren’t particularly soft to the touch but hey, they weren’t
as sharp as we expected them to be either. We refrained from microwaving our sexual partners so they were refreshingly cool. Smell and
taste were great.
Overall 1/5
Cantaloupe
Definitely one of the more stunning melons. Green and rough on the outside, a lot like the galia, its inside can be a beautiful deep orange,
which can make it very appetising. So after the unimpressive galia, we were a bit more excited to try this one. At least I was. Domtop360
did express concerns. I believe his exact words were, “I can see my dick bleeding”. We found that if you like it a bit rough the cantaloupe
might be your kind of melon. Taste, smell and gooeyness were A-OK, but push too hard and it will get painful. Plus the seeds managed to get
everywhere. Not foreskin friendly.
Overall 0/5
Honeydew
Smoother looking and with a promising name we were also excited to taste this piece of fruit. Also the fact that it was bigger meant it would
probably actually accommodate an erect penis a bit better. Upon inspection we found that the honeydew was firmer, but its seeds were also
harder and sharper. Also there was something about the smell that was really off-putting. And it was super juicy (which was both good and
bad but which ultimately meant we’d have to change the sheets).
Overall 2/5
Piel de Sapo
Seeing this guy for the first time, the last thing that crosses your mind is, “that looks fuckable”. It looks like a weird pumpkin crossed with an
american football. Domtop360 informed me that piel de sapo means skin of the toad – which was nice. On the plus side this at least looked
long enough to accommodate a penis. And it certainly was. Let me tell you ladies and gents, this melon is quite the treat; firm yet soft and
juicy, sweet, fragrant with seeds that didn’t get in the way. The piel de sapo was a delight and in fact allowed for some double penetration.
Domtop360 even approved saying, “I don’t usually do threesomes but this is kinda hot”.
Overall 4 /5
Watermelon
Out of all the melons, the watermelon was the one I was most excited about. Perhaps it was memories of summer that fueled my lust.
Perhaps it was that sexy red interior. Either way the watermelon beckoned to me and I excitedly answered. Alas, the experience was under-
whelming. Surprisingly hard and unwelcoming, the watermelon’s inside was not particularly pleasurable. A bit of thrusting was enough to
make it crack, to domtop360’s delight: he took over and completed the watermelon cracking. Disappointing.
Overall 1/5

