42 felixonline.co.uk/millennials millennials.felix@ic.ac.uk Friday 25 November 2016 Friday 25 November 2016 43
millennials.felix@ic.ac.uk felixonline.co.uk/millennials
felix M I L L E N N I A L S
felix
M I L L E N N I A L S
On the twelve days of Christmas my true
love gave to me
Twelve festive porn scenes
Eleven drunken hookups
Ten man bukkake
Nine girls, one cup
Eight ill-timed dickpics
Seven velvet blindfolds
Six flavoured lubes
Five anal beads
Four Magic Wands
Three Tenga eggs
Two nipple clamps
And a blow job in an alley
Merry
Christmas
Another Castle
T H E G A M I N G M A G A Z I N E O F I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E L O N D O N
WRITERS WANTED
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Wearable Science
STUDENT BUDGET | Science Socks
Because everyone should get a little boost of daily happiness
just by looking at their feet. Check out the Einstein socks from
the Science Museum or Mathematics socks from TiePlanet. com
Cost: £6-9
SOMETHING SPECIAL | Human Ingredients T-Shirt
Subtle and sciencey – this shirt lists the percentage composition
of all the elements in a human body and is exclusive to the Science
Museum.
Cost: £20
\\ Natural History Museum
Victorinox \\
Liz Kimmel is here to save you with a tastefully geeky suggestions all tastes and budgets.
STUDENT BUDGET | Cards Against Humanity
The best game for the worst human you know.
Word of warning: I played it with cousins once at Christmas.
Man that got weird. We couldn’t look at Grandma the same all
weekend.
Cost: Free! “Personalise” by printing it off yourself and get
youself some sweet brownie points OR £25 online.
SOMETHING SPECIAL | Settlers of Catan
Best thing to happen to board games in the last 10 years – with
an extremely satisfying variable hexagonal board. It’s like of
Age of Empires, or maybe a much shorter version of Risk without
the armies and arguments.
Cost: £32-£50.
Games
Books Tools and Tech
STUDENT BUDGET | The Sellout – Paul Beatty
Want the best book of the year? This has literally just been voted in for
the Man Booker Prize. It’s new, it’s topical, and damn it’s good. You
can’t go wrong.
Cost: £6-£12
SOMETHING SPECIAL | Roald Dahl Complete Collection
2016 marks the centenary of the birth of the great storyteller, so
there’s no better time to add his timeless stories to your collection.
These nostalgic gems are perfect for all ages.
Cost: £22-35 (online) or £65-95 in bookstores
STUDENT BUDGET | Google Cardboard
Great DIY project for Christmas Day, perfect for kids and
techy adults alike!
Cost: £5-£15 (for the legit version)
SOMETHING SPECIAL | Swiss card by Victorinox
This handy gadget condenses the most useful functions of a
swiss army knife into a hand wallet-sized card. And yes, you
do get the toothpick.
Cost: £13-23
Tickets
STUDENT BUDGET | For Harry Potter Fans
Daniel Radcliffe is starring in the absurdist classic, Rosencrantz and
Guildenstern are dead at the Old Vic from February to April 2017.
Cost: Tickets £12-65.
SOMETHING SPECIAL | For Doctor Who Fans
David Tenant (let’s face it, the only Doctor worth mentioning) is
hitting up the West End in Don Juan from March to June 2017 at Wyn-
dham’s theatre.
Cost: Tickets £30-£120.
\\ Old Vic Theatre
STUDENT BUDGET | National Trust
Discounts for them on entry to over 200 historic buildings across
the UK and bonus warm fuzzies knowing you’re preserving herit-
age buildings and national parks.
Cost: £32 for Young membership (≤25 years old)
or £63 for the oldies.
SOMETHING SPECIAL | Natural History Museum
Finally, a way to visit the Wildlife Photographer of the Year as
many times as you’d like! Plus, they’ll get free member passes
which they’re surely use to bring you in… hint hint.
Cost: £61-72 for a year
Memberships
So you forget to get everyone presents

