4
E V E R Y
F O R T N I G H T
No.112 I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E , F R I D A Y , N O V E M B E R 8 , 1957
D O U B L E F O R G U I L D S
The draw for the races gave Guilds
the Surrey station, Mines the centre, and
E.C.S. the Middlesex station. In the Hor-
phy Cup race, B.C.S. qnlokly opened up a
slight lead over Guilds, with Mines slow-
ly dropping baok. At the halfway stage.
Guilds put on a spurt and passed B.C.S.
They went on to win by 2 lengths from
B.C.S., in a time of 7 m
.
" 23 «., with Min-
es a further 3 lengths away.
In the Lowry race, the three boats
were level for the first minute, then
Guilds crept ahead, neither B.C.S. nor
Mines crews were rowing well, and they
•lowly dropped behind. In the oloslng
seconds of the race, a fierce struggle
developed for second place, resulting in
the very plucky Mlrue erew overtaking
B.C.S. to finlah 2 lengths behind Guilds.
FELIX thanks John Bell, Captain of
Boats, for providing places in the launch
"hanelans" for a reporter and photographer.
Winning Guilds crews:-
MBS&S.
J.A.Mailing
JJ>J>ell
S.Harrold
HJennet
D.Body
M. Gay lard
P.W.Gregory
Lowry
B.Mantzouranls
J.Sheldon
C.Hlngley
H.Beastall
C E t t l e a
H.Ridge
J.Martin
K.T.Sharrock A.Tuok
H A R L I N G T O N
"I could have got five bob for ay
. Earlington ticket"! In spite of rumours of
unofficial rag committees sad Trafalgar
Square revivalist groups, the Guy Fawkes
festivities at Earlington were as popular
as ever. The almost continuous rain of
the previous three days ceased In time,
aad the hep, bonfire and general sport
well lived up to expectations.
The bonfire could only be described
aa a, blase of glory, and the heating ef-
fect on the eeld night was particularly
welcome.(Several people were observed
hopping around to keep warm.)
After the organised fireworks, aad
with the bonfire at last dying scan, the
party transferred itself indoors.i few
fireworks were set off Inside, but
fortunately with little affect. ansle
for danal ng was provided ay records, ana
the I.C, Skiffle Group made sa enthusiasm
tie aad appreciated debut. One great im-
provement on last year was the ssaeth
service of cold-dogs and other refresh-
ments.
Throughout the evening 'there pre-
vailed the usual happy atmosphere, and
a l l credit to our hard-working Enter-
tainments Committee for i t s efficient
organisation.
All three Colleges turned out in
force to participate in the Mbrphy Bay
celebrations. The revellers travelled
down to Putney on the usual party tic-
kets, causing the maximum amount of
chaos.
The B.C.S. party arrived first and
amused themselves by throwing flourbaga
at passing oars, a minor oollision re-
sulting. The occupants were not amused,
however, and summoned the Law. A lorry
driver was given the same treatment and
his passenger retaliated by throwing a
garden fork into the crowd. Luckily no
serious injury waa sustained — the wea-
pon is now in the hands of the Polioe,
The driver then rapidly reversed into
the crowd, smashing a boat whioh was be-
ing carried from the water. Several men
were knocked down, and the boat is re-
ported to be a complete'write-off.
The Guildsaen following Bo' now
arrived on the soene and found the B.C.S.
men deployed in a strategic position
along the tow-path. A pitched battle en-
sued; flour, fireworks and homemade
bombs were hurled. Chemicals used by
the R.C.S, made their presence smelt,
A Spanner was gallantly rescued from
the water by a fully clothed Gulldsmsn,
but was found to be only a cardboard
replica.
The Polioe now began to arrive in
force: two launches and a Black Maria
were standing by. The combatants were
shepherded further along the tow-path,
vanishing in a cloud of flour, earth and
smoke. Several people were battling in
the water, and many were observed sans
ooulottes. The battle was accompanied by
a chorus of hooters and bells from pas-
sing tugs. One Guildsman was taken to
hospital, his spectacles smashed into his
eyes, but he waa later discharged. The
mob moved in front of the boathouse to
await the Iferphy and Lowry crews. Another
Black Maria arrived, and one demonstrator
was taken for a walk by a constable, who
was loudly cheered when he released his
captive. In quick succession came two
Police oars and two "mounties"! and two
motor-cycles were used to "charge" the
erowd.
A U.C. intruder was narrowly saved
by the Law from a watery grave, A lively
dog, led by en attractive female, at-
tempted, amid encouraging shouts, to bite
an Inspector.
After a Boons!aka for the victorious
Guilds crews, the party dispersed, the
Guildsmen being escorted to South Ken. by
two defenders of the Peace. The R.C.S.
...continued on page 4.
B O * A N D J E Z E B E L A T B R I G H T O N
Bo' was oolleoted from Coy's Garage
at 7:00 a.m. on Sunday. He started at the
first swing and, after a warming run past
the Union, went off to the Brighton Bun
start in Hyde Park.
At 7:54 Be' again started at the
first swing and set out on time at 7:55.
The run down to Brighton waa marred by
torrential rain for most of the way, but
mechanical troubles were very minor,
whioh speaks well for the preparation by
soma dosen stalwart members. The troubles
were a sticking carburettor float, which,
although unusual, is to be expeoted as so
filter is Included in the 1902 fuel sys-
tem: sticking in top gear en three occas-
ions, again due to the antique design,
which was cured by the Judicious applic-
ation of a copper hammer; and the petrol
tap turning itself off due to vibration
at high speed. Stops were also made for
routine ping changes, the return trip
seing made on one set ef plugs.
Bo' arrived at Brighton at 12:30
ana, after collecting the pennant, lunch
was taken at Clarge' > hotel, twenty-
three members being present.
This year Bo' stayed for the Parade
sad, despite the heaviest hall storm ef
the year, ran very well.
Be' left Brighton at 4:30 and, after
an extremely pleasant return trip, includ-
ing several hours spent in fuelling the
crew, arrived bask at College at 11:00.
Another visitor to Brighton on Sunday
was Jezebel, manned by ten B.C.S. firemen
with Alan Redman at the wheel. She left
Hyde Park Corner at about 8 o'clock and
overtook Bo' stationary at Streathaa, with
a salute from the fire bell. Another
•triotly illegal clanging was given to
Parley Fire Station, who responded in like
Banner, and again, by loudspeaker request,
to a Poliee oar.
With much tintinnabulation, Jesebel
entered Brighton and was kindly provided
by the Foliee with an escort to the fin-
ishing line, where the ladders all but
removed the overhead banner. The parking
position inside the enclosure being even
worse than outside, a quick circuit baok
te the finishing line was Bade to greet
Bo*, who arrived at commendable velocity
soma three quarters of an hour later.
The day's only sunny period over,
the return Journey was coameneed in a
thunderstorm. Shortly after leaving
Brighten, the party encountered a rugger-
playing part-time ear dealer, whose Riley
9 was in meed ef a tow beck te London.
The odd Bight of a 1916 fire engine tew-
ing the ancient Riley was Indirectly
responsible for at least three Blner col-
lisions, drivers being distracted sad
falling to observe the braking lights ef
the ear Is front. At one point on the
return Journey a veteran tried to over-
take, but the driver was so enchanted by
the strains of "Keep right en to the end
of the road" played on the Blloy-owner's
trumpet that he slowly dropped baok.

