Union Page
In Conversation with David Lammy
Get ready to vote
Some like it hot (pots!)
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
Postgraduate Wine Tasting
On Monday 21 October, it will be time for us decide who should
represent us on matters of education and wellbeing, who will lead our
Constituent Unions, represent us on Union Council, and be the voice for
our underreprersented groups as Disabilities, International and Gender
Equality Officer.
All students who are a full member of the Union can vote in the Autumn
ElectionRemember, who you elect will be responsible for influencing
changes and decisions that affect you, so make sure you get to know
our candidates and what they plan to do if elected. You can view the
candidates standing at imperialcollegeunion.org/manifestos.
Voting opens at noon, Monday 21 October and closes at 14:00,Thursday
24 October. This is our time to take charge of our Imperial experience,
so get ready to vote.
27 May -2 June | Beit Quad | 12:00-14:30 and 17:00-20:00
Explore the wonderful world of wine in our latest, Postgraduate
exclusive, tasting session. Hosted in The Union Bar, Monday 21 October,
17:30-19:30 - whether you have a love for wine, or want to expand your
knowledge, this event is for you.
Our expert tutor will take you on a truly delicious tour educating you on
a selection of fine wines. Tasting starts at 17:30 and costs £6.50 pp or
£20 for 4 person group.
Buy your tickets at imperialcollegeunion.org/wine-tasting
As the weather cools down, Shop Extra has you covered with our new
Asian food range. Featuring noodle hot pots, Japanese curry and miso
soup, you should definitely pop down to Sherfield Walkway for a taste.
Don’t forget, you can also get your caffeine fix from our Fairtrade organic
and Rainforest Alliance certified coffee. Coming onto campus early?
Treat yourself to a coffee and croissant for £2.50 (£2.20 if you bring your
own reusable cup!)
We’re excited to welcome MP David Lammy to campus for a talk on
Tuesday 22 October, 18:30-20:00, in the Great Hall, South Kensington
Campus. He will be discussing diversity in Higher Education, the Black
Attainment Gap and the effects of the term ‘Imperial’ at the College.
The talk will last 1 hour, with 40 minutes of In Conversation and 20
minutes of questions from the floor.
David Lammy is a well-known advocate of social activism, diversity and
multi-culturalism, and he was previously Minister for Higher Education.
Book your place at imperialcollegeunion.org/david-lammy
We still have plenty of events for you this Black History Month, from
a Black Career Panel to Black History Art Tours.
For a full list, go to imperialcollegeunion.org/BHM

