FEATURE FELIX FRIDAY 31 ST MAY 1 9 9 6 . THREE
GOTTA BE CRUEL TO BE KIND?
N A T B A R B DISCUSSES THE ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST ANIMAL RESEARCH
How sick can you get? A skin supplement
marketed as "cruelty free" to animals was in fact
made from a serum derived from the blood of
laboratory rabbits. The serum was made by
injecting piglet skin into rabbits and then bleed-
ing them. But hey, don't worry - the cream
wasn't tested on animals, so it's cruelty free.
Now my conscience is clear: the cream's not
tested on animals - it's made from them!
Here's another story.
My cousin should be dead - she has diabetes.
If she didn't inject herself daily with insulin she
would have died before I was born. Hooray for
the wonder drug insulin! But hold on, what is
insulin? Well, until recently it was basically
extract of pancreas, but now it can be manufac-
tured. Some of the decisive research work
involved scientists injecting crude extract
of pancreas into fasted rabbits.
I am very glad that my cousin is alive
and well and that my aunt and uncle were
spared the tragedy of losing a child for
reasons beyond their control. Thanks to
all the rabbits, dogs and other animals that
suffered and died in the search for a cure
for diabetes, thousands of families have
been spared a great deal of agony.
If, like me, you've been looking at the
posters on the escalators on the under-
ground you may have noticed a new
poster campaign launched by an organisa-
tion called RDS. It aims to redeem the
image of scientists involved in vivisection
and to educate the public about animal
experiments. This campaign counters the
activities of anti-vivisection organisations
such as the National Anti-Vivisection
Society who had their lab animal week
last month, and the British Union for the
Abolition of Vivisection. But what do
these people really have to say about the
rights and wrongs of vivisection?
Is vivisection defensible and if so under
what circumstances? So far it seems rea-
sonably simple - you have two similarly unpleas-
ant experiments on animals but for extremely
different functions. Animal tests are okay if they
are intended to save lives, but they're despicable
if their sole aim is our beautification.
Of course, nothing is simple in the case of
animal experiments. When you look deeper into
the matter, particularly that of medical research,
other questions begin to appear. Is it truly essen-
tial to carry out animal experiments? Is it the
only effective method of research? Is it an effec-
tive method of research at all- can you really
cross the species barrier?
The anti-vivisection movement thinks that
there are other equally effective methods for
medical research which do not require animal
testing. Some would even say that animal tests
are ineffective. The NAVS (National Anti-
Vivisection Society) lists a whole range of
instances where the effect of a drug on an animal
is completely different from the effect of that
drug on a human, it therefore posits the argu-
ment that animal experiments can be detrimen-
tal to progress in medical research.
The British Union for the Abolition of
Vivisection told me that they just want to move
into the 21 st century: "we have the technology
- there are alternatives". If this is the case, then
why do we continue with animal experiments?
One reason is past successes. Many eminent
scientists quote past achievements using animal
research as a basis for justifying animal experi-
ments. Dr Joseph Murray, the 1990 Nobel Prize
winner for pioneering work on transplant rejec-
tions has said: "There would not be a single
person alive today as result of an organ or bone
marrow transplant without animal experimenta-
P H
W E I G
INSL
• T D B R A P H E D IN 1 9 2 2 , T H I S D I A B E T I C G I R L
H E D J U S T 4 5 L B B E F O R E B E I N G T R E A T E D W I T H
J L I N . A F E W M O N T H S L A T E R S H E H A D M A D E A
D R A M A T I C R E C O V E R Y .
tion. All the work that we did depended on the
use of animals".
Those who carry out animal experiments for
medical research feel they are absolutely essen-
tial. RDS, an organisation whose aim is "to
inform the general public about why animals are
used in medical research" says that non-animal
methods are very widely used but the two
methods complement each other. What is
more, only 5 % of research costs go towards
animal studies. The British Medical Association
has said that, "animal experimentation is neces-
sary at present to develop a better understand-
ing of diseases and how to treat them, but
believes that, when possible, alternative meth-
ods should be used".
But what does this mean: "when possible,
alternative methods should be used"? How is
this put into practice? Britain has some of the
most stringent regulations in the world for safe-
guarding laboratory animal welfare and for
awarding licenses for animal research. Licenses
are only granted provided certain conditions are
met: if the potential results are important
enough to justify the use of animals, the research
cannot be done using non-animal methods, the
minimum number of animals will be used and
dogs, cats and primates are only used when
absolutely necessary. These regulations are
enforced by the Home Office who employs a
team of inspectors, all qualified vets or doctors,
who visit each research establishment eight
times a year usually without prior notice.
All this seems eminently reasonable, but how
can you measure these things? How far do you
look into non-animal methods before you agree
that there are no suitable ones? Both sides have
very convincing arguments. Those who
are for vivisection will say that they do
seriously consider suitable alterna-
tives.Those who are against will tell you
that they don't: animals are cheap and
so is the comparative cost of animal
experiments.Those who are for animal
experiments genuinely feel they are
essential to progress in research, those
who are against feel they are not.
To back up their arguments both
groups will cite different case histories
based upon very different premises and
it is easy to become swallowed up in an
unproductive "what if" discussion.
Historical fact shows us that we have
cures for illnesses as a result of animal
experiments. Whether we would have
these cures without animal experi-
ments is mere speculation. Here at
Imperial, Professor Collinge has been
working with transgenic mice to estab-
lish if there is a link between BSE and
CJD. He himself has admitted that
there is a long way to go with the
research and that altering just one gene
on a mouse does not make it human, so
what will the experiments with mice achieve?
I've not really touched on the other argu-
ment; do we have the right to experiment on
animals? Can you attach a value to different
species' lives and decide that one is worth more
than another? There are almost certainly some
very wrong things about some of animal experi-
ments that go on around the world today. But
whether they are as a whole completely unethi-
cal and unnecessary is something we have to
decide for ourselves once we have waded
through the maze of opinions offered by both
sides of the argument.
For more information from the organisations
involved contact:
RDS,58 Great Marlborough Street, London
WIV IDD
The British Union for the Abolition of
Vivisection, 16a Crane Grove, London N7

