simon baker
England expects every
man to do his duty... and
eat his beef.' So The Sun
greeted the news that John
Major had 'declared war'
on Europe after over two
months of almost total
inaction. Douglas Hogg, as
Agriculture Minister, has
proved completely ineffectual in dealing with
the problem, probably meriting dismissal, and
heralding the response of the Prime Minister.
It is undoubtedly the case that the •non-
cooperation policy was in part to fend off the
prospect of cabinet resignations among the
Eurosceptic ranks, but the adverse press reaction
in the last few days is unjustified. Here we have
a situation where Britain has given considerable
ground over recent times on the promise of a
relaxation of the export ban on derivative prod-
ucts, only to be rebuffed on every occasion. In
the light of this, the frustration of John Major is
completely understandable, but to view his
actions as those of a desperate man is wholly
misguided. The options open to Britain to deal
with the intolerable intransigence of the other
member states are so limited that the blanket
scuppering of unanimous voting was almost the
only legal option open to Britain.
Many will call this a petty example of the
malice of Little Englanders, of xenophobia and
misguided nationalism, when in fact all that is
being attempted is the defence of our national
interest. It is all very well to criticise the actions
of Britain, but one must look at the incessant
procrastination of the EU. One positive benefit
to come out of this unfortunate situation is a
close examination of Britain's position in the E U
and vice versa.
It is very unfortunate that the debate on
Europe in Britain has become polarised between
those who believe in withdrawal and those who
believe in an inexorable move towards a federal
Europe. Both are, of course, patently ridiculous
standpoints. The benefits of membership are
clear to see, in the central areas of free trade and
freedom of movement. This is where Europe
works well. The Single Market has functioned
pretty well and should represent the last radical
change in the EU. We should now be embarking
on a process of evolution to refine the system,
tackling weaknesses such as the ludicrous
Common Agricultural Policy.
The problem is that much of the rest of
Europe, led by Germany, seems hell-bent on
federalism and monetary union. Already we
have a situation where the sovereignty ofthe U K
government is being regularly undermined by
the European Court and directives are being
passed on the most trivial aspects of life. We are
seen as bad Europeans for dissenting from the
current goals of the EU, but it must be remem-
bered that most of these policies did not exist in
any shape or form at the time of our joining, nor
was federalism identified as a future aim. Given
that we appear to have been
sold a dummy, I think we
are more than justified in
being a little peeved.
As I'm sure you
will appreciate, dear reader,
I am not a man who likes to
say 'I told you so' (and if you
believe that...) However,
while poring over old copies
of Felix, I noticed in issue 1040 that I expressed
my doubts about your friend and mine Ghassan
Karrian, erstwhile ULU president. I said that 'we
are mere pawns in the Karrian game plan
designed to propel him into Westminster.' And
what do you know, as soon as the NUS have
been kicked into line, paving the way for
Labour's new loans scheme (I think that's U -
tum no. 245), our man does a runner to re-
emerge as Senior Campaigns Coordinator for
West London, baby-kisser-fn-chief.
To call his actions cynical doesn't even come
close to describing the despicable way in which
he has behaved of late. Arguably his absence will
help ULU immeasurably, since he doesn't seem
to have done much for London's students this
year and we can only wait for Sarah White to
pick up the pieces left by him. The tiling to do
now is to get him removed from the post, by a
vote of no confidence or any other trick in the
constitutional rulebook, so that he realises that
we are not prepared to tolerate his behaviour. As
for becoming a Labour spindoctor, he has all the
right qualities: arrogance, the ability to sacrifice
anyone or anything for the cause, deception and
the skill of speaking in such vague terms that it is
barely possible to discern his subject, let alone
viewpoint. Ghassan Karrian makes Peter
Mandelson look positively wholesome, which is
probably the most vitriolic attack one can make
on a Labour supporter.
Having dwelt on Europe somewhat this
week, there is not much space for news in
College, which is just as well since nothing has
happened. I could talk about the Rag fete, but I
can hardly bring myself to intrude on private
grief. As I said to one of the Raggies recendy,
when asked why I hadn't mentioned them for
months, I don't like to kick a man when he's
down. That said, I could not help laughing at the
news that only six people pitched up, most of
them Rag hacks. I know the weather was awful,
prompting the relocation, but this does suggest
that the interest in the event was on a par with a
Socialist Worker rally in Belgravia. OK, I lied
about the grief intrusion bit.
Finally, more disturbing conversations in
Southside Bar. I, and earlier one of the bar staff,
had an animated discussion with one of the pun-
ters, who passionately believed that the beer in
the Union was better than in Southside. As I
realised my chances of making him see sense
were on a par with the likelihood of converting
the Pope to Protestantism, we had to agree to
disagree.

