The relationship
between
a balanced diet and
good physical health
is well known.
However, the latest
research points to a
similar link between
food and intellectual
performance. Tony
Cripps reveals how
eating sensibly could
provide a mental
boost to help exam
success.
>in
F o o d f o r T h o u g h t
V l l
I
t's exam time. Endless study and revision
makes you hungry but you feel guilty taking
time off to cook for yourself or to go out for
a meal. Instead you choose to save time by
taking the convenience route - a burger, fish and
chips, kebab or the like from the local take-away.
Sounds familiar? In fact, although it may give you
extra study time, a fast food diet may actually com-
promise your exam performance.
A diet containing a lot of saturated fat and cho-
lesterol may not just lead to obesity and heart disease
but may also severely curtail intellectual functioning.
High blood cholesterol, and the blood fat triglyceride,
are associated with depression and consequently with
reduced levels of concentration and motivation.
Academic performance will tend to suffer as a result.
Charles Glueck of the Jewish Hospital,
Cincinnati, attributes these effects to 'blood sludgi-
ness' caused by saturated fats. This makes it harder
for the blood to transport sufficient oxygen to a rav-
enous brain. Brain activity is consequently
reduced and, in the long-term, neuronal
death may result. This is confirmed by the
presence of mini brain-lesions and blood
clots in the brains of experimental rats fed
on a high fat diet. The best advice would be
to cut down on these foods in your diet if
you want to keep up a good academic
record.
Despite this, some fats are essential to
healthy brain functioning, specifically the
essential fatty acid (EFA) linolenic acid,
also called n-3. It is a vital component of
brain cell membranes and needs constant
refreshing. It is no surprise, then, that a lack
of n-3 is likely to have negative effects on
brain function.
Experiments conducted by William
Connor, of Oregon Health Services
University, confirm this idea. A lack of n-3 during the
development of Rhesus monkeys lead to conspicuous
neurological defects. In cats, a good supply of n-3 pro-
tects against brain damage and aids repair when dam-
age occurs as in the case of cerebral stroke.
Thesefindingsgive reason to believe that a lack
of n-3 may compromise intellectual performance in
adult humans. However, the polyunsaturated oils,
such as sunflower oil, promoted for health reasons
contain little n-3. Connor argues that rapeseed, soy-
bean and walnut oils would make better alternatives,
providing mental, as well as physical, health benefits.
Better still is fish oil, the n-3 derived from it most
closely resembling the cell membranes of neurones.
The old adage that fish is brain food seems to be more
' The old
adage that
fish is brain
food seems
to be more
than just an
old wives'
tale.'
than just an old wive's tale.
Another important factor affecting brain power
is the presence of neurotransmitters (NTs) that carry
messages from neurone to neurone. The precursors
from which the body manufactures NTs are also sup-
plied in the diet. A shortage of precursors in what we
eat may result in a deficiency in NTs which can
severely disrupt the workings of the brain. Functions
such as memory, attention and mood may be most at
risk f your diet does not contain enough NT precursors.
A good example of this is the shortage of acetyl-
choline (ACh) in the brains of Alzheimer's patients.
This lack of ACh produces a marked impairment of
memory. However, according to Barbara Strupp of
Cornell University, raising the level of the precursor,
choline, in the diet of Alzheimer's sufferers may help
to alleviate the problem and slow the degeneration of
the brain. A report produced by the American army
in 1994 indicates that increased choline intake in the
form of eggs, organ meats (liver, kidneys etc.) and
leguminous vegetables such as peas and
beans, in the diet of normal people may
have similar, albeit lesser, effects on mem-
ory and reaction time.
In addition to EFAs and NT precursors,
the brain also needs a continuous supply
of glucose to power its activity.
Furthermore, ingesting sugary foods such
as chocolate (from which glucose is
obtained] may cause the brain to release
endorphins, its natural opiates, giving a
strong sense of well-being. Experiments
with both rats and people have found that
a well-timed shot of glucose can greatly
improve mental functioning on a variety
of tasks.
Paul Gold, a psychologist at the
University of Virginia, has found that the
biggest improvement in human subjects is
on reading retention tests. This would be of obvious
advantage to students cramming for exams but Gold
advises caution. Too much glucose can trigger a hypo-
glycaemic response, similar to diabetes, and actually
reduce mental performance by depleting blood glu-
cose. However, in moderation, sugars such as glucose
may well have a beneficial effect on our intellectual
functioning. Try experimenting!
The field of nutritional neuroscience is only in its
early stages but already the tradings suggest that a
more carefully controlled diet may benefit the mind,
as well as the body. If you choose to try any of these
methods to improve exam performance it's probably
not advisable to expect success, but you may become
a better cook.

