s :
:!li}A;
iS
^aOrUUi::S^>
,m -
+ the
g
i
g
: so g pumpkins, i
Like it cs*BDt, alternative music is now very much
the m instream. Gone are the days when arenas
and st^d||j;
||i|l;:ffie sole presefve of the so-called
"supergroups Nowadays, the stages of these
venues are graced by the kind of subversive
lavabouts you: iriotiaet§lwj|§s told you to steer
clear of. Nirvana started the trend. Within tltree
years ol playing tiny underground clubs, they
were doing the stadium circuit in America. Pearl
Jam followed and overnight there were hundreds
ol grungey, Nirvana np-offs touring tlx world and:
:
ultimately boring the pants off us. One of the sad";
consequences of this trend is that the good bands,
the ones you used to love going to see in nice,
small, intimate venues are playing enormous, soul-
less caverns like Wembley Arena. If you haven't
seen a band at Wembley Arena then just imagine
sitting in a huge box with a transistor radio at hill
volume at one end.
Fortunately, Smashing Pumpkins are good
enoughforthe big sound to go a long waytowards
filling the said box. To be lair to them they're not
a Nirvana rip-off, having arrived on the scene at
about the same time, and they've managed to
achieve massive success without comproniising
their music in any way. Tonight they play a bril-
liant set, most ol which
album, 'Mellon Collie A:
The most striking thing about tiier nice
is how mellow they've become. It's al a far
from the time when Bil
rip his hair out and smash up the band's equip-
ment three .songs into the set. Actually, he's
shaved is hair off completely and stays rooted to
the centre of the stage for most of the gig, leaning
over h; ^ guitar, and looking not dissimilar to an
extra from Alien Nation. He's obsessed with his
end ui song 'How much distortion a i 1 get Out
of my guitar?" routines, though. The problem is
that he's rubbish at it. There's none of the weird
and wonderful noises that people HI
and .
1 Mascis ol Dinosaur Jr. coach out of their stii-
n & S i
Stars, just a wall of uninspiring
Ifcnly points where the crowd i ifcalbored, wait-
ing patiently for the spoilt child to finish pkjihjf
with his toy. Apart from that it's great,
ii...i
|fene big emotion overloac I and tonight is no excep-
tion. Something about & | ^ H R 3 ^ W S : ; O T a
W
||ou start wallowing in ahe||l!Hi!or other, eyeii
if you've no idea what Billy's ranting about. The
Fast, angry ones con
kids screai 1 > I'm srilfpi:
::::a:rat in a cage.''Mow true. Except that it's more
:Af a box really
They play three encores featuring an unlikely
(there's no other way to > I All in all it
who managed to get tickets for the following
l l j j i t at Brixton ifeder^t^IMF
THE BIG BREAKFAST UNTIL JUNE 28TH1996
£2.00
8.30 am to 10 am - Monday to Friday
Main Dining Hall
Any FIVE items from our freshly cooked range of traditional breakfast
favourites
Rashers of Bacon, Pork Sausages, Tomato, Baked Beans, Scrambled Egg and
Fried Egg, Hash Browns, Toast, Mushrooms
P L U S
Choice of Tea or Coffee
Also available at reasonable prices:-
Chilled Orange Juice, Cereals, Muesli, Toast, Marmalade, Croissants
Start the day as your Granny advised - you know it makes sense!

