science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
18 felix Friday 31 October 2008
Science
Science Editors – Daniel Burrows & Mićo Tatalović
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
Friday 31 October 2008 felix
Science
P
rofessor Sir Peter Knight,
of quantum optics fame,
crashed my computer just
trying to load a list of pub-
lications. Among his many
roles, he has served as the Principal of
the Faculty of Natural Sciences, Presi-
dent of the Optical Society of America,
Chair of the Science Board of the Sci-
ence and Technology Facilities Coun-
cil and Editor of the Journal of Modern
Optics for 19 years.
In the last 30 years at Imperial, Sir
Peter has helped establish the UK as
a world leader in quantum optics and
played a major part in Imperial’s rise
on the world stage. In the coming years
he will continue to shape Imperial in a
new role of Senior Principal.
The following are edited extracts from
a lengthy interview.
Sir Peter, congratulations on your
new Senior Principal role. Do you
have any particular aims for this
role?
One of the things I look at is how do
you encourage multidisciplinary work
to flourish, while still protecting de-
partments. Imperial College has a fan-
tastic reputation for doing fundamen-
tal science but also then applying it to
different disciplines. The other part of
my job will be on our research strat-
egy. What should Imperial focus on
and how can we do it well? The college
strategic research committee will be a
focal point to build a consensus about
our research priorities.
From your position on the Science
and Technology Facilities Coun-
cil and in the current economic
climate, how do you see science
funding changing in the near
term?
During any economic downturn, in-
vesting in the future through training
and education is a very sensible thing
to do, in order to bounce out of the re-
cession equipped for the next period of
growth. In reality there will likely be a
retrenchment of everything that is less
immediate for politicians in terms of
voter concern. They have to protect
the health service and the schools, so
what will actually suffer are the things
they think they can put off and that
includes both the science base and the
innovation base, although recent signs
are that Government recognizes the
need for investment in science and en-
gineering to position ourselves well in
coming out of the recession.
Over the last decade we have seen the
doubling in the science budget and in-
cidentally being a department head or
faculty principal during that time has
actually been quite straightforward.
The next five years might be quite dif-
ficult and the next department head is
going to have to be pretty inventive.
Incidentally we do have a buffer in
our order book, Natural Sciences has
about 90% of next year’s order book se-
cured in terms of grants and 75% the
year after. It’s great to have this buffer,
but I think we need to be agile in secur-
ing the future: I think we have a great
vision and much to offer the world!
Do you think scientists are unreal-
istic about hopes for funding?
We have a whole raft of post docs
and students who have only known
good times. The geriatrics in the de-
partment like me can remember what
happened at the end of the 1970s in
the university sector and that was not
a pleasant experience. You could only
make telephone calls in the afternoon,
as it was cheaper, and you could not
photocopy. It was absurd.
Could higher tuition fees fill the
potential funding gap?
When you are coming into what
looks like a fairly painful recession, it
may not be very sensible to charge par-
ents more. Only consider that avenue
if you have done a very careful analysis
about the added value of a degree and
whether parents think this is a good
idea in terms of investment. I suspect
parents are also seriously retrenching
over the coming year or too. So stu-
dent fee hikes could be a bad idea even
though we do get a lot from them.
In the longer term, Alumni are a very
serious prospect for university fund-
ing. If we retain our proper links with
former students and we tell them what
we are doing, there is every prospect
they will want to support us.
What is your response to the 70%
rise in international students in
the last five years? Is that a trend
that you think will continue?
I don’t think it will continue much
more than it has done. If you look at
the proportion of home students to
international students at Imperial Col-
lege, we have the highest percentage
in the country. It demonstrations we
are truly a world class institution, and
clearly a very attractive place to study.
We will always want the best students
from around the world irrespective of
origin, but on the other hand, I think
people would want to come for an ed-
ucation that is Imperial, that is British
and so on. Therefore I cannot see the
percentages increasing dramatically
more than currently.
From a scientific point of view,
McCain or Obama?
Although Obama has been quite
elusive about his policies, he seems to
believe in evidence based science and
policies and I feel quite comfortable
with that. I am not overly comfortable
with the McCain and Palin approach
which is clearly more faith driven
and less driven by science. I struggle
with McCain’s use of language such
as foetal farming. This is emotive and
incorrect language, and these issues
would be better dealt with calmly and
rationality.
Imagine you had just completed
an Imperial College science de-
gree and you were deciding on a
PhD thesis now, what areas would
you consider?
That is a great question. I have enor-
mously enjoyed being part of the revo-
lution in quantum optics and informa-
tion.IfIwerestartingnow,thepartIam
really fascinated with is the interaction
between the Physicist and the Biologist
looking at not just structural biology,
A
new report published
yesterday shows the dra-
matic scale of the current
ecological crisis. The Liv-
ing Planet Report, pub-
lished jointly by the World Wide Fund
for Nature (WWF), the Zoological
Society of London (ZSL), and Global
Footprint Network (GFN), highlights
the global shift towards unsustainable
usage of the planet’s resources.
According to the report, which looks
at global ecological ‘footprints’ – the
amount of land used for providing re-
sources and storing waste – as well as
biodiversity loss and environmental
damage, three quarters of the world’s
population is now living beyond its
ecological means, in countries that
consume faster than resources can be
renewed.
The worst offenders are the US and
China, with a combined global foot-
print of 42%. The countries with the
smallest footprints, such as Malawi
and Afghanistan, use as little as 0.5
hectares per person, revealing a stark
dichotomy between the west, includ-
ing heavily industrialised nations such
as China and UAE, and the developing
world.
The UK was 15th on the list, with an
average footprint of 5.3 hectares per
person, more than double the ‘per-
mitted’ land area of 2.1 hectares. The
UK government yesterday announced
its support for a new ‘carbon audit’
initiative, which allows businesses and
the public sector to assess the carbon
emissions of their goods and services.
Recent research by the Carbon Trust
found that just 1% of companies know
their own carbon footprint.
The Living Planet Report says that
we are over-using the planet’s resourc-
es by 30%. According to James Leape,
director-general of WWF Interna-
tional, if the current trend continues
unchecked then by the mid-2030s “we
would need...two planets to maintain
such a lifestyle.” He called it “a more
fundamental crisis” than the credit
crunch. This estimate, the Report says,
is conservative, as it doesn’t account
for the possibility of ‘feedback loops’
such as runaway climate change, pre-
dicted in many models.
The Report comes in the wake of
several other reports highlighting, var-
iously, the biodiversity and economic
losses of the crisis.
This month’s IUCN Red List of
Threatened Species revealed almost
one in four mammals to be at risk
of extinction, while an EU-commis-
sioned report – The Economics of
Ecosystems and Biodiversity (Teeb) –
compared the money lost during the
present banking crisis to the value of
deforestation. They found that annu-
ally the loss of the world’s rainforests
costs $2-5 trillion (7% of global GDP)
while the estimated market losses so
far during the credit crunch amount to
$2.8 trillion.
Teeb, due to be completed in 2010,
is similar in scope to the Stern review
into the economics of climate change,
which did much to thrust that issue
into the public sphere. Although there
are concerns about the ethics of ‘econ-
omising’ conservation, many believe
that highlighting the ‘intrinsic’ value of
biodiversity has so far failed, and there
is a need to approach environmental
problems from a different angle.
Also in the Report was the Living
Planet Index, authored by ZSL, which
assess the ‘health’ of global biodiversity.
It found an average decline since 1970
of nearly 30% in populations of 1,686
vertebrate species, with the most seri-
ous impacts felt in the Tropics where
population losses were more than 50%.
This is mostly due to deforestation and
changing land use, while marine popu-
lations were impacted more by over-
fishing and pollution.
To remedy the crisis, WWF has pro-
posed so-called ‘sustainability wedges’.
These involve breaking down the con-
tributing factors and tackling them
separately with tailored solutions. The
main forks of the wedge solution are
reducing consumption (by travelling
less or using sex education to lower
population growth) and making pro-
duction sustainable (by switching to
renewable energy sources and using
new technologies such as carbon cap-
ture and storage (CCS)).
The Report ends on an optimistic
note – ‘The good news is ... it is not
too late to prevent an irreversible eco-
logical recession setting in’ – but this is
tempered with the reality of individual
will versus political action. Chief Eme-
ka Anyaoku, the WWF’s international
president, said: ‘Where is the collective
action, the bold leadership, and the vi-
sion required to conserve the biodiver-
sity of the planet? ... I see very little of
such passion.’
using imaging and diffraction and so
on, but dynamical information. So if I
was starting over again and I had a bit
more experimental ability than I really
do have, I would go in that direction.
It has an enormous number of funda-
mental and unanswered questions.
In your view how has Imperial
changed, since you were recruited
by Geoff New in 1979?
I have seen a purely science and en-
gineering campus in South Kensington
and Silwood, turn into largest built es-
tate of any university in the UK, with
half a million square meters. While it
is not all plate glass, it certainly looks a
great deal better than it did in the late
80s. People have also become much
more ambitious about what they want
to accomplish at Imperial College.
There is a feeling of confidence that
Imperial can tackle the toughest chal-
lenges facing mankind, from climate
change, to medical research, to playing
a leading role at CERN.
Despite all your travels and exten-
sive US collaborations, you have
stayed at Imperial for 30 years
have you ever been tempted to
move?
Well I think I got lost in the splen-
dours and comfort of the Huxley build-
ing *laughs*.
I stayed at Imperial because here I
could build a research activity in an
emerging area. We did good work, and
people recognised our work was good,
so the group expanded, allowing me to
work with people with tremendous in-
sights and enthusiasm. The students at
Imperial College made it a joy. One of
my first students is now a FRS, so I am
feeling really ancient.
I feel Imperial college has a degree of
buzz and focus not found elsewhere.
This is not just on the fundamental sci-
ence, but also having done the science,
ensuring it makes a difference.
As Principal of the Faculty of Natu-
ral Sciences, you were instrumen-
tal in founding the Grantham In-
stitute for Climate Change. How
do you see the centre developing
in the years to come and who will
drive the progress?
Climate change is a part of the
Grantham Institution remit, but we
will also look at the wider issues of mit-
igation technology, renewable energy
resources, the effects on bio-diversity
of climate change and the effects on
health.
We are very lucky to have Sir Brian
Hoskins as our scientific director.
Brian is one of the most distinguished
meteorologists and climate change
scientists in the world. The other ma-
jor driver will be Dr Simon Buckle. In
Simon, we have somebody who had
worked with the Bank of England on
financial modelling and risk and the
Foreign Office on global challenges.
He was awarded a CMG for his work
as deputy ambassador in Kabul, so I
thought he should not have too many
problems with the academic staff at
Imperial. It should be dead easy com-
pared with Kabul. <laughs>
When charismatic presenters such
as Jeremy Clarkson first deny
climate change, then belittle its
consequences what can scientists
do?
What scientists must do is have the
accessible evidence at their fingertips,
which says this is what we can see in
terms of carbon dioxide’s contributions
to temperatures and the likely conse-
quences. An important part is a frank
assessment of errors and uncertainties,
which is one of the many strengths of
the IPCC.
We are here in the famous Lecture
Theatre 1 in Blackett. Where you
have lectured many times, will we
ever see you again in the lecture
hall?
I really miss teaching, and what I
have done in the past, is finagle my-
self in to give guest lectures. So I drop
heavy hints that I would not mind giv-
ing a guest lecture, so I am sure you
will see me again.
Peter, thank you for your time.
Meet Sir Peter Knight, FRS
Blending an iPhone - ouch
The latest in Daniel’s series of unmissable science videos - send your suggestions to science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
http://uk.youtube.com/watch?v=qg1ckCkm8YI
Dramatic increase in ecological crisis
Felix’s version of the green credit crunch
Felix Whitton
Science Correspondent
“More fundamental than the credit crunch”
felix Science Editor, Daniel Burrows, interviews the new Senior Principal of Imperial
Bad Science
Talking of
moron-
baiting...
readers of
Ben Gol-
dacre’s Bad
Science
column in
the Guard-
ian will al-
ready be familiar with his style: some-
times cajoling, sometimes scathing,
always fervently on the side of reason
over quackery when it comes to sci-
ence. This two-parter on the placebo
effect, first broadcast on BBC Radio 4
in August, is now available as a podcast
and is well worth a listen. Dr Ben ex-
plores the different arguments on both
sides with a more balanced approach
than one would expect from reading
his polemical essays. Subjects as di-
verse as Native American shamans, the
‘role of theatre’ in medicine, and the
use of sugar pills to cure depression are
covered, with plenty of interviews to
flesh out the substance. An interesting
and thought-provoking podcast which
rarely strays into moral judgement but
simply allows the listener come to his
or her own conclusions.
www.badscience.net
Slacker
Promising intro music (samples and
whatnot) but unfortunately Slacker
justifies its name by appearing to be
broadcast from someone’s basement.
I hear giggles. It’s all very childish.
The guys (as they inevitably are) begin
with a short discussion on McCain’s
haranguing of Obama for wanting to
build a planetarium in Chicago. ‘In-
teresting’, I think. Then someone says
“nuculus”. Shurely shome mishtake?
Ah no, they changed the spelling for
Dubya – apparently easier than teach-
ing him the correct way. “Interesting
thing about planeteria”, someone else
says. Uh-huh. Not after 45 bleeding
minutes it isn’t. The new planetarium
in San Francisco is “awesome”. More
giggles. Someone lights up a doobie.
Dude, where’s my podcast?
http://www.slackerastronomy.org/
wordpress/
Terra:
Malice in Wonderland
Not a
podcast
as such,
but a
bizarre
short
film by
Ed Wat-
kins based on Lewis Carroll’s Through
the Looking Glass and Matt Ridley’s
‘Red Queen’ analogy for host-parasite
evolutionary arms races (“forever run-
ning to stay in the same place”). This
managed to be both uninformative and
badly written – I almost choked when
I heard ‘fiction’ and ‘piston’ rhymed –
but at least there was some pretty ani-
mation to look at.
http://lifeonterra.com
Felix Whitton
Podview

