I
magine This is set in the Warsaw Ghetto during the Second
World War, a period of turmoil and terror for Jewish commu-
nities under Nazi-occupation. Its characters are some of those
caught up in Hitler’s plot to kill all Jews, trying to carry on
with normal life. We are introduced to the Warshowskys, a
family running a company of actors in the ghetto, putting on a
production of Masada whilst facing imminent deportation. But
how close is the story of Imagine This to the real experiences of
those in the Warsaw Ghetto? Could culture survive in such a har-
rowing location?
Work on ghettoising Warsaw began in October 1940 with 113,000
Poles being removed. The ghetto was closed off to the rest of the city
on November 16th, 1940 with 440,000 Jews crammed into less than
three square miles of city, enclosed by a wall of brick and barbed
wire protected by armed guards. Inside the ghetto the remnants of
a city remained with its occupants trying to maintain normality as
much as possible - adults still went to work, children went to school
and cafes were still open (if you’ve seen The Pianist, you’ll remem-
ber the main character Władysław Szpilman works as a pianist in an
upper-class restaurant). As the war went on and more Jews from
all over Poland were transported to the Ghetto, conditions became
much worse. Disease and famine became rife. Jews were limited
to just 253 calories a day. The Nazis also started instigating random
killings. Despite this, the occupants tried to deal with the situation as
best they could, opening soup kitchens, a school system and even
a symphony orchestra!
In 1942, the ghetto began to empty with the mass deportation of
its residents to extermination camps such as Treblinka. In an effort
to save themselves, the residents started to fight back during what is
now known as the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising. During the early part of
1943, Jews started to refuse to be moved, leading to the final battle
on Passover of 1943. The resistance ended on April 23rd with demo-
lition of the Great Synagogue marking the removal of the ghetto on
May 16th 1943.
So what about culture within the ghetto? Well, it did exist thanks to
the “Yiddishe Kultur Organizatsye”. The ghetto contained Jews from
all walks of life, including some famous Jewish actors such as Zig-
munt Turkow, who appeared in films like “The Vow” and “Jolly Pau-
pers” before the war and his wife, Diana Blumenfeld (both survived
the war). The journal of Emanuel Ringelblum, another occupant of
the ghetto, confirms that Diana Blumenfeld performed in a play he
saw on 11 December 1940. As previously mentioned, there was also
an eighty-member symphony orchestra conducted by Simon Pull-
man that ran for two years before the entire company was sent to
Treblinka in August 1942. Among other cultural highlights was the
childrens’ choir who sang to raise money for their orphanages and
schools and various amateur comedy nights.
I
must admit I got a bit overexcit-
ed when I was invited to watch
a rehearsal of a new musical;
it’s a bit like musical theatre
geek heaven. Even before
I got to the auditorium, I found
myself crammed in a lift with
two of the actors from the
show (exciting!) and we got
talking. It turns out that
Sévan Stephan studied
Maths at Imperial in the
nineties - see scientists,
you too, can become a West
End performer!
As I settled down in my
centre stall seat (that’s the
great thing about rehearsals,
you can sit wherever you want),
I was taken aback by the set.
Eugene Lee really has pulled out
all the stops. The setting is an old
factory that has been ripped apart
by the Nazis so all the glass is broken
and the bricks are covered in dirt. This
created a feeling of unease, as if the
Nazis could burst in at any time, es-
pecially with so many exits, entrances
and stairs dotted around in hidden ar-
eas. The set extends across the entire
front of the theatre, creating an inti-
mate yet all-encompassing feel. Even
the orchestra are concealed by this
vast expanse. The costumes, de-
spite not all being finished, had a
sense of faded glory about them -
brightly coloured rags tainted with
dirt or rips. Although they didn’t
quite seem to fit with the set, the
costumes still worked on a story-
telling level.
The cast was working on the
song “Masada”, part of the
company’s play.From what
I was told, “Masada” is
an ancient story of Jew-
ish persecution by the
Romans and their fight
back and so, is echoing
the situation the characters
find themselves in. This number
takes full advantage of a bridging walk-
way about 6 feet above the stage with
the “Jews” above and the “Romans” be-
low. It also takes advantage of the built-
in revolve, that the New London thea-
tre has had since Cats had its colossal
21 year run, with some nifty choreog-
raphy involving dying Romans. One
exciting aspect of being in the tech
rehearsal was how aspects of the show
were rapidly being altered around me.
The director was playing around with
different positions and poses whilst the
choreographer tweaked specific move-
ments. The choreography looked
complex enough to keep my attention
without removing too much of the fo-
cus from the main characters singing
above. When the company started to
sing, I was taken away. The melody was
rich, with Peter Polycarpou’s booming
cries of “Masada” supported by a very
‘Les Mis-like’ chorus backing, and
the harmonies were breathtaking. For
some reason, when I hear a good har-
mony I can’t stop smiling. Well, I didn’t
stop beaming throughout the song.
The entire setup of the song created
an atmosphere of both tension and op-
timism, which I hope can be carried on
throughout the rest of the play. From
the songs I have heard at the tech re-
hearsal and on the website, the music
sounds flowing and lyrical, and works
with the themes of the play. The prin-
cipals seem to really fit their roles and
sang very well, despite this being a
rehearsal to get the lights and the set
right, rather than the notes. In their
downtime, the cast appear to get on
really well, which I think will be effec-
tive in creating realistic relationships
between the characters in the show.
A sneaky look at what the
show has to offer
The unexpected
artists of the
Warsaw Ghetto
The felix Arts pages managed to bag not only a snoop at a rehearsal of new musical Imagine This, but also
an interview with producer Beth Trachtenberg. Our resident musical fanatic Lucy Harrold reports back
“This is my pointing-into-the-distance-at-nothing pose,” “Lovely dear.”
After doing a bit of digging around
for reviews of the Theatre Royal Ply-
mouth tryout, I really hope that the
book of the musical has improved.
Some have said that this will be the ele-
ment of the show that will let it down,
- the Plymouth book was reported to
be clichéd and corny - but this was not
obvious in the part of the show that I
saw, so let’s hope there has been a seri-
ous rewrite.
Imagine This opens on 19 Novem-
ber so go forth, reader, and book
your tickets!
I
don’t know what I was expect-
ing when I was given the oppor-
tunity to interview Beth, one of
the producers of Imagine This.
I was told she was a smoker
and a “real character” so I expected a
big ballsy woman with booming voice
and attitude to match. Instead, I was
greeted by a very nice and friendly
American who is on first-name terms
with all, and generally seemed happy
to be here. We settled down in the
stalls of the New London, surrounded
by an ensuing technical rehearsal to
discuss Imagine This, her experiences
producing it and the general London
theatre scene…
As we entered the auditorium I
was struck by the vast and intri-
cate set. How did you come to
this design?
We originally planned for a prosceni-
um arch theatre, so we had to change
to this altogether different layout (the
New London stage stretches all the
way across the front of the theatre),
but we have found it now works in our
favour. There are lots of hidden spaces,
doors and staircases making it very
atmospheric and intimate. Our de-
signer, Eugene Lee (designer for shows
like Wicked and the original Sweeney
Todd) was chosen before we knew the
restrictions, but he really has a great
sense of the space.
Tell me about the play.itself and
the misconceptions surrounding
it
Imagine This is not the Holocaust
musical as many have perceived. Al-
though it is set in the Warsaw Ghetto,
it is more about the play being put on
by the actors in the Ghetto and how
history can repeat itself. It is about hu-
man beings that could be your neigh-
bours, your friends or your family. By
an evil fate, they have found themselves
in these circumstances but continue
to live their lives and never lose sight
of the future and hope. These people
are role models; they have the strength
and belief in the future to fall in love in
the Warsaw Ghetto
The show examines how people
faced with extraordinary choices make
themselves heroes, it echoes the situa-
tions in Darfur, Somalia and anywhere
people are hated for no reason.
What is the role of art and culture
in the show?
The wonder of the story is that the
Ghetto was the last bastion of Yiddish
culture and culture is what keeps us
human.
This is you first musical, so why
now and why this show?
I’ve always loved musical theatre but
never had ambitions to produce it - my
background is in film and television. A
producer friend recommended the CD
three years ago and, not wanting to be
rude, I just shoved it on whilst in the
car. I didn’t want to leave the car! The
songs were emotion-provoking and the
lyrics intelligent enough to treat the
listener with respect. I was taken by
Glenn Berenbeim’s perception of the
similarities between the Nazi persecu-
tion of the Jews and their persecution
in Masada (the play being put on by the
company); he recognised the overarch-
ing themes.
What differences did you find
between film production and
musical production?
In both forms of producing, you are
working with creative talent but the
financial side structure differs. In film
and television, it is easy to go to agen-
cies or companies for money and get
it, whereas in an artform that tends to
fail, like musical theatre, it is harder.
However, we have an amazing investor
group from all different walks of life
who have invested because they have
fallen in love with the show.
Why do you believe in this show
so much?
Imagine This has a lot to say and
teach us but it is still entertainment,
entertainment that will inspire its audi-
ence. The score is lush, flowing, lyrical
and difficult to forget - the musical will
live on even after you leave the thea-
tre. I’ll never forget seeing those classic
shows like Les Miserable and My Fair
Lady. I want Imagine This to be one of
those shows.
Imagine This started as a work-
shop and then a tryout in Ply-
mouth. How did it benefit from
this?
We started as a workshop in
Shoreditch Town Hall with twenty
people in black t-shirts, a narrator, a
piano and guitar. The Theatre Royal,
Plymouth got on board and we spent
two and a half weeks there. The big
advantage of opening in Plymouth was
that it is totally un-urban and so if the
show could work there, it could work
anywhere. The best critics are your au-
dience - they are another actor and a
part of the show, if the actors on stage
can’t dialogue with the audience you
have no show.
After Plymouth, we had a lot of work
to do but knew exactly what to do. For
example, the opening number was
never in the Plymouth production and
I can’t imagine the show without it.
How do you feel about coming
into a West End that has been
hit with a series of flop new
musicals?
There is nothing more thrilling than
seeing the product of talented imagi-
nations; a show not based on a film or
a book, and I think audiences will be
thrilled to see a new show too. If we
don’t create new shows, what will have
to be revived? The fact that the season
is full of revivals is evidence of this.
Is it a challenge? Absolutely, I can
understand that people can only afford
to see one or two shows a year now.
Hopefully, this show will be their treat;
I have a lot of faith in that.
How do other recent Holocaust-
based pieces such as God on Trial
compare to Imagine This?
God on Trial was a spectacular
drama and had the intellectual excite-
ment of Imagine This but I don’t think
I would be able to put on this musical
if it was set in a concentration camp.
Imagine This differs from other pieces
because it is not about the Nazis, but
about who the Jews were. We have the
responsibility to those who were in the
Producer Beth
Trachtenberg talks to felix
The promotion poster - the rose quite clearly says “classy”. If you want this in flash-animated, tinkling
music form, we heartily recommend the production’s website. It caused minor a stir in the felix office.
This smart chap is one of the main characters, Daniel Warshowsky, who puts on a theatrical production in
the Warsaw Ghetto, played by Peter Polycarpou. We nod in the general direction of his very fine hat.
Ghetto to tell their story, a responsi-
bility everyone working on the show
takes very seriously. If we did not, it
would be a betrayal of everything they
lived and died for. As we started the re-
hearsal period we discovered that one
of our ensemble members, Roy Litvin’s
grandparents had been caught up in
the Holocaust and his grandmother
survived Auschwitz. So this process
has been particularly meaningful to
him.
Do you see Imagine This transfer-
ring to other countries?
If it is a success, definitely. It is
a universal story that reso-
nates with everyone.
It doesn’t matter if
someone doesn’t
understand the
language or if the
lyrics are trans-
lated, the mu-
sic is beautiful
enough to car-
ry the show.
, a double page spread on hot new musical

