arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
23
Friday 31 October 2008 felix
Arts
Oooh, swirly. This delightful little nugget of hypnotism is the oh-so-originally-named “Two Spirals” by Miró’s bestie, Alexander Calder
Maeght and the other two artists fea-
tured in this exhibition. I leave room
two reluctantly and move on to room
three, which is filled with Georges
Braque and Alberto Giacometti. The
two are certainly very similar in their
dark and sombre mood. They are ab-
stract while their subject matter origi-
nates in reality. Braque created Cubism
alongside Pablo Picasso in 1909-1910,
while Giacometti was apparently the
favoured artist of the French existen-
tialist writers led by Jean-Paul Sartre in
the 1950s. Damn him – I wish I could
be the favourite artist of a group of ex-
istentialist writers. I think it would be a
wise career move for me.
The series of small landscapes in
thick, decorative frames on the first
wall by Braque are a little drab and un-
exciting, but quietly charming. They
are rich in texture with their deep lay-
ers of paint. Overall, I’m not so keen
on Braque as I am on Miró and Calder.
Some of his work is a bit, let’s face it,
ugly. Brown and angry and sometimes
too serious. There’s a hint of the Pi-
casso about them, as is evident in
“Woman Lying Down” (1930-1956),
but then they are closely associated
contemporaries. “The Echo” (1953-
1956) is a good summary of what
Braque is all about, but isn’t pleasant to
look at and makes my eyes hurt. It’s all
confused lines and unattractive rusty,
pinky browns and yellow with a brown
and grey background. It seems to be a
still life but it’s hard to tell. Giacometti
was obviously into his sculptures, like
“Walking Man” (1960) and “Standing
Woman” (1960). They’re elongated,
rough, green and knobbly. I don’t re-
ally like them and they feel a little out
of place in this exhibition. His nearby
paintings, like “The House Opposite”
(1952) are a bit better, in a sketchy,
scratchy, grey sort of way. Still not
great though.
Room four is a delve back into what
I like, with a wall full of covers from
lithography expert Maeght’s arty pe-
riodical “Derrière le Miróir”, all illus-
trated by different artists. The artists’
names are on each cover, declaring
themselves proudly. There are famous
names here like Chagall, Leger and
Kandinsky, and Miró sneaks himself in
many times. These covers are colourful
and varied – a feast of visual delights
representative of an exciting period
in art history. In the glass case in the
centre of the room are inside pages
taken from the periodical that feature
sleek and decorative French writing
and Miró’s doodling and abstract dec-
oration. On the wall behind are a few
modernist, poster-style Calder works,
big and bold. “Two Spirals” (1974) is
just that, looking like a white snail on
a red background. I like the fitting ti-
tle attached to some white discs on a
black background – “Saucers in the
Dark” (1969).
The exhibition is only four rooms,
and at £7 for a student ticket it feels it’s
a bit pricier than it should be. Particu-
larly since I forked out another tenner
between the gift shop and the restau-
rant. I’d never been to the restaurant
but it was very nice indeed, decorated
with arty murals and wood panelling.
It provided a decent cappuccino, staff
who treat you like royalty (paying this
much, I probably should be) and a suit-
able range of cake. I sampled the plum
frangipani tart, which sounds a lot
posher than it really was – spongy cake
with the odd bit of plum. Quite pleas-
ing though not outstanding.
Cake aside, the exhibition, which is
perfectly put together, well-explained
and manageable, covers a very acces-
sible period in art history, so even art
novices will be satisfied if they feel like
coughing up the cash to see it. It’s one
of those exhibitions that succeeds in
not only showing you some really good
art but also in letting you get to know
the artists. It reveals them as being a
few blokes having a bit of fun with
some paints, making us smile – I think
this revelation is often key in appreci-
ating more modern art forms. My one
criticism is that even though the exhi-
bition is supposed to focus on Maeght,
we don’t find out much about him as
a person or his accomplishments. It’s
more about the four featured artists, so
poor Maeght gets left in the shadows
a little. Despite that minor grumble,
this is certainly one of my favourite
exhibitions of all time, if only just for
the Mirós and Calders. While the Tate
seems to get a bit more irritating and
overpriced every time I go, I think the
high-class but tucked away RA has de-
servedly overtaken them as my favour-
ite art institution.
The exhibition “Miró, Calder, Gi-
acometti, Braque: Aimé Maeght
and His Artists” (bit of a mouthful
at the ticket office) is on now at
the Royal Academy and until 2
Jan 2009, so no excuses!
I Would Like to Be a
Dot in a Painting by Miro
by Moniza Alvi
I would like to be a dot in a painting by Miro.
Barely distinguishable from other dots,
it’s true, but quite uniquely placed.
And from my dark centre
I’d survey the beauty of the linescape
and wonder -- would it be worthwhile
to roll myself towards the lemon stripe,
Centrally poised, and push my curves
against its edge, to give myself
a little attention?
But it’s fine where I am.
I’ll never make out what’s going on
around me, and that’s the joy of it.
The fact that I’m not a perfect circle
makes me more interesting in this world.
People will stare forever --
Even the most unemotional get excited.
So here I am, on the edge of animation,
a dream, a dance,a fantastic construction,
A child’s adventure.
And nothing in this tawny sky
can get too close, or move too far away.
22 felix Friday 31 October 2008
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Emily Wilson
Arts Editor
T
he week I take my turn at
playing Arts Editor gener-
ally commences with me
lying awake at four in the
morning thinking about
how I’ll be spending my afternoon in
the humid cave that is the Felix office.
This is followed by a mental run-
through of what I have (or, more often,
do not have) to fill the arts section
with that week, inevitably leading into
“What the heck am I going to write
in my editorial?”. The last one elicited
two positive/neutral comments (this is
a veritable triumph by normal stand-
ards) and three negative comments
along the lines of “Jeez, Emily, why
don’t you get a blog or something?”.
While still lying in bed, I did men-
tally draft a witty and informative edi-
torial along the lines of ‘Emily’s Fool-
Proof Formula for Writing for the Arts
Section’. In my head, at four thirty in
the morning, it was pretty good. High-
lights were going to be “insert pop cul-
ture references like you’re starring in
The Gilmore Girls” (that being a pop
culture reference in itself, oh yesss) and
my advice to always end your review
with a brief discussion of the range and
quality of beverage offered at the ven-
ue. But, let’s face it, I don’t want to give
away all the secrets of my genius and,
more importantly, ideas that seemed
good at four thirty in the morning
seem less good when you sit down in
front of your computer. Anyway, I will
try to be a good little Arts Editor and
limit myself to artistic chit-chat from
now on.
What have I got for you this week?
Lots! I started the week with only two
pieces. Firstly, my own ecstatic ram-
blings about the Maeght exhibition at
the RA accompanied by my favourite
poem, which happens to be about some
of the art in said exhibition. Secondly,
we have a major feature on Imagine
This by Lucy Harrold (now a regular
fixture in Felix), who was lucky enough
to sit in on a tech rehearsal and chat to
the producer. Two double-page spreads
is more than sufficient for an arts sec-
tion, so I was positively bowled over
when co-editor Caz Knight emailed
three more articles in! Caz herself has
sent in a book review, and we’ve also
got reviews of exhibitions about Andy
Warhol and Cold War design. You’re
getting keen, guys, and I like it! Please
do keep sending in your articles, even if
it means I have to spend a couple more
hours in the Felix cave. The address, of
course, is arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
What can you expect from me in fu-
ture Felixes? I’m still planning to write
about a few little-known museums
and galleries dotted about London, as
I think I promised you some time last
year. I’m also determined to write a
book review, to prove Caz isn’t the only
literary one around here. But first, I
need to finish the 900-page door stop-
per I’ve got in mind. Watch this space..
Miro, Miro, on the wall...
Maeght knew talent when he saw it, as an exciting new RA exhibition proves. Emily
Wilson embarrasses herself in a lift, has a minor orgasm and blows with old ladies
One of the Calder mobiles that now probably has spit all over it. Sorry, Calder. The old lady made me do it
I
n the shadow of the big Francis
Bacon and Rothko exhibitions
on at their respective Tates, I
only found out about this exhi-
bition from advertising on the
side of telephone boxes. Even within
the Royal Academy itself the exhibition
is tucked away up in the Sackler Wing,
not in the main exhibition galleries.
Once I bought my £7 student ticket,
I nearly didn’t find the exhibition - it
was so well hidden. Unable to find
the stairs, I resorted to the lift where
a well-spoken lift attendant (do they
really need to pay somebody to push
buttons all day?) called me “madam”
multiple times. Which was somewhat
embarrassing. But thank goodness I
found this little exhibition, because it
was one of the best I’ve ever been to.
The exhibition is based on the French
art dealer, patron and publisher Aimé
Maeght (1906-1981), his wife Margue-
rite and the artists he supported. The
introductory section includes Pierre
Bonnard and Henri Matisse, two art-
ists who started Maeght’s career. Bon-
nard appears to be a softer, wishy-
washier version of the better-known
Matisse, judging by “Summer” (1917)
in the first room which is fluffy and
hazy. To its right are some charcoal
sketches and line drawings which are
classically Matisse. Matisse’s small but
significant presence in this exhibition
has not been advertised and so, comes
as a pleasant surprise. A highlight is
“The Bush” (1951).
The first two of the big four artists
associated with Maeght are the Span-
ish Catalan artist Joan Miró and the
American Alexander Calder. Being a
major Miró fan, I had a minor orgas-
mic moment as I stepped into room
two. Miró’s here in a big way, filling the
room with a rainbow of bright colours,
accompanied by his mate Calder. The
biographical information informed
me that they were close chums until
Calder died. Good old Maeght was
responsible for a number of Miró’s
exhibitions and for encouraging him
to work in a greater range of media.
Calder’s mobiles and stabiles (like a
mobile but on the ground and, er, not
moving) are instantly recognizable. I
love them. It’s always a treat to see art
suspended from the ceiling instead of
fixed flat to the wall. Look at the shad-
ows cast by the mobiles on to the walls
of the gallery. They are almost better
than the mobiles themselves. Miró’s
“Poem” (1966) is utterly beautiful. It’s a
splattering of abstract shapes and col-
oured splotches. I can see a bowler hat
towards the bottom. I spend a few mo-
ments trying to decide which coloured
splotch I would like to be reincarnated
as. The pale lilac one in the middle is
tempting, as is a red one on the right.
This is exactly the kind of art that I get
passionate about. Already I’m enjoy-
ing this exhibition so much I’m close
to tears.
The glass case in the centre of the
second room is filled with delights,
including miniature Calder mobiles
small enough to sneak into my hand-
bag (if only!). There’s also “Thinking
About Sandy, Sandy” (1973) by Miró,
which is scrawled words in swirly
handwriting on top of plain blocks
of primary colour. I can’t understand
the Spanish words. All I can pick out
is “Sandy”. Next to it, is a small sculp-
ture by Calder of a cat’s head with pipe
cleaner-like whiskers, grafted onto a
body like a trickle of paint. Unsurpris-
ingly it’s called “Cat Snake” (1968). It’s
a little bit sinister when you first look at
it, but it grows on me the more I look.
On the other side of the case are “Bird
with Balls” (1954) and “Bird with Spec-
tacles” (1930) which are wire birds,
one with a crude cock and testicles
dangling from its body (looking more
like it’s carrying a pair of scissors), the
other holding a pair of glasses on a
stick in its foot as if watching a rather
engaging opera. They should sell rep-
licas of these in the gift shop because
they’re so fun. Then again, you could
probably twist round a coat hanger and
make your own. It amuses me how rich
old ladies keep walking past “Bird with
Balls” and cackling.
“North-South” by Miró is more con-
ventional in form – a still life of objects
on a table, in a naïve style and crude
colours. I particularly like the squashy-
looking pear and the sweet little gold-
finch in its cage. This is a painting I
would love to have on the wall at home.
I wonder vaguely if I could buy a print
of it.
I see a middle-aged woman stand-
ing in front of a Calder mobile, sneak-
ily blowing on it to make it move. The
shadow twists and turns behind it.
I stop to admire. We briefly discuss
how gorgeous the mobile is and she
invites me to blow with her. I stand be-
side her but I’m laughing too much to
contribute.
“The Birds of Prey Swoop Down On
OurShadows”byMiróispaintsplashed
and spread in thick lines against what
is at first, a strange and unidentifiable
canvas, which turns out to be cowskin.
It adds a whole new dimension of tex-
ture and feeling with its softness and
wrinkles. “Constellation”, also by Miró,
is an abrupt and out-of-place, over-
sized statue at the end of room two. It
is a very dark midnight green and looks
like half an avocado with the stone still
embedded in the middle.
The handout booklet is less informa-
tive about the connection between
This is what Giacometti thought made for good art. We don’t agree.

