arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
24 Friday 31 October 2008
felix
Arts arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
25
Friday 31 October 2008 felix
Arts
Hear the voices in Warhol’s head
Emilie Beauchamp is propelled into the psyche of the most popular pop artist of the 20th century
A
ndy Warhol became one
of the iconic artists of the
20th century by trans-
forming anything from
everyday banal objects to
the biggest celebrities of the time into
pop icons.
The new exhibition “Other Voices,
Other Rooms”, in the Hayward Gallery
until 18 January 2009, gives the public
an intimate vision of Warhol’s mind,
sharing his most popular as well as
some unknown pieces, dating from the
1950s to his unexpected death in 1987.
It is at the beginning of the 1960s that
the world-famous Campbell’s Soup
Can and Marilyn Monroe prints made
him famous, as much as the machine-
like production techniques he used to
print on silkscreen canvases, which
Warhol used to portray the industrial-
ism of modern society. Often pictured
as a voyeur, Warhol used photogra-
phy to catch personal individualities
in different lights from the 1950s on-
ward, and later started experimenting
with new media such as audiotapes
and videos in 1960s. His entourage as
well as himself were the source of his
inspiration and many of his pieces are
based in his New York studio, known
as the Factory. The results exposed at
the Hayward Gallery gives the visitor
a holistic introspection into Warhol’s
ludicrous world , filled with drama, hy-
pochondria and hypersexualisation.
The fact that most videos and re-
cordings are from very common set-
tings and made in a “home-movie”
fashion gives the impression of sharing
personal, almost private moments of
the artist’s life. The Factory Diaries, a
series of videos capturing often absurd
daily events of him and his crew at the
Factory during the 70s and 80s, show
the creative process of Warhol who
was stirred by the gossips, chats and
confessions of fellow humans. Some-
times criticized for being artificial and
shallow, Warhol admitted that “all [his]
films are artificial, but then everything
is sort of artificial” as well. It is during
the 1980s that Warhol starts a televi-
sion series named “Andy Warhol’s Fif-
teen Minutes” that is broadcasted on
the new MTV channel. The television
programme was mostly famous be-
cause Warhol coined the concept of
“fifteen minutes of fame” while talking
about the short attention span of pop-
ular culture upon mediatised objects.
A broad collection of various episodes
from that series and from other televi-
sion productions realized in the same
period, show that the concept was also
applied in the production techniques:
most episodes are a collection of short
skits skipping quickly from one topic
to another, ranging from fashion, to
sex, death, money, success and other
absorbing nonsense. Over and again,
Warhol transformed the end in the
mean; materialized the message in the
medium.
Ingeniously presented in a series of
large rooms with all the space needed
to breathe in the creations, “Other
Voices, Other Rooms” can take you up
for the entire day if you let yourself get
lost in the deliriously frank pieces as-
sembled. The overall experience leaves
you with a more than realistic insight
of North America’s lost and lustful so-
ciety, convened through the paradox of
deep artificiality his pieces depict. Even
after all the feasts and freaks around
him, Andy Warhol was nonetheless
one of the most lucid artists of his era.
Andy Warhold: Other Voices,
Other Rooms - at the Hayward
Gallery until 18 January 2009
Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas
Caz Knight offers us another handy review of a classic novel - this time with a scandalously sinful slant
P
erhaps Hunter S. Thomp-
son’s novel Fear and Loath-
ing in Las Vegas: A Savage
Journey to the Heart of the
American Dream should be
renamed Every Felony, Sin and Vice in
Las Vegas, as that is certainly what is
experienced as we are jerked into the
heart of that Dream: dragged along
through commotion, irresponsible and
depraved ether binges and the “Sixth
Reich”. Based on real life events with
some fiction thrown in, Thompson, as
his Hawaiian shirt, mirrored-aviator-
wearing “alter ego” Raoul Duke, is sent
to Las Vegas with his Samoan attorney,
Dr Gonzo, to report on the Mint 400
off-road desert motorcycle race and
find the hideous “nerve centre” of the
American Dream, all the while fully
immersing himself in proceedings in
the true spirit of Gonzo journalism.
Perhaps the antithesis of convention-
al, objective newspaper journalism,
Gonzo journalism is highly subjective,
carried out with reckless abandon by
the writer who becomes a part of the
story he is covering, reporting in the
first person and accessorising his piece
with personal experience, humour, ex-
aggeration, touches of fiction and pro-
fanity. The idea being that the essence
of the subject matter is better conveyed
with exaggerated imagery, fiction often
being the best fact. “Gonzo” originat-
ing from Irish slang for the last man
standing after a night’s drinking, per-
fectly fitting given the tireless antics
of Duke in the novel and his penchant
for alcohol, drugs, violence and insan-
ity. (Which he wouldn’t advocate to
anybody though they worked for him,
until his suicide.)
Aspiring writers and readers alike
will both marvel at and covet the ease
with which he creates and pours out
such witty commentary on people and
situations manifesting as a by-product
of Las Vegas - the American Dream at
work. His concise style - utterly devoid
of cliché and stream of consciousness
or inner monologue - at times highly
colloquial without losing any of its po-
tency, still manages to conjure a storm
of colour, place, scene, setting and cra-
ziness which fill each short chapter
making it so effortless to read - perfect
for dipping into in short bursts on the
tube, between lectures. Thompson has
done all the work for us, our imagina-
tion is given a treat as our brains can
rest without the effort often required
from other, “heftier” classics.
Duke’s twitchy, impetuous nature,
mannerisms and thought are conveyed
beautifully through a literary style of
the same nature that also provides us
with insightful and thoughtful musings
on historical, political and social is-
sues that underlie Thompson’s hatred
of Nixon, disdain of authority and ex-
perience of the optimistic “speed that
fueled the sixties”. The scenarios which
Duke and his attorney find themselves
in and create for themselves, put one
in awe of their temerity and improvi-
sational skills - all this being carried
out utterly sideways on one or another
(psychedelic) drug. Obviously, he is a
man of iron constitution (“it never got
weird enough for me”, said Thompson)
to survive five days in Las Vegas with
no sleep, his fear about his countless
petty crimes heightened by ampheta-
mine paranoia, while still trying to
cover the Mint 400 and then onto an
anti-drugs convention for over a thou-
sand middle-American hick cops.
His quest for the American Dream is
fulfilled and found to be a truly grue-
some thing, which has one recoiling in
horror at Western society’s downhill
trajectory. As we live it through Duke’s
experience of that superficial, surreal
city feeling, it’s as if we too, have taken
something mind-altering. It is upon
reading the book that one realises just
how true Terry Gilliam has stayed to
the book in his film version starring
Benicio del Toro and Johnny Depp, as
Raoul Duke. But the book will take you
deeper down the clichéd, proverbial
rabbit hole to Duke’s very much un-cli-
ched and unconventional experience of
Nevada in 1971. After reading you will
only want to explore Thompson’s bib-
liography further, learning more of his
wayward life that saw him living with
the Hell’s Angels, running for Sheriff of
Aspen, campaigning for drug and fire-
arm legalisation and rearing peacocks
at his ranch, “Owl Farm”.
A piccie from the film version. You COULD watch the film instead, but make sure you visualise all us arts
editors looking over your shoulder and shaking our heads in disapproval while you’re doing it. Tut tut.
The big man himself, Andy Warhol. Artistic genius or bit of a nutter?
Where conflict and culture meet
Rosie Milton nips over the road to the V&A for their current exhibition on Cold War design innovation
T
he Cold War Modern:
Design 1945-1970 at the
V&A Museum initially
presented itself, with its
intriguing and slightly
awkward title, for its fusion of the po-
litical and economic state of conflict
that occurred in the 20th century be-
tween the Soviet Union and the United
States, and what may seem antitheti-
cally, the applied arts of design. It im-
mediately raised the question to me
– what good could come out of such a
politically-tense time, with the threat of
catastrophe hanging over the heads of
the peoples of the west (and the east)?
Apparently, this era of competition en-
couraged a huge amount of innovation
in design – from tea cups to telecom-
munication towers - this new spirit of
the age has also come to be known as
the ‘space race’. Both America and the
Soviet Union were attempting to reach
astronomical heights with skyscrapers
and satellites, pushing to outdo each
other with their ‘homes of tomorrow’.
Yet, only when we entered the first half
of the exhibition to see propaganda
posters, ominous building designs and
technical innovations in weaponry, did
we begin to understand that we were
witnessing a paranoid age – where
the intentions of the superpowers had
trickled down into the everyday do-
mestic lives of the masses.
As you walk through the exhibition,
which is sensibly set out chronologi-
cally, you are informed of the history of
the Cold War period through the leaps
forward in design. From the unreal,
such as Le Corbusier’s visions of uto-
pian architecture, to iconic pieces of
furniture, such as Eero Aarnio’s Globe
Chair and films by Stanley Kubrick, we
can see just how influential this period
was and continues to be. Whilst tour-
ing this fascinating and informative ex-
hibition we, as native Britons, consid-
ered political tensions today between
the powerful countries of the western
world. As I rubbed shoulders with a
few Russian and American visitors to
the exhibition, I wondered what their
experience of the design of the past
was and whether they thought it repre-
sented a positive movement out of the
age of the cold war, or recognised that
it only enhanced the fragility of our
world today.
Cold War Modern is on at the
fabulous V&A right now, until 11
January 2009
Superman tried to keep it hidden that his twin brother was a commie, but failed.

