nightlife.felix@imperial.ac.uk
266 felix Friday 31 October 2008
Nightlife
Nightlife Editor – Catherine Jones
Trick or Treat? Cake or Death?
A preview of the more specialist Halloween events in the capital this weekend. Don’t be scared, it’s a
piece of cake...
I
n this week’s section we feature
the best of London’s Hallow-
een events. It seems Halloween
nights are taking dressing up
and snacks to the extreme. This
year fetishism and cakes are where it’s
at.
Pushing boundaries is an obvious
improvement on those supposedly
scary Halloween club nights. Those
ones where spray cobwebs and pump-
kin lanterns rule. I’m sure you’ll agree
these are frankly a bit lame. Halloween
is a night where you have the freedom
to leave your inhibitions aside and take
license to dress up as your will desires.
The more experimental student can
head off to Striplite at London Stone,
Cannon Street. Putting inhibitions
aside, this Surrealist Halloween night
promises to bring alive your wildest
fantasies and deepest desires.
The dress code for Striplite is alter-
native, fetish and creative dress. Nudity
is strictly prohibited. “It’s certainly fet-
ish friendly,” say The Fetishistas, “...felt
to me less like a club and more like a
big house party. And if that doesn’t get
you along, then the cupcakes certainly
should.”
Cakes seem to be infiltrating every
social event, from the Knit Soc Mon-
day meet up in the union bar to fetish
nights.
Serving more than just an innocent
muffin, Striplite are serving their ‘fa-
mous burlesque cupcakes’.
To add to proceedings there will be
entertainment in the form of a gory
balloon dance, face painting and a dark
comedy on transgender antics.
If you want a slice of the cake and
fetish action festivities start at 10pm.
Entrance is £5, £4 with a flyer.
Elsewhere, if you fancy something
a bit more straightforward ‘This Is
Not London’ is back again this week-
end. The devilish Halloween Special is
£6.66 in advance or £10 on the door.
Headliner’s Zombie Nation are per-
forming live.
Ultra-cool celebrity haunt Punk has
another quirky Halloween night on this
Friday. You know the place, it’s where
Kate Moss, Agyness Dean and Lily Al-
len get papped leaving drunk at 3am.
On Friday the kitsch cool club has
a night of Halloween shenanigans
planned. The ‘Halloween Partay’ fea-
tures trick or treat games, pumpkin
decorating, freaky facepainting and
creepy charicatures. There will be a
costumecontestforthebest‘Halloween
goth chic’. Should be the usual chilled
quirky fun in a relaxed atmosphere
felix has 5 free tickets to give
away! To enter, email nightlife.
felix@ic.ac.uk BEFORE 5PM
FRIDAY 31st OCTOBER.
Remember to put your name,
your mobile number, and describe
your Halloween costume.

