music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
288 felix Friday 31 October 2008
Music
Music Editors – Peter Sinclair, Susan Yu and James Houghton
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
29
Friday 31 October 2008 felix
Music
Susan Yu
Music Editor
The Verve hits jackpot no. 4
Felix sees the return of The Verve with their fourth album. High fives for all. DiFranco
receives yet another happy letter and the puppets come out of the dark shadows...
M
usicisanintegralpart
of any film, be it an
immense movie or a
lousy one, we cannot
watch a film without
hearing the inherent soundtrack be-
hind it. Unless it is a silent movie of
course, Charlie Chaplin being the ulti-
mate icon of this genre, then I might as
well be deaf as a bat. My ears are given
a nice nap when this little man steps
onto the big silver screen. It is with
great sadness that I say I don’t really get
this whole silent thing, you see, with-
out music, without dialogue, it’s rather
banal. Although, there are silent films
that are admittedly extremely poignant
and successful. Just not that many.
To me, when a film is finished, I im-
mediately make a judgement of it based
on how good the soundtrack is. I know
it is rather stereotypical of me, being
a music critic, to focus deeply on the
soundscapes that encompass the film,
but I cannot help being infatuated with
something that has a terrific musical
backdrop to it.
Take the blockbuster ‘Titanic’ for
instance; some say it’s cheesy, mushy
and over dramatic, but the film would
not have been half as astoundingly
successful if it had not been for James
Horner’s dynamite score that blew au-
diences away worldwide. I was one of
them. I’m not ashamed to say that it
was this mesmerising score that struck
a cord within me and inspired me to
learn to play piano and to love and ap-
preciate music for what it is and what
it can do for people.
Being a girl who likes a bit of every-
thing except horror, I confess to having
countless favourite film soundtracks.
Girly films with ravishing music scores
include ‘Moulin Rouge’, with the gor-
geous Ewan McGregor (who sings and
acts splendidly), and ‘Pearl Harbour’,
which made me think how tragic it
would be to first fall for someone, to
lose them and then to fall for another
and then to lose them again (heart-
breaking really).
‘Love Actually’ with the Christmas
feel and ‘Bridget Jones’ Diary’ with its
powerful independent-woman floor-
fillers and sad lonely tunes like “All by
Myself”. ‘Romeo and Juliet’ with the
mixture of true sweetness – Des’ree’s
heavenly “Kissing You,” Gavin Friday’s
“Angel,” and the rage and desolation
that engulfs the Montagues and Capu-
lets is finely captured by the thunder-
ing dramatic instrumentation. Other
timeless beauties include ‘The Lord of
the Rings’ by Howard Shore, ‘Gladia-
tor’ by Hans Zimmer, ‘Crouching Tiger
Hidden Dragon’, ‘Top Gun’ with the
classic “Take My Breath Away,” ‘Kill
Bill’ and the explosively groovy theme
tune of ‘Mission Impossible’ which has
you geared up for action.
Truth be told, the music scores for
these films are as epic as the films
themselves and the themes present,
they evoke fireworks that etch lasting
imprints of the unforgettable scenes.
I hope I have expounded enough on
the notion of how critical film sound-
tracks are. Without them good movies
will become mediocre and bad movies,
well, they need to be hung, drawn and
quartered.
The Verve frontman Richard Ashcroft clearly having a blast,-’Cos love is noise, love is pain, love is...’
Album Review
The Verve
Forth
HHHHI
Susan Yu
The Verve have been rocketing on
stage this summer with countless fes-
tivals in the bag including V, Glaston-
bury and T in the Park. Back with bra-
vado. Being the ‘Forth’ album, a rather
simple pun of a title has been chosen.
Are these guys back on form with this
number one album? The majority say
yes. We’ll see.
After spending the past decade clear-
ing his closet of inner demons through
the release of several solo albums, Ri-
chard Ashcroft returns with a venge-
ance, reuniting with the band and
demonstrating his showmanship and
memorable vocals. Taking you back to
the good old nineties when you read-
ers were still probably happily crack-
ing gum, bunking off school, playing
pranks on teachers, making paper
aeroplanes and flirting with the boy/
girl from across the classroom. Now,
it is almost a decade into the new mil-
lennium and do we hear a new sound
altogether? No, but we do hear traces
of their old brilliance.
First on the list is ‘Sit and Wonder,’
a song that is full of heavy instrumen-
tation and layers, with sharp, almost
shrill, electric guitar riffs. The harsh,
metallic soundscape pervades haunt-
ingly, resonating with the pained
vocals that hears Ashcroft wailing,
straining for attention, doped with
desperation, frustration and need-‘And
she’s the teacher and I’m the pupil and
ain’t learning nothing at all.’ ‘Yeah I sit
and wonder, I fall to pieces, I’ve been
waiting for her to come.’ Now, this is
one hell of a desperate kid. The sound-
scape stretches and builds gradually,
sucked into this black whirlpool mesh
of ambient sounds.
Next we have the outstanding ‘Love
is Noise,’ being a number one hit sin-
gle that is a true anthem. It has this
pulsating ‘ah oh’ echoing chant that is
present throughout the entire track,
looping round and round. The inter-
esting dabble of the bleeping synthe-
sizer in this track helps to compound
the sonic landscape, whilst McCabe’s
descending guitar-riff gently comple-
ments the bittersweet vocals. Without
a doubt, the instantly memorable cho-
rus is a testimony to Ashcroft’s poetic
prowess- ‘Are we blind - can we see?’
he asks, wanting everybody to feel his
pain all over again, -‘We are one – in-
complete, are we blind - in the shade.’
‘Cause love is noise and love is pain,
Love is these blues that I’m singing
again.’ Simple but poignant lyrics that
are repeated over and over like a man-
tra that gets nailed into your brains…
Then we have the head-nodding
‘Rather Be,’ with its extensive orchestral
accompaniment that sees a pleasant
dose of strings coming back. With it,
there are soulful female backing vocals
that butters up the saccharine piece. In
conjunction, we have the return of laid-
back beats that are deeply reminiscent
of the band’s old tracks like the arche-
typical classic-‘Bittersweet Symphony.’
Next comes ‘Judas,’ the one that be-
trayed them all. ‘Feelings. Just Feelings.
Just let it go’ he croons. This is a slower
contrasting number that follows the
giddy headiness that is ‘Love is Noise.’
Tinklings of piano fade in from time to
time with various synthesised sounds
ricocheting off, adding sprinkles of
tenderness and delicacy to the track
just for good measure. Here, we do get
to hear McCabe show off his expertise
with complex fingerwork on the frets.
We all wish we could play the guitar
half as good as him…
On the whole, the band seems to
adhere to the majestic rock and roll
assault of their iconic ‘Urban Hymns’
album, from the ancient times of the
nineties. But, this time round, the fire
is burning a tad less brightly, or maybe
we are just a little bit older and slightly
more desensitised to the whole music
business. Who knows. Does music
ever lose its potency? Never. Some-
times. Maybe…As long as ‘we are sing-
ing again,’ everything will be alright.
‘Numbness’ is ascertainably Pink
Floyd-esque, a melancholic song
drenched with pain. It seems to be a
resentful reflection on love. The words
reverberate, almost slurred and sput-
tered out, the hoarseness of the intona-
tion plus the slow thudding beats and
the brooding crashing chords build
throughout the course of the six min-
utes, amplifying the ominous mood
that hangs over the whole track. You
need some serious endorphins to lift
this depression and drown the crush-
ing sorrows before this numbness is
‘really, really let loose.’
In ‘I See Houses’, the melody mean-
ders somewhat strangely. It is hard to
follow at first, and the combination of
weird piano chords creates a kind of
discord.
Only when the chorus kicks in, do we
actually have a relatively fine tune that
is easier to recognise and sing along
to. The beginning of ‘Noise Epic’ has
a very experimental feel to it, as if the
band were testing the sounds, unsure
of whether to proceed or not. The verse
consists of talking rather than singing,
something that we weren’t expecting. I
don’t know what to make of this track-
a confused number that got slipped in,
not on par with the core songs but so
what? As they say, nothing can be per-
fect, flaws are what makes things inter-
esting and unique.
Ultimately, The Verve are still in this
game from the sound of things. ‘Forth’
is full of weirdly ethereal soundscapes,
an odyssey that allows you to taste
enlightenment, pain, loneliness, fear
and desolation. Through the moody
landscapes, painted with emotion and
hope, may a fifth one be on its way in
the future.
AlexTurnerandMilesKane,theformer
being better known as the Arctic Mon-
keys front man and the latter less well
known as the Rascals front man.
For those who don’t know, these two
got together with producer James Ford
almost a year ago and formed ‘The Last
Shadow Puppets’. The band released
their 1st album ‘The Age of the Under-
statement’ in April.
The set was littered with classic cov-
ers such as David Bowie’s ‘In the Heart
of the Morning’, The Beatles’ ‘I want
you’ and Leonard Cohen’s ‘Memories’,
among others. These were carefully
interwoven with the Puppets own (fast
Ani DiFranco, Grammy winning sing-
er-songwriter, has been in the lime-
light for a long time now, and it is crazy
to think that she debuted nearly two
decades ago. And here, we have her
17th studio album that was concocted
through the course of two years. In-
credible. How this woman churns out
such a prolific amount of material is
beyond all of us. But she does it with
ease, passion and creativity. Since 1990,
she has been releasing at least one disc
of her bountiful brilliance each year. A
rare, gifted talent she is. High five.
DiFranco breaks away with ‘Red Let-
ter Year,’ an atmospheric title track. It
initiates with acoustic guitar accents,
lazy string and percussion instrumen-
tation, that caves in immediately to the
brooding brass sustained notes with in-
terjections of reverb and delay that can
be heard explicitly. Interestingly, the
interlude seems to have DiFranco sing-
ing through a funnel, her voice echoes
somewhat, calling from the mountain
tops. Like her numerous signature
songs, this one is equally political in
content-‘thewholeworldismadeofone
unbroken line,’ yet ‘in a town,’ someone
‘might put a gun to you throat or rip
the roof right off your place.’ Ostensi-
bly, the imagery conveyed is one that
emphasises the artist’s cynical view of
society. ‘Goddess sent word that this
would be a red letter year, they didn’t
mention how much shit was gonna
change around here.’ Here, DiFranco is
possibly referring to what happened in
America, the natural disasters such as
Hurricane Katrina that wiped out New
Orleans and brought devastation to so
many.
To follow, ‘Alla This’ is an amalga-
mation of hybrid sounds that is driven
by a strong undercurrent of thudding
drum clatter and distinct sonic ele-
ments. Her firm feministic stance is
expounded through the lines-‘I won’t
pray to a male god, coz that would be
insane.’ Good for her. In contrast, the
ambience shifts to a calmer one in
‘Present/Infant’. The verses yield to a
chorus that allows DiFranco to pour
out her worries and insecurities- lately
she’s ‘been glaring into mirrors pick-
ing’ herself ‘apart,’ fearing that her ‘life
will be over,’. Despite everything-‘here’s
this tiny baby’ who looks like her ‘and
she is smiling’ ‘with that present infant
glee.’ Being a mother, DiFranco cannot
but express the deep maternal love that
she feels for her daughter and so she
chants, ‘love is all over the place.’
Similarly, ‘Smiling Underneath’ al-
ludes to the joy, reassurance and se-
curity of being in the presence of that
special someone. The indifference that
one feels to the dreariness of the world
because, ‘as long as I’m with you, I’m
having a good time.’ DiFranco will be
grinning like a Cheshire cat all day
long, willing to endure the universe’s
annoyances, she doesn’t even ‘mind
waiting in line’ or being ‘stuck in traf-
fic for a week.’ The track begins with a
somewhat ballady feel which changes
as the drum and bass kicks in and the
layers of synthesised sounds accumu-
late. This number shows that she’s hu-
man too, with a sentimental facet hid-
den behind the strong woman image.
‘Emancipated Minor’ has a groovy
current to it, almost disco-like beats
can be heard, reminiscent of Jamie
Lidell’s snazzy album ‘JIM’. The tempo
is very upbeat, carried by the lilting
Album Review
Ani DiFranco
Red Letter Year
HHHHI
Susan Yu
stride which has you on your feet, hips
swinging, hands clapping, the whole
lot. A catchy guitar riff plays through-
out, as trancelike and effective as The
Bee Gees’ ‘Staying Alive.’
Within the cute track ‘Good Luck,’
you hear a rather varied instrumenta-
tion; there being the syncopated drum,
long sustained string notes, distant
guitar refrains, and low key electronic
piano swooning.
Next, we have ‘The Atom,’ in which
there is a lovely guitar refrain that lazi-
ly strolls along with the sublime lulling
of DiFranco’s singing. This is followed
by a small quiet drum roll, warm and
wistful the soundscape flows, like the
continuous incoming tide that washes
across the shore, to and fro it emerges
sleepily.
DiFranco’s bright voice sails high
‘Round a Pole.’ We hear something that
resembles the soulfulness of Norah
Jones’ delightful vocals. A sensual slug-
gish exuberance meets the touch of
jazz that swims within this piece, end-
ing on an abrupt cluster of distorted
electronic sounds. Tantalisingly exper-
imental. When we consider ‘Star Mat-
ter,’ the starry sky is indeed dreamlike,
concocted out of lethargy that oozes
from all corners. The sax billows inter-
mittently, softening the mood, render-
ing the piece overwhelmingly mellow.
Overall, this is a funky album that
has been piced up with many different
influences, from country, folk, soul to
jazz, it’s all gelled together seductively.
This is a refreshing departure from
the regular indie-rock/cheesy pop that
is being meticulously manufactured
and packaged by many record labels.
Wanting a change of scene?- This one
is certainly worthy of your attention.
DiFranco has had her way for the last
two decades and continues to do so.
Ani crouches by the wall, eagerly anticipating that red letter of hers
17th album later and she’s still smiling, what a high-spirited lady Ani Difranco is...wish we all had her smile
becoming) classics and all accompa-
nied by strings, wind and percussion.
The enthusiastic crowd got involved
from the first word and the Puppets
responded fiercely, maintaining the
friendlybanterthroughouttheevening.
It is currently rare to see a band who
sounds better live than on their record-
ing, but the Last Shadow Puppets do it
to perfection.
Sadly, they are warming up for their
last UK performance (before Turner
returns to the Monkeys) as I write this
article, so it may be a little while be-
fore another opportunity arises to see
them.
That said, I am sure they will return,
and when they do, GO SEE THEM
FOR YOURSELF!
Sam Lombard The Last Shadow Puppets merge into the dark, dark backdrop...trapped in a blackhole of no return
No shying away from the
limelight by the l. s. puppets
The Last Shadow Puppets
Live at Hammersmith Apollo
HHHHI

