film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
31
Friday 31 October 2008 felix
Film
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
30 felix Friday 31 October 2008
Film
Film Editors – Zuzanna Blaszczak and Jonathan Dakin
Horrors: good, bad and nasty
At Imperial, Halloween does not get the popularity it deserves, so we decided to celebrate this ridiculously
un-scary holiday with a short overview of horror movies that made a difference (and most that didn’t)
When a lousy idea meets even worse execution, Eagle Eye comes to life
W
ith last week’s aver-
age star rating be-
ing a very high 4,
it was about time
a movie came out
that would lower the marks. As usual
Hollywood doesn’t disappoint; it’s as
simple as ‘You ask, We deliver’... keep
in mind though, that this works exclu-
sively for orders of bad films. If you go
to the pub, you know exactly what the
food will be like, you can bet your arm
on the taste of the microwaved vegeta-
bles, fat-soaked chips and a piece of
fish that the waiter assures you is in-
deed hidden somewhere under all that
batter. Of course sometimes there are
exceptions but they simply prove the
rule. By now I hope you all grasped
the metaphor - what I’m trying to say
is that if you decide to see an action
thriller directed by a mediocre direc-
tor, edited by a TV series editor with
standard, undistinguished (apart from
Billy Bob Thornton) actors you should
expect a pub lunch.
Alas, Eagle Eye with it’s utterly im-
plausible story of an intelligence gath-
ering computer (named Aria) going
rogue and deciding that the current
government violates the US Consitu-
tion and should hence be ousted by
means of extermination is not even
fast food. Whatever you say, even a Big
Mac menu will do what it’s supposed
to; it will fill you up, quench your thirst
and better your mood. But this newest
‘action thriller’ does not thrill, does not
excite, does not grip and, most impor-
tantly, does not entertain.
The movie starts off in an undisclosed
locationintheMiddleEastwhereapre-
sumable terrorist is tracked down by
the US army. He is then killed in an air
raid despite only a 51% chance of him
being the correct person. Immediately
after that we are transported back to
the States where we are introduced to
Jonathan Shaw (Shia LaBoeuf), a rebel-
lious clerk at a xerox-shop and Rachel
Holloman (Michelle Monaghan), a sin-
Films we love at Imperial
So here we are: you’ve been sidetracked
by watching Anchorman for the gazil-
lionth time – “Heck I’m not mad, that’s
amazing”- and so you haven’t had time
to watch anything new. I’ll give you the
benefit of the doubt, just this once.
But I am not writing this article to
talk to you about Anchorman, but
about how Ferris Bueller’s Day Off is
my grande summer fling. Everything
he says is perfect and witty. In fact
I could just quote him for the rest of
this article: “I do have a test today. That
wasn’t bulls**t. It’s on European social-
ism. I mean, really, what’s the point?
I’m not European. I don’t plan on be-
ing European. So who cares if they’re
socialists?” But I won’t.
The film is about Ferris Bueller, the
most popular guy in school, and eve-
ryone adores him. They think he’s a
righteous dude. He pulls one last sickie
before he graduates from high school
and takes his girlfriend and best friend
along for the ride in a ‘borrowed’ vin-
tage Ferrari: “the question isn’t “what
are we going to do,” the question is
“what aren’t we going to do?”
In one day they blag their way into
a snooty restaurant, take part in a pa-
rade (the best bit), visit an art museum
and generally make mischief all over
Chicago. The acting is perfection, as
Matthew Broderick (who plays Ferris)
makes the movie what it is, Charlie
Sheen is hilarious in a cameo perform-
ance, and Jennifer Grey plays the evil
twin version of her Dirty Dancing-self
as Ferris’ stuck up sister. Also, the mu-
sic is brilliant, no 80’s power ballads
(unlike The Breakfast Club), just funky
beats and old school tunes.
Ferris’ motto is: “Life goes by pretty
fast. If you don’t stop and look around
once in a while, you could miss it.” It
became my new mantra, and changed
my life. Even now when I have an
hour to spare, instead of slobbing on
facebook seeing what other people
are doing with their lives I try and do
something – grab my friends, walk two
minutes to the Science Museum and
go and play about in the exhibits – just
do anything! I don’t have any time to
spare!
The best thing about this movie is
that you join a club. You become one
of Ferris’ friends. I have never met any-
one who didn’t like this movie because
it’s about school and everyone has
been there, stuck in a dull class losing
your will to live. Moreover it perfectly
captures the sweet joy of rebelling
against petty authority. Finally, the film
continues all the way through the cred-
its which just adds to it awesomeness
– why don’t more films do that? It ends
with Ferris speaking directly to you
saying, “Um it’s over now, go home, go
on shoo”. And I will.
Jessica Strandward
Student
Students, lecturers and staff share their treasured movies with
felix. This week: Ferris Bueller’s Day Off
Fancy writing for felix Film?
If there’s a film you just can’t stop talking about, a movie that in-
spires you, a feature that changed your life or one that is your only
remedy for a miserable day, we would love you to write about it and
have the guts to share it with the rest of Imperial, just like Emma.
Send a few hundred words about the film you love to:
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Eagle Eye HKKKK
Director: D.J. Caruso
Writer: John Glenn
Cast: Shia LaBoeuf,
Michelle Monaghan,
Billy Bob Thornton
Jonathan Dakin
Film Editor
Scary, nasty, on spindly legs... a perfect pet to take home (The Thing) That’s right, there’s no escaping the dead...(Dawn of the Dead)
Trees, forest, fresh air and a bit of gore to complete the picture. (The Descent)
gle over-protective mother dropping
her son off at a train station. The open-
ing scene is forgotten, ignored and
clumsily and ineffectively tied to the
plot at the end of the film, while our
two conventional citizens rapidly and
inevitably become action heroes when
Aria forces them to become pawns in
her plan to kill the American presi-
dent. Jonathan and Rachel must do as
they’re told by the computer that can
control every automated machine, can
track, activate and use any phone and
use high voltage cables to kill people.
The movie could have been saved
if the story and characters had more
depth. In a well thought-out movie
where every scene is not based on an
action shot, the idea of an all-control-
ling computer that gets out of hand
would have scared the hell out of us.
The film could have exploited a feel-
ing of paranoia, could have explored
the interaction between two strangers
that are thrown together and obliged
to pursue their own interests but work
as a team, it could have included more
than one witty line, it could have mini-
mized the gaping and garring plot holes
and finally, it could have assumed the
audience has a brain and some expec-
tations and ended when the hero was
still dead. If Eagle Eye had fulfilled any
of those ‘could haves’ it would have
been a decent movie. But it’s not, it’s
abysmal.
Now to clarify the one-star rating. I
confess I gave this film that one single
star, which it doesn’t deserve, because
I was afraid that no one would be in-
terested in reading a review of a movie
that scores 0/5.
Zuzanna Blaszczak
Film Editor
Coming soon:
Although there have been plenty of comic book adaptations, the rea-
son that this one stands out is because it is written and directed by Sin
City’s Frank Miller, so looks set to be just as exciting and enthralling.
Starring Gabriel Mach as The Spirit, a
vengeful ghost who comes back from
the dead to fight crime and have taw-
dry relationships with a whole lot of
women, this was originally a crime
noir comic strip in an American Sun-
day newspaper. With an all-star cast,
including Hollywood favourite Samuel
L. Jackson as the villain, Dr. Octopus,
and featuring many beautiful screen si-
rens like Eva Mendes, Scarlett Johans-
son and Jamie King, to name just a few
of the love interests, even if the film
does not deliver to the same standard
as Sin City, it should still be worth a
watch.
A spirited cast bodes well for The Spirit
I, science
Issue 10 out next week
Get your free copy with felix next Friday
The Imperial College science magazine
Tonight is Halloween night, so in-
stead of leaving your house to pelt
trick or treaters with eggs, why not
stay in with your friends, dim the
lights, make a large bowl of popcorn
and snuggle down on the sofa with
some scary films?
We all know that the world is a scary
place, but instead of being frightened
by terrorists, the credit crunch and
Sarah Palin, we would recommend
that for just one night you should be
afraid of something far worse: the
horror film.
To get you into the mood, here are
Film Felix’s pick of the bunch, from
the good (some great horror delights),
the bad (avoid these at all cost), to the
plain nasty. But as you begin to watch
these film just remember one thing:
there is someone in the house, and
they are watching you…
The Good
Friday the Thirteenth (1980)
One of the original slasher films, and
in my opinion, the best. A group of
teenagers working at an abandoned
summer camp are murdered one by
one, but does it have anything to do
with the poor child who drowned in
the lake years before? This is gory and
surprisingly scary, mainly because
all of the teenagers (including Kevin
Bacon) are nice people who don’t de-
serve their horrifying fates.
Identity (2003)
Ten people mysteriously bump into
each other in a ransacked motel in
the middle of nowhere, before being
picked off one by one. Sure it sound
like standard horror film-fare, but the
film also provides lots of tension, as
well as original and gory deaths, and
an all-star cast. The ending is also one
of the best horror endings ever, and
just goes to show that not everyone is
afforded a second chance…
Vacancy (2006)
A bickering couple decide to stay in
a motel that is actually the setting
for snuff films, starring the unknow-
ing customers. Clever directing and
solid performances make this chiller-
thriller work.
Snakes On A Plane (2007)
A man in witness protection travels
on a plane to testify against a mob-
ster, unaware that the mobster has
stuffed the plane full of crazy snakes.
It may sound ridiculous, but this is so
bad that it’s good. If you want to see
people dying in extremely grisly ways
involving frisky serpents, then this is
the film for you.
The Bad:
Halloween (1978)
A serial killer escapes from a mental
home and attacks young babysitters.
Although this is often cited as one
of the best horror films ever, it is ter-
ribly dated and does not scare in the
way that it should. It is pretty tame for
modern standards; so don’t expect to
be frightened.
Harry Potter and the Order of the
Phoenix (2007)
Not a horror film you say? When you
take into account the shocking acting,
diabolically tedious plot, and horrifi-
cally poor directing, then this all adds
up to one thing: a horror. There are
better things to spend your money
on, for example paying someone to
re-enact the testicle-bludgeoning
scene from ‘Casino Royale’. Trust me,
if I had to choose between seeing this
film again or having my balls crushed
to a pulp, it would be an extremely
hard decision.
			
The Fog (1980)
Yawn inducing terror about a group of
rotting pirates that return 100 years
after being killed, shrouded in a neon
fog. Yes, you read that correctly and
yes, the film is rubbish.
White Noise 2: The Light (2007)
This is so painfully awful and con-
trived that it actually hurts to think
about. The plot makes no sense and
the scares are turned into comedy be-
cause it is so shockingly bad.
The Nasty:
The Thing (1982)
Although intensely gory, this film is
a brilliantly terrifying chiller that is
both unpredictable and unnerving.
A group of scientists are stuck in an
Antarctic outpost with an alien that
can imitate anything it wants to. Who
do you trust when the monster could
be anyone?
The Evil Dead (1981)
A group of teenagers go to a cabin in
the woods and read a book that pos-
sesses them with demons. This film
is not for the faint of heart, as it con-
tains extreme splatter horror, includ-
ing rolling heads, raping trees and
screwdrivers in ankles. Ouch.
Dawn of The Dead (1978)
Zombies have taken over the world
and the only safe place to hide is a
shopping mall. Shopping centre re-
lated deaths come thick and fast, e.g.
riding in shopping carts wielding
a shovel in order to whack zombie
heads off. The 2004 remake is good
too.
The Descent (2005)
A bunch of cave-exploring women are
trapped in a cavern filled with raven-
ous monsters. Will they escape? This
English horror film delivers in both
shocks and gore, but if you really want
to be scared make sure you watch the
UK version for the creepy ending, not
the US one.

