32 felix Friday 31 October 2008
Clubs & Societies Clubs & Socs Editor – Alice Rowlands
Is your club cooler than the cat that got the cream? Write to us.
clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
333
Friday 31 October 2008 felix
These guys got very wet and muddy, but still forced themselves to smile for felix, your club should smile for felix too, the contact email is above
Tales of a soggy affair in Snowdonia
This week Islamic society have been running charity week, rais-
ing money for Islamic Relief, with all money raised going to help
orphans worldwide. Last year, the Imperial Islamic society raised
around £11,000. However charity week is not limited to Imperial
and runs at universities across the country, last year’s charity weeks
combined raised an incredible £250,000.
Money raising events this week included rattling donation tins
around campus and at tube stations, selling delicious Hummingbird
cakes, handing out goody bags of items donated by companies and
turning up to lectures in ridiculous outfits.
In Islamic tradition, the best people are those that serve others,
going out of their way to help someone, regardless of race or creed.
Members of the society feel it is important to raise money for charity,
when you stop and consider how many children there are world-
wide that are less fortunate than ourselves.
Special mention goes to the 2nd year medics, who raised £300 in
two days and Boots have offered to double what ever they raise.
The journey to Snowdonia started like
any other. Everything was going well
until the planned dinner stop, we had
given Dave the map and as usual, Cap-
tain Incompetent got us lost. Everyone
had a great tour of Warwick, especially
the central roundabout that we saw 6
times. Not the sort of views we were
expecting for a hiking trip. Decisions
were made and the quorum decided
that henceforth, Gareth would take on
navigational duties and Dave’s commit-
tee role would involve watching kettles
boil and making tea.
Despite Dave’s best (or worst?) map
reading efforts the hut eventually
loomed out of the darkness and eve-
ryone settled down in anticipation of a
good weekend in the mountains. And
what a weekend it was! Saturday morn-
ing saw the group burning clutches as
Alex brought the bus to a stuttering halt
in Pen-y-Pass before the hiking start-
ed. It was decided to send two groups,
one up the knife-edge summit of Crib
Goch (923m) and another around part
of the Horseshoe (898m). Both groups
fared well through the mist and fog
and managed to summit around mid-
day, just in time for the wind, rain and
gloom that so often envelops Wales to
roll in. Crib Goch was particularly im-
pressive, a group of 12 scrambled and
battled their way across the exposed
ridge while taking in awesome views
(whenever the poor weather abated).
The hike off the mountain was then
a slightly depressed affair after a fren-
zied morning, both groups opting to
follow easy routes down the Pyg and
Llanberis tracks to avoid the worst of
the rain and the freezing winds blow-
ing about the mountain in the early
afternoon. All was washed down with
a mug from Pete’s Eats.
The worst of the weather was pre-
dicted for Sunday and as such Alex
suggested a low level walk in the trees
of Beddgelert as a relaxing way to avoid
the rain and 40mph winds in the moun-
tain heights. This was quickly accepted
as a good idea and off the group went,
despite Nathaniel getting lost on the
way to the car park and asking some-
one where it was, while he was stand-
ing in it. Eventually the hike started in
a picturesque forest fresh from the dew
and rainfall of the day before. Every-
thing was going to plan until Nathan-
iel decided to explore a white hill area
on the map. This white area lead the
group through several hours of boggy
heath often several feet deep in places.
Needless to say the day very quickly
became a wet and soggy affair and mo-
rale dropped. A quick route to the bus-
es was needed and Nathaniel gave an-
other less than stellar performance by
What’s on
Coming next week:
Picture of the Week
Ximen Shopping District, by Laurence Lai
3rd year Aeronautics
We want to exhibit your art. Send in your photographs.
felix@imperial.ac.uk
traipsing everyone through yet more
marshy puddles and what must have
been several submerged rivers before
finally into the forest and getting lost.
By this time however, everyone was
getting used to the squelching of wet
boots and morale had lifted, either due
to the beautiful views along the way
or the fact that everyone was so wet
they no longer cared. Either way, Dave
eventually found the buses and all was
well again.
The journey home passed quickly
until the group reached the Malt Shov-
el in Gaydon for dinner, Tony-Ten-Bel-
lies earning his nickname from the five
different dishes he requested (and ate
the majority of).
If you fancy a trip to the coun-
tryside any time soon, come and
join us; 12:30 in Beit Quad on a
Tuesday.
Islamic Society Charity Week 2008
“What’s on” is a weekly calendar of upcoming Club & Society events.
It is a chance for Clubs & Societies to publicise events in Felix and will
cover events running from Monday-Sunday. Its first appearance will
be in the 7th November edition of Felix and will cover events from
Monday 10th November - Sunday 16th November.
To feature, send the following details to
whatson.felix@imperial.ac.uk:
Club name
Event name
High res logo and photo
Date(s) & Time, Place
Price (if applicable)
Description of the event (max. 30 words)
Deadline for submissions is midnight on the Friday before the edition
is published, i.e. to feature the Fri 7th November edition, the submis-
sion deadline is midnight on Friday 31st October. Space is limted,
so entries are subject to editorial snipping and we cannot guarantee
that everybody who sends an email will feature.
Alex De Rosa

