comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 31 October 2008 felix
Comment
8 felix Friday 31 October 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Am I typing slowly enough for you?
A. Geek
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
U
nless you have really
been dedicating your
life to Imperial College
and haven’t had a chance
to look at a newspaper,
you’ll be aware that the US elections
are just around the corner.
With the backing of political heavy-
weights such as Teddy Kennedy and
the former Secretary of State Colin
Powell, Barack Obama is able to take
time off the campaign trail to visit his
sick grandmother… which may show
him to be a caring family man, but
that’s just a coincidence.
Other than his unorthodox herit-
age and the fact that for the first time
in almost 20 years the US presidency
is out of the hands of either the Bush
or Clinton Dynasties, what is different
about Obama? According to his web-
site, he ‘was raised by a single mother
and his grandparents. They didn’t have
much money, but they taught him val-
ues from the Kansas heartland where
they grew up. He took out loans to put
himself through school.’
That, coupled with his smooth and
eloquent mastery of the English lan-
guage as well as his relatively young
age and his short time in Capitol Hill,
makes me believe that he has not spent
long enough time around politicians to
become corrupt and saturated with the
sleaze that is associated with Politics.
Sadly, I have developed a condition
where by I have the cynicism of a man
many years my senior and so I began
to ask the question: if it is that easy to
bring change, why have the majority of
previous world leaders been so corrupt
and why, no matter how far you look
back, the same issues trouble the same
people? The poor get poorer and the
rich get richer.
The answer lies in the electoral proc-
ess. Imagine a medical profession
where there is still the same number of
doctors but there can only be one con-
sultant per country at any one time. Or
where there is still the same number of
accountants but only one can be char-
tered at any one time! That is the world
of politics, there is only one job as head
of state and every MP in the UK or
Senator in the US is gunning for it.
I don’t believe that Richard Nixon,
Ronald Reagan or even George ‘Dubya’
Bush were evil people intent on bring-
ing war to the world. However, they
were ambitious and driven to succeed,
willing to do anything to be the best
in their career and therefore become
president. This puts the candidate in
a position whereby they must sacrifice
certain morals or ethics for ‘the greater
good’.
Though their foreign policies may
differ, every presidential candidate on
the run up to elections suddenly be-
comes Jewish and wears a kippah or
yarmulke in order to secure the Jew-
ish vote. They promise to increase the
military budget and to be tough on
immigration and terrorism, as well as
magically improving the financial situ-
ation for ‘Joe the Plumber’.
These are all things the Barack
Obama is ‘guilty’ of. The question is
this: is he just playing the game by its
rules in order to win or is this JFK of
our time being molded into the very
thing he is aiming to go against – ‘the
status quo’.
Let us hope that Mr. Obama is the
man that will finally have the strength
of character to change politics and not
let politics change him.
Elections 2008: Time for change
Gilead Amit
I
’m beginning to tire of the Sil-
ver Surfer generation. Partly
because they’re not dying off
anyway near as fast as statistics
say they should, and partly be-
cause they’re driving my technological
life into a mire of touchscreens, ‘natu-
ral interfaces’ and pure molten fecal
matter. There was a time when to run a
piece of software you’d actually need to
write code yourself; applications that
were supplied with the sort of manuals
that make the Bible look like a pocket
novel. An era when technology was in-
distinguishable from magic and people
still had to look things up in encyclo-
pedias with only a few authors. What’s
wrong with it now? Lucy. Lucy is what’s
wrong with it now.
I’ve named her Lucy because that’s
the name of the puppy my family has
recently taken on, and they both share
thecharacteristicsofbeingstupid,short
and amusing to watch when struggling
with something new. The human Lucy
was standing next to me on the Tube
and my attention was drawn to her
when she started making a noise I can
only describe as somewhere between a
machine gun and a bluegrass percus-
sion track. I look over and she’s flail-
ing around with a Blackberry phone,
trying to scroll through four hundred
emails of fetid garbage. The great thing
with the Blackberry is that it can store
approximately three bazillion emails
but is completely incapable of show-
ing more than four onscreen at once,
even in abbreviated form. So she stood
there, scratching her way up using a
tiny, absurd scroll wheel to scurry up
the infinite list of babble.
Why is Lucy the problem? Lucy is
the one who asked for the scroll wheel
in the first place, you see. She’s the
person who thinks that surfing the
net on the iPod Touch is a good idea.
Lucy wants Facebook on the move and
she plays the Wii because it’s ‘just like
playing real tennis’. Lucy is the modern
technological consumer and, despite
being all about the Geeks, Imperial has
plenty of you folk in its ranks. You’re
the new, fashionable majority, with dis-
posable income up the wazoo in spite
of the credit crunch and a desire for all
things over designed. And you’re ruin-
ing all my fun.
The reason I’ve come to this conclu-
sion is that I’ve been fiddling a bit with
Linux lately, in an attempt to really get
to know some of its more obtuse fea-
tures. I’ve tinkered on the command
line, I’ve started to use console-based
IRC clients. Hell, I even used ViM a bit,
and you normally have to get a doctor
to sign saying you’re a lost cause before
you install that. It’s definitely an un-
wieldy beast, beating you with a stick
made of pure error message every time
you look at it a bit funny, or use too
many vowels when spelling. But the
fact is that it’s fast. And it makes you
fast as a result. Text editing with ViM
is just wondrous and when you’re us-
ing simple, clever software on Linux
it just glides - like computers are sup-
posed to.
There’s learning involved, of course.
It’s non-intuitive. It doesn’t even try to
make sense most of the time and the
rare occasions that it does something
adhering to logic it normally requires a
Masters degree or a misspent youth to
understand what it’s trying to tell you.
But that doesn’t mean it’s not a better
option, which it undoubtedly is. So
why aren’t we all tapping away at eighty
words per minute, leafing through syn-
tax lists and understanding the Ext2FS
file system? Because Lucy doesn’t want
to. Because the technology industry
is telling itself that what Lucy really
wants is things that look like some-
thing Fisher-Price made. Why have
two buttons on a mouse when you can
have one? Why ask the user what they
want from a machine when you can
convince them they need it all? Why
keep it the size it is now when you
can make it smaller? The idea seems
to be that if you can remove the need
to learn how technology works then
that means you’re doing the right thing
for the public. We’ve thought about it
good and hard and decided that noth-
ing good comes of actually learning
things and that it’s probably best if we
just dumb down mankind’s greatest
achievements so that everyone can just
smack their heads against a red button
that says ‘EMAIL’ and it’ll just write ‘lol’
in reply to everything in your inbox.
It originated out of a need to placate
the older generation, who were seen as
being left out of the technological fu-
ture. But when the generations below
us picked it up too it became evident
that far from including those that were
unlikely to be able to learn how to ac-
cess these services we were really set-
ting the bar low for the future. We were
saying that complexity was bad and that
if it needed more than five minutes of
remembering stuff then that was just
inconsiderate towards the consumer.
Well, good luck with that. I’m now
officially a technology snob. You fuck-
ers riding the Web 2.0 wave can do so
until it crashes on the sands of idiocy
and crushes your feeble skulls. Mean-
while, I’ll start organising my life,
breezing through work and soaking up
the sweet satisfaction of understand-
ing how to use masks in Photoshop
CS. Technology requires learning. It’s
a language, a skill. But that’s like, ef-
fort, right? And since when did any-
thing ever come about through effort?
Fuck that for a game of soldiers! Let’s
all go back to mashing our iPod Touch
screens.
Think I’m wrong? Mash your key-
board with badly-formed sentences
of anger in an email to anangrygeek@
googlemail.com. Or you can just shout
into your speakers and hope that I’ll
hear. You arsehole.
I could be angry if I wanted to be...
New Imperial Girl: Internet dating
Imperial Girl
D
espite Jovan’s persua-
sions to get me to choose
a more creative ‘writer-
name’ I’ve decided to
keep it straightforward
and meaningful - just how I hope my
column to be received. There is no
need for too much of an introduction
because my name says it all: I am a girl
and I am studying at Imperial.
In these articles I want to talk about
things that keep me thinking, wonder-
ing and debating with myself. Last year
whilst studying for exams (for those
quick people you will have already de-
duce that ‘last year’ = 2nd year or >) I
watched multiple episodes of Sex and
the City and I realised that maybe by
writing these articles anonymously I
might be able to relate a small part of
my life to you readers. I emphasis that
what I will continue to write about is
my personal experience; it by no means
generalises for any group of people.
Being at Imperial can be tough for a
girl. We can’t be too ‘girly’ else we get
ostracised by the outweighing major-
ity of boys on campus but we can’t in
turn become the Tomboy else we will
never get asked out on dates. But what-
ever tactic you use as a girl on campus,
I find that it doesn’t make a huge dif-
ference to your dating life. With this in
mind I was recently introduced to this
guy online who lives in Australia. Orig-
inally I was only talking to him because
I needed some guidance on some area
of studying but when we first started
talking on Skype I realised that we had
clicked instantly. I could tell that we
both felt it. But even though internet
dating is so taboo and long distance
relationships never work, I had an urge
to be in a relationship with this guy
who I had never met.
Then I started thinking, 70% of the
population at Imperial are guys (don’t
quote me on this) and I haven’t had
these feelings for anyone of them.
Why? Maybe it was a consequence
of the situation, neither of us have
webcams so neither of us knew what
each other look like (of course we have
since added each other as friends on
Facebook, come on!!). But for the first
few conversations we knew only each
other’s name and country of residence.
There was no pressure, a perfect op-
portunity to get to know each other in
the most non-superficial way. Maybe
that is it? We live in such a superfi-
cial society where what you wear and
how you look generally define you as
a person. I am not denying that I am a
follower, I do think it’s important but
maybe it’s time that we had a visor that
blanks the exterior and allows us to see
our potential boyfriends/girlfriends for
who they really are.
I’ll give you another example, I used
to crave this boy - his sense of style was
so HOT, he had a beautiful face and
he was exactly of the physique I liked.
The other day whilst walking into col-
lege down Queens Gate I thought I saw
him. I felt a rush as I remembered how
I really ‘liked’ him. I wasn’t wearing my
contacts so as I got closer I realised
it was just another guy with the same
sense of fashion and hairstyle. “Damn,”
I thought, “is that all there was to my
attraction?” I really only ‘liked’ the way
he looked and that was it. I can’t fool
myself that it was anything more but is
that all it takes?
Maybe it’s time that we give our eyes
a break and let our ears and mind de-
cide for us. If only guys at Imperial
would see that girls like myself want to
be judged for who they are and for our
physical attractiveness to come sec-
ondary to this. No?
Amin Elmubarak
Caz is free to speak again
T
he second time a felix
contributor has written
a response to one of my
own comment pieces and
I, once again, find myself
flattered although I am sure it is not
out of sycophancy that these respons-
es have come to be. That my opinion
has caught the eye of another and has
sparked a debate is enough to please
me greatly.
This time Abdul Hannan has put
forward his own views on Freedom
of Speech, which I argued vehemently
in favour of in my commentary on the
subject. He first points out that this no-
tion of Freedom of Speech is very much
a concept originating and enforced by
‘civilized society’, in this case the West-
ern world. He makes a valid point as
many societies outside the Western
realms do not experience so much of
the freedom we enjoy here due to re-
ligious or political history; the collec-
tivist approach in Communist China,
for example. Abdul seems to imply by
writing ‘it is this Freedom loving soci-
ety that screams from mountain-tops
when anyone dares to question the
concept of Freedom’, that to strive for
freedom of speech, thought and action
is something which should be abated.
Admittedly, there cannot and should
not be absolute freedom of action lest
the world descends into anarchy. In a
perfect world there would be absolute
freedom of action where we humans
would exist at an elevated moral level
and so the question of anarchy would
not arise; utopia would have been
reached and we would be back living in
the proverbial Garden of Eden! This is
completely unattainable.
Depending on your beliefs, we are
each unique individuals, no one is
the same, and with this should come
the basic human right of freedom to
chose the way we live and behave. As
able minded people we do have abso-
lute freedom of speech (we control the
words that emit from our mouths) but
when exercised this may lead to unfair
criticism of a person or group. This
is where we need to use our sensitiv-
ity and discretion so as not to appear
oafish and on a mission just to inspire
hate; either chose to refrain or rethink
how we express our views.
‘Terrorists? Which terrorist groups
does Caz refer to anyway?... Caz quite
unashamedly has used conformist self-
censorship, to be as vague as possible’.
Here I stand corrected in my hasty
use of the word ‘terrorist’. Of course, I
should have made it clear I was refer-
ring to the Islamic terrorists who re-
sponded to the move to publish ‘The
Jewel of Medina’ with an attempted
bombing of the home of the owner
of Gibson Square publishing house.
However, due to the content of the
novel (which explores the prophet Mu-
hammad’s relationship with his bride
Aisha) as well as the large amount of
Islamic terrorist activity occurring in
recent years, it would be clear that it
was Islamic terrorists that took objec-
tion to a book that supposedly slates
their religion. It would not have been
racist to state originally that these were
Islamic terrorists, that would be a mere
statement of fact.
I have to strongly disagree with Ab-
dul’s ‘implicit advice’ to Muslims that
if they object to a book of this nature
that they are a terrorist. One steps over
the border into terrorism when one
begins putting explosives through let-
ter boxes! To object to a publication is
completely legitimate, just as much as
the publication itself, and is in accord-
ance with this very idea of freedom.
‘It is this Freedom loving society
which evangelically chooses to im-
part its values to the rest of the world,
through coercion and bullying.’ It is
this fact and the conduct of the West-
ern world that riled Islamic extremists
to launch an attack on America seven
years ago on September 11. Because
of this attack our own freedom in the
west, most notably at airports, has
been impinged upon. It seems that the
‘terrorists’ have got their way. (By no
means am I implying we should take a
cavalier approach to security.)
Abdul makes some excellent points
about the apparent ‘catch-22’ of Free-
dom of Speech – it can never be ab-
solute as the manifestation of one per-
son’s freedom will conflict with that of
another. Here in felix we have a good
example of Freedom of Speech by the
presence of these opinion columns. I
have voiced my views and he has ex-
pressed his. Both are valid arguments
and ideas which have inspired free
thinking and debate and I welcome an-
yone else’s thoughts on this paradoxi-
cal notion and, indeed, any others.
Caz Knight
I
’ve always been a little bit unsure
about sharing this page in the
newspaper. I feel like the psychi-
atric patient who’s been thrown
into the wrong wing of the
asylum: I’m the gentle manic depres-
sive who hears voices (played by Tom
Hanks, perhaps – or a young Dustin
Hoffman) suddenly surrounded by the
paranoiac sociopaths one particularly
rapid heartbeat away from an apoplec-
tic fit.
Anger seems to be of the essence in
writing a comment piece today. Jeremy
Clarkson, who in many ways has come
to represent what a 21st Century col-
umnist should be like, seems to have
found the elixir of middle-age with
his unique cocktail of gasoline, vitriol,
loud metaphor and overblown, uncon-
ventional simile. Gordon Ramsay also
seems to have soared to popularity on
similar wings, as the first chef to fricas-
see and say a frick on live television.
Now I just don’t get that angry about
life. I wish I did – God knows it would
make these pieces easier to write and,
I imagine, more enjoyable to read. It’s
very easy to summon anger, and though
channelling it into humour is harder,
it’s always effective. So here I am, with
a rich, bellicose vein of comic material
that I just can’t access. Because either
I don’t care enough about things to let
them irritate me, or I care too much to
resort to cheap, knee-jerk reactions to
get a laugh.
But this week I seem to have hit the
right frame of mind. Various grotesque
acquaintances of mine have been get-
ting on my goat (a cheap joke about
Welsh sexual practices was wisely re-
moved in the edit). The reasons are en-
tirely unimportant: in fact, my flatmate
dared me to infuse all 800 of today’s
meticulously-chosen words with the
full Satanic force of my rage, and not
once mention the reason for my fury.
Going round in such vicious circles is,
unfortunately, beyond my rhetorical
skills.
I have also managed to calm down
considerably. The thing with me is
that my natural state of equilibrium
is distasteful apathy. People and situa-
tions might initially get on my nerves,
but it will always end in a wry smile of
the greatest possible passive aggres-
sion and a general hatred for human-
ity. Lectures on Monday afternoons,
for instance, are particularly good at
getting me into that mood. Spending
three hours in a crowded room with
200 physicists after the freedom of the
weekend is enough to drain me of all
respect or affection for our misguid-
ed species. But not enough to get me
angry.
On rare occasions, however, a par-
ticularly febrile anthropoid can suc-
ceed in denting the calm shell of my
mental stability. And this week, you
guessed it, was one of those times. So
my temper has been rising. My blood,
as darling Gordon recommends, has
been set to a gentle simmer. The milk
of human kindness, which ordinarily
flows through my veins like spring wa-
ter running across Swiss countryside,
has been curdling.
And, Jesus, it’s amazing how mor-
ally satisfying rage can be. Even vacu-
ous, pointless anger is a guaranteed
pick-me-up. It sharpens the senses
and heightens awareness: it gives you
something to focus on. The thing
about human psychology is that fo-
cus is a guaranteed path to happiness.
Eastern meditation emphasizes focus
on emptiness as the path to nirvana,
but total investment in any of our ma-
terialistic Western substitutes works
well enough. Some people are satis-
fied by total commitment to another
person, others devote hours on end to
work of one kind or another, and some
dedicate themselves to collecting ex-
periences, books, points in an online
game, academic awards or rare 1920s
stamps from the Outer Hebrides.
It is much easier, however, to be fo-
cused on an emotion. Many lovers
derive greater consolation from being
in love than they do from each other’s
company, and God knows how many
teenage or tweeny sods have powered
their internal motors on the consola-
tion they derive from a good wallow. I,
and I know I am not alone, am able to
go for days on the power of fury. While
there is certainly something cathartic
in writing an amusing article about
some erstwhile irritant, there is more
than emotional cleansing going on.
Rage, like self-pity and, to a lesser
extent, love, is hugely self-indulgent. A
good fume makes us feel important. It
makes us feel as though our opinions
matter and that we have enough expe-
rience to make judgements that count.
To be able to condemn something or
someone and raise a criticism or a com-
pliment indicates the value of our own
opinions and heightens our feelings of
power. Getting angry over trivialities is
a way of patting ourselves on the back
for how well we think and how insight-
fully we can analyse situations.
Hence the mileage we comic writ-
ers (‘we happy few’, indeed) are wont
to squeeze out of frustration. And,
hypocrite that I am, though I’ve cov-
ered ground on the same issue, at least
today rage and frustration were riding
in the passenger seat and not powering
the car.
The Editor’s idea of an amusing inset. My idea of an amusing caption.

