AMERICA DECIDES
A
fter almost a year and
a half of campaigning,
the incredible specta-
cle that is American
democracy in action is
coming to a close.
We believe that there is a case to
be made for both Barack Obama and
John McCain. Both men are worthy
candidates and are of unimpeachable
integrity. And while most polls put
Obama ahead, the gap varies from a
done deal to a photo finish. In short,
the election could still go either way.
We have aimed to present for you the
arguments for an Obama Presidency
and a McCain Presidency; as well as
a round-up of the policies they are
putting forward. We have left our po-
litical baggage at the door and written
for each candidate as if we were their
most ardent supporters.
There are a few Imperial students
who will have the opportunity to vote
from abroad but the vast majority of us
have no say in Tuesday’s election. This
does not mean that you shouldn’t make
a choice: this election is as important
to the rest of the world as it is to the
people of America.
The decisions the next President of
the United States makes domestically
will have a deep and lasting impact on
the rest of the world.
For that reason we included a certain
amount of focus on the domestic issues
as well as the message the election’s
result will send out to the world.
We don’t know about you, but we
will be staying up late on Tuesday,
waiting for America to decide.
Kadhim Shubber
Afonso Campos
Gilead Amit
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 felix Friday 31 October 2008
Politics
Politics Editor – James Goldsack & Katya-yani Vyas
T
here is a lot to fit into one
page of Politics this week.
Yet again the US elections
are taking up a significant
part of felix.
While we are on the subject, Barack
Obama is not only a terrorist but a
Nazi; according to a letter signed by
top McCain officials.
“Jewish Americans cannot afford to
make the wrong decision on Tuesday,
November 4th, 2008. Many of our an-
cestors ignored the warning signs in
the 1930’s and 1940’s and made a tragic
mistake. Let’s not make a similar one
this year!”
One more reason to hate McCain and
his campaign. You are going to lose,
which will be better than you passing
away and your running mate becomig
President. Did you actually think that
may in any way be a good idea? Thank
God for small mercies. Jerk
So, that is all from the theocracy
over the pond, there are issues closer
to home. It appears that both main
parties have links with one billionaire
named Oleg - George Osborne trying
to obtain funding and Peter Mandel-
son supposedly “holidaying”.
The fear is that some foreigner will
get involved in politics where he really
doesn’t belong. Who knows what will
happen if we allow this sort of behav-
iour, more is at stake than simply party
funding.
And the financial crisis...
Why are we not joining the Euro?
Since the inception of the currency,
many top politicians (and recently
mostly Liberal Democrats) have been
waiting for the “opportune moment” to
join. Now is the time as the Eurozone
is the biggest economy, surpassing the
US Dollar. Oh, and the pound is fall-
ing faster than the disastrous USD. Not
a good sign. Baghdad is beginning to
speak out again over the use of Iraq by
the USA as a military base from where
to attack its neighbours. Finally, those
greedy yanks may be kicked out oil-
less before they completely rape the
country.
The real test will be whether the
Iraqis put their money where their
mouths are and act. Goooo Iraqis!
Well, this is the last issue of Felix
before the US elections. Next week
we will be telling you how Obama
won in a landslide victory against the
archaeological artefact and an igno-
rant failure. Hopefully. McCain is still
claiming that the race is close – crazy
idea; remember kids, torture screws
you up reeaaaal bad. Worse than crack.
As America’s power declines almost as
fast as its economy, perhaps these elec-
tions are not so important any more.
A president of a Federal Europe would
have so much more power. And we
would be a part of it. Nice.
I must end by pleading with you. If
you are American, please vote Obama.
We would owe you more than Africa
owes the G8. By this time next week
we can get back to being content with
UK and world politics without it being
dominated by the US elections.
Finally.
Why I am not voting on the 4th
Edward Townes reflects on the presidential elections and provides analysis on the upcoming elections
As an American citizen I have the abil-
ity to contribute somewhere on the or-
der of a millionth of a percent to the
decision of who becomes the most
powerful person in the world for the
next four years. Not long ago I would
have been honoured and proud of this
privilege, but I have since observed an
election process that has both shocked
and deeply disappointed me.
We have a very pervasive myth in
America that we are a free and just
country, protected under the Consti-
tution and with a government subser-
vient to the people through the demo-
cratic process. We are led to believe
that our presidential elections are the
most refined and functional displays
of democracy in the world today.
We are led to believe that our right
to choose between two candidates, a
consequence of generations of ances-
tors fighting for our freedom, should
not only be celebrated, but that anyone
who chooses not to exercise that right
is virtually criminal.
Every four years we are presented
with a line of candidates for the nomi-
nation of the only two political parties
that matter, Democrats and Repub-
licans. Hardly anyone has heard of
more than one or two of these peo-
ple before, and thus the mainstream
media is free to declare who are the
front-runners. Immediately after, the
mainstream media begins publishing
manipulated polls to reinforce their
views and take advantage of the horse-
race mentality of American voting. We
are then graced with fascinating tele-
vised debates, where the answers are
limited to 30-second sound bites and
the questions are thoroughly dumbed
down and vetted beforehand. In these
debates we get to hear such diverse
opinions as: whether to change the in-
come tax rate by 2%, or 3%; or whether
to move 5000 troops from Iraq to Af-
ghanistan, or 6000. Occasionally we
get a really wild candidate who wants to
move troops from Afghanistan to Iraq
instead! With such diversity of opin-
ion, it is often very difficult to choose
between the candidates. Thankfully
the mainstream media is here to help
us, as they will frequently and kindly
point out that some of the candidates
with unusual views have no chance of
winning and are clinically insane.
The reality is that the American
presidential elections are a tightly con-
trolled charade, designed to keep the
same institutions in power every time,
whilst soothing the American people
with illusions of their ability to choose
their government. If you are not either
a Republican or a Democrat, you have
no chance of winning at all, since ballot
access is strictly controlled and inten-
tionally made extremely resource con-
suming for any third party. Further-
more, no mainstream media company
is willing to provide a forum for debate
involving third parties, or even barely
mention them in the news. Thus the
American public is kept in the dark
about any alternative existing outside
of the two major parties. Within the
Democratic and Republican parties
there is the occasional bad apple who
wants to ruin the fun and actually talk
about real issues, but there are a myr-
iad of techniques employed to ostra-
cize, insult and suppress anyone who
does not toe the line.
The reason that third parties are
suppressed is very simple: efficiency.
If you look at the major donors for
any major candidate, you will notice a
startling number of similarities. The
game is that the special interests in
America buy the loyalty of politicians
by bankrolling the campaigns of the
two political parties, exploiting loop-
holes in campaign finance laws in what
amounts to bribery, and guaranteeing
their future careers after political of-
fice. In this way the special interests
can ensure their goals are met no mat-
ter who wins. It is clearly cheapest for
the special interests when the number
of choices available to the American
public is as small as possible without
compromising the appearance of de-
mocracy. And to cap it all off, there
is now significant evidence of routine
vote fraud.
Nobody who is allowed by the me-
dia to be publicly visible talks about
anything important, especially during
elections. No one ever asks why we
have 700 military bases, in 130 foreign
countries, at the expense of over $1
trillion per year. No one ever asks why
we have a monstrously complex system
of income taxation, one of the most re-
pugnant insults to liberty imaginable.
No one ever asks why it is the govern-
ment’s business to manage energy pro-
duction, why our healthcare system is
so horribly deficient, why our schools
are virtually third world in quality, why
we have a banking system that is so
fraudulent that it is arguably the big-
gest scam in human history, why our
civil liberties have progressively disap-
peared over the last century, why our
country is constantly going to war for
the benefit of military contractors and
corrupt corporations seeking to exploit
other countries, why we bully other
governments into corruption and in-
debtedness with the World Bank on
pain of assassination or invasion, why
nearly all Federal government spend-
ing is in violation of the 10th Amend-
ment, and the list goes on and on.
America is but a mere shadow of
what it once was. It started as a con-
stitutional republic, a beacon of liberty
for the world. It enjoyed the greatest
economic growth in the history of the
world for decades, the highest savings
rate ever (not a coincidence), and the
greatest increase in prosperity for the
little guy. It had principles of freedom
and limited government enshrined
in its Constitution, a true charter for
the future of free people. It failed. It
now has a monetary system based on
debt slavery and a savings rate 20 times
lower than China, its Constitution is
so ignored that it is not even worth
the paper it was written upon, it has a
government that resembles a form of
corporate fascism, it has a middle and
lower class that has gotten progres-
sively poorer in real terms for decades,
and, pathetically, it still believes it is
the country it once was.
So, in conclusion, the reason I’m not
voting is that it won’t make a damn
bit of difference. Neither McCain
nor Obama will make any significant
change in America’s policies or ad-
dress any of the important fundamen-
tal problems of our country, no matter
how well-intentioned they might be.
From my perspective the choice be-
tween Obama and McCain is fraudu-
lently presented as a real contrast of
policies, when in actual fact both of
these men are products of the system
and guarantee a continuation of the
general tragic trends in America. My
real choice is whether or not to enter-
tain this sickening circus of thieves,
parasites and ignorance with my vote
at all. If I do not, then I undercut their
claim of representing the American
people and join the some 70% of us
who do the same. In fact, I sort of am
voting, I’m voting for the illegitimacy
of the US Government.
James Goldsack
Politics Editor
To vote, or not to vote, that is the question... how many of America’s citizens simply do not care about the outcome of the elections?

