O
ne week away from
change in America.
That is the message
of Senator Barack
Obama‘s speech to the
American people on October 27th
in Canton, Ohio. As you are reading
these words, it might be that change is
days or hours away; change may even
have washed over you already. We all
know that America stands on a preci-
pice, an Asian century looms large and
the Capitalist, Democratic American
Senator Barack Obama
way is more discredited than at any
other time in its history. The elec-
tion of the first black President of the
United States would not be evidence of
voters with a racial agenda; instead it is
the symbolic gesture of a country tak-
ing strides into an uncertain American
century and the trumpet call of a na-
tion ready to lead the world once again.
This is the case for Barack Obama.
The financial philosophy of Reagan
and Thatcher has crumbled, U.S. influ-
ence is weak and Iraq and Afghanistan
continue to strain the nation’s military.
These are the times in which a New
York Times poll showed that 89% of
Americans believe the country is head-
ing in the wrong direction. Barack
Obama is the man who will take the
U.S. in the right direction. His person-
ality, his politics and his policies show
that he is a man who understands the
challenges American faces and who
knows how to overcome them.
While John McCain has behaved er-
ratically during the ongoing economic
crisis, Barack Obama has shown the
strength of his character. He is careful
in speech and reasoned in thought but
also steadfast and unafraid to act when
neccessary. At the Presidential debates
it was clear that Barack Obama was
in control, mentally, of the difficulties
facing the nation. His competency and
seriousness is a refreshing change to
the cowboy President of the last 8 years
and a stark contrast to the shallow,
gimmick-driven McCain campaign.
Obama’s choice of running mate, un-
like McCain’s, exemplifies his commit-
ment to be a responsible steward of the
United States. He made a decision that
reflects an understanding of his own
weaknesses and an unwillingness to
play campaign politics with important
Presidential decisions. Senator Joseph
Biden is a man with impeccable foreign
policy credentials, which combined
with Obama’s unique world view mean
that an Obama-Biden victory will,
contrary to Republican attacks, leave
America in safe hands internationally.
What are Obama’s policies?
That is his personality, but his poli-
tics also inspire confidence. In his
frenzied scramble to make any attack
stick on Obama, John McCain has fi-
nally resorted to calling him a socialist.
Henrik Hertzberg of the New Yorker
Magazine summed up, “Barack Obama
had already been accused of betraying
the troops, wanting to teach kinder-
gartners all about sex, favoring infan-
ticide, and being a friend of terrorists
and terrorism. What was left?…”. The
slanders of the Republican campaign
are not working: not because they are
untrue, as John Kerry knows all too
well, but because Obama has succeed-
ed in presenting an effective plan of ac-
tion to deal with America’s problems.
This is not a plan that is based in ex-
hausted ideological politics, like John
McCain’s: but rather an evidence-driv-
en, pragmatic minded and bold plan.
John McCain describes himself as a
maverick, but it is Barack Obama who
has taken a bold policy path. He prom-
ises to destroy terrorism at its home in
the border region of Afghanistan and
Pakistan, not because he is ignorant of
the costs of war but because he knows
that if he doesn’t, America will not be
safe. He promises to direct negotiations
with the nation’s most reviled enemies,
not because he is ignorant about the
moral character of those regimes but
because he knows that America can no
longer protect its interests without di-
rect diplomacy. He knows that raising
taxes on the wealthiest minority of U.S.
citizens will not win him votes amongst
‘socialist’ fearing Republicans but he
also knows that the economy will not
grow unless the the population is given
a tax-break. Obama is unafraid to risk
his popularity on important issues, he
is mentally flexible and responsive to
evidence based politics; unlike John
McCain he has put ideology second
and country first.
A President’s personality and politics
are of the utmost importance. They let
us know how they will behave in of-
fice but ultimately American voters are
making their decision based on each
candidate’s policies on the issues fac-
ing them today. Barack Obama might
have been a style candidate, a charis-
matic lightweight with little more to
offer than a wink and a smile. However
Obama’s policies are proof that he is a
substance politician; they are proof of
his readiness to be President
The economy is the most important
issue of this election and Obama is the
candidate who will help American citi-
zens through this difficult time. Barack
Obama’s tax plans ensure that the lower
and middle class of American receive
the help that they need. His tax-pro-
posals reduce the tax-burden on 95%
of American citizens at a time when
Americans are having to tighten their
belts. Unlike John McCain, who be-
lieves that only tax-cuts to large corpo-
rations can help the economy, Obama’s
tax-proposals are aimed at ordinary
working Americans and small Ameri-
can businesses. Instead of tax-cuts for
large corporations, Obama will elimi-
nate capital gains taxes for small busi-
ness and provides a 50% tax credit to
help small business provide healthcare
insurance for the employees. Obama is
not the candidate who will raise tax-
es, indeed Americans earning under
$250,000 a year, the vast majority, will
not see any tax increases.
The U.S. healthcare system loses bil-
lions each year through inefficiency
and poor patient care. Obama’s health-
care proposals will update the U.S.
healthcare system, reduce costs and
ensure coverage for all U.S. citizens.
He will drive forward the adoption
of the electronic storage of medical
records, a move that could save up to
$77 billion year through increased ef-
ficiency. The strain is felt, not only on
the healthcare system, but by ordinary
Americans who have seen their insur-
ance premiums rocket 87% in the last
6 years; those lucky enough to afford
healthcare coverage. Rather than so-
cializing healthcare, Obama’s propos-
als increase competition by allowing
consumers to import safe, cheaper
drugs from other countries and letting
Medicare negotiate directly with drug
companiesforcheaperdrugprices.The
centerpiece of his healthcare reform is
ensuring universal insurance cover-
age in America. This will provide all
Americans with affordable and easily
accessible health care and ensure that
regardless of wealth, no American citi-
zen will ever again be forced to choose
between bankruptcy and treatment.
These are but two aspects of Obama’s
comprehensive vision. The election
comes down to a choice; a team with a
(good) plan and a team without a clue
about what the next 4 years might look
like. John McCain scarcely knows how
many houses he owns never mind what
to do to combat the economic crisis.
His campaign is coming apart under
the pressure of its own contradictions,
shortcomings and failures. The mes-
sage from John McCain is that he pre-
side over another 4 years of direction-
less politics with a Vice-President who
dashes the hopes of all rational-minded
humans; that after George W. Bush, we
wouldn’t have another utterly unquali-
fied person in the White House. John
McCain can label himself a maverick
but in important areas, such as tax
policy, healthcare and the economy,
he remains anchored to the intellectu-
ally bankrupt politics of the Reaganist
Republican Party. He has to resort to
empty attacks on the character of his
opponent because the right has noth-
ing left in the tank, no new ideas.
The right will ultimately blame the
‘elitist media’ for a supposed unflinch-
ing bias in favour of Barack Obama
but in truth the 2008 election is about
timing. Both John McCain and Barack
Obama are public servants of the high-
est standard, but it is Obama who has
the mental flexibility, intellectual cu-
riosity and firm but calm leadership
appropriate for these uncertain and
stressful times. Both John McCain and
Barack Obama have political positions
that they honestly and sincerely believe
in, but it is Obama who recognizes the
failures of the past and realizes that a
new direction is needed for America.
Both John McCain and Barack Obama
have policies that they believe are cor-
rect, but it is Obama who will help
the American middle class and ensure
America’s safety on the international
stage. Both John McCain and Barack
Obama are ready to be President of
the United States, but it is only Obama
who will truly lead. The skinny kid
with the funny name beats McCain on
character, temperament and policy.
The world is a much less stable place
than at the beginning of the 21st centu-
ry but we can be a little more confident
about the future if on Tuesday, Sena-
tor Barack Obama is elected the 56th
President of the United States.
The No Child Left Behind (NCLB) act
of 2001 is one of the more controver-
sial pieces of legislation of recent years.
The attempt to ensure consistent lev-
els of education across the country by
extending the use of standardized tests
had a mixed reception, and Obama
himself has claimed that “creativity
has been drained from classrooms” as
a result.
His support for NCLB, however, is
evidenced by his plan to divert an ex-
tra $18 billion per annum into fulfill-
ing the act’s original intentions. This
much-needed boost should be able to
put this policy back on track, allowing
for improvements in math and science
education and more intensive teacher
training.
A focus he shares with his Republi-
can rival is on increasing the choice of
schools on offer. By offering universal
preschool programs and the first $4000
of college tuition entirely free, Obama
hopes to make America regain its pri-
macy on matters of education.
Education Economy Healthcare Foreign Affairs
‘Middle Class Americans Tax Relief’
have been five of the most dominant
words of the Obama campaign. By
providing a tax cut for working fami-
lies, eliminating all income taxation
from seniors earning $50,000 a year,
and simplifying the taxation process,
the Obama-Biden plan should be able
to ensure 150 million workers get ‘the
tax relief they need.’
Onthequestionoffairtrade,Obama’s
focus is currently on changing the rel-
evant legislation, creating a framework
in which American economic security
can be safeguarded.
Obama’s comprehensive energy plan
is characterized by his decision to cre-
ate 5 million jobs in the domain of en-
vironmental energy – so-called ‘green
collar’ jobs. Much has also been made
of his eagerness to invest in the scienc-
es, clean energy and new technology.
His economic emphasis can be said
to be on creating tax cuts and a gener-
ally favourable financial environment
for lower- to middle-income workers.
The fundamental problem with Amer-
ican healthcare policy is the number of
people with too little or no insurance.
By making such insurance more afford-
able and easier to access, the Obama-
Biden plan hopes to ensure universal
insurance coverage.
Obama has made especially strong
commitments to changing the way em-
ployees pay for their health insurance.
By removing the need for workers to
pay taxes on insurance paid for by em-
ployers, households should be able to
save nearly $2500 a year.
Obama has also announced his in-
tention of requiring insurance compa-
nies to provide fair, stable premiums to
all clients. This, along with the Small
Business Health Tax mentioned above,
need substantial funding to be put into
practice.
To pay for them, the Obama-Biden
ticket are withdrawing the tax credit
offered by Bush to Americans earning
more than $250,000 a year, and keep-
ing the estate tax at its 2009 level.
If any issue has taken centre stage in
the ‘08 election circus, it’s the attitude
of the two candidates towards foreign
policy. For Obama especially, this is
an area where he has been held up
to recurring criticism for his lack of
experience.
With arguably the most qualified
Senator in Congress running for VP by
his side, however, those criticisms have
been silenced and slowly replaced by
judgments on actual policy.
Obama plans to be tough on loose
nuclear weapons, and to be watchful of
the hands into which they fall. He is also
ready to negotiate with Iran, though in
a ‘tough, presidential’ manner.
The most substantial foreign policy
change is set to be precisely in the way
foreign policy is conducted. After years
of being ridiculed for their internation-
al attitude, ‘American diplomacy’ is set
to be ‘renewed’.
Support for Israel, however, is set to
be a continuing element in America’s
foreign policy.
Obama
Early life
Barack Obama was born in
Hawaii August 4th, 1961. His
parents were Barack Obama
Snr and Ann Dunham. His
father was from Kenya and
worked for the government.
He spent much of his life
estranged from his father.
Obama’s mother was an
anthropologist from Kansa.
He spoke of his mother as
“the dominant figure in my
formative years”.
As a child he spend 4
years at school in Indonesia
before returning to finish his
education in America
Political Career
2008 Campaign
He was elected to the Illinois
state senate in 1996 after
being a community organiser
in Chicago. During his time,
amongst other bills, he helped
increase child-care subsidies
for low-income families. In
2004 he was elected Senator
for Illinois, beating his
opponent by over 40%. In
the Senate he worked with
Democrats and Republicans on
a number of issues, including
with John McCain on a bill
that called for the reduction of
greenhouse gases.
On February 10th 2007, he
launched his presidential
campaign. He fought a
hard and long battle with
Senator Hillary Clinton to
eventually win the Democratic
nomination. His campaign has
broken fundraising records
with large numbers of small
internet donations. Obama
chose experienced Senator Joe
Biden as his running mate and
benefited from the economic
crisis as the candidate of
the party traditionally more
trusted on economic issues.

