A
pivotal moment is be-
fore us. Amidst an ever-
growing economic crisis
of proportions unprec-
edented in the last few
decades, the world turns its somewhat
overly judgmental eye to what is argu-
ably the most media-intensive Ameri-
can election of all time. The key word
here is American. Senator McCain’s
campaign prioritises America; the ef-
fort to fix the country and revitalise its
citizens takes precedence above all oth-
er issues. His entire campaign is based
on “country first”. Country is used here
as a collective noun to describe the 300
million hard working, loyal and patriot
people from all walks of life who make
up the United States of America.
He is an earnest character that tends
to avoid monumental amounts of
rhetoric. He gives his political record
a chance to be voiced through the
mouthpiece of not only his core sup-
porters but those countless converted
Democrats and previously undecided
voters. This mouthpiece, however,
is certainly not the country’s media.
Notably, the New York Times and the
Washington Post have thrown their
incredible weight behind the Illinois
senator. Two of the most widely read
newspapers in the country continue to
conjure up pieces with an Obama bias
in an attempt to disintegrate and dis-
credit the McCain campaign. Obama
propaganda has become ubiquitous
and several other media sources have
jumped on his bandwagon. It is an
unashamed attempt to fabricate a self-
fulfilling prophecy. While polls cur-
rently show Obama ahead, the rather
erratic spread is suffering a crunch
at this very moment. The election is
anything but lost for Senator McCain.
Obama on the other hand is trying to
clinch a victory by riding this platform
constructed from an overeager media
with a clearly liberal agenda who keep
on making the crucial editorial mis-
take of assuming audiences are not in-
telligent or informed enough to make
decisions.
John McCain is running a campaign
that is less focused on increasing ex-
posure in the media and more con-
cerned with tackling the cancerous
lack of confidence in the American
political system. By contrast, Obama
has been injecting record amounts of
cash into making sure he is seen and
heard whenever a television is turned
on. McCain sees no need for omni-
presence and the incessant flooding of
airwaves to bully voters. Obama claims
McCain
Senator John McCain
What are McCain’s policies?
In the words of the senior senator from
Arizona, ‘education is the civil rights
issue of the 21st Century’. While the
candidates’ education policies tend to
be almost completely ignored by those
of us outside the United States, the ed-
ucation issue is a crucially important
one for Americans.
McCain’s emphasis in his campaign
has always been on widening the choice
of schools on offer, allowing students
and parents to choose schools that of-
fer the best experience for children.
On the controversial issue of the No
Child Left Behind (NCLB) act, Mc-
Cain has advocated improvement of
the way the act is implemented rather
than outright discarding of it.
McCain shares his rival’s views on
universal preschool and on offering
higher wages to teachers, but offers a
range of unique proposals of his own.
The most striking of these is an em-
phasis on ‘virtual classrooms’, a plan
whereby some $ 500 million is invested
in virtual teaching programmes.
Education Economy Healthcare Foreign Affairs
McCain’s grasp of the economy has
undoubtedly been the chink in his
armour this time around. Ill-advised
informal comments about his own dif-
ficulties with economic complexities,
combined with the intricate footwork
necessary to explain the recent credit
crunch, have to some extent reduced
public confidence.
His plans, however, have the support
of a wide range of economists. Among
his key promises is to have the budget
balanced by the end of his first year in
office, lower the corporate tax rate by
10% and eliminate tax loopholes cost-
ing the taxpayer $45 billion a year.
McCain has also committed himself
to improving America’s foreign trade
agreements. By lowering barriers to
trade and improving the North Ameri-
can Free Trade Agreement, the Ameri-
can economy should be on an equal
footing internationally.
The tax credits McCain is proposing
are mainly dedicated to making health-
care and education more affordable.
Senators McCain and Obama have
both invested a great deal of time and
effort in their plans for a major reform
of the American healthcare system.
Whereas his Democratic rival is
pushing for a single health insurance
provider run and controlled by the
government, McCain believes in being
able to make a free choice between a
competing set of alternatives.
The crux of his proposed reform is
offering each individual a $2,500 tax
credit which can be spent on health in-
surance in whichever way they choose.
All of McCain’s policies on the issue
of healthcare revolve around the four
basic pillars of his campaign: ‘afford-
ability, access and choice, portability
and security, and quality’. By maintain-
ing competitive pricing on insurance
offers, making it easier for families to
obtain an insurance policy and empha-
sising the role individual states play in
providing healthcare, McCain hopes to
achieve these most fundamental of his
goals.
What started off as McCain’s strong-
est suit has been slowly slipping away
from him as Obama and Biden have
managed to put together a coherent
foreign policy of their own.
The issue that matters most to non-
Americans is how American diploma-
cy is handled – and in the experienced
statesman that is John McCain there is
less cause to worry.
While McCain’s seeming militarism
has provided some with cause to worry,
hisrecordsuggestsarational,peaceable
outlook deeply rooted in pragmatism.
The difference between Obama and
McCain that has received most airtime
abroad is that between their positions
on Iraq. While Obama is keen to have
strict deadlines for troop pullout, Mc-
Cain eschews timeplans, believing that
the soldiers should leave when the job
has been done.
When it comes to opposing Russia’s
recent actions, supporting Israel and
working to improve relations abroad,
both candidates have similar policies.
to care about the American people,
but by spending over $6 million on two
adverts alone, Obama is in fact doing
something not dissimilar from what he
has cursed investment banks for doing;
leveraging monetary power for undue
influence. By buying the American
vote, he is in fact setting an unfortu-
nate precedent for future elections and
damaging American democracy for
years to come.
Senator McCain is keenly aware that
government has the power to influ-
ence change in the nation but he, un-
like Obama, knows that it lacks the
efficiency and proper motivation to be
truly productive. The free market re-
ally has the power to create new jobs
and wealth and to effect change in
the way the people deserve. McCain
believes in top-down economics – a
system where change implemented at
the peak of the pyramid will trickle
down into society as a whole: and the
record of American capitalism is on his
side. As a result, McCain has pledged
to cut taxes for large corporations, to
fuel their growth again as well as deter
companies from seeking complicated
and expensive tax loopholes. Obama
wants, in his own words, to “spread the
wealth” – an idea that contradicts the
American value system of individual
endeavour. McCain understands that
change actually comes in the form of
well-thought-out fiscal policies rather
than overly utopian dreams of sup-
posed uniformity and redistributive
tax ideas. His fiscal policy is unerring
and poses no moral dilemma for the
American people who rightly struggle
with the socialism Obama is bouncing
around. His concepts of redistribution
are inherently un-American, against its
founding principles and have no place
in the United States.
Senator McCain is pledging $5,000
to each family to help offset the costs of
health care. This is the perfect way to
give millions of Americans the choice
of a plan that suits them, and not one
generic one the government unscien-
tifically deems suitable for an entire
population. This monetary incentive
also helps to reduce the acknowledged
and disturbing disparity between those
who are wealthy enough to purchase
health insurance policies and those
who unfortunately do without. Obama
wants to nationalise this service, un-
willing to admit that the humongous
bureaucratic task that it entails will
doom his efforts to failure.
It has been proven in countries with
centralised health services that seem-
ingly simple tasks like replacing com-
puter systems can take upwards of five
years. McCain’s health care reform is
pragmatic and clever and does not en-
danger Americans should a misguided
attempt at centralisation fail. He is
living up to everything that America
should be and has always tried to be:
free and efficient. More importantly,
while Obama is squeezing a nation by
offering no choice, McCain is giving
citizens the freedom to choose and is
enforcing the country’s democratic
values.
Following the Democratic National
Convention this September it is abso-
lutely clear that Mr Obama has created
and is leading a movement that seems
more concerned with conforming to
what can almost be described as a ‘re-
ligion of Obama’. This is evidenced not
only by the sheer number of gatherers
at the stadium, but its conversion by
the campaign into a temple, complete
with erected temple-like columns right
in the centre. It shows an egotistic
and arrogant candidate who clearly
believes his own media hype. Sena-
tor McCain is deeply engaged with
his supporters because they listen to
him, unlike Obama’s who blindly fol-
low ‘The One’. They question his ideas
and a symbiotic relationship between
him and America was formed and it
prevails today. There is no sense of
superiority on either part. Rather, he
empathises with the American people
and there is a sense of connection to
them and their troubles. It is grounded
in reality rather than the perceived and
artificial needs of the country. With
Senator McCain, voters can be sure
they are attached to a person and not a
machine manufacturing verbose state-
ments with little content.
Apart from being more politically
stable and better equipped to imple-
ment change, John McCain is quite
clearly the more experienced candidate
for the post of Commander-in-Chief
of the United States. Barack Obama
is still too green and inexperienced
for the top job, having spent his entire
time in elected office voting ‘Present’.
McCain’s experience is absolutely
unparalleled and his commitment
unquestionable as he has been serv-
ing the country for almost 43 years, 5
and half of those as a prisoner of war.
The slogan ‘Country first’ predates his
campaign, he has time and time again
put his own reputation and safety
second, for his country; his service in
Vietnam is ample proof of this. After
his plane was shot down and he was
captured and tortured, he stayed true
to his values and loyal to his country.
This is who John McCain is: an incred-
ibly driven hero who understands the
importance of staying true to himself,
nobody could doubt his resilience as
an American commander. What Sena-
tor Obama fails to realise is that Mc-
Cain did not vote for the war in Iraq
lightly or merely to tick a box for party
approval. That idea, shared by a large
majority of Democrats, makes an ab-
solute mockery of the Senator and any-
one who has bravely given their life in
the fight to keep America and Ameri-
cans free and safe from external abuse.
Anyone who has experienced the true
horrors of war and seen the ghastly
sights that McCain has would not dare
suggest that war is the best solution to
a problem unless there was a real need
for it. His foreign policy credentials
stack up and he needs not rely on his
running mate, unlike Barack Obama,
for what really should be the Head of
State’s eminent attribute.
America is on the cusp of a meta-
phorical nervous breakdown. Atop this
highly unstable foundation, McCain
has the inherent moral authority to be
bold. His aim is not, like Obama, to be a
crowd pleaser and embrace the policies
of failure. The Senator from Arizona is
unafraid to take views that could actu-
ally benefit America but members of
his party may find ‘un-Republican’. He
has what Andy Card has called the very
noble “courage to be lonely”. Like the
Founding Father George Washington,
he is a visionary and a defender of De-
mocracy. Above everything, he is not
scared of sacrificing himself as he has
done many times in the past, to ensure
the continuity of the United States as
the world’s super power in a prosper-
ous and peaceful fashion.
Early Life
John McCain was born August
29th, 1936 in the Coco Solo
Naval Air Station in Panama
to Roberta Wright McCain and
John S. McCain Jr, a four star
admiral in the United States
Navy who served his country
for three decades.
During childhood his
nicknames included ‘Jonny’,
‘Punk’ and ‘McNasty’. He then
ventured to Annapolis to begin
his higher education studies
at the United States Naval
Academy, proudly graduating
in 1958.
Political Career
2008 Campaign
McCain began his fully-
fledged career in politics in
1987 becoming the Senator
for the state of Arizona where
he gained a reputation for
distancing himself from the
party when he felt necessary.
In 1999 the Senator
announced he was running for
President in the 2000 election
but ended up losing the
nomination to George W. Bush
mostly because of his inability
to mobilise Evangelical voters.
McCain returned to the Senate
in 2001.
In April 2007, McCain officially
announced he was running for
the Presidency in Portsmouth,
New Hampshire where he
famously stated he was not
running “to be somebody, but
to do something”.
While he initially trailed
former NYC Mayor Rudy
Giuliani, he eventually won the
nomination.
McCain surprised the
nation when in late August
he annouced Sarah Palin, the
governor of the state of Alaska,
as his running mate: a decision
that aroused controversy.

