business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
16 felix Friday 31 October 2008
Business
Business Editor – Luke Dhanoa
Luke Dhanoa
Business Editor
Graduate jobs glut
Credit Crisis isn’t just going to affect this years graduates.
I was talking to a fresher the other day
(as you do) when the young whelp went
and said something very silly (as they
do) and it made me so angry I nearly
banned him from my club because he’s
a thickie and liable to hurt himself. I
was just about to put the truth down
on the scrapling when other freshers
came up and agreed with him, which
threw me off guard because I thought
that Imperial had entry standards. Oh
well. Essentially their argument went
like this:
“Your year [final year] is screwed by
this economic crisis because there are
no jobs. But by the time my year gradu-
ates, things will be fine and I’ll get a job
without any problems.”
Some of you (especially freshers)
might read this and wonder what’s
wrong with the statement. If that’s the
case, let’s do some freakonomics you
and I.
First of all you’re going to need to un-
derstand what a “glut” is. A glut is when
there is too much of a product for sale
in a market, leaving extra product left
over after the buyers have had their fill.
In this case the product is graduates
and the buyers are the financial insti-
tutions. Because the bankers are taking
fewer graduates, there are going to be
banker wannabes drifting around the
jobs market, like floating turds waiting
to be flushed.
Economists amongst you will point
out that a glut is solved by price cuts.
You’ll point out that the product will
become cheaper and eventually the
market will correct itself. You are
wrong. Salary plays a minor role in the
cost of turning a graduate man-cub
into a real fully fledged people-thing,
there’s the training, the recruitment,
finding busy work for them, mentoring
them, feeding them, clothing them,
tucking them in at night. Cutting the
salary wont compensate for those oth-
er costs. Graduates are hard, expensive
work, and right now the banks have
other things to do. Plus, if the invest-
ment houses drop their salary offers,
prime graduates will just look else-
where for employment.
At this point, the fresher will say:
“Exactly! Surely the banker wannabes
will just go work some at some other
place?” and in a way, he’s right. Thou-
sands of potential city folk will end up
working in jobs completely different
from banking; instead of becoming
traders they will go work as civil serv-
ants, buyers, upstream controllers, re-
tailers or something.
“Ha” says the fresher “See, I’m right.
All this years leavers will end up doing
something else, and when I graduate all
those juicy banking jobs will be mine.”
Wrong.
A university graduate can apply for a
How many people do you know? And
I’m not talking about the number of
friends on facebook, how many peo-
ple do you know? How many people
do you care about? How many people
could ask you for a favour? How many
people could you just stop and chat
with? How many peoples wellbeing are
you concerned about? Think about it
for a moment. Got a number? Good.
Write it down.
Now for a tangent:
Monkeys and apes live in social
groups (for the most part), and differ-
ent species have differently sized com-
munities. Monkeys and apes also have
neocortexes and if you chop up enough
monkey brains and look at enough
monkeys in the wild, you find that the
size of the social group is a direct func-
tion of neocortex size. A Liverpudlian
called Robin Ian MacDonald Dunbar
came to realise all this and being then
decided to take a look at the human
neocortex. He then worked out that
the average “number of individuals
with whom a stable inter-personal re-
lationship can be maintained” is about
150. This is Dunbars number.
Now look at your number. How close
were you? Does the whole thing make
sense? If not, think about how many
people are on your course. Now think
about how cohesive it is. Still not con-
vinced? Try and think of a group of
more than 150 people and think about
how well it stays together. When Dun-
bar looked at 21 hunter gather villages
he found that the average population
size was 148.4. When psychologist
Dennis Fox studied the tragedy of the
commons he concluded that “the up-
per limit for a simple, self-contained,
sustaining, well-functioning com-
mons may be as low as 150 people”.
The Roman army considered 150 to be
the maximum size of a fighting unit.
Wilbert Gore, (inventor of Gore-Tex)
adamantly stated that a company plant
should never have more than 150 peo-
ple working there because “We found
again and again that things get clumsy
at a hundred and fifty”.
150 is the magic number.
“But” you interject, “what the hell
does any of this matter?” It matters be-
cause we live in and function in groups
Why a free market
society will never
work.
And neither will a communist one.
of much larger than 150 and the only
way that we can do that is by creating
rules and laws. 150 people can live in
harmonious, libertarian or socialist,
anarchy, any more than that and you
need structure.
The society we live in is a patchwork
quilt of interconnected groups of 150.
To make the whole shebang work we
need governance, and rights and the
like keeping a sense of uniformity,
to make sure we treat others like we
want to be treated. So we set up laws
and rules as if we all lived in a Dun-
bar Group (150 people) and then ap-
ply them to everyone, so that we act to
strangers as if they’re people we empa-
thise with.
The problem is, it doesn’t work. Dun-
bar’s number is why we don’t feel bad
stealing from corporations but why we
don’t steal from our friends. It’s why
people spend more on pets than chari-
ties. It’s why we find it hard to worry
about “the planet” or “the rainforest”
in the same way we worry about our
parents. Simply pretending that people
can act towards strangers in the same
way that they act towards their Dunbar
Group is crazy.
When we construct an economic sys-
tem, it doesn’t make biological sense.
Humans aren’t naturally communist
or capitalist; we’re all anarchists at
heart. If you take a group of 150 people
and let them form their own nation, it
looks nothing like the sort of world we
live in. There aren’t any formal titles.
Property balances neatly with sharing.
Hierarchies form based on personality
and competence. Crime is dealt with
by the people. Money usually becomes
totally irrelevant. When humans exist
in a natural state, life is much simpler.
Every economic principle is manu-
factured. None are “right” – they’re
just tools to try and make our “super-
societies” more like the mini ones we’re
supposed to live in. The free market
world cannot exist. Communist states
don’t work. What we always end up us-
ing is some kind of mixture of ideals.
The combination of free markets and
government control is the only way to
simulate the social groups that we used
to live in, and so it will thrive. We need
to balance freedom and order.
So the next time someone tries to
sell you some economic ideology, take
it with a cup of salt.
Living free, smiling wide.
graduate job so long as they have three
or fewer years of work experience.
That means all the graduates from my
year will go out and get whatever they
can find for now, then reapply for the
milk round (the annual graduate re-
cruitment jamboree) next year. When
they reapply, they’ll have three major
advantages over next years graduates
A degree in hand. None of this con-
ditional offer rubbish, my year will ap-
ply for jobs next year with definite re-
sults. For the employer that means no
risk and no waiting.
Experience. My year group will have
been working, paying taxes, sucking up
to bosses and generally growing more
mature in the gap between recruit-
ment cycles. This makes them much
more attractive to the banks than fresh
faced grads.
The hunger. The wannabe bankers
will spend a year working some crappy
temporary job, yearning day in, day out
for the sweet, sweet financial fiscal.
When they get another chance, they’re
going to fight harder for those jobs
than next years grads will believe.
“So what?” says the fresher “that’s a
problem for next years graduates. By
the time I get out of uni everything will
be back to normal”
Wrong again.
This effect is going to snowball. The
surplus from my year will hang around
for three years before they stop apply-
ing to prime graduate jobs. The sur-
plus from next years graduates will
still be applying for those spots in four
years time and so on. There is a very
finite number of decent graduate jobs
out there and for the next half a decade
there are going to be a hell of a lot of
overqualified graduates. Considering
that this recession will last another 18
months or so, by the time the freshers
graduate things are going to be stu-
pidly tough.
If you look up the last major reces-
sion (the 80’s) you’ll find a joke about
graduate employment:
Q. What do you say to a graduate
with a job?
A. Big Mac and fries please.
Get used to hearing it, it’s going to
make a comeback.
We’re gonna get to know how that feels.
Yeah you wish!
Luke Dhanoa
Business Editor

