FELIX The student newspaper of
Imperial College
Issue 1037
October 20th 1995
Princess Anne at Elec Eng
Electricity: Andrew Harisson demonstrated the many skills of Electrical Engineers to the approval of the
the Princess Royal on Monday. Photo: Neville Mills
BY MARK BRIDGE
H R H the Princess Anne, Chancellor of the University of London, visited the Electrical Engineering
department on Monday to open a new analogue laboratory, funded by the Thai Mahanakorn University of
Technology. During the visit she met the winners of a first year Microlab Poster Competition. Dr Eric
Yeatman presented the top three designs, and the Princess Royal then spoke with the members of the win-
ning team, and praised the calibre of the works - completed during the first week of term. The winning
team, of James Ellis, Nik Farid, Keirnan Felton, Mike Gibbs, Gus Gingell, and Darren Onisore developed
an idea using mirrors, lasers, and bimetallic strips to make the required logic gates necessary to construct
their "Electronic Full Adder".
R a g C h a i r
R e p r i e v e
BY ALEX FEAKES
Speculation over the proceed-
ings of an Imperial College
Union disciplinary meeting,
regarding Richard Willis, are
flourishing in Union circles. Mr
Willis, the ICU Rag Chair, was
called to account this week on
charges of 'failing to act respon-
sibly' and of 'bringing the Union
into disrepute'.
Only days after the Union
disciplinary fined him for his
'irresponsible actions', the
meeting was dismissed as being
invalid because of a technicality,
and will have to be re-run.
The accusations relate to
the Freshers' Week debacle
involving excessive drinking at a
Rag event, which resulted in a
first year biochemistry student
being found 'incapacitated and
hardly breathing' state on the
Sherfield Walkway. This
occurred just minutes after
attending a Rag Freshers' event
where free spirits were given
away as inducements to 'get
involved'.
Mr Willis was said to be
continued on page 2
New Directors for Health Centre
Dr Irene Weinreb (left) and Dr
Alan Swan have taken over the
directorship of Imperial College
health centre. Dr Gillon has
resigned the post after 13 years
in order to spend more time
studying science ethics.
Planning permission for the
relocation of the centre has been
confirmed. Page 4
Vandalism Outbreak
An estimated £20,000 damage
has been done to college already
this term. Estates Director Ian
Caldwell put the upsurge down
to 'high spirits'. Page 3

