empire - £15 unison fesli-
:i§f|l
• • •. , !
; i
;
5f7.5(:h :.. . .Kt~asU)ria-:
£/
wot!
• i . ' ' ' .
H l | r j | l l c l - £ 7 KUCCllCrO:;.,
ton im £12.50 capercaillie
nov - Brixton aoademv -
iertip:
.stfartgeloye • 4 n&v • brixton acade*
ifoawurriba 18 no*', forum «£8.50
- g i g : c l i e n i i c a l b r o t h e r s , ,
. . . . , , | ' . . . .
casual and not particularly up toi i t a s D J . Ii
: , . • . . - .
tt'inp' 1
i hoppy sets. So I was surprised
when l)ah Punk came on to play a banging,
• -.1 s ,iiul tho .-edeuiary crowd
• .
if. arteries, and •
.
< ins ol multicoloured wires and
low, blunted hen- Alter the build up of
. , l!:t' • •
this in w tempi.i but the kids weren't going to
:
• '.!
.! hit' ft i : . ; • :
. i.•. • •' li'i' i'i :
J
thinking that the harder teclux* would have
been better saved 'till nearer the end.
that when they did eventually arrive
went quite wild and yes, some even had
Jot only that, but as the pair worked up
vl with a radical, and quite long, remix of
ionic some ol the more out ol it lndivul-
up on to the stage to dance and dive. Not
II liar 1
1 love when public: enemy number
Ipe pulled the plug on the array ol* complicated
equipment so that the brothers had to restart it
'Apart from some of the samples Irom
oi the other trai ks played due to hea\y remixing
and the seamless blending of the trac - ^ulVkeil
lo say thev supplied us with a highly polidu'dand
well thought out set with some ol the best visa-
left. But for those, 1 who did si iy the< xtra spa, e
ire < iri;
- a l b u m : e r a s u r e - e r a s u r e .trout
When I was a kid, all my mates loved Erasure.
I, though, could not stand them. They were camp
and jaunty -1 hated Erasure. Upon receipt of this
album I was rubbing my hands in figurative antic-
ipatory glee of being very, very nasty about it and
was already furiously jotting down derogatory
phrases.
Imagine then, if you will, my horror on lis-
tening to it when I discovered that I actually liked
it. I love this record. It's absolutely brilliant and I
can only pray that this review is published under
a pseudonym, else I'm mined. [Whatpseudonym
would you like, Mr. Jonathan Trout! Perhaps The
Camp Music Lover or Erasure's No. I Groupie? -
music ed.)
Amongst many highlights, the track to listen
for is the ten minute epic, 'Fingers and Thumbs',
in which Vince's swirling soundscapes are simul-
taneously married to and ridiculed by one of the
catchiest tunes of the year.
There seems to be something here for every-
one, from the pure... erm... Erasure-ness of 'Love
the way you do so' to the scarify proficient ambi-
ence of 'Rock me gentiy'. This is the album every
fan has been waiting for - the one with which they
can approach their sceptical cronies shouting,
'Ah! See! Erasure really are immortal gods!"
(Let's just calm down here, please - music ed.)
If this album had been released five years ago
it would have set the pop standard for the
decade. However, it wasn't so it hasn't and I fear
that like my friends, Erasure's audience has
grown up and are now listening to losers' music,
also known as Britpop™, depending on the drugs
they took at the start of the nineties. So perhaps
this is an album you might not want to buy but
certainly it's one to shoplift (not if you're a law-
abiding citizen - music ed.j or to tape off your
mate's girlfriend's mum. (8)

