• s i m o n b a k e r
Two tilings last week led me to dunk about
Imperial College Catering. Firstly, a visit to
Linstead Hall, which reminded me of the meals
that I endured there in my first year, and sec-
ondly the letter in Felix from the catering staff.
There is clearly something badly wrong with this
department. This may sound about as topical as
the German surrender, but this is precisely the
reason why the issue needs airing. For as long as
anyone can remember, huge losses have been
generated by the M D H
and SCR, completely oblit-
erating the success of
Southside Bar, QT snack
bar and Southside Shop
(mind you, anywhere with
prices that makes Fortnum
and Mason look like Kwik
Save couldn't fail to score).
Since they operate as a near
monopoly supplier, this is
unacceptable. The respec-
tive profits and losses are
not hard to understand. The sandwiches in the
JCR are fairly good, and I challenge anyone to
find a better pint at such a price than Southside
provides. Where things seem to go horribly
wrong are in the production of hot meals and
the like. For £3.00, the inmates of Linstead Hall
are given, on weekdays, a semi-choice between
two desperate creations that have clearly been
kept hot since lunchtime. Vegetarians are pro-
vided with such imaginative dishes as pea and
potato curry with, to give the necessary culinary
breadth, peas and potatoes. In other words, it is
cheaper and healthier to eat in McDonalds than
in hall. Such blatant profiteering or appaling
management - the real reason - is totally unac-
ceptable. The seemingly obvious solution is to
open up the main catering department (SCR,
MDH) to tender, allowing third parties to force
the incumbents to improve or lose out to a more
efficient organisation. John Foster can't blame all
I shall not dwell on
the England-Norway
game, since football is
not my area of exper-
tise, which gives me
something in common
with Terry Venables.
his department's shortcomings on his staff,
unless they leave work each day with huge sacks
stuffed full offiversfromthe tills. Losses on this
scale are due to sloppy management and insula-
tion from the competitive pressures of the real
world. College Catering exists in its current
form because the powers that be think it should,
not because the customers like it that way, all
very reminiscent of the old public utilities.
Providing decent meals profitably at a competi-
tive price to 10,000 students and staff in one of
the most expensive areas of the country should
not be impossible.lt seems
to have been a pretty lean
week for news both in and
beyond College. I shall not
dwell on the England-
Norway game, since foot-
ball is not my area of exper-
tise, which gives me some-
thing in common with
Terry Venables. 'Rag Man
Awash with Free Spirit'
filled me with disbelief. I
remember a time when
males involved in this organisation were as rare
as laughs at the launch of a Rag Mag. More nois-
es about Felix's impartiality surfaced, and
seemed a litde confused. Political neutrality does
not mean an absence of all politics. There is no
chance of Felix ever becoming either the Daily
Star or the Daily Mirror, and the idea that the
news pages will be turned 'into an arena for
political mudslinging' is ludicrous. Even if the
editor wanted to do so, which of course she
doesn't, it would be impossible to produce that
much politically biased material in such an apo-
litical place as IC. By the way, my trip to
linstead coincided with their Bar Initiation
night. I can assure everyone that, having wit-
nessed their pathetic attempts to down pints
(managed by only a handful), the prospect of
much drink-related trouble from this year's
freshers is minimal.
s p a c e s : this week
barbican 0171 588 0923
ec2. tube; barbican,
the art of african textiles, tradition and lurex
national gallery 0171 839 3321
trafalgar square,
tube: charing x
next door to:
national portrait gallery
until nov 19
John kobal - photographic portrair 1995
royal academy 0171 439 7438
piccadilly. tube; piccadilly circus
until jan 21
africa: the art of a continent
serpentine 0171 402 6075
kensington gardens; walk it
until nov 5
six contempory african artists
tate 0171 8878000
millbank. tube; pimlico
until nov 17
life patterns
ICA 0171 930 3647
charing cross tube; the mall
gary hume
design musem 0171 403 6933
tower hill tube; butlers wharf
until apr 10
paul smith: true brit

