six . FELIX FRIDAY 20TH OCTOBER 1 9 9 5 FEATURE
Vol"
By Brian A Roscoe, I C U Bookstore Manager.
Well, what is the net book agreement, has it
just expired, do you care? If you regularly
buy books you should. In case you don't
know this ancient agreement merely takes
the form of a cartel whereby retailers agree
to charge their customers exactly the same
price for a 'net' book (generally a book
whose price is printed on the cover). Very
recently a few major publishers (Penguin
amongst them) withdrew themselves from
the agreement, thus offering book shops the
opportunity to sell their publications at a
reduced price (a freedom most other retail-
ers have always enjoyed).
It was the mighty and blustering Dillons
who attempted to force the issue of dis-
counting books during the early 90's, but at
the time were fended off with sharp pointy
sticks by the combined muscle of the pow-
erful publishers and the BA. Dillons'
attempt to demolish the cartel was centred
around rather clumsy promotions involving
what were technically 'not-net' books any-
way (you can charge what you want for a
non-net book). Pressure from supermarkets
(who now sell books, you may have noticed)
and the few dissenting publishers who have
"you will not
find this or any
other book
shop selling Dr
Stephenson's
Mathematical
Models for
Science
Students at half
price
better deals to the customer. Unless smaller
independent shops form a buying 'collective'
they will be unable to match the discounts
offered by the likes of W H Smith, and may
go out of business. Alternatively we may see
the high street giants throttling each other in
a desperate attempt to undercut the other's
latest offer.
Any discount promotions you see on the
high street leading up to Christmas are likely
to be based around a limited range of titles -
bestsellers, 'seasonal' books, and so on.
Because academic text books lie outside this
field of battle you will not find me or any
other book shop selling Dr Stephenson's
Mathematical Models for Science Students at
half price. M y main concern is to provide the
best, most efficient, effective service to the
students and staff of this college. On books as
well as items of stationery I certainly aim to
charge to lowest prices anywhere. Indeed, if
you buy a text book or an item of stationary
and subsequently find you could have pur-
chased it cheaper elsewhere we will happily
refund the difference.
So, what discount we will be able to offer
on Penguin's top selling paperbacks, for
'de-netted' will surely now bring the whole
thing to a head.
Of course, booksellers can only offer dis-
counts which are able to be soaked up by the
margins they negotiate from each individual
publisher. The big chains, with their
immense buying power, are likely to offer
instance, remains to be seen. The situation
will, I expect, evolve quite dramatically over
the next year. I will be monitoring the situa-
tion carefully - we have to be competitive,
and this involves supplying the best service'we
possibly can. So, please continue to use your
bookstore - it is being run for your benefit.

