FEATURE FELIX FRIDAY 2 0 T H OCTOBER 1 9 9 5 . SEVEN
•<yy-,
:lcome to Imperial :ge. the nex\three
or four years shouitj^b^arnong the most
interesting and enjoyable in your life, provided
you make the most of the opportunities
available at College. This letter aims to give
you some ideas for your own self-development.
You can probably recall one of the
significant steps in your life when you entered
the sixth form or went to sixth form college.
Coming to College is an even more significant
step. You have more freedom, more
independence and more opportunities to do
your own thing and to succeed or fail. If you do
not make some mistakes you will not have
learnt anything, learning from one's own
mistakes is an important part of experience. But
don't waste time reinventing everything - build
on the experience of others - take advice (it's
usually free) - ignore some of it, test it out,
accept or reject it.
You have already demonstrated some
planning ability by passing A levels - or their
equivalent - sufficiently well to be at College.
How are you going to plan the next three, four
or six years? And I'm not talking just about your
academic studies, I'm talking about the rest of
your life.
What do you want to achieve this term?
Making friends is normally high on most
people's list. How? Join clubs and societies,
attend meetings, take up a new sport, develop
an new interest - any of these are likely to bring
you into contact with like-minded students.
And there's always the bar to prop up whilst
seeking inspiration (but don't lean on it too
heavily - Sub-Ed).
By the end of the summer term in your
first year you are feeling the financial pressures
- in other words you're broke! So how about
earning some good money in the long vacation.
If you leave job hunting until the vac starts you
may be too late. All the interesting and lucrative
jobs have been filled already and you will be
lucky if the local council wants some grass
cutting or the garden centre needs a dirty pair
of hands. It's well worthwhile doing some
preliminary job hunting between Christmas and
Easter. Call in at the IC Careers Service (Room
310, Sherfield Building) where you will find
information about Vacation training, write to
employers with your CV, call in to some local
shops and hotels and see who's advertising in
local press.
Vac jobs can be most informative. Ideally
they give you the chance to try out some type
of work or future employer in which you are
interested. They give you experience in job
hunting, letter writing and interviews, as well as
a real insight into what it's like to work for a
particular type of employer. Some even pay you
quite well. Jobs abroad are popular and early
applications are essential. Start by visiting the
IC Careers Service which has a good range of
reference books and addresses.
At the start of the second year you raise
your sights higher. Now is the time to test your
skills in organising something - a social evening
for your department, looking after the finances
of a society or fixtures secretary of your team.
"That sounds too much like hard work" I hear
you say. Yes, it does take some effort on your
part but generally speaking the more effort you
put into something the more enjoyment you
will get out of it.
Committee work is excellent preparation
for life after College. You learn to set agendas,
run meetings, agree actions, persuade other
students to do things, work within budgets and
end up with a successful event - a party, a visit,
a play or a newspaper. (Think how much effort
went into producing this edition of Felix) (don't
remind me - Sub-Ed.)
You should start thinking seriously about
your future career before the end of the second
year. Even if you haven't a clue what you want
to do, that's no excuse for delaying finding out
about the possibilities. You are surrounded with
sources of information - friends, family, tutors,
career advisers, libraries. Start looking. It may
be a long process but so is life, so it is worth
spending more time thinking about your career
than planning your next weekend or holiday.
The IC Careers Service is a good starting
place. Pop in and speak to the information staff.
Find out about "PROSPECT (HE)" - our
computer careers guidance system - and all the
information booklets and reference files. Have a
look at some of the videos, attend some
seminars on careers, get yourself sorted out.
The Milkround is in the spring term of your
final year. This is when employers visit
campuses to interview applicants or invite you
to their London Offices.
Christmas vacation courses are a popular
way of finding out about careers such as
marketing but only a few major recruiters run
them and they are normally over-subscribed
many times.
I'm telling you because you need to start
planning your life now, don't just drift through
College and emerge with a degree and nothing
else. Of course a degree is important and must
be your first priority, but not your only priority.
In the meantime, enjoy yourself.
"career" - your job, or lack
of it, when you leave IC.
Handy for paying off that
great big student loan the
government kindly gave you
(not that I'm bitter or any-
thing).
"a G O O D job" - a Get Out
O f Debt job. Temping or
some other unsatisfying but
pays-the-bills type job.
"vac" - not a hoover, or the
home of the pope, but
Vacation, i.e. all that lovely
free time in August when
you go to Majorca to get a
suntan.
"vac job" - what you get
when you can't afford the
Club 18-30 holiday,
"develop an interest" -
...spend hours drinking with
varying groups of 'friends'.
"Committee work" - the
skill of delegating all work to
someone else, passing the
buck and staying awake in
meetings.
" P R O S P E C T " - the com-
puter careers guidance sys-
tem, more scientific than
the Evening Standard's job
page and a dart.
"The Milkround" - this is
N O T related to Unigate,
but is a useful way of getting
in touch with companies.

