PINCCCMIC
The Art of Subtle Reproduction
I don't know how many of you know this, but
there has been a bit of a palaver in the Primelia
College Union Office over Gestetners. No
doubt the whole sordid subject will eventually
surface in the letters page or 'Under the Strap'
of the College newspaper, FEELSICK, but let
me tell you of the upshot: the Union Office
now has five Gestetners. Originally, Artful
Whitewash, Honourable Gestetner-Purchaser
had arranged them in the office as shown in
the first diagram; the Union Office is twenty
feet square, and as you can see, the furthest
anyone has to walk in order to get to a
Gestetner is ten feet. However, ace mathe-
matician Junk MuckStallion has pointed out
that the Gestetners can be placed so that the
furthest anyone has to walk is considerably
reduced. Steel Goolies, never keen on walking
too far, and always being fond of moving
Gestetners, has agreed to have them moved,
but to what new positions should they be
moved?
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the
FELIX Office, please. The usual prize of £5
(donated by Mend-a-Bike) to the correct
solution randomly selected next Wednesday
at 1:00pm.
I'm afraid that 1 can't give a consolation prize
to anyone suggesting that all five are moved to
the Guilds Office and there dismantled
Last Week's Solution
Motoring On
More people entered this puzzle than I
expected — it seemed quite hard to me!
However, the solution was that there were
eight members in each team (presumably it
was a mini-bus rally) and Artful Whitewash
won £ 1 1 , Steel Goolies £6 and Junk
MuckStallion £5. Peter Brown of Mech Eng 1
sent me a proof of all this but if 1 tried printing
the proof, the typesetter operator would
probably strangle me, and I can't understand
the proof anyway.
in taking over the puzzles editorship. I'm
unwilling to write his name here, in case he
wants to use an alias, but could he get in touch
or drop into the office sometime and write a
couple of puzzles please (and that goes for
anyone else interested in the job)?
Maths vs Engineering
Peter Brown complained in his solution this
week, that all the latest problems were
orientated towards mathematicians. There are
two reasons for this: one is that I am a
mathematician, the other of which is that a
good puzzle, like most of maths, has to have a
certain aesthetically pleasing quality, as well as
being hard. This 'beauty' is rarely found in
engineering problems, which either involve
knowing a special formula (eg for torque,
centre of gravity etc) or just involve scrabbling
around in messy equations. When I was being
taught algebra (perhaps the most beautiful
subject in maths) by Dr Pretzel, it was quite
clear the delight that he found in a 'slick' proof,
and his disapproval of 'vulgar' proofs, which
involved getting back to basics and messing
around generally. Even non-mathematicians
have pointed out to me how much they like the
very simple proof that there are infinitely many
primes. I'm sorry, but I can't explain myself
any better; good mathematical puzzles have
an indefinable quality that is rarely found in
science or engineering. I'd be interested to
hear your views, though!
Incidentally, Gordias (who wrote last week's
puzzle) is a physicist!
Sorry, I nearly forgot — last week's
winner was Richard Glover (again!) who must
know by now where to get the cheque from.
WALKABOUT-
lOOKStt
by Mtbile Optics Inc.
No puzzle this week, just a few comments.
Somebody did write to me right at the
beginning of this term saying he was interested
First, let me rectify an omission from this
column last week: the New Art Centre is at 41
Sloane Street. It is not an offshoot of the Krane
Caiman Gallery.
...and so to this week
A popular Californian hobby is going shopping.
Of course, there's shopping and shopping, so
what could be more blissful than to discover a
tourist attraction which takes the form of a
new 'shopping experience'? Tourist attractions
are there to be visited; shops are for spending
money in; and the combination is irresistible,
as the cheerful crowds thronging the Farmers'
Market in Los Angeles, and Disneyland's
'Mainstreet USA' prove.
The Chelsea Farmers' Market in Sydney
Street was opened on January 30 by the
Mayor of the Royal Borough of Kensington
and Chelsea and is modelled on the Los
Angeles pattern. Gourmet food, fresh farm
produce, house plants, and toys for bored pets
are all to be found in shops built like wooden
chalets.
Health Food in Bulk
The roof of Neal's Yard Wholefood Ware-
house is apparently supported by an orange
tree: it's cut out like part of a stage set. painted
poster-bright and bears both blossom and
fruit. The warehouse shelves are ioaded with
wholesome groceries in economy-sized
packages. 2kg of sticky Lexia raisins cost
£2.43; 1kg of dried haricot beans 70p; you will
also find organically grown Italian rice, rock
salt, walnut oil, cashew nuts and herb
teas—the variety of additive-free wholefoods
seems endless.
At NeaPs Yard Dairy, the cow's milk and
goat's milk yoghurts (45p for 5oz) bear little
relation to their supermarket namesakes.
Choose from a large selection of English
cheeses: except for the cheddar, all come from
small-scale farmhouse cheese-makers. Cream
cheese is home made: mixed with mushrooms
and herbs it is sold as 'Mushroom Savoury',
70p for 4oz. At the same price, sweet 'Lemon
Cream is equally delicious—strained Greek
yoghurt with honey, lemon and vanilla.
Gemma's Foods Limited
Gemma is a bouncy American blonde. Her
parents emigrated to the States from Italy and
she now lives in London, making fresh pasta
and cooking Italian dishes from old family
recipes. Her richly flavoured tomato sauce
(60p for 8oz) is simmered for three hours. In
the 15 minutes it takes to cook her fresh meat
ravioli (£1.90 for lib), the sauce can be heated
up. ready to serve. If her meatballs are
anything to go by, 'Sausage Cacciatore'
should be superb. Spicy sausage is cooked
with red and green peppers, onions, and
Gemma's tomato sauce and sold frozen, in
13oz packs (£1.48). Share it with a friend, with
hot crusty bread and a bottle of Chianti.
Tourists or Upper Income Brackets?
Buy-Rite won the grocer of the year award last
year; Pet Care of Chelsea will supply jackets
for well-dressed dogs; at Hick's the beef is
Scottish and the chickens free range; Jack
Beanstalk will provide glowing pink azaleas
(from £10), an ornamental octagonal gazebo
(£975), and unusual herb plants—hyssop,
lovage, chervil—as well as the mundane
begonias beloved of French municipal park
gardeners.
Trade at the Farmers' Market is largely
dependant on weather: just round the corner
from the busy King's Road, it was almost
deserted on a cool, wet afternoon.
Before returning to the real world, where
shopping is a necessity rather than an
indulgence, pop into Abinger Trout where you
can choose the fish yourself from a tank.
Dublin Bay prawns, cockles and mussels can
also be supplied, and there is a small tank of
live oysters.
Until the mid-19th century, oysters were
everyday fare and street stalls did brisk
business serving them seasoned with pepper
and vinegar. The oyster beds have never
recovered from their then indiscriminate
depletion and oysters are now an expensive
delicacy—35p each at Abinger Trout.
The classic half dozen oysters are served
raw in their shells, set on a bed of crushed ice,
with a wedge of lemon and Tabasco chilli
sauce. To my mind even more delicious, are
hot, buttery oysters:
Blend 1 tablespoon of finely chopped fresh
parsley and a small clove of garlic (crushed),
with 1 tablespoon of softened butter. Divide
the mixture between 6 plump oysters in the
concave half of their shells. Place them under a
hot grill for a few moments. As soon as the
butter begins to foam, sprinkle with lemon
juice and serve, with enough French bread to
soak up all the garlicky butter!
Where? When? £?
The Chelsea Farmer's Market is off the King's
Road, in Sydney St. The shops are open seven
days a week, mostly 9:30am-6:00pm Monday
to Saturday and 10:00am to 4:00pm on
Sunday.
FELIX is published by the Editor for und on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed bi the
Tel 01-589 5/11 Ext 1048 or Internal 2881 Editor: Martin S Taylor: Business Manager: Peter A Rodgers: Advent
Union Print Unit. Prince Consort Road. London SU7 2BB
sing Manager: Sick Thexton. Copyright FELIX 1983

