Dear Editor
We felt that we had to reply to some of the
points raised in J Martin Taylor's article
'Bombs Away'—poitits which he did not
raise in his interview with us and to which
we could not reply at the time.
We do not exaggerate the risks of nuclear
war 'for effect' as he puts it. We believe that
this is one of the main risks facing us today
and that indeed the 'balloon might go up'
any time.
Despite his accusation that we are guilty
of misrepresentation he begins his article by
misquoting our book. We do not state in the
book that 'we must learn to live with their
(the nuclear weapons') eventual use', but
that 'we must learn to live with the threat of
their eventual use'. A subtle difference,
either deliberately ignored or lost on J
Martin Taylor.
We did not expect to find that civil
defence was a 'reasonable proposition'; we
started with open minds. However, William
Whitelaw does still believe in Civil Defence
and has brought before Parliament new
regulations to force local authorities to
cooperate with government plans. It is this
debate that the book engages in and in
which it has been powerfully endorsed by
the recent British Medical Association
report.
In his conclusion Mr Taylor states that he
remains unconvinced that the peace-loving
Soviet government 'is just waiting for a
conciliatory gesture from the West'. We
never suggested that the USSR were any
more peace loving than the USA. If you wish
to point the finger of blame, however, the
London
After the Bomb
The authors' reply to Martin Taylor's
interview.
truth is that the Americans—for whatever
reasons—have led the arms race since 1945
and have remained five to ten years ahead in
missile technology They were first with the
A bomb, the H bomb, submarine-launched
misisles, multiple warheads and now the
cruise missile.
To suggest that the Soviet Union
increased their levels of conventional and
nuclear forces in response to Jimmy Carter's
pledge to reduce military spending is
ludicrous. At this time the Americans were
way ahead in missile warhead numbers. The
Soviet spending was to catch up. The
invasion of Afghanistan is a separate
issue—is Mr Taylor suggesting that it would
not have happened if America had had
more nuclear weapons? They would not
more have prevented this invasion than
Polaris prevented Argentina invading the
Falklands.
Finally, we must counter his simplistic
arguments about nuclear weapons 'not
making us a target' and the 'strong attacking
the weak'. Firstly, once nuclear war has
broken out nuclear weapons bases are
obviously targets. The more Britain has, the
more heavily it will be targeted.
Mr Taylor argues that history has shown
that strong nations attack weak nations, and
that therefore it would be dangerous for
Britain to reduce its numbers of weapons.
There comes a point, however, when being
'strong' becomes being 'threatening'. We
argue that the new nuclear weapons
developments have increased the level of
threat to such an unacceptable degree that
we are all more at risk.
Finally, it seems that Mr Taylor cannot
have much faith in the strength of his
arguments—rather than raise them during
the interview, he preferred presenting them
in a 'sour grapes' fashion at the end of the
article. v
Yours
(Dr) P R Webber and N Turok
A few points:
1) The article was in three parts: review,
interview, and personal conclusions. I did not
raise all the points in the review and
conclusions at the interview because it was
an interview and not a debate.
2) Ido not believe that I have misquoted the
book. If it had read as they state I would not
have mentioned the sentence at all.
3) I did not say that they exaggerate the risks
of nuclear war; I said that they exaggerate the
risks of accidental nuclear war.
4) I am still dismayed that they see the USA
and the USSR as equally aggressive, but Idid
not accuse them of seeing the USSR as more
peace-loving.
5) Idid not suggest that the invasion of
Afghanistan would have been stopped by
more US missiles, but I do think it shows an
aggressive attitude by the USSR.
6) I have every faith in the strength of my
arguments, and in no way intended a 'sour
grapes' attitude. I am sorry they have taken
an offended tone, the impression that I was
trying to convey was that I was quite
impressed by the book but that I disagreed
with the conclusions they draw from it which
they expressed in the interview.
J Martin Taylor
Ooaosite Natural History Museum, 2 nuns from South Kensington Tube)
COCKTAIL AND WINE BAR
Open
Monday-Friday: 6:00-11:00
Saturday: 8:00-11:00
INTRODUCING
HAPPY HOURS
6:00-9:00pm
Cocktails at £1.50 & Drinks 80p
Closed Bank Holiday Monday
(May 30)
Kensington Committee of Friendship for
Overseas Students GRAND RAFFLE
AND DANCE
Saturday 4 June in the JCR
As the second prize for the Grand Raffle is
a Sinclair ZX 'Spectrum' microcomputer
with colour graphics and sound, you may
be interested to know that Miss Fran
Farzan will be coming along to demon-
strate the Sinclair machine from 8:30-
10:00pm. The first prize is a weekend for
two in Paris and everybody who buys a
ticket at the door (£1) will be in the draw
for these two prizes plus about twenty
others. \
There is always an excellent disco plus, of
course, a cash bar.
Hay Fever Sufferers
Everyone who took part in the
Health Centre's Hay Fever Survey
can now collect their cheques from
Gay Challands, the Health Centre
receptionist.
Page6l M a y 27,1983 FELIX

