ye
Traffyck W
a
r
d
e
n
From the mind that brought you Horns of Uncertainty and Cordon Bleugh,
Diane Love has turned her hand to the classic horror story with this
Caledonian tale of mystery and suspense. Read on if you dare
It was on a chill December morning that I first
saw the Creature. Business took me to Old
College, the most ancient and central part of
Edinburgh University. Fortunately, I was on
foot.
The last veils of dawn were rising from the
city and a thin mist clung to the ground. My
feet crunched loudly—a little too loudly—on
the gravel underfoot as I crossed the car park.
Somewhere in the gloom I could see a dark
figure flitting, almost bat-like from car to car. I
rubbed my eyes. The apparition was still there.
Ungainly and awkward, he wore a black
peaked cap, a black cloak and black garments
beneath. His head appeared hairless, his ears,
large and intricately convoluted. His teeth,
pointed and vulpine, glinted as he flashed an
eery, manic grin and pouncd—yes, pounced
on a car. From the unimaginable depths of his
attire he withdrew a notebook and pencil. A
horrifying serpentine tongue flicked over' the
end of the pencil and disappeared in a fraction
of a second. He scribbled frantically, and
across the car park, 1 could hear a dreadfui,
burbling chuckling which seemed inhuman.
With a triumphant flourish, he slammed
something on the car windscreen and, hissing,
sidled off. Then he paused, raised his head
momentarily and seemed to look straight at
me. I felt hairs tickling on the nape of my necK
and icy chills ran down my spine. 1 hurried into
the safety of the building. When 1 came out
later, it was full daylight and he was nowhere to
be seen.
Time passed and I thought little of the
incident. I was in the process of acquiring my
very first car—no more than a dilapidated
Ford Escort, but a car nevertheless. I
mentioned this in conversation with my
Director of Studies, Professor Van Hiring. A
shadow seemed to cross his face as he
muttered a sinister name I shall never forget:
'Nosferatu'
I blanched and remembered the Creature in
the car park, even before 1 was told of the
connection.
'You will become vulnerable to a creature
more ancient than the university itself, as old
as the land on which it was built, perhaps.
Never seen in sunlight, and with his skin
protected from the light even on dull days, the
Creature haunts the university grounds. There
is but one talisman that can protect you—a
university parking permit. Display it plainly in
your windscreen, for he cannot bear the sight
of that hallowed disc'.
He shook his head gravely, seeming to
remember some horror in the past that was
too abominable even to mention. I left without
asking more.
It was with some trepidation that I drove into
university for the first time. My parking disc
was prominent in the windscreen, but I half-
wished I had one to wear myself. There was no
sign of Nosferatu that day. Perhaps the permit
was powerful enough to keep him from the car
park altogether.
One morning in late January I was in a
hurry, late for my first lecture. It was cold and
the car windows had misted up. The permit
had fallen from the windscreen because of the
moisture, but it was still visible from the
outside, and I.didn't replace it.
That evening at twilight, as I was walking
back to the car park, there was an ungainly
figure in black hopping and leaping purpose-
fully towards my car. I ran up and unlocked the
door.
'Nosferatu, I have a parking permit'. The
Creature hissed in horror and leaped
backward" a full six feet. Then, warily skirting
the car, he came towards me. I stood, too
terrified to move a muscle. For the first time I
looked into those ancient and terrible eyes and
saw no life there, just horror. The lips drew
back revealing an appalling array of uneven
yellow teeth with canines an inch long. A
gnarled, bony hand reached out for me, the
nails, disgustingly long claws, came near to my
flesh and I fainted.
I awoke to find myself sitting in my car with
the door still open. My head reeled and I could
hear sounds of a beating like bats' wings. I
rubbed my stiff neck and was horrified to see
blood on my fingers. Questions whirled in my
mind as I drove home, by instinct. I was weak
and in shock, and I went straight to bed.
The next morning I woke up with migraine,
although sunlight was streaming in through my
window. I ran to shut the curtains and then,
quickly feeling better, I washed and dressed.
There were two puncture marks on my neck
but they seemed to be healing without
infection. Putting on my darkest sunglasses
and a wide-brimmed hat, I left for university.
But as I approached the car I could sense an
evil presence within it. I walked warily around.
The sensation was strongest at the front
nearside corner. Looking in through the
windscreen, I saw the parking permit and my
stomach gave a sickening lurch. Without
stopping to think, I opened the door, gingerly
picked up the permit by a corner and threw it
into a drain, crying out as it seared my
fingertips.
I never saw Nosferatu again. The mysterious
punctures healed without trace, and after I
passed my finals I came down to Imperial
College to do research.
And yet, even now, I feel the urge to wear
black clothing. I never venture outside without
my wide-brimmed hat and my sunglasses and I
have developed a morbid craving to stare at
parked cars. At first I wasn't sure what Iwas
looking for, but I have come to realise that
illegal parking makes me physically ill.
I have suffered silently for many months
now, my own frail human will struggling against
a power older and stronger than time itself, but
in vain. Last week I took charge of a stack of
gummed notices and tonight I shall make W
first venture into the car park.
I have only till sunset to wait.
FELIX M a y 27,1983 Page13

