¥<I> -Soc
ICLUBS & societies;
Week at the end of last term. The most
important happening of this year has been the
'I have the report here,' his fat hand patted thf
folder. 'It details the nuclear explosion in the
vicinity of the moon and it has been
shown—one of our physicists at a London
college—that it was due to one of the elastic
balls unleashed on the surface of the earth.
Eventually it absorbed so much energy, due to
a meteor impact perhaps, that it disintegrated
in a blast of fission.' His jowls slid over one
another as he smiled. 'You see what this
means—the power we have '
The conservative smiled too, her eyes
seemed to glow red in the dim light, her
fingernails to become claws. 'The power...who
needs —. And perhaps Victorian values are
now within our grasp,' she made a motion with
her hand, 'and maybe, when the world learns
of Britain's rebirth from the ashes, the Empire
too.'
Tony Benn
formation of a new society under the name of
Friends of Palestine. The formation of this new
overseas society was not without any
opposition which was thankfully successfully
overcome.
The elections for next year's OSC will be
held on Tuesday on May 31 at 12:30pm in
Chem Eng Lecture Theatre 1. This is the first
election to be held before the June 9 national
elections and many observers will use it as a
pointer of national trends, so it is very
important for every overseas student to vote.
Papers have gone up outside the Union Office.
They will come down on the day of elections.
CND
OSC
Don't forget the four-day blockade of Upper
Heyford USAF base from Tuesday May 31 to
Friday June 3. People from London region are
invited to participate from midnight to 6:00pm
on Friday. (The Christian C N D demo last
weekend was spiritually uplifting and a great
success )
Do you remember in February when Mr
Heseltine was dragged to the ground and
punched by screaming Greenham Common
peace women? Apparently the truth of the
matter—according to local, not national,
newspaper and radio reports—is that Mr
Heseltine 'tripped at one stage over a
policeman who fell trying to clear a path to the
building' (thus spoke Chief Inspector Brackin
of Newbury). The minister was 'certainly not
pulled down'. A reporter from a Reading paper
said 'he didn't go headlong. Certainly I didn't
see anyone trying to kick or punch or spit at
him.'
Robert Kelsey
The time has come for a new committee to be
voted in for the next academic year.
This year has been one of modest success.
All the individual societies (Chinese, Cypriot,
Indian, Afro-Carribean, Hellenic, Pakistan, Sri
Lanka, Iranian, Latin American) have held
events of varying success and have helped in
the promotion of understanding between the
different cultures existing within IC.
Apart from these individual events the
Overseas Students Committee has organised
a reception desk for new overseas students at
the beginning of the year and an International
Inspiration fades blacker than thought. In the
cold yellow light beneath the naked fly-
specked bulb the committee can barely read
the labels on the cassettes. Bo in Brighton, Jez
in P i e c e s . . . U n i o n hacks in the round
pond...another John Smith interview—what's
his real name?...what has fourteen heads,
twenty-eight legs and an IQ of 100...another
week raking through the dead spiders and
mouse droppings in the archive cupboard
looking for items for Turn It On Again, next
Thursday is drawing to a close, but now our
film reviewer has stopped explaining about the
models in Wardour Street he is making a
programme for Thursday. We're not dead yet
(quite).
Bookshop News
Fontana Cookery Titles:
The entertaining cookbook - Evelyn Rose
£3.95
The Bean Book - Rose Elliot, £2.95
Not just a load of old lentils - Rose Elliot £1.95
Leiths Cookery Course Book 1 - Basic £2.95,2
- Intermediate £2.50, 3 - Advanced £2.95
New Titles
Elementary Basic - Ledgard & Singer,
Fontana £4.95
Elementary Pascal - Ledgard & Singer,
Fontana £4.95
Spectrum & ZX81 - S Robert Speel, Fontana
£2.95
The Video Handbook - Baxter & Norris,
Fontana £1.95
How to Write Reports - John Mitchell, Fontana
£1.75
Let's hope they're friendly— Quentin Fogarty,
Angus & Robertson £4.95
Shark attack - Victor Coppleson, Angus &
Robertson £3.95
Who wants to be a millionaire? -David Frost,
Andre Deutsch £4.95
Working girls diet book - McGuinness &
Greatbatch, Fontana £1.25
Dinghy Sailing - Bond & Sleight, Pelham Books
£6.95
Lucas Book Roadside Repairs - Chris Goffey,
Foulsham £2.50
Red Dragon - Thomas Harris, Corgi £1.95
No Comebacks - Frederick Forsyth, Corgi
£1.95
Dictionary of Telecommunications - John
Graham, Penguin £2.50
Star Bargain
Four Seasons Cookery Book - Margaret Costa
C B O Publishing, £3.00
Margaret Costa was wine and food editor of
Sunday Times Magazine. This book is about
twenty years of eating and drinking, origina'
price £7.95, now at IC Bookshop £3.00.
To all lecturers, tutors, teachers, now is the
time I want to know the books you will be
recommending for the coming academic year.
Recommended Reading Forms are available
from either your department or the Bookshop
If a book is out of print or not available, the
sooner we get the forms back, the sooner we
can tell you. Your cooperation in this will be
most welcome. If you have a problem, come
and see me. (Books and stationery only.)
Rampant
RamblinQS
Official Southside Revision Timetable
9:30 Wake up to the sound of loud drilling
noises.
10:00 Wake up to the sound of loud drilling
noises again. Locate floor and get out of bed.
Poke tongue out at mirror and groan loudly.
10:30 Retract tongue. Get washed and
dressed and go downstairs to complain about
the noise.
10:35 Turn stereo on to blank out drilling
noises.
10:40 Turn stereo off because it's far too
loud to think and the person next door is
trying to make a double bedroom with his bare
hands.
10:45 The phone upstairs rings.
10:50 G o upstairs and howl abuse at
everyone on the landing. Take the phone off
the hook.
11:00 Break for coffee.
12:00 Break for lunch.
2:00 Complain about the noise again
2:10-2:20 Useful work achieved now.
2:25 Phone upstairs rings again.
2:30 As for 10:50 but use more violence.
2:35 Someone totally unknown in the
department drops in for coffee for the first time
in living memory, and tries to steer the
conversation unsubtly towards the year's
question 3(b).
3:00 Undesirable ejected.
3:10 Someone else comes round but the
door is locked and the stereo is stuck on full
volume until they go away again.
3:15 It was the girl with the large bust in the
third row who everyone has been staring at all
year. Serves you right for telling the Christian
Aid man where to put his envelope.
3:20 Deep depression
4:00 Break for afternoon tea.
6:00 Break for dinner
8:00 The bar has been open for hours,
besides which the guy next door hasn't done a
stroke of work all day and went down ages
ago
11:00 Collapse in a semi-drunken stupor and
have nightmares about question 3(b).
Page 81 M a y 27,1983 FELIX

