Parsons
311 Fulham Road
352 0651
Open noon to lam, 7 days a week. Last
orders 12:30am.
According to the poster which was occupying
the window for many weeks, the fire was
caused by an over enthusiastic chef fulfilling an
REVIEWSH1
order for a well done burger!
Be that as it may the damage has now been
repaired and Parsons is back in business.
A stones throw from the Fulham Road ABC
the interior is cool and white with verdant
hanging baskets and mirrors in great
abundance.
Parsons is trendy and popular and you are
likely to have to queue unless you get there
early.
An interesting feature of the menu is the
mexican dishes. Spicy mexican dip with
cornchips 95p or avocado guacamole £1.95 for
starters, Spanish enchiladas or tacos as well as
the more standard chilli con carne all at £3.15
as main dishes.
Burgers range from £2.45 to £3.75 and are
fairly good value.
Back to the starters, we tried Pate with
garlic toast £1.25, not recommended as the
serving of pate was unreasonably small. The
short order, Barbecue Ribs on the other hand
were excellent. £2.15 is a lot to pay for a starter
but this was a meal in itself.
Tacos was a good choice for a main course,
consisting of a plateful of crispy envelopes
containing something like chilli con carne and
salad.
The puddings are reasonable but unexciting.
The bill for two came to £12.70 (without
wine) but this is the kind of menu where you
could easily spend more or less according to
your pocket and inclination.
The main complaint that I have about the
place is that most of the tables are for four and
if there are two of you, you will probably have
to share a table.
Nevertheless—worth a try.
ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss
Extraordinary
Brilliance
A Map Of The World, written and
directed by David Hare, The Lyttelton,
National Theatre.
A Map of the World by English born David
Hare is one of the most extraordinary and
brilliant new plays to appear on the stage in the
last couple of years. At a UNESCO con-
ference on poverty and aid in Bombay, a right-
wing Indian novelist called Victor Mehta
(played superbly by Roshan Seth—Nehru in
Attenborough's Gandhi) is invited to deliver a
keynote address. At the conference he meets
a young left wing journalist (Bill Nighy) and
between them passionate opposition is
declared. The presence of an American
actress (Diana Quick) triggers, in an amusing
way, an ideological showdown which is battled
out during the assembly and at times of
adjournment. Clever scene changes show also
that a film is being made of the original events
in Bombay, based on the Indian novelist's
autobiography.
Hare wrote A Map of the World 'partly out
of exasperation at the English resistance to
seeing anything except in an English context.
The minute you leave this country you become
aware of how local the English fashion for right
wing ideas is. If you travel in the Third World,
the belief that the liberal experiment is over
seems parochial'. However, the play is by nc
means a one-sided exposition of left-wing
ideas. On the contrary, the play sparkles as
both socialist and right-wing philosophy are
brought face to face in a series of arguments in
the grand manner of 'epic theatre'. Provoca-
tive and illuminating arguments are nearly
always counterbalanced by others in the style
of Bernard Shaw and the great political and
polemical dramas which have at their core a
major (and entertaining) debate between left
and right.
The nlav takes its title from Oscar Wilde's
saying that 'a map of the world which does not
include Utopia is not worth even glancing at'.
The theme of Utopia is central to the play's
left-right debate (as it nearly always is in this
debate). The character Mehta believes that
hope is irrational and that he is merely facing
the facts. Believing otherwise is a vanity. 'The
greatest enemy of Man is self-deception' he
says. On the other hand, his opponent attacks
his hopelessness and people like him who
seem to be in love with misery and death, and
who grow angry when hopes are suggested to
them.
FELIXH
But the title of the play also refers to one of
the Indian novelist's lines and it is this which
forms the real thrust of the drama. He
complains that we only notice those things
which fit in with what we already believe, and
'for everything that suits us we place upon our
map'.
The play throws up an extraordinary
number of issues and arguments. Mehta's
arrival at the conference causes anger among
some delegates, particularly the Africans. He is
asked to read out a statement, drafted by a
committee, on the nature of fiction (he is asked
to denounce it!). He refuses, citing the writer's
absolute freedom to say what he wants. He
position is countered by an African politician,
M'Bengue (played by South African born John
Matshikiza) who objects, in an electric speech,
that such freedom is frequently abused and
particularly by the Western press in their
reporting of anything that has to do with the
Third World. He describes the exasperation
and hurt of having the life of one's country only
ever being reported in terms of elephants ('you
prefer elephants to people'), natural disaster
and in the political terms of the struggle
between the two great power blocs. (This
bitter attack on the Western press is one of the
few arguments in the play that are allowed to
go unanswered.) One of the interesting quotes
in the programme booklet is by W H Auden
who says that 'all advances in knowledge from
Galileo down to Freud or Marx are, in the first
impact, humilating. They begin by showing us
that we are not as free or as grand or as good
as we thought.' Most of us realise that
although rr ~re is no such thing as absolute
freedom ('one man's freedom necessarily
curtails another') we can at least fall back on
freedom of expression. But M r Hare is
showing us that even this is limited.
Throughout the first half of the play foreign
aid is presented as an apparently good thing.
But it is later revealed that (and, granted, these
ideas are not terribly new) the World Bank and
the IMF seek to dictate the social policies of
those countries to whom they give help and
that by accepting aid, Third World countries
become either political colonies of the aid
givers, or they have to abandon social policies
of which the monetarists of the IMF
disapprove. This rather unacceptable situation
provides an ironic twist to the line on 'freedom'
that the play pursues.
A Map of the World is a very rich and
intelligent play. It was surprising to notice; that
the arguments were so inventive and appealing
(on both sides) that there was very near
audience participation. To say the atmosphere
was 'electric' sounds pretentious but in this
case it virtually was. During some of the
speeches one could hear several members of
the audience murmur approvals ('yeagh' in the
case of American members over some of the
the more right wing ideas) as well as
disapprovals.
The production at the N T is highly
recommended and I'm convinced it's destined
to become a modern classic despite the fact
that it was very unfairly torn to pieces by 'the
critics' at its opening. The critics have totally
misunderstood the play, probably because
they directed all their attention in finding things
to criticise. If the critics would concentrate on
describing the play and leave the public to do
the judging then the contemptible level of
theatre (and art) in this country would be
much improved. ^ B e d d i n g
I M a y 27,1983 Page 9

