HAVING got the first week of
the year out of the way, the RCS
machine goes thundering on.
The pub crawl on Wednesday
was well attended and enjoyed
by all. A Kangela from over a
hundred people in the tunnel
served to terrorise all the tourists
in the vicinity, so the rest of the
evening was (fairly) peaceful.
The real blockbuster of the
week took place on Saturday.
About 170 intrepid RCS persons
turned out to tiddle and wink
down Oxford Street. Despite
being outnumbered by Guilds,
R C S pissed all over them by
collecting around £940 with a few
cans still o u t s t a n d i n g . T o p
collector of the day was Andy
North of Physics 1 with £42.
However, congratulations to
everyone who came along, you're
all stars as far as I'm concerned.
The next Rag stunt will be this
Saturday and is a circus outside
H a r r o d s . Clowns and other
performers should meet in the
RCSU Office at 10:00am.
The bar night on Sunday was
a good old barnstormer to finish
off the week on a high note and
totally wreck Archer's voice.
Forthcoming events include
the Freshers' Dinners. Maths is
on Friday and starts at 7:00pm
for 7:30pm in the Ante-room,
Sherfield Building. There is also a
party afterwards to which anyone
who has bought a ticket for any
of the freshers' dinners can go.
Merely turn up at the JCR after
10:00pm with your ticket receipt
and you will be admitted.
Finally, the RCS Union Office
is open every lunchtime, so drop
in to buy a slopshirt or just for a
cup of coffee and a chat.
See you around.
PJ
FRESHERS' week is over and I
have nearly had to retire with
t alcoholic poisoning. The Fair was
a great success with a lot of
regalia sold; this was followed by
ice-skating, where, despite many
attempts, no injuries were incur-
red. The rugby trials on Wednes-
day were well attended and in
the evening we had a great bar-
nite. On Friday we had the best
JCR party yet, and hopefully you
all met some of the women from
IF.
Tiddlywinks was a heap of fun,
especially down the centre of
Oxford St. In the end we collected
£290 which means we collected
more money per head than the
other CCUs. Finally on Saturday
night we held our annual pub-
crawl, which although poorly
attended, showed that the drinking
spirit in Mines remains one of
excess.
Later on this term we hope to
arrange a Rag collecting visit to
Windsor.
C&G
NEXT M O N D A Y , October 13,
Guilds are having a roller-skating
trip to the Covent Garden Rink.
The cost will be £1.20 (group
rate) plus £1 deposit for skates,
plus travel. We may be holding a
roller-skating Rag collection later
this term so if you need some
practise, this is a good opportunity.
On Tuesday we are holding
the ELECTION U G M at which
you will be able to vote for the
new Guilds President and Hon
Junior Treasurer. Be in Mech
Eng 220 at 12:45pm on the 14 to
cast your all-important vote.
On Thursday, October 16, the
fun really starts, with the first of
the Freshers' Dinners. These
offer an excellent opportunity to
meet other members of your
department, have a really good
three-course meal and generally
have a great evening. There will
be sherry (or orange juice)
served in the Sherfield Ante-
room at 7:00pm and the meal will
start at 7:30pm.
After the dinner and speeches
there will be an opportunity to
socialise with other members of
your department over coffee in
the JCR. A bar will also be open.
The cost of the dinner is £4.50
for freshers, £6 for others. This
price includes sherry, wine, port
and coffee. O n the subject of
port — a couple of 'rules': the
decanter must not be allowed to
touch the table; you must only
handle it with your left hand,
passing it to your left; ladies
must not touch the decanter at
all and it should be passed
behind them.
One other rule: anyone who
leaves the room before the
Royal Toast must, on their
return, drink one pint of beer
(slightly salted), so make sure
you 'go' before the dinner.
Tickets are available from the
Guilds Office or from your
departmental reps. The dates of
the dinners are shown elsewhere
in FELIX.
Andy Dixon
C & G Publicity Officer
Undergraduate Research
Opportunities
A S C H E M E is being introduced whereby first and second year
undergraduate students can participate in research either in or
outside their own departments. It is entirely voluntary.
Participation will give you a chance to:
- learn at first hand about the sort of activities you can expect
to undertake after graduating;
- learn at your own pace, without formal instruction, by actually
doing something;
- have the opportunity of contributing to knowledge in your
subject;
- decide whether or not a particular field of work suits you;
- further interests you may have already developed — from
industrial experience, hobbies and so on;
- cross disciplinary boundaries;
- achieve a publication, prototype, invention, prize or other
tangible item;
- be inspired concerning the context and purpose of your
formal coursework;
- maybe earn some money.
How to Join
Remember you are free to join or opt out of this scheme at any time
— it's up to you! You will be working in your own time.
A list giving the areas of research in which opportunities for
undergraduates currently exist can be obtained from Professor J. C.
Anderson, Room 714, Electrical Engineering Department. Bear in
mind that the intention is not necessarily that you should carry out a
specific project with a beginning and middle and end; participation is
the name of the game!
The hours you work in research are up to you. Laboratories are
open until 10:00pm each evening and at the weekend. You should
apply to the appropriate authority (in your department) for an out-of-
hours pass and (where necessary) a laboratory key. Remember the
safety rule that you may never work alone in a laboratory.
Formal Requirements
There are no formal, academic requirements but you are invited, at
the end of your research activities, or at some other suitable point to
write a brief technical report on your work. This report should
discuss, amongst other things, what work you have done; the
theoretical and practical significance of the work; how you think the
research would/should be carried forward; how the experience of
participating in the research contributed to your intellectual and
practical development.
The report will be submitted to your supervisor who will forward it
to the departmental central office. It will be kept to be referred to
when your department is called upon to give you a reference In the
future. It will also be useful to the Examiners when they come to
discussing your final degree.
College Health Service
The College Health Service at 14 Princes Gardens is available to:
students and staff. It includes a well-equipped surgery, consulting
rooms and a sick bay (term time only).
Students and staff who live in the postal districts listed below can
also register with the Health Service, which holds an NHS list on
behalf of the College:
SW 1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 10
NW 1, 3, 5, 6, 8
EC 1, 2
Hamlet Gardens
W 1, 2, 8, 9, 10,
N 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
WC 1, 2
11, 14
10, 16, 19
Students are strongly advised to register with a doctor while in
London; this provides full emergency cover and visiting at home or
lodgings when necessary, day and night, throughout the year.
An optional insurance scheme has been introduced for students to
cover payment for services not provided free of charge by the NHS,
e.g. the sick bay and certain medical examinations. Premiums are:
1 year or part-time course £5
2 year course £8.50
3 year course £12
4 year course £14
Further details of the facilities offered by the College Health Service,
NHS registration and the insurance scheme are available from 14
Prince's Gardens.
FELIX, October 10, 1980 Page 9

