B y B . B . W o l f f e
U i o m t e t i b\*ib tea ptmb
REMEMBER the story about the rotten food
in Southside in the Freshers' FELIX?
Well, authoritative sources tell us that as
jsoon as Mr Mooney saw FELIX he rushed
into the kitchens with Mr Parsons (Assistant
Refectory Manager) and proceeded to grill
(or reheat, maybe) all of the staff.
T h e c o o k - f r e e z e abuse is c o m m o n
knowledge in the kitchens and Mr Mooney
was very annoyed that it had been leaked to
the press. We would dare to suggest that
instead of wasting his time attempting to
cover up his failings he diverted his attention
to doing a better job. 'Nuff said?
I l l e g a l R m W m
S O M U C H for all the fuss about Steve
Marshall's rag mag being illegal last year
because it didn't have the printer's name
on it. Even Big Brian made detrimental
comments about it (we all know it was just
a very convenient excuse to stop its sale —
nice try, Bri!). I shudder to think what
College would do if they even suspected that
any of those rag mags were ever sold
afterwards without the printer's imprint.
So public-spirited was I, that I bought out
Rag's entire supply at Fresher's Fair
(lOp each) to stop them falling into the
wrong hands. These illegal items are now
being sold for personal and private gain
at £5 each.
PS Congrats are now in order to Dave
Jago for keeping up the tradition of
producing excellent rag mags. I like it
a lot and it's nice to see the printer's imprint
this year (you can't miss it). I'm not terribly
conversant with the Printer's Imprint Act,
196T,so I wouldn't know whether it needed
the publisher's name or not.
T H E Oily Dowson Memorial Prize for
misleading headlines was today presented to
Mr S Goulder, FELIX news editor. Mr S J
Marshall, current holder of the title, was
, visibly moved by this shock defeat but
confidentially stated that he would be back
on form soon.
IT'S NICE to see that the Union bog lights
have at long last been fixed.
So, when is Rachel Jane going to realise
that us masculine types also need such
requisites as soap, and bog paper? Locks
and handles on the doors would be nice too.
Liz Lindsay has been heard to comment
that she thinks that the paper in the ladies is
far too hard. Woopee! But what about us
blokes, long finger-nails play havoc with our
piles, you know!
While we're on the bog: when was the last
time Rachel Jane checked the Durex
machine? I would have thought someone
would have told her that it needed filling by
now.
A k c £ Mm
I MUST be feeling particularly anal today.
I've been absorbed by the new Kimberly-
Clark bog paper all this week. Most of the
halls have sprouted little plastic dispensers of
single sheet paper. Did you know, and not a
lot of people know this, but the equivalent
amount of paper is TWICE as expensive as
the old stuff. At first, I was astounded that
College should want to double their already
massive toilet paper bills, but after careful
experimentation in the field (where do you
think I wrote this article?) I think they may
not be as daft as everybody thinks.
While I usually pull about eight sheets off a
roll to make a four sheet wiper, I find it
awfully time consuming to pull out the
equivalent from these dastardly dispensers.
And I have discovered that I only need a
couple of sheets for the average bomb load
— thus cutting down wastage and U-bend
blockage. V Good.
I also did a little research amongst some of
the FELIX staff members. Dave Jago tells me
he only uses one sheet at a time anywav and
thinks College are wasting money. However,
Mark Smith claims to need a 16-sheet wiper
i as a minimum. Even this is no match for
what he cutely terms his 'flock of sparrows'
after a Star of India Curry.
Why don't Y O U write to the Editor and
tell him what you think of the new bog
paper.'
L I N S T E A D basement is currently being
tidied up. It is used as a trunk and baggage
store but tends to be abused by ex-students
who return fifteen years later expecting to
find their trunks still intact.
One such trunk was discovered which
belonged to an Iranian ex-Mech Eng student.
After forcing the lock an interesting item was
noticed amongst the clothes, books and
soldering irons — a gold-plated vibrator!
Puzzle Corner
By Scaramouche
There are very few students of logic at Primelia College;
not surprising, really, considering their professor's sense of humour.
When exam results were announced last term, for instance, he mixed
up the cards in his secretary's address file, so all six final year students
received a letter giving the results of one of the others. Predictably, all
six were waiting outside his office when he arrived the following
morning.
"Well work them out!" beamed the professor. "After all, you know
we awarded one first, two seconds, and three thirds. And surely you
guessed that Bumble did better then Drudge, and Clumsy didn't do as
well as Amble."
"I now know everyone's results," announced Fumble.
"From that, I can deduce them all, too," said Clumsy.
"Now I know them all," put in Bumble.
"Me too,"groused Amble. "I thought I'd done better than that."
1
The six of them then set off for the Queen's Legs to celebrate,
leaving the professor's secretary working how to put the correct
names to the addresses in her file. Can you help her?
Solutions please, with comments and criticisms, to me c/o FELIX
Office by 12:00noon on Tuesday, October 14.
IC UNION
FRESHERS' CONCERT
+ s u p p o r t
TOMORROW
7:30pm
CONCERT HALL
ONLY
£2
Page 10 FELIX, October 10, 1980

