NormanPrice writes -p.7
S
U
R
V
E
Y CAUSES
U
P
R
O
A
R HI LCD.
C M H O H H P
Dougal McCreath has announced that the biggest change in I.C.'s
Carnival will be in the magazine. Gone is dirty old Stynx and its
son, Old Rope, and in their place it is intended to present a Super
Phoenix-type of magazine.
The old Carnival magazine was a reasonable success down Old
Brompton Road, Kings Road and the back streets of Fulham. Past
standards, however, have been considered to have been of a very
low quality and it was decided that either this year's magazine must
be based on the same lines but better or be completely different.
The 1965 Carnival instead will concentrate on the plusher dis-
tricts of Kensington where a magazine of a more serious nature
should draw greater appeal. It is hoped that contributions may be
received from now-prominent ex-I.C. students.
GOOD CAUSES
At the time of writing four
causes have been suggested for
the 1965 Carnival charity. These
are the British Cancer Research
Campaign, Oxfam, Voluntary
Service Overseas, and the War on
Want A decision will be reached
in to-morrow's Union meeting.
YOUR HELP IS REQUESTED
So far there is little organisa-
tion beyond the Carnival Com-
mittee: Dougal McCreath, Botany
P.G., acting spokesman and vir-
tual Public Relations Officer ;
John Skinner, Production En-
gineering P.G., will be organising
those events outside Carnival
week ; Kerry Peters, Chemistry
P.G. is responsible for Carnival
week events ; Ian Ridley, P.G.,
will deal with advertising ; and
Kate Tait, Aero P.G., is the
General Secretary and will chair
the Committee meetings.
A mass of postgraduates at the
top. But they are keen to attract
as many undergraduates as pos-
sible into this year's organisation
and train people to take over in
1966. The Carnival is every-
one's affair and the more th.it
help the lighter the burden for all
and the greater success the Garni-
vul will be*
ROUGH PROGRAMME
Organisation of the raffle is in
the capable hands of Carole
Wade and Neil Sutherland.
A rough programme has been
drawn up, it will mean increased
expenditure and advertising and
improved distribution. Further
details must be decided in to-
morrow's Union Meeting.
Discussions are under way with
a view to establishing a midweek
Entertainments Board in I.C.
composed of the Film Society,
Folk Song Club and the Jazz
Oab, under the chairmanship oi
Deputy President Barry Mair.
If the present proposals are
accepted then these three clubs
may secede from RCC. They
claim that in fact they can hardly
be described as " recreational "
as only a small minority of their
members play an active part; the
vast majority belong to the cate-
gory of "entertainment." Further,
there is at present an unwieldly
differential entry-fee system
whereby members are charged
one price and non-members
another.
Already the Jazz and Folk
Song Clubs have arranged to hold
their main events next term on al-
ternate Wednesdays. The Film
Society is considering the possi-
bility of augmenting its present
Friday showings with Sunday
evening performances.
This new structure in the col-
lege entertainments field not only
raises the status of these clubs in
Union eyes (the Folk Club is a
bare 12 months old and the Jazz
Club only opened to non-instru-
mental members this term), but
the formation of the Board would
present some publicity changes. A
new " entertainments" notice-
board " would be needed in the
Union building.
In <he last fortnight questionaires have been sent to all I.C. under-
graduates concerning student grants. This questionaire has been
prepared by the staff secretary of the Imperial College Branch of the
Association of Scientific Workers (A.Sc.W.), Mr. H. Fairbrother,
in response to requests by student members of the Association.
By this survey the I.C. branch of A.Sc.W. hopes to present to
the Secretary of State for Education and Science proof that student
grants require radical alteration. They feel that students should be
paid a taxable income instead of the present grant.
Keith Cavanagh, chairman of the student section, has stated that
they are working in line with NUS in this matter. Yet NUS wish
to continue the tax-free grant system, and in addition, obtain exemp-
tion for students from National Insurance payments. He added,
however, " If and when we join NUS, we will review out role."
POLITICAL BIAS the association) at the discretion
The A.Sc.W. is a trade union, of the branch committee. The
and as such one of its objects is
" to pursue the furtherance of
political objects " (rule 3 B 11 of
IC Branch Committee has a large
representation of Communists.
Continued on p. 12
¥
Edward Heath (above) and Jeremy Thorpe speak in General
Studies last week. See page 8.

