10 FELIX
Athletics : Winter Relays
Will it all seem worthwhile 5 years from now?
At Turner & Newall a man's degree — whether
in science, engineering or the arts — counts
for far more than a passport to a round of
interviews. Our Training Scheme is planned
to employ all his university attainments to
the full, and to be adaptable to his individual
needs.
Just who are T& N ? Turner & Newall is one
of the strongest, most important groups in
British industry. With a large and growing
stake in asbestos-cement, in insulation, in
brake linings and in plastics T & N is closely
linked to all four major areas of economic
growth. To the building industry; the motor
industry; the newer plastics; and to activity in
the developing territories of the Common-
wealth . . . all adding up to a strongly expand-
ing £100,000,000 business with 36,500
employees. Overseas, with 17 companies in
10 countries.T & N has doubled its interests in
ten years.
Earlier Responsibility T & N thus offers
outstanding graduates a career of great scope,
keyed from the first to areas in which expan-
sion is at its fastest... opportunity at its best.
Moreover, under our broad and flexible
training scheme, the graduate assumes
managerial responsibility more confidently —
and certainly earlier — than is often the case in
industry today.
Note to Research Men T & N also recruits
scientists and engineers direct into its re-
search and development branches, whose
projects are particularly closely linked to the
needs of the expanding industries. Opport-
unities for supervising work with a practical
application, as well as for fundamental study,
are thus outstandingly good.
Ask your Appointments Board for further de-
tails, or write direct to: Management Appoint'
merits Adviser, Turner&Newall Ltd., 15 Curzon
Street, London, W.I. (Tel. GROsvenor 8163)
TURNER & NEWALL LIMITED
rURNTRS ASBESTOS CEMENT CO. LTD ' TURNER BROTHERS ASBESTOS CO. LTD - FERODO LTD " NEW ALLS INSULATION &
CHEMICAL CO. LTD • J. W . ROBERTS LTD • GLASS FABRICS LTD • BRITISH INDUSTRIAL PLASTICS LTD ' STIU-JTE PRODUCTS LTD
rUKKKRS ASBESTOS FIBRES LTD • AND 17 OVERSEAS MINING & MANUFACTURING COMPANIES
T N l / l l
LACK OF SPEED
By D. R. Wade
Britain's success in the Tokyo
Olympics has not apparently
stimulated the enthusiasm of
LC. student to participate in
college athletics.
On Wednesday 18th Nov. one
of the smallest I.C. teams for sev-
eral years competed in the U.L.
Winter Field Events and Relays
competition at Motspur Park. In
the two sprint relays I.C. failed to
qualify for the finals, showing
only too clearly the lack of sprint-
ing ability in the club this year.
The field events team, however,
did well to finish high in the final
team positions. The two indi-
vidual results in each event were
aggregated and I.C. finished 1st
in the High Jump, 2nd in the
Weight and 4th in the Long Jump
with a total of 18 points; placing
I.C. 3rd in the Tjalve Trophy be-
hind U.C. (18^ pts.) and Guys
(24 pts.).
The two mile Medley Relay
provided the climax of a rather
depressing afternoon for the Col-
lege. W- Shepherd and M . Dick-
son ran strong 880 yd. legs to put
A. Bishop in 3rd place on the
final stage. With a magnificent
4min. 32 sees, mile, Bishop came
in to win on the final lap. The
honour of I.C. was somewhat re-
deemed by this performance.
Obviously the prospects of the
club for the summer depend on
sprinters—anyone interested?
Swimming: U.L. Champs
A good Second
For the second year in succes-
sion I.C. (47 pts.) were second to
Guys (60 pts.) in the U L . Swim-
ming Championships. Kings were
third with 40 points. Guys
achievement was largely due to
international Jones' fine all-round
swimming ability. Best perform-
ance for I.C. was by Christie in
the diving event. Apart from his
first dive Christie dived consis-
tently better than his opponents
and just missed first place. The
440 yds. was won by Kings'
international Kennedy, who was
chased home by Stapley of I.C.
Godfree and Davis did well to get
second and third places in the
exhausting individual medley
event.
The first I.C polo team seem
to improve in every match. Des
pite the absence of injured Cap-
tain Collins, I.C. swamped St.
Georges Hospital 5-0 in the first
round of the U.L. polo knock out
competition. C.E.M. eliminated
I.C. 2nd team- The final rounds
of the competition took place on
Thursday 26th November, after
Felix went to print. For results
see late news.

