F E L I X 5
The Colcutt Tower is not a
mascot worthy of I.C. This was
the feeling that led to a meeting
of the trophy officers of the three
constituent colleges in Falmouth
Hall on Monday November 23rd.
A suitable alternative—one
symbolic of science and tech-
nology—was needed and from
some frivolous suggestions finally
emerged the idea of a micrometer
•—a five foot long working model.
B U R G L A R PROOF
If this idea is accepted in the
Union meeting on Thursday 3rd
December work will begin im-
mediately in the casting depart-
ment of Mines. After machining
in the R.C.S. workshops it will
be rendered burglar-proof by
Guilds and then mounted in its
place of honour in the Union
building.
To quote Norman Price " If
people are keen enough to spend
a lot of time and trouble to make
and look after such a mascot I
don't see why we shouldn't have
it."
COURT CASE
On Tuesday, the eighth day of December 1964 A.D. at 1 p.m.
in the Criminal Court, Lecture Theatre " B," Chemistry Building,
at least two members of RCS will stand trial on a charge of First
Degree loss of Theta, the sentence for which when the accused are
found guilty is the traditional capital punishment of immersion in the
sacred waters of the Round Pond.
The counsel for the (RCS) Crown have, in conjunction with the
RCS Secret Police and one Bond, James, (Private Eye No. 700) un-
earthed a plot of incredible complexity, involving most of the members
of the Executive and several East European powers. Sir Adrian
Fletcher, Q.C., N.I.T., ex-MP. for Beit Hall, and Chief Escalator
Runner for the Crown, Counsel for the Prosecution, pointed out that
the accused were innocent until proved guilty, which of course, they
would be at the trial. The Rt. Hon. Mr. Ray Phillips, Q.C., T.W.I.T.,
also appearing for the Crown, is using his brilliant education in
Chemistry to examine the traces of clothing found on the recovered
Theta, in the hope of proving the guilt of at least a dozen innocent
people-
Sir Ted /Needham, Q.C., N.U.R.K., Member of a powerful
Newspaper Syndicate, for the defence, is so confident of an acquittal
that he has invited everyone connected with the trial (including wit-
nesses) to a celebration dinner in New York that evening. (N.B. Special
charter plane for the guests leaves London Airport at 12.30 a.m.) The
Rt. Hon. Mr. Roger Cook, Q C , B.U.R.K., is believed to be en-
deavouring to prove that a previously unknown hypnotic drug,
extracted from an exceedingly rare flower (Beitus quadrangulus
dandelium) was put into the wine at the Southside dinner and the
members of RCS present were hypnotised into believing that Theta
had been stolen, whereas in fact it had rolled off the table and into
the pocket of the President, who, being unaware of its presence, let
it inadvertently fall into a tin of red and white paint which was in
transit to Hotpoint Ltd., whence Theta was retrieved a fortnight
later.
Whatever the outcome of this trial, unprecedented in modern
times, it can be stated that Justice will prevail and not more than two
hundred witnesses will perjure themselves.
T O T E A C H
IS T O C R E A T E
From the time of Socrates, teachers have made
at least as important a contribution to society's
progress as the statesmen, the inventors and
the artists. Their influence is now wider, their
responsibilities greater than ever before. Today
education offers a creative career of increasing
scope, in which people of iceas and initiative
can use their talents and attainments to the full.
Many exciting new things are happening in the
education service . . . things in which you might
take part. Ask for the new booklet, C.E.G.,
at your University Appointments Board, or from
the Department of Education and Science,
Curzon Street, London, W.1

