6 F E L I X
felix
NEWSPAPER
OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Circulation. 1700
EDITOR
ASSISTANT EDIITOR
D. I. WILLIAMS
Production Manager Alan Oxley
Sports Editor Dave Hunt
Late News Editor Ted Needham
Sales Andrew Mayo,
Jocelyn Mackintosh
N. J. WALKER
Business
Cartoonists
Photographic
Editor
Robin Webster,
Peter Combes,
Geoff. Bean,
Barry Pichler
Brian Bull,
Chris Wright
John Cawson
AN OPEN LETTER TO SENNET
Jack Marsden,
Editor,
Sennet.
Dear Sir,
Once again I must draw your attention to the misrepresentation
of I.C. to the rest of the London Colleges. Throughout this term,
Sennet has managed to convince students at I.C. that it is impossible
to send any news to you, for fear of your altering the facts to suit
your " Sex and Depravity " theme.
Yet you seem so keen to get news about I.C. that your staff
ring up our Union on the off chance that someone may be able to
give you a " scoop." What has happened to your six I.C. reporters,
the I.C. ULJJ agent and the three constituent College Sennet~reps.?
I don't suppose you ever see them. No wonder the U L U Presidents
Council was dissatisfied with Sennet if your contacts are half as bad
in the other colleges.
.As I mentioned to you in an earlier letter, if and when a news-
paper makes an obvious mistake such as " Royal College of Sur-
geons " it is only polite to the people concerned to print an apology.
Felix is not ashamed to do this (viz Felix 209), why is Sennet ?
In your first issue (209) you appear to have convinced yourself
that Sennet sells more copies in I.C. than does Felix. This is not
true. At present Felix sales are 35 per cent, above Sennet's.
N. J. W A L K E R ,
Editor, Felix.
DEBATING SOCIETY
Our lead story in the last issue featured the Debating Society,
but due to lack of space no mention could be made of the success
or failure of the Society this term.
There has been little speaking from the floor in any of the debates
so far. This surely is a disastrous state of affairs. No debate will
be lively and entertaining unless people in the audience are pre-
pared to stand up and speak.
Debating classes are supposed to have started but, as with other
Debating activities, publicity is abysmal. Only when there is a
nucleus of twenty more than adequate speakers will I.C. have any
success in the U.L.U. debating competition. This year they were
defeated in the first round by C.E.M. It was unfortunate that Bill
Macauly went ill at 5.0 p.m., with the debate starting at 8.0.
F E L I X
Felix is back to its normal size this week after two " bumper"
issues. This is due to the lack of advertising, and until we have a
grant approaching that of other London Colleges, the size of Felix
will continue to be tied to the amount of money our advertising
brings in.
HALDANE LIBRARY
13, Prince's Gardens
Sorry 1 You won't find text-
books or scientific treatises in
this library, but you will find over
10,000 good books of general
interest including all the latest
novels!
And it's Free too 1
Open 11—531) p.m. and
until 7.0 p.m. on Tuesday
and Thursday
KENSINGTONS
MOST COMPREHENSIVE
BOOK SERVICE
NEW BOOKS
SECOND H A N D BOOKS
PAPERBACKS
GRAMOPHONE
RECORDS
H. KARNAC (Books) LTD
56-58 GLOUCESTER RD.,
S.W.7
KNI 7908/0177
c
o
L
T H E TWENTIETH T H A T DIDN'T R O A R
During the last few years Carnivals have gradu-
ally changed from thinly disguised orgies to
extended hops. This, in itself, is not a bad thing ;
but at the same time they have lost more and more
of their individuality and " special occasion"
atmosphere until, on the roaring 20th, not one
band was produced that did not play all. too regu-
larly at College functions already. Falling atten-
dances indicate that unless more originality is put
into their organisation, these once great events will
die a slow and painful death.
Some suggestions: why not replace that film
(which everyone goes to sleep in) with shorter car-
toons shown concurrently with the dancing on a
News Theatre basis ? Keep the bands going until
5 or 6 a.m., and then provide everyone with
breakfast. Some years ago, the cabaret was
supplemented with a floor show ! Reasonably
priced bands and groups that have not appeared
before are relatively easy to obtain. More use
could be made of the whole Union building.
Finally, there must be someone somewhere cap-
able of producing a funny cabaret that doesn't
completely lack continuity.
The possibilities are endless, but Carnival or-
ganisation is a gargantuan task, and Ents Chair-
men will need all the help they can get.
The Refectory Management appears to have
adopted the regrettable policy of regarding the
Beit noshing facilities as an unimportant sub-
sidiary of the great Southside Foodworks. That
the standard of food and service is much higher
in Beit is probably best shown by the number of
Southside people who eat their evening meals
there in exile.
I am informed that, the Union Cloakroom
attendants are now qnly given one day off in
twenty-one. In the light of this, it is hardly sur-
prising that the Union finds difficulty in recruiting
men to do the job in Southside. The only surprise
is that we still have any attendants left.
WHAT THE PAPERS SAY
Cpngratulations to the Felix staff on a really
first rate issue last time—even the problem of
printing positive, instead of negative, photos seems
to have been solved ! Contrast this impressive
effort with the sadly decaying Sennet. Quite
honestly, I can't understand why so many people
buy it (No, Sir. . . .) Tuesday morning lectures
can't be that bad, and the so-called Gutter Press
produces much better pinups and sensational
stories. The solution, surely, is for the Union to
provide a dozen or so copies for the Union
Loungp. At least there is little likelihood of their
being stolen (Daily Mirror abductors, please note).

