FELI X 7
Foreign
Affairs
LSE HANDBOOK—LSE hope
to recover their £138 loss on thpir
natty U L U badge (see last issue
of Felix) by hiring the block to
other colleges next year.
LIKE IT OR LUMP IT—A
walk-out at Aberystwyth refec-
tory prompted the head cook to
come up with this classic remark :
" You come to University to
learn to eat what you are given.''
So that's the reason !
SLUR ON ENGINEERS—Arti-
cle in " King's News " implies
that engineering students are
" non-academic and juvenile."
NORTHERN AFFLUENCE —
The Registrar of Manchester says
there are over a hundred grants
still waiting to be collected!
Moreover, there are quite a few
students every year who don't
bother to collect them at all.
THEY ALSO SERVE—Students
joining engineering colleges in
Maharahta (India) have to sign a
bond undertaking to serve the
State government for at least two
years after graduation.
CELEBRITIES — King's have
had Jackie " Mr. T. V . " Pallo for
their guest at a freshers' dinner,
LSE have had Jimmy Saville.
Why not someone from the world
of entertainment for some 1C
dinners ?
IMAGE KILLING AT SUSSEX
—Students at Sussex are to make
a film designed to shatter the
popular image of the University
being alive with intellectual ex-
citement and enthusiasm. We
don't need a film, our image is
pretty well shattered already.
GAMBLING AT BRISTOL—
It is reported that many students
at Bristol spend " a large part"
of their grants in gambling.
Naturally, horses are the most
popular but casinos, greyhounds,
football pools and bingo are also
popular.
MENTAL HEALTH AT OX-
BRIDGE — A survey at Cam-
bridge has revealed that one in
seven students is handicapped by
psychological problems and one
in twenty is desperately in need
of specialised psychiatric treat-
ment. Similar reports from Ox-
ford reveal.that the admission
rate of undergraduates for psy-
chiatric treatment at Warneford
Hospital is three times the nor-
mal rate for the age group. The
main causes of illness are work
but 21 per cent, had sexual prob-
lems, 2 per cent, found lowly
family status an embarrassment,
and only 25 per cent, were
socially at ease
SOTON SHINE — Southampton
University must rank as top Uni-
versity as far as this year's rags
are concerned. Their bids for
publicity have met with great
success, especially their penetra-
tion of Parkhurst and their raid
on Roedean.
W H A T ' S T H E U S E
WHATS THE USE ?
Why have a Union Executive or Council?
What do they do besides talk and spend my
money ? These are questions which are asked
by any sensible and interested student at least
once during his stay at College.
Union Handbook
Does the present book contain sufficient in-
formation ? I think one giving, in addition to the
present details, information on " how it's done,"
instead of confining this to the few, would be of
immense benefit. This development is being con-
sidered by Chris Tye at Council's request. Have
you any suggestions on content ?
Bookstall
This belongs to the Union, started originally by
your predecessors' funds. Miss Larcom adminis-
ters this with great dedication but policy is a
matter for discussion by the Bookstall Committee,
consisting of a majority of students, who were, for
example, looking again into the provision of
different scarves before, the suggestions made
earlier in the term.
Do you want some duplicating done? The
Bookstall employs people specially to provide this
service for students. A l l profits come back to
your pockets via the Union general finance.
Entertainment
Are you satisfied with the provision of organised
and disorganised social functions by ICU ? Coun-
cil is not; and therefore has recommended a
change in the organisation of entertainment, so
that it has more scope, greater co-ordination and
better facilities. A committee under the Deputy
President is looking into the question now. Do
you want more jazz concerts, films at weekends,
general folky or R & B evenings ? Suggest!
Dis^ganised social facilities have been im
proved by opening the bars until 11 p.m. in spite
of cynical and factually unsubstantiated com-
ments. Would you use more indoor games rooms ?
This is also being considered.
Refectories and Bars
Do you want a greater variety of dishes or a
different 'beer, in the bar ? These and other more
fundamental questions are the concern of the
Executive, who, after considering economic and
other complications, will make the appropriate
recommendations.
The Name of IC Students
Following bad reporting in Sennet, which was in
some cases libellous and untrue, a motion was
passed in the University Presidents' Council, with
the active support of myself, condemning the sen-
sationalism and inaccuracy and demanding im-
provement.
Libraries
Have you a record player or the ability to
read ? You might perhaps use the Haldane
Library which has recently received a grant from
the Union for records to be chosen by your repre-
sentatives, as well as its usual sum for books.
Do you own a car, scooter, bicycle or merely
the hope to afford one ? A car parking and traffic
committee was established last year (hardly, there-
fore, a Council regular) to investigate the prob-
lems presented by these vehicles—I put the stu-
dents' point of view.
External Relations
No Union is perfect, and improvement can often
be gained by comparison with other organisations.
Already this year two German Technical Univer-
sities and the other two British S.I.S.T.E.R.S. have
visited IC.
Union Buildings
New chairs for the lazy (like me).
Noticeboards for the interested (like you).
A coffee machine for the thirsty (like Bishop).
A cigarette machine for the dying (like
Sadhvani).
Paintings for the cultured (like Utting).
Radio for the deaf (like Mair).
And Yards of Ale for the minors (like Kearns)
—these are all included in this year's work.
Maybe these points answer the original ques-
tions—all the examples, along with many other
matters affecting you directly, have been discussed
and acted on either at a Council meeting or the
many Executive meetings held this term.
Make your suggestions either to the appropriate
people or through the columns of your Union
Newspaper (not the rag from Malet Street) or even
in desperation, stand for election next year.
HALL ENTRY!
This year it seems that fewer
students holding various posts
have entered Halls of Residence.
For example, the sailing, hockey
and tennis club had some diffi-
culty in getting their leaders into
Hall. I.e. President, Norman
Price, has sent a circular to the
clubs and societies inquiring
whether their captains, secre-
taries, etc., are hi HaFl I h s re-
sults of this survey are awaited
with interest.
Generally, a candidate for Hall
entry has: his application con-
sidered by the Hall Committee,
predominately an elected student
body. On the face of it this seems
an excellent system.
However, last summer the
Committees seem to have chosen
entry candidates more on their
promise of being actfve workers
for the Hall. At first there seems
little wrong in this, but it is really
a very short-sighted attitude.
NOT AN ISLAND
Halls are not an island amidst
the rest of the community. They
have not a responsibility to them-
selves alone but to the College as
a whole. Only one-fifth of I.C.
students are in Hall, and the Halls
have a responsibility to the ma-
jority outside.
Often the only extra-curricular
contact many of the students out-
side have with the College are the
College Clubs—sporting, social
and recreational. To force the
leaders of these clubs to live out-
side the College can only impair
their functions as club leaders
and their value to the College
community.
" H A L L SPIRIT"
Thus, it seems that the Hall
Committees are considering for
entry candidates more on their
potential as " good chaps for the
Hall " than the equally import-
ant aspect of the value of entry
candidates to the College as a
whole. The development of the
Hall spirit and unity is one of the
most exciting aspects of College
life at present, but it must not ob-
scure the importance of the
Union to our community- It is to
be hoped that this is not round
one in a Hall-Union battle.
P. H . CARTWRIGHT

