8 FELI X
R E L A T I O N S
S H A T T E R E D
POLITICS G O V E R N M E N T
IN T U R M O I L
The Labour Government, whom he said was composed of " nasty
little nationalists," have in a surprisingly short lime reduced to shreds
all the good-will in Anglo-European relations that the previous
administration had carefully built up, and it would be years before
this confidence could be restored. This was part of the unhappy
picture presented by the Rt Hon. Edward Heath, O.B.K., M.P., when
he spoke at I.C. last Tuesday week.
EXAGGERATION
With particular reference to the present economic situation, he
accused the Wilson Administration of causing the present financial
crisis, by exaggerating the former situation out of all recognition,
for internal political ends.
A combination of this exaggeration during and immediately
after the election, the Labour platform of social reform with doubt
as to where the money would come from, and the financial inepti-
tude of previous Labour Administrations, were, Mr. Heath asserted,
almost entirely responsible for our Europeon Allies withdrawing their
London investments. This withdrawal of money by foreign banks
was the direct cause behind the panic bank rate increase.
BROTHERHOOD OF M A N IN
Mr. Jeremy Thorpe, the
Liberal M.P. for North Devon,
presented a very clear picture of
the present political situation
when he came to I.C. to talk on
" The Political Scene " in General
Studies on 19th November. He
also gave his personal views on
future development in politics.
He covered a wide spectrum of
current affairs.
Unless some formula were
found to settle Russia's refusal to
pay her share towards peace-
keeping operations, he could see
crucial problems ahead for the
United Nations Organisation. He
DISPLTE
He further condemned the un-
precedented breaking of G. A.T.T.
and E.F.T.A. treaty agreements,
when the Wilson Administration
introduced-the 15 per cent, im-
port levy, and asked why, if the
Labour Government believes in
the brotherhood of man, it does
not recognize this brotherhood
across the Channel.
He called Mr. Wilson's Euro-
pean policy " hypocritical," since
it involved trying to enter the
Common Market, " on condition
that the main provisions of the
Common Market are abolished."
SMETHWICK
CONTROVERSY
When questioned on the Smeth-
wick election, he evaded the
question asked, and instead criti-
cized Mr- Patrick Gordon-Walker
for watering down the Labour
policy on a multiracial State for
political expediency. When
pressed, he refused to say whether
or not Mr. Griffiths had taken
advantage of the situation.
Mr. Heath had plenty to say,
however, on the importance of
not surrendering Britain's inde-
pendent nuclear deterrent; but
nothing of significance emerged
in this context.
Central Electricity Generating Board
has a great future to offer...
The Board's
ENGINEERING
TRAINING
SCHEME
Opens up exceptional
career opportunities for
ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERS
MECHANICAL
ENGINEERS
PHYSICISTS
TWO YEARS TRAINING. For those with good
honours degrees, this will be a general engineer-
ing training, including one year with a manufac-
turer, basic workshop training and experience in
all aspects of the Board's engineering operations.
Those with other degrees can be trained in Gen-
eration, Transmission or Design and Construction,
with 6 months spent at a manufacturers.
Pay during training: 1st and 2nd Class honours
degrees £875 in the first year, and £925 in the
second year. Other degrees, £700 in the first year,
£750 in the second.
WHY CHOOSE C.E.G.B.? Because it is an ex-
panding, essential and progressive industry. The
demand for electricity is doubling every eight
years. The scope is enormous, with constant new
development in all parts of the country, involving
a capital expenditure of over £300 millions a year.
Present plans include 2,000 megawatt power
stations, 500 megawatt generating sets, 400 kilo-
volt transmission lines, nuclear power stations
and research into magnetohydrodynamics. Excel-
lent progressive salary scale, conditions and
prospects.
CAREERS for ENGINEERS are available within
the C.E.G.B. in GENERATION, TRANSMISSION
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION or RESEARCH.
Further Information about what the Board
can offer is available from:
UNIVERSITY LIAISON OFFICER
CENTRAL ELECTRICITY
GENERATING BOARD
^udbury House, 15 Newgate Street,
London, E.C.1.
or your Appointments Board.
even feared for its continued
existence.
THE LIBERAL V E W
On some counts at least, the
present Governrient evidently
finds favour with the Parliamen-
tary Liberal Party. Mr. Thorpe
applauded the swift moves made
by Mr. Wilson in the Rhodesian
crisis and Labour's reassessment
of the contract to supply Buc-
caneer bombers to South Africa.
But, the proposed Land Commis-
sion was not quite so popular.
British industry received its
share of criticism. Mr. Thorpe's
main target was the inefficiency
bred by demarcation and un-
official strikes. Judging by his
ideas on the superiority of conti-
nental industry, in the event of a
Liberal return to power the Wil-
sonian " deadwood in the board-
rooms " would very soon find it-
self on the dole.
SWORDS IN THE CHAMBER
When Mr. Grimond visited IC
this year, he expressed the senti-
ment that the structure of Parlia-
ment was outdated. Mr. Thorpe
endorsed this opinion, seeing no
particular virtue in a system con-
taining such anachronisms as
repulations pertaining to the
wearing of offensive weapons in
the Chamber—swords must be
hung on special hooks provided
outside!
During the lengthy question
time Mr. Thorpe gave, by politi-
cal standards, an unusually clear
and cogent set of replies, taking
the excellent opportunity of
" What is the purpose of a
minority party ?" to point out the
Liberal role in converting the
Tories to the Common Market
and the Socialists on defence.
In all, his visit provided an il-
luminating and entertaining hour
on how the third party thinks.
R. L. H . WALKER.

