F E L I X 9
3 W t S i r • • •
"Evil in the eye of
him that seeth evil"
Dear Sir,
In your last issue, the report on the Union meeting had a section
on the debate over Scholarships for Hong Kong University, and in it
you referred to two speakers as " Frank Fuchs, well-known Commu-
nist and John Tutelman, well-known Jew " This was an
obvious racial and political smear, and I was shocked to find it.
The labels that you have attached to these two people are pro-
bably correct, but they are irrelevant, and their use offensive. The
purpose is firstly, to suggest that their personal beliefs made their
support of the amendment con-
Sir,
I feel it is my duty to register a
complaint about a comment made
in the last edition of FELIX. In
your report on the I.C. Union
general meeting, your reporter
used the plirase "seconded by Mr.
J. Tutleman, well known Jew."
I have noticed for some time that
Mr. J. Tutleman has become the
object of considerable merriment
amongst some circles within the
Union and I would like to say, on
behalf of the Jewish Society, that
we all have a great respect for
Mr. Tutleman, indeed we regard
him as our most DISTINGUISH-
ABLE member.
Last year Mr. Tutleman was
chairman of the Jewish Society,
and, at the last annual general
meeting, by a large vote, he was
promoted to the position of EX-
Chairman, which he now holds.
By the efficiency with which he
carries out his duties as EX-
chairman the average attendance
has doubled and continues to rise.
This is no mean achievement and
he has earned congratulations on
all sides.
So, FELIX reporters, let us
have some respect for Mr. Tutle-
man, for indeed Mr- Frank Fuchs
would have looked pretty stupid
without him—or did he look
more stupid with him?
NORMAN STRE AT
Zionist Officer l,C. Jewish Soc.
cerned calculated and dishonest,
and secondly, to discredit their
views on any future matter of
College affairs by encouraging
your readers to remember your
personal smears first and consider
the real issues afterwards.
I demand from D.l.W. your
assistant editor who wrote the
report: —either have the courage
plied by innuendo, and justify it,
to print straight out what you im-
or apologise to the people con-
cerned.
Above all, don't do it again.
It is a serious thing to find such
smear tactics in any newspaper
student or otherwise.
Yours sincerely,
DAVID PEARCE
(Physics)
Advertising
Mooney's Prices
Dear Sir,
Why is it that we have to pay &/• for a small
helping of chips in the top refectory in the Union,
wtiien for 6d. we could get more chips in a fish
and chip shop? They don't provide nearly as
many chips per day as the refectory does, and yet
they still make a profit. Think what profit the
Union is making.
Yours faithfully,
N. R. BAILHACHE E.E.2.
Dear Sir,
1 was interested to read thz letter by C. C. Wright and Brian
Bull in the last issue of FELIX. Whilst agreeing with them generally
about Club advertising, I think 15" x 12" for posters is rather more
than adequate—although the suggested 10" x 8" is a bit small. I
would suggest 13" x 8" as a suitable size—allowing sufficient space
to advertise the CLUB and the EVENT, but not occupying too much
of the Notice Board.
This introduces my main objection to the proposed New System
(if I understood the FELIX report correctly\)—namely, that of
advertising of the CLUB is to be separated from advertising of the
EVENT only the latter being allowed on the quarto sheet. This, I
feel, will only result in less effective publicity—whilst most people
would be attracted by the Event, some are undoubtedly attracted by
the Club, and it is these people who are in danger of being lost.
The solution is to simply divide the Notice Board into a number
of rectangles, say 14" x 9", and stipulate that no advert may exceed
the b&undaries of one rectangle- This would allow more efficient
use of the Board, eliminate unfair monopolising of space, and still en-
courage good advertising.
Finally, I would like to remind other Clubs—and the Unions] —
of two simple points that they habitually forget: —
Firstly, NO Advert, is effective after The Event has taken place—
so why not remove it promptly and leave the space for others?
Secondly, as D. Jones has already pointed out (FELIX Oct. 21)
" Size is not the ultimate aim of an advertiser, it is to produce an eye
catching poster."
Perhaps it would be worthwhile to start an informal competition
between clubs—prizes for the best adverts, not the largest or most
elaborate]
Yours faithfully,
(Publicity Officer, RICHARD MARSHALL
Tape & Hi-Fi Club) (Elec. Eng. 3)
Ceiling Collapse
A W A R N I N G T O S T U D E N T S I N L O D G I N G S
Dear Sir,
I write this because of a shocking experience
that I had last night. I was sleeping peacefully in
my bed when, all of a sudden, I felt a heavy weight
on my head and heard the sound as if of an
explosion. After reviving from a short lapse of
unconsciousness I noticed to my utter horror that
part of the ceiling above my head had fallen
down] The room was in a mess—seemed like
the after-effect of a minor earthquake] I had to
spend the rest of the night clearing up and re-
covering-
Dear Sir,
In reporting the I.C. Union meeting, D.l.W.,
on the topic of the Hong Kong scholarships, says,
" Frank Fuchs, well known Communist, and John
Tutelman well-known Jew, wished that
Do either Mr. Fuchs' political affiliations or Mr.
Tutelman's race have any relevance here? One
might equally well say, " Frank Fuchs, the well-
known l.C. student, and John Tutelman, well-
known man with two eyes," since in both cases,
one is a matter of choice, and the other an accident
of birth.
Moreover, not merely is this type of reporting
irrelevant, it also casts a slur on Communists and
Jews.
One further point—// there is no High Com-
missioner in Hong Kong, why didn't D.l.W. say so
at the Union meeting?
Yours Sincerely,
LOUISE TORBE
Maths I.
LAMLEY'S
T E C H N I C A L & G E N E R A L
B O O K S
A R T M A T E R I A L S
D R A W I N G
I N S T R U M E N T S
S T A T I O N E R Y
P A P E R B A C K S
1 3 & 5 EXHIBITION ROAD,
LONDON, S.W.7
Now that I liave safely overcome the unexpected
incident, I warn all students in lodgings, especially
those in old houses to examine their ceilings
properly in case they will have a similar or more
unpleasant experience.
Yours etc.
G. BARAMKI
Physics I.

