film reviews
SLACKERS
you won't find any here, ahem
Slackers is yet another addition to the already swollen ranks
of the teen comedy genre. Despite my initial reservations
about the film, I was cheered by the presence of Jason
Schwartzman in the cast list. His performance as Max Fischer
in the indie hit Rushmore (1998) was fantastic, so I was eager to
see what he had followed it up with. As it turns out, I would
have been better off watching Rushmore again.
Slackers finds Schwartzman playing "Cool" Ethan, the socially
inept nerd who is in the process of stalking the angelic Angela
(James King). His creepy task is eased upon discovering the
cheating antics of our three eponymous slackers. He proceeds
to blackmail Dave (Devon Sawa) and his stooges, demanding to
be fixed up with Angela, or else he will have them expelled. But
as is always the way in these things, the charming Dave him-
self ends up the object of Angela's affections. A n d so it goes on.
The opening scene of the film, where we are inducted into
scamming world of the boys, is a well-handled juggling act, but
after that it falters. There are straight-to-camera monologues,
bizarre dream sequences and all manner of visual tricks, but
none of these distract from the essentially lazy, teen-comedy-
by-numbers on show here.
As for gross-out, American Pie had its warm apple pie scene,
Road Trip its Jack Sprat sex scene, so Slackers has to have its
hook too. We are actually treated to two, first a karaoke penis
sock-puppet scene, and then an old woman hooker sponge-bath
scene. But two sick wrongs don't make a funny right. That is not
to say I didn't laugh at all. I did. But the good gags are hidden
away amongst a lengthy array of tiresome fart, dick and jerk-off
jokes. Even Road Trip seems reserved compared to most of this.
Schwarzman's efforts are hardly subtle, and despite having
been given the majority of the funny material, he never makes
Ethan into anything more than a 2-d caricature. It would have
been nice to see the makers have the courage to produce some-
thing slightly blacker and more original about the obsessive
stalking thread involving Ethan, but they ultimately shy away
into more familiar teen rom-com territory.
Jason Schwartzman
interview with a Slacker
How was the experience of shaving a large A i n your chest
hair?
It was fine! A couple of times the razor got snagged and was
like ouch! It was just an idea I had. I was thinking to myself
one night, okay at this point in the movie you know I'm crazy,
because I think the way the character evolves in the first half
you aren't sure.
H o w do you view Slackers?
I think it's a good funny college movie that's a little dirty and
will get reactions out of people. It'll make you laugh. I think a
lot of the humour is a little dark, but I try not to put too much
thought into it. I just think you should just go and enjoy it and
have a good time. It is pretty nuts. I mean, if you're going to see
this movie then you probably like beer so just have a good time.
H o w did you get the role for Slackers?
I had met the director, Dewey, and I remember him talking
about his making a movie. I met with him for about an hour and
then I asked him 'should I come back and audition?' and he said
'you just did.' A n d I got the part. But the reason I ultimately did
the movie was I thought here's an opportunity to flex a differ-
ent muscle and do for once in my life a big slapstick type of
comedy. I thought the character was a good environment to
experiment with being physical for me and playing dark.
So you didn't do it for the money?
Do you want to plug your CD for a few minutes?
My band is Phantom Planet, we have an EP the album is
already out. It's called The Guest.
If you had to choose between being a musician or an actor
w h i c h would you become?
I would become a painter.
What does your father do?
My dad actually passed away. I was thirteen.
I'm sorry.
too Adam Joyce
Felix O n F i l m Slackers C o m p e t i t i o n
Are you a Slacker? More likely you're an uber-geek. In any
case, this is your chance to WIN!!! official Slackers merchan-
dise. On offer, three goody bags containing Slackers T-shirt,
sponge, and soap. In the correct order: Which one of these
would you expect Retardcop, Sgt. John Bunnell, to say?
a) "Clearly excessive police force used here"
b) "Another case of police brutality and negligence"
c) "He's bought himself a one-way ticket... straight to JAIL"
email your answers to film.felix@ic.ac.uk
The winner of last term's Mothman Prophecies competition
was Ee Wong, who gave the correct answer to the question.

