reviews music
INTERVIEW with
Rod Jones from Idlewild
Idlewild's n e w single You Held The World In Your Arms is out
now, and the album The Remote Part is due for release in July.
Felix spoke to guitarist Rod Jones over the telephone.
FELIX: X F M ' s D J Natasha was so enamoured w i t h your last
single Roseability that she started to compare all other songs
to it a n d give them a "Roseability rating". H a d y o u heard
about this, and how w o u l d you rate your n e w single?
ROD: No, I hadn't heard about that. It would be difficult to try
and rate You Held The World In Your Arms along those lines, as
it's quite a different song. We felt at the time of its release that
Roseability was one of the best things we'd written, but we feel
that what we're writing n o w is better.
As you mentioned, You Held The World In Your Arms is quite
different to your previous songs - is this an indication of what
the n e w album w i l l be like?
Yes, it is. With previous albums, we felt that most of the tracks
were more or less just noisy pop songs. So we decided to exper-
iment a bit, and that helped us learn what we were capable of.
You toured America to promote 100 Broken Windows. Did you
enjoy your time out there, and what was the response like
from the American audiences?
It was great fun and very exciting, but quite weird because the
album was released about a year later than it was here. So we
didn't know what to expect, and when we went out there and
did the small club tour w e found that w e had a small loyal fol-
lowing who had got hold of the album on import. It was a very
refreshing experience. We plan to release the new album at the
same time in America, because w e want to continue improving
as a band and to have staggered releases means that you're
always going back to things you were doing a year earlier, and
that can slow your progress.
When you first started to break through into the British mar-
ket, y o u gained a reputation for being very good live. What
did you feel were the reasons for that?
We gained a reputation for gigging quite a lot, and I suppose all
the practice w e got helped to make each show better than the
last. Also, we felt that the songs on the record weren't as strong
as they were live because they were basically noisy rock. With
the new album, the reverse is true, in that the songs have a lot
of subtlety to them which is difficult to recreate live. So we have
had to really reinvent ourselves as a live act.
What is your take on the charts at the moment, and h o w do
you think your n e w single w i l l do?
We don't really pay much attention to the charts at the moment,
even though maybe we should. But we know there's a lot
around that isn't great. I do feel that people get a bit nostalgic
about the charts in previous eras, but I'm sure that there w a s
just as much crap around in 1979 or whenever as there is now.
We just want to play the music and try and let that do the talk-
ing. We are hoping that the strength of the new songs will get
people to listen.
Tank
Singles
Roundup
H U N D R E D REASONS (pic above) - Silver
Yeah, baby, the Rock Sound-appointed saviours of British rock
are back. Sounding like a horrible mix of Blink 182 and Incubus
gone wrong, this single disappoints severely after the excellent
If I Could, with its formulaic lyrics and sea shanty rhythm.
Awful.
Sajini
THE ELECTRIC SOFT P A R A D E -
Empty A t The E n d / This Given Line
The Electric Soft Parade are a bit like Travis, but a lot happier.
They use similar subjects for their songs, but tend to be more
upbeat. They are fairly formulaic, whilst somehow managing to
avoid sounding repetitive. This is the second single from their
critically acclaimed debut album Holes In The Wall, and it
shows a lot of promise.
Tank
SERAFIN - Serafin EP 1
Bog standard emo, this one. It sometimes sounds a little
grungy, like Stone Temple Pilots. Other times, a little Hundred
Reasons. Serafin are probably going to be pretty big, but had
they been around two years ago, they wouldn't even have got a
record deal. So it goes.
Ben
M U L E S K I N N E R JONES - Terrible Stories
Muleskmner Jones is a cult internet eccentric, apparently,
and I've no idea WHAT is going on here! Over duelling banjos,
an argument as to the origin of a bloodstain is played out by the
parents from Little House On The Prairie in really off-key voices.
Is this what unemployable actors get up to when they're not on
shift in Starbucks?
Ben

