IC Radio
felix talk
Objectivity
We at Felix thought it might be refreshing to
have some IC Radio banter (it's the official
term, you know) from someone without a
membership. I appreciate that the kind of
self-praise or wilful unconventionality,
either way designed to make you think the
authors are Cool, that you see here each
week is not always easy to believe.
So here w e are; an objective opinion from
a non-member of IC Radio. If anything, I'm
slightly biased against them, as I must
share a basement with them. If the stench
of rotting Chinese takeaway i n the Felix
office doesn't get me, Photo-soc haven't kid-
napped me for a modelling shoot (guffaw)
or a dalek escaped from the Sci-Fi library
fails to "exterminate" me, then the quake-
inducing reverberations from the IC Radio
studio may occasionally begin to grate.
Deprecation
What can a bunch of students do, anyway?
A surprising amount actually, like spot that
it's bad literary style to ask rhetorical ques-
tions in newspaper articles. They can also
make good radio. Those with a technical
disposition are i n their element producing
shows, installing and fixing equipment, and
playing with panels whose sole purpose is
to blink periodically whilst yelling "phase
lock that transducer into the primary reticu-
lation port" and "she canna take much
more o' this captain" - or was that IC Sci-Fi
Society?
Meanwhile, the arty types - you know,
they wear patchwork trousers and sun-hats
- are charismatic, musical or just "zany"
over the air-waves. If you're not averse to an
eyeful, then try the webcam too.
Top ten achievements of IC Radio
Ten: Letting me write this article. Nine:
Their award-wirrning website and web-
casts. Eight: Their celebrity jingle line-up.
Seven: Adopting "fisting" as a punishment.
Six: Allowing Will and I to present a truly
daft hour-long show when we're tired and
panicking. Five: Actually archiving that
show! Four: Renaming 'George' to Jerry' so
that their show could infringe ice cream
manufacturers' trademarks. Three: Giving
me a colour logo to print in black-and-white
every week. Two: Thinking that having a
show presented by two naked men would
improve listening figures. One: Naming
their waste paper bin "Lucy," inspiredly
after the name embossed on its lid.
What I was meant to say
When Steve, the current IC Radio Station
Manager - amusingly abbreviated SM, yes
it is funny, it is - breathlessly asked me to
write the IC Radio column before he tore
head-long into a pile of books like a panic-
stricken and highly literate squirrel, he
asked me to write something that would
encourage people to listen to IC Radio and
say how great they were.
Well, maybe I haven't been entirely hon-
est so far - they are a pretty good bunch. I
even went to their A G M with the express
intention of skewing the election counts by
raising my unwashed non-member hand
occasionally whilst drinking beer, but even
that didn't make them hurt me.
So, to sum up IC Radio, if you can't join
'em, listen to 'em - 999AM or at the address
hinted at below. AW
icradio
www.icradio.com
Chaplaincy: Stress is...
Stress is the 'wear and tear' our bodies
experience as w e adjust to our continually
changing environment; it has physical and
emotional effects on us and can create pos-
itive or negative feelings. A s a positive
influence, stress can help compel us to
action; it can result in a new awareness and
an exciting new perspective. A s a negative
influence, it can result in feelings of distrust,
rejection, anger, and depression, which in
turn can lead to health problems such as
headaches, upset stomach, rashes, insom-
nia, ulcers, high blood pressure, heart dis-
ease, and stroke. Stress will help or hinder
us depending on how w e react to it.
75% of the general population experi-
ences at least 'some stress' every two
weeks (National Health Interview Survey).
Positive stress adds anticipation and
excitement to life, and w e all thrive under a
certain amount of stress. Deadlines, compe-
titions, confrontations, and even our frustra-
tions and sorrows add depth and enrich-
ment to our lives. We need to learn how to
manage stress rather than eliminate it.
Insufficient stress acts as a depressant and
may leave us feeling bored or dejected; on
the other hand, excessive stress may leave
us feeling tied up in knots. Identifying unre-
lieved stress and being aware of its effect
on our lives is not sufficient for reducing its
harmful effects. Just as there are many
sources of stress, there are many possibili-
ties for its management.
Become aware of stress and emotional
and physical reactions. Dorit ignore it or
gloss over your problems.
Recognise what you can change. Can you
change your stressors, if they're not exams,
by avoiding or eliminating them? Can you
shorten your exposure to stress?
Reduce the intensity of your emotional
reactions to stress. Are you viewing your
stressors in exaggerated terms and/or tak-
ing a difficult situation and making it a dis-
aster? Are you expecting to please every-
one? Are you overreacting? Put the situa-
tion in perspective. Do not labour on the
negative aspects and the 'what if's.
Learn to moderate your physical reac-
tions to stress. Slow, deep breathing and
relaxation can help i n reducing stress, as
can taking exercise and a healthy diet.
Maintain your emotional reserves.
Develop some mutually supportive friend-
ships. Pursue realistic goals, which are
mearringful to you, rather than goals others
have for you that you do not share.
Expect some frustrations, failures, and
sorrows. Always be kind and gentle with
yourself.
If you are experiencing stress you are not
alone. There are people at Imperial who can
help. The Health Centre (49375/6), Student
Counsellors (49430), The Chaplaincy
(49600) or your Tutor.

