back talk
NUS already (again!)
Dear Sir,
I've seen many student politicians come
and go at Imperial, and heard most of
them come up with some excuse or other
as to why their year was not the unmiti-
gated success they promised at hustings.
The Chairman of the "Yes to NUS" cam-
paign, however, takes the biscuit. You
don't have to be in the NUS to find out
about student discounts. You don't have
to be in the NUS to lobby government.
You don't have to be in the NUS to provide
officer training. But if you elect sabbatical
officers who prefer to sit around moaning
about their job, take weeks off at a time to
run unwanted referendum campaigns,
watch lecturer evaluation systems to
reach Enron-style levels of mismanage-
ment and allow working relationships
with other union officers to reach melt-
down, then yes, I agree that you need all
the help you can get, from anybody,
including the National Union. Maybe
instead of running the 'No' campaign, I
should have headed up a 'Resign' cam-
paign instead?
Hugs'n'cuddles,
Andy Heeps
Chairman, ICU "No2NUS" Campaign
(We won, by the way. 72% of the highest
turnout ever seen at Imperial. Did I men-
tion that we won?)
Dear Felix,
Like the majority of students here (at
least those who voted), I was relieved to
see that IC would not join the NUS, for
reasons that have been discussed at
length around here. The voice of IC seems
to be "We can represent ourselves very
well, and prefer to do so!"
However, I hope that this will now effec-
tively be done, and that the students of IC
will make their voice heard! Of course, on
student issues such as grants, but also on
vital subjects such as the current war on
"Terrorism", the environment, and corpo-
rate responsibility (that is, assuming not
everyone here dreams of becoming one of
the "Fat Cats", a very depressing thought.)
The NUS (I'm quite sure) was represented
at the May Day (peaceful) protest.
I must say that the huge amount of empty
managerial buzzwords that composed the
Union president's statement of intent in
last week's Felix did not reassure me very
much in that matter! But being new here,
I am probably mistaken.
Matthew Cand
A Cross Country
Re: your personal plea (Felix 1233), I find it
a disgrace that you have the audacity to
print an article on mud wrestling, and
plea for more sports articles to be sent in,
when you are sent perfectly good articles
from sports clubs which you decline to
print. On February 20th, you were sent an
article by David Mulvee, a member of the
Cross-Country club and Hyde Park Relays
committee. It was a review of the largest
student relay race in Britain, which is
organised by ICU Cross-Country club. It
was the 54th running of this annual event
that brought over 700 hundred students
to the college on February 16th, over 280
of which came from France, The
Netherlands, Poland, Italy and Germany.
They were all accommodated on site and
the event went very smoothly. The after-
race party included a late license, BBQ,
and one of the biggest nights the Union
has had on a Saturday. The Union, College
Security, and the Conference and
Catering Dept. were all very helpful in the
organisation of one of the largest events
put on by an ICU Club or Society. A n d that
is not even going into the race itself! It
seems that every year you complain
about the lack of articles sent in, yet all I
seem to hear around college from other
clubs is disappointment that their articles
are not published. Maybe you should allo-
cate page space a bit more conservative-
ly rather than give half a side to mud-
bathing and countless pages allocated to
reviews that everyone reads in other
magazines. After all, it is a student news-
paper, not Empire. Or the N M E . Or Time
Out. Or Hot Tickets...
Yours sincerely,
Demetrius Onoufriou, Chair of ICUXC
Hyde Park Relays 2002 Committee
I explained this last week in the sports
section., and don't have space here to do
so again., but I am sorry. Ed
Have A Column
Dear Felix,
Spring is here. The old lunacy of winter
has faded to be replaced by fresh idiocy.
Having returned to this dank pit of suffer-
ing, misery and science fiction from a rel-
atively Star Trek-free frolic in the South
East to enjoy the futility of attempting
those psychoses-given-form known as
examinations, I feel it is probably my duty
to write and complain about something.
Sadly however, I find myself in rather
good spirits and while I would love to
regale you with hilarious stories of strug-
gles between men and poultry, warm ale
and American tourists, I won't because
I'm feeling sadistic and don't think you
deserve any happiness.
Ever.
Once more London has me beset with an
extraordinary malevolence towards all
things human, I am constantly strangled
by the urge to throw biscuits at children,
kick dogs and laugh loudly at lost
tourists.
While my overbearing cloud of pure mal-
ice is still in its infantile stages I feel that
something must be done to arrest its
growth before severe damage is done.
Not to me of course - I'm in little danger of
harming myself, it's just when people
turn up with flaming torches and stakes
it's often difficult to reason with them.
Basically, what I'm after is focus to my
aggression and ill will. You may be sur-
prised to know that this is in fact leading
somewhere, just bear with me.
Now you see, I am told, though not by
impartial sources, that there are some
pretty smart people here, people who
could be profitably employed in a youth-
ful, educated and vibrant criminal empire.
ICrime or OCsoc, perhaps would be a
good starting point, does the Union have
a policy on such things? Of course, we'd
be self-funding after a while and the
underground intimidation of staff and
pupils would be a formative experience
for those still naive in the fields of bribery
and racketeering ("Dean Corleone ain't
happy..."). In fact I can't see one fault in
the whole nefarious scheme. There you go
ICU, do something right for once, make a
little money, this idea's free.
Merry Christmas,
Pete

