SCIENCE
FELIX
Friday 22 October 2010
10
Science Editors: James Goldsack
Katya-yani Vyas
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Uncommon Sense
by Alan Cromer
In this well written,
insightful and acces-
sible book Cromer
gives his view on the
development of the
scientific method. He
feels that humanity
would never have in-
vented science had it
not been for the an-
cient Greek custom
of objective thinking,
rationality and de-
And a few suggestions...
Upcoming Science Events
Oct 29th
Royal Society
Revolutionary Insights – The Dawn of
Microscopic Investigation
1pm – 2pm
Oct 28th
UCL
Breast Screening; Some Inconvenient Truths
1:15pm – 1.55pm
Oct 26th
Royal Institution
Science Question Time
7pm – 8.30pm
£8
Oct 28th
Wellcome Collection
Exchanges at the Frontier: Brian Greene
3pm - 4.30pm
Oct 27th
Science Museum
Science of Bioterrorism (October Lates)
6.30pm - 10pm
bate. It’s obvious from The Iliad that ancient
Greeks valued skill in debate as much as skill
in war. The Greek model of thinking and society
are compared to other civilisations of that time
including the Chinese, Indian and Hebrew to
show just how special the Greeks were and how
precious their discovery is. The conditions are
speculated on to explain the Greek success, for
example, the ancient Greeks lived in city states
instead of having one ruler that could oppress
freedom of thought. The book clearly influenced
the legendary populariser Carl Sagan as it is
listed in the references of a few of his books. It
also contains some of Cromer’s other thoughts,
not all of which are as plausible.
Jakov Marelic
The study involved 10365 asthmatic individuals
and 16,110 controls. It identified genes common in
asthmatic individuals, which could be targets for
potential future treatment. Many of these coded
for proteins involved in the immune system, par-
ticularly in T cells. It was also found that allergic
reactions are associated with asthma, rather than
causing the disorder.
The work at Imperial College was overseen by
the GABRIEL consortium, an association of sci-
entists from nineteen European countries, and was
published in the New England Journal of Medicine.
The group assessed over 500,000 gene muta-
tions, known as single nucleotide polymorphisms
(SNPs), in each individual. This meant they could
identify single base changes which were common
in people with asthma.
5.4 million people in the UK are asthmatic, expe-
riencing attacks where the walls of airways become
inflamed and their passages constricted, causing
wheezing, coughing and difficulty breathing. Heri-
tability of the disorder has previously been shown
to be 60%, indicating that there was some genetic
cause. Allergies had been identified as a possible
cause. This was because people with allergies had
an increased risk of becoming asthmatic, and for
some, triggers of attacks can include allergens
However, the study showed that levels of IgE se-
rum, an indicator of allergies, had no link to asth-
ma, and was in fact due to the same barrier protein
failures.
According to Professor Miriam Moffatt, Profes-
sor of Human Genetics at Imperial College, “We
now know that allergies may develop as a result of
defects of the lining of the airways in asthma. This
does not mean that allergies are not important, but
it does mean that concentrating therapies only on
allergy will not effectively treat the whole disease”
The consortium had conducted a similar test of
individuals with childhood asthma – asthma in
people under 16 years old – but this study was
over ten times bigger, and involved subjects with
more than one type of asthma. This showed that
childhood asthma has different genetic causes to
later onset asthma.
The previous study had shown that childhood
asthma was strongly associated with genes on chro-
mosome 17, this study identified specific genes as-
sociated with T helper cells and immune respons-
es. Adult onset asthma, however, was shown to be
more influenced by a set of genes called the Major
Histocompatability Complex (MHC).
This means that genetic tests can only identify
the risks of specific types of asthma, rather than
an individuals’ overall risk of acquiring the disor-
der. However, identifying some of the root genetic
causes of asthma has opened up a range of possi-
bilities for future treatments.
While studying for finals I couldn’t
work at home. The reason? My house-
mate claimed he couldn’t study without
deafeningly loud music. Equally, many
people, (including the living legend that
is DavidAttenborough), claim they can’t
work with background music on. So, is
music a help, or a hindrance to study?
Surprise, surprise, the answer is ‘it
depends’. The type of music, age, sex
(Funnily, men, on average, prefer to
have their music louder than women)
and personality type all seem to affect
whether background music increased
or decreased subjects’ performance on
simple tasks. Scientific legend has it that
classical music increases intelligence.
However, in simple tasks, participants
that choose their own music perform as
well as those listening to classical mu-
sic, and both do better than those who
prefer listening to heavy metal.
While there is no evidence that back-
ground music directly improves perfor-
mance on other complex tasks, people
completing simpler tasks seem to ben-
efit from it. In a paper teasingly enti-
tled ‘musical mnemonics induce brain
plasticity and oscillatory synchrony in
neural networks underlying memory’re-
searchers struck upon the breakthrough
that singing mnemonics to a tune helps
you to remember them. The tension-re-
ducing effects of your favourite records
may have a more general positive effect
on performance, and singing and tap-
ping along to music improves energy
levels. Is it any wonder that having the
radio on is standard on production lines,
yet somewhat frowned upon in offices?
So how to best utilise the power of
music to keep you going? If you’re
learning something particularly hard, it
is better to study in silence. If you feel
your energy levels dropping, it might be
time to get dancing and singing along to
something. Keep the volume down, and
the music will relax you more. Choose
music because you like it, not because
you think Mozart will make you smarter.
And whatever you do, don’t live with
housemates who like heavy metal.
Anna Perman
Does
music
help you
study?
“Funnily, men, on
average, prefer to
have their music
louder than women”
Genetic study
shines light on
asthma
Anna Perman

