FELIX Friday 22 October 2010 11
SCIENCE
‘Would you like to see my lab before
you go?’We looked at each other, think-
ing ‘hell yeah!’ The opportunity to see
the inner workings of some of the most
cutting-edge work taking place in optics
is not lightly passed up. We were on the
9th floor of the Blackett Laboratory to
interview Chris Phillips, Professor of
Experimental Solid State Physics and
the Dean of the Faculty of Natural Sci-
ences.
Coming to Imperial to complete a PhD
after finishing his undergraduate degree
at Cambridge, Professor Phillips has
been a member of the department since
1979. Actually, that’s not strictly accu-
rate, since his lack of confidence in his
academic abilities led him to a stint as an
engineer for the BBC. This was not to be
a long-lived career as a year after leav-
ing, he returned to Imperial as part of
the nationwide ‘New Blood’ scheme de-
signed to reinvigorate the then-stagnant
world of academia.
We were curious about his job de-
scription as a Dean; as, it would seem,
is the man himself. When asked, he said
‘It’s a difficult role to define... I’m prob-
ably still learning.’ As far as we could
understand, the Deans are not part of
the formal management structure, but
are more of an independent informa-
tion channel. Their concerns range from
maintaining the high standards of fair-
ness and equality integral to the college
to the widespread dissatisfaction of the
students. They also play a pivotal role in
the promotions process.
However, the reason we came to in-
terview Professor Phillips was to find
out more about his research. He and his
team are experimenting with metama-
terials, materials in which the structure
at the microscopic level is engineered
to give interesting macroscopic prop-
erties. Applications of such materials,
which rely on structural rather than
compositional properties, include the
much-lauded ‘invisibility cloak’. Cur-
rent research is focusing on super lenses
(no pun intended), lenses that use the
properties of metamaterials to achieve
a negative refractive index. The refrac-
tive index of a material is the amount
that light bends when entering it from
another medium. Think of it like this;
a fish underwater appears closer than it
actually is, but if the water had a nega-
tive refractive index, then the fish would
appear to be floating above the surface.
Materials such as these have, as of yet,
only been theorised. Professor Philip’s
team are approaching the problem from
a quantum mechanical angle, using Sch-
rodinger’s equation to calculate the elec-
tron transitions. Other groups are using
nanoelectronics attempting to produce
the same effects.
When we enter his lab, sidling ner-
vously past the multiple warning signs
and laser safety curtain, we are imme-
diately confronted with a forest of in-
struments (if the trees were bonsais).
A crowded optics bench occupies the
middle of the room, bristling with mi-
crometers, trace lasers and very expen-
sive sensors, including as a centrepiece a
£60,000 infrared camera from a jet fight-
er. This setup, balanced on old Vespa
inner tubes, is used to work on mid-in-
frared laser technology, the applications
of which are not immediately obvious.
However, the applications are even
more promising than those of the super
lens; the group are using the technology
to take ‘chemical pictures’ of organic
compounds. They hope that this will al-
low for a more quantitative approach to
tissue sample analysis. Instead of purely
qualitative method, where pathologists
make judgement calls on a sample under
a microscope, the new methods would
allow for a numerical output, which can
then be compared to an index. The most
obvious application would be in the di-
agnosis of cancers. Prognoses and life
expectancies could be given much more
accurately.
Imperial Profile: #1
Professor Chris Phillips
Solid State Physics
An important point Professor Phillips
impressed on us was the distinction be-
tween the undergraduate phase of learn-
ing and that in postgraduate research. As
undergrads, we are merely consumers of
knowledge; work is just work of no spe-
cial importance. Postgraduate research,
on the other hand, is a creative process
that involves a large degree of personal
exposure. When Professor Phillip’s stu-
dents attend conferences, they have to
stand up and defend their work, to the
same degree as a poet their poem or
an artist their painting. The work they
are creating is not art, but the creativ-
ity involved is undeniable when seeing
the tangle of wires and the complex ar-
rangement before us. A small shift, such
as that caused by a finger, could set the
team back by six months, we were told
as Adam hastily removed himself from
the vicinity.
A common theme noticeable through-
out the interview was Professor Phillips’
passion for communicating the science
he is involved with. ‘We are creating
new knowledge, and what’s more, we
are doing it at someone else’s expense.
I feel we have a duty to give something
back.’ He frequently gives lectures pro-
moting science around the country and
internationally, often including enter-
taining spectacles such as live music
and fire-breathing. In 2006 his group’s
quantum optics research was selected to
be put on display by the Royal Society.
For two weeks they explained light, at-
oms and quantum mechanics to young
people, teachers and journalists.
At the end of our meeting, we were
left with the impression of a researcher
devoted to both his work and making
science accessible to all. It offered a tan-
talising insight into the world that exists
behind the locked lab doors and laser
safety curtains of Imperial.
Ilse Daly
Adam Falk
Genetic study shines light on asthma
Imperial scientists may have finally un-
locked the secrets behind schizophrenia.
A disruption in brain signalling causes
the severe mental illness and promises
exciting possibilities for drug develop-
ment.
Chemicals in the brain known as neu-
rotransmitters carry messages between
nerve cells and are tightly regulated to
ensure the correct signals are transmit-
ted. A recent study by James Stone et
al. has shown for the first time that the
abnormally high level of dopamine in
people with schizophrenia is due to a
disruption in the regulation of another
neurotransmitter; glutamate. Gluta-
mate is produced in the hippocampus
region of the brain and affects the ac-
tivity of dopamine releasing cells in the
stratum.
Dopamine targeted drugs have previ-
ously had limited success rates and se-
rious negative side effects. Glutamate
signalling can now become the new
target for anti-physcotic drugs and many
exciting drug candidates are already in
the pipe-line. This cutting-edge re-
search is bringing the possibility of a
treatment for schizophrenia ever closer.
Professor Chris Kennard, chair of the
MRC Neuroscience and Mental Health
Board, said: “Studies like these are help-
ing to unravel the complex mechanisms
of psychiatric illness and bring us a step
closer to more effective, targeted drugs
for patients with schizophrenia.”
Schizophrenia affects around 1% of
the population and is one of the most
common and severe mental health ill-
nesses but surprisingly little is known
about its causes and hence treatment is
limited. Previous work at Imperial into
Schizophrenia has shown that music
therapy can improve some of the symp-
toms, but there is a great need for im-
proved drug treatment. Possible causes
include genetic pre-dispositions, brain
damage during pregnancy, use of recre-
ational drugs and stress. This greater
understanding of what is going on will
improve not only treatment but also di-
agnosis of schizophrenia.
Katie Tomlinson

