I really wish my carpet were like this... Every morning I’d stand on the ‘iceberg’ and shout “Avast! It’s the Titanic!”
FELIX
Friday 22 October 2010
12
A new study led by researchers at Imperial College
and the University of Colorado indicates that the
Sun may act contrary to what was previously be-
lieved, producing a warming effect on the earth as
its activity declines, and vice versa. If the results
of the study are correct, what we know about the
Sun’s contribution to global warming will have to be
radically revised.
The Sun’s activity waxes and wanes over cycles
of 11 years, and it has previously been thought that
the solar warming effect was proportional to the ac-
tivity. This activity is gauged by the number of Sun
spots and their size. The determining factor of the
magnitude of solar warming however is the spectral
composition of the solar irradiance.
The study, led by Professor Joanna Haigh, head
of the Department of Physics and a member of the
Grantham Institute for Climate Change at Imperial
College, found that in the most recent period of de-
cline, radiation in the UV spectrum decreased more
than expected, which was compensated in part by
an increase in radiation in the visible spectrum. Re-
sults were taken by the Spectral Irradiance Monitor
instrument on the Solar Radiation and Climate Ex-
periment satellite between 2004 and 2007. UV light
is responsible for heating the middle atmosphere;
the radiation disassociates atmospheric molecules,
initiating a chain of chemical reactions which ulti-
mately create stratospheric ozone. Light radiated at
the lower end the spectrum has a more directly pen-
etrating effect: visible and near infra-red light warm
the lower atmosphere and the earth’s surface. The
overall effect during the most recent period of de-
cline was to produce an increase in heating. It is
thought that the converse phenomena would occur
when the Sun’s activity increases.
Given that the Sun’s activity has been increasing
over the past 100 years, the results of the study
will be leaving climate scientists hot under the col-
lar. It had hitherto been assumed that the Sun had
been increasing the temperature of the earth, but
the new research indicates that the Sun’s role may
have been overstated. It is critical that further re-
search is undertaken before any assertions can be
made, however. Professor Joanna Haigh comments
that, ““We cannot jump to any conclusions based on
what we have found during this comparatively short
period and we need to carry out further studies to
explore the Sun’s activity, and the patterns that we
have uncovered, on longer timescales. However, if
further studies find the same pattern over a longer
period of time, this could suggest that we may have
overestimated the Sun’s role in warming the planet,
rather than underestimating it.”
Melissa Lever
Polly Bennett
‘Radical change’ needed to
fight CO2 emissions
In Brief
Sun activity decline may counter-
intuitively cause warming
A briefing paper released last week by the
Grantham Institute for Climate Change has
warned the government, industry and public
that “radical changes” to the transport indus-
try are vital in order to effectively reduce CO2
emissions. The authors, all of Imperial College
research teams, reviewed current low carbon
technologies aimed at reducing greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions from road transport vehicles
and their fuels. The conclusion reached is that
alterations to improve energy efficiency in ex-
isting vehicles will not be sufficient to cause a
significant reduction in emissions and a switch
to hybrid or fully electric cars, coupled with
decarbonisation of the electricity grid through
increased use of alternative fuels, will be nec-
essary.
In 2008 the then elected new energy and
climate change secretary, David Milliband,
pledged the UK would reduce GHG emissions
by 80% from 1990 levels by 2050, replac-
ing the previous target of 60%. This included
tackling the contribution of GHG emissions
made by UK road transport. In 2007, transport
contributed 23% of the GHG emissions from
energy-related industries. Lead author of the
briefing paper Dr David Howey states “the UK
has one of the poorer emission track records
in Europe” and highlights in the report that
only through consistent political aid and policy
changes involving automotive and power in-
dustry companies will this target be achievable.
Despite the inability to reduce emissions
significantly the authors suggest changes to
existing vehicles will go some way to miti-
gating climate change while the emerging
technologies of alternative fuels and low
carbon vehicles become more viable. Sug-
gestions for effective improvements include
vehicle weight reduction to improve energy
efficiency in stop-start urban driving, engine
downsizing, and kinetic energy recovery sys-
tems. The authors raise concerns however that
improving vehicle efficiency will lower main-
tenance and running costs which may have
the rebound effect of increasing road traffic,
thereby reducing any benefits gained from
such changes.
The authors also state unequivocally that a
switch from fossil to alternative fuels, such as
electricity and biofuels is crucial, and supports
their message that there needs to be “a change
in behaviour as well as technology.” Just over
90% of UK car trips are less than 25 miles
which, according to the report, is encourage-
ment for the implementation of electric cars
despite barriers to this technology. However
the report identifies range limitation, battery
cost and reliance on a decarbonised grid as is-
sues hindering the development of electric and
plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. In addition,
the report identifies long haul truck and avia-
tion as the most likely beneficiaries of biofuels
but also highlights that competition for land
with food production and issues with energy
efficiency are currently delaying the progres-
sion of these technologies.
Last week also saw the launch of the Elec-
tric and Hybrid Vehicle Research Network by
Imperial’s Future Labs to coincide with the
release of the briefing paper. Dr Ricardo Mar-
tinez-Botas co-author of the briefing paper
and leader of the network explains that “the
move to low carbon vehicles needs to em-
brace the significant and affordable changes
that engineering can make. This new network
brings together work from different depart-
ments within Imperial, making them aware
of the different research efforts in hybrid
and electric vehicles and with the aim to lead
the world in setting the agenda for low car-
bon technology in the coming decades.” The
launch event itself he reported “had a high
level of attendance with contributions from
leaders in the field including Miguel Fragoso
from GM UK who outlined the future power
train configuration to achieve low carbon im-
pact vehicles.”
SCIENCE
Science Editors: James Goldsack
Katya-yani Vyas
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk

