FELIX Friday 22 October 2010 13
BUSINESS
Did Physics break the
economy? Can it save it?
Afonso Campos explores the role of mathematical methods in the explosive cocktail
that led to the greatest economic meltdown in generations and questions their future
A
t the apogee of the math-
ematical finance move-
ment in the mid-ninties,
billions were being made
by pioneering science
and finance academics and those who
had the foresight to see the increasing
use of these techniques. Louis Bach-
elier, the informal father of the disci-
pline about a century ago, would have
been proud. Bachelier speculated that
because of the “memorylessness” of
stock market noise (that is, events that
momentarily alter the price of a stock
in a way that does not reflect the gen-
eral sentiment of the markets), stock
price increments are completely inde-
pendent and able to be modeled by a
Gaussian distribution. Even after this
was postulated, academics were still
unaccustomed to witnessing mathemat-
ics solving problems in finance. Now,
however, a large slice of this so-called
quantitative finance draws inspiration
from the physical sciences, seen by
some purists as a pristine and sacred
discipline. Physics, not unlike finance,
concerns itself with a seemingly infinite
set of parameters, constantly changing
and evolving; completely dynamic, so
its use in the field is not as far a cry as
one may have initially thought.
In the good times, nothing could
seemingly go wrong. In 1994, eleven
prominent academics, bankers and fi-
nanciers came together to form Long
Term Capital Management (LCTCM), a
highly mediatic hedge fund in Connecti-
cut. The superstar team included Myron
Scholes who co-created and published
the famous “Black-Scholes Option Pric-
ing Model”. Given the experience of the
partners, all evidence pointed to LTCM
becoming the most successful financial
institution of all time, and the first few
years of activity lulled investors and the
markets into a false sense of security
given returns in excess of 40%. It was
seen to be the epitome of quantitative
finance since Bachelier’s initial paper.
The Oracle of Omaha, Mr Warren Buf-
fett himself, called the derivatives used
by houses like LTCM “weapons of mass
destruction”. At the time, he could not
have foreseen the extent to which his
words would become true. The financial
world slowly but surely began succumb-
ing to the flaws in the models.
Chaotic, scared, unruled, disrespect-
ed, anarchical, greedy, uncertain, melt-
down, unfinished, prophetic; these are
merely a few groups of letters that spell
the sentiment of a world suffering a bro-
ken economy and spirit. The beginnings:
well known; a significant increase in
mortgage defaults in the United States.
The consequences: immeasurable; tril-
lions of dollars of financial devastation,
corporate collapse, record low consumer
confidence; possibility of deflation. In
order to raise funds to lend money, mort-
gage providers repackaged their debt in
complex financial products which they
sold to supposedly responsible banks,
ensuring the ratings agency gave these
investment vehicles very high ratings,
falsely deeming them suitable and a
worthwhile investment. The banks
themselves increased the complexity of
these products and sold them on to in-
vestment funds with an appetite for su-
pernormal returns and a carefree attitude
towards risk.
There are some who blame the high
level and complexity of the mathematics
involved for the crisis. Professor L.C.
Thomas of Southampton University
suggests that the crisis we are now feel-
ing was created not necessarily by the
mathematics but by an explosive com-
bination of “greed and a conspiracy of
optimism”. The exoteric models created
by the physicists and mathematicians
had actually worked surprisingly well
in identifying problem areas in the debt
merry-go-round. The models, however,
were possibly far too complex for any-
one other than their creators to under-
stand, meaning that the average mort-
gage salesman felt detached from the
process and became unwilling to ‘listen’
to an abstract mathematical formula and
became an irresponsible lender.
It is almost undeniable that mathemat-
ics has had a tremendous impact on the
crisis and is one of its catalysts. The ex-
tent, however, is considered by leading
academics somewhat limited. Dr. Dorje
Brody, a reader of mathematics and re-
searcher in financial mathematics at Im-
perial College believes the models are
only to blame as they allowed products
“whose contents are quite obscure to be
traded” when their prices were being
quoted on an “ad-hoc” basis.
The consensus lies in the understand-
ing that no matter what role the models
played in the downturn of the economy,
mathematics will be instrumental in fix-
ing the situation. Dr Brody thinks that
that it will however depend on “whether
people come to the realisation that mod-
el building at a phenomenological level
is feasible” in the world of finance.
There is a widespread sentiment that
financial institutions have ransacked
and wrongly appropriated the tech-
niques developed by physical scientists
and mathematicians. Many believe that
those who learn the ideas of physics and
mathematics and manipulate them for
use in the financial markets are, in one
way or another, deviants of sorts, sell-
ing out their ‘sacred’ science. It’s almost
like a Dr Faustus meets Mephistopheles
scenario. The truth, however, is that in a
not so far-fetched way of thinking, phys-
ics and finance are in fact much more re-
lated in essence than one may initially
postulate. Scraping the possibility of
malicious intent from either front, it is
then possible to come to the somewhat
abstract conclusion that while both deal
with very fundamentally different ideas,
the two share a very paramount synergy.
Both fields aim to advance knowledge,
evolve science and help ensure that the
perpetual curiosity of mankind does not
cease.
More importantly, they help observ-
ers gain a view of the world that throws
a welcome helping hand in making life
better for a myriad of people. Given the
accepted view that quantitative finance
is here to stay, the necessity lies not in
accepting that it draws from methods in
the physical sciences, but rather engag-
ing in a symbiotic relationship with the
best minds in the field. Perhaps we will
go back to a simpler time and a financial
system where the level of mathematical
exoterism is diminished and people be-
come once again the drivers of the mar-
kets and economy instead of an obscure
formula developed in a small room on
the 54th floor of a sky-scraper in New
York City.
The use of mathematical methods in finance was so widespread, universities were worried about losing research talent to Wall Street
“Model building at
a phenomenological
level is feasible” – Dr
Dorje Brody
“Physics and finance
ensure perpetual
curiosity does not
cease.”

