So you’ve got your shiny new iPad and
you want to take it everywhere with you,
but what about protecting your not in-
considerable investment? The back may
be made from tough aluminium, but with
that large pane of glass on the front, it’s
just asking for trouble.
That’s where the LA robe Allure for iPad
from be.ez steps in. Don’t let the crappy
name fool you, this zippered slipcase of-
fers good protection from the bumps and
knocks your iPad might encounter in day
to day life. Made from 5mm thick, low
resilience polyurethane (LRPu) foam,
the case absorbs impacts by deforming
freely and then slowly returning to its
original shape.
There’s not much else to the LA robe,
though the top has an inner lip to protect
your iPad from the closing zip. Inside
the case is lined with soft felt to prevent
scratches to that gorgeous 9.7” screen.
If you’re one to roll with a hard case on
your iPad, be.ez has made the case just
about big enough to accommodate your
iPad in a slim hard shell.
Overall we were quite impressed with
the LA robe for iPad. It’s a snug fit that
makes you feel the iPad is well protected,
while the LRPu absorbs knocks easily,
great for slinging your iPad in a back-
pack. Available in four stripy colours,
including the fetching Neapolitan to the
right, and at just over £20 the Allure is
worth considering if you’re after a simple
padded slipcase for your Apple slate.
G
oogle, the Mecca of top minds
in computing, the dream work-
place of fresh-grad software
engineers, is shaken by a tremor
of brain drain. Or rather, a brain
haemorrhage. And it is Facebook who struck
the blow. It started with Sheryl Sandberg, once
Google’s Vice President of Global Online Sales
and Operations, now Facebook’s first Chief
Operating Officer. Then Erik Tseng, a high
level product manager of Google’s Android
hopped on to Facebook to lead its mobile strat-
egy. Trailing along was Google’s ‘rockstar’
developer and head of the Chrome OS proj-
ect, Matthew Papakipos. He went to Facebook
right before the completion of Chrome OS.
Today, more than 100 Googlers have de-
fected to Facebook amidst extraordinary coun-
teroffers on behalf of Facebook. Tech Crunch
joked that Googlers should consider an offer
from Facebook just for the sake of getting
Google to drastically increase their salary.
The mass migration of Googlers to Facebook
indicates one thing: Facebook might just be the
next big thing.
And it may even be bigger than Google. Still
a privately held company, analysts are predict-
ing that Facebook’s IPO would be larger than
Google’s when Google went public in 2004,
reports The Financial Times. Part of the rea-
son why those brilliant Silicon Valley luminar-
ies at Google are flocking to the whelp of a
company that is Facebook, is to own a small
chunk of a company that might, as the whis-
pers go, be valuated at $100 billion not too
far in the future, reports Michael Arrington of
Tech Crunch.
The social network company is going to get
bigger than the Facebook as we know it today,
because it is just the beginning of something
truly revolutionary. Not satisfied with permeat-
ing the fabric of our online social life, Face-
book aims to extend its tentacles to the mobile
platform (now it makes sense to steal Google’s
Tseng and Papakipos). Joe Hewitt, one of
Firefox’s founders, developed the immensely
popular Facebook iPhone app. The new Places
feature brings real-world interaction with Face-
book to another level, by feeding your current
location to Facebook via your mobile. Tech
Crunch reports rumours that both Hewitt and
Papakipos are in charge of a ‘top secret’ Face-
book initiative, to create a Facebook phone to
counter the competition from Apple’s iPhone
and Google’s Android phones.
Hitting the mobile market is the next sensible
step, as there is only so much you can do with
a website alone, unless you lug a laptop around
with you everywhere you go. As Arrington
points out, there is only so much Facebook
could reach with an app on those platforms,
unless it creates its own tight integration with a
mobile operating system.
Then there is Facebook Connect, which en-
ables you to log onto websites outside Face-
book, using your Facebook account, and the
new Facebook Credits which critics think
might be able to usurp PayPal in the future.
Both Facebook Connect and Credits could lay
the groundwork to transform the Facebook
platform into a global village that transcends
borders, with its own passport (your Facebook
account) and currency (Facebook Credits).
Facebook has the potential to be bigger than
Microsoft. Bill Gates created the most popular
platform for personal computing, but Zucker-
berg created a platform that embeds itself into a
more fundamental aspect of human life: our so-
cial networks. In The Facebook Effect, Zucker-
berg likens social networking to Moore’s law
– that processor capability grows exponentially
over the years. The quantity of information ex-
changed over social networks should increase
exponentially over subsequent years. Zuck-
erberg thinks that we are inevitably heading
towards a more transparent world, a zeitgeist
some find discomforting. Regardless, he sees
Facebook as a tool to help people adopt open-
ness. For Zuckerberg, an open world is a more
responsible world.
TECHNOLOGY
FELIX
Friday 22 October 2010
14
Technology Editor: Samuel Gibbs
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Free App of the Week
iOS - TweetDeck for iPhone
Want something to collate all your social networking
in one place? Enter TweetDeck for iPhone. Facebook
and Twitter all in one app. Brilliant.
An Alluring iPad case
Samuel Gibbs
TweetDeck for Android bests the iPhone version with
Facebook, Twitter, Foursquare and even Google Buzz
in one app. Bonza!
Android - TweetDeck for Android
Facebook: What’s Next?
It’s already revolutionised your social life, but where does
Facebook go from here? Guo Heng Chin investigates

