POLITICS
FELIX
Friday 22 October 2010
16
Politics Editors: Hassan Joudi, Rory Fenton
James Lees, Rajat Jain
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Welfare for all?
Rajat Jain questions the need for universal benefits
The middle classes throughout the developed
world complain of faring worst from their gov-
ernments’ budgets. They are, by definition,
hard-working and economically productive.
They face taxes as high as the wealthiest in
their society, but find this reduces their abil-
ity to pay for relatively basic goods, such as
their mortgage, rather than the ability to buy
luxuries, like a Mediterranean holiday home.
Despite this, they receive far fewer free or sub-
sidised public services and benefits than the
poorest in their societies.
New Labour managed to seize power from
the Tories by appealing to this sense of middle
class outrage; not by cutting their taxes (though
they effectively promised to not directly in-
crease these) but by giving them greater access
to the spending side; benefits were introduced
to help the youngest and the oldest, regardless
of wealth. This included giving winter fuel al-
lowances, eye tests, prescriptions, travel passes
and television licenses to the elderly and child
tax credits to families. These universal benefits
remained hugely popular with the electorate
and were largely unquestioned by the Conser-
vatives, then in opposition.
Then the need for an emergency budget
emerged and this aspect of government spend-
ing suddenly came under closer scrutiny. This
is hardly surprising; it is a strange yet radical
quirk in our economic system that emerged to
appease the political environment without any
debate to justify it taking place. Now, with the
buzzwords ‘necessary’ and ‘fair’ being thrown
around by Government, that long overdue de-
bate is finally taking place in Downing Street,
albeit rather quietly. The debate, ideally, would
also be considered at a time when tax, as well
as spending, was not under considerable pres-
sure. Nevertheless, it’s better late than never.
It was thought that this week’s emergency
budget could well spell a clear end for the pol-
icy of universal benefits and a return to means
testing; the result on the day was, however,
rather unclear. Perks for the over 75s were, by
and large, maintained with the recent increase
in the winter allowance being formally con-
firmed and guaranteed. This is, perhaps, related
to the far more important move of state pension
age being lifted to 66 by 2020; finding out that
retirement will come later and cost more at the
same time can have a bad influence on voter
psyche. Child benefits, on the other hand, have
been cut for the wealthiest of families. This,
admittedly, had already been openly discussed
and had broad support.
The government must consider whether this
aspect of government spending represents a
shared universal necessity in our lives which
cannot be afforded by many. In which case,
like health or education, it should be universal.
Otherwise, if it is considered an emergency,
and almost charitable, measure for the most
unfortunate in society, such as unemployment
The world beyond
College walls
Edited by Kenneth Lee
Phillipines
About a quarter of the 5.6 million votes cast in the
Afghan Parliamentary election have been voided
by the Election Commission. This announcement
amidst allegations of widespread fraud and ballot
stuffing in the Parliamentary election held on the
18th which was widely seen as a test for Afghani-
stan’s fledgling democracy. The final result of the
election is not expected to be announced for an-
other 3 weeks. The current Afghan Parliament is
stacked full of former warlords and power brokers
with ties to the old elite of Afghanistan. However,
despite widespread corruption and patronage net-
works in the Wolesi Jirga, it has managed to act as
an effective check on the President Karzai.
Afghanistan
or housing benefits, which should be means
tested. The distinction is rather subtle and may,
admittedly, require certain assumptions about
the homogeneity and expectations of society,
as well as assuming that taxation and other
government spending follows fixed ideologies
effectively.
The government still appears to be in two
minds over universal welfare; this could well
be to spread the blow over subsequent budgets.
We will have to wait and see if they come to a
decision on its future by 2015.
Typhoon Megi has left 200,000 people homeless
and at least 11 dead in the Phillipines after making
landfall on Monday. Typhoon Megi battered the
island of Luzon with winds of up to 250 km/h
this week leaving a trail of destruction in its
wake. Typhoon Megi is now thought to be heading
towards mainland China and Chinese officials
have evacuated tens of thousands of people from
Guangdong and Hainan provinces in anticipation
of Typhoon Megi. Meanwhile, Filipino President
Aquino praised
his administration
for the response
to Typhoon
Megi whose
preparations
helped minimise
the loss of life.
Venezuela
President Obama has reaffirmed Venezuela’s right
to Russian nuclear aid at a meeting with journalist in
the White House. President Obama added that Ven-
ezuela must behave responsibly and honour her ob-
ligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.
This comes after Venezuela signed a deal with Rus-
sia who agreed to build two 1.2 GW reactors during
a state visit by President Hugo Chavez to Moscow
last week. President Obama hopes to improve US-
Venezuelan ties which have improved following the
election of President Obama.
George Osborne has promised to peel, cut and mash the deficit. This should take 4-5 years.
Next year’s box could change welfare for good

