POLITICS
FELIX Friday 22 October 2010 17
Rajat Jain
It could be worse; we could be in France
British economic cuts may pain us now, but the French failure to reform will hurt them more
Britain’s first coalition government since
the Second World War seems to be split-
ting at the seams as it unveils a budget to
deal with the worst deficit caused by the
worst recession in Britain since the Sec-
ond World War. This has already caused
a twenty four hour tube strike and back-
bench anger over broken party pledges.
We can, however, at least take solace
in the fact that we appear to be coping
better than the other half of the entente
cordial; our sister nation, France.
President Sarkozy’s plan to increase
the retirement age from 60 to 62 has, to
put it lightly, triggered popular discon-
tent. The parallels with Britain, like so
much of Franco-British history of the
past century, are clear; a right-of-centre
government bringing in major economic
reform, including increasing state pen-
sion age from 65, at a time of economic
crisis, triggering civil unrest. This is,
however, where the similarities end.
These are major protests; the sixth day
of nationwide strikes and protests, each
attracting about 1m to 3m to the streets,
in two months has been coupled with
a week-long blockade of oil refineries.
The French economy, without petrol and
transport, is grinding to a halt. France
(or Paris, at least) has a long history of
strikes bringing down governments- or
at least causing embarrassing policy U-
turns in the case of 1995 and 2006 re-
form attempts; Baron Hausmann even
designed the city around protest power.
France has never had a Thatcherite fig-
ure to control trade union power effec-
tively.
The relative economic unrest should,
all the same, seem surprising; Britain’s
banking based economy fared worse in
the financial crisis- it came out of re-
cession six months after France (with
higher decline in every quarter) and its
deficit is about 11% GDP compared
with France’s 7%. However, the strang-
est and perhaps most telling statistic
is that strikers have more than 70%
of popular support, yet oddly up to
70% of those polled also support pen-
sion reform. Unemployment in France
has also hit a staggering 10%, and its
National debt remains at over 70%-
though these were recurrent problems
in France before recession, which per-
haps shows the big difference between
the two nations.
The problem for France is not about
cuts to balance the books and the dis-
content is not purely about pension
reform. While Britain’s newly elected
government deals out temporary mea-
sures to deal with urgent but short term
problems, France is dealing with both
economic and social problems that have
been around for decades and were meant
to dealt with by a president that has been
in power for over three years now.
Mr Sarkozy was always likely to be a
controversial radical; he showed views
which, liberal or conservative, were cer-
tainly not Populist. He said the French
must work more and face less job secu-
rity; openly complimenting the Anglo-
Saxon economic model. He even went
so far as to say France showed “arro-
gance” to not see that we were all the
founders of liberty. As minister of the
interior, he supported the founding of
a Muslim Council in France to address
their needs effectively and suggested
the state should subsidise mosques to
further integration yet also called Arab
rioters in 2005 “traitors”. On entering
office promised to create a more dy-
namic French economy, a more tolerant
society and assert France as a power for
good on the world stage (even bringing
the socialist founder of Medecins sans
Frontiers in as Foreign Secretary as an
olive branch).
This is a far cry from what has hap-
pened. While he has reduced some
union strike power and maintained
the right to work long hours to main-
tain labour flexibility, he failed push
through enough reform earlier to con-
trol unemployment effectively. When
the USA and UK seemed to be bearing
the brunt of world recession, he did a
major U-turn and claimed French eco-
nomics was right all along, making any
economic reform hypocritical. The
government also introduced a ban on
the burqa and brought France back into
NATO (an Anglo-Saxon dominated
military system is anathema to many
of those across the French political
spectrum); both moves, regardless of
national support were not policies he
was voted in for. To top off his feeble
attempts at political reforms, corrup-
tion charges are emerging; scandalous
claims have been made over his rela-
tionship with the L’Oreal family, an
W
ednesday’s Spend-
ing Review brought
with it the news,
much speculated
and feared in this
paper, that science spending would it-
self face cuts. The research budget will
be frozen, which means a real terms cut
of 10%; about £500 million. This may
not sound like too much but it comes at
a time when countries like America and
Germany are increasing research spend-
ing, seeing it as key to continued eco-
nomic growth. Our own business school
at Imperial recently produced at report
showing how investment in science re-
search leads directly to growth in other,
seemingly unconnected, sectors.
But the government says that cuts
must be made and that for the sake of
fairness, science must suffer too. This
might seem, well, fair. But look at what
has not been cut for fear of public out-
cry, and scientists might have reason to
cry foul.
Cuts to the welfare budget never
sound fair. Welfare is supposed to be
for the worse off in society, people who
would most likely go homeless and hun-
gry without benefits. But welfare under
New Labour extend much beyond this,
and with intelligent cuts the poor can be
spared any pain; and science could well
be too.
Politicians, for all their perceived con-
fidence on the podium, are timid crea-
tures. Often, instead of fighting their
corner, it is tempting to give in to tab-
loid headlines and instant public reac-
tion. This is exactly what has happened
over the increasingly expensive freebies
handed out by the previous administra-
tion to the elderly. The government cur-
rently hands out free bus passes and TV
licenses to the elderly, as well as gener-
ous winter fuel allowances.
The only requirement for these ben-
efits is age; they are paid to the impov-
WELFARE
CUTS
COULD
PAY FOR
SCIENCE
erished and millionaires alike, resulting
in the bizarre situation wherein all pen-
sioners receive a winter fuel allowance
aimed at fighting the fuel poverty faced
by only 20% of them. The same applies
to the bus passes and TV licences; pen-
sioners receiving for free services for
which they could, by and large, easily
pay.
By making these benefits means
tested, instead of universal, George Os-
borne could ensure that no pensioners
go without travel, TV or central heat-
ing this winter (the original intention of
the benefit) while saving a whopping £9
Billion pounds.
No doubt the Left will be quick to ac-
cuse the chancellor of robbing poor pen-
sioners; even though he isn’t. Osborne
icon of chic French industry.
Regardless of what we may think of the
details of the cuts in Britain, the Conser-
vatives have, by and large, showed that
they have every intention of carrying out
precisely what they were voted in to do.
The French president, on the other hand,
has spent three years alienating enough
of his populace to make the desperately
needed economic reform, which he was
voted in for, almost impossible to push
through.
These protests, it seems, are long
overdue. While it is now certain that the
pension reform will go through parlia-
ment regardless of the protests, the In-
dian Summer of Sarkozy’s presidential
term is well and truly over.
will still be reeling from his declara-
tion that child tax credit would become
means tested; he was roasted for hurting
families, despite poor families keeping
the credit. Perhaps here scientists, used
to the struggles of convincing the pub-
lic of evolution and vaccines, can em-
pathise with the chancellor’s struggle to
win the public around from their gut re-
actions. But his failure to address unnec-
essary benefits can only mean yet more
cuts in other departments. If he took the
leap and means tested pensioner give-
aways, science could keep its budget
and cuts across other departments could
be reduced from 19 to 14%, according
to the Institute of Fiscal Studies. That
knowledge, if nothing else, should give
him courage.
RORY FENTON
“Politicians, for all their perceived confi-
dence on the podium, are timid creatures.”
Not the only one being screwed
by Sarkozy It looks like there’s a big chicken nugget drunking a beer on the right...

