18
COM M ENT
felix
FRIDAY 22 OCTOBER 2010
T
he Browne Review aims
to advise the Government
on changes to the system
of Higher Education Fund-
ing. Although the headline
proposal has been to allow universities
to set their own fees, the proposals in
the review would, if enacted, mean that
anyone could go to university regardless
of wealth. It would provide more money
for students to live on whilst at universi-
ty. It would also mean that no one would
have to start paying off their loan until
they were earning £21,000, and that un-
til then, there would be no interest on it.
Why are the NUS against these propos-
als? For one reason: perception.
The NUS have to be seen to be justify-
ing themselves, and so have picked up
on the fact that universities could charge
unlimited fees to say that students could
be priced out. Under the proposals, Im-
perial could charge whatever it wants,
but if the Government pays this for you
up front, if you only pay it back when
you’re earning, and if the debt is wiped
after 30 years, is there really an issue?
By saying that students will be priced
out, the NUS is doing more damage to
the expectations of school children look-
ing to apply to university than any rise in
fees. By focusing on this, and ignoring
the benefits of what Browne proposes,
they have shown they are more willing
to follow ideological points than engage
with the problem.
And the problem is that universities
are underfunded; university funding per
student has dropped with increased par-
ticipation over the last two decades. uni-
versities need more money to enhance
teaching, invest in new facilities, fund
research (and it is research-led-teaching
that makes universities so excellent) and
increase bursaries for poorer students.
Imperial, like other universities, has an
extensive bursary scheme to help stu-
dents with living costs. 40% of Imperial
students receive some kind of payment
from the College. And Imperial want to
provide more help with living, and re-
duce fees for all but the most wealthy.
In fact, they’re doing it; building up the
endowment so that students get a fairer
deal.
It begs the question; what all the fuss
is about? Sciences are more expensive
to teach and fees may be higher than for
Arts subjects. But the potential earnings
are also greater, and for those of us who
want to go into low paying jobs such as
teaching or research, Browne proposes
more help for universities which pro-
vide the graduates which choose these
paths. Crucially for us, the new £21,000
threshold means that if you do a PhD,
you are very unlikely to have to start
paying off your undergraduate loan until
you finish.
We are at a university which aims to
ensure that students can come here re-
gardless of their ability to pay. But it is
The Review is right
not just out of kindness; it is in every
university’s best interest to attract the
brightest students, regardless of their
ability to pay. They can only do this if
they have the money to do so. The other
source of money is the Government. I
hear the economic argument for free
education, that it benefits the economy
to have highly skilled graduates, so let
the Government pay... but doesn’t that
sound selfish? After all, graduates ben-
efit more individually than non-gradu-
ates. Are we really attending university
out of self-sacrifice for the rest of the
economy? I would feel embarrassed
saying to someone who didn’t have the
academic background, inclination or cir-
cumstances to go to university, that we
help the country more than them, so de-
serve their tax money. We need to start
taking responsibility for our education.
Paying for it is a start.
We should support the Browne Re-
view, and all attempts to get universities
the money they need, whilst keeping
in mind that access for all is a worthier
goal than free education.
We should accept the Browne Review – it is only fair that
students should pay for the benefits of their education
By the time that George Osborne stood to
deliver the Spending Review at the Dispatch
Box in the House of Commons, scientists
at Imperial and around the UK had already
breathed a sigh of relief. Although funding
is still being cut by 10%, U.K. research has
escaped the catastrophic 25% cuts that had
been threatened. But we at Imperial, in our
ivory towers in South Kensington, should not
forget that other subjects and other univer-
sities are being hit hard; we are the lucky
ones.
Scientific research is being spared (in this
perverse world, a 10% cut is salvation) be-
cause the government has recognised, as
well they should, that cutting investment in
research is like shooting yourself in the foot.
It does more to damage economic recovery
than to promote it. However our investment
in R&D is still far behind our global competi-
tors. For what can only reasons of political
expediency (because it defies all logic) we
are cutting at a time when other developed
countries are boosting research funding. Im-
perial’s global reputation, solid financial po-
sition and willingness to take hard-nosed de-
cisions (see the Life Sciences re-structure)
will mean that it will retain its position as a
globally-competitive research institution. But
be in no doubt, research in the UK in general
will suffer heavily as a result of the govern-
ment’s plans.
In teaching also, we should consider our-
selves blessed. The government has set out
a massive contraction in university funding.
Humanities and other non-STEM (Science,
Technology, Engineering and Medicine) sub-
jects will struggle with the coalition’s 79%
cuts. Imperial is one of the few universities
that will be able to shake off this attack with
relatively few scars. Our international repu-
tation means that we will always be able to
attract international students who boost uni-
versities’ coffers with the high fees that they
pay. In addition we will be able to charge
higher home fees if the cap on tuition fees is
lifted which, again, will help to offset losses
from government funding. Imperial, which re-
jects the majority of its applicants already,
will not need to worry about deterring home
students with higher fees. Finally, the fact
that we are a STEM institution means that
the losses in government funding will be
small in comparison to other institutions.
But although you will not experience the
full impact of the Government’s cuts, don’t
let that fool you supposing that they are
insignificant.
FELIX
Alex Kendall
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
The Government’s
Spending Cuts won’t hit us
as hard as others
Imperial College has an extensive bursary scheme to improve access for students
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
President, Imperial
College Student’s Union
“Are we really
attending university
out of self-sacrifice?”
“
“
scheme to improv
”
of kindness; it is in every
f kindness; it is in
The NUS have shown they
are more willing to follow
ideological points than engage
with the problem.
C omment Editor: Anna Perman

