HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
Friday 22 October 2010
2
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, 17 Brest Road, Derriford, Plym-
outh. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2010.
EDITOR’S PICK
The Best of Felix This Week
Imperial graduate rules
the airwaves
And who said that Imperial students
can’t go on to careers outside science
or banking? This week Music Editor
Greg Power interviews Martin Archer,
an Imperial Physics graduate who DJs
for Kiss Radio, but is now returning
to Imperial for a PhD. The interview is
a must-read for those thinking about
embarking on an unconventional
career path as well as DJing
enthusiasts keen to stay at the cutting
edge of the profession.
Page 28
On campus
Careers Fair 2010
The Union Careers Fair is the perfect place to start
thinking about your future. Over 60 companies are
attending and its a fantastic opportunity to meet
some of them and network with current profession-
als. The fair is relevant to students from all years
and disciplines.
Queen’s Lawn Marquee
27 October 11:00-16:00
Charity Week 2010
This annual fundrais-
ing week sees the Is-
lamic Society go all out
with stalls, food and
games to raise money
for orphans and needy
children across the
world. Evening events
include the Ultimate
Quiz Show on Tuesday
5pm, and Panto Slum-
dog Millionaire 2 on
Thursday 7pm.
SAF, JCR and Princes Gardens
25-29 October 11:30-14:30PM
Economy and Climate
Professor Michael Ghil from the University of Califor-
nia delivers this seminar in the Grantham Institute
for Climate Change’s weekly Wednesday seminars
series. He will explore coupled dynamic modelling
of the world economy, business cycle and climate
system. Grantham Institute seminars are open to
student and staff members of Imperial College.
Boardroom, Grantham Institute
27 October 16:00
Union Elections
Council
Election season has already started at Imperial
College Union. The first round of elections has opened
for Undergraduate Faculty Councillors (Engineering,
Natural Sciences and Medicine and Non-Faculty), two
postgraduate representatives (Engineering & Physical
Sciences and Life Sciences & Medicine), Union Advocate,
First Year Ents Committee Member, S.H.A.G. Week
Coordinator and Gender Equality Officer. You can vote at
www.imperialcollegeunion.org/vote. Voting closes on the
26 October at 00:00. Good luck to all those standing. To
those who aren’t, make your votes count.
Union Autumn Elections 2010
Metric launch
delayed
It has been a tumultuous week
for the Union. While the new
bar FiveSixEight has opened
with great success and a gen-
erally positive response from
students, the new club Metric
has been further delayed by
the discovery of asbestos.
Metric was due to open this
coming Friday 29th of Octo-
ber but the opening will now
be pushed back to the end of
November. The delay will
disappoint students who, after
experiencing the renovated
bar, were excited to see the
new club.
Deputy President (Finances
& Services) Ravi Pall told
Felix: “the risk of exposure
to the workers in that area
means that only certain parts
of the space can be occupied,
while the asbestos material is
removed, leading to a delay in
works”.
The discovery of asbes-
tos is the second setback to
the club renovation. It was
originally intended to open in
time for Welcome Week but
problems with removing the
pillar meant that the construc-
tion could not be completed
over the summer as originally
intended.
Ravi Pall said “While this
delay is a unfortunate, it must
be understood that this project
has thrown up a huge range
of challenges that could not
have been predicted.” Disrup-
tion has also affected several
Clubs & Societies who were
planning to run their own
events in the new space.
Breaking news
Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Copy Chief Lizzy Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editors Alex Karapetian Matt Colvin Layout/Design Editor
Victoria McQuadeova Sports Editor Jovan Nedic David Wilson Science Editors Katya-yani Vyas James Goldsack Business Editors Sina Ataherian Afonso Campos Politics
Editors Hassan Joudi James Lees Rory Fenton Rajat Jain Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs Comment Editor Anna Perman Arts Editor Rox Middleton Music Editors Greg
Power Christopher Walmsley Luke Turner Film Editors Matt Allinson Jade Hoffman Ed Knock Fashion Editor Saskia Verhagen Games Editor Simon Worthington Online Editors
Niharika Midha Ravi Pall Chris Birkett International Editor Kenneth Lee Puzzles Captains Polly Bennett James Hook Photo Editor Thomas Welch Travel Editor Dylan Lowe Chris
Richardson
Special thanks to: Ayyub Kamaludin, Slobodan Radosavljevic, Shruti Mishra, Mitesh Patel, Outi Supponen, Gilead Amit, Afonso Campos, Azfarul Islam and especially Dylan Lowe
for all their invaluable help this week.

