ELECTIONS
FELIX
Friday 22 October 2010
22
Currently in my 2nd year on ICSMSU, I’ve also
been active in ICSM on music soc commit-
tee for 2 years whilst in orchestra. I’ve rowed with
ICSMBC since coming to Imperial and last year
performed in Light Opera. These have helped me
meet many different people with different interests
throughout the medschool which is important as of-
tenthosewhosevoicesareheardloudestdon’trepre-
sent the majority. I want to ensure everyone’s views
are heard equally, not just at exec level but right
where policy is made and refined in ICU Council.
Last year’s medical school conference high-
lighted just how lucky we actually are, for ex-
ample in having the Reynolds, but also areas for
improvement. Organising Global Brigades trips
and playing in sinfonietta, have given me experi-
ence working within IC to achieve common goals;
so I’m confident if given the chance, I would
help further ICSM’s best interests with them.
Aislinn O’Malley
Council Ordinary Member
MEDICS
Getting involved in being a representative of
the student body is something I’ve always
been enthusiastic about. I really like art, dance,
music and water sports, and now that I’ve come
to Imperial I want to get involved in more than
just academics or playing sport. I took part in my
previous school’s council, which made me re-
alise the importance of the student voice within
an academic system. Student council should be a
forum for discussion, where opinions from every
part of the university should be heard and change,
whether small or radical, should be initiated by
the students. I feel that I am an approachable per-
son to whom students will feel comfortable ex-
pressing their opinions, and who is outspoken
enough to help make sure the union is run effec-
tively with only the students best interests at heart.
Alexandra Burke-Smith
Hi, my name is Hannah Tullett. I am a first-year
medic from Sussex, still getting to grips with
London/lectures/ginned-up sports nights, all whilst
battling the dreaded fresher’s flu! But I have found
my feet enough to run for the position of medical
undergraduate representative, because I am pas-
sionate about giving you a voice. With two years
of experience in a Sixth Form student union, I am
up for the challenge of catering to the needs of a di-
verse group of individuals. As your representative
I would be approachable and dedicated to making
the changes you want. This is your university, and
I want you to be able to take into your own hands
all efforts to make Imperial the best environment
in which to study and play hard. Above all, I am
committed to making your experiences at univer-
sity as they should be: some of the best of your life.
Hannah Tullett
Hello, I’m Steve. I’m a fourth year Mechani-
cal Engineer. I’ve been involved in all sides
of Union activity throughout my time at Imperial,
admittedly a lot has been the in the bar....but I’ve
also been on the committees of a number of clubs,
and last year I held a senior position in CGCU, so
I’ve seen the hard graft as well. I want to be a Coun-
cil member so that I can continue to play a small
part in trying to make life better for my friends and
fellow students. As Council member, I should be
representing your views and interests, so if I give
a few of my views here, you can see whether we
agree, and whether you should vote for me or not.
I take a long term view to things, I consider the
consequences (immediate and potential) of actions,
I’m opposed to teaching standards and Student...
Steve Long
ENGINEERS
Imperial College Union has an impact on all of
our lives, whether it is through societies, wel-
fare or simply cheap drinks! I owe a huge debt
to the Union and feel that, in my fourth year, it’s
time to repay some of that debt. The Council has
a vital role in determining the path that the Union
takes and ensuring that, like any other union,
the members are the priority – that means you!
I ask for your vote because I am enthusias-
tic and passionate about making life at Impe-
rial as good as it can be for everyone. My strong
sense of right and wrong will enable me to
stand up for our whole faculty, representing the
unique opinions of Engineers across depart-
ments. This year we can make the Union better
than ever, and I’ll fight for you in Union Council.
Thomas Hills
Iwas a member of Union Council last year as
part of my duties as the Welfare Officer for
CGCU. Council members have a responsibil-
ity to ensure that policy passed by the Union
does not have a detrimental effect on the students
of Imperial and is representative of the views of
the students they act on behalf of. This is some-
thing I believe I was effective in doing last year.
As Mech Eng Dep Rep and an active member of
Imperial College Hockey Club, I am in an excel-
lent position to understand the point of view of a
large number of students within the Faculty of En-
gineering. I am also well placed to understand how
Union Policy could affect Engineering students.
Alice Rowlands
Voting closes at 23:59 on Monday 25th October
www.imperialcollegeunion.org/vote

