FELIX Friday 22 October 2010 23
ELECTIONS
Iam a second year Physicist and having en-
joyed and appreciated the work of the union
in my first year, I would now like to take
a more active role, aim to make a real dif-
ference and help towards improvements.
This year, I am a Wilkinson Hall Senior which has
givenmegreatresponsibilityandthenecessaryskills
required to communicate well and to work with the
wardening team, as well as being the first point of
contact to the freshers. Being able to speak to such
a large number of students in halls has already giv-
en me the experience of listening and responding to
each individual’s opinion, and bringing these to the
attention of higher authority. The skills gained from
being hall senior are what I would like to transfer
to the role of Union Council Ordinary Member, as
well as my dedication, enthusiasm and reliability.
I strongly believe...
Karmen Chiu
SCIENTISTS
Hi everyone, I am a 3rd year biologist look-
ing to fill the role of Union Council Ordinary
Member. Last year, I had the honour of filling this
position and this year I would like to continue
that position. I truly enjoy the responsibility and
the tasks involved, and I believe I did a respect-
able job last year representing the whole student
body to the council. This year, I hope to perform
a better job as we approach the end of our degree.
I am very eager to present all critiques and con-
cerns to the rest of the council, as well as follow
them up and make sure that they are addressed. I
will bring open-mindedness, particularly important
when representing such a large group of people;
an eye for detail, valuable when reviewing poli-
cies; and an outspoken voice, to ensure that I, on
behalf of Natural Sciences, will be heard. Vote...
Alan Itakura
Ents Committee
As your Entertainments Committee member I
will try my best to make sure that all the fresh-
ers continue to enjoy their time at Imperial College.
One of my main objectives is to break
the ‘stereotype’ that students at our uni-
versity tend not to enjoy themselves as
much as they did during the freshers’ week.
I also plan to make future events more ac-
cessible to all our fellow students by hav-
ing ‘One for all Events’ where everyone ,re-
gardless of their backgrounds and beliefs, can
enjoy themselves and will not feel left out.
If elected, I will need to hear all your sug-
gestions so that ,together, we can make Im-
perial College not only one of the best
places to study at, but also to have fun at.
Ali Haddad Rezaei
Sometimes you just have to blow off some steam,
and after a long day’s work in the lab, that’s
what I will be there for. I want to be a part of actually
deciding what happens here, because as a fresher, I
know what freshers want, and would like to have our
say in the matter as well. The first years need a rep-
resentative, and they want some of their ideas to be
put forward to the committee, and I want to be that.
If I get elected, I will make a Facebook group
for students who have ideas and I will listen
to suggestions and feed them to the commit-
tee. There will be discussion boards and peo-
ple will be able to present their ideas, so in the
end, what you present will be what I present.
Theo Pavlakou
I’m Lewis Palmer, a third and final year Math-
ematician. Here’s why you should vote for me:
1) I care about the Union. Although this seems
an obvious attribute, being a hall senior for the last
two years I have seen how the Union decisions af-
fect different groups of people so would be able to
take voting decisions based on a broader audience.
2)I am also part of the RCSU Executive Com-
mittee so do have experience in the ruling levels
of the union and working within a constitution.
3)I would like to help the Union move for-
ward on the back of the wave that is Phase 3.
Lewis Palmer
ENGINEERS (Postgraduate)
Having served as Departmental Representative
(Undergraduate), Clerk Faculty Representative
council/Head of Secretariat, Parliamentarian& Inter-
nalAuditor, Students ‘UnionAssistant Secretary Gen-
eral/Secretary Committee of Halls during my under-
graduate program, service to fellow students is an
integral part of learning for me. The urge to serve my
fellow students is a passion and i will want to answer
that calling by Representing the Faculty of Engineer-
ing and Physical Science (GSEPS) (Postgraduate)
here at ICU. To ensure that the Union Affairs are con-
ducted in accordance to the constitution, fair repre-
sentation of GSEPS Constituency, accountably and a
voice to all members is my primary objective amongst
others. From my past experience i understand this is
always a challenge yet a rewarding experience if we
all work together to better our learning environment. I
sincerely appreciate those who seconded my nomina-
tion and will want to thank all who will participate by
voting to bring the change...
Edafe Edivri
Also running for election:
RON (Re-open nominations)
Naida Dzigal (Court Advocate)
Edward Lacey (Council)
Angad Rekhi (Council
Joseph Rumer (Council)
Tharanny Srisatkunam
(SHAG Week Co-ordinator)

