A R T S
FELIX
Friday 22 October 2010
26
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
“I call our world Flatland, not because we call it
so, but to make its nature clearer to you, my happy
readers, who are privileged to live in Space.” Such
does A. Square, the affable two-dimensional pro-
tagonist of Edwin A. Abbott’s Flatland, begin his
narration. Over the following pages there unfolds a
truly unique work of fiction; perhaps not the great-
est, but certainly one of the most original books
ever written. Published in 1884, Flatland is plainly
a book of two halves: the first closely concerning
the social and political climates of the time, and the
second completely transcending them.
In the first, the novel constitutes a brilliantly
scathing social satire. Powerful Victorian prejudices
are mirrored – and distorted – in Flatland. A won-
derful example is the issue of angularity, a parody
of Victorian class society. In Flatland, the polygo-
nal shape of a man rigidly dictates, from birth, his
social standing: the more numerous his sides, the
higher his class. Similar metaphors abound.
The social commentary is relentless and uninhib-
ited, and as such the narrative grows somewhat
surreal, often verging on the ridiculous. All in all, it
makes for a fantastically entertaining romp. But the
real meat of the novel is to be found in the second
half.
This kicks off the inter-dimensional dance with
the narrator’s visit to a one-dimensional world,
“Lineland”. Interesting parallels can be drawn here
between the two-dimensional creature’s reaction
to the constraints of one-dimensionality, and our
three-dimensional reaction to the restrictiveness of
a two-dimensional world. (And these parallels can
be extended yet further…)
Most interesting are the exchanges between the
narrator and a mysterious visitor from the third di-
mension, the Sphere. The Sphere’s immense trou-
bles in trying to convey the “Theory of Three Dimen-
sions” to the square highlight acutely the supreme
difficulty (perhaps “impossibility”) of conceptualis-
ing dimensions higher than one’s own.
The real significance of Flatland, of course, is how
it relates to us. Thinking about the hugely limiting
implications of a two-dimensional life brings a wry
smile of superiority to our three-dimensional faces.
But we should not be so complacent. The narra-
tor’s plight can easily be translated into the third di-
mension (or the fourth, or the fifth). Flatland offers
us the means to imagine – at least in some small,
stunted sense – dimensions higher than our own.
That’s why the book is so important, seeking to
“arouse in the interiors of Plane and Solid Humanity
a spirit of rebellion against the Conceit which would
limit our Dimensions to Two or Three or any number
short of Infinity.”
If you read nothing else
this week...
Navid Nabijou describes why this
classic Victorian novel is still such
an exhilarating read.
Flatland by Edwin Abbott
Which book do you love more than any other? Tell
us why it’s so good - Send 300 to 400 words to
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Cold Hard Cash
The Frieze Fair is the glitzy international cattle market of
contemporary art, but what if you’re not spending?
As a classical art enthusiast, I would be
the first to admit that I can be somewhat
pessimistic when it comes to contempo-
rary art. Long have I held the somewhat
closed-minded view that a number of to-
day’s more renowned modern artists are
in fact talentless criminals with a license
to print/paint money because they’re
able to tell some quite exotic lies about
what their pieces mean. In short, I was
perhaps a little harsh...
I know my previous statement may
have rubbed some people up the wrong
way, but I often find myself in front
some sort of bin bag chainsaw motif and
wonder, why? Why is this considered
art? How can someone spend hundreds
of thousands of pounds on something
that appears to be the result of a drunken
elephant attacking the artist’s bins? Am
I the only one who thinks this? I suspect
not.
The fact is that it’s easy to get held up
on the work of a few high profile artists
whose ‘creations’ hit the media due to
their controversial nature. They should
not be allowed to affect our judgement
on the rest of the genre, as I found out
in quite a magnificent fashion on my trip
this weekend to the Frieze Arts Fair.
The Frieze Arts Fair is an annual event
comprised of some 150 plus specially
selected contemporary art galleries from
around the world, all descending on Re-
gents Park to exhibit work and celebrate
modern contemporary art. Each gallery
is given a small section of a giant tempo-
rary structure in which to exhibit some
of their choice artist’s best work. The
main aim here is to use vivid displays to
promote the gallery and create network-
ing opportunities with the incontinently
rich (of which there appeared to be no
shortage). I’m not sure if you’ve ever
seen over 150 galleries all trying to out-
do each other in one enclosed area, but
the result is quite spectacular.
My entrance to the fair was overlooked
by the wax-work of a slightly worried
looking small child on a 10ft diving
board, next to which sat a giant mirror
which regularly tremored and rippled
violently on the wall, causing one imme-
diately to feel slightly queasy. I backed
away and decided to take a bit of a look
around at anything that wasn’t the mir-
ror. Each gaze swept over a mix of vi-
brant colours, weird experimentations,
intricate and methodical design and
literally anything else you could think
of, between which milled hundreds of
people from all walks of life. The obvi-
ous scruffy or plain unusual looking art-
ists, immaculately suited businessmen
and equally well dressed women. One
woman appeared to be wearing nothing
at all except a heavy layer of paint and
tattoos with a pair of practically non-
existent spandex hot-pants, all the while
being followed round by a tall spaced
out looking man wielding a small video
camera, while she appeared to flirt with
the exhibits...
Yes it was strange, but God it was
exciting! Pieces that I might not have
looked at twice in any other setting sud-
denly took on new meaning in the buzz-
ing atmosphere which permeated the en-
tire building, each work giving its own
special something to the surroundings.
Of course there were still some things
that I struggled with: some childishly
drawn figures in black marker pen on
pieces of paper smaller than A4, a skel-
eton painted black, what appeared to be
a charred pile of industrial waste... You
get the picture.
The important thing was that there
were some great surprises. A large work
by Tomory Dodge was simply com-
prised of a number of thick lines of
bright paint on a dark background, the
net effect being a futuristic, almost lumi-
nous vision. Another fantastic achieve-
ment was by Tomas Saraceno with his
hanging sculpture entitled ‘Hydrogen
Cloud Explosion’, which managed to
bring what could be considered some
dull geometry to life by filling it with an
explosion of black elastic.
When I eventually left the Frieze it
was with high spirits. I had expected to
leave with irritation before my arrival
and yet instead I left with hope. Real art
is not dead. There are some massively
talented and wonderfully quirky people
out there who probably spend their lives
in a world that I was privileged enough
to experience for a few short hours. I
hope the contemporary art scene contin-
ues its twisting and turning progression
until next year. I will definitely be back.
This year, the
Frieze Fair
had more than
60,000 visitors
in five days –
Check it out
next year from
13-16 October
Part of Tomory Dodge’s ‘Drop’, which was amongst the hundreds of pieces exhibited at the commercial art event of the year
Chris Clarke

