MUSIC
FELIX
Friday 22 October 2010
28
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Christopher Walmsley
music.felix@gmail.com
Album of The Week
Die Antwoord
$O$
Cherrytree Re-
cords/Interscope
2010
After exploding onto the interwebs as an overnight
phenomenon, South African rap-rave Zef crew Die
Antwoord finally release their highly anticipated de-
but album $O$ on Interscope Records. For first-tim-
ers this is a great point of entry into a world of mad-
ness and genius, featuring tunes such as ‘Enter The
Ninja’ and ‘Beat Boy’. For anyone who’s followed the
artist formerly known as Waddy Tudor Jones - now
going by his prison name Ninja - and the freakishly
hot Yo-Landi Vi$$er only three tracks will actually
be new. But the quality of these songs is outstand-
ing, from the Diplo-produced smut masterpiece ‘Evil
Boy’ featuring new recruit Wanga, to the infectious
‘She Made Me A Killer’. These new songs are pper-
fect for silencing detractors who dismiss these veri-
table artists as a mere Youtube fad, and announce
a brilliant new direction the Zefters could move to-
wards for next year’s second album. - Greg Power
Most lis-
tened to
this week
by Felix
Music
members
1. The Smiths
2. Sufjan Stevens
3. Radiohead
4. Arcade Fire
5. The xx
6. Florence + the
Machine
7. Muse
8. Crystal Castles
9. Yeah Yeah Yeahs
10. The Killers
Make sure not to miss
Flying Lotus
Koko
26th October
7:00pm
At the ripe age of 27, Steven Ellison (aka FlyLo)
is already considered the modern master of elec-
tronic music – or future soul, or nu jazz, or whatever
the hell you call balls awesome experimental mu-
sic. With good reason too: this direct descendant
of the great Coltrane legacy has an ear for melody,
sampling, and beat-making that few of his con-
temporaries can rival. And he’s already released a
strong contender for Album of 2010 under the form
of an epic DMT-induced space-odyssey titled Cos-
mogramma. The walls of Koko will shake when he
brings his bass-heavy badassery to a rabid UK fan-
base, alongside past hits such as ‘Parisian Gold-
fish’ and his brilliant new EP Pattern+Grid World.
With a bit of luck FlyLo might just bring some of
his Brainfeeder crew along with him... - Greg Power
I’ve always regretted the absence of coverage
of the ‘Imperial Music Scene’ by Felix. As
Music Editor I’ve made it my duty to find the
brightest young musicians at Imperial and ex-
tract juicy musical knowledge from their souls.
Who better to start with then but Martin
Archer, an Imperial Physics graduate who
has been DJing for Kiss Radio for the past few
years and is now returning to us for a PhD on
the size, shape and motion of structures in the
magnetosphere. He’s a pretty busy guy, but we
met up a week before he started his PhD and
Martin had a lot to say about student and na-
tional radio, spreading the physics love, and
new musical interface technologies.
How long’s it been since you graduated and
why come back to Imperial?
4 years. Graduated in 2006, and round about
this time a year ago a friend put the idea of do-
ing a PhD in my head. I didn’t want to give up
my job at Kiss, it’s a cool job. You’d be a fool
to get rid of that, so many people would love to
do what I do. I didn’t think it would be possible
to do a PhD. I was in the pub with my mate and
he said you could do a PhD part time which
doesn’t cross a lot of people’s minds. I’ve been
a bit of an administrative pain to a lot of people
at Imperial. I approached someone in the Phys-
ics department that I’d done some research
with over the Summer. It just set the ball rolling
a year ago, and I start next week.
How did you get into DJing?
I’d done DJing before I was even at Imperial.
I’d been on local radio for a couple of years,
and then IC Radio is a great place to get in-
volved with. By the final year of my under-
grad, I was spending pretty much equal time on
IC Radio and on my degree. I was doing like 5
shows a week, and I was head of programming
for a bit, head of music for a bit, went all out
with that. It was so much fun.
At the end of my degree, I did a bit of work
experience round and about, a fair bit of net-
working, meeting people generally at events
with free wine, so people knew me and it payed
off. I got a job at a production company who re-
launched HMV’s instore radio, rolling it out in
all 220 stores using a new software that hadn’t
been used before over here but is really big in
America. They knew that I’d be able to get my
hands round any sort of new software, as an
Imperial Physics graduate.
Within nine months it was all running
smoothly. And I was sort of doing some work
on a really small radio station, just outside of
London, in the south west, based in Tollworth,
that played some quite bad music to be hon-
est. I’d never come across Kajagoogoo before
I worked there – “Too Shy Shy”, really cheesy
sort of late 70s-80s record.
It just kept the creative juices flowing a bit,
kept me in the radio, presenting. Then one day
I sent a demo over to Kiss, and two weeks later
I got a job. So I was extremely lucky, extremely
well timed, and hopefully I can say I was kind
of good. They must have thought I was alright,
and I’ve been there for three and a half years
now – they haven’t sacked me yet.
I’d imagine most radio presenters and DJs
would leave a station after a couple of years.
It all depends on what radio station you’re
at, Kiss is quite good in that they’ll only get
rid of you if they have a really good reason.
It’s not like Capitol, since I’ve been on air for
Kiss they’ve had at least two complete line-
up changes, maybe three. Kiss only had the
one since I’ve joined, and that was when I got
promoted. I used to be on in the middle of the
night, which was playing havoc on my body
clock, I’m so glad I don’t do that anymore.
But you gotta start somewhere. It’s been really
good times.
I suppose it’s quite a change from IC Radio
with regards to the number of listeners...
There were many times at IC Radio when I
was convinced no one was listening, not even
my mates could be bothered. There might have
been the odd person but at least on Kiss you’re
guaranteed there’s at least one person there lis-
tening, even in the middle of the night. When
you’re on in the evenings, you know that there
are people listening because so many people
send in texts, or messages through Facebook.
Facebook is the new platform for interacting
with radio stations, or any sort of brands really
now. Everyone really gets facebook, especially
young people, so there’s so many people on
that. You can directly interact with listeners,
and that’s what I love doing the most. Having
a bit of a laugh, taking the piss out of people a
little bit. It’s a bit of fun and adds a good vibe
to the show, I just love that.
Do you have any tips for anybody who would
like to get into DJing?
Keep at it. Listen to yourself all the time, cri-
tique yourself. Network, send your stuff out and
try and get feedback. It’s a tough time maybe
at the moment, a lot fewer jobs right now than
there used to be, like 5 years ago. There are a
lot fewer radio stations to be honest. Student
radio and community radio are really where
they’ll be taking the new talent from for years
to come, so just do as much as you can really.
But not to the detriment of your degree, you
might need that to fall back on. If you can man-
age 50-50, probably a bit more on your degree,
but don’t let your degree slide.
What next for you then?
I’ve got a podcast that I do with a mate of
mine, who was on the Science Media Produc-
tion course at Imperial. We got together one
evening and thought: “You know, there aren’t
any podcasts that really tackle science from a
younger angle.” Everyone seems to follow the
format of Radio 4, who are very good at do-
ing what they do, but don’t necessarily need
Gregory Power
Imperial’s own DJ
Physics returns
Not just a voice for radio: he’s got the looks, skills, and a Physics degree. Ladies?

