FELIX Friday 22 October 2010 29
MUSIC
A playlist from...
Hugh Crail
Anger; It’s good for you, unless
it involves violence and crime.
Listen to this instead.
Q and not U -
X-Polynation
Eighties Matchbox
B-Line Disaster -
Rise of the Eagles
Pissed Jeans -
False Jesii Part 2
The Jesus Lizard -
Puss
Boris -
Pink
DFA 1979 -
Dead Womb
Liars -
Plaster Casts of Every-
thing
Aphex Twin -
Come To Daddy
If you want to share a
mind-blowing playlist send
it in to music.felix@gmail.
com
to be copied. We thought: “Let’s do sci-
ence in a Kiss way.” It’s called Droppin’
Science, packed full of post-production,
really heavy beats in the background so
if you’re listening to it on the train or
the way to college or work, the people
around you commuting won’t neces-
sarily know that you’re a massive geek,
because they’ll hear all the beats going
on. It’s meant to be two young guys, in
the pub, chatting some science. It’s a
bit entertaining as well as being infor-
mative, scratching on the side of the
cooler, weirder science topics. The more
light-hearted the better. There are some
serious aspects to it, but we try to cover
them in weird ways. We started looking
into the heart of the science behind Ava-
tar, and got into some quite deep moral
questions. But we’re tackling it from a
cool perspective.
There’s another thing I’m working on
at the moment which is going to be a
school show, with the Royal Institution,
called DJ Physics, almost trying to jus-
tify my existence, because they’re not
that far apart. I’ll be looking at DJing
from the scientific point of view. See
what’s really going on. Club DJing,
mixing, tackling that from the point of
view of looking at the equipment, pick-
ing out the 4 key processes that go along
with them, and getting into the science
of what you’re doing to the music, to
the sounds. Some really deep concepts
are behind that, which actually spread
across the whole of physics, so I think
it’s really good to get that across. I think
that from a proper point of view you
only learn these in the first year of Uni,
so it’d be really great to get that across
to kids. Without getting into the maths,
just seeing what’s going on and link-
ing it across to the other areas. DJs are
quantum physicists, they’re astrophysi-
cists, they can make silicon chips and
can design robotic artificial intelligence.
They’re the four concepts that DJing can
apply to but there’s so many others as
well.
Is that going to be a regular thing or
just a one off?
That’s a show we’re taking on a sort of
tour, so we’re going to start trying it next
month, it’s being put on at the Faraday
lecture theatre at the Royal Institution.
I’ll be doing a talk where Michael Fara-
day told everyone about electromagne-
tism, which is very cool. Hopefully we’ll
get to take that to some other schools, to
some science festivals next summer.
With DJing being such a big thing
nowadays, hopefully it might get kids
more interested in physics.
Yeah, it’s something a bit more relat-
able and to be honest it’s packed full of
awesome songs so they’re not gonna fall
asleep, I’m gonna be banging out the
tunes.
Would you be interested in moving to-
wards television?
Definitely. It’s part of doing the PhD
really, to get back into the research
community, and then to bring my two
careers together, my media and my sci-
ence. There’s only so much you can do
on the radio in terms of science. TV’s
great, so much more visual, and there’s
so much visual stuff in Physics in cer-
tain areas to look at, especially Plasma
Physics which I’m doing at the moment.
I think Plasma’s some of the most beau-
tiful things I’ve ever seen, absolutely
stunning phenomena associated with
them. And when you get a TV show
you get to travel all around the world, I
wouldn’t turn my nose up at that!
Are you doing any DJ sets soon?
Haven’t got any booked but I do do
them. I actually do WiiJ sets as well.
That’s DJing with the Nintendo Wii
controller, I wrote some software to in-
terpret the signals and then control some
DJ software with it, so it’s real gestural
DJing, by waving my arms around. A lot
of people don’t get it. They’re just like
“What are you doing?” Then you muck
about with some tunes, so much fun.
It puts so much control into these two
controllers that I just love doing it for
myself to be honest.
Are you quite keen on new interfaces
for DJing then?
Yeah definitely, I’m really into digital
DJing. Some people have started using
the iPad to DJ, there’s so many people
who use iPhones to trigger stuff. I’m re-
ally interested in that sort of thing, see-
ing what people can do with DJing, to
make it a bit more interesting. A lot of
people fault it and say it’s not as inter-
esting as vinyl, especially with people
who just use trackpads and mice. That’s
not very visual, you can’t really under-
stand what they’re doing; it’s boring to
look at. So let’s just make it a bit more
interesting. Because it is so much more
powerful on a laptop. There’s people
who say it’s sacrilege, and you should
use vinyl, but get with the 21st century!
It’s so much fun DJing on your laptop,
so why not make it a bit more of a visual
spectacle as well?
DJ’s who are very serious about it
come up with their own solutions. Like
Sasha, who’s a massive pioneer of
Ableton DJ sets. He built his own con-
troller, it’s absolutely massive, but it’s
gorgeous. He’s got so much control on
it. It’s got lights and indicators and he
built it himself.
I think if you’re a DJ who’s a music
geek, you always look at a DJ’s kit, be-
cause everyone uses different stuff and
configures it in their own special way.
It’s really cool to see what people do.
Just get pally with whatever DJ’s play-
ing and see what he’s using, or she. It’s
even cooler if it’s a girl. There’s just
something about girl DJs. DJing is a
very geeky thing, you gotta spend so
much time learning how to do it, rewir-
ing your brain. So to see girls who actu-
ally put the time in to do it, it’s all the
more impressive.
Check out www.martinarcher.co.uk
for more info on Droppin’ Science
Find this playlist at:
http://tinyurl.com/FelixAngry
“I’m not fucking around” sings Stevens.
He certainly isn’t. After 5 long years,
Sufjan finally returns with a more di-
rect and challenging full length album
than his last, blending the orchestral
with the electronic. Rather than focus-
sing on an abstract theme such as his
previous LPs on US states or the Chi-
nese Zodiac, Stevens’ main subject for
this album is himself, producing a raw,
emotional and altogether more force-
ful result than 2005’s delicate Illinois.
Rich, compelling and complex, The Age
of Adz’s lyrical and compositional intel-
ligence allows for growing enjoyment
with every listen.
- Charlotte Ridler
Sufjan Stevens
The Age of Adz
Asthmatic Kitty
★★★★★
‘Rape Gaze’. The phrase has been caus-
ing controversy in the last few weeks
after Pitchfork issued a statement offi-
cially retracting its use from a review of
Salem’s new album King Night.
First coined by the band CREEP, it
refers to an emerging genre character-
ised by haunted, atmospheric music
with vocoder manipulated vocals; also
referred to as ‘Witch House’, ‘Drag’ or
‘Haunted House’. The band have now
disowned it, commenting, “It was a play
on words which we never expected to be
used as an actual genre”. Now however
pretentious this may be, it does raise
interesting questions. What counts as
a genre? What meaning does the term
have anymore? And what the fuck do
these words even mean in the first place?
This rapid branding and debranding
of genres appears to be occurring in the
industry with remarkable frequency. So
far within the last year, we’ve received
two new ‘genres’ under the guise of
Chillwave and the aforementioned Rape
Gaze/Witch House. However, it doesn’t
end there: a whole slew of new bands
have dominated the blogs this summer,
all of a similar fuzzy, surfer, weed-
induced disposition just waiting to be
labeled as “Beachwave”. And that’s not
counting last years Neoshoegaze, Af-
ropop, Zef…
This explosion of genre labeling hasn’t
been unnoticed by the blogosphere either.
Satire blog Hipster Runoff allegedly in-
vented chillwave by promoting the term
incessantly, and one look at their now
classic “Genre Shirt”, where real genres
(such as Nintendocore and Crabcore) are
almost indistinguishable from fake ones
(such as Poetrygaze, and my personal fa-
vourite Googlewave) shows how far this
has penetrated the indie culture.
But why? What is so appealing about
identifying music with incomprehen-
sible words? The most obvious reason is
RAPE GAZE...
the invention of music blogging, where
the everyman with a keyboard and an
opinion suddenly has a platform to talk
and discuss any and all music available.
In times gone by, small movements of
bands would arise in cities or under a re-
cord label, cultivating a sound through
a tight nit community which could take
years to establish. Today, a blogger can
pick bands seemingly out of the air, re-
gardless of geographic location or level
of talent, and brand them under some
new term, which can gain wider recog-
nition in the space of a few weeks.
This consequently has positive and
negative effects. The good news is that
this high turn around from artist dis-
covery to classified genre means that
when combined with the short-term at-
tention spans of blogs, it creates a cycle
of constant innovation. New sounds are
constantly bought forward, and only the
best will survive, producing a vast vari-
ety of new music, often rewarding and
of high quality.
The bad news is obvious: it’s often
confusing, pretentious, not really nec-
essary, and anyone who doesn’t keep a
day-to-day tab on the latest blogs quick-
ly becomes out of the loop. This forc-
es the mainstream and the alternative
genres further and further apart, leaving
autotuned monstrosities to take over the
charts and the Hipsters cradling their
Sleigh Bells and Washed Out vinyls.
Whilst I might have come across as
somewhat disparaged by this new genre
cycle, it can’t be ignored that overall this
is a good thing for anyone with two ears
and a reasonable taste in music. Whilst
these names might come across as idi-
otic, they only serve the wider purpose
of uniting bands under a theme, which
can possibly begin to break, and influ-
ence, the mainstream (The New York
Times recently ran an article on Chill-
wave for instance). Let’s just hope they
pick something more suitable than Rape
Gaze next time.
...and other blog-derived genres
Chris Dean

