FELIX Friday 22 October 2010 3
Following the publication of Lord
Browne’s Report on the assessment
of Higher Education Funding in the
Browne Review Sir Keith O’Nions,
Rector of Imperial College London,
has expressed strong support in the
proposal of lifting capping fees for
University tuition entirely. He rejected
a Graduate Tax as unworkable and
described Lord Browne’s recommen-
dations as “comprehensive and fair”.
Although various concerns are cir-
culating the proposition of the uncap-
ping of tuition fees, Sir Keith O’Nions
believes that such a change would not
prove as detrimental as at first feared.
At a renowned University, consistently
rated amongst the world’s best, Sir Keith
believes that students will not be de-
terred from applying despite a possible
raise of tuition fees to more than £7,000
per year with an option of an additional
£3,000 to this. Sir Keith O’Nions said
“We expect fees to increase nationally,
including at Imperial College London.
For admission to our courses in science,
engineering and medicine, we will con-
tinue to search for and select the most
academically able, high quality students
from across the world.” The National
Union of Students (NUS), however,
foresees graduates facing daunting fi-
nancial pressures with “mortgage-style
debts” of more than £40,000. Sir Keith
O’Nions goes on to reassure that those
in need of financial aid will be sup-
ported as best as the University can,
making full use of all resources avail-
able to ensure all students that will ben-
efit from courses at Imperial College
London will still be attracted to apply.
A major concern, however, is that
as a university that only provides Sci-
ence, Technology and Medicine courses
(STEM), fees are expected to rise to a
greater magnitude compared to other ac-
ademic institutes in Britain. This could
result in a hindrance causing the down-
fall of applications of prospective stu-
dents to the University as a “market” is
effectively created from which students
may consider not only academic reputa-
tion and university experience but also
essentially what their degree is costing
them. This in turn could cause a knock-
on effect creating a possible downfall
of the reputation currently drawn from
the large number of high calibre appli-
cants. Sir Keith is convinced, however,
that prospective students will be well in-
formed about the educational experience
offered here and the future employment
opportunities that come with a degree
from Imperial, “We will ask all who have
benefitted from the excellence of an Im-
perial education to help make it possible
for those who have yet to.” An increased
teaching grant for STEM subjects has
also been proposed to which Imperial
College Union has described as a “sensi-
ble option” since its essential and heavy
lab based teaching is unable to be sub-
sided through other less costly means.
At present the University is plan-
ning a long-term campaign that will
provide support focused on scholar-
ships and financial aid at Imperial Col-
lege. Sir Keith said, “Our goal is to
build the resilience of an endowment
to give Imperial the sustainable basis
to attract the brightest and the best in
the world, for generations to come.”
Union and College back higher fees
FiveSixEight opens
A
fter weeks of delays the
Union finally unveiled
FiveSixEight, the newly
refurbished Union bar that, as one
College source joked, “is probably
better than Eastside.”
The old heavy wooden tables
and benches have been done away
with and replaced with restaurant
style seating to accompany the
new menu and lunchtime table
service. It remains to be seen
whether the new furniture will
withstand the drinking games of
an inebriated rugby team.
Lunchtime has changed also.
The menu is more upmarket and
food is now made to order and
brought directly to your table.
Feedback from students was
overwhelmingly positive if not
somewhat reserved. The ever-un-
Three weeks late but worth the wait
On the 14th of October, the Union set
out their initial response to the Browne
Review ahead of the Council debate on
the Union’s Higher Education Policy
on the 1st of November. Overall the
Union’s initial response was in fact
‘broadly’ in support of the suggested
changes. Despite the alarmingly high
figures the Browne review proposes,
the Union’s comments offer some de-
gree of consolation to students terrified
by the idea of rising University fees.
Although the overall cost of fees
could rise to around £6000 per year,
the amount an average Imperial gradu-
ate would have to pay back per month
would actually be less than what it
currently stands at. This of course still
means that overall students will have to
pay back a considerably higher amount,
but the Union’s response clearly states
that no one has to pay back this fee as
a lump sum. Also highlighted are the
College’s efforts to increase the bursary
scheme that already exists to help sup-
port less well off students at Imperial.
The Union makes the point that “the
Browne review does nothing to pro-
vide incentives for businesses to in-
vest in students’ education”, indicating
that some aspects of the review are not
so popular. As a university with one
of the highest employment rates after
graduation there is no reason why we
should not see an increase in the num-
ber of business bursaries, provided that
the correct incentives are provided.
Another point close to the heart of most
Imperial students that the Union makes
is with regards to comments on STEM
subjects. These subjects have been iden-
tified as crucial as they tend to be the
areas in the workplace where skills are
most lacking. Unfortunately these are
also the degrees that cost the most to run
and often result in relatively low gradu-
ate starting salaries. As a result the gov-
ernment aims to ensure science gradu-
ates leave with similar levels of debt as
arts graduates. As Imperial is a science
and technology institute it is no surprise
that the Union supports this proposal.
Writing in Felix this week, Union Pres-
ident Alex Kendall supports a change
in the way that universities are funded
in order that students see an increased
quality of education. Supporters of high-
er tuition fees often argue that students
would value their degrees more highly.
What the real emphasis should be on is
fair access to education based on a stu-
dents’ academic ability and an improved
quality of education. The Union be-
lieves that the Browne Review’s recom-
mendations are the way to achieve this.
Zoe Groom
The Union’s response Imperial’s response
Rosalyn Flower
“Cheers love, and can I also have a dirty pint, twelve shots of jaeger and a snog? Whahey! I’m a LAD!!!”
derstated Imperial student body
offered comments like “To be fair,
it’s not a bad effort” and “It’s
definitely less shit than before.”
Which just goes to show that you
can’t get the majority of Imperial
students excited about anything.
The bar itself has been com-
pletely overhauled and given its
length, probably occupies differ-
ent time zones. One student said
“It’s great, I didn’t have to wait at
all for a drink.” The reduced queu-
ing time has allowed the Union to
sell more beer, bringing in a record
£15,000 on Wednesday night.
Most students, whether enthu-
siastic about the bar or not, were
simply glad to have somewhere
cheap to drink with their mates
again.
Kadhim Shubber
Alex Kendall’s view - Page 18

