30
F
I
L
M
felix
FRIDAY 22 FEBRUARY 2010
A return to form
for iCU Cinema
It’s easy to underestimate the scope for fun
at Imperial – other universities probably had
fully operational bars during Fresher’s Week
and students camping out for days or even
weeks in the library are not uncommon. With
this in mind, when you hear about Imperial
College’s Cinema, you may very well envi-
sion some shabby little screen and one lonely
film geek hunched over a DVD player, but you
would be wrong. Just above the newly opened
FiveSixEight, the Union Concert Hall hides
a 33ft screen and, with a professional 35mm
projector and full Dolby Surround Sound, the
iCU Cinema rivals any average Odeon or Cine-
world in London.
If you didn’t know this, though, you’d be
easily forgiven. It’s been a rough few years
for the CinemaSoc which, in its heyday, used
to draw in a decent crowd and actually make
money – a thing that hasn’t happened in about
six years. According to Tom Rushton, current
Chief Projectionist and former Chair, it’s been
a “downward spiral” since around 2004 and
one that showed little hope of recovery on its
own.
The decline of iCU’s Cinema is a snowball-
ing of bad luck and minor mistakes. In 2008,
there was so little interest in the cinema that
only four of the six posts on the committee
were actually filled and, as Freshers’ Fair ap-
proached, the Chair for that year went AWOL,
forgetting to inform the rest of the committee
he’d failed his exams. With two of the remain-
ing three members present, and with four days
left before Fresher’s fair, Rushton was given
the unenviable role of chairing this flagging
society. By the Spring term, nothing was show-
ing and the only thing they had gained was one
more member of staff.
The next academic year seemed to follow
this theme of staff drop-outs (they lost their
chair, vice-chair and treasurer in the next Au-
tumn term) and building work at the Union cut
Jade Hoffman
off the remaining staff members from most of
the equipment in the projection booth. When
iCU Cinema informed the Union it was of-
ficially going “dormant” it went pretty much
unnoticed – with zero publicity and very little
to publicise in the first place, few people at
Imperial had really noticed it had existed at
all.
£50,000 is, however, a lot of Union money to
be spent on highly specialised equipment gath-
ering dust over the concert hall and, over this
summer, a new committee was put together. In
what seems to be the trend, the new Chair –
Charlotte Ivison – was forced to drop out after
being elected DPW, but replacing her is 2nd
year physicist Chandana Shankar, who is keen
to see the cinema back on its feet and enjoying
the success of its former years.
Speaking to Felix about the future of iCU
Cinema, Shankar said, “People can expect
iCU Cinema to show recently released popu-
lar films in a complete cinema environment at
student-friendly prices.” In order to avoid the
failings of its past, the cinema is looking to
show high-demand blockbusters and organise
social events to foster a stronger loyalty in its
members.
Perhaps you have to see it to believe it, but for
anybody with even a vague interest in films, a
visit to iCU Cinema is worth the £3, especially
as cinema ticket prices often hit upwards of
£10 in most London cinemas. Despite its shaky
few years, iCU Cinema finally seems in a good
position to make a comeback. Kicking off with
Inception this Tuesday 26th at 6.30pm in the
Union Concert Hall, the resurrected iCU Cin-
ema promises more films like this to follow,
with Toy Story 3, Scott Pilgrim vs. The World,
and The Social Network all in the pipeline. So
if you’re getting a drink at the new bar, it’d be
worth bringing it upstairs to enjoy Christopher
Nolan’s latest critically-acclaimed mindfuck,
and supporting the return of iCU Cinema in
all its glory.
iCU Cinema finally
seems in a good
position to make a
comeback
“
years
ars
y, used
used
make
mak
about
about
urrent
urrent
s been
been
iCU Cine
iCU Cine
seems in
ms i
”
fici
fic
unn
unn
to p
to p
Imp
Imp
all.
al
£
be s
od
d
ke a
ke a
Classic Cinema
Fight Club
The film starts off with a painful observation of a
chronic insomniac-cum-office drone and his explora-
tion of consequence, human psychology and violence
as therapeutic means to cull the antagonism of his
miserable existence. This soon leads him to seek
solace in the arms of various support groups as he
pursues the crucial emotional nurture he feels he is
without, and it is here that our nameless hero meets
the intriguing Marla Singer (Helena Bonham Carter).
Their relationship soon progresses to a sexual peak,
however we are often left unsure of events as we can
only view the entirety of it through the hazy eyes of
the narrator. Bonham Carter delivers a flawless per-
formance as Ms. Singer, a cunning hybrid of a naïve
yet tarnished pawn who is an essential addition to
this male-centric film.
The film starts to become tangible when, during
a business flight, our protagonist happens to come
across a questionably liberal soap-salesman, Tyler
Durden (Brad Pitt) which eventually leads to a fist
fight outside a bar. This sparks off what is soon to
be epically established as a Fight Club. However,
this fight club soon becomes a breeding ground for
a more sinister concept known as Project Mayhem,
which instigates random anti-capitalist acts of van-
dalism around the city before amounting to an unbe-
lievably cataclysmic twist.
Pitt conveys an almost messianic performance
both on and off screen as his brutally honest yet
violent scrutiny of conformity still reverberates in the
mind long after the credits have rolled. This dark
comedy will hook you in and give you the ultimate
high before leaving you to plummet to a sorry end
as you ride the avalanche of cynicism leading you to
question the very core of your being. Unbeknownst
to you, this movie will enslave your subconscious
and wean out your darkest and uttermost visceral
desires. It will leave you feeling sickened by what
it has done to you as you begin to absorb the un-
folding of parallel themes of anarchy, duality and
masochism all of which run strong in David Fincher’s
shady tale.
Fahmida Mannan
I like to think that there’s a guy in the machine with a torch, projecting the film...
He’s ruined all my fucking soap...
Film Editors: Jade Hoffman
Matt Allinson
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The 33ft screen is taken for a test run
Photo by Roberto Tenace
Photo by Roberto Tenace

