31
felix FRIDAY 22 FEBRUARY 2010
FILM
Already looking like a dodgy Big Brother spin-off - the Chilean miners prepare for fame
The live feed of the Chilean miners’
rescue on the 13th October 2010 had it
all: drama, suspense, and plenty of filler
from the reporters on scene who were
trying to occupy the long pauses be-
tween anything actually happening in
San José de Copiapó. In this, a frequent
theme was what would happen to the
miners once brought to the surface and
much speculation as to the possibility
of a film being made of the story. Ever
sensitive to incidents of peril, the Felix
office and its film writers have put to-
gether several theories as to what kind
of outcomes we might be able to expect
from a dramatization of their sixty-nine
day ordeal.
Set down a dark, damp mine away
from civilisation immediately creates
the perfect atmosphere for a film in the
horror or thriller genre. This could well
be the next title on the increasingly shit
filmography for M. Night Shyamalan
whose penchant for twist-endings and
often supernatural goings on could eas-
ily be recreated down the Chilean mine.
In this, we see the thiry-three miners
growing increasingly paranoid as they
crew could create a beautiful story about
thirty-three trapped animals/toys/any
object with a face drawn on overcoming
their differences and believing in them-
selves. Possible titles include Miners’
Inc. or Down.
If that’s too lame for you, you can
always rely on Quentin Tarantino to
direct some stylish grindhouse flick
starring Samuel L. Jackson and Benicio
Del Toro as two bad motherfuckers who
are caught when the impossibly convo-
luted storyline collapses and must find
the opening of the film. There are also
snakes in the mine.
A director who is no stranger to sto-
ries of people stuck between a rock and
a hard place is neurotic New Yorker
Woody Allen who could easily fill sev-
eral hours of nervous self-analysis, see-
Between a rock and a hard place – the
battle for the Chilean Miner story rights
ing the whole stuck-down-a-mine thing
as an allegory for his own metaphorical
shafting.
Or we could run with The Expenda-
bles, a blockbuster action film starring
a stellar cast of unnamed Chinese min-
ers who become trapped in a mine and
are ignored by the authorities and world
press.
To follow current trend, surely many
would support a High School Musical
4: Apprenticeship In Poorly Con-
structed Mine simply as an excuse to
bury that floppy-haired knobber Zac
Efron and his friends. Cameras optional.
Also, might as well stick the Glee cast
down there (ooh - controversial).
The story might also get offered to
James Cameron who could be asked
to direct Avator-ture a four-hour, horror
film where Cameron is asked to make a
film for less than $50 million, and then
gets trounced in the Academy Awards
by his ex-wife.
Failing all of these, it’s been a while
since we’ve had a new hip-hopera from
R. Kelly and Trapped in the Mine might
be the thing to bring it all back.
are subjected to the kinds of psychologi-
cal thriller tricks only Shyamalan is able
to pull of – like clicking noises or red
paint on doors. Mental.
Perhaps, though, to lessen the trauma
of the whole thing, a nice family-friend-
ly plot could be readily taken up by
the undefeatable Pixar Studios. Using
their mandatory anthropomorphism and
animated charm, John Lasseter and his
Cynics beware: Julia Roberts’Eat Pray Love
Director Ryan Murphy
Screenwriter Ryan Murphy,
Jennifer Salt, Elizabeth Gilbert
Cast Julia Roberts, James Franco,
Javier Bardem, Richard Jenkins
Eat Pray Love
John Park
If you happen to have an ounce of cyni-
cism in your body, avoid this like the
plague, because for the cynics amongst
you, Eat Pray Love will no doubt be the
most self-indulgent film you will see all
year. But for those who are truly roman-
tics at heart, one woman’s pretty look-
ing journey across the colourful globe
to find the meaning of life, searching for
a true connection, will be something to
marvel at. Is she brave for venturing out
into the world, following her dreams?
Or is she simply deluding herself into a
materialistic journey? Are the problems
in her life that serious?
Liz (Julia Roberts) is a middle-aged
woman going through a divorce after
disastrous years of trying to make her
marriage work and is looking for some
sort of consolation from a much younger
man (James Franco). But the love affair
is cooling off significantly, and she is
once again left alone, bored and unen-
thusiastic about life. She needs a change
of scenery, and being a travel writer, she
decides to take an entire year out to do
some effective soul-searching.
Before we are able to see Julia Roberts
going on the rather expensive-looking
trip, however, the film needs to establish
that Liz is leading a miserable existence.
This is where the casting of Roberts re-
ally pays off. Roberts, being the inter-
national superstar that she is, does not
disappoint, with her subtle glances of
sadness and vulnerability setting an ef-
fective tone at the beginning of the film.
She has spent years worrying about her
future, and now she needs fun.
And it’s a timeout to die for. In Rome
she decides to stop worrying about
gaining weight. She’s in Italy, there are
sumptuous dishes of pizza and pasta and
she is not about to let a few pounds stop
her from enjoying the endless amount
of fantastic food that is on offer. There’s
a particularly memorable scene where
Roberts tucks into a rather simple look-
ing spaghetti pomodoro, which in fact,
turns out to be amazing. Accompanied
by “Der Hölle Rache,” the famous
Queen of the Night aria from Mozart’s
The Magic Flute, the scene will make
your tummy growl as Roberts finds a
brief moment of true happiness with that
plate of spaghetti.
Then she’s off to India, where she
stays in a Hindu temple, finding peace,
praying, connecting with God. But being
new to all of this, it’s not easy to sit still,
pause, and meditate for hours and hours.
She meets a friendly old man from
Texas, Richard (Richard Jenkins), who
helps her get rid of the burdens that are
pressing down on her shoulders. Jenkins
provides the only stand-out supporting
performance and in one intimate scene
that is handled perfectly by the actor, his
monologue will tug at the heartstrings.
The friendship between the two is often
humourous as well as deeply moving,
and a lot of credit should go to Jenkins.
Good-looking men surround Gil-
bert in Bali. She almost hooks up with
a much younger man, but the one that
threatens to steal her heart is the conven-
iently divorced Felipe (Javier Bardem),
whose business apparently lets him be
wherever he wants to be (his words). So
the audience is confused later, when he
also goes on to say that his business is
in Bali, so he cannot leave with Gilbert
when she eventually plans to. Other than
that slight hiccup, Felipe seems to be the
perfect man for her. Gilbert took this trip
to be away from complications, to lib-
erate herself, but it appears she needs a
man after all to keep her happy.
It’s hard to adapt a book that relies
heavily on internal monologue. Eat
Pray Love is based on an enormously
popular bestseller written by Elizabeth
Gilbert whose autobiography was an
instant hit for the readers and, despite
the excessive use of voiceovers, the
film fails to show any depth relating to
this woman’s year-long journey. It has a
lengthy running time, but spends very
little bit of it explaining to us just how
some of the events occur. The disjointed
feel is partly the editor’s fault, but the
careless script should share the blame.
She’s praying. What about? She con-
nects with God. How? She finds Bal-
ance. Again, how? The soul-searching;
did she succeed? Was Felipe it? The
calm, soothing voice of Roberts, along
with some philosophical elements try to
give clever answers to the many ques-
tions that have been raised. But because
director Ryan Murphy is so focused on
showing the beautiful, breathtaking as-
pect of her adventure, all that Eat Pray
Love boils down to is nothing but a shal-
low travelogue with a fantastic leading
actress but not much else.
The classic teenage-girl webcam shot is aptly recreated in Östland’s film

