Karl Lagerfeld vs. Yves Saint Laurent: The
Beautiful Fall of fashion’s titans
FASHION
FELIX
Friday 22 October 2010
32
Fashion Editor: Saskia Verhagen
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Jennifer Smith
Keeping winter cosy
Felix has a try-on of the very best of this season’s high-
street offerings of the essential winter coat
Student Street Style
Gaby, Year 4, Medicine
Already channelling next season, Gaby has nailed
both the rock’n’roll and sheer layering trends here
in one fell swoop. All this, topped off with the most
fantastic belt, which she informed me cost £5 from
a charity shop. A great transitional look.
Diary of a Shopaholic
This little-known Aladdin’s cave of women’s vintage
glamour is hidden on Endell Street in Covent Gar-
den. Set up almost 20 years ago, it is filled to the
brim with clothes, accessories and lingerie from the
1920s until the 1980s for dressing up and looking
fabulous. Each piece is dated, making the experi-
ence both fashionable and educational; and the ar-
ray of earrings, necklaces and brooches are begging
to add that unique touch to any outfit. It is the place
to follow this season’s 1950s revival and channel
the 70s next season and, as each piece is a one-off,
no one else will ever have the same thing. This best
thing about the store is that you can hire as well as
buy, making it the grandmother’s wardrobe you wish
you could raid. Last time I was in there I spied an
amazing 1950s full length red ball gown, remenis-
cent of Jessica Rabbit, for £120. Exqusite pieces
and affordable prices make it an essential addition
to your little black book of London fashion.
Blackout II
51 Endell Street, Covent Garden,
WC2H 9AJ
BOOK REVIEW
Fashion is often perceived as superficial
and shallow, and is often mocked by the
general public (think Ugly Betty and
The Devil Wears Prada). For this rea-
son, I found Alicia Drake’s account of
the turbulent journey of the fashions two
greatest rivals, Yves Saint Laurent and
Karl Lagerfeld into stardom, refresh-
ingly honest and insightful. Beauti-
fully written and well-researched, the
book describes the lives of these two
artistic geniuses who had to battle with
their personal demons to create sarto-
rial masterpieces that would embody a
quickly changing world full of parties,
rebellion and globalization.
Other reviews comment about
how YSL comes out on top in this
book as the tormented artist that,
like a magnet, attracted fashion’s
elite, whilst Karl Lagerfeld as a
struggling couturier who was unable
to create his own style and
so turned his hand
to prêt-a-porter.
However, I think
both were shown to be brilliant but with
their own flaws; I found myself warm-
ing to both, despite their eccentricities.
Despite the book’s focus on the two,
the character leaving the largest mark
was Karl Lagerfeld’s muse, Jacques de
Bascher. His lavish lifestyle and the aes-
thetic obsession which led to his self-
destruction inspired the title: “Cadent
comes from the Latin cadere, which
means to fall. Decadent is something
very different, it’s the beautiful way to
fall. It can be kind of self-killing in a
beautiful way, a tragic way.”
Gabriella Yongue
Coats are an absolute staple for the coming
winter months. As long, dreamy days in the
park give way to cold, dark nights with no more
than street lamps to brighten up your day, at
least fashion can provide a eclectic mix of win-
ter warmers to keep the chill at bay. The range
of coats on the high street currently appears to
be never-ending so you're certainly sure to find
a style, shape and fabric to suit you.
So girls, coats: find a shape and colour to flat-
ter you. As with every item of clothing, what
looks great on her may not look great on you.
Think of your wardrobe and match your coat to
suit your existing clothes and most importantly
your lifestyle. After all, a good coat is a good
investment.
Aviator
Duffel Military
Topshop, £78
The most lusted-after jacket from
Burberry Prorsum’s A/W 2010 line
is finally accessible to mere mortals.
Miss Selfridge, £50
The duffel coat epitomises winter
warmth and this navy blue version
from Miss Selfridge is a mark of clas-
sic winter style. With its contrasting
red lining and rouched shoulder de-
tail, team it with grey skinny jeans
for a warm, stylish twist on a winter
staple – perfect for snuggling round
a campfire to watch the fireworks!
Topshop, £78
Combining the military vibe with femi-
mine bow detailing, this great coat
can be worn with just about anything.

