FASHION
FELIX Friday 22 October 2010 33
Welcome to London
Fashion Editor Saskia Verhagen lets rip at the most irritating of London’s fashion
stereotypes: boys in tight trousers and army boots, girls in Uggs and gilets beware!
L
ondon is a quintessential
fashion capital. Though we
don’t have the edgy cool
of New York, the elegant
chic of Paris or the classic
luxury of Milan, we have quirkiness
and an extraordinary propensity to seek
originality, using every sartorial tool
in the box to illustrate exactly who we
are, consciously or not. What we have,
unique to London, are more distinctive
fashion districts than you can
shake a stick at. In
Paris you have the right bank, and the
left. New York: uptown and downtown.
In London we have sartorial subsets
that range from Chelsea to Camden,
Shoreditch to Shepherd’s Bush, Por-
tobello to Primrose Hill.
For those who are strangers to Lon-
don, I will seek to elucidate the signa-
tures of two of our most ubiquitous fash-
ion sets: Chelsea and Hoxton. The point
is not to identify yourself
with either of
them – heaven forbid! – just be armed
with the knowledge that they both exist,
in various degrees of extremity, and you
have my permission to sniff smugly at
their generic conformism: a crime that
a true London fashionista would never
commit.
Commonly known as Sloanes, after the
Chelsea hub of Sloane Square, this lot,
with their Ugg boots and Barbour jackets
in tow, have managed to disperse them-
selves up and down the country, which
is fairly unfortunate for the rest of us.
The look: Inspired by the greener
pastures outside of the M25, this
is what happens when the middle
classes of the Home Counties
move to London.
The girls: She seemingly
hasn’t quite gotten over the
loss of her pony and so tries
to emulate that muddy,
blustered look of a long
day of dressage with mat-
ted hair (it’s actually high-
lighted by a very expen-
sive hairdresser in Mayfair,
and has had that messiness
carefully created by a well-
refined blend of various sprays,
lotions and potions) and smudged eye-
liner. The daily uniform is tights, Uggs,
denim and a jumper emblazoned with
either their school or sport of choice.
Worse specimens wear pyjama bottoms,
and favour a Puffa gilet to the more tra-
ditional coat in the winter months. Don’t
forget the pashmina.
The boys: Flip-flops, whatever the
weather, is a classic hallmark. Combine
these with a wardrobe composed of Jack
Wills and Abercrombie/Hollister. His
collar is always turned up and contrary
to his true country counterpart, his hair
is long and side-swept; a true coun-
try bumpkin keeps his hair short and
functional, not needing to run his hand
through it every 5 minutes, to maintain
that perfect side parting.
Where to find them: Listen out for
shouts of “Arabella!” or “Tarquin!”
outside any of Mahiki, Boujis or The
Brompton Club.
What happens when they grow up?
Nothing good. David Cameron and Kate
Middleton. I know.
Welcome to East London.Aland where
individualism has run so rampant that
it has managed to blur itself into a sea
of hipsters bound by their rejection of
all things mainstream.
The look: a better journalist than
I once said that hipsterism “fetish-
ises the authentic” elements of the
“fringe movements of the post-war
era – beat, hippie, punk, grunge and
regurgitates it with a winking inau-
thenticity” – harsh words. All fash-
ion is some kind of regurgitation
and the London brand of hipster
just tries too bloody hard.
The girls: androgynous haircut,
floral minidress, grandma’s old
cardi, ripped tights, plus/minus
American Apparel accessories and
non-prescription thick-rimmed
glasses. She is usually dragging
on a cigarette whose brand you’ve
never heard of. They’re foreign, ap-
parently. She loathes to admit that
mummy and daddy are actually the
owners of her Hoxton studio flat and
that though she pulls pints at the local,
her allowance drops in on the first of
every month.
The boys: The classic white-boy
afro. You know what I’m talking about.
Trousers perpetually tucked into boots.
His jumpers are too small and he wears
woolly hats on sunny days and sunglass-
es in the rain. He also got thrush once
from wearing his trousers too tight.
Where to find them: Hanging out at
the grungiest bars of Dalston and Stoke
Newington – Hoxton is too darn main-
stream now you see, those pesky finance
types are cramping their style and the
rent and drinks prices have suddenly
shot up. Check out The Moustache Bar
and Dalston Superstore – at the very
least, the booze is pretty cheap.
What happens when they grow
up? They get a normal job. Something
sickeningly conformist like advertising
or PR.
CHELSEA HOXTON

