“ ”
GAMES
FELIX
Friday 22 October 2010
Games Editor: Simon Worthington
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Amnesia: The Dark Descent is a graphic adven-
ture survival horror game that had me swap-
ping out trousers on a regular basis, and I shall
endeavour to convey why this little-known
gem is so worthy of attention. First though, a
little introduction to Frictional Games, and the
current state of the survival horror genre.
Frictional Games is a small independent
video game company based in Helsingborg,
Sweden (don’t feel you have to look it up on
the map). The company’s only other product is
a three-part series called Penumbra, which is...
well, it’s another graphic adventure survival
horror series, but so what? Frictional Games
pulled off the genre so well in Penumbra that
it was only logical that they should create a
different game based on the same genre, only
this time using an advanced version of their
own HPL game engine (named after the ini-
tials of H. P. Lovecraft, from whom Frictional
Games draw a lot of inspiration). Don’t worry
if you haven’t heard about any of this before – I
hadn’t either, until I stumbled upon the Penum-
bra series a few months back.
Most modern survival horror titles have a
problem, a problem the big video game com-
panies aren’t fixing. In a word (or five), they’re
just not scary anymore. Take for example an old
favourite of mine: Dead Space. If you haven’t
heard of it (shame on you!), it is in essence a
third-person survival horror game set aboard a
giant space ship, where you play as a plucky
space engineer fighting off the horribly mutated
remnants of the ship’s crew. Now don’t get me
wrong, Dead Space, along with other survival
horrors out there, is fun – just not that scary.
Sure, they’ll make you jump in your seat, but I
could name a lot of things that make me jump
that aren’t considered scary – my cat, for exam-
ple. With the slew of fierce-looking weapons
most survival horrors throw at you, gameplay
devolves from a tense horror-filled nightmare
to an elaborate monster shooting gallery. It’s
fun, but it’s like ordering a banana split and
receiving a fillet steak – I like fillet steak, and
I’ll eat it, but I would have much preferred my
banana-based dessert.
Amnesia: The Dark Descent delivers the
metaphorical banana split. You play as some
poor sap called Daniel who wakes up in a large
medieval castle with no idea what’s going on
– you could say he has amnesia. Luckily, Dan-
iel was smart enough to write notes for him-
self which are scattered around the castle and
along with flashbacks at certain locations in the
castle, serve to advance the plot. For the first
few minutes you’ll have no idea why you’re
there, or what you’re meant to do. However, the
first note you find soon puts you on track. It’s
revealed that Daniel induced his own amnesia
by drinking some sort of potion, and his former
self instructs him to find and murder an old guy
called Alexander, who’s hiding in the depths of
the castle. Notes throughout the game add to
the story, revealing more about Daniel’s past,
but towards the end these snippets of text grow
more confusing rather than intriguing and it of-
ten requires a second playthrough for it to make
some sort of sense (which I’d recommend, if
only to listen to the developer’s commentary).
The game is set in the 19th century, and as
such there’s no high-tech weaponry – in fact,
there is no weaponry at all. You have yourself,
a lantern, and the ability to run and hide like
a scared child. Frictional Games realises that
for a survival horror game to be tense, you ac-
tually have to feel like you’re surviving, and
barely, not just strolling about the levels like
you’re a T-1000. There’s no direct health bar in
Amnesia, but opening up the inventory gives
you some idea of what state you’re in: either
‘Healthy’, ‘Cuts and Bruises’, or ‘On Death’s
Door’.
That is, if you can find any of the monsters
to lose health from. Again, Frictional Games
realises that everyone has different fears – a
tarantula can either be a worst nightmare or an
adorable pet. Amnesia seriously messes with
your mind: footsteps can be heard above and
behind you, you hear the cries of slavering
beasts that never materialise, at some points
your screen will distort, screams will be heard
and suspicious red fluid will dribble from the
walls, but each and every time an enemy will
fail to appear. Yet you will always keep a watch
behind you, always fearing something will pop
out and require you to change your underwear.
The phrase ‘less is more’ springs irresistibly to
mind.
The crowning feature of Amnesia is how
you deal with baddies when you do finally find
them, or as is more often, when they find you.
What do you do? You run and hide. In my first
encounter I tried to run past the baddie only to
be swiped in the head and knocked to the floor.
Second time around I ran into a room, closed
the door and hid in a cupboard as the game
suggested just before the monster burst into the
room. I even peeked out once or twice to see
him rooting about. By the time I climbed out
the closet again my heart was thumping like a
darn drum.
Light is also another focal point – after all,
there’s not much of it. Stay in the darkness for
too long, or see too many monsters or disturb-
ing visions and your sanity will drain, repre-
sented by a decaying brain in your inventory
menu. The effect of low sanity will cause your
screen to blur as if you dropped your glasses
or lost your contacts which does begin to ir-
ritate towards the end (though you can become
sane again by completing the game’s puzzles).
Luckily you have a portable lantern at your
disposal as well as tinderboxes to light up
static stuff such as candles and wall-mounted
torches. Both are limited resources but both
can be found with a little careful searching.
Be warned, though: light acts like a homing
beacon for monsters trailing you. Bringing up
my lantern in a shadowy corner by mistake and
promptly being slashed to death was a mistake
I never made again.
I could go on about the physics engine, but
really all I’ll say is that it’s wonderfully immer-
sive with the ability to rotate and move objects
around quite naturally. If you enjoy survival
horror, you really owe it to yourself to try Am-
nesia out. If you’ve not played much survival
horror before, watch out – most other games
will feel lacklustre compared to it after comple-
tion. If you play with headphones, and play at
night (as is highly recommended by myself and
Frictional) you’ll start forgetting it’s a game
and you’ll truly be immersed in the disturbing
world of Amnesia.
Graphic survival horror:
the forgotten genre
Web Games
Each week we’re going to bring you a selection of
fresh, free and fun web games that you can play right
away in your browser. Unless otherwise specified,
you’re going to need the Adobe Flash Player plug-in
which can be installed from http://get.adobe.com/
flashplayer/.
Moby Dick
mostrogames.com/games/mobydick.html
Despite the developer admitting that this game
is what happens “when you make a game from
a book you have never read”, this 2D whale
munch-fest is surprisingly true to the original
text. Players must control the titular white whale
using the mouse, and have to destroy as many
boats and munch on as many fish (and sailors)
as they can without running out of air or health.
Sailors will bombard you with arrows and nets,
and later bigger ships will arrive and fire can-
nonballs at you.
As you blitz your way through the ocean it’s easy
to overlook how pretty the game looks – there’s
clearly been a lot of attention to detail. It’s also
got the quality of being ‘easy to pick up, diffi-
cult to master’, so there’s plenty of gameplay to
keep coming back to.
In this defend-and-shoot game, you control an eye-
patched rabbit commando defending his flag (and,
indeed, himself) from hostile enemies. Quite why the
enemies are disembodied fingers and all the action
is played out amongst giant books and mugs of cof-
fee is not easy to discern, but the mixture of tower
defence and top-down shooter is a good one.
The shooting aspect helps take the tedium out of
waiting for enemies to reach your towers – a common
problem in tower defence games – and the presence
of towers provides a refreshing strategic element.
Bunny Flags
tinyurl.com/bunnyflags
Laurence Pope
“Amnesia seriously
messes with your mind”
Amnesia: The Dark Descent will give you the willies
34

