“
FELIX Friday 22 October 2010 35
GAMES
changes to the overall format, have blindly
followed the cries of the masses and literally
regressed back to the beginning. Levels are in-
stantly recognisable as carbon-copies of stages
from Sonic 1, 2 and 3 and Sonic and Knuckles.
Textures, enemies and even boss levels, al-
though now presented in eyeball-popping high
definition, have been simply copy-pasted into
the game with just a light brushing of visual
makeup. The only indication that there’s been
almost twenty years of ‘progress’ since Sonic
and Knuckles is the homing attack, a kind of
auto-pilot that homes the blue fuzzball in on
springs and enemies. Even this is a pain to use
as it’s never quite clear why or when an enemy
is or isn’t a target. Everything is recycled and
for fans there’s no challenge in giant walking
robots or fireball-shooting chameleons because
they’ve all been seen before, and crucially,
done so much better.
What changes there have been to the core run,
jump and spin will not be appreciated. Instead
of game design that rewards the player’s skill
with speed and rings, spike walls and enemies
lie at random around every corner waiting for
“Fans want a fresh
experience that still feels
like good ol’ Sonic, not
a rehash that they’ve all
played before.”
P
oor Sonic has been having a bit of a
rough time recently. Despite Mario
and Luigi continuing their Godfa-
ther-esque dominance over pretty
much any market they lay their
eyes upon, their spiky blue hedgehog nemesis
has enjoyed some high-profile, big-budget re-
leases. However with a menagerie of arbitrary
supporting characters, a silly oversized sword
and a transformation into a credulity-stretching
‘werehog’, to name but a few ‘major innova-
tions’ to the franchise, it’s no surprise that re-
cent instalments have failed to make the dash
to success.
With SEGA all but ready to give up the game,
they initiated the enigmatic ‘Project Needle-
mouse’: an attempt to recapture the winning
formula of previous Sonic titles that the once-
loyal fan base yearned for. With promises of a
genuine continuation of the original storyline
and a return to classic side-scrolling Sonic, the
‘project’ became what we now see before us as
Sonic The Hedgehog 4.
On the surface it seems SEGA have at least
been partially successful. Even if you’ve never
encountered Sonic before it’s hard not to be
charmed by the introductory “SEGAAAA” yell
and the cute and very retro menus. The first lev-
el will bring a smile to your face with the thrill
of sending the spinning blue hedgehog hurtling
down hills, up pipes and along helix-shaped
bridges. The obligatory ‘ancient pyramid’, ‘un-
derwater’and ‘steam power gone wrong’levels
make the style feel a little dated but the graph-
ics and music are pleasant enough and there is
some genuinely decent platforming fun to be
had. Breaks from the usual mechanics can also
be found in mine cart and boulder balancing
sections, but these are used too sparingly to be
anything more than a gimmick.
Eventually though, casual players will be-
come frustrated by Sonic’s broken level design
and steep difficulty curve. It doesn’t take long
for you to fall into one of the almost malicious-
ly placed spike walls or to become stuck in a pit
with no immediate or intuitive form of escape.
Sonic himself is painfully and lethargically
slow until he’s reached his top speeds which
makes the game bringing you to a complete
full stop all the more flow-disrupting. Although
tolerable for some of the early ‘Splash Hill’ or
‘Casino Street’ levels, anything later than this
will cause even a well-adjusted player to throw
their controller to the ground in frustration.
It’s inherently obvious that this game was not
designed for casual players. There’s no tutorial
so anyone not already familiar with Sonic has
to look up the controls and despite promises of
a new storyline there is simply no plot to be
found. Nostalgic Sonic veterans will be wooed
by the presence of the original two-tone check-
erboard textures and side-scrolling gameplay,
and it becomes excruciatingly clear that this
game was designed, drawn and developed ex-
clusively for the fans of the original series.
SEGA however, instead of making tentative
Another chronic Sonic failure
Matt Colvin and Simon Worthington attempt to enjoy Sonic The Hedgehog 4
you to bumble innocently into them. Bottom-
less life-draining pits are also shamefully un-
marked so it’s impossible to know when you
fall if you’re falling to your doom or not. Sonic
The Hedgehog 4 is now a game of memory and
chance, not of skill. The only way to become an
expert is to simply play the levels enough times
until you know exactly what lies ahead. This is
intrinsically not what the original Sonic series
was all about. It’s undeniable that there was al-
ways some trial-and-error associated with the
early games, but not nearly on the same magni-
tude as is present here.
This is brought sharply into focus during the
final boss battle, taking place on Dr. Eggman’s
space station. After an epic battle which un-
necessarily includes all of the earlier bosses,
with mere seconds left on the timer and with
the final, definitive blow landed on the robot
mecha, the floor beings to crumble beneath the
hedgehog and he falls, almost predictably, to
his doom. No explanation. No indication that
this was going to happen. Eventually we had to
text 118118 to even work out what the hell was
going on, and it was helpfully divulged that un-
less you are standing in a completely arbitrary
point on the screen so you can see where the
boss lands to bonk him on the head, you die. No
skill, just memory and chance. All this could
even have been avoided if the camera didn’t
suck so badly, as it never zooms out to show
the boss, enemy or anything else that players
desperately need to see.
Initially, Sonic 4 certainly is fun for casual
gamers, as zooming Sonic around all over the
place is enjoyable and some of the later plat-
forming is genuinely good. Despite this it’s
simply not long enough (weighing in at about
five or six hours to get to the last level) and
is far too infuriating to warrant the hefty price
tag. More ‘episodes’ are also planned so to get
the full experience SEGA will be expecting
players to shell out more of their cash.
As for the fans, SEGA have given them the
exact opposite of what they want. Sonic The
Hedgehog 4 has the platforming and graphics
of the original series combined together with
the faulty design principles of the ‘new’ Sonic
games. What players actually want to see is
original and new storylines, game modes and
graphics that follow the classic Sonic design
philosophy. Fans want a fresh experience that
still feels like good ol’ Sonic, not a rehash of
games from the ‘glory days’ that they’ve all
played before. It’s a true disappointment that
Sonic 4 simply doesn’t live up to either the
hype or the expectation placed upon it, and one
can only hope that there’s enough time between
now and Sonic The Hedgehog 4: Episode 2 for
SEGA to fully understand the mistakes in what
they’ve produced.
Sonic The Hedgehog 4: Episode 1 is out
now on PSN, Xbox Live Arcade, WiiWare
and iOS. Prices vary according to plat-
form.

