FOOD
FELIX
Friday 22 October 2010
36
Food Editor: Dana Li
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Home-made Hummus!
Channel 4 aired the finale of Jamie Oliver’s
American Food Revolution on Monday night, a
six episode TV series that documents the Naked
Chef’s attempts to reform the eating habits of
Huntington, West Virginia. The city has recent-
ly been identified as the US’s unhealthiest by
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Jamie sets out to work with the school kitch-
ens and the community to help people eat bet-
ter. A highly noble pursuit. Yet from the off he
is persistently confronted by incredulous cooks
and administrators, who react venomously
to the Essex boy telling them what they do is
wrong. One cook gets all ruffled when he calls
her a lunch lady. And yet all she does is to por-
tray that stereotype perfectly by resisting any
positive change to her hijacked work routine.
She goes on to state that she does her job only
for the money, and fails to see what’s wrong
with serving poor, bland food – a problem that
tragically afflicts all too many a canteen.
The local radio show host shows an equally
narrow-minded attitude, hollering “we don’t
want to sit around and eat lettuce all day!” The
chef dryly states that he “thought there were
only miserable bastards like that in England.”
Fortunately, the US social inclination to avoid
embarrassment at all costs soon kicks in and
the community gradually responds to Jamie’s
pleas. He obtains tens of thousands of dollars
from the local hospital boss to keep the scheme
going, the school food supplier pledges a year’s
free produce, and a thousand people partake in
his cookathon – including the Governor – dis-
covering in the process how easy good, healthy
food can be to make and prepare.
The show does of course suffer from all the
usual reality TV drivel, X-factor style (but with
far fewer lights and dramatic music), though
this does make it exceptionally watchable. Cru-
cially, the sight of seeing Jamie blubbing five
times an episode like some sort of leaking tap
does not detract from the key objective of high-
lighting how entrenched in society shoddy eat-
ing has become not only for children, but adults
too. Whilst the X-factor places tears, Simon
Cowell’s teeth, and Wagner before music, Ja-
mie’s food revolution manages to consistently
keep good, honest food as its central heroine.
Jamie has spent the last few years changing
the way we perceive food. Back in 2005 he ran
the kitchen meals for a UK school for a year,
beginning a campaign to improve the standard
of Britain’s school meals. He’s now sowed the
seeds for a similar reform in the US, although
one gets the impression that the chances of
the revolution having any lasting impact on
Huntington’s eating habits are as faint as Nick
Clegg’s spine. But for anyone who genuinely
cares about their health and the joys of eating,
this show is a real eye-opener.
Amazingly, at the local high school the kids
queue up for Jamie’s spaghetti sauce, and ditch
the chips.
V ictoria Brzezinski
Your review
Lawrie Armstrong says:
Never judge a book by
its cover. Shilpa looks
rather unassuming
from outside but don’t
be deceived. This is
the best Indian res-
taurant I’ve been to in
London since moving up in 2006. Specialising in
South Indian and Keralan cuisine, Shilpa has a vast
selection from very tasty appetisers to complex and
delicious curries. You MUST try it!
100g butter
250g crushed digestive biscuits
600g Philadelphia cream cheese
1 mini shot of Baileys
100ml icing sugar
300ml whipped double cream
100g grated chocolate
To garnish
200ml whipped double cream
cocoa powder, to dust
Melt the butter and add the crushed digestive bis-
cuits. Mix well until the biscuits have absorbed all
the butter.
Remove from the heat and press into the bottom of
a lined 18cm/7in springform tin. Place in the refrig-
erator and allow to set for one hour.
Meanwhile, prepare the filling. Lightly whip the
cream cheese then add the Bailey’s and icing sugar.
Fold in the whipped cream and grated chocolate.
When smooth, spoon evenly onto the biscuits.
Refrigerate and allow to set for two hours. Decorate
with whipped cream and cocoa powder dusted over
the top. Serve.
Bailey’s Choc. Cheesecake
Share your favourite restaurant or cafe in 80-100
words with us, send it to food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Warning: Your cheesecake may not look this good
The humble chickpea makes up one of the
most delicious things in the world – hummus.
There’s just something about it that’s good
for the soul, especially when it’s my favourite
home-made recipe (as featured below), not the
pseudo-hummus stuff you find parading about
the supermarket. This Middle Eastern delight
has a certain je ne sais quoi about it that un-
deniably puts you in a ‘FREE HUGS’ sort of
mood.
It just so happens that there’s a bit of science
behind this: hummus is pretty much the new
Prozac. Chickpeas are high in tryptophan, an
amino acid which is a vital building block of
the neurotransmitter serotonin (aka 5-hydroxy-
tryptamine). Modern biochemistry and psychi-
atry show a strong correlation between lack of
serotonin and mood disorders such as anxiety
and depression. Nowadays, the lack of sero-
tonin is treated with SSRIs (Selective Serotonin
Reuptake Inhibitors), all the big names in the
anti-depressant market like Prozac, Seroxat and
Cipralex which work by increasing the amount
of serotonin in the brain. A tryptophan-rich diet
has a similar effect, and quelle surprise! – the
chickpea species has the highest tryptophan
content of its genus. Nutritionally, hummus is
also a bit of a diamond. It’s full of fatty acids
like Omega-3, lots of important minerals and
is high in protein and complex carbohydrates.
Plus the Glycemic Index of hummus is really
low so it keeps you fuller for longer.
If you’ve not tried home-made hummus be-
fore, I guarantee it will change your life. I found
a delightful little statistic claiming the average
Israeli eats 10kg of hummus a year – impres-
sive, sure, but I hope to beat that. Now I know
the whole hummus process below looks pretty
arduous but you’re actually looking at about
max. 20 minutes work, mainly changing the wa-
Jamie’s US mission comes to a close
ter a couple of times and playing with a blender.
You will need
- 1 cup of dried chickpeas (never, ever use
tinned chickpeas – they are completely dev-
astating in terms of the flavour and nutritional
value of your hummus – and make sure you
buy the smallest dried ones you can find, I rec-
ommend any of the many grocers’ on North
End Road, the type you want is called ‘desi’)
- 1/2 cup tahini (this is sesame seed paste)
- the juice of 1 squeezed lemon
- 1 or 2 garlic cloves (depending on your per-
sonal taste)
- 1/2 teaspoon cumin
- 1 tablespoon + 1/8 teaspoon baking soda (if
you don’t use this your chickpeas will never
soften)
- salt
Now let’s make some hummus!
1 – Wash the dried chickpeas until the water
runs clear. Soak overnight in clean water with a
tablespoon of baking soda. The following day
wash them and soak again in fresh water for
a couple more hours. At this point the grains
should have absorbed most of the water and
doubled in volume.
2 – Wash the chickpeas thoroughly and place
in a large saucepan. Cover with water, add
an 1/8 of a teaspoon of baking soda and NO
salt. Simmer for an hour or so, and switch the
water half-way through cooking. Remove the
peels and foam which float to the surface. Your
chickpeas should now be very easily smushed
between two fingers. Sieve the grains and re-
serve the cooking water.
3 – Put the chickpeas into a food processor and
whiz them up. Leave them to chill in the fridge.
4 – Add the remaining ingredients and whiz
again until you get the desired texture. If it’s
looking a bit too thick, add some of the cook-
ing water. Voila! Perfect hummus. I serve
mine with a drizzle of good olive oil and some
chopped parsley. Viva la hummus revolution!
Flickr/caitysparkles
Charles Betts

