TRAVEL
FELIX
Friday 22 October 2010
38
TravelEditor: Dylan Lowe
Chris Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Wishing You Were Here
One tasty-looking trek
Zealand. After I started looking at walking New
Zealand I found that there was a track that went
the whole way, the Te Araroa trail.”
With just less than a month to go, prepara-
tions for the trek have been underway. Already
Landey and Anders have set up a website,
TastyTrek.com, which details the route, re-
search resources and equipment lists. It also
features a rather slick tracking system: an inter-
active map that will show their current location
and display relevant blog posts.
But how prepared are they?
Anders has adopted a confident attitude and
minimal planning. Landey, however, has mixed
feelings.
“Excited, confident and a little nervous; not
necessarily about getting lost or anything, as
we are giving ourselves leeway to take it slow
at the beginning and time to chill if we need
to. I’m a little nervous that walking everyday
will get dull or monotonous but provided one
of us doesn’t break a leg or get savagely sick or
something well definitely do it.”
The landscape in New Zealand may be majes-
tic but the challenges the terrain poses simply
cannot be underestimated. Having previously
travelled in New Zealand, is there a particular
section of the trek Anders is dreading of walk-
ing through?
“I’m slightly fearing Ninety Mile Beach –
it is the first track, a three-day walk along the
same stretch of beach. We will probably still be
getting used to the packs, our bodies’ capabili-
ties and the routine of living on the trail. Also
walking on sand is a bitch and there’s relatively
little water.”
“Also I expect some difficult sections in the
South Island with the added complication of
tonnes of rain, but by that time we’ll be ready
for anything,” Landey added.
Anywhere looked forward to?
“I really want to climb Mount Cook even
Travel Blog of the Week
Cape Reinga by Alexander Ford
Want to see your travel photograph featured here?
Send it to travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk.
N
ew Zealand. For a land-of-the-
long-white-cloud the size of
United Kingdom, which se-
cludes itself in the south-eastern
corner of the world map, and
houses a population of sheep outnumbering
that of humans by 15:1, it boasts an uncanny
amount of eccentrics and their heroic – yet in-
sane – antics.
Edmund Hilary, whose ascent would later
earn him a knighthood, honed his mountain-
eering skills in the Southern Alps of New Zea-
land’s South Island. A J Hackett, better known
as the ‘father of bungy jumping’, performed his
first jump from Greenhithe Bridge, Auckland,
and commercialised his ‘insanity’ on Kawarau
Bridge, Queenstown. Meanwhile, James Liv-
ingston and his mates sailed a pub and gallons
of Speights – brand of a New Zealand beer with
proud heritage – from Dunedin to London to
quench the thirst of their homesick compatriots.
Even having lived amongst the extraordi-
naires, with their ambitious yet seemingly lu-
dicrous (depending on perspective, clearly)
schemes still strikes me with much fascination.
So when two Imperial graduates approached
me with their grand plan I could only admire
and utter an obligatory “sweet as”.
Alexander ‘Anders’ Ford and Landey Patton,
though it’s not on the trail but it’s worth the day
walk each way. There will definitely be a load
of places that we will want to go once we hear
about them; we aren’t planning which hotspots
to visit as we are fairly impulsive and would
rather take a locals’ word over a travel guide.”
With hundreds casting away their student
status and exiting the Royal Albert Hall on
Wednesday to commence a new chapter of their
lives, there will be no shortages of graduates
rushing into the job scenes and beginning their
ascent on the career ladder. Anders and Landey,
however, have an approach unlike that of many
rat-race competitive Imperial graduates.
“Don’t think that as a graduate you need to
get a job with any of the companies from any
of the careers fairs, you don’t,” Anders advised.
“You can do anything you want, go anywhere
you want. What you have achieved by graduat-
ing from Imperial will stick with you for a long
time.
“On a piece of paper – i.e. your CV – you
are no different to the other 300 students who
graduated with you. Employers want to see
what you are like. Going out and exploring the
world and doing something amazing makes you
a whole lot more interesting.”
“The way I see it, the point of money is to buy
experiences,” Landey added; “I’d rather work
my ass of for a summer and pay for six months
of trekking in New Zealand, than going straight
into a high paying corporate job and never see-
ing outside your office window.”
You can follow Anders’ and Landey’s epic
journey by logging onto their website,
Tastytrek.com, or following their tweets @
TastyTrek. They also hope to raise money
for two charities, Solar Light for Africa,
Ltd. and Water Aid – for details on how to
donate visit their website.
“I’d rather not go
straight into a high pay-
ing corporate job and
never see outside your
office window”
who have completed a degree in material sci-
ence and geology respectively, will attempt to
traverse the Te Araroa Trail, a 3030km track
that will take them from the northernmost point
of New Zealand, Cape Reinga, to Bluff, its
southernmost tip. Along with Anders’ brother
Damienmarc, they intend to set off in mid-
November, aiming to complete the trek by the
following March.
I asked them where the inspiration to trek
across New Zealand had sprung from. It turns
out, according to Anders, to be a modern ad-
venturer.
“Back in first year I stumbled upon a guy
called Karl Bushby of the Goliath Exhibition
– he’s doing the longest unbroken walk in the
world. I wanted to do it too. I thought it would
be better to try out somewhere smaller at first.
I thought about John o’ Groats to Lands End
– no too small. I thought about Australia – too
dangerous.
“I visited New Zealand later that year, and
there it is: beautiful and challenging land-
scapes, plenty of fresh water and nothing in the
bush that could kill me. So it had to be New
Two Imperial graduates talk to Felix about plans to walk
the entire length of New Zealand, on the Te Araroa trail
Who: Travel With A Mate was co-founded by Brits
Matt and Deborah Preston.
About: The website is cemented by a strong sense
of community – travel bloggers are encouraged to
showcase their travels and writing through interviews
and guest posts. Reviews, travel advice, tips and
location guides are amongst the many things Travel
With A Mate offer
Why: The concept of actively inviting guest writers
is truly alluring and infinitely beneficial to any novice
travel blogger who would like to gain exposure.
The interviews don’t only leave you inspired by
the colourful anecdotes, they also broaden your
acquaintance with individuals of the travel-blogging
community. The sense of community is expanded in
real life as Matt hosts monthly meet-ups for travel
bloggers, providing workshops and Q&A sessions.
Matt also penned an informative e-book on how to
establish a successful blog on Wordpress.
Recommended: Working overseas vs backpacking;
The location independent lifestyle; Travel with
friends vs travel solo; Oil – a backpackers’ best
friend
Link: http://www.travelwithamate.com
Twitter: @travelwithamate
Needing inspiration for a weekend getaway? Or
some travelling planned ahead of the next break?
Join the discussion #FelixTravel on twitter for ideas.

