FELIX Friday 22 October 2010
TRAVEL
Wonderful wildlife, treacherous trekking and a
monstrous mountain. By Chris Richardson
My Northern Borneo Jamboree
I am a huge fan of mainland Malaysia,
what with its plethora of creole cuisines
and party people, but its true face lies
on Sabah in Malaysian Borneo. As soon
as I landed in Kota Kinabalu and hit the
streets, I realised I was onto something
grand: the sun was smouldering, the
prices cheap, and all of the locals greet-
ed me with a friendly smile.
KK is the perfect central hub for any
explorer of Borneo. I spent a few days
spotting some of the awesome under-
water colours on offer at the world class
dive spots located in the national park
just off the shores of the city, largely to
get over the pains of the Thailand bing-
es that left my skin and liver in tatters.
The city itself is pretty hip, with one of
the highlights being the night markets
selling the usual arty crafts and mad
variations of various Asian cuisines. If
you have yet to be acquainted with the
delight that is cendol, I’d highly recom-
mend it: a bizarre icy mix of coconut
milk, food-coloured jelly, beans, rice
and creamed corn that somehow seems
to get your taste buds dancing.
As with any city, you have the op-
tion of superior hotels, but I opted for
the grungy backpackers’ hostel so that I
could be kept in the company of fellow
travellers, in the hope that I’d persuade
at least one to venture up Mount Kinaba-
lu (Southeast Asia’s highest) with me.
A few beers and a curry later and it
was happening, and at seven o’clock
the following morning myself and my
newly-found Dutch partner in crime
were on our way to the said mountain.
Needless to say I think we underesti-
mated it: I spent the better part of £10
on my ‘equipment’ which consisted of
a second-hand pair of women’s trainers,
a pair of women’s leggings (see a pat-
tern here?), and a weather-beaten pon-
cho. Armed to the teeth with a bottle of
water and boiled egg in hand, we began
the climb. I make it sound like ‘mission
impossible’, but really, if you’re capable
of making it to the silent study section
on the 5th floor of the library without us-
ing the lift, you can probably handle it.
rise, and thanks to a seemingly-empty
promise to a young lady back home I
ended up in a pair of girl’s underwear,
while well wrapped-up climbers around
me looked on in mild amusement. At
least a few of them took photos – here’s
hoping I’m on a cereal box somewhere.
The logic behind doing the mountain
first was to get the hard part out of the
way, which in retrospect was a terrible
decision. Instead I spent the subsequent
four days with knobbly knees and achy
joints that made the abundance of rain-
forest trekking a bit of a nightmare. We
did a brief stopover to the hot springs
at the base of the mountain, famous
for its sulphuric minerals that allegedly
cure aching muscles – all utter bollocks
and an obvious ploy to coax climbers
into spending more money post-climb.
There was the token trip to the Sepilok
Orang-utan Rehabilitation Centre as
an insurance policy to catch a glimpse
of this beautiful animal that regrettably
might not be with us for much longer.
Of course it’s easy to criticise the defor-
estation through bigoted Western eyes,
but you have to wonder why this kind
of thing goes on – palm oil plantations
could be the region’s best hope for a spot
in global trade as well as a method of
ensuring wealth for future generations.
The late Uncle Tan was once the re-
gion’s leading explorer and thankfully
his relatives are continuing his bril-
liant work by offering jungle treks as
well as cruises along the ecologically
diverse Kinabatangan River. Had I de-
parted with a checklist of things to see
I’d have filled in the lot: countless spe-
cies of monkeys, vivid kingfishers, wild
cats, giant bats, and the Holy Grail – a
wild female orang-utan clutching her
newborn child. It’s just incredible when
the odds are on your side and you get to
witness such awesomeness; while oth-
cial moments should really be kept as
mental images; the pixels on the camera
and my lousy words on this page really
do the sight no justice whatsoever.
And sadly that’s where that little
chapter had to draw to a close as Hong
Kong beckoned; I’ll definitely be delv-
ing even further into Borneo next time
to check out the Indonesian areas which
supposedly offer some great caving. All
in all, a fantastic leg of my 2010 ‘Asian
Invasion’. Sabah is definitely a place
that should be on more people’s hit
lists – with such amazing scenery and
a whole heap of activities at affordable
prices, what’s not to love? Hop out of
the Benidorm and into the Borneo; go
and soak up the rainforest and its won-
derful biodiversity while you’ve still got
the chance.
“Palm oil plantations
could sadly be the
region’s greatest
hope of ensuring
the wealth of future
generations.”
Sporting some beautiful lingerie at the highest point in Southeast Asia Thanks to our reckless actions orang-utans are being forced from the rainforest
Admiring the setting sun over the national park in Kota Kinabalu
“Sabah is definitely
a place that should
be on more people’s
hit lists.”
It’s embarrassing enough that within
the first kilometre I was sweating like
Lee Evans on a bad day, but the real
cherry on the cake was being out-paced
by several women in their 70’s, sporting
bags bigger than their bodies filled with
the various things that climbers demand
for din-dins. I couldn’t help but think
they should have been snuggled up un-
der a blanket with a hot beverage by the
telly, but hey, they seemed to love the
work! After a dreadful first day up to the
3.5km mark we retired to our cold shack
and attempted to get some shut-eye,
which failed thanks to the high altitude.
By day two I’d lost the sole from one of
my cheap shoes but we ventured up to
the 4.2km high summit in time for sun-
ers scrambled for their cameras (which
failed, by the way), I just watched in
amazement for those brief few seconds
before the mother fled and bounded into
the distance. Not everything should be
caught on camera, anyway. Those spe-
39

