NEWS
FELIX
Friday 22 October 2010
4
In the last few weeks there have been
some very disgruntled Liberal Democrat
supporters.ThefeelingthattheLibDems
had ‘sold out’and forgotten their election
pledges is widespread. So in light of the
spending review, have the Liberal Dem-
ocrats broken their election promises?
It’s worth having a look back to the
manifesto they released before May’s
general election. In it, they clearly and
strongly outlined their commitment
to both education, through the scrap-
ping of “unfair tuition fees”, and sci-
ence: “In the current economic climate
it is not possible to commit to growth
in spending, but Liberal Democrats
recognise the importance of science
investment to the recovery and to
the reshaping of the economy.”
This had enticed a large number of
new voters who were not happy with
the attitudes of the other parties. The re-
action to Vince Cable’s speech at Queen
Mary, University of London in Septem-
ber should therefore not have been unex-
pected. His remarks, considered by some
to be incredibly ignorant, about cutting
out “research which is neither commer-
cially useful nor theoretically outstand-
ing” stirred up a lot of heated emotions.
Imperial wins as scien
Matthew Colvin
Katherine Bettany
Sophia David
Imperial focus
Why Imperial will be all right
With dark clouds looming over many universities, it’s
not all doom and gloom for Imperial. Ranked 9th in
the world by The Times this year, bright students
from all corners of the globe compete for a place at
Imperial. Such high demand is unlikely to change.
If the cap on tuition fees is lifted, as suggested
by the Browne review, a free market is expected
to drive down the costs for students as universi-
ties compete with one another. Whilst lessening
the financial burden on students, universities may
consequently not be able to acquire the full funding
required to teach their courses. Whether fair or not,
elite universities such as Oxbridge and Imperial may
escape this market, being able to charge the full
costs of a world-class education.
Universities unable to fully replace the amount
of government funding slashed this week with the
equivalent rise in tuition fees are susceptible to
overwhelming financial failure. Bankruptcy and pri-
vate takeovers are inevitable, whilst massive re-
structuring of courses offered to students will be
required, including a switch to ‘STEM’ subjects – sci-
ence, technology, engineering and mathematics.
Imperial already focuses strongly on such sub-
jects that the government is continuing to fund. So
we should lose out far less than our neighbours,
the Royal College of Music and the Royal College of
Art. Institutions specialising in arts, humanities and
social sciences may well be the biggest losers, as
they will see most of their funding cut.
Inevitably, poorer students are likely to be de-
terred from higher education if tuition fees soar.
However, with no fee costs to pay upfront and an
average starting salary of £28,116 following an un-
dergraduate degree at Imperial, students here are
more likely to take on the financial risk than those
considering less prestigious universities. Imperial
should be able to maintain its talent from all social
backgrounds.
Despite tuition fees of over £20,000 for under-
graduate courses, Imperial boasts an international
(non-EU) student population of a whopping 34.5%.
This shouts out about its status abroad. Imperial is
consequently in a strong position to use fees from
wealthy international students to help cover the
costs of EU students. Further increases in non-EU
tuition fees could be central in plugging the hole left
by the government cuts and lessening the impact on
British and European students.
Finally, the announcement that the annual £4.6
billion science budget will be frozen for the next four
years (a 10% reduction in real terms) brings an enor-
mous sigh of relief to the research community. Cuts
of up to 25% had been rumoured. The new settle-
ment is also likely to lead to a greater proportion
the ‘Quality-Related’ stream, £2 billion that is paid
directly to universities instead of through research
councils, be allocated to elite universities such as
Imperial. Job losses and scrapping of projects are
less likely to be incurred here than at other non-
research intensive universities.
There’s no escaping the spending review is not ex-
actly what we want to hear – the cost of obtaining
an Imperial degree is going to be a hefty sum of
money. But taking a step back and looking at the
wider picture offers a glimmer of hope. Things could
be far worse and we should count ourselves as the
lucky ones.
Sophia David
from the government for full- and,
for the first time, part-time students.
In an unexpected move, Wednesday’s
Spending Review spared science and re-
search from the brunt of the most hurtful
cutssuchasthoseaffectingwelfare.Even
days before this, statements were being
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
made behind the scenes regarding the
high possibility of a freeze in the science
budget. These claims ultimately came to
fruition during George Osborne’s for-
mal announcement, in which he detailed
that the science budget would indeed
be protected at £4.6 billion per year.
“Britain is a world leader in scien-
tific research and that is vital to our
future economic success,” he said.
The freeze in the budget, when ad-
justed for inflation, means that there will
still be a cut in the budget, but at just un-
der 10% it is well below earlier estimates
such as 25%. The success has been at-
BROKEN
PROMISES
So when the spending cuts were an-
nounced today people must have been
breathing a sigh of relief, having feared
the worse. Despite science and environ-
ment receiving a 9% cut, Liberal Demo-
cratMPsmustfeelthattheirpledgedcom-
mitment to science hasn’t been entirely
overlooked in the coalition government.
However, despite receiving the small-
est budget cut across the many White-
hall departments, it is predicted that ed-
ucation will suffer when the government
acts on the recently published Browne
report to remove the cap of tuition
fees. This flies in the face of the Lib-
eral Democrats manifesto pledge and
leave many deeply unhappy or with an
uncertain academic future. The extent
to which this will now affect education
now lies in the hands of the universities.
confirmed that the £324 million pounds
of savings made in the sector would be
saved through efficiency, and not by
‘cash cuts’. So, whilst the Imperial re-
search departments may not be as badly
affected as previously suspected, the
teaching budget will certainly face cuts.
In a time where economic sustainability
is everything, perhaps more departments
will follow the lead of the department
of Life Sciences in their restructure.
Government funding from higher
education is to be cut by £2.9 billion
(40%) from £7.1 billion to £4.2 billion,
by 2014-2015. This will shift a greater
proportion of the funding for university
teaching from the taxpayer to the student.
Therefore, the major effect on students
is going to be the soaring of tuition fees
and the subsequent debt to repay. The
spending review accepts Lord Browne’s
report and states that universities will be
able to increase graduate contributions
from the 2012-2013 academic year.
Luckily for many of us, we will have
graduated by then. But the BMA have
already warned ministers that if tuition
fees are levied at around £10,000, fu-
ture medical students could face debts
of around £70,000 on leaving univer-
sity – a crippling financial burden.
In future, the choice of university may
be based on financial rather than aca-
demic reasoning with students shying
away from elite universities owing to
their higher costs. To reduce social prej-
udice, a £150 million National Schol-
arship fund introduced by 2014-2015
will support students from low-income
backgrounds as well as low-income
graduates. There will be loan support
Elizabeth Crouch
...Continued from Front Page
“Wednesday’s Spending Review
spared science and research
funding from the brunt of the
most hurtful cuts.”

