44 felix
FRIDAY 22 OCTOBER 2010
SPORT sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sports Editor: Jovan Nedic & David Wilson
Hockey: Shanika’s goal
hanging gives ladies 1s
the win against King’s
Jess Poore & Jill Tombs
Ladies ULU Hockey
Imperial 1s 8 - 1 King’s 1s
After a late start on a bright afternoon at Har-
lington, IC Ladies 1s took on the girls of Kings
College. Enthusiastic for the first game of the
new season, but with four shiny new fresh-
ers making up the bare-eleven, how the game
would go was anybody’s guess!
A surprisingly polished start saw Imperial up
1-0 within a few minutes, Shanika’s sharp post
finish defeating the Kings’ goalkeeper. The
ladies continued to press hard, with freshers
making their claim for positions, and breaking
down everything Kings had to offer. A further
three goals in quick succession – all stolen by
Shanika, in a similar vein to the first – sealed
our early advantage, leaving the half-time score
at Imperial College 4 – Kings College 0.
The second half continued in true Ladies 1s
style, generously allowing Kings one break-
away goal, but ensuring the victory by netting
another four ourselves!
Incredibly solid defending from a back line,
half of whom were freshers, meant spending
much of our time in the Kings half, and con-
ceding not one penalty corner! Despite blind-
ing sunshine towards the end, Teddy’s terrify-
ing swings left the opposition defence stunned
for two of the goals, and freshers Harriet and
Kirstin finished off two more – a great lifted
shot off the rebound from Kirstin flying past
the helpless Kings keeper.
Our own keeper, Gemma, also pulled off
some cracking saves on the few occasions
Kings were allowed through, and we’d like to
thank her for stepping in to fill a goalie-shaped
hole in our team.
If any ladies fancy goal keeping for either
of the ICHC Ladies’ teams - we’re pretty
desperate, can you tell? - please contact us at
ic.hockey@imperial.ac.uk.
An 8-1 final score gave the ladies a pretty
successful start to the season – one they hope
to continue on Wednesday against the ladies at
St Mary’s.
Ice Hockey
The sports
that Imperial
forgot
Over the next few weeks, FelixSport
will go over some of the lesser know
sports team at Imperial. This week,
Hugh McDowell takes a look at Ice
Hockey
Ice hockey is an incredibly face-paced intense game.
It is played with 6 players on the ice- 3 forwards (cen-
tre and two wingers) 2 defense and a goalie. A team
is generally made up of three ‘lines’- forward and de-
fense sets and a goalie. The game has three 20 minute
stop-clock periods, so there is no hanging around wait-
ing for time-wasters and several goals can be scored
in the space of a few seconds. Unlike many other
sports, substitutions or ‘changes’ are unlimited and
happen on- the-fly. Generally, a complete forward or
defense line change to maintain unity but if a skater
has knackered themselves out, they can come to the
bench where a replacement seamlessly hops over the
boards to join the action. It is expected that you skate
as hard as possible for the length of your shift and so
in the NHL the average shift is only around 45 seconds
because of this.
Hockey is a full contact sport and players are permit-
ted to take-out the puck carrier, known as ‘checking’,
but only by certain means- use of the stick for tripping,
hooking or checking from behind will result in a penalty.
Standard penalties last for two minutes where the of-
fending player is in the ‘penalty box’ and the team con-
tinue to play with one less player- on the ‘penalty kill’.
The opposing team are on the ‘power play’, which is
the best opportunity to score, which ends the penalty if
they do so. If the penalised team score a ‘short- hand-
ed’ goal then penalty still has to be served out- hence
teams usually play very defensively when down a play-
er. The team with the most goals at the end of the 60
minutes wins; and with the stop-clock and end-to-end
action, last minute comebacks are a regular feature.
Tim Runcorn
What is Ice Hockey?
Ice Hockey at Imperial?
Where do I sign up?
“If I can do it, anyone can,” says a modest Tim
Runcorn, president of the Imperial Devils Ice
Hockey team. “In fact, aside from it being an
awesome sport in general, the fact that you can
see yourself progress so quickly is a major rea-
son why I love the sport.”
The Imperial Devils are one of a number of
sports clubs on campus looking to recruit be-
ginner players to bolster their playing staff.
Their president is keen to dispel the myth that
Ice Hockey is too difficult to take up.
“Another misconception that a lot of people
have is they need previous experience to join
the club,” he says. “I was a complete beginner
- literally could barely skate - two years ago
and now I’ll be playing for the A-Team this
season.”
Founded in 2000 by roller-hockey players,
the club’s early years were fraught with admin-
istrative difficulties. The departure of a succes-
sion of presidents from Imperial made any sort
of continuity impossible. Now, however, the
Devils have an accredited coach (former Dev-
ils player David Coolegem) and two teams,
both of which train regularly at Streatham Ice
Rink in South London.
“We have two teams, an A-Team for players
with previous experience and those who move
up from the B-Team which is for complete
beginners,” says the club president. “Both
teams play in the BUIHA leagues in Div 2
and Div 3 respectively. The league games are
against other universities in the south such as
Oxford, London, Bristol, Cambridge, Cardiff,
Warwick, and Southampton.”
Given that Ice Hockey is a relatively expen-
sive sport, the Devils are grateful for the sup-
port of the Union, the Harlington Trust and the
IC Trust.
“The size of the grant enables us to have the
cheapest ice hockey sessions in London and
the club kits enable beginners to get into the
sport without having to spend megabucks. This
is why I urge people to give ice hockey a go
at university- there is no way that people can
get into the sport so easily or cheaply anywhere
else.”
Both the A and B teams contain a mix of
males and females, and the B team play a less
physical ‘non-checking’league. The two teams
play in BUIHA leagues in Division 2 and Divi-
sion 3 respectively.
The Devils also boast an active social calen-
dar, with pub golf, club nights and a Christmas
dinner planned. The Ice Hockey season culmi-
nates with the Nationals, where, in the words
of Tim Runcorn, “every team from the UK de-
scends on Sheffield for a weekend of intense
ice hockey competition and a massive piss-up.”
The Imperial Devils play in Streatham Ice
Rink on Sunday nights, and matches are free
to attend.
Hugh McDowell
The Imperial Devils. Want to get involved? Email Tim Runcorn at ice-hockey@impe-
rial.ac.uk.

