45
felix FRIDAY 22 OCTOBER 2010
SPORT
After few hours relaxing in Ibis Valencia
aeropuerto, the IC tennis squad picked
up their Citroën and joined the traffic.
The elite male squad consisted of el
presidente Rob bush, skipper Pio Monti,
chauffeur Roman Lewis and fresher
Adam Gunasekara. The lady’s squad
– somewhat depleted at just Rebecca
Smith, was strengthened with the last
minute arrival of star player and ‘team
lad’Alice.
After a quick power nap, we hit the
San Juan beach party – a massive rave
on the beach (see picture) where we
enjoyed warm beers, Rob’s bbq and a
swim in the ocean.
The next few days we began our clay
court training with temperatures soaring
into the high 30s. After several hours of
sequences and drills we made full use
of the pool and tucked into our perfor-
mance lunch of peaches and ice cream
with the exception of Bush and Gunas-
ekara who were still out on the red stuff,
deeply unsatisfied with their backhand
cross courts.
The diet of fruit and ice cream barely
whet our appetites, and so as every good
sports team should be we hit an all you
can eat joint. After much chat, Pio Monti
performed badly at the restaurant while
‘team lad’Alice dug deep and pulled out
a stunning performance.
Our first match was against a local
club who to date had not lost a match;
we did nothing to change this. Pio Mon-
ti was not on form losing narrowly to a
very good player and Rob Bush lost in 3
sets in a very entertaining match. Adam
Gunasekara however produced a sole
victory despite losing the second set 6-0
which he claims to have been a superb
tactical move allowing him to rest up for
the 3rd. Despite the loss the team tucked
into a delicious lunch of tortilla and beer
with the friendly opposition.
At the weekend we were lucky enough
Adam Gunasekara
to catch some of the grand prix live an
added bonus to the tour. El presidente
somehow managed to talk himself into
the lotus pit lane during one of the prac-
tice laps. We’re still trying to work out
how he pulled that one off.
For the remainder of the tour we
joined a Valencian U18 tennis squad and
were fortunate enough to receive coach-
ing from high quality coaches. We are
very grateful to them and the club who
were so hospitable. Overall the tour was
a success and we hope that it has set us
up to have a very successful season.
Tennis club is sponsored by KPMG.
Tennis gain valuable
practice in Valencia
So is this the way Nadal does his
serves?
Goats of Destiny, the University of Bristol alumni
team, and the discDoctors lost out to the side that
played better on the day. The first loss of the tour-
nament put Imperial into the third-place playoff
against a team from the University of Warwick.
With the Warwick Bears regularly finishing at the
top of the BUCS Championships, the discDoctors
rightly expected a tough game. Imperial put in a
spirited performance against a clinical side, but
their zone defence was too strong and proved Im-
perial’s undoing, being beaten to the podium at the
<< continued from back page very last hurdle.
Finishing fourth in the division of twenty-eight
demonstrated the Imperial team’s depth and versa-
tility.
The tournament was the last competition for sev-
eral graduating players, including Samuel Hurst,
Chris Tutill and Magnus Wilson, but bodes very
well for the upcoming university season.
Ultimate is still welcoming new members, from
seasoned players to absolute beginners; if you are
interested in joining, you can find us training on the
playing fields of Hyde Park on Wednesday from
1pm and Saturday mornings from 11am.
Ultimate frisbee fall short in Italy
The Imperial College Baseball Club saw
the 2010 season begin on Saturday, the
16th of October. The Imperial Falcons
played a doubleheader against the Kings
Lions in the opening fixtures of the Brit-
ish University Baseball Association
(BUBA) Southern Division. Imperial
was looking to get off to a good start,
after the championship season of 2009.
Fielding a 17 man squad, consisting of
returning team members and first year
players, the team bus left the Union on
route to the Roundshaw baseball pitch
at Croydon, arriving well ahead of the
noon start time. The Falcons and the
Lions were tied at one early in the first
game but a six run explosion in the 3rd
inning provided the run support for a 7-1
Imperial win. Vassil Botev and Hajime
Urata combined to pitch a two hit, 12
strikeout gem.
The Falcons were feeling good about
its chances for a sweep, with ace Han-
son Cheung taking the mound for game
two. Indeed, Imperial quickly took a 5-2
lead and looked to be in a dominant po-
sition. However, the Lions mounted a
spirited fightback and tied the game at
five going into the final inning, but a key
double play by Arun Krishnan and Gary
Lam and a well-fielded bunt by Hanson
on the mound stopped Kings taking the
lead. With the game on the line, the Fal-
cons came through, scoring five runs all
after two outs in the inning on a series of
clutch at-bats. Imperial would hang on
for a 10-6 win and the best possible start
to the year.
The weekend saw some great baseball
played by both sides. All in all, it was an
impressive performance by the Falcons.
Imperial once again found itself atop the
Southern Division after Southampton
and Oxford split their doubleheader later
that same day. However, there remains a
lot of baseball to be played this season
as the Falcons continue their campaign
to defend their title.
For those who are interested in join-
ing us, we meet at 1:30pm outside Beit
Quad every Wednesday and Saturday.
Sessions involve a mixture of practices
at Hyde Park, travelling to batting cages
in Northwick Park, and trips to Harling-
ton where our very own baseball pitch is
nearing completion and will be ready to
host fixtures next term. We accept play-
ers of all interest levels and abilities,
from casual fans to diehards. There will
be more opportunities to play in tourna-
ments and friendly matches throughout
the year.
Baseball: Imperial
defeat King’s, twice
Arun Krishnan & Kevin Ling
What’s that, you want a home run, well OK then
discDoctors just miss out on the perfect colour pattern

