FELIX Friday 22 October 2010 5
nce is spared major cuts
NEWS
Graphics by Victoria McQuadeova
While you mull over the details
of spending cuts, and consider
whether or not they have been
distributed “fairly”, it is worth
remembering that, regardless,
cuts are necessary.
National Debt is currently at
£843bn (excluding the finan-
cial bailouts) or 57.2 per cent
of GDP. If we include the bail-
outs, the net debt is £952bn,
or 64.6% GDP. This is well
above Gordon Brown’s tar-
get of 40% of GDP under the
Sustainable Investment Rule.
Admittedly, these rules were
not written for the financial cri-
sis and this is not particularly
high relative to the rest of the
world; France, Germany and
the United States have debts
in the range 70-80% and Italy,
of over 100%. But, in the case
of these countries, they are ei-
ther not ready to take the po-
litical hit and their government
credit rating is in for a shock
due to fiscal irresponsibility (It-
aly and France), or these debts
holds some long term sustain-
ability (United States and Ger-
many).
British debt, however, is
not stable or sustainable. A
year ago, National Debt was
£821.5bn, or 58.5% GDP;
meaning a rise of 6.1% over
the last 12 months. Excluding
financial interventions, which
are considered to be both nec-
essary and hold long term sus-
tainability as they should pro-
duce a return, National debt
has risen by 8.2%, from 49%
of GDP a year ago.
Labour has argued that Os-
borne is being too brutal with
the metaphorical axe and risks
a double-dip recession; on the
contrary, careful consideration
of the figures coupled with
meetings with British industry
figures shows Osborne is do-
ing just enough to maintain
Britain’s AAA credit rating while
not shocking the economy into
a double-dip. The budgets over
this parliamentary term may
reduce the annual deficit, but
they do not intend to generate
a surplus or break even. Na-
tional debt as a proportion of
GDP is projected to rise to well
into 70s and not be reduced
until 2014/15 at the earliest.
The government’s approach,
from a macroeconomic per-
spective at least, has been to
consider carefully the best bal-
ance to avoid recession.
Rajat Jain
tributed to Business Secretary Vince Ca-
ble and Science Minister David Willetts
and their negotiation with the Treasury
earlier in the week, but other significant
events that may have influenced the final
decision include significant protest from
the Science is Vital group, with their pe-
tition of over 36,000 signatories and ral-
ly at Westminster earlier in the month.
The Times also published a special plea
on Monday to limit cuts to below 10%.
The latest announcements have
been met with tentative positiv-
ity across the scientific spectrum.
The Royal Society, a fellowship of
eminent and prominent scientists, pre-
viously stated that a cut of 10% would
“seriously jeopardise” the UKs scien-
tific capabilities. Martin Rees, President
of the Royal Society is however pleased
with the “welcome news” and praises
the outcome, stating to the BBC that
the, “government has recognised the im-
portance of sustaining the international
standing of UK science in a context
where other nations are forging ahead.”
Campaign for Science and Engineer-
ing (CaSE), a pressure group devoted
to aiding scientific growth in the UK,
has highlighted some possible future
problems for the sector in response
to the cuts. It suggests that the num-
ber of research staff entering science
and engineering will decrease, with
the potential of postgraduate positions
falling by a tenth. Though Director
of CaSE, Imran Khan, is encouraged
that the cuts are not deeper, he also
believes the UK’s standing in terms
of scientific output will be threatened.
Universities UK (UUK), represen-
tative organisation for the country’s
higher education institutions, echoes
the sentiments of the other groups.
Professor Steve Smith, President of
UUK says, “We are pleased that the
Government has listened to Universi-
ties UK’s views on the importance of
science and research to the growth of
the economy...However the freezing
of funding for research will still pose
challenges to our universities.” Profes-
sor Smith goes on to list two priorities
for the sector that he believes are cru-
cial to future success: firstly, ensuring
that “the cuts do not impact negatively
on current and future students” and
secondly “to find alternative funding
sources to replace these lost funds.”
The budget is set to be distributed
among the UK’s research councils,
who will provide grants to both indi-
viduals and universities based on their
academic strength. Because of this, it
is thought that some of the country’s
elite universities will take a greater
proportion of the money, threatening
universities less focused on research.
However, the news of no deeper
cuts will likely appease those scien-
tists who were troubled by the initial
projected figures, after it was recently
reported that some individuals are
considering a move to better funded
courses and research positions overseas.
Time will no doubt tell how satisfied
scientists become as the cuts become
fully implemented across the country.
So what will the impact be on Impe-
rial? The 2010 NSS (National Student
Survey) results point towards already ex-
cellent teaching at Imperial with an out-
standing result of 90% for satisfaction
with learning resources. With a poorer
result obtained in satisfaction with as-
sessment and feedback, the Rector has
made these issues an immediate prior-
ity in the university. Implemented this
year, the Biology department now has a
two week deadline for coursework feed-
back. This is just one example of many
highlighting Imperial’s commitment to
continuous improvement in teaching.
Additionally, the Browne review stat-
ed that any universities charging over
£7,000 a year will be ‘subject to scru-
tiny, ensuring that these extra funds are
being used fairly’. Despite the tuition
fee cap being lifted, the government em-
phasises that regulations are still firmly
in place. We should rest assured that
Imperial is being kept a close eye on.
With the government’s pledge to
maintain funding for ‘STEM’ subjects
– science, technology, engineering and
mathematics, Imperial’s teaching bud-
get may not be so harshly wiped. The
surprising freeze on science research
funding and likely high allocation of
resources to research-intensive universi-
ties should also sit nicely with Imperial.
So future Imperial students can ex-
pect to see fees doubled, tripled, maybe
even quadrupled, but it seems that the
teaching and research are set to stay
much the same high quality as ever.
Numbers
There will be a 40% cut
to the teaching budget
The UK spends 1.7%
of GDP on research.
America spends 2.8%
There will be a 10%
cut to government
research funding
Graphics by Veronica McQuadeova
The need for cuts
Additional Reporting:
Elizabeth Crouch
Editorial: Page 18
Photo by Miles Robertson

