NEWS
FELIX
Friday 22 October 2010
6
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
In brief
New Imperial College Medal Award
Commemoration Day returned on Wednesday and
alongside the expected handshakes, tears and ma-
triculation robes, a new honorary award was pre-
sented for the first time recognising ‘meritorious
service’ to Imperial College London.
While over 2000 undergraduates received their
degrees inside the Royal Albert Hall, the first ‘Impe-
rial College Medal’ was presented to the Reverend
Brooke Kingsmill-Lunn in recognition of his 57 years
of ringing the bells in the Queen’s Tower on special
occasions.
The Medal has been introduced by the College
Council to recognise those who have demonstrated
‘a longstanding contribution to the College which en-
hances its reputation, mission and objectives.’
The award was also given to several members of
staff to celebrate excellence in both teaching and
pastoral care. Those praised for their unique lec-
turing techniques and willingness to help students
were Professor Anthony Bull (Department of Bioen-
gineering), Professor Nigel Bell (Centre for Environ-
mental Policy), Dr Frank Berkshire and Professor
Martin Liebeck (both Department of Mathematics).
Those awarded for Pastoral Care were Mrs Marga-
ret Cunningham (Department of Computing) and Dr
Mike Emerson (National Heart and Lung Institute).
In yet another first for Commemoration Day, Ste-
pan Lucysyzn of the Electrical and Electronic Engi-
neering Department became the first recipient of
an Imperial Doctor of Science Degree, awarded for
‘work of an exceptional standard’
Sir Keith O’Nions, overseeing his first ceremony
as Rector, delivered a speech to new graduates
about the need to use their skills to benefit society.
“Education is at the core of an enterprise which
undertakes research at the cutting edge, translates
it for economic benefit through new companies and
addresses the big societal challenges of this era,”
he said, to an audience who were no doubt highly
anticipating the promised ‘light canapés’ that would
be served at the following receptions.
The Rector left those in attendance with the final
summative message, “The collective contributions
we know you will make to the world is truly inspiring.”
Matt Colvin
Postgraduate Wood Lane
campus approved
£28 million development given go-ahead by local council
Plans for Imperial College London’s develop-
ment of a new postgraduate campus at Wood
Lane have gained impetus following their ap-
proval by Hammersmith & Fulham Council.
The Council’s decision follows the sale of the
BBC’s 7.7 acre Woodlands site, previously oc-
cupied by BBC Worldwide, in September 2009.
A £28 million deal secured the location which
Imperial plans to use to create new teaching,
research and administrative facilities alongside
new accommodation for 606 postgraduate stu-
dents. The plans for the campus are certainly
ambitious, with a hotel, gym and pharmacy
planned amongst various other services, with
the intention of creating a major centre for
science, technology, medicine and business.
The College aims to complete the first stage
of the development by September 2012 for
inaugural postgraduate use in the 2012/2013
session. Combined with new postgraduate ac-
commodation being built at Winstanley Road
in Clapham Junction, the College hopes to
achieve its ambition of ‘providing accommo-
dation for a quarter of postgraduate students’.
The move is likely to appease some pro-
spective postgraduate students who wish to
seek an alternative to private accommoda-
tion. Currently, Imperial admits that it has
a ‘very limited’ amount of accommodation
available for postgraduate students, with Im-
perial-managed Clayponds Village in South
Ealing housing 325 students and postgradu-
ate campus Silwood Park home to just 126.
In a statement released by the BBC, Chris
Kane, Head of BBC Workplace, praises the
deal, stating that, “We are delighted to have
achieved a sale which offers good value for
our licence fee payers. The new occupier
shares the BBC’s values [and] reinforces the
innovative and creative culture of the area”.
Dr Martin Knight, Chief Operating Offi-
cer of Imperial College London, said, “This
purchase is an investment in Imperial’s fu-
ture growth and development. It will also al-
low us to extend provision of quality afford-
able student accommodation, particularly for
postgraduates.” He then cryptically added,
“We look very much forward to collaborating
with the BBC on research and other projects.”
The scheme was not approved without some
controversy however, with CABE (Com-
mission for Architecture and the Built Envi-
ronment) slamming the project. They have
stated that the sustainability targets for the
project “do not reflect Imperial College’s
reputation for excellence and innovation.”
Some local residents have also listed con-
cern regarding the plans. The main worry
amongst the contingent is a fear that the devel-
opment will lead to local estates (White City,
Wood Lane and the heroically named Bat-
man Close) being demolished as part of the
rejuvenation of the ‘White City Opportunity
Area’, a scheme that is dedicated to bring new
jobs and investments to the surrounding loca-
tion. One such benefit was the opening of the
Westfield London shopping centre in 2008.
Both parties involved in the deal deny that this
is the case, with JohnAnderson, Project Director
atImperial,sayingthattheproject‘‘offersarange
of uses that will benefit the local community”.
Alongside this, the BBC claim that “it is work-
ing in partnership with landowners to build on
the area’s existing strengths and bring about the
economic development of the White City area.”
Matt Colvin
Photo by Christopher Walmsley
Photos by Christopher Walmsley
Commemoration Day
(Left to right) Physics Graduate Abi
Broadbent, The Royal Albert Hall in full flow
and Union President and Biology Graduate
Alex Kendall speaking

