FELIX Friday 22 October 2010 7
FEATURE
N
ot all student nights out
end this way. There’s
always a story to tell the
next day, but it’s not ev-
ery morning you wake
up to find it all described in wavering
detail across the global press, from the
BBC all the way over to The Los Ange-
les Times.
My name is James Fletcher and I’m
a postgrad student in the department of
Aeronautics. I recently started here and
not long ago after a small reunion with-
friends from Queen Mary, a couple of us
headed from the West End over towards
Kensington to check out the union bar at
Imperial. We were never to arrive that
evening because on the way a prominent
but unfortunate American author was
holding a party for the UK book launch
of his most recent novel. The event was
lit up like a neon sign just asking to be
gatecrashed. We jumped out of the cab
and headed towards the main entrance,
ignoring how inappropriate our attire
was for the event. The cocktails we’d
already consumed in the Paddington
Hilton had taken care of any feelings of
hesitation we may otherwise had. At the
door, a bit of wavy-handed rhetoric was
enough for the clipboard staff to let us
pass and, after pretending we were with
Puffin Publishing and shouting some
greetings of false recognition to a group
nearby, we were in.
The champagne came quicker than we
could drink it, accompanied by the hors
d’œuvres, but it wasn’t long before the
chit chat with guests became a little fu-
tile. The people there were by no means
boring (those actually invited were the
crème de la crème of the literati), but
having to keep up lie after lie as to who
we were and what we were doing was
becoming progressively more inane. As
the speeches continued and our intoxica-
tion mounted we began to blow our own
cover to an increasing crowd of people
in there. The whole time, as I realised it
wasn’t long before we would soon leave
(of our own accord or not), I increasing-
ly felt the urge to do something amus-
ing. The author, Jonathan Franzen had
already suffered while on tour in Lon-
don. Problems from the tube strikes cer-
tainly compounded the issues he’d had
with the UK publishers who had printed
the wrong version of his book. Surely
his visit couldn’t get any worse. Per-
haps this thought may have been cross-
ing his mind, as we were at the bar tear-
ing a blank page from a copy of his new
book ‘Freedom’ in preparation for the
prank. I had thought several times from
across the room how much I admired
the frames he wore; so much so that I
had almost wished I wore glasses my-
self. We scribbled a ransom note simply
stating: “$100,000 and your glasses are
yours again” with my e-mail address at
the bottom. At first I attempted to see
if I could swipe them from behind the
curtain where he stood but there were no
gaps at all. The direct approach was the
only option. After making arrangements
with my accomplice for the ransom note
to be delivered to him, I strode quickly
towards where he stood with a group
of his colleagues and shouted “We’re
with Channel 4! Channel 4!”. This was
a subterfuge that would buy me at least
2 seconds, enough perhaps to stop him
from arresting my attempts of capturing
his glasses, athough I’m not totally sure
what this meant exactly. The point is it
seemed to work. Within seconds I was
out the back entrance scaling a five-foot
fence and running through Hyde Park.
I called my friend whilst still mak-
ing my escape, arranging a rendezvous
without actually knowing what the hell
we were going to do next. Wait for
a response? Go and give the glasses
back? It was only a prank after all, but
only minutes later I began to realise my
fate was no longer entirely in my own
hands. I twigged how many of his se-
curity team were in hot pursuit of me
and these glasses. They seemed to ap-
pear in the park in all directions out of
nowhere as though spawned from the
dark, each jogging in good pace after
me. I have to admit I quickly began to
feel The Fear. My merry state of incon-
siderate mirth quickly dissipated, re-
placed only with acute apprehension and
an increasing desperation to escape. I
ran in any direction I could, knowing I
could easily outsprint and outpace these
men if only I could find a clear enough
route out. I headed quickly towards
this route, jumping another fence, only
to find I had trapped myself between
them and the Serpentine lake. I negoti-
ated my way through sharp hedges and
trees trying to get far enough along the
bank so that I could continue my way
out of the park. Disturbing wildlife as
I trudged my way through the lake, their
screeching noises gave away my posi-
tion and voices from outside the fence
began to close in on me. I ran towards
the lake trying to hold my blackberry
above my head to save it from being de-
stroyed in the water, as I had at this point
decided I would swim to safety. Yes,
there was no way at all that this was a
bad idea. Without any thought I dashed
quickly into the water, foot deep, knee
deep and then finally almost up to my
shoulders. The distance to the other side
began to look further away with every
step I moved. My shoes began to sink
into the sludge at the bottom and I held
onto a branch that protruded from a tree
on the bank and waited for some time,
contemplating how all this mess might
just all sort itself out if I waited long
enough. As I watched my copy of Free-
dom float away up the river, I envied it;
whilst hearing the voices shouting to me,
assuring me that I’d be caught and to
give myself up. Stubbornly I decided it
couldn’t get any worse and held my hos-
tage safe above the water planning how
I might get away. The shouting dimin-
ished, the heavy footsteps faded to dis-
tant background noise and I decided they
might have thought I had made it to the
other side. I slowly crept up the bank,
cutting myself on thorns and crawling
through whatever gaps I could to mini-
mise the noise of my exit. As I got closer
to the fence I heard a man shout: “he’s in
here!” Using their loud noises of pursuit
to drown out the sound of my own dash
back down to the bank, I quickly ran out
of sight and lay flat on the ground. A
game of chess where the fugitive had
just lost all his pieces at once. I lay as
still as possible, hoping that I could be
mistaken for more innocent animals that
lived in the wooded area. No, police had
arrived now with torches. They were
not close by though. After some time I
began to realise I could have another at-
tempt to make my way out when I heard
the sounds of helicopter blades getting
closer. This wasn’t for me because they
don’t send helicopters out for people
that take somebody’s glasses, not even
a celebrity’s... Do they? I lay even stiller
as it dawned on me; I knew my escape
was impossible now. The chopper was
for me and the sound of the blades was
as persistent as its intent to help in my
inevitable arrest. Surely they knew this
was just a practical joke. How far had
this gone? More importantly, when were
the police dogs going to arrive and what
were they going to do? I clasped the
glasses in my hand (my only bargaining
chip) and tried to make my way back
to the river where they might not track
me. Torch lights swung past me as I hid
as low down as I could and officers of
the law got closer, at one stage walking
straight past me in the darkness of the
bushes. I knew the game was nearly up,
but I have learned never to give up, al-
ways fight till the last man; so I stayed
put, still as I could be. It took only five
more minutes, though, and my face re-
flected the beam of light from police
constable Garty’s torch. I sighed with
acceptance and maybe a little relief, re-
luctantly getting to my feet and offering
my hand to congratulate the officer on
his work, this denied I offered my other
hand for the cuffs. The event organiser
then offered his opinion of me and I was
put in the back of a van after handing
over the glasses.
Still drunk and jovial in character,
I persuaded the Met to polish them up
and for the arresting officer to personal-
ly hand the author his glasses back, to at
least reflect how good our law enforce-
ment is over here, even if other parts of
his visit to London had been disgrace-
ful. The police began to see the humour
of it, as it appears did Franzen too. It
wasn’t long before I was released out of
custody from Belgravia Station without
any further action. Perhaps in the spirit
of the title of his book, he had granted
me just that. I arrived back home, one
pair of shoes and one blackberry less,
and used the internet to contact my
friends only to relive the whole experi-
ence as I watched the media frenzy be-
gin to unfold online.
In case you were in any doubt, the answer to the question above is “Yes... yes he is”
Surely they knew this
was just a practical
joke. How far had
this gone. More
importantly, when
were the police dogs
going to arrive and
what were they going
to do?”
“
IS THIS IMPERIAL’S
BIGGEST BADASS?
Imperial student
James Fletcher made
headlines across
the globe when he
stole famous author
Jonathan Franzen’s
glasses from his
face. Now he retells
his incredible story

