FELIX Friday 22 October 2010 9
FEATURE
S
orin Cioban and Mihaela Rosca, of Tizard
and Garden Hall respectively, proved to
be a pair of friendly and surprisingly en-
ergetic Computing students. Whilst slightly ap-
prehensive at being interviewed for Felix, they
nonetheless expressed their delight at all the
events that had been organised in their halls.
A particular highlight was the carnage that
ensued during the Southside Olympics. Sorin
went for his first-ever flight with the Gliding So-
ciety last Sunday – he says that for a yearly
membership cost of £40 plus around £25/
flight (each lasting 25 minutes), the society of-
fers an excellent deal. Mihaela was less than
complimentary about the food on campus.
Although in general she found the food good,
her complaints focused on the amount of fast
food and the ubiquity of potatoes, reminiscent
of Monty Python’s love of spam. Felix advised
venturing on a (God-forbid!) five minute walk
outside the microcosm of Prince's Gardens to
try some finer (but more expensive) eateries.
Less than three weeks ago, a swarm of fresh-faced and youthful 18 year olds landed at Im-
perial with more hopes and dreams than Barack Obama. Freshers' week has since passed,
leaving in its wake a thousand hangovers, fewer virgins, and the six people that attended Lee
Nelson’s stand-up gig. Felix took to the streets to find the few unwashed first years that were
not suffering from some strain of freshers' flu. We gauged their reactions to the first days of
the best years of their lives.
Commemoration Day took place on Wednesday, with over 2,000 undergraduates receiving
their degrees in science, engineering and medicine at the Royal Albert Hall. The relieved
twenty-somethings flaunted their gowns (but no mortarboards or degree certificates) as they
shook the hand of the rector. We went in search of the thoughts of these cheery graduates
whilst their proud parents looked on misty-eyed as their children had finally made it into a
Felix feature article.
FRESHERS GRADUATES
VIEWS OF IMPERIAL
T
he Eastside Bar is where we found this
pair of (identical?) Chemistry students
frantically trying to finish a lab report due
in ten minutes. Positively beaming about their
experiences at Imperial, they’re ecstatic to be
living in London with its wealth of attractions
and vast mix of international students. Daniel
described his attendance at a boat party with
Falmouth Hall as great fun with good music
and plenty of booze. Felix was glad to see
Freshers with the ability to recognise the im-
portant things in life.
F
elix stumbled into this Fresher finishing off
his meal-deal lunch in the Queen’s Tower
Rooms. Living it up in Selkirk hall, he was
pleasantly surprised by the efficient organisa-
tion of events in his hall and has so far had an
enjoyable time at Imperial. Surprisingly, he says
the girl:boy ratio is better here than at similar
courses in his home country. Whilst that may
be, Felix continues to extend its sympathies to
the gentlemen of the Department of Computing
(and also, come to think of it, the ladies of the
Department of Computing.)
J
airo Jaramillo has completed a 4-year
degree in Mechanical Engineering with
Nuclear Energy, and is now working for
an energy management company in the UK.
Before coming to Imperial, he spent a year
at Oxford. He claims that the engineering
courses are superior at Imperial, however Ox-
ford wins hands down on the social front. He
fondly remembers one materials lecturer who
explained that the Japanese used to produce
strong steel swords by ramming molten-hot
blades up the rear’s of naughty children (nowa-
days, they just use a bath of cold water- that’s
called progress). Jairo does have an issue with
girls at Imperial who have an elevated opinion
of themselves. A consequence of the basic
economic principle of supply and demand, a
five-pinter can progress to a two-pinter at Im-
perial. He also wishes the medics would inte-
grate more with the rest of the university.
K
araiskos Efthymios and Ben Jones
have completed a 4-year course in
Electrical Engineering. Ben, now study-
ing Integrated Design Engineering at the Roy-
al College of Arts, spent his 4th year at Santa
Barbara, California. He said that whilst Impe-
rial was probably ranked in the top 5 universi-
ties in the world for the highest percentage
of males, Santa Barbara had been ranked as
the number 8 place to go by Playboy Maga-
zine. They feel that there is a lack of inter-
departmental socialising at Imperial, and a
reluctance for students to introduce them-
selves to one another at Union events. They
do however think that there is a misconcep-
tion that Imperial is not a fun place to be. It’s
up to the students to make their university
days unforgettable.
S
amuel Tournoff ‘Esquire’ (as he asked
to be called), Andrew Slater, Derek
Chow, and Guy Leaver have all just
completed a degree in Computing. This en-
thusiastic group are now all pursuing careers
directly related to their course. An enrobed
Guy was elated at being interviewed for Felix,
and stated “This is the first time I have met
someone from Felix during my entire degree,
and I’m dressed like a twat.” Andrew was a
member of the cheese society. When Felix
put it to him that a fresher had suggested
a potential unification with the wine club, he
looked aghast and declared that a long term
merger would not work – stating that his love
of cheese was too great to be tainted by wine.
Guy said he rather liked the idea of both wine
and cheese.
Sorin Cioban and Mihaela Rosca enjoyed the events organised by their halls
Daniel Bisley and Rafael Benitez-Cabral Niklas Hambreuchen
Karaiskos Efthymios and Ben Jones
Samuel Tournoff, Andrew Slater, Guy
Leaver and Derek Chow
Jairo Jaramillo
“They think that there is a misconception that Imperial
is not a fun place to be. It’s up to the students to make
their university days unforgettable.”
Alex Karapetian & Charles Betts

