14 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
13.02.2015
Science Editor James Bezer & Lauren Ratcliffe
Science
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Making light work of ammonia
Ammonia is crucial for producing fertilisers. Photo: Wikimedia Commons
Andrew Crawford on an eco-friendly way to make fertilisers
Resveratrol: hope or hype?
Resveratrol is a protective compound produced by
plants when they are under stress. It is mostly found in
black grapes (and thus red wine) but it is also found in
foods such as blueberries,raspberries,dark chocolate
and peanuts.
Resveratrol is an antioxidant,a compound that
prevents the formation of free radicals in the body,
which have been linked to cancer. Its potential health
effects have made it the subject of a huge amount of
research in recent years,with many studies on cells and
in animals showing promising findings.
In vitro,it has been observed that it suppresses the
proliferation of tumour cells,by penetrating the cell and
helps DNA repair from free-radical damage that may
otherwise lead to a tumour.It has been found to inhibit
the formation of inflammatory factors and reduce
cholesterol levels,suggesting it could have a role in
preventing heart disease.
These potential benefits have led some to suggest the
consumption of red wine may be behind the“French-
Paradox”: how French people have low incidence of
cardiovascular diseases while consuming large amounts
of saturated fats. Red wine,though,contains far lower
concentrations of resveratrol than have been given to
human volunteers in some small-scale clinical trials.
And what should also not be neglected is that most of
the trials for the beneficial effects for resveratrol have
been tested mostly in animals,and the experimentation
in humans is limited.
Unfortunately,resveratrol may not be as perfect as
considered,since resveratrol supplements have been
found to cause pancreas abnormalities in fetuses when
consumed by pregnant monkeys,in experimental trials.
And also despite all these potential benefits,this does
not mean that drinking excess red wine can offer these
health effects.As the ancient Greeks said“pan metron
ariston”,meaning all in moderation,we should not
forget that red wine contains alcohol so can cause liver
disease and also increase the risk for heart disease.
NEFELI MARIA SKOUFU PAPOUTSAKI
"Making
ammonia
uses nearly
2% of global
energy
supply."
"Fertilisers,
as well as
plants,
could be
derived
from energy
from the
sun."
Every nitrogen atom in every
chemical used by people
originates from nitrogen
gas (N2
) in the atmosphere, and
this plethora of different uses is
all accessed from one molecule:
ammonia.
The production of ammonia
from N2
is a fundamental chemical
transformation called nitrogen
fixation. Plants need nitrogen to
grow, and the major anthropogenic
use of ammonia is to produce the
fertilisers essential to boosting crop
yields, in order to feed the world’s
growing population.
As well as being important,
nitrogen fixation is also extremely
difficult, because N2
is very, very
unreactive. In N2
the two nitrogen
atoms are connected by a strong triple
bond, which must be broken to form
ammonia.
Unlike other molecules with triple
bonds, it is the very first stage of
breaking the N2
triple bond which is
the hardest part, limiting the possible
approaches significantly. In fact, N2
is so stubbornly unreactive in almost
every measurable way it is used as
an inert gas in food preservation,
incandescent light bulbs, and aviation
fuel tanks.
Consequently, all current nitrogen
fixation happens with a huge energy
cost. Man-made ammonia via the
Haber-Bosch process uses massive
temperatures and pressures (400o
C
and 250 atmospheres) to drive the
reaction. This one process uses nearly
2% of the entire global energy supply.
In nature, enzymes called
nitrogenases have evolved over
billions of years to catalyse the
conversion at ambient temperature
and pressure. This sounds better, but
still needs a vast amount of energy (in
the form of ATP) to work. A perfect
nitrogen fixer would work efficiently
at mild conditions, or be coupled
to some plentiful renewable energy
source, but has eluded all attempts at
identification.
A new development addressing
this has recently been reported by
Kanatzidis and co-workers, inspired
by a ‘crazy idea’ and a biomimetic
approach. They copied the mixture
of elements doing the work in
nitrogenase (iron, molybdenum and
sulphur), and prepared a chalcogel;
a high surface area network that
models a ‘solid state’ nitrogenase.
The clusters of atoms in the
chalcogel strongly absorb light, and
crucially, are able to absorb in the
ultraviolet region. This causes high
energy excitations in the clusters, and
Kanatzidis found that this energy
could be harnessed to break the N2
bond, leading to ammonia formation.
There are a couple of really great
things about this work. Firstly, the
concept works extremely well from an
energy point of view. A system which
works at ambient conditions, and
uses an abundant, renewable energy
source to pay the high cost of splitting
N2
has a lot to be said for it.
Secondly, the chalcogels did not
lose their activity over time, a highly
desirable property when designing
a catalyst. The whole process also
uses water as the solvent, making it
greener than a ChemDraw logo.
As well as these good things,
however, there are also drawbacks.
The N2
splitting works well, but the
actual ammonia formation uses
sacrificial chemical sources of H+
and e- (essential components of N2
fixation), and is not as elegant as
current routes.
The real trouble, thougwh, is the
rate of the process. At just about
a thousand times slower than
nitrogenase, this system would have
difficulty delivering the 200,000,000
tonnes of ammonia we use annually.
The authors are confident
that further work will deliver
significant improvement in this area
(improvement, in fact, they say has
already started). So watch this space,
and let this current report be an
interesting proof of concept, en route
to an appealing scenario where our
fertilisers, as well as the plants, are
derived from energy from the sun.
DOI: abs/10.1021/ja512491v
Found in grapes and other fruits, in vitro tests of resveratrol have
shown positive effects on cell health. Photo: Wikimedia Commons

