THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 17
FELIX 13.02.2015
Music
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk Music Editors Grace Rahman & Amna Askari
Surrender to The War On Drugs
If you like your frontmen pained and little bit greasy, Granduciel’s the one for you. Photo: Alison Toon
Ayonija Sundararajan sings the praises of these unassuming rockers
Gig of the week - Neneh Cherry
Arriving just in time to catch the last two songs of Rosie
Lowe’s all-female and surprisingly groove filled set,
quick progress was made elbowing through a sizable
but docile crowd of irritatingly trendy thirty-somethings.
While a listless Rosie helped roadies pack up,we
attempted (to no avail) to spot 6Music DJs in the crowd;
who,along with stay at home mothers and Shoreditch
metrosexuals,seemed like the target audience for this
event.
Any misgivings Neneh’s opening stark rendition
of‘Across the Water’may have instilled in me were
swiftly banished by the floor-shaking performance
of BlankProject’s title track.While the the choice of
opener was dubious at best,one thing is clear-to do
this album justice,it has to be heard live,and ideally
with RocketNumberNine’s Ben and Tom Page in
support.Thumping percussion and metallic synths were
delivered with just the right amount of distortion,and
Neneh’s classics were given an appropriate twist without
causing the traditionalist in me to cry heresy.
“Neneh Cherry is my spirit animal”sighed my
companion; mere hours,she later admitted,after
desperately scrabbling for excuses to not attend.
Closing with ‘Buffalo Stance’,and joined onstage by a
hilariously energetic girl pulled from the croud,Neneh’s
exhortations finally had an effect,and the previously
half-hearted crowd bounced along to (let’s be honest)
the only song they’d come to hear.
Ben and Tom’s rework of the classic,while fitting for
the occasion,bore little resemblence to the original,
and insistant flashing projections of the track’s name
were needed to help the crowd to recognise the track’s
introduction.Through all of this,though,Neneh’s vocals
-clear as ever,cut through the mix unchanged,despite
the years.
CEM HURRELL
"Lost in a
dream is
utterly,
the most
perfect
road trip
summer
record."
"Live
performers
who
intricately
re-created
every riff,
drum
roll and
harmonica
blare to
perfection"
She can do no wrong. Photo: i-D
Following the release of their
third studio album Lost in a
Dream, Philadelphia’s The
War on Drugs have experienced
cathartic success. With Lost in
a Dream being named the best
alternative record of 2014 by iTunes,
these guys have catapulted from
having an indie cult fan base to well-
deserved mainstream success.
The band was formed as a
collaborative project between the
God of the twangy guitar and face
of Pantene, Kurt Vile, and current
frontman and lead songwriter, Adam
Granduciel. The release of their first
album, Wagonwheel Blues, saw Vile’s
departure from the band to pursue his
solo career.
With Granduciel in charge, the
band’s second album, Slave Ambient,
experienced further critical acclaim
and demonstrated to the audience,
more deeply, the band’s signature
hazy sound. Lost in a Dream however,
is a world apart from these two
records. Born from a period of deep
depression and a whirlwind break up,
The War on Drugs’ third album is a
piece of art that bears Granduciel’s
heart and soul in every lyric.
Lost in a Dream is utterly, the most
perfect road trip summer record;
whether it be through the baking
heat in a dodgy convertible down
Route 66 or the winding backstreets
of a derelict European village, this
psychedelic country-rock masterpiece
will not disappoint.
There’s nothing boring about
the motorik rhythm of this record.
Granduciel has a knack for layering
his songs with a hazy harmonica and
blazing guitars, not to mention his
Springsteen-esque voice, so that it all
blends into one; a texture-filled bliss.
Anyone who deems the album boring
or repetitive is frankly wrong. Yes,
that’s right, your opinion is wrong,
and not giving this album a second
chance is self-sabotage.
Almost a year after the release
of the album, The War on Drugs
continue to tour with each show
proving more popular than the last.
Having experienced great success
across their tour last year and their
performance at KOKO receiving
excellent reviews, the band sought out
to return to the UK.
One show at London’s O2 Academy
Brixton proved insufficient; a sold
out show meant the addition of a
second date at the popular venue,
highlighting the explosive success of
the band. Having been to their KOKO
show last June, I can vouch for these
guys being great live performers
who intricately re-created every
riff, drum roll and harmonica blare
to perfection. Moreover, seamless
transitions between each song
meant that at some points I found it
hard to believe that these guys were
playing live. Their performance was
effortless.
It was evident that they were
well rehearsed, but in no way did
they come off as stiff. The radiant
venue served as the perfect host for
Granduciel’s band, and I can’t wait
for their upcoming gig at Brixton this
month.
Up until now, former band
member Kurt Vile has somewhat
overshadowed the band’s success,
bringing Granduciel’s talent into
question. Granduciel himself played
in The Violaters, adding to the
pressure of breaking out from Vile’s
shadow. Yet following the release of
Lost in a Dream, it’s safe to say that
these guys can stand tall and proud,
shoulder to (somewhat unkempt,
greasy haired) shoulder, not just
alongside Vile, but any great musician
out there.
The War on Drugs play the O2
Academy Brixton on Tuesday 24th
of
February. Tickets are still available.

