THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 19
FELIX 13.02.2015
Television Editors Guila Gabrielli & John Park
Television
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
How Adventure Time saved Cartoon Network
It’s safe to say that Adventure
Time (AT), the hit eleven-minute
cartoon about Jake the dog,
Finn the human, and their crazy
adventures, has been a huge success
for its studio/host channel, Cartoon
Network (CN). Now in its sixth season,
the show has amassed a huge audience
of children providing consistently
high ratings, and succeeded in
fostering a ‘cult favourite’ status
among many adults. There’s not a
nerdy shop around without AT kitsch
of some kind, and college students
worldwide have posters of it hanging
in their rooms. In short, nerds,
parents, students and stoners all love
Adventure Time!
In fact, it’s been more than just
a success to the channel, it’s been
a life saver. Before AT, CN was
actually struggling a bit. It got so bad
that a few years ago, in an attempt
to compete with Nickelodeon
and the Disney Channel, they
started investing in live-action
programming! Most of it was rubbish,
but they were too scared to take risks
on creating new animated content,
which is often expensive to produce.
That is until AT came along.
AT was the success they needed
to boost their confidence in their
animation division, and it shows. AT
has blossomed into an animation
‘renaissance’ of sorts for the channel,
and to a small extent the Western
animation world in general. CN has
done an excellent job of capitalising
on the success of the show in the
best way possible for everyone: by
recognising talent.
AT’s creator, Pendleton Ward (a
name so whimsical its owner couldn’t
be anything but a children’s cartoon
creator), surprised many last year by
announcing he had already quit the
show halfway through season five.
The reason this was surprising is that
no one noticed! There was no obvious
dip in quality after he left. And the
reason for that is that the show has
amassed not just a huge audience,
but a large talent pool. The show isn’t
just one man; it’s built on the work
of incredibly talented animators,
storyboard artists, writers, directors,
and more. The executives at CN must
have realised this, because they’ve
greenlit three shows by creators
whose main credit is AT. Here’s a
guide to some of them.
TOM RIVLIN
SECTION WRITER
Bravest Warriors
The first show to come from a former
AT person, Bravest Warriors has
nothing to do with CN, but an online-
only studio/YouTube channel called
Animation Domination. Debuting in
2012, it’s is an animated short series
(five minutes per episode) from Ward
himself, with a more sci-fi aesthetic,
and slightly older characters. It’s
still got all of AT’s charm and
whimsy (mostly thanks to the heart-
wrenchingly adorable Catbug), and
has been met with critical acclaim.
Despite each episode’s brevity, there’s
a surprisingly complicated plot going
on beneath the surface, and I don’t
know about you but I’m excited to see
where it goes!
Steven Universe
The first show CN itself picked
up from an AT personality, Steven
Universe is an eleven-minute
animated series created in 2013 by
former AT writer Rebecca Sugar.
(As far as I can tell, yes, this name of
pure whimsy is really hers.) If you
thought AT was charming, you are
not prepared for the pure, undiluted
charm Sugar pours into Steven
Universe. Steven himself is charming,
his interactions with other characters
are charming, the aesthetics are all
charming… you get the picture.
But amazingly, alongside the
charm is a surprisingly heartfelt
story about loss and the value of life
and family, with wonderful morals
so simple that kids will absorb them
easily, and profound enough to still
mean something to cynical grown-
ups like us. It also has a refreshingly
feminist narrative, not despite its
male protagonist, but because of
him. Steven learns the value of good
female role models (or rather, he has
an innate sense of this from the start)
through his guardians, the Crystal
Gems, and hopefully he imparts some
of that insight to the kids at home.
Over the Garden Wall
Over the Garden Wall was a ten-
episode miniseries aired on CN last
year, created by former AT writer,
creative director, and boring-name-
haver Patrick McHale. It can best
be described as a weird bastard mix
of the Brothers Grimm, L. Frank
Baum, and Mark Twain, with sources
like Walt Disney and even Dante
thrown in for good measure. Simply
put, this series was a masterwork. Its
miniseries format lent itself to being
very tightly written, with a strong
beginning, middle and end, and it
needs to be watched about five times
to get everything out of it. It lingered
in my mind for weeks afterwards, too.
Like with all fiction, it would be
nothing without great characters,
and maybe I was just projecting,
but I loved the fusspot/complainer
Wirt and his younger brother, the
endlessly optimistic Greg, who both
became immediately likable as they
wandered through the Unknown.
Also, I won’t lie, I teared up a bit (ok, a
lot) at the end.
And Still More...
For completeness, there are two more
shows to mention here: Animation
Domination’s Bee and PuppyCat, and
CN’s Clarence, both from former AT
staff. But even then, this isn’t the
whole story. CN has been very good
lately at finding new talent through
development programmes of various
sorts (Over the Garden Wall was based
on a short film McHale made in 2013
as part of CN’s shorts development
program). The fact that a lot of
their new shows are from young,
inspired creators is a testament to a
channel taking risks, and those risks
paying off for the channel and the
audience. So, jaded twentysomething
millennials, remember the ‘golden
age’ of CN studios cartoons in the late
90s/early 00s, with stuff like Dexter’s
Laboratory, Samurai Jack, and The
Powerpuff Girls? Well, it’s back.
Photo: Pendleton Ward/YouTube Photo: Rebecca Sugar/CN Photo: Patrick McHale/CN Photo: Natasha Allegri/YouTube
Photo: Pendleton Ward/ YouTube Photo: Rebecca Sugar/CN Photo: Patrick McHale/CN Photo: Skylar Page/CN
Photo: Cartoon Network

