30 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
13.02.2015
Arts Editors Fred Fyles & Kamil McClelland
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Emiel de Lange examines whether the ENO can grapple with
Wagner’s masterpiece
The Mastersingers of Nuremburg –
spectacular in every way
Hyperbole has never been
my enemy, and I won’t shy
from it now; Wagner’s The
Mastersingers of Nuremberg is one of
the pinnacles of Western art. But
works of such scope and breadth of
vision are notoriously difficult, and
expensive, to perform. Opera houses
must offer enlarged orchestras, vast
crowds of singer-actors, numerous
sets, and the scores demand almost
superhuman abilities from the
principle cast. With this production,
the English National Opera has
created something that delivers all
this, and fully lives up to the mind-
blowing depths of Wagner’s vision.
Briefly sketched, our comic story
concerns a wandering knight,
Walther, who must win a song
contest in order to marry the lovely
Eva. Eva’s father is a member of
the Mastersingers Guild (a true
historical guild), and has initiated
the competition on condition that
the singer be judged according to
the rules of the guild. Walther is
not a member of the guild and has
no knowledge of its strict rules and
traditions. Furthermore, he is up
against the scheming town clerk
Beckmesser, who is desperate to win
and who holds the role of ‘marker’ for
the guild, although he lacks talent.
Luckily, the benevolent cobbler Hans
Sachs, also a mastersinger, recognises
the love between Eva and Walther
and is willing to help them succeed.
Against this backdrop of medieval
Nuremberg, with its artistic guilds,
Wagner spins a masterful web of
verse & music that explores the
value, purpose & social role of art.
The masterstroke is the use of art to
discuss art and in doing so Wagner’s
score is both daringly modern and
firmly rooted in operatic tradition –
as is the song performed by Walther
and written under Sachs’s instruction.
The score cleverly performs the
dual function of simultaneously
illustrating and commenting on the
various musical philosophies of the
characters. It is musically innovative
in the manner expected of Wagner:
a continuous unending texture of
motifs bound together with the most
expressive harmony imaginable.
Yet, Wagner uses old devices that
he dismissed in his writings and
abandoned in his other work for their
contrivance: rhymed verse, quintets,
arias – opera by numbers – and even
a short ballet in the third act. The
resulting music is so expressive that it
can somehow encompass antithetical
states simultaneously, or carry the
full and undivided force of love,
Nicky Spence as David and Andrew Shore as Sixtus Beckmesser in Wagner’s The Mastersingers of Nuremberg at the London Coliseum. Photo: Tristram Kenton
rapture or anxiety, depending on the
stage action. On top of all this, The
Mastersingers is surprisingly hilarious!
The plot is full of antitheses.
The rigid traditionalism of the
Mastersinger’s Guild is at odds
with Walther’s free & spontaneous
expression through song. Their
sophisticated and exclusive art
battles against the coarse music of
the illiterate, which has broad appeal
among Nuremberg’s public. What
Wagner tells us and demonstrates
for us, through his mediator Hans
Sachs, is that art should take a middle
ground between these oppositions.
It should speak directly to people

