THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 33
FELIX 13.02.2015
Arts Editors Fred Fyles & Kamil McClelland
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Artists’ most magnificent obsessions
Fred Fyles is impressed by the Barbican’s display of unseen collections
Keyrings. That was what I
collected when I was younger.
Every time someone I knew
went abroad, I forced them to bring
me back a trinket attached to a
keychain, until I had boxes and boxes
bursting with these gaudy accessories
jam-packed above my wardrobe. Of
course, being 8 there was no need
for me to own a keyring, let alone
hundreds, but this is what lies at the
heart of collecting: buying and then
not using, accumulating and storing
ephemera whose sole purpose is to
bring enjoyment to the collector.
I am sure I am not alone in my
collecting neuroses; most people I
know have a current collection of
something, and it is hard to find
a single individual who didn’t at
some point in their life – normally
childhood – obsessively collect
something. The Barbican’s newest
exhibition Magnificent Obsessions:
The Artist As Collector, shows us that
the collecting bug spares none of us,
least of all creatives; from Hiroshi
Sugimoto to Peter Blake, everyone
has a secret collection at home, and
indulging in this hobby can help
us tap into our creative potential.
Never have I felt so validated in my
prepubescent fixation on keyrings.
Asking artists to reveal to us what
they fixate on in their personal
lives allows us an insight into how
they work, and what influences
them. While we are used to an artist
producing a ‘product’, allowing
it to enter the public forum, by
presenting us with what they
surround themselves with, Barbican
lets us know where they get their
inspiration from. For some artists the
links are apparent – Damien Hirst’s
collection consists of – surprise,
surprise – skulls, taxidermy, and
medical models, taken from his
unimaginatively named ‘Murderme
Collection’. For others, the effect
it has on their work is less obvious.
Edmund de Waal’s collection of
netsuke, Japanese fasteners, may give
us a bit of family background, but
does little to help our understanding
of his minimalist ceramics. Howard
Hodgkin goes so far as to claim that
his collection of Indian art has no
influence on his paintings; why
include it then?
What is fascinating about the
exhibition is how it highlights the
different approaches people can
have to collecting. Some focus on a
certain type of object, such as Mexican
tattoo artist Dr Lakra’s vast range of
garish record sleeves, while others’
approaches are more scattershot;
take Peter Blake’s collection of old
signs, natural oddities, and freakshow
dioramas. For some artists the art of
collecting is a professional act; Hiroshi
Sugimoto’s collecting stemmed from
his dealership in folk art, which
allowed him to explore Japanese
traditions during the 1980s and ‘90s.
The collection of German minimalist
musician and artist Hanne Darboven
shows how what starts as a pastime
can spill over into an obsession; clocks
lie against toilets, paintings lean
on mannequins, and the weight of
hundreds of photographs strains the
boards of her desk, made functionless
thanks to her hoarding.
While the Barbican always goes
to great lengths to ensure that their
exhibition space is appropriate
for the contents, for Magnificent
Obsessions the design is of paramount
importance. These collections are
supposed to be seen in situ, and
therefore the design team have tried
to make each space seem like a living
room, or a study, placing carpets
or mirrors at random intervals
throughout. For some rooms, the
design works beautifully, such
as Pae White’s vast trove of Vera
Neumann textile designs; ranging
from handkerchief to bedspread, they
hang from wires, like washing in the
wind, creating a colourful abstract
image. For others, however, the idea
falls a little flat, since the collection is
presented in such an artificial way.
Throughout the exhibition, there
is a strong theme of kitsch camp,
that vague term defined by Susan
Sontag as “a vision of the world
in terms of style”. Andy Warhol’s
obsession with this side of American
culture is well documented, and
here we are presented with a group
of his exceptionally ugly cookie
jars, featuring leering clowns and
grotesque pigs, along with a myriad of
other, undeniably camp, characters.
We can also see how Warhol’s
obsession with products influenced
his work; from a vitrine of children’s
playthings we segue into a collection
of prints featuring toys.
While some collections are more
serious, such as minimalist Sol
LeWitt’s modernist photos by August
Sander and Henri Cartier-Bresson,
and Sugimoto’s collection of morbidly
beautiful anatomical drawings, the
best ones in the exhibition are those
suffused with camp humour. Blake’s
range of random objects clearly play
into his effervescent post-war collage
work, which helped form the basis
of Pop Art, whilst Martin Wong’s
meticulously arranged selection
of Americana classics are positively
brimming with wit and life. But no
collection compares to Jim Shaw,
whose particular fixation is paintings
obtained from thrift stores. When
a collection was exhibited at the
ICA back in 2000 their horrific
naïveté shocked critics, and now
we have a chance to revisit them.
They are indeed powerful; with
slightly off proportions, and hyper-
saturated colours, they leer out of
the canvas like surreal grotesques
of the American nightmare. From
one painting a woman in white grins
manically out at us in a Lynchian
fever dream, whilst another of a small
child could have been painted by
‘psychological cubist’ George Condo.
Magnificent indeed.
Ultimately, Magnificent Obsessions
is indeed a success, allowing us a key
insight into the lives of illusive artists.
While the concept could have been
laborious, the Barbican have helped to
keep it light by including all the cult
ephemera (a polite word for crap) that
we may have in our own life, whilst
also providing examples of artists’
work that grew out of such context.
So often placing something in
a museum is akin to confining it
to a mausoleum, but by trying to
avoid endless rows of vitrines, the
Barbican manages to inject life into
the exhibition. This is a celebration of
the object acquired not found; of the
inner collector that manifestly resides
in all; of the inescapable clutter of
everyday life.
Magnificent Obsessions: The Artist As
Collector is on at the Barbican Centre
until 25th
May. Tickets £12
Dr Lakra’s record covers collection. Magnificent Obsessions: The Artist As Collector. Barbican Art Gallery Photo: Peter MacDiarmind/Getty Images

