35 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
13.02.2015
Travel
felix@imperial.ac.uk Travel Editor Yung Nam Cheah
Aditya Narayanan discuss the arts and footballs in this dynamic capital as a new home
Kickstarting my life in Mexico City
Mexico City glitters at night.
Dots of yellow flow across
the ground. Like a train
of ants, they follow a path as if
preordained, in a robotic line with no
destination. I can feel the energy from
my plane window.
Drugs. Violence. Human
trafficking. The typical Western news
cycle on most developing nations
influences the opinions of people
about Mexico more than most. India
and China have oriental mysticism
and South America has the untamed
Amazon wilderness. Yet despite
the centuries of Mayan and Aztec
culture interacting with European
colonists, press about Mexico is
usually negative. Just weeks before
I fly out I hear news that the bodies
of 43 missing students have been
discovered in nearby Guerrero state,
in what looks like an orchestrated
killing. I lose count of the amount
of friends and relatives trying to
convince me not to visit here, or to
book with a tour company, but I was
determined to go.
It is freezing when I land. A stark
contradiction to the burnt out, barren
vistas associated portrayed in the
Speedy Gonzalez cartoons. As my taxi
winds through the lamp lit streets I
am surprised by how well maintained
and organised the roads are, and the
smooth flow of traffic. My opening
meal is tacos al pastor, a local classic,
and the perfect antidote to a hungry
stomach.
Morning brings a trip to the campus
of Mexico’s biggest university,
Universidad Nacional Autonoma de
Mexico, a sprawling mass of concrete
unfolding over the area of a small
city. The campus has a faded, 1970’s
aesthetic to it, but with open green
spaces and mazy walkways it retains
an air of languid intellectualism.
Complex murals stretch across the
sides of buildings; a melange of Aztec
myths and scientific discoveries
blended so that neither appears
incongruous.
If there is one form of artwork
that could define Mexico City it is
the murals. Broad splashes of colour
draped across walls both inside and
outside grandiose buildings, forming
any manner of scenes from the
historical to the geographical to the
downright surreal. The main UNAM
campus in Ciudad Universitario is
one of the best examples, with the
main library exterior fully dedicated
to a variety of artwork.
Tributes to Galileo and Copernicus
are flanked by graphics of indigenous
myths, while a diagram of an atom
is perched above a snapshot of a
revolutionary demonstration and
other parts of the country’s history.
One of the most striking murals
is a magnificent eagle rising over
two wrestling figures embedded in
the side of the Estadio Olimpico
Universitario, a so called ‘3D mural’,
for the sculpture elements it brings to
the Mayan influenced architecture.
Likewise both the Palacio Nacional
and the Supreme Court are just
a couple of publicly accessible
places whose interior corridors
are decorated with murals by such
luminaries as Diego Rivera, José
Clemente Orozco and Arturo Garcia
Bustos. However, both are on under
police guard with no authorised
entry. Developments in the case of
the 43 students have gripped the
nation in a state of palpable fury,
not least because this particular
case exposed a sinister link between
politicians and the cartels. Public
spaces and small parks everywhere
are occupied by tents, protesters
camping out to put pressure on the
government for justice, and “43” is
daubed everywhere in graffiti. In
conversation, most Mexicans express
a strong distaste for the police, and
this disconnect is magnified at
football matches.
While possessing an 80000 capacity
the stadium is not unusual for the
average North American university,
few if any can say they host a
professional football team. Not least
one of the country’s most storied and
successful ones: the Pumas of UNAM.
A 3D mural by Diego Rivera thrusts
out of the magnificent, stubborn
concrete bowl, its distinct indigenous
influences only strengthening its
imposing aura. It truly looks like
it belongs of the era of the original
Olympic games.
The walk to the stadium is abuzz
with the onset of the Clausura.
Vendors hawking food, drinks
and Pumas memorabilia. I spot
one cheekily selling items of Club
America, the great rivals of Pumas
who play their games at the equally
iconic Azteca. Gun toting police in
full riot armour peer grimly through
their sunglasses as we are repeatedly
checked for contraband. Even belts
are banned from the inside.
The resentment is tangible, the
safety checks pass without incident
barring the ejection of those with fake
tickets.
Although it seems that half the city
is here, the two curvas at each end are
empty apart from the visiting fans.
I am positioned behind the ultras,
the Rebels, in the Pebetero stand
underneath where the Olympic flame
was lit all those years ago. The Rebels
are on their feet for 90 minutes,
with intermittent bursts of silence
bookending a never ending chorus of
chants, led with the accompaniment
of a drum and other instruments.
The chants of the Pumas fans
are primarily support of their own
team, with the occasional obsession
mocking of the opposition (or their
arch rivals Club América). Aggression
is only audible when insulting the
The intimidating football stadium of Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico. Photo: Aditya Narayanan
The brightly coloured Casa Azul, childhood home of the famous artist Frida Kahlo. Photo: Aditya Narayanan
cops; who are seen as complicit in
perpetuating a broken, corrupt
system. It is also interesting to note
that women comprise a significant
portion of the ultras (or fanaticos
as they are termed here), and are
often leading the chants with gusto –
something almost unseen in Europe.
It is a reminder that there are some
lessons concerning discrimination
that can be learned from less
developed nations.
The match finishes in a
disappointing 1-1 draw, with
moments of quality conspicuous by
their absence apart from a sublime
assist for Pumas’ goal. Oddly, the feel
of the match is almost exactly as I
imagined from highlights of the 1970
and 1986 football World Cups, aided
by the constant, concussive energy
generated by the indefatigable Pumas
fans and The Rebels in particular. For
an introduction to Latin American
football, even a half full stadium
has been more exhilarating than I
imagined.
No article about Mexico City would
be complete without mentioning
the legendary Frida Kahlo, who
along with her husband Diego
Rivera put Mexican art into the
consciousness of the world. With her
fusion of indigenous art styles with
contemporary European surrealism,
allied to longstanding socialist
activism on behalf of the native
Mexican cultures.
Her childhood house, the Casa Azul,
is a monument to her life and work,
all achieved despite suffering polio
at 6 and a serious traffic accident at
18 which left her in a wheelchair. It
is this defiance in the face of intense
difficulty that continues to inspire
Mexicans today.

