THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 43
FELIX 13.02.2015 43
C & S Editor Ben Howitt
Clubs and Societies
felix.clubsandsocieties@imperial.ac.uk
every day! From performances in the
Business school entrance, to juggling
on Dalby Court, there’s something for
you there too. You can get involved
on Monday by doing your own
chalk drawing outside the Queen’s
Tower Rooms, and participate in
(or observe) a piano masterclass
from the Chamber Music Society on
Wednesday afternoon.
Finally, there are the Art
Exhibitions from PhotoSoc and
LeoSoc. Not only will they be
presenting right under your nose
in the Sherfield Main Entrance, but
head up to the 5th
floor in Sherfield
where you will find the Blyth Gallery.
There you will find a secret garden
where you can sit on a bench and
admire the work of these fantastic
artists.
And there are more events than
these – a full timetable can be found
below or on our Facebook page https://
www.facebook.com/icartsfest.
You don’t always hear about the
arts at Imperial – can Art and Science
really interact? I strongly believe
so; there are over 1600 members of
arts related clubs at Imperial – and
over 10,000 people attend events
every year. The Imperial Fringe on
Thursday 19th
at 17:00 in the Business
School Main Entrance is a great
example of scientists collaborating
with a wide range of societies, with
provide the perfect place to meet
new people while continuing with
a passion, and taking a well-earned
break from the library.
ArtsFest is a chance to do just
that. You might not think you know
anything about music, or care for art,
but I’d urge you to give it a try this
year. Come to one of the many events
that will be going on; try something
new and you may be surprised just
what a good time you have!
the theme of Light: to celebrate the
International Year of Light.
People come to Imperial because
of the arts – having a strong
musical scene can be seen has a huge
differentiator between universities,
especially for those who weren’t sure
whether to study science or music,
like me. Promoting the arts scene will
give a further example of the fantastic
Clubs and Societies at this University,
and collaborations between clubs
What’s On – A guide to ArtsFest
Big Band on the Tower
IC Big Band kicks off Imperial College
ArtsFest 2015 in style! The band will play an
uplifting set of quality big band jazz from
the balcony of Queen’s Tower.
MONDAY 12:30 – 13:30
QUEEN’S TOWER
Chalk Drawing
Some dedicated people from LeoSoc will
be in the possession of 200 pieces of chalk,
and they will be drawing all over the ground
outside Sherfield! Become part of ArtsFest by
making your own chalk drawing!
MONDAY 14:00 AND ONWARDS
OUTSIDE SHERFIELD, QUEEN’S LAWN
Fantasia Film Night
Join us for an exciting evening of film and
wonder at the Imperial Cinema! We start
off with a few short films produced by ICTV
members,followed by a performance of
Disney’s Fantasia–a visual masterwork to
the tunes of Tchaikovsky among others.
Representatives from FilmSoc will be there
to provide you with trivia and the historical
background of Fantasia.Join us for a cinema
setting as you have never seen before!
MONDAY 19:00 – 21:00
UNION CONCERT HALL
Wind Band Lunch Performance
Wind Band is bringing you the lunchtime
entertainment for the second day of ArtsFest.
Scuttle over to the Business School Entrance
at 12:30 to hear them perform their latest
repertoire (and get a taster of upcoming
concerts).
TUESDAY 12:30
BUSINESS SCHOOL ENTRANCE
ArtsFest Lecture: DarwinTunes
Dr Bob MacCallum is a researcher at Imperial
who is looking at the evolutionary aspects of
music–how come we like certain tunes and
rhythms? He set up a website to test whether
random noise could eventually become
music through a selection process.Join us for
a very exciting lecture that combines science
–the core of Imperial College–with music as
part of ArtsFest.
TUESDAY 18:00
READ LECTURE THEATRE
Writing Workshop /Book Blind Date
Writers’Soc and IC Science Fiction bring
you this event–a drop-in writing workshop
and book blind date.Join in whenever you
like between 18:00 and 20:00 for writing
exercises,and learn more about the
upcoming Writing Competition organised
by the two societies.You will also leave with
an unknown book,and perhaps not one that
you would have picked up in the first place,
which is a great way to discover a new author
or genre.
TUESDAY 18:00 – 20:00
CLORE LECTURE THEATRE, HUXLEY
Lunchtime Juggling
Ever wanted to try juggling? The juggling
society will be bringing their juggling tools
and various other things to the Dalby Court
for a lunchtime try-out!
WEDNESDAY 12:00 – 14:00
DALBY COURT
Masterclass: Margaret Fingerhut
Play the piano? Want to see a professional
and accomplished pianist teach talented
Imperial students? Join the audience for
this masterclass,where members of the
Chamber Music Society will be given 30
minutes of public tuition by Margaret
Fingerhut.Places are limited,so first come
first served!
WEDNESDAY 14:30 – 16:30
ENSEMBLE ROOM 1, BLYTH MUSIC
CENTRE
Chamber Choir Evensong
After a hard day’s work,pop over to Holy
Trinity on Prince Consort Road for some
high-quality choral evensong and a service.
The IC Chamber Choir will be performing
WEDNESDAY 17:30 – 18:30
HOLY TRINITY CHURCH, PRINCE
CONSORT RD
ICSO Open Rehearsal
With their concert scheduled for the next
week,this open rehearsal by Imperial’s
very own Symphony Orchestra is set to be
something special,especially as the BBC
young musician who is joining them for the
concert is set to join them for this night.
Here’s a unique chance to see how one of the
best student orchestras in the UK rehearses
with their conductor Richard Dickins.
WEDNESDAY 19:00
THE GREAT HALL
A Very Vocal Evening 3.0
The A Cappella + Musical Theatre (MTSoc)
Societies highlight of the year! Be prepared
for an evening of highest quality singing and
much entertainment with both individual
performances from MTSoc and the various A
Cappella groups,as well as a joint number!
WEDNESDAY 19:00
UNION CONCERT HALL
Choir Lunchtime performance
Looking forward to the IC Choir concert this
term? How about a taster of the fine music
that they are singing during this lunchtime
performance in Sherfield? Enjoy the majestic
tunes of Carmina Burana,and perhaps some
old classics from Handel’s Messiah.
THURSDAY 12:00 – 13:00
SHERFIELD LEVEL 2
Blyth Lunchtime concert
And straight after the choir’s performance,
why don’t you take the lift up to the fifth
floor for the regular Blyth Lunchtime
concerts.Jessica Chan will be performing
Beethoven’s PianoSonatainD,Op28.
THURSDAY 13:00 – 14:00
READ LECTURE THEATRE, SHERFIELD
LEVEL 5
‘The Secret Garden’–a Vernissage
LeoSoc and PhotoSoc invite you to the
vernissage of their exhibition‘The Secret
Garden’in the Blyth Gallery.Become part of
the artwork by taking a seat on a park bench
and enjoy some free nibbles and wine.
THURSDAY 18:30 – 19:30
BLYTH GALLERY, SHERFIELD LEVEL 5
Tribute Night
Prepare for an evening of riffs as Jazz&Rock
are inviting all their members to perform
songs by their favourite artists in Metric.
Grab a drink and enjoy these new renditions
of both old and new classics.
THURSDAY 19:00
METRIC
ICSE Lunchtime performance
Instead of walking to Hyde Park in this
cold weather,bring your lunch over to the
Business School Entrance for this lunchtime
performance by the IC String Ensemble.As
one of the final lunchtime performances
during the ArtsFest week,this one is not to
be missed!
FRIDAY 13:00 – 14:00
BUSINESS SCHOOL ENTRANCE
ArtsFest Finale
The Grand Finale of ArtsFest! Come enjoy a
show with the best of dance,comedy,music
and singing that the arts societies and more
at Imperial have to offer! With a casual
setting,the ArtsFest week will be finished off
by a variety of performances,such as belly
dancing,a teaser of MTSoc’s new show,and
some Chinese traditional music to celebrate
the Chinese New Year. Feel free to pop down
to the Union Bar for a drink while you enjoy
this variety show,and help out Unicef in their
charity work by buying some cupcakes!
FRIDAY 19:00
UNION CONCERT HALL

