44 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
13.02.2015
44
C & S Editor Ben Howitt
Clubs and Societies
felix.clubsandsocieties@imperial.ac.uk
FemSoc ask: Everyday sexism or a deep rooted issue?
Feminist Society is launching the campaign IC SEXISM
on campus to document the experiences of students and
staff with respect to facing everyday sexism at Imperial
College London.
The College,as the top STEM subject higher institution
in the UK as well as the world plays an important role
in providing a place where the people in the various
faculties are given a place to work and achieve things on
an egalitarian basis.Imperial should be a place where
biases of gender are muted in the face of equality of
talent,hard work and determination.
But–as is evident–The ratio of male to female in the
Imperial in some courses is widely known to be heavily
skewed with some like Physics and Engineering being
far over the college average of 65% male students.
This disparity,attributed to and integrated with the
wider societal issues to do with gender,makes Imperial
vulnerable to the gender discrimination that may sweep
into various aspects of the wellbeing of the members.
Hence,it is important to get a conversation started on
this.Innocuous statements may hide the bigger picture.
It is in the pixels that the picture is hidden,so why not
zoom into it?
We would like to know about your experience of
college life–any instance that you felt undermined the
balance expected to exist in both academic and social
pursuits the College campuses.The experiences of
members of the College,by being part of a world class
community,have the potential to reverberate much
beyond.
This information will be collected and moderated
confidentially and your experiences,however minute,
will make part of a large mosaic that will seek to
understand the conversation on campus and more
broadly,initiate change.
The campaign has 3 main aims:
To gather students’experiences
We hope to gather your experiences of sexism through
our survey,Through sharing your stories (anonymously)
with the student body,the College and the Union,
we hope to raise awareness of the level of sexism
experienced by students,and highlight areas where
change is required to combat sexism on campus.If you
have an experience of sexism you want to share,fill in a
short form at imperialcollegeunion.org/icsexism.
To get people talking about gender and
feminism
Through a series of informal and fun events as well as a
panel discussion,we hope to start an open and inclusive
conversation on campus about what constitutes sexism
and why it’s a problem.More broadly,we’d also like to
encourage more discussion around gender & feminism.
To empower students to make change happen
Through our discussion based events,women’s space
and weekly Feminist Society meetings,you can take
part in discussions aimed at finding ways of tackling
sexist behaviour on campus,be it through creating a
supportive women’s network at Imperial,or influencing
the union or college to change its policies...or any other
idea you might have!
Visit us at facebook.com/groups/icsexism or tweet
@ICSexism to give your views and to find out about
future events.
Image: Feminist Society.
NIVEDITA KALLA
ICSEXISM COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER
Art explosion tops off ICSM’s Rag Week
BEN HOWITT
SECTION EDITOR
‘Turn it off’ from the Book of Mormon, performed by ICSM Light
Opera. Photo: Dominic Lagrue
The Imperial College School
of Medicine Students’ Union
(ICSMSU) presented an Arts
Revue last Sunday, 8th
February,
to conclude what has been, by all
accounts, a very successful Raising
and Giving (RAG) week.
The show was performed in the
Union Concert Hall and featured acts
from various Medics’ performing
arts societies including music, Dance
and Light Opera, as well as a sneak
preview of ICSM Drama’s upcoming
production of Beauty and the Beast.
ICSM Light Opera and ICSM Dance
performed numbers from Hairspray
and Cole Porter’s Anything Goes,
while the evening also saw, for the
first time ever, a performance from
all of the Medics’ music societies
(Chamber Choir, Choir, Orchestra,
Jazz Band and Bands).
Two of the Union’s sabbatical
officers, Abi De Bruin (Deputy
President, Clubs & Societies) and
Chris Kaye (Deputy President,
Welfare) attended the evening, and
Abi lauded the “incredible ICSM
talent” on show.
Sarah Hough, who founded Arts
Revue and planned much of the
event, said “I didn’t realise quite
how much organisation and how
many logistical nightmares would be
involved in creating this event! But
seeing four of ICSM’s arts societies
come together to create something
incredible and doing what we love to
do made it all worthwhile.
“I hope Arts Revue will continue to
be a yearly opportunity for these four
sister societies to work together and
show you all how incredibly talented
and enthusiastic our members are.”
RAG week featured ‘I’m a Club
Captain, Get Me Out of Here’, which
was filmed on Tuesday and screened
in the Reynolds bar on Thursday
night. Medics’ team captains (and
some of the ICSMSU Exec) were
given ‘fun’ challenges, competing
for a chance to participate in the
live Bushtucker trial in the bar on
Thursday.
One of the more controversial
events was the time-honoured
tradition of ‘4-skinning’. The idea
is that 4 second year medics are
nominated from the ICSM sports
teams, who then compete to gain the
most sponsorship. The winner has
their head shaved. The lucky prize
this year went to Football’s Wenrui
Sun. Wen described the experience as
“even more crushing” given that he
had previously avoided his head being
shaved on tour.
A fundraising total is yet to be
released by the ICSMSU committee,
with further events running over the
next few weeks, including the RAG
Valentine’s Ball at the Phoenix Arts
Club on Monday.
It’s really reassuring to see that
Medics have time to cultivate
interests outside of their degrees
(at least in the first two years), and
we here at Felix look forward with
anticipation to next year’s Arts Revue.
Sarah Hough performs as Elle from the musical Legally Blonde. Photo:
Facebook

