4. FELIX
EDITOR'S
v ^ r o m m e n t
Examinations
The Editorial Comment of FELIX arises this week under some-
wuat unusual circumstances; for thefirsttime in some while there is
no editor to write it and it should more properly be called the Assistant
Editorial Comment. The reasons for this situation are not hard to
find and can in fact be summed up in one word : examinations.
Study ; and the Union
Imperial College has a world-wide reputation as a centre of
scientific learning. The tuition and lectures it offers to its students,
and the various courses they may choose to follow, are, in general
excellent; and the degree?, given to those who successfully complete
these courses are accepted everywhere as being of a very high standard.
The corollary to this is that to obtain these degrees requires a great
deal of hard work. The other side to I.C. is our large Student Union,
which—despite the lavish criticism heaped upon it in the past—is
both active and worthwhile. Unfortunately, to keep it so, and to
improve it, also requires a lot of time and effort from those involved.
Consequently, the demands of academic study and Union work often
collide, and most often to the detriment of academic study The
results are obvious in, among other things, the number of FELIX
staff who failed to return this year.
Grim reputations
FELIX is not the only Union organisation to have suffered in this
way. Dramsoc and Ents Committee have equally grim reputations.
A place on council is vacant, together with the Chairmanship of
Debates, the Wooden Horse Club lacks a President, added to which
this year's R.C.S. President has yet to be elected. There must be a
large nu- -ber of other people, who, while not actually failing, must
at least have had their chances of a good degree appreciably reduced
due to Union work. All of which poses the question is the Union
so important? I am not decrying the Union by any means; I.C. has
a very fine Union and should be proud of it. What I am decrying is
the common attitude that whatever happens every part of the Union
must function and that somebodv must do the job.
Apathy and degrees
A large proportion of the Union is often criticised by the re-
mainder " for being apathetic " and for taking no part in Union affairs,
but those " apathetic students " who devote some free time to study
gain more direct benefit than the student who helps to run the Union
—a better degree. This is important, I feel, despite what anyone may
say about " social experience."
The problem of conflicting interests is likely to increase rather
than decrease, as the Union grows and the academic courses become
fuller and more demanding. There is no simple answer to it. Any
Management Studies tutor worth his salary will tell you that the
answer is organization, and past editors of FELIX have somewhat
hopefully suggested " a correct balance between Union and studies."
For those unaccustomed to organization and " balance " this is small
consolation. Unless I.C. is to have another large crop of failures in
the next exams, perhaps the only answer is simply a less vigorous
Union.
Utopian Answer ?
Or perhaps this is not the only answer. Perhaps what Presidents
down the ages have been saying about involvement in the Union has
a point. At present, the Union is run by a small minority of active
people, while the remainder feed upon their dfforts. Societies are full
of casual members who contribute little, hops are full of students who
merely pay and do not help on the Ents Committee—in short, there
are not enough people " lending a hand." If the work load of the
Union was spread over a much larger number, each running a smaller
portion, then perhaps I.C. could, successfully, combine " business
and pleasure," academic study with Union activities. It sounds a
Utopian dream, but it seems that if steps towards Utopia are not soon
taken, then I.C. may well find the " pleasure," of business and
pleasure," gradually disappearing.
F n X Imperial College
London, S.W.7
Internal 2881
Tel. KEN 2963
Co-Editors:
John Mullaly, Dave Cooper
Sports Editor: VACANCY
News Editor- Paul Heath
Features Editor: Les Pryor
Business Managers:
Dave Cooper and Mary Ford
Advertising Manager
VACANCY
Sales Manager: Pete Chapman
Late News Editor: Dick Reeves
Photographic Editor:
Colin Broad
Cartoonist: Stuart Senior
What's On: Ken Simpson
With: Collcutt, Alan Stapleton,
Andrew Perry, Anita Furniss,
Pete Ruhemann, Rory
Redmayne, Colin Harrison,
Caroline Pat and Dave Potter.
Advertising Agency: Educational Publicity (Partners) Ltd.
CHA 6081
T a i t
S l a m s
C o l c u t t
Dear Sir,
" Colcutt was a builder," we
are told. " Was," I think, being
the operative word, since it seems
he has changed his job and be-
come a machine of demolition.
I refer, of course, to thefirstpart
of the Colcutt column in he last
issue of FELIX. I would like to
clear up some of the " facts' he
quotes.
190 people were accepted into
the first year Physics course this
session. In accepting these stu-
dents the staff dealing with ad-
missions assume that all en-
trants will reach the third year.
In their second year these stu-
dents will have lectures in a
theatre sitting 250 people, Lec-
ture Theatre 1. Practical classes
will be held in the laboratory, as
in previous years, but the intro-
duction of a course of computing
in the practical syllabus will en-
sure enough places in the Labora-
tory Third year work consists
of a general lecture course, held
in Lecture Theatre 1, and special
courses in the small 120 seat lec-
ture theatre. There are 8 special
courses, 41 of which are held in
other departments , this means
that there is ample room for all
students. Thus, far from con-
demning 20 students a year, the
Physics department finds places
left vacant by students changing
courses, and contrary to the im-
pression given by Colcutt, takes a
great deal of interest in its
students.
This is illustrated by the fol-
lowing facts. 169 students sat the
first exam last year ; there are
155 students in this year's second
year. Ten students failed to re-
turn because of their examination
results, but of these 4 have found
places in Physics departments at
other universities, 1 has a place
in the Mech. Eng. department, 1
is now in Metallurgy, and 4 have
decided that they wish to return
to the I.C. Physics department to
resit their exams next year. Two
more have transferred, one was
taken ill, and one is resitting this
year This is quite an impressive
" rubbish heap."
I would also like to complain
about the irresponsible character
of Colcutt's article. The Royal
College of Science Union spends
much of its time and energy in
establishing and maintaining
good relations between staff and
student. When such comments
are made in a supposedly respon-
sible column can the staff be
blamed for showing reluctance to
strengthen these ties ?
Yours sincerely,
MIKE TAIT,
Acting R.C.S. President.
FELIX thanks Mike Tait for
pointing out that some of Col-
cutt's column was, in fact, er-
roneous. I would like to assure
the staff of Physics that he was
not alone in this ; many Physics
students have commented on the
inaccuracy of the phrase: " con-
demning 20 students." Neverthe-
less Colcutt has perhaps aired the
feelings of many in speaking of a
generally high failure rate at I.C.
If he has drawn attention to this
common viewpoint, it is all to the
good.
Carnival needs you —
and MONEY !
The Carnival is a delicate beast
with one claw in the Union and
one in the public, and balancing
both the College and the police
on its back (we were only threa-
tened with legal action twice last
year).
However, like all the other
activities of the Union it is run by
a relatively small group of
people, who are themselves un-
easily balanced between academic
and social life. This year's Car-
nival is particularly short of ex-
perienced organisers who can
only come from the ranks of the
P.G.s, who have more maturity
and less pressure from exams
than the ordinary undergraduate.
There are also gaps for freshers
to build up experience and influ-
ence for future years.
What is Carnival to the ordin-
ary person ? It is an opportunity
for students to indulge in the li-
cence that the public ungrudg-
ingly allows them, under the
guise of supporting a charity
What is Carnival to the student
of I.C.? It is a couple of mad
nights collecting in the West End
pubs and outside the cinemas , a
concert in the Albert Hall a
sweaty hop with Jimi Hendrix
a fete in Prince's Gardens just be-
fore exams. The trouble with
Carnival is that it is tending to
become a super-Entertainments
Committee without Union parti-
cipation.
Super Ents.
It must be understood that
Carnival is as much a part of the
Union as is Mooney and that
everyone can make an effort to-
wards it.. It is the job of the
Carnival Committee to make
money regardless of the means,
even if it does mean acting as a
super-Ents. Committee. No one
will deny that this is not the
image Carnival desires. Every-
one must ensure, therefore, that
those events that require mass
participation get it.
Public money
not for free
Perhaps the greatest result
of last year's Carnival was the
realisation, at last, that stu-
dents never have any money
and that the public is rolling in
it—wallowing in it. The students
at I.C. must be at the extracting
end and not the paying end of
the transaction. For instance at
the Jimi Hendrix dance last year
nearly every groupie in London
wanted to pay his, her, or its ten
bob to get in. This also illus-
trates that the public pay if they
feel they get something in return,
but rarely give something for
nothing (have you ever had a
groupie put a coin in your col-
lecting tin ?)
The actual charity has yet to
be chosen but planning of the
Carnival is due to start. For this
we need help—actual material
help, some of your free time,
some of your ingenuity, some of
your ideas, something from you
to show that I.C. Union embraces
every part of everyone in Im-
perial College.
Corbyn's Newthink
In the last issue of FELIX we sawwhat Wells wrote about I.C. on
leaving it in 1934.
I.C., as Wells said, still has very little idea of what it is supposed
to do in the long term but it has a recognised " goal " of producing
maximum scientific and technological "progress." The question is :
What is the " progress " for? Since Hiroshima probably more, but
not enough, scientists and technologists care about how progress
affects people in the immediate future. However, all too often our
vision is too limited; we seem frightened to ask "Where are we going?"
Society is now changing (due to technological progress) much faster
than in Wells' day, therefore society needs even more of those people
whom Wells could not find. We need more individuals who think and
search freely, who are more involved in wider spheres of human
activity than is studied at I.C., who are capable of providing some
social and political leadership. We need people who have some
philosophical and social ideas and who want individuals and powerful
organisations like I.C. to have a long-term goal.
This month a new national stu-
dent magazine called NEW
THINK (termly Is. 6d.) is being
published. Its main aim is to al-
low people to become more in-
volved in discussion on important
matters around them and to en-
courage individuals to gain the
qualities which we must all have
to build a better society You
are invited to read " Newthink."
Apait from promoting free
discussion in a magazine, more
could be done on a local level to
instil more vision and purpose
into individuals and the college
as a whole. I.C. Union and the
constituent College Unions can
obviously play a part here as rep-
resentatives of students. The con-
stituent colleges must be con-
cerned with this apart from their
own inward-looking domestic
affairs because they are in closer
contact with their members and
understand them better than I.C
Union could ever hope to, be
cause members of different con
stituent colleges often have ver)
different problems and outlook or
life.
Annually, R.C.S. churns out
huge numbers of groping, imma-
ture scientists. I want to ask t
h
<
two candidates, Bob Mackman
and Frank Fuchs, what they in-
tend to do, if elected, to en-
courage in individuals and " the
spirit of R.C.S." (what is it?) a
greater involvement and under-
standing of things greater than
I.C. and a greater vision and pur-
pose.
P R. CORBYN (Physics 3)
(one of the three co-editors of
" Newthink ")
Footnote:
If you want to reserve a.copy
of " Newthink " or obtain further
information, contact P R Corbyn
(Physics 3) Tizard 621 ("New-
think " agent for I.C.).
ESSENTIAL READING FOR
STUDENTS. Keep informed on
politics, jvorld events, social &
economic affairs, new books,
all the arts. Every Friday, 1s. only.
N E W
s t a t e s m a n
SPECIAL OFFER to new stu-
dent readers: 20 weeks for 10s.
Write sending 10s. to Arthur
Soutter, NEW STATESMAN,
Great Turnstile, London WC1,

