8 FELIX
S P O R T S N E W S
English Electric Computers
THIS
S P O R T I N G
LIFE
Once again one must complain of " student apathy "—why is it
that in a college containing n per cent of " thefloweringyouth of
Britain " we still maintain an overall low standard of sport! ?
Surely more of you top 1 per cent could enjoyably employ your
agile minds on the soccer field or squash court (or your not so agile
bottoms to the horse's back!), to bring the general standard of our
sport to a level more in keeping with our academic achievements! ?
Fear not for your degree—some tutors will even recommend sport
(in extreme moderation) as a deterrent to lethargy, and remember,
all you Scottish economists, over 25/- of your annual £4 union fee is
spent on sport, whether you take part or not.
ability ot your clothes to with-
stand the onslaught of both the
elements (chlorinated in the case
of the swimming sports) and the
many other external influences.
Finally, then, wherever you
consider your ability lies, in the
field or court or on the touchline,
you can I am sure find some way
of enjoying your 25s. worth of
union fee, and in so doing help
others to enjoy theirs.
NB.—I wish to apologise to the
chairman of the recreational clubs
committee who informs me that
horse riding is recreational and
not sporting!
RODERICK J REDMAYNE
VICTORIOUS
PRESENT
The Rugby Club 1st XV
played their opening match of the
season last Wednesday The
score, a comfortable 22-0, re-
flects I.C.'s superiority over a
rather weak team from Enfield
Tech. Despite wet conditions,
I.C. played an open game, and
only a referee intent on the letter
of the law prevented a bigger
score. The XV seems to have a
big and mobile pack this year,
and the three-quarters are poten-
tially a very good combination.
To m o r r o w ?
The club gained 70 new mem-
bers this year, not as many as last
year, but Club Captain Bob Pine
hopes for eight full teams. The
1st XV has matches lined up
against the 2nd XVs of clubs like
Richmond, Wasps, Rosslyn Park
and Harlequins, and the 1st XV's
of a number of other colleges and
universities, while thefixturelists
of the lower teams are also very
full. A brief note for members :
all players are asked to tick off
their names on the team lists as
soon as possible each Monday.
C o m e on I C
If you are genuinely unathletic
(and are still reading this column)
may I suggest hat you can have a
thoroughly refreshing afternoon
(in the fresh smog of outer Lon-
don) as a spectator at Harlington,
where there exists the friendly at-
mosphere of club sport and an
excellent bar Not only will you
enjoy yourself but you will pro-
vide for the college sides that en-
couragement which is often lack-
ing. (To get there you may travel
by hired coach from the union
for only 4s. return).
F o r P u r i s t s
For the occasional spectator
there are various sporting events-
in which IC can hold its own (and
even excel on occasions), and
these are well worth watching.
Amongst these are the Gutteridge
cup, which is the U L U Rugby
knockout cup which we seem
habitually to lose in thefinal, the
Hyde Park Road Relay, which
started life as the IC individual
road race, and which has been
repeatedly expanded until now it
includes international competition
and teams from most British
Universities. The Boat club com-
petes in the summer in a series of
regattas, the best known of which
is Henley where they have done
well for the last two years. Apart
from these there are many more
light-hearted occasions of the
" sport " variety in which " audi-
ence participation " is welcomed.
The events, which usually origi-
nate as an inter-collegiate compe-
tition, include Morphy day
(venue • the embankment at Put-
ney), the pancake race (Beit quad
on Shrove Tuesday), the swim-
ming sports (any bath that will
have us) and mixed rugger. These
are all dress events for which you
should carefully consider the
The Gutteridge Cup: " Which we seem habitually to lose in the final." Not this year, we hope!
I One in seven |
One in seven of those graduating in 1968 will go
into industry. Whatever subject you have studied
there could be a progressive career for you in
English Electric Computers. A successful compu-
ter manufacturing company must be concerned
with all aspects of electronic engineering, pro-
gramming and marketing. It can, therefore, offer
careers to the specialist or to the person who wants
to broaden his interests.
Whatever your choice, English Electric Computers
will give you full training and every possible
encouragement to succeed. In 1968 the Company
will recruitgraduates who are interested in scientific
and engineering research and development, pro-
duction and field service engineering, marketing
and sales, systems analysis, programming, teach-
ing or administration.
So whatever your academic discipline, it is worth
your while to find out what English Electric Com-
puters can offer you. Equal opportunities exist both
for men and women in London, Kidsgrove, Winsford
and provincial centres throughout the U.K. The
rewards in terms of salary, progress and promotion
are assured.
Ask your Appointments Board to arrange an inter-
viewforyou with representatives of English Electric
Computers when they visit this University in 1968,
or write for our brochures 'Careers in Computers'
and 'Careers for Arts Graduates'to:
J. A. Bannister,(Ref-E/t-iu)
University Liaison Officer,
English Electric Computers Limited,
Kidsgrove, Stoke-on-Trent, Staffs.
and everyone
IC soccer club is probably the
most active soccer club in Britain
if not the world. This record is
achieved with a membership of
over a hundred players, and we
mean players, since by running at
least seven regular teams per
week nearly all members play an
active part in spreading the repu-
tation of IC as the superb soccer
school it is.
However our aim is not only
league championships and cups,
a Player
but also to achieve a club spirit
second to none. Incentives in the
form of the Mannheim Trophy
(for services to the club) and the
newly inaugurated Footballer of
the year Trophy will help to pro-
duce this.
The soccer social scene kicks
off with a pie and mash supper
(Oct. 18th), passes on to a dance
and scores with other events such
as film shows, and evenings in
the bar
ROINES WAS MO
E X C E P T I O N .
L I K E ALL FRESHERS
H E THOUGHT H E
COULD EAT AT COUB&E
IT TOOK H i H J U S T TWO
U M I V S R S A L , M E A T B A L L S
TO R E A L I Z E H E OOULDJJ'T.
F O R GOD'S SAKE C A R E ,
GIVE; H I M A VOUMD.
ROINES No 1
Published by J. Mullaly and D. Cooper on behalf of FELIX BOARD Imperial College, London, S.W.7. and printed by WEST LONDON OFFSET CO.. 86, Lillie Rd., London, S.W.6.

