J _ L X
Letters
• Q. If there's a balding patch
in the neighbourhood, who do
you call?
• A. CosBusters!
• First there was Steve Austin,
a man barely alive. Now PPSoc
brings you Cosmic—a man
barely.
• We warn thee SFSoc, QT are
just a front. The power lies with
PPSoc.
• Could the gentleman with the
frame tent please answer the
door?
• Can the man with shares in
Kleenex please contact the
monkey who used all her's at
the new year?
• The Paul Kendall four-step
guide to Oxford pub
seductions...(i) spin, (ii) dive,
(iii) crush, (iv) burn.
• Simon Bradshaw...proof that
the RAF employ nancy boys!
• Nancy—May the (air) force be
with you!
• Bradders—just what sort of
night exercise did you get up to
on that camp?
• Is Doze a cradle snatcher?
• See Alien with John Hurt-
very hurt.
• Watch Alien with SF Soc for
a real gut-wrenching experience.
• Trinity College, this is London
calling. Chaning or non-chaning?
From the Humpy Fiddler.
• Baw! The unexplained. A
place where cats disappear
without trace. We cannot
explain this. That's why it's
called...bawl The unexplained.
• Peckham's law: Beauty times
brains equals a constant.
• To whoever nicked my laser
card, good luck on your life of
crime, even though I hope it's
an extremely short one. Rob
(pissed off with amateur crooks)
Howes (MRE 1). Return c/o Bank
of Kerovnia.
• Dinosaur Tiddlywinks—
sounds a bit elite-ist to me. Still,
as long as Sid doesn't find out,
eh?
Deadline for all
Small Ads is
Monday
Lunchtimes
(1.30pm)
Fur falls foul
of secretaries
Dear Judith,
I write with reference to the article in the last issue of
FELIX about the fur trade, specifically the paragraph
stating that 'most young secretaries' were responsible for
the sale of cheap furs. Not only was it insulting to
secretaries but on the whole meaningless and I feel that
the printing of it was very insensitive on your part,
considering that young secretaries make up a large number
of the non-academic staff at Imperial.
The statement itself, made by a furrier, just goes to show
how out of touch they are with the public's awareness.
If they are finding it so hard to sell cheap fur then why
do they go on butchering animals, and trying to persuade
women that wearing dead rabbits on their backs is still
glamourous and desirable.
Yours sincerely,
Kay Randall, Secretary, Chemistry Dept.
Glad to be
Liberal
Dear FELIX,
I must object to James Papa's suggestion (FELIX 788)
that Liberals used the slogan T haven't been kissed by Peter
TatchelF in the 1983 Bermondsey by-election. I worked
for Simon Hughes, the successful Liberal candidate
throughout this by-election, and never once saw or heard
this slogan or anything else anti-gay used by Liberals.
It is often forgotten that right up until the last week of
the by-election it was seen as a two horse race between
Labour's Peter Tatchell, and John O'Grady the
Independent Labour candidate. The Economist actually
printed a cartoon of the two of them on horses a week
before the by-election. Most of the anti-gay smears that
appeared came from the O'Grady campaign, the rest from
the Tories, NF etc. It is possible that some O'Grady
supporters, realising their cause was hopeless, came over
in the last few days to help Simon Hughes and continued
to use anti-gay smears on the doorsteps. At this stage in
the campaign there were hundreds of people coming to
help, and it was obviously impossible to check the political
soundness of every volunteer who turned up. But I am
sure if anyone had been heard using the slogan mentioned
by James Papa they would have been told to leave.
Liberals have long been the party which has worked
hardest for gay rights. Labour has jumped on the issue
in their usual inept way and only whipped up more
prejudice. Many of my Liberal friends are gay. As an
undergraduate at IC in the late 1970s, and a member of
the IC Liberal Club then, at the time the most active
political society in College, I remember being constantly
hassled for our support of gay rights, particularly as the
Jeremy Thorpe case was then in the headlines. The
standard slogan was then 'Backs against the wall, it's the
liberals'. The Socialist Society actually circulated a spoof
of our 'Forward!' newsletter, called 'Sideways!' full of
anti-gay jokes. I am sure that much of this material can
be found in the Union archives, and I ask Mr Papa to look
it up before spreading more smears about the Liberal Party.
I campaigned for Simon Hughes because he stands for
the sort of radical Liberalism I believe in, and which is
now threatened by merger with the SDP. Seeing Simon
elected as MP for Bermondsey was one of the proudest
moments of my life, and I am sorry that the Labour Party,
the world's worse losers, continues to tell lies about the
election.
Yours sincerely,
Matthew Huntbach, Dept of Computing.
Hamlet's
hardships
Dear Judith,
On Tuesday December 1 the warden of Hamlet Gardens
was notified that the immersion heater in flat 210 Hamlet
Gardens was not functioning thereby causing the residents
of the above some discomfort, as they could not even wash
properly. In the two weeks after the defect was reported
the warden was re-notified at least three times until on
Wednesday December lb a letter was sent by the residents
proposing to go and see the fair rent officer for
Hammersmith if the defect was not repaired. A repair was
carried out on the following day (December 17).
On the evening of Saturday December 19 the water
heater again ceased to function. We think we have
reasonable cause to feel that neither the warden of Hamlet
Gardens nor Strolmoor Ltd, the landlords, are fulfilling
their obligations to these students of Imperial College who
are in residence at Hamlet Gardens.
We wish to protest in the strongest manner possible
about the amount of attention afforded to the above flat
(and probably the rest of Hamlet Gardens) by the two
agents in question.
W J M Keys, Andrew Marsh, David Hendy, T P
Weggett.
Cocktail
thank you
Dear Judith,
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Sarah Cox
and all the students who acted as hosts at the Guilds
Cocktail Party. The event was a tremendous success. If
anyone is interested in seeing the letters of thanks then
please contact me in the Guilds Office.
Dave Tyler, Guilds President.
FELIX Friday January 15th 1988 19

