• MYSTERIOUS THINGS have
been afoot in Ye Olde Hamlet
Gardens. My spies inform me that
one of the new subwardens has been
not-such-a-good boy. One wonders if
the appointment was just jobs for the
boys? Apparently he was just an
ordinary resident of Hamlet last term
and certain people claim to have
compiled a damning list of all his
misdemeanours which shows him in
a most unsuitable light and would
have easily taken up this whole page.
Unfortunately said subwarden let
himself into my spies' flat, found the
list and destroyed it. Luckily they
have promised that I can have all the
dirt in the very near future.
• THE NEW WARDEN of Holbein
House has arrived, much to the relief
of weary College disiplinarians, who
believe him to be the answer to their
prayers. The residents, however,
don't seem to thrilled with this new
College messiah. There are now no
washing machines and a cooker has
also been removed. We recommend
that you take a clothes peg with you
when you visit friends in Holbein.
College are sticking by their man: he
has also managed to remove all the
shopping trolleys, road cones and
FOR SALE signs from the premises.
It is also rumoured that he has the
dishiest wife to have tantalised
celibate Evelyn Gardens residents
since Tony Aston left Willis Jackson.
• NEW BOY Reggie with the
unpronounceable surname took on the
Union finance system at the beginning
of the year only to find that he was
without an office, desk or even chair.
According to my source, it was
Deputy President Alan Rose's job to
fix Reggie up with the necessary
equipment for running the Union but
Alan went to Malta and seems to have
left all his motivation in the sun.
• IC RADIO hacks and hackettes
have been amusing themselves with
a tale about Station Manager Steve
Gutteridge and old-timer John Allen.
A small reward to anybody who is
prepared to reveal the reason behind
the merriment because it smells like
scandal to me.
Brrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr went Derek's
alarm clock. Derek looked at it
sleepily and mumbled 'the big
hand's pointing at the five and the
little hand's midway between the
eight and the nine; that means
it's...err...it's...err'. 'Eight twenty-
five, dear' said Derek's wife Mad
Dash, 'time for work'. (Derek was
the Baron of Cheapskate and part
time actor on Channel 4 when the
money got a bit short.)
Derek leapt out of bed and
hurriedly got dressed. This was
going fine until he came to the tie.
He didn't have time to ask Mad Dash to do it for him so he selected
his newest and nicest clip on. It was extremely wide and extremely
loud but no one ever had the guts to tell him so to his face so
he didn't know how awful it looked. When he'd finished he picked
up his new filofax and rushed out of the front door. He didn't have
time for breakfast, but that wasn't a problem, he would get
McNorthey to bring up something from the Quite Tasty Burger
Factory to his office later. People often bring up things from the
Quite Tasty Burger Factory.
Derek reached his office on the top floor of the Surefield fortress
just as his brand new digital watch beeped for eight-thirty. As he
settled into his luxury reclining chair and continued reading the
latest addition to his library (Ladybird book 7C) he wondered what
all the fuss was about. The citizens were whingeing for no good
reason yet again. If he, Derek the Baron, could get to his office
by half past eight then why shouldn't all the citizens get to
Cheapskate at the same time.
The problem was that there weren't enough torture chambers
at Cheapskate so Derek had decided that tortures should start an
hour earlier. This might have been bad news for the citizens but
it was even worse news for the torturers, most of whom lived
even further from Cheapskate than the citizens.
It's not as if they do anything useful between half eight and
half nine, thought Derek, now if they read a quality paper or the
West End theatre listings then things might be different....
Anyway, this was all good complaining practice for the leading
citizens as they prepared for the Cheapskate General Election at
the end of term. No one was quite sure who was going to stand
for the posts of Head Citizen, Deputy Head Citizen, Phallix Editor
and...the other one, but some citizens had started (continued ?)
to act very strangely and very secretively as they strove to get
some all important publicity. Some of them were even seen in the
Phallix Office trying to achieve the ultimate hack credibility of
appearing in the 'Duke of Sluicegate'...
Meanwhile in the citizen's office the winners (losers) of last
years elections had returned from their Christmas break.
Whygate was contemplating about holidays. How was it that
his Deputy, Alan Ego, could go to Malta and the Phallix Editor,
Judith Largeamounts, go skiing in France when all he managed
was a few days with some amateur hairdressers in Guildford. It
wasn't fair, but then life in Cheapskate never was.
Will Whygate go on a proper holiday?
Who will stand in the Cheapskate General Election?
What has happened to the 3 clowns?
Does the bookshop sell Coles Notes to Ladybird Book 7C?
Find out in the next episode of the Baron of Cheapskate
• T H E L A N D L O R D of the
Cat'n'Fiddle in Holborn is to receive
a shock this week when he gets a writ
from Union President Ian Howgate.
It appears that the deranged man
attempted to disco dance down the
steps to the basement bar and slipped,
breaking his right thumb in two
places. He has instructed the Union
solicitor to sue for the partial loss of
his services to the Union for the next
couple of months, since he now
cannot write with that hand. Damages
are expected to run into tens of pence.
• THOSE GLORIOUS Guildsmen
have managed another winner. They
held a n-legged pub crawl earlier this
week. Problem was that nobody got
the message about what terrific fun
it would be to do this wacky stunt.
Never mind. For all mathematicians,
n=9 where n tends to HackSoc.
• WHOLESCALE CONFUSION
reigned in the IC Union Office this
week when Deputy President Alan
Rose swapped offices with Union
Administrator Jen Hardy-Smith and
neglected to tell anybody. Union
officers have quipped that they
thought their demented DP had had
his hair restyled and taken to wearing
tasteful skirts and blouses.
• M Y EARS ALWAYS prick up
when I hear the word scandal. Most
of it is either unrepeatable or concerns
various sabbaticals that have severe
difficulty doing their jobs properly.
Despite strong words at the last
Council, Honorary Secretary Chas
Jackson has been doing his best to do
his worst. My favourite instances of
this curious phenomenon revolve
around Christmas cards and
insurance.
It is rumoured that Mr Jackson was
given 45 cards to post at the end of
last term on behalf of the Union and
didn't. It was left upto Receptionist
Kathy Tait to send them after they had
been ingeniously date-stamped
13/12/87 last week.
Mole Higgs has enhanced his Hon
Sec 88/9 credibility by sorting out all
the insurance claims which Chas had
neglected.
• C A N NIGEL WHITFIELD ,
boyish IC Radio News Editor, live
without the phone? The poor boy
obviously needs the substitute while
hero Pete Hands is working hundreds
of miles away. And why does Pete
have a double bed? Nigel claims that
its just wishful thinking.
Chris Jones
FELIX Friday January 15th 1988 7

