F
" E
E
I I
T h e g a m e o f
G o
The game of Go (nothing to do with monopoly) is played regularly
by the Imperial College Chinese Chess Society. Proper name
Weichi, the oriental game is played with Hsiang ch'i. Chris Eardley
describes how Go is a subtle strategy game which requires tactics
entirely different to those of Western chess.
crop up, and it can be summariesed
in one phrase—give and take. Greedy
players always lose, and so do meek
and timid players. Moderation is the
watchword. If a player claims too
much territory he can only guard it
thinly, so he will lose it. If he over-
attacks his opponent and indulges in
too much 'rape and pillage' he will
suddenly find himself being attacked.
The techniques of attack in Go are
quite subtle and usually work best if
contact with the opponent is avoided.
The aim is usually to manipulate the
opponent rather than take him out
completely. Of course, the
opportunity to wipe out some local
opposition in big fights does occur,
and is highly exciting, but this
Picture in your mind a game of
ordinary western chess after a few
opening moves have been played.
Now modify the game in two ways.
In chess, the separate pieces, with
their separate identities and powers,
together form an army, and the game
is about one army battling against the
other. For the first modification,
shrink one of these armies down into
one piece, into one unit, and let you
and your opponents have 180 of these
army pieces to distribute at will on the
board. This gives rise to the next
modification—add another 300
squares to the board. These
modifications have the effect of
converting the localised battle of chess
into a full scale war using many
armies over a large area. This new
game is called Go.
Go is a strategy game for two
players using black and white
identical pieces on a brown wooden
board marked with an almost square
grid of 19 x 19 lines, giving 361
playing points.
The game starts with the board
empty and players take it in turn to
place pieces anywhere they like on the
board. Pieces do not move about the
board but stay in the same position
throughout the game. The object of
the game is to create more territory
than the opponent by surrounding
segments of empty space with
uniform lines of pieces. If your
opponent gets in the way you can
surround him too and remove him
from the board, but this is a secondary
objective. Go is a constructive game
in that there are more pieces on the
board at the end of the game than at
the start, in contrast to most other
'war' games.
Calling Go a war game is in fact
fairly misleading, though for most
people this is the easiest concept to
have when they start playing for the
first time. It takes only a short while
however, before beginners sense the
subtlety and depth to the game—it is
indeed a game of war, with both
players spending much of their time
trying to kill each others pieces, but
the rest of the time is spent building
territories in a constructive manner
and only 'leaning' on the opponent
rather than going in for the kill all the
time. When an attack is made, it is
done subtly—not much 'cut and
thrust' occurs in Go because it doesn't
work. In chess, for example, a queen
and a rook can be let loose for a while
to bash up the enemy, and indeed this
is a most enjoyable occupation. When
the pair have finished they can retire
behind their pawns and be safe. This
doesn't happen in Go because the
pieces do not move around, and so
once committed to an attack, it has to
be followed through right to the end
because it is impossible to 'pull out'.
If the attack is mis-handled then the
mistake sits there on the board staring
back at you for the rest of the game.
When attacking the opponent's
pieces, his pieces are also a threat to
yours and very often an attack has to
be suddenly turned into a defence for
a few moves, then back to an attack,
and the defence, and so on. This is
one of the beauties of the game—it is
impossible to bludgeon an opponent
without having to let him make major
gains against you. The game has a
built-in stabilising effect which defies
explanation but which never ceases to
happens comparatively rarely.
In Go there are no guns or cannons
or tanks, or in fact anything remotely
violent to look at or use. All the pieces
are identical round counters and none
of them has special powers or moves.
Individual pieces are worthless; it is
the position they are in that is
important. In chess, for example,
players have armies that they put into
battle against each other, and in effect
the players 'hide' behind their
pieces—they are one stage removed
from the theatre of operations. In Go,
there are no such armies and the
players are brought right into the
action and it becomes a much more
intense fight, not between armies, but
between minds. Go players locked in
combat stare intensely at the board
with their knuckles white, hands
clammy and stomachs churning. They
are totally immersed in action which
to an outsider seems pretty boring, but
to them is a matter of life and death.
In this sense Go is the ultimate war
game: there are no objects of war in
sight, yet the players are trying to tear
each other apart.
People who like arguing should
enjoy Go, because many of the fights
can be likened to arguments. If black
invades white's territory he is telling
white that he has a point to make, and
what's more, he is right. What
happens next is highly interesting
because white has to listen to black's
point of view (ie that white has too
much territory and should surrender
some) and agree or disagree. If he
agrees with black it means that black
attacked successfully and white gives
way and battens down any remaining
open hatches. If white disagrees, he
answers with a counter-attack on
black, leaving black to ponder. After
a few moves of this 'argument', and
before its logical conclusion, it
becomes clear to the players who is
going to be the eventual winner, and
the argument stops, because there is
no point in continuing—the point has
been made. To give a ridiculous
analogy, it's a bit like Julius Caesar
storming into Gaul with 1000 men
and coming face to face with a million
Gauls. Some people would advocate
fighting to the death; they lose every
game of Go. In a case like this if
Caesar fights to the death the Gauls
win. If he doesn't fight, the Gauls
win. There is no argument, and
Caesar should get out of Gaul
sharpish. In this way fights are left
unfinished all around the board
because both players see that in 3
moves time, say, one of them will die,
so what is the point of carrying on.
If you're arguing with someone and
you suddenly see that you have
argued your way into a hole, then you
shut up there and then unless you're
one of those tiresome people who like
arguing that black is white. The nice
thing about Go is that if someone does
try that argument you can always
prove them wrong. Of course the
trick lies in working out whether
you're going to win the argument
before you start it.
In Summary
Go is one of the most beautiful games
in the world because of its simplicity,
elegance and its many hidden
subtleties. It looks pretty as well.
It is a battle of minds rather than
armies of pieces, because the pieces
directly relate to your thoughts—they
are not coloured by any special
powers a piece may have.
It is a game of extreme violence—
life or death, yet players have to live
with each other on the same board.
A player can never be totally wiped
out. In this sense it is more
constructive than most war type
games which are usually a fight to the
death.
Anyone who likes a good strategy
game should like Go, and anyone who
is fond of a good (logical) argument
ought to get hooked on it without too
much effort. It takes five minutes to
learn to play, so come and see for
yourself at one of our meetings during
Tuesday and Thursday lunchtimes in
Elec Eng 403b.
FELIX Friday January 15th 1988 9

