12 felix Friday 5 October 2007
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Mike Cook, Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight and David Paw
Budding culture vulture? Write for us
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
David Paw
Arts Editor
W
elcome to another
shiny new edition
of Felix Arts. As
autumn draws in
and the prospect of
increasingly longer nights looms large,
what could be better than immersing
yourself in the capital’s arts scene?
Our city is blessed with one of the
most vibrant arts scenes in the world.
London will always feature on any top
ten list of galleries/museums/gig ven-
ues/whatever anywhere you would
care to mention.The city has somehow
found a new vitality and optimism
that is reflected in the wealth of tal-
ent and potential brimming in venues
and rehearsal studios from Hackney to
Hammersmith.
Speaking of which, with the excep-
tion of this year’s freshers, who will
have more than enough to occupy
themselves with in West London, the
thing I hear the most from people is “I
want to get out of West London. I want
to explore more of the city – I’m living
in London and I want to take advan-
tage of it”.
The problem is, where to start? The
capital is a vast place and the amount
of things to do on offer can be over-
whelming. Picking up a copy of Time
Out is always a great start, as is check-
ing listings on the internet.
With a little persistence and perse-
verance it will become easier to pick
out the main venues or hotspots – say,
Hoxditch and Hackney in the east,
Clapham in the south or Camden in
the north.
A common caveat is distance – why
trudge across town to go to a theatre
when you could just walk down to the
Lyric to see a play? Quite often the
crowd and the people attending in dif-
ferent areas of the capital varies greatly,
and the things on show can vary wildly
as well. The atmosphere is often very
different as well – why limit yourself?
Getting out and exploring the city you
live in always requires an initial effort
but it is one that pays dividends.
This week’s arts section sees the
second part of the Culture Crawl, this
time tackling London’s galleries – even
with the number stacked on the page,
there were still several excellent galler-
ies omitted, not to mention the mul-
titude of microgalleries proliferating
across the city.
Caz Knight has her perceptions of
musicals altered by an excellent pro-
duction of Parade, while Mike Cook
gets stuck into a book of experiments
and comes out alive.
Finally with the arrival of a new sea-
son at the English National Opera are
my thoughts on the company’s radical
production of the classic Carmen. As
evening fell across the West End and
I walked towards the Coliseum and
its grand facade and uplit columns,
I was glad that even as the tempera-
ture dropped and the layers were piled
on, those long nights were good for
something.
The circus comes to town
The ENO’s latest production leaves David Paw unmoved and unimpressed
Only after you’ve sat through the flam-
boyant dances, the council estate cat-
fights, the wraithlike chorus of school-
children in ghostly white, the preening
transvestite dancers flexing their bi-
ceps and the breakdancers, does the
ENO’s newest incarnation of Carmen
begin to take shape. But only just.
The filmmaker Sally Potter (Orlando,
The Tango Lesson) was brought in to
breathe new life into that most famil-
iar of operas and that most eternal and
iconic of femme fatales. It was always
going to be radical, with injections of
street tango from choreographer Pa-
blo Veron and set designs by Es Dev-
lin, who has worked with Kanye West
in the past, amongst others. But while
it certainly had the potential to be ex-
citingly fresh yet still bring down the
house with that power that only opera
can bring, it focused far too much on
the “exciting” , letting the music lag
and introducing far too many con-
flicting elements for an audience to
comprehend while trying to follow the
show simultaneously.
Let us recap – Carmen follows the
story of its title character, a fiery street-
walker who captures the heart of Jose,
hereasecurityguard.Afteratete-a-tete
with another girl, Carmen is brought
in an Jose told to guard her – he lets
her escape and goes to prison himself
for his error. When Jose re-emerges, he
swears to devote his existence to Car-
men. However, when he receives word
his mother is on his deathbed, he re-
luctantly tears himself away from her.
When he returns, Carmen is on the
arm of Escamillo, his love rival and a
celebrated matador on his way to an-
other glorious bullfight – Carmen has
grown tired of Jose’s petulance and
jealousy by now and though he begs
her not to reject her she refuses, cul-
minating in a dramatic finale.
Carmen’s main strengths lie in its
music and narrative – the score was
tempered well and was on fine form,
and the vocal performances were
memorable only for Katie van Kooten’s
powerful Micaela and Julian Gavin’s
heroic performance as Jose. Alice
Coote, as Carmen, was undermined by
a screeching chorus of streetwalkers
(painful) or an incoherent production
that eliminated four of the original’s
dances. When Carmen says she will
dance, she appears redundant when
she does not. Frasquita and Mercedes,
Carmen’s underlings-cum-friends and
fellow maneaters, looked similarly ri-
diculous – how seriously can you take
these characters when they look like
they wandered off the set of a Shake-
speare’s Sister music video?
It was difficult to devote full concen-
tration to the story – the circus had
literally come to town and there was
far too much distracting the viewer’s
attention from the main characters.
When you weren’t watching the stub-
born Alsatian or the shimmying danc-
ers seductively sashaying across the
stage, you were watching the break-
dancers throw huge power moves let
alone following what was going on
with the main characters.
Though Potter clearly wanted to in-
troduce elements of celluloid into the
mix with an introductory sequence of
voyeuristic real-time CCTV images
projected onto a thin screen while we
watched the actual characters behind,
it became meaningless given the rest
of the story had so little to do with its
origins. There was simply far too much
focus on producing something radical,
something visionary, when simplic-
ity with a few simple touches would
have more than sufficed. For example
– originally Jose is a soldier and his
desertion to be with Carmen makes it
all the more dramatic. The impact of a
security guard quitting his job to warm
his evenings with a colourful tempt-
ress is less convincing. A police officer
would have been simpler and more ef-
fective, though you can imagine it be-
ing turned down on the grounds of be-
ing far too safe, far too obvious.
There appeared flashes of inspira-
tion however, rare moments when the
director’s vision worked – Habanera
was suitably electrifying while Veron
and his partner Lucila Cionci were
mesmerising in dancing their passion-
ate and pure tango. The opening of the
third act worked very well, with the
glimpses of a security guard’s dancing
feet tapping across the screen gradu-
ally expanding to show a tunnel in pro-
file. These were the moments when the
director’s vision paid dividends. Potter
stated, “there is a paradoxical freedom
in working with a classic – it has been
done and will be done so many times
that a potentially radical approach
cannot possibly harm it”. She obviously
had the opera’s best interests in mind –
pity she forgot about the audience’s.
ENO’s title character from the opera Carmen

