arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 5 October 2007 felix
Arts
A soundtrack to die for in Parade
A guilt-free musical with all of the flavour and none of the calories? Caz Knight is pleasantly surprised
Parade, a musical based on the book by
Aldred Uhry, had all the odds stacked
against it for a good review. Not only
was it being seen and reviewed by one
who cares not for (the often cultural
absence in many) musicals, but the
plot seemed one of far too sombre and
heavy a topic to be presented with mu-
sical accompaniment.
Parade follows the story of the Leo
Frank case, one of the most closely
followed in its time, incurring much
‘yellow journalism’ along the way. Set
in 1913 Atlanta, Georgia, Frank is
very much a fish out of water living
in the South whilst being Jewish and
Ivy-league educated. Superintendent
of a pencil factory, Frank is given the
death sentence after being convicted
of the murder of little Mary Phegan
who worked for pennies at his factory.
Frank’s case carries on long after his
incarceration with an appeal to change
his sentence after much effort on his
wife, Lucille, and eventually the Geor-
gian governor’s part. In history, the up-
shot is a life sentence in lieu of hang-
ing. However, Parade gives us a much
more grizzly ending.
Bertie Carvel carried out the role of
Frank stupendously. His character as
the neurotic, highly strung and snooty
factory owner, complete with manner-
isms that were maintained throughout,
was superb and utterly convincing. We
are drawn into Leo’s turmoil as we feel
immense pity for him. This pity turns
into elation as Leo’s stress develops
into happiness and a rekindled love
with Lucille. Carvel’s voice is easily one
of the best and he exhibits great tal-
ent during the dance scenes (of which
there are disappointingly too few).
Shaun Escoffery deserves a special
mention as the character of Negro Jim
Conley, allegedly in the factory at the
time of the crime. A huge contrast to
Leo in disposition, Jim testifies against
him in the case. Not just a pretty face
and well-structured physique, Escoff-
ery has an outstanding voice and por-
trays the charismatic Jim with ease.
Exceptional casting with regards to
murder victim Mary Phegan; the ac-
tress’s blonde pig-tailed hair, blue eyes
and doll face eerily reminds us of little
Maddie Mac.
The introductory song of Parade is
performed by one of the best, in my
opinion, voices of the cast. Stuart Mat-
thew Price blows us away and has our
neck hair standing and does a good job
of the three roles he takes on. Although
several actors have been singled out,
the cast was brilliant; their energy and
enthusiasm really makes the show.
Being one who considers most mu-
sicals with disdain, it is a credit to the
calibre of the music if I was left want-
ing Parade’s soundtrack for my own
listening pleasure at home. The music
and songs clearly dominate the pro-
duction but the continuity between
songs, scenes and even moods is seam-
less. The music ranges from uplifting
melodies to ones of sadness and ones
of great power. Amongst the show
were songs of beauty that had me on
the brink of tears on several occasions
(rather embarrassing as I am not aware
of the rules on crying in theatre!). Of
Parade’s thirty odd songs there were
very few I disliked.
The whole package is completely
uncheesey (as in the case of some of
the more “commercial” musicals). It is
a musical with depth or grown up mu-
sical, but with none of the fun or enter-
tainment value extracted. The gravity
of Parade’s subject matter is eased by
the musical element but in no way de-
tracts from this portrayal of the Frank
case - a key event in U.S. legal history.
The play even adds a slightly macabre
shock factor. The recreated hanging
in the play is extremely convincing
and reminds one of recent events in
Bath, during the Jane Austen festival,
where the public expressed disgust at
the highly realistic mock gallows in the
town’s centre.
This musical gives us something to
cover every emotion: love, sadness,
anger, injustice, mystery, humour and
above all it gives us an awesome and
highly memorable night out served
up in a small, but infinitely more inti-
mate setting than perhaps some of the
larger theatres. And it has converted a
musical-hater. To miss out would be
foolish.
Parade is that rare creature – an enthralling musical that manages to incorporate a thrilling soundtrack with a stunning emotional gravitas

