arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 5 October 2007 felix
Arts
A
s students at an all-sci-
ence and engineering in-
stitution – and one that,
let’s face it, doesn’t ex-
actly shirk on the work-
load – we have something of a burden
of knowledge when it comes to science
, technology and engineering in the
public arena. Hopefully, most of us can
sit through a Die Hard movie without
pointing out how unlikely most of the
events are. But when it comes to books
and television on so-called ‘popu-
lar science’, it’s hard to take a lot of it
seriously.
The first thing that should make you
sit up and listen about How To Fossilise
Your Hamster is the simple white let-
tering at the top that spells ‘New Sci-
entist’. You know then, at least, that it’s
not going to be another Channel 4 ‘un-
biased’ documentary on global warm-
ing. If you don’t read every copy of
New Scientist you can get your hands
on, you’re missing out.
But New Scientist’s previous offer-
ings in the stocking-filler books de-
partment haven’t exactly been grip-
ping. Their last two books, Why Don’t
Penguin’s Feet Freeze? and Does Any-
thing Eat Wasps? were packed full of
really interesting questions previously
published and answered in the fort-
nightly periodical, but they were, on
the whole, just a bunch of questions.
What they needed was something
more visual. More exciting. In short,
what they needed was a method for
extracting iron from crushed Kellogg’s
Frosties.
Alright, that wasn’t exactly what we
needed from a book (though it’s one of
the most bizarre and absorbing experi-
ments in the latest release). But it’s one
of the many crazy experiments con-
tained inside that really make this book
a stand-out among other similar titles.
By retaining the cool, clear and col-
lected New Scientist style, but throw-
ing in a bag of tricks that would make
Paul Daniels jealous, Mick O’Hare and
his team have created a compendium
of brilliant experiments.
And, in true New Scientist style,
everything is clearly explained, too. So
you’re not simply shown how to make
fried eggs turn green (they manage to
do it without using eggs they forgot
about for five weeks, too), but you’re
explained how this process takes place,
and where to go if you’re interested to
learn more.
The experiments are, on the whole,
very fresh and extremely simple. You
can make mouldable plastics with just
some milk and vinegar or measure the
speed of sound with a hammer, and
many of you will be pleased to know
that a good deal of the experiments
involve alcohol of some form (want
to know why beer doesn’t froth up if
you pour it into a wet glass? This is the
book for you).
Admittedly, there are some you’ll
have seen before. A few will no doubt
bring back dire memories of Year Sev-
en science lessons – celery with food
colouring, anyone, or can we all re-
member how plants drink? – but the
book isn’t entirely for science students,
so some of the experiments are kid-
friendly too, and even these are often
good fun, such as the urine-based ex-
periments which never fail to entertain
at parties. But most of them are spec-
tacular enough to show off to friends
– firing the lids off of film cannisters,
or making sparks with just an envelope
and a dark room.
Some of the experiments are espe-
Putting the pop into Pop Science
New Scientist’s books are back – it’s out with Q&A, and in with Fizz, Bang, Wallop, says Michael Cook
First lines
“Experiments are what makes
Science tick. Observing, recording
and observing again have taught
us everything we know about our
universe and the world around us.”
cially fun to demonstrate in front of
others – one involves a pear and an ap-
ple, and allows you to completely dis-
tort your guinea pig’s sense of taste –
and if you brush up on your knowledge
of the science behind it, some of them
can become truly geeky party pieces
(see right for our favourites from the
book).
Popular Science books quite rightly
garner quite a bit of scorn from some of
Imperial’s masses. But a book like this
is a hell of a lot cleverer than a retelling
of the Big Bang with topical political
jokes thrown in. They’re not going to
help you an awful lot with your course,
but they unveil the mysteries behind
some conundrums that you may never
have quite grasped – indeed, some that
you may not have even realised existed
at all.
And so in that respect, it’s a great suc-
cess on New Scientist’s part – finally
Conclusive results
Our favourite experiments from the book
realising that we’d like to get hands-on
with popular science, instead of sitting
through another episode of Horizon
about bionic pet monkeys.
With sixty-odd experiments in the
book, it seems well worth the price
tag given that most of the experiments
require no extra materials at all. If you
enjoy the writing style, the other books
in the series are similarly-priced and
worth reading, but O’Hare’s latest is
clearly the best of the bunch.
Now if you’ll excuse me, I’m off to
brutalise some Frosties.
How To Fossilise Your Hamster is
being published for New Scientist
by Profile Books, and will cost
around £7.99. We’re bookcrossing
one copy at Imperial during
October – see our article this
week for more information or surf
to http://www.bookcrossing.org.
The “Ho! What Devilry Is This!” Do-it-yourself-cloud-chamber Trick
A two-litre drinking bottle, a little bit
of water, and a match. Fill the bottle a
little with water, then light the match.
Blow it out, and (very) quickly drop it
in the bottle, screwing the lid on tight
just after.
Squeeze the bottle four or five times,
and a cloud-like vapour will begin to
form inside the bottle. It’s mesmerising
to watch – you’ve just created a cloud
chamber. And better still, squeezing
the bottle tight makes the whole thing
disappear temporarily.
Most Likely To Impress – Harry Pot-
ter fans, provided you wear a hat.
The “Bad Science, Good” Implausible-yet-awesome-liquisolid Trick
This one really messes up any concep-
tion of materials you might have had.
For this, you’ll need 300g cornflour
and 250ml water. Mix it up in a bowl or
saucepan. Keep mixing. Keep mixing.
Eventually, you’ll find it too stiff to mix
any further.
Now stop mixing, and tip the bowl
into another container. The entire mix-
ture will have become liquid again.
The real fun starts once you find
a hammer or a large brick wall. The
whole soup becomes more plastic the
more it is exposed to intense force.
Shattered bits of the mixture will even
liquefy and join together again.
Most Likely To Impress – Anyone who
thought that melting bit in Terminator
2 was cool. So, basically everyone.
The “It’s David Bowie! Hey, Man!” Alka-Seltzer-lava-lamp Trick
Fill a two-litre water bottle – they’re
cheap from the JCR – three quarters
full with vegetable oil (yes, after you’ve
taken the water out) and then pour a
little water in. Use some food colour-
ing if you’re feeling particularly flash.
Then get an alka-seltzer tablet and
break it into eight pieces or therea-
bouts. Drop a little bit in.
The tablet falls harmlessly through
the oil, before reaching the water and
reacting. Globs of water, propelled by
carbon dioxide, rise the oil and when
they reach the top, the gas escapes, and
the water descends again. Awesome.
Most Likely To Impress – People from
the seventies.
The “Ripley? RIPLEY!?” Alien-egg-in-a-jar Trick
An empty glass jar, cleaned out and full
of vinegar. Plop an egg into it – don’t
make the mistake we did and choose
an egg too big, or you’ll spend five min-
utes pouring vinegar all ove r yourself
while you try to pry it out.
After a couple of days, the entire of
the shell will have disappeared, the egg
will have swollen to a massive size, and
taken on a ghostly, pale appearance. It’s
quite disturbing, but also very cool. To
some people, at least.
You can even reverse the effect if
you’ve got the right ingredients –
though of course, the shell doesn’t
return.
Most Likely To Impress – Let’s face it,
no-one.

