16 felix Friday 5 October 2007
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
The Great Culture Crawl
Royal Academy of Arts, Piccadilly
The Royal Academy is housed in the grand Burlington house, minutes from the quiet avenues of St James and
Mayfair. One of the oldest institutes and galleries in London, don’t let the Royal Academy’s rarefied image put
you off - it regularly plays host to excellent world-class exhibitions of painting, sculpture and antiques. Cur-
rently showing is a retrospective of the German artist George Baselitz, spanning his early days to the period of
motif-heavy and “upside-down” paintings for which he became renowned. The academy only relatively recently
recognised enfant terrible Tracy Emin’s work, introducing the likely notion that this instituion is finally becoming
more open minded. Burlington house is located across the road from the station, under the arches - just look for
the red flags.
Tate Britain, Millbank
This underrated space on the north bank of the Thames houses the national collection from the
16th century onwards, with works by masters such as Constable, Gainsborough and William
Blake alongside more contemporary upstarts (it houses the finalists from the annual Turner
Prize). It displays a diverse array of British art from Hockney to Howard Hodgkin to Brian
Hawe’s display in Parliament Square.
Talks and events are regularly held here and every first Friday of the month sees Late at Tate,
with performances from live bands and the clink of glassware chiming through its sweeping
corridors. It also houses a monumental display of works by Turner, bequeathed by the artist to
the nation as a parting gift - an explosion of colour worth the trip to Pimlico alone. The museum
is located around the corner from Pimlico station - just follow the signs.
National Gallery and National
Portrait Gallery, Trafalgar Square
Probably the most-visited gallery in the capital, the National Gallery is a powerhouse of Western Euro-
pean Art, running the gamut from Impressionism and Da Vinci, Rembrandt to Van Gogh, Turner and De-
gas...the list continues almost infinitely. To venture here would require at least an afternoon and to brave
the carnage of central London - not to mention the masses of tourists than find their way here - but the
gallery is more than an appropriate slice of the capital’s cultural wealth. Immediately adjacent on Charing
Cross Road is the National Portrait Gallery, showcasing past masters and some of the best contemporary
portrait photography in London; though it’s larger sibling is far too large for a quick look, the National
Portrait Gallery is a welcome interlude to the rush of the West End.
Chapter Two – Galleries

