arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 5 October 2007 felix
Arts
White Cube, Hoxton Square
In the heart of hipster central, the White Cube is as synonymous with Hoxton as skinny jeans and its
namesake haircut, and fittingly shows similarly eclectic works of art from new and up-and-coming artists.
Housed in a 1920s light industrial building in the square, it has far fewer exhibitions than other galleries
in the capital - as few as two at a time - but those it chooses to display are consistently of a high standard
and with 2000sq feet, it can afford to really dedicate its space and focus entirely on the artists exhibiting.
Showing now is “American Tan” by the painter and sculptor Gary Hume, a response to the “America and
how we’re all being tanned by American policy and culture, the war and simple, complicated stuff like
that”. Focusing on the plasticised, overpolished image of the cheerleader, Hume creates a powerful take
on contemporary American culture. Though leaning towards the precious at times, the White Cube is
nonetheless an important player on the capital’s art scene and neatly slots into a day spent wandering the
streets of Shoreditch.
Whitechapel Gallery,
Whitechapel High Street
One of the first public galleries in London, the Whitechapel Gallery is excellent for both its
international collections and its great focus on local projects and Asian exhibitions, as well as
diversifying into film and music. Showing now is American artist Sarah Morris’s sixth film,
Robert Towne, based on the legendary Hollywood director, producer, actor and writer. Pano-
ramic cityscapes meld with mesmerising white lines and circles, set off with an undertone of
corporate conspiracy and corruption. The gallery is due to double its space in 2008, which will
bring welcome space to its cramped galleries in the shadow of the city.
Tate Modern, Bankside
This incredible space on the South Bank is justifiably one of the best galleries in the world.
Architects Herzog & de Meuron transformed an empty shell into a brooding behemoth with
innovative exhibitions that only the massive space its turbine hall affords and tiny enclaves
scattered throughout the gallery that encourage you to pause to think and take it all in. And
is there a lot to take in - as its namesake suggests, it houses a gargantuan array of some of the
world’s best contemporary art. Particularly good are its surrealist and impressionist collec-
tions. Also excellent is its collection of abstract expressionist works - don’t miss the power-
fully atmospheric room dedicated to Rothko. Consider taking in the rest of the South Bank
on your way out.
Next Week – Theatres
Saatchi Gallery, South Bank
The Saatchi Gallery charges admission - not great for your stereotypically impoverished student - but is worth it to
see the rich array of work from the famous and infamous. Many works you may have read about falling into the latter
category will be housed here - the gallery is strong on YBAs and you will find Hirst’s powerful - and now rumoured
to be leaking - formaldhyde displays, including the showstopping tiger shark encased in unadulterated three-
dimensional glory. Also present is Tracy Emin’s controversial “My Bed” amongst other pieces, and a strong collection
displaying the best of American artists now. Oft overlooked for its larger stablemates, the Saatchi punches above
its weight. Afterwards consider popping into the County Hall, which houses the 3000 sq foot Dali Universe and an
ongoing exhibition of works by Nasser Azam. You can also reach the gallery from Westminster tube.
Written by David Paw, designed by Rosie Grayburn

