Justice: Two hot Frenchies, some music and a lot of love
Honey Munroe (Photos by
Greg Mead and M-A)
No matter how objective I try to be
about this, reading this article is going
to be all about how great this festival
was. In all honesty this was one of the
best festival experiences I have had for a
long time and I just cannot say enough
good things about it. That is not to say
that there were no bad aspects, and I
shall not be leaving them out, but over-
all these felt like small inconveniences
in light of the entire experience.
So first things first, a few years
younger that Pukkelpop, Dour was set
up in 1989 and had over 140, 000 peo-
ple with just 6 stages and 225 bands.
It is spread over four days and I think
that is what gives the festival such a
unique feeling of adventure and of last-
ing memories in that the extra day ce-
ments your new friendships and new-
found love of the festival. You know
your way around and all that is left to
do is to spend all your food and drink
tokens and to have an awesome time!
Much of the festival is staffed by volun-
teers and this year especially they tried
to do their best to encourage recycling
and for people to leave their camping
fields as they had fond them.
This year was notably the first year
the festival site itself had far fewer chill
out zones or shady lanes for avoiding
sunburn and on the whole I think that
the general consensus from the festi-
val goers was that they needed them
back. The festival was roasting, even
on cloudier days so do not forget your
hat, sunglasses and most importantly
your sunscreen.
The one thing you need to know
about this festival is that it is FAR. And
by that I mean, FAR from where the
coach drops you and pretty far from
any town where you can buy stuff.
When you get off the Eurostar you get
a train and when you get off the train
you get a coach and when you get off
the coach you walk, dragging all your
stuff what seems like an eternity to the
main site. The walk from the coach
takes you through an agricultural farm
land with lots of huge barns or ware-
houses in the middle distance and for-
ests and high trees out to the horizon.
It is beautiful and quiet and nothing
like home!
When you get to the main site you
need to pay a great deal of attention
because no one seems to know what is
going on so look for signs that direct
you to where you pick up your ticket by
using your common sense. I.e. there is
a line of booths and each have a picture
of a ticket with a sign for one, two, and
three or four days camping, so just ask
yourself what ticket you have and get
in line. Sounds a bit like an arbitrary
statement but you would not believe
the chaos caused by the staff not be-
ing properly briefed as to what was go-
ing on and the subsequent panic that
seemed to ensue, even though one
could actually just look around with
one’s own eyes and make a pretty good
guess as to where you need to go. The
incompetence of the entrance staff was
almost unbelievable and the ticket pick
up had obviously been designed by a
drunk, but at least the pictures were
dotted around were self explanatory
enough. Not really an ideal situation
and very frustrating if you have been
travelling for over 24hours already and
just want someone to know how to
show you where your camping is.
A beautiful site, set between two hilly
sloped fields with great food and re-
ally well thought out stages and tents,
again, almost all without exception
were bigger and better than those at
British festivals and the Dance arena
was a wooden floored fabulously lit
and very long, big marquee which from
about 8pm was a banging club.
One of the most amazing nights at
Dour was in that very tent with an ultra
pimped line-up which for me, culmi-
nated in Justice. Tonight the Frenchies
had their finest hour and they were
warmly supported by fellow peers Busy
P, Uffie and Feadz, Sebastien and DJ
Mehndi. Having seen Justice a fair few
times now they can be either the best
thing you’ll ever have been wastedly
dancing your night away to, or just a
bit flat.
At Dour they were not only crowd
pleasing and entertaining and I don’t
think they played one duff tune. That
is not to say I can remember more than
one or two things they played anyway,
but I certainly can remember that I
didn’t stop dancing and neither did an-
ybody else in the crowd who cheered
and laughed and by all accounts had a
great time, rocking on till 5 am culmi-
nating in a Bugged Out set from British
superstar Erol Alkan.
As is usual with European festivals
the stages are less full and the crowds
more relaxed and certainly that was no
less true here at Dour, but what made
Dour so fantastic was that the crowds
had so much energy and enthusiasm.
A little too much enthusiasm at The
Club Arena dance stage where it wa
so packed you just couldn’t enjoy the
awesome green lasers or sound as the
masses distorted the bass fuelled PA
and to be honest, the sardine packed
crowd couldn’t be justified as his set
was too minimal and repetitive.
Hot Chip were not only over-hyped
but awful and their only hit was ad-
hocly rearranged into a totally tuneless
and undanceable mish mash blatently
redone on the fly.
DJ Shadow was packed and actu-
ally delivered as his unmistakable style
drew crowds that packed out his arena
so as to be a part of the action, with
people climbing up the pillars all the
way to the tent roof, much to the an-
noyance of the security.
The first night in the Dance Arena
“In all honesty
this was one of
the best festival
experiences I
have had for a
long time”
Uffie, hitching a ride on Mehndi. Anyone for Vodka? Busy P lubricates the crowd
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
20 felix Friday 5 October 2007
Music Feature
Editor – Greg Mead
Dour Festival wins hands down
Oceans of Belgian beer, an awesome lineup, great food and the most friendly crowd we’ve ever met makes
Dour our pick of the summer festivals this year. Felix checks out the acts at the 19th Dour Festival in Belgium
which after ten years of going to festivals, was one of the very best we’ve seen. Awesomeasaurus-rexicals
GREG MEAD
MARIE-ALICIA

