was seen in by Digitalism and Motor,
and needless to say drugs abounded as
people were popping their way to an all
time high. It was a massive rave up but
nothing like the chavvy, freaky Rom-
ney marsh type raves of Britian. .
One thing that made this festival so
individual was that unlike at Reading,
where you watch your favourite band
headline then soon after have to head
for your tent as the site shuts down,
here everything went on till 5am so it
was like being able to see your bands
headline and then go clubbing after-
wards, except you rarely had to move
more than a few feet to get to the next
sexy little piece of the action.
This festival is certainly the place to
be to see bands that the more commer-
cial or mainstream festivals leave out.
Bands such as 65 Days of Static head-
lined the ‘Little House on the Prairie’
stage on Saturday night and if you are a
major geek you will be pleased to know
Mertzbow got a slot mid-afternoon.
Mertzbow were, in my humble opin-
ion, God-awful. The sound of mas-
sive iron drills raping a steel furnace
of molten androids is not something I
call music. Moving on, I was most im-
pressed at getting to see Sun 0))) early
evening, and their mesmerizing eerie
set was a real highlight. Dressed in
huge hooded hessian cloaks and totally
faceless in the void like blackness of
the stage, the sounds were like that of
mechanical drips down iron wells and
shipwrecks lurching to the call of time
with their watery ghosts thousands of
leagues under water.
Ok, so onto the portaloos. These
are usually the worst aspect of any
festival, and to be honest this was no
different. By the third day there was a
cess pool draining out of one group of
them by the second stage that smelt so
bad I wanted to kill myself every time
I walked within 50 feet of it. The only
thing to do was to check which way the
wind was blowing and make sure you
faced the other way as you held your
breath and delicately skipped over the
Another night, another rave. View from stage during Justice
“It was nothing
like the chavy,
freaky Romney
Marsh type raves
of Britain”
stream like forks of gunge festering out
into the site and pray that God does
not choose now to demonstrate his
sense of humour by having you slip.
That said the Belgian’s organising the
event definitely have a barmy sense of
humour as all press were expected to
squeeze behind a load of portaloos and
through a gap in the fence behind them
in order to get to their camping area. A
jolly good laugh if ever I’d had one.
Oh the sunsets and fresh air, oh the
spit roasted chicken and salad, oh the
awesome bands, oh the awesome DJ’s,
oh the lovely PR staff, the friendly se-
curity, the laid back atmosphere and
all the really cool fantastic British and
other assorted nationality people I met.
Oh Dour festival if you were a man I’d
never leave your side. Good people take
note, this year the festival sold out a
week before opening it’s gates and next
year it is gearing up for it’s twentieth
anniversary. So, do one thing before fi-
nancial burdens and responsibilities of
life murder your youth, get a ticket to
Dour festival!
Sunn O))) don’t smoke the reaper. Clockwise from top left: 65 Days Of Static shortly before destroying the stage. Cowbell player from Motor. Get a PC next time
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
Friday 5 October 2007 felix
Music
GREG MEAD

