Gregory Mead
Nightlife Editor
N
o doubt you’ve all set-
tled into college now,
and everything is going
swimmingly, you’ve at-
tended those introduc-
tory lectures, you’ve registered and that
giant student loan has come through to
your bank account, which means just
one thing. Spend it, who cares about
accommodation and tuition fees, you
can worry about those when you’ve got
no money left.
This week we’ve dedicated the night-
life section to a photo montage from
The Mingle, so if you see yourself just
email into nightlife.felix@imperial.
ac.uk and you can win two tickets to
Fabric on any night you want. So do it!
I don’t have much to say this week
unfortunately, except to say that we
still have loads of competition prizes
to give away, just check the box below
for more info and how to enter!
I seriously suggest you enter these
competitions, you have an almost 100%
chance of winning since only about
two people ever enter at the most. An-
other thing we need people to do is
become writers and reviewers for our
section! This is essential to maintain
a broad range of interests and to stop
the reviews just becoming my personal
music blog.
I know my taste in music is absolute-
ly amazing and perfect, but not every-
one agrees with this and if you happen
to be one of those people then you are
welcome to write for our section. In
return we will give you unlimited free
drinks, free entry to the club nights
and backstage access at your favourite
events. Email us at the address at the
top of the page for more information.
We also need a co-editor for the pag-
es, if you’re interested in editing peo-
ples articles and doing the graphic de-
sign for the page then give me an email
or come and visit us in our office in the
west wing of Beit basement, you don’t
need any prior experience but you
need to be able to dedicate 5 or 6 hours
a week making the pages and contact-
ing PR companies. That’s it for my ex-
tremely boring editorial this week, just
make sure you enjoy the remainder of
freshers events happening at the Union
and around London
The Mingle. We’re going to
need a montage. Ooh it takes
a montage. Hellamashup
The first event of the year at the Union. Felix went to corrupt the freshers, drink the
cheap booze and got right up there in Peaches Geldof’s face with the telephoto lens
Gregory Mead
22
nightlife.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix Friday 5 October 2007
Nightlife
Nightlife Editor – Greg Mead
So, you’ve just travelled 500 miles with
all your Godly possessions, for the last
ten hours you’ve been fretting about
finding your new halls of residence,
getting your room, unpacking all your
boxes, and more importantly, trying
to get rid of your parents. It’s the first
and probably most stressful day of your
university career, so what better way to
complete it but to go an all night hella
mashup that was The Mingle at The
Union on Saturday night.
Having been to numerous
Union events over the last three years,
we weren’t expecting anything like
what greeted us on entering.
Glowstick wielding nu-rave-
hoodie wearing teenagers jumping
around to the sounds of Daft Punk and
LCD Soundsystem was not the first
thing that crossed my mind when try-
ing to imagine what this night was go-
ing to turn out like, but that’s what was
happening in the large marquee in Beit
Quad almost the entire night.
The Mingle was reserved for freshers,
so almost everybody there was either
a first year or a hall reap/sub-warden,
and it showed. Pitchers of snakebite
and rivers of beer meant that all but
the most ultra reserved students were
partying like it’s 1999. The atmosphere
was infinitely better than I’d expected
and I almost felt as carefree as one of
them jumping up and down in a giant
circle on the dance floor singing along
to ‘Smells Like Teen Spirit’
The night featured two rooms. DB’s
was hosted by Adventures In The Beet-
root Fields, who host a regular alterna-
tive night at Fabric in Farringdon, for
which we have written numerous good
reviews in the past. The bands were
good too, and made a change from lis-
tening to mediocre student bands who
look totally out of place at such a large
event. Look out for upcoming gigs in
very well established clubnights such
as DURRR and White Heat from all the
bands that played on Saturday.
For me, the large marquee in Beit
Quad was the main attraction of the
night. Electro and Indie hits blared
from the DJ booth to a packed crowd
of revellers. This was the first time I
have ever witnessed a crowd surfer at
Imperial College Union, so that should
give you an idea of what was going on.
Peaches Geldoff was the guest DJ, for
the night, and to be honest I think the
girl playing before and after her was
considerably better. She can’t mix and
chose a stupid selection of cheese hits
that seemed to dull the dance floor at
what should have been peak time, al-
though in conclusion, I think this was
the best Union event I’ve ever been to,
so we’ll have to see if the Freshers Ball
2007 on Friday turns out to be as suc-
cessful. Incidently, email in if you see
yourself in the pictures to win a prize.
Are you in these photos?
Email in to win two tickets to Fabric
Competitions
It’s still not too late to win last
week’s prizes. We have:
Two Fabric double passes for
24th, 25th and 26th October.
Two tickets for The End for
Laylo & Bushwaka on 6th Oc-
tober, and copies of both their
albums which they will be re-
leasing on the night.
Three double passes for Turn-
mills at their Halloween special
on 27th October.
Email:
nightlife.felix@imperial.ac.uk

