film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film
Film Editor – Alex Casey
25
Friday 5 October 2007 felix
Jodie and friend show their disapproval for the film’s awful title
Clarice, the vigilante
Since premiering at the Toronto Film
Festival, this despairingly titled film
has drawn endless comparisons with
Taxi Driver in both theme and a little
lady called Jodie. Only she’s not so little
anymore and it’d be too easy to say the
theme of a vigilante is given the same
treatment here as Scorsese did in 1978.
So why do people insist on rating a film
like this only so far as how it compares
to someone else’s film 30 years ago?
The story focusses on Foster’s char-
acter, Erica Bain, a radio presenter
whose show is an ode to her home,
New York City, until she is brutally as-
saulted with her fiance in Central Park
in a scene that is far more realistic and
shocking than De Niro’s shoot-out in
Taxi Driver (the last comparison I’ll
make on that score). Looking to regain
control of her life, she buys a gun and
gets trigger happy, going beyond the
law, here represented by police detec-
tive Terrence Howard, with her own
brand of justice. It all sounds a bit
comic book so far, no?
Well, yes, and at times it does seem
like Jodie’s next move will be to don
a cape and mask, but Neil Jordan has
more capable hands than those that
may let it descend into simple heroics.
The morality of the situation is the real
question here and the film acts more as
debate than moral compass, and aims
to provoke thought rather than supply
answers.
This is a film that concentrates on
the frustrations of society to live within
the law when it seems to impede jus-
tice, a theme particularly relevant in
a political climate that sees those in
charge of the law causing international
debacles. Taxi Driver had Vietnam
and The Brave One has Iraq, although
thankfully only one reference is made
to this throughout. The focus instead
here is the character, and that’s where
the genius of Jodie comes in.
Hands up who hasn’t been that im-
pressed with Jodie Foster’s role choices
of late? Well, lower your hands again
because this vehicle is exactly what she
does best: vulnerable, but strong. Her
Jodie Foster returns to the screen in a role made for her, proving
she’s still the thinking woman of Hollywood. And she kicks ass
eyes retain the emotion of the roles that
made her the most credible woman in
Hollywood and at turns reference the
victim of The Accused and the strength
of Clarice in Silence of the Lambs, both
of which bagged her an Oscar.
Jodie is simply fascinating to watch
and the different sides to her seem
completely believable throughout, if
the transitions themself could perhaps
have been handled better. The fdoes
not dent the film’s enjoyability howev-
er, even if you have to watch the early
attack through parted fingers.
Alex Casey
Film Editor
It’s all a matter of
individual tastes
Good and bad taste are used so much
in everyday context that it would seem
like somewhere there is a list of things
that fall into each category and cannot
be switched no matter how much we
may want dungarees to be good taste.
But who is the arbiter of taste these
days?
The truth is that the notion of taste
itself should be rendered defunct. If
one person’s treasure is another per-
son’s garbage, surely we should come
round to the belief that everything has
something going for it, and better to
focus in on that than whether or not
someone’s opinion is more justified
than somonene elses. But that’s a bit
idealistic, and the majority of us would
say that we hold opinion very dear to
ourselves.
Everyone’s a critic. It would be
slightly pedantic if every time you pro-
fessed an opinion on your favourite
film or band you had to buffer it with
“but that’s just my opinion and I com-
pletely respect yours as well”. A much
more common scenario would just be
a simple “no, you’re wrong, it was aw-
ful”, when in fact right and wrong could
be no further removed from the issue
in hand.
What does, in reality, mke a film good
or bad? Well, performances would be
one area where it is normally easy to
draw a line between the best and worst.
I’ve never met anyone who thought
Andie MacDowell was going to run
away with a clutch of awards for Four
Weddings and a Funeral, for example.
Genre? Well, you’d be foolish to judge
The Shining on its comedy merits, so
the expectations that an audience has
of a particular genre are definitely like-
ly to factor into it somewhere, but this
can again vary, albeit not generally that
much, between observers, Direction
and plot are more subject to individual
perception though and these are gen-
erally what makes or breaks films. And
yet it is these factors that build the ivo-
ry towers of taste that leave some films
supposedly untouchable.
So what if you don’t love The God-
father? No-one set it in stone that you
have to, and why shouldn’t you get the
chance to voice such an opinion over
the mass consensus? Justification for
any point of view is all you need to
present a good argument, so if you have
something that you’d like to present in
such a manner, then Felix can give you
the perfect platform.
Now that you’re had a chance to set-
tle into the new academic year, wheth-
er you’re a fresher or a returning stu-
dent, you may feel that you want to do
something that’s not number juggling
or algebra manipulation. If you have
a real passion for a classic film or al-
ternatively you hate something that is
seen as the holy grail of filmmaking,
then let us know.
Perhaps you have a favourite director
who you feel is criminally overlooked,
or perhaps you just want to rant for a
few hundred words about the worst
summer of cinema in years. Feel that
cinema quality is decreasing rapidly
with nothing new coming in to com-
pete with neverending sequels and the
like? Then be sure to get it off your
chest and let the whole college know:
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Clooney may be the star, but it’s the great support that wins Clayton’s case
The advertising of this film as little
more than an intelligent star vehicle for
George Clooney, Hollywood’s recent
addition to the can-do-no-wrong club,
is grossly unfair. In fact, whilst lauded
as Clooney’s best performance of the
year/his life/the millenium, it seems to
rather confirm the apparent truth that
George is most adept at playing the
same character repeatedly in slightly
different guises.
George Clooney has the misfor-
tune of having one of those faces that
is overly recognisable and difficult to
mould into anything else, a feature
also present in his acting. Whether he’s
Danny Ocean, Batman or acting in one
of his recent non-studio pics, he is so
recognisable as George Clooney that,
despite adding a slight self-uncertainty
to his character profile here, it is hard
to fully invest in him.
Clooney plays a fix-it man in the ti-
tle role here as an employee of a law
firm whose basic job description is to
get things done, but in this courtroom
-thriller-without-the-courtroom, it is
the supporting players that show more
promise. Tom WIlkinson is fantastic
as the mentally ill lawyer who suffers
a crisis of conscience mid-case and
sets the plot in motion, an Erin Brock-
ovich-style tale if told from the point
of view of the evil corporation’s legal
team but with a bit more masculine ac-
tion in place of Julia Roberts’ childcare
issues. As Wilkinson realises he is act-
ing as agent for a company who have
poisoned thousands of people with
their product, Clooney is brought in
to find out what he’s up to and restore
the company’s grip on the situation,
with various moral questions raised as
Alex Casey
The Brave One ★★★★✫
Director: Neil Jordan
Writers: Roderick Taylor, Bruce
A. Taylor
Cast: Jodie Foster, Terrence
Howard
Michael Clayton ★★★✫✫
Director: Tony Gilroy
Writers: Tony Gilroy
Cast: George Clooney, Tilda
Swinton, Tom
Wilkinson
Clooney perfects the pensive face, but a real range still escapes him
Cinema: Have your say
a result.
Tilda Swinton is also impressive
as figurehead of the corporation, U
North, who sees events spiral out of
control and is immensely watchable as
a character who, although represent-
ing corporate greed and arrogance, is
not inherently malicious. The main
cast is rounded off by Sydney Pollack
who oversees his law firm’s operation
falling apart under his nose and in a
role that could have easily elicited the
audience’s moral outrage, he manages
to achieve the appropriate hopeless-
ness of his situation.
The plot itself does pick up towards
the end, but there is a lot of initial
twisting and turning that is hard to care
about, leaving the ending feeling like a
slight relief. It’s also another film that
suffers from the trailer which show-
cases all the best lines which within the
main body of the film carry much less
impact. Still, it’s a hearty consolation to
see the Brits, Wilkinson and Swinton,
steal the limelight from the golden boy
(man?) of the moment.

