news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 5 October 2007 felix
News
Tom Roberts
Editor-in-Chief
The reality of Southside
A few days after Felix’s tour of Falmouth-Keogh, the freshers
arrived. They weren’t the only things moving-in that weekend
The new intake of freshers arrived at
Imperial on Saturday, however, even
though the majority of the students
would be paying over £150 per week,
many moved into unfinished rooms.
College recognised this was unaccept-
able and soon announced it would be
giving Southside residents a 25% dis-
count on their first month’s rent.
Just a few days after Felix’s guided
tour of Falmouth-Keogh – one of the
three halls within Southside – it be-
came apparent there was plenty yet to
be completed compared to what was
on show before the freshers moved
in. Despite builders and cleaners scur-
rying about on the day of Felix’s tour,
every room in Falmouth-Keogh ap-
peared to be in working order.
At the time, it was known that the
social room would be incomplete when
the freshers arrived, and Felix was also
told that there was work still to be
done on the kitchens, along with gen-
eral cleaning in and around the halls.
Felix was unable to gain access to
the other two halls on the day, namely
Selkirk and Tizard, and since residents
have moved in it has become apparent
that these halls were still several days
from completion.
In the early hours of Saturday morn-
ing, College staff were still working to
get the halls ready. The situation was
so dire that College staff were joined
by kind-hearted students who volun-
teered to help.
Some kitchens were full of tables
stacked on top of each other and chairs
wrapped in protective plastic. Lamps,
toilet fittings and other items sat
boxed and dormant in the corridors.
The builders’ tools were still lying in
various rooms and some bedrooms
even had plastic sheeting covering the
windows because the curtains hadn’t
turned up. To add to College’s woes,
the lift in Falmouth-Keogh which was
working perfectly well during Felix’s
tour subsequently broke down.
College recognised the shambles that
many new students would be moving
into and issued residents with a 25%
discount for their first month. This
comes on top of the £5 per week dis-
count that some residents will be get-
ting if they are housed in rooms with
a view of the Eastside builders’ porta-
cabins. Incidentally, since last week’s
tour, College has covered the portac-
abins with a giant dark blue and green,
leafy cover.
The ongoing works being finished on
Southside seem to have had differing
effects on students. Many were so over-
whelmed with actually starting univer-
sity they didn’t seem bothered with the
ongoing work. Others have expressed
dismay at moving into an unfinished
room, such as student, Azfarul Islam,
who said he was “frustrated” that his
room is without an internet connec-
tion still, something that would come
in quite handy to use when it comes to
doing some work.
The lift in Falmouth-Keogh is work-
ing again however and Southside
should be finished in its entirety dur-
ing October.
How did moving into halls go
for you? Did any problems arise?
Are you satisfied with your hall
of residence? Felix is going to be
interviewing freshers soon. Email
felix@imperial.ac.uk if you want
to be heard. One of the over subscribed, luxury en-suite, deluxe, premium rooms
LIVE.CGCU.NET
BBC interviews
IC students over
Oyster debacle
On Tuesday afternoon, mid-way
through Freshers’ Fair, one of the BBC’s
outside broadcast teams came to Im-
perial to interview students, whose
Student Oyster cards had ceased to
give them discount rates, live on BBC
London News.
Live! Editor Ashley Brown and last
year’s Deputy President (Graduate
Students), Shama Rahman were in-
terviewed and asked to talk about the
broken and frustrating system for reg-
istering for a student Oyster cards.
The Transport for London (TfL)
website has been heavily criticised this
week, after many students have been
left with no option other than to pay
full fares on the tube because the reg-
istration system was full of bugs and
crashed often, leaving them unable to
renew their student Oyster cards.
The BBC became aware of the com-
plaints after a 12 month-old comment
thread on the Live! website became
active once again. Dismayed Student
Oyster card users were complaining
of a range of problems including being
overcharged, being charged twice and
being totally unable to get hold of an
official application form.
Since the BBC ran the story, TfL has
released an apology, commenting that
it is “working hard to urgently resolve”
the problems.
If you are having difficulties with
your Student Oyster card, or you can’t
get hold of one at all, TfL recommends
that you contact them during off-peak
hours. Their ears are ready for a verbal
battering before 10am and after 4pm.
Ashley Brown cradles a giant invisible hotdog during his interview
Gordon Brown spent time at Imperial’s
South Kensington campus on Wednes-
day in his first visit to a UK university
since becoming Prime Minister in
June.
The PM, accompanied by Profes-
sor of Surgery Lord Darzi and Rector
Sir Richard Sykes, toured the newly
formed Institute of Biomedical En-
gineering in its second high-profile
visit recently after being opened by the
Queen earlier this year.
Lord Darzi was Chair of Surgery
at Imperial until he was recently ap-
pointed as Parliamentary Undersecre-
tary for the Department of Health by
Gordon Brown, and pioneered the use
of robotics and virtual operations in
minimally invasive surgery which was
at the centre of the visit.
The stopover is timed to coincide
with Monday’s launch of the merger of
Imperial College Faculty of Medicine
Prime Minister visits IC
Andrew Somerville
News Editor
Brown comes to College supporting the creation of the IC
Healthcare NHS Trust which launched on the first day of term
and two highly regarded NHS trusts: St
Mary’s and Hammersmith Hospitals.
The resulting “Imperial College
Healthcare NHS Trust (ICHNHST)
will be the UK’s biggest, incorporating
five hospitals: Hammersmith, Charing
Cross, St Mary’s, Queen Charlotte’s &
Chelsea, and the Western Eye.
The merger will also create the first
Academic Health Science Centre
in the country, aimed at integrating
healthcare services with state-of-the-
art medical teaching and research. Ac-
cording to current estimates, the trust
will have a turnover of over £750m and
expects to treat one million patients a
year, and will be managed by current
Principal of the Faculty of Medicine of
Imperial College, Prof. Stephen Smith.
Orchestrating this merger and crea-
tion of the ambitious new centre of
medical excellence was one of Lord
Darzi’s first duties as Undersecretary,
and his appointment was the first in a
rapid succession of governmental po-
sitions given to senior Imperial staff.
Last week Deputy Rector Prof. Sir
Leszek Borysiewicz was announced
as Chief Executive of the UK Medical
Research Council (controlling an an-
nual research budget of £460m), and
on Monday Prof. John Beddington
was named as Sir David King’s succes-
sor as Chief Scientific Adviser to the
Government.
This string of appointments and
mergers cements Imperial’s position
at the heart of governmental scien-
tific research, especially in medicine,
but comes at a time when government
policy in the Department of Health is
increasingly under fire over issues in-
cluding rising Private Finance Initiative
(PFI) costs and rock-bottom morale
within the NHS. Lord Darzi currently
has the difficult task of convincing
doctors that such high-profile NHS
decisions will in fact improve health-
care services, whilst facing a medical
climate of cynicism and desperation
over the perceived privatisation of the
NHS.
Artist’s impression of the NHS merger. He/She’s apparently a little too literal
IMPERIAL COLLEGE
VITALI LAZURENKO

