31
Friday 5 October 2007 felix
we all cheered. Except those of us who
weren’t there, we cheered the next day
when were told about it. This was quite
an achievement nevertheless, and an
excellent lesson in deferred gratitude.
Sinfonietta and Choir had to wait a
whole day before their first concerts.
The orchestra had perhaps the most
fun rehearsal of any of the ensembles
– we rehearsed in Villa Rasica’s garden,
complete with strategic positioning of
our violin sections around trees and
a horn section sitting on plastic toad-
stools. The concert was once again in
St Blaise’s square; which was perhaps
not ideal acoustically, mainly because
there wasn’t an acoustic. Still the or-
chestra carried on, and we successfully
managed to play some excerpts from
Tchaikovsky’s Swan Lake, Kol Nidrei
by Bruch (with soloist Gabriel Kan on
the cello, to whom we were grateful for
remembering to come on tour, fortu-
nately for us he always remembers to
play beautifully), and finally Sibelius’s
Symphony Number 1. Next, Choir ser-
enaded us with their voices, including
a none to prudish rendition of Haban-
era from Carmen by Cecilia Bailey
amongst other favourites from their
repertoire of opera choruses, all very
well received.
The rest of the night was whiled
away at a bar literally perched upon a
rocky outcrop, discovered by chance
and was simply the best bar this hack
had ever had the pleasure of drinking
in. The next few days followed a similar
pattern, mostly spent wandering the
streets of Dubrovnik, having lunch in
various restaurants (a note to vegetar-
ians, eastern Europeans don’t entirely
understand the concept and will hap-
pily offer you nothing but cheese for
your entire stay. There really is too
much of a good thing), and general
merriment in the direction of a moon-
beam (including many post-midnight
swimming trips, complete with skinny
dipping from a certain member of the
Sinfonietta trumpet section).
Sunday being the day of rest saw most
of the tour members in the cathedral in
the centre of Dubrovnik, presumably
to atone for the sins of the previous few
days, but also to hear a wonderful col-
laboration between IC choir and Sin-
fonietta. We were playing (or singing)
the Requiem by Gabriel Faure. This
went along without hitch and much
praise was given to the respective so-
cieties, for the beautiful sounds that
filled the cathedral for forty minutes
that Sunday morning. The rest of that
day was given over to relaxing, explor-
ing and catching up with any sleep, lost
necessarily to the cause of tour fun.
We played another blazing concert in
St Blaise square on the Sunday night,
this time Prokofiev’s Montagues and
Capulets from his Romeo and Juliet
suite, and then Tchaikovsky’s 5th sym-
phony. There was no concerto, and we
would have to wait until Monday for
Shuang Wang to amaze us with her
piano playing. One quite interesting
event did occur on the Sunday night,
one of the fresher cellists (one Tobias
Shaw) was seen consuming a large
amount of Croatian cherry brandy
throughout the night (and it was very
good). Later on he mysteriously disap-
peared from the company of the rest of
the orchestra, only to be found hours
later by his roommate quite happily
asleep on the doorstep to his room.
For this, and many other misdemean-
ors Toby won the Julia Witton-Dauris
award for services rendered to the al-
cohol industry, one of the most pres-
tigious awards that could have been
won on this tour.
We had one last concert to play. This
was quite special, as it was in the Rec-
tor’s Palace – the historic high seat of
Dubrovnik’s government, now a place
wherevariousimportantthingshappen
and also home of the Dubrovnik Sym-
phony Orchestra. It really was quite an
honour to be playing here. Most of the
palace was a museum, including the
place where all the instruments were
stored. Dan, our esteemed conductor,
gave the stern warning that nothing
was to be touched in the palace, lest
we will be given a fee for repairs that
would take the remainder of our lives
to repay. Given such a warning we nat-
urally were on our best behavior, and
sporting our snazziest concert gear
(black jackets for the men). One inter-
esting thing to note about the Rectors
Palace – it had no roof, and was built
out of stone. Thus the acoustic was one
of the nicest I’ve ever played in, as the
building had the acoustic of a church
but without the booming effect when
brass play really loudly. Thankfully the
brass sounds escaped through the roof,
nice sounds though they were. The
program for this night was to be: Wag-
ner Introduction to Act III from The
Mastersingers of Nurenberg, followed
by Grieg’s Piano Concerto (played the
impossibly good Shuang Wang) and
finally Sibelius Symphony number 1.
All I can say is that this was simply the
best concert I have ever played in (and
I’ve done a few). Particular approval
should be given to Shuang who was in-
credible, surpassing her performance
with Sinfonietta in London earlier this
year even. Of course this concert was
warmly received by the audience, with
many calls for extra bows. Suddenly it
was Go Go Gadget orchestra, as the
band cleared up, loaded the van and set
off for the bar in record time. Spirits
were high for this penultimate party,
and party we did, late into the night.
The next day was given over to prep-
arations for the chamber concert, and
Choir and Big Band’s last concerts. The
chamber concert was up to the high
standards that preceded it on previ-
ous tours - once again a mixture of jazz
and classical groups, it was lovely to
have the addition of some singers into
the mix this year. Alas, I have to say
I missed this beginning of the Choir
concert as I was playing with my quar-
tet in the chamber concert in the Old
Town (Choir and Big Band were play-
ing in the hotel Kompas, which over-
looks the bay of Lapad and does a nice
pizza incidentally). I did not however
miss the rest of the night’s partying
and swimming. So much so, I almost
missed the boat trip to Lopud island
the next day. I must say that the trip
to the island was most enjoyable, but
I can’t provide a detailed commentary
because I was asleep under a sunshade
for most of the day. It was a necessary
sacrifice to be made. You see we were
leaving at 6am the following morn-
ing, and there was no way I (or anyone
else for that matter) would be going to
sleep before then.
That evening we had the tour dinner
to attend to, which was an opportunity
to reflect on the successes of the tour
in the company of friends, new and
old. Some comedy awards for vari-
ous endeavors, including noise pro-
duction, alcohol consumption and
beachwear in absentia as previously
discussed were also presented. Then
it was onto the beach for our final
night (all of it). Quite frankly, I don’t
really remember what happened this
night – except that we drank the bar
dry. It had offered to remain open
until such time as we chose to leave,
but as of about 5 a.m. it closed with
the bar men gesticulating that there
were no drinks left to sell to us. Pity.
Then we stayed up to watch the sun-
rise, which is a beautiful thing when
sitting on a beach with friends. Sadly
the tour came to end (emotionally at
least), we trekked back to the villa to
pack. My last memory of tour was
sitting on the plane, taking off, and
seeing the Adriatic spread below me
as we tooked off into the still rising
sun.
The combination of beautiful ar-
chitecture, incredible weather (it
was 30 degrees for all of the tour),
the chilled out nightlife of Du-
brovnik, and of course the company
of friends, made for one of the most
enjoyable experiences of my life so
far. I should thank everyone involved
with the organization of the tour –
with so many societies involved, the
list is rather long to detail here and
I think you know who you are, but
Sinfonietta’s conductor and overall
tour organiser Daniel Capps de-
serves a special mention for even
thinking it was possible to bring 135
people on tour in the first place. Job
well done, all of you.
*Hilary would like to contribute to
this review by adding that no Vene-
tian archways or Lutons were injured
during this escapade, thus preserv-
ing a UNESCO world heritage site
and Sinfonietta’s bank balance.
From top left to bottom
right: the concert
banner hangs invitingly
from the Old City walls,
the Choir Tour and the
Sinfonietta Strings,
everyone playing in
the Old Town outside
St Blaise’s Church, and
lastly the Big Band
“Sunday saw us
in the cathedral
to atone for the
sins of previous
days”
“We had one last
special concert
to play – it was
in the Rector’s
Palace.”

