felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
James Atteck
If you wanted to see any sun this
summer you had to leave England, and
that is just what we did. This years hol-
iday abroad was to the cycling haven of
Morzine in the French Alps.
As you would expect from any group
event the mayhem started well before
we departed. To start with we were
flying out of Heathrow not long after
the terrorist attack on Edinburgh air-
port which meant that security was so
tight that you felt guilty by just going
to the airport. Houdini wouldn’t have
been able to get out of there. That is
if he was even able to check-in in the
first place.
Thanks to some bright spark at BA
they no longer allow you to check-in in
one go. First off, you have to go to what
can only be described as a cash ma-
chine with PMT that asks you where
you would like to sit and then tells you
that’s not possible. Now if you are plan-
ning on flying out off the country don’t
go out the night before, get hammered
and then get mugged because you need
to feed that angry check-in machine
with a credit card that you won’t have.
Similarly don’t use your mums card to
book it if she’s not going to be there,
and ALWAYS ALWAYS write down
the confirmation number!!
Finally after much more faffing than
there needed to be we had checked-in
on the machine, then at the luggage-
drop off desk that you can’t actually
drop luggage off if you have a bike box
and gone through security. Thankfully
the rest of the journey there was un-
eventful, until we got to the chalet at
2am and Charlie had a 30 minute brain
dead spell and couldn’t remember
which chalet it was we were staying in.
The next morning we were up bright
and early. We had no choice really.
There were no curtains in the main
room and my bedroom shared a door
with the bathroom so when someone
decided to do their morning shave,
shower and shi... I would be woken
with the sweet smell of a freshly laid
one or either Basti knocking his ra-
zor on the side of the bath like a wood
pecker on speed whilst he shaved his
legs!! He is a roadie though. What do
you expect?
After a traditional French breakfast,
Pain au Chocolate and baguettes we
spent the next couple hours build-
ing our bikes ready to start the weeks
riding ahead all with the exception of
Nathan “The Beast”. And what did the
weight weenie learn? Never ever buy
carbon fibre parts for your bike even
if you are a roadie because they break
and then you are up shit creek without
a compatible head lock and will have
to spend the rest of the week riding a
rental bike that your gran would laugh
at.
And now a word from the lycra gang:
…Although Morzine is very popular
for DH and XC, there is plenty of space
with good roads for us roadies. As you
might expect, with it being the Alps it
is pretty much up or down most of the
time, but there are a few flatter routes
like Thonon-les-Bains at Lake Geneva
gives you fantastic scenery with rocks
and wild waters as you cycle next to a
river on the D902.
The main purposes of going to Mor-
zine are the Alps, as you probably ex-
pect where the easiest of climbs rival
the hardest hills in England. The Jeux
Plane is just south of Morzine and
you have to climb for 10 km, ascend-
ing over 800 m to reach the top. The
roads are nice and quite with little traf-
fic compared to London. After a fabu-
lous descent you can head to the Col
de la Colombie. Riding the roads the
Tour de France passed two weeks ear-
lier is just amazing. Although the Col
de la Colombie is just rated category 1
(4 being easy and 1 being soul destroy-
ing), the climb is tough, especially the
last 3 km. Once you are at the summit
it’s an amazing feeling and you want to
feel the same pain and joy again. This
climb was the best riding experience
of the whole holiday! Cycling around
Morzine was an absolutely amazing
feeling and I want to do it definitely
again.
The downhill riding was excellent,
some of the best in the world. The
tracks are generally very well main-
tained except for several pretty bad sec-
tions of braking bumps, but when you
have so many kilometres to maintain
you can be forgiven for several meters.
Les Gets had a couple of the best ar-
eas with the bike park being great fun
especially jumping over the hut at the
start of the track and the 4X track also
being another highlight in that valley.
Having the lift system is a godsend.
Every time you get to the top of a track
refreshed and raring for more you
think of the dark days of pushing up
the hills back in England. On two oc-
casions we started our day at one end
of the valleys in Les Gets and worked
our way across the other valleys, going
to the snow line height, and over the
border into Switzerland riding as many
trails as possible along the way. There
is a great variety of tracks from very
rooty, rocky and muddy technical stuff
to fast speedway style courses that you
just can’t help but slide the back wheel
out.
We were very lucky with the weather
and had sun almost the whole time we
were there. The injury list was fairly
short and the week passed very quick-
ly, with hundreds of kilometres ridden
by everyone. Unfortunately Nathan
decided to blow his knee ligament af-
ter a couple of days, so he didn’t get too
much done between fixing his bike and
breaking his knee. Luckily there were
no other major injuries except those to
our egos and quite a few to our bikes.
The last night we went to our regular
watering hole and as usual things got
messy. Our resident Irishman showed
us that “just cos I’m Irish I’m not an al-
coholic! hick” as he chatted up a couple
of 14 year olds and The Beast earned
his name by transforming from a very
well behaved first year, into the incar-
nation of the devil. With the help of
the right mixture of spirits of course,
namely and Irish depth charge.
Luckily our flight out wasn’t till the
afternoon so we had some time to re-
cover before we had to leave. But not
enough for some and flying with a hang
over sucks. And finally another top
tip for flying, don’t put the following
in your hand luggage: foot long span-
ner with a hook on the end, two part
araldite in tubes, wheel skewers, screw
driver and penknife. People will not be
happy and “but I was hung over when I
packed” will not fly with the angry men
in uniform.
“Riding the roads
the Tour de
France passed
two weeks
earlier is just
amazing”
Basti on one of the scenic routes in the French Alps
Cycling in the Alps
Imperial College Cycling Club take a relaxing holiday in Morzine, France
Charlie demonstrating his skills on a mountain bike whilst jumping over a hut

