business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Business
Business Editor – Afonso Campos
7
Friday 5 October 2007 felix
Tanaka holds roundtable discussion
More than fifteen pioneering figures
and frontrunners of the industry-
meets-academia world got together
at the Tanaka Business School board-
room for an extraordinary roundtable
discussion organised in conjunction
by “The Engineer” magazine and the
Sainsbury Management Fellows’ So-
ciety in late September. Among the
attendees were CEOs of tech start-
ups and established industry leaders,
venture capitalists, senior academics
and researchers liaising with industry
and other senior level management.
Among the companies represented
were BT, BAE Systems, National In-
struments, Durham Scientific Crystals
and Surrey NanoSystems.
The SMF is a society that aims to
find the best and most capable engi-
neers with a strong entrepreneurial
and leadership bias and offer them
bursaries to pursue MBAs at the top
schools the world over. Upon finishing
these courses, the brilliant individuals
become fellows of the Society and have
unbridled access to top-level mentor-
ing, networking events and career
advice.
The aim of this roundtable was not
necessarily to tackle specific and con-
stricted ideas but instead, to open a
forum where thoughts could be pre-
sented and discussed without stifling.
Beneath the slightly corporate feel of
the event, something much greater
took stage; the passion the participants
had to to push the limits and bounda-
ries of cooperation between academia
and industry. While passion is clearly
important, unfortunately, it yields
disappointingly intangible and mean-
ingless results. This passion needs be
coupled with the drive to take some
pretty extravagant theories and ideas
and see them through to a completion
stage where they can actually make a
significant and real impact. From eve-
rything that was said and discussed,
participants at the table were all too
clearly aware of this and did their part
to make sure that everyone surround-
ing them appreciates how paramount
this drive is.
Possibly the most important issue
tackled was the future of this co-oper-
ation between industry and academia;
who is best fitted to take positions of
leadership in this realm of so-called
tech transfer, and how to find the peo-
ple who can make this process more
organic and ubiquitous.
While the was general consensus was
that an increased awareness of innova-
Felix attends an idea sharing event and talks about industry, academia and the television show Dragon’s Den
tion in industry can, in small measures,
be a good thing, a mediatic overex-
posure through popular mainstream
shows like ‘Dragon’s Den’ or ‘The Ap-
prentice’ can actually have quite ad-
verse effects on the industry. One of
the main issues comes in the form of
recruiting.
Some of the industry leaders present
mentioned that after some of these
shows they experienced a “non-desira-
ble” increase in numbers of applicants
for advertised positions. It may sound
paradoxical that an increase in appli-
cants is seen to be a negative issue, but
if this increase is exclusively derived
from mass applications of under-quali-
fied applicants lured by the prospect of
a quick buck and immense riches, one
can start understanding how this can
possibly be.
Even though it was only very briefly
touched upon, something that also
Afonso Campos
Business Editor
seemed to bother most participants
is the undeniable fact that there is still
some unjustified resistance on the part
of some academics to integrate this
world of tech transfer.
It seems as if some purists prefer to
keep their findings exclusive to sci-
ence and refuse to make them part of
this domain where they can actually
get projects implemented and seen to
completion. On another part of this
spectrum of backwards thinking, some
academics keep their discoveries in ab-
solute secrecy with the hope that they
might one day be able to find an appli-
cation for them and consequentially,
not share the limelight (read: prestige,
money) with another soul. Needless to
say that neither approach benefits so-
ciety at large in any way possible, and
much less the scientists behind these
ideas.
While the defendants of this camp
may argue that taking these approach-
es keeps the supposed “sanctity of sci-
ence”, they forget that the goal of sci-
ence is much greater and noble; that
is, to increase in any way possible the
quality of life of every soul on this
planet.
For the number of questions original-
ly posed to the table for open debate, a
great multitude of questions arose for
further discussion. The nature of these
questions prompted an interest from
all participants to sit down together
again some point in the close future.
It is events like these that question
the current state of things and perpetu-
ate our quest for evolution of thought.
They are a cry, and a loudly voiced
statement, connecting some and re-
connecting others with the urgency of
doing and thinking something really
different – no matter how wild it may
at first seem.
The roundtable discussion held in the Tanaka Business School was attended by companies such as BT, BAE Systems and National Instruments
The Apprentice... ...and Dragon’s Den. Two shows which have led to a “non-desirable” increase in numbers of job applicants

