Freshers’ Fair is the biggest and most
important event of Freshers’ Week for the
Union. Over 6000 students flock to the
event that sees all our Clubs and Societies
showcasing what they do and ultimately
encouraging the new and returning students
to join up.
This year was our biggest Freshers’ Fair ever
and I would like to offer my thanks to all the
Clubs and Societies who came and made
the day the most vibrant Freshers’ Fair that I
have ever been to. Special recognition must
also go to all of our red t-shirted volunteers
who came to help and make the day run so
smoothly; without them the Fair could not
happen.
The day started early for the team with
setting up all the stalls being the first job of
the day. The event had over 300 tables in
total, which began to be populated by Clubs
and Societies from 10am and by 11am the
Fair was in full swing.
We were all worried about the weather; there
was a wet weather plan in reserve just in
case a sudden downpour decided to appear,
luckily it didn’t drizzle for too much of the day,
and when it did it didn’t seem to dampen the
spirit if the day.
All the different areas had a different feel to
them with the Great Hall, Upper Dalby Court
and the Marquee buzzing all day. The stage
in the marquee was a massive success and
it provided an exciting
insight into what our
Clubs and Societies
actually do.
Again this year the
RCC organised a
rotating climbing wall
in Beit Quad, over 100
people had a go with
some proving more
successful than others!
Moving over to the
Queen’s Tower the tours went well with
helpful volunteers leading up several groups
and giving them unique view over London.
Whilst below on the Queen’s Lawn the
media societies provided great entertainment
and atmosphere.
Most importantly however all the Clubs and
Societies that I managed to speak to during
the day had signed up over a hundred people
to their mailing lists, this bodes well for
another record year for our student activities
programme. This, of course, is the key part of
Freshers’ Fair, bringing together all our Clubs
& Societies for one day to showcase each of
their unique activities.
So, now you’ve seen all the Clubs and
Societies that the Union has to offer, it is up
to you to join them and relieve the stress
from your degree! Don’t forget you can join
online now at imperialcollegeunion.org.
unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
Freshers’ Fair 2007
Alistair Cott
Deputy President
(Clubs & Societies)
dpcs@imperial.ac.uk
stand!
Council & Trustee Board Elections 2007
Places are available for both Undergraduate and
Postgraduate positions from Engineering, Medicine &
Natural Sciences faculties plus non-faculty positions.
We are also looking for two student members of our new
Trustee Board.
Look online for more information at imperialcollegeunion.org/
elections
Nominations close 23:59 Sunday 14th October
The Union Trustee Board is the
governing body of the Union and
consists of the President, Council
Chair, Court Chair, 4 student
trustees and 4 lay members who
are not members of the Union
but have expertise in areas such
as health and safety, finance
and management. The Trustee
Board meets roughly six times
per year to ensure that the Union
is being run well and it does
this by scrutinising the work of
the Council and the Executive
Committee.
what’s this trustee board?

