science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science
Science Editor – Ed Henley
9
Friday 5 October 2007 felix
Kaku and a rather Tron-ified ASIMO. Getting the robot to strut his rather simpering stuff was apparently no
easy task, but the Honda engineers succeeded. Shake, shake, shake that (ro)booty
Braving a new world: Michio Kaku
If you’ve never heard of Michio Kaku,
you probably will soon, as he’ll be
bringing his impressive new series Vi-
sions Of The Future to our screens,
courtesy of the BBC. Felix has sneaked
a peek at the first three episodes (The
Intelligence, Biotech and Quantum
Revolutions respectively) and can
highly recommend catching these, and
the rest of the series when it airs in No-
vember – this author certainly will be.
Although he presented a documen-
tary (Time) on BBC 4 last year, Kaku
is probably better known on the other
side of the Atlantic, where he is recog-
nised as a prolific and talented popu-
lariser of science, despite a background
as an academic in some of the more
esoteric realms of theoretical physics.
In his new programme, Kaku dons
his futurologist hat and takes the view-
er on a whirlwind tour of the state of
the art in science and technology, and
the implications advances in these
fields have for the future of the society
they underpin.
His central thesis – that the public
needs to become aware of the extent of
these advances, and to debate the prac-
tical, moral and even existential ques-
tions they give rise to – is well-served
by the structure of the programme.
Kaku’s broad-brush approach allows
him to expose the interdependence of
advances in many disciplines, such as
computing and biotechnology.
There’s something in each episode to
satisfy a wide range of audiences. Kaku
can clearly gain unparalleled access
to institutes at the forefront of their
fields, and this provides plenty of gee-
whizz moments, such as seeing a func-
tioning windpipe, grown from cultured
cells on a matrix which can later be ab-
sorbed by the body, or when he shows
a working example of a metamaterial,
an “invisibility cloak” for microwaves.
The science-fiction crowd gets plen-
ty: wild-eyed speculation about the
future, often courtesy of gurus such
as Ray Kurzweil; philosophising about
future technologies will affect our per-
ceptions of the human condition, such
as a discussion on how space-elevators
built from nanotubes will provide us
all with a truly planetary outlook; and
occasional barrages of clips from clas-
sic films – A for Andromeda and that
stalwart workhorse, The Day The
Earth Stood Still, amongst others.
Too much of this is guaranteed to
repel the average viewer, but Kaku
deftly avoids this by including plenty of
human-interest stories, illustrating the
impact a particular technology has had
on someone.
In his new programme Kaku, soothsayer extraordinaire, outlines what to expect from future technology
A good example of this is in the sec-
ond episode: Kaku introduces the well-
spoken parents of Alexander Locke,
who explain that as a baby he suffered
from what was eventually diagnosed as
Severe Combined Immune Deficiency
(SCID), commonly known as the bub-
ble-boy condition. Those afflicted have
no protection against bacterial, viral or
fungal infections, and bleak prospects
– few outlive their first year. Replacing
Locke’s bone marrow, to allow a new
immune system to grow was ruled out,
as no suitable donor could be found.
Fortunately, Locke’s version of the
Edmund Henley
Science Editor
condition was genetic, so their doctor
mooted gene therapy as an alternative.
Dr. Gaspar explains they cultured bone
marrow stem cells from Locke, using
a virus to introduce a working version
of the gene into the cells, which were
then reintroduced into the child. The
relief with which the parents explain
the dramatic improvement in Locke’s
condition is palpable, and makes this
case a highly engaging example of how
cutting-edge research can affect ordi-
nary people.
Nor does Kaku shy away from dis-
cussing the double-edged nature of
these advances; he is keen to stress that
though many technologies may prove
beneficial, others raise concerning is-
sues. As well as inherent risks – nan-
otechnology and the “grey goo” scenar-
io, he pays close attention to the risks
posed to the structure of society.
In a discussion on robots and emo-
tions, and our tendency to project the
latter onto the former (“because they
listen so well”, as one pundit puts it),
Professor Susan Greenfield mentions
an experiment she performed on a
group of 8 year-old Australians. When
asked if they whom they would prefer
to keep their best friend or to swap
them for QRIO, an all-singing all-
dancing humanoid robot, the choice
was unanimous. And yet the accom-
panying footage of QRIO makes one
think it wouldn’t always be a bad deal.
Certainly not for one’s duller friends.
Greenfield raises another more seri-
ous concern later, pointing out that the
“problems of colonialism in the 19th
century may pale in significance to […]
the differentiation of people into the
techno-haves and the have-nots.” Al-
though a well-worn argument, and al-
ready an issue for much of the world’s
population, it gains a new significance
when watching this programme: even
viewers from techno-Babylons like Im-
perial could find themselves on the los-
ing side if they do not always submit to
the cutting edge of technology – how
do you fancy your chances in exams
where fellow students have chip-en-
hanced memories?
The series is not entirely without
flaws: gratuitous shots of Kaku walk-
ing spring to mind. Even though MIT
may be more attractive than Imperial,
surely it’s not worth marathon-length
perambulations? And rather more ir-
ritatingly, the turnover of science foot-
age occasionally borders on the relent-
less. Surely the public’s attention span
is not that poor? Nevertheless, these
are minor quibbles; the programme is
well-worth seeing. Make sure you do!
Songbirds, sticklebacks and Swedish tardigrades: this week’s hella mashup
Magnetic vision in migratory birds
Certain migratory birds are known to
use Earth’s magnetic field as their main
means of orientation for their journey,
but the precise mechanism has been
unclear.
One hypothesis has favoured a new
magnetic sense, mediated by magnet-
ite, another has suggested it’s linked to
vision. Recent research on adult garden
warblers has suggested it’s the latter.
A research group from the Univer-
sity of Oldenburg, Germany, exam-
ined the interconnection of molecules
known as cryptochromes, found in
retinal neurons and thought to be able
to sense the magnetic field direction,
and Cluster N, an area of the birds’
forebrain which is highly active during
magnetic orientation.
They found the retinal neurons and
Cluster N were linked via a visual
pathway known as the thalamofu-
gal pathway. They suggest this means
these night-migratory birds perceive
the magnetic field as a visual pattern –
they can “see” it.
Fish and chips
By looking at chips and scratches on
the surface of 10 million year-old fos-
sil stickleback teeth, researchers from
Leicester and Stony Brook (USA) have
been able find direct evidence for
changes in an animal’s feeding habit
Ursula Skohpe
affecting its evolution, usually a hard
task according to Purnell et al., who say
attempts to determine if changes in the
animal’s body are due to changes in its
feeding habits risk becoming circular.
Their findings, published in Science,
compare the fossil chips and scratches
with those of present day stickleback
(both lab-based and wild), as the marks
indicate the type of diet the fossil fish
would have had, assuming these marks
were due to the same diet as modern
fish. They find that a change to a diet
found near the bottom of lakes pre-
cedes an increase in the spiky armour
of the fish by about 100 years, sug-
gesting the fish had to rapidly evolve
to adapt to their new environments.
A later shift to a diet from shallower
waters is taken as evidence supporting
the view that the previous change to
a high-armour body went against the
gradient of natural selection, so when
possible, the change was reversed.
It’s cold outside...
Fortunately, tardigrades can’t scream.
And besides, famously, no-one can
hear you in space. But if the partici-
pants in a recent experiment come
out with their lives, one imagines they
would be protesting volubly.
Despite being naturally aquatic,
these invertebrates (0.1-1.5mm long),
were selected to be astronauts au na-
turel, as they can survive intense cold
and dehydration.
Accordingly, as part of the FOTON-
M3 mission mentioned last week, a
team led by Ingemar Jönsson (Kris-
tianstad University, Sweden) set out to
see if they could survive in space.
Their experiment, dubbed TARDIS
(how big is the inside of a tardigrade?)
exposed one set of dry beasts to both
the effects of the vacuum and solar ra-
diation, and the other set merely to the
vacuum. Results are due in soon...
Chirpy chappy: Sylvia Borin
introduces himself as Magneto
Not that fish, nor those sort of
chips. But these ones taste better
A dehydrated tardigrade. Thirsty
business, space travel. Poor thing
Visions Of The Future broadcasts
in November on the BBC

