10 Reviews
Carter USM
Post Historic Monsters
It seems strange that Carter were, and still are,
regarded as indie jokers. They have employed
dance beats and guitars to lyrics which have
raised awareness in such areas as the reality of
war: 'G.I.Blues', 'Spoilsports Personality of the
Year' and press coverage/manipulation to name
a few. So maybe they use the odd touch of irony,
but does that negate the exercise?
After a pointless instrumental opener which
can only be excused by tradition, the album
kicks in with the first stomp-a-long. It redresses
the balance of things that would be cured by
love - "If love is the answer / What was the
question / And can it cure my indigestion /
Baby?" A more serious running thread is
Fascism, both overt and creeping. 'Stuff The
Jubilee' and 'Bachelor For Baden-Powell' show
the Bob and Bat in typical fashion.
Jesus and
Mary Chain
Sound of Speed
The opening line to the Chain's second album
of B-sides, EP fillers and covers is depressingly
familiar: "I've got syphilitic hetero friends in
every part of town ..." You know that nothing's
changed in their world of urban, suicidal
bleakness.
This time we get 20 tracks for our money,
surely a bargain? There are old distortions in
new clothes; 'Reverence' and 'Young Lust'
from 'Honey's Dead' and 'Sidewalking' from
'Barbed Wire Kisses.' The various covers mix a
heady brew from Elvis Presley's 'Guitarman' to
a mystical union with Leonard Cohen's 'Tower
Of Song.' The line "I ache in the places where I
used to play," is so right it could have been
written for them. Willie Dixon's 'Little Red
Rooster' has its entrails whipped out, and
there's even a stab at ' M y Girl', in the best
possible taste you understand.
Of the originals, 'Snakedriver' is a razzled
head of the best vintage and 'Write Record
Release Blues' is as honest a statement as you
can get about a dirty business. The rest are a
mixed bag but even so, as an album, the 'Sound
of Speed' will be more compelling than most
proper releases this year. Roll on their new
acoustic album echoes the refrain, oh yes.
Tintin
Released on Blanco y Negro
While these more serious issues of war and
suicide are examined, it seems that, in an
attempt to get the message across, the music
itself suffers. Maybe it's a deliberate ploy so that
the minimal music is forgotten and the lyrics are
remembered; particularly on 'Suicide Isn't
Painless' and the single 'Lean On Me I Won't
Fall Over'. However, the melody returns on
'Evil' becoming almost a Carter-ified nursery
rhyme, and 'Sing Fat Lady Sing' which deals
with the 'nothing to say' bands and perhaps
unfairly dismisses them with "And send the next
joker in when you're gone,". Similar concepts
appear on 'Lenny and Terence'.
The closing number is acoustic, 'Under The
Thumb And Over The Moon' which could be
subtitled 'The Impossible Dream part 2'. It
shows that Carter have two sides, the serious
and the humourous, and that while the two mix,
the serious issues should not be dismissed in the
way in which they are presented.
Bratt Anderson
Released on Chrysalis
The Flaming
Lips
Transmissions from the
Satellite Heart
This album is a muddling home-built thing
which looks pretty fragile with worn edges. It
still retains a freshness long vanished from
much of the world. Yes, the Flaming Lips are
going for the Spin Doctor's market in a more
convincing way than the originals.
Starting with the radio friendly 'Turn It On',
you're broken in gently to their fractured world.
It may not be logical but it sure is more fun than
most people have this side of an M T V
unplugged appearance. 'She Don't Use Jelly' is
a rambling nonsense song of epic proportions,
vaseline on toast not being generally considered
as healthy eating. '******* (plastic jesus)'
cocks a snoot at the superstitious equivalent of
furry dice. 'Moth In The Incubator' stumbles
into play with two speed options: slouch or
hyperactive and what 'Pilot Can At The Queer
Of God' is on about is anybody's business.
Really by this stage no one can care.
The good-time folks are back in play, the
sun is out and pixies live at the bottom of my
garden. Be adventurous, branch out. Get some
new friends, buy something you've never heard,
trust me. Honest. That's freedom.
Tintin
Released on Warner Bros.
I l l
I I I m mm
Power of
Dreams
Positivity
And so the Power of Dreams. Let's start happily.
The art work is good, well I'd wear the T-shirt
and that's money these days. On the musical
front things are rarely so bright, although the
lads have an endearing approach, to be sure. It's
a touching concern for the issues of life: broken
families, abused children, ecological worry,
rich-eat-poor anger. This is all worthy stuff, but
where R E M would spring a bitter lyric or the
Vega/Amos' of the world twist it in your face,
PoD just carefully observe and note.
Still there are some gems on offer, albeit of
the semi-precious variety. The single 'See You',
'Song For Nobody' and 'Falling From The Sky'
are unpretentious and pleasant, but it's not really
enough to save the album.
Strangely the five live tracks are the most
interesting, despite the subdued politeness of the
Japanese audience. 'It's A Shame' is ominously
delicious as a finale but it leaves you rather
disappointed about what has gone before.
Tintin
Released on Lemon Records
The Milltown
Brothers
Valve
There is something peculiar about bands who
attempt cover versions of extremely famous
songs, especially when they are released as
singles. Enter The Milltowns with a goofy grin,
clutching Dylan's 'It's A l l Over Now Baby
Blue.' The most damaging thing is that over the
whole album 'Baby Blue' is one of the better
tracks. Certainly it displays the lyrical weakness
of most of the other pickings on offer; it is not
repetitive and is vaguely understandable (in a
surreal way).
The Milltown's other peccadillo of note is an
obsession with hammond organ sound. Normally
a cool, bluesy thing, here it is used to
distraction. The one light in this dark world is
'Turn O f f , the only track produced by G i l
Norton (Pixies). Here at least the energy of the
staccatoed intro manages to infuse throughout
the whole before the hammond organ wheezes
into play. As for the rest, it's a bit tortured.
Tintin
Released on A & M
Meet the sabbaticals on page 30

