Reviews 11
111
Sugar
Brixton Academy
Bivouac opened the proceedings with a sustained
burst of feedback which promised of better
things to come, and they did not disappoint. The
set which followed reassured all present that
there is still life in the British music scene
capable of taking on the American guitar bands
at their own game. The highlight of their set was
'Good Day Song', the present single, which was
by far the best performance of any of the support
acts. They bowed out with the closing song of
their album, 'Bad Day Song'. Bivouac were the
only support act which deserved to play longer.
Next up were New Yorkers Madder Rose,
who suffered from the problem of inaudible
vocals as the guitars went into overdrive. The
band themselves seemed to have lost most of
their delicacy, as exhibited on 'Baby Gets High'
which lost its appealing background feedback.
Ultimately it was a mediocre performance
although the lyrics hinted that better could be
forthcoming as expounded in Mary Larson's
repeated "I only feel happy when you're down."
Come, it seems, were to be the spine chillers
on the bill. However, judging from this
experience, they have some way to go to earn
such a reputation. They could do worse than take
note of the set played by Sugar.
The first view we got of Sugar was seeing
Malcolm Travis walking round the queue
waiting to get into the Academy. Bob Mould
appeared in the lunatic, liar, lord shirt he's worn
for every live date played after the release of
'Beaster'. They immediately blasted into 'The
Act We Act', ' A Good Idea' and 'Changes', (the
opening salvo from 'Copper Blue') giving less
of a breathful and more of a lungful of fresh air
to each. From all reports, the Sugar performance
at Great Xpectations was turgid, something
which could not have been said of tonight's
performance which displayed almost the entire
Sugar catalogue with a few extra additions.
About halfway through their set, they went
into ' M T V Unplugged' mode with Bob taking
up acoustic guitar and Travis on percussives.
'Hoover Dam', their first song, was followed by
the chart friendly 'If I Can't Change Your
Mind'. The instrumental 'Clownmaster' was the
perfect launch pad back into the world of
controlled electrical mayhem which was
mirrored in the crowd's frenzied reaction. Dave
Barbe proved his worth on 'Anyone' and the
superb 'Where Diamonds Are Halos'. Sugar
also began their attack on 'Beaster' which
intensified the tracks there, even 'Tilted'. The
couplet of 'Judas Cradle' and 'JC Auto' gave
mi n GRANT
S T E W A R D S
To become a steward, you will need to be
interviewed and undergo training, but the main
qualities we are looking for are a calm disposition,
personable character, and an ability to deal amiably
with the public.
For more information, please come to the Union
Office, on the first floor of the Union Building in
Beit Quad, and ask for the Events & Marketing
Manager.
Interviews will be held
during the first three
weeks of term, with the
opportunity to work on a
semi- regular basis.
/ C U
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Come a lesson in live intensity as Brixton
acknowledged Mould as a messianic figure.
The encore of 'Feeling Better' and especially
'Walking A w a y ' (Mould singing to a
background tape) provided a release for the built
up tension. In a performance such as this, where
incidentally Bob's old Husker Du associates
were present, only one of the shirts titles applied.
Neither liar or lunatic.
Bratt Anderson
a Party?
B o o k y o u r p a r t y i n t h e
E n t s L o u n g e a n d W e w o n ' t
c h a r g e y o u f o r t h e r o o m
We can also arrange snacks &
Inibbles or some more serious noshi
*CallSam form o r e details:
Mtxtemal (071) 225 8586
^internal extension 3500 u
/ c u
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
See page 20 for details of the bands playing in Freshers' Week

