Reviews 13
La Boheme
Students nowadays know all about la vie
boheme, if you believe the stories you see in the
papers now and then; though I've yet to hear of
someone burning lecture-notes to keep warm.
Myself, I like the thought, and often search the
property ads for something of the form:
'freezing garret, stove provided, bring your own
paper and pen.'
But Puccini's La Boheme is a long way from
the Young Ones, even when the production
contains contemporary elements, as it does in
Steven Pimlott's new staging for E N O . (In
Jeremy Sams' new translation, the Bohemians'
dance routine at the beginning of Act IV
becomes a game of charades: 'Film, one word,'
mimes the philosopher Colline, before wrapping
himself in the shower curtain.)
Filling two-thirds of the stage are the clean
white lines and columns of a Greek temple-like
structure which doubles as the Bohemians'
lodgings and their local caf6. This deliberate
partitioning seems to be the focal point of
Pimlott's vision of the work, emphasising the
separateness of the unmaterialistic world of the
four artists. Otherwise this is a refreshingly
undidactic interpretation.
Probably the most controversial aspect of the
production is the omission of intervals. The
curtain stays up for the full two hours, and, to
the advantage of the opera's musical coherence,
one scene flows straight into the next. This is
carefully done, and works better than you might
expect. The down-side is that in place of sharply
contrasting tableaux, a certain visual blandness
develops and nothing particularly dazzles the
eye (except when Musetta takes her dress off
and dances on the table. Is it Art? Who cares?
Why waste one of those rare sopranos who look
good in fishnets and a corset.)
The best reasons for catching this new
Boheme, however, are musical. Sian Edwards
has clearly prepared carefully for her first outing
as music director, but the orchestra displays
much more technique. The sound is rich and
sumptuous (only at the tragic climax to the
famous deathbed scene do they perhaps try too
hard) the woodwind solos are beautifully played
and lovingly phrased. The closing pages of Act I
were luminous, only slightly marred by a missed
note (the only noticeable first-night fluff) from
Roberta Alexander's Mimi. Hers is an apt and
touching portrayal of the consumptive heroine;
no two-cylinder Tosca, but a genuinely
unaffected flower girl who makes the most of
Puccini's soaring melodies, although her fluttery
vibrato may not be to everyone's taste. And
volume is not a problem, as it sometimes is with
John Hudson's pleasant-voiced Rodolfo. Cheryl
Barker is gusty rather than radiant in Musetta's
Act II aria; Jason Howard's Marcello is rich and
firm. The four principals combine together
beautifully in the affecting Act III quartet,
perfectly balanced here, in which Rodolfo and
Mimi are reconciled while Marcel and Musetta
quarrel. There are no weak links in the rest of
the cast, and outstanding is Donald Adams who,
in the cameo role of Benoit, steals the landlord
scene.
Even if nothing else, you'll leave the theatre
with the salutary thought that while beer is
expensive and your grant miserly, at least you've
got the NHS.
Patrick Wood.
In rep at the Coliseum, St Martin's Lane, until
Oct 27th. Box Office (071) 836 3161; tickets
from £6 on the day.
The Little
Country
by Charles De Lint
He's Canadian. That's the first thing. Even more
disturbing, he is described on the cover as "the
author of many fantasy novels", and a
"practising Celtic musician". Oh dear. The
words 'pretentious' and 'shite' suggest
themselves to me. But, conscientious critic that I
am, I muddle through the 650-odd pages just for
your benefit.
One the bright side, at least I can save some
of you a big mistake. This is the sort of book
you give to the relative you really detest. You
know the one, we've all got one; it's the law.
Give them this book and watch them squirm and
pretend they actually understand the plot.
The only reason I kept on reading was
because there was a character called Felix and I
kept hoping he was going to turn into an
amusing student paper.
In conclusion I recommend castration for the
author and twenty years to life for the
publishers. And £1,000 fine for possession. I
thank you.
Tony
Published by Pan
Price: £8.99 (paperback)
1
Forbidden
Flowers
by Nancy Friday
When I was first asked to review this book I was
quite enthralled at the prospect but, on reading
it, I was disappointed by the amount of waffle
on the part of the authoress.
The reason for this is that Ms Friday writes
collections of women's so-called sexual
fantasies, 'so- called' because it can be hard to
tell when the fact stops and the imagination
begins. However, in between the fantasies she
writes pages of analysis on these sexual
thoughts and this detracts from the enjoyment of
the book.
Her first book 'My Secret Garden' is a better
read because the fantasies seem less made-up
and Ms Friday hadn't found it necessary to write
pages about them, which, unless you are into
psychology, are a bit of a waste of time.
Don't get me wrong, though, I did enjoy the
book, with its fantasies from bestiality (goats,
sheep and dogs!) to lesbianism to incest but I'd
advise you to read either 'My Secret Garden' or
'Women On Top' first.
Jane
Published by Arrow
Price: £8.99 (paperback)
Catspaw
by Joan D. Vinge
Cat is a renegade, outcast for his partly alien
genes. He is also a telepath crippled by guilt.
Kidnapped by a huge transport
conglomerate, he is then coerced into protecting
the aunt of his former love.
The aunt, altruistic political puppet of the
transport company, is thought the target of the
drug cartel she platform against. With his
mental powers temporarily restored by hugely
illegal drugs, Cat thwarts an assassin and goes
in search of the killer.
Catspur is not stock 'dark future' Sci Fi, nor
fortunately, is it 'Cyberpunk', containing
elements of both but avoiding arrogance and
immaturity. Also unusual is the fact that the
hero is a whole person with a history instead of
an empty face.
Overall Catspur is decidedly different, highly
recommended!
House
Published by Meridian
Price: £4.99 (paperback)
Look out for a review of the autumn season of films next week

