14 Clubs and Societies
STOIC
For the last three months, the top floor of the
Union Building has been ringing to the sounds
of building work: the roar of drills in masonry,
the scream of jigsaws on metal, the squelch of
hammers on thumbs . . . But we survived to
bring you another glorious year of STOIC.
STOIC?? I hear you cry. Yes! The Student
Television Of Imperial College. A new studio
complex on the third floor of the Union Building
brings you the greatest thing to hit the College
since Neighbours!
The old studio was getting rather cramped,
having been there for the last six years. The
cure? Demolish the whole place and completely
rebuild. A larger studio, control room and office
have been created and we've even improved our
cable network, enabling you to watch STOIC in
all the Southside halls, the JCR, Beit Hall and
Da Vinci's. A l l we need now is you.
During Freshers' Week our news and film
crews will be all over the College, making items
for our news programmes, as well as for two
features: Terminated III and Predator - A
fresher's guide. For the latter, filming starts on
the first day of term. If you see a guy in a funny
suit covered in strange make-up, followed by a
T V crew, it's us! Come and help - we need
extras and may need people behind the camera
on other days. W e ' l l be at Freshers' Fair on
Tuesday in Da Vinci's on the ground floor of the
Union building in Beit Quad.
If you don't see us out and about, come up to
the studio at any time - there will always be
someone there. Whether you want to act, write
scripts, produce programmes, edit tapes, read the
news, direct live programmes or be an
equipment operator, we can find you something
to do. Maybe you've got a programme idea but
no-one to help you with it. We can give you a
studio, lighting, presenters and training on our
equipment. We have the facilities to make
programmes just as good as the ones you see on
television.
If you come up this weekend, we can show
you how to use the cameras, and during
Freshers' Week you could get free entry to the
carnivals and the comedy night by working a
camera, vision or sound mixing or even directing
our live broadcasts.
Watch out for the posters showing our first
week's schedule. After that, we're back to
normal, showing STOIC News live at 1.15pm
every Tuesday and Thursday lunchtime, as well
as Into The Night, our weekly live stint from
5pm until 11pm every Thursday. Join us for that,
either by watching T V or by helping us in the
studio.
Needless to say, it's a great evening's
entertainment on both sides of the screen.
Opposites
Attract
The Operatic Society, known as OpSoc,
generally perform two shows a year: one in
College in early February, the other is combined
with a two week holiday in July. Next term, we
plan to perform 'Chicago', a very energetic
show set amongst the sleaze of 1930s Chicago.
Before this, however, our Freshers' Fair
event will be on the weekend of the 16th/17th
October. The show is 'Opposites Attract' a rock
'n' Roll rip-off of 'Romeo and Juliet'.
The emphasis of OpSoc this year is on
having as many parties as possible, so if you
wish to tread the boards, hit the spotlights, risk
possible mega-stardom and get very drunk all at
the same time, come and see us at Freshers'
Fair. We'll be in the Concert Hall, second floor
of the Union Building. Alternatively contact
Laura Hudson, Chem Eng III, or leave a note in
the pigeon holes in the Union Office.
Clubs and Societies
Articles
A l l articles must be handed in to
the Felix Office at least 7 days
before the issue comes out. Any
later, and there's no guarantee it
will go in.
Look out for a review of Grease on page 9

