Freshers' Fair 15
A Guide To Freshers' Fair
Freshers' Fair runs between 2.30pm and 5.30pm on Tuesday 5th October
The following few pages contain an explanation of the layout of the stalls, an
alphabetical list of the clubs and societies and a map of where tofind them.
If you find yourself confused at Freshers' Fair,
you are not alone. It will probably seem very
disorganised and chaotic, but surprising as it
may seem, there is some order to the way things
are arranged (if only in theory!). Hopefully this
article will help you find your way around.
Freshers' Fair is the ideal opportunity to find
out about the clubs and societies you fancy
joining. Each club has its own stall; the list on
page 18 will tell you where it is and the maps on
pages 16 and 17 will show you how to get there.
Hopefully you'll see everything you want to.
If you don't manage to get round to all the stalls,
you can contact any club or society through their
pigeon holes in the Union Office, or ask at the
Reception Desk and someone will be able to
answer your questions.
Beit Quad
The sports and outdoor activity clubs and of
course, your weekly student newspaper, Felix
can be found here.
Ground Floor, Union Building
One of the most important features of the Union
Building is its bar which is split into Da Vinci's
and the Traditional Bar.
During the Fair the Photographic Society and
Student Television will be in Da Vinci's.
Opposite Da Vinci's is the Ents Lounge
containing the likes of the Film Society, Rag,
Ents and the Community Action Group.
First Floor, Union Building
Located here are both the Union Office and the
Union Dining Hall. If you get confused or lost
then pop into the Union Office and ask Michelle
at the Reception Desk. She'll be glad to help you
or suggest someone who can.
The Union Advice Office will have a stall
outside the Union Office.
The Union Dining Hall contains a variety of
stalls including European overseas societies and
some of the social clubs such as the political and
religious societies.
Second Floor, Union Building
The Concert Hall contains the performance
societies like the Orchestra and the Dramatic
Society. Opposite the Concert Hall is the Union
Gym where you can find the martial arts clubs.
The Queen's Lawn
The lawn area contains some of the sporting and
recreational clubs. The Constituent College
Union stalls can be found by the library.
Ante Room, Sherfield Building
This room contains many overseas societies It
also has stalls run by the banks to make it easy
to open a student account and collect all the
freebies they have to offer.
Main Dining Hall, Sherfield Building
There are more clubs and societies here, as well
as stalls from the University of London and
some external organisations. You can collect
your free Time Out London Student Guide here.
Ten years ago, four crap students were
failed from a course they didn't attend.
They promptly escaped to a minimum
maturity brigade i n the Union Building.
Now they exist as holders of talk shows...
IF YOU'UE GOT R PROGRAMME...
IF NO ONE ELSE CRN HELP...
MHVBE VOU CRN JOIN... ^ \
STUDENT
TELEVISION OF
IMPERIAL COLLEGE
News Documentaries Talk Shows Film Reviews
Drama Music Videos Exhibition Reports Feature Films
Promotional Videos Live Bands Game Shows Comedy
Shows Into The Night Live Programmes and Much
Much More !!
If you want to be a part of any of the above, see us at
Freshers' Fair, in Da Vinci's bar on the ground floor of the
Union Building, or pop into our studio complex on the
third floor at anv time.
C i t y & G u i l d s
C o l l e g e U n i o n
Departmental Dinners
w i t h D i s c o a f t e r w a r d s
All staff and students welcome!
Mon 11 Oct
Thurs 14 Oct
Fri 15 Oct
Mon 18 Oct
Tue 19 Oct
Mon 25 Oct
Electrical Engineering
Computing & ISE
Chemical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Aeronautical Engineering
Civil Engineering
Tickets availablefrom the Guilds O
Level 3, Mechanical Engineering Bui
Tickets are £5.50 for students, £11 for others
Any club can be contacted through the Union Office pigeonholes

