20 Clubs and Societies
Kick-Start The Year
Whatever you do this week there's no doubt that the Union is the place to be
in the evenings. The Ents crew are here with three events this week to liven
the soul and enlighten the mind.
Monday 4th October - New Year Carnival.
Joining the Ents crew will be The Drum Club
playing live and supported by DJ Charlie Hall.
The Drum Club have been running one of
London's most successful midweek clubs for
well over a year now at the Soundshaft (just off
Charing Cross Rd). They've had major success
with their critically acclaimed first album
following which they've been heavily in demand
for their remixing abilities, giving new direction
to some indie bands such as Lush. Downstairs
will be Dodgy.
Headlining downstairs w i l l be Dodgy,
warming up for an extensive Autumn tour and
fresh from their hugely successful performance
at Glastonbury. This London three-piece have
recently hit the National Top 40 and topped the
indie charts with indie anthems 'Water Under
The Bridge' and 'I Need Another'. Playing
songs from their recently acclaimed 'Dodgy
Album', it'll be Dodgy's music playing in that
lift up to heaven.
To kick the whole week off, and supporting
Dodgy will be Boy Girl Soup. These are hotly
tipped up and coming band who have been
touring all over London picking up a large
following. With two singles on Boot records and
two excellent Melody Maker reviews behind
them, London eagerly awaits the release of the
new single at the end of October. Remember
where you saw them first!
After the bands finish downstairs the Ents
disco keeps pumpin' till 3am. Take a rest, grab a
burger, and check out the Carnival attractions in
the Union Dining Hall on the first floor.
Wednesday 6th October - Comedy Night
We change the pace of things with a comedy
spectacular. On the top of the bill will be Stewart
Lee who has had major success as part of the
writing and performing duo Lee & Herring.
They write for 'On the Hour' on Radio 4 for
which they won the coveted Writers Guild
Award. They were the judges choice for the Best
Radio Comedy at the British Comedy Awards in
1992. Earmarked as 'The one to watch in 1993'
in N M E ' s A - Z of comedy, it's Lee's standup
solo act which is now kickin' up a storm.
Backing him up will be Tim Vine, a real joke
machine gun; if he doesn't get you with the first
he'll get you with the second (or the third, or the
fourth . . .). Holding it all together will be
compere Rainer Hersch, described in T N T as
"possibly the best compere I have ever seen".
After those hangover blues have been well
and truly laughed off, grab a drink (late bar till
12am), and shake it in the disco 'til lam. Ticket
holders must arrive no later than 8.15pm to be
guaranteed entry into the Comedy Night.
Sidi Bou Said are playing at the Freshers' Ball
Friday 8th October - Freshers' Ball
There's time to rest before a real knees-up end-
of-the-week type thing. Dress is informal, as is
attitude! Playing downstairs are Sidi Bou Said,
an all girl group who have attracted massive
attention in the music press over the last six
months since the release of the critically
acclaimed singles 'Twilight Eyes' and 'Three
Sides' which has only held off the indie top spot
by some band called Suede. They release their
album 'Broooch' on October 11th. Support will
come from the hotly tipped Drugstore who
recently released a heartbreaking beauty of a
single called 'Alive'. Their distinctive style
comes from the Brazilian singer/bassist and their
ferocious guitars. Voted the second best new
band in Britain after their storming performance
at ' i n The City' in Manchester, great things
surely await this young trio.
Entertainment in the Union Dining Hall is of
a more refined nature on this night in the form of
the Guild's Casino, with top prizes to be won.
Upstairs, variety is the order of the day. JC 001
leads the way with his fast rhymes and pounding
rhythms; he's acknowledged as the fastest rapper
in the world (just ask Norris!). Tackling all sorts
of issues, diversely influenced, verbally
demanding, visually riveting, the man speaks
volumes. The band action culminates with The
Funking Barstewards, the ultimate party band
and the Mean Fiddler's Best Live Band Of 1992.
The party doesn't stop there, the Ents disco will
keep runnin' till 3 am with rush to the bar for last
order at 2am. Pace yourself guys 'n' girls - it's
gonna be a long night.
Tickets are likely to sell out in advance so get
them quick from the Union Office. The Monday
and Friday tickets are priced at £6 each and the
comedy night is £4 on the door (if there are any
seats are still available). Week tickets are only
£12 for all three events but are limited. If you've
ordered tickets by post, collect them from the
Union Office by 5pm on Monday 'cos it shuts
then.
Mat Park
Ents Chairperson '93- 94
During your travels on Tuesday don't forget
to come and see us at Freshers' Fair, we'll
be in the Ents Lounge in the Union Building.
The crew will be ready to tell you
everything that is the world of Ents.
Don't forget you need your ID card to get into any Union event

