Clubs and Societies 23
So You Want To Have Fun?
Here to relieve the tedium and drudgery of
normal college life is RAG. 'What's that then?',
I hear you cry. R A G is fun, R A G is crazy, R A G
is big, R A G is free. R A G is about tiddlywinking
down Oxford Street, live Monopoly, beer
festivals, bungee jumping, freebies and excellent
prizes. R A G is about having a laugh and doing it
for charity. If you don't believe us, just check
this little lot out:
Tiddlywinks
- 9th October
Yep, that's this coming Saturday! Join hundreds
of crazy students armed with R A G cans and
tiddlywinks and set off down Oxford Street.
Tiddling under feet, round lamp posts, across
roads, over taxis and amazing tourists into
handing over loads of money. Follow this up
with ring-a-ring-a-roses around Eros and round
the day off with an attempt to drink a pub dry.
Live Monopoly
- 16th October
The second event of term will see you joining
thousands of students from across the country
out on the streets of London. Y o u have the
amazing opportunity to play this classic board
game on the largest board i n the U K . Get
together a team of four to six friends and run
round London trying to visit all the locations on
the board, answer the clues, and collect treasure
whilst avoiding the roving jail van. There's
Chance and Community Chest cards around to
help, too. Mencap throw a free party with in the
evening for all the day's collectors where all the
prizes are handed out. Do you fancy winning a
skiing trip in Andorra? This is the event for you.
RAG Week
- starts 3rd November
Starting with the Beer Festival, R A G Week is
actually ten days of fun and frivolity. There's no
way to avoid R A G week (short of going to
Siberia) but it's much more fun if you actually
take part. We have two enormous parties
(Freshers' Week style), a hypnotist, a slave
auction, bungee jumping, silly sports including
mixed-sex rugby, a Hit Squad, inter-hall
competitions and much, much more. The Beer
Festival also sees the launch of this year's R A G
Mag, that infamous publication which has to be
read to be believed.
RAG Parties
- every fortnight
Throughout the term, R A G are also running
fortnightly parties in association with I.C. Radio.
These parties all have reductions for anyone who
collects on the day's event. Some are even free
for collectors. Others are themed with reductions
for appropriate dress, such as the Rocky Horror
Night on 30th October. Proceeds from all these
parties will go to charity.
How Do I Get Involved
First of all, seek us out at Freshers' Fair and sign
up for everything. Find out more and grab some
freebies. We have meetings every Friday at
1.10pm. These are held in the Ents Lounge,
opposite Da Vinci's, on the ground floor of the
Union building. We can also be found in the
R A G Office (second floor, east staircase, Union
building) during most lunchtimes. So come and
sample our coffee and nick our biscuits!
Don't forget...
It's all free and we run an incentive scheme for
collectors, so even if you don't win any of the
prizes, you can earn exclusive R A G mugs,
T-shirts, rugby shirts and tankards depending on
how much you manage to collect throughout the
year.
Read about the Underwater Club's exploits on pages 24 and 25

