24 Clubs and Societies
Having Fun In Rubber.
The Underwater Club's summer tour was split into two parts this year. First
they went to Oban on the west coast of Scotland and then onto to Scapa Flow
in the Orkneys. Read onfor an account of their exploits.
Oban is reckoned to be one of the best diving
areas in the country, with warm water from the
Gulf Stream and some great wrecks and
stunning scenery. This year we were also blessed
with good weather!
Our first dive of the week was in shallow
water to give the novices a chance to get
acclimatised. Unlike the bog standard 'scenic
dive' (for scenic read kelp), this one had the
added attraction of tantalising glimpses of seals
and disconcertingly close views of the
omnipresent Scottish jellyfish. A group of our
divers got cornered by a young seal in a bay
where it investigated our intrepid explorers for
quarter of an hour before deciding they were
inedible.
Our next day's diving was to be on the S.S.
Breada, a Dutch cargo ship sunk in 1941 on her
way to India. We burned round the headland in
the rigid inflatable boat (see picture) on a
millpond sea in glorious sunshine to where the
wreck was suppose to be. Greeting us were two
large buoys about 100m apart with 'S.S. Breada'
written on them, so no need for the echo sounder
to give us some idea of how big this wreck was.
Descending to 25m in clear water, the hull of
the wreck slowly came into view. The five
cavernous holds of this ship are still crammed
with cargo, each hold taking a dive to explore. It
was like exploring a dusty old junk shop, with
every corner turning up a surprise. We found
pots of shaving cream, a tube of Maclean's
toothpaste (1940's vintage, it tasted awful) and a
rack of rusting bicycles. Pieces of eight it may
not be, but we did find bundles of old Rupee
notes, bleached by the
sea with the watermark
still visible! A forage to
the ships engine room
was undertaken by the
more experienced divers,
but unfortunately some
self-centred looters had
pillaged all the brass
fittings before we could
get to them!
Unlike in previous
years, we now possess a
large high powered rigid
inflatable boat. This enables us to range much
further afield in our diving sorties, thus we were
able to dive the wreck of the Shuna in the sound
of Mull, a trip which in previous years would
have needed the hire of a hard boat and skipper.
This trip was not, however, all fun and
games. Apart from training beginners up to
novice standard and beyond, the annual dive
rescue review saw even the 'old lags' being
forced to prove their prowess in rescuing and
A group of divers got
cornered by a seal
which investigated them
for quarter of an hour
before deciding they
were inedible.
resuscitating distressed divers. I am glad to write
that none of their 'bodies' were more de-stressed
after rescue than before. Comment was raised by
the natives about the realistic approach to the
situation taken by rescuers and casualties alike.
A l l too soon, the week was over. Back to
London for the babes and on to Scapa for the old
lags.
Well, St Tropaz it wasn't. Looking out of the
Scrabbster to Orkney ferry at the waves and
overcast sky, we could not help wistfully
recalling the beaches and sun of that resort
where we had toured last
summer, but then this,
unlike St Tropaz and
Oban, was not a trip for
beginners and sun
worshippers.
For those who do not
know of Scapa Flow, it
is the huge natural
harbour created by the
hundreds of islands that
make up the Orkneys.
The Navy has used the
flow as a base for its
fleets for over a century, adding defences against
new threats as they were invented (for example,
blockships and the Churchill barriers against U -
Boot (sic) attacks).
Although the Orkneys contain the wrecks of
historically famous ships such as the Royal Oak
and H.M.S. Hampshire, Lord Kitchener's final
resting place, we were unable to dive these
vessels due to their status as war graves. This
left us with the block ships and the remains of
the World War I German High Seas Fleet, the
latter having earned the Orkneys the arguable
honour of being of the world's third best dive
site.
At the end of World War I, the fleet, under
command of Admiral von Reuter, was
impounded at Scapa to be split up and used by
Britain. This got up the Admiral's nose, so early
one morning he sent the command "Absatz Elf,
Bestaetigen," which roughly translated as "Open
all seacocks and scupper the lot,".
Of over 72 destroyers, battleships and other
assorted war ships, only about 12 remain on the
sea bed, due to extensive salvage. However what
they lack in numbers they make up for in
grandeur.
We hired a hard boat, the Girl Mina, and her
skippers Terry and Squire for the duration of our
stay. Terry is a 22 stone Orkadian with a totally
incomprehensible accent, except when on the
radio to the coast guard. Squire, the star of the
vessel, was a sheep dog, but at least he was
understandable, one bark meant: "We are
approaching the site, get ready!" while two barks
meant: "We're here, jump in!".
A routine was soon established: a deep dive
in the morning followed by lunch in the nearest
pub (Terry seemed to be very well known
everywhere). Then there was a shallower dive on
a blockship if the tidal currents permitted, or on
the smaller fleet vessels, which, like the large
wrecks, can be dived at all states of the tide.
The deeper ships included the cruisers and
battleships. Since the cruisers were shallower,
these were the first to be dived so that we could
build up our depth tolerance. All these vessels
A Jazz and Rock Club article is on page 27

