Clubs and Societies 25
lie on their sides and, although partially
salvaged, they retain most of their armaments
and superstructure. There is no way of
accurately describing the feeling of swimming in
and out of the decks of these grand old ships,
many of which fought at Jutland.
Disorientation was not a problem in the
'upper' decks even
though the walls, ceilings
and floors had swapped
places. None of our
divers ventured very
deep into the hulls as,
without careful planning
and preparation, it is all
too easy to get lost in the
Looking up, whirlpools
and waterfalls, caused
by the tide pouring
through the open
due to the mass of their armaments and
superstructure.
We descended onto the broad expanse of
their keels and, from there, down the sides to the
sea bed and the 'lower decks'. The weight of the
vessels compacted the superstructure into the
seabed, so that it was possible to dive into the
wreck and down below
the mud. None of our
group found the need to
try this as there were
enough sights and
plunder in easy access.
The former included the
officers bathroom with
the bath and fittings
corridors and kicked-up l l n f r l 1 a v millsf hp VPPn clearly visible through
silt dramatically reduces riu,iL,ruza, L l / W l U (/C occh. the portholes. For the
visibility. Even so the
bridges and radio rooms, where some of the
fittings still remain, were fully accessible. Gun
turrets were open and the mechanisms still
visible, encrusted with wild life. It seemed that
every gun breech had its own edible crab living
in it as well as a cloak of dead mans fingers and
other anemones growing over it.
Only three Dreadnought-size battleships
remain, the Koenig, the Kronprince Wilhelmand
and the Markgraf. A l l of which lie in over 40
metres of water. These leviathans 'turned turtle'
porthc
latter we collected parts
of the teak decking and a cleat from one of the
launches, all lying conveniently on the sea floor.
The block ships are all situated i n the
entrance to the flow and, with the exception of
the Inverlane, must be dived when the current is
slack. The state of preservation of these vessels
varies, but they all have one thing in common.
They are all teaming with wildlife, from
hundreds of baby edible crabs, through to legal
sized lobsters and on to large and moody conga
eels. Souvenirs, like brass tobacco boxes dated
Christmas 1914, can be found with a bit of
rummaging and luck.
The Inverlane deserves a separate mention as
she lies only half submerged, thus the tidal flow
can give a five foot height difference in the sea
on either side of her. We entered via the deck
and swam though the crystal clear waters of her
holds and corridors, admiring the profusion of
colours displayed by the anemones on the walls.
Looking up, whirlpools and waterfalls, caused
by the tide pouring through the open hatches,
could be seen. We even found a two inch long
octopus in one of the rooms.
For more details about trips, past and future, as
well as the club itself and our training program,
please come and see us at Freshers' Fair in Beit
Quad, or meet us at our introductory 'cheese and
wine' on Tuesday 12th October under Beit Arch
at 6.30pm.
If you cannot make it to either of the above,
but are still interested, you can phone Pete
Bowen, Underwater Club Training Officer, on
extension 4161 during the day. Or leave a
message for Rob Morgan, Underwater Club
Secretary, in the pigeonholes in the Union
Office.
/ c u
IMPERIAL C O L L E G E UNION
ADVICE
SERVICE
S T U D E N T L O A N S
NHS C H A R G E S
HOUSING RIGHTS
L E G A L M A T T E R S
C O N S U M E R RIGHTS
HOUSING BENEFIT
IMMIGRATION
I N S U R A N C E
I N C O M E T A X D E B T
C H I L D C A R E POLL T A X
ICU's Advice Office employs a professional member of staff to advise
students. The service is free, impartial and absolutely confidential,
with Minever Kavlak the Union Adviser able to advise on practically
any matter.
Imperial College Union's Advice Office is located on theJirstjloor of the Union
Building in Beit Quad - call in during surgery hours or telephone:
071 589 5111 ext 3507 at any time
OPENING HOURS
for personal callers a m p m
(no appointment necessary) Monday 11.00-1.00 2.00-6.30
Tuesday 10.30-1.00 2.00- 5.00
Wednesday closed 2.00-5.00
Thursday 10.30- 1.30 2.00- 5.00
Friday appointment only
telephone enquiries Monday
Tues- Fri
11.00-6.30
10.30- 5.30
Classes
l | | I o r k out with 'The Tone' Monday,
l U U f Wednesday and Friday mornings from
W V 7.30am-8.30am. Fun and challenging
aerobics classes begin 11th October at Southside
Gym.
Students £1.25 Staff £1.50
Start your day off right
Out of bed - into your kit - over to the gym
A good workout makes you alert and
prepares you for the day ahead.
JUST DO IT!
Carter USM's latest album is reviewed on page 10

