Clubs and Societies 27
What's That Noise?
While travelling through Essex, Huile Desardine encounters the noise of the
Jazz & Rock Club Chairman, Andrew Booker and is fidgeting to know more.
What could the Jazz & Rock Club possibly have to offer anybody ?
Somewhere up the gentle valley of the
Blackwater there can be heard the sound of
drumming. Nothing loud, but on a warm July
evening the sound of drumming may easily
annoy people, particularly in such a quiet Essex
village. It comes from the upper quarters of a
Georgian house, half surrounded by trees. After
listening for some minutes I am furnished with a
measure of intrigue and suspicion. I walk up the
drive and ring on the doorbell.
To my surprise, the drumming stops
instantly. Seconds later somebody is bounding
down the stairs. The door opens and a young
man greets me.
I explain that I was passing through the
village and was fascinated by his drumming. He
seems not to care in the slightest who I am.
Instead, he offers me wine and invites me in to
listen more closely. We ascend to his attic and I
insist he continue as he would with no audience.
My presence affords him no discomfort, for
twenty minutes later he is still playing the same
thing. After thirty-four minutes of, he tells me, a
combination of three, four and seven beat cycles,
I dare to suggest that this might be a bit of a
waste of time?
"No, I don't think so. OK, I'll probably never
find a use for it at college, but it all helps one
way or another."
College? Which?
"Imperial." As if I'm likely to meet someone
from my own college. In Essex. We marvel at
the coincidence. Is he musical at college?
"I'm chairman of the Jazz & Rock Club."
Two months later I return upon invitation. It
seems a small matter of days since I was here
last, but things have changed. Most noticeably
there is silence.
I inquire as to what he has been up to since
last we met. I discover that he has not sampled
the customary student vacational diet of work
experience. Never has.
"I think I'm just young enough to carry on
the school holiday scheme of things. Anyway I
don't sit around doing nothing all day."
This is in fact true. His time is divided
between wine-making and musical activities.
Only yesterday, he was rehearsing with
Silverscreen, who will be appearing at the first
Jazz & Rock gig in Imperial College Union on
14th October. His musical attentions were
manifest on my first visit but now, in the kitchen
alone, there are almost thirty gallons of
unfinished wine. He shrugs it off as a "bit of a
waste of electricity, sometimes,".
I ask him about the Club: the vehicle for non-
classical players to rehearse and perform, the
practice room under Biology and Beit Hall, the
not-so-occasionally appalling bands every other
Thursday night - this well-mannered, musical
and viticultural rustic is in charge of all that.
So these bands - are they really no good? We
recall at this juncture an article by the Jazz &
Rock Club which appeared in the final issue of
Felix last year containing, rather than a summary
of the club's activities, an invitation to throw
rotten vegetables and general abuse at any of the
bands people didn't like. There is jovial
acknowledgement, but he has not changed heart.
"In my opinion, if people don't go to a gig,
it's not because they're being apathetic or lazy,
it's because they don't like the band. Sometimes
there are twice as many people in the bar who
stay there because they don't want to listen."
Wouldn't that be his fault for putting the
bands on in the first place?
"Well, I'm easily convinced. Anyway, I don't
like to think of anybody being at fault. The idea
is to let them play so that they improve. The
trouble is that some of them don't give a stale
bogie about... whatever areas need improving.
So what's he going to do about it?
"Nothing. Buy a few more mikes maybe, get
a few people in who like sound gear. Otherwise
let it carry on as normal. I came into this club to
play music, not piss about with technical rubbish
the whole time. I want to do something that
doesn't revolve around how good the PA is."
In fact, these days he is more often to be
found playing on the piano than the drums.
So what exactly is this 'something else'?
"I'd like to try and attract a few non-rock
musicians; people who are more into what notes
come out of their instrument than what amplifier
they're going through. I think a lot either get
scared off by pure rock types, or lose interest
because it's all bands and equipment and gigs,
when all they want is some kind of organised
musical activity."
If he can render enough people interested,
this is what they'll get. Since my first visit he
has begun and finished his latest formal
composition, which explains the silence of the
drums. It takes the form of a suite in four
movements, lasting over half an hour.
The intention is to present it in a setting as far
removed from the traditions of a Jazz & Rock
gig as possible, allowing for a more diverse and
ultimately larger audience.
"I'm after as many people as possible to
make up the ensemble, mainly guitars, but also
any other real instrument. I want to cater for a
few more people this time. Those that want to go
off and form bands are welcome to play at the
gigs. Those that can't see themselves in a rock
band for whatever reason can come and play in
the biggie if they want. Hopefully we'll perform
in the Great Hall or something."
I take a look at the score. I can't understand
any of it, but he insists it is not as complicated as
it looks. I am struck by the possibility that a
major flaw in his ideal has been overlooked. Can
guitarists read music?
"I don't think so. But that shouldn't put
people off. Some of the parts are quite repetitive,
so that won't be a problem. I ' l l need a few
people who can read just to keep the thing going,
although they don't need to be guitarists.
He likes to think the ensemble will be a
learning experience, mainly for himself. He
admits he has really no idea of the range of
abilities he will attract.
"The biggest problem is that this kind of
music-making process is exactly what a lot of
members are trying to avoid - it's just not rock
music. Really I'm looking for non-rock players."
With that, the Jazz & Rock Club Chairman
goes to the piano, plays a few principal chords,
and finishes on one which spans three octaves
and requires seven fingers.
See Jazz & Rock every other Thursday night in the Ents Lounge

