St Mary's Union 29
What Lies Across Hyde Park?
Thefirst of many articles that will keep you up to date with the happenings in
the world of St Mary's Hospital Medical School and its Student Union. To
begin with, here's a bit of background information .. .
Imperial College and St Mary's Hospital
Medical School have been merged for five years,
yet social ties between the students from both
sides of Hyde Park can best be described as
limited. The only substantial integration has
been between the music and rowing clubs from
both institutions. This has been to their
advantage, particularly for St Mary's.
It's not hard to understand why there has
been so little interaction. A merger between two
quite separate and autonomous institutions
understandably faced considerable resistance
from both sides.
The merger was the first step towards the
creation of a new 'super' West London School
of Medicine. This would undoubtedly make it
the single largest faculty within Imperial
College, but this has not yet happened.
The geographical separation of the two sites
has contributed to this lack of integration, but
one of the factors has admittedly been the
reluctance of St Mary's to make any effort. This
has ranged from apathy to downright active
'anti-Imperialism'.
With the Tomlinson Report recommendations
behind us, we can only think of this as
remarkable foresight and that it was a shame
Charing Cross Hospital did not take up the
opportunity to join us at that time.
Most students from the pre-merger era have
now qualified. This does not mean that there are
no anti-Imperial feelings left but it is certainly
becoming a diminishing force.
It would be nice to see a translation of the
good relations currently existing between the
respective student unions onto a wider forum.
More integration by various clubs and societies
should be encouraged with bands from both
sides playing 'across the park'. We at St Mary's
Student Union have already booked a coach to
bring all our freshers across to the Freshers' Fair
at Imperial College on Tuesday.
Promoting and advertising each others social
events throughout the year on both sites would
help a great deal. We will also try to submit
something to Felix every week to keep everyone
informed of events and student life at St Mary's.
In the meantime you are all cordially invited
to two of the biggest nights at St Mary's. Firstly,
there is the Toga Party on Wednesday 6th
October, where a toga is compulsory! Secondly,
there is the Bands Night on Saturday 9th
October, when we will hopefully be having
some Imperial College bands playing as well as
some from St Mary's. Be warned though,
medical students are particularly mad and
daring, especially during Freshers' Week!
In subsequent issues, we hope to give you
more of an insight into medical school life,
medics themselves and perhaps also a taste of
'Marmalade Sandwich', St Mary's own student
magazine.
St Mary's Freshers' Week Events
Toga Party
Wednesday 6th October
Medical School Basement
Admission £2
Bands Night
Saturday 9th October
Wilson House Recreation Centre,
Sussex Gardens.
Please bring your Imperial ID card
Fancy tiddling your wink down Oxford Street? See page 23

