30 Imperial College Union
'Starting out' at anything can be one of the most stressful experiences we
ever have to face. New surroundings to deal with, trying to find your
bearings, makingfriends, getting lost, reading all the bits of paper thrown at
you, getting lost again, while it seems that everyone around you knows where
they are and where they're going.
If you remember this from The Intro (part of the Imperial College Union Handbook), then you'll
remember that Imperial College Students' Union is here to help you.
The Students Union is located in Beit Quad, which is home to the Freshers' Week events. Here
you'll find all the advice, information, clubs, student officers and sabbaticals you'll ever need to help
you through your course at Imperial. And this article is to introduce the sabbaticals of Imperial
College Union (ICU) to you.
At Imperial College we have four sabbatical officers. They are students, elected through a cross
campus ballot to work for the Union for one year. The four post are: President, Deputy President
(Finance & Services), Deputy President (Clubs & Societies) and the Felix Editor. And here they are:
Andrew Wensley, President
Telephone x3501.
Andy is the ultimate representative for the students of Imperial College. He is
responsible for the overall organisation of the Union including its constitution.
He co-ordinates the work of the Executive and, with the Union Manager, is
responsible for all staffing and disciplinary issues. Andrew finished his degree in
Mathematics last year.
David Goddard, Deputy President (Finance & Services)
Telephone x3502.
Dave is in charge of the finances of Imperial College Union. He has to ensure
that the budgeting of the Union is effective. He also has responsibility for the
commercial services and trading activities of the Union. He deals with
accommodation matters concerning the students of Imperial College. Dave has
just finished his Physics degree.
Don't Forget:
1. To Register.
You can do this in the Junior Common Room
(JCR) along the walkway by the Sherfield
building. You have to do this in order to get
your swipe card if you are a first year and your
Union card if you are in any other year. (This is
the first year we have produced combined swipe
and Union cards.) The swipe card is your
identification card while you are at College and
must be worn at all times.
2. To Party.
You can buy tickets to the Freshers' Week
events on Monday, Wednesday and Friday from
the Union Office.
If you are asked by a member of Union
security (stewards who wear yellow t-shirts or
sweatshirts), you must produce your swipe card.
You will be asked by stewards for your swipe or
Union card at the front gate of the Union
building on the evening of any Union event,
such as those in Freshers' Week.
Charles Leary, Deputy President (Clubs & Societies)
Telephone x3503.
Charlie is responsible for the coordination and representation of the Union's 130
clubs and societies. He represents their varied interests in the Union and College
as well as to outside organisations such as the Universities' Athletic Union.
Along with Dave, he is responsible for the security of the Union Building.
Charlie completed his Biology degree last year.
Beccy Land, Felix Editor
Telephone x3515.
Beccy is responsible for producing our weekly student newspaper, Felix. It hits
the streets every week on Friday, ideal for that 10 o'clock lecture. Look out for it
in the entrances to each department. As well as this, she manages the Print Unit,
the cheapest print shop around. Beccy, like Dave, has just finished her degree in
Physics.
The sabbaticals can usually be found in the Union building. Andy, Dave and Charlie have offices in
the Union Office (first floor) and Beccy is based in the Felix office in the far left-hand corner of Beit
Quad. If they aren't there, then they're probably in a meeting in the College.
If there is anything you are unsure of or want to know about, give them a call or drop in and ask
them in person. They'll normally be able to give you an answer straight away. Failing that they'll get
back to you as fast as they can.
3. To Go To Freshers'
Fair on Tuesday.
Sign up for everything. Seriously, you may
forget to find out about a club later in the year
and miss out on a lot of fun. So do it now. You
can find an article on the Freshers' Fair on the
centre pages of this issue.
Parking Permits.
If you are eligible for a student parking
permit, application forms are available
from the Union Office (1st floor, Union
Building) from 4th October, the first
Monday of term. They must be returned to
the Union Office by 8th October, the
following Friday.
People with disabilities, medical
conditions and females who work late in
College are given priority. Last year we
had 500 applications for 70 permits, so
please don't apply unless these conditions
apply and please don't be surprised if your
application is unsuccessful.
The Union's Advice Service is located in the Union Office

