Editorial & Credits 31
Editorial
The Felix Office has suddenly become a hive of
activity. Everyone has turned up all at once and
they're all asking me questions. Lots of people
are coming in to use the photocopier and the
phone keeps ringing. It hasn't been this busy all
summer and to top it all off, in the middle of the
chaos, two people are sitting playing scissor-
paper-stone! But then, I guess it wouldn't be the
Felix Office without a bit of surrealism in there
somewhere.
Someone once told me about Parkinson's
Syndrome. This has nothing to do with the
disease but is in fact a common occurrence. It
states that, no matter how much time you
allocate and how well you plan it, everything
will expand to fill the maximum possible time
available.
This edition of Felix has been a prime
example of Parkinson's syndrome. I've had
most of the summer to plan this first issue and
still there's a mad rush at the end. But as the
chaos got greater, so the number of people in the
office increased and they were all offering to
help in any way they could, and there are
already people coming into the office wanting to
get involved. It's all beginning to happen and
I'm in a state of combined panic and shock.
But all is not totally lost. Someone in the
office has just offered to make coffee, which is
the best thing that could have been said at the
moment. As you will find out if you venture into
the Felix Office, I will very rarely refuse a
coffee, especially at times like this.
So maybe it'll all be alright in the end.
Famous last words, eh?
Special thanks must go to quite a few people
who have helped immensely in the past days:
Firstly, to Steve. He has helped so much, I
wouldn't know how to thank him enough.
Then there's Tony. He walked into the Felix
Office about two weeks ago and continues to
amaze me with his never-ending enthusiasm for
reviews, be they cinema, theatre, books or art.
He's sorted out lots of stuff to be reviewed in the
next few weeks and has saved me no end of time
and effort.
If you should happen to pass the Felix stall at
Freshers' Fair, you will probably be handed a
sheet of paper telling you all about us. A huge
thank you must go to Penguin and Phill for
volunteering to write it this afternoon.
Finally, an apology which I promised many
moons ago :
Penguin, I am really, really, really, really,
really, really sorry for giving you so much grief
over the last three years and for almost screwing
up your degree. Thanks for all your help, advice,
encouragement especially in the last few weeks.
Good luck in the future.
If you get bored, curious or just fancy a cup of
tea or coffee, the Felix Office is open all day and
pretty much all of the evening. Drop in anytime.
Credits
Rose Atkins
Andy Thompson
Steve Newhouse
Andrew Tseng
Jon Jordan
Phil Dodd
Farhad Islam
Charlie Leary
Kamran Malik
Penguin
Richard
Tony Grew
Phill Henry
Rachel Mountford
Jane Hoyle
Apologies i f I have
forgotten anyone, but
my brain ceased to
function about five
hours ago.
C A R E E R S I N F O R M A T I O N
Careers Talks - Held in the Clore Lecture
Theatre, Huxley, 1pm - 1.50pm. No booking
necessary, just turn up:
Tue 5th Oct. 'Introducing the Careers Service'
by John Simpson, Director, IC Careers Service.
Thu 7th Oct. 'Graduate Study in the USA' by Dr
David Stuckey, a former US Scholar, now in
Chemical Engineering.
W a r n i n g - Although there may be more
vacancies in 1994, the competition will still be
severe.
Advice - Apply early, use the Milkround and
visit the Careers Service, Room 310, Sherfield,
10am to 5.15pm, Mon to Fri. A duty adviser is
available between 1pm and 2pm, or you can
book an individual talk by phoning 3251.
• F R E S H H A I R S A L O N •
the best s t u d e n t offer in l o n d o n !
C U T &
B L O W D R Y
£ 1 4 L A D I E S
£ 1 2 M E N
Normal price : £28!
1 minute walk from South Kensington Tube Station!1
.
C a l l : 0 7 1 8 2 3 8 9 6 8
15A H A R R I N G T O N R O A D , S O U T H K E N S I N G T O N , L O N D O N SW7 3ES

