6 Reviews
Sam Baldwin (Tom Hanks) with his 'cute' son Jonah (Ross Malinger)
Sleepless in
Seattle
Starring: Tom Hanks, Meg Ryan
Director: Nora Ephron
Running Time: 105 mins
What if you heard someone on the radio, and
without ever meeting, you knew they were the
perfect person for you? Sleepless in Seattle takes
us through the ultimate blind date fantasy. Annie
Reed (Meg Ryan) hears an agony programme on
her car radio one Christmas Eve and falls for the
voice of Sam Baldwin (Tom Hanks).
Sam has been widowed for 18 months and
can't come to terms with his loss, while his cute
son Jonah (Ross Malinger) has resorted to
ringing up radio agony aunts to solve his father's
problems. Annie Reed is engaged to predictable
Walter (Bill Pullman) and is subconsciously
searching for that fateful 'magic' encounter with
the man of her dreams.
Once the initial connection is made, the film
goes through a series of events that lead us to an
inevitable conclusion. This film is an antidote to
all the recent violence and explicit sex of
Hollywood movies. The style is very similar to
iMlMMMSMM
The Fugitive
Starring: Harrison Ford and Tommy Lee Jones
Director: Andrew Davis
Running Time: 140 mins
Harrison Ford plays a reputable Chicago
surgeon who is charged with murdering his
wife. Unable to prove his story of being
attacked by a one armed man he is convicted
and sentenced to prison.
While being transferred from a prison, he
manages to escape and becomes a fugitive,
hunted by the police and the Federal authorities.
Under their relentless pressure he tries to clear
his name and find the true murderer.
The chase is led by a Federal Marshall,
Tommy Lee Jones, who starts to believe in
Ford's innocence as the chase continues.
However, Ford stays one step ahead of them
while outwitting his pursuers.
A good film to watch that shares many
locations with the 'Blues Brothers'. The plot
moves swiftly, leading to the eventual
unmasking of the killer. Ford's recollection of
the events of his wife's murder that evening are
told through a series of flashbacks that become
longer and more detailed during the film as his
memory improves.
A very watchable film.
Blodwin
'When Harry Met Sally' with a soundtrack of
old hits ('When I Fall In Love', 'As Time Goes
By') with close friends lending an ear and advice
to the lonely singles. However, even with all
these parallels the film lacks the humour and the
tension that made 'When Harry Met Sally' so
watchable. Sleepless in Seattle is directed by
Nora Ephron who wrote the screenplay for
Boiling Point
Starring: Wesley Snipes, Dennis Hopper
Director: James B Harris
Running Time: 93 mins
Why Wesley Snipes didn't insist on having his
name withdrawn from the credits will no doubt
become one of life's biggest mysteries. Come to
think of it, why did he even agree to do the film
in the first place? Surely he doesn't need the
work that desperately?
If you haven't guessed already, this film's a
bit of a doozy (that's bad). The original novel,
Money Men by Gerald Petievich, was probably
good or at least readable, but James Harris, who
wrote the screenplay and directed the film, must
take all of the criticisms that the film begs for.
The story's about a U.S. treasury agent,
'When Harry Met Sally', hence the similarities.
Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan play their parts
well as new man and dizzy blonde, but Ross
Malinger is just another cute Hollywood child.
This film is worth watching if you want to see a
good old fashioned romance, but if you're after
realism, forget it.
Kamran Malik.
Jimmy Mercer (Snipes), avenging his partner's
death after a double cross over some counterfeit
money. The bad guy is called 'Red' Diamond
(Hopper), a con-man recently out of prison who
is conning his young jail-mate into shooting
everyone for him.
Harris tries desperately to draw parallels
between the lives of Mercer and Diamond and
does so by switching between the characters in
the same annoying way a baby does with a
remote control in the middle of your favourite
programme.
The film is stuffed with people who tried to
get into the film business about 10 years ago,
probably because they're now past it and going
cheap. M y guess is that Harris put his reputation
as a "highly respected Hollywood veteran" (as
the film's blurb insists he is) on the line to get
this made. In which case he's lost it.
Penguin
If you fancy reviewing films, theatre, music,
books, opera or exhibitions, drop in to the
Felix Office (far left hand corner of Beit Quad)
and see what's available.
FilmSoc's screenings for this month are on the back page

