8 Reviews
In The Summer
House
This British premiere starts with Mrs Cuevas
and her daughter, Molly, conversing in their
house in the early 1950s. Enter M r Solares, a
wooer of Mrs Cuevas, who persuades her to
marry him; Lionel, a sales-type person who falls
in love with Molly and Vivian, a hyperactive
child who stays for a while. The result is a
brilliantly structured and very deep story that is
surprisingly light hearted on many occasions.
The cast masterfully play their characters,
especially Dana Ivey as Mrs Constable who
played one of the most convincing drunkards I
have ever seen. Others to note were Rosemary
Harris (Mr Cuevas), Robin Weaver (Vivian) and
Roland Curram (Mr Solares).
An engrossing and meaningful play that will
make you laugh, think, laugh some more, think
some more and then applaud loudly.
Harry
Lyric Hammersmith until Oct 9th. Cones
available. All tickets £7.50 every Monday
evening. Mike McShane in 'Exact Change' is
the next production by the Lyric; so book now!
Bohemian
Lights
The Gate's refurbishment into a swishy style
theatre complete with air conditioning and
comfy seats marks a new era for a renowned
theatre.
But the renown has been tarnished with a
crude and truly awful adaptation of a Spanish
comedy that demands the execution of the
adaptor, David Johnston.
He chose to set the play in Dublin and
surround the story with Irish politics, Irish
history, Irish accents, Irish gratuitous swearing
that sounds mis-placed and a couple of talented
violinists added, I think, to enhance the already
Irishness of the play.
The result, despite a clever and atmospheric
set, is a comedy that now becomes depressing
and morbid. Setting it in Ireland was a mistake.
Any comedy is soon asphyxiated by the Irish
politics/history.
The story is of a old, blind poet who wanders
the streets one night after 'obtaining' a large
sum of money and then dies later. He encounters
various low-lifes that are either selling sex,
alcohol or both and he also gets thrown into
prison for good measure.
Tony Rohr, as the main character, adds to the
morbidness with his role as the poet. He
switches from acting like a true blind man in one
sentence to acting like a normal 20:20 vision
bloke who is simply wearing dark glasses.
The other characters seem false as well. Is
this to do with bad acting, bad research, or the
possible fact that the entire Irish culture, as seen
by the adaptor, is some sort of lie, or full of lies?
I have not got the answer to this question, but
I would love to have it. In the mean time, I will
have say that you must visit the Gate Theatre
because it is now a sexy place. But the play that
they are currently showing is far from remotely
lovable.
Florence
Gate Theatre, above the Prince Albert Pub,
Notting Hill. Mon-Sat 7.30pm until 23rd Oct.
Cones £5 (Mon-Thu only).
ABTA (99209) IATA
I WITH
* STA TRAVEL
STUDENTS CAN AFFORD
TO SEE IT ALL.
Imperial College
Sheffield Building SW7
WHEREVER YOU'RE BOUND, WE'RE BOUND TO HAVE BEEN.
STA TRAVEL

