Reviews
Hair
Exactly 25 years ago, Hair shocked many and the
anti-war message had real meaning. Now, Hair is
more like a trip down memory lane with its flares,
pom-pom hairstyles and anti-war (and anti-
American) message.
From the opening song 'Aquarius', I was
captivated throughout the almost bearable two and
three quarter hours by a generation that I was never
taught about at school. For me, Hair was more of
an education than a chance to clap along to the
songs and remember the good old days. I did clap
anyway because I loved them all and although the
clothes are dated, the songs seemed as fresh as the
day they were written.
The elements of the original 1968 version are
still in it: nudity, swearing, love, peace, flowers,
pot, audience participation, a drag artist (don't ask!)
and of course, lots and lots of sex.
With all its stars and strobe lights and revolving
stage, Hair is now a reminder of the ideals of the
sixties, what the sixties meant and what it did or did
not do for the world. Go and see Hair for the very
good songs and quite a potent blast from the past.
Henri and Henrietta
Old Vic. Mon-Sat 7.45pm. £8-£25. (Don't bother
with ticketsfor the exclusive seats. They are crap.)
(P.S. John Barrowman: you are a lily-livered
coward for not stripping. Henrietta was looking
forward to seeing your talent all evening and not
once did she get a chance to use her measuring
tape. - Henri.)
lull
An Inspector
Calls
An ingenious play by J.B.Priestly that is fronted
by a myriad of stars is ruined by the symbolistic
and highly pretentious production.
It starts in a 'normal' sort of way: the family
are having dinner and then suddenly a Police
Inspector calls. The rest evolves from there and
everyone at the table, with the exception of the
maid, is involved.
But as soon as the Inspector is invited inside
and the psychotic looking stage house opens out,
I felt that bitter sensation of disappointment in
my mind, and knew instantly that the producer
had effortlessly obtained a PhD in arty-
fartyness, without even having to reading the
credits in the programme.
It's a shame to see class talent (Julian Glover
and Kenneth Cranham, to name but two), not
such much wasted, but de-emphasised by a
pompous and self-important producer.
There are some good points in the play, apart
from the quality actors. The humour is very
funny and also very deep, with most of it being
delivered by the women. And the set is a lot of
things at the same time; it is frightening,
beautiful, convincing, but alas the talent used to
colour and paint it was wasted by its eventual
use by the producers.
I know it is possibly improper to compare
books and films and plays, but the book is better
than play and the black and white film starring
Alistair Syms as the Inspector is the best of all.
Money spent on the book or the film is a
shrewder investment than spending money on
tickets for this version of what was a damn good
story.
Harry
Aldwych, WC2. Prices start at £7.50. Mon-Fri
7.45pm. Sat 5pm and 8.15pm.
Free film and
theatre tickets!
Drop into the Felix Office and
see what we've got available.
All we ask for in return is a review.
It's as easy as that!
Grease
Craig MacLachghlan's and Debbie Gibson's
voices have improved considerably since their
pop career debuts. They put on an excellent
performance that is second only to the 1978
film. They both fit into the roles of Danny and
Sandy perfectly, and obviously enjoyed their
parts well. Both deserved the deafening
applause at the end and I feel that it was them
that the audience were crying out for when they
shouted for more.
The rest of the cast fit well into their roles as
well, except for Rizzo, whose part wasn't
played with enough rebellion and spice. The T-
Birds and Pink Ladies are good and once or
twice they actually surpass the characters in the
film. Shane Ritchie was brilliant as Kenickie
and could follow a career in singing.
The stage is lit up in true fifties style and the
costumes stick well to the fifties era. However,
certain production hiccups are apparent for
when the scene changes, the audience can be
left waiting for up to thirty seconds, which can
be irritating and disappointing for some.
As the show flies towards its finale, the
whole thing becomes one giant sing-a-long,
with the audience standing up, clapping, and
yelling at the top of their voices. It was almost
as rowdy as Rocky Horror but it was true family
entertainment with only a very, very small sign
of sex and sexual innuendos.
This is the best West End play at the
moment and it beats the pants off Sunset. The
Dominion have a winner on their hands and I
hope it's still there in years to come.
Harry
Dominion Theatre. Mon-Sat 7.30pm. £10-£25.
Booked solid until next year. Only cliance is a
standby, an hour before the show.
All you need to know about Freshers' Fair - see centre pages

