4 F E L I X
C O M M E N T
b
y WILLIAM SHUT
" rt/VO IT Ml^KTBE <,oo» ii>ef>
iryou 6P£/yT 5jmc vYoua FULL
W n t ON » H»>«.CJT
THE EVER POPULAR TOPIC OF (HURTS has again
reared i t s ugly head. Those who are unfortunate
enough to l i v e i n places where the local education
authorities hare not followed most i n giving the
handsone State-recommended grants,are eoajilmining.
There i s a point that i s not made as often as
i t should be en
this subject. I n
several places
of my own know-
ledge, a student
receiving a Loc-
al Education
Authority's
grant gets the
same as, and
often more than,
a student on a
State Scholarship
in similar c i r -
cumstances.
There appears
. to be no point
in working '.or and winning a State Scholarship i f
there i s to be no reward. IT CERTAINLY IS NOT WORTH
IT JUST FOR THE KUDOS.
A friend of mine, motivated by curiosity, decid-
ed to partake of his lunch i n the new U.L.U building.
Se, and three friends.entered the citadel without
the new "passports" (like a l l good I.C. men, they
scorn the idea) and f i r s t had to ask where the
cloakroom was - there was no notice to direct them.
Having satisfied that objective they then wished to
find a t o i l e t . There were again no directing signs
and no one to help them. They explortd the maze of
passages and eventually found the room (sic) i n the
nick of time. Weary tramping along endless passages
and up endless s t a i r s , aided adversely by "helpful"
suggestions, with no notices or 'signposts' to help
tnem, brought them to the bar. I t was closed, but no
notice on the door to say so. The distant sound of
voices led them along unsignposted galleries to the
refectory where they found a queue. In order to get
to the back of this queue they descended several
flights of stairs. After an unannounced ten minutes
the refectory was declared open. They did not have to
wait long, and my friend informs me that the meal
was a Jolly sight better than any available at I.C.
I w i l l f o r e s t a l l Ur. Alec Leaver, who i s going
to write to explain that the place i s not yet compl-
eted and signs are shortly to be put up. THEY SHOULD
HAVE BEEN THKKK WHEN THE BUILDING OPENED. U.L.U.
should have spent the money on them which they wasted
on Union Cards WHICH ARE NO LONGER ASKED FOR.
HOST OF US ENJOY THE "GOON SHOW". I t provides
the best kind of comical r e l i e f from the s c i e n t i f i c
and the technological. That there should be many
people going round the college and the hostel imit-
ating the voices of the characters i n this progr-
amme does not reflect the high average intelligence
of I.C. men and women. This imitation i s not clever,
anyone can do i t . I t , i s not funny, so many people
are doing i t . IT IS THE TRANSFER OF THE SUBLIME TO
THE RIDICULOUS.
A WORD OF PRAISE would not be amiss i n this
column. Dipping my pen, therefore, into the treacle
instead of the vinegar, l e t praise be given to the
Imperial College Exploration Board. The college
owes them gratitude for the sterling work that thej
are doing on our behalf. I am sure that there w i l l
be many volunteers to assist i n getting together
and checking the various parties' k i t and stores.
Uuch of the success of these expeditions w i l l de-
pend on the work put into the preparation for them.
We shall not l e t them down on that score-
— •
column C o r r e s p o n d e n c e ^ b e ^ e s s e a to\'
M i l Shut, c/o The Secretary, F i l i a l .
In bed with 'flu',
S
.
W
. 2.
January 20th.
Dear 3ir,
Last friday, your Viewpoint writer who modestly styles
himself "TFere Atkinson", chose to attack the last editorial
of Phoenix. I say "ohose" deliberately, for a slight exam-
ination reveals far more in favour of the article than other-
wise. In fact, the aotual arguments against the editorial
seem to me the weaknesses off a powerful piece of vindictive
writing.
The editorial states: "the formation off any new cluk
is now" (i.e. THIS SESSION) "opposed by the S.C.C. Executive".
Viewpoint counters this by pointing to the formation! of the
Wine_Tastiag CLub "barely six months ago" (but LAST SESSION
and before the present S.C.C. Executive was even electedl)
Again Viewpoint speaks of "flourishing'' sub-groups
working harmoniously for several years with their parent
bodies. I had personal experience of the events leading up
to the disintegration of the old Political Society into its
sub-groups, and I can assure you relations were far firom
harmonious.
"Hike Neale 3aid", (with an air of authority bearing tb.
hall-mark of a Cbunail meeting - or the Bar) that amalga-
mates of club was more in keeping with the University spirit,
well, i f the S.C.C. can be taken as a cross-section, the
resounding defeat they gave their Executive on the subject
would seem to belie the statement, Incidentally, I have the
personal assurance of the Chairman of the S.C.C. that even he
was uninformed of these interesting sentiments of a former
President of I.C.
I am sorry I cannot reply more fully to Viewpoint than
this but unfortunately I have been laid up all week and have
bean unable to get a copy of Eelix. My reply i s then de-
pendent an my memory holding firm over the last week. I
must thank "Tere Atkinson " for easing my task.
lours sincerely,
the Editor,
of the Autumn issue of Phoenix.
R.S.M. Bessemer Lab.
13th January, 1956.
Dear Sir,
Whilst first complimentiiig you and an obviously reduced
staff on the production of Felix No. 85 so early in the term,
I must nevertheless deprecate your deplorable spelling. I
understand that lelix possesses a dictionary. If, when
any member of the Eelix staff genuinely refers to this stan-
dard work, the event is reoorded, I will gladly award One
Quart of best beer to the highest scorer an. June 22nd.
lours etc.,
Tweedledum.
c & a.,
llth January, 1S56.
ear Six,
I have found the frivolity of the Editorial in the
Autumn edition of Phoenix faintly amusing.
On one hand tears are shed on the cruel fate that has
Befallen the Marxists; an attempt is even made at arrousing
Methodist passions, but on the other hand the author appeals
to out down the no. of S.C.C Societies with facetious sug-
gestions of merging the Societies that have a marked resem-
blance with 3 "Hints for Housewives":- "mix well, add salt
and pepper serve hot or cold."
I else find little convincing the appeal for putting
the 3.C.C. cart of its misery without any supporting evidence
of that misery.
Tours faithfully,
A. Kalhonme. (OSfi'

