F E L I X
^ S p o r t s N e w s !
SPORTS EDITORIAL
It would appear, from the paucity of back-page news,
that the Sports Editor will shortly be relegated to Sport Ed.
Everyone is remarkably reticent concerning their athletic
and allied defeats, and the Hockey Club, having lost three
eonseoutive games, flatly refused to appear in print at a l l .
I.C.W.S.C., faced with the prospect of having a season
full of cancelled matches "owing to inclemency of weather",
have begun arranging "ghost fixtures" in which they pretend
to wipe their opponents off the map. This is good for
morale and costs nothing in fares and broken sticks.
We hear that the Cross-Country Club are going en bloc
to the Carnival. These gentlemen are fast off the mark and
have a very strong finish. Should the Carnival be
handicapped?
GOLF
The Golfing Association i s once more having a most
successful season. Having been undefeated last season
the team has so far had very convincing wins in the five
matches played to date, and is looking forward confide
ently to the remaining games to be played.
Many beginners haws i
»
r
o
f
i
t
j
2
d
. from the series of group
lessens which has been arranged with the professional at
Highgate. Some have shown outstanding progress and will
probably do very well in the Captain1
a Cup khook-out com-
petition where they can take full advantage of their handi-
cap allowance.
Golf is somewhat dormant at the moment, mo3t people
being content with an odd game now and then to keep i n prac-
tice. Competitive events to be held later in the season
include the Spring Meeting ('.Tentworth) on March 22nd, the
'Weekend' (Cooden Beach) on April 20th-22nd and the Summer
Meeting (Camberley Heath) on June 22nd. The'Annual Dinner
will be held on February 27th when i t i s hoped that some
personality of the golfing world will be present.
Further information concerning these events will be
given at the General Meeting an February 2nd. (Committee
Room A. 1.15 p.m.)
SOCCER CLUB
t
f
.
I
» Gup 2nd Hound v- Goldsmiths' jfgn 5-^
For this match I.C. had to travel to meet Goldsmiths'
College. About half of the team had been to the Guilds'
Carnival the previous night, many players sti 11 showed signs
of a hangover, and consequently there was some doubt about
the eventual result of this important game.
However,I.C. played together very well in what was a very
exciting game. At half-time Goldsmiths' held a 3-1 lead, but
I.C. fought back strongly and Gordon Green clinched matters
in the last minute with a well-taken goal. I.C. now meet
L.S.E. on February 15th in the semi-final of the cup.
The first XI have played only, two matches so far this
term. Westminster defeated us by 4 goals to 2 in a game
Where I.C. were definitely outplayed, although at the same
time i t should be mentioned that Dennis Moore was injured
in. the initial stages of the game and had to continue on the
wing. This injury was mo3t unfortunate i n that i t is most
unlikely that he will be f i t for the Cup semi-final on Feb-
ruary 15th. Although L.S.E., our opponents i n this match,
have beaten us 5-1 i n the League, i t is felt that we have
a sporting chance of reaching the final King's trounoed
the L.S.E. team 5-1 t
»
v
o week3 ago, and I.C. were unlucky
to lose to King's by the only goal last week, when a def-
laite improvement was noticed in the side. We hope that
a l l members Trill endeavour to support the team on Feb. 15th,
and that with more fitness and sobriety in the side they
will give a good account of themselves.
Although the A.C.C. do not provide a tour grant until
next year, i t i s hoped that a tour can be arranged in the
forthcoming Easter vacation. We have already written to
Delft concerning this but unfortunately no reply has yet
been received. Those of the Club who had the pleasure of
entertaining the Delft. Studenten Club da Bugby oa their rec-
ent visit will realise that a visit to Delft is.the obvious
choice for such a tour. Bbwever, the Secretary would be very
oleased to received any alternative suggestions.
A letter has been received from Bsmptan b m u r School
thanking the 2nd. XI far the two enjoyable fixtures. It app-
ears that a l l the school sides enjoy these fixtures as much
is we do, and i t i s certainly a fitting way to prepare them
fcr University sooner.
I. C. W . A. on the Table
The I.C.W.A. Table Tennis Team played their first league
match against Westfield's 1st. three last Tuesday unfor-
tunately the match was lost, 7-3, but Jennifer Haywood i s to
be congratulated on winning two out of three of her games.
The doubles match resulted in an easy win for Westfield, due
possibly to the fact that the I.C. pair have very limited
opportunity far practice.
Links Trophy Award
At the xast meeting of the A t h l e t i c Clubs
Committee the Links Memorial Trophy was awarded
to the Swimming Club as being, i n the Committee's
opinion, the a t h l e t i c club with the most Improved
record during the past year.
To celebrate t h i s , the 2nd team beat N.E.C.
1st team 5-2 a t St. Mary's Hospital hatha eight
days ago.
RUGBY CLUB
Perhaps the first mention 3hould be the glorious
last week of the autumn term when the 1st. X7 beat NSC
62-0, setting up an unofficial record and followed i t
by trouncing university vandals to the tune of 53-0,
making a total of 115 pts. to n i l in one week.
Since then has been the Christmas vac. and a visit
from Delft - already reported - , the result was that
a much too confident team went to Reading to play the
university. We were rather flattered by the result
winning 18-8. In much the same confident vein the team
allowed!Kingjs to gain a half time lead of 3-0 at Jlit-
oham. Just as the forwards began to pull their weight
Pete Kale was injured and the last 25mins were contested
with only seven forwards. The rest of the game reflects
^reat credit an the team for they several times almost
scored and finally lost 8-0. The 2nd and A XV's both
wan their games with Kings 3-0, 20-3, redeeming the sit-
uation slightly.
The next few weeks will show whether the lesson
has been learnt, for this terms fixtures are extremely
hard.
Apologies to the C XV for the cancellations this
term but the answer lies in better and more consistent
support for the lower sides.
UAL) Championship
On Saturday, Feb. 11th (the day after the
Carnival) the Universities A t h l e t i c Union Cross-
country Championships w i l l be held on Wimbledon
Common. I t i s hoped that London w i l l win t h i s
event, and that the individual winner w i l l be
Evans of I.C.
Further details w i l l be published l a t e r .
FIRST TEAM FIXTURES
Saturday 28th. January.
Rugger. v. R.A.E. Farnborough H.
Hockey. v. Keble College (Oxford) A.
Cross Country v. "
I.C.W.S.C. Netball
Tuesday 31st. January.
_ s q u a s h v. St. Georges
February
Wednesday Ist.
f o o t b a l l
Q.M.C.
V. Maria Grey H
(A)
R.S.M.
Tech. Cup R.C.S. v.
Saturday 4th. February
Rugger v. St. Johns (Camb.) (H)
Football v. St. Marks & St. Johns
Hockey v. High Wycombe (A)
Cross Country v. B r i s t o l
Wednesday 8 t h . February
Hotkey G. v. R^C.S.
Cross Country v. Q.M.C.
Football v. E.S.E.
Thursday 9th. February
Squash v. Ibis (A)
Chess v. u.C. (H)
(H)
(A)
(H)
(A)
PublishedfcyFELIX BOARD, Imperial College Union. London, S
.
W
.
7
Printed by VM. WOUS PLAIT Ltd.. 307s, Telephone Place. London, W.I4.

