FEATURE
FELIX
Friday 04 MAY 2012
10
features.felix@gmail.com
Features Editors: Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith
Unseen Imperial
More anonymous accounts of students and their experiences with depression
T
here are some aspects of
our lives that we just don’t
talk about. This makes it
easy to think that we’re
alone in our experiences,
when in fact, we’re probably not.
Last term the Union asked the stu-
dent body to submit anonymous
accounts of their experiences of
mental health. Once again, the sin-
cerest of thanks to everyone who
took part:
I
n the second year of my degree
at the College I made an ap-
pointment to see my GP, not
because I had a chest infection
or another physical complaint
but because of something else. In the
6 months preceding this appointment,
my affect or mood had significantly
altered, a feeling of sadness that had
initially waxed and waned was re-
placed by a persistent flatness of mood
that progressively became more pro-
nounced, culminating in crying myself
to sleep on most nights.
Upon entering my GP’s office, my
response to her enquiring as to how
she could help was to burst into tears.
She asked what was making me feel
like this and I couldn’t tell her. She
then asked whether I had been feeling
suicidal and I replied that I had. She
responded with a tremendous compas-
sion that made me feel safe and calm,
reassuring me that everything would
be alright. To this day, her gentle and
caring response provides great solace.
I then filled out a questionnaire and
was subsequently diagnosed with de-
pression, prescribed a month’s course
of fluoxetine (Prozac) and referred to
the Priory clinic for psychotherapy.
My GP implored that I inform my par-
ents of our appointment and its out-
come.
As I exited the clinic I felt a powerful
sense of relief for I had finally begun
to confront this thing that was slowly
tearing me apart. For any person strug-
gling with suicidal thoughts, a consis-
tent blunted mood and/or a prolonged
disinterest in once cherished pastimes
later declined). The only thing that re-
ally helped me was being open with
the people that I was closest to and
also mediating with persons who had
inadvertently contributed to my feel-
ings of sadness. After letting things
fester inside you for so long, getting
such suppressed thoughts of your chest
is incredibly therapeutic.
I did reluctantly inform the college
of my predicament and they responded
with a great deal of respect and sup-
port. You will not be judged for being
depressed, there is a dedicated and
caring team who will support you in
any event. Don’t be afraid to let per-
sonal tutors etc know what is going
– do not remain pensive and isolated
with these ruminations, for they will
only get worse and more disabling for
you, the moment you seek support is
the moment where things start to get
better. Seeking support for depression
is an immensely hard thing to face up
to but a decision that eventually may
save your life.
Whilst I have described my diagno-
sis in a positive light, by no means was
this the catalyst for a speedy recovery
but it did mark the start of improve-
ments even if there were and still are
many obstacles. Unfortunately my
parents did not respond in the same
way as my kind GP and I found an-
tidepressants really didn’t help that
much; they left me feeling nauseous
in the morning, gave me an infrequent
resting tremor, exacerbated my weight
loss and ensured I had some rather sur-
real albeit slightly disturbing dreams.
Moreover, the Priory refused to see me
and instead referred to local services
for supportive counselling (which I
on, depression is a disabling afflic-
tion that negatively impacts on your
sense of worth, your relationships and
your studies and the College is acutely
aware of this and will do all it can to
ensure you return to good health whilst
staying on track with your course.
Since being diagnosed with depres-
sion, I have experienced two further
periods of intense sadness, similar to
when I was first sought help. During
these periods, a feeling of helplessness
and weakness yet again dominated
my thoughts and left me feeling dis-
traught. Again, in these moments of
desperation, speaking to loved ones
proved to be the most effective in al-
leviating such feelings.
It has been nearly seven months
since I last felt depressed as described
above, I increasingly feel extremely
about positive about my life, my re-
lationships and the future. I am now
more open about being depressed with
close friends and am more aware of my
triggers to feeling flat and feel confi-
dent I have can mitigate such things to
remain contented and enthused.
Being depressed is a dark and lonely
place to be but things do get better,
it will take time and it may not be a
smooth passage back to feeling like
you once did but once you to start to
be open with yourself and then with
friends and family, you are moving in
the right direction. Importantly, endur-
ing such a consuming and debilitating
illness will empower you with a great
sense of empathy for the many oth-
ers experiencing what you have been
through, enabling you to provide a
kind word and a tissue shoulder for
someone who will greatly appreciate
the support you will provide.
I have deliberately refrained from
Email icu-disabilities@imperial.ac.uk if you would like to share your anonymous experiences of topics that are not openly discussed
“She asked what was
making me feel like
this and I couldn’t
tell her”
“You will not be
judged for being de-
pressed”
“Things do get bet-
ter”

