FELIX
Friday 04 may 2012
14
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment Editors: Tim Arbabzadah
Sam Horti
COMMENT
FELIX
I
would like to start off by saying
from the bottom of my heart that
this note is not designed to of-
fend. I was urged to write this for
my own peace of mind and also
for those who put their hearts and souls
into supporting me. I hope to clarify
some events of the election, which may
not have come to light. Lastly, I would
also like to state that I would have re-
leased a similar article had the outcome
of the election been different.
As you probably know, I ran for
Union President during March. One
of the primary reasons for me running
was that I was fed up with the way the
College and departments were treating
some of the students, with low reported
student satisfaction affecting the uni-
versity’s position in the national league
tables. I also opposed the neglect some
students were receiving, such as the
absurdly small grants – compared to
other societies in the Union – given to
the OSC, which supports International
students. I believed I could have made a
tangible change.
What should have been an enjoy-
able campaign soon turned sour due to
the amount of negative campaigning I
faced during those weeks. One of my
opposition’s campaign team actively
went around spreading false rumours
about me such as: I was suspended from
my posts and banned from lectures,
amongst others. Furthermore, they ac-
cused me of being a racist and sexist,
despite my blunt demeanour this is a
completely false accusation and ex-
tremely offensive. I appreciate that the
opposing candidate had limited con-
trol over what his campaign team were
spreading, but questions must be asked,
when he allegedly said to a few of his
friends ‘I am going to find out all the
dirt I can about Abdul’ before the elec-
tions had even started. Members of
my own campaign team asked me if I
wanted to retaliate by doing the same,
to which I replied with ‘no don’t bother,
if I lose, at least I lost with integrity’. I
stick by those words.
This brings me onto my next point.
Many of you may have read the blog
titled ‘why you shouldn’t vote for Ab-
dul’. Whereas I believe the author is en-
titled to their beliefs and opinion, what
came later in the anonymous comment
section was horrifying. The majority
of the comments on that article were
fallacious and with malicious intent;
someone went as far as accusing me of
having a criminal record and another of
bringing the college to disrepute dur-
ing my time in Texas (which in fact
goes against the praise I received from
the International Office for my work
there). At the time I did not know how
to respond to this form of sabotage and,
maybe to my detriment, I felt it didn’t
warrant a response so decided to con-
centrate on my own positive campaign.
Another topic that has perplexed
many people is the negative campaign-
ing through the use of Twitter, most
notably, from ex-ICU president Alex
Kendall. During the live ‘Meet the Can-
didates’show on the elections webpage,
live tweets were displayed on the side
for all to see. During which, Kendall
accused me of being disciplined by the
college. This unfounded lie was in due
course dealt with by the Union and as
such Kendall had to issue an apology
tweet under the instruction of the re-
turning officer, Michael Foster. How-
ever, the apology tweet acknowledging
that what he said wasn’t true only came
a couple of days after the initial one so
the damage was already done and, due
to the high profile of the author, the
original tweet had a significant detri-
mental impact. Regardless, during the
following week he dedicated the bulk
of his tweets on the ‘#voteicu’ twitter
page to attacking me. He refers to me as
a ‘homophobic bully’ and reminds peo-
ple not to vote for me, seldom giving an
explanation as to why any of the other
candidates would be more suitable.
Many people may wonder what created
this hatred he has towards me. Last year
during the summer elections, a friend of
mine (who asked not to be named) was
subjected to harassment from Kendall
and he went as far as calling that person
My view on the elections
‘bloody pathetic’ amongst other things
in emails (proof can be supplied on re-
quest). It got so bad that he reduced this
person to tears after a Union court case.
Seeing this I confronted him about his
actions. In response, he filed two com-
plaints against me to the college tu-
tors for homophobia and intimidation,
based on what other people put on my
Facebook page. After realising that the
evidence was weak and he was over-
reacting, the college tutors dismissed
his accusations.
I did, on multiple occasions, appeal
to the election committee and the re-
turning officer about these unsavoury
tactics and if anything could be done
to prevent members of the opposi-
tion’s campaign team from spreading
these libellous and malicious rumours.
Almost all of my appeals were readily
dismissed and the impression I got was
that there was a huge bias against me. It
was as if the selection had already been
made on who was to become the new
President before the election had even
started. When having the audacity to
attempt something different by parad-
ing through campus with a megaphone
(which is a common occurrence in other
universities during campaign week) I
was issued with a fine and threatened
with, amongst other things, disqualifi-
cation. Dealing with these complaints is
one of the reasons why the Presidential
results took so long to be released.
Some of you may ask me why I both-
ered to write this article and what I hope
to achieve. I am not expecting any fur-
ther action to be taken and my time in
the Union is almost over. All I ask for
is the truth to be released and to make
students aware of it. The Union boasts
about its diverse and democratic nature
but in my personal opinion, after the
recent treatment I was subjected to, I
would argue otherwise.
Are you boss?
Well then,
head on over
to: felixon-
line.co.uk to
get your voice
heard.
Abdul Patel
So somebody’s been elected London
Mayor, apparently. When it comes down
to those gosh darn Thursday elections,
Felix finds itself in the unenviable posi-
tion of not being able to report on who
won. Anyway, as tempting as it might
have been for Felix to run an incredibly
localised and ultimately wildly inac-
curate exit poll, we didn’t particularly
wish to tempt fate. What is fact, howev-
er, is the potential clout that students
had in the vote. With nearly 450,000
London-based students eligible to list
their preferences for Mayor of London
and members of the London Assembly,
a real difference could have been made
to the results if all were to stand up
and be counted. Of course, this wasn’t
entirely the case.
The ability for students to be able to
vote for Mayor of London is something
that should be seized with both hands.
The manifesto points of the candidates
have a real difference in the day-to-
day lives of Londoners. Yet, there are
inevitably those who didn’t go to the
polling booth. One prevalent excuse
from those I’ve discussed the election
with was that they simply “couldn’t be
bothered”. Is this really acceptable?
It’s one thing to vote for a candidate
for a reason, but not being aware when
the decision makes a real difference
to life in London? That’s another thing
entirely.
There’s also the issue that the con-
test has been veering towards a war
of words and personality, much to its
detriment. From the usual Boris gaffes
to the much debated Ken tax affair
there has been distressingly few prop-
er discussions and debate between
candidates that didn’t descend into
mud slinging. Even the live debates
have been little more than candidates
attacking other candidates. It’s little
wonder that while there are those who
fervently oppose candidates, there are
those who simply can’t make head nor
tail of the situation. And this isn’t a
situation that we should be in.
An issue connected to this election
and one that divides Londoners to the
same degree are the upcoming Olym-
pic Games. For those who despair at
the bill, there are those who fervently
believe in the resulting legacy. Then
there are those who don’t particularly
mind that much at all. They should be
caring about this and the Mayor of Lon-
don. Beyond the rhetoric and campaign
trail, there are real changes that will be
affecting the city we work, study and
live in.
To vote or not to vote:
what’s the problem?
RON came last after a strong campaign for President. He has Hermione, so doesn’t care

