God, redemption, religion, the forces of
good and evil. It is hard to tackle these none
too light topics in a manner which doesn’t
become cumbersome. Peter Cadwell did it
in The Fighter’s Ballad, but confronts the
bull head-on – the film is no laughing mat-
ter. Enda Walsh’s Misterman deals with
similar ideas of Right and Wrong, albeit
couched in the very Irish and Catholic set-
ting of Innisfree – a small isle lagooned in
the Emerald Isle.
Whether or not one could call Misterman
a comedy is difficult to say. Cillian Mur-
phy’s slapstick careering about the stage in
veritable circus style, hurling props, scram-
bling eggs and spraying the stage with his
saliva lend Walsh’s production a humour
which is distinct contrast to the play’s grave
messages and violent ending.
Murphy is the only actor but this is eas-
ily forgotten amid the colossal set – which
extends some twenty metres from the audi-
ence – the jumble of paraphernalia that pop-
ulates Holy Fool Thomas Magill’s decrepit
warehouse dwelling, feats of lighting that
would put New Year’s Eve to shame, sound
design on a huge and innovative scale and
Murphy’s stellar rendering of Thomas and
the ten-odd other inhabitants of Innisfree he
meets as he pops out to the shops to pick his
Mammy up some Jammy Dodgers.
Walsh has created an experience as well
as a play. The imagination is allowed to run
wild – A= myriad of gaps is left for us to fill
in. Aesthetically it is glorious.
The play’s premise and flow I found to be
patchy and at times unfathomable. And it’s
deeper and more religious passages were
a bit too tedious for this lapsed Catholic.
But Walsh’s script had moments of rapid
wit and jocularity that were brought to life
wonderfully by Murphy, who gives a star-
tling high-octane level of performance for
the complete ninety minutes.
One wonders whether Walsh has been
inspired and influenced by Philip Ridley’s
earlier plays. Misterman, written in 1999,
is a surreal and messy depiction of reality
where the sublime is twisted up with the
violent and a young person lives in squa-
lor and his own inner world. Jamie Vartan’s
epic set design certainly recalls those used
in recent productions of Ridley’s plays
Mercury Fur and The Pitchfork Disney. But
the light of heart and stomach need fear not:
Misterman is most definitely not a Ridley
play.
Misterman runs until 28 May at the Na-
tional Theatre (Lyttleton). Tickets start
at £5 for 16-25 year olds.
FELIX
Friday 04 MAY 2012
18
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal
ARTS
The Poet’s Column
Caz Knight
Cillian
Murphy
Mesmeric
in NT’s
Mistermen
Will Prince
Yes, people. It’s that time of year again! Exam
season. And you know what that means? You
guessed it! Felix, like a crack-addled va-
grant, becomes a gaunt shell of its Autumn
and Spring term self as we struggle to fill the
column inches in the face of exam terror. But
luckily for us here at the Arts section, the Turn-
er prize nominees were announced earlier this
week, presenting us with a cracking opportu-
nity to print loads of photos with minimal text.
Sounding more like a late entry to the Grand
National than an art prize nominee, Spartacus
Chetwynd entered the public consciousness
this week for her (at times Star Wars inspired)
living sculpture pieces. Luke Fowler received
a nomination for his cinematic work explor-
ing the life of his fellow compatriot, the Scot-
tish psychiatrist R.D. Laing, as did northerner
Paul ‘Our Paul’ Noble for his classcial take on
Google Street View. Elizabeth Price got the fi-
nal nod, for something like what Luke Fowler
did, but not as good.
Turner Prize: What’s
art got to do with it?
It’s competition time, yo!
The lovely folks at Festival of the Spoken Nerd have
given us a pair of tickets to their upcoming sell-out
show π-curious at The Bloomsbury Theatre on 21
May. Blue Peter’s resdient science expert Steve
Mould, stand-up mathematician Matt Parker and
geek songstress Helen Arney (a product of Impe-
rial’s very own Physics department) lead the au-
dience through an evening of scientific adventure
and comedy, described by the Edinburgh fringe
bible, Three Weeks, as ‘riotously funny’.
To be in with a chance of winning, we’re asking
you to send us in a π-ku (think a haiku but with
a mathematical slant) to the email at the top of
the page, and you and a friend could be spending
an evening breaking the exam monotony in a way
that practically counts as revision. Get writing and
good luck!
George Lucas’ latest changes to the Original Trilogy caused some distress
Look into my eyes, my eyes, my eyes, no, not around my eyes, look into my eyes
Our money’s not on Paul Noble
The sunlight on the garden
Hardens and grows cold,
We cannot cage the minute
Within its nets of gold,
When all is told
We cannot beg for pardon.
Our freedom as free lances
Advances towards its end;
The earth compels, upon it
Sonnets and birds descend;
And soon, my friend,
We shall have no time for dances.
The sky was good for flying
Defying the church bells
And every evil iron
Siren and what it tells:
The earth compels,
We are dying, Egypt, dying
And not expecting pardon,
Hardened in heart anew,
But glad to have sat under
Thunder and rain with you,
And grateful too
For sunlight on the garden.
The Sunlight on the Garden
by Louis Macneice

