5/4 Respect: A Tribute
to Math Rock
MUSIC
FELIX
Friday 04 MaY 2012
20
music.felix@gmail.com
Music Editors: Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Ross Gray Mark England
Alex Ramadan
Simon Hunter
T
he band is The Dandy Warhols.
The location is the Kentish Town
Forum. The mission? To start a
mosh pit. My friend, a die-hard
punk fan who is also coming to
see the gig remains sceptical. A band known
for producing radio-friendly power pop hits
to supplement their back catalogue of psyche-
delic stoner rock is – in theory at least – un-
likely to attract the energetic and robust crowd
required to partake in behaviour traditionally
more suited to more aggressive forms of mu-
sic.
We enter the venue halfway through the
warm up act – an electro band called AKDK
who are two drummers/synth players playing
arbitrary combinations of either instrument in
a largely improvised set. A little rough around
the edges and somewhat downbeat, the music
itself is decent but lacks the dynamism that
characterises good warm up performances.
After a quick soundcheck, it is time for the
main event. Courtney, Zia, Pete and Fathead
stride onto the stage, each kitted in their own
individual styles. There is the customary roar
of anticipation as we await the first notes.
Without delay the mesmeric ‘Be-In’ ser-
enades a swaying crowd, slowly gathering in
numbers. Although one of their lesser known
songs, it is a perfect opener, gently building
the atmosphere, priming us for what is to
come. Second song of the night is the rous-
ing ‘We Used to Be Friends’ followed without
pause by the classic ‘Not If You Were the Last
Junkie on Earth’, causing ripples of excite-
ment to swirl through the crowd.
With over 140 songs in their arsenal, the
Dandy Warhols have the same dilemma that
afflicts most established bands, where their
need to showcase new material must be bal-
anced with the demands of fans to play the
more popular songs. In this regard they
achieve the ideal blend, following a string
of crowd-pleasers with a selection from the
new album This Machine. The band, and in
particular singer Courtney interact minimally
with the audience, but are always completely
in tune with their adoring fans. A short toi-
let break for Zia causes Courtney to lead us
through an acoustic sing-along of ‘Every Day
Should be a Holiday’. The fact he messes up
the chords on the first time only endears him
to us more.
The original plan for moshing seems like it
may not achieve fruition. Sizing up the audi-
ence it seems that everyone is either over 50
or has come as part of a couple. Squares of
blue pepper the audience – the ever ubiquitous
mobile phones used to create a snapshot of the
moment – and my neighbour is on Facebook.
As if savouring the intensity of the moment is
insufficient without the cold proof of a picture,
a status update.
A lone pocket of energy exists a few rows
from the stage; a drunk breaking rhythmical
convention to leap as high as he can in defi-
ance of the beat of the music. Seizing our op-
portunity, we charge through the crowd to his
vicinity, aided by a pack of eager 16-year olds
looking to prove themselves amongst adults.
The Dandy Warhols
There are around nine of us jostling in our im-
promptu mosh pit and while it is fun the lack
of bodies in the pit is only serving to exhaust
us within seconds.
And then, as if our minds have been read.
The hush and the delicate synth intro. We know
what is coming. B D A E. The four chords that
signal the Dandies signature tune ‘Bohemian
Like You’. As if a beast has been awoken from
slumber; the entire standing section one large
convulsing serpent. This momentum contin-
ues as the band segues into ‘Get Off’ and then
the raucous ‘Horse Pills’. One of the band’s
enduring talents has been their ability to trans-
mit the mood of their lyrical content perfectly
into their music and live it is no different; I
have been immersed from the first chord.
The set is over, and as we are serenaded to
the exit by Zia – the band believe encores to
be fake – I feel an odd mixture of elation at
having experienced such an exhilarating con-
cert and disappointment at having it end so
abruptly. What’s that quote about leaving them
wanting more?
Aditya Narayanan starts a mosh pit in Kentish Town
Possibly the most original of all the bands I will
be covering, and by far the most influential, Slint
first formed in their native Louisville, Kentucky in
1986. In addition to reuniting for some live shows
in 2005 and 2007, they existed for 5 years, break-
ing up in 1991 after the completion of their opus,
Spiderland. Like many math bands, they are not
seen as purely math rock, and their importance
to other rock subgenres such as post rock, which
arguably would’ve never existed in its current form
without Spiderland, labels them as more than just
a math rock band, but I feel makes a point about
the genre itself. Math rock is perhaps not a genre
in the strictest sense of the word. I would propose
that it is a sound that involves the use, primarily,
of unusual time signatures, and often occupies
the more ‘thinking man’s‘ end of the rock spec-
trum, also including influences from prog rock,
metal and even minimalism à la Steve Reich.
Therefore, many of the greats of Math rock aren’t
even labelled as such by many, for example Slint,
who are widely considered post-rock.
What is for sure is that Slint were both awesome
and experimental, and not a little bit bizarre. Their
debut album, the Steve Albini produced Tweez,
features 9 tracks, each named after one of their
members’ parents (except ‘Rhoda’, named after
drummer Britt Walford’s dog). This sort of humour
is another characteristic feature of Math rock, with
the instrumental bands giving their songs frivolous
titles, and bands with vocals, such as Slint, carry-
ing it right through into their lyrics. Guitarist/vo-
calist Brian McMahan, sings, talks, samples and
shouts his way through both albums, completely
obliterating any monotony as well as deepening
the ambience of the album, particularly the spo-
ken word, which reminds me of slowcore (another
genre people have tried to label Slint) titans Co-
deine.
MacMahon’s spoken word is often coupled with
repetition of riffs played on clean guitar, giving a
hypnotic tone to the music with a sense of unease
created by dischords and lyrics about alienation.
This builds until, often unexpectedly, distortion
takes over with the frequent use of harmonics
somewhat jarring to the listener. This shows their
supreme ability in storytelling and setting an at-
mosphere, but this mastery of dynamics also
goes some way to explaining Slint’s importance
to the post-rock genre. This is a common format
for Slint, especially on Spiderland, but it must be
noted that one of the things that makes Slint so
great is the variety of approaches in music and
lyrics, sometimes clean guitar, sometimes in your
face distorted riffing, sometimes depressing lyr-
ics, sometimes light and frivolous spoken word.
Riaz Agahi
Pt. I – Slint
They most certainly look dandy
Leslie Feist at the Royal Albert Hall
Falling in love all over again with Canada’s finest
Diogo Miguel Geraldes
The Royal Albert Hall was ready to welcome
back the queen of Broken Social Scene for a
truly magical end of 2012’s spring equinox
weekend after M. Ward played a very pleas-
ant stripped down version of his repertoire and
David Bowie’s ‘Let’s Dance’.
Leslie Feist set the tone for the following
breathtaking couple of hours with a power-
ful sweep through ‘Metals’, dominated by her
immense vocal range and the brilliance of her
new work’s architecture. A trip into ‘The Re-
minder’ split the beacon of London’s live ven-
ues into an enchanting four-note backing choir
for ‘So Sorry’ and the upbeat ‘I Feel It All’ got
its seating plan all mixed up for the first time
in the evening. The flawless set then launched
into a rawer version of ‘My Moon, My Man’
followed by an a capella rendition of ‘Cicadas
and Gulls’helped by the crystalline Mountain
Man. An interactive ‘Sea Lion Woman’ then
led the set into a beautiful end dominated by
Feist’s shivering wails.
Canada’s finest voice came back on stage
with M. Ward to homage Jesus and The
Mary Chain before inviting the couples in
the public for a slow dance on stage while she
hypnotised the remaining audience with ‘Let
It Die’. A third encore gave London a rendi-
tion of James Blake’s version of her own
‘Limit To Your Love’ followed by a perfect
ending in communion with the public with
‘Intuition’.
Leslie Feist has this vocal gift of tickling
that place inside you that gives you butterflies,
making the experience of watching her live
quite exhausting: one can only fall in love so
many times.

