MUSIC
FELIX Friday 04 MAY 2012 21
A small peek at the massive line-up
Bloc: Bigger, Better and Free?
Felix Music looks forward to the Bloc. weekender and offers up a pair of tickets
The incredible Stubnitz party boat and charitable arts institution
haziness. It’s hard to categorise his
music; he describes it as “R&B con-
crete”. His DJ sets are well known
for their incredible eclecticism, and
I’m sure he will refuse to pander to the
dance floor live. And he used to play
for West Brom - a true character. I am
positive Bloc.’s new industrial loca-
tion, combined with a minimal lighting
set up, will establish a fantastic mood
for Actress, in a rare live appearance.
Personally I pray he’s on Stubnitz. – R
Ceephax Acid Waltzers
Headed by practically-Bloc.-resident
Ceephax Acid Crew, brother of the
incredible Squarepusher, this stage,
debuting at Bloc. 2012, promises to be
quite the spectacle. With legends such
as Nathan Fake doing a speed garage
set on a stage that appears to be, quite
literally, waltzers, this is the kind of
full on nonsense that you won’t witness
anywhere else. Featuring (amongst a
host of others) Mark Archer, half of
the legendary rave duo Altern8, this
brand of insanity exactly what defines
BLOC, and you’d be a madman to
miss it. You’ll probably also have to be
a madman to be there. – R
W
ith a new location,
bigger names, and
a wider line-up
than ever, Bloc.
2012 looks to be
a must-see for any electronic music
lover. Covering big dubstep drops
(Kode9, Loefah), alternative hip-hop
(Doom) and pioneering minimal com-
posers (Steve Reich), the range at this
year’s London based event will satiate
almost all discerning tastes. Previously
hosted at Butlins, Minehead, Bloc. has
decided to become “bigger and better”,
moving to the abandoned industrial-
looking complex somewhat ironically
(in this day and age - it used to be a
haunt of London socialites) named
London Pleasure Gardens and pushing
harder than ever for an eclectic line up.
Below are some of our picks for the
best of Bloc., and we even have a com-
petition to win two tickets!
Orbital
Renowned for their massive live
shows, Orbital have been captivating
rave and festival audiences since their
lauded debut Orbital in 1991. Their
new album, Wonky seamlessly blends
in their old-school summer anthem
style with the biggest sounds from UK
bass over the past 2 – 3 years. DJs will
be dropping these tunes all over the
shop this festival season, so why not
get one step ahead of the game and see
them live? Orbital’s energetic perfor-
mance, complete with that all-so-rare
electronic improvisation, could well
end up being a highlight of the festi-
val. – R
Actress
London resident Darren Cunningham
DJs lo-fi, hazy house beats for dark
rooms of youtube generation, messy
ravers on a regular basis. I have expe-
rienced such sets and, they are utterly
phenomenal. His new album, R.I.P,
pushes further towards weird ambient
Raster-Noton
Raster-Noton are a one of a kind imprint
taking the intersection of sonic and vi-
sual art with no salt. In a sort of hive
mind nature, its roster counts a number
of artists combining the two formats in
a single unifying aesthetic of black &
white clicks & cuts. Unlike other A/V
contemporaries, the aim of R-N has al-
ways been to tie the two seamlessly, so
that every sound piercing through the
speakers is also manifested directly on
the screen. The subtle shifts in a beat
illustrated as a wall of scattering dots,
geometric shapes bending to the rumble
of the frequencies. This label has taken
audiovisual interpretation to an acme.
The correlation between the sounds and
the picture is uncanny, giving the lis-
tener a closer insight into the intricacies
of the glitchy dance music emanating
from the bass bins. Aesthetically, one
might imagine a conversation between
a vending machine and a type writer, in
their own electromechanical language.
Mind you, this is the future. – I
Nicolas Jaar
It’s now over a year since Nicolas
Jaar released Space is Only Noise –
the album that made techno-heads,
jazz fiends and generally anyone else
who’s a bit pretentious declare it their
new favourite record. It was, indeed, a
very good record. Since then he’s con-
tinued along the same path; delicate
piano and guitar melodies float over
brooding, melancholy synths. Soulful
vocals are looped upon a backdrop of
minimal percussion treated with dol-
lops of reverb. The result is music that
winds you into a trance, while the un-
derstated bass lines ensure it doesn’t
lose its way. Nicolas Jaar will be quite
a contrast against the likes of Carl
Craig and Ricardo Villalobos, but
hell, when you’re at a 16 hour party,
melting into a half hour trance might
be just what is needed. - S
Stubnitz
This world-renowned arts institution
(pictured bottom left) has been tour-
ing Europe since it was converted
from a freeze & transport vessel in
1993, but this is its first ever London
appearance. Presenting the whole
spectrum from theatre to art to mu-
sic, its presence at Bloc. is truly
something to look forward to. If for
nothing else, take a peek online at
the inside of the ship – I’m not sure
I can think of any cooler environ-
ment for some of the world’s most
cutting edge electronic artists. Pre-
vious performers have included the
phenomenal Chris Forsyth, who we
reviewed in autumn term, and Bristol
legends Bronnt Industries Kapital.
This relatively small (despite its mas-
sive outside size) stage could really
bring something new and special to
the Bloc. environment. It’s not every
day you get to hit a boat party (well,
outside of Croatia). - R
Arpanet
In what is possibly this millennium’s
most impressive booking, Bloc. have
managed to secure the performance
of one of Detroit’s most reclusive and
secretive acts. Arpanet is believed to
be lead by, or possibly solely, Gerald
Donald, also of the pioneering Drex-
ciya and Dopplereffekt.
This one should really appeal to all
us Imperial nerds (my apologies for
the stereotyping). Donald is fascinated
by science and technology, and Ar-
panet’s first album, Wireless Internet
(2002) has lengthy samples detail-
ing how we would interact with the
internet in the future, some of them
eerily accurate. This is layered on top
of empty, “futuristic” electro. Arpanet
employ outdated sci-fi sounds to give
an odd glimpse into how those in the
past viewed the sound of the future.
Oh, and did I mention they/he/who
knows have only ever performed live
once before in their 10 year history?
- R
Snoop Dogg
Undoubtedly you’ve heard of Snoop
Doggy Dogg, so it’s kind of hard to pin
this one as much of a well-kept secret
of the festival. Despite this, he’s well
worth a mention; his 1992 album Dog-
gystyle introduced the up-and-coming
G-Funk to the mainstream audience,
and since then his distinctive voice, as
well as his style of lyricism and flow,
have been well recognised as a corner-
stone of west-coast hip-hop. With all
the hard partying that will surround it,
this may come as a relieving opportu-
nity to sit back and chillax for an hour
or two. - R
For a chance of winning the two tick-
ets, answer the following simple ques-
tion: “Which Imperial alumnus is
playing Bloc?” Answers should be
submitted to music.felix@gmail.com
– the deadline is Wednesday 16th at
4pm, and the winner will be announced
in our section in the following edition
of Felix. The winner will be picked at
random from all those who have the
correct answer.
Have no fear if you miss out on our
competition; Bloc. are also offering an
unbeatable student deal this year. For
every 5 tickets you buy, the 6th is free.
A valid NUS card must be produced
on entry. More details can be found
here: http://www.blocweekend.com/
union, with the code UNIBLOC497.
We shall be in attendance and hope-
fully providing live updates of what
we are seeing so we really hope to see
you there!

