BOOKS
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
FELIX Friday 04 MAY 2012 23
Will this book crash and burn?
M
y friend read this and
raved about it to me.
Quickly sold (mainly
by the main charac-
ter’s name, Hiro Pro-
tagonist), I vowed I’d read it as soon as
I could. That was in high school. Some
ten years later, I’ve finally got around
to it.
Snow Crash, by Neil Stephenson, was
written in 1992, so even when my friend
convinced me to read it, it was already
a few years old. Now it’s twenty years
old, and like most sci-fi, is beginning to
show its age. However, that adds to the
charm, reading about what the future
might be like from the point-of-view of
the past. Wikipedia informs me that the
book is set sometime in the early 21st
century and, thankfully, things have not
turned out quick so bleak as Stephenson
paints it.
The book is set in a dystopian Cali-
fornia where national government has
largely disintegrated. In its place are
big businesses (where franchises act
as colonies) and ‘burbclaves’ – gated
suburbia, each with their own law en-
forcement (contracted out, naturally).
The plot revolves around Hiro, a pizza
delivery boy (imagine if The Transport-
er had been about pizza) and a hacker.
The internet, as it exists in the book, is
called the ‘Metaverse’ where users as-
sume avatars to navigate by. Early on,
I had an epiphany – Stephenson pre-
dicted Second Life a decade before it
happened. In the Metaverse, there is a
computer virus that is leaching out into
reality and doing to people’s brains
what it usually does to computers. This
is the eponymous Snow Crash.
Reading this twenty years on, and as
a medical student, made me giggle but I
decided to keep my disbelief suspended
for the time being.
A secondary protagonist, Y.T. is a
‘Kourier’ – a skateboarder/courier who
navigates the deadly Californian high-
ways by harpooning other vehicles with
an electro-magnet on a retractable ca-
ble. Through her dealing with Hiro, she
too is drawn into the mystery of Snow
Crash.
The novel is certainly imaginative,
with a broad scope in mind. Through
the course of the book, Stephenson ties
together computer hacking, neurolin-
guistics, and middle eastern mythology-
theology. This is on top of a fleshed-out
world where pizza-boys drive armoured
4x4s, franchises run everything and the
internet is Second Life.
On reflection, this feels like a book of
two halves. Half the book is heavy on
the action, advancing the plot at a rate
of knots and in a very cool fashion. The
other half feels like a very accessible
textbook on linguistics and Sumerian
culture. While I found these chapters
(mostly dialogue between Hiro and a
computer program-librarian) interest-
ing (because I am a geek like that), it
only struck me later that they were mas-
sive tracts of straight exposition. In fact,
this thought struck as Hiro reiterated it
for the benefit of the other characters.
Furthermore, it would be hard to redact
most of this because without it, the plot
becomes quite shallow. Stephenson has
tried to juggle intellectual depth with
plot and whilst admirable, and success-
ful, it is evident what he was trying to
do.
From a purely technical standpoint,
the book is very readable. Even through
the exposition-laden chapters, it re-
mains fairly well paced and interesting.
Looking back on this book with 21st
century eyes, some parts are uninten-
tionally humorous, others are unfortu-
nately cringeworthy. Hiro is half-black,
half-Japanese and carries a pair of Japa-
nese swords with him at all times. Cool
without trying, I know, but after two de-
cades, I have seen tropes like this surface
again and again, done worse than in this
book, and they leave their anachronistic
imprint all over it. I don’t know if Ste-
phenson was treading new ground with
a character like this but now, he’s a little
embarrassing. Likewise, in the wake of
William Gibson’s Neuromancer, hack-
ers were blessed with mad tech skills.
These days, they are associated with the
like of Wikileaks and Anonymous. Y.T.
too; a typical Californian skateboarder,
her dialogue is littered with cool lingo
and slang which has now dated horri-
bly. Then again, it might be worth re-
printing the book with a glossary at the
back, similar to A Clockwork Orange.
On the whole, I thought this was a
Alastair Reynolds’ Pushing Ice – a modern hard SF classic
While hard SF writers such as
Asimov are some of the best known
names in science fiction I feel
that the sub-genre has been some-
what neglected of late. There are of
course, several exceptions, some of
the most notable of which have to
be the works of Alastair Reynolds.
While best known for his Revela-
tion Space series I first got acquainted
with Reynolds through his stand-
alone novel Pushing Ice. Set in the
2050s, when massive corporations
use manned spacecraft to mine com-
ets the novel follows the crew of one
such vessel, the Rockhopper, who are
ordered away from their latest job
on an extraordinary mission. Janus,
one of Saturn’s moons, has broken
free of its orbit, revealing itself as a
giant alien vessel, and the Rockhop-
per is the only human ship in range
that can intercept and examine it.
The novel shows the clear influence
of Arthur C. Clarke’s Rendezvous with
Rama and, though it might be a slight
spoiler to say so, Poul Anderson’s Tau
Zero. As well as similar plot elements
there exists in all three novels a great
sense of the wonder of the unknown,
one of the cornerstones of good hard
SF. A major difference, however, also
soon makes itself abundantly clear.
While the protagonists of the two old-
er novels were pretty much the best
people to face the challenges they
encountered it soon becomes clear
how out of their depth the crew of the
Rockhopper really is. Combined with
the corporately ruled world of Push-
Rhys Davies finally gets down to reading a dated classic of SF literature
“Whilst cool and
edgy, it has also
grown rusty in the
last twenty years.”
ing Ice, as compared with the more
idealistic settings of the previous
two novels, this leads to a great deal
more interpersonal conflict. While
this is taken too far in some places,
with the character Svetlana Barseghi-
an in particular coming off probably
far more petty and dislikeable that
Reynolds intended, you do get a feel
that this is how real people would be-
have if placed in the extraordinarily
difficult situations presented here.
Another difference is that, un-
like the other two novels, Pushing
Ice depicts direct contact between
humans and various different alien
species. This is brilliantly realised,
good book (despite a weak ending). As
well as going for grungey sci-fi dysto-
pia, Stephenson also strives for an ele-
ment of intellectual rigour. It might not
be better than most novels but it’s trying
to be smarter and that deserves some
recognition. Whilst cool and edgy, it
has also grown rusty in the last twenty
years. However, as a snapshot of 1990s
imagination, it still gleams.
Maciej Matuszewski
“The book shows the
influence of Clarke
and Anderson.”
with the aliens being wonderfully
weird – Reynolds having avoided the
mistake of many lesser sci-fi writers
who make their aliens far too human,
whether in appearance or behaviour.
My only complaint on this aspect of
the book is that the various alien cul-
tures encountered could have been
explored far more deeply. Together
with the somewhat open ending this
means that, though one isn’t strictly
necessary, this is one book where I
certainly wouldn’t mind a sequel.
Pushing Ice is a brilliant read, one
that I literally couldn’t put down, and
I can recommend it to you all, whether
you are already fans of hard SF or not.
“The novel is cer-
tainly imaginative
with a broad scope
in mind.”

