FELIX
Friday 04 MAY 2012
24
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
FILM
Quite the ‘best’ exotic marigold hotel
Cecile Borkhataria
Director John Madden
Screenwriters Ol Parker, Deborah
Moggach (novel)
Cast Bill Nighy, Judi Dench, Maggie
Smith, Dev Patel, Tom Wilkinson,
Penelope Wilton, Celia Imrie, Ronal
Pickup
The Best Exotic
Marigold Hotel
Where’s Buffy when you need her?
John Madden’s uplifting dramatic
comedy offers a perfect blend of laugh-
ter, tears and depth. The film, based on
a novel by Deborah Moggach, follows a
group of British retirees including Judi
Dench, Bill Nighy, Maggie Smith and
many more British talents, in search of
a place to outsource their retirement.
Each of them look no further than a
glistening advertisement for a retiree
resort entitled ‘The Best Exotic Mari-
gold Hotel’, in Jaipur, India, for the ‘el-
derly and beautiful.’ However, upon ar-
rival, the retirees soon realise that the
hotel is not quite how it was portrayed
on the advert, but rather an old dusty
building with major renovation work
needed.
Evelyn (Dench), around which most
of the plot circulates, is a housewife
turned widow who discovers that her
late husband’s debts had run up so
much that she had to sell her house.
Her decision to travel to India marks
her newfound independence and letting
go from her much doted upon husband.
Madge (Imrie) is an aged single girl
who’s on the hunt for a rich husband,
and Norman (Pickup), also single and
ready to mingle, wants a girlfriend, or
anything he can get, even if it’s just
‘one night of passion.’ Douglas (Nighy)
and Jean (Wilton) are a couple that
have lost most of their retirement fund
invested into their daughters failed
internet-company. They decide to get
away to India for a break from their
daily routine.
The film wonderfully portrays the
old British fascination for India, par-
ticularly during its colonial days, when
Graham (Wilkinson), a high court mag-
istrate who grew up there, tries to seek
out people, memories and familiarities
from his past there. Maggie Smith’s
performance as Muriel provides end-
less chuckles, owing to her xenophobic
views. Her only reason for travelling to
India is for a hip operation.
If you watch this movie in a cinema,
you’ll notice two things: most of the
people there are over the age of fifty,
and the movie theatre is filled with
laughter at the culture shock that devel-
ops when the retirees arrive in India.
The different hygiene standards, food,
cultural customs, religious beliefs and
caste system all surprise the retirees
in some way, with an amusing scene
showing all the retirees rushing to the
toilet after having their first meal at
their Jaipur resort.
This film shows the colours and rich-
ness of Indian culture and the warmth
of its people. It portrays a touching
message to the audience, where life is
seen as a gift, and not a right. This is
reflected in the warmth of Patel’s fran-
tic character. Although his beloved
hotel is a shambles, his never-ending
quest to please his guests and improve
his hotel is endearing. Patel’s perfor-
mance as a young troubled man trying
to restore his deceased father’s hotel to
its former glory is convincing, and his
acting skillset has much progressed,
along with his faux Indian accent, since
his performance in Danny Boyle’s Os-
car winning Slumdog Millionaire.
Although the film is very comedic
in nature, the touching messages car-
ried throughout, along with side plots
involving love dilemmas, make for a
film that will keep you on your toes.
All in all, this movie, brimming with
outstanding performances owing to its
talented cast, is an uplifting tale of a
group of people that discover a differ-
ent culture and develop a new outlook
on life. Through shared experiences,
they make friends and some find love
along the way by letting go of their
past.
Lucia Podhorska
Director Drew Goddard
Screenwriters Joss Whedon, Drew
Goddard
Cast Kristen Connolly, Chris
Hemsworth, Jesse William, Fran
Kranz, Anna Hutchison
The Cabin in the Woods
Usually, I am not a fan of horror mov-
ies, but knowing that this was written
by Joss Whedon – the genius behind
Buffy the Vampire Slayer – was enough
to make me risk potential nightmares
and watch it. And I’m glad I did – even
though I haven’t really been able to
sleep since.
Together with Drew Goddard,
Whedon has brought audiences a retell-
ing of a classic horror story, with nu-
merous modern and humorous twists.
For those unfamiliar with the tale – a
group of people (generally teenagers or
ridiculously hot young adults) go to a
deserted cabin in the woods for a week-
end getaway, but not everyone manages
to come back home as they are soon
killed off by some crazy woodfolk. I
can’t really give away much more of
the plot, as the best thing about this
movie is not quite knowing what ex-
actly you’re getting yourself into.
Shot back in 2009, the release date
of the movie was pushed back indefi-
nitely due to financial difficulties at
MGM Studios. Being aware of the fate
of many of Whedon’s projects, I had
pretty much given up hope that this
would ever make it to cinemas, and so
was pleasantly surprised when the pro-
motional posters first appeared. The
success – both critical and commercial
– of the film is, in my opinion, not that
surprising, as Joss Whedon doesn’t do
anything by halves and audiences can
once again expect a viewing experience
that is equal parts original, intelligent,
satirical and comical. The laugh-out-
loud moments were my favourite part
of the movie, as they gave the whole
thing a very surreal feel while also al-
lowing me to calm down after a jump-
out-of-my-seat scene.
I might be exaggerating the overall
scariness of the movie (please bear in
mind that I’m a bit of a wimp), so don’t
let that put you off watching this. It
is definitely nowhere near as scary as
The Woman in Black, for example. The
characters are genuinely entertaining
– especially Marty (Kranz from Doll-
house) – and you’re kept guessing until
the very end of the movie as to what is
really going on. Goddard, who has pre-
viously worked with Whedon on Buffy
and J.J. Abrams on Lost, makes his di-
rectorial debut and does a fine job.
Described by Whedon as a ‘critique
of what we love and hate about hor-
ror movies,’ the film manages to have
copious amounts of blood and gore
without making viewers uncomfort-
able. The ending felt a bit rushed, but it
was still completely unexpected. Fans
of Whedon’s previous works will be
pleased with this offering, whilst – I
hope – newcomers will also appreci-
ate his oftentimes undervalued tal-
ent as a storyteller. The Cabin in the
Woods might not be for everyone, but
I for one thought it was good fun and
recommend it if you enjoy movies that
are unafraid to take risks and that are
not at all how they appear to be at first
glance.
Must find Bond, must find Bond, must find Bond, must find Bond...
Yep, she’s definitely in Team Jacob

