FELIX
Friday 04 MAY 2012
26
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
FILM
My chart reign will go on and on and on
Lucy Wiles
Director James Cameron
Screenwriter James Cameron
Cast Leonardo DiCaprio, Kate
Winslet
Titanic 3D
It’s been fifteen long years since
James Cameron’s Titanic first graced
our screens and, love it or hate it,
you’ve got to admit – it’s become a
totally iconic film. Even now, in the
midst of a dramatic effects era, it’s
still an epic film to watch. But when
Cameron – forefather of 3D films
with his front runner Avatar – an-
nounced he was rereleasing Titanic in
3D, there was a lot of consternation
from fans who believed the master-
piece should not be tampered with. As
anyone who has seen the film knows,
while the characters and storylines
are moving, Titanic relies greatly on
the spectacle itself for its brilliance –
so is that spectacle improved by 3D as
much as Cameron promised?
Well…yes. Cameron and his team
of genius film technicians spent long
hours retrofitting the film for 3D vi-
suals, as well as redoing the footage
pre-conversion – resulting in a crys-
tal clear picture in the new version
almost all the way through (a few
moments of dated CGI slightly let
the side down but other than that, it’s
cracking).
It’s probably been a while since we
all watched the film, and what seemed
to many a magical performance by
all actors now seems a little tiny bit
forced, but this can be put down to a
different style of acting. The charac-
ters are still engaging and the plotline
still moving, and the film presents
an all-round beautiful experience for
viewers. In this new 3D version, you
might initially be underwhelmed by
the effects – Brock Lovett’s diamond
search is still rather dull in three di-
mensions, and the wreck viewing is
also not much more spectacular than
in the old 2D version. Quite frankly,
the aged Rose was better off with
2D. However, when the second Rose
(Winslet) takes us back to the Ti-
tanic in Southampton, the 3D really
kicks in with spectacular visuals of
the buzzing crowd, constantly build-
ing the excitement and momentous-
ness of the occasion. The effect is
not overdramatic, and doesn’t give
you a banging headache like some
of the distinctly average 3D attempts
of late (ahem, Alice in Wonderland)
– like Avatar, Cameron has kept the
effect subtle and very natural. Even
for us old fans of Titanic, well-known
dinner scenes become fresh and new
with the 3D magic.
Unsurprisingly, however, the effects
really come into their own in the sec-
ond half of the film when everything
starts going (badly) wrong. As the
light character drama shifts into a di-
saster of epic proportions, almost ev-
ery scene is improved by the 3D tech-
nology. Again, even those who have
seen the film many times will find the
tension increased and the panic con-
tagious, and the water rushing all over
the place is much more horrific when
you feel it’s really going to reach your
feet any minute. The lifting and sub-
sequent sinking of the stern (along
with Jack, Rose and the drunk man)
is magnificently done, and the viewer
finds themself pulling back in their
seat to avoid the onslaught of freezing
water coming right at them. The fro-
zen oceanic graveyard is hauntingly
real and much more harrowing, and
your fury at Rose for not budging up
and letting Jack on her piece of wood
is probably doubled.
Overall the conversion of Titanic to
3D has been a success, most of which
is clearly down to Cameron’s 3D
skills. His painstaking attention to
detail (every hairpin, shoe, knife and
fork is retouched) and his use of the
full field makes the film convincingly
real, and well worth watching – even
if you weren’t all that convinced first
time round; it’s crisp, new and feels
like a whole new Titanic. Although,
unfortunately, everyone still drowns.
There’s nooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooothing I fear (except maybe that breath of yours...)
What 15 years do to your face...apparently, nothing – they’re just as hot It’s a drought, they said...

