FILM
FELIX Friday 04 MAY 2012 27
Assemble for Avengers Assemble
John Park
Director Joss Whedon
Screenwriters Zak Penn, Joss
Whedon, Stan Lee, Jack Kirby
Cast Robert Downey Jr., Chris
Hemsworth, Chris Evans, Scarlett
Johansson, Mark Ruffalo, Jeremy
Renner, Samuel L. Jackson, Tom
Hiddleston
Avengers Assemble
Whether you like it or not, The Aveng-
ers have been assembled, and the line-
up is unbelievably impressive; there
are six pumped up heroes, an intense
director of a top-secret organisation
who brings them together, and a villain
commanding an army out to annihilate
Earth. There, that’s the general gist of
the plot; the kind of formula many su-
perhero films put to use. But Avengers
Assemble (an unfortunate last-minute
title change here in the U.K.) is a lot
more than that. Joss Whedon’s mass en-
semble, 200 million-dollar rollercoast-
er ride makes the two-and-a-half-hour
long running time worth every minute,
as Whedon pays as much attention to
his many characters and humour as
he does to delivering the high-budget
spectacle.
It takes a while to actually get every-
one in the same room. And even after
that Nick Fury’s (Jackson) job isn’t
quite complete. With big egos and per-
sonality differences, characters clash,
and as Bruce Banner (Ruffalo) cor-
rectly points out, they’re not a team, but
instead a time bomb, a term Dr. Banner
himself is all too familiar with, since he
turns into a giant raging green monster
if he fails to control his anger. Captain
America (Evans), a former WWII sol-
dier transported and adjusting to the
21st Century (long story, watch his film
released last year for details), works
through his nightmares by taking out
his frustration at the hopelessly vul-
nerable punching bags he has lined up.
He too, cannot be said to have a sound
mind.
The fact that it’s Loki (Hiddleston),
Thor’s (Hemsworth) brother, who is
out for Earth’s destruction arouses
some conflicted feelings. Thor wants to
reach out to his brother with sentiment,
whereas a certain arrogant yet bril-
liantly intelligent and self-proclaimed
billionaire philanthropist has a problem
with that approach. Of course, Tony
Stark (Downey Jr.), the Iron Man, is not
someone who plays well with others.
Oh, and that Stark doesn’t respond well
to orders? Captain America, always the
dutiful soldier, might have a problem
with that too. The confrontations these
characters often get into show that, de-
spite their extraordinary powers, deep
down they are flawed creatures like
the rest of us; Whedon, although not so
heavy-handedly, shows the weaknesses
they share, furthering exploring every-
one’s unique identity.
So the superhuman heroes are strug-
gling to be merry. But what about the
two agents already a part of the Fury-
directed S.H.I.E.L.D? They are Nata-
sha Romanoff, aka Black Widow (Jo-
hansson), a deadly spy/assassin, and
Clint Barton, aka Hawkeye (Renner),
an expert archer. Barton gets into a little
trouble of his own in the killer opening
scene directed with flash and necessary
pace by Whedon, who knows how to
start off the most anticipated film of the
year. Thanks to Loki, a whole base is
wiped out in the first ten minutes of the
film, and from this point on, we know
that a) Samuel L. Jackson is pissed off,
and b) Whedon means business: a com-
bination that produces something truly
wonderful.
When the heroes can’t quite play
along, Whedon rightly hits the pause
button on the action, whilst using every
change he gets to slip in a line or two
generating quality laughs. This way he
gives the film a much-needed breather,
whilst also building his characters even
more. A lot of credit must go to Downey
Jr., who has owned the role of Iron Man
ever since his first outing, and the jokes
he delivers are pure comedy gold. The
unexpected surprise here however, is
Ruffalo, who in his first ever portrayal
of Dr. Banner comes out as the real
winner both in terms of his contribution
to the team as well as his several scene-
stealing moments. Both Eric Bana and
Edward Norton have tried in the past
to bring out their own versions of The
Hulk, but Ruffalo, comically timid and
nerdy before he turns green, is who tru-
ly embodies the role, and he deserves
a feature film of his own in the future.
As tension escalates and the fate of
humanity hangs in the balance of what
these six individuals are capable of, an
endless swarm of aliens start invad-
ing Earth, and it’s time for the heroes
to unleash their abilities and fight a
highly outnumbered war. And from
previous films, we have seen what Cap-
tain America, Iron Man, Thor and The
Hulk can do. Although there is no short
supply of focus on their action high-
lights, Avengers Assemble is absolutely
right in not sidelining any of its team
members. The less familiar, seemingly
weaker, more human players, Romanoff
and Barton, are given just as much time
to shine on their own terms. Johansson
gets to twist and bend her body as she
takes down multiple targets with her
fancy moves, and Renner doesn’t disap-
point in another action role following
his impressive stint with Mission Im-
possible: Ghost Protocol. The fact that
he’s an archer may scream snooze fest,
but make no mistake: with his wide
range of slick arrows, Hawkeye turns
into a valuable member of the initiative.
Squaring off against the good guys
is the lone-standing but insane and at
times creepy Hiddleston. He has more
determination and vengeful anger this
time around, shown very clearly in his
disturbing eyes and smiles, and it’s a
role that Hiddleston commands with fi-
ery intensity, even more so than his last
outing with Thor.
The action, as expected, is breathtak-
ingly fun, and the exhilarating excite-
ment on screen once The Avengers
unite under one common goal is aston-
ishing. The danger with a superhero en-
semble piece like this is overcrowding,
but within its healthy running time, all
six protagonists are given proper at-
tention to, and Whedon finds that right
balance between full-blown action and
spot-on humour. More superhero films
are lined up for 2012, and Avengers As-
semble has truly set the bar a lot higher.
Place your bets everyone, place your bets! Who’ll win this fight? And here, we have the nominees for 2012’s worst dressed celebrities

