A very Odd-World indeed
Laurence Pope on how Oddworld’s rampant industriali-
sation makes for a pretty cracking game series
I
t’s a shame Oddworld Inhabitants, an
American game company founded way
back when I was just knee-high to a
grasshopper, stopped making games.
Why? Because they made some pretty
kick-ass stuff, that’s why. So kick-ass in fact
that many modern-day game developers could
learn a thing or two from them. They won’t,
obviously — until reading this piece, that is.
Maybe.
For the unfamiliar, Oddworld Inhabitants
were the creators behind the Oddworld uni-
verse, the backdrop for their game series, the
Oddworld Quintology, a planned pentalogy
that ended up a tetralogy. Though the series
didn’t extend as far as they had planned the
universe they had created by the time they
threw in the towel was already packed with a
multitude of playable and non-playable races.
In the first game alone you’re introduced to
Mudokons, Glukkons, Sligs, Slogs, Scrabs and
Paramites.
More importantly they’re not just thrown
together in a clumsy, failed attempt to create
‘richness’ or ‘variety’. The races of Oddworld
are woven together in a credible backstory that
would fill more pages than my editor would
allow for, but in essence revolves around a
dystopian society created by the industrial
Glukkons, who are in the process of enslav-
ing, exploiting or eating every other species on
the planet. There is of course more to it than
that, and as the series progresses more races
and challenges appear, as does more story to
blend it all together.
The first two games of the series, Oddworld:
Abe’s Oddysee and Oddworld: Abe’s Exod-
dus, are arguably the two games that defined
the Oddworld series, and in part the PlaySta-
tion era; Abe’s Oddysee was one of the games
Axon
http://www.newgrounds.com/portal/
view/592325
So you’re not into biochemistry? How about archae-
ology? More specifically, DINOSAURS.
Being a newly-hatched dinosaur is (or was) pretty
tough, and no-one likes the hassle of fighting off
alien invaders seconds after hatching. And yet, this
is what you are tasked with doing, be it with mini-
guns, rocket launchers, or a whole host of other
weapons that probably didn’t exist in the Late Cre-
taceous period. Deal enough damage and you can
Digimon-style evolve into a laser-spewing T-Rex for a
few seconds. Take THAT Darwin.
This game is crazy insane, crazy fun, and certainly
good enough to hold off revision for a little longer.
As a biochemist who’s taken a course in neurosci-
ence (never mind that I probably failed it) a game
titled Axon naturally grabs my attention. Would I be
treated to an educational game detailing the physi-
ological properties of a neuron? Thankfully not.
Axon is instead a simple, addictive game in which
you ‘grow’ a neuron by connecting it up to balls of
protein, steadily increasing its length. Beyond fac-
ing off invading neurons that wrestle for available
space you’re also on a time limit, and waiting too
long before making a new connection kills off your
budding neuron. Snag four gold proteins in a row
and your amacrine cell just became a trunk dorsal
root sensory neuron! (That’s good, by the way.)
FELIX
Friday 04 may 2012
28
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
GAMES
Free Web Games
Oh, so you have exams huh? Really, really tough
ones that could determine the rest of your life, eh?
Well, who cares about revision when you could be
enjoying these two totally awesome web games
that you can play right now in your web browser. In
order to play these you’re going to need the Adobe
Flash Player plug-in, which can be installed from
http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/
Eggstinction
http://www.newgrounds.com/portal/
view/592709
placed on the demo disk that came boxed with
the now primitive gaming console.
Unlike the following two games, Munch’s
Oddysee and Stranger’s Wrath, both in 3D,
Oddysee and Exoddus were 2D platformers.
The art sported by both games was well ahead
of its time, and has often been described as
early PS2 generation rather than PS1. Game
elements were rendered with 3D modelling
systems, with the backgrounds being hand-
painted, a feature that has helped the games
remain attractive even whilst game graphics
improved around it.
As I’ve said many times in the past, graphics
do not make a game. They help it for sure, but
as Transformers: Dark of the Moon showed
us great effects can’t make up for shoddy plot
(sorry Mike), just like shiny graphics can’t
cover shoddy control systems or easy ‘chal-
lenges’. In some ways Oddworld Inhabitants
overcompensated — both games are mind-
bogglingly hard to complete, let alone com-
plete to 100%. The protagonist of both titles,
Abe, is tasked with saving his fellow people,
the Mudokons, from Glukkon extortion, first
from the delightfully named meat factory Rup-
ture Farms and then from the bottling plant
Soulstorm Brew. Along the way he’s harassed
by guards, assaulted by meat packing machin-
ery and a whole host of other dangers that are
all one-shot kills.
Timing and accuracy are both key; miss a
jump by a even fraction and you’re gone. Duck
a second too late and you’re squashed. Secret
rooms are rampant: in both games there’s one
in the very first screen, and there even are se-
cret rooms WITHIN secret rooms. Oddysee
and Exoddus come from an era when challeng-
es were incredibly difficult, and going back
to them years on makes for a very refreshing
change of pace.
Both games are available on the PC via
Steam, or there are always some discs floating
about on Amazon. Pick up copies if you can!
(Or, at least, after your exams are over.)
“Timing and accuracy
are both key; miss a
jump by even a fraction
and you’re gone. Duck
a second too late and
you’re squashed.”
Unlike most other games from the Playstation era Oddworld: Abe’s Exoddus, released
in 1998, still holds up to this day, both graphically and gameplay-wise
Abe’s nickname of ‘Stitch Lips’ is not entirely unjustified

