I’m sure we all agree that much of the British
festival scene is in tatters. Sure, if you’re willing
to deviate from the likes of Reading you might
catch some acts that are a little (read: endlessly)
more interesting than Kasabian, but ultimately
you’ll probably still be forking out far too much
money to drag your wellingtons through the
rainy mud as the droves of post-GCSE revellers
continue to feel each other up and piss on your
tent.
For these reasons, most people seem to have
made the transition to the international festivals
on offer around Europe. At a minimum, it’s an
excuse to check out a new place and meet a wider
variety of people. Added bonuses include lower
ticket prices, and a better chance of sunshine.
While there are many such festivals around these
days, Benicassim continues to be a personal fa-
vourite. Thanks to other travel plans I’ve not
been in attendance over the past couple of years,
which is why I’m excited about my triumphant
return to Spain’s gorgeous East coast.
Far from being just a festival, Benicassim
doubles up as an excellent beach holiday: there’s
great beach to be discovered if you head a little
out of town, and the holiday element is made
even easier by the 8 nights free camping includ-
ed in the festival ticket. There’s no better way to
meet new people before the festival, or unwind
for a few days after the partying, than kicking
back on the beach with a jug of sangria and ri-
diculous sun hat. It’s also possible to squeeze in
a lot of beach time throughout the festival, as the
music doesn’t even start until the sun sets, al-
lowing you to recover from the night before and
kick-start yourself for the evening’s affairs.
And let’s not forget the music. Rather than
honing in on vegan crunk or moombahton in
particular, the festival offers an eclectic mix of
sounds to cater for all palettes. Between the three
FELIX
Friday 04 MAY 2012
30
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel Editors: Chris Richardson
Dushi Arumuganesan
TRAVEL
Wishing you were here
Get there: Gospel Oak/Hampstead (Overground)
See: One of the best skyline views of London
Eat: Amazing gastropub fare at The Bull and Last
Cost: £10-20 for a meal, or £2-7 for nibbles
Visit Parliament Hill this Saturday to browse one
of the most picturesque weekly farmers’ markets
in London and for stunning views of the capital’s
landmarks. Situated on a corner of Hampstead
Heath, which covers 800 acres of grassland, this
is the perfect place for a chilled evening out in one
of the most beautiful parts of North London.
Planning a trip? Want some quick advice from
experienced travellers? Have a travelling tale to
share with Imperial?
Drop us an email at travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk, or
send us a tweet using #FelixTravel
features of traditional Spanish life.
The city is now equipped with Valenbisi, the
city’s answer to the Boris Bike. Of course, given
the sheer flatness of Valencia and the lack of lu-
natic city boys on the roads, the experience here
is a lot more serene. It’s a great way to amble
through the old neighbourhoods and stumble
across undiscovered boutiques and hidden land-
scapes looking out of the city. And of course,
the city is equipped with plenty of affordable
accommodation to rest your weary head at the
end of it all.
Benicassim ticks all the boxes for me: eclectic
beats, fantastic eateries and sunshiny days. The
international festival brings together a great mix
of people in an interesting place that’ll keep you
busy until your eight day camping pass expires.
And if you’ve got the funds, it’s a great lead-in
to nearby Valencia and the rest of Europe. It just
doesn’t make sense to keep bouncing around
the same old festivals in England when there’s
more out there to see. As far as festivals go, Felix
Travel’s mind is made up. Hopefully you won’t
miss out and we’ll see you on the beach for a re-
freshing sangria!
Chris Richardson stages and the silent disco, you’d struggle to
avoid being entertained. The fact that the music
rolls on all night also means that you can dance
your socks off without really worrying too much
about hyperthermia or sunburn. Being a creature
of the night I often find it hard to get my body
moving before lunchtime, making the evening-
centred music just perfect.
The town itself is also absolutely lovely, and
surprisingly affordable if you’re willing to hop
away from the main streets into the smaller side
streets, where you’ll easily find paella and san-
gria at about half the price and double the qual-
ity. Having such great restaurants and countless
hip bars at your disposal makes the festival
camping experience a lot more enjoyable. Be-
ing quaint and small, the contents of Benicassim
are also in such close proximity that any form of
navigation is pretty much idiot proof.
While some festival-goers opt to travel over to
the festival with the beloved folk at RyanJet, an
increasing number are starting to turn the jour-
ney into a bit of a road trip. Providing you have
the time, this is certainly a great way to do it.
After all, Benicassim is just a short drive from
the charming old city of Valencia. In addition
to more great beaches, restaurants and bars, the
city has countless interesting things to check
out. Beyond its incredible exterior, the City of
Arts and Science offers a slightly different angle
on the topics covered at the institutions around
South Ken, and neighbourhoods like the Barri
del Carme manage to capture so well the iconic
“eclectic beats, fantastic
eateries and sunshiny
days”
Summer festival ambitions
Why Benicassim should be the top of your list for 2012
Sweaty, sun-singed and fired up on sangria: maybe you should reconsider those summer internship plans
Stunning skylines from Parliament Hill
Travel on your doorstep
‘Milking it in Delhi’ by Prakash Singh
Benicassim 2012 is taking place from the
12th to the 15th of July, and features over
100 acts across 3 stages. This year’s line-
up features the legendary Bob Dylan and
New Order, recently reunited Stone Roses,
Florence and the Machine, and a huge
list of other brilliant acts from across the
globe. For tickets and further information
visit FiberFib.com or contact the Editor.

