Hepatology.
The incidence of CCA is increasing
worldwide and is particularly prevalent
in areas of South East Asia. A major
risk factor for the disease is infection
with a parasitic liver fluke, Opisthor-
chis viverrini. The cancer is invariably
fatal.
John spoke about how this cancer is
often detected too late due to a lack of
accurate diagnostic biomarkers. His
project, which he worked on for three
months, aimed to explore whether
metabolic differences between urine
samples of healthy controls and cancer
patients could provide the basis for a
novel detection method.
Indeed, he found that healthy controls
and cancer patients had distinct urinary
metabolic profiles with significant dif-
ferences between levels of citrate, hip-
purate and glycine.
John said, “I’m extremely pleased to
win the first Institute of Global Health
Innovation student challenges competi-
tion, particularly as I had to rush back
from playing hockey at Varsity to com-
pete for the prize. It was very exciting to
present my project to such high-profile
judges, and such an award validates the
emerging role global health is playing
in international research.”
He plans to use the £2000 to further
validate the findings in a larger study.
Another goal is to create a urine dip-
At the end of last term, the Institute of
Global Health Innovation (IGHI) held
the final of a new competition in which
five students presented a global health
project with which they were involved,
competing for a prize of £2000 to put
towards their project.
The students had ten minutes each
to impress three judges, former Chief
Medical Officer and Chair in Health
Policy at the IGHI, Sir Liam Donald-
son, a BBC health correspondent, Jane
Dreaper, and founder and president
of the charity, PiggyBankKids, Sarah
Brown.
The competition was open to students
studying for a BSc, MSc, MEng, MBA,
MPH or MRes with final year projects
being the basis for their entries.
The winner was John Chetwood, a
fifth year medical student, who un-
dertook work on cholangiocarcinoma
(CCA), or bile duct cancer, in Thailand
for his BSc in Gastroenterology and
stick which can detect the presence of
the cancer early and accurately. He said,
“Such as cheap and easy method has the
potential to save many lives.”
Also highly commended was another
medical student, Yu-Jeat Chong, for his
project which used satellite technology
to monitor salinity in drinking water.
The Institute hopes the competition
will become an annual event and entries
can already be submitted for next year.
The final was followed by the IGHI’s
annual lecture given by Sir Liam Don-
aldson on “Polio: The challenge of
making it history”. Sir Liam is currently
the Chair of the International Monitor-
ing Board (IMB) on polio eradication.
Since the goal of polio eradication
was declared by the WHO in 1988,
the number of cases has been reduced
by 99%. However, the remaining 1%
remains elusive and there is concern
that polio will not be eradicated before
funding dries up.
Students compete for global
health project prize
Rector Sir Keith O’Nions spoke at the launch of the Institute of Global Health Innovation
NEWS
FELIX
Friday 04 may 2012
4
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
Sophia David
“The incidence of
CCA is increasing
worldwide”
“Such a cheap and
easy method has
the potential to save
many lives ”
Imperial College is to have a Provost.
Where once there was a Rector there
will be two positions, a “President &
Rector” and a “Provost of the College”.
What is a Provost, one wonders. By
definition, a provost is the head of a col-
lege. What, then, is a rector?
Following a decision by Imperial’s
Council, the governing body of the
College, Imperial’s leadership arrange-
ments are set to change. The distinction
between the two new roles is clear; the
President & Rector will oversee all func-
tions with particular emphasis on exter-
nal matters both in the UK and overseas
including alumni and industry while the
Provost will focus more on academic
affairs. The Provost will report to the
President & Rector. Chair of Imperial’s
Council Baroness Manningham-Buller
believes the change will “allow Impe-
rial to maintain its position as one of the
world’s top universities” in the face of
“tough challenges” to higher education.
The challenges Baroness Manning-
ham-Buller refers to are reduced state
funding for UK universities and compe-
tition between universities for the best
students and staff. Splitting the role of
Rector enables the President & Rector
to focus on building relationships with
alumni, governments, industry and
supporter, promote Imperial and raise
funds, and the Provost on Imperial’s
fundamental academic mission - educa-
tion, research and translation.
On Monday 30 April 2012, Sir Keith
O’Nions assumed the position of Presi-
dent & Rector while a search for the
first Provost was launched. However,
Sir Keith is due to retire at the end of
2013. Therefore, in addition to the cur-
rent search for Provost, a search for a
President & Rector to succeed Sir Keith
will commence at the end of May 2012.
Thus the new leadership arrangement
will not be fully in place until the end
of 2013.
The new leadership model is not as
alien as it might sound. Indeed, it is
well-established in many American uni-
versities including Harvard, Princeton
and Stanford universities to name but a
few. Sir Keith said of his new role, “The
President & Rector, as the College’s
leader, will promote Imperial’s position
as a global university, moving it into a
different league in terms of develop-
ment potential, and influence of higher
education and research policy. The Pro-
vost will ensure the standard and quality
of the academic programme is main-
tained and enhanced.”
“The new leadership
model is not as alien
as it might sound”
Alex Nowbar
President and Provost
roles introduced
Imperial follows in the footsteps of universities such as Harvard

