NEWS
FELIX
Friday 04 MAY 2012
6
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
Croquet Club dormancy debated
A Clubs and Societies Board (CSB)
meeting on 27 February 2012 resulted in
a decision to close the dormant Croquet
Club along with 6 other clubs. Accord-
ing to Deputy President of Clubs and
Societies (DPCS) Monya Zard’s “Clubs
to Close” paper, the decision was on the
grounds that the club had less than 20
members (3 members in fact) and had
not completed the relevant documenta-
tion or training.
The Croquet Club had been made dor-
mant on 8 December 2011 following a
RCC (Recreational Clubs Committee)
dormancy review, as typically happens
to the club each year. The club’s mem-
bers argue that croquet is ostensibly a
summer sport. Furthermore the club
leads open training every summer run by
active Life members such as ex-DPFS
Christian Carter.
Croquet Club treasurer, Eugene
Chang, claims he was not informed of
the potential closure prior to the meet-
ing. Moreover Chang is adamant that the
closure is “illegitmate” thus seeking to
appeal the decision preferably through
Court rather than the CSB. Both Chang
and the club’s chair, Joseph Rumer, who
tendered his resignation on 29 February
2012, denied being warned of the threat
of closure and claimed the closure “ul-
tra-vires” based on a Clubs and Societies
Policy available online.
It would appear there are two key re-
futing claims.
Firstly DPCS Zard did email the club’s
chair, Rumer, on 31 January 2011 clearly
voicing her concerns about the club and
asking him to contact her or the RCC
Chair “to discuss how to reach the targets
you’ve been set, or how to adjust the tar-
gets so that they are achievable. Please
treat this as urgent.” Zard went on in no
uncertain terms, “taking no action will
mean that your club will suffer during
budgeting, and could ultimately lead… to
the club being closed down”. It’s not clear
whether this message hit home and RCC
Chair Dominic Andradi-Brown can con-
firm that no monthly dormancy reports
were being filed as required by Clubs
and Societies Policy. Remarkably, RCC
Chair Andradi-Brown seems to accept
some of the blame; “I must say that I did
not remind them at the point they were
made dormant that they should be do-
ing [the monthly reports] so some of the
fault for not doing them is probably on
me.” Andradi-Brown discussed the club
informally with Rumer in early February
receiving the following impression “He
did not attempt to defend the continuing
existence of the club that he was Chair of
or offer any suggestion that he would be
getting the club going in the summer.”
Put together, all the signs indicated
non-compliance with rules and no sign of
life; Croquet Club was no longer a func-
tioning club and now warranted not just
dormancy but closure. If Croquet Club’s
committee members were set on reac-
tivating the club in the summer as they
have done in some recent years, it begs
the question as to why they did not com-
ply with CSB’s policy and why Rumer
did not respond to the concerns when
they were voiced. Phrases such as “dys-
functional committee” have been used in
reference to the dispute.
Apparently documentation and training
was lacking from Croquet Club Secretary
Scott Heath. Constitutionally Scott Heath
is not required to do so and the onlineAc-
tivities System which flags up outstand-
ing forms did not pick this up. However
there is no excuse for the incomplete
Financial Responsibility form. It is also
apparent that no one took responsibility
to maintain the club. Other summer clubs
manage to comply fully with CSB’s re-
quirements, e.g. Cricket Club. In fact the
Activies System show a spate of incom-
plete tasks across clubs and societies but
it is not until a club fails to meet its mini-
mum membership that the CSB takes ac-
tion.
Secondly, as to CSB’s power to close
clubs, the current version of the Clubs
and Societies Policy available online in-
dicates that the CSB have appropriately
followed club suspension procedure.
Chang’s “ultra-vires” claim was based
on an outdated version of the Clubs and
Societies Policy. There may be areas for
improvement in the CSB’s handling of
communications on the matter but Zard
gave the club reasonable opportunity to
remedy the situation earlier on.
In this ongoing dispute Croquet Club
Treasurer Chang and Secretary Scott
Heath (also Union President) are the only
remaining committee members follow-
ing Chair Rumer’s resignation. Chang is
“interested in submitting an appeal” and
says “The Union in my opinion, have
been inconsiderate and demonstrated a
lack of understanding of a club that has
a past history of being a summer club,
has reached 20 members in the last 3 aca-
demic years and has only been dormant
for 2 months.” The result of the appeals
process will not only shape the future of
Croquet Club but also demonstrate the
calibre of the CSB.
Alex Nowbar
John Graham-Cumming discusses the Analytical Machine
Imperial TEDx
talks prove
popular
online
Matt Colvin
“Chang is ‘interested
in submitting an ap-
peal’”
Clubs and Societies Board decision leads to question of legitimacy
TEDxImperialCollege
Video footage of March’s TEDxIm-
perialCollege event is now available
to view on YouTube, with a talk by
programmer John Graham-Cumming
about Charles Babbage’s Analytical
Machine enjoying over 18,000 views at
the time of going to print.
TEDx is a program of local and
self-organised events based upon TED
(Technology, Entertainment and De-
sign) conferences. The Imperial College
event, held on 24 March, saw over 700
guests attend an afternoon of talks on
a wide manner of topics. One such talk
was given by Imperial student Joanis
Holzigel, who discussed his involve-
ment with student project e.quinox and
efforts to provide electrification in an
African village.
On the day itself, the Twitter hashtag
#TEDxIC trended on the social net-
working service in both the United
Kingdom and London.

