flexibility, with the College insisting
that the actual number of contact hours
for students would not go up. However,
he recognised the problem the changes
might pose to student society and wel-
fare events, with there no longer being a
single block of time in the middle of the
day when most students are available
for such activities. Heath assured the
Council that he is in discussions with
College in an attempt to get a guaran-
tee that there will be at least one day
a week when all undergraduates have
their lunch hour at the same time.
Rolling out with the same timetable as
the lunch time changes, all departments
will have to set aside two hours a week,
starting with 4pm to 6pm on Mondays
for all first year students in the 2012-13
academic year, to allow for ‘co-curricu-
lar teaching’. This will be compulsory
and allow students to learn skills that
complement their subject but are not
necessarily part of it. Part of the driving
force for introducing this programme is
employers’ observations that Imperial
students often fail to get employment
due to a lack of transferable skills. The
Sabbaticals stressed that the exact shape
of this new initiative has not yet been
The latest meeting of the Student Union
Council was held this Tuesday. One
of the issues that dominated the meet-
ing was the proposed changes to the
teaching day announced by the College
Management Board on 28 March. The
board has decided to phase out the cur-
rent noon to 2pm undergraduate lunch
time slot, “beginning with first year
students in 2012-13, and extending to
second year students in 2013-14 and to
third year (and above) students in 2014-
15”. Instead, individual departments
will each choose the time when their
students have a lunch hour.
Union President Scott Heath ex-
plained that he believed that, in prin-
ciple, the change was a good way to
give departments more timetabling
decided upon and encouraged students
to pass all suggestions onto them so that
they may raise them in meetings of the
Co-Curricular Committee.
The final major change introduced by
the Management Board was the exten-
sion of the teaching on Wednesday till
1pm. Heath outlined his strong objec-
tion to this change based on British
Universities & College Sports (BUCS)
regulations state that inter-University
sporting events can start at any time
from 1pm. This would place many stu-
dents in the difficult position of either
skipping lectures and labs or miss-
ing their sporting event. The situation
would be particularly difficult for in-
ternational students, the visa conditions
for many of which state that they must
attend lectures.
Heath believes that this change is a
simple oversight by the Board that arose
as a result of a lack of consultation with
students. However, he believes that this
is part of larger problem of the Man-
agement Board not listening to student
opinion, pointing to the Life Sciences
restructure and the closure of Clayponds
as other important issues that the Union
was not consulted on. As a response the
Council unanimously passed a resolve
demanding that “on Wednesday the
College day end at twelve o’clock” and
that “the Management Board consults
the Student Union on any paper relating
to student issues”, further recommend-
ing that “any papers considered by the
Management Board relating to student
issues must be countersigned by a Sab-
batical Officer to indicate that they have
been considered by the Union”.
The Council concluded with a paper
presented by Heath proposing changes
related to the Union’s summer elec-
tions. The Council accepted plans to
officially make all Welfare officers
Officers of the Union, giving them a
place on the Council where they might
share their expertise. Furthermore the
separate positions of Court Advocate,
which served to provide students advice
on their dealings with the Union Court,
was abolished, with the Advocate duties
being transferred to the Council Chair.
There was more discussion about
Heath’s plan to, should he be able to
secure the funding, introduce a post-
graduate Sabbatical position. There
were concerns about the plans to make
this position separate from that of the
Graduate Students’ Association presi-
dent. Heath, however, explained that he
believed if the two positions were com-
bined the new Sabbatical would find
most of their time occupied with or-
ganising events rather than working on
education issues. The Council eventu-
ally voted to accept the idea of the new
sabbatical in principle, however another
vote will be held when Heath secures
the funding and presents a full job de-
scription of the new role to Council.
College Day changes opposed at Council
Heath also outlines plan to introduce Postgraduate Sabbatical position
Heath opposed the extension of teaching on Wednesday until 1pm on the grounds of students having to miss lectures in order to reach sporting events on time
NEWS
FELIX
Friday 04 may 2012
8
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
Maciej Matuszewski
“[Heath] recognised
the problem the
changes might pose”
“employers observe
that students lack
transferable skills”
“the position of
Court Advocate was
abolished”
Thomas Lim

