11
felix FRIDAY 30 OCTOBER 2009
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk SCIENCE
SKEPTICS IN THE PUB
DUNCAN CASEY TAKES A TRIP TO HOLBORN TO BANISH THE
MYTH THAT ALL SCIENTISTS ARE ‘BOGEYMEN’
E
ver get that feeling that the
world outside the walls of
college is a cold, unfriendly
place? That people just
don’t appreciate the beauty
of super-symmetrical string theories,
or the sublime elegance of a perfect-
ly-folded prion? That, in short, the
world’s just not damn geeky enough?
That, my friends, is because you’re
drinking in the wrong pubs.
Skeptics in the Pub is rapidly becom-
ing a London institution, although
it’s beginning to spread its tendrils,
wraith-like, throughout the rest of the
civilised world. A little like the good
bit of a conference (the bit where all
the boring shit has finished and you
go to the bar to argue about the talks),
it’s an informal monthly bash in a pub
in Holborn, with a different guest
speaker each time. Topics have ranged
from the misuse of scientific claims
in advertising through to the (appar-
ently) rational basis for believing that
the world was created in seven days,
six thousand years ago, by a bearded
bloke with a really warped sense of
humour (presented by the UK head of
Answers in Genesis). All this is aided
and abetted by epic measures of beer
and silliness and whipped into some
form of shape by regular compère Matt
Parker, the world’s foremost stand-up
mathematician.
As much as anything, the meetings
present a forum for people with no
formal training who are interested in
or who interact with science to meet,
debate with and get drunk around real
scientists (that’s us); to prove we’re
not all bogeymen (or bogeywomen)
and to give an insight into what it is
we actually do all day. As a result,
Monday’s talk on ‘Why scientists are
still such a PR disaster’, presented by
Dr Jenny Rohn of UCL and editor of
Lablit.com, had the potential to be
interesting - or at least amusingly
bitter. In the end, technical hitches
and the obvious nervousness of the
speaker meant that the talk itself was
underwhelming: it turns out, for ex-
ample, that if you ask a seven-year-old
to draw a scientist, what you get is a
stereotypical picture that looks sus-
piciously like Dr Bunsen Honeydew
of Muppets fame. On the flip side,
I suspect if you ask the same seven-
year-old to draw a Swedish man, he’ll
have big eyebrows, a chef’s hat and a
habit of shouting “Bork!”, so I wouldn’t
draw too many conclusions from
that. Still, the shortcomings of the
talk were more than adequately com-
pensated for by the Q&A session and
subsequent good-natured bickering,
leaving everybody to try and piece to-
gether the nuggets of wisdom they’d
accumulated while six pints down.
Despite the informal feel and loose
structure, the event has pulled in
some big speakers since its inception
in 1999: Robin Ince, Ben Goldacre
and Tim Minchin are regulars, and
you’ll recognise a surprising number
of academics hiding in the shadows at
the back so their students don’t spot
them. The group have also formed
something of a lightning rod for cam-
paign groups: the geek army behind
campaigns like the libel law reform
project provoked by the cases cur-
rently faced by Simon Singh and oth-
ers. The next event is in Victoria,
presented by Evan Harris MP on the
topic of how science influences gov-
ernment policy (and vice versa): get in
there and give him a grilling.
http://skeptic.org.uk/events/
skeptics-in-the-pub
COME TOGETHER
CHRIS SELF WONDERS: ‘WHY CAN’T WE
ALL JUST GET ALONG?’
I
n recent history science has
been divided into clear cut
fields, for two main reasons:
as the breadth of study and the
depth of thought progresses, a
lack of time in one’s life forces us to
specialise. The second, and rather less
romantic reason, is economics. In uni-
versities, funding is distributed depart-
mentally; unless branded a physicist or
a biologist, no one would know who to
make the cheque out to!
Unfortunately the world isn’t so
nicely divided, and throughout the
twentieth century technological ad-
vances drove the scientific disciplines
together. Take computers; to under-
stand how a computer functions you
need a working knowledge of both the
physics behind the electronic hard-
ware, and the extra layer of mathe-
matics governing the way the compu-
ter behaves. Now you may be thinking
“Maths is used in physics all the time,
what is he talking about?” but please
calm yourself, I put it to you that this
is categorically different. I concede
that maths is used all the time in phys-
ics; however here the mathematics is
not simply the formalism of the phys-
ics. The mathematics describes a dif-
ferent emergent behaviour that study
of the low level electronics could nev-
er yield.
This progression culminated in the
development of Complexity theory
in the 1980’s. This computationally
heavy scientific framework allows the
general study of emergent phenomena
and creates a base from which incred-
ibly complex processes such as those
in biology or sociology can be studied
mathematically.
This is exciting as it opens such doors
as the true quantitative analysis of the
brain, of human populations, etc. Im-
agine the time when science will be
able to discuss emergent phenomena
such as psychological behaviours, psy-
chiatric disorders and, perhaps, even
our self-awareness and desire to learn
in terms of underlying elements.
Since the 80’s cross-disciplinary in-
stitutes, the analogue of traditional
departments, have appeared around
the world both independent of and
associated with universities. Even our
own fair Imperial is graced by the In-
stitute for Mathematical Sciences op-
posite the Imperial College Business
School. These institutes facilitate the
coming together of scientists and en-
gineers from all fields to tackle specific
problems. And this has become very
much the fashion of our era; in the last
10 years, spurred on by this spirit of
cooperation, scientists have begun to
launch upon studies of unprecedented
scale. From the analysis of the epide-
miology of the worldwide HIV crisis to
the great modern example of interdis-
ciplinarity: climate change.
Whole institutions have been set up
in this way to deal with specific chal-
lenges - Imperial currently plays host
to 7 not including the IMS, and in
my opinion this is a positive step for-
ward. We observe the world in terms
of questions; it’s a fundamental and
fascinating essence of humanity that
every child looks at the world and
asks, “Why?”. So why, here at Imperial,
should our undergraduate studies be
so fixed within the classic confines of
a particular discipline? Why shouldn’t
interest drive what we learn about?
And why are cross-departmental
courses looked down on by students of
straight sciences?
There are undoubtedly numer-
ous administrative reasons “the man”
would tell you to make this dream im-
possible. And many more academic
reasons that make it undesirable. But
I beseech you readers to never look
down on a science “softer” than your
own. Mathematics students, put away
those scowls of self-righteous disgust
at the physicists; physicists forget your
disapproval of the “fact learning” biol-
ogists and biologists question not the
virtues of sociology. For to answer the
big questions affecting our world, you
will have to work together one day.
“...if you ask a
seven-year-old to
draw a scientist,
what you get is
a stereotypical
picture that looks
suspiciously like Dr
Bunsen Honeydew
of Muppets fame.”
The standard Imperial student after a three hour optics lab
Wise words from McCartney and Lennon

