12
POLITICS
Politics Editors
Politics Editors James Goldsack, Katya-yani Vyas, James Lees and Phil Murray
James Goldsack, Katya-yani Vyas, James Lees and Phil Murray
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 30 OCTOBER 2009
Will Blair be
President?
D
amn you BBC! Putting
Question Time on a
Thursday neatly missed
the deadline for me to
write about it for Felix.
Ordinarily this is hardly a problem,
but last week with One-Eyed Nick was
definitely newsworthy. But that really
is old news now, so anyone who cares
has already had long enough to jibber-
jabber about it so I won’t waste any
more time over it.
Anyway, there is now only one coun-
try left who is yet to ratify the Lisbon
treaty, the Czech Republic. Once they
have done that there will be much
less of a chance of the incoming Tory
government being able to sort out the
messy relationship with Europe we
find ourselves in. To make matters
worse the treaty paves the way for the
position of a President of the European
Council and the current favourite for
that position is everyone’s favourite
war criminal Tony Blair.
For anyone not in the know, the
European Council is made up of the
leaders of the 27 member states of the
European Nation and the President of
the European Commission. Currently
a leader for the Council is selected on
a 6 month rotation with the incumbent
President being Fredrik Reinfeldt, the
Prime Minister of Sweden, but if the
Lisbon Treaty is fully ratified then the
position becomes a position with a 2
and a half year length term.
To become elected President the
members of the Council must vote
with a majority for the candidate. The
European Parliament has no say in
the matter. The European Parliament
we mere mortals get to vote for is just
where people sit on the gravy train vot-
ing on how straight bananas should be,
and whether we should be able to buy
a pint of beer.
When the members of the Council
vote for their new President behind
closed doors it is undoubtedly a good
decision to vote in an easily recognis-
able person, or as David Milliband re-
cently put it, ‘someone who can stop
the traffic’ upon arrival in Washington,
Beijing or Moscow.
This is especially true after the cur-
rent President was basically snubbed
on a recent visit to Washington. Frank-
ly nobody can blame Obama for that;
what’s the point in meeting someone
who is representing ‘Europe’ when you
have the leaders of the world on speed
dial?
Certainly, Blair is recognisable and
has the right connections with global
leaders to make sure the views of Eu-
rope are heard in the corridors of pow-
er, but let’s take a look at why that is.
Firstly, he took Britain into 2 wars,
one of which is commonly called il-
legal, and while doing it he looked
more like George Bush’s lapdog than a
world leader. So in essence, Mr Blair is
recognisable in the same way as Paris
Hilton’s chihuahua.
Since handing over power to the
man who has famously ended boom
and bust, Mr Blair has been keeping
himself busy. Through being an envoy
to the Middle-East and doing after din-
ner speeches amongst other activities,
he is currently pocketing himself a re-
ported $10million a year, so it seems
unlikely he wants the position for the
tiny €270,000 salary or the chauffeured
car or 20 dedicated staff members.
Maybe I’m wrong and Blair is in fact
selflessly and bravely putting himself
forward to take on an undoubtedly
difficult and likely thankless job. One
problem here is that he isn’t actually
putting himself forward at all; as of
time of writing, Blair is still refusing
to campaign out of fear that his candi-
dacy will be vetoed and he will be left
humiliated.
Of course it’s not the kind of elec-
tion which a TV campaign is going
to help, only people already in power
get to choose who will be the face of
Europe for the rest of the world. Presi-
dent Sarkozy was the first to suggest
Blair for the job, Berlusconi of Italy is
also in support of Blair and Chancel-
lor Merkel of Germany isn’t outrightly
declaring who she will vote for but it
seems likely it will be Blair.
The only other person who looks like
they are intending on trying to get the
new position is the leader of Luxem-
bourg who likes to think he is a heavy
hitter, but frankly I only found out who
he was on Wednesday. In essence, it
seems their choice is between a guy
who no-one has heard of and a war
criminal who didn’t bring his country
into the Eurozone.
Basically, Tony Blair, not content
with merely ruining Afghanistan, Iraq
and Britain now has Europe in his
sights. None of us can do much to stop
him but there is a petition at stopblair.
org which currently has over 42000 sig-
natures. I would implore everyone to
sign if you have a few spare moments.
Of course the petition is unlikely to in-
fluence any of the leaders who get to
choose the new President.
The main duties of the new role re-
volve mainly around being the face of
the European Union to both the lead-
ers of the world and the general pub-
lic. This would seem an ideal role for
the man who brought charisma rather
than policies.
So once the treaty has been ratified,
as it now seems certain it will, Blair
will start pushing himself forward for
the job with the people who matter.
His position will change from being, ‘I
would do it if asked’, to pretending to
be a real promoter of Europe.
By now it should be fairly obvious
that I am currently against further in-
volvement with the European Union
and against Tony Blair, so if he gets in
and I have to write about Blair more of-
ten, I will be annoyed. Unless of course
he finally gets taken to the Hague and
stands trial for his illegal war.
James Lees
James Lees Politics Editor
Marcus Aurelius: A leading figure in contemporary politics according to Neil
felix on objectivity in Politics
Give instructions to a wise man and
he will be yet wiser. Of course at Im-
perial all men are wise. Or so at least
the university league tables would have
us believe. According to THES – QS
University Rankings, Imperial is the
sixth best university in the world. Yet
another league table, not nearly as of-
ten quoted by the College nor felix, the
Shanghai Jiao Tong University Ranking
of World Universities, puts Imperial
College at 27th place. Both rankings
and all rankings are flawed, riddled
with errors and are fundamentally bi-
ased – as many articles and research
papers have shown. What this corre-
spondent really thinks about university
rankings he cannot reveal for ‘journal-
ism’ must remain unbiased which sim-
ply is impossible given that everything
we hear is an opinion, not a fact and
everything we see is a perspective not
the truth as Marcus Aurelius, Roman
Emperor, said. However, this piece is
neither a lecture on Ancient Roman
history nor a rant about league ta-
bles. All it proposes to demonstrate is
that nothing in this world is black and
white.
Alas, following on from a previous
week’s article “Fixing Broken Britain?”
by Phil Murray it is quite clear that
with regards to the Human Rights Act
(HRA) 1998, a few gaping holes des-
perately need filling. Before going into
the privacy claim made by Mr. Murray,
consider first the very dubious nature
of the Human Rights Act. It matters
little that its title simply rings of ‘be-
nign’ and ‘caring’. North Korea’s official
name is Democratic People’s Repub-
lic of Korea, yet most of us know that
there is as much ‘democracy’ in North
Korea as there is honesty in British
politics. In fact, what the HRA has
done is to pervert the course of justice
and prevent it from being done in its
entirety.
There are more than 300 war crimi-
nals that are freely walking the streets
of Britain who cannot be deported be-
cause of their human rights. Amongst
them is a Zimbabwean torturer, an
Iraqi torturer who worked for Saddam
Hussein, a member of the Sudanese
militia and a Sri Lankan Tamil Tiger
assassination squad driver. Another
was a member of the Sierra Leone
‘Mosquito’ rebel group notorious for
murder, rape, looting, burning, sexual
slavery and forced amputations. In
April, four men accused of mass mur-
der in the Rwandan genocide won their
battle to stay free in Britain. The four
are wanted to stand trial for their part
in the 1994 massacre in which 800,000
people were killed in 100 days. But the
High Court ruled that there was ‘a real
risk they would suffer a flagrant denial
of justice’ if returned to Rwanda. It has
thus been interpreted that these men
are more important than the people
they killed and what is more; blatantly
disregarding the safety of the British
population who are inconveniently
stuck with the bottom scrapings of all
human dignity. Yet one cannot blame
the potential receiving nations. Who
really wants their garbage back?
Or why not take another case where,
under the HRA, three prisoners won
more than £11,000 in compensation
after prison officials deprived them
of heroin or methadone substitute,
forcing them to go ‘cold turkey.’ If it is
not clear why this is outrageous, it is
because prisons are supposed to dis-
courage drugs and actively prevent
them from entering the estates of
HM Prisons and private ones. What
is even more fascinating is that even
the likes of “Bin Ladin’s Ambassador”
in Europe, Abu Qatada, must remain
under article 3 of the HRA because
he would be “ill-treated” if he was sent
back to Jordan. The same man who
claimed that fighting jihad, holy war, is
mandatory for all Muslims and urges
them to ‘terrorise’ non-believers. The
most notorious case to date was when
nine Afghan men hijacked a passenger
plane and forced it to land at Stansted
in 2000. They were convicted but later
freed on appeal and a hearing later
ruled that under the HRA they could
not be deported, in case they faced
persecution from the Taliban in their
home country. The cost of their court
cases, asylum processing and benefits
cost some £30 million. They are still
living freely in the UK.
The simple fact of the matter is that
there is now an HRA industry where
more than 100,000 law firms are pur-
suing cases filed by members of the
public which include the honest and
the criminals, the minorities and ma-
jorities. There are even 1,200 special-
ist HRA lawyers. All of it is paid for by
money from the public coffers at an es-
timated cost of £100 million, at a time
when there is not even money to pay
for MP’s expenses.
Mr. Murray assumes that because the
Conservatives seek to abolish the HRA
they also wish to abolish human rights
altogether. That is a non sequitur as-
sumption which breaches the logic of
the day. The proposed British Bill of
Rights would, to all intents and pur-
poses, have the same content as the
HRA but defined and formalised in a
manner which would not pervert the
entire judicial system and thus pre-
venting ridiculous cases, like the ones
described in this article, from even
reaching a formal hearing. Mr. Mur-
ray would do well to remember that
the anti-libertarian tendencies are of
this authoritarian government not HM
Opposition (though they are certainly
not without blame).
In 1951 Britain signed the European
Convention on Human Rights. In 1960
British citizens were able to bring cas-
es to the European Court of Human
Rights. Finally in 1998 the HRA was
enshrined in British law. Yet one can-
not help but to think that justice was
better served prior to this stupendous
act coming into force, now that not
even the police dare to put up posters
of criminals-at-large for it might, shock
horror, breach their human rights.
Neil Dhir
Neil Dhir

