13
felix FRIDAY 30 OCTOBER 2009
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk POLITICS
Sri Lanka’s Tamils: a People Forgotten?
In mid-May this year the Sri-Lankan
government announced the defeat of
the Tamil Tigers (LTTE). Days after
the government’s announcement, the
LTTE released a statement confirm-
ing the war had come to its “bitter end”,
heralding the dénouement of one the
world’s longest and bloodiest conflicts.
President Mahinda Rajapaksa, already
considerably popular before the end of
the war, gained the status of a national
hero. And there was good reason. The
LTTE, who had sought secession and
a complete monopoly of the politics of
the country’s Tamil minority, were pio-
neers in the practice of suicide bomb-
ing and child conscription and were as
brutal towards Tamils as towards the
Sinhalese majority.
But military victory was only ever
going to be the beginning. The conflict
had left over 300,000 of the small is-
land’s population displaced and thou-
sands more injured. The government
was far from guiltless, having engaged
in abuses such as alleged state-sanc-
tioned murders, illegal abductions, and
intimidation of journalists, lawyers
and aid workers.
It was clear that a war-free Sri Lanka
was by no means equivalent to a free
one. Mr Rajapaksa’s government, al-
though accused, stood at the cusp of a
rare opportunity to break with the past
and begin a process of healing and na-
tional reconciliation between the Sin-
halese majority and the long-abused
Tamil minority.
Unfortunately this task does not
seem to be near the top of the priority
list of a government that seems much
more passionate about weeding out re-
maining Tigers than solving the coun-
try’s real problems.
Since the end of the conflict, author-
ities have made what can only be de-
scribed as half-hearted and superficial
attempts at rebuilding. Months after
the war’s end, roughly 260,000 Tamils
remain essentially prisoners in gov-
ernment-run internment camps in the
north of the island. Health and sanita-
tion standards fall spectacularly short
of international standards, with food,
clean water and medical resources
sorely lacking. And yet the Sri Lankan
government still restricts the activi-
ties of aid organizations trying to ac-
cess the area, limiting their both their
numbers and the types of activity they
are allowed to engage in. The impend-
ing monsoon season threatens to make
what are already inhumane living con-
ditions much, much worse. Flooding
in the camps in August destroyed shel-
ters, burst sewage systems, and result-
ed in at least 5 deaths according to the
International Crisis Group, a Brussels-
based international watchdog. The
government claims that the villagers
must be kept in these enclosed camps
until their homes and farms have been
completely de-mined, yet tens of thou-
sands could feasibly be released to live
with relatives, host-families or simply
in other areas.
Tempers have reportedly begun to
rise within the camps. On September
27th, the military reportedly opened
fire on refugees it claimed were trying
to escape the camps.
The government itself, still riding a
wave of popularity at home, seems be-
wildered at the rest of the world’s re-
actions to its slow pace. With external
pressure for authorities to publish the
names of detainees, engage in a trans-
parent screening process for suspected
Tigers, allow full access into camps for
aid agencies and allow refugees the
right to leave camps on their own ac-
cord, the government has seemed de-
fensive. Defence Secretary Gotabhaya
Rajapaksa has described pressure from
western governments as “jealous” be-
cause they “have not defeated terror-
ism as we have”.
Sri Lanka’s international image is sure
Anthony Maina
Anthony Maina
President Mahinda Rajapaksa proves to be adept at using three microphones at one time whilst delivering a speech
to suffer from such inaction. An active
Tamil diaspora will continue to make
calls for investigations into war crimes
by both sides. The EU has yet to decide
whether to withdraw Sri Lanka’s spe-
cial trade privileges on human-rights
grounds, a decision which would hit
the country’s garment producers hard
and provoke a rise in unemployment.
But perhaps the more serious con-
sequences of such insensitivity will be
found at home. An unwillingness to
allow the Tamil minority equal op-
portunity is what sparked conflict
in the first place. Today, a hollow
liberation and the dire lack of reas-
surance that steps towards a freer,
more inclusive state are even being
considered threaten to jeopardize
any future hopes for real peace. For
Sri Lanka’s Tamils, the painful wait
continues.
Castro “Betrayed...the [Cuban] revolution” says Castro
The sister of Cuba’s former leader and
revolutionary figurehead Fidel Castro,
and current president Raul has admit-
ted to spying for the Central Intelli-
gence Agency (CIA) during the 1960s.
Sensitive information was gathered
by Juanita Castro for the US over a pe-
riod of 3 years. Ms Castro, who now
lives in Miami, wrote in her memoirs
that she had fallen out with Fidel and
Raul over the killing of their political
opponents.
The 76 year old said she helped to
warn and hide Cuban dissidents before
finally deciding to flee Cuba in 1964.
Despite these extraordinary re-
marks from the memoirs entitled “Fi-
del and Raul, My Brothers, the Secret
History”, there has been no reaction
from either the US or Cuban govern-
ments as yet.
It was in Havana where Ms Castro
claims to have been recruited by the
CIA in 1961, two years after the revo-
lution that catapulted Fidel Castro into
power.
The former leader of the largest of
the Caribbean islands has not been
seen in public since falling ill in July
2006. Fidel relinquished power in Feb-
ruary 2008 and Raul Castro was voted
in as President.
Juanita Castro agreed to help the US
because she had become disenchanted
with the revolution when Fidel aban-
doned his promise of a nationalist
democratic revolution and imposed a
one-party Marxist state “simply out of
the need to hold power” she claims.
“Did I feel remorse about betray-
ing Fidel by agreeing to meet with his
enemies? No, for one simple reason:
I didn’t betray him. He betrayed me,”
Ms. Castro wrote. The betrayal of his
principles for democratic revolution-
ary change forced Fidel’s sister to turn
against him.
“He betrayed the thousands of us
who suffered and fought for the revo-
lution that he had offered, one that
was generous and just and would bring
peace and democracy to Cuba, and
which, as he himself had promised,
would be as ‘Cuban as palm trees’ ” she
added.
At a meeting with a CIA officer
called “Enrique” at a hotel in Mexico
City in 1961, Ms Castro was given the
codename “Donna” and codebooks
so she could receive instructions. Her
task was to help those people persecut-
ed by the Cuban secret police escape
torture, imprisonment and execution.
This often involved sheltering them
at the home of her mother, Lina Ruz
Gonzalez.
Juanita Castro agreed on the condi-
tion that she received no money and
was not asked to participate in any vio-
lence against the Cuban government.
After her mother died, she feared for
her own protection from the secret po-
lice so a year later fled to Miami. Her
brother Raul helped get her a visa to
leave the country.
The revelations set out in the mem-
oirs may shake the already poor rela-
tions between the US and Cuba. There
was hope on the island that with Presi-
dent Obama would come a new Amer-
ican outlook on Cuba.
However, in September this year,
Obama said it was in the US national
interest to extend the Trading With
The Enemy Act which covers the trade
embargo with Cuba. The two sides are
holding talks but the US are adamant
that in order for the 47 year long em-
bargo to be lifted, Cuba must show
signs of democratic reform.
James Goldsack
James Goldsack Politics Editor
Juanita Castro, Fidel’s sister, obtained sensitive information for the CIA

