14
CULTURE &
THE ARTS
Arts Editors
Arts Editors Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 30 OCTOBER 2009
Autumn: hot
season for art
RosieMilton
RosieMilton Arts Editor
W
elcome all to my pre-
mier editorial for felix.
I have been writing ar-
ticles for this fabulous
publication for a little while now (and
by that I mean a few years), but I am
finally spreading my wings as an edi-
tor. I am very excited to be presenting
you with some interesting articles this
week, in particular those detailing the
current Ed Ruscha retrospective on at
the Hayward gallery, at the hub of crea-
tivity that is the Southbank. I managed
to snag a ticket to an exclusive discus-
sion by the artist and have attempted
to transcribe this rare opportunity
below.
My co-editor Caz Knight and I were
able to visit the Frieze Art Fair the
other weekend and I have given my
varying thoughts on it, having never
been before. ‘Tis certainly the season
for such art ‘fairs’ and they are pop-
ping up all over the place. Upcoming
is Zoo and the Affordable Art Fair, so
look out for those if commercial art is
your thing!
For those happy with their fill of art
for the week, you might like to cast
your eye over Caz’s article from her en-
lightening trip to the British Music Ex-
perience at the O2. Probably more of a
step back in time in terms of musical
generations, she seemed to get more
out of the architectural decor.
In the upcoming weeks we will be
reviewing some more exhibitions at
the Tate Modern. There is currently a
retrospective there of John Baldessari’s
work - an artist similar to Ruscha in his
oeuvre. We are also making a beeline
for the Pop Life show this weekend,
also on at the Tate Modern. There has
been a certain amount of controversy
around this exhibition - some explicit
artworks having been removed.
I intend to investigate this further
and shall report back on these very
pages!
There are certainly some excit-
ing events on at the moment around
London!
So until next time, I hope you enjoy
this week’s issue and if you would like
to write for us, please get in touch at
the email address above!
Ed Ruscha: Daddy Cool
Caz Knight is submerged into iconic ‘standardised’ landscapes
O
ne can hardly overstate
just how seminal Jack Ker-
ouac’s On the Road was
for catapulting the exist-
ence of beat literature into the general
public’s eye and for, perhaps, creating
the “backpacker culture” among the
younger generation both of his time
and of ours.
The vivid sense of place, excitement
and freedom in the book is just enough
to inspire any person to cross the 1,328
miles from their home town of Okla-
homa City to Los Angeles as Ed Rush-
cha did. Walking around ‘Ed Ruscha:
Fifty Years of Painting”, it is easy to
imagine that if Jack Kerouac were an
artist instead of author, this is what his
paintings would look like. It is obvious
that for Ruscha, Kerouac has been an
influence in his own right, leading him
to create his own illustrated version of
the beat bible, currently on display at
the Gagosian gallery.
Travel, vast panoramic American
landscapes, movies and billboards are
just some of his muses, themes which
span all five decades of his career, reap-
pearing again and again.
This “recycling” of subject matter
is in keeping with how Ruscha him-
self describes his method of painting;
“waste retrieval….taking things from
my past and resurrecting them”. The
solid, geometric walls of a precinct
complete with barbed wire so synony-
mous with the American penitentiary,
appears several times but ten years
apart.
This geometric style of depicting
buildings began as early as 1965 in
Los Angeles County Museum on Fire
in which the bold, stark colours of the
building are in sharp contrast to the
ephemeral and delicate reds and yel-
lows of the flames eating into its side:
itself a comment on his views on such
institutions and on abstractionism, the
favoured artistic approach of the time.
Another category from which Ruscha
has since freed himself from is Pop Art.
Throughout the Sixties, his work as a
typographer for an advertising agency
inspired him to use simple words as
the subject matter for his paintings. He
reduces them to a series of lines and
shapes, distorting any meaning previ-
ously associated with them.
He takes this concept further in
Hurting the Word Radio in which the
letters are squeezed and bent with
clamps. Although reusing subject
matter over and over, the sheer range
of styles and features to his portfo-
lio is impressive. From using egg yolk
on satin after tiring of paint to blurry
black and grey images painted with a
spray gun. His ‘liquid’ images featur-
ing milk spilling, glass breaking or the
word “Oily” in glistened and splattered
letters, are equally beautiful.
Throughout his career Ruscha has
always been interested in the idea of
things. His later paintings featuring
mountain landscapes are more the
idea of a mountain, how we think a
mountain should look like, as opposed
to the mountain itself. His most recent
works include The End, a scratched,
old-fashioned movie still taken from
the end of a movie; lamenting things
old especially when progression does
not bring about changes for the better.
Taking in his fifty years of work, one
gets the impression that Ed’s technique
has always been mature, always superb
although a definite journey has taken
place. The return back to old subject
matter acts as a consolidation, an ac-
knowledgment of his past achieve-
ments making all his paintings ‘make
sense’ somehow. Here is a collection
which will delight anyone, no matter
what level of knowledge for, as the art-
ist himself declares, there is no right
way to look at any of his paintings.
B
OSS, OOF, NOISE, ‘WOW’.
Ed Ruscha’s visual ‘burps’ are
utterly monosyllabic. When
a person confronts any one
of his ‘visual noise’ paintings, the
words soon contort and change into
gibberish.
Acidic colours and huge chunky
Ruscha’s laundry list
Rosie MiltonauditsRuscha’scolourfulmind
typefaces literally slap you in the face
with their boldness and absurdity. Yet
their effectiveness is in their simplicity.
‘Deadpan’ is how I would describe
Ed Ruscha. I encountered the artist at a
rare presentation given by him, held at
the Southbank Centre, which has just
opened a retrospective of his work, ‘Ed
Ruscha: Fifty Years of Painting’ at the
Hayward gallery.
The discussion took the form of a
slideshow, after a flattering introduc-
tion from the Hayward’s curator, Ralph
Rugoff. He described Ruscha as an
“observer”, in particular of America’s
“shifting cultural landscape” and “vis-
ual habits”.
Ruscha has often been grouped into
the Pop Art movement and many con-
sider him somewhat overshadowed by
Andy Warhol – an artist who played up
to the limelight. Ruscha certainly be-
gan with a similar training to Warhol
– having worked as a graphic designer
before turning to art – which explains
not only his exploration of words, visu-
al signs, bright colours and tropes, but
his ability to see a witty idea behind an
image or a word.
He himself described his slideshow
as a “laundry list” – a jumble of differ-
ent things of varying colours, shapes
and sizes – reflecting Ruscha’s graphic
‘smile in the mind’. A monochrome
photograph of a woman on a telephone
taken by Rodchenko, an exploding ap-
ple shot through by a bullet and an al-
phabet of beetles in pen on paper are
just a sampling of the visual smorgas-
bord he presented to us, each with its
own story.
Objects inspire Ruscha, more than
people. His painted landscapes are
unpopulated worlds, devoid of peo-
ple, yet exploiting, almost forcing out
that messiness that lies in between our
actions and existence. Ruscha likes to
propose a big ‘what if?’ with every piece
of artwork: scenes of gas stations and
museums poised expectantly on their
canvases, like stills from a Hitchcock
movie, to being set alight and roaring
with fire in another frame.
Ruscha likened this aerial distanc-
ing and cinematic viewpoint to John
Millais’ ‘Ophelia’ of 1850 – a pre-
Raphelite painting which could not
seem farther from Ruscha’s oeuvre
and yet in actuality seems justly com-
prehensible when put alongside the
cacophony of images that serve as his
inspiration.
Ruscha, describing each slide, calmly
paced through his list in his mono-
syllabic, dry way and yet the audi-
ence laughed at almost every image.
Whether funny or not, it seemed to me
that Ruscha had achieved exactly what
his art seeks out to do, in this instance,
using the audience as a living artwork,
who orally expressed the droll.
A example of Ruscha’s ‘Standard Station’ series. At the exhibit you can see this painting set on fire...
Ed Ruscha: Fifty Years of Painting will
be showing at the Hayward Gallery
at the Southbank until Sunday 10
January.
Tickets are £6.00 concessions for
students. Nearest tube station is
Waterloo

