15
felix FRIDAY 30 OCTOBER 2009
ARTS
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The grand entrance to the tented event, which I have to admit got me very excited upon first sight
Catch up with the art market at Frieze
Rosie Milton attendsthehighlightoftheUK’sartmarketyear,theprestigiousFriezeArtFairinLondon’sRegent’sPark
A
s a Frieze first-timer, I had
certain expectations and
reservations about this
event. In a class not too
long ago, I recall my professor briefly
musing about Frieze, saying something
along the lines of it not being highbrow
art, but he’d ‘bought his ticket anyway’.
Such a nonchalant view of this event,
unknown to me, raised questions in
my mind of what manifestation it
would take: a jumble sale of all sorts
of bits and pieces, a pretentious circus
show of bizarre performances or a stiff
gallery space of awkward ‘pieces’ per-
haps. My experience of the event was,
unsurprisingly, a little bit of all!
The Frieze art fair first began in
2003. It is held annually in October in
Regent’s Park and was primarily set up
as a fair for selling art. However, the
larger majority of visitors now come as
spectators, including myself.
The fair’s main sponsor, Deutsche
Bank, reveals itself almost immediately
upon entering. The marquee structure
housed solid floors and central heat-
ing, excellent lighting and even in-
corporated a stray tree from its host,
Regent’s Park into a neat little corner
dining area. The supporting walls for
the small clusters of exhibits – mostly
designated per featured, participat-
ing gallery – were washed with a stark
white, true to the form of the ‘’cube’.
Various media were on display – blown
up digital photographs, giant hairy
shapes of sculpture and even manne-
quins, frozen in their own ‘frieze’.
As detailed in the accompanying
blurb, there were thirty participating
‘territories’, from Australia to the USA,
from Romania to Russia. From these,
there were 165 galleries represented by
over 1000 artists – some familiar, a few
deceased and many unknown.
Of the participating galleries that
drew the most attention, there was
certainly a bustle and hubbub around
the partition for London’s White Cube
gallery, which I sensed held a pride of
place at the centre of the edifice. Stand-
ing brazenly at its entrance was a Marc
Quinn sculpture of a heavily pregnant
transvestite. Quinn’s mastery at taking
subjects that society generally feels un-
comfortable with and immortalizing
them in marble has been seen before
publicly in London. In 2005 the Fourth
Plinth in Trafalgar Square was oc-
cupied by his statue of Alison Lapper
– a fellow artist and friend, who was
born with a rare condition, leaving her
without arms and with truncated legs.
Yet instead of initially hailing her as a
modern-day Venus de Milo, for surely
one can see the similarities, the public
felt uncomfortable with this enlarged,
serene body, gazing down Whitehall in
her smooth Carrara skin.
Alongside Quinn’s sculpture, a few
other ‘shock’ pieces were displayed: an
enlarged interpretation from a Tintin
comic page featuring some question-
able race and gender exploitations
as well as a bag of what looked like
urine on a pedestal. In terms of engag-
ing with the public, only two women
drifting around with heavily bandaged
faces and hundreds of lines of tub-
ing, helping feed one another juice,
seemed like ‘entertainment’. Of course
this fair is not meant to be a forum
for performance and display, yet the
static consumable art object seemed to
be dominating the example of gallery
work. Surely a commercial gallery, as
a cultural centre, although focused on
the sale of artists’ work, one would also
hope to feature, in a lateral sense, the
other work of their patronized artists,
such as performance art? Perhaps this
expresses the nature of the art market
and how only if a work is portable can
it be considered for that market.
However, as if preempting this con-
cern, Frieze provides a platform for
artists to create installation works,
under the Frieze Projects arm of the
group and incorporates them into the
event itself. One of the most interest-
ing of this year’s events was Monika
Sosnowska’s ‘Untitled’ – a ‘major
structural intervention’, a skeletal mod-
el of the Palace of Culture in Warsaw to
be crashed into the roof of the fair, as
a comment on the ‘imposition of one
cultural edifice onto another’, referring
to the ‘gift’ of the building to Poland
from the USSR, as described in the
Frieze catalogue.
A further benefit to the wealth of
cultural artefacts available to the peo-
ple of this country is the Outset/Frieze
Art Fair Fund to Benefit the Tate Col-
lection. This fund enabled the Tate
group to obtain works of art for the
fair in order to add to its collection and
with time, display to the public.
Frieze Talks also presents the oppor-
tunity for artists themselves to speak
out about the art market, art works and
the voices of the critics about them.
Unfortunately, we did not manage to
audit a Frieze Talk, but if I had, I would
have chosen artist John Baldessari in
conversation with curator Matthew
Higgs. At the Tate Modern there is
currently a retrospective of Baldessari’s
works, charting the chronology of his
artistic career, even the point at which
he ‘cremated’ a period of his works – a
surviving piece of which is displayed in
the exhibition as if it were a precious,
salvaged artefact.
The exhibition space was enormous
and we did not look intently at every
piece of artwork, but the sheer vol-
ume was not only overwhelming, but
encouraging also. Not because I nec-
essarily approve of the art market,
with its astronomical sums of money,
even in this time of economic doubt,
but because it is pleasurable to see so
much work together in a space, which
stimulates one’s critical mind and eye.
I would definitely encourage people to
go to Frieze Art Fair 2010 as specta-
tors, to see the wealth of artworks be-
ing produced globally – some polished,
some unusual, but all artefacts in their
own right.
If you want to know more about the
Frieze magazine and its events. go to
www.frieze.com
A permanent experience at the O2 worth a mention
A
lot of people may not know
that there is a new, perma-
nent exhibition at the O2
arena, and why would you,
given its far-flung location in such a
ghastly, white elephant of a building.
The British Music Experience is per-
haps a preview to what museums and
exhibitions will be like in decades to
come. One is immediately struck by
how professional and well engineered
it is; meticulously laid out as one as-
cends an escalator right up to its doors
after having had one’s Smart ticket
scanned.
However any tackiness you thought
you had escaped appears during the
preview film which is an utterly cringe
worthy affair as “Top D-J” Lauren Lav-
erne guides visitors through what is on
offer in the exhibit.
The experience does not get better
as you enter via a corridor to “scream-
ing fans” and stadium sounds. But
once you go beyond the gimmicks and
uncomfortable entrance you are left
free to explore the truly innovative and
captivating exhibits on show.
The dark, exciting room has a defi-
nite space age feel to it as a central
hub is encircled with small rooms,
each dedicated to small chunks in the
history of British music, beginning
with Chuck Berry and Buddy Holly
in 1945 and extending right up until
the present day to Amy Winehouse,
through the eras of Rock ‘n Roll, Psych-
edelia, Punk, New Wave and Brit Rock.
Visitors to each époque can marvel
at original memorabilia, album sleeves,
costumes of rock gods as well as inter-
views with those in the music industry.
The most intriguing feature of each
room is the interactive history where
images are selected and a brief his-
torical tid-bit is projected on the huge
screen. Music trivia is mixed in with
key contemporary events you always
took for granted such as the decrim-
inilisation of homosexuality (1967), the
criminilisation of racial hatred (1976)
and the advent of Eastenders to televi-
sion sets all over the country (1985).
For anyone with few inhibitions there
is a chance to dance your way through
from the Twist to the Macarena in
the dance studios where efforts can
be recorded and saved by your Smart
ticket, to be collected at a later date
online. But the most fun comes in the
form of the music room where ample
number of electric guitars, keyboards
and drums are there to be played along
with the help of an on-screen tutorial.
It would be easy to spend a full day
there from when it opens at ten until
closing time at eight, such is the extent
of what is on offer here.
The BME has done something truly
original through both its “after service”
experience through its website where
you can revisit your experience as well
as have access to Spotify playlists and
also by the fact that this is a non-profit
organisation whose aim is to advance
the education and appreciation of the
art, history and music in Britain.
The relative lack of visitors (making
for a calming, unmolested personal
experience) is possibly symptomatic
of its location for anything this good if
housed nine miles further west would
surely be the most talked about attrac-
tion and undoubtedly heaving.
You too can experience the British
Music Experience at the O2 for a cool
£12.00 concessions for students.
Nearest tube: Greenwich for the
O2. Look out for the one-off special
events!

