18 felix FRIDAY 30 OCTOBER 2009
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
MUSIC FESTIVAL
LiveFestivalsReview:DOWNLOAD2009
THIS WEEK, GREGORY POWER REVIEWS THIS JUNE’S EVENT AT DONNINGTON PARK
I
remember when Ravi first told
me he could get us tickets for
Download festival through felix.
My initial response was quite
naturally “Balls nasty!!” Then
when he told me the festival would be
just under a week before my second
year exams, I told him he was out of his
fucking mind. After careful thought (as
in I saw the line-up), I finally decided it
was a brilliant way of relieving all that
pre-exam stress (I honestly believed
that...).
Now, months later, that weekend
seems a world away. It’s more like a
fuzzy haze of rock ‘n’ roll memories.
But there are moments from those
three days I swear I could never forget
even if I tried.
Held annually at Donington Park,
Download is the place to be every June
if you’re even remotely interested in
all things loud and aggressive. Thank-
fully Ravi and I aren’t the only ones
who get off to the sound of distorted
guitars and so we were joined by (ap-
proximately) 79,998 other metal fans
gathered in that field with only one
objective: headbanging for three days
straight.
Imagine my surprise then, as Ravi
and I crossed a camp site the size of
eight football fields only to be greeted
by hordes of drunken youths falling
over each other and ingesting all things
illicit. And just like a certain Andrew
WK, these kids like to party... hard.
Needless to say, madness is infectious.
We finally reach the furthest edge of
the furthest camp site where we settle
– for lack of space anywhere else – and
start to put our tent up. At this point
any semblance of normality disap-
pears: a bunch of guys sitting in a circle
a few feet away from us, heads tilted
back, are monging the fuck out. One of
them is wearing a full-on leather gimp
mask, regardless of the boiling weather.
The others affectionately refer to him
as “Gimpy”, as in “Come on, Gimpy,
you’re already fucked on Ket, might
as well take shrooms too!” With logic
as flawless as this, it’s no wonder they
never actually made it to the concerts.
As responsible and functional jour-
nalists, Ravi and I decided this was
a good time to leave the freaks to
their dirty deeds and hit the festival
grounds. After walking for God knows
how long, the music gets progressively
louder and I slowly realize that the de-
generation displayed in the camp site
is but an appetizer for what awaits us.
Right at the gates, a group of 15-year
olds are gathered around a stretcher,
trying to wake their bloodied friend
up. His forehead is split open and the
Red Cross already seem overwhelmed
with headcases like this (all puns in-
tended). Little did we know at the time,
we would see at least one bloody teen-
ager being carried away on a stretcher
per day.
I don’t think I’ve ever seen so many
people gathered in a single place:
in every direction, everywhere you
looked, stretching far beyond the ho-
rizon, leather-clad metal fans stood in
front of three massive stages. Crossing
the ocean of flailing human bodies by
stumbling over each other is a difficult
task, and it can take as long as half an
hour just to get to the front of the god-
damn stage. And that’s if you make it
unscathed, which isn’t as simple as it
sounds. With loud music comes ab-
surdly violent “dance” forms, that’s
just math. Since your average heavy
metal fan is large, hairy and probably
on some kind of drug, it’s no surprise
most people get knocked the fuck out
when participating in the bucket of fun
we call a moshpit.
This wasn’t a music festival, it was a
goddamn battle field.
After 618 words, I realize I haven’t
reviewed a single band yet. So ignoring
the piss-awful emo-krunk posers Hol-
lywood Undead and their love of ter-
rible songs, crappy masks, and blowing
horses, we made our way to see the hot
chick from Lacuna Coil. On our way
we meet an alarmingly vast number of
people who pose the same ridiculous
question: “You going to watch Mötley
Crüe, dude??” I choose not to answer.
Lacuna Coil are entertaining enough
(thank you hot chick) for me to watch
the entire set. And it’s a damn good
thing I did: Opeth were up next. Hav-
ing heard only good things about them
but never properly giving them the
time of day, I was amazed to discover
that they are one of the best metal
bands in the world. You learn some-
thing every day, I guess. Any band who
play 14 minute songs without boring
you to death deserve respect in my
book. Frontman Mikael Åkerfeldt is
not only a gifted singer (screamer, if
you will) and guitarist, he is also witty
and downright hilarious. At the end of
their first song he announces with a
completely straight face: “Thank you.
We are Mötley Crüe. No I’m kidding,
we’re the much worse opening band
for Mötley Crüe: Whitesnake”. Genius.
That day, Opeth won themselves a new
fan.
For every person saying how great
Mötley Crüe were going to be, there
were ten others describing how much
they “fucking hated” recently-re-
formed nu-metal veterans Limp Bizkit.
These are the same thousands of peo-
ple I then saw going mental a few hours
later to Fred Durst’s childishly hateful
rap and Wes Borland’s crazy nu-rave
Amazonian Warrior costume. And you
know what? Good for Limp Bizkit. Not
just because I used to dig Chocolate
Starfish when I was 12 and angsty, but
because they’re a polished and pow-
erful live band who don’t give a shit
what people think about them. Also,
the Mission Impossible theme tune
sounds badass on a distorted guitar.
They conquer even the most hateful
“hardcore” audiences, and that’s quite
something when you actually listen to
the music they make.
Next up on the Nu-Metal reunion
tour (a bit of a theme this year), KoRn
hit the stage. Though I was a massive
KoRn fan back in their heyday, I was
not expecting much from a band miss-
ing half its original members. So I was
as shocked as a donkey with diarrhoea
when they rocked through classics
“Freak On A Leash”, “Got The Life” and
even their “Another Brick In The Wall”
cover with enthusiasm, passion and
genuine skill. In other words, they still
got it! Jonathan Davis’ voice is as spine-
chilling as ever, and the band still have
that dirty-yet-perfectly-audible sound
they’ve been honing for 16 years now.
Friday night ended on another tri-
umphant return, that of (my personal
Jesus) Mike Patton’s much loved and
influential alternative rock outfit, Faith
No More. Not only did they tear shit up
in style, sporting immaculately white
suits, they also played a hilarious cover
of Lady Gaga’s hermaphrodite anthem
“Poker Face” (strangely, the first of five
bands to cover it that weekend).
Saturday went by as quickly as Tom-
my Lee will fuck a fox, as we overslept
considerably; thereby missing Pendu-
lum’s set - who were unsurprisingly
brilliant, from what I gathered. I mean,
everybody blessed with working eyes
and ears has realized by now what a
great live band they are. Even metal-
heads can’t get enough of that sweet
D’n’B meets rock’n’roll cocktail!
If somebody had asked me who the
one person I was looking forward
to seeing here was, I would have an-
swered without a second of hesitation:
Marilyn Mother-Fucking Manson. I
have listened to that old coot since I
was about six, so my undying love for
him was probably the main thing that
drove me to miss out on three days
of exam revision to roll around in the
dirt with a bunch of brain-fried bozos.
I could go on for hours and probably
even write a Greek tragedy about how
godawfully disappointing it was to see
my hopes and dreams from 14 years
ago crushed like a burnt-out cigarette
by a sad, old junky with girl problems,
but I’ll save you the trouble. Manson
has become a joke, a real-live parody
of the twisted persona he invented for
himself years ago. Booze and drugs
have warped his mind, and with every
divorce filed, he lost a bit of his tal-
ent and self-respect. The guy doesn’t
even remember the lyrics to his most
famous songs, and as he stumbles off
into obscurity midway through set-
closer “The Beautiful People”, I’d rather
remember him as the Metal God he
once was. Not as the lonely old loser
he is now.
In a gobsmacking turn of events,
the most violent moshpits were not
spawned by a metal band, they were
for The Prodigy. And rightly so. The
Prodigy was the highlight of my festi-
val, no doubt. At one point some guy
in the moshpit next to us was punch-
ing the air in front of him fighting off
invisible assailants, until he punched a
little too hard into the fat dude in front
of him. This bastard turns around and
goes straight for the neck, strangling
the poor fucker with all his strength.
As our kung fu fan was being choked
to death, a group of ten people jumped
onto the fat fucker and pounded the
crap out of him. This scene was accom-
panied by the exhilarating breakbeat of
"Warrior Dance", or as Ravi would call
it: "TUUUUUUUNE!"
But as thrilling as Prodigy’s sick set
was, that night will really be remem-
bered as the night Slipknot had an au-
dience of 80000 riveted for two whole
hours. Having seen them up close and
personal in Hammersmith earlier this
year, I did not need to be convinced of
their greatness, and therefore could not
be fucked to spend half the show try-
ing to get close enough to see a damn
thing. So we wandered round the camp
site instead, which to be completely
honest is just as entertaining. It prob-
ably had more sweaty mask-covered
weirdos too.
The ambient noise never usually
bothers me whilst trying to fall asleep
at festivals. But that night, the group
of 10 guys walking back and forth past
our tent screaming “Get to the chop-
per!!” and “If it bleeds we can kill it!!”
in a thick German accent was just too
much.
Having no interest whatsoever
in Def Leppard, Whitesnake or the
douchebags in Trivium, Sunday’s line-
up was not my thing. It was only fit-
ting though that such a wild three days
should end on the most surreal image
which remains engraved at the back of
my brain: every person at that festival
standing still with massive hangovers
and looks of utter boredom. We were
all being subjected to the entirety of
Journey’s set, just waiting for that one
song. As I stood there unable to take
my eyes off the crazy Filipino singer
running back and forth from side to
side of the stage, coked off his tits, I
pondered about the actual meaning
of the Festival. A temporary bastion
of freedom and a shrine to the unify-
ing power of music. For three days
everybody standing there with me was
able to let their long, greasy hair down
and party like they didn't have a care in
the world. It usually involved drinking
too much and beating up randoms in
circle pits, but still there's a certain un-
deniable and beautiful simplicity to the
whole ordeal. And before I came to any
life-changing conclusions, the piano
riff to that song began to play. It was
an anthem for the people of Download,
and maybe even for human beings the
world over: “Don’t Stop Believin”. Why
metal heads - or anyone else for that
matter - would endure 45 minutes of
utter shite just to hear an 80s power-
ballad is beyond me. But as insane as
it sounds, those tens of thousands of
grown men entirely dressed in black
shouting back every single word of
that song with a tear running down
their bloodied and bruised faces was
one of the most touching moments of
my life.

