unionpage
This year your Sabbatical team are regularly
blogging, keeping you up-to-date what
they have been doing each week. From
discovering shutters in the old Union Offices,
to meetings and committees, the Sabbs
are busy working on your behalf. The blogs
can be accessed from the front page of the
Union website or by going to
imperialcollegeunion.org/blogs. Below are
a few of the posts that have been added
recently.
Still interested in what else they have
been doing? Each month during term-time
Union Council meets. Union Council is the
paramount policy making, scrutinising and
accountability committee in the Union. It
is also the body that your Sabbatical team
are answerable to. Every Council meeting
each Sabbatical submit a report which
details what they have been doing since
the last meeting. You can read these online
also by going to imperialcollegeunion.org/
representation/committees and selecting
Council.
Your Sabbatical team were elected by you,
the students, last academic year in March.
If you are a new student this year you will
have your opportunity to elect, nominate or
be one of the people that will run the Union
for the next year in a few months. You can
contact any of the Sabbs by emailing them,
calling them or by stopping by the offices
in the Union Building, Beit Quad. You will
need to go to Union Reception on level
2M. All their contact details can be found
at imperialcollegeunion.org/representation/
contact-us, as well as introduction videos so
you know what they look like!
Keep a check on your Sabbatical team
imperialcollegeunion.org
HiddenTreasures
Ashley Brown
President
Sadly not real treasure, but some surprising
things were hiding behind the rather crappy
walls in the old offices. These rickety walls
have now been taken down on one side
of the room, revealing a sliding divider, still
intact, down the middle. If you ever visited
the old offices and wondered what the
strange beam was for, here’s your answer:
This gives us the option of splitting the room
in two, for very little cost, allowing different
groups to use each side. We’ve just got to
decide what to do with the room in the long
term!
The old partition walls were hiding a fold-up door to
divide the room
Early October
John James
Deputy President
(Welfare)
In the lead up to the start of term everyone
else in the office started to get really
excited. This wave of enthusiasm somehow
managed to float right past me and I was
actually rather reticent about the start of
term. However on Saturday I hauled my
self out in front of Falmouth and stated to
give the Hall Seniors a hand carrying boxes.
Moving freshers in was fantastic. I loved
the different expressions, reactions and
questions that freshers and parents alike
came out with.
I attended the Mingle on both nights the
pink shirts provided by the President meant
I talked to more people that I think I’ve met
in my life. On the Sunday I also went to the
International Student’s Welcome.
The new Mums and Dads survey has been
a great success with almost all the CGCU
Departments taking part and half the RCSU
ones. What remains to be seen now is if we
can organise some good events.
The Who’s Here to Help Poster has
been produced and delivered to all
halls or residence and departments. An
unprecidented number of muggings hae
been reported to the union in the first two
weeks of the year. CONTINUED ONLINE
This entry was posted on Tuesday, October 20th,
2009 at 13:25
This entry was posted on Thursday, October
22nd, 2009 at 15:41
The eye of the storm
Jonathan Silver
Deputy President
(Education)
n this job, every week is different. This
week is, er, no exception - we’ve just left the
torment of Freshers’ Week, and the next
few weeks is when I expect some more
serious issues to come to me, so right now
I’m grateful for the chance to settle down in
my office and get things done. MS Outlook
is my organisational lifeline…
This is the week where our undergraduate
academic representatives get going. Dep
Reps are introducing themselves to their
departments, and electing Year Reps. If you
haven’t already considered it, stand for Year
Rep as soon as you get the chance - we
need enthusiastic but ordinary students to
be the link between other ordinary students
and our more senior representatives, and it’s
a great way to get your foot in the door for
some bigger and more involved jobs later on
in your time at College.
This week is also when this year’s
committee meetings really get going. Union
Council is where the keenest students get
together to help run the Union and vote on
what the Union’s official stance will be on
issues that affect students.
CONTINUED ONLINE
This entry was posted on Wednesday, October
14th, 2009 at 12:59

