20
FILM
Film Editors
Film Editors Zuzanna Blaszczak & Ed Knock
Zuzanna Blaszczak & Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 30 OCTOBER 2009
Heath Ledger takes his final
bow in the imaginarium
Heath Ledger plays his final role in
Terry Gilliam’s new fantasy adventure
The Imaginarium of Dr Parnassus.
Primarily known for his quirky anima-
tions for Monty Python, Gilliam has
become a distinguished writer-direc-
tor on the big screen. Previous films
such as Twelve Monkeys (1995) and
Fear and Loathing Las Vegas (1998)
have demonstrated his potential for
creating unusually inventive pictures.
Christopher Plummer stars as the
immortal Dr Parnassus, who lumbers
around in his “imaginarium”. His assist-
ant, Percy (Verne Troyer), is the like-
able token dwarf. They are joined by
his daughter, Valentina (Lily Cole), and
Anton (Andrew Garfield), who spends
an irritating amount of time expressing
his feelings of love to Valentina- who is
seemingly unfazed. The imaginarium,
which is a Gypsy-wagon/theatre, is
moved from fair to fair, and members
of the audience are invited to travel
into Dr Parnassus’ mind to unleash
their imagination. The party continues
its routine until “the devil” comes to
collect his winnings (Valentina) from
a wager set between Dr Parnassus and
the devil years ago. The unforgiving
devil, who is played brilliantly by Tom
Waits, condemns souls to dullness and
monotony, whereas it is Dr Parnassus’
mission to set them free.
The slow starting tale picks up when
Dr Parnassus’ band find a mystery
character (Heath Ledger), hanging un-
der a bridge in London. After recover-
ing the mystery man, he is later found
to be “Tony”, who joins the crew and
helps Dr Parnassus in his battle against
the devil. Its not long before Valentina
falls for Tony and transforms the party
into a tedious love triangle. Oh the
humanity.
The extremely sad and untimely
death of Heath Ledger is not the first
time Gilliam has been unlucky in the
production of one of his films. Gil-
liam’s ambitious film The Man Who
Killed Don Quixote, which started pro-
duction in 2000, had to be cancelled
after a series of unfortunate events
(including the set being washed away
by a flash flood). The film has now re-
turned to pre-production and shooting
will commence next year.
Gilliam was lucky enough to save his
current production, by cleverly rec-
reating the character in the different
worlds of Dr Parnassus’ imagination.
The three new versions of Tony were
cast as Johnny Depp, Jude Law and Co-
lin Farrell (All of them donated their
earnings to Heath Ledger’s youngest
daughter Matilda, who was not includ-
ed in Ledger’s old will). Unfortunately,
the sudden character change discon-
nects the audience from the initial
Tony character and momentum is lost
from an already disjointed plot.
The movie would have lost all ami-
ability without the ingenious Gilliam
StefanZeeman
StefanZeeman
A comedy in which people can’t tell lies.
Sounds familiar you say? The Invention
of Lying takes the plot of Jim Carrey’s
Liar Liar and flips it on its head by
having the movie’s protagonist, played
by Ricky Gervais, be the only person to
be able to lie in a world of truth tellers.
Once he’s invented it of course.
The film’s premise is a great one. It
instantly conjures up thoughts of the
havoc you could wreak if people al-
ways took you at face value. “Well you
see Professor, I would have met the
deadline, but this radioactive dog ate
my lab report...” What a shame it is
then that the film never lives up to the
brilliant concept that spawned it.
Gervais plays the main character,
Mark Bellison, with much the same
squirm-in-your seat awkwardness that
made his other characters from The
Office so popular. Bellison starts the
film about to go on a date with a girl
that he knows is far too attractive for
him, and with the knowledge that it’s
very likely that he’ll lose his job within
the next few days. His fortunes take a
dramatic upturn however when one
day he manages to “say something that
wasn’t” as he eloquently puts it. With
people never having even considered
the concept of someone saying some-
thing that wasn’t true, Bellison finds the
world is his oyster. He can lie to banks
to get money, make his friends believe
he’s a pirate, and even make a woman
believe that the world will end if they
don’t have sex right away. But things be-
come less straightforward for Bellison
when his lying leads to him becoming
the figurehead of a new religion, and he
starts to attract unwanted attention.
And it’s in these all too brief comic
moments that the film fails to live up to
its potential. Before the concept really
has time to flourish it’s brushed aside
to make way for the custom clichéd
love angle. It’s such a shame because
The Invention of Lying has at its heart
what so many mediocre Hollywood ro-
mantic comedies lack, a funny concept.
Despite the slightly lacking script,
Gervais performs brilliantly as the
bumbling everyman character that he
has down to such an art. And whilst
some of the jokes fall rather flat, Ger-
vais manages to make you care enough
about the main character to forgive the
occasional dud.
Gervais’ impeccable comic timing
and a few laugh out loud moments
make this a watchable film. However, a
script that feels lightweight with a great
premise which is relegated behind a
romantic subplot that feels tacked on,
leaves you with the feeling you’ve just
watched a film that could have offered
so much more but fails to deliver on its
promise.
My favourite
season
EdKnock
EdKnock Film Editor
Tim Davies
Tim Davies
A fresh concept is not enough
for the new Gervais comedy
Care for An Education?
ZuzannaBlaszczak
ZuzannaBlaszczak Film Editor
At this year’s BFI London FIlm Festi-
val there’s been a fair amount of hype
about Lone Sherfig’s new movie com-
ing out in cinemas today and it’s not a
great surprise why. It’s a British pro-
duction, with a British cast including
Emma Thompson (sidenote: when
asked about the inspiration for her role
of a strict headmistress she jokingly
singled out Hitler). But these are all
superficial reasons for liking a movie
and thankfully An Education manages
to warrant its good reviews also on the
basis of the movies’ story, directing
and acting.
The film tells one of those coming-
of-age tales about living life to the full,
lying to the parents and, invariably,
about making mistakes. But An Edu-
cation, which is based on a ten page
memoir by The Sunday Times jour-
nalist Lynn Barber and adapted to the
screen by the popular book writer Nick
Hornby has a slightly more refined
taste than the usual oversweetened
popcorn we are served.
The action takes place in 1960s Eng-
land at the moment when Britain was
still deciding between the upper and
middle class traditionality of the ear-
lier decades and the liberation brought
about by the fun-seeking, rock-and-
rolling culture of the 70s. This tension
between the old and the new order is
at the heart of the film and is very ef-
fectively rendered in all of its aspects
- in the themes, the scenography, the
exquisite costumes, music score and is
perfectly portrayed through great act-
ing from all of the cast. The result is
a film with a lot of heart in which the
story truly comes alive on the screen.
Particularly worth mentioning is
Carey Mulligan’s debut performance
as the lead protagonist, Jenny. She dis-
plays heap loads of charm thus easily
endearing her easy-to-relate-to char-
acter to the audience. But she also does
a great job with the numerous dramat-
ic scenes, proving that she’s a talent
worth watching out for.
There’s no denying that An Educa-
tion is an extremely well made movie,
but I have to warn you that you won’t
find any Borat mankinis, light sabre
fights or Chuck Norris action in it.
animations. They can be quite ri-
diculously self-indulgent at times, but
there are many moments of complete
brilliance – the cross-dressed dancing
policemen are a brief reminder that the
python flame is still burning. The in-
ventive sets and costumes also deserve
praise, demonstrating that Gilliam’s
mind has no limits. Gilliam’s previous
films have illustrated how he can keep
an edge on his bizarre stories, which
this over-the-top film unfortunately
lacks.
F
irst let me introduce my-
self; I’m Ed, a new Film Edi-
tor and I’m going to explain
why Autumn is my favourite
season (and not just for the
pretty leaves). You can split the year
into roughly four parts for films. I’ll
start with Winter which is generally
known as ‘Oscar Season’ as the dis-
tributors release the main contenders
for the coveted ‘Best Picture’ statuette.
Spring sees a lull in big studio films
and an increase of smaller independ-
ent pictures fresh from the Sundance
and Berlin film festivals. Summer is
of course blockbuster season when
there is a notable decrease in quality
of films but not suprisingly an increase
of ticket sales. Of course this is a gen-
eralisation and the year is peppered by
a continuous stream of comedies and
smaller action films.
However, my favourite season is Au-
tumn and probably the strangest time
in the year for films. With the summer
rush of mega budget CGI orgies over
and the Oscar worthy pictures too far
away, a niche has opened up in the cal-
endar and it’s during this time that an
odd mixture of films is rolled out.
There are the films of well estab-
lished and respected directors who
aren’t after Oscar glory; Wes Ander-
son and Terry Gilliam have already
revealed their latest masterpieces and
we have Spike Jonze’s Where the Wild
Things Are and James Cameron’s first
film in eleven years, Avatar to look
forward to. ‘Indie’ films make their
mark too; An Education (released
today), Paper Heart and We Live In
Public have all been raved about by
critics. Distributors also feel this is the
right time to import some edgy films
from Asia; we’ve already enjoyed Park
Chan-wook’s latest, Thirst and contro-
versial filmmaker Sion Sono’s new film
Love Exposure is out soon.
It’s this massive variety of cinematic
gold which excites me everytime dur-
ing Autumn. Naturally there are still
shockers pushed out of the summer
schedule (Roland Emerich’s 2012 is
soon set to destroy some braincells),
but I can enjoy a huge range of dif-
ferent films until Oscar season comes
around again and I feel obliged to
watch every Best Picture nomination.

