22
FASHION
Fashion Editor
Fashion Editor Kawai Wong
Kawai Wong
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 30 OCTOBER 2009
Diane von Furstenburg robbed
Vionnet arrives in London
Plight of the lanks and others News Strip
GabbyGentilcore
GabbyGentilcore
Fashion Reporter
Designer’s baby
Stella McCartney has designed a
collection for GapKids which will hit
stores on the 3rd November. Stella wants
to create fun and stylish clothes for
children that still deliver on quality that
working mothers expect. McCartney
explains that her collection is “a reflection
of my brand, there are pieces that are
classic and very sort of timeless and
hopefully very chic.”
S
ome tell me that it is a bless-
ing, however when I go
shopping it becomes my
curse. You see readers I am a
tall girl. I know that I should
not be complaining about my burden,
but unfortunately the world of the high
street is cruel to us of more-than-aver-
age proportions.
All I want is a new winter wardrobe,
yet I know that when I trudge gloom-
ily towards the shops of the high street
I am to be faced with tops that finish
around my midriff; skirts and dresses
that are way too short; sleeves that
stop two inches above my wrist and
worst of all jeans that swing around
my ankles. Not only is jean shopping
one of the most painful thing a woman
can endure ( a slight exaggeration on
my part perhaps but sometimes it truly
is an awful experience) but for us girls
with a lot of leg to cover it becomes a
fully fledged nightmare. Even if shops
get the leg length right, whoever de-
signed the trousers in question forgets
about the little fact that tall people are
tall everywhere. There is not enough
length from the crotch to the waist
so they sit unflatteringly low and that
every time you bend down little is left
to the imagination. Oh dear.
All I want are a few nice jumpers, a
dress or two and a killer party outfit.
It is all too small, too short or ill fit-
ting. And some of it just looks bad. Pe-
riod. So, alas I step out of the changing
room with only a pair of tights to show
for my troubles. I wonder if it really
was worth putting myself through this
mental torture.
However dear readers, it is not all
doom and gloom, as some shops do in-
deed cater to the needs of the tall folk.
The shop of choice for party wear or
classic tailoring is Zara. Their skirts are
never too short and they even manage
to get their pencil skirts to stop Below.
The.Knee. Amazing.
H&M are also quite good at catering
for those with a few extra inches, al-
though sometimes their sizing can also
go the other way so it’s luck of the draw
with them. Recently, skinny jeans worn
a bit too short have been making an ap-
pearance and Divided for H&M have
them in an array of colours so even if
they are too short all is well! Another
plus for H&M is that it is cheap, so you
can afford to have more than one pair
of these too-short lovelies.
For trousers, although it may be
the obvious choice, Topshop really is
good at catering for the tall women in
the world. They have an extensive leg
length range on all of their jeans and
some of their trousers, and they even
have a tall range. There is not much se-
lection but their best selling jeans are
available in a leg length of 36” and as
the range is designed for tall ladies, the
problems mentioned above are dealt
with rather well. Thank you Toppers.
But I am being selfish here; there are
other bodily woes that other people
experience that have yet to be men-
tioned. One obviously is the opposite
of my problem. Many of my friends
complain of being too short, that their
trousers hang on the floor and sleeves
also cover their hands with bit of extra
room to spare. Embrace this though, as
you are lucky enough to be able to wear
heels in the day and look feminine and
pretty, rather than be mistaken for a
man in drag!
Not all is lost as most high street
shops have an excellent petite range,
and I have been informed that Miss
Selfridge has a wonderful one. I believe
this since most of their clothes are tee-
nyweeny anyway. American Apparel is
smock. Evans has recently had a total
image overhaul and following in the
footsteps of Kate Moss for Topshop,
they called in the helping hand of Beth
Ditto, lead singer of the band Gos-
sip. Famously comfortable in her own
skin, she designed a fashion forward
range for the store and even though
her designs are also available on sale,
the brand has kept the style injected by
this partnership and the clothes avail-
able are now sexy, flattering and femi-
nine. There are also many online stores
catering for plus sizes.
No matter what you have to over-
come, next time you are out looking
for that new pair of jeans or going-out
ensemble; just remember that hope
is not lost and the perfect item is out
there waiting for you. It just helps to
know where to look!
Do you ever struggle to find the jeans or the top that fits? Gabby Gentilcore scours the
streets (and the internet) to search for clothes that fit different shapes and sizes.
The designer famous for her wrap dresses
was on a sightseeing holiday in Madrid
when she was mugged and had her wallet,
cash and credit cards stolen. The designer
was in Madrid to collect an award from a
Spanish magazine for best international
collection.
The luxury French brand will soon be
opening its doors in London, and will be
available in Harrods and Selfridges.
Armani expands
Giorgio Armarni is set to make his mark
on the Russian market. The designer
will visit Moscow next to hold a series
of events , including a fashion show and
presentation of his Autumn/Winter 2009-
2010 collection.
Topshop to take over the world
Topshop is to open stores in Paris and
Milan following the success of the New
York opening of the British brand in the
summer.
From top: Clotheslessness is no longer
a consequence of being curvy. Beth
Ditto will surely find heaven at Evans.
The company has recently launched
a line with Beth Ditto contributing
creative input. A fellow blogger
shows the petites how it’s done.
White sheer jersey chemise, American
Apparel; tweed blazer, from a thrift
store; leggings, Topshop; patent
pumps, Charles & Keith; necklace,
comprised of a random black skinny
scarf, and a necklace from Siam
Square, Bangkok. http://wottoncool.
wordpress.com.
“American Apparel
is for petites, as
they go down to
an XS and as it is
an American brand
their XS is a British
XXXXXXS.”
also good for petites; they go down to
an XS and because it is an American
brand their XS is a British XXXXXXS.
Their clothes are cut very short in
both the skirt and leg length so it is
the perfect place to stock up on basics,
and everything is cut so small you
are bound to find something that fits
you well here, even if you are particu-
larly tiny. Internet giants ASOS also do
most of their most popular styles in
petite sizes too, so you really are spoilt
for choice! Many shoe shops now stock
size 3, so if small feet are the problem
then the high street also has that cov-
ered. For example, all of Office’s styles
are available in a size 3.
The curvier girl is also being catered
for on the high street with retailers
embracing the plus size woman rather
than hiding her away in an ill fitting
Cool Wall

