25
felix FRIDAY 30 OCTOBER 2009
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk GAMES
Tonight, felix, I’m... Manuel Calavera
November 1st marks Mexico’s Day of the Dead, and to celebrate this Jack Warren is stepping into the suit and
bow tie of a man who knows all about being dead – Grim Fandango’s leading corpse, Manny Calavera.
O
ne of the first things you
can get Manuel Calav-
era to say in this game
is the description of a
deck of marked cards.
“This deck of cards is a little frayed
around the edges. Then again, so am I.
And I’ve got fewer suits.”
Manuel ‘Manny’ Calavera is an un-
lucky chap. Having not led a good
enough life to afford a trip to eternal
rest, he’s stuck in the land of the dead
trying to find his way to the other side
by working as a travel agent – for the
last trip people ever make. Each sale
gives him a little commission towards
a trip for himself, but he’s not been get-
ting many ‘moral’ people in, and they’re
the ones with money to spend in the
afterlife. It’s a very LucasArts tale, and
their last hurrah in the point-and-click
genre is a reminder of everything they
and designer Tim Schafer did so well.
Manny’s quite literally stuck in a
dead-end job. But when a woman dies
and ends up in his office looking for a
way out, corruption in Manny’s office
sees her being turned away. He leaves
his job and treks for four years through
the treacherous afterworld in search of
her.
It’s this expanse of time – each year
comprises one act within the game –
that makes Manny such a wonderful
character. He flits between every role in
the seedy, jazz-infused film noir world
he inhabits – sometimes a detective,
sometimes a smooth-talking club own-
er, sometimes a hopeless romantic. And
yet all the while there’s a bit missing. Se-
cretly, he’s still on your side.
It’s partly the well-judged humour of
the superb Schafer, but Manny’s atti-
tude to his crusade for love and retribu-
tion is always slightly mocking, slightly
bemused. It’s a great thing for a charac-
ter to have – particularly in the surreal
world of Grim Fandango. Whether it’s
performing a faux-angsty poem at a jazz
bar’s open mic night or goading a gigan-
tic demon mechanic into nearly killing
himself on drilling equipment, Manny
reacts to the world with the same mix
of bemusement and inquisitiveness that
you will.
Which isn’t to say he’s not serious, be-
cause he can be, and so can the game
itself. But Manny always makes sure it
remains a LucasArts game at heart. He
keeps it smiling.
“...truly
important and
truly special...”
He’s the game’s single, comforting
constant – the sharply-dressed, Span-
ish-accented wisecrack who thinks
pretty much like you do. He can be
nice, but he’s not averse to manipulat-
ing the stupid either, as long as it works
out okay in the end. He’ll do dumb stuff,
too, if you ask him to, but he’ll always
follow it up with a joke that reminds you
who suggested the stupid thing (“I just
locked an open door. Strange, yet sym-
bolically compelling.”) and when a game
involves giant cat races and labour
unions comprised of bumblebees and
strangely sombre metaphors for death
– you ‘sprout’ and become covered with
flowers before dying, a second time,
permanently –Manny’s occasional nods
and winks to camera are reassuring,
necessary.
He works as a game character because
he’s got a personality without smother-
ing the player with it. You enjoy playing
his role, but at the same time you feel
like you’d do the same, really. For a game
based on linearity, that’s important.
Grim Fandango has one of the best
stories ever told in a videogame. Manny
is both the protagonist and your link to
the story, and that makes him truly im-
portant and truly special. Don’t wait for
LucasArts to re-release it on Steam – go
andfinditnow,whereveritcanbefound.
Manny is an unforgettable character. Manny, left, and his long-suffering companion Glottis at the piano, in Year Two
IW: No multiplayer in MW2
felix talks to Infinity Ward’s Robert Bowling about the new and
controversial changes to be made to the blockbuster winter hit
L
eading on from their unu-
sual announcement about
the lack of dedicated server
support for Modern War-
fare 2, we asked Robert
Bowling, PR for Infinity Ward, about
his plans for the future.
“We loved multiplayer in Modern
Warfare, we did, but we’re looking to
the future,” Rob explains, “Players don’t
want the stress of playing against peo-
ple who might be better than them, or
having to communicate with human
beings. No-one likes that. So we’re
excited to announce that we’re going to
slowly patch out multiplayer over the
first month of the game’s release.”
He pulls out a lighter, lights a ten dol-
lar bill, and then uses it to light some in-
cense sticks. Made of gold and fairy skin.
“At first, we’ll just be replacing the oth-
er players with bots,” he continues, “But
over time we’re hoping to cut the system
down so they’re replaced with immobile
cardboard cut-outs. We’ve done some
playtesting, and a lot of our focus groups,
particularly those for domesticated ani-
mals and the clinically dead, found that
a lot more fun. It’s exciting. I’m excited.
Are you excited? Be more excited.”
I ask him about about the clan com-
munities, and got two thumbs up in
return.
“Oh, we’re super supportive of ‘em.
We’ve got a sweet clan mode that al-
lows you to play with up to three peo-
ple on the same television. Exciting,
right? Or at least, we’ll have that fea-
ture for a couple of months. Around
Christmas we’ll be replacing it with a
mode where you just walk around mul-
tiplayer maps alone, on patrol. I mean,
a lot of people don’t like split screen.
We want to give everyone the benefit
of multiplayer maps, without the frus-
tration of actually having to see other
human beings, or anything.”
I nod sagely as two scantily-clad
women bring in three cups of golden
liquid and proceed to massage it into
his thighs.
“And looking further ahead, we’ll
probably include an XBox 360 in the
system requirements for Modern War-
fare 3. You know, it’s about providing
the absolute best experience for, uh, for
our programmers. Yeah. By making the
PC version of the game actually run on
the XBox 360, you get all the benefits
of giving us money to make hats out
of, and none of the frustrating fads that
made Modern Warfare so irritating,
you know, like challenge or enjoyment.
Rob smiles broadly and looks like
Rob and friends, at the BAFTAs.
a man with a vision. A modern-day
Barack Obama, only for games and a
complete tosser.
“Basically, by the time we get to
Modern Warfare 5, we’re hoping to
have streamlined the process down
to just selling empty DVD cases. That
way, no-one has to waste time actu-
ally writing about our games, and we
can just get down to the important bit
about giving us cash.”
Modern Warfare 2 is due out on No-
vember 10th
Write For Us!
What makes you pick up a pad
and play?
What makes Angry Internet
Men so damn angry, anyway?
If you’ve got something to say,
say it in Felix Games - email us
at games.felix@imperial.ac.uk

