26
TRAVEL
Travel Editors
Travel Editors Dylan Lowe & Olivia Davies
Dylan Lowe & Olivia Davies
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 30 OCTOBER 2009
Travel Editor
OliviaDavies
OliviaDavies
Train talk
The dark side of travel
Kadhim Shubber absolutely hates coming home from his travels
O
ne morning at the end of
August, I walked barefoot
from my room, careful not
to wake my companions as
I unlocked the door. Ignoring the bark-
ing dogs, I went down to the beach and
stared at the purpled sun. The sand was
soft between my hardened toes. I turned
and saw a hippy girl sitting beside my
clothes. From a distance I could tell that
she was a life long hippie, who’d long ago
abandoned ‘Western materialism’. Funny
I thought, that she was adorned with so
many trinkets. We chatted and inevita-
bly our conversation steered round to
the fact that I had only a few days left in
India. She looked at me with sympathetic
pity, she’d lived on that beach in Goa for
almost 3 years and had no intention of re-
turning to the UK.
*
The plane taxied to a halt on the run-
way at Heathrow, and the other pas-
sengers fidgeted uncomfortably in their
seats, itching to leap up and grab their
bags from the overhead compartments.
I didn’t move, I stared numbly past my
impatient companion to the morning
London sun.
I smelled the air as I exited the plane;
it was odourless and fresh and walking
through the terminal towards immigra-
tion, my flip-flops seemed suddenly ludi-
crous; I gazed enviously at the man ahead
of me, his leather shoes rapping neatly on
the laminated floor.
The immigration official spied my bat-
tered passport with suspicion:
“How long were you in India?”
“Two months”, I spluttered, choking on
the words. Two months, I repeated again
in my head. I must have been stand-
ing there dumb as the official knocked
on the table and told me to move on. I
looked down at him again, tripped over
my words and shuffled awkwardly away
to pick up my backpack.
I let it circle a few times before I picked
it up. All the places it had been, and now
here it was, nearly at the end of the line
and I just wanted to stretch out that part
of my life that I could respectfully la-
bel ‘travelling’. I let it circle, around and
around and imagined what would hap-
pen if I left it there. It would circle there
all day and then be taken into storage,
and then be auctioned off to some new
owner, who would take it on a new adven-
ture and maybe I’d meet this mysterious
traveller in a gas station in Tennessee.
Thatwearyvoiceinthebackofmymind
told me, “that’s enough, let’s go now”, and
so I picked up my bag and headed off to
get a ticket back into London.
“I’d like a ticket for the Heathrow Ex-
press, please”
“Where would you like to go, sir?” The
lady asked rather obtusely I thought,
“Where else does it go?”
“It only goes to Paddington, sir.”
A number of thoughts swirled in my
head: I imagined all the things that I
might have said to an Indian man if I’d
just had that conversation in a Delhi rail
office, instead a weak “that’s fine” creaked
from my lips.
On the train I converted the fare into
Indian rupees and another wave of de-
pression crashed over me, 1200 rupees
I thought numbly, my lips trembling at
each idea that crawled unenergetically
to the forefront of my mind; 1200 rupees,
that’s six nights at the Salvation army, six
beers at Leopolds, four days motorbike
rent, 120 trips on the overcrowded local
trains in Mumbai, 1200 rupees.
I finally arrived in Paddington and
waited for the Circle line train to Victo-
ria. It struck me that London was clean.
London, that great big, buzzing city with
all those taxis busting out those pollut-
ing gases; London, with all those people
every day not really giving a damn about
litter or cleanliness. It was spotless man,
it was damn, real, bona-fide spotless.
The train came and we all filed on po-
litely, without drama; the last time I had
been on a train, I had fought on, elbowing
other travellers out of the way and shout-
ing to my friend to grab my hand so that I
could pull him on. He had run along side
the train on the platform, leaping up at
the last moment and essentially hung off
the side of the train, one foot precariously
inside the carriage, his arm locked onto
my arm, until some ‘space’ mysteriously
appeared in the train, which allowed him
to inch his other foot onto the carriage;
I still held on to him for the entire hour
journey and we joked that I had his life in
my hands.
I got the train down to Eastbourne,
£24.50, 2000 rupees, and walked the
short walk back to my detached house.
It was bright, so bright. The sun blasted
through the clean air - there was no smog
to dull its brilliance. The air was light and
easy and suddenly my backpack didn’t
feel so heavy. There was only a few hun-
dred metres left to my house and no ob-
stacles in the way. No cows to avoid, no
heaps of garbage to force a re-route, no
topsy-turvy rickshaws to impede my way,
not even another human soul. The way
was clear, and the air was clear, and the
sky was clear and I felt good to be home.
*
Now, two months later, my alarm rings
in the morning, around 7 am. I rush from
the cold into the hot shower, the exact op-
posite of bathing in India. As I leave the
house my feet squirm inside their leather
prisons. The 74 bus to college is spacious
and cool and clean, but unbearable com-
pared to the trash cans I traversed the
Indian countryside in. And as I walk
into campus, nobody badgers me to buy
souvenirs, I don’t have to avoid cows and
there’s actually room on the pavement
but I know where I’d rather be.
And when I organise my file each
evening and then do the washing and
tidy my room I realise how completely
‘real’ life has extinguished the lofty ideals
of spontaneity, freedom and doing what-
ever felt good that I held sacred during
the summer.
The absence of cows in London always makes me feel a little bit sad...
H
i I’m Livy, the new travel
editor for felix. Not sure
quite how this happened
– all a bit of a blur but hey,
suck it up. I am.
Anyway, aptly as I am writing this, I
am on a train. There are about 40 people
sitting around me, yet no one is interact-
ing. The opposite of the Extra gum flash-
dance train- kiss ad, people seem desper-
ate to avoid eye contact. They fidget in
their seats looking at adverts for home
insurance; all of course have plugged into
music like some silent disco (I have to ad-
mit here – I am also listening to Panic in
one ear).
Public transport seems to me to be the
only place where a group of people is in
one space for hours at a time and remains
largely speechless. Sure, people in groups
talk amongst themselves, but everyone
seems to be listening – I have even been
once accosted and yelled at by a stranger
after leaving a train, due to the volume
and ‘sensitive’ topic of a conversation a
friend and I had.
There is a company based in America
that arranges seat placing on airplanes for
business personal to meet new contacts
and network during a long-haul flight.
More spontaneously, many people start
up varying conversations at some point
mid-flight. If the social norm on planes is
to talk, the same is definitely not true for
trains, likewise on the tube and buses. As
I sit here, I am wondering: why is this?
Apart from bad seating layouts on
trains and buses, part of the problem is
that people do not want to cram their
lives with meaningless conversations.
Just now I watched a blonde woman issu-
inginstructionstohermotheronthecare
of her little son before waving goodbye to
them. Since then, the baby has been fed a
bottle in stony silence. Any talking in be-
tween the goodbye on the platform and
assumed hello at the other end would be
needless, so silence ensues– travelling is
an odd limbo between two conversations.
Escape. Maybe this is the real reason
people do not talk on trains – they don’t
really want to be onboard. For most peo-
ple, travel is a necessary hassle that must
be overcome in order to reach a desired
destination. The 8 am tube to work
every morning is probably not the most
wanted thing ever. Sometimes though,
little things can happen on that half-hour
journey that can make your day: someone
could offer you their seat (didn’t happen
to me today), or comment on your out-
fit (did happen, very old lady liked my
bracelet – weird but nice). Little bursts
of speech with a complete stranger can
be exhilarating. There are all kinds of
interesting individuals grouped together
for a small amount of time – just to peo-
ple watch is fun. Once got chatting with
the right person, you can learn a lot, often
with a new perspective.
Going up to Nottingham once, I met
a Australian tattooist who everyone was
studiously avoiding due to his ink and
piercing fetish – actually he was very
courteous, helped me with my bag and
spent the whole journey talking about his
little son and all his different jobs.
So basically I think the actual expe-
rience of travel can give you pleasure,
something that can be accentuated if you
speak to the person sitting next to you
next time you board a train – try it out.
Speaking of which, the grandmother
still hasn’t talked.
Routemasters are interesting, but they’re just not elephants...
Interested in joining 1,000 others on the largest student
charity hitch-hike across Europe? Registration for the
Morocco/Prague Hitch 2010 is now open! Contact your
London Hitch Rep for more info at londonhitch@gmail.com
Come find out more about the event at dB’s, 6 pm, on
Tuesday 3rd November.
Hope to see you there!
The London Hitch Committee

