27
felix FRIDAY 30 OCTOBER 2009
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk TRAVEL
I
t was as though this interview was
destined to take place. As I re-
turned from the kitchen with two
mugs of water, silent in prepara-
tion for what was my first ever in-
terview, the reflection of dusk in the sea
caught me blinded for moments.
I didn’t need to be reminded that, with
my bare feet rubbing against wet sand,
that it had been raining throughout the
weekend, even though it was dry season.
Ivan had set up the recording system
and gave me the thumbs-up. Ben seemed
unfazed by the presence of cameras and
tape recorders – he is, after all, the vet-
eran and I the novice.
The countdown began. Although I feel
humbled – and indeed intimidated – by
the things my interviewee has achieved, it
was time to set aside my nerves, man-up
and take charge. And so it was, the inter-
view with my first extraordinaire.
Dylan Lowe Bula sia everyone, from
Vorovoro, where I’m having my very
final day on this beautiful island. I’m
joined here by Mr Ben Keene – very
nice to have you here.
Ben Keene Nice to have you here Dylan.
DL Thank you. So why Tribewanted
in Fiji? It could’ve been in anywhere
else in the world.
BK When we started Google-ing for is-
lands to rent we came up with two places
where we could actually get short-term
leases for desert islands. One was in the
Philippines, and one was here. So we
booked two return tickets, one to Manila
and one to Nadi and were going to decide
at the last minute which one to go for.
DL And your decision?
BK We eventually went for Fiji because,
firstly, it’s an English-speaking coun-
try; secondly, it’s on the travel route, the
Philippines being harder to get to; fi-
nally, it’s more politically stable than the
Philippines, which is slightly dubious in
hindsight.
DL Must say, this was a big business
gamble with a lot of risks involved.
BK Yes, but the big risk is to announce to
the general public in the UK – and soon
after the rest of the world – that we are
attempting to bring together a bunch of
people online, and then come to an island
and build a community. Whichever way
you look at it – brave or naïve – that was
the risk of losing whatever reputation I
had, or Mark had at the time. It was then
for people to say, “we’ll watch these kids
have a go and fail” – that was probably
why we had such a big following from the
start.
DL Before you started Tribewanted,
what was your vision of it?
BK Initially, the idea was simply to say,
there were all these different types of
new tourism – community tourism, vol-
unteer tourism, adventure tourism – that
has sprung up in the last twenty years.
And, there is this big new trend in how
we communicate because of the inter-
net. So the vision is basically to challenge
ourselves to see if we could pull these two
trends together and try to create some-
thing that would inspire, educate and
provide an adventure for us all.
DL Any different to how it is today?
BK I think there is a big shift of empha-
sis, from people conversing about this
project online to actually coming here,
with more of the decision-making now
in the hands of the Fijian people and the
people who live here permanently. But I
don’t think it’s an experiment any more –
I think it’s a way of life here.
DL What would be your ambitious
plan for the future?
BK What next.
DL For Tribewanted.
BK For me, it has always been the case
since day one to have Vorovoro as our
starting point. The interests the project
has received for the last three years has
suggested to me very strongly that we
should try to take it to other places. How-
ever this is not a project that can simply
be copied and pasted to somewhere else
in the world. This project is unique to this
island; it’s unique to the people who live
here, and unique to the time that we’ve
come to this place and the events that
have shaped it. What you can copy is the
values of what we have achieved here: a
sense of community, and the idea that we
can build these cross-cultural villages in
different parts of the world.
What is so exciting about it is that we
have so many people getting in touch
with serious proposal from all over the
world – from Borneo to Brazil, Wales
to Costa Rica, to Indonesia – who are
genuine in their desire to partner up and
do similar projects. So I have been doing
a lot of planning in the last year, finding
partners, and finding models that are fi-
nancially and environmentally sustain-
able. Hopefully, by early 2010, we’ll be
ready for Tribewanted II.
DL I’m very excited about that.
BK I hope to see you there. [Laughs] You
don’t even know where it is.
DL No.
BK Nor do I yet.
DL One of those things you’ve men-
tioned is that you are trying to pro-
mote tribal culture – Fijian tribal
culture to be precise here. In your
opinion, where should tribal culture
stand in our increasingly technologi-
cal world?
BK What we’re doing here is bringing to-
gether those two things. I love technology
in the way it can change the way you com-
municate with people, making it easier in
making connections that weren’t possible
before. I also love the idea that we’ve been
disconnect from each other because of
this technology: because of certain tech-
nology we’ve been disconnect from this
kind of lifestyle, which is how you live in
balance with your local environment.
Rather than saying it’s about tribal ways
of life, it’s more looking at indigenous
people who’ve always lived off the land.
We automatically say they have a lack of
technology, and a lack of resources; the
reality is that the local people have this
amazing resource of knowledge that we
lack. So here in this relaxed environment,
we are fusing these new technologies for
smarter living, with the local knowledge
and older ways of living.
DL I certainly have learnt a lot about
sustainability during my stay.
BK What have you learnt?
DL Nothing’s wasted. This should
be the motto of Vorovoro. You were
in London with team Fiji promoting
Tribewanted – do tell more?
BK I have wondered in the back of mind
as to how to repay some of the amazing
hospitality we have received from the
guys here, so when the opportunity came
up to bring them over and be part of this
big garden show, which would fund their
trip, four of the boys came over. These
guys had never left Fiji before – let alone
travel to the other side of the world – so
all sorts of interesting things happened.
DL What were the funniest
moments?
BK There is this one incident that shows
you their lack of experience travelling,
and what is normal here that isn’t back
in England. It was when Marau [village
manager on Vorovoro], as we were leav-
ing England, tried to take a handsaw onto
the plane with him – you know, it was a
souvenir he was bringing home to his
family. In his mind it wasn’t a problem, so
one of us mentioned at check-in in Hea-
throw that, actually, by carrying a hand-
saw onto the plane he would never get out
of England.
DL [Bursts out laughing]
BK It was fantastic to have them in the
UK – it made you look at your own coun-
try in a different point of view. They live
for the moment, Fijians – they are great
fun to travel with.
DL We do tend to take things for
granted a little to often back home,
don’t we?
BK Everyone takes thing for granted
wherever they are from. The Fijian people
takecertainthingsforgranted–theytake
for granted there will probably always go-
ing to be fish in the sea. So through little
projects here we can share the knowledge
that, actually, some fish are dying out;
they can in turn tell us there are less of
this fish and more of that.
DL Anyone in particular you would
like to thank?
BK Yourself, Dylan. Because without this
interview thing would have been tough.
At least you’ve given us a chance to check
if we’ve got the right stuff in the first aid
kit.
DL Flattery aside, anyone?
BK [Chuckles] The boss man himself,
Tui Mali. He was the one who remem-
bered, when the Survivor sea plane land-
ed on the beach two weeks after Mark
and I had visited, our agreement and told
them he had already shaken hands with
these backpackers, and it was their lease.
There was no contract, and no exchange
of money by that stage.
And the other key people involved were
the first members to sign up. If it wasn’t
for their faith – or blind faith – this would
never have started. So I am grateful to
them. And I am also grateful to everyone
who has been here. I can count with one
hand the people who come here and ac-
tually not made an effort to fit in with the
project – that’s a tiny percentage. Every-
one who has come here is fantastic, espe-
cially in terms of engaging in and respect-
ing the Fijian way of life.
DL What would you prefer, a British
or Fijian wife?
BK Hmm, controversial. Fijian ladies are
lovely, but you need to be a big strong
man to manage them – this is probably
my diplomatic answer.
DL Lamb chop [Fijian for drunk on
kava] on the beach, or a good night-
out in London?
BK My friend, there’s only one way to fin-
ish the night, and that’s weeing in the sea
after you’ve had too much kava.
DL Absolutely, I should know better.
BK Cheaper as well.
DL One word to sum yourself up.
BK Expectant.
DL Were you the frog bomber?
BK No.
Ben Keene
Co-founder and owner of Tribewanted
Clockwise from top: Ben with Tui
Mali; arrival of solar panels and
wind turbine, donated by Ecotricity;
Ben outside of his bure, built by
Team Fiji
by
byDylanLowe
DylanLowe
Interview with the Extraordinaire

