3
felix FRIDAY 30 OCTOBER 2009
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
t
WIN a month’s supply
of Relentless on felix
felix loves you, you know that? Maybe we don’t say it enough,
but we really do. The way we like to show love is by giving out
entire crates of energy-boosting drink for you to enjoy.
To win a month’s supply* of Relentless Energy drink, simply
answer this question by emailing competition.felix@imperial.ac.uk
What year was the very issue of felix published?
A: 1948
B: 1949
C: 1999
For more information about Relentless drinks, visit www.relentlessenergy.com
*One month’s supply equates to one crate of Relentless
New Union spaces ‘seriously’ damaged within 2 weeks
On Monday afternoon all club officers
received an email from Jenny Wilson,
the Deputy President of Clubs and So-
cieties with regards to misuse of the
newly refurbished Union spaces. Ac-
cording to the DPCS, serious damage
has already been done to the floors of
the brand new Union gym and the cost
of repair is estimated to be rather high.
felix has learnt that the damage was
not necessarily caused by intentional
abuse of the facilities; Jenny Wilson
has mentioned that the floors were “a
lot less hard than expected” and as a
result, more prone to damage than the
previous facilities. It was confirmed
that the Parkour Society, who did the
grunt of the damage, will be paying
for both the club fine and the repairs.
It is worth noting that the society
took it upon itself to report the inci-
dent immediately to the DPCS rather
than waiting for an investigation to be
formally carried out and as a result,
has seen the total payable amount
decrease.
Miss Wilson is urging a “ask before
doing anything that you feel is dodgy”
policy in order to avoid further dam-
Afonso Campos
Afonso Campos News Reporter
The damage has been done; but the Union got its act together and repaired it before felix could get pictures. felix Fail.
Deputy
President (Clubs
& Societies)
Jenny Wilson
sent out an email
to all Club chairs
telling them of
the damage to
the new Union
seminar rooms
age. A more official protocol for room
use can also be found online. Many so-
cieties that could potentially cause any
sort of detriment to the room are being
relocated to other more suitable multi-
use spaces around the Union. These
societies include, as expected, Park-
our, but also Tap Dancing and others.
Wilson has likened the Clubs and So-
cieties aspect of the Union to “having
300 children” which she would like to
take care of equally well, but reminds
each society to remember that being a
club “is like having 299 siblings” all ex-
pecting respect from each other. This
includes taking care of the facilities
that have been provided and can some
times “be taken for granted”.

