30
CLUBS &
SOCIETIES
Clubs & Socs Editor
Clubs & Socs Editor Alex Kendall
Alex Kendall
clubs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 30 OCTOBER 2009
x
Team Bo’ go on tour to the Isle of Wight
Rik Smith takes us through nervous oil leaks and a time trial before a final, fantastic sprint back to London.
L
egendary.
In one word that will sum
up the trip. Granted, if we go
below the surface of 'Legen-
dary' it looks a bit like this:
On Saturday we flooded into the
minibus and began our journey to
Ogof Ffynnon Ddu (Or for those not
fluent in Welsh – OFD!) Upon arriv-
ing I didn't know what to expect, be-
ing a total beginner in this recreational
sport, so I followed the flow and began
changing. After 5 minutes of putting
on borrowed kit I felt like a caver!
On entering the cave it was utter
darkness. Not the night-time sky dark-
ness you've seen, but absolute absence
of light.
With our helmet lights on, my eyes
began to adjust and I saw the most
spectacular view. Now I know what
you're thinking – ‘he's strange’. When
B
y 11:30 the road train of
minibus and trailer had ar-
rived in Portsmouth, ably
piloted by Dan Lehmann.
Having only recently ac-
quired parts, Robert Carter and Dave
Hankin quickly set to sealing Bo’s wa-
ter jacket ahead of the first few miles
across Portsmouth to the Wight Link
Ferry. Having arrived at the ferry ter-
minal, and positioned in the queue, I
was asked by a terminal official “what’s
the dripping from the bottom?”. As-
suming he meant the oil slick we were
seeping as a consequence of our total
loss oiling system, I reliably informed
him that it was “just a little water
from our cooling system”. The official
seemed satisfied.
By the end of the first day numer-
ous Team Bo’ alumni had arrived. For
our first full day, Team Bo’ + Alumni
in various vehicles decided to venture
south to Ventnor via the visually stun-
ning coast road. With a reliable side
wind and the odd sunny spell, Bo’ was
able to power up every hill thrown at
him and attended the Botanical Gar-
dens in good time.
On Thursday we were to drive from
Freshwater Bay to Havenstreet via
Cowes and the north coast of the is-
land. Confidently we cranked up in 3
turns of the handle and set our sights
on Cowes. Having descended a 1:5
hill steadily in 2nd gear we heard a
sound we all dreaded to hear, a well
pronounced squeak from the mid left
in time with engine speed. The 3 of
us looked at each other, pulled over
and killed the ignition. The initial as-
sumption was a Big End bearing was
unhappy.
For those less technically minded,
the Big End bearing is the contact
point between the reciprocating piston
and the crank web. All the power de-
veloped by the engine must go through
these bearings. In a modern car, the
big ends slap around in the oil sump
so have no choice but to be well lubri-
cated. Bo’ however does not have an oil
sump and relies upon oil being dripped
down a tube and sucked via the crank
web to the inside of the bearing. It was
this process of dripping and sucking –
or lack thereof – that we immediately
suspected as causing the squeak.
We made our way to the chain ferry/
floating bridge and paid the princely
sum of £1.50 to cross. I tried to argue
that we were a bicycle – hence the
chains – but the £1.50 was still taken
from us. As a result of our delay we
were unable to visit Osbourne house.
Instead we did a lap of the car park just
to check it was really closed and con-
tinued on our way to the bemusement
of onlookers.
We arrived in Havenstreet to dis-
cover that the paper work describing
our camping pitch had been left in the
minibus which was also somewhere
at Havenstreet, so we decided to park
up in empty plot number 60. Having
retrieved our paper work later that
evening we returned to crank up to
move across to plot number 69. Dave
remarked that he was having issues
tickling the Carburettor to which I just
said “Nah, I’m sure it’ll be fine, let’s
start up”. Dave diligently did the 3rd
crank but no luck and by the time it
came to the 5th we decided it might be
good to check the fuel. We had indeed
run out of fuel, but safe in the knowl-
edge that we had 5 litres in the back,
we rolled down the hill to plot 69 for
the night.
Once we had pitched our tent and
secured the Gazebo over Bo’ we made
our way across to the ‘show field’ to ac-
quaint ourselves with the Beer tent.
For the Friday to Monday, Bo’ was
an exhibit at the Island Steam Show
at Haven Street which had the air of a
1950’s village Fete. During this time we
took the opportunity to clean, polish
and wax Bo’ between the rain showers
– having relocated the Gazebo to keep
him dry. We also took the opportunity
to dismantle the oil delivery system and
give it an overhaul which proved to be
a great success. The regular features of
the day included a car and motor bike
parade of which Bo’ and Derrick both
participated in daily. Intrigue and fas-
cination were lavished upon Derrick
due to his unusual design as well as
hub centric steering – a feature that is
seen as a modern asset by today’s bik-
ers. Bo’ was regularly remarked as be-
ing the 2nd oldest Vehicle at the steam
show – 2nd to a traction engine.
We did participate in the Gymkhana
(slalom time trial), for which we scored
a time of 51 seconds. Compared to Jez’s
46 I didn’t think we had done too badly.
Monday was to be the last day of
the Steam show, so after the final
event Bo’ made a hasty exit from the
arena to head back to Freshwater bay
(a more direct route this time), be-
cause on Tuesday the challenge was
set. We would drive from Lymington
in the New Forest to Imperial over 2
days, covering over 100 miles, and in
effect achieveing 2 Brighton runs in
succession.
On tuesday morning Bo’ was loaded
onto the trailer in Freshwater Bay, and
remained on the trailer for the ferry
crossing in order to satisfy the ferry
ticketing system. Bo’ was promptly un-
loaded just outside the ferry terminal,
fluids checked and wet weather gear
adorned. It just started to rain as we
pulled away from the curb and our first
destination was Beaulieu Motor Muse-
um. Although we had not made prior
arrangements to attend Beaulieu, we
were in need of a road map which we
purchased from the gift shop. Com-
ing in at 50% list price I thought I had
found a bargain – we later realised the
grid squares were not quite square, but
the price was satisfying enough. The
plan was to drive to North Hampshire
where lodgings had been arranged for
Bo’ and the team.
The next morning we were ready and
motoring by 9am. By 11 we were in
Guildford where we stopped for lunch,
continuing later only to be greeted by
a rain storm on the way to Woking.
Our route continued on to Byfleet
and eventually to Hampton court and
Richmond. We crossed the river at
Hammersmith and were able to make
our victory drive down High Street
Kensington, before arriving back at the
garage by 4:30 ready for tea (or numer-
ous pints at the Union).
Bo’ had driven over 200 miles during
the course of 8 days with no significant
delays or set backs – proving truly that
Boanerges was reliable, eager and defi-
nitely up for the challenge of another
75 years of student ownership.
On the way to Freshwater Bay
are rocks beautiful? Pictures can't even
begin to capture the wonder. Moving
on through the cave I began to realise
just how vast OFD was!
It did bring out the child in me,
though. As Jana says: “A cave is an
adult's playground”. Crawling on the
rocks, climbing up bits of colossal
rock, sliding down muddy passages –
ah, the good old days. Clambering into
an enormous chamber makes you real-
ise how small you actually are. But the
sights are worth it!
Crystal-like structures forming
round puddles, waterfalls, preserved
specimens. On returning to the hut
(Well they say a hut... I don't know
many huts with showers and micro-
waves!), I took part in the cavers' sub-
stitute to drinking games. I won't spoil
all the fun, you'll have to come along
to find out..
On Sunday we split up into smaller
groups and I jumped at the chance to
go river-caving in Little Neath.
We went through an entrance down
a river into an underground maze. It's
amazing to see the sheer power of wa-
ter after years of wearing away what
was once a solid piece of rock. Then we
got to swim in the cave when it opened
out (they lend people wetsuits). It was
so peaceful, you just heard the running
of water echoing off of the walls. We
traversed every area of the river cave in
just under 3 hours and came back out
after much more climbing, crawling
and sliding. This cave was even more
spectacular with lots of small feats –
Nature's miracles.
On the minibus home I was glad of
some rest after an intense weekend,
but as we drove out of Wales there was
a part of me that longed to go back.
Jezebel, Derrick, Clem and Bo’ at Havenstreet
The Cavers descend far below Wales
Who needs the sun when you all have matching yellow suits?
Email: bonerges@imperial.ac.uk

