31
felix FRIDAY 30 OCTOBER 2009
clubs&socs.felix@imperial.ac.uk C & S
felix
ChocSoc get a sugar rush at the London Chocolate Week
Yes there is a Chocolate Society here and there are thousands of chocolates to sample. The year begins...
L
ondon Chocolate Week. I
say there is no better way
than this to start a new
school year. It either helps
you fight your post-summer
blues, or boosts your start-of-term
excitement.
For those of you who don’t know,
Chocolate Week is an annual event
in England, especially London, where
tonnes of chocolate-related events
happen throughout the week. (I mean
it’s horrendous not to know about
such an amazing thing!!!). The aim of
it is to promote the culture of quality
chocolate.
As a chocolate enthusiast, the first
thing on my itinerary for the week
would of course be going to the launch-
ing convention – Chocolate. Therefore
on that lovely Saturday morning while
most of you were probably still in bed,
I merrily strolled to the May Fair Ho-
tel (oh yes, posh I know), where all the
wonderful chocolatey things happened.
Goodness me, there was sooo much
fantastic chocolate to taste! Obviously
there is no such thing as being too
early for chocolate. All the visitors/
journalists just kept popping pieces of
chocolate into their mouths. It really
is a non-stop process. There are some
chocolates so marvellous that I feel I
must share them with you.
Fresh mint truffles – goodness gra-
cious! This has to be the BEST mint
truffle that I have ever had. You know
from the bright, cool, leafy taste that
they created it using fresh mint instead
of the conventional peppermint oil -
absolutely gorgeous.
Goat’s cream chocolate. So, what
were you doing back when you were
17? Just getting into uni, not really
knowing what you are going to do in
life?
The designer of this chocolate was
only 17 when he got an award for this
creation. And the inspiration behind
the design? His best mate has a dairy
allergy…
Popping candy chocolate – this made
me feel like I was having a Harry Pot-
ter style wizardry treat. As the choco-
late smoothly melts in your mouth, the
popping candy just keeps exploding
the whole time. You simply cannot talk
for five minutes after eating the choco-
late because your mouth is filled with
this crackling all over. What’s more,
they have made the chocolate into the
shape of a frog, making it even more
magical. Definitely the most fun choc-
olate ever had!
Next came ginger chocolate. Okay,
now you think this is the usual boring
dark chocolate with disgusting chunky
crystallised ginger, which just ruin the
smooth texture entirely. But NOOO,
when you look at the cross-section of
this chocolate, you can observe the fine
ginger crystal powder mixing evenly
with the dark chocolate ganache.
Mmm…. lovely.
A few other interesting tasters include
a 100% handmade bar, raw chocolate
truffles, Long Jing tea truffles, passion
fruit truffles with real passion fruit
seeds… I must force myself to stop here,
or else I could go on forever and ever
and take up the entire felix.
So looking at my most fabulous
schedule ahead, I simply can’t wait to
go to my chocolate tasting at L’artisan
du Chocolat and to see Marc Demar-
quette at Fortnum & Mason! Not to
mention the free chocolate at shops
here and there.
Unfortunately, by the time you read
this, the week will be nearly over, but
I advise you not to miss out on the
last chances on Saturday and Sunday!
I know that Rococo Chocolate is giv-
ing out free hot chocolate shots in all
their shops. And if all these are sim-
ply not enough for you, check out the
Chocolate Society at Imperial; appar-
ently they do have quite a lot of nice
stuff to offer.
Greenpeace weren’t happy with the Biology Department’s GM exploding frogs.
These are far more tasty.
APPLY NOW! APPLY NOW! APPLY NOW! APPLY NOW! APPLY NOW!
Deadlines: Bernard Sunley 16/11/09, Parsons House 07/11/09, Wilkinson 13/11/09
Positions starting from December 2009
Bernard Sunley Hall – Evelyn Gardens
Wilkinson Hall – Eastside
Parsons House – nr Charing Cross Hospital
The Subwarden assist the Warden in the
running of the Halls, particularly social
activities, pastoral care and discipline. The
Subwarden receives a rent free room in the
hall.
Applicants should be either Postgraduate /
senior Undergraduate students or staff at
Imperial
Application form available from:
http://halls.imperial.ac.uk/vacancies/
?
SUBWARDEN

