37
felix FRIDAY 30 OCTOBER 2009
SPORT
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Changing the nature
of investment
Innovative, thoughtful, successful.
Grow your career with a global leader
in alternative investments.
Graduate opportunities in London and Switzerland
We use our market expertise to create innovative, successful products – which lead to returns for our investors
and growth for our business. In the past 20 years, we’ve become the world’s largest listed alternative
investments company, known for our diversity of funds, original product design and excellent investor service.
We’re a company of high achievement – combining in-depth business knowledge with global reach.
All of which means we can offer a select few exceptional graduates and postgraduates a collaborative and
thoughtful environment with the opportunity to grow, develop and succeed. At the cutting edge of ﬁnancial
and quantitative research, we are committed to combining intellectual rigour with commercial ﬂ air to sustain
an innovative edge. We actively welcome new approaches and new ideas.
As well as our graduate programmes, which will start in Autumn 2010, we have immediate opportunities
for those with PhD or exceptional Masters qualiﬁcations in quantitative ﬁnance, statistics, engineering,
mathematics, physics or econometrics or a data/modelling intensive science who are interested
in pursuing a career in Finance.
To ﬁnd out ﬁrst hand about a career with
Man Group, please join us at our presentation:
When: Tuesday 3rd November, 6.30pm
Where: Pippard Lecture Theatre, Sherﬁeld Building
Places are limited so please register your attendance via our website:
www.mancareers.com
Rugby overcome the
Medics after 6 years
Chris Lau Rugby
The game kicked off with conditions
perfect for a free-flowing game. How-
ever, the referee did not allow it to flow
penalising IC for offside and offences.
Constant infringements eventually oc-
curred and the Medic Fly-Half kicked
two penalties to make the score 0-6.
Despite the penalties IC began to
dominate and nullified the Medic at-
tack in every tackle.
Unfortunately, the physicality of the
game resulted in the Medics picking
up a few injuries, forcing them to use
their bench early.
The pressure eventually paid off and
quick thinking by Freddie Chalke led
to Charlie Esberger touching down for
IC’s first points of the day.
A missed conversion by Dan God-
frey brought the score to 5-6.
Not long after IC broke the game-
line through centre Tom Carroll. After
a series of slick hands and offloads in
the tackle Tom Zeal stretched for the
corner and just managed to score the
try before being bundled into touch to
bring IC into the lead for the first time
in the game.
The try was unconverted and the
score was now I0-6 to IC.
The second half began as the first
ended with both teams working to
their limits to gain control of the game.
Clever kicking from the IC half-
backs trapped the medics in their own
half. Their attempts to gain territory
were brought back fast by the Back
Three. IC were fortunate to have been
awarded a penalty in which Godfrey
scored to bring the score to 13-6.
Needing a converted try to level the
game the Medics tried to find a way
out of their half but we knocked back
by IC’s defence.
After a few nervous last minutes the
referee blew the final whistle to a rivet-
ing match.
Hugh Dingleberry played magnifi-
cently and the effort he put in during
the match rubbed off onto his fellow
players who were all outstanding.
The teams meet again after Christ-
mas, which will prove to be a bigger
spectacle as the medics will look to re-
gain the dominance they have had over
IC in previous years.
(Apologies for printing an incorrect
and impossible Rugby score in last
week’s issue - Ed)
Imperial Men’s 1st XV 13
Oxford Greyhounds 1st XV 6
Imperial College vs. Medicals battling over a line out in Wednesday’s top of the table clash

