39
felix FRIDAY 30 OCTOBER 2009
SPORT
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
New Club, IC Boxing in the spotlight
What is IC boxing?
IC boxing is a new sports club, part of
the ACC that welcomes anyone and
everyone willing to participate. There
has been strong demand for a boxing
club over the past few years, and this
year that demand has been met.
Imperial College is well known for
its academic excellence and the some-
what nerdy students and atmosphere,
perhaps now we can change the views
of some and show we have some of the
brawn to match our brains.
What does the club do?
We are introducing the true basics of
boxing training. Boxing is not about
beating someone to within an inch of
their life; it is about discipline and self-
control, which is why the bodies like
the military hold it in high regard. It is
about fitness and good health.
Boxing training is one of the best
forms of cardiovascular exercise,
which is why many sports replicate
aspects of boxing conditioning to their
own training regimes. So for those who
wish to slim down and become health-
ier, joining IC boxing is the best way.
For those who wish to take it to the
next level, IC boxing also aims to pro-
vide a platform for people to compete
and create a group of athletes to repre-
sent the university.
We are a sports society, and do plan a
number of events other than training.
Joining IC boxing provides a chance
to meet new people and do something
probably never done at Imperial be-
fore. We will be organising bar nights,
dinners and trips to big fights and
competitions such as the second an-
nual London Mayor’s cup held on the
20th November (for tickets and further
information see contact information)
When and where do we train?
Training takes place on Sunday eve-
nings from 4-6pm and is held at the
All Stars boxing gym in North Ken-
sington. The nearest tube station is
Queen’s Park and the bus 28 stops op-
posite the gym. The sessions are run by
three highly respected trainers led by
Isola Akay MBE.
Thesessionsareastealat£2formem-
bers and only £3.50 for non-members.
What can I expect in a typical
training session?
The session will start with a basic
warm up and stretches. Considering
the fitness level required of a boxer, it
is harder than it sounds and will make
the average Joe sweat within minutes.
You’re then introduced to three exer-
cises: 3 minute drills of shadow boxing,
skipping, and working on the punch
bag. The timing emulates a round of
an amateur boxing match. Throughout
this the coaches will be guiding you on
the skills needed in the ring.
The final part is the cool down,
which happens to be just as demand-
ing as the warm up.
Don’t be put off by the high level of
fitness of boxers though, we welcome
people of any standard and if you are
dedicated and come regularly you will
certainly reap the benefits.
Boxing is a contact sport, so if you’d
like do some sparring to see what box-
ing is really about, a gum-shield is the
most important piece of equipment
you will need. Headguards and all oth-
er essential equipment is provided by
the club. However you do not have to
participate in this if you’d rather stay
on the keeping fit and perfecting tech-
nique side of things.
The club provides boxing gloves and
skipping ropes, but it is better to have
your own gloves for hygiene purposes.
The basic equipment required:
• Gloves (provided)
• Hand wraps
• Gum-shield
• Towel (if you sweat a lot)
Contact & further information
If you are interested, you can find
further information at:
• boxing@imperial.ac.uk
Ronald Uzande Boxing
ICUAFCworthit
astheyprogress
in BUCS Cup
Potential competitive Imperial College boxers hard at work at the legendary All Stars gym
Some of the squad at a L’Oréal/ICUAFC photoshoot before Wednesday’s game
• IC Boxing (Facebook)
Information on the All Stars Gym
can be found on:
www.allstars-gym.co.uk
The IC Boxing website is still under
development, stay tuned for further
details on its development. See you on
Sunday!
by the midfield can boss the middle
of the park and apply the pressure to
the Medicals resulting in more goals.
Hopefully.
The efforts of keeping the clean
sheet were dashed 4 minutes into the
second half where the referee dubious-
ly penalised centre back Pat McMullen
for a shirt pull on the Medicals striker.
It seemed that the change of formation
destabilised the team and 4-4-2 was
quickly reinstated.
Fill-in right back Dion Benincasa
delivered a pinpoint delivery to Ferrol
who then produced a superb solo ef-
fort to complete his hat-trick after 55
minutes. Tom Fryatt complemented
his reliable display in defence with an
splitting through-ball to Ferrol who
duly lifted it over the goalkeeper to
make it 7-1 at the 65 minute mark.
The Medicals fought on and were
unlucky not to add to their penalty af-
ter capitalising on a 10 minute period
of sloppy play and a lack of concentra-
tion by College. Hints of complacency
shone through in the second half with
a couple of wayward 35-yard shots
but the discipline of College returned
and was rewarded again after Eshun
skipped past the Medicals right back
to deliver yet another pin-point cross
to Ferrol who scored to complete his
5-goal haul.
Eshun completed his hat-trick, and
the rout for College with another mini-
solo effort, latching onto a square pass
by Alex de Figueiredo, drilling it in
past the near post after skipping past
2 players.
This 9-1 victory displays the ease
at which College beat their Medical
School counterparts. However, credit
must go to Medicals 2nd XI for keep-
ing up a strong work-rate and deter-
mination for the majority of the game.
Though the gap in quality between the
two sides was immediately evident,
College respected their opponents to
the fullest and the affair went largely
without incident.
After a convincing 5-1 win by the
2nd XI against the University of Essex
and the 3rd XI enjoying a bye, all three
ICUAFC BUCS representatives will
compete in the next round (Round of
64) of the BUCS Cup.
Imperial College Squad: M. Botch-
way, T. Tofis, T. Fryatt, P. McMullen,
G. Graham, M. Vallin, R. Chauvet, S.
Rickards, D. Benincasa, E. Martins, W.
Swain, A. de Figueiredo, N. Ferrol, L.
Eshun
Continued on Page 42

