4 felix FRIDAY 30 OCTOBER 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
NEWS FEATURE
FUs PARTYING INTO THE THE RED...
IS IT ACCEPTABLE FOR FACULTY UNIONS TO BE LOSING THOUSANDS OF POUNDS FOR THE SAKE OF FUN?
AFONSO CAMPOS INVESTIGATES IN LIGHT OF THE RCSU AND CGCU FORMAL EVENTS LAST WEEK...
I
n the last few weeks, the two main
Faculty Unions have held their Fresh-
ers’ Balls. The Royal College of Science
Union held its event at the well-known
and prestigious Cocoon – a central
London restaurant, bar and club famous for its
status as a bit of a celebrity haunt – and Dan Le
Sac provided entertainment. The CGCU opted
for a Masquerade themed ball held throughout
the Union Building with top indie/dance band
New Young Pony Club headlining the evening’s
activities which included a hypnotist in the form
of previous felix Editor Martin Taylor as well as
student bands. Most attending either event had a
good time, despite neither being at full capacity.
felix has heard from numerous attendants that
dinner was great at both, but particularly “im-
pressive” at the RCSU Autumn Ball, according to
a third year mathematician. Emilie Stammers, a
first year biologist, thought that “the hypnotist [at
CGCU’s Ball] was really good” as it “livened up
the wait for the dinner”
.
Since this is the first large-scale event of the
year for both Unions, the respective Presidents
themselves played the biggest part in the logis-
tics and organisation. Despite this, financial-
ly, neither was a success in any way given that
both lost a significant quantity of money. felix
obtained from a CGCU committee member a
statement that the loss stands at “around £5000”
for the their Ball, but after research and confir-
mation from the DPFS, Danny Hill, this seems to
be much closer to £7,500. RCSU have reported
a loss of £3500 which felix has not been able to
confirm with the DPFS at this stage. It is perfectly
acceptable for these kind of events to lose some
money as they are fulfilling one of the ethos of the
Faculty Unions, which is to provide good qual-
ity entertainment to its members. The Balls help
raise a campus-wide awareness of the Unions and
engage the students. Stephen Long, CGCU Vice-
President of Ac- tivities, believes they foster
a “sense of belonging”
.
felix wonders, however, if the losses
currently being reported are actu-
ally acceptable in terms of opportunity
cost. Losing vast quantities of money is
not a new thing as both the RCSU and
CGCU have officially stated that they in-
tend to use Faculty grants to cover some
of their financial shortcomings resulting
from the Ball in order to keep both
Unions in a healthy financial situ-
ation. Faculty grants were instated
in order to cover costs affecting
the entire body of constituents
and an anonymous student has argued that spend-
ing it on “200 students rather than 4000 seems like
a bit of a joke”
.
Katya-yani Vyas, the RCSU President has stated
that her biggest worry before the ball was that the
event “wouldn’t sell enough tickets”; a sentiment
echoed by Stephen Long. When confronted with
the losses, Miss Vyas said that the Ball was “not a
profit making activity”
. In a statement to felix, Mr
Long said that “admittedly, not a huge amount”
was done to publicise the event, resulting in a less
than ideal turnout, while the the RCSU president
believes her expectations were “too high” for the
number of attendants, but that these predictions
were based on previous years selling out.
“Spending the faculty grant on 200
students rather than 4000 seems
like a bit of a joke.”
Despite selling out, it is worth noting that some
events are predicted to make a significant loss as
well, with RCSU’s Summer Ball at Taman Gang
having ended up in the red around £5500.
Should a loss in these events be softer than the
ones currently being experienced, the capital
available could most likely be put to better use
elsewhere. Suggestions for potential uses of the
money include:
• Welfare purposes
• Increased number of smaller events
throughout the year with a capacity to per-
petuate the Union’s brand
• Sponsorship of merchandise to the same
effect and,
• The sponsorship of educational and career
talks and events.
While the RCSU seems to have run the event
smoothly, to the book and without major
hiccups, the same cannot be said of the CGCU,
which appears to be having some internal
problems.
CSU AND CGCU FORMAL E
RCSU President
Katya-yani
Vyas: “There
was nothing
pointing to the
Autumn Ball to
be unsuccessful.
Our only mistake
was our high
expectations”
CGCU President
Kirsty Patterson
chose not to
speak to felix,
and is under
heavy inspection
after the
CGCU
Masquerade
Ball’s failings

