5
felix FRIDAY 30 OCTOBER 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk NEWS FEATURE
...THENCRUMBLINGFROMTHEINSIDE
... BUT THE CGCU IS BEGINNING TO SHOW CRACKS IN THEIR EXTERIOR; CASH IS LOST AT THE BALL,
VICE PRESIDENT SPEAK OUTS AND GUILDSHEET EDITOR RESIGNS. DAN WAN REPORTS
C
ity and Guilds College Un-
ion is crumbling from in the
inside, reports felix. Even
though Friday’s City and
Guilds College Union Mas-
querade Ball cannot be considered a failure
by any means, it has seemingly brought to light
many of the problems surrounding the CGCU
and its committee. Since the black-tie event was
held, there have been strong murmurs of dis-
content within the CGCU. Senior committee
membersoftheengineeringFacultyUnionhave
spoken out against the current administration,
with Guildsheet Editor Lawrence Weetman
also resigning this past Wednesday.
Friday’s Masquerade Ball made an unex-
pected approximate £7,300 loss, but the fi-
nances seem to be just the tip of the iceberg
currently concerning the CGCU Executive
committee. It is seemingly a story of mis-
management that has amounted to the cat-
astrophic financial deficit left in the CGCU
balance sheets this week.
Months prior to the Ball, CGCU President
Kirsty Patterson proposed New Young Pony
Club to be the Masquerade Ball’s headline
act. However, Rikki Norris, her second-in-
command and Vice President of Finances
and Services, was the very first to see cracks
in the plan. Being the only other financial-
ly responsible committee member in the
CGCU, he quickly distanced himself after
learning about the mounting technical costs
involved in bringing the band to the Union.
“In the summer when the Ball was being
organised and Kirsty quoted £5,000 for New
Young Pony Club, I thought it could be pos-
sible. Once I heard the technical rider
costs could be into the thou-
sands rather than the
hundreds, that’s when I
took a step back.”
Despite Mr. Norris’s
apprehension and dis-
approval after assess-
ing the feasibility of at-
taining the band, Miss
Patterson decided to go
ahead with hiring the act
for a total of around £7,000.
The rider costs to hire the band’s re-
quested equipment is reported to be around
the £2,000 mark. “I advised not to go ahead,
but she went ahead against best advice,” Mr.
Norris also stated. He has also refused to put
his name to the final budget requests sent to
the Union for the verification.
To cover the extravagant expenses, tickets
were priced at £38 for a dinner ticket and
£16 for entertainments. Some have ques-
tionedthepriceoftheticketsforbeingtoo
expensive for an event held at the Union.
“Everyone that came left with a smile
on their face,” said Steve Long, Vice
President of Activities of the CGCU. “We
weren’t there to make money after all.”
To place things in perspective, RCSU
charged £35 for dinner and £10 for enter-
tainment passes at last Monday’s Autumn
Ball, an event held at Cocoon: a Mayfair
restaurant-cum-bar more familiar with city
bankers and high-flying businessmen.
“ The circumstances under
which the cash box went
missing are hazy, but reports
have suggested it was mislaid
by Miss Patterson.”
On top of the cost of the headline act being
the main contributing factor to the debatably
high ticket prices, one attendee to the CGCU
Ball poignantly highlighted a further issue of
mismanagement that ultimately meant the
Ballbecomeanill-definedevent.Sheasked“do
youreallythinkpeoplegotoamasqueradeball
just for the headline act?” This is a question
that the Kirsty Patterson and her CGCU com-
mittee possibly should have asked themselves
before booking such an expensive act.
The Ball has raised questions regarding
the leadership and financial responsibility
of Miss Patterson as CGCU President. It
has been reported that an initial decision
not to sell tickets on the door was reversed
by Miss Patterson a short while into the
night’s proceedings. However, this decision
was not run by her committee members,
putting her in sole responsibility for the box
of money held at the door; it’s purpose to
hold guests’ wristbands and to collect ticket
money.
It came as a surprise for other members of
the CGCU committee to hear that the cash
box containing a total of £470 was found in
the Union Dining Hall by a Union senior
steward at 4pm the next day. Despite imme-
diate emails being sent out by Union Deputy
President (Finance & Services) Danny Hill,
sources have indicated that Miss. Patterson
only informed various members of her com-
mittee on the Sunday, two days after the
loss. The circumstances in which the box
went
missing
are hazy, but re-
ports have suggested it was
mislaid by Miss Patterson at some
point nearing the end of the night.
Though the box has now been recovered,
felix has since learned that in the weeks
leading to the Ball Miss Patterson’s privi-
lege to take out the CGCU chequebook
from the main Union offices had been re-
voked. This action had been taken on advice
of the Union’s finance staff. The reasoning
behind this is said to be more down to her
carelessness in returning the chequebook
for safe-keeping, rather than financial irre-
sponsibility. There are rumours circulating
within the Union that the level of financial
responsibility she holds as a Faculty Union
President is soon to be subject to alteration.
Wednesday saw another blow for the
CGCU executive committee when Guild-
sheet Editor Lawrence Weetman officially
resigned from his post. He issued an offi-
cial statement laying out his reasons for his
resignation.
“The pressure placed upon me to produce
a forty-page magazine every month and the
desire to put more effort into other projects
has forced me to regretfully resign from the
position of Guildsheet Editor. “Guildsheet
has previously been a termly publication
that contained an average of 20 to 30 pages.
It has been said that the “pressure” in which
Mr. Weetman describes to go to print every
month with 40 pages came from the top, and
that a strained relationship with members of
the CGCU executive committee were start-
ed to become too untenable to do Guildsheet
justice. I took into account the thoughts of
my friends and tutors when making this de-
cision, and don’t believe that I really had any
other option under the circumstances.”
The Masquerade Ball and surrounding
events have left a disgruntled committee
who are seemingly pointing fingers above
them towards their most senior mem-
ber. The CGCU will look to shake off the
recent disagreements, and reshape their
finances to accommodate the rest of the
year’s planned events. Whether or not the
CGCU can continue to run smoothly with
a President who has several questions over
her name is to be seen in the coming weeks.
CGCU Vice
President of
Finances &
Services Rikki
Norris looks to
clear his name
after the fiasco
surrounding the
City & Guilds
College Union

