6
COMMENT
Comment Editor
Comment Editor Ravi Pall
Ravi Pall
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 30 OCTOBER 2009
Kitty Mao’s tribute to Stephen Gately
“Me and Aisha
brought matching
Boyzone dogtags
and thought this
was awesome-gee-
wiz-cool ”
S
tephen Gately was my first
crush. When I was 7 I met a
girl named Aisha who intro-
duced Boyzone to me. They
were a concoction of pre-pu-
bescent dreaminess, tied together with
harmony and sporting white t-shirts
and denim overalls. Before N-sync
strutted in with their dirrrty bubbleg-
um pop and poor-grade CGI futured-
home videos, there was Boyzone. Be-
fore Simon Cowell decided to show
his potato-sculpted face on screen, re-
vealing, like some fantastic magician,
the audition process for merry-band-
making which was previously hidden
behind pages of The Stage, 5 Irish lads
were selected to be Boyzone. Before
the Internet there was Boyzone. Before
Barack Obama there was Boyzone.
And they rocked my little world.
The first ever live show I ever did see
was a Boyzone one. It was in Cardiff
Arena. Aisha, me and her mum took
a train from Bristol to the welcom-
ing arms of a sold out 2000 capacity
dream-sanctuary where I was to come
face to face, with my hero. He was al-
most angelic, perhaps due to the over-
kill of 100W bulb usage. I look back
and realise how wrong it was, for me,
as a child, to count how old Stephen
would be when I turned 18, just to
make sure he could have his wild mar-
riage way with me yet still not be old-
man-creepy and get sent to prison.
Ok, so what if I didn’t know the legal
age for ‘love’ was 16, in those days sex
was still the icky with the finger going
into the hoop made out of the other
hands’ fingers. But at least I was will-
ing to wait; young girls these days
would scratch each other’s eyes out
with a good size cactus, or hedgehog,
to get the 2-finger-deal with Robert
Pattinson, of Twilight fame, or one of
the Jonas brothers In my day, it was a
little bit more innocent. As we sat on
that train to Cardiff, painting our nails,
although in hindsight, what a retarded
idea that was; strong fumes in a con-
fined space, we literally counted down
the seconds until we would see our be-
loved Boyzone. There was a moment
when I swear Stephen caught my eye
and yes, hear these words and laugh;
it...was...like...he...was...singing...only...
to...me. Golly. I don’t remember much
else, not even my favourite song or
how long the set was. Only that me
and Aisha brought matching Boyzone
dogtags and thought this was awe-
some-gee-wiz-cool. I also remember
that the only copy of a Boyzone album
I had was a tape, with two sides and
everything; they were called side A and
side B dontchaknow and it was totally
pirated and sold to my Dad at Easton
market. I always did feel the shame of
my non-legit copy.
I grew up and at the age of 13 rejected
all my Boyzone love to turn grunge...
then slightly goth, then a bit new-age
80’s finally ending my teenage years as
very much 50’s. I denounced ever lik-
ing pop music; During the time it took
me to grow up, Boyzone split up, Ro-
nan declared that life is a rollercoaster
and Stephen became Prince Charming
in musical theatre.
He also came out of closest, shock-
ing girls everywhere and making me
question how much tail he got in his
Boyzone years, if any, before he de-
cided to bat for the other team. Peo-
ple named him as a hero for gay rights
although in my opinion being smoked
out of the closest makes you more a
hero for battling career-blackmail;
an epidemic in our times. Since then,
Stephen kept to himself, only releasing
singles in sporadic periods of his life,
but faithfully did not parade himself in
celebrity big brother-stuck-in-a-jun-
gle-cootie-love-island. Ok, so he did
go on Celebrity Ice Skating, but that
travesty was on ITV which is practi-
cally like broadcasting in a desert.
It was only until last week when his
name even crossed my mind, and for
all the wrong reasons. As I did my daily
breakfast routine of a cigarette and
reading Sky news on my mobile phone
it was announced that Stephen Gately
had tragically died on holiday. There
were no suspicious causes and an un-
derlying heart condition was suspect-
ed. Even though his death has shocked
and saddened me, I firmly believe that
it was accidental. However I cannot
believe that Jan Moir of the Daily Mail
managed to squeeze out of her column
a large turd of conspiracy theory about
drugs, sexual deviance and full on
gay-bashing.
Abdul Hannan questions the Government
“It is my view that
the government
aim is to engineer
a vocal and
provocative right-
wing extreme”
...and not just Question Time.
I
’ve been following the drum-
rolls in the run up to the debate
on Question Time (with Nick
Griffin on the panel), and also
followed the media coverage
post-event. I have to say: I’m not very
impressed by the holier-than-thou at-
titude of MPs and some newspapers.
Nick Griffin went on Question Time
to argue that he is anti-Islam and not
anti-black or anti-brown. Griffin was,
quite rightly, held to task by David
Dimbleby (the host) when Griffin
smirked and refused to come clean
on his views of the holocaust. No-one
took Griffin to task when he auda-
ciously stated that Islam “ordains as a
religious duty to murder Jews as well
as other non-Muslims, that’s in the
Quran there’s no point shaking your
head.” The best that Baroness Syeda
Warsi could say is that, she’s confused
as to whether Nick Griffin is a friend
to Muslims or an enemy? It’s as if it’s
taken for granted that what Griffin said
is an Islamic view found in the Quran,
but it’s just “extreme”!
We know of Nick Griffin’s and the
BNP’s anti-Islamic views. Griffin is
a fringe politician who carries lit-
tle weight or support. Yet it is senior
politicians from all parties who are
primarily responsible for creating an
atmosphere where it is acceptable to
attack Islam and Islamic values and
who have created the environment of
anti-Muslim hatred which allow peo-
ple like Griffin to spout their hatred
so openly. Their war propaganda, op-
pressive anti-terror laws and cheap
populism over the past eight years
has made the British population more
distrustful of Muslims than any other
Western nation.
Jack Straw MP (a co-panellist) fuelled
much more anti-Muslim feelings than
Griffin with his attack on women who
wear the niqab (face veil). Yet, he is us-
ing his Question Time appearance to
court Muslim votes. And as Griffin
said, it is Straw who “has the blood of
850,000 Iraqis on his hand.”
The colleagues of Baroness Warsi
in the Conservative Party have simi-
larly fuelled hatred of Islam. With
mainstream politicians like Tony Blair,
David Cameron, Michael Gove, Phil
Woolas and Jim Fitzpatrick, one can
see that it is not only the BNP who fuel
hatred of Islam.
The invitation extended to Griffin
by the BBC and the decision of leading
politicians to sit with him illustrates
their hypocrisy. It also shows their ex-
pediency over the so-called principle
of ‘free-expression’.
Either Griffin’s views are racist, be-
yond the pale and should not be con-
doned (even if he is an MEP) or his
views should be entertained, as should
those of others whose views are dis-
liked. However, we see the same poli-
ticians who label Muslims as extreme
and perverted in their belied for be-
lieving in the Caliphate or saying that
resistance in Palestine is legitimate,
are the same ones that happily sit with
Griffin -who leads an openly racist
party and whose view on Adolf Hitler
is that he went ‘a bit too far’!
The very newspapers whose front
pages now despise Nick Griffin are the
same ones that increase media profile
of the anti-Muslim BNP or the Eng-
lish Defence League (EDL) they give a
platform to the lies that seek to portray
Islam as a violent, intolerant and back-
ward religion with very little challenge
to their lies and false premises. In so
doing, it intensifies the atmosphere
which bullies Muslims into apologising
for their Islamic values, and demands
they embrace Western liberal values
instead. This would even resonate with
those reading this article!
It is my view that the government
aim is to engineer a vocal and provoca-
tive right-wing extreme and simultane-
ously engineer a ‘Muslim extreme’ that
will be used by mainstream politicians
to demonise Islam and so encourage a
reformist trend in Islam so Muslims to
accept British foreign policy.

