7
felix FRIDAY 30 OCTOBER 2009
COMMENT
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
T
is the season for dress-
ing up like a retard and
spending lots of monies
for the privilege of doing
so. By this, I am of course
referring to, ’fancy dress’. If you’re a
girl this could also be interpreted as
‘slutting-it-up-good-and-proper’ and
with Halloween soon approaching we
will probably see a lot of horny witches
about. Evidently I am not a fan. Thus
my efforts in this pursuit have been
lack luster to say the least; my most re-
cent foray involved a T-shirt I got for
free, some Primark tights and a sign
made out of used jotter pad paper col-
oured in with highlighters.
You know; it is not all BAD news. IF
people really put effort into their cos-
tumes and make them themselves, (in-
stead of buying the tacky nylon outfits;
PET. HATE) it can be pretty darn good.
But who is going to do that? “Me”…
Quiet you! Unless it is your party or
you are trying to attract a costume fet-
ishist for a mate, then the motivation
just is not there.
I have no problem however, with
fancy dress, where the definition per-
tains to formal attire. Now you’ve got
me listening! If only for the reason I
am far less likely to behave badly when
adorned in a sophisticated cocktail
dress compared to a baggy t shirt, al-
ready red, thereby eliminating the fear
of the ‘snaky-B-splash!’
There are pro’s and con’s to the male
dress code in either of the ‘fancy dress’
environments. Some credit must be
awarded to those guys who take the
idea of dressing up and throw it out
the window…along with their clothes
it seems! Cover yourself in dirt or spat-
ter on some war paint and you have an
outfit right there, no garments neces-
sary. However being the romanticist
and fantasist that I can indeed be, a
man in a good tux, looking suave and
standing proud oozes that old school
glamour. Like a slowly exhaled ciga-
rette; something about it, is just fuck-
ing good.
Back to the idea of stripping bare
for a special occasion, I don’t sup-
pose you have heard about the new
body scanning machines in airports?
Hmm, LOL. No hiding those tiny
packages now boys! Or chicken fillets
girls. Manchester airport is piloting
this pervy device, said to reduce wait-
ing times in airports. Well, at least we
have our priorities straight; conven-
ience over class and decency. Forgive
my prejudice; in fact I would not really
care, it would be over quickly and be-
cause you cannot see the scanner and
will never meet the person looking at
the scanner ; really it is like they never
saw the outline of your genitals at all. It
is similar to the tree falling in the for-
est, if no one heard it; it is like it never
made a sound. Therefore I propose, for
anyone that has a problem with this
new technology, reassure themselves
with the comforting notion that if you
are never confronted with the image or
mocked for the sight you are, to all in-
tensive purposes it has not happened.
You create your own reality.
Needless to say, that is a load of crap
and the people in the little office with
the scanner will undoubtedly have
their feet up while chowing down on
Doritos laughing at your expense.
Not just that, it raises the issue of
whether children should be scanned,
or whether there should be a back-
ground check for those with scanner
clearance. But then if you allowed chil-
dren to bypass the scanner, we could
load our kids up with guns and coke
and have a whale-of-a-time! Or else…
subject them to the pat down; but the
paedo-patrol would not be down with
that either.
Vicki Masding has a steady flow of trash
“Guys who take the
idea of dressing up
and throw it out
the window…along
with their clothes it
seems!”
I
n the second part of our guide to
Student life, (see last week’s ‘Pa-
per trails’) we tackle the notion
of left/right-wing. How do you
know if you are L-W, or R-W?
What does it mean?
At some point, you will have to de-
cide on Port or Starboard. Basically,
someone will ask you. Or you’ll say
something you think is completely
reasonable and they’ll call you a sniv-
elling lefty, or a Nazi fascist. You need
to know whether to refute this accusa-
tion or defend it. Which of these you
choose to do makes you L- or R-W.
Quite apart from how you conduct
yourself in a verbal hoo-hah down the
pub, your decision has consequences
outside of your actual political posi-
tion. For example being L- or R- ulti-
mately decides whether you read the
Guardian or the Times; the Mirror or
the Mail. Your decision determines
whether you buy recycled toilet paper
or Andrex; goats cheese or Stilton.
Obviously you need to be well-in-
formed before you choose. Unfortu-
nately, the problem with trying to give a
straightforward definition of L-/R-W is
that being one or the other means tak-
ing on a set of characteristics which are
themselves determined by a consensus
amongst the people who claim that al-
legiance. That is to say that the defini-
tion is circular: the people that are L-W
are L-W because they do L-W things;
L-W things are the things which L-W
people do. (Similarly for R-W.)
Gaz is Left Wing. He can’t believe how
disgusted he is about the Iraq War. He
makes sure to pop into Waitrose to pick
up his Guardian and packet of Fairtrade
coffee because he knows that Waitrose
is a co-operative and has ethical poli-
cies on the sourcing of its meat (which
he does not eat). He doesn’t know what
he’s going to vote at the next election
because on the one hand, he can’t be-
lieve how disgusted he is about the Iraq
War, but on the other hand, you’ve got
to keep the Tories out, haven’t you?
(Perhaps he remembers something his
mother said about Thatcher stealing the
milk.)
Felicity is Right Wing, She picks
up her copy of the Telegraph at the
Whole Foods Company, because she
can get her Organic Baby Food at the
same time. ‘Felicity is disgusted in
equal measure by inheritance tax and
the amount of knife crime. The latter
she blames on single mothers and il-
legal immigrants, whom she believes
to be spending their benefit money on
buying and sharpening the knives that
they will use to try to stab her outside
a nightclub. She knows that she’s not
a racist, because one of her friends re-
cently married a third generation Indi-
an woman. Nonetheless, she feels that
someone really ought to do something
about all those Burqas: ‘I mean, how
would we know if they were carrying
bombs under those things?’
What if you don’t feel much affinity
with either of these positions? Maybe
you think Gaz is a snivelling lefty and
Felicity is a Nazi fascist. Then you are
called a Centrist. This is a similar dis-
ease to Agnosticism and must be ad-
dressed immediately. If you feel you
have caught Centrism, the solution
is to just pick a side and deal with it.
For freaks’ sake, it’s like hand-wringing
when Man U play Arsenal, because you
just can’t decide which team you like
the best. Make your bloody mind up
and start screaming at someone.
In making your decision, perhaps it
would be helpful to take inspiration
from some famous examples of L- or
R-W people.
Famous L-W’ers include, Tony Benn,
Karl Marx, Robin Hood, Dire Straits,
Charlie Brooker, Thomas the Tank En-
gine and the Hamburgler of McDonalds
fame.
Famous R-W’ers include Enoch Pow-
ell, Hitler, Boris Johnson, The Sheriff of
Nottingham, Gordon the Big Engine,
the entire county of Berkshire and
KFC’s Colonel Sanders,
Because of the identification of L-W,
R-W, Centre, with Labour, Conserva-
tives and Liberal-democrats respec-
tively, a colour scheme has emerged.
Thus Red is L-W, Yellow in the Centre
and Blue on the R.
These colour associations have been
exploited. In the late nineties, it was
felt that political apathy threatened to
undermine democracy. Thus a plan
was formed to indoctrinate children
into political factions. The Tellytubbies
was the flagship of this movement. Yel-
low Tellytubby Laa-Laa, as his or her
name suggests, is a Lib-dem. Red Po
was staunch Old Labour until he start-
ed switching his second home allow-
ance to avoid capital gains tax, On the
other hand, Eurosceptic Tinky-winky
is known to be forming alliances with
neo-fascist Polish broadcasters called
Czewska-czewskis. Dipsy was played
by Green activist Siân Berry.
Lastly, in case it had occurred to you
that the whole L-/R- business is rather
arbitrary or silly and obscures the real
issues that should be debated in favour
of an oversimplification into a lazy bi-
nary decision for the benefit of idiots,
then remember: politics is not about
open debate, it’s about picking the guy
in the red or blue corner and cheering
until he knocks the other one out.
David Stewart asks‘theMirroroftheMail?’
“You’ll say some-
thing you think
is reasonable and
they’ll call you a
snivelling lefty, or a
Nazi fascist.”

