8 felix FRIDAY 30 OCTOBER 2009
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
COMMENT
T
he first time my flatmate
asked me if I thought we
should go for a Wii, I very
nearly tore up my copy of
the lease. After the second
time he made the suggestion, I changed
the locks on the bathroom doors and
took to sleeping with a hand grenade
under my pillow. It was only on the
third time, when as per my instruc-
tions he had handwritten his request
and slid it under my bedroom door,
that I finally called off the restraining
order. In my defence, the confusion
wasn’t helped by his vague hand-wav-
ing gestures, which I feel constituted a
decidedly double-edged mime.
Being grown men, however, we were
able to laugh it all off in the best tradi-
tion of awkward manly moments. And
come the morrow, I was resolved to go
hunting.
From the moment I stepped outside
I felt different. The blood was pound-
ing in my head, my stomach started to
tighten and my nostrils began to flare.
Rough, primal urges which had lain
dormant for years beneath the facade
of H&M sweaters and pleated chinos
violently overtook my senses.
With the frenzy of the chase burning
the inside of my skull, and the coursing
of sweat and adrenaline sending mille-
nia of evolution sprawling into the gut-
ter, I took the Piccadilly Line towards
Green Park and then changed to the
Northbound Victoria line for Oxford
Circus.
“Drops the wind and stops the mill;”
remarks little Buttercup with a cer-
tain degree of poignancy. As a woman
clearly possessed of an intimate knowl-
edge of the turbulent emotions that
exist among our freshwater wildlife,
she goes on to point out that “turbot
is ambitious brill”. True, no doubt, but
scarcely germane to the issue at hand.
“Gild the farthing if you will,” she adds,
“yet it is a farthing still”. Ah. Rarely, I
venture to say, have truer words been
sung in a contralto register. You can
take Man out of the outback, give him
language, fire and music, teach him
to substitute spas for spears, Asda for
adzes and archness for archery, but
you can’t take the outback back out of
Man. Not if you want to remain coher-
ent, at any rate.
Whether enjoying the London light
from the 40th floor of the Gherkin, or
reading the London Lite at 220 feet
below ground on the Northern Line,
modern man is intrinsically the same
hunter-gatherer as his great100
grandfa-
ther before him. And there is nothing
that gives him as much pleasure as the
excuse to have a quick forage.
He does not have the patience to
browse. He does not have the tact to
engage a shop assistant in conversa-
tion. He does not have sufficiently
developed eyesight to differentiate
between Air Force Blue and Cerulean,
and is not in possession of the glands
which enable him to care. But if you
give him something to find, the money
to buy it with and enough time to get
lost on the way, he will be as happy and
malleable as a lump of Pleistocene.
And as I emerged onto Oxford Street
on the morning in question, with my
sharpest debit card by my side and
my quarry firmly within sight, I took
manly, purposeful strides towards the
HMV. Some short while later, I walked
out into the evening breeze with a life-
less Wiildebeest in my hand and an
overwhelming feeling of pride in my
chest.
I travelled home, and dumped my
catch on the dining room table. “Hon-
ey, I’m home!” I bellowed, as I collapsed
into the armchair and swung my feet
onto the desk. I was still picking up
the chess pieces when my flatmate
came into the room. As he grunted in
recognition of my achievement, I let
him take care of the very distinctly un-
manly task of dealing with the wires
and plugs and things.
And now it sits, a testament to our
masculine heroics, stuffed and framed
over our mantlepiece between the gilt-
edged mirror and the landlady’s collec-
tion of scented candles. And as we re-
lax in the evenings, we can be content
in the knowledge that our adventures
are behind us, and we now have a Wii
and a gripping story to tell our chil-
dren. Streamlined, smooth and sexy,
oozing with a ‘pick-up-and-play-me’
urgency that we both find irresistible.
This is still the Wii, of course – not
the unborn and biologically improb-
able children.
Gilead Amit and his inner Cro Magnon
“A man can be truly
happy if he has
something he needs
to buy, the money
to buy it with and
enough time to get
lost on the way”
Chump’n’Grind
Dan Wan
Dan Wan Editor-in-Chief
D
espite what anyone says
about taking a year out
of your degree, it is not
the easy option. I am only
finding my job as Editor
an easier one because I love what this
job entails; moreso than I do learning
about a plant’s photosynthetic cycle or
the results of single nucleotide polyp-
morphisms. The stresses of being Edi-
tor are very similar to the ones associ-
ated with a Biology degree. You have
regular deadlines that only Red Bull will
allow you to meet and your work will
be judged by more than one person.
However, it’s a different kind of stress. If
there’s any stress you can enjoy, the one
created from a task you love is the one.
The task of turning around a newspaper
from nothing to 48 pages in a week is a
challenge I can probably say I love.
Now this year has produced four is-
sues, I’ve started to understand the
hardships of being responsible for a
publication where your readership is
within such close quarters to you. Feed-
back is very easy to give if you person-
ally know the people that write for the
newspaper, or it may be the case that
you recognise them around College.
The majority of people that have ap-
proached me to tell a specific writer
that they liked their article, or that they
really enjoyed reading that week’s felix.
For than I’m entirely grateful, and it
gives ever-more reason to continue to
work on felix so hard. However, there
was an individual that provoked a dou-
ble-edged reaction in me. Only one side
was evident, the other suppressed. Rec-
ognising me at a Union event, he took
the liberty to tell me that last week’s is-
sue had plenty of mistakes. After offer-
ing him the chance to avoid a repeat of
such mistakes in that week’s issue and
the opportunity to proof-read for fe-
lix, he bluntly replied back with “Nah,
that’s your job.”
Despite my initial anger at the audac-
ity of his attitude, I eventually realised
something else. My sense of pride for
felix has been severely hammered.
Maybe it was the surprise of the com-
ment amongst the kind sea of positive
ones but I began to appreciate the work
of past Editors of this fine newspaper;
hence I must make an apology. Being
the try-hard prick I was, and probably
still am, I once stormed down to the
felix office last year with a red pen in
hand. Once berating Jovan, then Edi-
tor, I slammed down a copy of felix on
his desk and began to circle every dis-
crepancy and adjustment that had put
detriment to my articles that week. I’m
very sure I have already made mistakes
and much worse than those that I was
annoyed about last year. After a whole
week’s life-threatening slog, seeing
the fruits of your labour come Friday
morning is one I will appreciate each
and every week. For someone to dis-
regard the week’s hard work and lack
of sleep, and to so casually spit nails to
the Editor and the editorial team is ex-
tremely demoralising. This disregard is
one that both the fellow at the Union
event and myself are guilty of.
One perk of being Editor is that you
get to comment upon all ranges across
the social spectrum. From the students
in the Union Building that care about
the Union that bit too much to the
sportsmen outside it, vomiting onto
the Quad’s lawn. To comment you
must first observe, and eventually you
get a good feel for society amongst a
student population.
I know some of the rugby lads think
that they deserve an apology from the
felix editorial team. They don’t, but I’ll
give them this as a consolation: what-
ever we think about the Imperial rugby
team, we should think much worse of
LSE’s rugby team.
Maybe it’s the distinct lack of any-
thing green on their campus, or they
don’t ever get a moment’s silence be-
ing smack-bang in the middle of Central
London, but those boys......those boys.
On a recent visit to Crush, LSE Un-
ion’s student club night, their rugby
team made me envious of the Editor-
in-Chief of their student newspaper.
As the unmistakable snares of the
Baywatch theme tune started to play
out, the DJ announced that “this one’s
for the rugby boys”. Like an instruction
from the training pitch, an assortment
of guys all ran onto the stage together,
stripped their top-halves bare and start-
ed to wildly swing their shirts above
their heads. Ironic or not, they were not
a team who could get away with re-en-
acting an onstage surge familiar to a gay
club without looking massively camp.
And as the soundtrack mixed into
Kings of Leon’s ‘Sex on Fire’, the 20-odd
boys on stage found themselves still
topless, arms still around each other,
shirts now hanging limply by their side
and stuttering awkwardly to each other
“you, you, you, your sex is on fire.”
As they returned to the masses of
the dancefloor to once again make the
overall sex ratio about 80:20 in favour
of men, it made me laugh to no end. If
only the Imperial rugby lads were that
disillusioned to pull off such an ‘ironic’
stunt, Hangman would have material
for many a cat’s lives.
“An assortment of guys
all ran onto the stage,
stripped their top-halves
bare and started to wildly
swing their shirts above
their heads.”

