FELIX 15
RUGBY C U P W l
After their recent press coverage, the Hoyal Free Hospital
Rigby team appeared a rather awesome stepping stone in the IC
side's quest to regain that historically IC possession, the
GutteriSge cup. However, unlike St. Thomas' Hospital, "O'Reilly's
Mounted Foot" showed no signs of pity for a rather unimaginat-
ive, fit, R.F.H. side.
The atmospheric conditions were radish-like, hot with a bit of wind,
but the pitch was wet and heavy after much overnight rain.
IC kicked off with the wind and nan on their backs and kept up a
steady pressure, pinning the Hospital back in their own 25. The referee
tor a spate of sportsmanship penalised Powell four times for hooking in-
fclngements, each time safety out of range of the IC goal. In the early
stages the honours in the forward battle were fairly even, but through
the excellent service of Pin* at scrum-half the IC backs were given
ample room to show their skills.
The spectators wene treated to a feast of fast moving 3/4 movements—
seisors, dummy scissors and many other iinprovisations. Architects in this
filspiay were Browlea (Richmond & IQ and eKlry ( (Eoow Vale and IC)
•hose efforts made the opposition foot very mediocre. Somehow a score
failed to materialise until after 30 minutes Molam joined in the battle
with two very good penalty kicks, wide out on the 25. At half time the
score stood at 6-0 with IC turning to face into a fairly strong wind in
the second half. A change of tactic was immediately obvious. As a
result of growing forward possession, Pine had been instructed to work
the touch line until an attacking position was achieved.
It was such an operation that the Hospital *.won the ball from the
line bu only to see Powell brilliantly retain possession after charging
down a kick and miking much ground before giving Riley the pleasure
of running in unopposed. Molam failed to convert.
The opposition lacked imagination and failed to use the high ball
down the middle. Instead, they invariably found touch thus bringing
the game back to IC. Another penalty for offside in a set scrum gave
Molam the opportunity to score his third goal from an awkward position.
Finally, as a just refard for all his hard work and skill, Brownlea ran
a full 40 yeards beating six or seven men on the way to give Riley his
second tiy of the match. Again Molam had no chance with the
conversion.
IC thus finished the game good 15-0 winners. For those 30 or 40
spectators present it had been an excellent afternoon's Rugby. For those
whe didn't go, I believe that "Ginge" has got together a team which will
bring the UL cup back to IC, so lets see you there at the semi-final
against CEM. "
Those who appeared in this display were: Molam, Chappel, Brownlee,
Kelly, Riley, Mills, Pine, Dodson, Williams, O'Reilly, Lum, Vickerstaff,
'
a
s
c
r
w
n Prwxmll {~\rwru?v
Casson, Powell, Cooper.
Written by B. Mair
VICTORY
AND
DEFEAT
IN THE U . L . U . league cup
soccer semi-finals, the college
3rds beat Q.M.C. 3rdh 4-0, and
the 4ths lost 3-1 to UjC. 3rds.
The fourth eleven game was one
of those that is best forgotten, as
they previously beaten U . C . 5-2,
in a league game. However, the
college were a goal down after
five minutes, and this bad start
unsettled the team. Eventually the
nerves were better and the col-
lege started to atlack, but found
the going hard in, and near to, the
penalty area. Better finishing
might have leveled the scores, but
as it was, U.C. turned round in
the lead.
After the interval U.C. took the
upper hand, more or less, and
should have been awarded a
penalty. For a while the game
degenerated into a bit of a brawl.
When this had subdued, I.C.
threw everything into attack, with
disasterous consequences. It was
then that the opposition scored
twice, following breakaways, set-
ting up a three goal lead. I.O.
tried hard tc reduce the margin,
and to a certain extent were suc-
cessful. One goal was milled
back, through Caldwell, but time
was not on their side. The final
whistle blew and the fourths were
out of the cup.
IN CONTRAST to the fourth
the 'thirds moved comfortebly)
through to the semi-finals, with a
convincing win over Q.M.C. 3rds
at Harrington. The college won
the toss and were faced with a
stiff breeze for the first half. How-
ever, the defence dealt completely
with the attacks mounted by
Q.M.C. in this period, and just be-
fore half-time it became the at-
tack's turn. A perfect right-wing
cross from Well/air was met by
the head of Perry, and IC turned
round with a one goal lead
In the second-half, with the
winds at their backs, IC attacked
strongly and added three more
goals, all score by Horlock. The
score could well have been
doubled, as the college wingers
had the ability to split the Q.M.C.
defence. In fact, the ball was
twice more put in the net—both
being disallowed, and later a
penalty was missed.
Tlte team now look forward to
the next round with high hopes,
as it is against U.C. 2nds—a team
that the thirds have already beat-
en twice m the league.
R. France
W A T E R
POLO
BOTH ICs water polo teams
were successful in their last gam-
es; the 1st team beating Q.M.C.
1st, and the 2nds defeating St.
Mary's 2nds. The first team, play-
ing their second game in the
league, should have won by a
rather greater margin. Perhaps the
mediocre performance was due to
overconfidence, resulting from
their good win in the previous
league game.
J U D O , N A R R O W V I C T O R Y
The Judo team had their revenge Over Birmingham! University on
Saturday 21st. January, after losing to them last term. It was a very close
match, the result depending on the final contest.
P. Crossby and R. Butler won
the first two contests for I.C., each
securing a hold-down, for a full
point. M. Reilly fought next and,
as he often does, produced a
beautiful text-book throw. This
time it was a foot-sweep, taking his
man right oft the ground for a full
point
I.C. were soon in a strong posit-
ion, three wins up. B.U., however,
won the next three contests, with
two hold-downs and a well-timed
stomach throw. The teams were
now level, with two contests to
go. R. Jackson was the next on to
Oke mat and after attacking hard,
managed to knock his opponent to
the ground with a hip-throw,
scoring a half point.
The last contest was a very ex-
erting fight between K. Glover
(I.C.), the College's First Dan,
and the B. U First Dan an
American. The American was
very experienced and once looked
near to getting a hip-throw, but
Glover defended well and was soon
attacking hard. Indeed, he once
managed to knock his man onto
his side with a sacrifice throw,
but without scoring. The final re-
sult of this fight was a draw, and
I.C. had won by half a point.
The next fixture is against
Oxford, (at home) on February
11th. As they were the only other
team to beat I.C. last term, an-
other revenge is being sought.
R. Jackson
S U C C E S S
A C R O S S -
C O U N T R Y
THE THREE cross-country
matches, so far this term have
shown the strength, and particular-
ly the high standard, of the college
runners. First, on Sat. 14th Jan.,
a clear win over Sussex, L.S.E.
and U.C. on -a hilly course, over
the South Downs. The following
Wednesday I.C. consolidated their
position of third in the London
Colleges League. Meanwhile the
renMining I.C. runners completely
swamped the second league, with
o meu in tne nrst twelve.
'tins winning streak culminated
in success at tne Q.M.C. Invitatauii
on tne 21st.,—a gruelling 7i mile
race, agreed to be toe toughest in
the fixtures list, 'the college team
came in 4th behind Leeds U.,
Cambridge and Sandhurst, and so
brought home the John Banks
trophy, for the winning London
team. Tne first two I.C men home
were Tony Mason (9th) and
Howard Smith (15th), who both
ran extremely well in the field of
ISO runners. The other college
men to count and receive medals
were Ian Jones, Alt Hall, Steve
Franklin and Dave Pinkard.
D.R. Holmes
post-graduate
research? yes!
A N D it's worth
more after
a year or two
in industry!
why not try it?
The Science Research Council guarantees eligible can-
didates an award for post-graduate studies, after a year
or more in industry or schookteaching.
For details of these Science and Industry Awards,
write, call or telephone —
SCIENCE R E S E A R C H COUNCIL,
S T A T E HOUSE,
HIGH HOLBORN,
LONDON, W.C.1.
CHANCERY 1262 EXT. 152 OR 322.

