FELIX
Crosland's defence
A t t a c k s a b o u t f e e s
Mr. Anthony Crosland, feeling singularly and inexplicably
pleased with himself, devoted all of ten minutes to the defence
of his plans for the fees of overseas students and the future of
die Universities. The Secretary of State for Education was ad-
dressing a recent meeting at IC and spent rather more time
answering questions.
His defence of the proposed fees increase was based on the
argument that student fees at present account for less than 8%
of the running costs of Universities. The subsidy in fees for
ioreign students would merely be reduced to the level it was at
five years ago and would thus help to save some of the £L8 mil-
ion Britain spent in subsidising overseas students last year. He
had decided against increasing fees for British students because
in nearly all cases it would merely involve a transfer of the
financial burden from Central to Local Education Authorities, a
burden which the Local Authorities would find it difficult to bear.
He did note that for these foreign students financed by the
Ministry of Overseas Development and the British Council, there
would be an increase in grant sufficient to cover the increase in
fees.
In the questions on this subject,
Mr. Crosland had to face sharp at-
tacks from several students arguing
that he would be denying many
students, especially those from
Africa, perhaps their only chance
of higher education, and would be
depriving the underdeveloped
countries of the technical skills
they needed to catch up with the
rest of the world. In defence of
his decision, he quoted Britain's
economic position and the fact
that there would still be a very
substantial subsidy . for foreign
students. In answer to charges that
some students living on tight
budgets, would have to break off
their studies in the middle of their
courses and return home with
nothing to show for a year or more
in Britain, the Minister put for-
ward a weak theory that this
would not generally be the case
since there would not be a full
increase for students already study-
ing in this country.
C.E.M.
gets the bird
Last Tuesday saw the successful
completion of Operation Snatch.
Readers may remember the skilful
removal of C.E.M.'s mascot from
their Union Bar by two intrepid
Guildsmen at high noon on their
last day of term, causing it to be
absent from their President's Ball
that evening, a photograph being
substituted instead.
This term a series of five clues
were set leading to the return of
Oswald, their concrete owl, which
were followed by C.E.M. with oc-
casionally misdirected enthusiasm.
They successfully solved the dif-
ficult claes but failed to solve<
the two easy clues which were
translated into those everyday
languages—Malayalan and the Pe-
riodic Table. The resulting tutor-
ial fees boosted the I.C. Carnival
Fund by the generous sum of £2.
We would like to thank the
Metropolitan Police for their as-
sistance in this venture by chas-
ing a 6ft. cavorting owl round
Trafalgar Square, removing two
mini-grass skirted gentlemen who
were struggling with a 4ft. bomb
in Victoria Station, persuading the
astonished owner of a Fiat 500 to
remove an 8ft. concreSn Christ-
mas cracker from the gates of
Buckingham Palace and refusing to
allow a bowler-hatted pyjama-clad
C.E.M. student to spend the night
at the foot of Eroc.
C.E.M.'s final ignominy came
when they returned, still dressed
as owls, from' Trafalgar Square to
find Oswald, heavily disguised in
I.C. colours, waiting for them at
the bar with Guildsmen outnumber-
ing Cemians three to one in their
refectory.
Owls, eagles, tapirs—what next?
Mike Wimsey, Steve Usher
The second hall at his short talk
dealt with the further expansion of
universities. He asserted that, by
international standards, British
universities had high staff-student
ratios, a high proportion of resid-
ential accommodation and there
were a large number of universit-
ies for the size of the country. We
are reaching the point where it is
necessary to choose between further
expansion or merely mamtaining
the universities at their present
level In his talk, and in answer
to a question, he maintained that he
was at heart an expansionist and
would prefer to expand the univ-
ersities, in terms of numbers of
places and facilities, rather than
just stand still.
He did not mention fhe luxuries
which might have to be sacrificed
to keep up t^e rate of expansion.
The mam one of these, which he
mentioned at a Lancaster Univers-
ity three days later, was the h
i
<
*
h
level of student grants—described
by him as 'the most generous
in the Western World'. Presumably
he didn't want to antagonise his
audience at IC by saying this-
Tiiere were, however, puzzled faces
when Mr. Croslad stated that
there was no present in-
tention of introducing a loans
element into the present system,
buS added mysteriously that it
might well be talked about a lot
in the future.
Paul A. Heath
T H E
E N G I N E E R
I N I C I
Engineers In the chemical industry
can fairly claim to face a wider range
of interesting problems than in any
other industry. ICI is in the forefront
of the chemical industry and offers
virtually unlimited variety of opportunity in design, development, production,
research, and many forms of industrial management. ICI gives each engineer
the chance to develop his technical and managerial abilities and—
equally important—offers unlimited prospects for advancement.
Further Information Is given In
Careers for Engineers and Careers for Chemical Engineer*—two leaflets In a series published
by ICI for the Information of engineers, chemists, physicists, mathematicians and statisticians
who are considering a career in industry.
Send for any of these titles Careers for Engineers
Careers for Chemical Engineers
Career* for Chemists
Careers for Physicists
Careers for Mathematicians and Statistician*
Research Opportunities In ICI
Write to: Miss Huart, Staff Careers Section,
Imperial Chemical Industries Ltd., London S.W.I-

