FELIX
FELIX
London, S.W.7
Internal 2881/2799
Telephones: KEN 2963
EDITOR C. G. HARRISON
Asst. Editor : Nigel Shindler With : Ron Bass, Nick Clarke,
Sports Editor : Alan Robins Colcutt, Roger Cooper, Adam
Features Editor: David Potter Gawronski, Justin Griffith; Mike
News Editor: Stewart Barnes Hale, Frank Morris, John Mullaly,
Photographic Editor: Dave Ormiston Paul Smith, Mike Yu, Ian Williams
Business Manager : Richard Davies a n d
Caroline & Lynda.
Sales : Chris Palmer, Peter Munday
Asst. Sales Manager : Judith Pearson
Advertising Manager : Robin Hall
Cartoonist: Bob Russell
What's On Editor : Ken Simpson
Advertising Agency : Educational Publicity (Partners) Ltd.
CHA 6081
C O L C U T T
. . . pound foolish
If I were a cartoonist instead of a hack columnist I would draw a
picture ot Malcolm Uuckett and his C.N.D. followers as tiny (red t)
ants waving their fists at a huge coining press descending upon them.
At times their overwhelming desire to do good by the human race is
nothing less than embarassing. Can they really be so childish as to
oppose the appointment of the new Rector?
Still no sign of Mike. I think there is a moral for us all in the way
the obvious supremacy of I.C. was displayed and shouted about when
Mike was installed to remain a virgin forever. I am told that the
rape took exactly eight minutes. Oh well, I had grown rather fond
ot my tower. Perhaps my masterpiece can be reinstated.
A m y t h i c a l b i n d
As one might expect, culturevmad I.C. has a magazine—Phoenix. Or
it should have. There should have been on issue out at the beginning
of this term, but as yet, nothing. Last year, under the editorship of
Mervyn Jones, Phoenix really did seem' to be rising from the ashes but
this session's editor, Mike Wilson, who took over last term from Jerry
Stock-bridge, appears to be heading straight back to the fire. You can't
sit there for ever, Wilson. If the flames don't singe your behind,
Phoenix Board certainly will 1
S e d u c t i o n a t C o u n c i l
IC.W.A. hart a very lucky break at the last council meeting, which
I had expected to see reported elsewhere but which seems to have
passed unnoticed. Ann Hay, in her own most charming way, fluttered
her lashes at Tony Duke and asked for a rise in the Union grant 1 0
I.C.W.A. from £1 per head to £1.7s.6d. This was to cover rising costs
and the losses invariably made on the I.C.W.A. Formal. Shocked faces
oil round the table 1 A 37% increase ? Ridiculous I One Philistine, who
Shall be nameless, even questioned the need to give I.C.W.A. any money
at all. Heated discussion followed (well, warm anyway) and it was
decided that the ladies of I.C. should cut their losses on the Formal
by raising ticket prices, though still subsidising it. However, it was
pointed out that .our needy girls hadn't had a rise since 1959. Overcome
by Miss Hay's sweet, appealing smile our gallant President informed
Council that really such lovely girls needed a little njore consideration
and should have a rise. Thereupon evervone, yes, even Guy, ?ot a quick
burst of the eyelash treatment aud whilst all hearts suffused with the
warm glow so induced, Ann got her rise. All 37% of it—no one. in that
ecstatic moment, thought of the possibility of anything less. I bought
some false eyelashes but I was only thrown out of the "Queens".
INTERESTED IN:
VIKINGS
VOLCANOES
VOODOO
Then come to the
HALDANE
LIBRARY
13 Princes Gardens
for a book about it.
Open Term:
Mon Fri (not Wed) 10.0-7.0
Wednesday d
< 10.0-5.30
Vac: Mon-Fri 10.0-12.0
1.0- 5.0
LAMUEY'S
technical & general
books
art materials
drawing
instruments
stationery
paperbacks
1,3 & 5. Exhibition Rri.,
London S.W.7.
CE D I T O R ' S
omment
Your paper,
your voice
"FELIX Is not in opposition to the Union". What a magni-
ficent quotation from the Chairman of the FELIX Board, even
more interestng when one considers that he is not responsible,
for the formation of the policy of the paper. In general he is
correct; FELIX does not oppose the Union, yet on the other
hand it is not the voice of the Executive and should not be ex-
pected to agree with them in every case. It will always provide
a mouthpiece on this page for any member of the Union to
express his opm'on; in Colcutt it will provide a critic of the
Union who can express himself freely.
It the President teeis it necessary, as he did recently, to check the
actions of the Editor, to approve the editing of certain articles and
to remind the Editor to exercise discretion, then something is wrong.
The Editor is appointed by the Board and is should then be his job
alone to direct the policy of the paper. If the Board dislikes the
policy, it holds the power to dismiss him.
T h a t O r g a n i s a t i o n
iony Duke recently met lan Wrigglesworth, a Vice-President of the
N U.S., and spent several hours talking with him. Perhaps the most
amusing part of this meeting was the pride Tony displayed in showing
off the Union facilities, both present and future. When a student from
another college arrives at I.C. the range and qualiity of the Union
facilities and the Halls of Residence must create an excellent impression
of the College which we tend to miss.
It is a pity that some of this excellent reputation must be lost by
?he bad publicity acquired by the Wooden Horse Organisation. It is
not the loss of face (and money) occasioned, by the removal of MIKE,
though other London Colleges often consider I.C. to be too arrogant,
but rather the unfortunate incident at City University recently. After
conversations with various members of the Organisation and the report
in Beacon, their newspaper, I am hardly surprised that the police were
brought in. They should consider diemselves lucky that no action has
boen brought. The report in Beacon, written by an indignant Union
member, will be seen in many Universities and Colleges throughout
the country—it reads like a report of vandalism.
Also under the general neading of vandalism comes the current treat-
ment of the Union call-boxes. It is now the exception rather than the
rule to find one or more of these telephones out of order following tamper-
ing by 'playful' members of the Union.
R e v o l u t i o n a r y U n i o n m e e t i n g !
Would you believe it! An I.C. Union meeting adjourned 1 This
method was proposed last term to allow discission on the Carnjval
charities but it was not followed up. Still, the precedent has been set;
if Union meetings can be known by all Union members to be worth
continuing in this way, then perhaps we may do more than hover on the
limit of quoracy.
LetUw to fBHX
More mascctry
Sir,
Does FELIX not know that a
member of staff died during the
vacation ?
Perhaps FELIX considers such
news boring, but feels quite happy
following the history of every
London mascot. If FELIX is now
more interested in mascotry than
in letting us know what goes on
here, it should go the whole hog
by changing its name to 'Mascotry'.
F.A. Okoh
Sir,
One again the Wooden Horse
Organisation have acted with a
total lack of responsibility, which
does not go without precedence on
their part. This time they have
gone too far. In the interests of
tne still good name of Imperial
College they should be disbanded,
and their activities cease forthwith.
In what I am about to outline, I
am sure that I will have the
opinion of the more responsible
persons of this College behind me.
Cont'd

