ISSUE 1677
FELIX
ARTS
FRIDAY, 24TH
NOVEMBER, 2017 FELIX
14 15
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk ARTS arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Felix guide to life drawing classes in London
Arts editor Jingjie Cheng susses out the numerous life drawing classes that the city has to offer.
London Life Drawing
(Clerkenwell)
Where? B&H Buildings, Clerkenwell
When? Mondays, 7-9.30pm
How much? £6 concession per class
This session is part of Adrian Dutton’s London
Life Drawing classes, which happen at various
locations around London, including in Hoxton
and Bethnal Green. This particular class is un-
tutored, held in a small, intimate space below a
beautifully decorated pub. It is drop-in, and does
not often fill up, although it only fits a maximum
of around 15 people. The small space means
that there is a lot of interaction among artists,
and a closer view of the model. However, there is
no music played, which makes the session eerily
quiet.
London Life Drawing
(Bethnal Green)
Where? Eastbourne House, Bethnal Green
When? Thursdays and Fridays, 7-9.30pm
How much? £6 concession per class
This was another of Adrian Dutton’s series
of classes that I tried, specifically the‘Cheese
and Wine’night that happens every Thursday
evening. On Friday evenings, there is a long
poses class at the same venue at the same time.
This is held in a large gallery-like space in an
old building, with the artists sitting in a large
rectangle around the model. It is tutored, and
the tutor walks around the class observing your
work, giving useful feedback and advice. During
the break cheese and wine is provided, which is
nice.
Life Drawing with the ELSC
Where? Crown and Shuttle pub, Shoreditch
When? Mondays, 7-9.30pm
How much? £15, free materials for students
ELSC stands for East London Strippers Collec-
tive. Yes, you heard it right. This session is run
by the people at ELSC who hope to challenge
the stereotypes of strippers and make sure their
voices are heard. As part of that effort, they run
a weekly life drawing session at an ex strip club,
the Crown and Shuttle, with dynamic poses
by striptease dancers. This is a good chance to
practice capturing life drawing in motion, as the
models practice what the organisers call‘strip-
freeze’- where they freeze in various one minute
poses in the midst of doing a dance routine.
Definitely a fun and unique experience!
Adrian Dutton’s London life drawing class at Bethnal Green // Adrian Dutton
Where? Artizan Street Library, Aldgate & Water-
loo Action Centre, Waterloo
When? Monday-Wednesday, 7-9pm
How much? £10 per class
Monday evening classes are held at Artizan
Street Library, while Tuesday and Wednesday
classes are held at Waterloo Action Centre. These
are drop-in sessions and there is no need to
book.
London Drawing drop-in classes
‘Drink and Draw’at The Exhibit
Where? The Exhibit bar, Balham
When? Wednesdays, 7.30-9.30pm
How much? £8.50 per class
This tutored class is run by Dan Whiteson, who
also runs several other life drawing classes at
various other locations throughout London,
including the pub The Prince in Stoke Newing-
ton. This class is located on the top floor func-
tion room of The Exhibit, a pretty pub just a two
minute walk from Balham station. It is billed as
‘drink and draw’as participants are encouraged
to bring a pint from the bar up with them to
the class. Materials are provided, and generally
everyone gets a good view of the model. Tickets
have to be bought in advance online from Dan’s
website. The poses are generally refreshing, and
Dan talks continuously throughout the class,
giving very useful creative exercises and advice
about drawing more freely. However, note that
these exercises and advice tend to repeat every
week, which is great for first-time attenders but
may get repetitive after the second session.
Life drawing at Village
Underground
Where? Village Underground, Shoreditch
When? Next one is on Monday 4 December,
7.30-9.30pm
How much? £16
This can be described as nothing less than a life
drawing extravaganza. Happening every few
months, it is run by Dan Whiteson, the guy be-
hind‘Drink and Draw’at The Exhibit. This session
involves several models in a large, open and
creative space, experimenting with interesting
poses. The event aims to explore the impact of
sound and music on visual expression against a
backdrop of an eclectic playlist. Like in his regu-
lar classes, Dan is expected to provide plenty of
friendly guidance and lots of creative exercises
designed to stretch your skills.
Covent Garden life drawing
Where? Candid Arts Centre, Islington
When? Mondays to Thursdays, 7-9pm
How much? £9 per class
Located in the expansive Candid Arts Centre
which is housed in two Victorian warehouses in
Islington (near Angel station), this class is run
on a drop-in basis on Mondays to Thursdays
from 7-9pm, with daytime classes on Tuesdays
to Thursdays from 11am - 1pm. There is no need
to book, but do arrive early as these are quite
popular. The sessions are tutored with one tutor
each class.
Where? Society of Friends Meeting House,
Covent Garden
When? Thursdays, 7-9pm
How much? £14 per class
The pros of this class is that it is very central, and
always has a male and female model each time.
However, it is quite pricey for nothing very spe-
cial, and classes are huge, with the space able
to accommodate more than 50 artists. Materials
are not provided but are for sale. That said, the
quality of models are said to be of a high profes-
sional standard and there is a friendly vibe.
Candid Arts life drawing class
Life drawing at Village Underground // Village Underground

