BOOKS
FRIDAY, 24TH
NOVEMBER, 2017 FELIX
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
18
H
auntingly beautiful but at the same time
irrevocably tragic, Roy’s first novel begins
with twins Estha and Rahel returning to
their hometown as adults, trying to make
sense of the tragedy of their cousin’s death when
they were children, then flashes back to the past.
In the midst of this intimate tragedy, however, Roy
weaves in sociopolitical issues of caste, religion and
A
ll too often, when we speak about writers
who are also doctors, we can be tempted
to slip into lazy metaphors centring around
the idea of dissection and examination:
the doctor-author who peels back the layers of our
consciousness to prod at the soft psyche underneath.
For Japanese writer Kobo Abe, however, these
analogies seem perfectly accurate.
Abe’smasterpiece,WomanintheDunes,isoneofthe
Decolonising the canon: Felix recommends
Following on from calls in Cambridge to include more BAME authors in its curriculum, Felix Books’ Jingjie Cheng
and Fred Fyles make some suggestsions.
K
ay’s only novel Trumpet is in a class of its own,
and one of the most unconventional books
I’ve ever read. Joss Moody is a renowned jazz
musician whose death sparks a frantic seeking
oftruthbyhissonandthepublicabouthis‘true’identity
and gender. It explores the tumult that results from the
invasion of a family’s private space by the public. This
is a story about de-clothing – the stripping down of
appearances, prejudices, conventions, insecurities – to
revealthebedrockofrelationshipsandtodemonstrate
just how superficial our assumptions are. Herself
often categorised – as black, Scottish, lesbian – Kay
refuses to conform to boundaries, whether in style
or content. The most beautiful passage in the book is
written like verse, with a cadence that reminds one of
the jazz music that runs passionately through Joss’s
veins. Kay breaks down the barriers of gender, race,
and sexuality sensitively and elegantly, while at the
same time revealing the different kinds of love that
underpin every relationship. JC
most haunting and disquieting works I’ve ever read.
It tells the story of an entomologist who manages to
get trapped in a large hole whilst out in the desert; he
must spend his time assisting a mysterious woman in
sweeping away the sand that inevitably trickles over
the sides of the hole. It’s a sisyphean task, one whose
repetitive futility evokes feelings of extreme anxiety.
As bleak and oppressive as a work by Kafka, Woman
in the Dunes is one of the best works of modernist
absurdist literature to emerge in the 20th
century –
not only in Japan, but throughout the world. FF
T
he family novel is one of the building
blocks of literature. Like the Bildungsroman
or tragedy, family novels are books that
help us conceptualise our understanding
of the written word, and how it fits into the world
around us. In Madeleine Thien’s Do Not Say We Have
Nothing – shortlisted for last year’s Booker Prize – the
exploration of the dynamics of a single family provide
us with an insight into life in mainland China during
the 20th
century, a time marked by extreme social
change and upset.
Following a single family from the rise of Mao in
the 1940s, through the Cultural Revolution of the
60s and 70s, up to the Tiananmen Square Massacre
in 1989, Do Not Say We Have Nothing looks at the
impact national politics had a local level. With a cast
of characters stretching through three generations,
Thien loops backwards and forward through time, in
a dazzling display of lyricism. FF
Trumpet, by Jackie Kay
the promise of Communism - historical pressures that
challenge a family facing devastation. Winner of the
Man Booker in 1997, this novel is significant here as
the most successful book by a non-expatriate Indian
writer. Roy’s language is exquisitely beautiful and
unique, capturing the veneer of calm that surrounds
tragedy, as well as the interiority of the young twins
trying to make sense of these events. TheGodofSmall
Things is a story deeply entwined with its setting and
and ambitious effort at intimately representing a
culture through a non-native language. JC
The God of SmallThings, by Arundhati
Roy
Woman in the Dunes, by Kobo Abe
Do Not Say We Have Nothing, by
Madeleine Thien
//Picador
//Ha
r
p
e
r
C
o
l
l
i
n
s
//Granta
/
/
P
e
n
g
u
i
n

