FELIX
10
FEATURE
Features Editor: Lizzie Crouch
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 06 MAY 2011
How did the media contact you and
what was the process?
Through the [Imperial college] press of-
fice if I remember rightly. Most of the
TV stuff has been through the press of-
fice here at Imperial, who are very, very
good!
In the first few hours how hard was
it to get information about what was
going on?
I was able to get information about what
was going on, so I had a fairly good
idea. The biggest problem was that the
events were changing fairly rapidly and
the way that an incident like this occurs
is there’s such a rapid evolution of the
engineering process.
So if you know what is likely to hap-
pen, how do you go about trying to
put across the risk?
I think you just tell the truth. You can’t
say ‘I don’t know’ in a flappy kind of
‘oh well’ sort of way, you have to be
able to give possibilities. But it’s dif-
ficult. Academics are at a tremendous
advantage. I don’t receive any money
for these appearances at all, so I can just
tell it like it is. I think that’s what people
need to see; they need to see a calm, col-
lected measured response.
One of the criticisms that’s been lev-
elled at the coverage is that, people
who are funded by nuclear compa-
nies have an interest in downplaying
the danger. Is that fair?
I think it’s inevitable. [But] there’s all
the difference in the world, in my mind,
between getting money that supports
research, and getting money that goes
into your bank balance. I don’t have to
do [research] on nuclear power specifi-
cally. I take money from companies spe-
cifically to fund PhD students, but that
doesn’t affect my career actually. And
that’s a big difference from someone in
the industry who’s paid a wage.
Do you think any researchers were a
little wary about talking to the me-
dia?
Very much. People are very wary. A re-
searcher spends a long long time really
polishing up a piece of work. It’s a very
measured, thorough approach. Talking
to the media is not.
Professor Robin Grimes is the Di-
rector of the Imperial College Rolls
Royce University Technology Centre.
He was featured in TV and radio cov-
erage of the disaster.
How did you get involved in talking to
the media, and what was the process?
[My head of department] passed [the
media] onto me because he knew that
this was my area. From then on, it just
snowballed; the phone did not stop ring-
ing.
Wow. So you think that it’s something
that is important then.
I think it’s important to get the right mes-
sages across. It’s better now than when it
started but [the media] was not getting
the right messages across at all, and it’s
actually misinforming the public.
Do you think that scientific advice
has been handled well in this situa-
tion?
I think the scientific advice has been
out there, the problem is the media
reports in headlines, and its headlines
are what the people remember, not
what the scientists say. I had a lot of
feedback from people, expats living in
Japan, who were watching the interna-
tional media as well as listening to the
Japanese media, and a lot of them said
thank god someone is actually saying
what it is instead of blowing it out of
proportion.
Do you think honesty is the best pol-
icy?
Absolutely. But you need to put it over
to people in a way [the public will] un-
derstand.
Do you think that researchers
are reluctant to talk to the media
for fear of their remarks being
misinterpreted?
Oh yes, there will be a lot of people like
that. What you find is what gets report-
ed, particularly in the foreign media,
is the English without the qualifying
words that we use in English, so things
like ‘it is highly unlikely that’, will be
twisted.
P r o f e s s o r
Gerry Thomas
is chair in
M o l e c u l a r
Pathology in
the Department
of Surgery
and Cancer at
Imperial College. Her research is on
the medical effects of the Chernobyl
disaster, and has appeared on
radio and television broadcasts to
talk about the potential dangers of
radiation.
What does SAGE look like?
Well first of all SAGE is going to have key gov-
ernment departments and agencies in it. But also I
believe that it’s important that SAGE has indepen-
dent people from outside government who are able
to provide some not quite peer review, and are an
independent voice beyond government. There’s a
variety of networks and for a good approximation,
for most issues we have a bit of a yellow pages of
people who know about different issues. So in the
case of (this) SAGE, one of the key players within
government would be the Office for Nuclear Regu-
lation nuclear inspectorate, the health and safety ex-
ecutive, the health protection agency. But also be-
cause there are issues to do with actually predicting
what’s happening, you need the Met Office, because
if you’re having radioactive release, the weather’s
important.
So that was the government side. On the non-
government side, we have a national nuclear labo-
ratory which is arm’s length from government. And
also I wanted some independent academics so there
were three we got for this particular job; one was
from Imperial, Robin Grimes; one from Manches-
ter, Richard Wakeford, who was an expert both in
nuclear and in health issues; and the other was an
independent lady called Sue Ion. That’s SAGE. The
scene is set for SAGE. That’s the background.
An issue that was raised about the advice that
was coming from scientists was about scientists
getting their funding from nuclear. Was that
something that you had to take into account with
regards to potential bias?
Well I don’t think there’s a bias in that sense be-
cause you’re actually doing calculations. If there
was anything wrong with the calculations then that
can be assessed. If we were talking about the wider
issues of how one should develop a nuclear build
within the UK, or how we should be operating at an
International level in terms of nuclear safety, that’s
a different matter. We were there to say, ‘what is the
worst case in terms of radioactive dosage that might
accumulate in the population?’ I don’t think there’s
an issue there.
So going on to the media reporting of the crisis.
COMMUNIC
Anna Perman and Lizzie Crouch speak to s
of the disaster in Japan and the challenges the
Sir John Beddington is the Government Chief
Scientific Advisor. He was responsible for con-
vening the ‘Scientific Advisory Group for Emer-
gencies’ (SAGE), which drew on expert knowl-
edge to provide advice to UK citizens caught
up in the crisis.
The Scientists
Layton Thompson/Imperial College London
“My job is
[to be as
factual] as
I can. If I
don’t know,
I say I don’t
know”

