FELIX Friday 06 MAY 2011 11
FEATURE
Did you find the coverage measured or were
there any concerns there?
I think that there was a mixed reaction. I think that
some of the reporting was absolutely factual and ap-
propriate. I think that in the early stages there was
a lot of confusion and that there were mixed mes-
sages coming out in terms of different reactions to
the crisis.
The thing that I [did], and I’ve never done this be-
fore, was that I start[ed] having a series of telephone
conversions with the embassy in Tokyo. First of all
I would give a briefing and say “this is the analy-
sis, this is what we are estimating for ourselves in
even a series of worst case scenarios” and basically
we gave that reassurance. What I then had as part
of that process was a question and answer session
from embassy staff, people from businesses, people
from schools and from individual families phoning
in and asking a whole series of questions. Then a
transcript of these conversations was put up on the
embassy website. Remember the focus is on British
nationals in Japan and having those conversations
really worked. So [for example] when the Japanese
tested the water they found that there was some
trace of Iodine-131. I had a question, should I bathe
my baby in bottled water? And the answer is no. So
you can be reassuring. I think the important thing is
be completely open for a Q&A, and when we didn’t
know, we said.
There is a sense that as a government body, once
you address people’s fears, if you anticipate what
they might be afraid of, you could be seen to be
endorsing that viewpoint. Is this a way of ad-
dressing that?
Well I didn’t think of it in that context. I think that
my job is to answer questions when they arise
as factually as I can. And if I don’t know, I say I
don’t know. For example, in the early stages, one
of the things we didn’t have really good informa-
tion on was on contamination of food, seafood in
particular. The sort of advice we were giving is that
the Japanese are monitoring it, their standards are
rather more stringent than what we have in Europe
and that certain things were at risk. And the sort of
advice we were giving was: ‘if in doubt don’t take
vegetables from an area you don’t know where it
is’. Certainly don’t take seafood, in particular sea-
weed and shellfish, from these areas.
I know you recently joined Twitter (@uk-
sciencechief), and you’ve used this website to
have a more personal interaction, is that some-
thing [social media/personal interaction] you’re
going to look to continue?
I don’t know really. This was a one-off in the
sense that it really seemed sensible to talk to the
people in Tokyo. It’s alright issuing some form
of press release from here, but actually people in
Japan mainly having access to Japanese media
which, even if you speak Japanese, is.. well I don’t
know what the Japanese for millisievert is and I
don’t suppose many of the British population in
Japan does. So I think that was a worthwhile thing
to do.
In terms of how I deal with an emergency in the
future I think I would probably say that I would al-
ways try to be outward looking.
How do you go
about obtaining
scientific information for your ar-
ticles? Can you give any examples of
this from Japan?
There was a number of sources of infor-
mation coming out of Japan. For exam-
ple the Japanese atomic industry forum
was regularly posting information.
Compared with the volcanic ash – it
was easier to get information then as
organisations were less secretive. How-
ever, in that instance, it was harder to
judge what the risks were from the in-
formation!
Because it was difficult to know what
was happening in Japan, what we could
do, and did do, from the information
available, was to get good nuclear ex-
perts etc to get give a range of possible
outcomes and opinions. Then, tell the
readers the differences between the dif-
ferent possibilities and the likely out-
comes based on what was known.
How easy is it to get an accurate story
across?
Everyone is learning as they go along
to a certain point. The responsible thing
to do is reflect the range of outcomes in
any case. You do have to take a degree
of judgement on what expert opinion to
take to help this process.
Do you think that any researchers
were reluctant to talk to the media for
fear of their remarks being misinter-
preted?
IntheJapanstory,therewasnoreluctance;
they felt the need to get the information
out into the public. [Scientists talking to
the media] has got much better and the
Science Media Centre has helped also.
It used to be the case that scientists
just ignored the media and wouldn’t
dignify them with a response. But re-
alised that it wouldn’t stop the media
reporting the story, and that they were
losing their voice in the debate. So now
they are, more often than not, keen to
speak with the media.
Do you think scientists are reluctant
to talk to the media for fear of their
remarks being misinterpreted or mis-
used?
Scientists will always speak to the
media. The American scientists will an-
swer questions straight away, whereas
the UK researchers (in a terribly British
way) will have a think and come back to
you in a few hours. I have been in this
role for 29 years and the situation has
improved.
Scientists now have to justify grants
etc in ways that never did before, so
they will speak to the press to raise their
profile.
Do you think that scientist’s quotes
are always used in the right context in
science reporting?
They aren’t always used in the right con-
text, and it is very difficult to put them
in the right context. You are condensing
complex situation into about 800 words,
people forget how difficult that is.
It has been said that during the first
few hours that the details coming out
of Japan were unclear – how difficult
was it to get information?
It was patchy. Sometimes you just have
to put your hands up and say you don’t
know. You have to be honest about what
you know. The broadsheets were good
at this; for example, the Guardian and
Times were responsible in their report-
ing what was or wasn’t known.
How important is the amount of sci-
entific detail you include in a piece?
If you have more than three salient facts
then there is too much for the feature.
[A science specialist reporter] is bat-
tling more than any other specialist with
reader ignorance. There is a desire to
know about science but there is a fear of
it being complicated.
The media has seemed to focus on the
Fukushima situation at the expense of
the earthquake damage and tsunami
victims; do you think this is fair?
The coverage of what was happening
at Fukushima skewed the story away
from what was an actual disaster. Ini-
tially it was made to look like nuclear
disaster was imminent when it wasn’t.
There was too much emphasis on nu-
clear and not enough on what else was
happening.
CATING RISK
scientists and journalists about the reporting
ey face in communicating science and risk
M ark
Henderson is
the Science
Editor for The
Times
Robin McKie is the Science Editor
for The Observer
The Journalists
“The responsible
thing to do is reflect
the range of out-
comes in any case”

