FELIX
12
You won’t believe it..
SCIENCE
Science Editors: Charlie Harvey
Kelly Oakes
Thea Cunningham
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 06 may 2011
Beauty isn’t in the eye of the
beholder, it’s in the eye
Yes, maybe it’s true that there are differing opin-
ions on who we think of as attractive. Indeed,
some people think Simon Cowell is good look-
ing; still can’t get my head around that one, but
I digress. Yes, people have their own personal
prefernces – blonde or brunette, brainy or brawny,
etc. However, numerous studies have shown that
there are a significant number of traits that we
all find attractive, no matter who we are. These
include big eyes in women, big jaws in men, and
symmetrical faces. These features are all signals
to potential partners of good genetic stock. A sym-
metrical face, for example, shows that you are able
to fight off parasites, which can distort the normal
development of the body.
Well, one more trait has been added to the list
of more-or-less universally attractive features –
bright, white eyes. The white part of the eye – the
sclera – is made of tough fibres, protecting the eye
from various assaults. This white canvas, however,
is rather delicate, and can be stained depending
on various ailments one might suffer from. Yellow
eyes, for example, can be caused by fat deposits as
we age, or may indicate jaundice (a build up of biliru-
bin). Red eyes are caused by dilated blood vessels
in the eye and can be symptomatic of anything from
infection to allergy. The scientists behind the study,
published in the journal Ethology, doctored 100 of
pictures of eyes to make them appear bloodshot.
Together with 100 healthy white eyes, the scien-
tists asked people to rate the pictures on sadness,
healthiness and attractiveness. Unsurprisingly, the
white eyed folk did best on all three counts.
The sclera is an interesting part of the body to
test beauty on because it is something that hu-
mans have which we don’t share with our closest
relatives – chimpanzees. All non-human primates
have brown or dark brown sclera. It is thought to be
this colour (similar to the iris) so as to mask which
direction you are looking. In humans, the eye seems
to have gained a secondary function (besides pre-
venting you bumping into things) – communication
with others. As well as attractiveness, the white eye
can signal gaze direction and emotion. Vital mes-
sages in an increasingly social species.
Charlie Harvey
Agene associated with increased alcohol drink-
ing behaviour has been identified, and may
lead to a better understanding of the biological
mechanisms that control drinking.
The research, published in the journal PNAS,
identified the gene known as autism suscepti-
bility candidate 2 (AUTS2) as the likely can-
didate. A variant of this gene, present in three
quarters of people studied is connected with
higher levels of alcohol consumption. People
with this gene drink, on average, five per cent
more alcohol.
While it is not known exactly what the func-
tion of AUTS2 is, it is known to be expressed in
neurons that regulate reward behaviours and in
neurons that determine alcohol sensitivity. The
researchers believe that people with the more
common gene may have to drink more to gain
the same amount of reward. Fruit flies have a
similar gene, and in tests researchers found that
blocking the effect of this gene made the flies
less sensitive to alcohol. As the name suggests,
AUTS2 has also been linked to autism and
ADHD – both of which are known to be con-
nected with higher levels of alcoholism.
Clearly, there can be no single gene respon-
sible for such a complex behaviour such as al-
coholism. As lead author Professor Paul Elliott
notes “There are a lot of factors that affect how
much alcohol a person drinks, but we know
from twin studies that genes play an important
role. The difference that this particular gene
makes is only small, but by finding it we’ve
opened up a new area of research into the bio-
logical mechanisms that control drinking.”
Alcohol related diseases are a major burden
in the UK, with 15,000 people dying from con-
ditions such as liver cirrhosis, cancer and heart
diseases each year. The researchers hope that
a better understanding of the genetic mecha-
nisms that govern alcohol consumption may
lead to the development of individually tailored
treatments for alcohol abuse and addiction.
Gene linked to alcohol intake found
Charlie Harvey
The infected individual wastes away with fe-
ver, sweats and a chronic cough. The disease
appears to consume them from within. It is
the same disease that consumes Satine, played
by Nicole Kidman in Moulin Rouge!, and has
been a big killer for centuries. Even today con-
sumption, known now as tuberculosis or TB, is
still the biggest killer out of all bacterial diseas-
es. TB is caused by Mycobacterium tuberculo-
sis (Mtb) and, unlike other European countries,
infection rates are on the rise in the UK, with
40% of cases here in London. This unexpected
rise appears to be linked to the increasing num-
ber of internationals entering the country with
undetected TB.
TB is hard to treat partly due to its complex
cell wall which prevents many drugs from en-
tering the bacterium. Standard antibiotic treat-
ment lasts between 6-24 months. This poses a
problem in many developing countries where
clinics are few and far between and where pa-
tients often do not return for repeat prescrip-
tions. Treatment is becoming increasingly dif-
ficult with the increase of multi-drug resistant
strains. Vaccination, therefore, is seen as the
best method to prevent infection and the spread
of TB. The current vaccine, Bacillus Calmette-
Guérin (BCG), which has left many of us with
an ugly scar on our arm, is a live attenuated
version of M. bovis, the cow version of Mtb.
BCG has been in use for around 90 years but
the many problems with this vaccine have led
to a quest for a replacement. BCG only offers
protection for around 10 years and protection
wanes in adults. It also has different efficacy in
different countries. A trial in India, for exam-
ple, showed no protective properties at all. This
may be due to a reduced protection in people in
Asia and Africa who may have been exposed
to other Mycobacterial species and may have
genetic differences which reduces the vaccine’s
effectiveness.
In the past 90 years there have been no other
successful candidate vaccines. Research into
new TB vaccines is currently largely based on
the search for highly immunogenic antigens (a
substance that induces an immune response)
on the cell surface of Mtb. A few possible
candidates have been thrown up; there are
currently 12 vaccines in clinical trials. Glaxo-
SmithKline’s Mtb72f vaccine contains two
surface antigens, one of which is a protein
named PPE18, currently being researched in
the Centre of Molecular Microbiology and In-
fection here at Imperial. Most vaccine candi-
dates have little chance of making it through
the vigorous clinical trials with preliminary
data showing little more protection than BCG
already offers.
In March, Imperial announced that the Tuber-
culosis Research Group in the National Heart
and Lung Institute had discovered a novel tar-
get protein called EspC that may have use as a
potential TB vaccine. The Veterinary Laborato-
ries Agency pointed out in 2008 that EspC was
highly immunogenic. The authors also stated
that it was only secreted by Mtb, not M. bovis
BCG, making it potentially useful for new di-
agnostic tests. New diagnostics are needed due
to BCG interfering with the current test used
and giving false positives. The Tuberculosis
Research Unit have further shown EspC to il-
licit a strong immune response from T-cells iso-
lated from patients infected with TB, therefore
this makes it a potential vaccine candidate.
There are three main ways of tackling TB:
diagnosis, vaccination, and drugs that reduce
spread and pathology of the disease. TB is
transmitted from person to person usually
through the air from the cough of an infected
patient. Last month, Imperial published find-
ings that MMP-1, an enzyme regulated by
monocytes in the presence of Mtb, damages
the collagen in lung tissue. This can result in
coughing which can spread Mtb through the
air. As there are drugs to supress MMP-1 we
may be able to reduce the spread of TB and re-
duce immunopathology.
It is unlikely that the vaccine candidates in
clinical trials at the moment will come out of
the pipeline to become vaccines. The current
method of taking any protein that elicits a
strong immune response and using it as a po-
tential vaccine without knowing its function or
structure is slightly worrying. It has clearly not
been the correct method for finding potential
vaccine targets due to a lack of new vaccines
in the last century. One of the main problems
facing vaccine construction is the incomplete
knowledge of what constitutes protective im-
munity.
Until there is a good understanding of Mtb
infection it is unlikely there will be a better vac-
cine than the BCG. The best option at the mo-
ment is to make a better BCG vaccine of which
there are three potential candidates in clinical
trials now. Only time and rigorous clinical trials
will tell if one of these three will be the knight
in shining armour of vaccines.
Amberley Stevens
The rise of consumption
Oh yes, definitely a bad case of Bieber fever
Are you looking at me?

