FELIX
14
The Best of the Rest
TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Feroz Salam
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 06 may 2011
Dell Streak 7
Dell’s own contribution to the Easter tablet bonanza
has unfortunately not gone the way the company
would have liked. The Streak 7, 2 inches wider
than it’s older brother the Streak, was positioned
by Dell as a firm step into the tablet market after
the neither-here-nor-there Streak. Disappointingly
however, the device sports the same resolution as
the 5-inch Streak, with reviewers reporting that you
can see individual pixels on the screen from nor-
mal viewing angles. With reviewers also panning its
poor battery life and lack of USB charging options it
seems as if Dell has merely repackaged the Streak
with a bigger screen and little else. So what does
the Streak 7 have going for it? Price and price alone
– going at £299 it’s one of the cheapest 7-inch tab-
lets out there.
The Motorola Xoom is by all reviewer’s accounts a
well designed product that achieves what it prom-
ises on the tin, but its Achilles heel lies in the pre-
mium that Motorola expects you to pay for it. Sport-
ing Android’s spanking new Honeycomb operating
system, the Xoom can do everything the iPad 2 can,
with the added bonus of native Flash support and
possibly future 4G expansion. Where it fails, as
most reviewers seem to be complaining, seems to
be in the general lack of apps for tablets in the An-
droid market. While this is a situation that’s bound
to improve given time, the Xoom’s hefty price tag of
around £480 (WiFi only) to £560 (WiFi+3G) means
it’s wise to remember there are other tablets out
there (and more coming soon) that will probably of-
fer more bang for your buck.
Motorola Xoom
Have your cake and eat it too
This Easter heralded a slew of new tablet an-
nouncements, and the brightest of the latest
generation of iPad contenders finally brought
some variety and innovation to the tablet mar-
ket. One of the best of these was the Eee Pad
Transformer, a device that combines ASUS’s
netbook prowess and a bit of detachable-
screen goodness to offer a tablet experience
that doesn’t necessarily mean sacrificing on
productivity.
Felix was present at the UK release of the de-
vice, and we managed to get a first hand look at
what looks like one of the strongest iPad alter-
natives to hit our shores yet. At first glance, the
Eee Pad appears to be a simple netbook, but
its selling point revolves around a clasp that
allows you to pull away at the screen and use
it independently as a tablet in it’s own right.
The Transformer could prove a much more
convenient way to get your music and docu-
ments into university without having to drag
your laptop the distance, while keeping a neat
keyboard and touchpad arrangement at home.
ASUS hasn’t gone to town on the design of
the tablet, but the dark brown metal casing it
comes in feels solid to the hand and decid-
edly high quality. The keyboard itself is a neat
chiclet-layout offering and the combination of
a 1080p screen resolution and the manifold
input options (even including multi-touch on
the touchpad) makes the Transformer a re-
markably versatile device. The response time
between slotting the screen into the dock and
being able to use the keyboard is virtually un-
noticeable, which makes the experience of us-
ing the tablet as seamless as ASUS promises.
The display, boasting the IPS LCD technol-
ogy that promises power saving over standard
LCDs, was deliciously sharp.
On the inside, the Transformer is very com-
petitive, sporting the massively popular Tegra
2 dual-core chip, 1GB of RAM and 16/32GB
of storage (with microSD expandability if you
require it). One of the most useful features of
Feroz Salam
the device stems from its battery life. While
the tablet alone offers 8 hours of performance,
ASUS has also managed to cram a supplemen-
tary battery into the keyboard that activates
when you slot the tablet into it that adds an-
other 8 hours, taking it’s total performance to
a solid 16 hours.
On the software side, the Transformer was
widely touted as the first tablet to land in the
UK sporting Google’s Honeycomb version of
the Android operating system. The tablet-ori-
ented OS was reported to offer a much better
experience than prior Android tablet offerings,
and it doesn’t disappoint. The UI looks a lot
better now that it’s been calibrated for a wid-
er screen, and ASUS has added just the right
number of widgets to improve the device with-
out causing it to look overburdened.
That said, one of the more puzzling moments
during the hands-on came when I tried to move
between home screens on the device and it
stopped responding completely for a few sec-
onds, both in my hands and those of the dem-
onstrator. Delayed responsiveness is an issue
that has been reported by others reviewing the
device. While it didn’t kill my experience with
the device, I suspect it’s something that could
build into a nuisance if it happens too often.
If the Transformer’s solid construction and
neat keyboard arrangement aren’t enough to
drag you away from the iPad, you might just
be convinced by the price. Starting at £379 for
the tablet itself and £429 with the keyboard
dock, it’s a highly competitive offer from
ASUS for a product that’s pulling a Jekyll and
Hyde act surprisingly well. It’s worth keeping
in mind, though, that 3G isn’t offered on the
device yet.
ASUS has turned out a solid, competetively
priced product that carves out its own niche in
what’s quickly becoming a crowded market.
The software on the device did seem a bit slug-
gish at times, but considering the regularity of
updates it’s possible that the issues have been
fixed at the time of writing. If you’re a student
on a tight budget who needs the flexibility of a
full keyboard but also wants to pick up a tablet
on the cheap, this is the perfect device for you.
ASUS Eee Slate: tablet workhorse
Currently, the tablet market is undeniably
dominated by Apple, with Google’s Android
looking to take some share with Honeycomb.
The tablet OS that has seen far less of the lime-
light so far however is Windows 7. Known of
course as a desktop and laptop OS, it’s also
perfectly useable on a tablet, and this is what
the Asus EEE Slate EP121 brings to the table.
As Windows is so associated with that desk-
top/laptop usage paradigm, you would expect
a tablet that was to use it to its full effect to
pack some punch, and on paper, the EEE Slate
certainly looks to be shaping up. The tablet
holds an Intel i5 dual core 1.3GHz mobile pro-
cessor, sporting Hyper-Threading and Turbo
Boost, 4GB of DDR3 RAM and a 64GB solid
state drive, which is an impressive specifica-
tion. It’s got the room for all of that though, as
it has a 12 inch capacitive touchscreen and is
almost three quarters of an inch thick. And at
almost 1.2kg, this isn’t something you’re go-
ing to forget is in your pocket.
With that screen though, you also get a digi-
tising layer and a stylus to go with it, allowing
for easy note-taking and similar tasks as well
as the ability to draw on the EEE Slate like a
graphics tablet, with what you’re drawing right
under your pen. This brings the tablet into a
different niche, especially when matched with
the ability to run full Windows applications,
such as Photoshop.
The EEE Slate isn’t trying to compete with
the iPad on its home turf. To really prove this
point, there is no 3G version of the tablet, so
Asus isn’t trying to market this to the “surf-on-
the-go” consumer. I can easily see the majority
of those who buy this tablet being business-
people – taking notes in meetings and working
on software they’re used to on their commute.
And when they get to the office, they can eas-
ily transfer their files to their main PC and con-
tinue work.
On the other hand, the fact that this tablet al-
most acts like a mini, touchscreen laptop means
that you can’t expect a huge battery life. But for
those using it for meetings and short journeys,
this probably won’t be an issue, and the con-
venience of using the programs you’re used to
on the go will be a huge advantage. Therefore,
despite a fairly hefty price tag, I can see the
EEE Slate selling, and possibly bringing some
of that limelight to Microsoft’s offering.
Chris Bowers

