FELIX 15
TECHNOLOGY
Friday 06 may 2011
I
n February, right after using my
first generation iPad for about
six months, I knew Apple would
soon launch its successor so I
sold it in order to buy the new
one whenever it came out. Not long
passed before the end of term came, and
I started queuing for the iPad 2 about 17
hours before it was officially launched
in the UK.
The second generation iPad packs
a 1GHz dual-core Apple A5 proces-
sor which is fronted fronted by a 9.7”
LED-backlit screen with a 1024 by 768
resolution (same as first generation)
protected by what Apple claims is a fin-
gerprint-resistant oleophobic coating.
For all your photographic and telecon-
ferencing requirements, there’s the front
and rear-facing camera; both with video
recording (with the rear capable of 720p
recording).
This overview of the iPad will be split
into 4 sections – Speed, Screen, Cam-
eras and Battery life.
Speed
Having a dual-core chip on the de-
vice certainly makes application start
a lot faster and work more smoothly.
Among the ‘made-for’ apps I tried were
the mother-Apple written iMovie and
Garageband. Although I hadn’t used
iMovie for iPhone before, I’ve just done
a side-by-side speed comparison and I
can say it starts quite a bit more faster
on the iPad, and processes projects fast-
er than on the iPhone 4 as well. Overall,
the new chip has improved the speed of
the device and I’m looking forward to
trying more apps designed to take ad-
vantage of the A5.
Screen
When Steve Jobs presented the iPad on
March 2nd, everyone was disappointed
by the fact that it didn’t feature a retina
display. I assume that happened for two
reasons. One is the cost of such a screen.
The other is the fact that its implemen-
tation would bring another resolution
to the crowd of iDevices, requiring all
apps to be modified to look pretty on the
new resolution.
While there is no retina display and it
is not as pretty as that of the iPhone 4,
the screen of the second generation tab-
let is so much better! The trick behind
this is the simple removal of the metal
edges from the iPad 1, thus bringing the
glass closer to the screen.
As for Apple’s claims that it has a
fingerprint-resistant screen: simply
put, it does not. After hours of continu-
ous usage (obviously not while eating),
it certainly needs to be cleaned so as
not to look like you used it as a tray
at McDonald’s. Sure, they made the
smart-cover with the “micro-fibers”
that wipe the screen when you open/
close the cover. While they do part of
the job by cleaning half the smudges
on the screen whenever you open/close
it, not adding them on the entire cover
was a bit of a mistake on Apple’s side,
since they tend to leave 3 lines of fin-
gerprints behind.
The screen is certainly pretty, but as
opposed to that of the iPhone 4, it sure
needs a lot of cleaning.
Cameras
People nowadays seem to want cam-
eras on everything. Before the iPad
2 was announced, I had some doubts
Apple would add a rear-facing camera
to the 10-inch device. But they did.
Unfortunately.
Why am I disappointed? Let’s put it
this way – you have a device (regard-
less of its size) with a camera on it,
right? So, even for the few times you
will actually use it as a camera (or does
anyone actually use their tablet – not
necessarily an iPad – on a regular ba-
sis?), you want it to take good-quality
pictures. Not DSLR-quality pictures,
obviously, but not poorer than my first
1.3MP digital camera 11 years ago. I
would’ve liked Apple to put at least a,
say, 3MP camera on the tablet. Again,
I definitely wouldn’t use it as my main
camera, but it would’ve been cool to
have it for those moments when you’re
using the iPad, something comes up
“They say it can film
720p. If movies in
720p looked like
that, I’d cry”
Miles ahead and still racing
Sorin Cioban finds the iPad 2 delivers consistently
and it would take too long to pull the
smartphone out to take a decent pic-
ture. And they say it can film 720p. If
movies in 720p looked like that, I’d
cry.
The front-facing camera, on the
other hand, is decent. It does its job
of a video-call camera. I can’t really
complain about its quality. It’s decent
enough to allow the person I’m doing a
Skype/Facetime call with to see my face
clearly.
Battery life
Like the battery of the first iPad, the bat-
tery in the iPad 2 allows for quite a lot
of browsing/music/video/gaming. Sim-
ply put, I bought the iPad on the 25th
of March, used it through the weekend,
charged it and went to Spain for 10 days.
I did some revision (reading PDFs), lis-
tened to music on my flights and played
some games. I didn’t browse because
the hotel didn’t provide free WiFi so I
bought a Vodafone USB dongle which
I could only use with my Macbook Pro,
hence no internet on the tablet. Thus, the
iPad 2’s battery lasted until I came back
to the UK. Then I charged it again and
went home for 2 weeks. This time, the
battery died around the 7-day mark be-
cause I’d also used it on the internet. So,
overall, I’d say it lasted for about 13-14
hours with no WiFi on, and about 10
with WiFi. In my opinion, that’s quite a
deal-breaker when deciding whether to
take the laptop with you on vacation or
the iPad.
Conclusion
Overall, the iPad is an amazing device;
obviously, it’s not perfect. But with
these specs and the base model at just
£399, it’s certainly the number one tab-
let on the market – at least at this point
in time. I will most likely be unable to
give up my laptop; but for people who
just need a device for entertainment,
reading, writing, taking notes, this is, I
believe, what they’ll probably be using
in a few years’ time.
The iPad 2, looking much like the iPad. And the iPod. And the iPhone. Revolutionary design from Apple as always...
Now sold with matte black triangle

