FELIX
18
COM M ENT
Comment Editors: Anna Perman
Jan Piotrowski
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 06 may 2011
T
he Summer Ball is once
more drawing ever closer.
The time when the girls get
to wear expensive dresses,
and the guys get to wear
tuxedos with a real bowtie, (not one of
those pre–tied ones, which don’t allow
you to wear it with the knot undone for
that cool after party look). But wait,
what’s that in the sky? Is it a bird? Is
it a plane? Yes, it is a plane. It’s actu-
ally several planes doing a flyby for
the Royal Wedding, but the plane I was
referring to is the metaphorical one be-
hind them. It’s here to drop a bomb, a
metaphorical bomb; this year the Sum-
mer Ball isn’t officially black tie.
The decision to not officially make
the summer ball a black tie event has
caused about as much debate as the AV
referendum. If you don’t get that refer-
ence then basically that’s a referendum
that, no matter what way you vote, will
literally end in Nick Griffin being per-
sonally called upon to choose who the
next Prime Minister is. He will say Don-
ald Trump and all of the UK’s GDP will
be put into trying to disprove Obama’s
birth certificate (Sorry, a bit off topic
there. This just shows the harm revision
does to my mind).
This year the dress code for the Sum-
mer Ball is ‘whatever you think is best’,
and that caused some debate. There are
obvious solutions to stop the debate. The
first being just change the bit on the logo/
event invites that says ‘whatever you
think is best’ to ‘black tie.’ You could
also say ‘why don’t you just wear black
tie anyway, you arsehole.’You shouldn’t
say that, as it is unnecessarily rude. Your
point still stands though. When you read
the two back-to-back it’s clear that they
are just swings and roundabouts. So here
is my advice to you – if you want to wear
black tie, do it.
It is an old saying, probably, that it
is better to be overdressed than under-
dressed. Think about it guys, how many
women have you heard say that George
Clooney needs to tone it down on the
stylish, suave suits as they make him re-
pulsive. What about James Bond? You
think he’d be a top secret agent if he
walked around in shorts, flip-flops and a
hat that ‘makes him look well indie and
unique’. Now any women reading this,
how many guys said that Pippa Middle-
ton was a bit too dressed up at the Royal
Wedding. I’ll tell you how many, none.
She even got an appreciation group on
Facebook, and so could you.
Another change you probably didn’t
notice or care about is that this year it
is not just an Imperial event. It’s joint
with other universities, although it is
held at Imperial. This is actually not a
bad idea. If you think about it, getting
some mixing of universities and more
people could only be a good thing.
There is a minor flaw though. Now, call
me sceptical, but I doubt many people
from the other universities will actually
bother coming. No offense to the Union,
but we haven’t exactly got a reputation
for throwing amazing parties. Although
I don’t mind that other universities
won’t be there, you can’t force people
to come. I guess it means we get more
money for the Summer Ball, so why
not?
The ticket prices are £40 if you buy
them this week, with an extra £5 for the
A load of balls
after party in Metric. I haven’t heard
anyone complain about the price but
I’m sure someone somewhere will. If
you ask me the cost is pretty reasona-
ble, considering the length of the event.
Think about Cambridge, the May Ball
tickets are usually about £100. They do
have open bar, but still, with the won-
ders of pre-lash, ours will end up cheap-
er. If you are complaining about the ex-
tra £5, then good luck going to a club
and getting in for that. I guess it’s like
Spotify – you want the music, but don’t
want to pay. Although I have already
locked myself out of songs on Spotify,
so fuck you Spotify.
I will end this by borrowing a phrase
from Angry Geek. It’s not that I love or
don’t love black tie being officially a
dress code – it’s just that I don’t give a
fuck. Once more, if you want to wear it,
wear it. I will be. If you want to come
over and thank me for my wisdom,
please do. I’ll be the guy with my bow-
tie undone surrounded by women telling
me I look suave.
Wear whatever you want to the Summer Ball – I will
Tim Arbabzadah
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
Fine I’ll wear black tie, but I draw the line at monochrome
“
y
y
e
e
e
“
ine at monochrome
”
Think about it guys, how many
women have you heard say that
George Clooney needs to tone
it down on the stylish suits?
Ben Kennedy
“Here is my advice
to you: if you want to
wear black tie, do it.”
There has been a great hullaballoo about the
Summer Ball. The old adage that the more
trivial the matter, the more vicious the invec-
tive has been proved true once again by the
arguments over the changes to the Summer
Ball. Or Summer Festival, as it should prob-
ably now be called. Whilst students at other
universities occupy lecture theatres to pro-
test the effect of government cuts on their
degrees, Imperial students suggest calling
an Extraordinary General Meeting to de-
mand that the dress code of the end-of-year
party be obligatory black tie.
That is not to demean the desire of what
seems to be the majority of students to have
an event where they can dress up with their
friends and celebrate the end of the year. In
fact, Felix would advise students to consider
the dress code to be black tie, regardless of
the event’s ‘Whatever you think is best’ label.
But unfortunately, amidst the furore over
whether having Goldsmith’s students within
a 100-yard radius has the potential to ruin
an evening, the core reason why the Sum-
mer Ball is so cherished has been forgotten.
We love the Summer Ball because we
spend it with our close friends (and it must
be said, not a small amount of alcohol). The
novelty of wearing a cummerbund may add
to the fun, but no amount of archaic dress
can make you have a good time on your own.
In any case, anyone who has attended pre-
vious Summer Balls knows that the adher-
ence to the dress-code is far from universal
to say the least.
No convincing argument has been put for-
ward as to how the new format destroys this.
Last year’s formal dinner was so sparsely at-
tended that it simply did not factor in the vast
majority’s experience of the Ball. The dress-
code, although bungled, has not banned
black tie dress, and in truth the incongruity
of bow ties and an all-day festival is quite
appealing. The selection of live acts seems
better than ever and the cost has remained
stable from last year. We would urge the Un-
ion to allow students to remain in the Quad
through to the Sunday as usual, but we un-
derstand the pressure the Union faces from
the Council with regards to their license.
The Union has certainly handled the pro-
posed changes very badly. The new sched-
ule came as a largely unwelcome surprise,
and most students heard the news through
negative responses on facebook rather than
directly from the Union. Students have been
right to make their voices heard, and all criti-
cisms and suggestions should be publicly
aired and discussed. But when the day in
question comes around, we hope that more
time is spent having a good time than playing
spot-the-fine-arts-student.
FELIX
Nothing wrong with a
few arts students – for
decorative purposes

