FELIX
2
HIGHLIGHTS
Friday 06 may 2011
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2011.
On campus
Swarm of Robots
Dr Frantisek Stepanek
discusses the role of
microscopic robots in
drug delivery in the
body. These robots are
being designed to adopt
the characteristics of
swarms of birds to
deliver drugs in new
ways. £3. Contact
Jill Cook – admin@
friendsofimperial.org.uk
– for more information.
Better, Stronger, Faster
Lower back pain will affect some 80% of us at some
point in our lives, but our ability to treat this problem
is limited at best. Professor Alison McGregor talks
about why our backs have not been built to last
and how environment, lifestyle, injury, and genetics
affect the spine. Registration in advance. Contact
Kathleen Weeks – k.weeks@imperial.ac.uk – to
reserve a place and for more information.
Glenister LT, Charing Cross Campus
12 May 17:30–18:30
G16, SAF Building
12 May 19:00–20:00
Lunchtime Concert
If you are looking for a break during all those hours
of revision, or simply to enjoy something a little bit
different on campus, this lunchtime concert, with
Imperial performers, is just the right thing for you.
The programme is yet to be decided, but it’s free
and open to all. Contact Andrea Robins – a.robins@
imperial.ac.uk – for more information about the
programme.
Read Lecture Theatre, Sherfield
12 May 13:00–13:45
Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Copy Chief Lizzy Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editors Alex Karapetian Matt Colvin Reporters Katherine Bettany Charles
Betts Sophia David Maciej Matuszewski Deepka Rana Aemun Reza Ian Wei Umair Aasem Genevieve Pugh Haralambos Dayantis Madhura Ghosh Victoria Druce Catherine Lu Design Editor Veronika
McQuadeova Features Editor Lizzie Crouch Sports Editors Jovan Nedic David Wilson Science Editors Kelly Oakes Charlie Harvey Thea Cunningham Business Editors Sina Ataherian Afonso Campos
Politics Editors Rory Fenton Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs Feroz Salam Comment Editors Anna Perman Jan Piotrowski Arts Editor Rox Middleton Music Editors
Greg Power Christopher Walmsley Luke Turner Film Editors Jade Hoffman Ed Knock TV Editors Matt Allinson Veronika McQuadeova Food Editors Dana Li Vicky Jeyaprakash Fashion Editor
Saskia Verhagen Games Editor Simon Worthington Online Editors Niharika Midha Dakshaa Rai Chris Birkett Jonathan Kim International Editor Kenneth Lee Puzzles Captains Polly Bennett
James Hook Aman Nahar Books Editor Guo Heng Chin Photo Editors Miles Robertson Thomas Welch Travel Editor Chris Richardson Copy Editors Alex Nowbar Hannah Thomas Sharanya
Subbu Ritika Gupta Zainab Ali Shruti Mishra Sophia Man Tim Arbabzadah Jamie Fraser Veli Akiner Illustrators Luca de Benedetti Hamish Muir Benjamin Kennedy Amanda Diez Joshua Yerrell
Lolcat of teh week
Sylvester goes to
the Himalayas
Union Notice
You may have
spotted Serge
Vasilechko, pictured,
running around
campus this Easter,
climbing stuff and
generally acting
silly. Fortunately it’s not because exam
stress has got to him. He’s raising money
for an epic 18-day, 660km cycle across
the Himalayas. The money raised will go to
community development projcets through
ChildReach International. Find out more by
searching ‘Sylvester goes to the Himalayas’
on Facebook.
Union Elections
From the people who brought you ‘The Sabbatical Elec-
tions’ last term, get ready for this term’s epic ‘Central
Union Elections’. The positions are all about contributing
positively to the Union and to your fellow students’ experi-
ences at Imperial, and span a range of welfare and rep-
resentation roles. They include: Council Chair, Court Ad-
vocate, Community Action Group Chair, RAG Chair, Equal
Opportunities Officer, Disabilities Officer, LGBT Officer,
International Officer, Interfaith Officer, Gender Equality
Officer, Healthy Living Officer, and Environmental Officer.
More information about these positions and running for
election can be found at www.imperialcollegeunion.org.
Get involved!
Nominations open Monday 9th May
Exam Calendar
We hope that you’ve all been revising extremely hard this
past Easter and... oh, you haven’t? You’ve been frolicking
in the sun, drinking Pimms and fantasising about Pippa
Middleton? Well not to worry, there’s still time! And to
help you organise your revision schedule and remember
what day your exams are on, we’ve made you a lovely
exam calendar. It’s on the opposite side of the Naked
Centrefold. Good luck Imperial!
Centrefold
The library gets really weird after midnight...

