FELIX
20
Book Review
A R T S
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 06 MAY 2011
The Echo Chamber By Luke Williams
Luke Williams’ debut
novel, The Echo Cham-
ber, is a beautifully
woven reflection on a
life of regret and unre-
solved identity. Across
continents and gener-
ations, our misunder-
stood protagonist Evie
Steppman crosses
paths with many re-
markable people that
serve to shape her his-
tory, and the history of
the world. That wealth
of cacophonous memories, heavy on our heroine’s
heart, is recounted through a curious medium:
sound.
‘Sometimes I have the feeling my memory is a
mausoleum of broken sounds.’ From page one, Evie
Steppman laments her ‘power of listening’ that has
defined and haunted her since conception. She ex-
plains how, content in the womb, she resisted birth,
leading to the death of her mother and to a child-
hood searching for the love of a reproachful father.
In the house where her father took his last breath
– ‘Inspired by the din in the attic, the sounds of my
past begin to rise to a clamour’ – Evie struggles
to unleash her skeletons by writing her memoirs,
alternating between fantasy tales and the histories
of others as if to avoid committing to her own.
In rich detail, heavily reliant on acoustics, Evie
describes her Lagos childhood in the dying days of
the British Empire. The characters surrounding her
express their conflicting views about Nigeria with bit-
terness and racism on all sides. However, Evie grows
up blissfully unaware of the racial tension. She and
her father are optimistic that independence will ush-
er in a ‘new era for Nigeria’. In reality the transition
is rife with violence and the family flee to Scotland.
Adulthood follows for Evie as a sequence of ups
and downs. Her father descends into madness,
and she meets her equally addled grandfather. She
mimes and works behind the stage in Oxford, and
attempts to document the sounds of the United
States. But most importantly her adult life revolves
around a failed relationship with the beautiful ac-
tress Damaris. Evie’s obsession with sound and
Damaris’s selfish character doom the relationship
and appear to put a seal on Evie’s romantic life.
Ironically, in her later years Evie starts to go deaf.
The struggle to document her history culminates in
her plan to burn the completed memoir as well as
the artefacts of her past that fill the attic: diaries,
postcards, maps of Lagos, ‘a thousand useless
possessions’. As if hearing her memories ‘hissing
and snapping, cracking like crinoline’ on the funeral
pyre will alleviate her regret.
Luke Williams’ new voice has the potential to be
treasured by many. His evocative first novel of fam-
ily, memory, empire, love found and love lost, is in
many ways a triumph, but at times felt long-winded.
However, Williams’ narrator possesses a vibrant in-
ner monologue to inspire many an immersive imagi-
nation. The Echo Chamber may have sometimes
lacked focus on the character of Evie, but remains
an engaging tale of interwoven histories.
Hannah Tullett
Tate’s attempt at redefining our vision of
a medium, watercolour, so commonly as-
sociated with amateurship and spinsters
trying to show off their artistic talent is
definitely successful. After viewing this
exhibit your conception of what can be
done with watercolours will have drasti-
cally changed, and you may leave with
a feeling of greater respect towards what
may seem at first an easy medium to mas-
ter.
The nature of watercolours, fast to dry,
cheap and portable, make them a very
appropriate medium to do preliminary
works aimed towards preparing a greater
piece. This is the place to which the aca-
demic art had relegated watercolour, as
a mere in-step towards the creation of a
greater work. Nonetheless, watercolours
have had other uses through human his-
tory not so closely related to our modern
conception of art but to more prosaic.
Detailed botanical drawings were lit by
the use of watercoulours providing XIX
century scientists with a catalogue of the
most exotic creations of nature in faraway
territories. Topography did also rely on
watercolours to transmit and record the
fruit of its study.
The exhibit is well-structured, the
onlooker is guided firstly through the
most ancient uses of watercolours,
which apart from the above mentioned
include meticulously detailed portraits
made during the middle ages. Their
opacity and exactitude will undermine
the preconception of watercolours as
being only used in free hand roman-
tic landscapes. Moving on through the
rooms, a wide variety of landscapes is
displayed. Turner’s The Blue Rigi Sun-
rise is a coquette piece; one which has to
be approached to fully enjoy it. The size
of the pieces, around the dimensions of
a sheet of paper, will stir the observer
to move closer, creating a feeling of
intimacy not usually achieved with the
great oil masterpieces that dominate the
collection of most museums. Another
remarkable piece is The Blue Night
by Arthur Melville, where an uncom-
mon vision of Venice is displayed: an
intensely dark blue night surrounding
the warm red lights of the Most Serene
Republic.
The highlights of this exhibition are
the fact that it caters for a wide range of
tastes, since as we move on more mod-
ern artwork is on display. A particularly
disturbing piece, The Cry Of The Gland
by Jitish Kallat, greatly contrast with
the pre-Raphaelite gouache is it sided
by; hence, there is no time for boredom
or repetitiveness on this show. Another
reason for the success of the exhibit is
the insight it provides into how waterco-
lours are actually used. There is a room
in which the technical advancements of
the technique are displayed chronologi-
cally as well as explanations of a few
techniques with paintings to exemplify
them. This room helps bridge the final
product we admire to the obscure work-
ings of the artist. Experiencing the chal-
lenge of creating an art piece yourself,
in spite of all the dishonoured role of the
amateur, can be a fulfilling task which
definitely helps to better understand art.
Is it time to rethink the
watercolour painting?
Tate Britain challenges preconceptions about this medium
Rocío Molina Atienza
The Blue Rigi Sunrise by J. M. W. Turner
“Your conception
of watercolours will
drastically change”
‘Watercolour’
at Tate Britain
until 21
August.
£10.90 with
student card
Check out our new Books
section on Page 24!

