FELIX Friday 06 MAY 2011 21
MUSIC
More student cuts
More student cuts for Imperial
students at South Kensington’s
FRESH Hairdressers.
Men’s cuts £22
Women’s shampoo and cut and
shake dry £28
Women’s shampoo, cut and
blow-dry £38
All of our cuts are done by highly
experienced stylists.
Tuesday to Fridays 9.30 to
4.30 (sorry no discounts on
Saturdays).
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington tube station
To book an appointment, call
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
0207 823 8968. Ask for a
student discount and bring your
Imperial ID.
Cash only.
In a decade unfortunately masked by the
lousy sounds of David Guetta and The
Black Eyed Peas, we should be praying
to the likes of Fuck Buttons as our rare
saving grace. If you’ve been living in
the chart bubble let me bring you up to
speed: the London-based experimental
electronic duo have been tearing up the
scene with their unique blend of mini-
malist sounds extracted from miscella-
neous children’s toys, and already have
a few of those coveted Pitchfork ratings
under their belts.
The duo appeared on-stage to greet a
table full of electronic gizmos: with the
retro Game Boys and Fischer Price key-
boards it looked like a messy children’s
room, but they clearly knew what they
were doing. As they faced each other in
a head-on standoff we experienced an
unusual form of audience interaction:
rather than bowing to the crowd, they
instead invited us in to look at some of
the creativity that goes into the tracks
we’ve come to love.
As my girlfriend so succinctly put it,
“it was like watching a spaceship land”.
An uninterrupted hour or so of those
anthems that have been the soundtrack
Little Scream opened the show for
José González with The Göteborg
String Theory. A fairly unknown art-
ist; at first shy and inverted, and very
much in front of a judging panel as I
doubt many of us in the audience had
come for her – but who, immediately,
grabbed our attention with her vocals.
Quivering and modest, and then living
up to her stage name, her songs were
quietly powerful and deeply stirring. As
part of a solo live show which more than
filled the Barbican hall, Little Scream
performed with a stamping foot as a
drum, a cocktail of pedals as a band and
a high tech microphone as backing sing-
ers. With a few awkward jokes thrown
in, and some humble comments about
‘playing a rough show’ and jetlag, and
music that could cut to the heart of us,
we had all fallen in love with her by the
end of her short set.
Left reeling by Little Scream, no one
was quite prepared for the spectacle
to follow. González opened solo, with
Hints – just him and his acoustic guitar,
as we best knew him. Already we were
being reminded of how deeply mov-
ing his music is in person. But then he
was joined on stage by The Göteborg
String Theory orchestra – who turned
out to be the perfect catalyst. Led by a
to my bedroom over the past few years
was well overdue. In spite of the sticky
floor everyone was moving in sync,
accompanied by an impressive light
display that added to the cosmic atmo-
sphere.
The set ran perfectly as each track
paved the way for the next in bursting
crescendo. Rather than being exposed to
their iTunes library we were watching
the melodies being built from scratch,
which included crackled yelping into
toy microphones and belting tribal
drums. Their delivery was so energetic,
which definitely had a lasting impact on
the audience engagement.
Fuck Buttons were definitely worth
the wait, and I’ll be bulk-buying tickets
to their next London show as soon as
it pops into existence. If your life is in
need of a new soundtrack, I suggest you
go and download Street Horrrsing and
Tarot Sport, or at least check out some
tracks on YouTube: their lyricless ep-
ics are guaranteed to be the perfect ac-
companiment to your study session or
Sheen-esque shindig.
Fuck Buttons is the
music scene’s saviour
Fuck Buttons
HMV Forum, Kentish Town
Thursday 21st April
Christopher Richardson
young conductor; who was dressed in
sloppy chinos and torn white plimsoles
and who boasted dance moves compa-
rable to the most recent version of Thom
Yorke; the orchestra struck up a tune
which no one could resemble to any
González song. However gradually (as
the backdrop slowly lit to reveal an up-
side down Swedish forest landscape at
dusk) the violins and cellos quietened to
allow for González’s track, Far Away.
They slowly began their contribution to
the piece; starting with soft female back-
ing vocals and a thumping bass drum,
building to violins; wavering on two
notes, off time and reaching a magnifi-
cent crescendo as more strings joined
the tune at higher pitches and louder
volumes. I could write about how The
Göteborg String Theory enhanced
every single song on the setlist, but the
one that roused the most emotion in me
was Crosses. Always a favourite track
of mine, the staccato violins and faster
tempo added newer heights to the cli-
maxes and steepened the falls. The ef-
fect was overpowering. As they closed
with Teardrop, I felt unsatisfied. Every
single audience member gave a stand-
ing ovation – we were hungry for more.
But the encore was to surpass all that
had been done that evening. Starting
with Down the Line – a number filled
with pumping bass drum, sharp string
accompaniments and feel-good trumpet
riffs – the pace and mood of the evening
was lifted to a new elevation. The con-
ductor (who was a show in himself, re-
ally) conducted the audience into a syn-
chronised clapping and stopped us with
a single hand signal, flawlessly, in time
for González to start vocals. Finally, the
show was closed with the classic Heart-
beats – a song which brought me close
to tears with its sincerity and beauty, en-
hanced by the rising and gentle violin
accompaniments.
The night was as magical as it was
genius. After each song I could hear
audible gasps and mutters as people
struggled to come to terms with just how
good this was. What The Göteborg
String Theory did was add a new di-
mension to González’s one man music
– it did what one guitar and one male
voice could not. The violins took the
crescendos soaring, softening the mo-
ments of truest sentiment and raising the
climaxes, whilst the double basses took
us diving to the most intricate depths of
González’s compositions, and rocked us
with their steady drones. José González
quietly stunned us with his compositions
and skill in delivering them; and the con-
ductor, meanwhile, took us dancing.
“The perfect
accompaniment to a
Sheen-esque shindig”
José González with The
Göteborg String Theory
The Barbican
Monday 11th April
Camilla Nicholson
José González teams up with orchestral collective
The Göteborg String Theory to great success
Keeping it ‘disco’ at the Air Hockey World Championships...
Christopher Richardson
flickr/halfmadhalfinsane
And I thought Arcade Fire had a lot of band members...
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Christopher Walmsley
music.felix@gmail.com

