FILM
Valhalla’s fury
Film Editors: Jade Hoffman
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Director Kenneth Branagh
Screenwriter Ashley Edward Miller, Zack
Stentz, Don Payne
Cast Chris Hemsworth, Natalie Portman,
Tom Hiddleston, Anthony Hopkins
Thor
John Park
Odin never regretted trading his eye for wisdom, look at his bitchin’ patch!
FELIX
22
father’s orders by the cunning Loki who is an
expert when it comes to twisting words, Thor’s
reckless behaviour threatens to destroy the un-
stable peace between the two races, and for this
he is banished to Earth.
Scenes leading up to Thor’s exile is compre-
hensively compact with some smooth voiceo-
ver work from Hopkins, and the first half-hour
or so has an admirably focused tone that throws
in some great action. The choreography is ex-
cellent, demonstrating just how a single ham-
mer can be used for all sorts of creative fantasy
fighting skills. Side-kicks worth rooting for
also appear, although their developments are
kept to a bare minimum (we’ll just have to set-
tle for being told that they have been Thor’s
friends for years and are utterly loyal to him).
The Warriors Three (Ray Stevenson, Joshua
Dallas, Tadanobu Asano) and Sif (Jaimie Al-
exander) form one heck of a team, taking on
an army of Frost Giants just because Thor asks
them to.
It’s on Earth where events take a shift in tone.
Thor meets Jane Foster (Natalie Portman) a
smart astrophysicist and her companions Erik
(Stellan Skarsgård) and Darcy (Kat Dennings)
who provide some priceless comic relief that
was lacking in the more serious first section of
the film. Thor obviously has trouble finding his
way around the new planet and his overtly con-
fident attitude declaring to everyone that he is
the great son of Odin (as if that is supposed to
mean anything to the citizens of New Mexico)
works well to loosen the reins a little and give
our protagonist a breather from all the heavy
Now that Joss Whedon’s The Avengers is of-
ficial, it’s about time we met some of the new
Marvel superheroes. First up is Thor, the Norse
God of Thunder who wields his trademark
hammer to fight evil. Unlike the many super-
heroes we’ve seen who originate from Earth,
Thor (Chris Hemsworth) is from a wholly
different world, and has a lot of background
information that needs to be explained. For-
tunately director, Kenneth Branagh, is not
afraid to jump straight in here, and show the
magnificently designed universe of Asgard.
We see Thor’s father Odin (Anthony Hopkins)
the ruler of Asgard, his brother Loki (Tom Hid-
dleston) and some lavish gold-painted set that
truly raises the bar on what is now possible
with modern day computer graphics.
Thor is an arrogant but talented warrior who
enjoys nothing more than charging into bat-
tle. For years the people of Asgard have been
in conflict with the Frozen Giants and after a
long period of war their leader Laufey (Colm
Feore) called an uneasy truce with Odin. As
is common for any film plot that involves two
gifted siblings, Thor’s problems stem from his
jealous brother. Manipulated into betraying his
Bollywood Bite
A monthly column dedicated to the
Indian film industry by Aamir Shamsi
3 Idiots ****
Starring: Aamir Khan, R Madhavan, Sharman Joshi,
Kareena Kapoor
Director: Rajkumar Hirani
Synopsis: 2 friends go down memory lane as they
find a lead to track down their college buddy
It’s finally here! If taken individually, Hirani’s third film
is a heart-warming story packed with laughs, emotion
and great acting.
But not long into the film tat you start to realise how
similar the themes are to the director’s first film (Mun-
nabhai MBBS): arduous student life, a cruel college
dean (played by the same actor), parents’ expecta-
tions, rebel student conflicting with the professors,
bringing joy and compassion to a somewhat militant-
run campus, mocking the “geek” and mistakenly fall-
ing for the dean’s daughter. I suppose two films with
such similar themes and settings can work if treated
differently but when they share the same tone and
look too, it becomes difficult to differentiate. I also fail
to see why Rancho (Khan) needs to hide his true iden-
tity from his friends and the woman he loves, and dis-
appear as if he never existed once his master’s plan
is fulfilled. There is no logical sense as to why, when
there is no longer any real risk to his “mission” per
se, he would sacrifice such meaningful relationships.
And so I can’t help but see this as a more refined
version in parts of his first with a different core plotline
and that, along with the strange plot, I feel, takes away
from its brilliance. Nonetheless extremely enjoyable!
Friday 06 MAY 2011
action. Hemsworth emerges as a steady lead
actor, managing to breeze through the action
whilst also handling the comedy well.
Problems arise as we constantly go back-
wards and forwards between Earth and Asgard.
It’s an indisputable fact that Asgard is much
better to look at, and is filled with far more
interesting characters and events. Hopkins has
many memorable scenes as he speaks his lines
with conviction, a standout scene involving a
heated argument between Odin and Loki, with
the son questioning his true origins. It takes
time for Hiddleston’s character to build but
when it does, the actor’s portrayal of insecurity,
vulnerability and instability combine to pro-
duce one complex villain. Even Rene Russo,
playing the wife of Odin, is given the chance
to pick up a sword and take a swing at a Frost
Giant. Things down on Earth seem a lot more
tepid than that: Thor’s journey for redemption
is not clearly mapped out, and despite the ac-
tors’ chemistry, the romance between Foster
and Thor is underdeveloped.
But as a way of introducing a superhero we
have never met before, Branagh has a respect-
able stab at the material. He involves all the
right characters, sets the film up in the most
gorgeous landscapes, and has found the right
leading man for a challenging part. At the end
of the credits, a caption reading “Thor will re-
turn in The Avengers” pops up. And we can’t
wait to see Hemsworth standing alongside of
Robert Downey Jr., Chris Evans, Scarlett Jo-
hansson, Mark Ruffalo and Jeremy Renner in
May 2012.
It has its faults but Marvel’s Thor descends from the
heavens to wreak havok amongst us mere mortals
Out on DVD
Snippet Reviews
Game **
Starring: Abhishek Bachchan, Kangna Ranaut, Jimmy
Shergil
Director: Abhinay Deo
Synopsis: Crime thriller involving 4 strangers invited
to play a game by a wealthy tycoon
Review: Interesting concept that eventually becomes
very tedious and predictable
Thank You *
Starring: Akshay Kumar, Bobby Deol, Sonam Kapoor
Director: Aneez Basmee
Synopsis: A private detective aims to break up the
marriage of his employer after falling for her
Review: Once again I’m praying this will be the last
of Akshay’s nonsensical and cringe-worthy comedies.

