B O O K S
FELIX
24
Books Editor: Guo Heng Chin
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 06 MAY 2011 FELIX
One of the joys of reading David Mitch-
ell is the way his intricate prose im-
merses you into the rich, luxuriant and
complex worlds he crafted; his intrigu-
ing plots and and ability to get beneath
the skin of a diverse cast of characters
combinres to create some of the most
engrossing read in modern literature.
His latest book, The Thousand Au-
tumns of Jacob de Zoet brings us back to
Japan during the turn of the 19th century,
where a isolationist Shogun decree kept
it as one of the last bastions of the Orient
untouched by expansionist western pow-
ers of that time. The forbidding policy, in
which even the act of teaching the Japa-
nese language to foreigners is punishable
by death, preserves the unique cultural
heritage and independence of Japan, but
at the same time pickles the island nation
and dooms it to a gradual decline as it re-
mains stagnant while the world beyond
its seas progresses.
On the bay of Nagasaki, lies Dejima,
the sole trading outpost of the powerful
Dutch East India Company and Japan’s
only window to the outside world. Jacob
de Zoet is a young twenty-something
clerk attached to the Company under a
five-year contract at the end of which
he hopes to return to Holland wealthy
enough to take the hands of his sweet-
heart in marriage.
However, de Zoet’s time in the Land
of a Thousand Autumns would prove to
be more than what he expected as he be-
gins to unravel corruption rife through
the Dutch East India Company ranks
in Dejima. A chance encounter with
the mysterious Orito Aibigawa sets Ja-
cob on a besotted pursuit for her love
and draws him into an adventure which
would embroil him with sinister forces
in the Japanese ruling elite and an ad-
venture of murder and deceit.
In The Thousand Autumns David
Mitchell conjures an exquisite stage of
Edo Japan, and fills it with a colourful
cast of characters who leap out of the
page with the energy and grace of a
nimble ballerina. It is also the work of
a master prose stylist at his finest, for no
less skilled hands could bring to life the
story with such poetic grace.
Setting a story in which the charac-
ters are divided by a mutual language
barrier may be an obstacle to effective
interaction between the characters, but
Reading the book feels as if I was living
the story through the eyes of the char-
acters.
The first character you are introduced
to in The Pink Boots is Tayel. He sleeps
with girls just because he can. Listening
to the girl’s shallow blabber and put-
ting up with lame TV shows in return
for mediocre sex suits him fine. He is
miserable but he just can't stop, because
deep down he knows, the girl who re-
ally is worth fighting for is a lot more
complicated and he's not sure he's ready.
Jamie has a heart of gold but she just
hasn't yet met the manager of the "Good
Luck" Department in Life. It seems like
all she ever does is give and give and
in return life and other people deal her
one slap in the face after another. She
escaped from various foster homes in
her early teens and after a series of di-
sastrous events ends up with Maya, the
dead gorgeous but psychotic drug ad-
dict. What was once a passionate and
intense relationship turns into what can
almost be described as a force of habit:
an unbalanced structure of dependency.
Jamie is about to lose every last ounce
of self-respect while Maya freely en-
gages in her weird sexual endeavours.
And that’s when Jamie meets Tayel in
a park.
Tayel made me laugh out loud sev-
eral times: he's such a typical guy in a
way, so stubborn and set in his opinions.
But as you get to know him better, you
realize these strong convictions come
from a genuine place which he still
finds overwhelming. It's the place that
keeps him far from letting anyone in to
his heart. On the other hand, the sweet
bundle of love that is Jamie wants noth-
ing more than to fill that void between
them with all that she's worth but her
chaotic lifestyle and friends keep get-
ting in the way. When she finally goes
off the coke, he decides to go on a bend-
er. Reading the first part of the story was
like watching friends of yours doing the
mating dance but never quite getting
down to the real business, only in The
Pink Boots the wait and the characters
surrounding it, will leave you wanting
more.
The second part of the book blew me
away. It’s filled with so much raw emo-
tion. Jamie's anger and pain, her sense of
not belonging to anyone and the kind of
loneliness no one can really fill. Getting
to know her story and then seeing her
life spiralling downwards, and watching
Tayel through his own struggle, until he
finally realises what needs to be done
but it is already too late, it made me cry
like a little girl. The story reminds me a
lot of Darren Aronofsky’s Requiem for
a Dream, only that The Pink Boots left
me with a lot more memories of laugh-
ter. Each character in the book is lov-
able in their own little way, even Virgine
the wannabe "artist", and Maya the lost
junkie.
I recommend this book to anyone
who enjoys the insight to both the male
and female mind and likes it spiced up
with a lot of sex, a lot of drugs and quite
some rock'n'roll and rave folk.
For more information go to:
www.thepinkboots.com
Mitchell grabbed the bull by its horns
and turned the lack of a common lan-
guage into plenty of humourous word-
plays and puns with meanings lost (or
muddled up) in translation, the gems
that contribute to the novel’s ingenuity.
The many years David spent in Ja-
pan as an English teacher and the me-
ticulous research (he once spent hours
researching whether men of that time
used shaving cream just to complete a
sentence about shaving) during the four
years spent writing the novel shows in
the depth of portrayal of the Edo Japa-
nese culture, down to the quintessential
qualities of the Japanese language.
All in all, The Thousand Autumns is a
satisfying, immersive read which trans-
ports the reader to an almost fantasy-
like world.
The book is now out in paperback.
Once upon a time in Dejima
A beautifully realised historical fiction
Sex, drugs, and a pair of pink boots
A provocative debut novel
Guo Heng Chin
Celia Usero Navarro
“No less skilled
hands could bring
to life the story with
such poetic grace”
Read an
interview
with David
Mitchell on
the opposite
page
Interested
in reviewing
books? Email
books.felix@
imperial.ac.uk

