FELIX Friday 06 MAY 2011 2
BOOKS
FELIX 25
A maestro of modern literature
D
avid Mitchell is a major figure in contemporary English literature. Two of his nov-
els, number9dream and Cloud Atlas were shortlisted for the Booker Prize. His
latest book, The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet follows the adventures
of a young Dutch clerk in 18th Century Edo Japan in a tale of clash of cultures, cor-
ruption, love and redemption set amongst a rich backdrop of an empire shut off from
the rest of the world. Guo Heng Chin had a chance to speak with David about The
Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet and his writing.
What inspired you to write The Thousand
Autumns of Jacob de Zoet?
Finding Dejima in 1994 during a trip to Na-
gasaki. I was 25, and not yet published, nor
even that disciplined about teaching myself
how to write, but when I came across the mu-
seum on the site of this partly reconstructed
outpost of the Dutch East Indies Company, a
sort of onboard Geiger-counter crackled, and
I filled several pages of my notebook with
notes. About 12 years and 4 novels later, it
was time to bring ‘My Dejima Book’into land.
Do you put in much of yourself or people
you know into the characters you create?
Your own personality leaks into all your
characters, no matter how you try to insu-
late them. Characters take DNA from other
sources too – people you know, other fictional
characters, but a lot from the creator. Jacob is
probably more principled than I am, and his
faith in God doesn’t come from me, and his
rectitude is less flexible than my own: on the
other hand, sure, he spent a long time living
in Japan, not always understanding what he
was seeing, and that's something I can cer-
tainly relate to.
One of the gems of the novel is the way you
transformed the lack of common language
between the Japanese and Dutch charac-
ters and their effort to learn each other’s
language into a treasure trove of wordplay.
What gave you the idea for all those witty
puns and humorous ‘lost-in-translation’
moments?
With the wordplay in A Thousand Autumns,
it was a necessity. I realized why nobody had
ever done a Dejima-Nagasaki novel before:
they (the Dutch and the Japanese) couldn’t
really speak each other’s language very well!
Leiden University had the daily journals that
all the Dutch East India Company’s chief resi-
dents of Dejima kept and they were translated
into English. You can actually read what the
problems were on Dejima in 1798. One thing
they complained a lot is that “None of these
translators speak Dutch! This is hopeless!”
Even if they can, they sometimes pretend not
to speak Dutch. And it was technically illegal
for the Dutch to try to learn Japanese, but they
did because the Dutch were very ingenious
linguists.
For the first manuscript I made these tortu-
ous, difficult subplots where I thought it would
be a good idea to have a couple of the [Japa-
nese] translators smuggle themselves out and
gone to Batavia [modern day Jakarta] to learn
Dutch, and they learned it really well and they
came back. So they at least they could speak
Dutch, and I had the same really implausible
ideas to increase the Dutch characters’ level
of spoken Japanese. Just so I can avoid the
problem. But of course readers are intelligent
people and they can tell when a book has been
bent out of shape because the author is trying
to dig himself out of a hole!
Then I realized that this isn’t a problem at
all, it’s actually an addition to the book. There
is a sort of humour; there is a lot of potential
in miscomprehension or incomprehension. So
really it wasn’t an idea to use the wordplay of
mutual language barriers, it was an act of sur-
render, I gave up trying to avoid the problem.
Which authors would you cite as having in-
spired or influenced you?
Always a tricky one, literary genealogy. The
closer you look at the verb ‘inspire’, the fog-
gier it gets, and ‘influence’ is a cause-effect
relationship I'd rather leave to anyone willing
to spend time thinking about it. To do it my-
self seems a bit impure. But for whatever it's
worth, the books I read as a kid which made me
ache to write in a similar vein were Ursula le
Guin and Isaac Asimov, plus Susan Cooper,
plus ‘The Sword in the Stone’, and some of
Penelope Lively’s children's books. At Uni:
Borges, Calvino, John Fowles, Angela Carter
and Kundera all floated my boat. It was the
80s and unless you had POSTMODERNIST
written on your face with a big marker pen,
the doors at my university (Kent) wouldn't
actually open.
In more recent years I try to keep my diet
more omnivorous. I enjoy Sylvia Townshend
Warner, Forster, the 19th century crew, Har-
uki Murakami, older-school Japanese writers
like Juni’ichiro Tanizaki and Shusaku Endo.
I never tire of re-reading Chekhov. He's
just great. John Cheever, and an American
poet James Wright. Primo Levi. Contempo-
raries whom I enjoy include Sarah Waters,
Michel Faber, Hari Kunzru, Nadeem Aslam
and AL Kennedy, but there are lots of others.
Outside literature, I'm working through the
box-set of ‘The Wire’, too – it's a mighty
achievement, and serves as a reminder to
up my game. Oddly enough (or not) I think
that Kate Bush's songs work like short stories
and mood poems. I don't know if she'd like to
be thought of as an honorary writer as well as
a singular musician, but that's how I do think
of her. Mustn't forget Kazuo Ishiguro, either.
And I’ve just ‘discovered’ Anthony Trollope
– ‘The Way We Live Now’is a gorgeous great
hairy thing.
Ursula le Guin and Asimov! Do you read
much fantasy and sci-fi?
Not so much, these days, but I've digested
a lot in my life, and as you know, once Sci-
ence Fiction and Fantasy are absorbed into
the body they are there for good. Neil Gaiman
is a superlative writer, I think. Ballard really
had something, too. I know ‘1984’ well and
think about it often – perhaps the best-realized
political novel in the canon. Mostly my SF
is administered visually, in the form of box
sets. I know my Borg from my Romulans, and
understand why the joke “How many Doc-
tor Who fans does it take to change a light-
bulb? Only one, but he’s sure that the previ-
ous light-bulb is better than the present one" is
funny. The borders between mainstream and
genre fiction are getting hazy these days, and
I think that's a good thing.
Do you plan all aspects of your the story be-
fore you start writing or do you ‘free write’
like Stephen King?
Not all aspects, no, because that would pre-
clude the happy accidents, and happy acci-
dents are often the best bits. If I ‘free wrote’
I'd be afraid that I'd always make the same de-
cision at the same junction, and so my novels
would come to resemble each other. I think of
a novel as a road-trip, where I set off at point
A, will end at Z, and mean to pass through
points D, K, O, R and V, but how I get to and
from those points is something I won't know
until I'm en route. Furthermore ‘Z’ may look
very different when I get there to how I antici-
pated if beforehand. Mmm. This metaphor's
gotten out of hand.
Lastly, any words for aspiring authors?
The crucial stuff you need to know you can
only know by writing. Get to it, and when
you look back at what you've read and think,
‘Jeez, this is awful', know that that is prog-
ress. And avoid sentences that have ‘that that’
in them, though it is perfectly okay to begin a
sentence with ‘And’ now and again.
Two-time Booker finalist David Mitchell talks about his latest book
“When I came across the
museum on the site of this partly
reconstructed outpost of the
Dutch East Indies Company, a
sort of onboard Geiger-counter
crackled, and I filled several pages
of my notebook with notes”

