3
FELIX Friday 06 may 2011
NEWS
Imperial College NHS Trust faces a
budget shortfall of £40m next year, ac-
cording to CEO of the Trust and Pro-
Rector Stephen Smith.
Recently published board papers have
revealed, for the first time, the state of
ongoing service level agreements for
Imperial NHS Trust in 2011-12. Ste-
phen Smith announced the £40m budget
gap in a speech to the trust’s board of
directors and explained it was “due to
volume and funding withdrawals” from
the services commissioned by local Pri-
mary Care Trusts.
A spokeswoman for the trust said
that £40m was “not a definite sum” and
would depend on the outcome of the
ongoing negotiations. She also refuted
reports in the media that the trust is in
‘turnaround’. The spokeswoman said
that the current financial environment
faced by acute trusts was “extremely
tough”. She also described the size and
scale of the cuts that trusts have been
asked to make as “very challenging”.
A spokesman for NHS London said
that there were always “robust discus-
sions” about hospital budgets at this
time of year, and that it was “committed
to managing constrained levels of fund-
ing and using its budget more efficient-
ly”. He said that the NHS in London
was “working hard” at this, and would
be “radically slimming down its man-
agement structures”.
The mounting financial challenge
comes at a time when Imperial will
also lose three of its senior executives.
Stephen Smith will leave Imperial in
September to step up his involvement
in the newly founded Lee Kong Chian
Medical School in Singapore, a joint
venture between Imperial and Nanyang
Technological University. In his place,
Mark Davies has been appointed as in-
terim CEO of the Trust. Chief financial
officer Tony Graff will also leave at the
end of the month, while chief informa-
tion officer Alistair Shearin will retire in
September.
Imperial NHS Trust covers North-
West London; and includes Charing
Cross, Hammersmith, Queen Char-
lotte’s & Chelsea, St Mary’s and West-
ern Eye hospitals. It is one of the biggest
acute trusts in the country, with more
than one million patient contacts each
year. It is not yet known which services
will be affected by the cuts. However,
they will add pressure to currently con-
strained services – the Trust already has
a backlog of orthopaedic and trauma
cases. A spokesperson for the college
was not available to comment on wheth-
er the cuts would have any impact on
the quality of medical education offered
to students across Imperial NHS trust.
The announcement adds to the prob-
lems troubling NHS London. As a result
of tough ongoing negotiations, hospi-
tals have become locked in arbitration,
though so far Imperial has managed to
avoid this fate. In March, Iain Duncan
Smith, former Conservative leader, de-
livered a petition to Downing Street op-
posing local hospital unit closures. The
strategic plan for NHS London has been
under review since the coalition gov-
ernment halted the previous Labour ad-
ministration’s plans, which were largely
based on recommendations drawn up by
Imperial’s Lord Darzi.
The coalition government has current-
ly put Andrew Lansley’s controversial
Health and Social Care Bill on hold for
a two-month ‘listening exercise’follow-
ing widespread criticism. This has been
undermined by a leaked confidential
memo from NHS chief executive David
Nicholson, published in the Guardian,
which drew a red line beneath certain
aspects of the bill that the government
will not change. Labour opposition has
slammed the ‘listening exercise’as a PR
stunt.
Last month, the Royal College of Nurs-
ing passed an overwhelming vote of no
confidence in the reforms after Lansley
decided not to speak at its annual con-
ference – the first health secretary not to
do so in eight years. Lansley also failed
to turn up to make a keynote speech at
the launch of Imperial’s newly formed
School of Public Health, in February.
With her big bright eyes, a selfless de-
sire to help those in need, and an unri-
valled passion for the sounds of obscure
bands you’d have to Google just to
maintain conversation, Demi Atkinson
certainly ticked all the boxes. And to
your average Imperial fresher, confined
to our beloved South Ken bubble with
a less-than-ideal male to female ratio,
perfect she did seem.
We’re lucky to live in a time and age
where new students no longer face that
daunting prospect of showing up at uni-
versity and having nobody to talk to:
thanks to Zuckerberg and his cronies
one can muster up a whole jamboree of
acquaintances before arriving on that
rainy day in October. And that’s what
I and countless other schmucks spent
hours doing in the months preceding
moving-in day last year.
Like many, I’d had my fair share of
regular conversations with Demi, most-
ly about her woeful life. Her mother
was dying of cancer, so she’d selflessly
flunked out of university to be by her
side. Although her father had walked
out yesteryear she wasn’t entirely alone,
and had both her older brother and close
friends from Exeter standing by at all
times to lend her a helping hand.
October came and went but Demi’s
mother was too ill to be left alone, so
Demi had arranged a deferred place
with Imperial. Unfortunately her moth-
er passed away before Christmas, and
myself and others gradually became
more concerned as Demi’s depression
and cocaine use heightened, but spoke
to her less and less as we settled into
university life.
When her best friend Lara announced
the tragic news of her death we were all
devastated. Demi had died of sudden
unexpected death syndrome due to the
unbearable stresses that life had bur-
dened her with. As is the custom in this
bizarre and often cringe-invoking age,
countless messages bombarded Demi’s
wall, and amongst the dozens of fresh-
ers who knew her, several tears were
shed.
But by pure serendipity it was un-
veiled that Demi didn’t actually ex-
ist. Her mother hadn’t died of cancer.
There was no record of a deferred place
for her at Imperial. Sudden unexpected
death syndrome is genetic and gener-
ally affiliated with young Laotian men.
Demi’s Facebook photographs had been
taken from an innocent bystander from
Sheffield who an Imperial fresher just
so happened to meet.
When confronted, Demi’s profile as
well as those of her elaborate friend-
ship and family circle vanished into
cyberspace. Somebody clearly had a lot
of time on their hands, investing hours
each evening not only talking to people,
but also talking to themselves from the
Facebook fraud
Scaled-down Science Challenge launches
£40 million shortfall in
Imperial NHS Trust budget
Ben Scally
dozens of faux accounts they’d created.
One has to wonder what kind of motive
someone would have. I mean, Imperial
freshers are hardly the most robust or
interesting targets in the world. Perhaps
someone has a deranged ex-lover look-
ing to keep tabs on them.
The whole situation seems like an
Aesop’s fable for the Facebook genera-
tion: we should certainly be more careful
about who we’re trusting online. I’m sure
those involved will be a lot more scepti-
cal: a well-established Facebook profile
doesn’t make anybody more ‘real’. And
as our social interactions diminish and
we irreversibly dive further into depen-
dency on such sites, perhaps we should
also be asking what kind of responsibil-
ity the site owners should be taking.
Deceit on the internet is hardly a
ground-breaking phenomenon, but it’s
the nature of this incident and the fact
that it is so close to home that make it so
interesting: how can a bunch of alleged-
ly-bookish Imperialites be so blind and
foolish to something which in retrospect
seems entirely absurd? Be careful, kids:
there are sick perverts out there, and
they want to have a long, hard gaze at
your revision-orientated status updates.
Christopher Richardson
The Royal College of Science Union
(RCSU) Science Challenge finally
launched last week. The essay writing
competition offers cash prizes of up to
£2,000 and is open to Imperial students
and students from schools in the UK.
However, the competition this year is
vastly scaled-down in comparison with
previous years and has faced delays due
to funding problems.
Entrants have until 6pm on the 3rd
of June to submit an 800-word answer
to one of four questions. The Science
Challenge is not usually held during the
exam period, in previous years it has
been announced in January and held in
the Spring term. Additionally it is tra-
ditional for prominent scientists to pose
the questions based on their field of in-
terest and then judge the entries, some-
thing that is not present this year.
The prize money this year is also sub-
stantially smaller. In previous years the
totally prize pot has been up to £16,000,
while this year it is £5,000. It is also
unclear what sort of awards ceremony
there will be, if any at all, as the winners
will be announced at the very end of the
year on the 24th of June.
RCSU President Scott Heath ex-
plained that they faced difficulties in
securing funding for the competition
and that there was some doubt wheth-
er it would go ahead at all. Both Shell
and Winton Capital Management, who
have generously funded the competi-
tion in previous years, declined to spon-
sor the Science Challenge this year. He
said that they were left scrambling for
sponsorship after Shell pulled out in Oc-
tober, but that they were unsuccessful.
The only funding for the competition
this year is £5,000 from the Faculty of
Natural Sciences.
The uncertainty over funding meant
that they were unable to confirm that
the competition would go ahead until
April, by which point it was too late to
book prominent judges. It was decided
that running a down-scaled competition
would be better than not running the
competition at all.
For more information about how to
enter, go to:
www.rcsu.org.uk/sciencechallenge
Imperial NHS Trust CEO Stephen Smith
Mike Finn-Kelcey/Imperial College London
Kadhim Shubber

