FELIX
26
TRAVEL
TravelEditor: ChrisRichardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 06 MAY 2011
Want to see your travel photograph featured here?
Send it to travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Planning a trip? Want some quick advice from ex-
perienced travellers? Have a travelling tale to share
with Imperial?
Drop us an email at travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk, or
send us a tweet using #FelixTravel
2014 will no doubt arrive in the blink of an eye
and it’ll be time again for that most glorious
of sporting events. And with rocketing tem-
peratures, minimal living costs and the nearby
Copacabana beach boasting hot latina girls
wearing next to nothing, what better venue for
the World Cup than Rio’s towering Estádio do
Maracanã?
Legendary football manager Bill Shankly is
incessantly quoted as saying football is more
important than matters of life or death – if only
the soon-to-be-ex-residents of Rio’s favelas
were in the position to be able to take such a
shitty attitude towards what is, after all, just a
game. But for the sake of a game, it seems, the
government has been bulldozing such areas
and forcing out their long-standing residents
in favour of, amongst other things, car parks.
It is a move that is anticipated to be repli-
cated in several Brazilian cities, and already
has alarm bells ringing for Amnesty Interna-
tional, who are currently meeting with activ-
ists in Rio. The effects will be devastating for
the hundreds of thousands across the country
who will be affected For years families have
worked hard on building the community in
such favelas, and in the space of days have
watched them crumble for the sake of football
and the Olympic games.
Current campaigning efforts by residents
protesting the illegal forced evictions are as
of yet making little progress: it seems that for
now the children and elderly waiting to be re-
housed will have to put up with the rats and
whatever else the desiccated area is attracting.
Hopefully this will change with added pres-
sure from high proﬁle groups like Amnesty.
I’m not suggesting we ﬂy out to Rio and
form a human chain, but it should be food for
thought. Most of us care to at least to some ex-
tent whether our clothes and food are produced
in an ethical manner, and in an age of increasing
moral consciousness, perhaps some consider-
ation here wouldn’t put us out all too much.
A weekend in scenic Prague
World Cup woes for the residents of Rio
Chris Richardson
“Not many people know this, but the Nazis had
lined the tunnels underneath Prague with dy-
namite and were prepared to destroy it as they
retreated in the face of the Red Army. Were it
not for a small group of Russian monarchists
who opposed them for 5 days and managed to
foil the plot, all of Prague’s beauty wouldn’t
exist.” We sipped our tea as Miloš continued
his story. “And are they remembered today?
There’s a small memorial to them, about knee-
high, somewhere in the city. That’s justice for
you.”
As we sat in Miloš Gavrilović’s tiny antique
shop hidden in a side street off the old town
square, hearing stories of the city of Prague
and its past, there was a feeling of unspoiled
novelty, as if we have found something truly
new and special. However, it was not just the
smiling, bespectacled old man who generated
this impression – the whole city in cold grey
February is like a ﬂower waiting to blossom.
All its treasures are there, aching to be discov-
ered.
The treasures are truly endless. The obvious,
but deservedly revered, Charles’ Bridge and
Prague Castle, both jewels of the gothic style,
cannot be missed. There are also countless mu-
seums showing an incredible variety of exhibi-
tions: on the old town square an exhibition of
watch-making including information about the
Prague Orloj (the 600 year old astronomical
clock) faces a building housing photos and let-
ters documenting the life of Salvador Dali. Not
a stone’s throw away is the Sex machine mu-
seum featuring, among its many quirky exhib-
its, a pornographic ﬁlm from 1925, allegedly
commissioned by King Alfonso XII of Spain.
All of these venues and many more accept an
Imperial College card for a student discount,
usually in the region of 40%.
Prague boasts many glorious landmarks, but
equally it hides none of the scars of its history.
In Wenceslas square stands the memorial to
student Jan Palach, who burnt himself alive in
protest of the 1968 invasion of Czechoslovakia
by the Soviet Union. Further north in the Span-
ish synagogue in Josefov, the Jewish Museum
of Prague presents an informative but chilling
account of the lives of Czech Jews during the
Second World War.
After a day’s walking on the cobbled streets
it was time to indulge in an altogether differ-
ent form of tourism. In Kozi street, the restau-
rant Kozička boasts a wide range of European
food including Czech specialties such as beef
goulash with potato pancakes in an enviable
environment. The smoky cellar look creates
an effect of smells, sights and sounds merg-
ing into one living hubbub and the food is well
worth the price, with two eating a two course
meal with drinks for about £25. Naturally, the
selection of beers on tap is large: Svijany is
recommended, whilst Kozel and Staropramen
are ubiquitous. A pint shouldn’t be bought for
more than £1.50.
Not far from the old town square is Potre-
fená Husa, a branded pub chain run by Staro-
pramen brewery that is also hot on the food
front. Set in a more modern, bar-like ambience
it offers an equally appetizing menu but a more
restricted choice of lagers. Staropramen of all
varieties are deﬁnitely worth a try, especially
Staropramen Dark (Cerný).
Despite only spending 2 days in Prague, the
experience has succeeded in embedding in our
hearts a desire to return there many more times
– I’m sure it’ll be even prettier in the Spring!
Maksim Mijovic
“The effects will
be devastating
for hundreds of
thousands across the
country”
If you squint into the distance you can almost see the final resting place of Bin Laden
“Go compare! Go compare!”
‘Sparks fly in Kathmandu’ by Navesh Chitrakar
Get there: District line, east to Aldgate East
See: The markets and vintage stores
Eat: Street food or a tasty bagel
Cost: £2-5 for a meal
If you’re looking to pick up a new (well, old) bike,
cheap clothes, miscellaneous bric-a-brac or even
just have a cheap bite to eat and a beer in the sun,
then head over to Brick Lane this Sunday. And it’s
just a stone’s throw from Shoreditch and its exciting
nightlife!
Wishing You Were Here
Travel On Your Doorstep
Brick Lane market on a Sunday
Maksim Mijovic
Leuvis/MundoReal.org
flickr/bluebeart

