FELIX Friday 06 may 2011 27
GAMES
Games Editor: Simon Worthington
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
H
ello Felix readers, Cave
Johnson here, founder
and CEO of Aperture
Science. Now I’m sure
you’re all wondering,
“Cave, why are you writing about Por-
tal 2? Why are you breaking the fourth
wall?” I’ll tell you why, it’s because I’m
Cave Johnson and I don’t let silly little
things like rules and regulations get in
MY way. I’ll do whatever I damn well
please and damn the consequences.
Here at Aperture we believe in striv-
ing for the best. We took the original
Portal and thought, ‘What would make
this bigger? Better? BOLDER?’ And
let me tell you, THAT was a hefty chal-
lenge. Multi-award-winning product,
seamless design, revolutionary game-
play, it had our best eggheads scratch-
ing their shining bald domes for hours.
They came back and said, “Cave, we
can’t make this game better. Please
don’t fire us.” Did it anyway, no room
for failures here. Got some smarter guys
in, cranked out Portal 2.
Science has proven that short games
are bad, no two ways about it, so we
made Portal 2 even longer than Portal.
Twice as long in fact. If you’re dim wit-
ted it might even take you three times as
long, maybe more, we don’t know. We
at Aperture only test with the best of the
best, no dunces allowed.
“What about story Cave? Have you
skimped on that?” Who do you think we
are, Black Mesa? Of course we haven’t
skimped on story. Portal 2 has at least
65% more story than Portal 2, and you
can go ahead and quote me on that
(Disclaimer from the suits in PR: quot-
ing me on that WILL result in a court
injunction). It’s got thrills, twists and
turns and so much action it’ll make the
sappier amongst you soil your diapers.
No, seriously, our story writers have
told me those of you with weak hearts
need to stay away from this game. We
really can’t afford another lawsuit.
We’ve also gone ahead and thrown in
some new gameplay elements. I don’t
pay my lab boys $100,000 a year just to
sit on their thumbs and suck up coffee.
No sir, Cave Johnson makes sure my
boys work ten hours a day, seven days
a week to churn out fresh new chal-
lenges. If they get exhausted, fire them
and bring in new guys, simple as. We’ve
got asbestos funnels, lasers, hard-light
bridges, plates that fling you about the
room and more dynamic surface-coat-
ing gels than you have fingers (provided
you only have two fingers, that is). All
of these have been proven to be 100%
safe for human use! (A note from the
boys in the lab says that Aperture Sci-
ence takes absolutely no responsibility
for any damage or injury that probably
will occur when you use our products).
Fact – the key to any successful co-op-
erative test is trust. Now we understand
you can’t just trust anyone. Hell, I trust
the next man just as far as I could throw
him. Turn around, next minute he’s stab-
bing you in the back or pushing you into
a crusher. Boom, dead, end of story. The
solution? ROBOTS. Not only do robots
give you a guaranteed six extra seconds
of co-operation versus human subjects,
you can’t kill ‘em. Just try, totally im-
possible. Perfect solution to co-operative
testing. We’ve gone and designed thirty
five new test chambers, and all require
the use of two sets of portals and par-
ticipants to complete successfully. If you
manage to do it alone I will personally
come to YOUR door and refund you the
cost of the game, provided we haven’t
already spent it.
Now we’ve been receiving some com-
plaints of late. Normally I’d respond to
these in the usual way and throw them
down into the incinerator, but our PR
department has somehow managed to
convince me to try and tackle some of
these issues head-on. Boost the compa-
ny profile or some junk like that. One of
the biggest complaints we’ve been get-
ting from you big babies is the game’s
length. Stop and smell the ROSES peo-
ple! I didn’t spend thousands of dollars
out of my own damn pocket to bring in
writers and voice actors and only have
one-tenth of their dialogue listened to!
Slow down, open your eyes and ears,
it’s not like you young people have any-
thing better to do besides watching por-
nography or washing your hair anyway.
If you moaning minnies are STILL
going on, guess what? This summer
we’ll be giving you all FREE extra
content. You hear that over your blub-
berin’ and bawlin’? FREE STUFF.
Would Black Mesa do that? Hell no
they wouldn’t! New levels, new chal-
lenges, new leader boards, all for noth-
ing, NOTHING. I had to fire HALF MY
STAFF just to afford this. Are you still
crying now? I should damn well hope
not! Why the hell am I even answering
these God-damn letters, don’t you think
I have better things to do?!
So anyway I had a meeting with PR
and Carol, and they said that I ought
to just go right ahead and chuck those
letters down the incinerator chute. Best
thing for ‘em if you ask me. To sum up,
more challenges, more story, more fun.
Just slow down and if we’ve not filed
for bankruptcy we’ll be getting out
some more test chambers this summer.
Cave Johnson, we’re done here.
Dictated but not read to Laurence
Pope.
It’s been a frustrating fortnight for Play-
station 3 owners everywhere. PlaySta-
tion Network, the service used to play
online on the PS3, was closed almost
two weeks ago leaving gamers without
access to any online content or multi-
player games. It was revealed that the
service was closed not for maintenance
but as an emergency security measure.
Sony’s PSN servers were the target
of a successful malicious attack by un-
known hackers, who compromised PSN
servers and made off with personal de-
tails, including passwords and e-mail
addresses, from over 77 million PSN
accounts. Included in the data stolen
is all 9 million accounts registered in
the UK. Further information was also
stolen from the servers of Sony Online
Entertainment, a PC gaming service
which runs the likes of EverQuest and
DC Universe Online, where the hack-
ers accessed an ‘outdated’ database
from 2007, containing 12,700 credit
card numbers in addition to a further
24 million usernames and passwords.
Although Sony has confirmed that only
900 of these cards are still within the
expiry date, it has quite rightly advised
all users to pay special attention to their
statements. The internet has been awash
with rumours that credit card data is
now up for sale to the highest bidder
after Sony rejected a deal to buy it back.
Although specific details on the at-
tack have not yet been released, the
basics of the procedure used to gain
access to PSN servers have now come
to light. It was revealed a vulnerability
with the PSN application server, sit-
ting between the web server and the
database, allowed the hackers to inject
malicious code. Once they were inside
the internal PSN network, they attacked
the database server and gained access
rights to the databases. Some com-
mentators have claimed that the vul-
nerability was due to the servers using
an out-dated version of Red Hat Linux
that hadn’t been updated with security
fixes, whilst others claim that the intru-
sion was an inside job by disgruntled
employees recently laid off in massive
job cuts at the company.
Sony has announced that it aims to
get fundamental PSN services – that’s
online play, account management, chat
and PlayStation Home – up and running
before the end of the weekend, no doubt
to coincide with peak revision/pro-
crastination time for Imperial students.
PS3 users will have to apply a manda-
tory update to their console and will be
forced to change their password as they
log into PSN, but this option is only
available on the console on which they
originally created the account in order
to prevent anyone with access to the
hacked data from doing the same. In the
event that this console is unavailable,
users can use a verified e-mail address
to change the password instead, under-
lining the need for any PSN users that
re-use their passwords on other sites to
change them as quickly as possible.
In what is surely a move to prevent as
many disloyal PlayStationers from turn-
ing to Bad Billy Gates and his Xbox as
they can, Sony are also going to be offer-
ing a ‘Welcome Back’package of treats.
Every user will receive 30 days free ac-
cess to ‘PlayStation+’, PSN’s premium
pay-only service, and there will also be
a selection of free content available that
has yet to be announced. Rumours have
also surfaced that Sony will be slashing
the price of PS3 consoles worldwide at
around the same time.
Portal 2? Like Portal but better, dummy!
CEO Cave Johnson on why you should hand over your money
Despite what it might look like, these robots are programmed for something other than interpretive dance
Service stoppage since Sony server security scandal
Simon Worthington

