graph neither I, nor they, have the idea that
their clientele is a single-market for shoppers,
of whatever waist measurement, on a budget.
However, I am not going to wax lyrical about
their wares in a Marks and Spencer ‘food
porn’ advert sort of way. What I will say is
that freshly-baked baked goods, sandwiches
that are 10% cheaper than Sainsbury’s and a
range that allows some ‘proper’ shopping on
the side, gives this lot a corner of the market
that they are not really being challenged on.
At least, not nationally. Local competition to
Imperial would include the Sandwich shop
on Gloucester Road, which probably has the
widest range of fresh made-to-measure budget
sandwiches I have ever seen in one place. So
one way or another it can be done on the cheap,
but the total is still the fat side of £5 per day.
Undoubtedly none of this costing business
looks good. I can feel it too. I suppose what
I should do now is extol the virtues of eating
some of last night’s leftovers for lunch every
day. The rough cost of cooking-a-bit-more-for-
tomorrow’s-lunch is probably no more than
£5/week, so it sounds as though it will work
financially. But how often have you seen a col-
league or friend or whoever eating their lunch
out of one of those zipped cool-case things
with a plastic fork, in what is surely an utterly
joyless manner? Too often. This is something
of a paradox, then. Do let me know if you
solve it. Answers on a postcard, please.
FELIX
28
FOOD
Food Editors: Dana Li
Vicky Jeyaprakash
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 06 may 2011
Gastronomical Musings
The memorable scenes of Brad Pitt licking peanut
butter off a spoon in Meet Joe Black is exactly how
I’d like to imagine the grim reaper. Suave, suited
and darn right fit.
Convenience for the poor?
Dana says: Samuel Furse explores why we dump our dosh in Greggs
Why this photo is not a true representation of Greggs: there is only one chav. In reality, they gather in herds...
“I am not going to wax
lyrical about their wares
in a Marks and Spencer
‘food porn’ advert
sort of way”
I
t is just fat pikeys that shop in Greggs.
Surely? I mean, it must only be they
who demand an opening time of 0700
on weekdays, freshly-baked multi-grain
loaves, Empire biscuits, and roasted
chicken sandwiches complete with delicate
slivers of red onion. Must be. There is no other
answer, clearly.
Think for a moment, how often you buy
lunch. We have all done it – either a result of
poor planning the night before, greed, or be-
cause colleagues were going out to buy and
it was just easier to go with the ‘it’ crowd. In
case you thought you were getting off lightly
by being the last one to decide and appear as
the most reasonable-sounding, I am afraid that
reason can easily be boiled down to simple la-
ziness.
If you are thinking that you might do this
more often that you can remember, you might
like to consider the following:
– Sandwiches now cost about £2-3 per pack
on average. I want to eat two of these, and I
am not alone;
– A drink. Another £1;
– A chocolate bar or cupcake, something
sweet, £1-2, because, it is not a meal without
something for dessert now is it?;
– The coffee you had on the way in, £2. Did
you think you had got away with that one?
Nice try: it costs money too.
That makes a monetary total in the region of
no less than £7. That is even if we take one off
the list for the sake of a conservative estimate,
and because not everyone has two sandwiches
and morning coffee from Moonquids-Caligu-
la-Kingdom-coffee-cottage in the same day. £7
is not that much though. If it is once a week,
that makes £210 per year. On an Undergrad
term-table that is. If you are a postgraduate
who eats out like this 3-4 times a week, this is
an annual bill of £1,400. The average bursary
of an Imperial College postgraduate is now ap-
proaching £12.7k/annum.
This does go much further than sandwiches
I am afraid. Would you spend £5 on a packet
of coffee that would make only 8 cups worth?
Of course not. That works out to 63p/cup. Not
so expensive compared to the £2 one from As-
teroidfrancs-Augustus-principality-whatever-
coffee, though.
You may be wondering exactly why Gregg’s
is relevant though. Based on the opening para-
Joe Black, I pay homage to you
It’s not Brad I wanted to talk about really, though,
it’s the love of peanut butter. The legume delight.
Peanut butter ice cream, as I discovered this
week is a heaven-sent tastebud delight. Spuntino,
hidden behind panel windows and a wooden sign
that screams renovation more than a tapas bar,
has been a food blogging sensation for the past
two months. Opening in March, and affiliated with
its more sophisticated Venetian bars, Polpo and
Polpetto, it offers simple Italian-American comfort
food such as ‘Mac and Cheese’ and the not-so-
tiny ‘Slider’ burgers. That’s just a detour, though,
of what I really wanted to share with you. The ‘Pea-
nut Butter and Jelly’ is fast becoming Spuntino’s
trademark dessert, boasting a decent-sized sand-
wich of the smoothest peanut butter ice cream
with flavours at full whack, and a filling that verges
between a jam or syrup of some kind with a hint of
raspberry sourness. Peanut butter love to the max!
I say, if it’s the grim reaper’s choice of food, it’s
good enough for me.
It feels like a terribly apt moment to go get myself
a peanut butter Ben’s Cookie now to sort this PB
love out. Yes, we’re on initial terms. PB and I. That,
or a peanut butter milkshake at Ed’s Diner (which
make the best, creamiest, heart-attack-inducing
milkshake, end of)... Oh, the choices.
If you’re feeling the love, check these out:
Spuntino 61 Rupert St, London W1D 7PW.
Ed’s Diner Unit 34b London Trocadero, 19 Rupert
St, London W1D 7PA.
Dana Li

