FELIX Friday 06 MAY 2011 29
CLUBS & SOCIETIES
T
he idea of a chess-related
event at Imperial isn’t a
new one: the last major
open tournament held at
Imperial was the 1st Chess-
master British Blitz Championships
back in 1999, which Hackney famously
dominated en-route to a well deserved
victory. Going back even further, Impe-
rial is quite a famous venue for week-
end congresses, as often as three times
a year, spanning from the 70s to the
90s. The current students and indeed the
organiser had no idea of this when the
thought of hosting a chess event crossed
our minds, and once we had booked
the beautiful activity rooms on the first
floor of the Union, the pressure was on
to live up to our reputation.
Setting up on the Friday night was an
interesting affair, particularly with the
Union (despite being equipped with an
awesome dining hall) seemingly only
having ten tables in the entire building.
The meeting rooms in the east wing
basement were duly plundered, a pro-
cess taking approximately four hours
and ending in several hearty drinks on
Friday evening. The end result, though,
was spectacular: the well lit event hall
was set up and players would find them-
selves competing against each other in
the shadow of the Royal Albert Hall the
next day.
Saturday morning proved both pro-
ductive and hectic, with everything
being set up but chaos when it came
to putting individuals into new teams.
When the dust settled, the event started
only twenty minutes late, with nineteen
teams taking part. The fact that there
was an odd number of teams was actu-
ally a blessing in disguise: teams with
players departing during the day were
able to ‘steal’ players to fill in during
rounds – this meant no boards were
defaulted, and even players receiving a
bye could participate in a rated game!
Among the event’s guests included the
esteemed kingscrusher (Tryfon Gavri-
el), famous for his chess videos and
thousands of followers on YouTube. At
a “measly” ECF rapidplay rating of 208
(for those unfamiliar with chess ratings,
this is comfortably Master strength), he
was playing as the lowest rated player in
the daunting Team Barford, arriving as
the team to beat with an average grade
of 211!
Extra tables and analysis boards were
available near the entrance of the room,
which players used in the gaps between
rounds but almost not at all during
lunchtime, with most of the hall taking
advantage of the longer break to get a
proper meal in, in the many nearby res-
taurants and cafes.
The day was regularly interrupted
with muffled screams and shouts of joy
from the downstairs student bar, where
a large number of cricket fans (mainly
Sri Lankan) were congregating to watch
the Cricket World Cup Final. After
lunch (during India’s match winning
innings: say that three times fast!) the
attitude was somewhat more subdued
and the chess was a tad quieter. For the
record, this event organiser attempted
to have the World Cup Final moved to
another date to accommodate the chess,
but they rather rudely never got back to
my e-mail…
Rounds one and two started slightly
late but with an awesome turnaround
thanks to our guest arbiter Alex Holow-
czak, by the start of the third round after
lunchtime (which was a generous hour,
not common for a chess rapidplay event!)
the day was looking like it could be back
on schedule by the end of the day.
Barford were sole leaders after second
and third seeds Athenaeum A and Kings
Head I drew their match in Round 3, but
the afternoon got especially tense when
Team Barford were spectacularly beat-
en by Athenaeum A in Round 4! Paul
Thorainsson managed a victory against
Venkat Tiruchirapalli and Charles McA-
leenan held Andrew Stone to a well de-
served draw on bottom board despite
being 46 points his junior, for the match
to be decided 2.5-1.5 in Athenaeum’s
favour. This resulted in Kings Head and
Athenaeum having a joint-lead for the
next round, with Barford a single point
behind and ready to pounce.
The final round saw Barford in prime
position to pounce, playing Kings Head
I and pulling off a victory. However,
Athenaeum A won their match as well
which clinched first place outright, so
Barford had to settle for second place
after leapfrogging Kings Head I, who
put in a great performance to finish 3rd
overall.
Other notable mentions that won priz-
es include Cereal Imperial which won
the best-academic-institution prize, as
well as a storming tournament from
juniors from Wilson’s School who de-
servedly pick up the best-average-U150
prize as well as keeping all the univer-
sity teams on their toes! Finally, the best
game prize (which was offered on-the-
day) as judged by English IM Thomas
Rendle went to the Round 3 encounter
between Chris Tandy of the Mush-
Vrooms who played against Tom Slater
of the Southampton Cheetahs.
After packing up, the day ended with
a lot of the Imperial crew celebrating
at the event organiser’s residence, with
special guests Postman Patzer (Kishan
Pattni) and DJ Hippo (Justin Hadi)
keeping the party going into the early
hours.
The event was an overwhelming suc-
cess and thanks must be given to all
parties involved in setting up before
and after as well as all the team cap-
tains and players who made the day a
fantastic one over-the-board as well.
Special thanks must be given to Adam
Raoof and Sean Hewitt, who helped tre-
mendously with the organisation of the
event beforehand, as well as John and
Christine Constable who generously of-
fered to lend us top-quality equipment
for the day’s proceedings. We look
forward to seeing you at Imperial Col-
lege’s events in the future, which will
hopefully be soon and frequent!
IMPERIAL H O STS
CH ESS TO U RN AMEN T
“I attempted to have
the [Cricket] World
Cup Final moved
to another date to
accommodate the
chess, but they
rather rudely never
got back to my
e-mail...”
Photos and words by John Sargent

