FELIX
30
HANGMAN hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 06 may 2011
Ohbitchuaries
Barack_attack_l33thaxor
It’s not my fault! Dey were asking
me to give da go-ahead for
‘Operation Turn-Obama’s-bedroom-
into-a-bouncy-castle’. It was a srsly
misleading name for a mission.
Who’s goin to turn up to dinner in
nothing but my Shelly’s underwear?
Who’s goin to steal my Shelly’s
underwear? Who’s goin to host the
Disney Teen star themed parties? I’ll
miss ya Osama Montana :’( xx
SUPERACEGORTHEROAR87
He was a great guy. Perhaps a little
misunderstood. Ppl look at him and
just think ‘9/11’ – he must be a ter-
rorist. People are like so judgmental,
and that was the central theme to
our hit broadway musical, ‘Toppling
towers and economies’, which we
co-wrote. Everyone remembers the
classic tunes like ‘that’s what over-
drafts are for’ and ‘Waiter! There’s
a plane in my trade centre!’ x <3
Cameron_DA_Maneron!!!
Osie was a fuckin laugh! There was
this time when we gatecrashed a
night at Tiger Tiger. The theme was
superheroes and Osie was dressed
as wonderwoman. He was wasted
and got with this fresher dressed as
batman. He was so fucked he was
actually convinced he was wonder-
woman. When we got home he just
started ironing our clothes. Not sure
what happened to Batman. xxx
The_Cleggomatortrontown <3
I guess he was alright, but there was
this night when all the guys stayed
at mine, and Osie was like just iron-
ing all our clothes. In the morning I
opened the fridge and all my petit
filous were gone! He denied it, but
he was running the round the house
screaming ‘WONDERWOMAN NEEDS
HER SUSTENANCE!’ before asking
where I keep the little spoons. I’m
still one little spoon down
willyoujoinmymiliband?
Whu? What? Who’s dead? Am I
dead? SHIT! WHAT!? AM I DEAD!? I
knew those 12 tabs of acid were a
bad idea :( :D :D
OSAMA: THE LOLZ WE HAD
This week we tragically lost one of our most
beloved heroes of Twatter. Osama bin Moham-
med bin Awad bin smokin bin Laden, more
commonly known as ‘Osie’ to his closest
friends, was savagely murdered by a bunch of
seals on the morning of May 2nd, 2011. Osie
was just having his morning ‘Bonne Maman
Wild Blueberry Conserve’ on toast and catch-
ing up on the latest developments in ‘The only
way is Islamabad’, which he had sky-plussed,
when he was rudely interrupted by a huge
seal disguised as a travelling salesman. Mid-
way through browsing the seal’s selection of
marigold gloves and Scotch-Brite™ scourers,
it suddenly dawned on Osie that something
wasn’t quite right. Before he had time to say
“These low-grade rubber latex knock-off
gloves wouldn’t last two plates”, twenty five
Hawaiian warrior-monk seals belly-flopped
from a Chinook into his outdoor pool, which
was commissioned during his bid for the
2016 Olympics. The seals stampeded/rolled
through Osie’s French windows and pulled out
their battle rifles.
Heroically, Osie utilised his nearest and
least-attractive wife as a human shield and sur-
vived the first barrage of gunfire. Using this
ingenious wife-shield tactic, Osie managed to
hold his ground for at least fourteen seconds
until he was down to his last wife. With a heavy
heart, Osie bravely stood behind his 15th and
most attractive lover, whilst he tried to think
of a plan B. As the seals were all reloading,
Osie took his chance and double-back-flipped
behind his Caliph-sized bed to grab his AK-
47. “As long you as you live under my ocean,
you’ll live by my rules!’’ shouted Osie. The
seals were so taken aback by this unexpected
quote from Disney’s ‘The Little Mermaid’ that
they momentarily lost concentration and Osie
unloaded rounds of indiscriminate fire towards
those fucking asshole seals.
If poor Osie had watched the Blue Planet
episode on Hawaiian monk seals, which he
had sky-plussed, then he would have known
that the species are notorious for their bul-
let-proof blubber. As Osie lay cradled in the
arms of the traveling salesman seal with 25
bullets in his body and head, he managed to
say one last thing before his final breath…
“Tell Cleggman it was me all along… I stole
his Petis filous from the fridge... lol”. And the
seal wept a small tear, for he had managed to
grow quite fond of Osie in those four minutes
of knowing him.
Osie’s Best Bits
Most Memorable Occasions
When Osie suicide paint-bombed the opposi-
tion team, along with the entirety of his own
team, at Milton Keynes paintball centre. He
was subsequently banned.
When Osie invented the car, only to later find
it had already been invented.
When Osie broke Disneyland’s Downhill dou-
ble dipper water slide by going down sideways.
The warning sign clearly stated ‘ATTENTION
CHILDREN: PLEASE DO NOT TRAVELAT
AN ANGLE PERPENDICULAR
TO THE AXIS OF THE WATER
SLIDE’
When Osie turned up to the
Oscars dressed as Steve
Buscemi’s wife. (Picture below).
When Osie received his Blue
Peter green badge for saving a
shrew from an eagle.
Most Memorable
Quotes
‘‘That’s not C4! They’re
platforms for my shoes! I’m
bringing back the 70s!’
‘‘Obie... since when were you black?’’
‘‘WHO STOLE MYALADDIN COSTUME!?
WHO THE FUCK STOLE MY - Oh, lol, I’m
wearing my Aladdin costume.’’
‘FFS! Gor drove
us off the cliff. LEARN TO DRIVE A
FUCKING WARTHOG’’
‘‘Feel my head, Gor! I’ve got a temperature!...
It’s BIEBER FEVER! LOL!’
‘‘WONDERWOMAN IS SUSTAINED!’’
The true story of
how he died
We’re sorry to say thatTwatter will have to
take a break because we’re in mourning
for Osama/revising for exams. It’ll be back when our
exams finish/Osama comes back from the dead.

