FELIX
4
Sports
NEWS
News Editors: Alex Karapetian
Matthew Colvin
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 06 MAY 2011
Football team fined after ULU
Cup fight
Chaos broke out at a demonstration held on
campus when a fire alarm was triggered and
forced hundreds of students to evacuate the
central library. The demonstration was in
protest at an Ethiopian government confer-
ence being held in the Great Hall on Saturday
16th April. In the confusion that followed the
alarm, protesters breached police barriers and
attempted to storm the Sherfield building.
Almost fifty people gathered to stage a dem-
onstration against the Ethiopian government,
which they accuse of human rights abuses.
Protesters were initially penned near the bio-
chemistry building, with a police guard lim-
ited to only a handful of officers. At 2.43pm, a
break glass panel was smashed in the southern
entrance foyer of the Sherfield building, trig-
gering the fire alarm. The central library, which
was packed with students revising for summer-
term exams, was evacuated and hundreds of
students spilled out onto the Queen’s lawn. In
the commotion, protesters broke past police
barriers and tried to enter the Sherfield build-
ing where the conference was taking place.
Police officers blocked protesters at the en-
trance to the building and more officers arrived
at the scene shortly after. Hundreds of evacu-
ated students gathered to watch the demonstra-
tion outside Sherfield, with some complaining
about the disruption to their revision. The con-
ference was cancelled due to the escalation of
the protests and all of the delegates left campus
for safety reasons. The protesters followed to
the Ethiopian embassy on Exhibition Road to
continue their demonstration. The library was
eventually re-opened for students at 3.10pm,
after almost half an hour of disorder, when col-
lege security officers reset the broken alarm
panel. The identity of the perpetrator who trig-
gered the fire alarm is not known.
A delegation of Ethiopian government offi-
cials, headed by Minister for the Civil Service,
Ato Juneidi Sado, attended the conference on
the Growth and Transformation Plan (GTP) for
Ethiopia. The Network Against Injustice and
Repression in Ethiopia organised Saturday’s
demonstration. Similar demonstrations, organ-
ised by affiliated groups, have led to the can-
cellation of GTP conferences held at two other
western universities in recent months.
Ethiopia received 700,000 tonnes of food
and £1.8bn in humanitarian aid last year
alone, more than almost any other country in
the world. However, demonstrators claim that
the Ethiopian People’s Revolutionary Demo-
cratic Front (EPRDF) government is illegally
misusing it, by refusing aid to supporters of
the political opposition. Their allegations are
supported by Human Rights Watch, which has
warned of an ‘aid-politics trap’ in Ethiopia.
The Ethiopian government denies any misuse
of humanitarian aid.
Most of the students that gathered to watch
the protests had not previously been aware of
the situation in Ethiopia, and took an interest
for the first time. A second year ISE student
said it seemed like “a worthwhile cause” and
that “academic institutions can’t become pup-
pets to a political agenda.” However, another
student complained, “we don’t know both
sides of the story”. Many students were un-
happy with the distraction from revision and
crowded around the library entrance, starting a
small demonstration of their own.
Protesters at the demonstration were of all
ages, and included many women and children.
They waved Ethiopian flags and raised plac-
ards that read, “Great Britain Stop! Develop-
ment Aid will be wasted!” One woman held a
picture of the Ethiopian Prime Minister, Meles
Zenawi, with a swastika printed on his face.
A protester, who had fled from the Ogaden
region of the country to the UK, called the
college “naive” for allowing the use of their
facilities for the conference. On behalf of the
protesters, he told Felix, “we condemn Impe-
rial College for allowing these killers to meet
here.” He wished to remain anonymous for
fear of retribution on his family, still living in
Ethiopia. Later on, the same man said that to-
day, “the truth prevailed.”
A spokesperson for the Ethiopian embassy
claimed, “some of them [the protesters] are al-
lied to terrorist organisations” and cited a flag
raised at the protest that they attributed to a rebel
insurgency group, the Ogaden National Libera-
tion Front (ONLF). However, a key organiser of
the demonstration refuted these claims and said
that the flag belonged to the Ogaden region and
its people, rather than just the ONLF.
The embassy’s spokesperson also described
Saturday’s protest as a “very violent demon-
stration”, but failed to provide evidence to sup-
port this. There were no reports of violence at
the demonstration on campus.
Ethiopian satellite television covered the
demonstration and broadcast the events on
campus live worldwide.
A spokesperson for the college told Felix,
“Imperial runs conference facilities that are
booked by a wide range of organisations for
private events every year. A booking of these
facilities carries no endorsement by the Col-
lege of the aims and opinions of the event or-
ganisers.”
Chaos at campus demonstration
Police prevent protestors from storming Sherfield
Ben Scally
The football team has been fined £100 by the Ama-
teur Football Association (AFA) after a fight broke
out at the 19th of March ULU Cup Final with UCL.
The club was charged with failing to control its sup-
porters, to which they pleaded guilty, and one indi-
vidual, whose case has yet to be heard, has been
charged with assault on a UCL player.
The fight is believed to have broken out towards
the end of the match between a small group of
Imperial fans and UCL substitutes. Simon Kilroy,
Imperial club captain, said that he didn’t condone
“any act of violence or physical intimidation per-
petrated by anybody associated” with the football
club and that it was “disappointing that the actions
of small minority of both universities have marred
the game”.
He added that he and other members of the
football club committee “worked continuously with
those inside and outside of the university to re-
solve the issue”.
Accounts of the violence differ, with Mr. Kilroy
saying that the UCL substitutes turned a verbal
confrontation into a physical altercation, while UCL
club captain Mike Tetstall said that the trigger was
when an Imperial fan slapped a UCL substitute’s
head. It is believed that one of the Imperial fans
involved in the fight was wearing a red morph suit.
Mr Tetstall laid the blame entirely at the feet of
Imperial saying, “the blame for the incident has to
fall on the Imperial fans who went out of their way
to start trouble”
In addition to the sanctions imposed by the
Amateur Football Association, Sport Imperial has
banned two Imperial Football Club members from
all Sport Imperial facilities for life, meaning that
they will not be able to play any sport at Imperi-
al again. One of these club members is facing a
charge for assault from the AFA. The sanctions for
that member could include a complete ban or a
fine.
Two other club members have been banned from
Sport Imperial facilities until the 1st October 2011.
Sport Imperial have also removed all funding from
the football club for next year, although this is
mainly in the form of equipment like balls, so will
not affect the club’s activities adversely. Sport Im-
perial did not return a request for comment.
The AFA have not issued any charges against UCL
Football Club or its members.
The final was won 3-2 by Imperial.
Kadhim Shubber
Ben Scally
James Pope Michiel Blokzijl
Some students were unimpressed with
having their revision disrupted Police reinforcements arrive
“Two football club members
have been banned from playing
sport at Imperial again”
Read the full match report in the Sports section,
beginning on the back page.

