Felix Sport sponsored by
FILM
Thor wreaks
cinematic havoc:
Page 22
TELEVISION
A Game of Thrones –
blood and babes:
Page 23
TECHNOLOGY
An in-depth review
of the iPad 2:
Page 15
GAMES
Why you need Portal
2 in your life:
Page 27
FOOD
What’s the appeal of
Greggs?:
Page 28
Best in the UK
SPORT
06.05.11
ISSUE 1487
BUCS Fencing
Men’s and Women’s @ BUCS Finals
Charlotte Levin
Imperial Fencing’s first teams came to the BUCS
Championships semi-finals with an amazing sea-
son in the bag. Both of the teams were undefeated
in their leagues and had confidently gone through
their knock out rounds. In everyone’s mind were
the double silvers from last year, where both men
and women were close to grabbing the gold but in
the end were defeated. For the women this year
was of extra importance, having ended up second
two years in a row.
Starting the semi-finals the ladies faced Durham
University, the team Clare Harding (Imperial sa-
breur), used to fence for. It was already known
that Durham had a strong sabre team, but were not
as strong in the other weapons. As they had won
against Oxford University with only a single hit, a
team that Imperial had beaten convincingly twice,
the girls concluded that they had a fairly good
chance. Up on piste first were Hannah Bryars,
Outi Supponen and Alice Mitchell, ready to fence
foil. No one from the Durham team was an actual
foilist, which meant that even though there was
nervousness involved our team could win comfort-
ably with 45-12. Epee coming up next with Alice,
Charlotte Levin and Emily Bottle, with the goal to
simply keep Durham on a score as low as possible
to facilitate it for the sabre team. Facing a bit more
challenge in this weapon Charlotte managed to
hold it fairly alright at the end with the final score
43-38. This meant that the sabreurs Clare, Hannah
and Zoe Robinson needed no more than seven hits
to win, a task they accomplished early but then
found the opponents one step stronger and lost 33-
45.
As the women had advanced to the final with the
overall score 121-95, the men were going a simi-
lar route. The foilists in the team, Ed Collier, Chris
Imperial
wins
ULU Cup
with last
minute
goal
ULU Football Cup Final
Men’s 1st 3 – 2 UCL 1st
Tom Fryatt
The end of spring term saw the 1st XI clash with
UCL in the ULU Cup Final. The two teams had
been head and shoulders above the competition
throughout the year, with Imperial denied the
league title by a single point after suffering their
only defeat of the season against UCL’s. This only
strengthened Imperial’s resolve, and the squad
went into the game in high spirits, and with a le-
gion of fans to help them on their way.
Imperial suffered an early setback when centre-
half Farag failed a late fitness test and was ruled
out. Despite this Imperial began the game well,
dominating the first 20 minutes with composed
play. On the break however, UCL threatened, and
with Hill picking up an early booking in the centre
of the park – presumably for appearance’ sake, the
back four could no longer rely on the usual degree
of protection. After 25 minutes, Imperial paid the
price for allowing a UCL forward a moment too
long on the ball, as he threaded the ball behind the
Imperial defence to his strike partner, who duly put
his team ahead.
Imperial were buoyed by the belief that they
had the better of their opposition, and surged for-
... Continued on Page 34 ... Continued on Page 35
The team celebrate their tremendous season with champagne
Jack Patten

