FELIX
NEWS
NO CINDERELLA,YOU
SHAN’T GO TO THE
SUMMER BALL...
T
he Summer Ball, a chance
for staff and students to
celebrate the end of their
exams (sorry Chemistry,
Biochemistry, and Biol-
ogy), the end of another academic year,
and for some, the end of university life,
has always been a highlight of the Im-
perial social calendar. However, when
the details of the Ball were announced
during the Easter holidays, the response
was mixed and for some the radical
changes to the format have changed
their end-of-year ball into an end-of-
year festival. In a comment echoed by
many, one student wrote on Facebook:
‘It’s simply not a Ball anymore’.
The changes to the Ball include mov-
ing it to earlier in the day (with the
event starting at 1pm) the removal of
the formal dinner as well as the formal
dress code. The Ball is also no longer
an Imperial-only event. It’s being held
in conjunction with King’s College
Union and Goldsmith’s Union, and will
be open to all London university stu-
dents. Officially, the Summer Ball will
finish at midnight where an after party
for 1000 people will be held in Metric
for an extra £5.
In a sense, however, this year’s Sum-
mer Ball is the best in recent years. With
an extremely strong lineup (in spite of
a Chase and Status DJ set) and no in-
crease in price from last year.
Still there has been a significant
amount of controversy over the chang-
es, with students discussing the changes
extensively on Facebook and differing
over the significance of the changes.
Some want there to be a formal dress-
code, but are looking forward to the fes-
tival format, while others have lamented
the loss of the dinner but are looking
forward to mingling with students from
other universities. Indeed it seems that
with the full lineup now released, head-
liner Laura Marling has softened op-
position to the changes, with the same
student who said ‘it’s simply not a Ball
anymore’ declaring that Laura Marling
‘pretty much makes up for everything’.
However, a common complaint has
been that students feel that they weren’t
consulted about the changes.
Were students consulted?
Questions have been raised about the
poor communication between the Union
and the student body, with a lot of stu-
dents feeling like they have been blind-
sided with the changes. There was ini-
tially little effort to explain the changes.
One of the first questions put to Felix by
a Chemical Engineering student was:
“why have they made such a dramatic
change? Was anyone pushing for such
a change? Did they consult with many
students before pushing these plans
through?” The Union have strenuously
defended the process behind the changes,
pointing out that the changes were dis-
cussed in the Union Council and that the
Ents Committee, which has three mem-
bers, was involved. However, the wide-
spread surprise at the changes shows
that there was little communication with
the ‘outside world’, with no mention in
the Union’s all-student email, or on the
Union website or Facebook page.Ashort
article was published in Felix towards the
end of last term and publicized on the Fe-
lix Facebook page and Twitter account,
but by this point the changes had been all
but decided. Union PresidentAlex Kend-
all admitted that “people are concerned”
and that they “probably needed to do
more to get the changes across to people
before launching”.
Sharing with other universities
The response to sharing the Ball with
other universities has been mixed.
Opinion is split between those who
feel that it is no longer a special event
to celebrate the end of their year at
Imperial and some cheeky chaps who
are looking forward to girls from other
universities balancing the male-female
ratio. The Union has said that having a
joint ball will mean that there is more
money for live acts. However, all of the
funding has come from the Union – the
extra money coming from more ticket
sales. It remains to be seen how many
students from King’s and Goldsmith’s
will attend but there is concern that Im-
perial students won’t be able to attend
the after-party in Metric because of the
limited capacity. Deputy President Ravi
Pall admitted that this might be an issue
on his blog, saying “it is expected more
than 1000 people would want to attend
the afterparty” and that the £5 charge for
the after-party was aimed at controlling
numbers.
No more dinner
The loss of the formal dinner has also
created a stir. The Union argue that it’s
not a financially viable part of the Sum-
mer Ball. They argue that it is “immor-
al” to subsidise the dinner tickets, which
last year cost an additional £45 on top of
a standard entry ticket and say that the
number of students attending the dinner
is too low to continue running it. In his
initial blog about the changes, Deputy
President Ravi Pall, who also promised
moving the event to after exams in his
manifesto, claimed that only 300 tickets
were sold last year, however that figure
has now changed to 158. After the back-
lash against the changes on Facebook,
the Union said that they would consider
holding a dinner and opened a poll to
see if there is enough demand for a £38
per person dinner in the SCR. The din-
ner will be quite unlike previous years,
students will dine at different times de-
pending on when they prefer. Accord-
ing to the Union, less than 150 students
have said that they would want to go to
the dinner, making it financially unvi-
able.
But you can go to the summer festival. Jovan
Nedic balances the debate on the new look Ball
What will you wear?
The bulk of the anger has been reserved
for the ambiguity of the dress code.
With the previous evening format, the
dress code was straightforwardly black
tie. However, with an all-day festival it’s
not clear if that’s practical. The Summer
Ball website says that the dress code is
“Dress to Impress!” but leaves the final
decision to the discretion of students,
“Fancy dress, black tie or casual – what-
ever you think is best”. Students have
lamented what they see as the loss of
their main opportunity to dress up with
their friends at the end of the year, or
indeed at the end of their time at Impe-
rial, and the demand for a formal dress
code was so high that an online petition
was set up demanding that the dress
code be changed. It remains to be seen
what will happen on the day, whether
students will all telepathically decide to
dress similarly, or if the event will see
ripped jeans rubbing up against cum-
merbunds and bow-ties. Similarly, will
the new changes be a breath of fresh air
or the death of a formal ball that was
loved by many?
Mercury Prize-winner Laura Marling is headlining
flickr/rowl images
The new format
For £40 (rising to £45 mid-
night Monday 9th) you get a
range of live acts including
Laura Marling, Chase and Sta-
tus, Nero, and Ian Brown. It
starts at 1pm, until midnight,
when a £5 after-party starts
in Metric, until 4am, when the
Survivors’ Photo will be taken.
There will be funfair attrac-
tions throughout the day.
Gauging student
opinion
To suggest that all Imperial stu-
dents are against the changes
to the Summer Ball would be
ridiculous (see Tim Arbabza-
dah on page 18 for proof), but
similarly to deny that there
has been discontent would be
wrong.
Hundreds of students were
sufficiently unimpressed to
sign an online petition demand-
ing a formal dress code and a
look at the discussions on
Facebook shows a broad range
of students expressing their
discontent. Indeed a Facebook
poll of around 600 students,
though not statistically rigor-
ous, indicated a lack of enthu-
siasm for (or knowledge of) the
changes, with only 35 saying
they preferred the new format.
Whether you can plausibly
decide between the new for-
mat and the old format if you
haven’t experienced the new
one yet is debatable, but it’s
too easy to simply write this
off as ‘Imperial students com-
plaining again’. The truth is
that most people who go the
Summer Ball have a really
good time. There is every rea-
son to believe that students
will like the new format when
they experience it, but it’s
easy to see why some stu-
dents don’t think it needed to
be ‘fixed’; it wasn’t necessarily
‘broken’ last year.
7
Friday 06 MAY 2011

