Page 8
F E L I X
February 20th, 1973
the sports page
r a p i d rambles
The Hyde Park Road Relay
The only claim to fame that 1C X Country C l u b
can boast at the moment is the Hyde Park Relay.
Although there are several imitations going about it
is one of the largest and most respected road relays in
Great Britain and probably in Europe.
Each member of a 6 m a n team runs 3
miles over a course based on the Serpentine, the times
for each leg vary between I3£ and 20 minutes.
This year we confidently expect a turnout of over
500 runners which will include 12 teams from the
Continent, including Spain, Germany, France, Scan-
dinavia and Belgium. Almost every University or
College in the U K that has a X country team (and
even some without!) will be there, bringing Olympic
runners Dave Bedford, R a y Smedley and Andy H o l -
den, and many other internationals.
The local attractions included a weakened I C team
and an O l d Boys team, (they're not so old, so watch
out IC!). The R C M have answered the call " Y o u too
can run against Dave Bedford", they have threatened
to withdraw if he fails to turn up!
The race will be started in Rotten R o w by the Rector
at 3.00 on Saturday and the prizes presented by Lady
Penney in the union afterwards.
Anybody wishing to help should contact Steve Webb
or just arrive early at the Union; they will be able to
fight for tea with the rest.
football
THREE IN A ROW FOR I.C.
BATES DESTROYS U.C.
A t Headstone Lane on Saturday 10th February, I C
made sure of their third U L cup final in three years b y
defeating U C 2—0.
The conditions were not suited to good football and
the game was never a great spectacle, but there were a
few isolated moments of good play from both sides.
The first twenty minutes belonged to U C . They had a
shaky I C defence i n trouble several times and, but for
Gerwyn Edwards' good work i n goal, I C would have
been in even more trouble. O n e save in particular
showed the class of Edwards. A shot from 20 yards
was hit hard and low, with the wind and despite the
greasy turf he managed a great dive to his left to push
it away for a corner.
A s the game wore o n I C began to settle down and
once Paul Worthington had accustomed himself to the
poor surface, his winger was rarely i n the game. T h e
man of the match, however, was Steve Bates whose
midfield tackling gave U C no chance to settle down
on the ball. But Bates did more than tackle — from a
partly-cleared corner he pulled the ball down a n d
struck a deceptively lazy shot which swerved viciously
under the despairing dive of the U C 'keeper.
W i t h this goal behind them I C took command for
the rest of the half and were unlucky not to score at
least another two goals. Maurice Hastings went close
with a header from a corner kick and Billy M i l n e beat
the 'keeper with a delicate shot after a good run, only
to see the ball cleared off the line.
When the half-time interval came I C were well i n
control of the game. But as often happens to I C they
started the 2nd half as they started the first, badly.
U C only really had one good scoring chance but the
general performance of I C during this period was
poor. However, just as in the first half they came back
strongly. Steve Bates was still getting the tackles i n
and it d i d one good to see Pete Lonnen working so
hard in midfield. H e is undoubtedly much more useful
there than on the wing.
Chances to score were still rare for both sides and
most of the second half was played between the pen-
alty areas. Byron Smith and Billy M i l n e both had half-
chances to score but with ten minutes to go the score
was still 1—0 and it didn't look much like changing.
Then tragedy hit IC, a perfectly fair tackle left M a u r -
ice Hastings with a nasty bruise, superimposed o n four
or five other ones which he has picked up during the
season. Hastings had to go off and the sub., a defen-
der came o n in midfield. Almost immediately I C
launched the decisive attack of the match. O n e long
ball was cleared and Bates promptly chipped it back
to the edge of the box where Smith headed it o n to
Milne who sent I C to Motspur again with a close-range
shot.
U C didn't seem to appreciate that they had been
fairly beaten and the last 10 minutes were just a little
silly. In fact they were bloody stupid. K i c k i n g a goal-
keeper repeatedly when he is on the ground is not very
clever. But then U C footballers never were very clever.
I would like to be able to say that the referee was
responsible for the game not deteriorating into a battle
but it was i n fact only the restraint of the I C team
which kept the free kicks down to two a minute dur-
ing the last five minutes.
N o w to nicer things: the final will be at Motspur
Park on Saturday 10th M a r c h when I C will attempt to
make it three i n a row against Birkbeck or Bedford.
There is also the possibility of winning the league af-
ter a fine display in beating King's recently.
T e a m : G . Edwards, M . Manning, P. Worthington, I.
Postlethwaite, I. Bell, J . Kelly, S. Bates, P. Lonnen,
B. Smith, M . Hastings (sub. R. Kill), W . Milne.
On the same day at Birkbeck's ground at Greenford i n
the Upper Reserves C u p Semi-Final IC 3rds defeated IC 5ths
i n a fast and open game. The 5ths produced some hard run-
ning which unsettled their opponents and the opening min-
utes were evenly contested. Control was made difficult by a
heavy shower before the game and perhaps this was the fac-
tor which made the game close. Eventually the 5ths were
pushed back into defence and a period of constant pressure
produced a fine angled drive from Geoff Gilbert which Gor-
don Lack managed to turn round the post. The 3rds were not
to be denied and shortly afterwards a goal came. A l a n Peter-
son received the ball near the edge of the box and floated a
shot into the corner of the net as the defence stood flat-
footed seemingly confused by the flight of the shot. This
proved to be the only goal of the half and the second-half
began with a further period of 3rd team pressure.
The 5ths counter-attacked and produced their best chance
of the game when a fine cross from the left beat the defence
and left Pete Bintliff with a n open goal which he surprisingly
missed from close in. A clinching goal came when Alan Wil-
kinson surged through from defence and scored a typical
midfield-strikers goal when his 30 yards effort eluded Gordon
Lack to make the score 2—0. The 3rds now go on to meet
Birkbeck 2nds i n the final at Motspur Park on March 10th,
where they will be trying to make up for the 2nd teams'
thoughtlessness i n allowing Goldsmith's to w i n it last year.
Imperial's other semi-finalists, the 6ths went down 2—0 to
an L S E I V which looked not unlike L S E II. However the 6ths
have done well to get this far and they still have a good'
chance i n the League.
R . K . / A . P .
tiddlyw
It has fallen to me once again to write a Winks
report, the one you've a l l been waiting for. O n Sun-
day, U t h February, we ventured u p the A 1 0 i n 2
cars, pulling our star player behind o n an airbed. W e
were visiting Cambridge t o play them i n the Prince
Philip Silver W i n k competition, and our team was once
again glorious in defeat. A s we were two players short,
Bob and Helen each had to play a pair, while G l y n
suffered J . J . and M i k e played with Shelagh (!)
The brilliant M r . Douglas (6 second interviews to
date) managed to win a game i n his own inimitable
style while the rest of us lost, or drew.
We were drastically handicapped by the licensing
hours and being boozeless could not attain the usual
high standard of play reached o n Thursday nights.
Crawling around on the floor is not suitable for people
with flash jackets or delicate young ladies (that means
me and if you disagree I'll bash you), but against these
terrific odds we scored 22 (Helen 8^, B o b 8£, the rabble
5) to their 62.
After 3 rounds we adjourned for milk and hot water
(they called it "tea"), bikkies and the Beano.
Bob, the coiffeur, said he was great—perhaps that's
why the car windows steamed u p o n the way back
to Southside bar for a pint or six, to end the day i n
style.
The previous week we entertained Quesh, a team of
ex-Southampton University members. They had i n their
clan a certain A l a n Dean, the English champion, no
less. Against such formidable opponents we lost 1\—
55|, but the outstanding achievement of the year must
surely be the gaining of a point off A . D . , the second
point he'd lost i n five games!
Unfortunately we were without Bobby, before whom
mountains collapse, ferocious beasts tremble and
Winks players plead for clemency from the tortuous
dealings of his squidger. Without this maestro, how
could we hope to win?
Thanks to a l l those that turned up to play, and to
those that didn't — * * ? ! £ ? * ! !
Thought for the day — is beef curry a new type of
trouser cleaner?
The Wonder Team: Helen Isaac (latent genius), B o b
" F l a s h " Douglas, G l y n Jones, M i k e Ixer, John James
and Shelagh Crawley. A m e n .
heckej/
Last Wednesday, the I.C. cup side qualified to meet Guy's
hospital i n the final of the U.L. cup, by defeating B a r t s 3-0.
This victory was achieved by the I.C.'s normal game of ten
men hockey, i.e. keep your own goalkeeper out of the game.
For the first ten minutes, the ball was continually i n or
around the Bart's twenty-five, but their goalkeeper was
untroubled i n this period. Then for the rest of the first half,
neither of the teams could be bothered to get going, so the
game became bogged down between the twenty-fives. The
only moment that relieved the boredom was a goal by John
Schofield.
The second half was completely different, as I.C. scored
twice in the first five minutes. The first of these goals came
from a short corner pushed out by I k i Keller to Jaz Missn,
who pushed the ball into the centre for Jag Gahir to push
home. T h e final goal was scored by John Schofield.
The previous Saturday, I.C. 1st X I met B.A.C. Weybridge
and deservedly won 2-1, the goals coming from Downs and
Rickman.
Meanwhile the 2nd and 3rd XIs were playing Old Creights
1st and 2nd teams. The 2nds w o n 1-0, but the 3rds were
defeated 2-0.
Mixed Hockey
Last Sunday the I.C. mixed hockey team played Westfield
College. Victory was assured, with tfte executioner o n the
I.C. side and the final score was 2-1 to I.C. Straight from the
bully i n the first half, I.C, swept into the attack, and scored,
but were unable to score again before half-time. Westfield
came more into the game i n the second half, and after a
hectic scramble i n the I.C. goalmouth, Westfield were
awarded a short corner, from which they scored, to make the
final score 2-1. I.C. should have won this match much more
convincingly, when one considers the number of chances
they created.
Finally, a special thanks to all the people who played o n
Sunday lunchtime.

