THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 13
FELIX 01.05.2015
Everything you need to know to cast your vote
The General Election 2015
Cameron looks forward and attempts to ignore Miliband’s hungry eyes and Clegg’s cheeky grin. Photo: Creative Commons
Just how do you decide who to vote for?
The novelist and essayist
George Orwell once said that
political language is “designed
to make lies sound truthful and
murder respectable, and to give an
appearance of solidity to pure wind.”
He wrote that over half a century ago,
but it is just as relevant today as it was
then. Perhaps even more so.
There is undoubtedly a problem
with how political language is
perceived by the public. Many people
feel that politicians are not direct or
honest with the electorate, and are
constantly dodging questions and
twisting the narrative in an effort to
appeal to everyone. There is an aroma
of mild deception to the whole game,
but you can see why politicians do
it. They can’t get a whole lot done if
their party comes in second.
Politics is all about the future. This
means politicians get into power by
making promises, which are often
about quite abstract, intangible ideas.
So straight talking is hard to find,
because politicians are not in the
business of candid communication
and transparency. They are in the
business of breaking their messages
down into sound bites and slogans
that will resonate with as much
of the electorate as possible. This
is not necessarily a terrible thing.
Great speeches need to weave policy
with high ideals, but the problem is
that political discussion is totally
smothered by precisely framed
platitudes and clichés, with little
substance to them. It’s a tricky
balance and not really the fault of any
single group of people, just a reaction
to incentives.
I’m sure many politicians would
prefer it if they were able to speak
freely and debate their opponents
openly, but by outlining your policies
clearly you are reducing the number
of people who readily agree with
you. Instead, by running a generic
campaign you are able to appeal to
as many people as possible, because
there is little to disagree with them
about. But this isn’t good for the
country.
Even the party manifestos are
packed full of generic promises about
a “brighter future” or a “better plan,”
and very few people have the time, or
the patience, to meticulously analyse
each party’s intentions.
So, how does one go about deciding
whom to vote for?
Well, voting for policies over
personalities is crucial. Having a
competent leader is of course very
important, but ultimately it’s the
policies that directly affect our lives
and make a lasting impact.
After that, it’s a question of
assessing the pros and cons of
each policy platform, taking into
consideration the policy areas that
matter most to you, each party’s
record of delivery and whether the
policies seem realistic. It can be the
case that a policy that sounds great is,
on closer inspection, detrimental in
the long term.
It could be that you have a very
strong view about a particular issue,
which would take priority over all
the other policies. For instance, you
might feel very strongly that Scotland
should not break up from the rest
of the United Kingdom. This might
lead you to vote tactically for the
Conservatives or Liberal Democrats
in order to minimise the impact
of the SNP over the life of the next
parliament.
There are some crucial dividing
lines between the parties. Labour,
the Conservatives and the Liberal
Democrats have agreed to further
austerity cuts over the next
parliament, which Ukip largely
support. The Green Party, Plaid
Cymru and the Scottish National
Joshua Renken ponders the perils and pitfalls of picking a politician
Party are all anti-austerity and
have promised to modestly increase
government spending.
When voting, it is important to
be aware of the political landscape
within your constituency, to see
whether your vote will make a
significant difference to who
wins. For many voters there is a
valid argument to vote tactically,
particularly if you know you live in
a marginal constituency that could
‘swing’ to another party.
You might consider voting
down the front running candidate
you dislike - a compromise that
would help to get a more agreeable
candidate elected. To look at your
constituency’s profile go to http://
democraticdashboard.com.
Online questionnaires and political
party comparison sites such as www.
whoshouldyouvotefor.com and www.
voteforpolicies.org.uk will give you a
good idea of whom you align with. It
is also possible to go online and look
at how your local MP has voted.
Many people think, quite sensibly,
that election campaigns are about
competing answers to the same
question.
They’re not. They’re a fight over the
question itself.
Labour wants people thinking
about inequality and the NHS.
The Conservatives want people
thinking about the economy and
strong leadership. Lib Dems want
people thinking about fairness
and a compassionate approach to
fiscal recovery, while Ukip want the
conversation to be about immigration
and the EU. You get the idea.
Even if you don’t get the candidate
you voted for, you will have helped
reduce the size of the majority for
the winning candidate, making him
or her less complacent about their
victory so that they work harder
for their constituents ready for the
next election. By voting you also
represent your age group, and the
larger the number of a group of
people going out to vote, the harder
it is for politicians to ignore that
group’s interests over other groups.
Old people love to vote, young people
don’t. So tuition fees increase and
pensions are protected. These policy
priorities can shift if enough young
people vote.
Deciding whom to vote for is
admittedly a difficult decision to
make. But it is important to exercise
your freedom to have a say in how the
country is run.

