24 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
01.05.2015
Arts Editors Fred Fyles & Kamil McClelland
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
An Operatic Romp through 60s Italy
The Royal Opera House’s Il Turco In Italia Photo: Tristram Kenton/The
Guardian
Clara Clark Nevola is taken on a journey to the fun side of the ROH
The Rules of the Theatrical Game
It would be understandable if a
comic opera about a love triangle
– featuring a randy Turkish
prince, a doddering old man, and his
unfaithful young wife – struggled
to be relevant. Throw in a few jokes
about Gypsies, the inconstancy of
women, and old men falling into
plates of spaghetti and it turns into an
unpalatable cocktail of racism, sexism
and slapstick comedy.
Of course, there is a but. Somehow,
this Rossini opera wasn’t an operatic
version of the Daily Mail. Somehow,
it managed to re-stage 200 year old
jokes and make them genuinely
funny for a modern audience. Not
fake, high-brow, isn’t-this-culturally-
enriching type funny – but pure,
real laugh-out-loud funny. For
a repertoire opera that is a real
achievement.
Il Turco in Italia centres around a
love triangle that turns into a love
pentagon as the story evolves. A
handsome Turkish prince, Salim,
visits Italy on holiday and catches
the eye of a local beauty, Fiorella. He
thinks she’s majorly hot stuff, and
they hit it off. Obviously Fiorella is
married to a naïve sugar-daddy style
husband who’s not too happy about
it all. He teams up with Fiorella’s
Elvis-esque ex-lover (complete with
yellow bomber jacket and turquoise
Vespa) to stop the “Turk” getting too
cosy with their girl. Conveniently,
Selim’s spurned former-fiancé, now
travelling around with a band of
gypsies, is also on hand to add to the
farcical love tangle.
Overshadowed by Rossini’s most
famous comic opera, The Barber of
Seville, this performance rarely gets
put on, and the Royal Opera House’s
production (which premiered in
2005) is an exception. Its success lies
in adding an extra layer of comedy
to the opera. Originally aimed at
18th
century Italians, the libretto is
peppered with nationalistic speeches
and jokes at the expense of women,
foreigners, and Travellers. By staging
the piece in a stylised 60s Italy, the
production allows the audience to
laugh at a stereotypical image of
Italy, and thus makes the other jokes
ok too. Suddenly having a giggle
about the sexual benefits of harems
or the stealing habits of gypsies is
fine, because after all you’ve just
had a laugh about a giant pizza, an
overdressed Italian dandy, and an
old man sparring with a forkful of
spaghetti (this actually happened. An
extra reason to get yourself a ticket
for this!). It’s simple but it’s genius,
a revelation for the many musically
beautiful but non-PC operas which
fill theatres every year. The usual
tactic is to tone down the insalubrious
jokes at the expense of the public’s
entertainment (The Royal Opera
House’s Magic Flute, from earlier
this season, is an example in kind),
contributing to the perception that
opera is for boring old farts.
Patrice Courier and Moshe Leiser’s
clever directing is supported by a
fantastic cast, who don’t seem to be
too dignified to be comic actors as
well as world-class opera singers. The
leads are all incredibly real, believable
people, achieving comedy while
escaping the one-dimensionality
which often tarnishes farcical theatre.
Fiorella (Alekzandra Kurzac) and
Selim (Ildebrando D’Arcangelo) are
also a beautiful soprano and bass
respectively, and make a musically
balanced pair. The staging is so
colourful and sunny that you’ll
almost get a suntan by sitting in your
seat – think pink beach umbrellas,
palm trees and stylised landscapes in
bright, bold colours.
This is real comic opera, an ‘opera
buffa’ as it was originally conceived.
The set is minimal and modern, the
directors’ have taken some liberty
with the jokes, and the costumes
aren’t a faithful reproduction of the
historical style. But the audience’s
laughter rang out throughout as it
would have on its first night, in 1814.
So three cheers for the Royal Opera
House, and down with the boring old
farts.
Any hope that the National
Theatre’s Rules For Living
would be a quiet affair was
quickly dashed upon reading the
programme: tucked in the cast list is
an acknowledgement for Kate Waters
– Fight Director. This gives us a clear
indication of the direction the play
is going to go in, but really it should
be obvious from the start - Rules
For Living centres around that most
volatile of environments: the middle-
class Christmas dinner.
Director Marianne Elliott takes
Sam Holcroft’s explosive script, and
transposes the action to the NT’s
Dorfman Theatre, whose seats rise up
like bleachers at a high school grudge
match, a comparison that is only
made stronger by Chloe Lamford’s
set design. Lines mark out different
territories, there are zones like
‘Home’ and ‘Garden’, and at the end
confetti crowns the ‘winner’; but the
most unique and intrusive aspects of
the design are the large scoreboards
that flank the ends of the stage, upon
which the different family members’
various ‘rules for living’ flash up.
Thus insecure Adam (Steven Mangan)
affects an accent to mock, uptight
Sheena (Claudie Blakley) must resort
to alcohol whenever she wants to
contradict, and the matriarch of the
clan (Deborah Findlay) calms her
nerves by scrubbing every surface
in sight. The result is a snappy play
that positively crackles with energy,
although the format on occasion
limits the plot progression.
One of the major themes of the
play is CBT, or Cognitive Behaviour
Therapy, a form of psychotherapy in
which the root cause of anxiety and
depression is sought out, and action
taken to prevent future occurrences.
It seems to me that many
scriptwriters could do with some form
of therapy, particularly those whose
work involves a family at Christmas
time - there is rarely a happy ending,
and Rules for Living is no exception,
with resentment turning into grudges
turning into outright warfare. Adam,
whose dreams of being a cricket
star have been crushed thanks to a
Richie-Tenenbaum-Style meltdown
at Lord’s, is now stuck in a boring
job as a solicitor; he’s been eclipsed
by his brother Matthew (Miles Jupp),
who instead was forced into legal
work, thanks to his overbearing judge
of a father (John Rogan). Matthew
has rebelled – as best he can – by
becoming involved with Carrie
(Maggie Service), a bubbly comedic
actor, trying to make it big in the
world of drama.
Although such characters may, on
paper, sound like a mere collection of
stereotypes, the way the cast handles
the roles really brings them to life,
not least Deborah Findlay, whose
Edith is imbued with a duality of
maternal love and simmering rage.
Claudie Blakely is also great in the
role of Sheena, trying to hold her
marriage together in the face of
mounting apathy from her husband
FRED FYLES
SECTION EDITOR
over their daughter’s depression,
for which she is going to receive –
surprise, surprise – CBT. At moments
like this, where serendipity tips over
into heavy-handedness, the script can
feel somewhat sluggish, almost as if
the audience is being spoken down to.
The use of rules is a mixed blessing.
On the one hand, it serves as a witty
piece of stagecraft, giving us a clever
insight into the characters’ inner
lives; thus we experience a delicious
burst of dramatic irony when
Matthew, who must sit down to tell a
lie, pulls up a chair to tell Sheena how
tasty her gluten-free, dairy-free, joy-
free mince pies are, and also a pang
of sadness when he remains seated
to tell Carrie how much he loves her.
Elsewhere, however, it falls somewhat
flat, like for Carrie, whose rule – she
must stand up to tell a joke – means
that she is forced to bounce around
the stage like an overexcited rabbit;
sometimes this works, but other times
it simply adds in another unnecessary
element. The most intrusive rule is
undoubtedly Adam’s, which leads
to an extraordinary range of accents
from Magnan, robbing from the
audience any sympathy that we may
have had for him.
As the play progresses, the rules
begin to get more and more complex,
piling up like a series of obstacles.
For the most part, this works, but
there are occasions where the script
feels like a slave to the rules, rather
than the master. Thankfully the
team manage to hold their own,
with standout performances from
Findlay and Blakely. Two final things
to add: firstly, how refreshing it is
to see a play written, directed, and
designed by women – this is the last
production at the National Theatre
under Nicholas Hytner, and I can
only hope that such things continue
with his successor. Secondly, the play
culminates in a massive food-fight,
with a mashed-potato-as-pathos
mania as Christmas dinner is
decimated; unfortunately not all the
cast have a great aim - if you’re sitting
in the front rows, I would recommend
bringing a raincoat.

