28 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
01.05.2015
Travel
felix@imperial.ac.uk Travel Editor Yung Nam Cheah
Because sometimes what Chris
Richardson needs is a holiday
from his holiday
Volunteer Experience: Working a
I’m sure you’re all depressingly
familiar with the concept of
unpaid internships by now: roll
in with a smile, do a little grunt work,
leave with a frown, only to be replaced
by the next person on the unending
list of the exploited. WorkAway.info
is a little different. In exchange for a
mere 25 hours of work per week, you
at least get free room and board. That
and the experiences are typically a
little more uplifting than shadowing
and fixing coffee. And as you’re
breaking even each week, this will also
allow you to sustain your travels over
a longer period. Most of all, it gives
you time to properly settle into a
particular place: you get to really feel
the vibe as opposed to just box-ticking
the colonial buildings and museums
deemed worthy of inclusion by the
Lonely Planet.
WorkAway features continuously
in works of lifestyle design guru
Tim Ferriss: if that’s not enough to
give it a moment of consideration
then I’m not sure what is. Unless you
have a particular passion for organic
farming, I think it’s much better
than WWOOFing, as it offers a vast
repertoire of different kinds of work
that includes – above all, for me –
working with people. It also trumps
any voluntourism opportunities
you’re likely to stumble across online:
it’s often similar work, but simply
relies on you taking the initiative to
drop a couple of emails as opposed
to throwing a load of cash at some
uncharitable agency.
So what’s the drill? After you pay
a small subscription fee, you’ll have
access to thousands of hosts in almost
every country in the world. Filter
by continent, country, region, and
keyword. See who fits your criteria,
assess their feedback score, and drop
emails accordingly. Make it personal
and include dates, and you’ll have
jobs lined up in no time, providing
you start looking as early as possible.
I can’t rate it enough: sometimes
what you need is a holiday from your
holiday, and a lot of the things on
offer are truly interesting and unique.
It might even have the knock-on
effect of putting you out of sync with
all the people you’ve met on your
route, so you’ll have the added bonus
of meeting some new faces when you
eventually re-emerge.
The beautiful vineyards of Colchagua Valley. Photo: Chris Richardson
"A lot of
things on
offer are
interesting
and unique"
Work exchanges are a great way to travel. Photo: WWOOF

