THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 30
01.05.2015
FELIX
Television Editors Guila Gabrielli & John Park
Television
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
My new wind-swept, muscly hero
Those muscles! Aidan Turner preparing for one of the show’s most famous scenes. Photo:
BBC
Giulia Gabrielli looks at the Nation’s new addiction to Poldark.
Beautiful beaches of Britain
Look behind the well-sculpted muscles of Ross Poldark
and you’ll see the Cornish coastline.This is not the first
time that a British beach has proven to be a co-star on
a TV show.I guess when you can’t boast the sun and
the white sands,and when“it’s so bracing”(read“cold
and miserable”) becomes your catch phrase,a little bit
of publicity is always welcome.A similar fame to that
that will inevitably be encountered by the beaches of
Poldark has already been experienced by the Dorset
coast where the TV drama Broadchurch was set.The
show was a police drama so dark and disturbing it is a
surprise that people could watch it and think of their
next holiday location.However,the brilliant writing and
acting by David Tennant (DrWho) and Olivia Coleman
(every other TV/movie show ever) wasn’t the only thing
viewers appreciated,at least in the first season,before
shares dropped dramatically.Currently property prices
are on the rise in the area and local businesses are
smacking their lips in delight.Even less subtle was the
attempt of 2012’s series TrueLove to publicise the holiday
town of Margate,Kent.The narrative,also featuring
David Tennant,was relatively poor,focusing individual
episodes on different inhabitants of the small town,
all linked to each other.The hype was maintained by
promises of lesbian kisses with Billie Piper and,of
course,epic coastal panoramas.I guess these shows
serve as reminders of what television’s prime purpose
is: a broadcast for all things new and beautiful.A cynic
may interpret this as an attempt to bring people to
small,rapidly deflating towns.However,I like to think of
it as more of an educational journey to discover all this
lovely country has to offer,which is so much more than
the view from Waterloo Bridge.Thus reconfirming the
BBC’s mission“to inform,educate and entertain”.
GIULIA GABRIELLI
"Turner
landed a
role that
could haunt
him, worst,
typecast
him,
forever."
Irarely write an article about a
programme and focus so much
interest on its main character.
Of course there are heartthrobs who
keep you glued to the screen, but Ross
Poldark is different. The reason why
he is different, is that rarely such a
hype has been built around a single
character, to the detriment of an
otherwise rather empty show.
The story of the nation’s obsession
with the Cornish hunk started in
1975, when the BBC began airing the
series Poldark starring Robin Ellis. I
guess as often happens, it probably
started earlier with the Winston
Graham books being published in
1940s and 50s, but those were darker
times, without any pictures.
Looking at Robin Ellis now it’s
hard to understand what of his weird
1970’s looks, hairdo and all, was so
appealing to the ladies. However, this
gentleman has forever been cursed
with having played the dark Cornish
gentleman.
Now a similar curse could fall on
the shoulders of actor Aidan Turner.
After portraying Kili in The Hobbit,
vampire John Mitchell in Being
Human and Dante Gabriel Rossetti
in Desperate Romantics, Turner has
landed a role that might haunt him,
and even worse in TV terms, typecast
him, forever.
After the first episode of the
show aired, in fact, all magazines
and morning shows (which as we
know is where the real TV gossip
can be found) could focus on were
Aidan Turner’s rugged looks. Thus
completely ignoring Turner’s, and
everyone else’s, relatively mediocre
performances.
The situation took a turn for the
worse in episode 3, when Turner
made a habit of appearing without a
shirt.
There are other characters in the
show, good ones even, like Ross’s love
interest Demelza (played by Eleanor
Tomlinson), there are plotlines
and cliff-hangers, the works, but I
fear in a couple of weeks all we will
remember is the scene where Poldark
works his field bare-chested. This one
particular scene caught the interest
of warm-blooded women and farmers
concerned with health and safety
alike.
Adding to the distractions, the
series, which started off strong with
an interesting story of love and loss
and with just enough talk of war
and poverty, ended on a real low on
Sunday. The finale was jam-packed
with half-hearted emotional plot-
turns and it didn’t help that the
special effects guy was left loose, free
to experiment with all his arsenal of
filters, providing a rather confusing
watch.
The real fall of Poldark, however,
could have been anticipated by
about the famous episode 3. Having
bigged Ross up as the main male love
interest, and having provided him
with a contentious love triangle, the
authors decided to marry him off
to one of the two ladies to focus on
more political themes. This is a noble
effort, but one which comes with
some danger.
In order to write a period drama
addressing the social injustice of the
epoch, you definitely can’t have half-
naked hunks advertising the show. Of
course you will attract attention, but
it will be the wrong kind of attention,
with most of the viewers interested in
a little bit of light entertainment (the
show was aired on a Sunday night for
crying out loud).
In addition, you have to find
something a little more engaging
than copper mines and smeltering
companies, the details of which I
still fail to understand. All in all,
Poldark was a fun substitute for
Call the Midwife on BBC’s Sunday
programming, and certainly a more
light-hearted one. It taught most of us
a lot about 1780s Cornwall, an almost
virgin land full of copper, beautiful
flowers and great accents (though not
from Turner, who can barely hide his
native Irish twang).
It also taught us about Aidan
Turner’s abs, although these were
hardly a mistery after his efforts in
Desperate Romantics to bare all the
skin possible.
Seeing how empty the underlying
themes are and how averge most of
the storylines can be, I will probably
not be tuning in for season 2, which
has already been confirmed, but 5.9M
viewers probably disagree with me.
The stunning location of Broadchurch. Photo: BBC America
"Turner’s
abs were
hardly a
mistery
after his
efforts in
Desperate
Romantics."

