36 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
01.05.2015
What is going on inside
the Blue Cube this week
Hopefully everyone is feeling refreshed
and raring to go after their complimentary
holiday period over the Easter weekend!
But with that disruption in our lives out of
the way, we’re back to our normal exciting
schedule with plenty of delightful events
lined up for the coming week!
Imperial Festival Briefing
I’m sure you’re all aware of the upcoming
Imperial Festival, a campus-wide
celebration of all thing scientific, but the
Vice Provost (Brand Awareness) has asked
me to let you all know about this week’s
special briefing to let staff know just what’s
going on with the Festival.
Come along to the Briefing Room on the
Fifth Floor at 1pm on Monday to get a
sneak peek at the Festival and find out how
to get involved!
Don’t forget to bring your yoga mat as
usual, and green tea will (of course) be
provided.
Advice on: Budgeting
On Wednesday, we’ll be kicking off a new
weekly session open to all staff members,
our “Advice On” series!
The inaugural session will be on
“Budgeting”, and how best to juggle your
income with your expenditure. We all know
London can be expensive, and we want to
make sure all of our staff are fully equipped
to survive life in the capital.
All-Staff Briefing Cancelled
Our weekly staff briefing has been
cancelled by the Vice Provost (Arbitrary
Excuses) due to a mix-up with what a Staff
Briefing actually entails.
Fear not, we have an intrepid team of
staff working at this very moment on
defining what a Staff Briefing is. We look
forward to reading their report and passing
the conclusions on to you when their
investigations conclude next February.
What is going on outside the
Blue Cube this week
The annual tradition of supplanting
Queen’s Lawn with a beautiful marquee
continues this term, as we prepare for
multiple events that can only boost
Imperial’s brand awareness.
Also, don’t forget to keep an eye out for our
new adverts for Imperial Festival!
Alice Gast: Thought of the Week
“Collaboration collaboration collaboration
world-leading collaboration innovation
institution collaboration collaboration yoga
mat world-leading Board Room collaboration
efficiency productivity collaboration world-
leading yoga mat commisioning an independent
report collaboration.”
(Editor’s note: Alice has been using her new CTS keyboard this week, and
would like to express her thanks to UCK for their kind gift!)
The weekly newsletter of the Faculty Building
Blue News
Provost Post
of the Week
Every week, a member of
our esteemed Provost board
shares their thoughts with
our collaborative, cohesive
community. This week, we
welcome Al Pologies, Vice
Provost (Arbitrary Excuses)!
Unfortunately, Al was unable
to write this week’s column,
as he was called away to deal
with a sudden outbreak of
cancellations.
Al would like to apologise for
his absence, and would like me
to let you all know that it was
entirely beyond his control.
In place of the Provost Post,
we’re running a short advert
for a brand new product from
a start-up led by a team of
Imperial graduates!
Hi everyone!
We’re UCK - the Useful
Company for Keyboards - and
we’re delighted to introduce
our very first keyboard, the
“Corporate Time Saver”!
We all know that it’s a tough
life in the world of business,
where every second of every
minute of every hour counts
in making sure you can be the
most productive and efficient
worker possible.
One of the biggest problems
that we identified with our
focus groups was the very act
of typing.
Having to bash out each
individual character was
consuming precious seconds,
especially when having to
produce reports that repeated
commonly-used words several
times.
It’s with that problem in mind
that we’ve created the CTS
keyboard, designed exclusively
for office workers who need to
produce a lot of reports in the
shortest time possible.
Instead of individual letters,
each key is a commonly-used
“business speak” word, such as
“collaboration” or “meeting”.
Within seconds, you can
fire off an email requesting a
meeting on productivity in the
board room, and sign it with
your own personal signature.
We’re really pleased with this
new product, and we hope
you all like it too. If you have
any queries, drop us a line at
QuestionsForUCK@UCK.co.uk
Hello all,
Bienvenue, wilkommen and welcome to the latest edition of Blue News,
which we’ve tinged with a slight international flavour this week to reflect
the global nature of our world-leading institution.
This week, you may have noticed an increase in noise around the South
Kensington campus. After being reliably informed by the Vice Provost
(Noise Complaints) that this wasn’t due to sudden rioting in the local
area, it was actually the return of the undergraduate students to the
campus for their “term time”, I decided it was the perfect time to take a
brief trip out into the world to visit these delightful young people who so
generously contribute to the funding of our institution.
With a small team of excited Vice Provosts accompanying me*, including
the Vice Provost (Brand Awareness), who kept stopping to put posters for
Imperial Festival up on every wall, I ventured forth on Wednesday to the
Imperial College Union Building, located just on the other side of Prince
Consort Road, for a chat with some of the students and a quick tour of
the facilities.
I had an extremely productive meeting with the Office Trustees of the
Union, where we discussed how we could greater improve collaboration
between the good folks at the Union and the lovely team here in the
Faculty Building. A lot of good ideas were proposed (mostly by yours
truly, it must be said), including the possibility of appointing a new Vice
Provost (Collaboration).
The position of Vice Provost (Collaboration) is now open to all
applicants, with anyone wishing to be considered for the position
needing to submit a resume (including evidence of past collaborative
efforts) alongside a covering letter explaining how they feel they can help
improve cohesion and efficiency all across campus.
Have a productive, cohesive, collaborative and happy day!
*Sadly, the Vice Provost (Student Voice) had to stay behind, as he
became a little too excited at the thought of actually speaking to
students. His position is now under informal review.

