THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 39
01.05.2015
FELIX
Sport Editor: Kunal Wagle
SPORT
Varsity recap: IC takes down the medics
Ruffman in play whilst a medic ballerina in a rugby kit looks on Photo: Ben Lester www.throughbenslens.co.uk
Bruno Villatte recaps the flair displayed by ICURFC’s 3rd XV...
...but 2nd XV medics took the lead
Having watched the 3rd
XV put in a magnificent and
flair dominated performance,the IC 2nd
XV stepped out
into the sun looking to complete the holy grail of a 3W
Varsity.Unfortunately it was not to be.
The game set off with a few tense first collisions,the
Medics managed to secure possession early on.A simple
set play from the Medic back line culminated in a rather
silly looking Will“face-plant”Taylor and led to the first
Medic try,despite excellent cover tackling from Gavin
Roberts.0-7.
In what seemed slight role reversal from the 3s game,
unfortunate errors struck the IC line.Another moment
from Taylor,after a brilliant Tom Mavin offload,left us
unable to capitalise fully despite a good penalty from
Charles“owns a safari park”Price-Smith.3-7.
A series of penalties and bad luck left the forwards
putting in a huge shift on our line,finally after a scrum
it had seemed we’d survived,but with extra players
drawn gaps appeared.A simple shift out wide gave their
winger amply room to score.3-12.
IC rallied forcing our way into their half and after a
good driving maul Jamie Curtis was able to break the
line and score.We therefore went in to half-time a mere
2 points down.
The second half was a very ragged affair with IC
desperately trying to gain territory against the wind
and hill.In going for territory,possession was sacrificed;
meaning chances were few and far between.The Medics
were able to get one over despite wonderful defensive
work from Roo,among others.10-19.
Despite the result,a large squad of very promising
freshers and a broadly successful year,despite
circumstances,mean that the IC 2nd
XV finished the
season with their heads held high.Next year’s meeting
will be a chance to show the medics what we’re really
made of.
The big day has arrived for
Imperial College 3rd
XV, varsity.
Despite the defeat in the
friendly against Surrey the previous
week, training had allowed the team
to gain confidence, and it was with
high morale and motivation that the
team entered the field. After a speech,
made up of fine words with a rare
elegance, reminding us of the long
history of love we have with Medics,
the team was ready for battle.
After a light observation round, IC
started to gain possession, eventually
leaving the referee with no choice
but to blow his whistle for IC (yes, his
whistle was still working at this time).
After a first touch not found, the
second penalty hit the mark.
A good lineout maul advanced ten
meters with the ball coming into
the hands of Bruno “Jules Plisson”
“flair god” “baguette man” Villatte.
A signature dummy back pass with
Tom Murray bamboozled the low IQ
medics, with only the fullback was
still able to defend. Very good support
by Syarif “3s convert” Hertog made
it a 2-on-1, and a try under the posts.
7 - 0
Despite the wind, IC had the only
real attacking opportunities for the
first 30 minutes, this was helped
largely by the numerous knock-
ons from Medics’ backline. More
awesome work from IC’s forwards
allowed the ball to be quickly ejected
by Luke “El Presidenté” Armitage
(surely helped by his new hair cut).
Bruno took full advantage and,
without his pair of centers, feinted
the pass and broke the line on 30m
finally using some flair footwork
to score second try of the game.
Unfortunately he had the same
success as Haimona for the kick and
failed in the conversion. 12 - 0
The last ten minutes of the first
half were one-sided in favour of the
Medics, who took advantage of hand
mistakes from IC’s players. After
5min of intensive rush defence right
in front of the goal line, Jono “Captain
Transport” Stancombe took one for
the team, getting himself binned. Ten
scrums on the five meters line later,
the Medics finally scored. 12 - 5
Half-time: Imperial College
3rd
XV 12 - 5 Imperial Medics
3rd
XV
The second half began in a similar
way to the first, IC still strong in
defence but now, with the wind in
our favour, the pressure was easy
to put on the Medics. Outrageous
scrum domination by IC, sadly
didn’t materialised in penalties.
Nevertheless, IC quickly returned
into the opposites 22. After another
good lineout maul, next year’s 3s
Captain Matt “port connoisseur”
Kettle got the score. Another
conversion missed by Bruno; he
seemed more comfortable with his
hands than with his feet today. 17 - 5
In spite of the desire to play a
beautiful rugby, the first part of the
second half was poor.
Too many hand mistakes on both
sides meant neither side could gain
any momentum.
Even the whistle of the referee
decided to stop working. This gave the
opportunity of a mini break, whilst
the ref made the slow-but-steady jog
to get another whistle.
Half-half-time: Imperial
College 3rd
XV 17 - 5 Imperial
Medics 3rd
XV
After this unexpected break, IC
started to keep the ball and a penalty
gave the opportunity to approach
the line. A good lineout and a strong
maul after, Matt fell just over the goal
line for his second try! Thankfully no
one notice the conversion was missed,
not that it was needed. 22 - 5
The medics continued to try to
break the defence but the pressure
and some big tackles from IC players
forced them to make mistakes.
After knock-on from Medics,
scrum down. The ball went straight
through the channel, unusually the
referee decided that the game should
continue, resulting in the Medics
recovering the ball in front of the
incredulous eyes of IC’s players. After
3 or 4 quick passes to the wing where
IC’s players were not in a defensive
position, the Medics scored their
second try of the game. 22 - 10.
Frustrated by this try, IC really
wanted to finish this Varsity game on
a high note.
The pressure was very intense
inside the medics 22 and after a good
change of direction in the game called
by Syarif, and great 2-on-1, Bruno
dived over for the second time. Bruno
finally decided to let Syarif take the
kicking responsibility who added the
extras. 29 - 10.
Not satisfied, IC continued to play,
this time with one goal, flair. An
2nd
team hundle, with one well dressed fan of the team in attendance
too. Photo: Ben Lester www.throughbenslens.co.uk
unreal attempt of a “Sonny Bill”, off a
great run from Tom “doesn’t have the
English weakness” Murray, ended in
a knock-on, 5 meters in front of the
goal line.
A quite unbelievable turn of events
happened next, firstly out very own
Jon Lineham made an incredible line
break, then he ran 50m to score a
wonderful “Teddy Thomas style” try,
only for the the referee to go back to
a scrum, in FAVOUR of IC. No one is
quite sure what happened.
A very strong defence, massive
performance from the forwards and
some incredible French Flair, was just
too much for the medics.
Varsity 2015 was of to a great start!
That is, if the 3s would remember the
rest of the day…

