Page 2
F
E
L
I
X Thursday, 9th March, 1972
BRISTLY
24 HOURS
3 a.m. changeover.
"Who's out on 6, Denise?' '
"John."
"O.K. He's coming round."
Here he comes, going well, that light's bright, five yards,
here we go, move, RUN, grab the bar, John's out, jump in, quick,
grab the steering, feet on pedals, he's pushing, now PEDAL. And
away we go for another quarter-of-a-mile lap at the Bristol 24
Hours Pedal Car Race.
This year there were three I.C. entries for the Seventh National
Pedal Car Race at Whitchurch airfield. There was 'Big Bo', the
City and Guilds big (Class II) car with 21 in. wheels as well as
the well-tried 'Little Bo', a Class I car with 14 in. wheels. Mines
were using an old Guilds frame for their 'Strikalite', a gallant
first attempt at the Class I event.
Although Pedal Car design is tending to settle down along
fairly standard lines, there were a few beautiful exceptions—
those that spring to mind were 'Snow White', a sort of bleached
mobile rowing machine, 'Battle Wagon', which probably heavily
outweighed all three I.C. cars together, 'Adge' a diminutive product
of the University of Bristol Scrumpy Appreciation Society, and
'Oomeegooiie", a Class I dragster design which subsided to
Mother Earth after a couple of laps. Somebody was even propelling
a mobile bath.
There were probably as many competitive cars as ever this year.
Southampton had a good couple of cars, and there were several
other fast entries. Hele's School were back again with a fearfully
well-drilled pair of teams and cleverly designed stumpy cars.
The race started at 3 p.m. on Friday with the usual 'Le Mans'
type start, with the course damp but no rain falling. By the time
that crash helmets were removed at 3.30 p.m., 'Big Bo' was going
well at about 1£ minutes a lap, 'Little Bo' at just under 2 minutes,
and Mines had started.
Lights, front and rear, were fitted by six o'clock, by which time
it was fairly clear how the race was going. The Hele's School
people were opening up a sizeable overall lead in Class II, and
their performance was a joy (if exasperating) to watch. Their
positon in the cars was really crouched over the steering wheel,
and their change-overs were done at a sprint. 'Little Bo' was
leading Class I, and Mines were beginning to become evident in
this class. 'Big Bo' was being pushed hard, Rob Matthews lap-
m*mmmm
i • •
ping as fast as Heles, but as the night continued their lead opened-
up.
Sleep, or rather resting, was started at 12.30 a.m., with one
member of each Guild team dozing for an hour while the other
five kept pedalling. I do not think that anyone slept properly with
the continuous rattle of Phil Smyth and Pedal Cars in the back-
ground. It was about this time that Big Bo's crankshaft came adrift
and had to be re-welded (for the first time). All this time Little
Bo and Strikalite (rather far down the pits so we didn't see
much of the Minesmen) kept pushing on in their class.
Dawn found us blinking hard, though neither hungry nor com-
pletely exhausted. By this time, after 15 hours of pedalling, it
was virtually impossible to remember any existence other than
pedalling. There was not as much "bumpin' and borin'" as there
had been earlier in the race, and although we were fairly tired
by this time Denise and Judy were keeping us very well nour-
ished with Butties, Sausages and Eggs. We could not have con-
tinued without them and Phil Smyth.
P H O T O Q R a P H y
F E L I X S T Y L E
After the success of the Felix 'Hi Fi' review (Felix No. 306)
and rumours of literary I.C. students due to reading the Theatre
Review (Felix No. 307), we now bring you the next instalment of
"How to spend your grant in a few hours"—the Felix review of
Photography.
I will deal with the first part of the process for still photography
—the Camera. Cameras vary from the simplest cartridge loading
instamatic type camera to the Hasselblad system cameras—prices
ranging from around E2 to around £600 for just the camera. The
camera consists basically of a light-tight box with a lens to focus
light onto film inside the light-tight box; a shutter between lens
and film to allow the light to strike the film for a measured time
and a viewfinder to see how much will be obtained in the picture.
By noon the main prizes were as good as won. The Hele's cars
'Claudette' and 'Cleo' looked unbeatable and had been running
almost continuously since the start. In Class I, Little Bo had a
very big lead, with Strikalite a very probable second. By this
time the course was well dried out, and the dust (or whatever it
was) was just beginning to affect people. It was also becoming
increasingly clear that the Handicap (judged on a computation
of Laps and Wheel sizes) would be very close between No. 1
(Claudette) and Little Bo. Hele's team manager was working his
team harder and harder, and Little Bo was lapping well. The -last
hour of the race was fought desperately, with the handicap at
stake, and in Little Bo we were slaying ourselves. Big Bo was
even used to trail Little Bo and ram it from behind to get it up
the hill faster.
Thankfully the race finished promptly at 3 p.m. with all our cars
m
in full flow. There was a great deal of pain being caused by the
abnormal conditions ('Mystery Rays Hit 120' said The Sunday
People, '200 Burnt at Car Race' said The Times), and after Phil
Smyth collected the Class I prize and the Minesmen their Runners-
Up prize, orft went most of us to Bristol Eye Hospital. Apparently
there is going to be a Public Inquiry into the causes of the eye
and face troubles. And that was that. If there is a moral to be
drawn designwise, it is that simplicity and reliability count for
more than speed. Little Bo stopped only once in 24 Hours for
more than one minute, and the Mines car also kept going con-
tinuously.
Teams
Guilds—HQ:—Phil Smyth, Hugh Hatton, John Baird, John Doerr,
Denise, Judy, Caroline. Pedallers:—Rob Matthews, Alan Ponsford,
Malcolm Seeley, Parry Davis, Chris Marshall, Dave John, Keith
Reynish, Pete Wilkins, Stewart Moult, John Coxon, Bob Carter,
Malcolm Newman.
Mines—HQ:—Joe Sheeply, Dave Easterbrook (+ Mandy), Jack
Minerevski, Paul Gee. Pedallers:—Alan Swannell, Richard Wilson,
Malcolm Fowler, Rupert and Rod.
Class I—1st Little Bo, 2nd Strikalite.
Hele's School, Exeter won the overall event with 938 laps,
(approx. 1,010 on H'Cap), Little Bo did approx. 1,048 on H'Cap,
so Little Bo won overall on the Handicap. And each member of
Little Bo's team completed roughly 42,000 actual pedal movements.
And we all got very, very tired.
T*>Mf ^ jL«t»
- - lT*e*e , v
/I - - ->
<
Taking the three features of the camera in reverse order, the
viewfinder system may be simply two apertures in the camera
body such that when the eye is close to one, the light passing
through both shows the picture size; or, on more expensive
cameras, lenses are substituted for plain glass, and more accurate
indication of picture size. These methods are rather crude, in that
•|i.Bfl i mm
the viewfinder only shows picture size, nothing else. One refine-
ment is the Twin Lens Reflex (TLR) cameras. In this the view-
finder lens is linked to the main lens, and by a ground glass
screen, the focusing of the object, as well as picture size, is
indicated. No matter where the camera is used, there will be a
parallax between what the film sees and what the eye sees. This
is resolved by the single Lens Reflex (SLR).
The SLR has a mirror which is placed between lens and film
when not exposing film, which is at an angle such that it reflects
light onto a screen. This means that the eye sees, through the
viewfinder, exactly what the picture sees—focused or unfocused,
light or dark. Obviously, this costs a lot more.
Shutters are mostly of good quality—a range from 1/30th to
1/500th and B (time exposure) is adequate for most conditions
providing there is flash synchronization.
The lens is the most important part of the camera and also
one of the most complex—and, of course, a large part of the
total cost. The data about lenses can be baffling—apertures,
focal lengths, etc.
The aperture is a measure of how wide the lens is compared
to its focal length—consequently how much light will be let
through. Instamatic type cameras may have an aperture of about
f8 (lens area 1 /8th of focal length of lens), while a Nikon or
Pentax may have an f1.4 lens.
With SLR cameras, the lenses are interchangeable, with a stand-
dard lens fitted and telephoto or wide angle lenses available—at
some cost, of course!
To buy a camera, one of the vital things is to decide just how
much can be afforded, then what type of camera is wanted—SLR,
TLR, rangefinder or simple type with no adjustments. After deciding
the camera type, the lens is the next decision—what focal length
and aperture. Another important feature is film size. 35 mm is
undoubtedly the most popular format—24 x 36 mm, but for high
quality enlargements 6 x 6 cm (120) is much better, although
costing more for film yet less for the camera. If colour trans-
parencies are wanted, then 35 mm is the best format—both for
fitting most projectors—and also costwise!
Useful accessories depend upon the camera—although a flash
unit is the most useful and universal accessary. The best sort—
to my mind—are electronic flash guns powered by rechargeable
cells; these have a higher initial cost but almost zero operating
cost. Otherwise, penlight cell operated electronic flash guns are
good (see Felix flash photos!) but the cells need changing fairly
often and tend to corrode slowly.
A light meter, for cameras with variable apertures without a
built-in meter, is almost vital—the best being Weston Master
lightmeters—the current one is model V but III and IV are just
as good, and I and II are good, old looking and rather cheaper!
In general Japanese equipment is of high quality, yet rather
expensive. German equipment is good but as expensive as, or
sometimes more expensive than, the Japanese equivalent. One of
the cheapest makes—although good quality makes—are the Rus-
sian Zenith range. These are not flashy cameras, but they take
good photographs and can take knocks well—they are built like
tanks! The reason why they are so cheap is that they are state
subsidised.
If anyone has enough money, the best camera, to my mind, is
a Hasselblad, the basic cost being about £386.57. The whole
Hasselblad system is top quality—this being the make used by
NASA on the moon.
As a good second best, brand new, 35 mm format, but from
just as good a make is the Nikon F2 Photomic—a cool £297.25—
but good enough for a lifetime's photographs.
For Photographic materials—films, papers, etc., the cheapest
source is through the Photsoc. Shop c/o R. Jenner, Selkirk 472.

