Thursday, 9th March, 1972 F E L I X Page 3
E d i t o r i a l
As you may have noticed on reading the front page of
this issue election time is here again and very soon if
not already you will be faced with 1001 bumph sheets
asking you to vote for their respective authors. Unfor-
tunately most of you will simply turn another page in
your text books and not bother to vote at all. To a cer-
tain extent one cannot blame you for this when one
considers the very poor turnout of candidates there has
been for the various posts. The number of candidates
for the posts recently offered of Departmental Repre-
sentatives for the various departments was so pathetic
that Mr. Hobman resorted to the unconstitutional prac-
tice of accepting candidates who were not fully
seconded without so much as a by-your-leave from the
union he serves. This is, of course, quite unforgivable.
The fact that no students stand as candidates or bother
to vote, is not. Each student should endeavour to the
limit of his ability to ensure that each post is filled with
a person who will represent fairly and forcefully the
views of the people he represents. If you do not feel
that the candidate for any post fulfills this role then you
should not just forget that the election exists at all, but
oppose him yourself or if this is not possible at least
register your vote as an abstention, as this may bring
about a second election which would hopefully inspire
new interest. Remember each representative you elect
will handle a major part of your life either your money,
your education or even the roof over your head. So
please don't be apathetic about it
This is the last issue of Felix that I will be editing
(cheers, from the floor). Ignoring the Summer Issue
which must be a headache for the Publications Board
at the moment (as Editors of Felix are elected for only
the first two terms) I look forward with hope in my
heart to passing on my post to a sabbatical officer of
the Union. Editing Felix, as I suspect few people realise,
is made infinitely more difficult by the prevalent apathy
at IC. Under the present system I feel that no matter
how hard an Editor may try he will never overcome this
(God knows I've tried). The only solution as I see it is
to give the Editor a chance to devote his full-time atten-
tions to making Felix a medium in Imperial College. If I
have done nothing else I hope I will have succeeded
in giving someone this chance as I believe Felix is well
worth it.
May I now close by thanking everyone who has helped
or contributed to the production of Felix over the past
year and I hope that they will do so again next year.
FELIX, 9th March: Editor, Dave Sugden; Deputy Editors,
Hugh Hefner, Dolly Owson, John Stares; Assistant
Deputy Editors, Ross McBeath, Dave Gribble, Chris
Potter; Assistant Editors, Sid Amor, Bob Carter, John
Bryan; Cartoon Editors, Dave Gribble, Colin McCall;
Picture Editors, Colin McCall, Dave Gribble; Foreign
News Editors, John Horsfall, Dug Saveden, Cob Barter;
Cookery Editorial Board, Bernard Williams, Martin Harp;
Cookery Editors, Colette Robinson, Mary Short; Contri-
butor of C. J. Greenwood, C. J . Greenwood; Copy by
Rent-a-Hack Inc.; Circulation Managers, Stone Jars, Jane
and Brenda.
Seriously though, folks, Outside advertising by Univer-
sity Press Representation, Grand Buildings, Trafalgar
Square; Printing by F. Bailey & Son Ltd., Dursley, Glos.
Published by the Editor on behalf of ICU Pubs Board
(inn joke). All material© ICU 1972.
Letter
Dear Sir, i
Please allow me to expand upon, and
perhaps reply to part of, Dave Hobman's
letter (Felix of February 10th). The signs
are all too apparent. The mass of stu-
dents at Imperial College do not care for
anything but themselves.
The Union Bar is a symptom, not a
cause. Take as another example the
Socialist Society. Sounds impressive?
Yes, they sincerely want to help lose the
iniquitous burden on the working
classes. They really care. Look at CEFE.
They cannot be bothered to correct
spelling mistakes. Then we are asked to
believe they care. Well, maybe they do,
but can't they at least spell, at least show
they care? 'I' before 'E' except after ' C
is clearly not a part of the bourgeoisie
which needs replacement.
Take, for example, the arguments for
preserving the Union Bar as a haunt for
men only. (I hasten to add that I do go
there, because I enjoy using its facilities
— a good pint and a dartsboard). It would
break tradition to open it to women, so
its occupants would have us believe.
Who benefits most from this tradition?
The occupants themselves. I challenge
anyone to give a better definition of sel-
fishness within IC.
Mention of C E F E brings me to your
(or should I say our?) publication. Whilst
'Phoenix' should obviously be the most
carefully produced book or paper in IC,
Felix has lost its second place in the
literary stakes to the hideously titled
'Snapping Jaws'. I realise that typogra-
phical errors are inevitable as our Presi-
dent's inimitable style or lack of it, which
is consistent to the point of boredom.
However, do policemen relieve them-
selves shoulder-to-shoulder in the gutters
of Sloane Square (last Felix)? Delete
'gutters' insert 'gents'. Easy, isn't it?
There must be a dictionary in the Press
Room, somewhere. Please use it. Show
you care.
And now of course, the time comes
for that annual farce known as Hustings.
The candidates will proffer interest in
your welfare, your rights and so on. They
may even think of other people's rights.
Do they really care? Will you help them
if they try to help others, will you give a
Saturday afternoon to Community
Action, a Thursday evening to Rag? I
doubt it. And when will people stop using
pointless pseudonyms?
Yours is cynicism,
GET A BAR OR I'M . .. (anag.)
S m a l l A d s
RILEY KESTREL. 1966. Excellent
condition, taxed and tested for
six months. £360 o.n.o. Apply
D. Sugden, Maths 2, 632 Lin-
STELLA (Philips) ST458 tape
recorder. 2 speed. 4 track, just
overhauled and in excellent
nick. £12 o.n.o. Also preamp for
above for stereo and multi-
recording £2. Apply Dave
Rossell, Linstead, or Int. 3360/
2612.
GARRARD SP25 deck with
plinth, cover and Audio Techica
AT33 mag. cart. Exc. cond. £15.
John Margon, 344 Falmouth
(Aero 2).
VAUXHALL VICTOR 101, 1965,
Bucket seats, floor change, 4
new radials, taxed and tested,
£180. Mark Davis, CCD, Int.
3125.
POSTERS, CARTOONS, draw-
ings and birthday cards home-
made by unknown artist. Now
from Raimer Hillebrand, 617
Tizard, who also translates any-
thing English-German, German-
English. Mon., Wed., Thur.
after 8.
COPIES of all photographs in
this and all previous editions of
FELIX may be ordered at nom-
inal cost. Apply Photo Editor,
c/o Felix.
AERO I proudly announce the
engagement of Mr. Stuart Mor-
rison (Aero II) to Miss Anne Ail-
wood of Digby Stuart, Roehamp-
ton.
The Landsnappor Sneeze

