Page 4 F E L I X Thursday, 9th March, 1972
SYMPATHY WITH THE
— o r how n o t t o be
a physicist
Free. Distinct lack of aggression in anybody's atti-
tudes. We're all sitting in Nora's bedroom discussing the
evolution of three dimensional matrices in Chinese neo-
culture. Dana and Nadia hypothesise a new chance
game involving the use of same. I don't quite follow.
There's a strange spread of spectral effluence in the
lounge, but somehow doesn't seem unexpected. Dana
wearing a lovely long brown dress, snuggled in my arms,
happy just being aware of each other's presence. I
don't seem to be able to hang on. Random . . .
DAMN THAT A L A R M .
Where are my cigarettes? The light beams are mak-
ing strange shadows on my wardrobe. Somebody last
night trying to convince me that mixed marriage was a
bad thing. He's right, dammit. I wish he would choose
better company to discuss such things. I wonder if he
took me seriously when I said the probability of getting
a healthy child was greater and that it would have two
cultural roots rather than one? I'm sure that was a good
pseudo-intellectual answer, anyway I didn't want to
upset her, she's reasonably rational, for a pink woman
DEVIL
AHPOi
/M
Hy lovt t% like, a red*
that is . . .
Newton and his ruddy apple, 'The apple and the
Spectroscope' by T. R. Henn (a series of lectures on
poetry for scientific minds delivered at Cambridge Uni-
versity—you know, sometimes I wish I was at university
and not a Technical College) and now would you be-
lieve 'The Nuclear Apple' by Prof. Mathews. I always
thought the nucleus looked like a wrinkled old dehy-
drated s p u d . . .
It's great reading Sensory Physiology, just think, one
can quote people like Hodgkin, Huxley and Katz.
Hooray, just think, to be able to say Habeus Corpus and,
you know, get away with it. Pathetique . . .
That English rose is coming round to-night. Wish she
wasn't a fresher, typical egotistical attitude, 'Am in the
top 2% of the country's intelligentsia so I have a right
to make my own decisions on ethics, morals, etc. So
what if the ancients had more time to think about such
problems? How can I decide whether to stay a virgin
or not unless I know what ecstasy is?' Wonder what I
have for lunch? I wish the grape-pips in this cheese
weren't so hard . . .
Must get some Classical Electrodynamics done to-
day. Fourier Transforms again dammit. Transforms from
one language to another with infinite discontinuities at
concepts of love and duty. If I made a mistake, would
'happy Christmas' spell 'Mary laid another egg'?
"In their wisdom some undergraduates did not attend
lectures on the day sacrificed for Margaret Thatcher. In
their wisdom some undergrads attended the lectures.
The authorities in their wisdom considered the ones who
attended the wiser and on that judgement didn't give
out printed notes for those who didn't turn up."
Who do you think the wiser Rify? Don't answer that
one, let it be, you're safer that way. You won't use an
odd combination of words then. Don't forget, people
have a savage affection for words, especially in their
own language. Do be careful, the 'progressive element'
in the department (that gallery of glorious eccentrics
with disgustingly naked faces) is usually very sensitive
i
'IN PLAGE OF FELIX'
Part 3 of a 4 part series
"The bride and bridegroom,
Lady Rose McLaren, smart in
a white dress with scarlet
accessories and the bride-
groom's parents, Mrs. Geddes
in a lovely red dress, received
the five hundred guests which
included the bride's uncle the
Marquess of Anglesey . . .
Mr. and Mrs. Jonathan Taylor's
absolutely adorable two year old
daughter, who wore ..."
My, how I wish that I could
write like that! Such is the style
of the Tatler, and it goes on like
that for page after page after
page. Seldom, if ever, have I had
the displeasure of perusing such
an appalling magazine. And
they have the cheek to ask the
princely sum of 30p for it. No,
really, I have never thrown up
at the sight of anything before,
but this time I was really close
to it. But I couldn't bring myself
to defile its fine glossy pages.
And, as you probably haven't
gathered by now, this week's ex-
ploration of the cultural back-
water of magazine publishing in
Britain concerns itself with the
'Glossies', with a view to finding
out what, if anything, is worth its
high price in this field.
The most famous glossies are,
of course, Country Lite and the
Illustrated London News. Start-
ing with the former, which has
the amazing quality of actually
selling something like 60,000
copies every week. It's another
social affair, like the Tatler
(which actually means purveyor
of trivial twaddle, how right can
the Oxford dictionary be) but
more country orientated, as you
might gather from its title. The
Field is similar, and the Scottish
Field is the same with a Welsh
influence. All twaddle, unless
you're the type they're really
aimed at, in which case you'll
already be an avid reader, i.e.
if you don't read it now, it's not
for you.
Now the Illustrated London
News is altogether another ket-
tle of dignitaries. Recently alter-
ed from weekly to monthly,
mainly because of a lack of
readership, the latter has sprung
up as if from nowhere. This
might lead one to believe that it
has drastically altered. But no,
it hasn't. It's the same old mix-
ture as before, only dished up
monthly instead of weekly at an
increased price and diminished
page size. Nevertheless, as ever,
its picture coverage is good, and
so are the few articles contained
in it, and it's altogether a good
mag to have lying around. Its
U.S. competitor, Life, while less
glossy, also has good picture
coverage. However, they've
found that they make more
money by printing less copies,
so you might find it difficult to
find a copy.
Most of the glossies are orien-
tated towards the ladies, but let
not that worry you gentlemen.
You'll find interesting reading in
many of these magazines, the
most highly thought of which is
Harper's Bazaar and Queen.
This merger of two magazines
has, I'm glad to say, preserved
most of the former excellence
of Queen feature-wise, and add-
ed the fashion-wise stuff of
Harper's. The features are really
good, and this month included
articles on psychiatry and the
head-shrinkers of Harley Street,
Dreams, paintings, et al.
But it's got competition from
its own company, National Maga-
zines, which this month have
launched the British version of
Cosmopolitan. Priced at only
20p, against Harper's 35p, with
the same number of pages, it's
bound to be a winner. Or so
the FELIX typist says. The fea-
tures are interesting and 'pro-
gressive', sexually anyhow, as
far as women's magazines go. It
has an impressive list of
columnists, drawn from all sec-
tions of the world of writing for
women, and an adventurous set
of features. Sandwiched between
reviews, stories, and fashion
articles are features on 'I was a
sleep-around girl', 'How to turn
a man on' and The Other ero-
genous zones'. Like groovy,
man.
I'd better not leave the men
out, though. And what better
named magazine for them than
'Men Only'. Almost without
doubt the glossiest of the glos-
sies, soon to be printed by
photogravure, which, if you know
what that means, will be even an
improvement on the already flaw-
less reproduction of every por-
tion of the female form. Nothing
is left to the imagination. W. H.
Smith and John Menzies won't
handle it. What better recom-
mendation could I give. 100
pages every month of the most
pathetic articles and features
and most photogenic nudes that
can be obtained legally for 40p.
They should really get life for
some of the rubbishy copy that
they print. And some day they
probably will, if Lord Longford
has his way.
Well, have a glossy time. I
hope that this series has stimu-
lated your passions for magazine
reading, and that you'll go on to
discover for yourselves the rest
of the umpteen thousands of
periodicals published in this
demented, pseudo-cultured world
of ours. But you'll need to wait
to see another of the finest pub-
lications known to man. I'm
sorry that it's so far away, but
that's life. Oh, by the way, it's
name is 'Felix'. So long.
about what is said. It's probably even more serious
than a war between Uncle Sam and the Ugly Bear with
the Dragon as the referee, and my dear lecturer, 'that's
what it is all about, isn't i t ? ' . . .
"And a little strawberry of blood was making haste to
live, with a sort of guileless urgency, a besotted little
strawberry, not even yet an animal, soon to be scraped
out of existence by . . . " Wow, doesn't that sound
g o o d . . .
May be a good idea to warn my colleagues to
[ ] tutor's [ ] if they are aca-
demically inclined. How else are the poor souls sup-
posed to get a chance to read further unless they work
themselves insane (is that what it's all about?) and get
a f i r s t . . .
In the background Nico slowly mouths the words,
All that is my own
Where land and water meet
Where run my soul
I sit
upon
my bed
Your ways have led
Me to be . . . (meet me on the Desert shore?) . . .
That idiot girl is sitting on my bed writing poetry. I
wonder what she's got to say for herself?
Make love is dive in oblivion foam,
forget and rise up far from hope,
far from home,
Except in some lover who, energy sapped
Holds your fate and joy,
in his whims and you trapped
The emotional turmoil which follows has the tendance
To pull at the roots of a soul's independence.
???????? HaHaHaHaHa . . . Oy, that hurt . . .
Hmmmm, might as well get to sleep . . .
. . . Fiery shades of grey and brown. A river, velvety
brown with trees near it, not green, it isn't autumn. I sit
on a cliff near this river and peer down to see a row of
fellow students lined up on one side of the river and on
the other a lecturer teaching them how to shit. Some-
how that seems acceptable, but I'm laughing, too hard
for comfort; 200 blank intelligent eyes turn round and
stare at me. Good grief I forgot all about gravity — they
smile slow and vicious — am falling, can't hold on to
the edge for very much longer. The cliff wall seems to
be filled with faces, some raised eyebrows, some
frowns, some amusement, some worry — wait there is
one glow, a faceless hope . . . The river has made me
rather muddy, look like a bag of shit. Just think you
wouldn't be allowed to pass me on the street. . .
In the background that hyena laughter.

