Thursday, 9th March, 1972 F E L I X Page 5
T R A V E L L I N G I N T I M E
One Tuesday in February, it was my intention to visit the Travel Bureau. By
Thursday I had found the evasive Room 216, College Block. Strange really as it
is right next to the J.C.R., although at the end opposite to the bar.
Perhaps I was unfair to have preconceived ideas about what I hoped to find on
arrival but I had them just the same. They were, almost exclusively, wrong.
For instance, the word 'Bureau' must conjure up images of bespectacled and
respectable, if austere, ladies waiting to process every customer in an exactly simi-
lar fashion. That, to them would be efficiency. Instead, on arrival, I was unable
to discover who was customer and who was 'Travel Bureaucrat',without asking
all present.
There are no paid staff running the bureau and it is manned by students.
When I said I was only there to watch a look of relief spread over an otherwise
bewildered face of the only student of the Travel Bureau to have arrived thus far.
He immediately averted his attention to the first of the eight people waiting for
assistance.
The first two customers required NUS cards which were duly unearthed from the
filing cabinet (which only looked tidy when closed), stamped and had the photos
attached.
The third customer wanted more information concerning the buses to Leeds
which had been advertised in a recent Felicity. So did the fourth customer. As did
the fifth. And the sixth. And the seventh.
Politely, but with fatigue in his voice, the travel man explained that although buses
leave Leeds every weekend for London, at £1.50 return, the London to Leeds run
is not due to start till October. October. October.
'Really, we are not geared to deal with travel within the UK' said the travel man
hoping, by informing me to stem the flow, 'British Rail will not give us booking
facilities so we advise everyone to go to their main line station in London for
more information'.
'Come October, though,' (he cheered visibly), 'there should be coaches book-
able here to Leeds, Bath, Bristol, Manchester, Liverpool, Exeter, Nottingham, Bir-
mingham, York and more, come October. October. October.
By this time, two more travel men had arrived and were dealing with the cus-
tomers who were coming in. One undergrad wanted to know more about working
holidays in Israel on Kibbutzim and, by chance, the travel man was able to relate
first hand information. The student wandered off looking contented saying he would
be back with his cheque book.
The rest of business consisted of travel on the continent and people applying
for International Student Travel Cards.
'I want to go to Athens two days after term ends and return from Rome to
Paris in the first week of April — can you book it for me?'
'Yes, I'll fill in the forms and if you pay 25% of the fare you can collect the
tickets this time next week'.
Somehow it didn't seem possible that this trio, only one of whom had arrived
on time, could be responsible for getting people from almost anywhere in Europe
and beyond, to anywhere else.
'We got 5% commission and return this to the students who travel'. Amazing.
Perhaps they would be better advised to retain it and equip the room with a desk
counter and even a part-time employee.
But somehow the atmosphere would be lost. If any atmosphere can be created
in a room as soulless as Room 216, College Block it is worth retaining.
For European, Russian, North African, Western Asian travel, the Travel Bureau
is ideal.
For American travel and all other countries of the world, the Bureau has the
name of an organization known to be respectable and who, next year or the
following year, will hopefully endow the bureau with booking facilities. As yet, direct
booking with the organization by the student is the form.
While in Room 216, it is also possible to fix up travel insurance with Endsleigh
(which is run by a part-time employee).
At 2.15 my visit to Room 216, College Block was at an end. The 'treasurer' came
in and took away the cheques of the day, the booking forms, NUS cards and
photos were put in an envelope to be sent to the bureau's agent, the bumph was
all tipped into the filing cabinet to be disinterred the following Tuesday and U S K
Travel Bureau had ended another day of business.
II
T R A V E L
Air fares examples : -
L
O
N
D
O
N to ATHENS
HELSINKI
OSLO
M
A
D
R
I
D
FRANKFURT
99
99
99
99
£22 single
£23 single
£17.20 single
£14 single
£9.65 single
Special Tours
LAPLAND
and
MOROCCO
Both Overland
T U E S D A Y A N D T H U R S D A Y 1-2 p . m . , R O O M 216 C O L L E G E B L O C K
N . U . S . a n d I.S.T. C A R D S A V A I L A B L E
U.S.K. T R A V E L BUREAU

