www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 18 November 2004 7
SCIENCE science.felix@ic.ac.uk
News
in brief
UN faces show-
down on pact to
ban stem cell study
Talks at the United Nations
appear to have failed to avert
a new UN confrontation over
a US-led drive to ban all clon-
ing of human embryos, includ-
ing for stem cell research. As
a result, a General Assembly
panel is headed for a close
vote next week on a plan for
an anti-cloning treaty put for-
ward by the United States
and Costa Rica.
Talks on nuke
fusion plants end
without decision
Talks on where to build the
world’s first nuclear fusion
reactor ended indecisively,
while the EU toned down
threats to site the plant in
France. Both France and
Japan remained equal can-
didates to host the $12 bil-
lion reactor project. Nuclear
fusion has been touted as
a long-term solution to the
world’s energy problems, as
it would be low in pollution
and use limitless sea water
as fuel.
Arctic thaw could
open vast new oil
and gas region
An accelerating thaw of the
Arctic may open vast regions
for oil and gas exploration,
but that brings worries of
spills in the fragile environ-
ment. Scientists behind an
eight-nation report, say-
ing that the Arctic sea ice
could almost vanish in
summer by 2100, said
offshore oil and gas opera-
tions would be easier but
melting permafrost could
destabilize installations on
land. However, oil companies
remain unconvinced.
New UK airport
scanner undresses
passengers
A new X-ray machine at
London’s Heathrow airport,
which sees through pas-
sengers’ clothes, has been
attacked by civil liberties
campaigners. The machine
uses low-level radiation to
see through clothing, produc-
ing an anatomically detailed
black and white image of the
body underneath. Capable
of detecting solid objects
concealed under clothing, it
started a four month trial in
October.
A DAY IN THE DIET OF... Dave Edwards
Rosie Taylor, Felix Science dietician, evaluates the Felix Editor’s diet
9am Breakfast is a bowl of Shreddies, with milk. Also a glass of orange juice.
1pm Lunch from the JCR (a sandwich or the famous cooked breakfast) or maybe a chicken curry with rice if they’re serving
it at the Union. Throughout the day in my office, I’ll be topping up from the water cooler – perhaps three cups in total.
7pm For dinner I’ll probably cook something from frozen, maybe chicken or turkey with chips. This will be accompanied
by canned veg (sweet corn, baked beans etc) or a bag of pre-prepared veg from the fridge. I’ll have a couple of glasses of
cranberry juice, an apple and a Fruit Corner yogurt. A couple of times a week, I’ll probably eat out and/or share a bottle of
wine with someone.
10pm I’ll usually have an evening snack too, perhaps a chocolate mini roll. Actually my current favourite is Cadbury’s white chocolate fingers.
Rosie Taylor, Felix Science dietician, says...
Dave starts the day well with a high fibre breakfast cereal. This is filling, and low in calories, not to mention full of nutrients. By including a glass of orange
juice, he tots up a portion of fruit and vegetables, of which we should all be aiming for five every day. Dave’s lunch varies from a sandwich, to a cooked break-
fast. The sandwich is likely to be the healthier option. But as he only occasionally has the cooked breakfast, it’s not too much of concern.
The evening meal is well balanced. Three tablespoons of tinned, frozen or fresh vegetables, including beans, count as a portion towards the five a day. The
cranberry juice cannot count towards his fruit and vegetable intake since fruit juice can only count once a day, although of course he is still benefiting from the
vitamins in the juice. The very healthy pudding of yoghurt and a piece of fruit completes his meal.
Dave says that he sometimes shares a bottle of wine. Current government recommendations advise that we have at least one or two alcohol-free days each
week to rest the liver, and Dave does well to adhere to this. The evening snack of chocolate, in the context of what is a very well-balanced diet, is perfectly
acceptable. Overall, Dave’s diet is really very good. He would do well to include some vegetables with his lunch, and an extra piece of fruit as a snack, but
otherwise, he’s got the balance just right!
Overall score: 8/10 Fruit and Veg: 4/5
By Amadeus Stevenson
Physics department
Last we looked at software
vulnerabilities and why you
should keep your computer
updated. The Internet Storm
Centre (ISC) reported recent-
ly that 20 minutes was all that
a new un-updated copy of
Windows XP needs until it is
taken over with worms, virus-
es and spyware. Chances are
that as you are reading this
your computer will have soft-
ware surreptitiously using up
your computer’s resources
without your knowledge and
transmitting personal infor-
mation to a third party.
What is adware?
Adware is advertising sup-
ported software, such as the
free version of the Opera web
browser. These rely on show-
ing the user advertisements
while the program is running,
so that the programmers can
generate revenue to reduce
the cost of the product, and
make sure development is
constant. Some adware con-
tains code which will collect
personal information about
you and send it to a third
party without your knowledge
– this is spyware.
There are varying types
of spyware, from tracking
browser ‘cookies’ that record
which websites you visit and
pass this information on to
third parties, which are easy
to remove, to Browser Helper
Objects (BHOs). BHOs can
be very useful (such as the
Google toolbar), but the spy-
ware variants can jeopardise
your privacy and computer
stability, and are often very
difficult to remove. Many
instances of spyware can
exist on a computer, which
very often will slow it down to
a crawl.
How did it get on my
computer?
A lot of spyware comes bun-
dled with other programs,
or is ‘needed’ to view cer-
tain websites – you agree to
installing it on your computer
by not reading the small print
(License Agreement)!
Some examples include
Kazaa, Grokster, Weatherbug
(which installs itself with AOL
Instant Messenger) and many
dubious (pornographic or ille-
gal software) websites which
will ask you to proceed with
the installation of ‘required’
software to view their site. If
you’ve ever clicked ‘Yes’ with-
out bothering to read what
you’re being fed (see article
pictures) then chances are
you’ve installed it yourself!
Other spyware can install
itself without your help
thanks to the many vulnera-
bilities in Microsoft’s Internet
Explorer. If you use IE and
don’t update it frequently, you
are at risk. Many of these
install attempts branch from
popups on sites, which is why
a popup blocker such as the
one in Google’s toolbar, or
with the Windows XP Service
Pack 2, is good idea. Also rec-
ommended is trying a differ-
ent browser such as Mozilla’s
Firefox, which has a built-in
popup blocker and far fewer
security holes.
How can I get rid of it?
Luckily there exist some
excellent programs to clean
up your computer if you are
infected, or suspect you are.
With many things like this
(viruses), the best way to get
rid of them is to prevent them
happening in the first place.
What will it do?
Spyware, when present in
multiple instances, will use
up your system resources
(CPU, memory and network
bandwidth) and can slow your
computer significantly down.
The worst kind of spyware is
similar to a Trojan horse, in
that it will capture informa-
tion as you type it, such as
credit card details and pass-
words, and send this on to
someone else who will use
this information.
Is spyware illegal?
In October 2004 the US House
of Representatives (joint
Senate and Congress) ratified
the ‘Spy Act’ and ‘Internet
Spyware Prevention Act’
which impose heavy fines and
jail terms of up to five years
for individuals using spyware
to gather information for
criminal purposes.
Unfortunately implement-
ing these laws will take time,
and as we have seen from
the recent ‘CAN-SPAM Act’,
passed to reduce the amount
of spam, or junk email, we
receive, it may not have a big
impact on the day to day prob-
lems we have with spyware.
As we saw with vulnerabili-
ties two weeks ago, Microsoft
Windows systems seem to be
much more affected by spy-
ware than Mac/Linux/BSD
equivalents. Try a different
browser to Internet Explorer,
add this to the measures on
the left and you should be fine
for using the internet without
too many worries.
Watching your every move on the internet
Recent reports show that 80-90% of computers are infected with spyware.
Here’s the lowdown for your questions and the downloads you need
Symptoms of spyware
● Getting unrelated popups when browsing or
even when not browsing
● Computer slowing to a crawl? Spyware takes
up CPU cycles
● Web searches redirected top another engine
● Start page won’t budge! Can’t change your
start page from something you don’t want?
How to get rid of spyware
● Ad-aware personal, popular and thorough free
spyware scanner and remover:
http://www.lavasoftusa.com/support/download/
● SpyBot Search and Destroy: http://spybot.
safer-networking.de/en/download/index.html
● Hiijack This! Removes BHOs which the above
programs may not. Use with caution: http://www.
spywareinfo.com/~merijn/downloads.html

