With over 250 clubs and societies, wide-ranging commercial facilities and
entertainments, combined with advice and support services as well as
responsibility for student development and academic representation, your Union is
not only at the core of College life, but also is a major business, with a turnover of
almost £6 million.
With such a diverse range of activities and with significant
resources under direct student control, we now need to look
towards the future.
What students want and need from their Union is changing and so the Union has
to manage its resources and optimise their effectiveness so that we serve you – our
student members – better. The Union must adopt a far more strategic approach to
its operations and move forward to ensure we provide the best for our students.
We need to have a strategy in place for the coming years that helps us to capitalise
to maximum effect on the talents and enthusiasm of students, staff, and other
stakeholders.
It’s also clear that there needs to be a radical review of the way the Union uses its
space, ensuring that we make those assets under Union management work for
Imperial students in the most effective way possible.
That is why we have now embarked on our Strategic Review.
What is the Strategic Review?
The Strategic Review is a comprehensive overview of all that we do at the Union.
It is the largest and most wide-ranging appraisal ever undertaken of the Union’s
activities. It is fully inclusive, and seeks to draw on the views of the entire student
body.
It will work by drawing on our core mission, values and beliefs, examining our
strengths and weaknesses and consulting widely amongst the Union’s stakeholder
communities.
Once the review is finished the Union will formulate its Strategic Plan.
What is the Strategic Plan?
The Strategic Plan will be the starting point of the 2005-06 and subsequent annual
planning processes and will lay down clear performance indicators for different
aspects of the Union’s activities. Work on preparing the 2005-06 Annual Plan and
Budget will start in January 2005, for inclusion in the College Planning Round,
bidding for more funds from College. It will have a direct influence on how the
Union spends its money and how staff and student volunteers spend their time
over the next four years.
Accompanying the Strategic Plan will be a masterplan for the Union Building in
Beit Quadrangle, looking at how it can be improved to offer the best services to
students.
Who will be overseeing the Review and the Plan?
Ultimately, ownership of the Strategic Review and Plan is in the hands of the Union
Council as governing body. Council has already approved the project concept,
and will review the first draft and approve the final version of the Strategic Plan. The
Executive Committee, meeting more regularly, is overseeing the process and the
draft Strategy as it evolves.
Supporting the process and representing Union Stakeholders is an Advisory
Group, meeting regularly during the consultation exercise. Their job is to contribute
to and comment on papers and the process, to give feedback and to represent the
strategic planning process throughout the Union and stakeholder bodies.
Most importantly, the Strategic Plan can only be developed after the widest
possible consultation of the student body. No view counts more than that of the
users themselves.
So, how can I get my views heard?
The best way for everyone to be involved is to fill in the on-line survey at
www.union.imperial.ac.uk from Friday 19 November. But hurry, because the
deadline for getting your views in is Friday 26 November.
It is really important that you take this opportunity in shaping the future of YOUR
students’ union and comment on various aspects of the Union and its services and
activities.
As an added incentive to completing this survey, we will put every person who fully
completes the survey into a prize draw to win a whole host of prizes, including a
Sony Playstation, a Holiday Voucher and some beer!
What other consultation is being done?
We are consulting the clubs and societies through a separate questionnaire, which
looks in detail at their work and how the Union can better support student activities.
Additionally, from later this month, focus groups of representative samples of the
College community (externally facilitated and selected randomly to give a fair
representation) will meet. They will discuss their ideas for the strategic review and
respond to the results of the surveys.
In addition, individual students and groups are invited to contribute their own ideas
and suggestions, in writing, to union.strategy@imperial.ac.uk.
What happens then?
After your input the Union will put together its final Strategic Plan for 2005-2008 and
submit it to the Council for approval in January.
Once approved, we will start to implement the plan,
making the Union closer to how you want it to be,
guaranteeing it for the future and building on our past
success.
Union Strategic Review
PHOTO: IAN GILLETT

