CCHI
In January this year, Dr Pretzel of the maths
department sent me an innocuous looking
puzzle which falls into two sections: a fairly
easy first part, and a second part (in the
Footnotes section), to which the answer is still
fairly uncertain. To this week's prize puzzle
first:
Parr the First
You are sitting fishing in the middle of a round
pond, when suddenly you see the gamekeeper
at the edge of the pond. He can run four times
-as fast as you can row or swim; can you give a
strategy that will enable you to escape?
(You can assume that you can have infinite
acceleration for changing direction etc, and
assume that neither party will get tired).
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at
the FELIX Office by Wednesday, 1:00pm. £5
from Mend-a-Bike for a randomly selected
entry.
Last Term's Solutions
Rehearsal Requirement
Two correct solutions were received; the
winning entry was from Paul Fisher and
Richard Glover. Mech Eng postgraduates, and
a cheque for £5 is waiting in the FELIX Office
in Paul Fisher's name, and can be collected by
him any time after Tuesday 1:30pm.
The reasoning is as follows: you are given
five equations, at least one of which you are
told is untrue, and a series of inequations. By
assuming that the tenor makes two state-
ments, ie that two of the equations are false,
any three of the remaining equations will
supply an infinite set of solutions for the four
variables. But the puzzle states that it is
possible from the given information to find a
solution; hence you need four equations to
solve four unknowns, irrespective of the
inequalities given. Thus the Tenor only makes
one statement.
The only solution then is that the statement
four is the lie and that the alto has made the
fifth statement. This gives the solution
Sopranos 15, Basses 13, Altos 12, Tenors 5.
which satisfies the inequation.
It's an III Wind
Under the quite reasonable assumption that
there is a one-to-one mapping of keys, then the
unique solution is that the keys are relabelled:
Key Relabelled
1 2
2
7
8
g
0
+
3
6
+
7
1
9
8
I shall admit that I don't know if the
s o l u t i o n is unique if bijection is not
assumed, but thanks Perola for a fascinating
puzzle.
Judith Glading of Civ Eng 1 was selected as
the winner and can collect her £5 from the
FELIX Office after 1:30pm on Tuesday.
Dots'n'Boxes
Congratulations to C N Goh, an Elec Eng PG,
who was randomly selected from the five
correct entries and can collect his £5 cheque
as per above.
The solution is found thus:
There are 400 dots, 324 in the middle, 72 on
the edge, 4 at corners, and 760 segments.
Given that there are 219 red dots, there are
therefore 181 green dots.
Number of segments attached to red dots is
(180 x 4) + (39 x 3) + (0 x 2) = 837
And for green:
(144 x 4) + (33 x 3) + (4 x 2) = 683
The 237 black segments are attached to red
and green. Therefore of the 837 segments
attached to red dots, 237 are black. Therefore
600 arc red, and similarly, of the 683 segments
attached to green dots, 446 are green.
Each green segment is shared between two
green dots.
Therefore there are 223 green segments.
Thanks to John Flanagan (Chem PG) for
the above proof.
Baby, it's code outside
Had you counted the number of letters,you
would no doubt have noticed that there were
225—a square number, which should have
given away that the letters were to be arranged
in a 15x
15 square to give:
Inviting and inciting me to rise.
And through the window in the wall
Come streaming in on sunlight wings
A million bright ambassadors of morning.
And no-one sings me lullabies,
And no-one makes me close my eyes,
So I throw the windows wide.
And call to you across the sky.
Pink Floyd
which comes from 'Echoes' from the LP
'Meddle', by Pink Floyd.
Fruit Shop
Well, I don't know how many of you looked
at this one, but a simple solution is for the men
to sell their oranges at lp a dozen, and 3p for
single oranges.
Part the Second
Quite simply, what is your optimum strategy
(the one which puts the maximum distance
between yourself and the gamekeeper when
you reach the edge), and what is the greatest
ratio of speed of gamekeeper to your own
speed before you cannot escape?
There are two uncollected prizes of £5
awaiting collection in the FELIX Office by
Robert Macrae of Elec Eng 1 and James
Aldridge of Physics 2.
<L*jrW^
Gastropod goes on holiday
Gastropod's Easter jaunt comprised a boat
trip up the Thames from Hampton Court to
Oxford. This is a recipe for a superbly
inexpensive holiday costing as little as £35
each for a week. Boats are available with two
to nine berths although for comfort it is best to
have a boat with more berths than you need.
The boats are fully equipped with kitchen,
shower and toilet facilities and surprisingly
comfortable.
The journey to Oxford affords varied and
picturesque scenery for those who are inclined
towards that sort of thing and frequent
opportunities to moor up at riverside pubs for
those who aren't.
Any pre-conceptions of tranquillity verging
on boredom are soon dispelled by the need to
negotiate numerous locks and assorted
riparian hazards such as running around and
falling overboard.
A further attraction is the variety of eating
places along the river. Of those sampled the
following are the most noteworthy:
Bluebeckers, Church Square, Shepperton
— Walton-on-Thames 43377
This pleasant and popular burger house is set
in the old part of Shepperton, close to the
river. Although prices are similar to the
London equivalent, portions are bigger and the
experience of eating there is enhanced by its
village setting. A standard range of burger
house fare is on offer and the puddings are
particularly good. Shepperton is well within the
range of IC for a Saturday afternoon outing
and worth a visit.
Load of Bull, 6 Clarence Street, Staines
Staines 53252
Not as the name suggests but a burger house
with a difference which revolves mainly around
the concept of the monsterburger. This
culinary masterpiece puts all other burgers in
the shade. Consisting of a larger burger and
heaps of chips, mushrooms, salad, coleslaw,
fried egg and assorted other goodies, it
requires great perseverence to clear the plate.
Puddings are excellent, particularly the
chocolate nut sundae. Amuse your friends by
ordering a special — nudge, nudge, wink,
wink—banana split. Although Staines is not
exactly a tourist attraction, the monster-
burger alone makes it worth a visit.
Browns, Woodstock Road, Oxford
Oxford 511995
A trendy and extremely popular, reasonably
priced restaurant. A wide variety of cocktails
are available at the bar or with your meal.
Their speciality is individual Steak and
Guinness pies served with an enormous baked
potato or vegetables and salad. An interesting
feature is their non-smoking section,
something which other restaurants would do
well to emulate.
For further details about boat trips: T W
Allen, Ash Island, Hampton Court, East
Molesey. Tel 01-979 1997.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Tel. 01-589 5111 Ext 1048 or Internal 2881. Editor: Martin S Taylor; Business Manager: Peter A Rodgers, Advertising Manager: Nick Thexton. Copyright FELIX 1983

