Sophistry
for Sophie
So here we are once again, back for another
College term, and more importantly another
issue of that literary lion and bastion of the
student's right to know. But what of the film
world? What has Hollywood served up in
recent weeks to tempt you from your books?
Well, a lot happened in the film world since
last term. The much hyped academy awards
have been distributed, every one has predicted
the rebirth of the British film industry and
Hollywood has continued to pump releases at
us at a rate of a couple a week. The awards
themselves were a bit of a sham; the slight of
'Dahling' Dicky Attenborough trying to mount
the stage once again under the increasing
.weight of golden gongs to tell us what an
honour and a privilege it all was, was highly
amusing. No doubt Spielberg cried all the way
back to his modest little spread and went on a
guided tour of his bank balance to cheer
himself up.
Meryl Streep deservedly won the award for
best actress in the title role of Sophies
Choice, now playing at the Empire Leicester
Square, based on the novel by William Styron.
Stingo (Peter MacNichol) moves into a
boarding house in Brooklyn to try and fulfil his
ambition of becoming a writer and writing the
great American novel. Unfortunately the
nocturnal peace of his refuge is disturbed by a
couple upstairs setting to with the sort ot gusto
that has been known to cause structural
damage. Stingo, as Styron's alter ego.
eventually meets the energetic pair and is
swept into their intense charisma. Nathan is .1
volatile brilliant Jewish intellectual, supposedly
a biophysicist at the nearby university, and
Sophie is a Polish Catholic refugee from
Europe, a survivor of Auschwitz. The film is
Stingo's story of an idealised Brooklyn
summer as he narrates the story of his
involvement with the enigmatic Sophie and the
manic quixotic Nathan (Kevin Kline).
What might have become a comedy about
a happy menage-a-trois doing loony things in
Brooklyn becomes high melodrama as the film
progresses and we realise that theirs is a
desperate sort of happiness. Sophie is trying to
escape from a past she cannot face which is
told in a flashback sequence when she reveals
her secret to Stingo. Nathan is not merely
tempestuous and emotional, but a paranoid
schizophrenic barely able to keep control and
totally reliant on Sophie. This central
relationship is one of the best double acts on
the screen for many years. Both accomplished
performers, Streep and Kline really strike
sparks off each other. Streep is at her
superlative best and having demonstrated she
can master a Devonshire burr in French
Lieutenant, she now adopts a mid-European
accent of equal persuasion. This is a part
which Ms Streep initially rejected and then
having read the script, begged to be given after
Meryl Streep and Kevin Kline play the doomed lovers in Sophie's Choice.
Page 6 ^ H H B B H W ^ ^ H B H B W B B H H W W B B B B H B W H i ^
F I L M
Elizabeth McGovern-a professional problem
it had already been cast (the couch is this
way my dear...) and she certainly gives it
everything she's got. A somewhat typecast
part for her, having had experience of
concentration camp tragedy in Holocaust, but
she's easily the best dramatic actress on the
screen. Perhaps she might try some lighter
roles next.
Speaking of which brings us nicely to
Lovesick, Cert 15, directed by Marshall Brick-
man now playing at the Warner West End,
which stars cuddly Dudley and Elizabeth
McGovern. A few weeks ago I predicted that
Management Consultants would be the focal
profession in Hollywood; unfortunately my
hopes have been dashed as yet another film
takes a humorous sideswipe at that oldest of
Hollywood foils, the shrink. The profession of
psychoanalysis has a love-hate relationship
with Hollywood; directors and performers
keep the Hollywood shrinks in business: but
they cannot resist the occasion attempt to
expose the whole profession as a bunch of
greedy charlatans. Dudley Moore plays Dr
Saul Benjamin who 'inherits' Chloe Allen (Miss
McGovern) when her regular psychiatrist dies
suddenly. He immediately becomes obsessed
with her (who can blame him?) and she
likewise. He fights againt his twin burders of
marital guilt and his professional ethics,
personified by the mystical appearance of Dr
Sigmun Freud (Sir Alec Guinness).
Obvious comparisons will be made between
this film and the recently televised 10. There is
the same rich easy lifestyle suddenly disrupted
by a frantic pursuit of a woman, which
threatens to ruin his career. But whereas 10
was a sex comedy, albeit of a rather
unsensational nature, this is a romantic
comedy and the casting emphasises it. Instead
of the sensual Bo Derek we have the impish
and vulnerable Elizabeth McGovern. But
for Dr Benjamin.
while Ms Derek's cold sexuality left me rather
unmoved. Ms McGovern was a revelation to a
hopeless romantic like myself. The heart
fluttered, the mouth dried and the legs turned
to jelly; she is a vision, the sort of girl you could
take home to mummy with no trepidation
(form a queue behind me please). Dudley
Moore's performance is as good as we've
come to expect. He must have one of the
longest and most varied comic pedigrees
around, from Derek and Clive to Jackanory.
This performance is a nice mixture of the
absurd, slapstick and pathos. In my opinion
this film is superior to its notorious
predecessor.
Also passed over at the Ghandi award
cermonies, Tootsie, cert PG, directed by
Sydney Pollack now playing at the Odeon
Leicester Square, starring Dustin Hoffman is
superficially a comedy but actually works on
several different levels. It is the story of a
'serious' but umemployed actor, Michael
Dorsey, who needs to raise some money to
produce a friend's play. Unable to get work
because of his reputation as a difficult actor, he
decides to audition for a female part in a long
running TV hospital soap. Working with a
bunch of no-talent has-beens, playing a
stereotyped part and facing the studio's
obsession with ratings, he learns to be less of a
bull at a gate. He doesn't argue with the
director, he just does the part his way and
shows that it works. Unfortunately this is
disconcerting to the other actors who are
slaves to the autocue and are disconcerted by
this ad-lib approach. This success on the
screen leads to great problems in his personal
life. He has to lead a double life as Michael
Dorsey the unemployed serious actor and
Dorothy Michaels the rising soap star. He falls
in love with fellow soap star Julie (Jessica
Lange) but can't reveal his true identity (or
even sex).
Julia thinks s/he's a lesbian, his old girlfriend
Sandy think he's being unfaithful, his flatmate
thinks he's gay, Julia's father wants to marry
him and his agent is understandably worried.
.So thus far we have a fairly predictable
sitcom. Where this film scores is the
undertone of feminism. Forced to view the
world from a woman's point of view, he fights
against chauvinism and men's patronising
attitude through the medium of Dorothy. The
strength and clarity of her message not only
produces a huge fan following but also changes
the attitude of the other female actors in the
'soap'. Julia decides to chuck Ron who has
been 'foolilng around' with her, inspired by the
inner strength Dorothy has qiven her.
Dustin Hoffman turns in a highly creditable
performance both as the dedicated actor and
the larger than life Dorothy. It is a great credit
to his ability that he is a highly believable
woman and he puts across the woman's point
of view with strength and conviction. Jessica
Lange picked up the gong for best supporting
actress as Julie, and it has to be said it was a
good performance, although not outstanding.
Her characters are always vague, detached,
mixed up people, merely as though she's
playing herself.
1 suppose you can't have a serious comedy,
but you can use it as a; medium and have a
good laugh, rather reminiscent of the
approach taken in the hit stage show
Accidental Death of an Anarchist. I reckon
this film will be as big here as it was in the
States.
Supporting Tootsie at most venues is the
interesting short A Shocking Accident, cert
PG, directed by James Scott. It is based on a
short story by Graham Greene and is a little
gem of a piece. Could this be the rebirth of
the well-made support film? The death of the
tawdry travelog or day in the life of some
overpaid French chef could be nigh.
Still knocking around the old metrop with a
few weeks running under its belt is the Royal
Film Performance Table For Five playing at
various venues. This superior tear jerker
features the polished John Voight as a
divorced father trying to make a comeback
Dustin Hoffman wins a glamorous granny
award.
into the life of his family. The 'vehicle' he
chooses for this is a cruise round the Med. So
this developing relationship is mixed in with his
blunderinq attempts at ocean-going romance
and travelog scenes of the pyramids, the
Sphinx and Acropolis. All jolly scenic and nice,
everyone is too good to be true and a tragic if
somewhat predictable twist forces choices to
be made. Good acting all round, but generally
a bit banal. Aimed at a whole new market of
divorced fathers, this could be the first of a
whole new man-sized Kleenex genre.
Michael Winner, never one to let subtlety
bother him, gathers together a highly talented
cast which he then proceeds to waste on silly,
but possibly highly commercial, rubbish.
Wicked Lady, cert 18, playing at the
Leicester Square Theatre is 1 suppose what
they call escapist drama.
Lots of what we've come to
expect from Mr Winner as Denholm Elliott,
Prunella Scales, Faye Dunaway, Alan Bates
and John Gielgud mess around with leather
whips and silmiar silly goings on. What people
of this talent are doing in a film this bad (apart
from picking up large pay cheques) I don't
know.
Lee Paddon
tM
Dorsey reveals all but Julie has found an interesting tree to look at.
April 29,1983 Page 7

