WALKABOUT-
LOOKSCC
by Mobile Optics Inc.
In 1836, a committee of the House of
Commons was set up to investigate the
promotion of art in Britain. They reported that
the arts received little encouragement in this
country (...so what's new?) and made two
major recommendations to improve the
situation. Firstly, schools of design should be
established: the School of Design, later the
Royal College of Art, opened the next year.
Secondly, museums should be set up
throughout the country with collections
including, as well as ancient art, 'the most
approved specimens, foreign as well as
domestic, which our extensive commerce
would readily convey to us from the most
distant quarters of the globe.'
In 1852, Henry Cole set up the Museum of
Ornamental Art: his original collection
consisted of examples of decorative art
unearthed from the cellars of the RCA and
£5,000 worth of purchases from the Great
Exhibition of 1851. This was the embryonic
Victoria and Albert Museum.
Conversion from Science to Art
Right at the end of last term the first expansion
of the V&A since 1909, the Henry Cole wing,
opened on Exhbition Road.
The new wing is Imperial College's Old
Huxley Building which once housed, amongst
other old curiosities, the Department ol
Meteorology, which was swallowed up into the
physics department during the move to the
New Huxley Building on Queen's Gate.
The new wing contains the Department of
Prints. Drawings and Photographs, and
Paintings. It has a specialist bookshop on level
one and a machine dispensing peculiarly nasty
coffee on level six. The galleries are spread
over the intervening floors and linked by the
dramatic Great North Staircase.
The finest gallery, on level six, is that of the
Constable Collection. Constable's buxom
clouds float above a soft-pile carpet and the
view from the windows is across the rooftops
of South Kensington, towards Constable-style
clouds over Croydon.
On level four, the 1824 Panorama of Rome
by Caracciolo is on display for the first time. It
is 44ft long and displayed, as far as possible, as
it would have been at the time, with steps
leading up to a circular viewing platform: if you
look very carefully you'll find the join!
Temporary Exhibition Hall
On level two, in the high ceilinged Henry Cole
Gallery, is the exhibition 'Pattern and Design
1480-1980'. The groups of exhibits show how
f
s and drawings act as inspiration or as
-ninary patterns in the creation of
Rampant Ramblings
Monday Morning Fever
To the uninitiated this may conjure up images
of your familiar lecture theatre with flashing
coloured lights in the floor and your balding
lecturer in gold lame trousers and a white
jacket, doing his best to avoid a stroke to the
wail of the Bee Gees.
But the rest of us know better. A more
appropriate analogy is perhaps big black gorilla
disease. Somewhat akin to green monkey
disease, but bigger and uglier; it usually occurs
after one has been carousing till after the first
of the 'morrow, as the saying has it.
When you're safely tucked in bed, a large
black ape comes in, beats you about the head
and puts all manner of foul substances in your
mouth, and then departs without anyone being
the wiser.
Shortly afterwards, Monday morning arrives
like Apocalypse Now only closer to your left
ear.
The way in which fate connives with alarm
clock manufacturers to produce clocks which
make it not only impossible to find the off
button without full consciousness, but also
elude the desperate lunge of a roused but
uncomprehending assailant, will remain one of
the gross injustices of this world. Those people
who do manage to cope with those radio-
alarm-cassette player-fridge freezers first thing
in the morning have my eternal admiration.
Having managed to put my pullover on
ninety degrees out of phase, wash in the
cornflakes bowl, eat my breakfast out of the
sink and get toothpaste up my nose it must be
time to be late for the first lecture.
So next time someone arrives ten minutes
late on Monday morning looking like
something that's been cleared off the set after
shooting Alien you'll know. Or maybe you're
ten minutes late?
Rhyno
ornamental 3D objects, be they candlesticks,
tables or silk petticoats.
In one group the focal point is William
Morris's 1874 'Willow' design for wallpaper.
One of his sources may well have been the
plant imagery of John Gerard's 17th century
'Herball', which is displayed open at the
illustration of 'The Ozier or Water Willow'.
The intricate willow design itself became
source material for a printed cotton produced
by Morris & Co twenty years later. Recently a
wallpaper, produced by Osborne & Little Ltd
for Liberty & Co in 1975, was adapted from
the printed cotton fabric. The delicacy of the
foliage is preserved from design to design, but
the spontaneous naturalism of the original has
developed, through successive mutations, into
a stylized intertwining of leafy shapes.
The catalogue for this exhibition deserves
the bookself rather than the coffee table.
Its illustrations, both B&W and colour, provide
an attractive (as well as informative) record of
the links between designs and finished
artifacts. And for the enthusiast, or specialist,
there's an index to the huge collection of
designers' drawings in the V&A.
Where? Wheren? £?
'Pattern and Design: Design for the decorative
arts 1480-1980' is the main exhibition area of
the Henry Cole Gallery. It's on until July 3 and
is free. The exhibition and the new wing are
open, like the rest of the V&A, weekdays and
Saturday 10:00-17:50. Sunday 14:30-17:50,
closed Fridays.
Page 81 April 29,1983 FELIX

