F E L I X
Michael Ian Callow, President
eleot of the Royal School of Mines,
received his earlier education at King's
College School and came to Mines to
complete his academic career as a Mineral
Dresser. Cricket and Squash were his
main sporting interests at school, but
now a mature Ian follows more normal extra
aural activities as well. Indeed, when
invited to parties, he has been known to
arrive at 3.30 a.m. unashamedly explaining
that he was delayed having 'one for the
road'.
Ian has understandably strengthened
Anglo-Canadian relations as a result of
bis stay in that country this year.
W
e would, however, note that immediate
past presidents have become married
during, or soon after, their term of
office.
Ian's association with Mines is of
longer standing than many think, sinoe
i t was a group of Minesmen who gave Ian
his f i r s t hangover in North Wales five
years ago. From strength to strength
he has gone and today he is capable of
looking as pink-eyed as the next.
M.I. Callow, the President of Mines,
is five feet eleven and threequarter inches
of solid London manhood. He i s quiet,
modest,effioient, very likeable and
endowed with the capacity to make others
work. This latter asset w i l l ensure the
good working of the Union. Wherever
Minesmen are gathered Ian will he found
there giving a l l branches of the College's
activities his f u l l support.
This i s our President - Ian Callow.
COMMENTARY
There are primarily two serious
mistakes whioh a journal, of anything
but a frivolous nature, must not make i f
i t is to command the respect of i t s
existing and potential readers; i t must
at a l l times present both, sides of the
argument, and in the event of only one
side being presented for any reason i t
must print "The truth, the whole truth
and nothing but the truth". The f i r s t
does not apply i f the journal i s openly
and honestly affiliated to any political
party or organisation of persons of like
views, but the second applies to every
publication, including student news*
papers.
I make this point, which i s , I feel,
of paramount importance, because i f the
reader w i l l cast his mind back exactly
two weeks he w i l l recall that Pelix
featured upon the back page of its^last
issue an a r t i c l e upon the World
University Servioe (W.U.S.) That the
latter la a worthy cause, no one who
M O UNTA1NEERING
The Mountaineering Club was formed
in 1929 with the active support of
Professor C I . Finch and Mr. G
.
W
. Young.
Ten years later a keen group from the
blub proposed and helped to form the
University of London Mountaineering
Club. Apart from a few years during
the War the club has been continually
progressing with the increasing pop-
ularity of mountaineering.
The object of the d u b i s "the
encouragement of a l l farms of Mount-
aineering among the students and staff
of the Imperial College". To realise
this object the support of experts as
well as beginners i s essential. In
recent years the standard of climbing
has been very high and, with a large
nucleus of members who gained valuable
experience last year, this coming year
should prove no exception.
Anticipating an increased inter-
est i n this fine sport, the olub has
prepared a more extensive programme.
Luring the term three meets w i l l be
held in North Wales as well as Sunday
visits to the sandstone outarops near
Tunbridge Wells. Illustrated
lectures on aspects of mountaineering
w i l l also be given this term.
Holiday meets in Glenooe and The Lakes
and a full-scale Alpine meet next
summer are being planned.
Available to members i a A large
amount of equipment including tents,
rope, ice-axes, crampons and a
collection of rock-olimblng guides.
People often ask themselves the
question: Why do men climb mountains?
The only satisfactory way of answering
this i s to experience mountaineering
in a l l i t s aspects, the main ones of
whioh are: h i l l walking, rook climb-
ing and snow and ice climbing. These
i n combination or separately can be
practiced byjoining the mountaineer-
ing club. The club w i l l welcome
enquiries from potential mountaineers
with or without experience who wish
to enjoy mountaineering and the social
l i f e that i s an integral part of i t .
THE FRESHER'S MEET
The popularity of mountain-
eering and the need of a change from
London was shown by the fact that over
sixty students finally arrived at
Llyn Ogwen early on Saturday 24th
November.
Ogwen was chosen because of the
abundance of climbs whioh are not too
difficult i n any conditions and which
provide an excellent introduction to
the art of rock climbing.
Even though i t rained a l l Satur-
day a number of keen members did
routes on Tryfan, Idwal Slabs and
Glogwyn y Bustaoh. On Sunday a oold
wind had taken the plaoe of the
torrential rain but many more people
went out and visited the c l i f f s of
Glyder Fach, Booblwyd Buttress and
Greigeau Dena i n addition to the ones
previously mentioned.
It i s interesting to note that
nearly a l l freshmen did some rook
climbing, i n some oases seconding
severes and taking into account the
conditions this was a very success-
ful freshers meet.
excercises his mind w i l l dispute, but
the essential point of the article was
whether or not money raised by Imperial
College from the student body should be
donated to W.U.S. It required a person
of no more than average intelligence to
realize that only one side of the argu-
ment was presented and that the crucial
points were no more than fiction, there-
by rendering Felix guilty cf the above
two errors.
For the information of the reader,
the crux of the matter i s that the
Imperial College Union Council decided
that not a l l the Union's energy would
be diverted towards the W.U.S. 1960
Carnival for, i n addition, I.C.U.
would organise i t s own Carnival during
1960. Luring the W.U.S. 1959
Carnival the I.C.U. raised £600 and
i t i s , therefore, not,unreasonable to
expect the same amount or slightly
mere (due to the geographical advantage)
to be raised by an I.C.U. Carnival
where the profits would not be
appropriated to erase the loss
incurred by the efforts of the other
London Colleges, as was the case last
year. In the Feb. 13th 1959 issue
of Felix (page 1) i t was Stated that
the cost of an Imperial College Bed
in St. George's Hospital would be
£1,000, or the equivalent spread
over a number of years; for instance,
.£200 p. a. for 5 years, the Bed being
installed upon the receipt by the
HosDital of the f i r s t £200.
If the gentlemen who spoke 30
vehemently at the last I.C. Union
Meeting had engaged their talent
Upon a l i t t l e basic arithmetic they
would have arrived at the conclusion
that £600 and £200 are not one and the
same thing. They do i n fact differ
by £400 and i t i s this latter sum
that the I.C.U. Council assumed would
be denoted to W.U.S. i n 1960. I f the
I.C.U. decides to support W.U.S. i t
is not rejeoting the decision of the
'58-'59 Council, i t i s merely increas-
ing the fears of many members of the
Union that we have this Session a
superfluous number of "talkers" ana
too few "workers". I sould suggest
that a mare suitable equation than
W.U.S. + I.C. * ?
for this year's policy would be
W.U.S. + Energy - Politios = W.U.S. +
St. G»
ENGINEERING SOCIETY VISIT to PARIS.
During Easter Vao: 26th March - 2nd
April. Travel by plane.
Overall cost £16, Limited places
available. For reservations or
further details contact;
L.H. Cattan, Hon: Visits Seo:

