Tennyson's opening lines:-
"At Flares i n the Azores S i r Richard
Grenvile lay," eto and the
B.B.C.'s typioal statement "an anti-
cyclone centres north-east of the
Azores" were, within a l l practical
limits, the f u l l extent of our know-
ledge concerning the islands, when the
members of the Imperial College Azores
Underwater Expedition departed from
Victoria on June 6th. However, some
nine days and 2,000 miles later, having
travelled via Paris, Lisbon and
Madeira, we sighted Santa Maria, the
f i r s t of the islands, of wiiah there
are nine i n a l l , the remainder being
Sao Miguel, Teroeixa, Graoiosa, Sao
Jorge, Pico, Fayal, Flores and Corvo.
It was then that we realized that
Plato's idea of Atlantis, the drowned
Continent, was perhaps not quite so
>farfetohed_as we had hitherto imagined,
for these mysterious volcanio islands
which suddenly appear out of the grey
Atlantic mists have provided the basis
of the islands of Geltio folklore and
explorers have spoken of an enchanted
i s l e whioh
"...... was said to exist on the dist-
ant confines of the West and appear,
every seven years or so, to 3eamen
ploughing i t s waters ..... Shores
shrouded i n mist, cradles rooked by
the swell, spellbound oasis reserved
for those who could break the spells
that encompassed i t .
Although geologists discount a l l
theories that the Azores are the rema-
ins of a sunken continent, the islands
s t i l l retain their mystery, for their
black basaltic c l i f f s , rising verti-
cally from the watery depths are
clothed i n rich green sub-tropical
vegetation, and volcanio peaks, with
sulphurous fumes s t i l l emanating from
their crater lakes, are s t i l l a source
of wonder and fear to the total
population of 300,000 who originated
mainly from Portugal and Flanders i n
the 15th. Century.
The expedition consisted of one
geologist who also acted as a surveyor,
an aeronautical engineer as the equip-
ment officer, a .physicist as the
photographer, a botanist, and five
zoologists, and the object was to
conduct a survey of the underwater
fauna, flora and geology around the
shores of the island of Teroeira.
Consequently, during the seven weeks
for whioh we were resident on the .
island, each day was spent diving i n
the clear blue waters which formed
part of the Gulf Stream, mapping and
collecting specimens from the sea- -
bed. The underwater l i f e was breath-
taking for one accustomed to diving
in the cold grey waters around the
U.K., but, at the same time, i t oould
"be A l i t t l e dangerous for the unwary
for Moray Eels," Sting Hays, and Port-
ugese Men-o-War were plentiful and the
consequences of an unexpected en-
counter with them extremely unpleasant.
Barracuda were numerous but gave us
no trouble, whilst the sharks which
were not infrequent appeared to be mare
afraid of we invaders i n their world
than vice-versa.
We found the Asoreana extremely-
hospitable people and whilst we did
not master their language we did i n -
crease their slender knowledge of the
English tongue. For instance, one
young fisherman i s now capable of
stating, with a perfect Oxford accent,
that "My umbrella has been struck bv
.lightning", followed quickly by "Go.
Ihome Tanks" and "Don't mention i t ,
'old boy",
As the reader w i l l doubtless
imagine, their was a l i t t l e pleasure
combined with the work, and towards
the end of the v i s i t six members spent
several days travelling around some of
the other islands of the group. The
island of Pico was visited and climbed
(0,000 feet} from sea-level to aea~
level by three members i n nine hours,
and also Fayal where the geologist
nearly collected his last speoimen i n
the crater of a still-active volcano,
and where the only woman i n the party,
Claire Brooks, who, incidentally has
now become engaged to one of the other
members, shooked the locals by gather-
ing tape worms from the stomach of a
putrefying whale.
Encamped in a vineyard, we did
not, needless to say, encounter any
lack of fresh fruit, and indeed, fed
extremely well during our stay, being
able to catch as much fish as we
required and supplementing i t from
our store of tinned goods, with an
occasional octopus which only one
member of the party appeared to
appreciate.
Finding from previous experience,
when our equipment had been held by
the customs officials for over a week,
that the only way to get past any
government o f f i c i a l was to bribe him.
we gave a party before our departure
to a l l the local officials whom w
e
-
felt oould facilitate our progress
through the maze of rod tape. We
not only succeeded in persuading half
the city officials to go for a swim
in the harbour in the early hours of
the morning but must be among the f i r s t
to leave the islands i n the governor's
launch and, i n addition, not pass
through the customs house. We l e f t
behind us, therefore, a strong im-
pression of the mad English, stories
of foreign bullfighters who had no
healthy respect for the b u l l , and
several Portugese palates keenly^
as Justed'to the bant Scottish whisky.
The reader w i l l , or should, ask
himself "Was the expedition a success?"
Tes, for back at I.C. work i s nowr,
going ahead on a l l the specimens and
i t i s hoped that the results w i l l be
published, while there i s s t i l l a
ohanoe that there will be a 30-minute
film on T.V. together with an article
in the Sunday Times.
Finally, the members of the Exped-
ition would like to thank a l l those
members of the Union and the Staff,
especially the Exploration Board, who
in any way gave assistance during the
months of preparation and without
whose help the expedition would not
have been possible.
R.H.T.G.
BEAUTICWAR1AN
N o . 2.
A N N E
WHITEHOUSE
DEBATING
I.C. the holders of the Inter-
collegiate debating cup met Kings
College in the f i r s t round of this years
tournament on Friday 16th Deo. i n the
upper refectory.
It i s a bad thing that such a
successful team should have 30 l i t t l e
support from the members of the Union,
for just as i n the final last year there
were only two I.C. supporters present,
so on Friday the f i r s t round was
debated before a mere 16 people.
Three members of last years success-
ful team are s t i l l at I.C. and so the
I.C. side showed only one change i n i t s
lino up. The motion 'That the voting
age should be lowered to 18' was prop-
osed by John Loome for I.C. i n a speech
which although effective was well below
his'best. He outlined the general
substance of the propositions case
by showing how the age of 21 was an
arbitary limit for the franchise to be
granted and further showing that 18 was
a logical choice of a new limit.
Bob Finch elaborated the theme by
arguing that emotionally and physioally
a person was as developed at eighteen as
at twenty one. The only thing an eight-
een year old lacks i s experience.
Mr. Chandmal took the line that i f one
was obliged to fight for ones country at
eighteen, i f ones crimes could be punish
punished at eighteen as an adult, i t was
morally just for an eighteen year old to
have a say i n the government of his
oountry. To be unable to help decide
the Nation's policy and yet to fight for
i t was unjust.

