A Tale of Two Rectors Felix 939 24 June 1992
The Synopsis
The world moves on, and so do Rectors. Sir Eric A s h
will cultivate a taste for chrysanthemums and retire in
July 1993. Who will succeed him? The Governing Body
is currently considering a short list of candidates ... in
total secrecy.
Felix has investigated the procedure whereby a new
Rector is selected. Tenacious investigations show that the
entire process begins with the current Rector retiring.
After the role of the Rector is reviewed, and the
conclusions ignored, the post is then advertised in places
of academic patronage. A list of candidates is then
drawn up by greater minds, or in our case the
Governing Body. In rare cases, some candidates decide
to raise their profile, especially if from St Mary's.
Interviews may be conducted in a rarefied atmosphere
(The Holland Club). Following the consideration of all
the relevant factors such as fundraising ability, bank
balance, fundraising ability, political affiliations,
fundraising ability, spouse, wealth of spouse,
fundraising ability of spouse, country of origin of
spouse, width of spouse, beauty of spouse, lack of
academic standing, talent for sleep, resistance to
charisma except for fundraising, etcetera, the least likely
candidate is selected. Arise the new Rector, O B N .
Should the new Rector wish, an entirely new
management team can be imposed, selected, patronised
or shagged. A s the last one did this, it is entirely
possible the new one will. In fact, considering the calibre
of the imposters, it is entirely likely they will get,the
heave. So we tack the new team on to the end, a fate
entirely fitting.
Some held their heads, maintained their pride,
And would not stoop to lashing hides.
Even in this place, some maintained their standards,
even if they did come from Middlesex. A n d while there
was a vacancy at the top, as opposed to a vacuum, all
authority passed to the real power brokers, and not the
Sherfield pawn brokers.
Once so popular, now reviled,
'Are you out too?' she sadly smiled.
Once in the midsts of time, and in the mists from the
toxic waste centre, a group of parasites clustered. It was
then that Sir Eric knew his time was up. 'Neff orff,' said
Anne.
Adverts clean and adverts tacky
Try to sell us a government lackey.
The first wave of advertising was not a complete
success, though this never stopped them before. The
agency, anxious to earn their stipend, decided to exploit
the foreign travel element, even without the BT subsidy.
They promised miracles, and they would need to get
them. Where else would the money come from?
— 12—

