24 June 1992 Felix 939 A Tale of Two Rectors
Impartial as ever, this huge trailblazer,
Was here to sing for Angus Fraser.
The all singing, all dancing Union Dramatic Society,
were meanwhile staging their latest production in the
Great Hall. This explains the great turnout for the
election, or does the election explain these audience
figures for a DramSoc production? A l l credit to their
improvisation; someone had stolen their scripts.
Director of Estates, the lucky scamp,
Brought in to deal with Rising Damp.
George Bush had an uncanny likeness to Leonard
Rossiter, but not in appearance. His management of the
nation's finances resembled the financial practices of the
Grot Shop, and indeed the United States current
account deficit is dwarfed only by the overdraft on the
Estates account, post Montpelier/Clayponds. The rise in
the number of homeless in the United States under Bush
formed the basis of the IC Accommodation policy,
'Homelessness in the 90s'. Marshall is reported to have
said, 'there's nowhere near 90 people homeless'. Indeed,
but that was before Southside was abolished.
Here are the results, just apply season,
x y What's that, Oily? They've charged me with treason?
The loud noises that had disrupted the convocation
earlier were soon traced. Not to the person, but the rug
on his lap, fearing that senility was contagious. A n d ,
frankly, while one old fool was appointing another, this
one was announcing the names of the new Sherfield set
... Poindexter, North, Bush; who may quail at this?
In charge of finances, that's really funny,
If only I could find some money.
The replacement to Angus Fraser is 'Charlie Cairolli-
Ball', the famous clown and juggler. He has a long track
record in sound political judgement. He joined the
Conservative Party. His air of calm diplomacy ensures
we need never worry about him being dictated to by
those with more than six ' O ' levels; he always will be.
He will have responsibility for the finances of the
kingdom, this being a step up from Standard Charter,
and indeed the Chancellorship. The new post offers new
scope for embarassment and failure, quite apart from
those avenues that have already been exploited in the
quest for bungling, bankruptcy and bouncing Czechs.
We wish him well.

