24 June 1992 Felix 939 Opinion
abuse. 'The UJS have jumped the Council meeting of the year, at the
gun on the motion,' he added. University of London Union. The
Jeremy Neumark, of the UJS, said attempts made by Tarn Lamb (the
that even the National Union of V P Services and Welfare) at U L U
Students (NUS) regarded the UJS to propose some kind of motion
as the representative body. He regarding the fight against fascism
omitted to mention that this was were 'joked' by one small group of
possibly due to the deal stitched up students. The motion was designed
between the UJS and the National as a commencure to fight the rise
Organisation of Labour Students of an abhorrent form of mutilation
(NOLS) at a recent NUS conference of Human Rights. However, the
which allowed NOLS to overturn a Union of Jewish Students felt that
vote they had earlier lost. they were the only people who were
With the discussion on six affected by this, to the exclusion of
amendments taking close to two all other white and black students.
Mark Samuels, next year's ULU President.
African Studies (SOAS) and the
University of London Library, as
well as proposals for a new staff
protocol at U L U . The University
Funding Council's announcement
of a 3 % cut in the SOAS budget led
to fears that their Phonetics and
Linguistics Department would be
closed. Although this did not
happen, there was less success in
resisting the cuts at the University
of London Library. All that could
be reported was that U L U had done
what it could and there was still a
real danger that there could be a cap
on registration. Ms Win said that
the staff protocol was necessary to
'safeguard sound industrial
relations.'
After this and other reports, the
meeting lurched towards the anti-
fascism motion. The original
(substantive) motion was proposed
Oh, the futility
of it all
by Tarn Lamb, U L U ' s Vice
President of Welfare, and proposed
the setting up of caucuses - or
talking shops - for groups or
individuals that are prone to racial
harassment. In an ugly and
unseemly attempt to hijack the
caucuses, this motion was heavily
amended by the Union of Jewish
Students (UJS), with 14 separate
amendments tabled. Seven of these
were accepted by the proposer, so
that the original motion now
supported political lobbying which
urged the suppression of 'holocaust
revisionist' (effectively pro-Nazi)
material. This together with the
opposition to the Asylum Bill leaves
all expenditure on the motion open
to question on the grounds of
legality.
Amendments recognising the UJS
as the representative body of Jewish
students were defeated after a
revote called in controversial
circumstances. The cause of the
UJS was dealt a blow by a speech
from Mark Samuels, next year's
U L U President. M r Samuels, who
pointed out that he was Jewish, said
that the UJS was not representative;
he was not a member of UJS. He
also made a veiled allegation that
the UJS was blatantly sectarian in
its approach to the motion by
claiming a monopoly on racial
hours, the council was getting
restless and quorum was called -
and defeated - several times. At this
point, a procedural motion was
moved to end the meeting, with all
passed amendments being written
into the motion. This included a
motion calling on council to support
the work of Searchlight magazine.
The IC delegation's suggestion that
this could be construed as an illegal
(ultra vires) payment'because there
was no direct educational benefit to
students was rejected by Tarn
Lamb, U L U Vice President
(Welfare). Jeremy Neumark of UJS
then dug the grave further by
revealing that Searchlight also ran
a monitoring programme, the
results of which were used for party
political purposes, and that
Searchlight had refused to condemn
acts of violence against fascists.
This clause will now be discussed
along with the rest of the motion at
a later date.
Viqar Ahmad, Publication
Sabbatical at King's College
London, adds:
I attended the last General Union
I praise their vociferous and
active fight against those who feel
a necessity to deny the citizens of
our community and equal
opportunity in society today -
all our parents and grandparents
remember only too well the
atrocities committed against their
people. But this must be one of
unity and those that oppose the UJS
in turning this fight into a zionist
crusade may be wrongly branded as
either anti-semitic, or worse still as
fascist. We are neither anti-semitic
nor are we fascist.
The targets of fascism are of all
colours, creeds and races, and not
Jews alone. May I point out that
France has the strongest support for
fascism in Europe today and it is the
severely impoverished black
Algerian population that is the
target of their hatred. In this
country, the four million people of
Asian descent have been, for years,
targets for such abuse.
I live in fear of our own future
if we are unable to unite here, to
treat each other with adequate
respect.
The targets of
fascism are of
all colours,
creeds and
races and not
just jews alone.
— 1 9 —

