Felix Felix 939 24 June 1992
This quiz covers news stories reported within Felix over the past year. All the answers can be found within issues 909 to 939. Please hand in
your answers together with a caption for the photograph, marked 'Felix 91/92 News Quiz' to the Felix office by 12.30pm by Friday 9th October 1992.
A bottle of 'Jim Beam' bourbon whiskey will be given to the person who, in the opinion of the editor, gives the most correct and/or witty answers.
In the event of a tie (assuming we get enough entries to even allow a tie), the caption for the photograph will be used as a tie breaker. Staff of
Felix, and their immediate relatives, need not apply. The Editor's decision is final, and no correspondence can be entered into. So there!
News Quiz 1991-1992
Part 1
1. What centres did H R H Princess
Anne open last year?
2. What was the estimated total cost
of last year's Union Building
refurbishment?
3. What value forged notes were
detected by the bar?
4. What band was due to play in the
Union building last October?
5. What hours were expected for
next year's College day?
6. What make of Glider was
purchased for Imperial College
Union Gliding Club?
7. What was the reported increased
price of a meal in Linstead Hall?
8. How many people attended the
stress seminar during Welfare
Week?
9. How many people attended
November's Union General
Meeting? (Is there a connection
here?)
10. What is the name of the
Imperial College company founded
to purchase the Clayponds
residences?
11. What College notable was
flanned, after a question time, by
the Union President?
12. What was used by students of
the Royal School of Mines to shatter
the glass in a door to the Union
Building?
13. What amount of money was
available from the Access Funds?
14. What House of Commons'
Select Committee visited Imperial
College?
15. What fines were set by the
College Library for overdue books
and recordings?
16. What animal was pictured dead
on the front cover?
17. What Junior transport Minister
visited Imperial College
Conservative Society?
18. What Polytechnic suspended
payment of its affiliation fee to the
National Union of Students?
19. What College's students broke
into the Royal School of Mines to
steal Davy, the Mines' mascot?
20. What honorary fellow of the
College died in suspicious
circumstances last year?
21. To what charities did the
proceeds from St Mary's rag week
go?
22. What percentage increase in the
College's research grant was
awarded by the University Funding
Council?
23. What percentage of the
electorate voted in the Imperial
College Union sabbatical officer
elections?
24. What amount was reported to
be charged to Queen Mary and
Westfield College Union by their
college, for the occupation?
25. What amount of money was to
be loaned from Imperial College
Union's Harlington Trust fund
towards the redevelopment of the
College Sports Centre?
26. How many students were
moved out of Beit Hall over the
Easter vacation?
27. With what Medical school is the
College considering merging?
28. How many scholarship places
is the College Management School
making available for the next
academic year?
29. What College restaurant was
due to close at the end of this year?
30. What number of the electorate
voted in the St Mary's Hospital
Medical School Student's Union
elections for its executive?
31. What trust assists female
scientists return to work after career
breaks?
32. What is the name of the former
Ministry of Defence Hostel which
College is considering purchasing?
Part 2 6. Accident prompts Ban e.by g.take the money while it's still
Here are some of the longer a.bar sales f. everything and run there
headlines from this year's Felices. b.vehicle 12.Up, up and 17.New
Pick and choose as you see fit, or c.sex a. bankrupt a.extortionate rent increase
make up your own... d. lecture b. extortionate b.hall of residence
1. Laughable 7.Clayponds makes c.away c.extortionate rent increase
a.job descriptions a.a recession d.sky high d.life for sale
b.rent levels b.a splash 13.Room with a e.director of estates
c.loan levels can impression a.cockroach f.concrete, prefab, structurally
d.lecture times d.sod all b.queue unsound, 1960s monument to
e.job prospects 8. Rector c.view Thatcher
2.Suffer for a. sacked d.ceiling 18.Putting Women
a.grease b.senile e. cleaner a.at the top
b. sport c. questioned 14.Hospitals for b.in the kitchen
. c.religion d. awake a. axe c.back into physics
d.little children 9.Tale of a dead b.sale d.where they belong
3.Union done up a.donkey c.close 19.Car Park privatised
a. manager b.dodo d.ill people a. so sod off
b.finances c.fly on a union office wall e. nothing b.but who cares
c.building d.poet 15.NUS c.without consultation
d.shoe laces e. piano a.closed 20 as Southside faces
e.boat shed f. sabbatical b. bankrupt demolition
4.Loan applications 10.Imperial , arrested c.does some work a.Architectural awards
a.down a.College d.useless b.Furse Row
b.up b. student e. warfare c.Rector abroad
c. negligible c.managing director 16.Sabbs d.Rector celebrates
d. fiddled d.gallon a.get out of bed e.Students celebrate
5.New for ICU 11. Drop b.do some work f. Street party
a. elections a.the dead donkey c.in work scandal g.Prince Charles dances
b. sabbaticals b.soc d.couldn't give a toss h.No loss
c. acronym c.kick e.vegetate in their office
d.glider d.in f.take stock for Rag
—26—

