f o o d : c o a s t eon brocard
This place was a car salesroom before the
restaurant took over, and it shows. The front of
the restaurant consists of five large glass panels,
each with a letter of 'coast' inscribed upon it.
Once you've found the entrance (the pane on
the left] you enter a large room covered with
tables. Another room lies below, but it is small-
er and darker - while I was there a couple decid-
ed not to dine here, rather than having to eat
downstairs. My tip is to dress elegantly and book
early if you want a table.
Once you're seated, you can pursue the
menu. Good luck! The cook is English but well
travelled, the waiter informed us. The dishes are
supposedly Californian, but seem rather inter-
national. All the dishes are over complicated
(and too expensive], as you might expect for this
month's fashionable restaurant.
We ordered (I recommend the Chablis
Brocard, no. 23 (top choice - Edj) and received
our first courses within minutes. Francois (one
of my companions] had chosen duck raviolis,
which he found exquisite, though I thought it a
tad rich. Martine (my other companion] had
declined the first couse, while I went for a
'Bavarois of Goat's Cheese with Salad'. It was
fairly large and rich. I would have preferred the
cheese warm and a smaller portion. Overall the
dish was well balanced and nice.
Waiting for the main course, we amused our-
selves by working out where the waiters would
sit people. It seemed that people in jackets were
given the nice room, whereas those in trainers
and jeans or young people were placed below.
The main course arrived in good time.
Francois had chosen 'Baked Cod with Polenta
Pont-Neuf' which turned out to be cod and
polenta chips. A definite success. Martine
enjoyed her 'Lamb with Harissa sauce and
Couscous'. I had 'Soup Noodles with Duck',
which was disappointing. The duck was perfect,
but the soup and noodles were bland.
Unfortunately, the only dessert I was willing
to try, 'PJiubard with Custard' had been
replaced with 'Creme Bruiee', so we quickly
paid the bill and left.
In all, rather disappointing for an in restau-
rant, especially as there are no lunch menus. I
wouldn't go back here, though Tader and Fay
Mashler would disagree.
c o l u m n e r
column about columns...
Arghhh, yes its yet another column. Front page, back page, opinion page.
Whatever publication you pick up, they seem to get everywhere. With so
many of them I am getting a little saturated. It is almost enough to get to the
point where I say; "Don't you just hate
all these columns? Don't you just hate
all these columnists?" It is because they
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
ii "ft n fl
through all these words. All hoping to be first.
I am not here to rant. I have had too much of that for me to imitate it
polly-style. I dislike it, I am so wary of it. I have read so much bad opinion;
factiess, black and white, rushed opinion, I want no more.
I squirm too from those who have made it to the fold of paid colum-
nists. Maybe its those pictures next to their work. You know those little
snapshot pictures of smiling hand-
some people, looking either hip and
trendy or extremely sophisticated.
are all over the place, that you can hardly move for yet another new set.
With everybody into it, this, the latest to be desired fashion, the com-
petition is immense. It's almost enough to make you sick. It is certainly
starting to make me sick. That each colvrmnist is trying desperately try-
ing to out do each other. Like we have started a race. It is this burgeon-
ing I am starting to dislike. An
industry of busy workers cantering
away at their typewriters, turning
be, with a level of
anyone else, so that they get a whole page to themselves. That we should
listen to them because they think that we should listen to them. The whole
elitist academic tiling which is so unnecessary. The fact that they often fail
to say anything at all, that they persistently will not commit themselves to
any idea or put their neck out for anything. Dare they say anytiiing which
is foolish which they might have to retract in six months time. All they can
do is suggest. Am I to drink that
they are clever or not serious for
not standing to their corner?
Far more hip, trendy, cool and sexy than I could ever
sophistication and elegance than I could only dream of. Maybe this is why
we all want to be column writers. Then we could all be perfect people
with perfect ideas, just like them.
I think though that it is just that I am bored by their nice little anec-
dotes of good little middle class life.
0 0
So here I am -1 have slagged off botl
The idea that these people are far
more worthy for our attention than
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
h those 'mshed columns' and 'sophis-
ticated columns'. Many would consider this one of my own diatribes, here
I am trying to be sophisticated and all I end up doing is joining the queue
marked "rant." That is not my intention. Truly it is not. With me writing a
column, the irony has not escaped me. Perhaps it is because the subject is
very heartfelt for me. Perhaps because I love opinion, I breathe opinion, I
love people who have opinion in their blood. Good opinion is worth its
weight in gold. And all I want is to read good opinion. That's all.
c o a s t :
i>17l 495 5999
tip, don't a
s
j
> them about the
c o m p e t i t i o n :
a peugeot i: . 1gear-
iGreat' a
t
j
d g
i
v
e it to tts, T

