s i m o n baker
As a passive 10- a- day
man, I shall be forced
to start buying my
own if people ever
take any notice.
Well, another year at Imperial has just begun,
and the new inmates have arrived- three years
with early release for bad exam results. I shan't
waste much time regaling freshers with lots of
'useful tips' that you have probably already
heard. However, dear reader, one piece of advice
deserves to be repeated. Many of you new, anti-
establishment, free spirits may be used to refer-
ring to the local constabulary as pigs, the filth etc.
That's fine by me, you naughty children, but do
remember that those fine, upstanding gentle-
men in red police cars are
all known as, 'Sir'. I shall
say no more.
A surprisingly large
amount of news seems to
be floating around
College even at this early
point in the term.
Reports of excessive
drinking have not
escaped me, and I am somewhat concerned.
True, Imperial does have a number of serious
drink problems. Firstiy, it takes an eternity to get
served in Southside bar (although it's always
worth the wait), and secondly, the beer in the
Union is reminiscent of the yellow liquid often
found in the South Ken. subway. More serious-
ly, as long as bar staff exercise theirrightto refuse
service to people who are clearly on the verge of
unconsciousness, we will not have a problem.
Drinking is not the only activity which is
being watched. The JCR now has a blanket 'No
Smoking' ban, and in the process has exhausted
world supplies of signs to indicate this. As a pas-
sive 10- a- day man, I shall beforcedto start buy-
ing my own if people ever take any notice.
Also, religious fundamentalism again seems
to have reared its ugly head in the guise of Hizb-
ut-Tahrir. Whilst no reasonable person would
question the right to free speech, such extreme
views have no place in a democracy, a system
alien to many of the organisation's members.
In the world beyond SW7, much media
interest has concentrated on the shenanigans of
our gallic cousins in the Muroroa Atoll. Although
the whole need for these test looks a little ques-
tionable (and I'm as pro-nuclear as the next
man), given the software now produced by the
Americas to model such events, I fully under-
stand Jacques Chirac's wish to conduct the tests
in an ostensibly deserted area, where there is lit-
tle chance of affecting humans. In which case,
why not explode the devices in Disney Land,
Paris? That way, the coral
reefs of the South Pacific are
not threatened, and if radia-
tion levels were to become
dangerous, the existence of
mutant animals would go
unnoticed in a place solely
inhabited by six foot high
mice and ducks. As far as the
boycott of French products is
concerned, I can honestly say that I haven't
bought a single bottle of vintage champagne
since the whole sorry saga began.
Closer to home, the party conference sea-
son will havefinishedby the time you read this.
Socialists can again walk freely in Brighton, and
the Liberal Democrats will return to maintaining
their pivotal position in the political wilderness.
As for the Conservatives, this year's conference
will effectively be the first part of their election
campaign. It would be wrong to suggest that
their chances of forming the next government
are similar to Lord Sutch's as a result of the Blair
effect.
Any party can be hugely popular if it attacks
everybody else without burdening itself with
such sordid things as policies and commitments.
Time will tell if the British electorate can be per-
suaded by arguments so thin as to be non-exis-
tent.
"a son of the
circus
slips back and forth in
time, mixing its charac-
ters' backgrounds and
then bringing them into
comes complete with
[twig's wry; absurd
sease oi humour."
book: a son of the circus-
john i r v i n g t i n t i n
Perhaps the best measure of John Irving's skill as
a writer is that he manages to involve so many
complex characters in the 830 pages of his latest
novel, A Son of the Circus, without losing either
the plot or the reader.
Loosely based around the 'whoisit?' of an
Indian serial killer, Irving's hero (a Canadian
orthopeadic surgeon come Bollywood script-
writer; bom in Bombay but belonging nowhere
and incidentally called Farrokh Daruwala) lands
in India for his usualfive-yearlyvisit. So what to
do? Farrokh used to bleed dwarfs from the cir-
cus to try and find the genetic cause of their con-
dition (but that's become a bit of a fading hobby
now), so he waits to see how violent the reaction
to his new Inspector Dhar film is,forgetsto tell
his 'adopted' son that he has an identical twin
and further forgets to tell his 'adopted' son that
his twin is a Jesuit missionary who will land in
Bombay at some point in the next two days. He
also goes to his club only to find that there's been
a murder on the ninth green.
In-between we go back in time, to the start
of Indian's most bmtal and bizarre serial mur-
ders, which coincidentally also led to the mar-
riage of a Bombay police inspector, the start of
Dr. Daruwala's writing career and his conversion
to a particularly low form of Anglicanism.
Maybe you're getting the picture. A Son of
the Circus slips back and forth in time, mixing its
characters' backgrounds and then bringing them
into locus again. And it all comes complete with
Irving's wry, absurd sense of humour.
Despite, and because of, its length too (by
the end you're wishing for just one more chap-
ter) A Son of the Circus is a real joy to read.

