>in
S
cience that is out. of the ordi-
nary, eyebrow raising and slight-
ly over the edge: this week
insight exposes some disturb-
ing truths about one of science's
most coveted theories-
Quantum Physics. Could it possibly be true that
there is not a single lecturer on campus who
understands it ? Insight investigates.
And, thanks to some unusual investigative
journalism, we are close to solving a mystery
which has puzzled scientists and philosophers
alike throughout this century: Where do all the
odd socks go?
The Mysterious World of
the Quantum
Quantum physics, arguably the most success-
ful theory ever, is also the most bizzare. For
example, according to some quantum theories:
• All particles (electrons, atoms, tennis balls)
behave like waves and vice versa.
• Every time someone makes a decision any-
where in the universe, the whole universe
splits into two.
" s o m e t h i n g s t r a n g e i s a f o o t .
99
The Experts Own Up -
They Don't Understand
It Either
If you find all this quantum business baffling,
you are in good company. The nobel prize win-
ning physicist Richard Feynman once wrote:-
".../ think I can safely say that nobody
understands quantum mechanics."
And he ought to know! Another founder of
modem physics, Murrey Gell-Mann says:-
"All of modern physics is governed by that
magnificent and thoroughly confusing disci-
pline called quantum mechanics invented
more than fifty years ago. It has survived all
the tests. We suppose it is exactly correct.
Nobody understands it but we all know how
to use it and how to apply it toproblems: and
so we have all learned to live with the fact
nobody can understand it."
It seems this pragmatic approach is universal.
So it really is true - nobody at Imperial College
The Quantum Rollercoaster
• Quantum objects can momentarily break the
law of conservation of energy.
The startling consequence of this is that quan-
tum objects can quickly sneak across a region
which is illegal energetically...
Conservation of energy says that a carriage
starting from rest at A could never get further
than point B. In quantum theory, on the other
hand, there is a chance that the carriage could
"tunnel" through the "forbidden" region
between B and C and emerge at C.
For a real rollercoaster, this quantum tun-
nelling is extremely unlikely! However, for
quantum particles such as electrons it is very
common. Many devices in common use, such as
the scanning tunnelling microscope and the tun-
nel diode are based on this phenomenon.
or anywhere else for that matter really under-
stands quantum physics.
Strange Things are Afoot
- Quantum Sock Theory.
By the time you have been at Imperial for a
couple of terms it is (un)likely you will have had
to do some laundry. If so, you may have wit-
nessed a strange phenomenon - the random dis-
appearance of socks from washing machines.
Insight has come to the amazing conclusion
that what we are witnessing here is a quantum
effect occurring on a large scale in the everyday
world.
Quantum sock theory wasfirstproposed ear-
lier this year by Matthew Flynn (Physics World
May 1995 p72) and is rapidly gaining credence
and acceptance amongst the scientific commu-
nity. Could it be that socks are quantum objects
and are quantum mechanically tunnelling from
one washing machine to another somewhere
else in the universe?
Flynn is convinced this is the case and
although quantum sock theory may be hard to
accept, the evidence he puts forward is com-
pelling:
fftjf] Socks disappear from inside washing
j | machines. This statement is so bla-
( p I tantly true it hardly needs proving.
However, if you doubt it just check
your collection of socks. It is almost certain that
some socks do not form pairs, showing conclu-
sively that some are missing.
Socks can also appear inside washing
machines. This is not so clear to the
casual observer, but yet again a quick
check of your sock collection should
soon convince you. You are bound to find at least
one odd sock that is not yours. You did not buy
it and you were never given it. The sock just
appeared one day.
Clearly the spontaneous creation and
destruction of socks inside a washing
machine would violate all conserva-
tion laws, especially sock parity, and
the conversion of the mass of the sock into ener-
gy would certainly play havoc with a low tem-
perature wash.
So if socks cannot be spontaneously created
or destroyed, the only explanation is that socks
tunnel between machines. Already this term,
there have been several reports from IC stu-
dents of likely tunnelling events. After losing a
woollen sock during a wash at a local laun-
derette, Valentina Cvord (Mech Eng) said "I
noticed it straight away, I definitely had the pair
before they went into the machine." And only
last week mining student Sophie Dowson lost
two socks (not a pair) in one wash! "I couldn't
believe it, they had just vanished - I am devas-
tated." she said.
Since the probability of tunnelling depends
on the width of the barrier, It is likely that most
sock tunnelling will occur between machines
which are in close proximity. Readers are urged,
therefore, to try their own quantum sock exper-
iments and report back on their results.
And anyone who finds my green Paddington
Bear sock turning up in their machine should
contact insight urgently.
Ben Wilkins
X I I

