.23 c* 2.50.
monssette 23 oil - shep bash
em p; hi Hie r.tv m;u -
lo«gpigs + pushennan-24 ^ . ^ B
•::
':
4 flic - -"Hfk
.shep basil empire itor-
(iiillie 3:nov - shep bush .empire -
£"10.50 die wildhearts 3 nov •
brixton academy -£K) buffalo
ton; ^ HOY ~ sH*?p bush empire -
nov - earls court - f 14 too fighters
14 & 15 ran - brixton academy -
*1 1
(.htunlxiwiunba IS nov •
i|x>rir.lhi::|:.:IB.5() tarter I N I I
2 1 run shep bush empire'
S 9 5(1 pulp 21 do - brix-
ton academy - £9.50 | i |
fiandyfrint:- to avoid i:rr§ o:
Irani tjlllmie or U L U t
- a l b u m : a l l c h a n g e - c a s t ™
It's just about five and a half years since There
She Goes' the La's contribution to the: annals ol
unforgettable 'popular' n \ oulsol our time. John,
their lead singer and his < urrent band Cast, have
now released their debut album Change', It is
easy to draw similarities hetv\ een the two bands.
Both bands hail from liverpooi and the vocal
styles arc somewhat akin, it being the Mine bloke
singing. Both have a touch ofrefrdih' their styffp
but the real difference is that whereas the La's,
despite their great moments, produced an awful
lot ol tat, the same cannot be said ot their prodi-
gies. From listening to the album, a live set and
seeing them perlonn I can honestly say I haven't
heard a bad Cast song.
Cast have given themselves and their album
great publicity by releasing two of the best songs
this year in 'Fine Time' followed by Alright'. Both
are uncriticisably beautiful songs every bit as good
as the revered 'There She Goes'. These two
..releases have alone highlighted Cast's originality
.is songsmiths at a time when most of the music
' jtimijthe North West of England is a
dour bland cocophony of Oasis-esque Mancunian
dm el (whether from Manchester or not]. It
seemed improbable that lor the other ten tracks
it could live up to their singles but happily I was
wrong. The album is fairly diverse in style but
every song is highly listenable, and none are album
fillers slung, on to make up ninning time. Among
the tracks are "Walkaway', a beautiful ballad dis-
g sensitivity and brilliant vocal tone in the
Scotigg: accent. In 'Sandstorm' guitar, voice and
bass intermingle flawlessly, and in 'Promised
Ljnli|s|'iJ||ankind', and 'History' they have a
tripletdfr5otenti.il hits to follow Alright'. So long
as their material doesn't dry up, we can expect
great things from them.
In summary - you'd be a fool not to buy this
album. (9)
a l b u m : g a r b a g e - g a r b a g e ^
Ho, ho, ho. What a wonderfully ironic band
name. How I'd love to be able to tell you that the
whole tiring has backfired and they are, in actual
fact, a load of garbage. Unfortunately, you can't
always manage to get things your own way,
although Butch Vig (he who produced Nirvana's
' N e v e r m i n d ' ,
Smashing Pumpkins'
'Siamese Dream'
and Soul Asylum's
'Let your dim light
shine', and is now
drummer and cre-
ative force behind
this lot) is doing a
pretty good job of U
doing just that.
Opener 'Super-
vixen' sets the pace
with layered guitars,
all manner of loops
and rhythmic sound
effects and the allur-
ing vocals of ex-Goodbye Mr. Mackenzie and
Angelfish lassie, Shirley Manson. If you're looking
for a reference point then try Curve with no pre-
tence and plenty of tunes. But that does not do
justice to Garbage. This album is flawed but dif-
ferent, conventional yet ready to take a chance,
from the blatantly melodic but darkly, menacing
tones of 'Only happy when it rains', through the
plain scary industrial guitar pop of Vow', to the
closing number,
'Milk', which man-
ages to achieve the
sexy, claustrophobic
sound that
Portishead probably
never will.
As debut albums go,
impressive. As
albums from failed
musicians-turned
producers-turned
musicians again go,
even more impres-
sive. (7)
a l b u m : s t r a w d o n k e y -
c a r t e r usrnbvms. c . dick
Jim Bob:- "O.K. Fruitbat, this is die
plan. We release a BEST OF album. A
compilation of our loudest, proudest
moments and thai wc take it back to
the kids....do a university tour."
Great idea, one problem. The kids grew up.
Angst ridden student protagonist become Price-
Waterhouse lapdogs, usurped by FreE loving
trance hippies whose mothers know more about
the meaning of the word revolution
The college circuit is no longer a breeding ground
for indie kids, and the fact that Carter usm sell
out on these tours is a bit worrying. So do Abba
tribute bands and Gary Glitter.
Yes of course this is a good album, ultimately
because of the earlier pearls of wisdom
'BloodsportforAll', 'Sheriff Fatman' and the like.
As for the new single 'Bom on the 5th of
November' poignant lyrics, great! 'Sheriff' at half
speed. Hmmm.
And yes of course we need bands as eloquent as
Carter, Billy Brag, Elvis Costello, Crass, 25th of
May etc. but don't expect them to change the
world for you. Oh, I forgot, you don't, do you.
Anyonefora job in accounting? (7)

