ur first
port of call
was Caracas
Venezuela
by virtue of the cheap flight that we bought to
South America.
This is a developed country waiting to happen.
It has all the resources: from its huge oil
reserves along the tropical Orinoco delta to its
rich supply of mineral deposits present in the
temperate cord of the Andes that marks the
end of that mountain chain in the west of the
country. Several factors have conspired to halt
its development and in
typical South
Simon Bolivar who liberated the country from
the Spanish in 1819. As a result, today in the
Venezuelan reckoning of the order of things
there comes Almighty God then Simon Bolivar
El Iibertador, and then everybody else. Every
settlement from the smallest hamlet to the
largest cities centre around a Plaza Bolivar. It
was from Ciudad Bolivar that we visited Angel
Falls, the highest free falling water fall in the
world at 979m (16 times the height of
Niagara). It is simply amazing. By the time the
water reaches the bottom it is afinespray,
broken up by its own fall, and in the jungle
hundreds of metres away you are showered.
We toured the country further with the time
we had left
and it was
American fashion, these
include corruption,
economic mismanagement (like setting
the petrol price at 5pence per gallon)
and no doubt a generous helping of
meddling from their neighbours on the
North American continent.
Venezuela also has large stretches of
coasdine on the Caribbean Sea that few
people, save the Venezuelans, know
about - indeed they market themselves to
foreigners as the Canbbean's best kept secret "\
- well now you know. Anyway, we weren't
long in heading for these beaches and we soon
realised that the tourist board marketing boys
weren't far off... actually I think Cadbury's may
have filmed the odd Bounty advert here, and
by the looks of it they had left some of the
leading female parts behind!
After a week of these beaches I was a rich
shade of crimson and I decided that I should
pull myself (and my melanomas) away from it
all in order to investigate the interior of the
country. We started with a journey down to the
Orinoco and its one bridge in the entire country
at Ciudad Bolivar. This city is named after
not so
much the country
that stood out so much as its
people, their customs and
quirks. I thought I
had never met such a
friendly nation of people
(though other South
American countries would prove
similar). For example, you don't ask them
anything without first saying 'hello' and 'good
day' (a habit that earned me strange looks in
shops back home) and sometimes your original
question is forgotten amidst the ensuing
conversation. They also make you smile; like if
they don't allow you on a bus if you are wearing
shorts or how they don't sell stamps in a post
office, stupid! or how they would rather answer
you half asked question with a 'Yes' than listen
to the rest of it.
h e n *
? i t » ; VlpfBOiiiii::':! vfe":0 :rr
-

