DIARY FELIX FRIDAY OCTOBER 1 3TH 1995 . TWENTY-ONE
fist, and although we spent a week moving
and splitting boulders and chipping away at
bedrock with hammers and chisels, the
entrances kept chocking with rubble. To our
disappointment all our digging efforts came to
nothing.
In the meantime though there had been
some success. Four caves on the edge of the
mountain had started to show real promise,
including one called 'Julians Panties'. A
chilling breeze draughting from its
entrance lead us to believe that the void
beyond had huge volume, anc
odds were 10 to 1 that is w
over 1000m deep!
Another cave aptly
known as 'Torn T
had been explor
and surveyed to a
depth of 80r
d u r i n g
Slovenia '
'94 and was
thought too
tight to continue
deeper. Two pus
revealed a p
vertical shaft and
impassibly tight pitch
from which a thrown rock would
bounce around for seconds below
Time was passing, and after three
weeks of work on the mountain, wholemeal
chappattis, bean curry and loose stools, our
caving clothing was in tatters. Unlike
Yorkshire caves which are smooth from water
and decades of human impact, Slovenian
caves are generally tight and sharp. Although
our minds were strong and our enthusiasm
was high, our bodies were weak. A weekly
treck was made down the mountain for a
much needed wash and a group headed off for
a weekend in Trieste, Italy, to the nearest
caving supplier and to find a whole load of
babes on the beach.
Back at camp, we got down to pushing
the leads. 'Torn T' is a difficult cave to push.
It starts with a tight entrance rift, then a long
tight rift with difficult navigation, involving
tricky free climbs. Tackle bags of rope and
tools often needed to be passed forward, and
equipment frequently got caught on cave
walls. It takes about three hours to get this
far, and with many hours of chiselling and
bolting, one of the thinner among us was able
plop through the 'Otimisqueeze' and
explore further.
On the way out we swang over
onto a ledge, and were delighted
with the find. It was a
horizontal dry gallery
covered with black
boulders under
which there was
sand. In
places there
was fresh
running water
d scores of ways
to explore - great avens
in the ceiling and pitches in
e floor. It was the ideal
place for an underground camp.
After a trip to Postonia, we set up
e camp where three of us explored
the gallery area to emerge late next day.
We had found a huge void, a stone dropped
from which took four seconds to hit the floor.
We rejoiced! After putting in a number of
bolts we hit the end of the rope. We
connected two more ropes to the end and
descended but were still dangling in free
space. Believing the floor to be another 15m
down, we attached another rope. It wasn't
enough, the end hung about 20m from the
floor! This was our last rope and our last day
of caving...
We'll be back next year!
C a v i n g C l u b
After twenty four hours of solid driving down
to Slovenia we were about ready to stretch
our legs a little by climbing up a mountain. It
took several days to transport all our
equipment and most of our food for six weeks
up to 1500m and all the essential items for a
comfortable base and safe caving on a plateau
at 1800m. Then the real work could begin.
The purpose of the expedition was to
find, explore and survey new caves. Our camp
was located on the Migovec plateau, a
wilderness of broken limestone, shake holes
and dwarf pine. The area has, in theory, one
of the best potentials for depth of caves in
Europe, yet the local caving club JSPDT had
insufficient human resources to give it the
attention it deserved. With close support
from JSPDT, Imperial College Cavers moved
in, this year a team of approximately ten
people with a range of caving experience.
We started by going head first, bottoms
up into every promising entrance we
stumbled across and then marking them for
future exploration. There were literally
hundreds of potential caves. The plateau,
roughly 1 x Vi km in size, was heavily pitted
with shakeholes, tunnels and shafts, large and
small (but generally tight and sharp). Even
working in small teams this took several days
and a sacrifice of shredding t-shirts for the
cause. We had some hints as to which
entrances were likely to lead into a cave
system. Four club members had visited the
plateau when it had laid under several metres
of snow. They had fallen down, marked and
recorded the coordinates of more than 50
snow chimneys which allowed the cave below
to 'breathe'. Finding the small splodges of
paint, however, in this limestone jungle was
no easy task. Those breathing holes that were
relocated turned out to be no bigger than a
Stop Smoking Group
The next Stop Smoking group will start on
Wednesday 8th November at 12:15pm. each
meeting will last for an hour and there will
be 4 more weekly meetings, making 5
altogether. The groups are often small,
maximum 10 people, and are open to all
students and staff of IC.
For further details contact Margaret
Reddoch on extension 49393 / 49375.
Careers Information
There are two Careers Talks this coming
week in the Clore Lecture Theatre (Huxley
LT 213) at 1 - 1.50pm.
Tuesday 17th October: "The First
Interview" by Peter Johnston, Manager
Human Resources at Mobil Oil Company.
Thursday 19th October: "Environmental
Careers" by Professor Nigel bell of ICCET.
All students are welcome to attend. No need
to book - just turn up.
"Make your Application Succeed - how to
deal with application forms" is an Interactive
Workshop run on Wednesday 18th October
from 2 - 4pm in Huxley Room 344. Sign up
in the Careers Office.
For information and advice come to the
Careers Office, Room 310 Sherfield - open
from 10am to 5:15pm Monday to Friday.
The Friends of IC
Present a repeat of "Camels, Horses and
Committees: How are design and function
related?" by Professor Robert Schroter (of
Biological Mechanics in the Centre for
Biological and Medical Systems). This
lecture focuses mainly on the problems faced
by animals coping with extremes of climatic
heat. He will also report on his recent work
in Atlanta and Badminton, on stress and
climatic effects on supreme athletes taking
part in the forthcoming Olympic Games.
Students and Staff are invited to attend this
free lecture on 17th October, 6:30pm in the
Clore Lecture Theatre, Huxley Building.

