FRESHERS' WEEK FELIX FRIDAY OCTOBER 1 3TH . FIVE
Fresh faced
O n Monday night fire alarms were set
off by the ents lounge smoke machine
and the union was evacuated an hour
before closing.
On Wednesday everyone had to sit on
the floor when too many turned up to
see the comedy. Later a window was
smashed in the ents lounge.
Okay, I admit it. I wasn't there for col-
lege acid jazz type outfit Bandicoot. You can
blame another gig on the other side of London
for that.
What I can say is that when I saw
Bandicoot in the union a few months ago I
was startled by their musical cohesion and
expert playing. By all accounts, tonight they
way surpassed that performance, not least
due to the introduction of some fine female
vocals. Yessir, creative ability need not be
hampered by doing a science degree. Is
;On Friday night every gents' toilet in the building
blocked.
"Write something nice about freshers' week/' Ents
manager Mark Home said.
"Whatever, the people had a good time and you
Ican't ask for much more than that". Vik Bansal was
at the Freshers' Ball:
Imperial College about
to have another Queen
on its hands?!
And just to prove
that college bands rule
okay, the next band in
the Ents Lounge,
Metropolis, paled in
comparison with their
brand of jazz. Average
and not particularly
inspirational, there's not a lot else to say.
And so to upstairs and the ever-popular
Whirl-y-gig. First up are Earthquake who
didn't so much as violently shake the
dancefloor as gently rock it with their
soothing dub sounds. Fine as a get-the-
drunk-people-in-the-mood type of thing.
And in the mood they most certainly
were for final live act of the night,
Astralasia. Astralasia had done their
homework. Get a scantily clad female
dancer at the front of the stage and you
I know you're on a winner at most places.
' Do it at Imperial and 76% of the audience
will profess love and babble on about hav-
ing the lady's babies.
Cynicism aside, they gave everyone what
they wanted (musically, you understand).
Pumping beats and swirling keyboard sounds
combined to get people attempting their best
impressions at directing aeroplanes. Or
maybe they were practising being air host-
esses.
Whatever, the people had a good time
and you can't ask for much more than that.
Photos: Diana Harrison

