John and Ann can at last be
married. The trouble is, the
characters haven't engaged our
sympathy enough for us to care one
way or the other—Ann in particular
is not helped by the off-puttingly
wide vibrato Linda McLeod brings
to the part. The peal and boom of
the synthesised wedding bells, be
they everso carefully sampled,
engenders no emotional response
whatsoever, like too much of what
has gone before.
So, if it's music and
transcendentalism you're after, my
advice is, put on a personal stereo,
head for Oxford Street and get
yourself nabbed by the Hare
Krishnas.
Patrick W o o d .
• Further performances at the
Coliseum, St Martin's Lane, at
7.30pm on the 11th, 17th and 22nd
of June.
Reviews
11 June 1993
Opera
E N O : Inquest of Love
'Will there be a pre-performance
talk?' I asked (there sometimes is
before a world premiere). 'Er.. .no,'
was the reply, 'but there is a pre-
performance meditation, it's about
transcendentalism, you see.' Good
job, really; it takes a hefty dose of
the transcendental to cope with the
fact that your three principals have
all got themselves killed by the end
of Act I. Composer Jonathan
Harvey overcomes this problem by
setting Act II of his new Inquest of
Love in the afterlife, where the
lovers John and Ann and the
rejected, gun-toting Elspeth have to
purge themselves of the suffering
they have inflicted. This territory
may sound familiar, having been
covered by several Hollywood
feelgood flicks during the last few
years, and indeed it wasn't the only
Felix 970
aspect of the evening that caused me
a feeling of deja vu. Near the
beginning of the work we hear the
sound of breathing (Tippett's
Symphony no. 4 is just as evocative
and doesn't need a synthesiser); the
first murder is seen three times from
different angles—Birtwistle used a
similar trick for the decapitation of
the Green Knight in Gawain—and
there's a chorus of monks, whose
plainchant-inspired music recalls
recent successes by Tavener and
Part.
The opera opens with synthesised
whale-moans and receding
motorway traffic noises. A striking
theme surfaces to accompany the
Abbott (Richard Van Allan, in fine
voice, although mostly
unintelligible). But Harvey seems
almost deliberately to shy away
from cumulative motivic
progression, so on a first hearing,
that appeared to be just about all
there was to the first act, until the
final minute brought a sudden and
powerful climax. The production is
completely at sea, and the chorus
resort to the tried and tested house
maxim: if in doubt, writhe around
hysterically.
Act II introduces several angels.
(Actually they may have appeared
briefly in Act I, but since they were
suspended from the ceiling with
their faces painted blue, it was hard
to tell.) Josh is an imp in baggy,
orange satin shorts Philia, by the
red cross on her chest appears to be
a nurse, although from her name,
she might be a dentist. Or
transcendentist (crap pun!—Ed).
Thankfully the second scene
manages to find some musical and
dramatic focus; John and Ann are
conducted by the Psychopomp, an
eschatalogical lift-attendant, down
into the Chasm, where emotionally
derailed wraiths scramble around
inside the coaches of a wrecked
train. Harvey succeeds in sustaining
the interest during a reconciliation
scene with Elspeth, after which
Big
Space
^Theatre
S e x In M y A n o r a k
Firstly, this 'play' does not focus on
sex nor anoraks so perverts will be
disappointed.
Secondly, this is not a play but
eighty minutes or so of comedy
sketches, so luvvies and darlings of
the theatre will be disappointed if
they go for an evening of
pretentious delights.
Finally, this is bloody good and
must be seen. The links between
certain sketches are very good but
some scenes do drag on past their
laugh-by date. I'm only going to tell
you a few of the acts to wet your
appetite and these are possibly the
best: A song about masturbation, a
piss take of 20,000 Leagues Under
The Sea, advice on how to get a
woman / man into bed, and what to
order in an Armenian restaurant.
The Canal Cafe Theatre allows to
eat and drink while being
entertained. But don't bother. You
will laughing so much that the food
will go cold and your money will
be wasted.
Harry
• The Canal Cafe Theatre,
Delamere Terrace, Warwick Ave.
Tube. Wed-Sun 8pm £5, no cones.
Sorry readers, it's timefor a Donny O' Nonchalent type rant beneath this picturefrom ENO: Inquest OfLove.
Only one more Felix to go (sniff, sniff). Are you going to miss us over the summer? Will you be pining foi
our nipple-erecting news, or our museful music reviews, or ourfabulous features, or our revealing reviews,
or our whip-cracking what's on section, or our raunchy RAG page, or our unbelievable Union page ? I know
I will. What will you do instead? Will you be very sad and buy Q or Smash Hits or some other glossy dribble
not worthyfor the bin ? Don't give in to temptation. Be strong. Be brave. October isn't thatfar off. It's only
approximately 13 weeks away. 13 WEEKS!!!!! Oh my God!!! That's years away!!! Donny, be a love andpass
the scalpel. Let me slash my wrists now and end the agony. Donny? Donny? Are you OK? What's that blood
gushing from your wrists ? Bastard! He's left without saying goodbye. Typical of him really.
Page 20

