4
rover
Thursday 1 June 2006
On the 6 April 1994 the Hutu-controlled govern-
ment of Rwanda launched a well-planned attack
on the Tutsi minority with chilling efficiency,
resulting in the deaths of more than 800,000
people in just 100 days. Whilst the West largely
ignored the conflict, refusing to acknowledge
it as genocide, Paul Rusesabagina turned the
prestigious Hotel des Mille Collines into an
impromptu refugee camp. In his new autobiog-
raphy, An Ordinary Man, he tells the story of
how he saved the lives of 1,268 Tutsi and moder-
ate Hutus.
Throughout those three months Paul insists
that he did “nothing special, I managed the
hotel like I would every other day” but, to the
people in his care his actions were nothing
short of extraordinary. Through his bravery and
selflessness they escaped the rape and slaugh-
ter that besieged the streets as soldiers and
the government armed Interahamwe militia
systematically hunted down the Tutsi 'inyenzi'
(cockroaches).
It is difficult to imagine how he managed to
save his own life, let alone those of 1,268 oth-
ers, when by rights he should have been on the
government’s hit-list. Though a Hutu himself,
his wife is a Tutsi and as such his children are of
mixed-race, making him a target. He was also a
known dissident who often rebelled against the
government, refusing to wear badges express-
ing devotion to the Hutu President and hosting
the Tutsi rebel army, the RPF.
Although no other moderate Hutu would have
been tolerated by the regime, Rusesabagina
was able to charm and cajole many of the mili-
tants and officials. Using a black binder full of
the names of Rwanda's movers and shakers -
collected during his years of service in the Mille
Collines' sister hotel the Hotel Diplomates - he
traded in those favours for lives.
He applied his amazing ability to read people
methodically: first, flattery, by implying that
officials were ‘too important to be dealing with
this’, second an appeal to their wallet, and fail-
ing that, he would play on their fear of doubt
- ‘what if the Hutus lose the battle, and you are
up against the Court of Human Rights, what
will you tell them? If you help us I will be able
to defend you.’
Ironically, the only people who failed to suc-
cumb to Rusesabagina charm and persuasion
were Western governments. When the hotel
phones were cut off in April 1994, his black bind-
er and the influential contacts it contained were
useless, removing the last lifeline. However, the
ever-ingenious Paul saw round this problem by
using the fax machine (which had a direct line
to the national grid). He stayed up late every
night firing off faxes to the Belgian Foreign
Ministry, the White House, and the United
Nations - whoever might listen. One night he
followed up on a fax to the White House only to
be told that he “should contact the embassy of
the United States in Rwanda”. He informed the
White House that their embassy left Rwanda on
the 9th of April.
Despite, minimal help from both the UN and
the US, Rusesabagina was able to keep the
refugees alive until they could be transported to
refugee camps around the country. Soon after-
wards the RPF took power, forming a Tutsi-only
government.
Two years later after his family were granted
asylum in Belgium he left Rwanda as a refugee.
With little more than a briefcase Paul was able
to support himself as a Taxi driver. Being a
natural businessman he expanded this into a
minicab firm, and has now started a trucking
company in Tanzania.
Paul’s story became widely known with the
release of Hotel Rwanda, where he is played
by Don Cheadle, who Paul says is “much bet-
ter looking”. Following the release of the film
he was invited to the White House to meet
President George Bush. When asked about the
meeting, in which they discussed the situation
in Africa, he simply laughed. He holds a lot of
resentment toward the United States for its
failure to intervene or even address the atrocity
by its proper name - genocide.
Fully aware that the International Genocide
Treaty would force them to act if they labelled
the conflict as genocide, the US stated only that
“acts of genocide had occurred”, but there was
not sufficient evidence to suggest that the acts
were targeted at eliminating a specific group.
Subsequently President Clinton has apolo-
gised to the Rwandan people and publicly stated
that not intervening in Rwanda was one of the
biggest regrets of his administration. Paul told
Felix, “He [Clinton] apologised; that is ok, but it
would have been better if he had joined words
with actions. Those were just words.”
It is widely acknowledged that the world at
large made a dreadful mistake by not inter-
vening earlier. A meagre 2,500 United Nations
Peace Keeping troops were sent to Rwanda
prior to the genocide but with a pitiful mandate.
They were prevented from using their weapons
except in self–defence, and were powerless to
intervene even when people were being slaugh-
tered directly in front of them.
Rusesabagina heavily criticises General
Romeo Dallaire, commander of UN forces in
Rwanda, and the UN in general, stating that its
presence was “worse than useless”, and was
only there to appease the world’s conscience.
Early on in the genocide, Dallaire submitted a
proposal to the Security Council for 5,000 well-
equipped soldiers. His request was refused. A
later investigation revealed that this force would
have, at the very least, reduced the slaughter.
Dallaire tried in vain to force the genocide into
the forefront of the Security Council’s mind,
giving interviews to every major media organi-
sation, in which he appealed for more troops
and a revised mandate. However, Rusesabagina
believes that this was inadequate and Dallaire
“should have disobeyed the foolish orders from
New York... or if he did not have the stomach
to do this then I think he should have made a
spectacle out of resigning.”
The timing of the genocide could not have
been worse for the victims. The slaughter began
in April 1994 just months after the failed opera-
tion in Somalia of Black Hawk Down fame,
which left the West extremely reluctant to send
any more troops to Africa. On the first day of the
genocide the militia slaughtered ten Belgian
peace-keepers to further discourage any inter-
vention by the UN. As a result, Belgium, backed
by the UK and the US, withdrew its troops, leav-
ing just 260 poorly equipped soldiers, all from
the developing world.
Paul remains critical of the UN's peacekeep-
ing record. He says that in most cases the
‘men on the ground’ are from poorer countries,
whose governments are using the UN “as just
a means to an end to improve their 'premium'
with the superpowers” and that “the business
of peace-keeping is now more of a joke, as
superpowers are no longer involved.”
In Rusesabagina’s view the UN’s failure in
Rwanda is just one of the events that has left
the UN in its current state of impotence. The
UN was forged for all the right reasons in the
aftermath of the Second World War, to be an
international body for peace, but Rusesabagina
believes that its very inclusiveness is the one
thing preventing it from being an effective body.
“The UN can’t decide unless they decide by con-
sensus. Each and every one of the 150 members
must have their say but by then the genocide
would have been over.”
Rusesabagina told me that “‘never’ and
‘again’ are the two most abused words in the
world today”. When President Clinton used
those words in an inauguration speech at the
Holocaust memorial in Washington in 1993
there was another genocide taking place on the
other side of the world.
Though officially there are no longer distinc-
tions made between Hutus and Tutsis - eve-
ryone is simply Rwandan - Rusesabagina told
me this is just a façade to keep the West happy.
“Telling someone ‘you are not a Hutu’ and the
other ‘you are not a Tutsi’ is just like telling
you ‘you’re not white’ and me ‘I’m not black’.”
Rusesabagina believes that the hatred is so
ingrained that fresh bloodshed in the future is
not unimaginable. He says that although there
is now a multiracial government, with Hutus in
positions of authority, these roles are largely
just symbolic, with no effective powers.
In the eyes of the Western world the new
Rwandan government is a model of African
democracy, but according to Rusesabagina all
is not as it seems, as the government operates
through intimidation. Paul explained, “When
they see the Tutsi survivors they tell them,
‘listen you guys. Your Hutu neighbours were
going to kill you. It was us, the RPF, who saved
your lives. Shut up.’ They also come to Hutus
and tell them ‘we will kill you anytime we want,
if it wasn’t for us you wouldn’t be here’. Those
Hutus also shut up.” The Rwandan govern-
ment’s intimidation does not stop with its own
citizens. “Whenever the international commu-
nity raises a voice the government says ‘listen
you guys. You ignored the fact that there was
a genocide. Don’t give us a lesson. You’ve got
nothing to teach us’ and the international com-
munity just shuts up.”
Western nations have tried to press Rwanda
into dealing more effectively with the 120,000
genocide suspects held in prison, more than
50% of whom are being held without charge.
He told me “it is worse than Guantanamo Bay,
because in Rwanda with the husband in jail the
wife and children are also in prison” as the wife
has to bring the husband’s food to the prison at
10am every day, preventing her from working.
Though the legal system is overwhelmed by
an immense workload, this is not a sufficient
excuse for its lack of effectiveness, as Paul
explained: “after the genocide the whole world
felt guilty. They said ‘now we are going to help
Rwanda to rebuild’. They raised $1.2bn. They
started training judges, but those judges never
went to courts.”
Instead of a more formal justice system,
Rwanda has favoured a form of community
justice called Gaccaca courts, where the local
people come together to try and to convict their
peers. Rusesabagina strongly disagrees with
the Gacacca system because “everyone knows
that in the Gaccaca courts those peasant people
will be trying and convicting their neighbours.
They can convict you to 30 years imprisonment
or even life. Is that power really to be given to
people of such a lower level?”
Paul is extremely worried about the situa-
tion within not just Rwanda but also Africa as
a whole. According to Rusesabagina, the whole
of Africa is just a “forgotten continent”. He
reels of a list of other forgotten African horrors:
Uganda, Darfur, Ivory Coast, Somalia. “Africa
seems to be very far away from America and
Europe. Those are the deciders?” He believes
that the status quo can be changed but “what
we need now is to send a strong message to all
of those dictators who kill their own people, who
steal from their own countries. Listen you guys,
you are not untouchable, one day you will also
face justice.”
Today, we shudder at the astounding rapidity
with which the massacres took place. Averaged
out, 8000 people died each day, meaning more
than 5 lives were taken each minute. Paul
Rusesabagina, whose names mean, fittingly,
‘the great communicator’ and ‘warrior who
disperses enemies’ managed to save 4 hours
worth of people. His autobiography is a tale of
courage and human resilience, yet he himself
is a modest and simple man, who insists that he
did nothing extraordinary. He is a modern day
hero, and an inspiration to all.
An Ordinary Man is published by Bloomsbury
and priced at £16.99 (hardback).
Rupert Neate & Saba Shafi
No Ordinary
No Ordinary
Man
Man
The hero of Hotel Rwanda, Paul Rusesabagina, launches a
damning critique of the United Nations and the Rwandan
government, telling Rupert Neate why the world needs to
take notice of Africa, the “forgotten continent”

