10
felix
www.felixonline.co.uk Thursday 1 June 2006
U
nless you’ve been under a rock for the
past couple of weeks, you are likely
to have had a leaflet for Oxbridge
Essays shoved in your face as you
walked around the South Kensington
campus. And for those that have skipped the front
page story last week and went straight for the
rugby boys naked centrefold, all is forgiven: I’m
here once again to entertain and inform.
Oxbridge Essays is a company whose idea is
simple and brilliant: get students at Oxbridge to
write your essays for you, charge extraordinary
amounts of money, pay the Oxbridge student a
happy amount so they have money to spend on
Pepsi and Sprite when they’re in need of a tip-
ple at the Advanced Algebra Society meeting on
Saturday night, and pocket the rest of the money.
My initial reaction as I read the flier in a bor-
ing lecture was probably the same as the rest of
the student population at Imperial: “Oxford and
Cambridge…” followed by a few choice words
which I’ve been told by the editor I’m not allowed
to repeat. Upon closer inspection, however, it
appears that Oxbridge may not be as guilty as
they first appear.
The company is actually owned by a student at
Birmingham University and his brother at King’s
College. The former was recently cleared of bring-
ing his university into disrepute because ‘what
Oxbridge Essays does is entirely legal’. Okay,
they have a sentence on the website stating that
nobody should hand the essays in as their own
work – but I go on the assumption that people buy
these essays to plagiarise. If anybody reading this
thinks that someone would pay £1,440 for a 3000
word undergraduate essay to an upper first stand-
ard and not hand it in, please write in to Felix and
state your opinion clearly, so I can send off your
complimentary tin foil hat.
So why is the company so successful in the
first place? It’s reasonable to assume they must
be, since they keep recruiting more and more
Oxbridge students to write things for strangers.
However, who in their right mind would pay that
much for someone else to write what you could
probably do just as well yourself? And don’t forget,
the Rector has made it perfectly clear that any-
one caught buying and using these essays will be
expelled, which is more than fair. After all, if that’s
the best thing you can think of to spend your
money on, I’m more than happy to advise.
Ironically, they even offer services writing
Oxbridge entrance essays to people wanting to get
in, which means that in a few years’ time, the peo-
ple writing them for you might not even be good
enough to write their own.
Assuming an undergraduate studies a four year
Master’s course at the Imperial international rate
averaging £15,000ish a year, that amounts to about
60 “guaranteed first” fast delivery essays. The
last time I checked, Imperial’s standards haven’t
dropped low enough that handing in fifteen not-
even-upper-second essays a year (while simulta-
neously flopping your exams) is enough to get you
a degree. So who is actually silly enough to believe
that plagiarising ten good essays, which could
cost the same as a nice new car, is going to get
you anywhere closer to success in the real world?
Someone must, because the company is making
money – answers on a postcard.
I was considering grouping together enough
money to buy a 6,000 word dissertation about why
Imperial kicks Oxbridge into the middle of next
week. However, since my wallet can’t support that,
I’m contemplating setting up my own company:
Imperial Essays, and I’ll happily write your lab
report for you for a measly £500, which is a bar-
gain. I’ll even throw in a tin foil hat.
John Sargent
Formula sheets for a tenner, anyone?
N
o – this isn’t a TV programme (yet). Last
week, George Galloway said it would be
“morally justified” if a suicide bomber
were to kill Tony Blair, just stopping
short of calling for the assassination himself. But
he was not quite so clear-cut when asked whether
he would alert the authorities if he knew of such a
scheme. He remarked what a “moral maze” that
quandary was before explaining how he would
report an assassination plot – not because that’s
the law but because he feared the murder would
cause an islamophobic backlash.
I’m happy to admit I’m not a fan of George’s,
but I’ve never had any sleepless nights thinking
about whether or not to report anyone conspiring
to murder. Even if you did follow Galloway’s logic
that by ordering our armed forces into action,
Blair is responsible for the deaths at their hands,
it still does not follow that his death is in any way
justifiable. Britain thankfully does not have the
death penalty. By that sort of reasoning, vigilante
retribution can be argued to be morally just.
Fortunately, that’s not the case in our society.
But it is far from clear whether Galloway’s
antics are motivated in the defence of Muslims
or by his fierce opposition to America. Over the
years, he’s been willing to fly as far as needs be
to make acquaintance with dictator after dicta-
tor, so long as they’re hostile towards the United
States. After the first Gulf War, Galloway flew out
to salute Saddam Hussein’s courage, strength,
and indefatigability. Last year, Syrian president
Bashar al-Assad received Galloway’s praise only
months after the assassination of the Lebanese
Prime Minister, Rafik Hariri, whose death many
believe to have been at the hands of the Syrian
regime. But beyond that, Galloway supported
the USSR, saying that the “disappearance of the
Soviet Union is the biggest catastrophe of [his]
life”. More recently, he opposed the military action
against Serbia which stopped the mass murder of
Kosovan Muslims. And now, Castro is the latest
to get Galloway’s praise, being referred to as his
“the living person he most admires”.
Galloway aside, populist politics is rife in
Respect. Back when Yvonne Ridley visited
Imperial, she boasted how Respect’s candidates
were “a rich multicultural mix of people”. But
it doesn’t quite seem that way now in Tower
Hamlets. Of Respect’s twelve councillors, all
twelve are Bengali. The fallout of their cam-
paigning tactics has resulted in voting on racial
grounds. In some wards where only one or two
Respect councillors were elected, it was the
Khans, Begums and Munims that were elected
– not the Townesends and Empsons that stood
for Respect. The likely cause of this is people
only voting for the Bengali candidates – a very
worrying sign of divisions on ethnic and religious
grounds.
The far-left is keen to take on racism and pop-
ulism from the BNP and other far-right parties.
But when the effects of racial tensions and reli-
gious divisions are evident in their own back yard,
Respect has decided to capitalise on it rather than
confront it. If that’s not the intention, the effect of
campaigning that splits the community is devas-
tating and hard to undo. Their strategy to focus
on anti-war campaigning and targeting areas
with a high Bengali populations may be paying off
electorally. But when the dust has settled, such
tactics leave a polarised populace, with the danger
of those who feel disenfranchised voting for the
far-right. It’s time Respect showed a little more
respect to the communities they now represent.
Alon Or-bach
Gorgeous George’s moral maze
COMMENT & DEBATE comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
T
his week the Brown Couch looks at stu-
dent cheating. It was reported last week
that essays written by Oxbridge students
were available to buy online from upward
of £500. The Brown Couch has investigated other
internet-based exam services such as Stan's
Exams (www.stansexams.com). Owned by Stan
Kalowski, once a cleaner at Imperial, the com-
pany's main service is "Precision Revision" - in
which students pay upward of £200 an hour for
one of Stan's employees (known in the trade as a
"Knowledge Man") to do revision on their behalf.
During the session, the Knowledge Man tackles
the difficult revision work facing the student. We
spoke to Ralph, a 2nd year chemistry student and
one of Stan's current clients. "I've been working
a lot with Montgomery - an expert Polymath and
Classicist. When he's doing my work, I generally
lounge around on Queen's Lawn or traipse around
campus. I worked with him a bit in the first year
but I didn't do very well in my exams. This year
I've been working a lot more with him but despite
that, my first exam was last week and I still found
it really hard – nigh impossible."
For students with more money to spend,
they can purchase the "Executive Exam Plan".
Students spend the month leading up to the
exams involved in Precision Revision with
Sir DeVille Saint-Clare – the highest ranking
Knowledge Man in the business. When the exams
arrive, Sir DeVille uses a faked swipe-card to legit-
imately sit all the exams in the student's name.
We spoke to Sir DeVille at his London residence.
With a grey handle-bar moustache, chained-
monocle and diamond cane, he looks every bit the
academic Hercules you'd expect. "I started as a
knowledge man in the 1950s after obtaining my
3rd undergraduate degree and 5th PhD – all from
Cambridge. My work used to take me on excur-
sions all around the globe – I've sat exams on
behalf of the Prince Regent of Papua New Guinea
as well as Mao Tse-tung's nephew."
Sir DeVille speaks 19 languages and is acknowl-
edged as a world leader in almost all fields. He
moved to Stan's Exams in 2000 to reduce his work-
load at the start of his retirement. When asked if
there'd ever been any problems with ID checks
when sitting exams, he just chuckled. "Things
were a lot easier 40 years ago. Fashions have
changed and I think that now I look a little out of
place in my full evening suit [with tails, a cum-
merbund and silk gloves]. My slow, sloping cursive
script and Latin colloquialisms also looks slightly
arcane nowadays. Technology is also making
things more difficult. During the last exam I sat,
the barcode on my fake swipe card was scanned.
When it registered an error, I had to charm the
exam invigilator to take a lenient attitude." Our
final question was to ask how much Sir DeVille
charges for his extraordinary services. He just
looked us up and down and laughed.
Many students are too poor to afford the serv-
ices offered by Stan's Exams – they have to rely
on more primitive methods. According to a report
to be published in the Times tomorrow, the two
most common exam cheating methods used by
Imperial students are "Toilet Breaks" and "Non-
linguistic Communication". The "Non-linguistic
Communication" method mentioned in the report
details attempts made by students to use Morse
code, binary code and semaphore to pass answers
and information around the exam room. Common
signalling methods include coughing, table-tap-
ping and tribal tongue-clicking. One attempt was
made to use the specialist Hamley's teddy-bear
"Semaphore Sam" to communicate circuit dia-
grams in an electronic engineering exam. The
bears were brought into the exam under the guise
of mascots, but the alarm was raised when an
invigilator and part-time Navy reservist watched
the four-inch flags and correctly decoded the mes-
sage.
Not all cheating, however, is deliberate.
Millstone Water, a Scottish based soft-drinks firm
has released a new brand of water called "Liquid
Learning". The bottle label is packed with sci-
entific formulae, historical dates and passages
from great works of literature. Intended as a
revision aid, the new product has caused many
students to be removed from exams and expelled
from their courses for "possessing prohibited
academic material during the exam sessions".
Millstone Water is rethinking its product strategy
and considering withdrawing its "Revision-aid
Lemonade". This has not stopped other manu-
facturers jumping on the revision-aid bandwagon
with the appearance of the Maths Mars bar, Smart
Smarties, cheesy corn-based snack "Swotsits" and
the difficult to read Cadbury's Crème Egg-heads.
Brown Couch
Semaphore Sam

