What’s going up & what’s coming down
across campus
With scaﬀolding coming up &
down all around the campus,
hereʼs a summary of some
College building projects that
are in the pipeline
Southside & Princeʼs Gardens
This £51 million project was delayed for
a number of years because of planning
permission problems due to the old
buildingʼs national heritage status.
The current state of this project is
clearly visible for all to see, with the old
Southside halls of residences having been
demolished and construction underway
for 3 new halls, which will provide 420
bed spaces. The building will also house
the Collegeʼs medical centre, which will
be larger than it was previously, as well
as social space that can be used by all
Imperial students.
The project is due for completion by
October 2007, ready for incoming
students of that year to be its ﬁrst
residents. The Gardens in front of the
halls are being developed and are hoped
to be open for the end of 2006.
Students have been involved since the
design stage of this project. If you have
any further questions, contact Sarah
Khatib, Deputy President (Education &
Welfare) dpew@imperial.ac.uk who is the
rep for this project.
Central Library
As discussed in an earlier Union page,
work on the Library will be happening
over the next few years, starting this
summer. The project will improve the
working conditions in the Library, provide
more study space and allow for the
relocation of the Humanities department.
However during the construction period
some resources will be relocated.
For more information see
http://www.imperial.ac.uk/library
Sherfield Building
The long term intention is to completely
redevelop the building including the
catering areas – JCR, MDH and their
kitchens – and to create one area for all
the student oriented services such as
the Registry and Accommodation Oﬃce.
Other space on the upper ﬂoors will
continue to be used for administrative
services such as the Estates department
and relocation of ICT. In order to create
additional space the intention is to ﬁll in
the light-wells within the centre of the
building.
Though plans are not completely concrete
for the ﬁrst phase of development, the
initial plan is to refurbish the 3rd ﬂoor
and to ﬁll the light-well in the 4th and
5th ﬂoor to create the additional space.
Itʼs hoped that the work will start in
the autumn although the funds for the
project have yet to be agreed. Plans
are also underway for a much needed
revitalisation of the JCR and will start
when funding is secured and occur
during the undergraduate vacation times.
As the Sherﬁeld Building plans will not be
ﬁnalised until next month, please look
out for more details about when work will
start and what areas will be affected.
Exhibition Road
With Tanaka in 2003, the next plan is
to complete the Exhibition Road area
of campus with a modern redeveloped
building housing both Mech Eng &
Aeronautics and replacing those currently
there. Initial designs are underway
with the architects to be chosen soon.
Building work is not expected to start
until after the Centenary year.
Huxley
The Huxley building is coming to the end
of its life and within the next 10 years is
due to be demolished and a replacement
built. This project is quite far off, but in
the meantime £1million investment will
be made to the building to maintain it
during this time.
Burlington Danes
This £54 million building is part of a
large-scale research investment on the
Hammersmith Hospital Campus and is in
its ﬁnal stage, due to be completed this
year. Funding for this project came from
Imperial College, GlaxoSmithKline and
Medical Research Council.
Bessemer
The £22million construction work has
provided new teaching facilities and
research facilities, and will house the
Institute of Biomedical Engineering, Bio
Nanotechnology Centre and Bio Incubator
Unit. Most of this ﬁrst phase is in its
ﬁnishing stages as can be seen from
Dalby Court, though the 2nd phase of
works is scheduled to start soon.
Maths Institute
Located in 53 Princes Gate, the institute
is now open and occupied and provides
oﬃces for academic staff and research
students. The Institute was part funded
by David Potter, founder and chairman of
Psion and an alumnus of the College and
is due to be oﬃcially opened in the next
few months.
Queenʼs Lawn
Due to the number of projects, the need
to decant to portacabins temporarily is
high. But now College have conﬁrmed
that they wonʼt be using the lawn !!
Union Building, Beit Quad
For this building development youʼve
received a lot information through the
Union and detailed info is available at
http://ww.union.ic.ac.uk . Building work
is scheduled to start this June.
For most Building projects around
Campus, a student representative is
invited to sit on its User Group & Project
Group to ensure that the studentsʼ needs
are not forgotten about. These groups
start when the project is conﬁrmed and is
going ahead and the Student Reps report
back to the relevant Union committee
or through Union communications as
and when signiﬁcant progress is made
in the project. Alternatively the relevant
Clubs or Student Reps are contacted,
who are involved as the end users of the
buildings, for example, for the design of
the new Southside Halls Sub-wardens and
Re-apps were called upon.
Though approximate timelines are
given, due to the sheer scale and
complexity of these building projects
and their dependency on numerous
factors – money, planning permission,
construction problems to name but a
few – the status of projects are often
changing or delayed and individual
projects often take years from initial
conception to the ﬁnal opening of the
building – Southside Halls is a good
example.
For further information about these
projects and others, see College website
http://www.imperial.ac.uk/estates
or email n.buck@imperial.ac.uk.
Alternatively email me on
president@imperial.ac.uk .
Sameena Misbahuddin
President
president@imperial.ac.uk
Maths Institute Interior
Maths Institute Exterior
Elections Resuts
Results were announced last
Thursday for the remaining
Sabbatical position and the RAG,
CAG & Council Chair positions.
Thank you to all those who voted.
We had twice as many voters as in
previous Summer term elections.
This year saw the closest
Sabbatical election results, with
only 14 votes between the Deputy
President (Finance & Services)
candidates Edmund Hunt and the
winner Jon Matthews.
Congratulations to the winners:
Jon Matthews - Deputy
President (Finance & Services)
Steve Brown - R.A.G. Chair
Danny McGuinness - Council
Chair
Radha Gadhok - C.A.G. Chair
Winners will take their posts on
August 1st.
Thank you to all
those who voted.
Southside Demolition

