Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
union.imperial.ac.uk
This year the training programme has
been expanded to 8 sections, with
different sessions tailored to people who
do different roles within clubs.
Anyone can attend any of the sessions,
but some are compulsory for certain
oﬃcers. Every club oﬃcer should attend a
Union Introduction session. There are lots
of sessions running at different times of
the day until the end of term, so everyone
should ﬁnd a time which suits them.
Dates of sessions are at
www.union.ic.ac.uk/node/290 and you
should book onto a session through the
the Student Activity Centre
casa@imperial.ac.uk.
Summary of the training sessions:
Union Introduction
A general introduction into the purpose
of the Union and the way itʼs run. It
will introduce key senior oﬃcers and
members of staff and make you aware of
the main services and facilities available
to clubs through the Union. It will
also summarise what training is being
provided and who it is targeted at. All
incoming club oﬃcers should attend.
Principal Officers
This is compulsory for the principal
oﬃcers - Chair, President, Club Captain
etc. of your club. The course will explore
the speciﬁc duties of being a principal
oﬃcer and the actions such oﬃcers
are responsible for ensuring happen,
particularly in terms of safety and
administration. The effective governance
of your club will be discussed, as will
your part in the governance of ICU.
Finance
This is compulsory for the Chair,
President, Club Captain and Treasurer of
your club. It explores the responsibilities
of these oﬃcers with respect to the
Club & SocietyTraining
ﬁnances of the club, make you aware
of the systems for processing ﬁnancial
transactions and systems for budgeting.
The module will involve both theory
and practical examples of club ﬁnancial
operations.
Minutes & Records
This is intended to expand upon the
notes available to club secretaries and
is aimed at the secretaries of large clubs
which require greater levels of record
keeping and minute taking.
Marketing, Promotion and Fundraising
The Marketing, Promotion & Fundraising
session gives a broad overview of the
best ways to promote your events and
also your club in general. The session
will also detail how the Union can help
you with promotion and fundraising
opportunities for your events. Finally the
session will give you a basic look at the
Unionʼs new website and how to utilise
the siteʼs ability to promote your club and
how you can sell memberships, trips and
items online.
Event Planning and Organisation
Events are often a lot of fun, but if
not properly organised they can cause
headaches and nightmares for those
involved for years to come. This session
is recommended for all oﬃcers involved
in planning events, whether a talk about
the latest trends in railway engineering
or a huge showcase party for a thousand
people. It will give an overview of the
key principles and stages of planning an
event along with where to go for advice
and support.
Sports Team Captains & Fixtures
Secretaries
This compulsory for all sports team
captains and ﬁxtures secretaries
– this course will explore all aspects
of competitive sports ﬁxtures and ask
“Where is the game really played?”.
Participants will be equipped with
the necessary knowledge to lead
and administer their teams, from the
notiﬁcation of a ﬁxture through to the
completion of the season. The course will
also discuss sporting conduct and team
management and motivation – after all,
winning the match is really only half of
the game.
Activity Leaders
This is aimed at all those whoʼll be
leading a club activity away from the
main Imperial campuses over the next
year - whether that is a sightseeing trip
to Oxford or a Mountaineering trip to
the Swiss Alps. The course will outline
the principle steps people need to take
when organising and leading trips for ICU
clubs and societies, as well as providing
the information for what to do when it
doesnʼt quite go to plan. An optional
extension will explore the speciﬁc
considerations when leading residential
activities.
Equipment
This is aimed at those clubs who own
personal protective equipment (PPE)
– equipment designed to sustain life
and prevent accidents. It will examine
the responsibilities of the clubs and of
ICU in the maintenance of use of such
equipment, the levels of required record
keeping and highlight the assistance
available. Equipment oﬃcers and anyone
in the club with a responsibility for
maintaining such equipment should
attend.
For advice on what modules you should
attend please speak to the Student
Activities Centre, or email
casa@imperial.ac.uk
Good luck and enjoy your training!
Keeping the Cap on Top-up fees – “Letter to Tony” is a
campaign being run by the Aldwych group (the Studentsʼ
Unions of the 19 Russell Group Universities). Itʼs part of a
national campaign demanding that the government listens to
what students have to say about Top-Up Fees. Thousands of
students and staff have already signed up to the letter from the
different Studentsʼ Unions, available at www.lettertotony.org,
calling on the government to commit to keeping the £3000 cap
on tuition fees. To sign up, collect and return a completed a
petition card from any of the following outlets: Union reception,
DaVInciʼs café bar, Union Bar, Library (Haldane), SCR, JCR, MDH,
Union newsagent and Union shop along the walkway. Please
complete by the end of the week.
A giant replica of the letter is being passed from each of the
19 instituitions to another during the campaign and will be
presented to Downing street on 5th June.
Letter toTony
TONY
READ
MY
LETTER

