3
felix
Thursday 1 June 2006 www.felixonline.co.uk
NEWS news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
No allowances for state schoolers
ground, concluding that there was no
relationship between the student’s
final score and their previous educa-
tion and therefore that a student’s
ability could be accurately predicted
from A-level results alone.
The academics published their
research in The Oxford Magazine
stating that “for both types of school
for both genders at Oxford and
Cambridge, A-level dictates finals
score, except in the sciences for
males”. The dons have been careful
not to enter into the perennial access
debate which surrounds the universi-
ty application process, insisting that
the study makes “no comment on the
intrinsic value of different institutions
and courses”. Dr Brundin, reader
in engineering at Oxford, is quick
to point out that their paper is not a
denunciation of the funding council’s
2003 paper and must not be taken as
proof across the board: “We’re say-
ing we can’t challenge their study
as a whole, but that we cannot say
it applies to a single institution and
in particular, it does not apply to
Oxbridge.”
However, the study has received
some criticism. John Thompson,
an analyst for the funding council,
claims that the present study fails
to “fully appreciate” their original
research and maintains that “overall,
if you make a comparison, keeping
everything the same, state school
students do a little better”. Although,
Thompson does admit that at the
most selective universities the effect
of a student’s background on their
final classification is less apparent.
The publication of the funding
council’s initial report met with
mixed reactions upon publication.
Many supported a system in which
an applicant’s results were judged
in the context in which they were
achieved, but some labelled the move
nothing more than social discrimi-
nation, albeit of a positive nature.
Whether this latest study will her-
ald the return to a system where
students are measured entirely on
academic ability remains to be seen,
but as its authors acknowledge this is
“surely a boost for the use of A-level
in the admissions exercise”.
Cannabis effective in
treatment of post-op pain
A study at Imperial College has shown
cannabis to be effective at relieving
post-operative pain.
The trial, carried out by research-
ers based at Imperial and led by Dr
Anita Holdcroft, showed that admin-
istering Cannador (an extract of the
cannabis plant) can be beneficial to
patients suffering from acute pain
following surgery.
Whilst this is not the first study
into the use of cannabinoids in cases
of acute pain, it follows widespread
research into the effect of Cannabis
in various types of pain: mainly into
chronic pain relief, such as multiple
schlerosis (MS).
PatientsathospitalsalloverLondon
(including Chelsea & Westminster
and Charing Cross) were given
Cannador in a single pill dose of 5,
10, or 15mg immediately following
an operation. The test subjects with
larger doses reported a decrease in
pain and an increase in side effects
(such as nausea and an increased
heart rate). All patients receiving a
5mg dose requested additional pain
relief. However, only half of patients
receiving the 10mg requested addi-
tional medication; and of patients
given 15mg, three-quarters required
no additional pain relief whatsoever.
The extract targets the brain’s nat-
ural cannabinoid system to relieve
pain, in similar way to morphine
mimicking the opiates that naturally
occur in the body. When compared
to morphine (the conventional treat-
ment for acute pain), the major side
effects are less dangerous and the
drug is far safer. Cannabis is most
notorious for its recreational use, but
this involves taking a huge overdose
of the substance, whereas in the lev-
els prescribed it has a far more ben-
eficial effect.
Following successful human trials
and a “mountain” of animal trial data,
there are clear benefits and uses for
cannabis-based treatments. The lead
researcher, Dr Anita Holdcroft, said
that this approach has the “potential
to become part of normal post-opera-
tive care”.
However, licensed Cannabinoid
drugs aren’t likely to be available for
many years, if ever. A special Home
Office licence is required to carry out
trials of this nature, and cannabis is
still an illegal substance.
As Dr Holdcroft states: “They’re
focussing on MS even though it’s
proven to work on acute pain.” This
is mainly due to the few available
treatments that provide pain-relief
for MS, whereas there are several
other medications which treat acute
pain, and not enough money to make
its benefits available for acute suf-
ferers.
Andrew Somerville
Continued from page 1
start of term in light of recent hall
thefts to make sure students keep
their property secure and doors
locked.
College told Felix: “It is vital that
members of the College community
do not allow people to tailgate when
they enter a building, make sure doors
are properly closed behind them and
report any suspicious behaviour to
security staff.”
Responding to the Felix investiga-
tors entering the heart of Imperial
management, College responded:
“They were not challenged because
they were known members of the
College community and assumed to
be there on legitimate business.”
However, no such connections
were made when Felix was admit-
ted on two separate occasions by
receptionists to the building, believ-
ing the reporters were not students
and had prearranged appointments
with members of the Faculty Building
management staff.
College added: “It is important that
staff and students should not confront
anyone they believe to be acting sus-
piciously, but should contact security
staff or the police immediately.”
Leader, page 11
College’s sloppy security exposed
Do state school pupils really outshine independent students at university?
The widespread belief that state-edu-
cated pupils will outperform their
privately educated contemporaries at
university has been challenged this
week by Oxford academics.
Over recent years admissions
tutors at top universities have adopt-
ed a more lenient approach towards
state school applicants, under the
premise that these candidates will
go on to achieve higher grades than
those from private schools.
Research published by the Higher
Education Funding Council for
England in 2003 supported this claim
with evidence that, given equal A-
level scores, a higher proportion of
state-educated graduates achieved
a 2:1 degree compared to those from
the independent sector. Further stud-
ies by Smith and Naylor, readers in
Economics at Warwick University
have blamed the so-called ‘independ-
ent school effect’ which describes the
observable fact that independent can-
didates may seem more intelligent
than they are due to their school’s
ability to pull everyone through with
high A-levels.
However, a new study con-
ducted at Oxford University by Dr
N.G. McCrum, Emeritus Fellow of
Hertford College, Dr C.L. Brundin
and A.H. Halsey, Emeritus Professor
of Social and Administrative Studies,
has found no evidence of this phenom-
enon within Oxford or Cambridge.
According to their findings, Oxbridge
colleges should not make concessions
for comprehensive pupils, with the
exception of males studying science.
The study compared the final
scores of Oxford and Cambridge
graduates, from various academic
backgrounds, between 1976 and 2002.
Pupils with two A grades and one B
grade were compared with entrants
who had achieved three A grades at
A-level. Dr McCrum and colleagues
showed that pupils with lower grades
continued to fall behind their higher
achieving peers regardless of back-
Tallulah Bygraves
Senior Reporter
Felix gains entry to restricted access zones at SAF (above) and an unlocked
Union Deputy President’s office (below). (Photos: Vitali Lazurenko)
£10k loss for Union bars
The productivity of union-run bars
at Charing Cross Hospital and Wye
campus has been questioned by Tim
Aplin,ICUDeputyPresident(Finance
and Services).
As reported on C&G website Live!,
Mr Aplin wrote in a report to Union
council that the bars “[do] not make
commercial sense”.
The report stated, however, that as
from the week ending 18 May, overall
the bars have gone over 30% above
expected income.
Charing Cross and Wye bars were
the exception and shown to be per-
Chris Miles
Future of Wye and Charing Cross bars discussed at latest Union Council
forming poorly.
While Charing Cross has turned
in a 5% increase in revenues (3% of
which is accountable to inflation), the
forecast for the both bars over the
year predicts losses of over £10,000.
Danny McGuinness, ICSM SU
President, said: “We are now expect-
ing to hit break even this year. We
have come in at under budget on
expenses and have had almost £4000
of one off expenses this year includ-
ing the mandatory licence fee due to
the changes in licensing laws.
“What we must remember is that
we've turned a £23,000 loss last year
into break even this year and I feel
that deserves some recognition.”

