SCIENCE science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
felix
Thursday 1 June 2006 www.felixonline.co.uk
T
he difficult job of a professional sci-
ence writer got that little bit eas-
ier with the launch, last week, of
WriteSci.com, an internet service
designed to aid the fraught proc-
ess of turning hard science into
easy reading. Angela D’Angelo, the
site’s founder: “We’re hoping to
help those afflicted with linguistic impediment dis-
order, or Writer’s Block, by providing a number of
automated tools to help them translate cutting-edge
science for the lay reader.”
The most exciting tool on WriteSci.com is the
Prominent Scientist Quote Generator (PSQG). The
service has been endorsed by dozens of leading
scientists, science communicators and historians,
and will provide instant quotations on a variety of
subjects from across the Academy. Surprisingly, the
quotes will be entirely automatically-generated.
The PSQG engine allows the user to specify a
subject area, a subcategory, and a scientist. “So far
we have Stephen Pinker, Richard Dawkins, Susan
Greenfield, Martin Rees and many others signed
up,” D’Angelo said. The entire body of printed and
recorded commentary by each Prominent Scientist
is put on the PSQG system. The engine scans that
archive for matching opinions and uses a syntactic
algorithm to put those opinions into a coherent
quote. The user can even specify the length and
tone of the statement.
However, certain opinion topics will be restricted
to certain scientists. Stephen Hawking will com-
ment on astrophysics, alien life, the Universe, and
God. Historian of science Lisa Jardine will com-
ment on the Royal Society, the Enlightenment and
the Scientific Method. Dawkins will comment on
anything. Indeed, the more forthright commenta-
tors are proving hard to integrate into the PSQG
system, as chief coder Sam Spode described: “We
had to create a separate subroutine for Richard
and we ran over a thousand test cycles of the
Dawkinator before we produced a single quote that
didn’t libel anyone.”
As D’Angelo points out, the service is doubly
beneficial:
“It helps the science writer and the Prominent
Scientist. The writer gains by being saved the dif-
ficulty of tracking down a scientist who tends to be
unavailable just as the copy deadline approaches.
The scientist is saved the trouble of having to
remember what his or her opinions are on every
little issue.
“It’s especially helpful for Stephen [Hawking]
– he won’t need to do nearly as much clicking… In
fact, we predict that the research productivity of
our Prominent Scientists will shoot up once we’ve
got going – they will actually be able to do some
science!”
ThePQSGwillalsobeaflexibleservice.Prominent
Scientists will be able to log in regularly, edit their
opinion profiles, and tweak the rules that govern
their automated responses.
For instance, Jared Diamond could be pushing
some new writing, so he ensures all his automated
quotes include the phrase: “For example, in my new
book…”, thus ensuring effortless publicity, even
whilst he sleeps.
D’Angelo is negotiating with some older scientists
to “archive their views before their gene-vehicles
cease to function. We’ve got Freeman Dyson and
James Watson on board, but sadly we missed out on
John Maynard Smith and Fred Hoyle.”
D’Angelo, however, revealed they are developing
Poe – the Past Opinion Extrapolator – a tool which
generates quotes on subjects many years after the
source has died. “Poe will extrapolate an opinion
on a contemporary subject on the basis of what is
known about a particular scientist’s historical atti-
tudes. We’ll be able to have Marie Curie on nuclear
power, Galileo on the Mars Programme and Newton
on String Theory!”
Writer’s
Block
Duncan
McMillan
h
e
Newer
Scientist
Central London admittedly, but the
dissection was extraordinary and the
specimens were truly flawless.
As I continued through the exhibi-
tion, I spoke to an elderly couple star-
ing intently at a nearby body. I asked
them what they thought of the exhibi-
tion and why they travelled all the way
to Earl’s Court from Brighton, a ques-
tion which was certainly met by an
interesting response. Not attracted
by the gore and hyperbole, the cou-
ple were actually considering donat-
ing their bodies to medical research.
Never before had I met someone who
was serious about doing such a thing
– I expected the attendees at the
exhibition to be sensation-seekers,
not potential body donors!
The educational worth of the dis-
plays was forced upon us throughout
the exhibition; anatomy snippets of
trivia were plastered across the walls
with an explanatory plaque positioned
boldly next to each exhibit. I think the
line was crossed, however, when we
fell victim to a room full of foetuses
around an obscure half-way corner.
The room seemed to shock more than
educate, babies at various stages of
development were curtained in dark-
ness and set out in a similar fashion
to watches on a jeweller’s table.
Moving through the exhibition,
human interaction returned with
a vengeance. Set out like a market
stall, a solitary staff member stood
in wait for passers-by with the aim of
allowing visitors to feel and ‘experi-
ence’ a selection of specimens. As I
approached the table, I was offered
a slice of brain and a bone to ‘play
with’. Wrongfully identifying the bone
as a femur, I was promptly corrected
and embarrassed by my non-exist-
ent level of anatomy knowledge after
three years of medical school!
Surrounding the table were numer-
ous glass cases containing diseased
body parts – a part of the exhibition
that forced us to think about the
impact of everyday ‘pleasures’ on
our own health. A healthy lung was
displayed alongside a diseased black-
ened smoke-tarnished specimen, and
close by was a glass case contain-
We tend to
design inefficient
systems that
are uncontrolled
and lead to
exhaustion and
collapse We
tend to design
inefficient
ing hundreds of cigarette packets, a
stark reminder of the consequences
of some of our everyday actions.
There is no doubt that the exhibi-
tion set out to teach us some valu-
able lessons about the body in both
disease and health; however, I could
not help but wonder whether such
elaborate gestures were necessary to
provide us with a deeper insight into
our being. As the boundary between
science and art becomes more tenu-
ous, it is difficult to comprehend how
sensationalist displays of bare human
flesh can help us further our own
understanding of our bodies and con-
vey the sense of respect we naturally
hold for the dead.
Visitors at the end of the exhibi-
tion were invited to fill out cards
to describe their experiences during
the day. One girl wrote: “Tell us a
bit more about the bodies – who are
they?” She might well have a point.
BODIES…The Exhibition is now on
at Earls Court. For more details visit
www.bodiestheexhibition.com.
Top: An exhibit showing the circulatory and respiratory systems. This was achieved by injecting coloured
plastics into the bodies and then removing all other parts. Bottom: The bodies were arranged in a variety
of positions, but unlike the previous Body Worlds, they were more athletic in contrast to their aesthetic
counterparts. (Photos: Vitali Lazurenko)

