TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Jason Parmar
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Windows 8 out TODAY
indows 8 came
out today, and the
media world is
buzzing to see if
this will make or
break Microsoft’s future. In the past Mi-
crosoft consumers faced more choices
of varieties of Windows than in a trip
to Subway! Starter, Home Basic, Home
Premium and, and, and, were often sub-
ject to intense discussion of suitability
and productivity. This time round, Win-
dows 8 only comes in 3 varieties with
very similar capabilities, which seems
to be a plus. However, the big question
is “what is the diﬀerence” and “what va-
riety do you, as a student, want?”
Before we go into a deep anal-
ysis, I do have to warn you that you can-
not actually purchase the RT (standing
for “Runtime”) standalone. So, if you re-
ally like this ﬂavour of windows 8, then
you will have to buy a laptop, hybrid
or tablet that has this installed from
the oﬀ. Fortunately for you, since RT is
cheaper to license for Microsoft, these
devices will most likely cost less.
So how does each ﬂavour
look? Actually, they all look identical
with their metro-style interface and
multi-coloured slabs. This “metro” (al-
though not oﬃcially called metro due to
German ﬁrm Metro AG complaining)
interface is Microsoft’s bid to remain
current and cool, and will be uniform to
phones, tablets and computers. How-
ever Windows 8, and the Pro version,
will both be able to revert to the desk-
top interface that we have loved and
used since it ﬁrst came out in Windows
95, so if you are not sure about metro, at
least you do get to go back to old times
once in a while. Sadly, Windows RT is
limited to the new interface, so if you
are addicted to your beloved old-school
interface, this is strike one against RT.
What will they be able to do?
Let’s start oﬀ with RT. It is the “cheap-
est” version, and thus comes with the
least amount of features. Surprisingly
though, Microsoft Oﬃce (i.e. Word,
Excel etc) is thrown in with this variety,
which is very attractive, as it means be-
ing able to actually do work on a tablet/
hybrid. This is about it for the pros for
RT, as it is quite limiting. Any programs
that you want to run that are either old-
er, or do not come from the windows
app store, will not run. This means no
Steam, Chrome/Firefox (circle your
preference), iTunes etc. etc. (the list is
endless), will not run on your device.
This is depressing for gamers, as well as
people who want any kind of freedom
in their environment. Therefore Win-
dows 8 (or Pro) will be better for you,
because here at least you will be able to
run alternate programs, as well as met-
ro-style apps.
So why would Microsoft re-
lease such a limiting OS? It’s all about
hardware and the corresponding price.
RT is based on ARM (Chips built by the
British company ARM Holdings), and
these processors are not as powerful
as their Intel cousins. ARM processors
cannot run x86, upon which most pro-
grams are built. However ARM chips
are cheaper, and thus Microsoft was
able to introduce a cheaper OS. The
other two varieties run on Intel chips,
and thus there is no change from the
norm.
Now, which one is for you?
Personally, I would say that RT is for
those in the market for a new device,
who don’t really care that much about
productivity or usability, and who want
to have the bonus of having Oﬃce pre-
installed. Since you will not be able to
buy RT on its own, keep in mind that
you have to keep the price of your tab-
let/phone in mind, which might not be
that cheap. The normal Windows 8 /
Pro is for all those who are happy with
their current computer and want to
simply upgrade to the latest instalment
(about £50 - £80).
Most of you who will upgrade will
probably want to keep most of their old
programs, so this seems to be the logi-
cal choice!
Max Eggl gives you the low-down on Windows 8, RT & Pro
FRIDAY 26 OCTOBER
Some of us are not normal people (but
then again, we are Imperial students).
We live on the bleeding edge of technol-
ogy where we thrive on using the latest
and greatest of gadgets and software.
We readily consume new technology
and are willing to learn and adapt. In
case of an interface paradigm change,
it’s probably true, more often than not,
that after a short period of lower pro-
ductivity whilst getting used to the new
UI, it will become second nature. We
are also prepared to deal with rough
edges in the latest software and we
grow acclimatised to their quirks and
oddities.
The general user is not like this. And
this is why Windows 8 is probably go-
ing to cause us, the more “techy” folks,
more grief than it’s worth when it’s re-
leased today.
Windows 8 comes with a whole new
set of user interface (UI) paradigm and
design known as Modern UI (formerly
known as Metro). It is obvious that Mi-
crosoft had the touch screen user in
mind when it was designing the new
UI: the gestures and the hot corners all
make sense when you think of them in
terms of touch. It takes time to discover
and get used to the new paradigm. But
not everyone like such radical changes,
especially if they have a learning curve
that aﬀect productivity and remove fa-
miliarity.
So now that Windows 8 is in the
wild, you might start to get calls for
help when these users stumble upon
Windows 8 for the ﬁrst time. You will
get pleas to give tutorials on how to
use Windows 8. You’re going to get
swamped with questions asking where
they could ﬁnd a certain feature that
existed in a now-removed place. It’s bad
enough if you are a ﬁrst time user walk-
ing around the terra incognita of Win-
dows 8 and trying to get used to it, it’s
worse if you have been using Windows
8 for some time and you still don’t know
where to ﬁnd something.
While we are, perhaps, willing to
forgo any misgivings we have about
Microsoft for making the changes to
the UI once we have adapted to it, us-
ers are probably not as willing. In fact,
they might be unwilling to change their
mindset or even try to adapt. Perhaps
thisisbecausewehaveseenworsewhen
we used the beta versions and that what
is in the ﬁnal product is actually way
better than it was, though probably still
unacceptable to the general user.
I’ll admit: these are hypothetical sce-
narios. Whilst I have personally only
used the consumer preview that was
released months ago, Microsoft has,
apparently, made some improvements
to the UI since then. But since they
have not made any major change to the
UI paradigm, I am almost certain that
these scenarios will happen once people
get their hands on Windows 8. Tech-
nology journalists and some users have
already had their share of some of these
scenarios using the release version of
Windows 8. Time will tell. Until then,
I’m oﬀ to be the technical support that
I have always been amongst my friends.
Will W8 cause us grief?
W
Yong Wen Chua
It’s all about Microsoft
Jason Parmar
Technology Editor
So why a whole double page
spread on Microsoft? Just because
I can? Well, partly that, and the fact
that today is being tipped as Micro-
soft’s biggest day after their boldest
and most radical move in over three
decades.
As you probably know from the big
titles above, today is the official re-
lease date of Windows 8 and it’s the
biggest change to the flagship OS in
17 years, when it released the now
vintage and retro Windows 95.
In those days I just remembered
Microsoft as that company that
gave me the infamous “Microsoft
Network”, known as MSN, which
successfully helped me, and prob-
ably many of you, waste countless
hours of life as well as helping create
cringe e-mail accounts (add me btw:
stupidly_sexy_jason_1991_xxxo@
hotmail.com).
But besides giving us MSN, Mi-
crosoft gave us the Office Suite, the
forerunner in productivity applica-
tions, the Xbox 360, the fourth best
selling games console of all time and
of course Windows, the most used
Operating System in the world (with
a huge 90% market share just 5
years ago).
But they haven’t been on their
greatest form as of late. They’re see-
ing themselves struggling against
the much nimbler Google and Apple.
So they’ve been hard at work, trying
to completely reinvent themselves,
or at least the public opinion of them.
Windows 8 is the Redmond giants
make or break to grab back market
share and prove to the world that we
need Microsoft.
This week two of our writers who
have had a play around with Win-
dows 8 are here to give you their in-
sight to the OS and we also let you
know the difference between the
three iterations: Windows 8, Win-
dows 8 RT and Windows 8 Pro.
I’m going to start a white background hiring service. I’ll make millions.
15

