New drug could hold the key
to pancreatic cancer
The thunder god vine, or Lei Gong
Teng, is a herb used in traditional
Chinese medicine and believed by
some to be of use in a variety of ail-
ments from arthritis to kidney dis-
ease. The plant contains multiple ac-
tive compounds, and one of the most
promising of these is triptolide, pre-
viously shown to have potential as a
drug for treating various cancers, in-
cluding pancreatic cancers.
The 5-year survival rate for pan-
creatic cancer is only 5%, and in con-
trast to the advances made in treat-
ing other cancers in recent years, this
rate has not improved signiﬁcantly
over the last 30 years. Attempts to
develop new chemotherapeutic drugs
have had little impact, at best adding
only a few months or even weeks to
life expectancy.
However despite its potent anti-
cancer properties, which can be
readily demonstrated in the lab,
triptolide has proved to be of lim-
ited use as a drug. This is primarily
because it does not dissolve well in
water, one of the essential ‘drug-
like properties’. Research published
in Science Translational Medicine
this month (http://stm.sciencemag.
org/content/4/156/156ra139.full),
however, presents a way around this
problem. Researchers based at the
University of Minnesota developed
Minnelide, a modiﬁed synthetic ver-
sion of triptolide. The modiﬁcations
inhibit the activity of the drug, but
they also make it water-soluble. This
allows Minnelide to be administered
and absorbed, and once it reaches its
target, enzymes naturally occurring
in the body’s tissues convert it back
to its original form, allowing it to get
to work.
Minnelide was tested extensively
here, both in vitro with cultures of
cancer cell lines, and in mouse mod-
els with xenografted human pancre-
atic tumours. In all tests it performed
as well or better than gemcitabine,
the current standard of care for
chemotherapy in pancreatic cancer,
and in fact worked in some scenarios
where gemcitabine is completely in-
eﬀective.
Minnelide is as yet in the early stag-
Sarah Byrne Writer
t is, by now, almost common
knowledge that changes in
water temperatures will af-
fect the biodiversity of marine
life. Less research has been in-
vested into the topic of how individu-
als and populations of surviving spe-
cies will change in response to such
developments. A model devised by a
collaboration of scientists attempts to
answer this question.
The size of a ﬁsh is aﬀected by a great
range of factors, but mostly its envi-
ronment’s water temperature, oxygen
concentration, and nutrient availabil-
ity. Changing climates will aﬀect the
oxygen concentration in Earth’s water
bodies (in part due to the fact that
gaseous oxygen is less soluble in water
at higher temperatures), which can be
expected to have a direct eﬀect on ﬁsh
populations because oxygen is a key
ingredient for body growth.
The scientists modelled the eﬀect
of changing oxygen concentrations
on diﬀerent stages of a ﬁsh’s life cycle
and the consequent changes in their
populations. After testing this model
by simulating historical changes and
ﬁnding a strong correlation (P < 0.01)
with observed data, they then extrap-
olated forwards by a few decades to
predict what may happen to the glob-
al ﬁsh populations by 2050, should
climate trends continue, using a “high
irradiation” model.
The outcome is worrying; on aver-
age between more than 600 modelled
species, the maximum body mass
could decrease by 14-24% – despite
water temperatures being predicted
to increase by less than 0.05°C per
decade. Approximately one half of
this eﬀect is due to changes in distri-
bution and abundance (i.e. there are
fewer ﬁsh, particularly fewer adult
ones), the other due to changes in
physiology (each ﬁsh is smaller). The
eﬀect is particularly marked in tropi-
cal regions.
The model is, of course, limited
by necessary simpliﬁcations and as-
sumptions. The scientists attempted
to reduce the uncertainty carried over
from the used predictions of climate
developments over the next years by
using two diﬀerent earth system mod-
els and ﬁnding areas of agreement be-
tween the two results.
DOI: 10.1038/nclimate1691
Writer
es of testing; the road from drug dis-
covery to general therapeutic use is
a long one, and the process may take
several years. The ﬁrst studies in hu-
man subjects are expected to start in
December of this year. These will be
Phase 1 trials, which usually involve
testing in small groups of healthy vol-
unteers, to establish safe dosages and
measure side-eﬀects. Only when the
drug reaches the stage of randomised
controlled trials in which its eﬀec-
tiveness is compared with existing
treatments, will it be clear whether
Minnelide can really live up to its
promising beginnings.
The shrinking of the fish
SCIENCE
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 26 OCTOBER
16
I
Annina Sartor
Improvements in carbon dating
A new study of sediment cores from
Lake Suigetsu, Japan, has the poten-
tial to improve the accuracy of the
radiocarbon dating techniques used
widely by archaeologists and climate
scientists.
Radiocarbon (14C) has a known
half-life of ~5,700 years and is ab-
sorbed equally by organic processes.
Scientists can then ﬁnd the age of
such objects by seeing how the ratio
of radiogenic to non-radiogenic car-
bon (12C) has changed. However this
can only be found accurately if the
original, atmospheric ratio of carbon
is known.
This can be measured directly from
tree-rings up to ~12,500 years ago.
Beyond this point are other climate
proxies such as ice cores, marine
sediments and speleothems (cave
deposits) but these require assump-
tions about the reaction of ocean or
groundwater carbon to atmospheric
changes or local climate conditions.
At Lake Suigetsu the accumulation
of a ﬁne layer of seasonal algae allows
researchers to count back the years
of each layer, called varves, just like
a tree ring. Radiocarbon from mi-
croscopic plant fragments was then
Matthew Parker Writer measured to ﬁnd the analogous at-
mospheric radiocarbon at the time
each varve was deposited. With the
new sediment cores, researchers now
have a complete terrestrial record
dating back up to ~52,000 years.
A ‘control period’ of the ﬁrst 12,000
years was anchored against the
known tree-ring record. The Suigetsu
data was then compared to two spe-
leothem sets (dated using U-Th de-
cay) and was found to lie within the
deviation expected of the two diﬀer-
ent time scales. The potential of sedi-
ment cores at Lake Suigetsu for dat-
ing was ﬁrst recognised in 1993 but
the original core included missing in-
tervals, which made an independent
age impossible. A further four cores
(funded by the UK Natural Environ-
ment Research Council) were taken
in 2006.
Although this discovery is not ex-
pected to cause any major historical
revisions it will allow archaeologists
to improve dating accuracy by up to
several centuries. This will also help
scientists understand the carbon-cy-
cle, particularly the mechanisms that
transport atmospheric carbon into
other radiocarbon sinks, such as in
the oceans.
DOI: 10.1126/science.1226660
Xtyn24/stock.xchng
The God Vine
Nemo ate the mushrooms
and lost himself. It turns
out he was still at home

