SCIENCE
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
FRIDAY 26 OCTOBER
Recording dreams
Writer
Chris Yates
Have you ever had an absolutely fan-
tastic dream, woken up and promptly
forgotten everything that happened
in it? I certainly have, and would love
to be able to watch some of the more
interesting ones back later. The idea
of reading and recording dreams has
been the preserve of science ﬁction,
but as our understanding of the brain
improves, it is getting closer to real-
ity.
A group of researchers in Japan,
led by Yukiyasu Kamitani, have pre-
viously used functional magnetic
resonance imaging (fMRI) to identify
which image a subject is looking at.
Last week, they presented an exten-
sion of this work, where they looked
at the dreaming brain.
fMRI was used to record the brain
activity of three volunteers whilst
they slept. When the researchers de-
tected brain waves associated with
dreaming, they woke the volun-
teer and asked them what they had
dreamt of. In this way, they were able
to collect data on which parts of the
brain are active when dreaming of a
number of diﬀerent objects. The vol-
unteers were then shown images of
these objects whilst awake and their
brain activity recorded. By compar-
ing the data gathered whilst awake
with that from the dreaming brain,
the volunteers were able to predict
the content of the dreams. For ex-
ample, they could predict whether
or not a man was present in a dream
with an accuracy of 75-80%.
At the moment, the method is lim-
ited to a few common objects, such
as ‘man’, ‘woman’ and ‘computer, but
with more data the number of objects
that can be identiﬁed could increase.
Interestingly, areas involved in vis-
ual processing and object identiﬁca-
tion in the group’s earlier work were
also found to be active whilst dream-
ing, implying dreams are interpreted
by the brain in a similar way to im-
ages from the eyes.
While we may still be some way oﬀ
recording our dreams, this work is
certainly a step in the right direction
and could help to understand why we
dream and how dreaming is related
to brain activity.
Tractor Beams: A possibility?
Researchers at the University of New
York have conducted the ﬁrst experi-
mental demonstration of a tractor beam
– a travelling wave that comes from one
direction and pulls its target towards the
beam’s origin.
Up until now, beams have been used
to move particles by working as opti-
cal tweezers and optical conveyor belts.
Optical tweezers work over small dis-
tances, trapping particles for manipula-
tion; whilst optical conveyor belts work
over larger distances and use two op-
posing beams to set up a “conveyor belt”
of light to move trapped particles.
The tractor beam is diﬀerent from
these other methods because it has been
used over much larger distances – mi-
crometers instead of picometers – and
comes from only one direction.
A tractor beam works by redirect-
ing more photons downstream from
the target particle than upstream once
they’ve hit the target – the force of being
hit by photons is weaker than the force
imparted by the redirected photons
moving downstream, and so the particle
Writer
Jacob Ward
is forced upstream towards the beam’s
point of origin. How did the researchers
do this? They used a Bessel beam.
A Bessel beam is a beam that doesn’t
refract at all and “self-heals” – after hit-
ting a target, the beam reforms on itself
downstream. The tractor beam just
demonstrated works by ﬁring a Bessel
beam in the shape of a circular ring,
with another ring-shaped Bessel beam
around the ﬁrst.
The second beam interferes with the
ﬁrst, causing it to rapidly change in
intensity and snag the target particle,
moving it upstream. The researchers
were even able to use two tractor beams
to simultaneously move one particle up-
stream and another downstream.
Whilst these beams are working over
much smaller distances than in Sci-Fi,
they’re still a revolutionary method for
working on microscopic objects.
DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.109.163903
DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.58.1499
Scenes like this from your fa-
vourite video games could soon
be reality...
Kilgore Trout/Eve Online Pictures

