Emilie Beauchamp
POLITICS
FRIDAY 26 OCTOBER
18
Politics Editors: Padraic Calpin
Marie-Laure Hicks
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Trade Union Members March Against Austerity
Obama vs. Romney: The Presidential Debates Blow by Blow
he sea of people ruining
everyone’s travel plans
around London on October
20thwerethetradeunionists
marching against the government’s
cuts to services. Teachers, nurses, ﬁre-
ﬁghters, professors, factory workers,
politicians, actors, and many more
– all there to oppose what they saw
as damage being done to ordinary
people’s lives and the economy.
The police say 100,000 people took
to the streets; the TUC (Trade Unions
Council) say 150,000. Perhaps this
does not sound like many, but this
means that the march, which started
at midday at Embankment, lasted until
nearly 5pm, when the last marchers
reached the ﬁnish point in Hyde Park.
Winding through the streets and
avoiding the socialist/communist/
Marxist paper sellers, the union
membersmadetheirvoicesheard–“no
ifs, no buts, no NHS cuts”; “I’d rather
be a pleb than a Tory”; and the eternal
“General Strike Now!” chants rang
around Central London. Vuvuzelas,
whistles and union marching bands
(the Fire Brigade Union had a bagpipe
band) added to the noise.
Workers on the march were angry at
job cuts, beneﬁt cuts and pay freezes
whilst the cost of living continues
to rise. People were struggling to
understand why the coalition would
choose to make life so hard for some
of Britain’s lowest paid workers in the
name of austerity to help the economy.
Yet the economy continues to face
contraction, and the budget deﬁcit
rises. The TUC makes the argument
that making cuts whilst we are still in a
recession costs the government more
in the long run, as more people out
of work reduces income tax receipts
to the treasury, and the government
has to pay out even more in beneﬁts
to those without jobs. Their slogan
“Investment not cuts” was oft repeated
in the speeches at the rally.
Ed Miliband also addressed the
crowds at the rally. Cheered for his
promise to repeal the NHS changes
passed by this Government, he faced
a spattering of jeers for repeating the
Labour Party policy that some cuts
are necessary. Miliband also took
the Tories to task, “Andrew Mitchell
may have resigned, but the culture
of two nations runs right across
this government. They cut taxes for
millionaires, and they raise taxes for
ordinary families.”
The Conservatives were naturally
sceptical of the protest, and of
Labour’s presence at the march.
David Cameron tweeted, “Today Ed
Miliband is headlining a rally calling
for an end to every single spending
cut needed to clear the deﬁcit
#labourisntlearning.” Grant ‘Michael
Green’ Shapps, the Conservative Party
Chairperson, had also said, “At today’s
march, Ed Miliband will be among
friends – supporting his union donors
who oppose every single one of our
spending cuts. You can’t be serious
about clearing the deﬁcit when you
attend a march that calls for an end to
austerity.”
Most of the people present,
however, weren’t interested in political
positioning from either party – they
were there because they were angry
about job cuts and loss of services,
and worried about the future of the
country’s welfare system. Placards
ranged from the satirical “Osborne: If
you want ﬁrst class services, you’ve got
to pay for them” to the tragedy written
by a young boy, “I’m going deaf… the
NHS can’t aﬀord to operate”.
Caps to housing beneﬁt are forcing
families to choose between heating
and food; disabled people are losing
their living allowance and struggling
to support themselves; and one million
young people are unemployed. The
claims that austerity isn’t working are
striking a chord – the ﬂags were being
waved a little less enthusiastically than
the last big trade union demonstration
in March 2011. The reality of the cuts
are biting, and with two and a half
years to wait until the next general
election, people are struggling to see
any way to make things better.
Kirstin Hay
T
“I’ve never even kissed a Tory, why should I be fucked by one?”
For the whole month of October,
millions of people have held their
breath as the highly climatic
presidential debates took place,
culminating in next Tuesday’s federal
election. Beginning on October 3rd,
the series of three debates enable the
Democrat and Republican hopefuls
to hammer their electoral platform
on the American populace and try
to smash their opponent’s arguments
into pieces. Here’s a recap for those
who missed the ﬁghts:
Round 1 : domestic policy
The energy around presidential
debates usually starts slow and
steadily builds. Yet this year we have
seen Romney take a full-blooded
start and deliver an almost knockout
performance in the ﬁrst debate on
domestic policy on Wednesday,
October 3rd. For the 90 minute
debate, Romney pounded Obama
on his dismal record on jobs, debt
and economic growth. What didn’t
help in countering the Republican
challenger’s feistiness was Obama’s
apparent apathy – he simply didn’t
look like he wanted to be there.
Even when the candidates discussed
Medicare – with Obama hinting
Romney would turn it into a voucher
system – most of the talk was around
domestic economy, or how the US
would get out of its rut. The stagnation
that lingered throughout the Obama
administration didn’t help as a proof
of the President’s capabilities, and
Romney took full advantage of this.
As he relentlessly attacked Obama on
his failure to strengthen the economic
situation in the US, the only point the
incumbent managed was to sneer at
the vagueness of Romney’s tax cuts
and deﬁcit reduction plan.
CNN/ORC International poll on
who won the debate: Romney 67%,
Obama 25%.
Round 2: Up for Grabs
After the ﬁrst presidential debate,
dominated by Romney, which
spread fears that Obama had lost his
ﬁerce spirit, the second presidential
debate held on October 16th saw the
President take back the combative
attitude that animated his ﬁrst
campaign. The candidates’ personal
hostility towards one another clearly
showed through almost aggressive
clashes over topics that covered
domestic energy production, taxes,
the attack on the US consulate in
Libya, immigration and women’s
issues.
While the debate started on level
grounds, the ﬁghting began when
energy policy was at play. While both
candidates are proponents of energy
independence – and so is the rest
of the American population – their
strategy to get there diﬀers highly.
Obama made a point of the need for
renewable energy on top of exploiting
shale gas and increasing domestic oil
and coal production, while Romney
promised a pipeline to provide the US
with oil from the Canadian tar sands
and a surge in oﬀshore drilling in
Alaska. A tangle over whether energy
production on federal land increased
or decreased in the last four years
brought the opponents to a close
up, but the mixed statistics served
actually made the entire argument
confusing and inconclusive.
Romney started losing steam when
targeting Obama’s reaction to the
attack made on the US consulate
in Benghazi, the President tactfully
volleying back on criticism for
prematurely condemning the source
of the attack as an ‘act of terror’. But
it was over a discussion on women’s
working conditions that Romney took
it on the chin: wanting to highlight
he was encouraging of women roles
at the oﬃce, he declared he had
been through “whole binders full
of women” when looking to recruit
cabinet members as Massachusetts
governor…
As the antipathy between the two
candidates rose in the last minutes of
the debate, with both sides speaking
over their allowed period (2 minutes),
Obama delivered the ﬁnal blow
by mentioning the secret video in
which Romney dismissed 47% of the
American voters as freeloaders.
CNN/ORC International poll on
who won the debate: Obama 46%,
Romney 39%.
Round 3 : foreign policy
The second debate set the stage for
a real combat between Obama and
Romney, with high hopes that the
last and typically most-watched
debate could dislodge Homeland on
the viewership in US homes. Could
Obama maintain his ‘Yes we can’
momentum despite the weight of his
ﬁrst term? Would Romney’s grip on
his electoral platform be as sturdy as
his immaculate hair? Unfortunately,
both candidates seemed to have
thrown all their best punches in the
prior wrangles and kept themselves
very moderate on last Monday,
October 22nd’s debate, centered on
spring-revolutionized-Egypt, messy
withdrawals in Afghanistan, nuclear
threats from Iran, the looming power
of China and… the national deﬁcit?
Truth is: there aren’t massive
diﬀerences between Democrat
and Conservative policies on most
foreign matters. Romney was not
disagreeing with Obama’s ﬁrst term
tactics, but mostly just said he could
have done better. After Romney’s
tactless remarks about the London
Olympics or his inconsistent stances
on Afghanistan, the rest of the world
could question his credibility on the
world stage, but American voters
do not care that much about foreign
policy at the moment, and both
candidates know that well.
Obama defended his cuts on
military expenditure, yet the bottom
line of Romney discussing the US
defence budget isn’t really about
whether the US should spend as
much as China, but rather a matter of
national economic stimulus. In fact,
the discussions of the third debate
readily veered towards domestic
policy (even if they shouldn’t have),
reiterating the same lines as the ﬁrst
and second debates. In a nutshell, the
last debate was not very informative
and a bit dull. Back to primetime telly.
CNN/ORC International poll on
who won the last debate: Obama
48%, Romney 40%. (With a 4.5% error
margin…)
So what is the verdict in the end? It’s
a split decision. There are no clear cut
winners from the presidential debates.
With some key issues that have not
been discussed during the debates
– gay rights, abortion and climate
change amongst others – current polls
waddle every day. This means the next
President of the United States will be
decided by a small proportion of still
undecided voters – the equivalent of
holding the world in their hands.
Writer

