LOLCATZ OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Real World?
As you may be able to infer from the
picture above, I’ve graduated! I am
not Tim Arbabzadah, Master of Sci-
ence. Those five seconds of fame on
the stage were fun. Although, I didn’t
really expect to be the first Master of
Science graduate to receive a degree.
This meant I had to nervously try to
hope that I remembered how to walk
and shake hands with people, without
being drowned out by the crowd in
front of me. Anyway, this meant that
I had to graduate and then try to find
time to also edit the paper. I therefore
wouldliketotakethetimetoapologise
for what may be a somewhat rushed
issue this week. Hopefully there won’t
be too many errors, but you may find
that some sentences just randomly
don’t fini. Anyway, I’m sitting here in
the dead of night, all alone in the of-
fice, with all of my sweary notes telling
me to “fucking change page numbers”
and other such angry reminders,and it
made me think about the Real World.
The main difference between stu-
dent life and working life is really the
constant responsibility. I know I only
work as Felix Editor, but I can’t just
lie hungover in bed all day and not
be arsed to go in (unfortunately) if
I’m feeling a bit rough. It also means I
don’t tend to go out on weekdays that
often, this week excluded. So here is
a message you hear a lot and hope-
fully act on a lot too. Enjoy your life as
a student! Enjoy university! Really, it’s
the best years of your life if you make it
that. Yeah it’s a cliché (that’s what late
nights do to you: makes you real off
these types of phrases), but it really is
true. You have so many opportunities
to go out and have fun, take them all.
Try and fit in some work too, but really
jump on any fun activities that head
your way. You only live once. Oh God,
too many lame sayings, I’ll stop.
The ceremony itself was rather odd.
The Rector’s address in particular I
thought was a bit strange. Not only
did it sound as though he hadn’t really
rehearsed it all that much, but it had
a very obvious and clear message:
well done on graduating; now, go and
make money and then give us that
money. Lots of our alumni give mon-
ey, please model yourself on them
by giving us money. Nothing wrong
with asking us for donations and all
that, but, dude, seriously, give us like
a maybe longer than a two minute
segue into that. Or perhaps just don’t
mention it right away. This isn’t me
being massively paranoid by the way:
the joke of the night about the speech
was that it had a heavy “where’s my
fucking money punk” focus.
GAMES FILM MUSIC
Simulator reviews Bond special Three pages
We get sent some absolutely
‘brilliant’ games to review.
This week, we took the
plunge and actually played
one...
We go all secret agent
on the Bond films,
and decide what ones
are worth diving into
the archives for.
No that’s not an obscure
band’s name, that’s just tell-
ing you that Music, who are
usually a bit late to finish the
page, have three for you!
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2012.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
Medical Summarizer Wanted
Looking for 4th, 5th or 6th year medical student with medical understanding.
15 hours a week.
Crompton Medical Centre
London W2 1ND
For further details please contact Mr. Faisal Ahmed on 07776126204
Job Description - Sum marizing all medical letters and discharge summaries
from Secondary Care (Hospitals) into the medical records for each patient at
the practice, clinical software used is EMIS LV.
All Saints Church, Fulham
Altos wanted
The choir of All Saints Fulham is an excellent, semi-professional choir of ap-
proximately 20 amateur, auditioned singers.
We are currently looking to expand our alto section. The choir sings weekly
Sunday Eucharists, with sung Mass settings on feast days, and Choral Even-
songs. The positions would be ideal for, but are by no means restricted to,
a young professional, or London student looking for somewhere friendly to
sing, but which provides a high standard of music making.
This term’s music includes a Bach cantata Evensong with orchestra, masses by
Palestrina, Vierne and Briggs, Howells’ Reqiuem, and the world premiere of a
composition by Francis Pott, as well as the usual cathedral-style anthems and
settings.
The choir is extremely welcoming, and has a busy social life! The director of
music is always interested in hearing from prospective singers, and is very
happy to chat about any aspects of the position.
Jonathan Wikeley (Director of Music)
dom@allsaints-fulham.org.uk, tel: 07966 969 746
http://www.allsaints-fulham.org.uk/music.htm
>>29 >>30 >>35
CLASSIFIEDS
FRIDAY 26 OCTOBER
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editor Aemun Reza Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka Rana Science
Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George Barnett, Navid
Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Alex Ramadan, Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Mark England, Ross Gray, Simon
Hunter, Íñigo Martínez De Rituerto Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editor Jason Parmar Coffee Break Boss Matt Colvin
Travel Editors Veronika McQuade, Simon Carnochan Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos, Dan
Timbrell Copy Chief Annina Sartor Copy Editors Al Norman, Matt Colvin, Christopher Witham, Chris Richardson, Laurence de Lussy Kubisa, Lizzy Griffiths, Julia Gherman, Kingshuk Dasadhikari Illustrators Hamish Muir,
Outi Supponen Special Thanks: To my family, friends, lecturers, and Personal Tutor. Without them I wouldn’t have finished my degree. Also thanks to the section editors for really helping me out this week!
Graduation
Hackery
Just so you know this, here is a defini-
tion: a hack is someone who focuses
solely on the Union and thinks it is
the most important thing in the entire
planet and the be all and end all. I have
to be a bit hacky due to my position,
although I have tried to keep news
a bit more interesting to everyone.
There are, on occasions, times when
you have to talk about something.
The Constitution, which is the rules
that govern how the Union is run, is
up for debate at the next Council on
Tuesday. There the Council will decide
if it is something they should accept
or not. It may not seem important,
but it could have impacts on things
you care about, on the way the Un-
ion is run (e.g. drink and food prices
etc), and how you are represented.
To Council members: read the for and
against and make an informed deci-
sion on what you think is the most
student-led way to run the Union.

