“
COMMENT
Comment Editors: George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The whole ‘traingate’ ﬁasco
actually makes me genuinely
pity George Osborne. He
must have thought he had it
bad when 48 % of the public
wanted him removed in a cabinet re-
shuﬄe (making him even less popu-
lar than Nick Clegg). He must have
thought it was a notable low when
thousands booed him at the Paralym-
pics. In fact, it must have been pretty
atrocious ever since his parents were
told by doctors there is no cure for a
complete lack of empathy. Still, he
never could have thought it come to
this, no one could ever conceive that
their life could hit the depths it did
that ominous day en route to Euston:
a stranger high ﬁved a train inspector
for giving him a ticket.
For those unaware of this debacle,
let me recite an admittedly drama-
tized version of the story as spun by
the journalists the next day. George
Osborne did not deign to arrive for
his prebooked train, presuming that
he could worm his way onto any
train he wanted with any ticket and
a sickly smile. Not wishing to waste
his gaze on the dirty common folk, he
skulked into First Class on the train
of his choosing and sent oﬀ a faceless
minion oﬀ to inform the blue-collars
what had been decided. However, one
hero took a stand and demanded that
an appropriate fee (costing 0.0005x
the price of putting a child through
Eton). After an argument, the villain
of the piece admitted defeat, coughed
up, and the hero was justly rewarded
(with a high ﬁve) for ensuring equal-
ity for all.
Looking at this from an objective
point of view is admittedly diﬃcult
with the situation revolving around
someone so thoroughly unlikable, so
I’d like everyone to imagine that this
exact situation happened to Stephen
Fry.
Due to circumstances completely
outside his control, Stephen had to
Adam Clancy
FRIDAY 26 OCTOBER
20
I
Traingate - First Class fuss
board a later train and being an aﬀable
chap, he sent a co-worker/friend (pre-
sumably Alan Davies) to go and let the
conductor know that he was awfully
sorry but his ticket wasn’t technically
valid. With all the dastardly work that
had piled around him, Stephen took
the opportunity to ﬁnd a table and
some peace and quiet in ﬁrst class be-
fore setting about reading through his
script of Othello. When the inspec-
tor came, Alan went and sorted it out
(which cost £160! The cheek of rail
companies these days!) while Stephen
carried on reciting, none the wiser.
We do occasionally edit letters and comments we receive to
improve spelling, grammar, and clarity of expression.
Online
Our pick of the best banter from felixonline.co.uk
In this situation, you can see that
everything could have been han-
dled better, but Fry was certainly
not to blame and it would likely lead
to a witty tweet by the man him-
self rather than ﬁrestorm of media
driven hate that came down around
Osborne. As such, I honestly don’t
care that he wanted to use ﬁrst class
(I prefer it - there’s much more leg-
room and ne’er a screaming child).
As such, we shouldn’t hold this
against Osborne, particularly when
there’s so much legitimate stuﬀ he’s
done wrong.
Adam Clancy asks if it’s fare to criticise the Chancellor
In response to: “Changing the Rules: Why Bother?” (19th Oc-
tober)
You are totally missing the point that virtually no one outside the
Union clique cares. All the overwhelming majority want from their
Student Union (which is demonstrated by the dire turnout year after
year) is a live-and-let-live attitude and maybe an aﬀordable drink in a
pleasant atmosphere. They get neither. Both Presidential candidates
promise to abolish entry fee. Entry fee still exists. Turnout in elections
for the ubiquitous ‘Oﬃcer’ roles is regularly less than 5%. No easing
of anti-alcohol policies - just a proliferation of signage telling us how
old we need to be to buy it. 568 starts closing the shutters an hour
before closing time - on the busiest nights of the week. One person
serving in the Old Union Bar on the rare occasions it’s open. No op-
tion for smokers to buy tobacco in the evening at *their* student un-
ion, unfortunate given the no re-entry policy (which was meant to be
abolished, see above). Forgive us if we don’t get excited about totally
inconsequential changes to the ‘constitution’.
(Chistopher Kaye)
“I completely accept, that, at the minute, the changes will aﬀect
very few people.” Well, there you go - you are almost without man-
date. Try changing something which people actually care about, like
the union entry fees. Forget all the crap about “things like that take
time”. Yes they do take time, but only the negative amount of time
required to not set up a stall and to not ask for money.
(Anonymous)
Christopher Kaye, I’m sorry you feel that the atmosphere at the Un-
ion isn’t very nice. Given the operating costs though I hardly think
‘unaﬀordable’ describes the Union’s drink prices. The Entry fee was
scrapped between 20:00-21:30 on Wednesdays, and after that was
lowered to £2 from £3.50. I had to put a lot of work in to get that to
happen as it aﬀects the Union’s budget and isn’t something that can
be ‘just changed’. This is something that I wish all candidates knew
when running. I have the ability to aﬀect *next* year’s budget when
it is written in February. RBKC licensing authority and the law dic-
tate what rules we have to have in our bar, and, given that College ID
cards for U18s don’t carry red boxes around them this year we can’t
use that as a proof of age check. Would you rather we lose our li-
cence? Changes to the structure are important so that the Union can
continue to exist. No changes and the trustees may walk out. Then
there’ll be no union for you to complain about.
(Paul Beaumont, Union President)
Paul Beaumont, I’m delighted that you will be scrapping entry charges
for the next academic year (you deﬁnitely will, won’t you?). I’m sure
Mr Clegg empathises with the situation you’ve found yourself in. I
don’t. It may be helpful in your role as Union President if you realised
that the Union Building at Beit is in fact in Westminster City Council’s
jurisdiction and not RBKC at all. For your convenience, I will link you
to the licensing document, on Westminster Council’s website, here:
http://tinyurl.com/unionlicence If you would like to point out where
it requires, as a condition of the licence, the Soviet-style display of
patronising “Are you under 21?” signage I would be grateful. I would
also be grateful if you responded to the other points I raised: lack of
fags, the early closure of half the bar (presumably for the convenience
of the paid staﬀ) and understaﬃng in the Old Union Bar.
(Christopher Kaye)
Christopher Kaye, scrapping the entry fee outright this year would
have lost the union a lot of money. The idea is that we’d reduce it and
move the timings back for the ﬁrst few weeks to see if more people
came etc. As I said, I can’t change the budget for this year, but I can for
next, and it is something that I think should change in the budget for
next year, yes. I don’t deal with the licensing, so sorry for my mistake
- my point still stands that the bar operates within the law, not rules
we make up for fun. The signs are meant to be informative and were
put there as it was thought many would be oﬀended at being asked
for ID at ‘their own bar’. Selling cigarettes in the Union building itself
hasn’t happened for years because of the possibility that it encourages
smoking whilst people are drunk.
(Paul Beaumont, Union President)
Paul Beaumont, there are a couple of points I’d like you to clarify - did
you know at the time you made your manifesto promise about abol-
ishing entry fees that you wouldn’t be able to implement it? Or had
you just not bothered to research it? Those are the only two possibili-
ties are far as I can tell. What exactly is wrong with intelligent people
choosing to smoke? I didn’t realise it was the Student Union’s job to
legislate on morality.
(Christopher Kaye)
In response to: “Head-to-head: Welfare - Are the Coalition re-
forms fair?” (19th October)
Surely if you’re giving people less money than you were originally
giving them, then that’s still kind, rather than a punishment; it’s just
slightly less kind than you were being previously. Sheldon’s article
Continued...
I’d like
everyone to
imagine that
this exact
situation
happened to
Stephen Fry.
”
pened to
pened to
phen Fry.
hen Fry.

