ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Hollywood Costume @ Victoria & Albert – What more do you need? The iconic
clothes worn by Hollywood’s biggest stars are a five minute walk away. £9 for stu-
dents. Now - 27 Januar 2013.
Terror 2012 @ Soho Theatre – Halloween horror cabaret theatre at the friendly
Soho venue. A festival of sorts providing a different sort of Halloween entertain-
ment. From £12.50. wNow - November 3.
Everything Was Moving: Photography from the 60s and 70s @ The Barbican – Over
400 works are exhibited from two decades worth having been photographed.
From £7. Now - January 13.
Anselm Adams: Photography from the sea to the mountains @ National Maritime
Museum – An influential photographer of the 20th Century, Anselm Adams cap-
tured the impressive landscapes of America. It is worth the trek to Greenwich.
From £5. 9 November - 28 April 2013.
The Rodin Project @ Sadler’s Wells – Russel Maliphant Company returns to London
with a piece influenced by the romance and eroticism of Rodin’s work (see pho-
togreaph below). 29-31 October.
The year is 1848. Railways are being
deposited left, right and centre; the
Industrial Revolution is in full swing;
and next year, Darwin will publish his
infamous ‘Origin of Species’. It is no
surprise, then, that today, in the 21st
century, we always look back on this
period as a time of incredible techni-
cal progress and profound leaps in our
scientiﬁc understanding. It is against
this fascinating backdrop that three
men came together and founded the
Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, British
art’s answer to the complete upheaval
of 19th century society. Together, John
Everett Milais, Dante Gabriel Rossetti
and William Holman Hun sought to
rebel against the ‘slavery’ of the mod-
ern factory. They wanted to reject the
idea that Raphael, the great Italian
master, represented the pinnacle of
aesthetic achievement. Instead, they
decided to draw their inspiration from
the freshness of early Renaissance art:
the bright colours, ﬂat surfaces and
truth to nature.
In a highly ambitious project, Tate
Britain has succeeded in bringing to-
gether a vast quantity of Pre-Raph-
aelite works together to an exhibition
that is at once comprehensive and
conducive to understanding the devel-
opment of the Brotherhood, but also
varied and diverse.
As a person who has recently be-
come disillusioned with art exhibi-
tions due to the deﬁnitely-not-student
prices extracted merel y to see a hand-
ful of paintings (*cough* Titian at the
National Gallery), I was impressed
by the scale of this exhibition which
spanned 7 rooms and not only gave
me plenty to ponder about, but was
also a feast to the eyes (I do not tend
to use that term lightly).
The exhibition is arranged chrono-
logically, and the ﬁrst room is dedi-
cated to the earliest paintings of the
Brotherhood. Not, in all honesty, be-
ing a very big fan of early Renaissance
art myself, I felt my heart sinking as I
read the blurb just before entering the
gallery. But I was to be pleasantly sur-
prised. Yes, the Pre-Raphaelites have
gone out of their way to incorporate
characteristics of earlier art: the non-
idealised faces, the sharp outlines and
the medieval subjects; but the re-
sult is not overbearing. The pictures
are still unquestionably modern and
rather than simple imitations of Ital-
ian art. The exhibition is a fusion of
contemporary aesthetic realism with
the exuberance of medieval art. It is
unfamiliar and slightly unnerving, but
exciting too.
However it is the later rooms that
are the most absorbing and there is
a distinct transition from the initial
strict loyalty of the movement to early
Italian art, to a much more relaxed
fascination with colour and playing
around with the female form.
Nature remains a muse in the Pre-
Raphaelites’ work throughout the
period of their activity, with a novel
interest in precise composition and
cropping of the visual ﬁeld, both ar-
guably brought about by the recent
development of photography. Equally
interesting is how Pre-Raphaelitism
gives way to the Aesthetic movement,
how the focus shifts from ‘truth’ to
‘beauty’.
Not an institution to leave a single
stone unturned, the Tate went as far
as ﬁlling one of the rooms with non-
painting works, with material includ-
ing tapestries and stained-glass win-
dows, showing just how versatile the
Brotherhood were with their media.
I would highly recommend this
exhibition for an introduction to an
extraordinary art movement drawn
from the mind of a truly unique group
of radical individuals.
Margot Pikovsky
Bromance of the
renaissance men
Tate Britian honours Pre-Raphaelite rebels
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your draw-
ings to arts.felix@ic.ac.uk. This doodle is by Ruth Moon.
Writer
Book club was more fun before Sandra died
Edward Burne Jones, Laus Veneris 1873-8 © Laing Art Gallery
FRIDAY 26 OCTOBER
26

