Battle star
Galactia
ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
In 16th century Venice, female artist
Galactia is commissioned by the state
to paint a wall-sized canvas to com-
memorate the victory of the Battle
of Lepanto. This initiates the events
in Scenes from an Execution, a play
originally written for the radio in the
1980s but now produced for the stage
by the National Theatre.
Being a woman in a politically
male-dominated climate, Galactia’s
desire for self-expression crashes
headﬁrst into the requests of the art-
obsessed Doge, the representative of
the state involved in the project.
Fiona Shaw, also known as Petu-
nia Dursley, does a great job in ﬁlling
the whole room with Galactia’s pres-
ence and, occasionally, her frustrated
madness. Her character reminds one
of an Emin-like ﬁgure – allowing for
an identiﬁcation with “the artist” –
even though most people probably
don’t know whether or not Tracy
Emin is anything like Galactia.
As the only female character not
covered from neck to toe, her non-
chalant liberalness contrasts with the
contrived nature of the masculine
powers, echoed by the sharp-suited,
grey-haired and square-spectacled
narrator who introduces the play
ﬂoating, deity-like, in his square box.
So powerful is he, that he freezes
time, weaving in and out unnoticed,
describing each of Galactia’s scenes
as ones from a sketchbook of her
own execution. This creates an obvi-
ous cliché: as she deﬁes the state in
painting execution in battle as it is –
blood and gore with no gloriﬁcation
– it is for her that the gallows begin
to loom.
The dealing of gender roles in the
play is not overly original. The artist
is described as promiscuous for hav-
ing had children with several men in-
cluding a younger, married lover. One
of her daughters is accused of being a
prostitute for dressing in colour while
the other, dressed solely in black, asks
her mother to please the state in a bid
to increase the reputation of female
artists. Of course, Galactia refuses,
and she is only spared from life-long
imprisonment when a female critic
patronisingly dresses up the meaning
behind her work as one to be inter-
preted in an ironic fashion.
Despite this, it is good that the play
is not one to lecture about morality
and the values of feminism. Empa-
thy is not exactly the strongest feel-
ing produced for the character and
fate of Galactia, as there is sense to
what those advising her say (even if
they might say it in a somewhat sex-
ist way), thereby creating an engaging
level of tension throughout.
Although by no means perfect,
Scenes from an Execution has been
excellently staged and its themes have
the ability to grip the audience and
instigate reﬂection over the events
occurring on stage.
At the National Theatre until Decem-
ber 9th.
Lily Le
Rumble in the jungle
Political cock-ups, murder and deceit in time
for the American presidential elections
With an endless choice of world-
renowned plays popping out every
week in Central London, one might
wonder why one need even look at the
smaller theatres for entertainment.
The answer, is that it is often only in
oﬀ-the-beaten-track locations that
you can ﬁnd surprising little gems like
the one staged at Richmond’s Orange
Tree Theatre, The White House Mur-
der Case. The play is as satirical as it
is topical, with US federal elections
taking place in a fortnight. The perfor-
mance takes us to a time in which the
US is at war (surprise surprise) with
several countries, and reeling from
the loss of 750 soldiers in a guerilla
conﬂict in Brazil. The accident, caused
by a monumental cock-up has to be
accounted for by the President; all this
only 6 weeks before the elections!
As the President, played by Bruce
Alexander, and his team of pragmat-
ic yet heartless advisors try to come
up with a decent explanation for the
backﬁre of their operations down
south, another catastrophe occurs in
the Oval Oﬃce itself: the First Lady is
murdered! This, however, is far from
being the central drama that the sto-
ryline draws out.
Writer, Jules Feiﬀer, who won a
Pulitzer Prize for his newspaper car-
toons, sets it as a cynically witty story
happening sometime in the 2010s.
Yet, he wrote the play in the 1970s!
This is just one of the many ironies
sprinkled across the script; a sarcastic
Emilie Beauchamp
note that the black and white world of
realpolitik hasn’t changed much over
the last half century. Director Chris-
topher Morahan handles the recrea-
tion of the scenes fairly well within
the minimalist environment. The
stage literally takes up eight square
metres and is smartly divided in two:
one half taken up by the political set
of the White House, the other by two
unfortunate surviving soldiers in the
backdrop of the warring Brazilian jun-
gle. The scenarios are played in paral-
lel, with scenes oscillating between
the US and Brazil, both bringing their
handfuls of satire. Yet, while the back
and forth between the two locations
goes smoothly, the two worlds slowly
lose their connectivity and could have
been tied up more wittily in the end.
Only a minor point for discontent.
The intimate 170 seat Orange Tree
Theatre, which bills itself as a patron
for new and ‘undiscovered’ writing
from the UK and abroad, lends itself
perfectly to resuscitate Feiﬀer’s work.
For a bit more than a tenner (or £5 if
you’re under 26) you get to laugh for
two hours and enjoy a spotless crew of
actors in a pleasantly diﬀerent ambi-
ance from the impersonal West End
gigs. This is recommended to get a
good taste of the full portfolio of en-
tertainment London has to oﬀer.
At the Orange Tree Theatre until No-
vember 10th. Tickets £5-£22.
Writer
Writer
Man falls for thumb-tac on chair gambit
Compost heap sprouts heads
For more visit grannynipslip.org
James Alper, Robert Balderrama © Robert Day
Bruce Alexander (President Hale) © Robert Day
FRIDAY 26 OCTOBER 27

