GAMES
FRIDAY 26 OCTOBER 29
Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Pondering Pandora
Michael Barclay wants to talk about his love for wub wub
orderlands was, to be
frank, a pretty weird
concept. Combining a
fully-ﬂedged ﬁrst per-
son shooter with a Di-
ablo-style loot-centric RPG? These
ideas seem pretty hard to gel, when
ﬁrst thought about, but Borderlands
worked because it just didn’t take itself
seriously at all. The whole thing was
just one big joke because it had to be.
The ridiculously overpowered guns,
the crazy character abilities, even the
way the game showed you numeri-
cally how much damage each shot had
done – these things just wouldn’t have
worked in your bog-standard shooter.
But with its cartoon-style graphics,
over the top gore and ridiculous cast
of characters, the whole thing worked,
and all-in-all, Borderlands was a pretty
good game.
However, at the time, I had my issues
with it. Once you got past the humour
and the outlandishness of the whole
thing, the world of Pandora, where
the whole game is set, was pretty life-
less. Missions were handed out to you
by noticeboards or over an intercom
ferrying you from point A, to point
B, to kill bandits C, before you return
back to point A to collect a reward
and accept another very similar mis-
sion. It also didn’t help that this game
was released at a time where barren
post-apocalyptic wastelands were two
a penny and Pandora just felt like an-
other identi-kit empty desert. To top it
all oﬀ, the story itself was poor with no
real direction and a famously terrible
ending. All-in-all, this quickly made
the game feel grindy and repetitive as
you performed missions just to per-
form missions and inch your character
closer to that next level up.
Borderlands 2 is pretty much more
of that same game. Cartoony, violent, a
stupid amount of guns. It’s another se-
quel of the many sequels released these
days. However, unlike Call of Duty and
Assassin’s Creed’s almost iterative at-
titude to game design, where annual
releases are not only common but ex-
pected, Gearbox has spent 3 years per-
fecting the Borderlands format. Bor-
derlands 2 is better in absolutely every
single way, transforming the franchise
from good, to absolutely fantastic. The
AI has been drastically improved –
now enemies jump out of your line of
ﬁre and use cover far more often than
before. The classes feel familiar enough
for those who played the original, but
with enough modiﬁcations to make it
all feel fresh. There also seems to be a
lot more emphasis on balance between
the various classes, especially at the
endgame with stupidly strong enemies
that require a well-equipped and intel-
ligent group of four players to kill. It’s
often hard to spot graphical improve-
ments with games that adopt a car-
toony style, but with Borderlands 2 it’s
noticeable. If you’re playing on PC and
have a relatively modern NVIDIA card,
there are some fantastic physics on
show. The water eﬀects are astounding
and fabric tears apart beautifully as it is
shot to pieces.
Best of all though, Pandora now feels
alive and exciting. A large hub city in-
troduced very early on gives the player
a sense of home and a base full of NPCs
that provide the majority of your mis-
sions. The boring drab deserts are now
replaced with a variety of landscapes,
including lush highlands, tundra and
large metropolises.
The game also sports a much better
story. Something as simple as giving
the game a proper villain does won-
ders. The game’s antagonist, Hand-
some Jack, completely steals the show
and provides the majority of the game’s
comic relief. Yes, Borderlands 2 is a
very, very funny game. Jack is a truly sa-
distic and warped individual, constant-
ly communicating with the player just
to piss them oﬀ. The supporting cast is
equally entertaining – my personal fa-
vourite being Tiny Tina, a crazed thir-
teen year old orphan, who spends most
of the time inviting local bandits to her
make-believe tea parties just to blow
them up. All in all this leaves you with a
game that is just, well… really fun.
In terms of problems, the game’s
online component has a few issues.
There’s no real loot system in play;
money is divided equally amongst
players as it’s collected, but weapons
dropped by enemies or found in chests
are awarded on a ﬁrst come, ﬁrst serve
basis. Play with a stranger and there’s
a good chance they’ll just hoover up
every weapon dropped regardless of
whether they intend to use it or not.
Also a level scaling system would have
been appreciated. I’ve been playing a
lot of Guild Wars 2 recently and that
game levels you down to the area’s
level cap, meaning you can always go
and help a friend who has played less
than you. Borderlands 2 is deﬁnitely a
game best played with friends and it’s
a shame when one of your friends out-
levels you. Sure, you can still play with
them, but they’ll just sweep the ﬂoor
with everything, whilst you do pretty
much nothing.
That aside though, Borderlands 2
pretty much marks the beginning of
the Autumn/Winter gaming period.
Sure, maybe it’s not innovative, but if
anything, this game is an example of
how to make a sequel. You don’t need
to throw out everything you know and
reboot the entire franchise and you
shouldn’t release a new instalment
every year until you get it right. Instead
Gearbox have taken their time to per-
fect what was already a pretty good
game, providing both a great shooter
and an engaging RPG.
B
OH GOD! THE BONERFARTS
– THEY’RE EVERYWHERE!
I left my will to live in
San Francisco
o, for those of you who actually read these colour-anemic boxes, last week
I put up a vote for which simulator game I should play and review. I had
a deluge of emails telling me to try the ‘social life’ simulator and that I
should get out of the Felix office, but the joke’s on them – I’m dead inside
anyway. I chose to give the Bus & Cable Car Simulator – San Francisco a spin, as I
felt like seeing the sights and sounds of a hustling and bustling bay city.
My desktop computer isn’t new by gaming standards, but it’s not exactly slow
either, so the 30 minutes it took for the installation screen to even appear was a
portent of things to come. Installation over, I cranked the graphics settings up to
11, (and immediately regretted it) making my computer slow to a stuttering ~8fps.
Once I was back to a usable frame rate, I then spent 10 minutes trying to get my
pickup truck to go forwards. Windscreen wipers and fans on, with headlights set
to ‘retina burning’, I was blazing ahead. And then crashed a few meters ahead. Not
the vehicle. The game.
I solved the crashing problem (don’t drive fast) and made my way to my first ob-
jective – an exhibition hall containing the unlockable vehicles I could look forward
to. I got myself to the bus depot, chose a route and spent 10 minutes just playing
around with the onboard computer and the display on the front of the bus. Before
I even got to the first stop on the route, my bus scraped a lamppost and the sight
was akin to that of a beached whale. Verdict: buy if the smell of virtual motor oil
and disappointment gets you hot.
Next week’s choices – Stone Quarry Simulator and Camping Manager. Send
your votes or insults into games.felix@ic.ac.uk.
S
Ross Webster
I feel I should start using ‘Butt
Stallion’ as a term of endearment...

