NEWS
Constitution vote on Tuesday
News Editor: Aemun Reza
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
More student cuts
Men’s cuts £22 (normally £35)
Women’s shampoo and cut and
rough dry £28
Women’s shampoo cut and sa-
lon finish blow-dry £38 (normally
£55)
FRESH Hairdressers has been
offering high quality, fashionable
haircuts for over 20 years, all of
our haircuts are by highly experi-
enced stylists, NOT trainees.
TO GET A GREAT HAIRCUT
1) You don’t have to spend more
money on expensive known High
St. salons
2) You don’t have to spend hours
as a Guinea pig at a training school
3) You don’t have to be butch-
ered at some cheap Barbers who
doesn’t know how to leave a little
length
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
near South Kensington
We use only the best products,
Wella, Moroccan Oil, L’Oreal, and
KMS and offer free coffee and
herbal teas.
Come to FRESH, ask for a student
discount and bring your student ID
we look forward to seeing you
To book an appointment call 0207
823 8968.
Tuesday to Saturdays 9.30 to 5.30
We are only 70 metres from South
Kensington tube station
FRIDAY 26 OCTOBER
Beaumont summed up the draft
Constitution by saying that “apart
from the changes that have been dis-
cussed, the rest of it comes down to
how it’s written, rather than how it
works in practice”.
The budget for the Union, which,
due to fact that it is dealing with
money and how and where it is be-
ing allocated is very important, was
previously set up by the Executive
Committee (Exec.). The draft Consti-
tution refers to “the Union” propos-
ing the budget to the Trustee Board,
who then must approve it. However,
it does not explicitly state there who
that refers to. It is thought that this is a
point that could change. When asked
about this point, Beaumont said that
is was Council or Exec., because that
is who runs the Union. This issue was
contentious because if it is not one
of these bodies, then the money and
therefore overall running would not
be controlled by democratically elect-
ed students.
TheCourt’sdocumentsetsoutwhere
the budget comes from as something
that it believes removes student con-
trol from the Union and how it is run.
The response from Beaumont is: “The
Trustee Board sets the Union’s budget.
The Exec currently has the power to
undermine the Trustee Board which
is the fundamental problem we’re try-
ing to address (and is how we ended
up in the ﬁnancial situation we’re in
today – Summer Ball 2011 was passed
by the Exec). Making reference to stu-
dents implies we’re removing control
from students, but, the Trustee Board
is (under the current and proposed
structures) majority students!!”. The
point about the control of students re-
lates to the membership of the Board,
where there is disagreement as to
whether or not the proposed changes
will cause the Board to be more stu-
dent run as elected representatives sit
on it, or will hand a small number of
students a lot of power and therefore
be less student run.
The members of Council that were
elected in the results announced on
the Union’s website will be voting.
They may not all have experience with
the inner workings of the Union and
so some will have had to familiarise
themselves with the Union’s current
structure and the diﬀerences caused
by the changes. When asked about
the amount of time received to review
the changes, Beaumont stated that the
members had been sent everything
when running for the post, and had
been resent it later. He also pointed
out that the Council Chair will be
brieﬁng them on Monday 29 October,
and he will be seeing what concerns
they have and talking with them after.
A point of contention was the chang-
es to the Trustee Board. The Board is
re-organised with two elected stu-
dents and two appointed students as
the Student Trustees. Furthermore, all
of the Deputy Presidents (Education,
Welfare, Finance & Services, Clubs &
Societies) will be on the Trustee Board
as members, rather than the current
observer status. The other change
would be Court Chair no longer sit-
ting on the Board, as Court is being
dismantled in the proposed changes. a
point that was also contentious.
The argument that Beaumont has
put forward is that it lessens the Presi-
dent’s power in relation to the Deputy
Presidents saying that at the moment
only he is able to sit in closed session
meetings and that he is the only vot-
ing member from the Sabbatical team
on the Board. He went on to say that
he believed it took power away from
the President, as he says that under
the current rules “If I wanted to run it
ignoring the other Sabbs I technically
could. At the moment the President
has too much power. This spreads it
amongst the Sabbs.” A point raised
about this move is that it means the
Sabbatical team as a whole are a lot
more powerful, even if the President
isn’t individually more powerful. The
Court argues that it means that the
Sabbatical team would only need
three out of the other ten members of
the Trustee Board to vote with them
to have a controlling majority of eight
(the Board is proposed to be made up
of 15 members). The Court also points
out that the Sabbatical Oﬃcers are
the most likely, and in general do, at-
tend all the meetings, whereas the Lay
Trustees and Student Trustees can not
always make it. The Court argues that
this makes the Sabbaticals have a lot of
say on the Board. The Court also not-
ed that the President and the Deputy
Presidents would become more pow-
erful if they stick together when vot-
ing, and could use the Trustee Board,
which is the highest Board in the Un-
ion, to overturn and change decisions
made by Council. Beaumont argues
that the President can currently “use
position to overturn the rest of the
Sabbs” and goes on to point out that
the Sabbatical Oﬃcers are also elected
by a ballot of the entire student body.
He also stated that there would be ﬁve
Sabbatical Oﬃcers on the Board and
therefore a minority when compared
to the ﬁfteen members that are on the
Board in total.
In relation to Felix, it is no longer
written in the main body of the Con-
stitution regarding the position of
Felix Editor, with no other Sabbatical
Oﬃcers except for the President being
explicitly mentioned. The sabbatical
position for the Felix Editor and the
Medics’ President are written into
other parts of legislature such as for
Felix the Felix Constitution, Job Con-
tract, and Felix Policy. This caused
alarm that the position may be un-
der threat and made easy to remove.
When asked, Beaumont said that the
procedure for changing whether or
not the positions were sabbatical or
not remains the same under the new
laws. In the two and fro, Court consid-
ered that parts of the constitution may
be taking away the editorial independ-
ence of Felix, meanwhile Beaumont
sets out his reasons why his view is
that it remains the same.
A new point added to the draft
Constitution states that “Bringing
the Union into disrepute” is grounds
for disciplinary action against those
found to be doing so. The Court state
that there is “a sense of unease in al-
lowing a blameless individual... to be
disciplined just because the Union has
ended up looking bad.” Court later re-
fer to how it could aﬀect anyone who
is whistleblowing and if there are any
articles in Felix. Beaumont was ques-
tioned over this, and answered that
it was: “the individual that did some-
thing wrong, it’s not the whistleblower
or the people reporting it that brings
it into disrepute”. The clariﬁcation of
this point will be added to the version
that is brought before Council.
Another issue was that the Court
will be removed with the functions
moved to the Trustee Board. The
Court stated that this “moves Court
functions to the Trustee Board and
in the case of Elections, largely to one
individual”.
The general opinions set out by the
Court are that the restructure the Un-
ion into “a diﬀerent sort of Union” and
states that Council can do this but that
it aims to “highlight some key matters
for consideration”. The reply from
Beaumont is that it is not restructur-
ing, although admitting some changes
are occurring. The Court highlighted
ten topics that it was concerned with.
These included those referred to be-
fore in this article and others. These
points seem to be the main arguing
ground with Beaumont referring to
some of them as “factually inaccurate”.
The new draft of the Constitution
was produced using an NUS template
continued from the front page
>>
document. It has been said by lawyers
that it is legally ﬁne. However, it is
important to note that this does not
mean that they think it is the correct
structure: it means that it is legally
all okay, not necessarily the best and
most democratic way to run the Un-
ion.
This article is only the tip of the ice-
berg in terms of the Constitutional
changes and the discussion between
the Court and the President.
Council is on Tuesday 30 October in
the Union Dining Hall. This is on the
First Floor on the left. Any student is
welcome to attend the discussion, al-
though only members of Council can
vote. All papers mentioned should be
available online at: https://www.im-
perialcollegeunion.org/your-union/
how-were-run/constitution-and-reg-
ulations for the current Constitution
and https://www.imperialcollegeun-
ion.org/sites/default/files/Constitu-
tion%20v2.pdf for the proposed Consti-
tution, Step-by-Step Guide, the Court’s
responses, and, soon, Paul Beaumont’s
response to the Court’s objections.

