FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 26 OCTOBER
32
2. Pierce Brosnan
Possessing the ultimate suave and cheeky charisma, he is the slyest one of them all,
although when it comes to carrying out his missions, he doesn’t go into them half-
heartedly. Recent data compiled by The Economist ranks him as the Bond who has done
the most killing, which must mean he’s cool... because he’s trigger-happy... with both his
gun... and his other prized possession. He may be Irish, but clearly he’s got fans down
here in the Felix office.
1. Sean Connery
Surprised? No? Neither are we. It’s hard to beat originals, and Connery certainly proves
that. He’s one of the main reasons the franchise got off to such a remarkable start, giving
the MGM Studios a ﬁrm seal of approval that 007 is a franchise worth sticking with. Six
actors were chosen and screen tested for the role, and the then 30-year-old Scottish actor
won out, after which he was educated in the ways of being “dapper, witty, and above all,
cool.” And clearly it was time well spent, as he pulls it off flawlessly.
6. From Russia with
Love (1963)
Connery’s famous
ﬁght in the train
compartment is hailed
as being one of the most
believable yet exciting
action scenes ever
ﬁlmed for the screen.
His second crack is
almost as impressive
and game-changing as
his ﬁrst, and further
solidiﬁed his status.
5. Live and Let Die
(1973)
The exotic location
works as a massive plus
here, adding all sorts of
mystery and intrigue
to a rather repetitive
and predictable set of
ideas. The radiant Jane
Seymour, in one of her
early ﬁlm roles, dazzles
as the Bond Girl, with
Yaphet Kotto playing
one creepy villain.
4. You Only Live Twice
(1967)
The scale, for its time
of release, was as large
as it was ever going
to get, and very few
people saw the “fake
volcano” villain lair
coming. The extended
ﬁnal ninja assault, is
one extraordinary
achievement that will
always be considered as
a major Bond highlight.
3. Dr. No (1962)
Here is what kicked
everything off to
eventually become
one of the world’s
most successful ﬁlm
franchises. Sean
Connery set the mood
and style of ﬁlms to
come, and who can
forget the iconic
moment when the
shell-collecting Ursula
Andress appears?
1. Goldfinger (1964)
“No, Mr. Bond. I expect you to die!” remains to be the most
unforgettable line uttered so brilliantly by a Bond villain,
handling a rather menacing looking laser, aiming for Bond’s
favourite body part. Not only does this have the most
hysterical double entendre used as its Bond Girl’s name
(Pussy Galore), the wordless henchman, Oddjob, throwing
around his deadly bowler hat with a sly grin on his face, is the
most popular villain of the series.
2. Casino Royale (2006)
No-one thought Daniel Craig could pull this off, and he faced
a lot of unfair backlash for being the ﬁrst Bond actor to be
blonde (really). But opening with the best chase sequence in
007’s history (and to be honest, most ﬁlms can’t come close
to what’s achieved in the ﬁrst 20 minutes of this), he proved
everyone wrong with the macho brutality he brought to
the role. He also properly falls in love here, something that
doesn’t end entirely well.

