Supersonic Festival 2012
MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter,
Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
music.felix@gmail.com
35
FRIDAY 26 OCTOBER
T
he 10th Supersonic Festi-
val was held in the Custard
Factory in Birmingham.
Since the line-up was an-
nounced some months
ago, I had been excited about attend-
ing. The slogan on a lot of the com-
memorative t-shirts was ‘celebrating 10
years of adventurous music.’ My experi-
ences ranged from the obscure to the
experimental to the just plain weird, so
the slogan seems apt enough.
On Friday night I arrived to be
greeted by the minimalist electronica
of Modiﬁed Toy Orchestra. I had lis-
tened to their album and largely formed
the opinion that their idea of exclusive-
ly using children’s toys to make their
music with techniques such as circuit
bending was interesting but their music
was ultimately unimpressive. I have to
say though, they surprised me. First of
all, because I wasn’t expecting ﬁve seri-
ous looking guys in all black suits, but
more than that because it had a much
more sinister aspect live and frankly, a
toy gun being used to make a beat, the
audience being addressed by a partly
dismantled doll’s head and another doll
with three contact mics stuck into its
head simply make for a good spectacle.
Hey Collosus I expected more from,
but sound problems paved the way for
an underwhelming performance. Oc-
casionally, they got into their groove,
dropping sludgy riﬀs almost on de-
mand and experimenting lightly with
drones and motorik rhythms. These
last two elements, however, were pre-
sented to me as a key feature of their
work and I was disappointed that they
didn’t delve more deeply into the ex-
perimental areas of their music.
Next up was JK Flesh. He provided
what I expected – Justin Broadrick with
a Macbook and a guitar, screaming and
playing riﬀs over drum & bass beats
while dystopian black and white images
were presented in the background. It
was ok, and I appreciated seeing Broad-
rick perform, but I felt it was lacking as
a live spectacle.
On Saturday, the shows began in the
late afternoon and I was treated to one
of the best performances of the week-
end. Stian Westerhus, from Rune
Grammofon band Puma, presented
an impressive solo performance. It
consisted of him, his guitar and about
ten pedals. He proceeded to produce
some intense noise. Like Puma, and
indeed his solo work, there was a deﬁ-
nite sense, for me at least, that he was
extracting and presenting the euphoric
side of noise. In fact, the emotive nature
of the 30-minute piece really struck me,
as he seemed to barely notice the audi-
ence and was visibly carried away by
his performance. He then cut it down,
with some ambient bowing and built it
right back up again, at one point even
screaming into his pickups to produce
feedback. Another aspect I appreciated
was his deep understanding of his in-
tricate set-up and his intuitive relation-
ship with it.
After this I drifted for a while, watch-
ing Sir Richard Bishop doing some
impressive guitar noodling and Kevin
Drumm dropping some noisy drone. I
don’t feel that I have the right to com-
ment though because I only saw parts
of these sets. Dylan Carlson disap-
pointed me. I just have to say that.
What I saw of his set was him doing
some Earth-style guitar over a backing
track before being joined by a disap-
pointing singer and drummer. While an
album of the guitar over backing track
would be good, it really didn’t work for
me live.
Flower-Corsano Duo produced an-
other amazing show. It would be remiss
of me not to mention Chris Corsano’s
incredible drumming ability, with pre-
cise dynamics and timing, playing at
breakneck speed seemingly without
breaking a sweat. Mick Flower’s Japa-
nese banjo (it sounded like a sitar) gave
the performance an almost spiritual
feel. The drumming helped alter the
feeling of meditation to one of catharsis
as he built up the piece. At the peak of
the music a visualisation talking about
the choice between fear and love added
to the atmosphere these two virtuosos
produced and left me simply wanting to
reﬂect on what I’d seen.
Enter Bohren & der Club of Gore.
Slow, relaxing jazz. They performed
in the dark with a small spotlight over
each of them. The 40 minutes of their
set didn’t leave me with much to say but
that’s not a bad thing at all. It served as
a fantastic chill out, appreciated by eve-
ryone watching.
This chill out soon ended uncer-
emoniously, with the crowd already
pumped at the prospect of Merzbow,
and many, like myself, staying where
they were to get the best possible spot.
The festival threw a few curveballs
and Merzbow’s set was one of the big-
gest. Many were expecting a laptop
set, as this seems to be a direction he
has taken for a long time now. It tran-
spired, however, that we were in for a
surprise and a treat. He performed the
entire set with a drummer and one of
the tracks featured a guitarist. The
other of the two tracks featured a brief
cameo by Eugene Robinson of Oxbow
(mainly shouting). Throughout, Merz-
bow played what I can only describe as
a ‘noise banjo’; it resembled a banjo, but
had thick metal coils in place of strings
and a solid metal body. This was then
connected into his rig and violently
strummed to produce a much more
metal/grind inspired set than expected,
harking back to 1994’s Veneorology. He
also used a laptop and various noise
boxes, one of which produced magniﬁ-
cent tunnelling noises that seemed to
travel through the brain. An immense
set from a true master of noise, one that
really tore me a new one and drove me
nearly deaf, but delighted.
After that I was feeling a bit overex-
cited, but I found the perfect tonic in
Carlton Melton. Their sounds remind-
ed me of AC/DC and Sleep hot-boxing
a trailer trash caravan in the desert…
on Mars. A blend of space rock, doom,
drone and straight-up rock’n’roll, their
show was highly enjoyable. Between
beatless interludes, there were mo-
ments of classic rock showmanship: for
example a drum solo, or the guitarist
entering the crowd and passing his gui-
tar to an audience member. It was pret-
ty simple, but enjoyable nonetheless.
Next up was Zeni Geva, who seemed
strange as the last act of night, but
members KK Null and the drummer
from Ruins served up a good set of
hardcore/death metal with a pound-
ing aggression I had been missing for a
while.
Sunday started oﬀ fairly abrasively
with Cliﬀord Torus. The band was
described as being on the noise side of
noise rock. That’s what I expected and
what I got, with half an hour or so of
atonal, noise-laden sludge. A great way
to start the day in my opinion, and they
produced some real headbangers as
well as linking up well with each other.
Ruins Alone was basically the drum-
mer from Ruins playing to a backing
track. Good and entertaining, yes, and
it showcased his ability well, but it just
made me want to see Ruins in their full
glory.
KK Null performed a solo noise set of
the highest quality. While Merzbow’s
show was grind/metal based, Null’s was
a lot more electronica oriented, with
noise occasionally being dropped over
beats. It was not lacking in intensity
however, and ended in Null screaming
into a mic, which outputted his scream
in the form of heavily distorted noise,
after which he slammed it down and
that was the set. Two guys from doom
band ORE then took the stage, playing
tubas, and set up a nice drone, which
Null then came in and blasted some
noise over. This kind of collaboration is
a big part of what made the festival so
special, but I still preferred his solo set.
Lash Frenzy’s Ver Heroicus Sublimis,
a 10th anniversary performance, came
next, and provided probably the big-
gest surprise of the weekend. I did not
entirely know what to expect, but I
knew it would be unique and that there
would be many guest musicians. After
some spoken word on the subject of
sonic attack, a drone started to form.
Drone became noise and then an ar-
ray of musicians in the crowd started to
join in. Then a woman walked in wear-
ing next to nothing and circulated the
room. At this time, it started to become
clear that everyone was meant to circu-
late, as there were diﬀerent pockets of
sound throughout the room. This was
further implied by some guys carrying
strobes around. Thoroughly puzzling
and intense, it was probably the weird-
est thing I’ve ever been to. Afterwards
I was completely ﬂabbergasted, and
the thought of going to anything else
seemed somewhat alien.
The ﬁnal act I did go to see was Dope
Body. They were OK, and brought
kind of a party atmosphere, but a cheap
pseudo-noise rock thrill perhaps.
Honourable mention has to go out to
Tim Hecker and Oxbow Orchestra,
both of whom I was hoping to see but
couldn’t because of train times. Hecker
in particular is a pleasure to see live, and
I’m sure he’d have blown me away. On
that note, I left the festival with a deep
sense of appreciation for what I’d seen,
Rhiaz Agahi on Supersonic’s 10th year
Mick plays
Chris some
soothing
music to
hang the
laundry by
Stian Westerhus
serenades a plant

