MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter,
Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
music.felix@gmail.com
You Don’t Have To
Call It Music
Pt. 3 musique concrète
by Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
Towards the end of the 1920s, some, including Stravinsky, were alluding
to the possibility of writing music for gramophones as had been done for
violins or pianos before. The new paradigm came with the new technolo-
gies developed after WWII, namely magnetic tape. Despite contemporary
composers’ advances in revolutionizing the orchestra, some felt their ef-
forts were not enough. Trying to penetrate the mass of musical imagina-
tion with brass and wood was tantamount to laboring new tricks away on
old dogs.
What did this mean then for music? Talking about recorded sound, one
realized we were not limited to just recording instruments – the most con-
trived scenario. Telecommunications had focused on transmitting record-
ed voice over large distances. The voice can of course be used to sing and
becomes an instrument in its own right. But what if we go the other way
around? From the level of aesthetics to that of utility, and consider the un-
derlying form of the function itself. That is what American dadaist Marcel
Duchamp did when taking a urinal, dubbing it Fountain and calling it art. A
radical change of perspective was beginning to take form.
In the same way, one could now record a train track and call on its rhythm
as a basis for the inherent musicality of the sound. This is exactly what
Pierre Schaeffer did in 1948 with Étude aux chemins de fer. He recorded
the various noises of a steam train: its wheels chugging along the tracks,
the whistles blowing fervently, coal spilling into a furnace and metal clang-
ing and screeching all around. He then arranged these sounds in to a sort
of collage. (Famously, he defined music as “organized sound”.) Besides the
obvious harmony of the whistles and the rhythm of the tracks, its musical-
ity lied in the character of the sounds themselves – not in how well they
imitated traditional instruments. Indeed, just as a violin or a piano have
a certain sound, so does the grinding of metal upon metal. In contrast, a
violin string reverberating through a finely crafted wooden body seems a
fantastically convoluted way to make noise.
Ultimately, what Schaeffer wanted was to distance the listener from the
context; not to imagine himself by the railroad but to immerse himself in
the sounds themselves. To meditate on the vibrations of the air particles;
which behaved this way and that; which moved and modulated them-
selves, and had a character all of their own.
After meeting percussionist Pierre Henry, the two founded the Groupe
de Recherche de Musique Concrète at the RTF broadcast station in Paris.
Many of the most forward thinking composers of the time passed through
the studio, and indeed the Parisian community made a name for itself
which such illustrious members as Iannis Xenakis, who designed the
Philips Pavilion for Expo ’58 based on his piece Metastasis, and Edgard
Varèse, who wrote Poème électronique especially for the highly spatialized
sound system contained therein. Their greatest triumph was not only in
creating music from any sound imaginable but rather lending their ears to
these natural noises in the first place. Like Duchamp, they observed their
surroundings in a different light. It was a matter of perspectives. As Hei-
degger ruminated in Being and Time, the object was now considered for its
own sake rather than as a mere tool. Its purpose was itself.
Their influence has been felt through generations. Almost simultane-
ously, Karlheinz Stockhausen used these concepts in his Cologne studio
to found Elektronische Musik, the subject of next week’s column. The
abstraction of sounds from their objects has been an inspiration to many,
such as experimental hip-hop spearhead Flying Lotus, who more often
usesfieldrecordingsforpercussionsthanstandarddrumsamples.Berliners
Einstürzende Neubauten looked for musicality in everyday objects when
they fashioned instruments from industrial waste; making drums out of
steel barrels, xylophones out of pipes, a bass guitar from a metal coil or us-
ing an air pressurizer to blow through wind instruments. Their antics have
been bravely capitalized by the world-famous Blue Man Group. Recently,
Milanese musician Giuseppe Ielasi produced Tools, an album whose tracks
are named after the single material from which they were made (‘Rubber
Band’ and ‘Polystyrene Box’ resulting in some pretty serious beats).
Searching for a new music, beyond the artifices of conventional instru-
mentation, musique concrète turned to the world for a muse. They opened
our ears to the acoustic richness of our own environment and redefined
music as a part of nature.
FRIDAY 26 OCTOBER
36
Hot Chip are hot
Looking moody and cool.
He is french after all...
I’ve never really understood where
Hot Chip ﬁt in. Having shot to mu-
sical prominence during the years
of ‘nu-rave’ (terrible clothes, a lot of
dick heads but hell, the music was
fun), the band mix catchy pop riﬀs
and delicate vocals with synths that
time and again slay the danceﬂoor.
This combination helped the band
pass through through the years of
nu-rave unscathed - Hadouken, Test
Icicles where are you now? In many
ways Hot Chip were the antithesis
of most nu-rave bands; Joe Goddard
and Alexis Taylor (the two found-
ing members) went to university at
Oxford and Cambridge respective-
ly. They also play the stereotypical
nerd very well indeed and nowadays
are old enough to be some of their
younger fans’ dads. They’re not your
stereotypical electro-pop act, and
neither are they a balls to the wall
dance collective; that leaves only one
conclusion: they don’t ﬁt in.
This was a question I was trying to
grapple with last Friday at Brixton
Academy, whilst seeing Hot Chip
perform live for the ﬁrst time in my
six years of buying their CDs.
The night itself was kicked oﬀ by
Django Django, the much hyped
lads who met at college in Edinburgh.
Dubiously wearing matching shirts,
they put in a performance that was
worthy of their Mercury Music Prize
nomination while still exhibiting the
amateur modesty of a band not long
graduated from performing in pubs.
As we waited for Hot Chip to take to
the stage the theatre became increas-
ingly packed - never before have I
been surrounded by so many people
that I truly believe would have been
able to recite the BBC 6 Music sched-
ule by heart. But I shouldn’t general-
ise too much; there were also a few
lads wearing day-glo caps, awkwardly
stuck in 2007.
Finally Hot Chip took to the stage,
ploughing the raging synth/drum
combination of ‘Shake a Fist’ through
the dance ﬂoor. While their studio-
produced album tracks range from
the delicate to the solid head-nod-
inducing, live Hot Chip beef up the
synthesisers and pound out the bass.
While this made for great interpre-
tations of their studio recordings, it
also posed a dilemma to a large por-
tion of the crowd who were there
with partners and deemed it inappro-
priate to wind the clock back six years
and throw their forearms in wild, yet
rhythmic patterns.
Apart from considering the existen-
tial curiosities of Hot Chip, another
thing that struck me during the per-
formance was the sheer size of their
back catalogue these days. A near two
hour show was ﬁlled with highlights
of their work; not once did the ma-
terial feel as if it was acting as ﬁller.
Half way through the show the band
wound it down brieﬂy to exhibit the
beautiful melancholy of Alexis Tay-
lor’s vocals, but the highlight of the
show came as Valentino claimed the
stage to perform the incredible ‘Ga-
briel’ she released with Joe Goddard.
Indeed the power of her voice blew
everyone away, this live rendition far
better than the studio-produced re-
lease.
In the eight years since Hot Chip’s
ﬁrst full length release they’ve always
done their own thing; they undoubt-
edly inﬂuenced the rise of nu-rave but
the real testament to their success is
how they carried on unblemished
long after it had vanished. That the
band doesn’t ﬁt into boxes prescribed
by music nazis is a testament to what
makes their albums end up on repeat
and their gigs so much fun.
Bastille triumphant at Koko
Koko is one of the most perfect ven-
ues for pop gigs. Its red velvet and gold
interior, in the style of an opera house,
makes it super kitsch, especially when
topped oﬀ with its huge silver spinning
glitterball overhead, as if present by di-
vine right.
Glancing across the dance-ﬂoor up to
the balconies and the imitation private
boxes, they were packed full of excited
beings anticipating the arrival of one
man’s musical project: Bastille.
It was clear from the sported merch
tees, handmade posters, singing to
every word, and clapping in all the right
places that these were hardcore fans.
The band deﬁnitely fed oﬀ their buzz
and which they rewarded with an ener-
getic live set.
Bastille made no fault. They were
tight. The vocals soared. The bass ran
right through you. The singer’s charis-
ma generated deﬁnite stage presence.
They managed to translate their studio
recordings into an engaging live experi-
ence, but this is all what you would ex-
pect from a good gig.
The only fault, if there had to be one,
was that there was nothing strikingly
original about Bastille. Their coming-
of-age pop attracted a predominantly
young audience, inducing nostalgia
in most gig-goers. These reminders of
your teenage past are what demonstrate
the band’s lack of originality. Their cov-
ers of City High’s ‘What Would You
Do?’ and Snap!’s ‘Rhythm is a Dancer’
were the most fun part of the night.
Pop with lyrical social commentary
and slight depth has been done before
and will probably always be produced,
although this is not to say its value is di-
minished. Every generation needs these
kinds of artists to introduce them to
appreciation of music, and sometimes
appreciation in a wider world thanks to
music. Perhaps this is Bastille’s time to
ﬁll that role.
Bastille are very good at what they do,
but the question is whether what they
do is good. You would have had to have
seen the devotion of the audience to an-
swer that question.
Simon Hunter Music Editor
Lily Le Writer
In researching this
article it came to my
attention that Alexis
Taylor is also the name
of an American adult
film actress

