Yawning at Field Music
MUSIC
Antics: in retrospect
There aren’t many rock albums in the
past decade which have been as darkly
unique and memorable as Antics, the
second release from New York based
foursome Interpol. When Interpol
are discussed nowadays, it is more in
the context of what could have been,
as their third and fourth releases ﬂat-
tered to deceive. However I would
argue that this is not because they are
actually poor records, but rather testa-
ment to the quality of Antics and 2002
debut Turn On The Bright Lights which
set the bar so high that it was always
going to be diﬃcult to reach those
same heights. And so it proved after
the disappointment of their self-titled
fourth album, as the band have been
on hiatus since 2011 “to pursue sepa-
rate projects”, according to drummer
Sam Fogarino.
Antics opens as it means to
go on with the typically melancholic
‘Next Exit’, on which lead singer Paul
Banks croons “we’re gonna trek this
shit around...we ain’t going to the
town, we’re going to the city,” perhaps
a reﬂection on the band themselves
as they try to ‘make it big’. ‘Evil’, the
second single from the record and
an undisputed masterpiece of a song,
is rumoured to be about serial killer
Rosemary West, who was convicted of
10 murders in 1995. This understand-
ably fails to lift the gloom and doom
surrounding the album, even through
the slightly more uplifting ‘Take You
On A Cruise’, which is carried along by
Carlos Dengler’s thunderous bassline.
The star of the album though is ‘Slow
Hands’, a song recently covered by
Azealia Banks (of all people). The high
tempo and echoed guitars serve up an
absolute treat of a song as Paul Banks’s
smooth baritone voice just about man-
ages to make itself heard over the din.
This is followed up by the more bom-
bastic ‘Not Even Jail’ which builds it-
self up to a frenzied chorus and the
brilliantly named ‘Public Pervert’ in
which the concluding breakdown re-
ally is something to savour. ‘C’mere’,
the third single from the album, could
possibly be described as the most up-
beat song out of all of them (although
this isn’t saying much) as Paul Banks
abandons his Ian Curtis-like vocals for
something more romantic. After all
this is a song about unrequited love;
“The trouble is that you’re in love with
someone else.” Antics has an underly-
ing nautical theme shown by ‘Take You
On A Cruise’ and the lyrics of the ﬁ-
nal song ‘A Time To Be So Small’, on
which guitarist Daniel Kessler exhibits
all of his talents to bring the album to
an epic conclusion, as his guitar chops
and chimes in typical Interpol fashion.
Antics featured on many reviewers’
list of the top 50 albums of 2004 but
has always slightly stood in the shad-
ow of its more illustrious predecessor
Turn On The Bright Lights. It is a well
known fact that the second album is
often the most diﬃcult for bands such
as Interpol, and in my opinion they did
a ﬁne job of it. With the albums that
followed however, it seems that Inter-
pol became a victim of their own suc-
cess.
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter,
Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
music.felix@gmail.com
37
FRIDAY 26 OCTOBER
AMS album of the week
It’s been a long two years for Egyptian Hip Hop,
and after jumping off the hype machine they were
so reluctantly thrust upon, they have returned with
a debut album full of new material that takes a dif-
ferent, perhaps more accomplished direction than
their earlier releases.
The infectious pop hooks and bass lines which
featured on the singles ‘Moon Crooner’ and ‘Rad
Pitt’ still remain but this time around, they are im-
mersed in a struggle between tribal rhythms and
Cure-esque meandering guitars. The album wears its world music influences on
its sleeve, with the sheer diversity of the sounds and instruments used revealing
itself after each listen. Despite this, contrary to previous releases, each track on
GOOD DONT SLEEP feels like it belongs with the others.
Beginning the album with a kick, ‘Tobago’ is heavily layered with all sorts of
nicefiddlyguitarsoundsandominouschant-singing.Nextupis‘TheWhiteFalls’,
which upon listening to, one could easily expect an ambient interlude, but in-
stead it bursts into arguably the most anthemic of all tracks on GOOD DONT
SLEEP. The latest single ‘Yoro Diallo’ features some of the less reverberated vo-
calsofthealbum,withawonderfulmurmur-alongchorusandawonkypopmen-
tality. ‘Snake Lane West’ is a slow, progressive nod to the guitar stylings of Adrian
Belew,while‘PearlSound’isapsychedeliceuphony.Nextonthetracklistingand
the first single taken from the album is the surprisingly dancefloor-ready ‘SYH’
which starts as a jangly affair and ends with a great IDM-come-Talking Heads
breakdown (sounds odd, but I feel I’m pretty accurate on this one). Another
highlight is ‘One Eyed King’, a slow, muggy monster of a jam, leaving the glitter-
ing vocal harmonies of ‘Iltoise’ to end the album on a soothing note.
Onecan’thelpbutgetthefeelingEgyptianHipHophavemadethealbumthey
always wanted to, shedding the role of bloggers’ golden boys to pioneers of a
deeper, progressive evolution of experimental pop.
Egyptian Hip Hop: GoodDon’tSleep
It is an aﬄiction of the internet age
that, nowadays, a band must be
tragically cool to get noticed. They
must have the right haircuts, a cer-
tain amount of buzz about them and
normally a postcode from Dalston,
Shoreditch or at the moment South
London. Field Music, however, are
the antithesis of this; they are desper-
ately uncool and do not profess to ride
on any trends or jump on any band-
wagons. They have stuck to their indie
ethos from the start, forming in 2004.
They have gradually garnered critical
acclaim with their four albums, and
have attracted a sizeable, if not slightly
cultish, following. So I attended their
London show at the Electric Ballroom
in Camden with the anticipation that
this was what music was meant to be
about.
Music should not, I thought to my-
self, be about the importance of the
hype machine, the coolness of the
lead singers new mop haircut or how
many synthesisers the band employ.
It should be about the music… how
wrong I was. Field Music, although
being great musicians, basically play a
mixture of indie and white boy funk
with prog tendencies to a middle-
aged crowd all doing embarrassing
dad dances. (If you have been to a
wedding lately you know what dance
I am talking about.) When I looked
around the busy venue it struck me
that the average age was about forty,
rather than the youthful crowds I am
so used to. There is, however, nothing
inherently terrible about attracting a
crowd of middle aged couples. I am
sure that these were some really cool
forty year olds; the ones who have
taken a fair share of pills in their time,
the ones who plan family vacations
around Glastonbury, the ones who
are so ‘chill’ that they let their children
choose their own names when they
are old enough. BUT, it does not make
their booty-popping any less cringe-
worthy or embarrassing.
There were deﬁnitely some songs
which shone to me, such as ‘Them that
do nothing’ and ‘Who’ll pay the bills’.
The majority of the material was taken
from their most recent album Plumb
which has attracted the notable glanc-
es of a Mercury nomination, and these
songs on the whole were the strongest
of the night. The ambling nature of the
set, however, did nothing to keep me
enraptured. Songs morphed into one
another, held together with prog gui-
tar noodlings, which meant that my
attention was not held for a signiﬁcant
period all night. There is no doubting
that Field Music have some fantastic
melodies but just as one builds up, just
as in ‘A new town’, it is quickly disman-
tled in favour of a further instrumental
section which was deﬁnitely a shame.
There was also an interesting dynamic
between the two Brewis brothers but
it seemed to me that the lads from up
in the North East were actually ﬁght-
ing a losing battle to keep their middle
aged movers and shakers ﬁrmly under
their spell. There were moments when
the tall man in front of me didn’t know
whether to sway to the beauty of some
of the more fragile sections, as in the
beginning of ‘Start the day right’, or to
have a white boy funk freakout session
as he did one minute later in the same
song. To say the poor bloke was both
confused and exhausted by the end
was an understatement.
What struck me most about Field
Music was that they deﬁnitely had
some promising songs and great mel-
odies but they were lost beneath the
more experimental and prog parts
which are not so prevalent in their
albums. I now realise that most of
my friends who really like Field Mu-
sic are either into jazz or are in white
boy funk bands and this should have
come as a massive warning sign to
me. As I headed back into the night
I felt slightly dispirited; let down in
the knowledge that sometimes music
needs the haircuts, the hipsters and
the bloggers because without them I
ended up at a gig with some dancing
dads listening to some jazz ramblings
of an indie band I once thought were
quite good. I am sorry Field Music,
but as a live proposition, I do not get
you. Come back to me in twenty years
time when my biggest hobby will be
gardening and my happy marriage
will be interspersed with an aﬀair with
Sheila from next door and I am sure
I will happily bust out some terrible
dance moves in Camden, but for now-
no thank you.
Yasmin Malik
Mark England Music Editor
Alex Hooftman Writer
Looking back at Interpol’s sophomore album
Is it over yet?

