SPORT
Sport Editors: Oli Benton, Sor-
cha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 26 OCTOBER
46
Toni Semmence Sports Writer
On Wednesday the 17th, the Impe-
rial Womens’ ﬁrst team played their ﬁrst
match of the season against Reading.
Despite being their ﬁrst match as a team,
Imperial dominated from the ﬁrst whis-
tle with Ellie Hill scoring the ﬁrst goal
and setting us oﬀ to an awesome start.
Defence was on form, with everyone
working and communicating through-
out the match giving Reading very few
opportunities to even approach our goal.
Despite play being interrupted due to
injuries, the team stayed strong through-
out. In the second half, the attack began
to relax into the game after a slightly
manic start and drew out the defence as
using the perimeter proved to be an ef-
fective way of scoring. Victory was clear
with a ﬁnal score of 26-2 and Jahnvi Ka-
ria deservedly being voted as Man of the
Match. Best wishes to Kat Roele, one of
the veteran ﬁrst players, who was injured
in the match: we all hope she makes a
speedy recovery!
Lizzie Allen, 1’s Captain said “I am so
impressed with the level of talent that
the new freshers have shown - should be
an exciting season! Can’t wait to battle
our old rivals UCL. Reading was a good
warm up and we managed to practise
somegoodplaysbutallinallwestillneed
to improve as a team and work together
LAX women crush opposition
Sports Writer
The Womens’ 2nds lacrosse team
played and won their ﬁrst match of
the season against Hertfordshire on
Wednesday the 17th of October. The
team was composed of a 50:50 mix-
ture of seasoned players and fresh
faces who had only picked up a stick
for the ﬁrst time two weeks before.
Taking this into consideration the suc-
cess of the match was a testament to
the team and the hard work and keen
drive of the players. The victory was a
convincing one of 9-5 with the main
goal scorers being, Annie Mondon-
Ballantyne , Catherine Hedley and
Gen Pugh.
Due to issues with the minibus and
traﬃc on the way to Hertfordshire the
team arrived with only time for a very
short warm up before being thrown
onto the pitch with some players not
even knowing the positions they were
meant to be playing. The ﬁrst goal was
to Hertfordshire in the early minutes
of the game; with Imperial still trying
to get it’s bearing. But back to centre,
reset and it was clear Herts were not
to be quite so lucky again. This time
around, Imperial dominated posses-
sion with Hertfordshire showing clear
weakness when it came to defending
goals, and the quarter ﬁnished with 4
goals in our favour to their 1.
The second and third quarters con-
tinued with Imperial maintaining the
upper hand, the players new and old
showing increased conﬁdence as the
match progressed, ﬁghting hard for
every ground ball and making some
excellent tackles. Members who had
played the year before were showing
remarkable improvement all round
with the force of their play and getting
stuck in with much more zeal than the
previous season. Particular improve-
ment was noticeable in Louisa Dyer,
Alice Wickham and Hannah Thrower.
Hertfordshire were able to score 1
goal per quarter in the 2nd and 3rd
quarters, all by their centre: their team
captain and evidently star player too.
The Imperial team were still yet to
have a proper tactics training session
and shutting one player down at all
times proved a challenge. The defence
worked hard to get to grips with dou-
ble-teaming quickly and succeeded
in holding oﬀ most Hertfordshire ad-
vances with fantastic defensive work
by Vi Tran and Hannah Tullett, and of
course Tania Buckthorp (goalie) too.
By the ﬁnal quarter it was clear that
Imperial’s ﬁtness was lagging, a weak-
ness exacerbated by the shortage of
subs compared to the opponent’s
Womens 2’s Captain
team. Hertfordshire’s centre was able
to break away and scored a ﬁnal 2
goals despite the incredible persever-
ance of Jordon Mcdonald, valiantly
attempting centre in her ﬁrst match
and subsequently being crowned Man
of the Match for her impressive ef-
fort. Nevertheless, Imperial still held
a comfortable lead with several goal
attempts being made in the ﬁnal quar-
ter and the match ending in a ﬂourish
with Imperial’s 9th goal being scored
by Gen Pugh in the last 20 seconds.
Of the ﬁnal result the Seconds Cap-
tain said “I’m really impressed by how
quickly the new girls have picked up
the basic stick skills needed to play
Lacrosse, its shown how valuable the
time we have spent teaching has been.
I am unbelievably proud of both the
new girls and old members: every
single person really got stuck into the
match and gave it their all. It was bril-
liant seeing everyone working so hard
and yet having fun at the same time.”
Imperial Womens’ lacrosse has got
oﬀ to a rip roaring start and the teams
seem to be going from strength to
strength with much being gained from
match play for both new and old play-
ers. If you are interested in playing-
-whether you have been playing since
you were 12 or have never picked up
a lacrosse stick before--please email
lacrosse@imperial.ac.uk.
Imogen Simmonds
Gen Pugh
This week saw a busy week for ICUNC
with 8 scheduled games and the ﬁrst
LUSL games of the season.
On Monday evening the 1sts took on
QM 1sts away, the game started quite
closely but QM started to pull away. Lack
of familiarity within the 1sts and small
mistakes give plenty to work on in train-
ing,andwithastrongfoundationtobuild
on the quality of play can only improve.
The game ended 40-24 to QM.
The 3rds also had a tough game, tak-
ing on the strongest team in the league,
UCL 3rds. Good play by the 3rds was not
enough to stop UCL dominating, regard-
less of this the 3rds played on hard with
the score ending 60-20 to UCL. Nancy
Edge’s great work in the centre court
earned her man of the match.
The 2nds had a home game and took
on RHUL 2nds, after a win the previous
Wednesday our heads were held high
but we were very aware that this would
be a tough game. Unfortunately, the ﬁrst
quarter ended with IC behind Royal Hol-
loway by 8 goals, heads started to drop,
maybe this wasn’t going to be as easy to
come back from as Wednesday, but an
inspirational team talk form Captain Abi
andsomechangesoncourtsaweveryone
ready to ﬁght back. RHUL had a very tall
Goal Shooter, making it almost impos-
sible for GK Emma Dixon to defend ef-
fectively even with the help of Catherine
Burrows and so over half time we had to
change our tactics and focus on block-
ing the Goal Attack out of the circle in
the hope that this would stop them from
scoring so many goals. The ﬁrst half end-
ed 26-18 to RHUL. The change of tactics
proved successful, with Toni Semmence
drawing contact from the GA. Fantastic
interceptions by Rebecca Tyne, Sarah
Simmonds and Emily Rolfe ensured by
the end of the third quarter IC were only
behind by 2 goals. Throughout the ﬁnal
quarter IC managed to maintain the 2
goal diﬀerence until the last 2 minutes
where a turnover in midcourt led to us
scoring, leaving us only one goal behind
with only 1 minute to go. It was then
our centre pass and after a few turnovers
and a scrappy 30 seconds by both teams
Abi managed to feed the ball to Hannah
Weekes who scored the winning goal
with both defenders out of play and only
secondslefttospare,talkaboutpressure!!
Fantastic movement from both Har-
riet Rumgay and Hannah in the ‘D’ gave
Hannah joint man of the match with
Toni. The game ﬁnished 40-40 with the
2nds continuing their unbeaten season.
Tuesday saw the 4ths and 5ths with
their ﬁrst game of the season at South
Park courts in Fulham. The 4ths took on
KCL 5ths with almost a completely new
team from last year. The game started
slowly with most of the action being in
the centre court. The 4ths started to fall
behind but would not be deterred and
fought right to the end with a respectable
ﬁnal score of 9-3 to KCL. Unfortunately
LSE pulling out at the last minute meant
the 5th team are yet to be able to show
what they are made of.
Wednesday saw the return of BUCS
matches where the 1sts took on St Barts
1sts away. Unfortunately a tough game
saw the score end 35-21 to St Barts.
The 2nds had another home game
and were determined to make the most
of it and continue their unbeaten season
against Herts 3rds. The 2nds went out
hardandsomebrilliantdefencebyEmma
Dixon and Rebecca Tyne ensured that
Herts shooters barely saw the ball. More
fantastic work at the other end of the
court from Harriet Rumgay and Hannah
Weekes ensured that every opportunity
was capitalized on. The ﬁrst quarter end-
ed 11-6 in IC’s favour. The 2nd quarter
saw Herts go out with a determination to
close the gap, but strong play from Sarah
Simmonds and Emily Rolfe ensured that
the 1st half ended 19-15. The 3rd quarter
saw Herts begin to close the gap more
but controlling play from Abi Johnston
Hume ensured that IC were still ahead.
The ﬁnal quarter and IC came out with a
new lease of life, and managed to extend
theirlead.Greatshootingandmovement
form Beverly Tsang and Hannah brought
the game to a close at 37-31 to IC, with
the 2nds undefeated season continuing.
The 3rds took on West London 1sts
away, and with many of the senior play-
ers absent due to Commemoration Day,
Amelia Al-Qazzaz led the team. The
game was very close, but unfortunately
was lost in the last quarter and West
London won the game 23-18. A special
mention goes to Isobel McLachlan for
her fantastic shooting on the day.
Netball 2s continue winning streak
Body armour? Needed by a girl in Metric.
Despite her best attempts,
she still couldn’t fly
better.Wegotletoﬀalittleeasythistime”

