“Keep the Cat Free”
Issue 1528 felixonline.co.uk
26/10/12
The Diamond Jubilee Regatta was held
over the weekend of the 20-21st Octo-
ber at the scene of the summer’s Olym-
pic rowing frivolities, Dorney Lake. The
prospect of a major 2 kilometre sprint
event just three weeks into the autumn
term struck fear into even the hardiest
IC rower. However, despite the shock to
the system, it turned out to be a hugely
successful event. Imperial College Boat
Club arrived in force, storming their
way up the medal table and ﬁnishing
second in the Victor Ludorum at the
end of the weekend.
Competition at the Regatta was ﬁerce.
Usually at events ICBC are used to rac-
ing other crews of a similar standard:
BUCS for example. However the re-
vised format meant that all categories
of crew would race each other, pitting
lightweights against heavyweights and
seniors against us little under-23s. Win-
ners of respective categories would then
be worked out at the end of racing based
on overall rankings. In addition Olym-
pians who had raced over the summer
were encouraged to attend and race for
their home clubs. This meant that we
were lining up against the actual big
deals, in a rowing equivalent of you rac-
ing Usain Bolt with one man and his dog
watching from the stands of the Olym-
pic Stadium.
Imperial’s all student rowers came away
from the event with two gold medals,
in the under-23 lightweight double and
the under-23 men’s eight. Lightweight
dream-team Wilf Kimberley and Tim
Richards won the gold, having both at-
tending the under-23 World Champi-
onships over the summer. They were
pushed hard by Myles Holbrough and
Paul Jones, also of Imperial, who ﬁn-
ished second in the under-23 light-
weight doubles category. This excellent
one-two meant BUCS points galore and
a high ﬁnal placing, with the doubles
ﬁnishing 8th and 10th overall.
On the Sunday the student men’s 8 were
racing for the ﬁrst time this year. The
crew of Hal Bradbury, Sam Cottrell, Jon-
ny Rankin, Ali Hudson, Ben Spencer-
Jones, Henry Goodier, Wilf Kimberley
and Tim Richards with cox Ellie Smith
had extremely tough competition. In
their semi-ﬁnal they found themselves
oﬀ the pace in the ﬁrst 1000m, needing
a top 3 ﬁnish to make the A-ﬁnal. The
boys put in a powerful push at halfway,
getting their bows in front of Newcas-
tle University and into the critical third
place spot. Knocking Newcastle out
also meant that Imperial were the only
under-23 crew in the ﬁnal, automati-
cally getting them a gold medal! In cel-
ebration strokeman Kimberley pulled
out a huge chocolate cake, which many
of the crew got stuck into. Coach Stu
Whitelaw struggled to give his pre-race
chat for the ﬁnal as he couldn’t keep his
hands oﬀ the ‘dirty beast’ and was seen
wolﬁng slices and slices of cake down
after the boys boated. In the ﬁnal the
crews lined up: Leander, Cambridge,
Molesey, Oxford Brookes, Imperial and
Tideway Scullers. The Imperial crew
were the only boat not containing any
Olympians, and the Leander boat actu-
ally had ﬁve medals from the London
2012 games! IC managed to hang on
for a 5th place ﬁnish overall. Two-man
Sam Cottrell had given so much that he
didn’t have the energy to hold on to his
oar once they had crossed the line. It got
caught under-water and he ‘crabbed’
ending up pinned backwards with a
handle in his face until the boat slowed
to a halt. Although not the most stylish
way to ﬁnish a race, Cottrell said that ‘at
least everyone thought that I had pulled
hard’
.
The beauty of the new format meant
that in the semi-ﬁnal of the men’s quad,
Paul Jones found himself looking across
at his opposite man in the London RC
boat, who happened to be Bill Lucas,
a 6ft6 GB Olympic Beast. Paul, who
in normal terms is average sized but
in rowing circles is a midget, laughed
oﬀ the size diﬀerence in typical Gallic
fashion however this time conﬁdence
wasn’t enough unfortunately. The quad
of Myles Holbrough, Paul, Rory Sullivan
and Dan Powell missed out on the A-
ﬁnal but managed a positive 4th in the
under-23 category. Another quad con-
taining Simon Steele, rowing with last
year’s captain Paddy Hudson ﬁnished
6th in senior quads.
Imperial medic and London 2012
rower Mel Wilson stormed to victory
in the women’s 8 in a composite crew
also containing 4 other ICBC mem-
bers. Mel had a very successful sum-
mer, coming 6th at the Olympics in the
women’s quad after taking a year out
of studying to focus on the games. She
has been back training with the squad
at IC this year and has been showing
oﬀ some very ﬂashy kit out on the river!
The ICBC non-students achieved other
excellent results at the regatta, with vic-
tory in the women’s four and alumni,
lady-killer and Olympic spare Adam
Freeman-Pask stroking a heavyweight
quad to 5th in the A-ﬁnal.
There was success for the women’s dou-
ble of Lizzie Cottrell and Georgie Phil-
lips. They ﬁnished 3rd out the university
crews and 6th overall in women’s dou-
bles, adding to the Boat Club’s early sea-
son haul of BUCS points. ICBC also had
a student double of Annie Hooper and
Lily Beadle ﬁnishing 7th in this event.
Further women’s success came with a
student crew of Louise Connell, Har-
riet Cross, Caterina Buizza and Hannah
Patterson ﬁnishing 5th in the A ﬁnal of
the women’s coxless fours, an excellent
result against some very strong crews.
The BUCS points are already racking
up, the medals are coming in and it
looks like it could be the year for ICBC.
The next event for the crews is the Toga
Party this coming Saturday, followed by
the small matter of GB trials a couple
of weeks after. It is great to see so many
novices down the Boat Club at the mo-
ment, and we look forward to more
success for ICBC in the coming months.
IC Rowers get more golds
SPORT
ICURFC brings 15% off supplements for all students! bit.ly/imperialprotein
Rory Sullivan Sports Writer
On Saturday the Imperial swimming
team travelled to Cambridge to take
part in the ﬁrst gala of the year, and
it was a good meet but was not with-
out hitches. Our captain, after telling
us which trains to book, booked hers
for half an hour later, and when we did
arrive in Cambridge Tom Trimnell
assured us he knew how to get to the
pool so we started walking. We took
the scenic route round the outskirts of
Cambridge and an hour later, we ar-
rived at the pool. After our little ad-
venture round Cambridge we didn’t
need to warm up and so the competi-
tion began.
There were good individual swims
from all the freshers and the team as
a whole came 5th. Some outstanding
swims were by Michael Ingram in the
100m butterﬂy and Fraser Gordon in
the 100m freestyle who both came in
the top three in all their races. After
the competition we enjoyed some
well-earned pizzas (all large of course)
and beers on the train home. Artyom
put his underwater camera to good
and made a video of our day; youtube.
com/watch?v=tttaNi_Udho. All in all
it was a good day and the freshers rose
to the occasion spectacularly.
Freshers get wet in Cambridge
Alex Charleson Sports Writer
They are awful trousers
The wettest this
Fresher is ever going
to get

