GLENCORE UK LTD.
London is the headquarters of Glencore’s oil business which includes Glencore UK the trading of various products including oil
and gas. Glencore also has upstream investments in oil production.
CAREERS PRESENTATION
Sheffield Building, Read Lecture Theatre ▪ Monday 29 October ▪ 1830hrs
IMPERIAL COLLEGE CAREERS FAIR
Thursday 18 October
We are looking for exceptional graduates who demonstrate a strong interest in commodities trading and who thrive on logistical
challenges and providing practical solutions to complex problems. Numerical ability is fundamental as is the ability to work in a
highly pressured and fast paced environment. We look for people with language skills and cultural awareness because diversity
of people is very important to us. Our approach necessitates a long term and thorough learning discipline. We encourage
movement between teams and seek candidates who are proactive and will flourish in a highly successful environment that lacks
rigidity; our graduate opportunities are reflective of this culture. Our intention is for graduates to eventually become front line
traders should they show suitable aptitude.
Glencore is offering up to 6 graduate vacancies in its London office in 2013, which involve a series of real roles including
operations and risk management. Both roles are exceptionally hands on and are critical stages in the development of a
successful trader. To apply for a graduate position at Glencore you must achieve a minimum of a 2:1 or higher degree and be
fluent in English. Alternatively, looking beyond academic success, demonstration of exceptional achievement in a commercial
environment will be viewed positively.
Please submit your CV and cover letter to
London.Graduates@Glencore.co.uk
You should seek to demonstrate the following:
§ Entrepreneurial flair, commercial innovation and initiative
§ Passion and determination to succeed in a competitive environment
§ Exploring opportunities to generate additional value
§ How you have solved complex problems
§ How you have encouraged and inspired others
§ What you expect from Glencore to develop your career and meet your aims
§ Any references you feel will support your application
Applications will be considered on a rolling basis until our closing date of 31st October 2012
Glencore are working in partnership with Smart Global Trading Limited in this recruitment exercise

