NEWS
5
News Editor: Aemun Reza
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 26 OCTOBER
Election results announced
The results for this year’s Council and rep elections
The results for this year’s Reps and
Council elections were announced on
Wednesday 24 October.
The turnout for the elections was
the highest that the Union has re-
ceived for Academic Rep and Council
Member positions, with 6849 votes
cast by 3030 students. This is a 20%
turnout as claimed by the Union.
The Union said in the article on their
website announcing it that they were
“really proud of... election turnouts”.
It then went on to say that “Imperial
College Union is improved, by all the
great student Oﬃcers that get elected,
every time you vote.”
In these elections, every single year
rep for every subject was elected. As
well as this, all of the undergraduate
and postgraduate Council Ordinary
Members for the Faculty of Engineer-
ing, Medicine, and Science were elect-
ed. The Disabilities Oﬃcer was also
elected. As with all elections, there is
a possibility to Re-Open Nominations
(RON) if none of the candidates take
the voter’s fancy.
For the position of Disabilities Of-
ﬁcer, Moeko Maiguma-Wilson was
elected, unopposed, with 1147 votes
to RON (not from Harry Potter) gain-
ing 218.
The number of votes cast was gen-
erally higher for the undergraduate
Council Ordinary Members when
compared to the other positions
also being elected. The postgraduate
Council positions also had a consider-
ably smaller turnout when compared
to the undergraduate elections. The
most extreme example (where both
positions are elected) is the Faculty
of Science. In the undergraduate elec-
tion, the top three candidates, Jason
Parmar, Mariza de Souza, and Stuart
Haylock, who were all elected, re-
ceived 162, 139, and 60 votes respec-
tively in the ﬁrst round. However, in
the postgraduate election the two po-
sitions were ﬁlled by James Bannock
and Xiaoran Lai who had 30 and 13
votes in the ﬁrst round respectively.
The overall turnout was high, how-
ever, in many individual position’s
elections, the turnout was still fairly
low as a raw number, with many
elected after receiving no more than
20 votes.
Some positions do still remain
unﬁlled. The Faculty of Medicine’s
Council Ordinary Member is still un-
ﬁlled, with one person needed for the
role.
There are a few rep positions that
are still empty. These are generally for
the more niche subject’s rep position.
These are all for MSc subject’s course
reps and are: Advanced Materials Sci-
ence and Engineering Course Rep,
Human Molecular Genetics Course
Rep, Optics & Photonics Course
Rep, Controlled Quantum Dynam-
ics Course Rep, Plastic Electronics
Course Rep, Epidemiology & Master
of Public Health Social Rep, and MBA
Course Rep. All of these positions had
nobody standing for them the ﬁrst
time around, and therefore RON won.
The full results can be seen on the Un-
ion’s website here: https://www.impe-
rialcollegeunion.org/news/your-reps-
council-elections-results
Tim Arbabzadah Editor-in-Chief

