13
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 15 NOV
COMMENT
S
omewhere in the imposing
tome, Less than Nothing,
author Slavoj Žižek relates
an anecdote about the
attitudes taken by Bertolt
Brecht and Dashiell Hammett in their
respective McCarthy-inspired HUAC
trials. Brecht tells the factual truth
but phrases answers in such a way to
suggest that he is nothing more than
an anti-fascist agitator. Hammett, on
the other hand, is accused of managing
“Grub first, then ethics”
communist organizations funds – of
which he knows nothing. Despite this
Hammett refuses to answer questions
and is subsequently sent to prison.
Žižek is trying to make is about
truth’s nature. He claims that, even
though Brecht cannot be accused of
lying in terms of actual content (versus
Hammett), Hammett is nonetheless
the more ‘honest’ person. I endorse
this interpretation, otherwise Žižek’s
clariﬁcations in the notes should
illustrate the point. Žižek mentions
a conformist philosophy teacher
in the (then) communist Slovenia,
who would tell his students with a
‘disarming smile’ that ‘I know I’m
scum.’ The intention is obvious: by
admitting the mistake in advance I
am precluding any criticism for it.
The situation is similar to Brecht who,
when accused of cowardice, replied
that he was ‘a writer, not a hero.’
One criticism I have of Žižek is that
(perhaps) he missed a dimension.
Brecht, by being dishonest in this
roundabout way, demonstrated the
more ‘objective’ truth of Brecht’s own
ambiguous ethical-political position.
Rather than being willing to endorse
the Stalinist cause Brecht tried to
get the best of both worlds, endorse
the Party as a radical artistic ﬁgure/
intellectual but never join it and
really compromise himself morally by
supporting a system and ideology as
vicious and monstrous as Stalinism.
Apropos the philosophy professor,
Christy Kelly
Writer
is scum because of the attempted
disavowal in his claim that he is scum.
If he were a committed ideologue he
would be mistaken, wrong – evil. This
lowest state of ethical apologism, this
pathetic example of Nietzsche’s slave
morality which is in Badiou’s terms
‘beneath Good and Evil’ should be
fully rejected. As Žižek viciously puts
it ‘Stop trying to pretend you’re not
scum by saying you are scum; you are
scum!’
So, what was the point of the
discussion above? Nothing much,
if I’m honest. The ambiguity is fully
captured in Brecht’s brilliant ‘Grub
ﬁrst, then ethics.’ With Brecht as
Marxist we assume the message is
‘Don’t moralise to me with your petty
ethics, I am dying of hunger. You,
the bourgeoisie are the criminals
for allowing this state of poverty to
exist.’ Think of Trevelyan, criticising
the Irish woman’s culinary repertoire
in famine stricken Ireland. A small
thought experiment allows us to see
where this principle falls down. Think
of the Eichmann or the equivalent
Nazi mid-level bureaucrat. The Nazi
middle classes, famous for their ethical
self-justiﬁcations, latched onto such a
‘socially progressive’ view,feeling the
need to ‘support their families’.
Instead of this real Brecht we should
recognise the greatness of the ‘fake
persona’ Brecht. Brecht tells us the
true way to ﬁght a famine, ‘Hungry
man, reach for a book: it is a weapon.’
O
ver the last few weeks Felix
has been investigating the
problems aﬀecting students
in halls in regards to cleaning.
This has been an ongoing
issue that is eﬀecting hundreds of students,
something that could also have an eﬀect on
their study life as well. We look forward to
hearing a response from the Campus Services
departmentinregardstothechangestheyhave
made to the contract, in terms of how binding
the contract is, why the communication with
students has not been optimal, and how they
plan to operate the cleaning services over the
coming months. If you have been aﬀected by
the changes to the cleaning rota and would
like to share your opinions (be they positive,
negative, or neutral), please do not hesitate to
get in touch with Felix via the Editor’s email
address (felix@imperial.ac.uk).
This week also saw the third Union Council
meeting of the year (Tuesday), in which
the Council members heard back from the
working party that had been creating the
Union’s oﬃcial stance against the bill. The
working party was run by Marissa Lewis
(Deputy President Welfare), who also
organised this week’s Sexual Health and
Guidance (SHAG) Week events. After the
discussions in the previous Council meeting,
many members were keen to read the
working party’s report and go to a vote. When
the votes were cast it transpired that all but
three members of Council approved of the
paper, while the remaining three abstained.
Union President David Goldsmith was tasked
with leading the Union’s response to the billl,
with the aim of removing the possibility of
international students being charged for using
the NHS, and also stopping the section of the
bill that would make landlords pay a ﬁne for
not checking the immigration status of their
tenants (something many have been afraid
would cause international students problems
when it came to looking for accommodation).
Joseph Letts
Editor-in-Chief
Of cleaning and Immigration Letters
Dear Felix Editor,
I am sending in yet another letter, as I am
once again insulted by this ‘Paladin’, who
apparently lives in the “might of the light”.
Me, a “weed smoking hippie”? Never would I
desecrate my forest in such a manner. Despite
this I have obviously underestimated paladins,
as they answered my question arrogantly with
ease. I propose we forget our diﬀerences and
concentrate on together pointing out ﬂaws in
the union. Such as they sell ﬁsh on days not
Friday, and food other than ﬁsh on Friday.
What’s up with this? Maybe the Felix editor
can help sort this out?
Yours sincerely
The Druid
P.s Where’s my ice cream?
Who won? Who
lost? You decide!
Want to take the world by the scruff of the neck
and shout at it with words of wisdom?
Send in an article (or letter) to Felix Comment
and let your voice be heard from the rooftops!

