14 FRIDAY 15 NOV
ARTS Editor: Arianna Sorba
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sarah Lucas: SITUATION
still as controversial as ever
I
f we want to see the impact
that Sarah Lucas has had on
the British art world, we need
go no further than the bus stop;
this summer, Art Everywhere
created a nationwide exhibition,
transforming the posters normally
seen in bus stops and tube stations
into the nation’s favourite works
of art. One of the 57 pieces chosen
by the public was Lucas’ 1996 work
Self Portrait With Fried Eggs. Lucas
sits legs akimbo, in a pair of blokish
jeans, revelling in her androgyny;
her deﬁant eyes stare at the lens,
challenging the viewer, daring them
to look at the greasy eggs stuck to
the front of her chest. Iconoclastic,
subversive, and controversial, it is
one of the best embodiments of
Lucas’ work - a visceral ‘Fuck You’,
delivered with wry humour.
This is also one of the images that
greets the viewer in the ﬁrst room
of the long-awaited retrospective
of Lucas, currently being held at
the Whitechapel Gallery, and is not
the only portrait in the collection.
In fact, Lucas glares out at us from
all angles, squatting on a skull in
one image, eating a banana in the
next, the whole time never breaking
eye contact. It makes for a very
disconcerting experience.
Educated at Goldsmiths, Lucas ﬁrst
came to prominence during the late
80s and early 90s, riding the crest of
the Young British Artists wave along
with Tracey Emin, Rachel Whiteread
and Damien Hirst. Her sexually
charged work, playing on ideas of
masculinity and desire, soon became
a key feature in the British art scene.
There is no lack of such works in the
exhibition. With the use of squalid
looking food, Lucas implies the
presence of genitals - two greasy
Spanish hams, juxtaposed against a
pair of panties and a grey mattress,
become thighs, while elsewhere
a vagina is represented by rotten
ﬁsh, pitta bread, and buckets. The
work is grimy and confrontational,
reminiscent of the images of the
desolate 90s created by Irvine Welsh
and Mike Leigh.
But it’s not just the female form
that Lucas explores; upstairs Lucas
deconstructs the male anatomy,
replacing penises with marrows,
milk bottles, and exploding beer
cans. It may not be subtle, but the
work is eﬀective. Phalluses, blown up
to gargantuan proportions, subvert
the hyper-masculine machismo
of modern life, and question the
homogeneity of the art world.
This summer, Lucas had a pair of
enormous phallic marrows installed
at Snape Maltings; set against the
gentle Suﬀolk countryside, they
form a jarring counterpoint to
the sensuous curves found in the
Moore sculpture placed alongside
it - and this is what Lucas does best:
confronts the viewer to question
what gender means in society,
bending the social norms through
relentless iconoclasm.
Alongside phalluses and meat
products, one of the common themes
in Lucas’ work is her ‘Bunnies’
sculptures - made out of twisted
tights, ﬁlled with stuﬃng, they lie,
passive, over chairs, and draped over
breezeblocks. Mimicking female
legs, some even complete with tiny
broken shoes, they seem sad, even
somewhat pathetic; but again these
act as phallic symbols, and this
dichotomy of female and male form
elevates them from mere objet trouve
to high art. Lucas ﬁts into a Freudian
canon of female artists - from
Louise Bourgeois to Yayoi Kusama
- exploring the male form through
symbolism, combining this with
bleak humour, and an appreciation
of the humble object that would beﬁt
Duchamp. The theme is developed
further in the upstairs galleries,
where the sculptures have been
enlarged and recast in bronze. Taking
on new qualities – from soft to hard,
puny to strong – Lucas displays her
innate understanding of materials
and their relation to the work.
Lucas’ work is broad, and this
retrospective is an intimidating
experience. Pieces are piled up
haphazardly around the gallery,
practically overﬂowing out into the
street. From smashed up cars to
rotten ﬁsh, toilets to tabloids, Lucas
has a knack of dissecting society,
stripping away the bright facade,
revealing the dirt and squalor that lies
underneath. The work may be hard
to look at - grotesque even - but that
doesn’t diminish their importance.
This exhibition shows that Lucas is
truly one of the best enfant terribles
of the British art world, with work
that, while never becoming trite,
remains controversial, visceral, and
irrepressibly explosive.
Fred Fyles
Writer
What: Sarah Lucas: SITUATION
Absolute Beach Man Rubble
Where: Whitechapel Art Gallery, E1
When: Until 15th Dec 1013
Price: FREE
© SARAH LUCAS, COURTESY SADIE COLES HQ
Au Naturel, 1994, made from a mattress, water bucket, melons, oranges and a
cucumber.
© SARAH LUCAS, COURTESY SADIE COLES HQ
Bunny Gets Snookered #1, 1997, made
from tan tights, plastic and chrome
chair, steel clamp, kapok stufﬁng, and
wire.
F
irst, a word of warning. This review is about
a Secret Theatre production. The entire
premise is that it’s secret. So please bear with
me: I’m being cryptic for a reason, I’m not
just trying to be a ponce.
Before coming to London, the Secret Theatre
performed in New York, where they had been
asked to produce a theatre adaptation of Edward
Scissorhands, and Los Angeles, where they showed
The Dairy of a Sociopathic Freakazoid. Because of
the secret nature of their performances they are run
for a short time in a single city – and this time it’s
London’s turn.
The Secret Theatre experience differs from most
other theatrical experiences: you buy your ticket
without even knowing what the performance will
be about, other than it’s based on one of Quentin
Tarantino’s great works. Then you get The Email:
the dress code, the alias, the location.
Next, there’s the excitement of turning up in front
of a warehouse, down a side alley, and hanging
around trying to work out what’s going on - are
those audience or actors? Is this lady being naturally
friendly or has the performance already started? It’s
exciting, it’s different, it’s mysterious.
Having keyed up the audience to such a state of
anticipation, it is a bit of a downer when the play
turns out to be the traditional set up of audience
sitting in front of the stage. Throughout the play
there’s the feeling you might be called upon at any
time, mainly because of the extraordinary proximity
you have to the actors. It keeps you on the edge of
your seat, but is an aspect of the production that
never really develops, and does slightly dampen the
thrill of the experience.
So there you are, sitting in a small room, half a
meter from the actors in front of you, as a theatrical
version of a Tarantino film unfolds in front of you. If
you haven’t already, make sure you’ve seen his most
well-known films before going to this, as you will
lose out if you haven’t.
My true praise for the Secret Theatre is not for
their secrecy but for their production levels: the
story develops in front of you with a breathtaking
sense of reality. Half scared, half feeling you should
intervene, you sit watching violence and pain that
you completely believe in. Unlike the cinema, such
close proximity theatre dispenses with elaborate
props and gushes of fake blood and relies entirely
on the actors’ talents.
This production was almost dogmatically faithful
to the film it was adapting – some scenes were so
similar that they were word for word reproductions
of film scenes – and yet it was fantastic. It was
fantastic because it made a film come alive under
your eyes, at an arm’s reach from you. Whether film
or theatre, it achieved what all productions try to
achieve: a sense of reality, of having been there, of it
actually having happened.
Secret Theatre London is being performed until
30th November at a secret London Zone 1 location,
tickets available at secrettheatrelondon.com for £18.
Clara Clark Nevola
Writer
The Super Secret
Secret Theatre
Buy the ticket – take the ride
Sarah Lucas is a
British artist. Born
in 1962, Lucas
was educated
at the London
College of Printing
before moving
on to Goldsmithʼs
College, where she
graduated with a
degree in Fine Art.

