16 FRIDAY 15 NOV
BOOKS
Editor: Maciej
Matuszewski, Eva
Rosenthal
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
BOOKS
Mrs Dalloway is by its relative – although superﬁcial –
simplicity, the perfect introduction to Virginia Woolf. De-
spite its sometimes tragic, sometimes apparently mundane
subject matter, the writing maintains a beautiful lightness,
a way of gilding reality with light as Clarissa Dalloway is
forever doing to the occurrences of her everyday activities.
The book follows a day in the lives of several people. They
are all somehow connected to the ineﬀable Clarissa, a so-
ciety hostess who is also shown, through her fascinating
interiority, to be much deeper than we might take her for
at ﬁrst glance. Through light touches, we are transported
from one consciousness to another, although Clarissa will
have the ﬁnal say.
Woolf writes with immense tenderness for her creations
as though they were solid, breathing-eating humans; she
almost attempts to – but cannot - save them from their
neuroses or even from the tendrils of societal values that
are wringing their necks.
This tenderness perfectly exempliﬁes what I want most to
recommend about the book: it has a special quality that al-
lows it to move one without becoming overly sentimental.
Mrs Dalloway takes place in vivid images. She sends Clar-
issa to the ﬂorist and what follows in barely half a page is
a ﬂorist better than reality could ever produce. The scene
sticks so well to the mind that whenever I pass a ﬂower
stall, the memory of this scene – and also of the shattered
illusion created by a subsequent commotion, whereby we
alight for the ﬁrst time on the doomed Septimus Warren
Smith – overpowers the creation of new memories.
Woolf’s metaphors litter everything like small, bright ﬂow-
ers would appear on a pavement. This can result in the em-
anation of a cloying perfume from the pages... so much so,
that it is impossible to read Mrs Dalloway in one – or even
ten – sittings. It is a book to be read slowly and carefully,
ensuring that it never becomes too sweet but also taking
crucial time to understand the minds of the people Woolf
has been so good as to introduce.
Flash Fiction
An afternoon by the Thames
by Evelyn Craven
There is nothing better to clear the mind than
a good ramble. The sun glistening oﬀ the river
and peeking through the golden leaves above. An
oasis of calm in the middle of the city. All is well.
The Stars my Destination
D
espite my extensive
familiarity with science
ﬁction I had, until very
recently, had a major gap
in my knowledge of the
ﬁeld – the works of Alfred
Bester. One of the foremost writers of
the late Golden Age of the genre, he has
inﬂuenced later writers such as Phillip K.
Dick and William Gibson, as well as TV
shows like Babylon 5 and Fireﬂy. Therefore,
ﬁnally settling down to read The Stars My
Destination, one of his most famous and
acclaimed works, I felt both excitement and
apprehension. After all, I had many times
been greatly disappointed by severely over-
hyped novels. However, this time, I needn’t
have worried – The Stars My Destination
more than lives up to its lofty reputation.
Set in the twenty ﬁfth century the novel
presents us with a solar system that has
long been settled by humanity and a society
that has been transformed by the recently
discovered ability of all humans to jaunte
– teleport to any location that they have
previously visited using their willpower
alone. Our protagonist is Gully Foyle – the
last survivor of the transport spaceship
Nomad – crippled in a minor skirmish
as part of the war between the inner and
outer planets of the solar system. Stranded
on the drifting wreck of his ship for six
months Gully begins to lose hope until he
is approached by another spaceship. The
ship, however, ignores his signals for help
– driving him to pledge revenge against its
crew. He repairs the Nomad and hatches an
epic, Count of Monte Cristo style plot to
bring his quarry to justice.
The plot and characters are certainly well
thought out and engaging. The prose is
clear and functional, though if one wanted
to be uncharitable one might call it plain.
What really makes the book stand out,
however, is its setting and its themes. Over
the course of his journey Gully travels all
over Earth and the Solar System – allowing
Bester to show oﬀ his considerable powers
of imagination. He creates many unique
and wonderful settings and environments
which, even ﬁfty years after the novel was
published still feel unique and innovative
while never seeming too unbelievable.
Despite its often outlandish nature, the
reader gets the feel that this is really what
the world would be like if jaunting and
space travel became commonplace.
I have never seen a book so crammed
with diﬀerent ideas. In some ways The Stars
my Destination is ﬁrmly entrenched in
Maciej Matuszewski discusses an SF classic
atmosphere of the Golden Age – featuring,
as it does, the colonisation of the solar
system, robots and outlandish science.
However, it also explores elements, such
as telepathy, more common in New Wave
SF and even touches on almost cyberpunk-
like themes of megacorporations and
cybernetic enhancement. In the hands of
a lesser writer this might all come together
to seem confused and disjointed but
Bester somehow manages to make it all ﬁt
together.
The result is a truly exhilarating novel,
which never fails to surprise with where it
takes you next. The action, story and themes
build as the novel progresses until the truly
stunning climax (which features some
amazing typographical experiments used to
portray synaesthesia in a way which would
be considered avant-garde even today).
I have read few other books that are as
inventive, engaging and simply exhilarating
as The Stars My Destination. I can certainly
see the reason for the massive inﬂuence
that it has had subsequent generations of
writers. It might not necessarily be high
literature but I guarantee that this is a book
that you won’t be able to put down and that
will stay with you for a long time after you
ﬁnish it.
Student picks
Eva Rosenthal picks:
Mrs Dalloway by Viriginia Woolf
Send your submissions
forourregularfeatures!
FLASH FICTION: Ultrashort
fiction up to 200 characters
STUDENT PICKS: Send us up
to 250 words on your favour-
ite book and how it changed
you
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk

