18 FRIDAY 15 NOV
MUSIC
Editor: Simon Hunter,
Riaz Agahi, Stuart
Masson, William
Stocker
music.felix@gmail.com
aradise Lost played their
25th anniversary show at
the roundhouse on Sun-
day, and I was there! It’s
been 25 years since Para-
dise Lost emerged from Halifax in
west Yorkshire. Twenty-ﬁve years in
which the band has established itself
as one of the best and most reliable in
metal music, with 13 studio albums
to their name, all but one original
member still touring and new mate-
rial that can stand shoulder to shoul-
der with the best of their early work.
Guns n’ Roses should be jealous.
Listening through the extensive back
catalog it’s clear the band are never
resting on their laurels either. The
ﬁrst record ‘Lost Paradise’ sits well
within the death/doom genre, which
Paradise Lost, alongside Anathema
and My Dying Bride helped to deﬁne
in the early 90’s when all three bands
Riaz Agahi
Music Editor
Paradise Regained
Thomas Heaven catches Paradise Lostʼs 25th
anniversary show
P
Chris Forsyth is an American psych
rock guitarist much admired by myself
for his dabblings in drone and gen-
eral guitar badass-ery. In my review
of his previous full length, Kenzo De-
luxe, I noted that Forsyth was essen-
tially returning the guitar to some past
glory, shedding it of the threadbare
stereotype engendered by cock-rock’s
(along with many other genres) self-
indulgence and reverting it to an in-
strument of experimentation, where
many of the older guitar based genres,
especially blues, rear their head at one
time or another.
A year later I discovered Solar Mo-
tel, which was released on October
29th
. One of the notable factors is that
it abandons the stripped down atmos-
phere of its predecessor and instead
includes a full band. It certainly moves
in a more rock fuelled trajectory, as
though Forsyth was tracing the evolu-
tion of the guitar. That’s not to say that
the music has evolved into something
cheap and unreﬁned. The album bears
more resemblance to his earlier work
such as Paranoid Cat and in fact it’s
recorded by the Paranoid Cat Band,
although they’ve since been rebranded
as The Solar Motel Band. It was this
line-up, featuring Peter Kerlin on bass,
Mike Pride on drums and Shawn Han-
son on organs and keyboard, who ac-
companied Forsyth in his electrifying
performance supporting Grouper two
AMS album of the week
Foxing released an EP last year called
Old Songs. I did not care for it. It was
everything post-rock-tinged emo
shouldn’t be. The three songs were
overthought and overstretched, but
worst of all, they were really dull. It
was an emo band trying to be a post-
rock band with little success. Since then
they’ve appeared on a few splits that I’ve
completely ignored and I didn’t really
plan on giving them any more of my time. However, I saw The Albatross
getting a lot of positive comments and decided to give them another chance.
I’m really glad I did. It’s ruddy bloody good.
The longest song here is still under 5 minutes, and the long tedious
build ups are all but gone. This isn’t post-rock tracks with emo thrown in,
which they’ve proved doesn’t work. This is emo with post-rock thrown in,
and it definitely does work. It’s still more post-rocky than The World is a
Beautiful Place and I am No Longer Afraid to Die, but it’s not too much.
The instrumentation in ‘Inuit’ could be taken straight from the loud part of
an Explosions in the Sky track, but the addition of strained vocals makes it
still feel exciting. The crescendo towards the end of ‘The Medic’ is beautiful,
whilst both parts of ‘Bit by a Dead Bee’ are superb, one pretty and other
haunting. Lyrically, it’s absolutely spot on, with ‘The Medic’ in particular
being absolutely heartbreaking.
There are a few duds here. Opener ‘Bloodhound’ is pretty dreary, whilst
the final track, ‘Quietus’, is probably one that won’t make it into most of my
listens to this album. The production could definitely be a hell of a lot better,
especially the drums, although this seems like a fairly petty complaint
about a record of this magnitude. Limited to just 500 LPs by their American
label, with no British label pressing any, this isn’t even a big release by emo
standards. Hopefully this one will receive the attention it deserves so they
are given a bigger budget next time around.
This record is obviously not going to set the world alight. It’s aimed at a
small niche, and outside of that it probably won’t receive any attention at
all. It’s a shame though, because it’s really great. I would highly recommend
this to fans of either emo or post-rock, so give it a go, maybe you’re part of
the niche and you don’t even know it…
Foxing – The Albatross
Stuart Masson
in improvisation and one foot in per-
forming a predetermined piece, which
allows a spirit of spontaneity without
the jams getting too unfocused al-
though the album closer ‘Part IV’ is
totally improvised and doesn’t suﬀer
much from it, although for my money
it’s the weakest track on the album, but
having said that it’s the most drone-y,
eschewing the drums in favour of a
more amorphous format.
To truly appreciate Chris Forsyth’s
music, careful listening is required, as
it’s all about the subtle build up, with
incremental evolutions in the guitar
part with each motif, although it’s hard
not to argue that the organ and/or key-
board plays just as much of a role here,
for example opener ‘Part I’ sees them
trading leads in its sumptuous buildup.
‘Part I’ is deﬁnitely my highlight, par-
ticularly a rather rousing guitar part
around the 4 minute mark. From the
outset, ‘Part II’ gives out a slight krauty
vibe, reminding me of his work with
Koen Holtkamp not to mention sug-
gesting some of Forsyths inﬂuences
such as Popul Vuh. ‘Part III’ similarly
posesses quality, in the form of a famil-
iar ‘Paranoid Cat’-esque build-up that
uses the drums sparingly and culmi-
nates in some classic Forsyth tremolo.
The album as a whole possesses the
usual experimentation and there is
much to hear for existing fans, but the
Solar Motel has a lot more that will
please the casual listener than previ-
ous releases so fans and non-fans alike
should really check it out because,
as usual with Forsyth, it’s not to be
missed.
years ago, which is a great sign for me
as this was what ﬁrst introduced me to
Forsyth’s music.
Aside from the more full sound it ac-
complishes, it’s hard to claim that the
album is too much of a departure from
previous releases. Forsyth’s guitar
work, the way he intones the notes and
the general style of his ﬁlls is familiar
as ever. The album is pretty much what
one would expect from Forsyth, four
slabs of slow burning brilliance, which
balances intricacy of detail in his play-
ing with jamming out and making
some catchy tunes.
Forsyth has a style of writing not
much diﬀerent from television show
Curb Your Enthusiasm, in writing an
outline for his tracks, one which the
band, by design deliberately treats with
little reverence. This improvisational
mode is pretty clear throughout, with
the repetitive drum patterns driving
the music along forming a base which
the other instruments evolve over and
signalling the major changes, and this
form of production allows one foot
Chris Forsyth – Solar Motel Review
were signed to the peaceville label.
The solid chugging rhythm guitar of
Aaron Aedy with Gregory Macintosh’s
lead guitar soaring above and Nick
Holmes harsh vocals gradually evolves
over subsequent releases. Macintosh’s
single string leads become increasing-
ly orchestrated, slayer like dive bombs
replaced with more tasteful calculated
melodies. Simultaneously Holmes
eases oﬀ partially due to the need to
conserve his voice and female vocals
are introduced in places. By the ﬁfth
album Draconian Times in 1995 the
band have become one of the primary
progenitors of gothic metal. In fact the
band make it all the way into Depeche
Mode synthpop territory with 7th re-
lease Host before rebounding back into
the realms gothic/doom metal by the
time of Tragic Idols release in 2012.
This being the bands 25th anniversary
tour the full breadth of their work is
represented. Katatoniaopentheshow
by playing their brilliant Viva Empti-
ness album in full, legends in their
own right Katatonia’s early releases are
highly reminiscent of the death/doom
period of Paradise Lost’s history. Next
up gothic metal band Lacuna Coil
speak more to their recent albums.
Paradise Lost themselves manage
to represent twelve out thirteen al-
bums in their set, opening with the
awesome ‘Mortals Watch the Day’
complete with Holmes death growls
before, somehow, transitioning seam-
lessly into ‘So Much Is Lost’ from
1999’s Host. Proving that whilst the
genre may have changed the quality
has always been there. They put on a
great show, any sense of pretension
or gloom you might expect from a
gothic/doom band is completely nulli-
ﬁed by Nick Holmes sarcastic attitude
on stage. The Roundhouse treats the
audience to a lights show projecting
cover art up behind the band and the
crowd are appreciative responding
well to classics like ‘Enchantment’
and ‘Gothic’. There is even a small pit
which is impressive given the slow
tempo of most of the tracks. The only
downside: perhaps predictably for a
band with such an extensive discog-
raphy I catch myself noting the songs
they don’t play. No ‘Embers Fire’ no
‘Eternal’, what if they’d played ‘Crying
for Eternity’? ‘Daylight Torn’? The ﬁrst
ﬁve albums back to back to be honest
would have been ﬁne by me. There’s
no pleasing some people, it was a great
show and if you don’t listen to Paradise
Lost already you should really start. In
fact if you are new to the cannon this
may well have been the best set list
for you, capturing a bit of everything.
I suppose I’ll just have to keep wait-
ing for the eleven hour gig where they
play everything to be announced . . .

