20 FRIDAY 15 NOV
TELEVISION
Editors: John Park,
Emily Fulham
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
From Shakespeare to the Iraq War, Emily Fulh
E
ver wanted to watch a new TV show without, you know, committing to it? We’ve all been there: start watching a new series, thinking it looks pretty cool, and next thing you know, you’re nine series
in and have no idea why you’re still watching, but too emotionally invested to stop (here’s looking at you, Supernatural).
Enter the miniseries. Don’t be put oﬀ by the ‘mini’ aspect; as we’ve so often been told, just because it’s smaller, doesn’t mean it won’t leave you feeling satisﬁed. In fact, miniseries tend to be of
higher quality than their lengthier counterparts, most likely because the creators of the show have a deﬁnite end to work towards and there’s little time for ‘ﬁller’ episodes. The following list oﬀers
up some recommendations of where to start.
Based oﬀ the memoirs of a Rolling
Stone journalist embedded in an elite
Recon squad of the US Marines dur-
ing the invasion of Iraq, HBO’s Gener-
ation Kill is one of the best portrayals
of modern warfare there is. It presents
the reality of Operation Iraqi Free-
dom, unvarnished and unprejudiced:
long stretches of boredom punctu-
ated by moments of high intensity
ﬁghting; the inexperience of the new
recruits, the ﬁrst generation of Ameri-
cans brought up in a lifetime of peace
to be thrown into the harsh reality
of war; and the incompetence of the
commanders in charge of ‘liberating a
country’.
With only seven episodes, Generation
Kill is near ﬂawless in its execution.
This is war, unﬁltered: the dialogue is
razor sharp, hilarious and brutal by
parts. The show keeps the heavy use-
age of military slang so as to seem au-
thentic as possible (examples include
‘Victor’ for vehicle, ‘Oscar Mike’ for
‘on the move’, as well as some that are
less savoury - we’ll leave ‘Combat Jack’
to your imagination) which means it
may take one or two episodes to fully
understand what’s going on, but a lit-
tle patience will soon pay oﬀ.
Most of the series is seen through
one ‘Humvee,’ the light armoured jeep
in which the Marines travel. Journal-
ist Evan Wright (known only to the
soldiers as ‘Rolling Stone’) is placed to
observe the men in a Humvee led by
Sgt. Brad ‘Iceman’ Colbert, played by
Alexander Skarsgard, a well-respect-
ed soldier with serious reservations
about the capabilities of his superiors.
His second in command, Ray Person,
provides much of the series’ humour
as the sarcastic, hyperactive, Avril
Lavigne singing driver of the jeep.
One of the best yet surreal characters,
‘Fruity’ Rudy Reyes, is actually played
by his real-life Marine counterpart.
The series is often shocking in its
honesty. Many events which, while
watching, I assumed must have been
ﬁctionalised are taken directly from
the book, frequently grimly reﬂecting
Generation Kill
the events in Iraq. Neither glorifying
nor condemning the acts of the sol-
diers it follows, Generation Kill should
be required viewing for anyone want-
ing an insight into the chaotic nature
of wars in the last ten years.
Pride and Prejudice
The miniseries that gave your mum
her sort-of-disturbing obsession with
Colin Firth, BBC’s Pride and Prejudice
is a far better adaptation of Jane
Austen’s novel than the more recent
ﬁlm starring Keira Knightley. Widely
praised by critics and audiences
alike, the series sought to remain
faithful to its source material while
making it accessible for non-Austen
fans, ramping up the sexual tension
between Elizabeth and Mr. Darcy, and
adding scenes with the Bennet sisters.
The series’ six episodes follow the an-
tics of the Bennet family, the mother
of whom is determined to ﬁnd hus-
bands for her ﬁve daughters lest they
be left poor and shunned by society.
While eldest daughter Jane is swept
oﬀ her feet by the charming Mr. Bing-
ley, her cynical sister Elizabeth is left
outraged by the manners of his friend,
the surly Mr. Darcy, who declares her
‘tolerable, but not handsome enough
to tempt me’. Although their meeting
is far from love at ﬁrst sight, she slowly
comes to realise that there’s more to
Darcy than meets the eye. Meanwhile,
youngest sister Lydia gets herself into
trouble and risks bringing disgrace
on the family when she gets involved
with Oﬃcer George Wickham.
The series catapulted Colin Firth - a
previously unknown actor - into fame,
allowing him to go on to play the exact
same character in every Richard Cur-
tis ﬁlm ever made. The iconic scene
where he emerges soaked from swim-
ming in a lake was voted one of the
most unforgettable scenes in British
television and set alight the passions
of middle-aged women everywhere in
what was after all a happier, more in-
nocent, pre-Fifty Shades of Grey time.
The series also inspired Helen Fielding
to write the Bridget Jones novels, fea-
turing its own Mr Darcy (also played
by Colin Firth in the ﬁlm adaptations).
Quintessentially English, Pride
and Prejudice has all the hallmarks
of a great period drama, including
scandalous elopements, repressed
emotions, and top hats. Nonetheless,
its themes of class, status and
romance remain relevant for today’s
audiences, no doubt explaining why
the book is still so popular.
Pride and Prejudice may not oﬀer
many surprises, but it is one of the
better adaptations of Austen’s novel,
bringing wit and heart to the story.
Austen fans and novices alike will
enjoy.
HBO
BBC
Television for the

