21
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 15 NOV
TELEVISION
ham celebrates the unsung art of the miniseries
e Attention Deficit
The Hollow Crown
The BBC’s adaptation of Shakespeare’s
Henriad tetralogy of Richard II, both
parts of Henry IV, and Henry V is a
star-studded aﬀair, featuring what
seems like every British actor to have
been on TV in the past ﬁve years.
It’s ambitious in scope - the four epi-
sodes follow the reign of three diﬀer-
ent kings - but an incredibly engaging
work, mainly thanks to the brilliant
performances of those involved.
‘What makes a good king?’ is the
question central to the series. The Hol-
low Crown is a story about power: the
struggle to gain it, how to keep it, and
what it means to lose it. Ben Wishaw
plays a rather weedy Richard II,
scrabbling to keep hold of the throne
against his challenger Henry Boling-
brooke. With his ostentatious air and
tendency to play the martyr (the King
is literally dressed like Jesus in almost
every scene), it’s hard at ﬁrst to ﬁnd
sympathy for Richard, but thanks to
Wishaw’s sensitive and complex por-
trayal, it’s diﬃcult not to feel sorry for
him as he is betrayed one by one by
those closest to him.
Next up are the Henrys, with Boling-
brooke now on the throne as Henry
IV, played by Jeremy Irons. Having
learnt his lesson from the predecessor
he overthrew, the new king is a pow-
erful, authoritative ﬁgure, showing no
mercy to those he sees as his enemies.
He is troubled most of all, however, by
his son: Prince Hal, who is probably
what passed for a ‘lad’ in Elizabethan
times, and prefers to spend his days
drinking and whoring rather than fac-
ing up to his princely duties. (The ﬁrst
part of Henry IV is worth watching if
only to see Hiddleston’s impression of
Jeremy Irons as his on-screen father,
one of the funniest moments of the
series.) Encouraged by his friend Fal-
staﬀ, Hal shows no appreciation for
his role-in-waiting, an endless source
of worry for his father.
Henry IV and Henry V can be seen
as a coming-of-age story for Hal, as
he learns what it means to be a good
King. It’s a role than Hiddleston,
already familiar with playing royalty
from his most famous portrayal of
Loki in Marvel’s Thor ﬁlms, is arguably
born to play: nailing every emotion as
he follows the character’s arc from an
immature, selﬁsh youth, through to
the death of his father the King, and
The Hollow Crown is Shakespeare
at its best and most accessible: every
audience can ﬁnd something to
appreciate in its timeless themes.
ﬁnally as leader and warrior in Henry
V, where the famous, “Once more
unto the Breach, dear friends,” speech
is delivered with fury and passion.
Band of Brothers
Forget Saving Private Ryan; if you
want a realistic depiction of the hor-
rors of World War II, look no further
than Band of Brothers. Another near-
perfect war miniseries, the series is
the story of Easy Company, a regiment
of paratroopers in World War II. It
follows the company over the whole
course of the war, beginning with
gruelling training in Georgia and Eng-
land, through the D-Day invasion at
Normandy, a freezing winter spent in
the forests of Belgium during the Bat-
tle of the Bulge, right through to the
end of the war.
Produced by Steven Spielberg and
Tom Hanks, the series aimed for as
much as accuracy as possible in its
depiction of war: relying heavily on
the input of veterans of the war, all of
the main characters are or were real
people, and each episode begins and
ends with clips from interviews with
them (although not until the very last
episode do we ﬁnd out who each per-
son is). Because each character shares
the fate of their real-life counterpart,
each death or injury has added weight,
blurring the lines between ﬁction and
reality. The penultimate episode, Why
We Fight, is probably where the se-
ries reaches its emotional peak, in its
haunting depiction of a concentration
camp.
A pre-Homeland Damian Lewis
plays Major Winters, the leader of
the company for most of the story,
whose determination to get his men
home provides the anchor for many
of the show’s storylines. Most of the
episodes are centred around a par-
ticular character; with ten episodes in
total, the series gives enough time for
its audience to feel as if they know the
company, increasing the emotional
impact of the story. The huge cast also
provides a seemingly endless supply
of familiar faces: Tom Hardy, Michael
Fassbender and James McAvoy can all
be spotted in minor roles.
It was, at the time, the most expensive
miniseries ever produced (exceeded
only by its less successful follow-up,
The Paciﬁc), and was ﬁlmed mostly in
England. The high production values
can be witnessed in the scene where
soldiers parachute out of aeroplanes
onto the beaches at Normandy (heart-
stoppingly tense, and one of the best
scenes of the whole series).
Band of Brothers treads a ﬁne line,
never teetering over the edge into he-
ro-worship of the men it depicts (he-
roic no doubt that some of them are),
and balancing respect and realism
with admirable restraint. Setting the
bar for World War II television, Band
of Brothers isn’t easy viewing, but im-
portant nonetheless.
BBC
HBO

