22 FRIDAY 15 NOV
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Cate Blanchett (Blue Jasmine)
Woody Allen’s award-winning success
with the ladies of his films continues,
with Cate Blanchett tipped not only
to score her most deserving nomina-
tion, but perhaps also a win too, which
would make this her second win. Her
performance is a rich, mesmerising
one, and she alone at the core of what
can be seen as a modern adaptation
of A Streetcar Named Desire, equals
the gravitas of Vivien Leigh. Rocking
her Chanel clothes and Louis Vuitton
bags, Jasmine (Blanchett) struggles
adjusting to a more grounded life, as
well as holding on to her own sanity.
Judi Dench (Philomena)
The most heartbreaking yet uplifting
film of the year is Stephen Frear’s lat-
est, starring Britain’s very own Dame
Judi Dench who gives a performance
so nuanced and effective that it will be
difficult not to be moved to tears by
the end of it all. Forced to give her son
up for adoption by mean nuns who
use religion as an excuse for all their
wrongdoings, Philomena Lee (Dench)
is on a 50-year mission to find her
child. Teamed up with a journalist,
her journey takes them to America of
all places where surprising facts await.
Dench is simply superb in every way.
Emma Thompson (Saving Mr Banks)
In playing P. L. Travers, the author of
Mary Poppins who had a notoriously
difficult relationship with Walt Disney
and his company, Emma Thompson
is simply magical. As a middle-aged
English woman (which in Hollywood
means she’s an up-tight, bossy buzz-
kill who needs a sprinkle of the Yankee
magic to start having some fun in life),
she’s a comic delight as she clashes
with the production of the film Mary
Poppins, but she has a more moving
background story to tell, relating to
her childhood and her sweet relation-
ship with her father.
Meryl Streep (August: Osage County)
Hardly a year goes by without the
mention of Meryl Streep’s name dur-
ing the awards season. But there is of
course every reason to be in awe of
the most versatile, most talented ac-
tress the screen has ever seen. With
17 nominations and 3 wins under her
belt, she’s the most nominated actress
of all time, and is one win short of be-
coming the actress with most wins.
As the matriarch of the Weston fam-
ily, Violet (Streep) has to deal not only
with her husband’s suicide, but also
her alcoholism, as well as having her
entire family back under one roof.
December is just around the corner,
and ﬁlm studios are lining up their
critically-lauded ﬁlms to take part in
this year’s much-anticipated Oscar
race. As with any year, there are strong
contenders in every ﬁeld and it’s
certainly too early to be betting on a
winner.
So over the next few weeks, Felix
Film will be giving you a breakdown of
the actors, actresses and ﬁlms that will
be grabbing the headlines in the near
future; but this is in no way a deﬁnitive
list, as some of the ﬁlms haven’t even
been released over here yet.
This week in our feature is the hotly
contested Best Lead Actress category.
Ready...
Steady...
Go!
2014 at the Oscars:

