23
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 15 NOV
FILM
Best Leading Actress
Adèle Exarchopoulos (Blue is the
Warmest Colour)
This year’s Cannes favourite found
itself a breakout star in the form of
Adèle Exarchopoulos, an actress giv-
ing such a talented debut perfor-
mance that the Cannes jury decided
to award her with her very own Palme
d’Or. And it’s a performance that de-
serves every bit of the highest praise.
It’s remarkable to see what the young
actress is capable of conveying such
a wide range of emotions only with a
flicker of her eyes. It’s her compelling
portrayal that makes its three-hour
long running time seem like nothing.
Sandra Bullock (Gravity)
Alfonso Cuaron’s box office smash-hit
is also something of a favourite with
the critics too, and with 5-star reviews
popping up, the technical accomplish-
ments here will certainly be in for a
real chance at the Oscars. But will
Sandra Bullock manage to win over
the voters with her performance? She’s
an inexperienced first-timer in space
stuck in the worst possible situation
but she finds the courage and survival
instinct within her to persevere. The
incredibly loud and dramatic ending
works thanks to some narrative build-
up coming from her part.
Amy Adams (American Hustle)
Already an astonishing four-time
nominee (this should be five: she was
robbed for Enchanted, ROBBED),
perhaps this could be Amy Adams’
lucky year. This is the first time she
will be contending in the best leading
actress category, one that is tradition-
ally tougher to crack than the support-
ing actress award. She is once again
teamed up here with director David
O. Russell (The Fighter), and given the
significant buzz surrounding her film,
the daring, sizzling display she puts on
should certainly help when it comes to
compiling the nominees’ shortlist.
Julie Delpy (Before Midnight)
It seems Julie Delpy’s talents aren’t
limited to co-writing a fantastic script
that rings true to life. As one half of
a couple who we’ve started adoring all
the way back in 1995, she and Ethan
Hawke make such an entertaining but
also a brilliantly convincing pair who
only need to have conversations to
keep the audience occupied and in-
terested in their lives. They have im-
mense likability, and she helps bring
about the Before series to become
one of modern cinema’s best, most
endearing love stories that makes the
audience want more.
Bérénice Bejo (The Past)
Another French addition to the poten-
tial nominations, and the foreign lan-
guage aspect will make it impossibly
difficult to make it to the shortlist, but
maybe her Best Actress win at Cannes
may boost her chances. The Artist
may have put her name on the map,
but here she is in a far more intriguing
role. At the heart of a complex fam-
ily drama that has shocking secrets
to reveal at every turn, Berenice Bejo
is simply magnetic - a flawed wife, a
flawed mother, and a flawed lover. Her
restraint, mixed with infrequent out-
bursts are unforgettable.
Greta Gerwig (Frances Ha)
Dubbed the it girl of mumblecore
cinema, a recent new subgenre of
American independent filmmaking,
Greta Gerwig’s quirky, off-beat com-
ic performance is a highlight of this
low budget rom-com. The film itself
comes across as a touch too episodic
and sporadic in nature, with no atten-
tion paid to telling something coher-
ent, but holding everything together
is the titular Frances (Gerwig), a New
Yorker nearing the dreaded age of
thirty in search of a secure job, a stable
place to live, and love, with sadly none
of them coming easily to her.
Naomi Watts (Diana)
Oliver Hirschbiegel’s Princess Diana
biopic flopped in the UK and is having
an even worse time over in the States,
with an appalling 8% rating over at
rottentomatoes. Given Naomi Watts’
previous nominations, her impressive
career, and a film of so much poten-
tial, everyone was easily predicting an
Oscar win for Watts at the beginning
of this year. That is until the film was
released without any film festival at-
tention or big campaign push from the
studio. Watts does give an admirable
performance, but there’s only a slim
chance at awards glory.
Rooney Mara (Side Effects)
It was released a while ago, which
never works in a film’s favour when
the end-of-year release schedule is so
densely packed with the traditional
Oscar-bait movies, but Rooney Mara,
the American Girl with the Dragon
Tattoo, gives yet another compelling
performance as a duplicitous back-
stabbingbitchwhotriesallsortsofma-
nipulation techniques to get what she
wants. She’s no doubt a new emerging
talent, and a nomination this year will
be unlikely, but further down in what
should be a glittering career, she will
eventually score something.
Tilda Swinton (Only Lovers Left Alive)
As a pale, eccentric vampire, Tilda
Swinton eerily looks the part and no
one could have given a more fascinat-
ing interpretation of a centuries old
being who always looks immensely
cool and wise as she ponders in deep
discussions with her husband, another
vampire played by Tom Hiddleston.
It’s a slow-burning drama for sure,
quite the noticeable departure from
films dealing with the supernatural,
which is what makes Jim Jarmusch’s
new drama so unique in its storytell-
ing. Swinton never falters, whatever
bold film choices she makes.
Kate Winslet (Labour Day)
As a divorced single mother falling
for a dangerous looking escaped con-
vict who may have murdered his own
family, Kate Winslet plays her role just
right. Her desperate longing for some
real human contact is what starts off
this affair that’s certainly odd and un-
natural to begin with, but as this rela-
tionship grows throughout the period
of a single weekend, it soon turns into
a beautiful love story in a warm back-
drop worth rooting for which is what
makes the final few scenes all that
more precious, with Winslet captur-
ing an enormous range of emotions.

