26 FRIDAY 15 NOV
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Like Father Like Son
Director: Hirokazu Kore-eda
Writer: Hirokazu Kore-eda
Starring: Masaharu Fukuyama,
Machiko Ono, Yoko Maki, Lily
Franky, Arata Iura
Runtime: 119 minutes
Fred Fyles
Star Writer
“Daddy is not my daddy”
What do you do when the child you
have looked after for the last 6 years
turns out to be someone else’s? This
is the question faced by Ryōta Non-
omiya (Masaharu Fukuyama) in the
prize-winning Japanese feature Like
Father, Like Son, which explores is-
sues of family, blood ties, and class
dynamics in modern day Japan. Ryōta
is a straight laced architect; a star-
achiever, who is ruthlessly competi-
tive, pushing his son Keita through
cram school, piano lessons, and pri-
vate schooling in an effort to make
him more like his old man. Slightly
despairing of his wife Midori (Ma-
chiko Ono), who has a tendency to
indulge their son, he nevertheless
makes up part of a stable, albeit cold,
family unit - until they get a phone
call from their local hospital, and their
world changes.
It is revealed that Keita is not really
their son; he was swapped with an-
other child at birth, who is now living
with a more bohemian family. Both
families are now faced with a choice:
do they exchange the children? Is the
genetic link worth more than the six
years of energy and affection each
family has placed in their child? While
this subject sounds a bit like a Chan-
nel 4 documentary, or else some kind
of awful Western goofball comedy
(watch this space for the inevitable
Hollywood remake), director Hiroka-
zu Koreeda weaves it into a complex,
rich, and ultimately rewarding family
drama.
Filmed in a series of long, languid
shots, accompanied with a barely-
there piano score, Koreeda allows the
natural tension between the two fami-
lies shine through effortlessly. Ryōta
forms the obvious villain of the piece
- a work-obsessed family man who
neglects his wife and child; he is so
used to winning at everything that at
one point he asks how much the other
family would be willing to accept to let
him raise both of the children, letting
his money do the talking. Snobbery is
a large part of Ryōta’s character, and
plays a central role in driving forward
the story, but ultimately, Ryōta is a
sympathetic character, burdened with
troubles of his own, and enough daddy
issues to give Freud a field day. Over
the course of the film, thanks largely
to a restrained performance by Fukuy-
ama, we see the character learn to ap-
preciate his family while he still has
time. While this moral outcome may
seem cliche, the perfect pace at which
the film moves makes the transition
seem completely natural.
While child actors can often make
or break a film, Koreeda has taken a
calculated risk that ultimately paid off,
resulting in believable performances
from the two 6 year olds, who can only
look on as their parents argue and they
are passed from house to house like
tennis balls. The camerawork allows
the audience to become an observer
embedded within the centre of each
family, observing not only their differ-
ent dynamics - modern, cold, profes-
sional Vs relaxed, friendly, ramshackle
- but also the subtle features that make
the characters seem like more than 2D
cutouts. One feature in particular that
stands out is the performance from
Machiko Ono, who plays the long suf-
fering Midori with a grace and charm
that makes her a magnetic presence
on the screen. Ono imbues her char-
acter with pathos; subtle changes in
her facial expression revealing what
lies between the surface of her per-
fect life of domesticity. In one scene
Eastern Boys, Robin Campillo’s soph-
omore effort, is a chameleon of a film,
that flits from genre to genre; over its
two hour running time, it skips from
home invasion drama, to tender love
story, before climaxing in a finale wor-
thy of a Hollywood thriller. Campillo,
who both wrote and directed the film,
has created a moving portrait of con-
temporary relationships, that raises
questions about modern sexuality and
attitudes towards immigration.
Beginning with long, languid shots
of Paris’ Gare du Nord, the camera
follows a group of young Eastern Eu-
BFI.ORG.UK
Eastern Boys
Director: Robin Campillo
Writer: Robin Campillo
Starring: Olivier Rabourdin, Kirill
Emelyanov, Danil Vorobyev, Edéa
Darque
Runtime: 128 minutes
Fred Fyles
Star Writer
ropean boys as the mingle around the
station. Splitting up, coming together
again, they weave through the crowds,
making the audience focus on their
location. We begin to notice a well
dressed businessman, Daniel (Olivier
Rabourdin) whose attention is drawn
to a handsome youth - Marek, played
by Kirill Emelyanov. Eventually, Dan-
iel plucks up the courage to say ‘Bon-
jour’, and what follows is a stilted con-
versation in English, in which Daniel
attempts to solicit Marek. Unable
to come that day, Daniel arranges to
meet Marek tomorrow, but makes the
mistake of revealing his home address,
setting in motion a chain of events be-
yond his control.
The film is split into four clear sec-
tions, and as the gang of youths leave
the Gare du Nord, the second section
begins. Expecting Marek to arrive,
Daniel is surprised when he opens the
door to find the gang from the station;
young men from all over Eastern Eu-
rope - Ukraine, Romania, Azerbaijan
- they are united under the forceful
leadership of Boss (Daniil Vorobyev),
a Russian sociopath. Invading Daniel’s
home in the banlieue, they entrap him
inside, and begin to strip the furni-
ture, carting it away in a waiting van.
While things don’t break out into out-
right violence, there is a palpable at-
mosphere of tension throughout this
section. Once they are satisfied with
their haul, they leave Daniel alone in
his empty apartment.
While the director could have been
satisﬁed with a simple home invasion
plot, it is at this point that Campillo
takes a left turn into a relationship
drama; the next day Marek arrives
to fulﬁll his end of the deal. Daniel
is surprised to see him again, but
nevertheless goes through with things,
and has sex with Marek. As Marek
keeps coming back to the apartment, a
sort of romance develops between the
two characters, although the nature of
this relationship is kept ambiguous;
beginning as overtly sexual, Daniel
eventually begins to develop paternal
feelings towards Marek, trying to
help him assimilate into French
society - Marek is ‘sans papiers’, an
undocumented immigrant, trying to
escape his past. Does Daniel represent
economic freedom for Marek? Or is
the apartment a place where Marek
can ﬁnd safety, far away from the
bombs that killed his family during
the Chechen War? Campillo keeps
his cards close to his chest, presenting
she tries to make small talk with her
‘new son’, but finds herself at a loss for
words; suddenly trapped within the
hotel-like home she has helped to cre-
ate, she becomes a prisoner in her own
house, guarded by a child she doesn’t
really know, and a husband who insists
that blood will rule out.
However, despite all its excellent
features, it feels like something is lack-
ing. Like Father, Like Son is supposed
to be a story about two separate fami-
lies who are forced to come together,
and yet for a majority of the film the
action is centred upon the uptight
Ryōta. We follow his personal journey,
and explore how the changes have af-
fected him, but the other father gets
the relationship in a neutral, non-
judgemental way, and allowing the
audience to make up their own minds.
While depictions of Paris in cinema
tends to veer towards the nauseatingly
romantic - look to Woody Allen’s
cheesefest Midnight in Paris - this
ﬁlm instead follows the path forged by
the 1995 masterpiece La Haine, which
documented the grimy underbelly of
the Parisian suburbs. With eﬀortlessly
naturalistic performances from the
two leads, Eastern Boys isn’t afraid to
explore thorny issues of contemporary
French life. Immigration issues are an
obvious theme, and the ﬁlm highlights
both the issues migrants face when
coming to the country, and how they
are seen as no-one’s responsibility.
The gang are holed up in a Premier
Inn like hotel; it is clear that the hotel
manager doesn’t want them there, but
the rooms are run by social services,
and there is nothing she can do. It
seems like a bleak future for these
migrants; unable to interact with the
authorities, they are instead trapped
in this nowhere zone on the outskirts
of Paris; it is no surprise that they
resort to crime - what else is there to
do?
An unexpected ﬁnd at the London
little more than a supporting role. The
other family is largely glossed over, in
favour of the man who clearly needs
to spend a little bit more time with his
kid. It seems that the story would be
even more rewarding if we could ex-
plore it from all aspects, as opposed
from a single angle. Nevertheless, Ko-
reeda has followed hot on the heels of
last year’s wonderful I Wish with an-
other exceptional family drama that
manages to tug at the heartstrings
without ever seeming overwrought;
Like Father, Like Son, manages to paint
a portrait of modern Japanese life in
small, subtle brushstrokes. A sharply
crafted, beautiful film, magnificence
in miniature
Film Festival, Eastern Boys is a ﬁlm that
manages to be both visually sublime,
and incredibly engaging. There is great
clarity of vision from the director, who
teases out superb performances from
the cast, but the true star of the ﬁlm is
the script, written by Campillo, which
manages the numerous twists and
turns with nuance and skill, resulting
in a thought-provoking meditation on
love, loss, solitude, and trust.
BFI.ORG.UK

