29
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 15 NOV
GAMES
If you haven’t heard of Humble Bundle
you should really check it out! They
are an organisation that will regularly
provide a bundle of games for any
price you want to pay, and if you pay
above the average (normally around
£5) you will get some more “premium”
games. Once you have selected how
much you want to pay you can choose
where your money goes- to charities
like Childs Play or to the game de-
velopers. Recently I bought the Indie
Bundle 9 which contained some great
games; Limbo, Bastion, Fez, Mark of
the Ninja, Eets Munchies, FTL, A Vi-
rus named Tom…amongst others.
Here is a review of the ﬁrst 3 games.
Limbo is a 2D side-scroller like no
other. Although at ﬁrst it seems a very
simple game, the only controls being
moving left to right, grabbing objects
and jumping, the puzzles that you solve
grow in complexity leading to some
that will take some precise controlling
and thinking to conquer. Visually is
where this game really stands out, the
I think Fez is my favourite. In fact it
might be one of my favourite games of
all time. Fez is a puzzle game in which
you can only see 2 dimensions of the
3-dimensional world at any one time.
The fez you wear gives you the abil-
ity to rotate your point of view by pi/2
(degrees are for babies) so you can view
the world from a new perspective (im-
agine that you can only see one side
of a cube at any one time). In fact this
is very much like Flatland as a video
game. The object of the game is to col-
lect cube pieces (that come in two siz-
es; small ones that make a completed
one and a completed one). These are
hidden around lots of stages that con-
nect to each other by doors and por-
tals. The world itself is complex and it’s
easy to ﬁnd new areas and lose yourself
as even the map isn’t that helpful, but
this just adds to the multidimensional
thinking that you need to solve the
puzzles. Fez plays like a platformer and
the beautiful pixel art adds to give this
game a retro feel. Games like this are
why I like Indie games so much. They
are original, inspiring and are just great
fun games to play. Fez will provide
hours of fun and a long challenge if
you want to 100% complete the game.
Bastion isn’t one of the games I origi-
nally bought the bundle for, but as soon
as I tried it I was hooked. This game is a
space-western action role play game in
which you play as a survivor of a world
changing event called the Calamity.
You are brought to the Bastion which
lets you jump oﬀ to fractured pieces of
the world in order to collect fragments
which increase the Bastions power.
As the Bastion becomes more power-
ful you gain the ability to choose and
upgrade buildings such as the armoury
which lets you switch out the weapons
you ﬁnd throughout the levels, and the
Distillery which lets you brew beverag-
es which gives you special powers. The
beauty of the game lies in its simplicity.
The art style is unique and the world
gets created in front of your eyes bit by
bit. There is a narrator that constantly
comments on every aspect of the game,
from you standing up at the beginning,
to you falling oﬀ the edge. You might
think this would be annoying, but ac-
tually this is one of the best features of
the game. The narrator often adds co-
medic value and gives you important
lore and backstory seamlessly, without
the action stopping. To top oﬀ what is
a wonderful game, the soundtrack is
one of the best of any game. Pick this
game up! It is a very easy game to just
jump into and enjoy for as long as you
have time for and the new-game plus
where you keep the levels you’ve ac-
cumulated so far gives it replay value.
k ... you ... b*tches!
black and white minimalistic world is
more like a piece of art and is enchant-
ing the whole way through the game.
This game is a horror game but there
are no planned jump moments, the
horror works entirely on the simplicity
of the world and its creepy inhabitants.
One of my favourite things was the ter-
rifying spider you meet in the begin-
ning who keeps coming back to sur-
prise you in some quite comedic ways.
The controls are simple, but smooth
and respond exactly as you would ex-
pect especially when using a control-
ler. Although the game itself is very
linear, there are plenty of hidden areas
hinted at by the games achievements,
and after you have completed the 4-5
hour storyline you will probably want
to go back and explore. Maybe you will
complete challenge of completing the
game in one sitting with only 5 deaths?
Overall this game demonstrates
the originality of Indie games and I
would recommend this to everyone.
Out of all the games in this Bundle
The Felix games team were kindly
given a copy of Prison Architect by
Introversion. In this game you act as
an architect and overseer of a Prison.
You get to hire staﬀ, build the prison,
and then watch over as you gain more
prisoners make money and expand.
Many, many hours and just as many
failed Prisons later I am ready to tell
you just why you should buy this game.
Firstly the game has its own charm-
ing art style. It looks amazing and
doesn’t take too good of a computer to
run it smoothly. The only downside is
you feel too attached to your cute little
prisoners and need to constantly click
on them to remind you of the horrible
crimes they have committed (such as
saying FIRST on too many YouTube
videos) so that you can give them a
harsh treatment, probably because you
spent all your money and can’t aﬀord
niceties. The game itself starts with a
short tutorial, which teaches you the
and error how to create a successful
Prison. My ﬁrst prison failed because
I had no walls and so all the prisoners
just walked away. The second because
I didn’t realise that you could stop ac-
cepting new prisoners each day and
so I had 48 prisoners with only 1 cell
and 2 guards, which led to endless ri-
ots and the death of one of my guards.
However attempt 3 and I was ready to
make a fairly successful prison. A pris-
on with the right number of cells and
basics of building controlling your
workforce. This tutorial ends in an ex-
ecution and even has a short anima-
tion that shows you the prisoner com-
mitting his crime and then repenting.
I’ve not been so moved since I watched
Dead Man Walking! I can tell that
this game as well as being entertain-
ing will make me question my morals.
When you are then thrown into the
big open world of Prison Architect
you learn very quickly through trial
showers that didn’t ﬂood all the time!
This was just the beginning. Now
armed with grant money and my own
accountant, each day brought in more
money which I can use to upgrade the
prison. The warden unlocks bureau-
cracy in which you can specialise in
certain aspects of running a prison.
So soon my prison had its own health
centre armed with a psychologist, and
a chief of security who told me that in
fact the prisoners I thought would be
happy with their small cells were not
happy. Worried that they were up to
something I conducted a shakedown,
and searched all the prisoner’s rooms.
Eventually this ended with me con-
ﬁscating a whopping 67 items from
22 prisoners and about half of them
committed to solitary conﬁnement for
starting ﬁghts with my guards. Also
many of prisoners had been digging
tunnels to freedom. This saddened
me; I gave them so much a love! A big
shower that doesn’t ﬂood, food once a
day, a room with a bed and a toilet...
What more could they want from me?
Well ﬁnally back on track I opened my
prison to some high risk inmates and
thus started the greatest tragedy in the
history of Chenty Prison. For some
reason the workmen making my new
cells used the front door of the prison
(as in took it out to place somewhere
else). When my high risk prisoners
arrived they were able to just walk
out. This ﬁasco ended in 3 deaths, 2
unconscious prisoners and 3 escapes.
This is a great thing about the game;
you can play it exactly as you want.
You can spend time architecting the
most beautiful prison, make a prison
that keeps all the prisoners happy, just
make a big mass prison and suﬀer the
consequences like I did or accept new
prisoners every day which is a chal-
lenge! If you get bored of your own
prison you can download other peo-
ples from the steam workshop. Some-
one has even made the prison from the
Shawshank Redemption. This game
oﬀers so much for how simple it is and
it’s just in the alpha phase of its devel-
opment. Not since Minecraft’s beta
haveIfeltsoexcitedforupdatesadding
new features. This is a game I will con-
tinue to play for a long time yet. Seri-
ously, this game won’t disappoint you!
Create and run your own Prison
Calum Skene
Games Editor
Calum Skene reviews some great indie games!
Hairy Heisenberg claims further victims.
In Limbo? Here is your Bastion of F(ez)un#yolo

