31
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 15 NOV
TECHNOLOGY
If you ever imagined what a laptop in
the future might look like, just take
a look at these gaming laptops; the
must-have gadget for any hard-core
gamer. When you compare the specs
of the Alienware to your average PC
world or Curry’s laptops, it is light-
years ahead. Carrying the latest
graphics cards such as the GTX
770M, the Alienware would literally
blow your mind away even when you
run the most taxing of games giving
you the best of frame rates at maxed
out settings. With a wide range
of monitor sizes to choose from,
the biggest being 18 inches, these
beasts don’t come cheap with your
minimum base price being around
£1299. One of the best features
of these laptops, is that you can
customize the lighting on it having
a wide variety of colours to choose
from to backlit your keyboard and
speaker. Although it’s not the most
useful thing to have when killing
Nazi zombies it sure does feel badass.
Samsung KN55S9C OLED TV
If you have around $9000 spare
in cash, this is what you want.
With David Katzmaier, Cnet TV
expert, declaring this piece of tech
delivering, ‘the best picture I’ve
seen on my TV, ever,’ it sure does
fit the bill. Using OLED (organic
light emitting diode) technology, the
image quality more than surpasses
even the best of plasma and LCD
screens. By providing a better
contrast ratio, as in making darker
blacks and brighter brights, on its
55inch curved screen, the picture
really pops out making it seem so
much more immersive. Of course
let us not forget to mention that
this TV comes with 3D technology.
Ever thought that a pair of
headphones can reach almost $2000?
Well the Audeze LCD-3 does.
This luxury headset provides
life-like sound quality, removing
almost all interferences and
giving a near perfect frequency
response, meaning you get the
best levels of bass and treble. Also
they don’t actually look half bad!
Looking more like a kettle from
the future, this new desktop
designed by Apple is coming out at
a spectacular price of $2999. And
this time, Apple hasn’t held back in
terms of the specs they’ve fired into
this beauty with dual AMD firepro
graphics cards working in parallel
and 12GB of RAM to name a few.
The company is emphasising it’s
aimed at professional movie and
music production, but I am sure that
anyone from game to web designers
or any others from the creative
type are planning their budgets to
get their hands on this desktop.
4K projectors are used only by the
best digital cinemas of the world.
If you compare these with your
standard projector for home or
school use you would be getting four
times more the resolution, which is
why realistically they’re intended
for cinemas. However if you’re a
playboy looking to add another
home cinema to your collection look
no further. Sony’s VPL-VW1000ES
provides stunningly clear and
crisp images and not only that,
but allows you to scale Blue-ray
pictures up to your 4K resolution
so your net left limited with the
very few 4k content currently out
there to actually play it on. I almost
forgot to mention, they’re $16,800.
If you ever fancied a one touch
bean to cup coffee machine, Swiss
manufacture Jura will have you
sorted with their Impressa. With a
full repertoire of drinks available at
your fingertips from latte to mocha
this state of the art piece of tech
isn’t like your standard Imperial
central Library coffee machine;
it even creates a beautiful, light
foam with an airy texture using
its state-of-the-art foamer
technology. With a price standing
at £1,750, this coffee machine
won’t let you down, especially
when it does all the cleaning for
you with its integrated rinse and
clean modes doing the job for you.
Obviously you will need the perfect
luxury smartphone to go with
your Audeze headphones you may
consider going for the Vertu Ti.
Retailing at around £7000, its just
a steal for your average billionaire.
For that small change you get a
sapphire screen, titanium case and
The Ultimate Luxury Tech List
Audeze LCD-3
Jura Impressa J9.3 One
Touch TFT
Samsung KN55S9C
OLED TV
Alienware laptops:
Sony VPL-VW1000ES
Apple Mac Pro
Vertu Ti
The News Bubble
Maximilian Eggl
Yong Wen Chua
Osama Awaara
Technology Editors
Researchers at Duke University have managed to harness the power of
microwaves and turn them into electricity. Considering that this device
provides roughly 7.3 volts (a USB charger usually only gives you about 5),
it could be very useful in extending your devices battery lives signiﬁcantly.
Furthermore if this “harvester” was made more compact, it could even be
built directly into your gadget, meaning it would be charged on the go.
General news from around the tech world, so you can keep up to
date with the newest, wierdest and most futuristic things around
Microwave to full charge!
Your phone spying on you?
Scientists at Cambridge have managed something quite extraordinary.
Using a program called PIN skimmer, they managed to guess the
PIN numbers of smartphones via their own mic and camera. The
camera tracks the users eye’s , and the mic listens to the taps of the
ﬁnger on the touch screen. This way the two features can correlate
the position of the taps and therefore guess the PIN that was used.
With a 4 digit pin the programme was successful 50% of the time.
polished ceramic. Furthermore
it runs android, so you can run
all the apps that everybody else
has, as well has having a gorgeous
device! It’s the absolutely perfect
smartphone for the rich socialite!
Osama Awara informing you on what you HAVE to have!

