34 FRIDAY 08 NOV
CLUBS & SOCS Editor: Nida Mahmud
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Emergency Relief
Ben Fernando
Charity Editor
T
his week sees two prominent emergency
appeals in the spotlight. The union’s Syria
appeal closes next week and can accept
blankets and medicines, and multiple
appeals or support of the Philippines are
also being held. So how does all this work?
The Syria appeal launched back in Spring Term
when the crisis came to a head – to date, sources
including the UN estimate that 100,000 people
have been killed in the conﬂict, many of them
children. The international community was
outraged over the summer by the use of chemical
weapons, which both sides continue to blame each
other for. Though this did once again bring the
nationwide appeals to the forefront of the public
mind, the response has been far from suﬃcient.
2 million people have registered as internationally
displaced from their homes (N.B this is just the
number that have registered – there are many
more who are not registered), and also another
4-5 million who are internally displaced. These
refugees are directly vulnerable to the conﬂict’s
brutality, in squalid camps, many near the Turkish
border where clean water, food, shelter and
medical attention are in very short supply.
The appeal for aid to the Philippines is structured
very diﬀerently to the Syria appeal. The UK has
a committee formed of 14 charities known as
the ‘Disasters Emergency Committee’. They
meet after such disasters and organise what the
UK’s national response to the disaster will be. At
present, the UK has dispatched medical assistance
and pledged a minimum of £5 million.
Although this might sound like a lot, when you
consider that over 10,000 people are thought to
have died in the ﬂattened city of Tacloban alone,
that the president has declared a state of ‘National
Calamity’ and that over 600,000 have been
displaced it doesn’t really go all that far. I always
ﬁnd it surprising how easily the public can match
or even exceed the amount that the government
pledges.
So what can you do to help? For the Philippines
this is much easier, as the appeals are running
nationwide. For Syria, you can drop oﬀ items
in SAC next week. More details can be found
on the Islamic Society Facebook page. If that’s
not enough, there are also further ways to get
involved – from ﬂying out there yourself (not
recommended) to running fundraisers on campus
(very much recommended – I’ll happily help out!)
Anyhow that’s all for now
There is an items collection for an
aid convoy that will be leaving for Syria
next weekend. This is an opportunity
for you to directly make a diﬀerence
to people’s lives! Old clothes will be
used to generate funds and new ones
will be sent to Syria. The Union is also
helping and we have a drop oﬀ point at
the Union reception. There are more
details on the website.
One of the organisers commented
“anyone can contribute, as students
we tend to have a lot of little things
that we rarely use or wear; this little
will go a long way, it will provide them
with hope and show the Syrian people
that others in the world do care and do
remember.”
One of the students response to
the campaign was “It’s easy to feel
powerless in the face of things that
shock and upset us, yet instead of
surrendering themselves to apathy
a young group of Imperial students
have built a campaign from nothing,
it’s very impressive and has certainly
inspired me.”
Syria Item’s Collect
Suggested Items:
MOST REQUIRED MEDICINE:
Generally any over the counter but
also Antibiotics, Insulin, Amlodipine,
Atenolol, Ibuprofen, Colic remedy,
Paracetamol, First Aid Packs.
CHILDRENS ITEMS: Baby Food,
Baby milk (powder), winter clothing
OTHER ITEMS:
NEW CLOTHING: Blankets,
sleeping bags, thermals, trousers,
sweaters, socks, hijabs, hats, shoes,
tights
OLD CLOTHING: will be sold to
generate funds for life saving medicine
TOILETRIES: Sanitary towels, soap,
nail clippers, combs, nappies, nappy
cream, tampons
FOR CHILDREN: toys, colouring
books, pencils and crayons, children
arabic books, Wellington boots
Please make sure items are not
expired, clean and in good condition
(used goods can still be sold to
purchase life-saving medicine, but
we’d prefer if clothing was in good
condition).
New Financial Worlds
Conference
M
arch 2011 saw
Imperial College
Finance Society
hold their ﬁrst
ever conference
at the highly impressive Bloomberg
Headquarters. It was here that the
New Financial Worlds Conference
was born. With an attendance of
over 200 individuals from a diverse
range of backgrounds, universities
and professions, it was a real opening
success for the society. Now in its
fourth iteration, the New Financial
Conference 2013 will be held in the
prestigious Barbican on the 30th
November.
The conference is unique in the
sense that it is split into two streams
- Global Markets and Investment
Banking. Attendees choose their area
of interest during the application
process and if successful attend
talks and activities tailored to that
area of the ﬁnancial world. The day
commences with formal introductions
over refreshments which will then
be followed by our headline speaker,
Benoit Savoret, who has a multitude
of titles on his résumé including:
EMEA COO of Lehman Brothers,
Head of Global Equities at Nomura
and EMEA CEO of Macquarie Group,
just to name a few. IEach stream will
have senior professionals discussing
topics related to that ﬁeld. Talks can
range from anything concerning
their particular ﬁeld of work, their
past experiences and achievements
or interesting subjects relating to the
industry. A few of the other speakers
participating are:
Achintya Mangla - Co-Head of
Equity Capital Markets EMEA at J.P.
Morgan, Arne Staal - Head of Index
Products & Systematic Strategies
Research Europe at Barclays
Mark Howden – Head of Consumer
Group at NomuraAlong with talks,
each speaker will then participate in
a panel discussion where delegates get
the opportunity to see four brilliant
minds give their views on various
matters. Both Investment Banking
and Global Markets have a tailored
activity, an M&A competition and a
trading game respectively which are
judged by industry experts.
As well as talks from the industry’s
elite, there will be opportunities for
attendees to ask their piercing
questions during the networking
sessions arranged and the mini
careers fair on oﬀer. Additionally,
there will be a diﬀerent activity for
each stream of participants, creating
an opportunity for attendees to
showcase their real ﬁnancial prowess.
As such, this conference would be the
perfect opportunity for any student
to gain a deeper understanding of the
industry no matter what their current
level along with hands on experience
through the activities.
People interested in attending
the conference should go to the
website, www.nfwconference.com,
and apply by simply attaching their
CV. Applicants will be notiﬁed
of the following steps via email if
successful. Also, make sure you keep
up to date with the latest information
regarding the conference by liking
our facebook page, facebook.com/
NFWConference.
ICFS tell us about their exciting upcoming conference

