35
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 08 NOV
A Blog Entry on Syria
Hee Jia Yun
L
ast Thursday I attended a talk on humanitarian aid in Syria by Mr
Louay El-Abed, a trustee of Syria Relief. I had heard much about
Syria in the news, but I wanted to hear a ﬁrst-hand account of the
situation from someone involved in mitigating the crisis. The talk
turned out to be very inspiring and there were several points I
found really interesting.
The Eﬀects of Conﬂict: Often, when conﬂict is mentioned in reports, we
see ﬁgures – of casualties, refugees, and so on. We don’t always realise the
more subtle consequences on real people. Mr El-Abed described his visits
to the refugee camps and said it was heartbreaking to see the helplessness
in refugees’ eyes. These people could only sit around waiting for their food
to arrive. I think what’s worse than suﬀering unfortunate circumstances
is being unable to do anything to improve the situation for yourself and
your loved ones. Sometimes people complain about being busy, but from
another angle I think at least we’re lucky in being able to do work that will
lead to a better future. Perhaps, for people stuck in ruts in life, the best way
to help them is to give them the chance to help themselves. Syria Relief has
actually done that, by setting up workshops for refugee ladies where they
can work (e.g. make knitted products) to earn money.
The trauma of the violence, especially for children, is something else. Mr
El-Abed was involved in ﬁlming a documentary and the ﬁlming crew took
half an hour just to get one child to smile. While that was admittedly an
isolated case, it is somewhat shocking to realize that an entire generation
grows up through such emotional turmoil.
Professionals/Expertise: Professional ability comes in really handy. For
instance, medical expertise is incredibly important, especially due to the
increased number of casualties. (On a side note, it is admirable how dedi-
cated some Syrian doctors are. Apparently, they are work around 18 hours
a day, especially since in some cases an entire city is left with not more
than 50 doctors.) As for engineers, other areas demand their skill. Wells
have to be built where there is disrupted access to clean water. Also, cheap
prosthetic limbs have to be made for people to carry on with their lives.
(Currently, they are made from drain pipes, costing around 20 pounds
each.) In our ﬁrst world environment, we tend to take various jobs for
granted. However, where conﬂict disrupts normal life and people aban-
don their posts because they can’t aﬀord to stay, it becomes apparent how
important these roles are. Part of Syria Relief’s funds goes towards paying
doctors, bakers, and teachers so they can continue working in areas af-
fected by the conﬂict.
As a student, I think it’s sometimes easy to lose sight of the purpose in
studying all those equations and spending hours on coursework. However
(at least for me), I think it helps to be reminded that it’s useful to develop
a ﬁeld of professional expertise, because it equips you to make life better
for others.
Delivering Aid Eﬀectively: Donors often worry that their money will be
misappropriated, so it was interesting how Syria Relief aims to delivers aid
eﬀectively so as to alleviate the suﬀering of Syrians as much as possible.
For instance, collaboration and coordination appears crucial in ensuring
eﬃcient operations. Syria Relief communicates with their counterparts
in other countries so that they each concentrate on diﬀerent cities. Also,
Syria Relief can reach out to people within the borders because being com-
prised of Syrians, they have contacts in the local communities. Finally, the
amount of payback on money spent is evaluated, in view of the intention
to help those most in need as much as possible. For example, Mr El-Abed
said it wouldn’t be worth it for students to volunteer in Syria, because the
cost of the ﬂight ticket alone could keep three doctors working on the
ground (who could make a real impact).
After the talk, one of the biggest questions naturally was – how can
we help? From abroad, we can support organizations working in Syria,
through donations and awareness raising. One such organization is Syria
Relief, and you can ﬁnd out more about them at http://www.syriarelief.
com/.
RCSU’s annual Science Challenge is launching for this year on December 3rd. Previous years have included a tour
of CERN as a prize for the overall winner. This tour of CERN was offered by past RCSU President & Science
Challenge Chair Dr Jad Marrouche.
Dr Marrouche is the man responsible for founding the Science Challenge, as the first president of the newly-
formed RCSU. In fact he was presented with an Outstanding Service Award in 2007 “for leading and effectively
building a dynamic faculty Union.” He is currently a research associate with the Department of Physics based at
CERN. He did his PhD there as part of the High Energy Physics Group. As a postgraduate student he received a
StudentAwardforOutstandingAchievementinrecognitionofhisoutreachwork.HeisalsotheDeputyPresident
of the Royal College of Science Association, the RCSU’s alumni organisation.
Dr Marrouche is still involved with the Science Challenge and will be judging this year’s video entries. Fiona
Hartley, RCSU Broadsheet editor, caught up with him in between seminars and meetings to ask him about the
inception of the Science Challenge, as well as inquire as to how he secured his position at the world’s largest
physics laboratory.
RCSU’s Interview with
Dr Jad Marrouche
RCSU: How did you come to
arrange the Science Challenge?
JM: The inspiration behind it
was actually the centenary of
College, and tying that in with the
reformation of the Royal College
of Science (RCS) as a union after
it had been split into the natural
sciences and physical sciences. I
was lucky to be the ﬁrst president
of the reformed RCS so we
wanted to make some sort of an
event, if you like; some sort of a
legacy that would be repeated and
turned into a tradition. I think we
managed to achieve that in the
end.
It came about from that. John
Sanderson was the president
of the Royal College of Science
Association at the time. He
donated a thousand pounds of
his own money to try to make
the Science Challenge happen,
the ﬁrst time we tried it. We had
a pilot year, the year before the
RCSU became the RCSU again,
and it was very successful.
After that, we decided to turn it
into something big. So as opposed
to just having Imperial students
we opened the competition up
to the schools around the whole
nation. And because we had the
College centenary we were able
to get some sponsorship; this was
before the credit crunch so there
was a lot of sponsorship from
various people.
So in the end the ﬁrst year we
held the Science Challenge
coincided with three things: a
celebration of the RCSU oﬃce,
which we had campaigned hard to
get – beforehand we didn’t have
that space. There was also the
celebration of the ﬁrst year of the
RCSU, as well as the centenary of
the College.
We had a £10,000 prize I think.
That was a huge prize. And we
had the ﬁnal in the Ritz. That was
the single biggest cheque I’ve ever
written. It was around £24500 for
that evening, thereabouts. We had
to get it signed oﬀ by the College.
But it was extremely successful.
We had a huge waiting list for the
tickets. The tickets were £20 and
they sold out very, very quickly,
within about twenty minutes of
going on sale. The waiting list was
longer than the actual number of
tickets.
RCSU: How did you get Lord
Robert Winston involved? Did
he just see that it was happening
and want to be involved, or…?
JM: It was basically because of
the Head of Outreach at the time,
Mel Thody. She knew him quite
well, and when I approached her
and said I wanted to expand the
Science Challenge to schools,
she asked me to speak with him.
We arranged a meeting and he
wanted to get on board with it.
He’s a very famous ﬁgurehead and
he’s now kind of the champion of
the project.
RCSU: He deﬁnitely is. So, you
graduated some time ago and
you work at CERN now. How
did you get there?
JM: I ﬁnished my undergraduate
degree in physics in 2007. I then
did a PhD with Imperial, based
out at CERN, working on the
CMS experiment. In the Large
Hadron Collider experiment
there are four main experiments:
CMS, ATLAS, ALICE and LHCb.
CMS and ATLAS are general-
purpose detectors, in the sense
that they are not looking for a
speciﬁc signature but are able to
reconstruct any signatures out
there.
My PhD was eﬀectively
commissioning the algorithm for
the CMS trigger system. That’s a
speed camera, if you like. We’re
not able to save every event that
happens at the LHC, so we have
to make a decision on which ones
to save. The reason we have to
do this is because the events that
we’re interested in happen one in
every ten million or ten billion
times that there is a collision. So
you need a high collision rate to
see such events.
But obviously you don’t want to
save ten billion events to see one;
you want to save a hundred to
see one. So you need some sort
of algorithm that will ﬁlter the
events. That’s what I was involved
in, in part.
RCSU: That’s pretty interesting.
Finally, you’re the Deputy
President of the Royal College
of Science Association.
JM: Yeah. You know more about
me than I do!
RCSU: Hardly! But can you tell
us a little bit more about the
RCSA?
JM: I don’t know if there’s that
much to say about it because it’s
not yet a fully-developed thing, it’s
still also in its infancy, growing,
like the RCS. It’s a relatively old
organisation, yes, but it’s relatively
new in some ways…
RCSU: Yes, I’ve noticed that the
RCS has quite a lot of history,
but obviously everything is
somehow quite new these days
because of the fact that it was all
split up.
JM: Yes, exactly. Hopefully in
the years to come the RCSA will
become a much stronger alumni
association. But the idea is that
it gives graduates a link back to
Imperial and to the RCS after
they’ve left. It’s not as active as
it could be, but I’m hopeful that
within the next few years we will
see its resurgence.

