4 FRIDAY 15 NOV
WELLBEING
SHAG WEEK EXPOSED
SAFE – all efforts should be made to prevent risks
to health, particularly regarding safe sex practices
that are explored below.
SANE – all activities should take place in a sensible
frame of mind. If you or your partner have had too
much to drink or have taken drugs, it can lead you
to make bad decisions or do things you wouldn’t do
sober. Better to wait until you’ve sobered up.
CONSENSUAL – it is crucial that you and your partner consent to all sexual
activities. Some points to note:
- Consenting to one sexual activity does not mean your partner consents to all
sexual activities e.g. just because someone is okay with kissing, it does not mean
they are okay with sex.
- Unconscious people e.g. people who are asleep/passed out, cannot give consent.
- Alcohol can remove someone’s ability to consent if they are too drunk. It is
difficult to tell sometimes how drunk is too drunk to consent, but checking in with
your partner and ensuring they are continuously, enthusiastically consenting to
whatever you’re doing is a good way of ﬁnding out. If someone is slurring their
speech, or is falling asleep or otherwise seems physically impaired by their
alcohol consumption, then clearly they aren’t able to consent. If in doubt, don’t
do anything!
-Ifyou’reengaginginanysituationwhereitcouldbedifficulttotellifyourpartner
is consenting e.g. during roleplay, it’s a good idea to have a safe word (something
you would never normally say during sex) or a safe action (e.g. dropping weights)
- Enthusiastic consent is sexy – if you think it sounds boring, you’re doing
something wrong. Some examples of enthusiastic consent if you need inspiration
– ‘Do you like that?’, ‘I want to (use your imagination)’, ‘Yes! Yes! Yes!’
SAFE SEX
Condoms and dental dams are fundamentally
important when practicing safe sex. However, they
are also expensive and have the habit of running out
or being misplaced at the worst possible moment.
That’s why it’s important that they are available
should you need them and it’s never a bad idea to
pick some up if you’re running low at home. Around
campus there are a few places you can get condoms:
- SAC Reception (Level 2M of the Union Building) –
there is a pot of condoms on the reception desk that
you can help yourself to.
- Imperial College Health Centre, located underneath
Southside Halls in Prince’s Gardens.
- Behind the bars – from now on, you can ask the
Union’s bar staff for packs of condoms.
- In halls – if you’re in a hall of residence, you should
have condom reps who will be supplied with
condoms – check the A-Z on our website to ﬁnd out
who your rep is.
- STI Clinics – you are also able to pick up condoms
when you attend one of the free sexual health clinics
run by the Terrence Higgins Trust at the Union.
Due to the relative demand and expense of dental
dams and pregnancy tests, they aren’t distributed
in the same ways as condoms, but they should be
available from the Union reception on request. If
you’re in need of a dental dam, you can cut and
use a condom instead, but just make sure it doesn’t
come with spermicide and is either unlubricated or
flavoured as common lubricants used in condom
packs don’t always taste nice.
When used correctly, male condoms are 98%
effective. Here are some top tips for condom usage:
- Make sure your condoms have a CE mark – this
meansthey’vebeentestedandaresafetouse.Novelty
condoms, fake condoms or condoms
that are handed out in promotions may
not have this so it’s worth checking
- Make sure your condoms are in date –
although it can be a little disheartening
to realise your condoms have had time
to expire since you bought them all of
those years ago, that beats the panic of
a condom splitting.
- Don’t use condoms that look squashed
or faded – in a similar vein to the above
point, this can happen if you keep
condoms in your wallet or purse for
a long time. It can mean the condom
inside is damaged so it’s better to use a
fresh one.
- Never use two condoms together –
although this tactic is commendable
in terms of commitment to safety, it
actually has the opposite effect as the
friction between the two condoms
makes them more likely to split. This
includes using two male condoms
(‘double-bagging’) and using a male and
female condom together.
- Using lubricant is a great idea but make
sure it’s water-based – using oil-based
lubricants or things like body lotions,
olive oil, moisturiser, etc. with latex
condoms can make them more likely to
split.
- Condoms also aren’t just for safe
vaginal/anal sex, you can (and should!)
use them for oral sex too – many STIs
can be transferred through oral sex.
Commonly these are gonorrhoea,
genital herpes and syphilis, but you can
also catch chlamydia, HIV, hepatitis,
genital warts and (charmingly) pubic
lice. To stay safe, use condoms for a male
partner or dental dams/cut condoms for
female partners.
- Finally, make sure you don’t leave it up
to a partner to provide condoms – you
are both equally responsible!
Condoms and other barrier methods
are the best way of protecting against
STIs but, to protect against pregnancy,
contraception is an extra level of
security for a lot of women. Make sure
you make an appointment at the Health
Centre or with your GP to explore your
options,evenifyoumaynotbecurrently
sexually active.

