imperialcollegeunion.org
Sabb Hot Desk
The Sabb Hotdesk is an opportunity for students to approach our Sabbs with any questions
or queries. They are also there to give you information about their work and activities and what
the Union is currently working on.
Activities covered so far include our campaign against charging for the use of Hyde Park
football pitches and promoting our SHAG Week activities. You’ll ﬁnd two of our Sabbs on the
desk every week in the JCR or Sherﬁeld foyer every Friday during term time, 12:00 - 13:00.
The location of the hot desk is featured in the Union’s What’s On e-newsletter every week.
Union Page
StudentAcademic ChoiceAwards
After a successful launch last year, the Student Academic Choice Awards are back!
Launched in 2012 and awarded for the ﬁrst time in May 2013, the Student Academic Choice
Awards – or SACAs – enable students to celebrate and reward excellence and innovation
amongst Imperial’s academic and professional staff. We believe teaching and supervision
are skills of equal worth and value to research, and we aim to build a community in which
academics, staff and students all feel empowered to bring forth new ideas.
Eight awards in total will cover all faculties, departments and campuses, as well as all modes
of study – undergraduate, taught postgraduate and doctoral research. Every student at Imperial
will have the chance to recognise the innovation, skill, engagement and energy of the staff
they learn with.
Nominations will open during Rep Week, and will be open until the end of February. A
student-led shortlisting process will then begin, and a mix of student nominators, shortlisted
candidates, previous winners and College leaders will attend the SACAs Award Ceremony at
the Union on 15 May 2014.
imperialcollegeunion.org/academicreps
#loveyourrep
Monday 25 – Friday 29 November is Rep Week, our campaign to increase awareness of
Academic Representatives (or ‘Reps’ for short).
Academic Reps are the ﬁrst point of contact for students with course or research group
concerns, facilities issues and positive feedback. Reps sit on Staff-Student Committees and
are an essential link between the College and students.
Find us in the JCR 12:00 - 14:00, Monday – Thursday and 13:00 – 14:00 on Friday. We’ll be
giving away Love Heart sweets, collecting your views about your course/research group and
collecting Student Academic Choice Awards nominations for deserving staff.
Find out who your Rep is at imperialcollegeunion.org/academicreps.
Coming soon - RepWeek
Your Sabbs, clockwise from left: David, President; Yas, Deputy President (Clubs & Societies), Nat, Deputy
President (Education); Joseph, Felix Editor; Kieron, Deputy President (Finance & Services); and Marissa, Deputy
President (Welfare).

