to-
S
m
a
l
l Ads
ANNOUNCEMENTS
• City & Guilds Motor Club
annual dinner will be held on
Friday May 27 at the Vanderbilt
Hotel. Tickets from C&G Office.
ACCOMMODATION
• Need somewhere to live over
summer? Huge double/triple room
to let in massive flat in Earl's
Court. Kitchen, bathroom, central
heating, colour TV and access to
Philbepch Gardens! Share with one
other person. £ 5 0 pwpp (up to
£18 rebate) for 3 people, .
£40pwpp for 4. Contact J Howard
LSD2 or phone Emma on 385
6277 between 9.30am and
5.00pm.
FOR SALE
• Yamaha CD-X5 Player. Perfect
condition, £165. Contact J C
Fitzmaurice, Chem Eng (int 4639).
PERSONAL
• I bet Prophylatic Press wished
he used a rubber to erase his
mistake.
• Due to awesome demand the
Press & Lane team also going on
air on Wednesday, 1pm on IC
Radio.
• IC Radio can be found on the
Radio
• And not on the TV.
• Nor the tipex bottle
• Introducing Spenny Lane—the
only man with a radio show worth
listening to—Gary Davis.
• I couldn't have said this—The
Rector.
• This quote has been quoted
completely out of context.
• Who wears the trousers in the
accounts department?
• You know its double entry
when...a finance officer tells you to
drop your pants.
• What's seven inches long, 2
inches wide and lovely to nibble?
A kinder egg of course!
• SL cute and cuddly definitely.
Sweet and innocent never. No not
me —HIM, My seven inch bundle
of fun!! Meow, SK.
• Beit Hall 2nd floor (NH) is a
gay rendezvous.
• Fez U is fond of little boys.
• Wipg is full of 'Grace' when he
does it.
• Rakesh uses little girls.
• The Acton 49ers do it on one
ski.
• Doom Doom Doom! Inspired
words from a man who knows
how to kill ants.
An open letter to the Union President
Syd's circus
Dear Mr Howgate,
I am writing with reference to the orchestrated circus
that occurred last Monday night ie ICU Council.
Specifically I refer to four items of business.
Item one: you steadfastly refused to discuss Mr Alan
Rose's conduct with regard to Union Bar/Snack Bar losses.
The reason given was that a police investigation was
pending. However Mr Chas Jackson stated from the floor
that Mr Rose was only guilty of 'gross mismanagement'
and that there was no hint of criminal activity on his part.
The obvious assumption from this is that you deliberately
set out to deceive Council.
Item two: you reintroduced Constitution and Policy
Officer via 'the back door' in the form of amended job
descriptions for UGM and Council chairs. This is despite
a decision by a previous UGM to throw out this new job.
As I was elected U G M chair before this new job
description went through I am now expected to carry out
a job for which I did not stand. The reasoning behind this
is presumably to force my resignation so that either
yourself or your sidekick Mr Neil McCluskey can stand
as CPO, a job you are sure to reintroduce. Tough luck,
I'm staying.
Item three: Along with Mr Nigel Baker, you helped to
ensure that Mr Dave Tyler did not receive social colours
for his contribution to Rag this year. Anyone who raises
a four-figure sum for Rag, helps to organise Rag events
and goes out collecting from theatres at times when he
probably had better things to do, surely deserves some
recognition from Imperial College Union. Am I right in
assuming that personal opinions have influenced your
decision?
Item four: You successfully moved that all Pub Board
colours be referred back for reconsideration. The reason
for this is apparent to anyone with half a brain in their
head, you objected to certain members of FELIX staff
receiving an award specifically because they have been
critical of your action this year—notably in the past four
weeks. This was not the reason given Monday night.
In conclusion. Mr Howgate, you deceived Council in
much the same way as you have deceived the members
of Imperial College Union all year. I await your reply to
this letter. You surely deem a reply is necessary, as no
response is an endorsement of the above points.
Yours cynically,
Paul Shanley.
Objective report?
Dear Judith,
I question strongly your view of the 'truth'. How can
anybody purporting to have one iota of journalistic ability,
produce a flysheet, based on an hour and a half long
interview, and still misrepresent the facts at the time with
a report dotted with tiny quotes? You reported that Mr
Harbour-Bridge 'said that he could have sacked the staff
who were suspected of petty pilfering but if he had got
the wrong people it "would have been far worse" than
sacking everybody.' The only quote you used in this
paragraph made no mention of the word 'sacking'. The
Snack Bar staff have been 'laid off, since the outlet has
been closed. Technically, you can't 'sack' casual staff
since they have no contract of employment; do you still
say your reporting was factual?
What fun can be had from quoting out of context. Here's
Letter
how your editorial sounds, when reported FELIX style;
T always believed that growing up, maturing, call it
what you will, was something you did by your own
experience...I feel I've missed something.'
Is this a true record of your editorial? I leave it to your
readers to judge for themselves.
To set the record straight, I still feel my reporting was
factual. I quoted from the minutes of the catering
committee and the letter sent to Mr Rose last Friday. At
no point did I quote Mr Harbour-Bridge, since I felt he
was too emotionally involved to give an objective report
on the events at the time. Mr Rose did not appear in the
Union Office all day and was not available on the
telephone; how could I have asked him for comment? I
spoke to one of the Bar Staff to find the main areas of
complaint they had and then tried to find out more about
what had gone on. Most of the facts were, and still are,
unavailable and I can understand why. If you were
considering the dismissal of one of your permanent
members of staff, wouldn't you feel it only fair that they
were given the full list of reasons at their hearing before
they were distributed to all and sundry?
As for your complaint that I was reporting on ICU
affairs, why shouldn't I? It seems that you are incapable
of doing so properly.
I shall certainly be at the A G M to question our Union
Officers. I presume you will be there as one of the
sabbaticals, paid and elected by the student populace. It's
just a pity that you feel yourself above having to write
an annual report and being answerable to a UGM—you
are.
Yours,
Dave Smedley, Broadsheet Editor.
Useful info
Dear Judith,
Covenants to Students
It has come to my notice—via a son who still manages
to defy the efforts of the examiners at Durham
University—that in the last budget Mr Lawson, in addition
to stopping student covenants except those drawn up before
15th March 1988 also insert a requirement to the effect
that an existing covenant will be allowed to continue only
if the actual deed is submitted for inspection to the
taxpayer's Inland Revenue office before 30th June 1988.
I had not realised this and suspect that many students
and parents may be unaware of the requirement. Perhaps
you have already drawn attention to the matter in previous
issues of FELIX but, even so, a reminder might be
prudent.
Yours sincerely,
P Holmes,
Professor of Hydraulics, Imperial College.
A tool writes
Dear Judith,
The day before yesterday, I had just finished writing
a long letter to my friend, which had taken three hours.
However, I discovered, to my horror that I did not have
a stamp. I asked all my friends to see if they had a spare
one, but unfortunately they didn't. Fortunately the Post
Office was still open, so I managed to get one there.
Yours,
Les E Spanner.
FELIX Friday May 20th 1988 15

