F1
E
E LI
(t-7— — • - J -
It occured to me today that perhaps
I was getting a little too involved with
the 'Snack Bar saga". Certainly this
week, with the bitter feuding on both
sides, I have found myself slipping
further and further towards the 'Snack
Bar staff side'. I no longer feel able
to comment independently on the
events in the Union and the shambles
of an Annual General Meeting we had
yesterday.
It is for this reason that I have asked
last year's FELIX Editor David
Jones, who was also present at the
A G M . to write a guest editorial this
week.
Just before I go, I'd like to say a
big thank you to the five people who
turned up to collate last night and
everybody who has rallied around me
this week. I love you all.
I suppose it was just one IC UGM too
many. Like the compulsive gambler
who puts his last pound on the 33:1
shot but knows in his heart that he's
pouring money away, or the alcoholic
who can't put the glass down though
he knows it's killing him, somehow
I believed this one might be different.
What kind of a fool am I?
After a close involvement with
FELIX and the Union, it has been
disconcerting to have to watch the
goings on inside Beit Quad as an
outsider. Perhaps that change of
perspective has been significant, but
this year the Union seems to have
hauled itself onto a new level of
collective absurdity. Hands up if you
agree with the people from St Mary's.
And those who disagree. That's a far
smaller number....
The crass behaviour of all but the
most level-headed students is par for
the course, but it's especially galling
when there was at least one item of
business that needed as much
discussion as time and/or legal
considerations would allow.
Hopefully the Union as a whole will
be given a full account of the major
trading imbalances in the Bar and
Snack Bar when the matter has been
resolved. The only thing which came
out of yesterday's hot air session was
that among the mightier members of
this shitty students union there are
some personal grudges which run
very deep indeed.
And the biggest personality clash
of all? Ian and Alan may not be best
of friends anymore, but it's Howgate
versus Hackney which has been at the
forefront of Union in-fighting for
most of the year.
Or at least, that is what everyone
seems to think. I've been looking
through this year's back issues of
FELIX recently, and there really isn't
much evidence of the anti-Howgate
hate campaign. There are one or two
editorials which betray some personal
dislike for the Union President, but
hardly anything in the rest of the
paper. Nothing, certainly, to rival the
classic FELICes of Steve Marshall
(1980-81) or even those of Pallab
Ghosh (1983-84) at his most vitriolic.
Now Ian Howgate is an interesting
character. I first met him in early
October 1983, when his chief
interests were playing Dungeons &
Dragons and trying to get laid. He
rose from obscurity in the year before
his election as President when leading
the crusade for better security in
College residences. In this, and
indeed in much of his work as Union
President, he has worked very
conscientiously and with the best
interests of IC students uppermost in
his mind. He has certainly been one
of the most committed of Presidents
in recent years, and if Judith has been
unfair to him, then I think it has been
in not drawing attention to his
dilligence whilst mocking his
eccentricities.
But I'm afraid she has her reasons.
There aren't many Council members
who were also Union officers last
year, but those who were will have
difficulty forgetting Howgate's
continual interruptions. Whatever the
subject, he would hold forth as long
as his lungs would hold out. Now it's
probably expecting too much of
anyone who seeks public office to be
shy and retiring, but there's another
side to this: if you put yourself in the
public eye, you have to be prepared
to take the flack, and this is where
Howgate falls down. He stormed out
of Council on more than one occasion
last year and he withdrew from the
Presidential election first time round
just because a few people made it
clear they did not want him in the job.
It was Ian Howgate that stormed into
the FELIX office during the elections
and demanded that Judith (then VP of
RCSU) immediately round up a group
of RCS students who had chosen to
steal his posters. It was Ian Howgate
that made known his view that the
Union President should have the right
to censor FELIX. It was Ian Howgate
that tried to amend the sabbatical job
descriptions so that all the posts were
subservient to the President. ('But
why, Ian?'—'Because I'm the
President.' Well, bugger me). It's not
surprising that he doesn't hit it off
with the FELIX Editor.
But in one way or another Ian
Howgate has left his mark on the
Union this year. What I find more
worrying is that his term of office is
having a knock-on effect on FELIX
as well. He's a hard worker, he's thin
skinned, and his other great
characteristic is an endless capacity
for self-deception. This is what is
rubbing off on those people who like
to take his point of view. FELIX may
not like Ian Howgate, but Ian decided
long ago that he did not like FELIX.
If the Ian Howgate hate campaign
exists it exists chiefly in the mind of
Ian Howgate, and in the mind of
anyone else he can seduce. FELIX
always gets a good shelling but this
year it seems to have escalated into
a bombardment fed by paranoia. This
is a shame, because you only have to
look at yesterday's proceedings to
know that, without its newspaper, IC
Union is a festering heap of
egomaniacs. On top of his other
qualities, Ian has a gift for putting
across flawed opinions and being
believed. This is not a situation
without precedent, but only
Presidents such as Carl Burgess have
dared to suggest that they should
control FELIX. From Beit Arch to the
central staircase, an iron curtain has
fallen across IC Union.
Editor-in-chief Judith Hackney
Guest Editorial by David Jones
Business Manager Chris Martin
Reviews Editors Andrew Clarke
and Sumit Guha
Clubs Editor Andrew Waller
Sports Editors Dominic Strowbridge
and 'Hector' Sullivan
Science Editor... Steve Black
Features Editor Kamala Sen
Typesetting Rose Atkins
Printing Dean Vaughan
Contributors: Paul Shanley, Andrew Waller, Chris Martin, Pippa
Salmon, Adrian Bourne, Kamala Sen, William Lumb, Matthew Salter,
Neil Motteram, Delator, Chris Jones, Steve Black, Sumit Guha,
Andrew Clarke, Sunny Bains, Murray Williamson, Yishu Nanda, L
Patsiolou, K Yamalidon, Chris Stapleton, Roy, Dominic Strowbridge,
Noel Curry and all the collators.
L O O K S U I K E f R hicl viKs. fcuw
C-evisiDi-o..
2 Friday May 20th 1988 FELIX

