• MY GOOD FRIEND College
Secretary John Smith, recent recipient
of an Imperial College Union General
Award, is always so fond of telling
us how the Summer Letting Scheme
keeps term time rents down. Quite
possibly. But certain figures have
been passed in my direction.
Hamlet Gardens is a head tenancy
down in Hammersmith. Students are
charged either £33 or £36 per week
depending on which block they are
living in. This figure is zero-rated for
VAT during term because it is a
student residence. It does not include
gas or electricity.
However, during the Summer
Letting Scheme, the same flats are let
out at £34pw for the first four weeks
and then £28pw after that. This
includes VAT at 15 % for the first four
weeks and 3% after that. My
calculator reckons that the zero-rated
VAT is therefore about £27pw. This
figure is inclusive of gas and
electricity bills. At an average of
£4.50pw for gas and electricity this
means that College is getting about
£22.50pw during the summer.
It doesn't take a degree in
Mathematics to see that £ 2 2 . 5 0 is
considerably less than the average
£ 3 4 . 5 0 that students are being
charged.
Why are students subsidising
summer residents?
• COMRADE HOWGATE has
been confiding to close 'friends',
notably Mr Martyn Peck, FELIX spy,
that he may find himself in academic
trouble next year. Hissing Syd is
apparently not guaranteed of a place
in College next year. Will this
endanger his master plan to get
elected as Union President for the
second time, at the end of next year?
• THERE WERE some very weird
proxies flying about at Council on
Monday night. It seemed that people
were running about College all day,
desperately making phone calls in a
bid to have a vote. One member
present, however, went out of his way
to ensure he was there. He actually
bought his proxy for £ 2 — a proxy
belonging to someone whom he had
met only once before in his life.
biacK/MAiL
Information required on the following topics:
The Union has decided to fit a new key system into the Union Building
to replace the decrepit one now in use. In their infinite wisdom, they
have chosen the ASSA 6000 series. This was the one installed in
Linstead Hall over the summer. Why has the Union again chosen an
ASSA system when:
• Dozens of masters (ie R37s, ES1s, etc) are flying about?
• The Linstead 'foolproof system was cracked within eight hours
of installation?
Talking of key systems, why has Southwell warden Ken Young been
expressing an interest in obtaining a particular key? He asked one of
my spies if he could gain entry to Sherfield Level Four Finance. Why?
• How many keys has College Chief Security Office Geoff Reeves
received since he declared an amnesty on illegal key-holders?
• Following my question a few weeks back, I can now reveal that
Union Administrator Jen Hardy-Smith was responsible for the Union
reorganisation. She even drew up the 'white paper' for the scheme.
If Mrs Hardy-Smith is pulling the strings in the Union, then presumably
Mr Harbour-Bridge is Pinnochio, the lying puppet who broke free.
• Life Sciences had a first-year intake of 140 students at the start
of this year as opposed to a planned 100. A source of mine within
the department has told me that it is intended to raise the pass mark
in order to fail more students. This would bring the size of the year
down to a manageable level. Can the head of department refute this?
• Al Birch, Falmouth Keogh Assistant Subwarden informs me that
The Players were indeed at Rag Fete and threw a deck of cards off
the top of the Queen's Tower. Funny how no one else saw it, eh, Al?
Is Mr Birch trying to shift attention away from himself? Could it
be that The Players weren't at Rag Fete because one of them was
in Cambridge at the time, ie Mr Birch himself?
• RCS tramp Tony Spencer wrote in to deny last week's story
concerning his leaking of information to Delator. However as I pointed
out at the time, Mr Spencer is on Delator's 'unreliable information'
list. Consequently I don't believe a word he says.
On this subject, a third source within Guilds has refused to deny
my allegation that a slush fund exists.
• A certain Hall/House Warden applied for the wardenship with 'his
wife'. Why does his wife and kid(s) have a different surname to him?
Could it be that they're not really married?
• Two items marked 'confidential' were discussed at Monday night's
Council. Why were they debated in an open session with observers
present?
Last week's Blackmail:
1) The Union Officer who shaved all his pubes off in a third year
English lesson was External Affairs Officer, Mr Neil Motteram.
2) The second year Aeronautics student who makes Mars Bars
disappear when his girlfriend is about is Mr Jan Graham.
This week's Blackmail:
1) Five pounds from the Phantom Soaker or I reveal his name.
2) Five pounds from Mr Harbour-Bridge or I publish 'confidential'
details of the local council elections and the bowling alley.
3) Which male Union Officer has recently contracted syphillis?
Delator.
P.S. Thanks Mr Northey for the £ 5 .
• M Y SPIES in College have been
pretty scathing about the conduct of
a certain newly-appointed Student
Accommodation Officer. It seems that
she has arranged several new clerical
jobs in her office but is unconcerned
about the lack of College Welfare
Advisor following the resignation of
Ms Linda Simmons at the end of
March.
Ms Simmons was a well-liked and
conscientious Welfare Advisor but
only remained at Imperial for six
months. Why? Close friends tell me
that she was disillusioned and cynical
by the time she left. Her main reason
was the lack of support she was
getting from both her colleagues and
Imperial College Union.
The Student Accommodation
Office seems to be in a bit of a turmoil
at the moment. Student
Accommodation Officer Loretto
O'Callaghan is convinced that the
office will not be running smoothly
until next year. The question on many
people's lips now is why, at the height
of exam time and two months after
Ms Simmons left, has her job not
been advertised? And why doesn't
Imperial College Union push for the
post to be filled now?
Sources close to the SAO have
speculated that it could be because
Union sabbaticals don't need welfare
advice—but they do need jobs as
subwardens next year!
•FORMER RCSU HON SEC Tom
Melliar-Smith was seen wandering
haplessly in the direction of the Union
Building last Wednesday night. The
man had gone for a drink in the
Holland Club. The poor souls who
had to suffer Mr Melliar-Smith's
tedious monologue got extremely
bored by this and took action. A
phone call was soon arranged calling
the man to the Union for 'an urgent
message'. Mr Melliar-Smith has not
been back to the Holland Club since.
• AT THURSDAY'S AGM. Mr
Howgate deferred one of his
Outstanding Service Awards at the
end of the meeting. The prospective
recipient was Phil Drew, St Mary's
President. Mr Drew was so angered
by the direction the meeting was
going that he walked out. taking all
his Exec with him. He also stated that
his Union would not be merging with
ours until such a time as ICU got their
act together.
Needless to say, Mr Drew did not
receive his award.
Chris Jones
FELIX Friday May 20th 1988 5

