THE NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION Friday, November 9th, 1979 Issue No. 533
EXEC EXHAUSTED AFTER 8
MONTHS OF CONTROVERSY
FELIX EDITOR D I S P U T E
FINALLY SETTLED
COLIN PALMER RATIFIED
Gary Dearmer speaking at the UGM Photo by Colin Palm,
ICU LEADS THE WAY
On Wednesday afternoon, the Union's 'Death
to British Education' Coffin led the N U S march
outside the Department of Education and
Science. At this stage the N U S Exec were
playing ultra callous by ordering Union banners
not to be raised. Yet earlier they had amongst,
almost chaos, sanctioned a march along the
pavements from Malet Street without full police
approval. Thus, as the 400 strong demo passed
the D E S there were no placards and no banners,
a feature of any successful demo.
To applause and clapping the coffin was
brought out from Waterloo tube entrance direct
from IC and across the road. It was held high and
became the central focus of the march. That,
however, was as far as it went as the contingent
now crossed the Thames, in groups of ten to
lobby members of Parliament.
Having left the coffin in safe keeping (ie in the
opposite Harlequin record shop) Philip Cole, Ian
Greenwood and Roger Stotesbury then went on
to join the lobby queue. At 6 pm, Peter Brooke,
the M P for this area, emerged from the chamber
and discussed for 25 minutes the proposed
education cuts.
BRIGHTON 79
a driver's view
An opportunity to drive in the London to
Brighton Veteran Car Run is a unique
experience, and I feel privileged to have been
given the opportunity to drive Boanerges in
this annual event. The build-up to 4
November was nerve-racking to say the least,
and preparations had been in hand for a good
two months. Waking up at 6am to a cold and
wet day did nothing to subdue my spirits so I
dressed in what I thought would be necessary
to keep out the cold, and then doubled it.
After a final check at the garage, we loaded up
the car and set off for Hyde Park, along with
Sir Hugh Ford, the Guilds Motor Club
President, and J o Armitage, theGuilds Union
President, were Peter Moody and Victoria
Westgarth who were to share the co-driving.
The enormous crowd in Hyde Park
included a brave band of pyjama clad Guilds
supporters who sent us off with a hearty
Boomalaka. But before we were out of the
Park, we were carved up, as usual by the
enormous Mercedes, that starts just behind
us, and for the next ten mile, we were
continually passing, and being passed by, the
1902 Dennis from which Leslie Crowther was
(continued on page 3)
Photo by Jeremy Nuttns
BO AT WESTMINSTER

