REVIEWS
LP REVIEW
JOIN HANDS
SIOUXSIE AND THE BANSHEES
(POLYDOR)
I've been sitting here ten minutes and I still
can't think of an original opening sentence.
Phew, glad that's over. This album promises
much but pre-judging from the tracks given
radio-play ('Playground Twist' and 'Icons')
would be a mistake. It's not that good.
Ranging from the gentle melodic, music-box
backed 'Mother* to the violent rage of 'The
Lord's Prayer' there is something for every
Banshees fan, but It's spread thinly.
Whereas their debut LP, 'The Scream', was
considered over their first year as a band,
'Join Hands' suffers from being made to order
and does not sound as polished and refined.
There are echoes of the first work but nothing
here to match it.
Good points include the Siouxsie vocals
and John McKay (who, I'm sure you've heard
by now if you're interested, together with
drummer Kenny Morris, has done a bunk
since these recordings were made)'s raunchy
guitar work. These together with 'Playground
Twist', an excellent single, although the
majority of the record-buying public
obviously doesn't agree with me, 'Icons' and
'Mother' make the album worth a listen. But
that fourteen minute 'Lord's Prayer' comes
back to haunt you. I mean Zzzz boring!
It's all stylized, gothic, original, extreme,
interesting, flawed, danceable (after a
fashion) and I like most of it. But I wouldn't
buy it.
JON FIRTH
BLUE BABY BLUE
by
GAY WILD
(RCA)
Gay was eleven when I first had
the pleasure of seeing her. Even
then she had big ambitions. Her
debut single, 'Blue baby blue' may
be an abysmal flop but never mind ...
she looks good. It is rare for FELIX
reviewers to say, "I'm not reviewing
that load o f b u t say it they did.
However, they did not spend
enough time looking at Gay's
publicity photo. Had they realised
the energies that fire Gay's wild
existence; then the piece of plastic
spinning on their turntable would
G i l
THE
GOVERNMENT
INSPECTOR
OLD VIC
"In 'The Government Inspector' I decided
to gather into one heap everything rotten in
Russia as I then saw it. all the injustices which
are perpetrated in those places and
circumstances where justice is most required
of a man; I decided to hold up everything to
ridicule at once."
Nickolay Gogol's play 'The Government
Inspector' was supposed to be about official
corruption but in the process he reinforces
the age old principle of authority being in the
eye of the beholder.
Small town fiddling is nothing new these
days but the comic premise of authority, or
lack of it, continues to be appealing in this
thoroughly enjoyable production.
When the officials of a small country town
hear that a government inspector from St
Petersburg is to make an incognito
appearance amongst them, they panic as
they realise what he will find. The hospital is
squalid, the Judge1
has "been on the bench
fifteen years and never yet seen a document
he's understood", the school is staffed by
idiots and everyone from the Mayor down is
taking bribes.
The worries increase when a young well-
dressed man staying at the local inn starts
ordering everyone about. The Mayor and
officials automatically assume this to be the
Inspector and are anxious to appease him.
Fortunately for the young man, in reality
merely a clerk with delusions of grandeur, he
catches on to the true situation before
anyone else and in a series of marvellous
scenes sets about impressing the awed
onlookers. Boasts of knowing various poets
rapidly escalate to visits to the palace and
very soon he is accepting financial 'loans'
from the grovelling town council.
have seemed irrelevant. Gay Wild
cannot be captured on a mere
single. Wait until RCA release an
album. The cover pic will be enough
.... forget what's inside.
THE STUD
Record reviewers
are urgently
required to review
awful records
Never does the performance by J o n
Richardson of this snobbish, audacious,
preposterous pseudo-Inspector become
unbelievable and Hugh Sullivan as the
greasy, sycophantic Mayor (with Yorkshire
accent, incidently - very Russian!) was also
very fine.
The beginning of the play must be
mentioned; a stage on wheels rolled out
towards the audience with the leading
players aboard - a novel idea from this
constantly innovative Old Vic company. A n d
throughout the play at intervals a spotlighted
symbolic coach, suspended above the stage
and behind the backcloth, brings the real
Inspector towards the town. The production
of Toby Robertson is witty, pacy and stylish.
The whole thing fairly rattles along and surely
gains from this.
'The Government Inspector' is at the Old
Vic on November 1, 2,3,16,17 and December
5, 6, 17 and 18. I recommend it!
JON FIRTH
15

