WALTHAMSTOW
MARSH
This month the Lea Valley Regional Park
Authority will apply to the G L C for
permission to quarry the marsh for gravel for
five or six years, following which the North
marsh would become a lake for motorised
water sports and the south marsh filled in and
converted to playing fields.
Objections are on both ecological and
amenity grounds. A n organisation called
'Save the Marshes Campaign' is fighting the
plan and would like the marsh declared an
area of great natural interest, preserving its
status as common land. This being the last
genuine marshland along the River Lea, and
the only remaining countryside area in the
desert of East London.
Waltham Forest Borough Council, in
whose domian the marsh lies, and Hackney
Borough Council, whose residents are the
main users of the area, have both voted to
oppose the plans. The area around the marsh
is thickly populated, with few gardens,
making the marsh a valuable public open
space. In addition the plans would involve 75-
150 heavy lorries per day visiting the site.
The marsh area is drained, but probably
floods most years. The wildlife content is
exceptionally valuable. The vegetation, most
of which is under three foot high, apart fro™
assorted willows at eh north end and contains
over 300 recorded species of plants,
including a 150 year old reed bed. It supports
seventeen species of butterfly and a variety of
breeding birds including a rookery and a
heronry on an island in one of the reservoirs.
R C S Nat Hist S o c will be visiting the 6 0 ac-e
site to assess its value ecologically, and
generally view the site. A n y specialist would
be especially welcome and we will be leaving
the Beit Arch on Saturday 10 November at
9am and taking luch in a nearby pub. If you
are interested, turn up at Beit Arch, or at the
site, or contact Nick Gratton (Nat Hist Soc,
President) Zoology 2.
Nick Gratton
CITY & GUILDS
Copy deadline again, time to get out the
trusty typewriter, open another can of Swan
and think of something to say. (Mutters,
drinks, thinks, mutters, drinks, thinks, looks
at lan's King Edward cigars with envy and
finally finds something to write about.)
Last week was rather full with the combined
C C U Halloween party on Wednesday. The
J C R was packed and great fun was had by all.
The final freshers' dinner was held on
Thursday and continued well into Friday
which was spent recovering. Saturday was
the day that Guilds went out to measure
Oxford Street, we collected £250 and after
much deliberation decided how long the road
was: 750 Spanners, 800 Mikes, 4.0 xlO Mega
Jos. Only about twenty people came to the
office, so they did rather well although w «
want more people to come with us when we
next go out: Saturday 17 November on the
Rag Procession.
B o went to Brighton on Sunday and was
welcomed by a storming Boomalaka on the
sea front but there is an article abut the day
elsewhere in FELIX, so I won't repeat what
has been said.
Events coming up:
Saturday 10, the Lord Mayors/Guilds show,
you can go along and cheer us along as the
Lord Mayor follows us through London.
We will be having a Union Meeting on
Tuesday 13 at 12:45 in M E 542 where there
will be a Morphy Day briefing and the trials of
v a r i o u s E x e c m e m b e r s f o r s l i g h t
misdemeanors during the first part of term.
We would also like to see some topics for
discussion or motions given to us before the
meeting.
Wednesday is Morphy day, where we go
out to Putney and throw shit all over R C S and
Mines, won't that be fun.
See you at these events and also turn up on
Thursday lunchtime for a monster inter C C U
boatrace.
I'm happy to say that 'The Enid' have finally
been persuaded to headline Guilds carnival,
so don't bother going to the Rainbow to see
them around 23 November. That's the big day
and when I say big I mean BIG. Supporting
the Enid will be two bands 'Wildlife' and
'Urchin', both of whom play different brands
of rock music. Trad Jazz band will be opening
downstairs and for the first time ever the
Carnival atmosphere will be completed by a
steel band. That's five bands, intotal. After all
these bands and eating and drinking how
about watching a film or two. Well, that's kthe
way our minds think anyway, so we have'The
Choirboys' and 'The Chelsea Girls' for your
enjoyment. The cost for all this is only £2.50 in
advance, so come on and buy your tickets
from the Union Office and Guilds social reps.

