E N V I R O N M E N T A L W E E K
Imperial College Union is proud to
announce its Environmental Week. This will
begin on Thursday 29 November. At 1pm the
will will be opened by Mike Burke from
Friends of the Earth. At 4:30 the Rector, Lord
Flowers, will give a talk on energy and the
environment. Later the same day, at 7pm
there will be a debate on the motion 'Nuclear
Power, the major energy source of the future'.
Speaking for the motion are Mr L G Brookes
(Atomic Energy Authority) and Dr Goddard
(Imperial College). Speaking against are Prof
Jeffery (Birkbeck College) and Prof Scorer
(Imperial College).
As a prelude to the week various articles on
environmental issues will be published in
FELIX. This week a piece from 'Who Needs
Nuclear Energy?' (published by Students
Against Nuclear Power) is printed as well as a
news story from the Evening News on bottle
banks.
G O V E R N M E N T F O R E C A S T S
(OVER CAPACITY)
The main argument which the nuclear
industry are using is that "without a major
commitment to nuclear power we shall all
freeze in the dark". A n d further - "there is no
viable alternative". The next section shows
that this is ridiculous and extremely
misleading.
The energy planners at the Central
Electrictiy Generating Board ( C E G B ) have
made a big mistake. There is now 40% more
generating capacity in England and Wales
than required to meet peak demand on the
coldest day of the year. In Scotland the figure
is an unbelievable 70%. (Both these figures
allowing for planning margins in case of
breakdown.)
The C E G B had expected demand to
continue rising exponentially. Sir Arthur
Hawkins, the chairman at the time described
the results: "Our sales of electricity fell away
so sharply that many power stations had no
need to operate even during the peak winter
months....OUR R E L U C T A N T C O N C L U S I O N
IS T H A T W E C A N FIND N O C A S E O N T H E
G R O U N D S O F E L E C T R I C I T Y D E M A N D
FOR P L A C I N G A N Y O R D E R S FOR N E W
P O W E R S T A T I O N S O F A N Y T Y P E FOR A T
L E A S T S E V E R A L Y E A R S . " (1976)
Apparently his predictions didn't suit the
powerful interests within the nuclear lobby
for he didn't remain in the job much longer.
Consequently, the means of justifying new
orders have become more ridiculous. Firstly
they have closed down a number of small
power stations, (which could have been used
for combined heat and power development).
Secondly they (CEGB) are raising the
planning margins from 28% to 35%. (In U S A
the planning margins are 15%). Lastly they
are proposing ridiculous levels of growth in
energy demand. The Southern Scottish
Electricity Board (SSEB) justify the proposed
Torness nuclear reactor using predictions of
6% compound growth in energy demand per
annum (based upon 1974 figures). The total
growth in demand since these predictions
were made has turned out to be less than 1 %.
The current overcapacity in the S S E B area is
in excess of 7 0 % - what will it be after Torness
is built? Every region in Britain has a chronic
overcapacity of electricity generating plant.
The construction of more power stations to
fill the famous non-existent energy gap is
totally unnecessary at the moment.
(Students against Nuclear Energy will be one
of the groups at the Environmental Fair on
Wednesday 5 December, along with C E G B ,
N C B , FOE, etc, etc. A n d on the next day the
Rector, David Owen, Sir Derek Ezra, Nigel
Forman, Lord Tanpaw and Mike Robson will
discuss the topic 'An Energy Future for
Britain'.)
BANKING UP YOUR BOTTLES
A bank with a difference opened in London
today. It's a bottle bank aimed at recycling
glass.
Eventually London boroughs could earn
£2 1/2 million a year through the scheme.
Brent Council has launched the scheme by
inviting housewives to pop their glass
empties, from pickle jars to whiskey bottles,
into bottle bank skips positioned throughout
the borough.
Two other London boroughs, Barnet, and
Greenwich will soon be announcing similar
schemes.
A spokesman for the Glass Manufactureres
Federation said: "There are£2 1/2 million
worth of glass bottles and jars dumped in the
capital's dustbins every year.
Today's launch in Brent is a major step
forward in the federation's plans to extend the
scheme to 200 cities and towns throughout
Britain over the next two years."
Federation director Oliver Ormandale said
the glass recycling potential for London was
enormous. He estimated that more than 610
million jars and bottles were available for
recycling in the G L C area every year.
This he said, would earn London boroughs
£2.45million a year in sales of waste glass to
m a n u f a c t u r e r e s a n d save Britain the
equivalent of 5.2million gallons of oil each
year in glass manufacture.
The Brent bottle banks have different
containers for white and coloured glass. Any
bottle is welcome, except milk bottles or
those on which a deposit has been paid.
(As part of the week we are collecting waste
packaging for Friends of the Earth to present
to the Chairman of the Packaging Council.
FOE are demanding more effective controls
on packaging, calling for specific codes of
practice on specific packages.)
CAVING CLUB
The day of parting arrived (last Friday) and,
with heavy hearts half of the Fellowship of the
Rung (yes, we had ladders, too!) set off from
the Eye-Sea for the caves and tortures ofthe
Kingdom of Wales.
The journey was terrible and arduous (and
boring) but the sturdy vessel Dialavan
remained fast and firm throughout. O n and
on she sped towards (and then past) our
destination. With haste (and a map) our
course was corrected and we reached
Crickhowall, to be met by a band of our
fellows who had set off not long after us.
The night was spent on a dark forbidding
hillside, surrounded by many weird animals
known as she'bogo to the natives. Dawn
broke (along with our shelter) and the now
rested party set off for our goal, the caves of
Ffynnon-Ddu. We were four parties, entering
by two entrances, with only a guide-book to
tell us what we might expect.
Despite the early return of one unworthy
caver/but fair helmsman, and his guide, the
parlies enjoyed considerable success, going
deep into O g of Ffynnon Ddu I and Cwmdwr.
No one encountered any Oras, dwarves or
Balrogs and all returned from their journey
hungry but happy with the memory of the
splendour of the caves. (Unfortunately the
hoped-for treasure hoard was not discovered
either.)
The night was spent in a well-defined stony
keep and the following day, whilesomeof the
fellowship went yet further and deeper into
O F D (their party lead by Rangers of the
mountains), the others explored old mines
(perhaps from pre-man times) some miles
further into the mountains.
Myself and a stalwart comrade were
lookouts while the parties were abroad, and,
when all were again united, many tankards of
good ale were emptied (not least by the first
party, having met impassable white water
perils deep into Ffynnon Ddu) and finally
preparation was made to return home.
Provisions were taken on board and, guided
by good sense and a full, bright moon, we
came at last to the Eye Sea. Here many tearful
sunderings occured (until the next time) yet
all were glad to be home.
The Helmsman (guess who?)
20

