FOOTBALL
IC 1st vs Goldsmith: 10-2
Phil Brindle returned to the IC first team
and scored five goals in our first home league
match. This slightly overshadowed the four
goals by Dick Veenam, who had been first to
complete his hat trick. Ian Stevenson was the
other goalscorer in this impressive
performance.
Martin Curran was especially good in
defence and the running of Graham Rickard
up front was a distraction Goldsmiths
couldn't handle. In all this was an easy victory
by a supereior team performance from IC.
Team: Betts, Hendy, Reeve, Kenrick,
Curran, Clarke, Haralampoos, Stevenson,
Rickard, Brindle and Veenam.
IC 1sts vs QMC: 5-4
IC came dangerously close to their first
league defeat on Saturday. Having been
given a gift penalty, which 'Slinky' Rickard
converted. They fell behind and trailed 3-1 at
half time.
IC equalized early in the second half, with
two more goals from Rickard, leading to a
tense and keenly contested last half hour.
Rickard pushed our noses in front once
again. But QMC hit back immediately. It was
looking like a draw until Phil Brindle rose
above the QMC defence to score cleanly with
his head in the last minute and dramatically
win the match.
Team: Veats, Hendy, Reeve, Kenrick,.
Caffyn, Clarke, Haralampoos, Donaldson,
Rickard, Brindle and Kearny.
F O O T B A L L
IC 1st XI (5) vs Q M C 1st XI (4)
Due to field trips, a 2nd team cup replay and
players disappearing to varius parts of the
country, the 1st XI had a new look from the
previous match, but still achieved their fourth
consecutive leaque win. This was despite the
efforts of Steve 'I do Catch the Ball
Sometimes' Veats being in goal. The first half
was forgettable except for a badly taken
Rickard penalty ( he allowed the keeper time
Rickard penalty (he allowed the keeper time
to flinch before the ball hit the net!) and three
charitable (to QMC) cock-ups by Veats.
At half time the score was Veats 3, IC 1. The
second half saw the Brindle-Rickard co-
operative in full seing with Rickard scoring
three times to make it 4-3. This period saw
IC's best football of the game, when they kept
the ball away from QMC....And Veats!
'Kanky' Kenrick made a miraculour tackle on
the runaway centre toward as he was about t
shoot before Veats, assisted this time by his
defence, let QMC equalize in the closing
stages. Just as all seemed lost, Rickard
crossed so cunningly and accurately that,
despite closing his eyes and trying to avoid
the ball, Brindle scored the winner. We hope
Steve and the goalpost get better soon!
Team: Veats, Hendy, Caffyn, Kenrick,
Reeve, Clarke, Naralampoos, Donaldson,
Kearney, Brindle and Rickard.
Founder Member, Steve Veats Appreciation
Society.
CROSS COUNTRY
On Wednesday 31 October, the cross-
country club ran in a friendly against
University College, out in the rural wilds of
Shenley. It was touch and go, whether we
would catch the coach from UC Union, and
things looked desparate, when Steve Kirk
was caught short at Euston, but fortunately
for you reading this, we made it!
The race got off almost on time, and
Straight away the IC 'fab four' of Evan,
Cameron, la-Morton, Steve Kirk and Mark
Pickard, were well up to the front of the field.
Nobody really knew where the course went,
so a good sense of direction was needed to
get around. Not surprisingly Morton was
soon in trouble, being led astray by an LSE
runner (?!), and ending up round some
chicken shacks. The race went on, and was
easily won by Evan (now available in Airfix),
followed by Steve in third, Mark in fourth and
Ian, well down in eighth. The team result was
that we beat UC.
The following Saturday, a team ran in the
Priory Relays at Reigate. The appearance of
Steve Ovett in the programme had a few
tongues wagging, but could the presence of
an IC team of no-hopes pose a threat to the
chances of the mighty southern clubs who
were competing in the relay. Well, for all you
avid readers of the Beano, the Hornet etc., I'm
sorry to say the answer was NO!
Posing for the camera, Gary Longhurst,
shot off like a whippet at the start of the first
leg, and disappeared over the hill, well up in
the first ten. However, on his return, it was a
pitiful sight, as the poor lad, eyes blood-shot,
staggered into the finish, to collapse in a heap
in 30th position. Mark Thwaites on the
second leg had the run of his life to pull back
four places. Pete Holdsworth, Nick
Watmough, and Dave Barrett, all had
encouraging runs, whilst Ian Morton pulled
back a few places on the last leg to finish the
team in 28th position.
HOCKEY
2nd and 3rd Xl's Hockey Trip to Cambridge
IC 2nd vs St Johns 2nd: 0-4
IC 3rd vs St Johns 3rd: 3-3
As dawn broke over London the team
members were trudging towards the union
lower lounge. By midday someone said
everyone was ready and we piled into the
coach. Having visited an off licence en route
we arrived on time (just in time for some
people), despite Phil's best efforts to mis-
direct us.
Ad can be seen from the score the 2nds
didn't have a good game. The St Johns
players were better organized, played well as
a team and dominated all aspects of the
game. At half time the score was 3-0, two
short corners and a penalty flick, that had
cost them about £15 in the form of a broken
Karachi King Super.
The 3rds braved the field with only ten men,
but then the opposition only had ten, so that's
no reason for the miserable draw. IC were in
the lead after two minutes with a superb break
away goal from yours truly. St Johns
equalized with a goal that should have been
disallowed, as it glanced off the keepers chest
from a short corner, Tim Mitchel put IC back
in the lead again with a great goal from the left
wing. St Johns equalized with another
scrappy goal half way through the second
half, which was followed by some excellent
team work resulting in yours truly scoring
again. St Johns equalizing as the whistle
went.
After a disappointing tea, which vanished
before half of us looked round, we were
southward bound with an occasional stop
and an attempt at a singsong, a lack of words
rendering of 'One Day at a Time, Sweet Jesus'
soon ended that. A good time was had by all
despite the disappointing results.
D Cornwall
21

