IC BILLIARDS AND SNOOKER CLUB
Some of this year's freshers, fighting the waters of
the Thames on Wednesday and Saturday
afternoons preparing for racing this session.
Anyone still interested should turn uponthesedays
at 2:00 for some of the best tuition and some fun. All
raw recruits of both sexes welcome as we have a
very strong womens section as well. All welcome
down at Putney Embankment.
IC A Team were supposed to play Guys B at
home, but ended up playing QMC, who were
supposed to play another team - how about
that for organisation. IC won 5-0. Geoff
'Cuddly' Keymer played first and after keying
himself up, latched himself on to a
comfortable victory. Second on, was Chris
Tripp, our new star of IC, who averages a 50
break, once a week and won easily. Dave
'Man at C&A' Grassland only sturggled a win
on the balck because "I was bored, my heart
wan't in it". So much for the opposition. The
last two, Teelock and Proudiove, akin to other
famous double acts like Aboot and Costellor
or Laurel and Hardy, both won , but how long
can it last.
A Team: Keymer (Capt), Tripp, Crossland,
Proudland, Teelock.
The 3 Team were supposed to play Guys A
away, but when the opposition saw 'Bilbo'
Ledezio doing 100mph reclessly through
London, they must have left the country
because they were no where to be found and
the B team played a composite team from
Guys. The claimed It 5-0, but only won 4-1 in
TIT-BITS FROM THE WELFARE CENTRE
RENT ALLOWANCE
Rent allowances are a form of housing subisdy paid
by local authorities to impoverished tenants in their
boroughs. They are based on the fair rent for the
accommodation exclusive of rates and the rental
value of the furniture (this means that if your rent is
£18 per week only, say £10 of this will be taken into
account. Also, if you are getting a grant they knock
£8.25 off the rent on the grounds that you can't
receive support from two public funds for the same
expenditure). After making all these deductions
they give you a percentage of what is left.
This is not very lucrative in term time but if you are
paying during the vacation and can't claim
supplementary benefit because you don't want to
have to sign on in London every week, it can be very
worthwhile because your income is then greatly
reduced and so the £8.25 deduction should not
apply. Someone who claimed last year got rent
allowances totalling over £100 on a rent of £15 per
week.
If you would like to claim, contact the housing
department at the town hall nearest to your
accommodation and they will let you have the
appropriate forms to fill in. You can claim a rate
rebate at the same time as this adds a few pounds to
your claim - even though you probably don't pay
rates separately, you can claim because they are
included in the rent.
If you want to know more about the ins and outs of
how rent allowances-are calculated, you can find
out from the Welfare Centre.
LONDON PROPERTY SERVICES TENANTS
A large number of people who enjoyed the
hospitality of LPS last year, found that they had
substantial deductions from their deposits when
they came to leave. S o m e t h i n g of a
misunderstanding seems to have arisen between
LPS and their tenanats, stemming from the fact that
a rather inadequate inventory was given to the
tenants at the beginning of their stay while a very
detailed search for tears, scratches and, would you
believe, fingermarks, was conducted at the end of
the year.
A possible solution to this problem is to make sure
that all marks etc are notified to LPS at the
beginning of the year, and if they won't accept it,
then a list of these defects should be deposited with
say, a bank, so that there is some answer to any
allegations that might be brought at the end of this
year.
If you are a LPS tenant and would like to discuss the
best way of safeguarding your deposit, you can
always come and see me in the Welfare Centre.
• MICHAEL ARTHUR
actual fact. Ledezio played first and with
exquisite, normal, temper control, won by
miles. Tomsk 'four-eyes' Mclelland played
like a meagre specimen of excrement and just
won by managing to hid a foul .from the
freferee. The honourable Steve Jeans (from
Wales - so he must be good) won quite easily.
Chris Calvert suffering from snookeritis-
uselessitis played like a wonky television set
and just won because his opponent was
wonkier. Last on, was Dave 'all aboard the
skylark' Nuttall, who for some stupid reason
went in off the balck to lose and deserved a
good spanking but would have enjoyed it too
much. Some people, with an IQ greater than
Teelocks highest break, went to the
Halloween Party!
B Team: Leclezio, Mclelland, Jeans, Calvert
and Nuttall.
On Wednesday 7 November, A team play
Charing Cross at home, while B team play
REM away.
Garth Vader
IC POSTGRADUATE DINNER
TUESDAY 27 NOVEMBER
7:30
In Union Dining Hall
Cost £6 per head with three course
meal, wine and port and disco and
free beer after. Tickets from ICU
Office.
REMEMBER
THE L E G E N D A R Y HIT SQUAD WILL B E
B A C K IN A C T I O N D U R I N G R A G W E E K S O
USE THIS O P P O R T U N I T Y T O G E T Y O U R
OWN B A C K O N FRIENDS, ENEMIES,
L E C T U R E R E S , UNION O F F I C I A L S OR
E V E N T O T A L S T R A N G E R S .
BLOOD TRANSFUSION SERVICE
UNION CONCERT HALL
MON 19 NOV - 10-noon and 2-4pm
TUES 20 NOV - 9:30-noon and 2-4pm
SIGN UP ON THE NOTICE IN JCR.
WE NEED 8 DONORS EVERY 15 MINUTES!
FREEDOM FOR GLUZMAN
freedom for all victims of abuse of
psychiatry in the USSR.
PUBLIC MEETING
Conway Hall, Red Lion Square,
Holborn, London. WC 1R 4RL on
SUNDAY 11 NOVEMBER between
2:00-4:30pm.
PRICES: L E C T U R E R (WHO H A S T O
A G R E E ) £5, N O T A B L E S ( C C U E X E C S ) £1
A N D A N Y B O D Y E L S E 50p.
WE O P E R A T E F R O M G U I L D S UNION
O F F I C E S E E N A B K A L S I O R P A T
L E G G E T T
BEWARE - IT COULD BE YOUI
TABLE
Last week should have seen a momentous
occasion in the annals of the IC table tennis
club's history....it didn't!
The first friendly college vs college fnatch
for at leat living memory (or more than three
years, whichever is shorter) was arranged for
last Wednesday afternoon. The opponenets,
Q M C (Queen Mary College for freshers and
non-physicists), the venue Q M C on Mile End
Road. It might as well have been Dead End
Road, because IC were defeated 11-4 in a
'seeded' tournament! It was meant to bd
between two teams of four men and two
ladies (our idea!) but we could only manage
one lady, Chili Pange, who gave us our first
victory when we were 0-5 down! However, we
did have six men. I had to play two women
(well matched I hear you shout) and giving
them a 10-0 start (not my idea) lost to both.
Our sixth player Eze played one doubles
(mixed vs all women!). Now the excuses and
gripes: Peter Rutheford, I'm giving it up
forever....and I'm not playing table tennis
again this week either! Organiser, Andy Tye:
Who's idea was this match? Jeff Stean: I'M
OK, I won a match! Phil Wilson: We're better
than them really! Me (Superhewk (ex): Oh
TENNIS
F . i n g hell! Eze Ugoala: Which? Chili Pang:
C a n I play again?
At least they agreed to a rematch, so we can
field our best tean (as they did) instead of a
mixture from all our four teams....then we'll
see! Proper matches:
IC1 vs Dept of Employment (away) 8-1
An easy win yet again for the firsts with 4th
teamer Max H winning all his three matches.
IC2 vs TWA 1 (home) 6-3
Tye, Edde, Etheridge, could these 'three
musketeers' be the saviours of the 2nds - at
last they have won a match!
IC3 vs G A I N S F O R D 6 (AWAY) 7-2
Not again, this is really boring, I mean, like,
you know man, this winning gig is a real
cosmic ongoing-situation, dig it (I hope that
ain't too heavy explanationwise!).
IC4 V S S A I N S B U R Y ' S 2 (HOME)
A lat minute decision (by me) to drive IC
Caving Club to Wales (perhaps they'll write
an article one day - if they see the light), left
the 4th team weakened (I think) and now I'm
too tired to find out the score...so there.
The Helmsman
22

