I RECKON THAT WAS BETTER THAN SEX
Overheard: "I reckon that was better than
sex." The quote refers of course to the
incredible cup tie between I mperial College 2
and University College 2/1 (standard U C
tactics when faced with superior opposition).
The game evoked all facets of human
emotion; from the height of euphoria to the
abyss of despair. The inclement overcast sky;
a slight drizzle which left a fast grassy
surface, augured a hard game with the
promise of goals.
Nervous tension sparkled in the changing
room before the game. Giles (Glow Balls)
Brereton had zest added to his game by the
liberal application of Ralgex spray to an
erogenous zone. The tension carried to the
field, the quick aggressive U C midfield not
allowing Imperial to settle. Slow thinking at a
U C free kick allowed the U C centre forward
ample time to lob A l Betts: one, nil. The hard-
running of the Imperial front three; James
Rowley, Dave Dean and Quentin Merritt
reaped its first reward when Imperial were
awarded a penalty, the goalkeeper having
been given no option but to bring down Dave
Dean. The penalty was torpedoed by Phil
Niccolls at the goalkeeper's head, who by this
time had dived to one side: one all. Imperial
now pressured the U C defence to resorted to
breaking up Imperial attacks by crude
tackling which was to set the foundation for
future events. At half-time the score was still
one all.
The second half saw Dave Dean running
onto a U C own goal in time to notch his first of
a hat trick. Two one up Imperial tended to
relax; the culmination of shoddy play was a
well taken U C goal. The 'Lorimer' style shot
eluding A l Betts. Soon after U C went three
two up the headed goal from a free kick.
Imperials defence of Dek M c G u c k i n , Giles
Brereton, C Beer and J i m Beer sponged the
heavy pressure of the U C attack, Kev
Buckley, Brian Scannell and Phil Niccolls
helping the defence. Brian Scannel and
James Rowley thrusting on the left provided
some semblance of an Imperial attack.
Imperial fought their way back into the tie and
it was as the tide was turning that U C began to
resort to their earlier vindictive attacks. It was
after an exceptionally late and vicious 'tackle'
on Quentin Merritt'as he threatened the U C
goal that the U C centre half was sent off.
Imperial pressed forward to capitalize on
their opponents depletion in numbers,
however U C defended resolutely. Quentin,
James and Dave probed the U C defence but
chances were few. The equalizer came as a
U C defender was harassed into a bad
clearance, the ball riding to Dave Dean whose
rasping left foot shot reached the U C net from
an oblique angle. Tired limbs and spasms of
cramp suggested a ragged finale with the
prospect of yet another replay. But with two
minutes remaining a speculative forty yard
shot from Dave Dean looked destined for the
U C goalkeeper's arms. However the greasy
ball escaped firm control and after spiralling
above the prostrate goalkeeper agonizingly
crept into the goal. Surely, Imperial could
hold on. With thirty seconds remaining U C
were awarded a controversial penalty.
Speechless, the Imperial team watch the U C
player place the ball on the spot, sinews
flexed, tension electrified the air. The U C
player strode deliberately toward the ball. His
firmly driven shot looked destined for the
lower right hand corner of the goal. But A l
(the Kitten) Betts had summoned his
incredible powers of anticipation and leapt
majestically in the path of the ball. The
rebound was safely gathered in his arms. His
kick heralded the final whistle Jubilation was
rife a n d the p o s t - m a t c h c e l e b r a t i o n
continued into the early hours.
No apology for the above verbal diarrhoea.
Team: Betts, McGuckin, Brereton, C Beer,
J Beer, Buckley, Niccols, Scannell, Rowley,
Dean and Merritt.
THE RALGEX APPLICATOR
LSE IV vs IC VI
Unlucky 13
Today saw the continuing comeback of IC
VI from relative obsurity to the forefront of
university soccer. In a highly competitive
game IC made an excellent start but found
themselves 2-0 down before Dave Tinkler
realized he was marking the referee, an
understanable mistake as the ref acted as an
L S E twelfth man. Continuing pressure
unfortunately proved fruitless and IC were
unlucky to find themselves 7-0 down at half-
time. It was at this point that the referee began
to show concern for his players in view of the
keen IC tackling. However, IC did have a
period of complete control from the end of
the first half to the beginning of the second
during which they successfully managed to
eat their oranges.
In the second half, due to reorganization of
the defence and some inspired attacking
football, IC managed to keep the final score
down to an unlucky 13-0. This sound
performance should keep IC VI in good stead
for the return match in a week's time.
Team: Rynbeek, Hobson, Audin, Brisnull, J .
Baldwin, Tinkler, Wolfson, Slater, Davies,
Adach and Coyle.
IC 1ST XV vs CHESHONT: 4-22
This match was played at Harlington, in
conditions that were not conducive to good,
free running rugby.
IC started the match very shakely and apart
from a few patches when we showed our true
form, we were unable to shake off this 'nervy'
modd. The match was spent containing the
Cheshont pack, and especially the back row,
who created a lot of problems for us.
The bright spot of the match was a well
worked and well deserved try scored by Phil
Ratcliff, playing on the wing. IC, playing
some of our brightest rugby, managed to get
within ten yards of the Cheshont line before
we were awarded a penalty for a scrumaging
infringment. A forwards move was called by
Steve Townsend, making a welcome return to
the back row. After Richard 'Horror' Smart
had taken the ball to within two yards of the
try line, the IC pack set up good ball for Steve
Dobney (Happy Birthday, Steve) to put Phil
over, in the corner.
The match finished with Cheshont running
in four tries and IC puting in a less than usual
performance.
'One to learn from lads.'
EGB
LADY'S
HOCKEY
Royal Vetinary College vs Imperial College:
1-1
Having eventually found the Vets ground,
IC ladies played a hard fought maech against
the Royal Vets.
Throughout the first half Imperial had most
of the play, but were unable to score from any
of their frequent attacking moves. Shortly
after the turn around IC went ahead with a
goal from Hilary Carter. However Vets
equalized almost immediately. The IC
defence did well to withstand the intense
pressure from the Vets attack and in the end a
draw was a fair result.
Thanks to Pat Dunleavy for driving us out
there, pity he wasn't as loud while cheering
for us on the pitch, as he was in the bar later
on.
Team; Julia Towns (Capt), Fay Hood,
Averil Horton, Alex Burnip, Catherine
Crosley, Shirley Course, Dana Clark, Debra
Mendes, Caroline Godin, Hilary " •
Carole Thomas.
Barts vs IC: 2-4
O n Saturday afternnon IC ladies travelled
to Sidcup to play Barts in a league match.
Owing to pressures of work and weekend
outings by various members of team, IC were
struggling to field a full side, and it was with
some trepidation that we took to the pitch
against a Barts team which included some
recognised U L U plays.
However, the opposition failed to make full
use of their better players and IC were able to
take advantage of a rather weak Bart's
defence. IC were 3-0 up at half time thandks
to a superb goal from Alison Oversby and one
each from Mary Harrington and Fay Hood.
Barts came back to 3-2 and Alex Burnip
was particularly effective in our defence
foiling many attempts from Bart's forwards to
equalize. Mary Harrington put a seal on the
match with a late goal to earn two league
points for IC. Jan Clarke played well in her
debut match.
Team: Julia Towns (Capt), Alison Oversby,
Jan Clarke, Fay Hood, Mary Harrington,
Kathy, Dana Clark, Ruth, Catherine Crosley,
Alex Burnip and Averil Horton.
Hay Food
I thought I was an alcoholic
until I discovered Pub Board.
Are you interested in the
media? If so, then you are the
ideal person for Ordinary
Member of ICU Publications
Board. Papers for this post go
up in the Union Lower Lounge
on Tuesday and the election is
at the Pub Board meeting on
December 4th.
Why not have a go - you
could get more than you
bargained for!
23

