D A Y B Y
strike and a mass lobby of Parliament which
could 'cripple the steej industry and bring
large parts of it to a halt' if endorsed by
members of the T U C steel committee. This
was in response to British Steel Corporation's
proposed cutbacks in Corby, Northants.
GANGSTER KILLED IN POLICE AMBUSH
Jaques Mesrine, for ten years the most
wanted criminal in France, met his death
when he drove into a police ambush. He was
hit 18 times and his girlfriend, sitting beside
him, was severely wounded.
ZIMBABWE-RHODESIA
Britain's plan for Zimbabwe/Rhodesia was
published by Lord Carrington and left little
room for manoeuvre by the Patriotic Front. In
a substantially non-negotiable document, the
plan called for a British Governor to control
the election period using British political,
military and legal advisers to run the territory
using existing civil service and securtiy
forces.
SATURDAY 3
MOUNTBATTEN SUSPECT HELD IN US
A n IRA man, suspected of being connected
with Earl Mountbatten's death, is being held
in USA. The suspect was identified as
Michael O'Rourk, and faces deportation
proceedings. O'Rourke, who was living under
the name of Patrick Mannion in the US, was
the name of Patrick Mannion in the US, was
identified by photographs and fingerprints
sent by the Irish police.
BLISTERING ATTACK ON 'ARROGANT
BRITAIN
The Mozambique government accused
Britain of arrogance and blackmail in its
treatment of the Patriotic Front. This attack,
which is bound to cause further tension at
Lancaster House, has come at a key moment
as PF is still demanding huge changes in
Britain's plans.
MONDAY 5
BRITISH EMBASSY OCCUPIED
Islamic students and revolutionary guards
occupied the British Embassy in Teheran for
six hours today. The occupation which ended
peacefully at midnight was strongly
condemned by the same Iranian authorities
who had supported the occupation of the US
Embassy.
MOUNTBATTEN'S MURDER CASE
Two men appeared in Dublin's Special
Criminal Court today charged with the
murder of Earl Mountbatten on 27 August.
The Irish police, having found traces of
gelignite, paint and sand, can show that the
men had been on the boat before it set off on
its ill-fated fishing expedition.
FAMINE THREAT TO ZAMBIA
The Zimbabwe-Rhodesian government are
to impose sanctions against Zambia and half
all supplies of maize. Zimbabwe-Rhodesia
controls the only route from the maize
supplying south into Zambia. The reasons for
the sanctions are because President Kaunda
of Zambia has failed to stop the infiltration of
guerillas from his country. This will cause a
critical situation in Zambiz as it had a very
poor harvest.
TUESDAY 6
CHILDREN'S APPEAL
A B B C TV appeal through the Blue Peter
p r o g r a m m e d for s t a r v i n g p e o p l e in
Cambodia has raised £100,000 in two days.
The response exceeded expectations as
parents of young viewers sent in cheques for
£5, £15 and more. The money will be used to
buy an 18 ton lorry, seeds, rice, agricultural
implements and fishing net.
WEDNESDAY 31
CALLAGHAN WINS INQUIRY VOTE
Moderate Labour MPs rallied round Mr
C a l l a g h a n a n d his s h a d o w c a b i n e t
colleagues and voted in favour of the
proposal that the National Executive should
reconsider the composition of the special
inquiry into the Labour party and give strong
representation to the Parliamentary Labour
Party. Though the N E C would consider this
proposal, left wingers asserted that the
composition of the commission will not be
altered.
MOVE TO CUT EEC BILL
Following talks with Chancellor Schmidt in
Bonn, Mrs Thatcher said that efforts would be
made during next month's meeting in Dublin
to get the contribution made by Britain to the
E E C cut. Chancellor Schmidt said that
Britain's demand for changes in rules
governing c o n t r i b u t i o n s was justified.
Neither of the two leaders was prepared to
g u e s s as to h o w m u c h f r o m the
£1,000million paid now would be saved if the
demand was successful.
DC10 CRASH
Fifty-six people were killed in a crash when
a DC10 crashed into a building soon after
touchdown. The accident took place at
Mexico City which was covered with thick
fog. Mexico City has neof the highest airports
in the world at 7,300 feet, and is ringed with
mountains and frequently has poor visability
but is also one of the busiest Latin-American
airports.
THURSDAY 1
SPENDING CUTS
A reduction of £3,500 million in the public
expenditure for 1980-81 planned by the
Labour party is announced in a white paper.
Education cuts represent £412 million of this
reduction and a cut-back in housing, £302
million. Also affected are transport and roads,
nationalised industries and the NHS. The
defence, law and order and social security
budgets have been raised.
INCREASE IN POSTAL CHARGES
The Post Office announced their intention
to raise the charge of both first and second
class letters by 2p. It hopes to make the
increase in February, a month after the
introduction of an increase in the charge for
telephone calls. The Post Office blames the
increase in postman's pay and other costs
and explains that without the increases the
postal side would lose £35 million by March.
FRIDAY 2
UNION PLANS ACTION TO 'CRIPPLE
STEEL INDUSTRY'
Leaders of the 10,000 strong Iron and Steel
Trades Confederation have drawn up a plan
involving an overtime ban, a 24-hour national
SUNDAY 4
STUDENTS STORM US EMBASSY
Four hundred students stormed the US
Embassy in Teheran and seized one hundred
hostages who include women, US marines,
and embassy staff. The students want the
Shah to be sent back to Iran, from his hospital
in New York, to face a Muslim Court. An
improvised gallows was hoisted above the
crowd and from it dangled the notice. 'Forthe
Shah'.
NUCLEAR PACT OFFER
Nato allies propose to launch an arms
limitation initiative soon. In a two part
communique, Nato would announce a
modernisation decision including agreed
number of weapons, the countries in which
they would be installed and the deployment
time-table and then it would spell out
principles guiding Nato's approach to
limiting European nuclear weapons.
BAZARGHAN RESIGNS
A y a t o l l a h K h o m e i n i a c c e p t e d the
resignation of P M Mehdi Bazarghan,
acknowledging his 'backbreaking service'
and 'piety, honest and good intensions'. He
assigned responsibility of government to the
Revolutionary Coucil. This is dominated by
the clergy and though it controlled policy it
never had responsibility for administration.
ZIMBABWE/RHODESIA
The government is to present Parliament
with an enabling bill designed to provide
ministers the authority to legalise Zimbabwe-
Rhodesia's present regime and to establish
colonial powers under a British Governor. A
major Commons row is expected over this bill
as the Labour party insisted that it should
have full information about proposed
legislation before it was prepared to push it
through the Commons.
3

