Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Friday 26 May
Imperial Plus are recruiting
Could you be a student trainer? Deliver ILM endorsed skills workshops to
student volunteers at Imperial.
We are looking for enthusiastic students who are excellent communicators,
confident public speakers, are well organised, reliable and can think on their
feet.Gain experience of delivering workshops and develop your skills as a
trainer by joining our team of Student Trainers for Imperial Plus. It’s also a great
opportunity to earn some extra cash!
Imperial Plus gives our 2,500+ volunteers the opportunity to develop
transferrable skills through workshops delivered by Student Trainers. We
ensure our Trainers benefit from the experience too by providing them with
training and ongoing support. Applications close on Monday 5 June. Interviews
will take place on Wednesday 21 June.
imperialcollegeunion.org/student-trainer
Take the Mentality survey WEDNESDAY 7 JUNE | 17:30 – 19:30 | IMPERIAL ENTERPRISE LAB
Register to attend at:
imperialcollegeunion.org/act-now-showcase
Imperial
entrepreneurs
pitch for your
support
FREE EVENT
FREE DRINK
NETWORKING
OPPORTUNITY
You decide who
walks away with
the top prize
of £1,000
SOCIAL ENTERPRISE SHOWCASE
£
General Election Hustings at Imperial -
Thursday 1 June
Join the political societies of Imperial College Union for a hustings of local
parliamentary candidates! This is your chance to grill the people who want
your vote on 8 June – so don’t miss the opportunity to question them on
their policies and what they want to do for you as students. The event will
be followed by refreshments during which we hope the debate can continue
over drinks and nibbles. Make sure to have your say on the key issues of this
election. The event will be chaired by Nas, Union President.
Speakers are:
- Bridget Fox, for the Liberal Democrats
- Alan De’Ath, for Labour
- Victoria Borwick for the Conservatives
- Richard Braine for UKIP
- Bill Cashmore for the Greens
The Hustings takes place at 18:30 on Thursday 1 June in Lecture Theatre 1, in
the Blackett Building. Have your say on what you think are key student issues
for this election. To find out more and register on Facebook visit: https://goo.
gl/4kBfKY
Mentality seeks to highlight and clarify key points of access within College
when seeking help. The group campaigns throughout the year to raise
awareness, reduce the stigma surrounding mental health and most notably
help people to seek support for their problems.
Suffering from mental health problems can be scary, isolating and confusing
especially when you feel there is nowhere to turn. Mentality are actively
working to reduce the stigma surrounding mental health and aim to educate
the student body at Imperial about the importance of mental wellbeing.
Mentality are running a survey again to help better understand and support our
members. Take the survey here: https://goo.gl/HNLkSq

