Page 12
R E V I E W S I
F I L M S
it seems such a short time ago that I was
bubbling with enthusiasm about the films
which were to follow Star Wars. The latter is
now a dirty word, I cringe at the mention of it.
Below are two good reasons. The Humanoid -
(A, George B Lewis).
Don't let the names fool you. This is a prime
example of those cheap Italian sci-fi rip-offs,
with credits which read like the A.A. guide to
the Mafia. I can't remember when I was last so
disgusted with a film for lack of story, poor
effects and feeble acting.
The stars (joke) are Richard 'Jaws' Kiel and
Barbara Bach, both of 'The Spy who Loved
Me' fame, in this film it's a case of 001-wish-
they-hadn't bothered ! T h e weak story
concerns the efforts of a Darth Vader look-
alike and his P V C sidekicks to overthrow his
brother, the ruler of Earth. He is aided by a
mad scientist who changes a mild-mannered
space pilcf into an indestructable monster.
There are also laser arrows, a robot dog, a
beautiful female in trouble ... Need I go on?
The wild use of lasers and cornflake packet
space ships clinch it. This is my first
nomination for a new film award category -
Films to be totally ignored'.
The Shape of Things To Come (A George
McGowan)
This can only be my second nomination for
the above category. Forget it. This is for film
perverts only. O h yes, and Mike Elkin.
Seriously, this film masquerades as a
remake of the 1936 classic. It is more of a
sequel, being set 50 years after the first
ended. Definitely better than the pathetic
'Humanoid' but still for science fiction
vultures only.
Well, the exams are drawing to a close and
you may have the odd spare evening. For this
reason I thought I'd do a 'Film in Brief
column. O K so it is a 'Punch' rip-off!
Animal House - great fun, very amusing.
Battlestar Galactica - disappointing
The Boys from Brazil - cloning plus a good
Which film is this a clip from?
story and cast.
California Suite - stylish, inoffensive humour.
The Dear Hunter - shouldn't be missed.
Fantasia - made in 1940 but a masterpiece of
animation. Kentucky Fried Movie-hilarious if
you are not too fussy. Invasion of the
Bodysnatchers - sci-fi fans only. Midnight
Express - probably the best film in London.
Nosferatu - typically European but a different
type of vampire story. Superman - fun for
kiddies of all ages. Towering Inferno - the
best disaster movie. Warriors - well worth it.
W a t e r s h i p D o w n - d i s a p p o i n t i n g
interpretation of the novel.
12.-From which film were these two scenes cut (ie not shown) ?
Film Quiz
And Now ...
faster than a speeding bullet, shorter
than War and Peace, it is a silly film quiz!!
Who's been paying attention?
1. Who wrote 'California Suite'? Name at
least one of his other screen comedies.
2. W h o starred in 'Invasion of the
Bodysnatchers', 'The First Great Train
Robbery' and 'Animal House'?
3. Who directed 'Battlestar Galactica'?
4. Which star of a long running TV western
also starred in 'Galactica'?
5. Who plays the vampire in 'Nosferatu'?
Old and New
6. What is the sequel to Star Wars called?
7. Who wrote the novel 'The Boys from
Brazil?
8. What is the new Python movie called?
9. Which Bond movie featured 'Little Nell'?
10. What is the forthcoming Bond movie
called?
Weirdos Only
1. Who played Morbius in 'Forbidden
Planet'?
2. What were the two 'Thunderbirds' films
called?
3. Who played Doctor Who in two films?
4. Which films shared the honour of best
film at Cannes this year?
There will be a small prize for the first all-
correct entry submitted to me at the FELIX
Office. The 'Weirdos Only' can be ignored.
Mike Smith

