D a y B y D a y
A ROUND-UP OF LAST W E E K ' S NEWS
Wednesday 30th
More Floods Hit South
Torrential rain swept across Southern
Britain, flooded houses and cut off villages. A
Western Region spokesman said that the
railways were in quite a state. A n Inter-City
train was derailed by a landslip. Many
p a s s e n g e r s t r a v e l l i n g t h r o u g h Dorset,
Somerset and Wiltshire had to abandon their
trains after floods closed rail tunnels.
Michelangelo's Tondo Stays in Britain
Arts Minister, M r Norman St. John-Stevas
turned down an appeal to let Britain's most
valuable work of art be lent to Russia. The
decision could anger the Russians who
wanted the tondo as an exchange loan for
their Treasures of the Kremlin.
Forest Win European Cup
Nottingham Forest became the third
English soccer club to win the European Cup,
beating Malmo, of Sweden, 1-0 in the final in
Munich. Trevor Francis scored the goal a few
seconds from half time.
Thursday 31st
Zimbabwe is Born
A f r i c a ' s n e w e s t n a t i o n , Z i m b a b w e
Rhodesia, came into being at midnight.
Eighty-nine years of white rule ended and the
new era of black rule began in an atmosphere
of sadness to some and subdued optimism to
others.
Multiple Sclerosis Cure Claim
Multiple sclerosis could be wiped out
within a generation through treatment with
oil extracted from Primrose flowers. Prof.
Ephraim Field, Professor of Experimental
Neuropathology at Newcastle-upon-Tyne
University, has devised a test which, he says,
will enable scientists to diagnose the
crippling disease, which affects more than
40,000 people in Britain, in its very early
stages.
Its progress can be slowed or even halted
by feeding the patient oil from the Evening
Primose flower.
Multiple sclerosis is a degenerative disease
attacking the nervous system. The cause is
unknown and although not hereditary, it
tends to cluster in families.
Friday lst
Britain's Failure by Next US Envoy
A bitter review of Britain's economic
decline was leaked from Whitehall after being
submitted to the Foreign Office by Sir
Nicholas Henderson who has been chosen to
be an Ambassador in Washington.
It confirms the opinion that under the last
government morale in the Foreign Office
reached rock bottom. The dispatch declares:
"You have only to move about Western
Europe nowadays to realise how poor and
unproud the British have become in relation
to their neighbours.
It shows in the look of our towns, in our
airports, in our hospitals and in local
amenities, it is painfully apparent in our
railway system."
Somerset Banned
Somerset have been banned from this
season's B e n s o n a n d H e d g e s C u p
competition as a punishment for their
declaration after scoring only one run in last
week's zonal match against Worcestershire.
The Test and County Cricket Board
condemned the declaration as being totally
against the spirit of the game, which it had
brought into disrepute.
Glamorgan will now take Somerset's place
in the quarter final, and go through to play
Derbyshire at Cardiff.
London Tube Strike from June 18
A n indefinite strike by 23,000 workers is
planned to bring London Transport's
Underground system to a halt.
"The strike will undoubtedly bring London
to a standstill with the tubes halted. There is
no way any other transport, busses or trains,
can take over the traffic of the underground."
10 Year Old Has Twins
A ten year old girl has given birth to twins at
the Indiana University Medical Centre. The
babies were born six weeks prematurely and
weighed three pounds six ounces each.
Saturday 2nd
Pope Arrives in Warsaw
Millions of Poles welcomed Pope John
Paul II with a spontaneous outburst of
religious fervour and affection as he came
home in brilliant sunshine.
2 million people lined the road taking him
from the airport into Warsaw and more than a
quarter of a million people flocked to victory
square, in the centre of Warsaw, for a deeply
moving open air Mass.
Save the Seagoing Cockroach
The former cockroach coach on H M S
Manoora has registered a strong protest
against the projected national cockroach
hunt. He states that he is horrified to think
that these 'friendly' insects who have given so
much company to seafarers during ojur
mutual maritime history should be hunted
down and placed in jam jars to suffer untold
misery. He hopes that the survival of the
species will continue for the enjoyment of
future generations of mariners.
Sussex Union President Sent Down
Two students have been set down by
Sussex University after protesters disrupted
Biology examinations by removing the
students' scripts and then trying to disrupt
the exams when they were re-held.
A special Union General Meeting to debate
the issue will be attended by Trevor Phillips,
the N U S President. Their expulsion followed
the Union - approved demonstration with
beating drums outside examination rooms
being used for the re-sitting of the exams.
Page 5
Sunday 3rd
Insurance Against Skylab
Nervous citizens worried at the prospect of
a ton of Skylab landing on them have started
taking out insurance with Lloyds of London.
Brokers have arranged cover for up to 2.5
million pounds for damage attributed to
a falling space vehicle, although there is a
condition that an official of N A S A , or other
responsible body, identifies the object to
insure that it really did fall from space.
Monday 4th
Vorster Resigns
The South African Head of State, M r
Vorster, resigned after a most dramatic
development in the £37,000,000 Muldergate
scandal.
His resignation was forced by publication
of the third report of t h e E r a s m u s
Commission of Inquiry into the scandal,
which accused him of having "concealed
irregularities from the cabinet, regardless of
the consequences".
International Breast-Feeding Week
A conference at the Kensington Hilton
heard M P s and Esther Rantzen speaking
about their experiences of breast-feeding.
The conference is part of International
Breast-Feeding Week.
Rampant Nudity Closes Agency
The Lucie Clayton Model Agency is to
withdraw from the indignities of the
modelling market place.
"Cut-throat competition, twenty per cent
commission and a plethora of new agencies
with names like Angels, Images and Petals
have changed the ladylike sixties into the
money-grabbing seventies."
Tuesday 5th
Top Salaries up 25%
2,000 senior civil servants, judges, Service
chiefs and executives of State industries were
awarded pay rises averaging 13% on top of
the twelve per cent previously agreed by the
Labour Government.
84,000 Health Service doctors and dentists
should get pay rises averaging 25.7% back-
dated to April 1st.
Archbishop of Canterbury to Retire
Dr. Donald Coggan i s v
t o resign next
January 26th. He wants to make way for a
younger man as he is sixty-nine. Many felt
that his personal choice to resign must have
been taken in the .context of his own
awareness of new C h u r c h policy that future
Archbishops of Canterbury will have to retire
at seventy.
Sussex University Students Strike
Sussex University students voted today for
a series of one-day strikes in an attempt to
secure the re-instatement of two colleagues
banned from the campus for their part in the
'examination disruption.

