Page 8
Welfare
COVENANTS
A Deed of Covenant is a legally binding agreement whereby your
parents agree to make periodic payments to you for a period which
must be capable of exceeding six years but if certain contingencies are
specified in the covenant, then the obligation may terminate o n the
happening of one of those contingencies, (e.g. your leaving college
before the covenant has been running for over six years). T h e
advantage of the covenant is that it enables you to recover the basic rate
tax that your parents have already paid on the gross amount that they
covenant to you. This means that, with baisc rate tax at 33%,if they
covenant to pay you £100, they have already paid £33 in tax on that
money, so they pay you £67 and you get theother£33 from the taxman.
THE PROCEDURE
The Consumer Association have worked out a form of deed which the
taxman should accept that goes as follows:-
/, John Smith, of 16 Moon Street, Blackburn, covenant to pay my son, William
Smith, of the same address, a gross amount of £116.67 on each of the following
dates in each year, namely 1 October, 1 January, 1 April, for the period ofseven
years, or for the period of ourjoint lives, or until he ceases to be receiving full time
education at any university, college, school or other educational establishment
(whichever is the shortest period), the first payment to be made 1 October 1979,
Dated 1 September 1979 Signed, sealed and delivered by John Smith
in the presence of
(witness's signature and address)
It is advisable to follow this example exactly, substituting the
appropriate names, addresses, amounts and dates of payment.
There are certain points which should be noted:-
1) Y o u can't benefit from a covenant unless you are aged 18 or over or
are married.
2) T h e instalments can be paid at whatever intervals you like but the
first one must be paid after the date on which the covenant is executed
(ie signed a n d sealed)
3) T h e amount - this can be expressed either as 'a gross amount of £x'
as in the example above, which means that your parents deduct the tax,
which you will get back, from the gross amount and pay you the rest. If
you do it this way, they will have to alter the amount that they give you
every time the basic tax rate changes (which isn't very often). So if you
are covenanted a gross amount of£100 and basic rate tax is at 33%, your
parents would give you £67 whereas if the basic rate went down to 30%
they would pay you £70.
The other way of doing it is for you to be covenanted 'an amount
which after deduction of tax at the basic rate amounts to£x' This means
that they pay you the same amount all the time but the refund from the
tax m a n will vary with changes in the basic rate. This second variety is
apparently the most common.
4) T h e formalities. Y o u can copy out the covenant with the necessary
alterations as set out above. It must be signed by whoever is
covenanting to pay you and witnessed by someone other than yourself.
It might be a good idea lor the witness not to be a member of your
immediate family. T h e deed must be sealed. This archaic bit of
pantomime can be carried out with sealing wax or by sticking on a little
disc of red paper (which you can make yourself). Y o u have got to end up
with some sort of red bit stuck onto the bottom of your covenant. W h e n
the deed has been executed it should then be delivered ie handed over to
you.
THE SNAGS
W h e n the parental contribution is paid by way of a covenant, the
gross amount covenanted is treated as taxable income. This means that
if your income from the covenant and eg vacation work exceeds your
personal allowance (£985 for a single person at present) T h e n you will
have to start paying tax. Nevertheless if you don't earn a total too m u c h
over the personal allowance, you should find that you are paying tax at
a lower rate than that at which you are reclaiming it on the covenant.
The other possible stumbling block may be that the income from the
covenant can affect your parents1
child tax allowance. F r o m A p r i l
1979, however, the tax allowance has for the most part been abolished
and replaced with increased child benefits. There are a few exceptions
but although I have rung a number of different tax offices, I have been
unable to get a consistent account of what these are. It seems that unless
you have been at college since 1975, then unless you are under 19, your
parents won't get a tax allowance for you anyway so you needn't worry
about this complication but it might be a good idea if your parents were
to check with their own tax office before executing the deed.
CLAIMING THE TAX BACK
Once the first payment has been paid under the covenant, you can
get a form called an R 185 (AP) from your tax office. Y o u r parents have
to fill this in with details of how much they have paid you and how
much tax they have deducted. Y o u then have to take this with your
covenant to your tax office (the nearest one will do if you haven't
already got one). Once they have had a look at it they may send you a
form to fill in a n d then you get your money.
A n y further information can be sought in the Welfare Centre on the
third floor of the U n i o n Building.
ACCOMMODATION FOR NEXT YEAR
The Welfare Centre has some details of landlords who you can
contact to book rooms, flats etc for next year. Michael A r t h u r
Welfare Adviser
C R O S S W O R DI
Across
I. Failing to notice that the
engine's not working properly (7)
5. D i d a favour for someone
because forced to (7)
9. Begin to move involuntarily
(5)
10. B u t i t w o n ' t g r o w i n t o a l a r g e r
gem (4-5)
II. Many were on the sick-list
and were given a po'sting (6)
12. Do they look at those who
are watching T V ? (8)
14. Colour and leave the dance
(5)
15. Though skilled, tried to
become more so (9)
18. Deciding it's no use fighting
(9)
20. Maintains it doesn't go off (5)
22. Stay on the part of the paper
that shows the strike (8)
24. Is it his gun that he fastens
back o n again? (6)
26. Does it keep employees on
the move? (5,4)
27. Small in one way and
metallic (5)
28. Dropping behind the other
plumbers at work? (7)
29. Regret going back to the
previous scientist (7)
Down
1. Comrades in misfortune? (4-
5)
2- Give one a position and social
standing (7)
3. Like the noodle who's never
out of trouble? (2,3,4)
4. Quietly flop back and try to
get your breath (4)
5. Put too great a burden on
someone else's pocket (10)
6. Having a pound is not down
and out; any gardener knows this
(5)
7. Do they strike a discordant
note in the kitchen?(7)
8. Like fools, the lieutenants join
the party (5)
13. A bouncy tune? (6,4)
16. Record what the bank-
robbers do (4,5)
17. Is it the ruin of the Navy? (9)
19. Duping but not gulling? (7)
21. The cost of no longer mere
coins, we hear (7)
22. Is the girl going round the
plant? (5)
23. Was it the dancing that upset
the singer? (5)
25. Bound to leave something
out (4)
Crossword No. 521 - Prize £1

