The Student Newspaper of Imperial College Issue 1250
Four pages of music for
your delectation. Ooh,
irnn'rn «*n onnilf
Page 18
you're so spoilt
Snowdon. Certainly
more appealing than
Croydon.
Page 4
REFERENCE
COLLECTION
Imperial College and
Science Museum Libraries
Lecturers Get Their Grades
During the final weeks of term, the old winter
chestnut of Lecturer Evaluation will rear its
head once again. While the theory is the same,
the process has now been named SOLE -
Student On-Line Evaluation, in an attempt to
shake off the negative image that LEQs
(Lecturer Evaluation Questionnaires) managed
to gain during their final round last year.
For those of you who are unaware, the
LEQ/SOLE is a system that allows the students
to evaluate how their lecturer is doing. The idea
is that any problems with the teaching are then
brought to light in a secure system, which can-
not be traced back to the student.
While this is, in principle, a good idea, the
organisation of such a system has always
proved controversial, and last year this came to
a head when the system became electronic.
Within hours of the system coming online, it
was shown to be highly insecure by a group of
student hackers within College. This had poor
implications for the anonymity of the system,
Artist's Impression of our SOLE
which ensured a dramatic drop in confidence
within the student body.
Last year's failed attempt at a joint system
between the Union and College led to many
accusations of a rushed job which were cited as
the reasons for the failure in security. This has
prompted the Union to carefully examine its role
in the proceedings this year, since a second year
of failure would perhaps reflect worse on the
Union itself rather than College. After lengthy
consideration on the subject of security, Andrew
Smith (Deputy President of Education &
Welfare) and Sen Ganesh (President) decided
that they were not confident that a repeat per-
formance of last year would not happen again.
Speaking to Felix, Mr. Ganesh said, "We
value the importance of student feedback on
the matter of teaching, but do not feel that there
has been enough testing for us to put a guaran-
tee on the system's success."
This will certainly be seen as a 'bad thing' by
all those within both the Union and College
responsible for quality of education, but Felix
believes changing the name will not dispel the
memories of last year's fiasco. Several success-
ful years will probably be required before confi-
dence is once again restored. Will
DramSoc Disciplined
At a meeting earlier this week,
DramSoc - the society responsible
for almost all of the lighting,
pyrotechnics and well, just about
everything exciting that goes on in
the union building - were given an
official warning, and fined under
Union disciplinary regulations.
The exact details of the offense
were not available at the time of
going to press, but it is believed
that they removed a number of
banned and/or hazardous sub-
stances from the Union building,
in Beit Quad, without proper pre-
cautions being taken.
They plan to appeal the deci-
sion, as it is claimed that they
were not given notice that action
would be taken were the sub-
stances in question to be
removed. Mr Ganesh claims to
have made this clear to them on a
number of occasions, though
apparently no formal warning, as
such, was ever issued.
This is the latest in a line of
events that seem to be separating
DramSoc and the Union, between
whom a rift has been forming for
a number of months after the
change in Ents management.
Artist's Impression of a Disaster
We will keep you updated as
the story progresses. Alex
Business promises to get inter-
esting. You have been warned.
Ironically, if you were a psy-
chopath, you wouldn't worry
about it. American Psycho in
Books.
Simon has been released from
his prison, and sets about
watching Japanese kids die...
Less sports reports than maybe
you're used to, but that's
becuase you're not writing any!
29th November 2002
"This'll teach him for being ill..." http://www.union.ic.ac.uk/felix/ * felix@ic.ac.uk

