F E L I X S C I E N C E 11
James B o n d : S e x , suave ... and
Did you know that two-fifths of the Earth's
population has seen a Bond movie, in the 40
years since Dr No was released? And in that
time he has killed 150 people and had sex
with 44 women. The latter statistic is quite
impressive considering that 48 year-old
X-ray specs - real or fantasy?
Pierce Brosnan (or 56 year-old Roger Moore,
as he was in his last Bond role) would prob-
ably require 12-24 hours to recover between
orgasms.
Bond's signature drink, a vodka-martini -
shaken but not stirred - is vodka and dry
vermouth shaken up to add bubbles. This
makes the drink less oily than if it was
stirred. According to scientists at the univer-
sity of Western Ontario, shaking a martini
can reduce the risk of cataracts, strokes and
heart disease, because it increases the
antioxidant activity in the drink.
People like Bond have been shown to have
a "thrill seeking gene" that causes them to
science
release too much of a chemical called
dopamine into their brain. This chemical
controls motivation and excessive amounts
makes the person thrive on seeking out
excitement. Instead of running away from
danger they are more prepared to take risks.
Men have been shown to be higher risk tak-
ers than women, because they think that
bravery makes them more attractive.
So what about Bond's gadgets? How many
of them would actually work? Take the x-ray
glasses he wore in "The World is not
Enough," to see concealed weapons that peo-
ple were carrying. X-rays are normally used
in medical imaging and in airport security to
view bones or metal objects. The machines
that produce the x-rays are considerably larg-
er than a pair of glasses and require the sub-
ject to stand still for a few seconds.
What about the underwater breather that
Bond used in "Thunderball," that allowed
him to breathe for about 4 minutes?
Currently the smallest breather is about the
size of a drinks can, holds half a litre of air
and lasts for about two minutes. So unfortu-
nately, James, your device is impossible.
How about the jet pack that Bond wore in
"Thunderball," to fly over a high wall? Well
this pack is real and was developed by the
US army and releases high pressure nitrogen
gas to lift a person over 9 metres.
Unfortunately it can only work for 30 sec-
onds and so was scrapped.
Finally, how realistic are the master plans
of the Bond villans? Take Auric Goldfinger's
plan to make the US gold reserves at Fort
Knox radioactive by dropping an atomic
bomb on them. This would actually have the
effect of turning the gold into mercury
because the radioactive form of gold is very
unstable and decays to mercury within a few
days.
Then consider Ernst Blofeld's plan in "On
Her Majesty's Secret Service," to render all
lifeforms infertile with the "Omega virus".
Viruses such as the mumps can lead to male
Flying Bond?
sterility and the herpes virus can cause infer-
tility in many mammals. There are also virus-
es that can cause sterility in plants. Blofeld's
plan to create a single virus that will cause
all animals and plants to be sterile is, how-
ever, a bit ambitious because viruses rely on
the make-up of their 'host' to survive.
So my conclusion is that there are realisitic
things in Bond films, but most of the gadgets
and villanous plans are, at the moment, fan-
tasy. This does not stop them from being
great films though...
For more information see bbc.co.uk/sci-
ence or visit the James Bond exhibition at
the Science Museum.
IC Scientist Profiles
#2 Professor Sir Derek Barton (1918 -1998)
P r o f e s s o r
D e r e k
Barton was
born in Kent
and gradu-
ated with a
BSc in
Chemistry
from Imperial College in 1940
and got his PhD, also from
Imperial, in 1942. After working
in military intelligence during the
Second World War, he rejoined
Imperial College as a lecturer in
physical chemistry.
Barton's work on steroid iso-
mers during th 1940's was to
earn him, and Norwegian
chemist Odd Hassel, the Nobel
Prize in Chemistry in 1969. This
work showed chemists how the
reactivity of functional groups in
steriods depended on their shape
and position, and changed the
way chemists thought about how
shape related to the reactivity of
molecules.
Barton also developed an inno-
vative way to synthesise the
steroid hormone aldosterone by a
process he pioneered which is
now known as the Barton
Reaction.
After retiring from Imperial in
1978, Barton became the direc-
tor of the Natural Products
Institute, in France, where he
studied the chemistry of radi-
cals. In 1986 he moved to Texas
A&M University where he contin-
ued to work in radical chemistry
and on the oxidation of hydrocar-
bons.
Rosie Chandler
science.felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

