F E L I X W E B S I T E R E V I E W S 1 3
cispiiig-0 border-0"tr«td align-rigbt vah'p-bottoir-a href
der-0 width-38 height-S8 alt-"""MiMil valign-hattom^-a bri
hrel-httpJ/www.pogle.comHing src-/images/res3.gif border
lu'eHadvanced_seartli?q-iiisitrreviewsllhl-eii8li-Sie-IITP8>Adva]
hreI-/laiipaBeJools?q-welisite*reviews81il-enGlr-8ie-UTF8»Laiipafle
value-"eii"="=input tgpe-IilrJden name-lr value-"">'Uipul tgpe-hhiden name-io value
googfccoi^inig snWhnagestosO.
:/|||google.corinig sn
111J
H"«iipt type-text name-g size-31 maxlength
rder-0 widfh-I heiglrt-58Ha^ldHiLj|aJjp-bolloin"a href-http://«vww.yaogle.com img src-/iiages/resl.gd tor
align-right valip-tap class-ti"li>8ntep;«/li"/td>
4d valip-top-a
inbspr/tonMldHtrHtable-'/tdHd nowrapHont size-Ha
wsBhl-enGlr-Sie-UTF 8»PrBferences-=/a>Snlisp;Snhsn:Snhsp;8nhspra
form B i n gs method GET action tareliHnpit tijpo hidden name hi
sto-h -input type-submit name-btnG vahie-"Google Searcti"»-=span
N e w s w a p s h o p o u t s E d m u n d s
Wicked! I know that the Waterstones on site
has a second hand section but I can never find
what I am looking for, then once you have
decided to buy the damn thing new anyway it
turns up. Or does that only happen to me? Well
this site should lower my blood pressure
(something better had or I am headed for a
major heart failure) because there are quite a
few books on here that other students have fin-
ished with.
I know that there are are already at least five
students in Imperial who know of this place
because they are trying to sell books - unfortu-
nately not the ones I want, but hey, I'll let you
off. Obviously this site can only get better the
more people who use it so go and register and
sell off those unwanted textbooks. I know I've
got quite a few biochemistry books to offload
and I could certainly do with the cash. Just
think all that money wasted on text books
could now be put to proper use in the nearest
pub.
Registering is really easy, you can make a list
of textbooks that you want and they will inform
you when someone wants to sell it. This is not
an auction site like ebay but you do deal direct-
ly with the other students once you have made
your selection.
All in all this is easy and darn useful, I'm
sure it is done elsewhere but this is a really
good site that makes the searching and selling
really easy. So say goodbye to Waterstones, au
U s e l e s s u s e f u l k n o w l e d g e
Ok, I have a confession to make, I was a little
swayed by the really funky jump thing that the
logo does on this site, but it is a pretty good
site all the same. This web site does the obvi-
ous, provides lots of really cool quizzes. There
are enough puzzles here to entertain even the
most intelligent person for hours. For the less
intelligent (like myself) they provide the
answers as well.
There are 17 categories of quizzes and 8
types of puzzle each with loads of riddles,
conundra and brain teasers to occupy your
time.
However, I'm afraid I must apologise for
picking another time waster site, because I
don't know about you but I don't have vast
amounts of time to waste. The only annoying
thing about this site is the adverts but I sur-
vived, even though it really is one of my pet
hates, so I'm sure you will.
Most certainly the weirdest thing about this
site is the silly survey, tell me, which is greas-
ier Lenny or Squiggy? Yeah that's what I
thought, must be an American thing. Some of
the scientific explanations may leave a little to
be desired (like an explanation), for example,
the very simplified definition for electricity is "it
is so basic, that it defies explanation, and is
Mother Nature's way of saying "Because I said
so!". Now I don't know much about electricity
but I'm not sure that "because I said so" is a
valid explanation, my mother tried that one for
years and I didn't believe it when I was five.
1
j e a s r - .#»
Ahhh, nooo, don't eat me, I don't taste nice,
I taste of pickled onions and mango chutney
Q u i c k s t o p w e b s i t e
http://www.bma.org.uk/ap.nsf/Content/LIBOur
All ActionWebcam
Be amazed, be wowed by the fantastic, bril-
liant all action webcam at the BMA library.
Yes, my friends, the BMA has dragged it's
library up to date with the technological revo-
lution by setting up a web cam and broad-
casting it over the internet. Updated every
sixty seconds, the suspense is incredible,
waiting to see the latest developments down
at that hive of activity in Tavistock Square.
However, I have to confess I haven't actually
seen anyone in it yet, but I'll keep looking.
revoir to Amazon and spend you pennies here
- the more the merrier.
w w w . b D a k 5 w a p . c o m
T e r m o f t h e W e e k :
Artificial Intelligence
Apparently there is more to this than making
a robot who loves his mummy. The term was
first used in 1956, I didn't think they even
knew what a computer was then.
It means making computers behave like
humans and includes programming them to
play chess, make decisions (like diagnosis
systems for doctors), understand 'natural
language', react to aural and visual stimuli
and ultimately mimic the brain by making
physical 'neural' connections.
There are two types of programming lan-
guage in common usage for A.I., these are
called LISP and Prolog.
w w w . C D a l q u i z . c o m
F r o m t h e d o t l V l e i s t e r
Another week gone another week closer to
exams, arrrrrrrrrggghhhhh! It is because of
this that I felt the need to earn some more
alcohol vouchers by selling textbooks.
Hmmm not convinced that this is the best
way to get a degree but nevermind.
Cool quizzes is a stunning way to waste
valuable revision time. If all else fails you
could always approach the robotics depart-
ment (do we have one?) to implant an artifi-
cial intelligence chip. It could work but you
may end up all alone in a forest with a scary
teddy bear crying for your mummy, so be
careful. Jenny
web.felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

