F E L I X
V E R B A L M A C H I N A T I D N S F R O M T H E E D I T D R S . . .
Ha! I've managed to wrest editorial control
from the indomitable Liz for a week!
Whatever stories she's been giving you as rea-
sons for my absence are all lies - I've been
locked in a stationary cupboard in the Felix
offices for a fortnight, living on a diet of sta-
ples and HB pencils while Ms Biggs has rid-
den roughshod over the Film pages. The cad.
Anyhoo, we are entering the long-dark
teatime of the movie year at the moment.
Little worthwhile seeing that we haven't
already reviewed, hence the dearth of first-
class material that you're all used to. But do
we let a little problem like that stop us? Hell
no! I've spent a pleasant weekend trawling
through a pile of DVD's and have chosen
some choice numbers to tear to shreds as
well as one to praise above all. So sit back
and enjoy another issue - and please take
note of two things - one, the IC Cinema all
nighter is nearly upon us and they are show-
ing some first class material and two, they're
showing Donnie Darko and 28 Days Later
back to back on the 12th December so do
yourselves a favour and get tickets! Si
Bloody blagging students. Liz
D I E A N O T H E R D A Y
S T A R R I N G :
D I R E C T E D B Y :
C E R T I F I C A T E :
R U N N I N G T I M E :
R E L E A S E D A T E :
P I E R C E B R O S N A N ,
H A L L E B E R R Y
L E E T A M A H O R I
1 2 A
1 3 2 M I N S
D U T N o w
Blag - (Verb) The art of using any method pos-
sible, such as lying, flirting, bribing or sneaking,
in order to make personal gain. The gain may
be a desirable object or entry to an exclusive
event.
What did you do on the night of Monday
18th? Watch the telly? Do a bit of integration?
Eat a cucumber sandwich? A group of
Southwell students are never going to forget
their amazing night out. Thanks to a lot of luck,
determination, cunningness and sheer lying we
did something a bit different...we spent the
night at the James Bond Premiere and After-
Show Party!
It all started at 3pm when a group of us
decided to go up to the Albert Hall and start
queuing for the evening's events. There were
600 seats available to the public outside, next
to the red carpet to watch the stars arrive. After
2 Vz very long, cold hours (including a mobile
pizza delivery - cheers Alex!) we were finally led
round to our seats. We had a perfect view, but
nothing could prepare us for what was about to
happen. Foxy from Capital FM was running a
competition live on air to win the final pair of
tickets to the premiere. Call it luck or just shout-
ing the loudest but I won them! Legs shaking,
phone ringing like mad from jealous people call-
ing, Laura Parkinson (my lucky guest) and I
made our way through security and into the
Albert Hall. You simply cannot believe how
weird it was walking around the corridors see-
ing so many famous people. Everywhere we
turned there was someone new to gawp at. We
all took to our seats, stood for the Queen and
got introduced to the main cast members. Now
showtime...believe me it's very weird being in a
cinema and giving a round of applause after
every major scene or entrance. But it's definite-
ly an experience worth living for! The film is
absolutely amazing, but more on that later....
So the film finished to the sound of yet more
applause and the crowds made their way out-
side. The exclusive after-show party was being
held across the road in Hyde Park, but I didn't
Flying Vanquish...
have any tickets. Bugger. I met up with some
friends and took to hassling anyone remotely
important looking for any spare tickets. I even
had a quick chat with Richard E Grant to little
avail. Suddenly a press team appeared, and we
tried befriending them, again with little success.
By now we were freezing cold and about to give
up and go home. But then the press team re-
appeared, their work done. In a very charitable
mood, they gave us their press passes and told
us to act like we worked for the Daily Mail...
3 minutes later, Simon Hooks, Laura Griffiths
and I (Laura P couldn't come in 'cos she looked
like a scruff!) had made it through the outer
gates to the press area, then onwards to the
main party marquee. The first security guard
nodded a greeting, and then... stuck. The secu-
rity team on the door was only allowing people
in with tickets. We didn't have any. I tried flash-
ing my premiere tickets but they weren't having
any of it. I persisted - I'd got this far and I was-
n't going to leave easily. Spinning some elabo-
rate story about how some mystery security
guard had taken our tickets, I kept lying through
my teeth. A senior door person was called over
and a small debate ensued. After a while she
looked me in the eye as if to call my bluff, her
look saying "I think you're a lying little monkey,"
then she calmly said "That's fine," and let us
through.
Unbelievable! We were in the James Bond
After-Show party! The party was *amazing*!
The whole place was decorated like the ice
palace in the film, with ice sculptures, water-
falls, laser effects and an indescribable atmos-
phere. We swanned around the place drinking
Bollinger all night, with the occasional Vodka
Martini, shaken not stirred of course, all com-
pliments of the house!
Throughout the night we mingled with, chat-
ted to, photographed and stared in awe at the
famous people around us. We met the brilliant
Judi Dench, the absolutely gorgeous Rosamund
Pike, the evil Toby Stephens, the legendary
Roger Moore, the stunning Katy Hill, the very
tall Darius and beefy Ross Kemp to name but a
few. Unfortunately Halle Berry and Pierce
Brosnan left just as we arrived as they had to jet
off to the USA premiere.
So what about the film then? Well the Bond
phenomenon is quite bizarre... if a restaurant
served only one, single meal, then the cus-
tomers probably wouldn't come back. But
somehow with Bond this works.... Perhaps it's
because the recipe calls for: dozens of shiny
gadgets, beautiful cars, even more beautiful
ladies, a bad guy with a penchant for sharing
his plans long before they're implemented &
killing his enemies in long drawn methods with
plenty of escape paths, and a dash of the the
most suave secret agent ever.
Die Another Die is a great film that doesn't
fiddle with the standard Bond theme too much.
There are some new ingredients; we get to see
Bond actually losing for once, amazing ice car
chases and fight scenes, so the film is definite-
ly entertaining. My only complaints are a few
dodgy special effects, the sheer number of bad
puns and the fact that the bad guy's henchmen
still can't shoot straight...
King of The Blag (well done sir!)
Loads of Imperial students tried to blag their
way in that night, some got escorted off by
police (no names mentioned!), but only we
were successful! So there you have it ladies and
gentlemen, a new record has been set for the
best blag of the year. I challenge you to beat it.
Think you can? Then let us know... Keep an eye
in Felix for updates....
Dan Wilson
film.felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

