N I G H T L I F E F E L I X
I
Editorial
Friday @ Felix Nightlife
Well people, we've come to that time of year
when all serious clubbers are (or should be)
starting to think about what to do for New
Years Eve. While some people object to the
commercialisation and larger cost of NYE we
personally think that the increased party
atmosphere and general sense of euphoria is
worth the money. New Year parties are nor-
mally quite large, and we like it large.
However, if you disagree but still want a
decent New Year why not skip NYE and go for
a party on New Years Day, several of the big
clubs are doing daytime parties on NYD for the
cost of a normal night and they promise to be
just as good as anything else going on in the
capital. So why not give yourself a change,
save some money and delay the inevitable
hangover for an extra day.
For those who can't wait for that morning
after feeling and want to do a traditional NYE
there's always a massive choice across the
entire spectrum of genres. We've included
some of the ones we think will be best in this
months Top 10, a new feature whereby each
month we'll point out what we think will be the
best 10 nights of the coming month, keep an
eye on it and use it as your guide.
We would also like to take this opportunity
to make another plea for reviews. If any of you
have been somewhere recently that's blown
you away, send in a review and we'll stick it in.
We would especially like to hear from anybody
who went up to the NEC for Gatecrashers' big
end of summer party recently. There must be
some of you, we know it was amazing, tell us
about it, email
clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk
Tim and Dom
NightLife
J1
Prologue
Saturday @ The Cross
With the Cross the party starts when you're in
the queue, since one DJ booth is in the lounge
as you walk in it feels like he's dropping beats
next to you, treating the crowd to unrelenting
almost jazz-like house to put you into the party
mood.
Following the biggest sound in the smallest
room philosophy were Bar De Lune, playing a
relentlessly tough, addictive, intestine-shaking
tribal marathon. This room kept it hard all
night long letting others cater for the lighter
tastes.
Bar De Lune were the genuine surprise but
Parks and Wilson were the highlight. They
delivered in style with a more haunting set
than you'd have expected from their Essential
Mix. But if all the dancing and sweaty bodies
get a bit much you can always go and cool off
in the open air terrace before you hit the floor
again. Ultimately, the Bar boys made the entry
price worth it, with P and W the icing on the
cake.
When they're back next month, try out the
Bar first of all, as long as you want your house
hard and unrelenting.
Kenneth Henry + Peter Taylor
Saturday 7th December
Anthony Pappa, Ian Ossia 6hr b2b
10pm - 6am
£15
The Cross,27-31 York Way, Nl
www.the-cross.co.uk
H UPLIFTING EUPHORIA ROOM >
•eve Pearce, John Fleming, The Mar]
1
^ EXTREME EUPHORIA ROOM > \
Lisa Lashes, Tidy Boys, Dean Peters
BEST OF EUPHORIA ROOM >
The Man Adam, Anthony Dean, Simon W
!*? V.I.P ROOM >
Darren Pearce, Electric Tease
H e a v e n , U n d e r T h e A r c h e s , V i l l i e r s S t r e e t , L o n d o n
P r i c e : £ 1 2 A d v a n c e T i c k e t s , M o r e O n T h e D o o r
T i m e : 1 0 p m - 0 6 a m
F r e e C D f o r t h e f i r s t 5 0 0 t i c k e t s s o l d
j£ K E TlYIMfJ c ' 8 7 0 0 6 0 0
' 1 0 0
i www ticH
l n f o > Q S 7 0 7 4 5 < l S 4 0 | 0 7 3 7 6 6 1 3 0 1 1 | w w w . e j
The Top 10
Monthly @ Felix Nightlife
December
1. Euphoria @ Heaven, 6th
Dave Pearce, Lisa Lashes, Tidy Boys, John '00' Fleming
2. 7th Birthday Party @ The End, 7th
Mr C, Layo+Bushwacka, Peppermint Jam
3. Dusted @ Pacha, 7th
ATFC, Rob Marmott, Femi Fern
4. Peach Goes Hard @ Camden Palace, 21st
Anne Savage, Lisa Lashes, Pele
5. Fabriclive @ Fabric, 13th
Audio Bullys, Scratch Perverts, Stanton Warriors
6. Knowwhere @ Soundshaft, 27th
Ian Betts, Anthony Dean, Frank MacCarthy
7. Heat @ Brixton Academy, 31st
tbc
8. Smartie Partie @ Glasshouse, 31st
Sharp Boys, Carlos Francisco, Lee Tristram
9. Ministry of Sound @ The Dome, 31st
Judge Jules, Maurio Picooto, Dave Pearce, Groove
Armada
10. Fevah @ Ministry of Sound, 1st Jan
Paul Glazby Matt Clarke, Raymondo, Jon Walford
If you think that we've criminally missed some-
thing out of this list, ah well. Why don't you go
along and then write us a review of it. You
know the address by now:
clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk
clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk The power to kill a yak from 200 yards.

