F E L I X N I G H T L I F E
NightLife
Torture Garden Halloween Party
@ Club Colloseum
'Due to venue licensing no exposed genitalia'.
This sign, displayed in various prominent
locations around Torture Garden's new home,
Colloseum in Vauxhall, does tell you quite a lot
about the club itself, most people attending
have far fewer inhibitions than your average
clubber. But there are a number of quite clear
rules that must be obeyed for the club to con-
tinue to function and to keep having the huge
amount of success that it has enjoyed over the
past eleven and a half years.
These rules are really very simple: first and
foremost harassment of any kind is not tolerat-
ed, and will be dealt with severely: you are
hence far less likely to receive unwelcome
physical advances here than you are, for
example, on an average Wednesday night at
Hombres (shiver).
Secondly, you must make an effort with your
outfit: street wear and regular clubwear are not
permitted, dressing up is the key, but there
does tend to be an emphasis on rubber,
leather, PVC and corsetry. You don't need to be
seriously into Fetishism of any kind to enjoy
TG, you just have to be open minded and non-
judgmental. It also helps if you enjoy hard
house.
There are five areas to TG, which are fairly
well separated throughout the club. The music
in the club arena varies from breakbeat to hard
house with residents James Schaeffer and
Allen TG, and one or two guest DJs. The qual-
ity of DJing is, to be fair, often suspect, and
tonight was no exception, but this didn't stop
the crowd from loving it.
The other dance floor was in the electron-
ique boutique, where Eyeball Licker, Pandora's
Jukebox and Erol Alkan played eclectic Nu-
Disco and Electroclash and provided a good
break from the pounding of the main arena.
The 'voodoo' lounge area, was playing a
mixture of lounge, swing and rock'n'roll, but
with a definite TG edge to it from David TG
and Gimme-A-Fix, which lead to a particularly
surreal atmosphere.
Finally there is the Dungeon area, which
while not as dungeon-like as the same area at
Mass (the previous venue) is still fully
equipped with a wide range of harnesses,
frames and the like for those wishing to play.
TG is obviously not for everyone, but it does
have one of the friendliest, non-threatening
atmospheres of any club of its kind,and indeed
of any that I have heard of. You really don't
need to enjoy S&M to have a good time, but
don't go if you have a problem with seeing it in
action.
Alex C
Fetish Bazarr @ Purple Turtle
Every Sunday
12 - 6pm
Free entry
Mornington Crescent tube
Seed Sessions @ Purple Turtle
Every Sunday
6pm - midnight
Free entry
Non fetish, same music policy
Mornington Crescent tube
www.torturegarden.com
Competition
Oooooh, you lucky, lucky people. Thanks to the
gorgeous people at The Cross we have two
tickets to give away to Prologue at The Cross
on the 7th December.
If you don't know anything about Prologue,
well you damn well should. If you've managed
to get this far through the issue you really
should have noticed the review by Kenneth
and Peter on the opposite page. If not, read it
now, we can wait... read it? Sounds excellent,
doesn't it.
Now that your appetite has been whet you
should run to the nearest computer and enter
our amazing competition. Come on, it means
you don't have to pay to get into a club, that's
a free night (apart from drinks obviously). The
only other way you can get free nights around
here is to join the reviewing team at Felix,
which we seriously recommend that you do, or
you could just send in reviews of places you've
been. Please.
Anyway, the question:
Name any other regular night at The Cross
except Prologue.
Send your entries to clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk
(along with any reviews you care to send in)
before Tuesday 3rd December including your
name and contact telephone number so we
can let you know if you are the lucky winner.
Don't worry, none of this information will
leave the Felix offices.
Remember, anything you want to send in
clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk
Tim and Dom
clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk ..with mind bullets!

