C O F F E E B R E A K F E L I X
GFQQ NK II by Bobby Cyclops & Dr Hot Fudge
T H E G R E A T F E L I X Q U O T E S Q U I Z
T H E Q U O T E S
1. "May I have the pleasure of your name, before I have you run
through?"
2. "A chastity belt! That's really going to chafe my willy!"
3. "Girl, you look so good, someone ought to put you on a plate and
sop you up with a biscuit!"
4. "That piece of scum-barking rat of yours has just taken his last
dump on my lawn. I find one more - just one - and I'm going to
catch him and staple his ass shut!"
5. "I could shoot you from Stuttgart und still create zee proper effect."
6. "I just gotta know: After 600 years, how's that dick workin', pretty
good?"
7. "This is pitiful. A thousand people freezing their butts off, waiting to
worship a rat."
8. "I got mind control over Deebo. When he say shut up - I be quiet.
But when he leave, I be talking again."
9. "You are in more dire need of a blowjob than any white man in his-
tory."
10. "Look, I know I must look weird to you but how do you think you
look to me? Listen, I watched four episodes of "Lassie" before I fig-
ured out why the little hairy kid never spoke."
A N S W E R S T O G F Q Q 1 2 4 0
1. Jack Swigert/Kevin Bacon - Apollo 13
2. Girl in disco - Saturday Night Fever
3. Damon Killian/Richard Dawson - The Running Man
4. Ivan Ooze/Paul Freeman - Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers (Movie)
5. Carlitos Paez/Bruce Ramsay - Alive
6. Harry Lime/Orson Welles - The Third Man
7. Ed Rooney/Jeffrey Jones - Ferris Bueller's Day Off
8. Johnny/Ralph Foody - Angels With Even Filthier Souls
—film within film Home Alone 2: Lost In New York
9. Quintus Arrius/Jack Hawkins - Ben Hur
10. Marcus Licinius Crassus/Laurence Olivier - Sparticus
11. Landlady/Lin Shaye - Kingpin
coffee.felix@ic.ac.uk
RAJ
There are some sick, twisted people at IC (and that's just the staff). Take
contestant Anthony Jude Rodrigues for example. Each week he treats us
to paragraphs of wanton pseudoerotic prose, so this issue we decided to
share with you some of his words of wisdom - here is what he had to
say about researching the answers to CB 1248 Boy Band 'Special'
(unabridged):
"...getting information from a schoolgirl is not a particularly easy task.
But I would liken the process to juicing a lemon
• you impale the lemon on the "juicer"
• grip lemon firmly as you squeeze it
• "screw" the lemon on the juicer; I find you get more "juice" if you use
a slow and steady speed, though you may wish to end with some fren-
zied action.
Afterwards, you may sample the "liquid", even though you may not
be too fond of the taste. You may even suck the flesh of the lemon,
squeezing it between your lips, in attempt to coax more "liquid" out of
it..after several hours of "deep probing", these are the answers I
obtained from my girls..." B.C.
Hmm...yes. H.F.
CUT k BLOW DRY
BY OUR TOP STYLISTS
£20 LADIES
£17 MEN
Normal Price £35
ACCESS VISA MASTERCARD CASH CHEQUES
Mil the best student offer!'
15a Harrington Road
South Kensington
London SW73ES
(1 Minute tmlkjmn
South Kensington Tube)
Telephone 020 7823 8968
The Great Felix Quotes Quiz

