C O F F E E B R E A K F E L I X
Felix Crossword 1250
By Boris the Inquisitive Goat
tors $IO<K nas urn AIUAYS
K
K
H
T 0/v 1HI ivosr m wi W
A
S
mu umu T
O not H
I
S nom
WW<r T
O S
W
A
T H
I
/
1
Across
1 Horse protects one tiny Down
boy from sea (8) 1 Doctor puts South Africa
5 End of 24 with twitch is before college pattern (6)
crude (6) 2 Oddity finds it in headless
9 As in Sargeant's love of messy array (6)
seaweed (8) 3 Change ram's front (9)
10 Seen about place, vented 4 Ram sign after girl
organ (6) changed particle for reli-
12 Very little to the greeks? gious workers (12)
(5) 6 At university by means of
13 Harass to bring in a French higher degree (5)
one (9) 7 Depressed in these (3, 5)
14 Strangely, my nut looms up 8 Study raised possession for
to heaven (5,7) Italian lady (8)
18 Patriot with extra commo- 11 How far can you go legal-
tion spoken in many forms ly? (2,2,3,5)
(12) 15 Infant mixes oyster with
21 "Heed it well" almost cre- antelope (9)
ated generator (9) 16 Roast over flames for fight-
23 Three bases around state er (8)
pot. (5) 17 Best clothes from happy
24 Highflying Greek suffering tatters (4,4)
meltdown (6) 19 Tedium, a learner finds, is
25 Forge? It rhymes (8) a result of North wind (6)
26 Gin-seng cocktail without 20 Solicitor goes west in stra-
first badge (6) ta (6)
27 Beginner picks up length 22 Squeezed or tolled 1 hear
for alarmist (8) (6)
Hey kids! Once again I'm here with a veritable cornucopia of lexi-
cal perplexity with which you can while away the hours when you
really should be working. It's nearly Christmas you know, and I'm
sad to say, the last time you'll be seeing me before the year is out.
But fear not! I've asked Father Christmas for a scrabble set, and
will spend the Yuletide break, piecing together even more fiendish-
ly obscure clues for you to puzzle over upon my return.
Answers have been flooding in to the Felix office and
coffee.felix@ic.ac.uk for last week's crossword and the luck win-
ner is Adela Ghinn, Maths II. Remember to put your name, depart-
ment and year, otherwise we won't be able to put you in for the
Grand Prize Draw at the end of the year and you wouldn't want to
miss out on that now, would you?
Carrying on my benevolent tradition of explaining cryptic clues
for those new to the game - the focus of this week's clue-busting
guide is the Queen. There are many possible letters that a refer-
ence to the Queen might indicate. These might be ER, HM, or sim-
ply Q. A reference to the King might also indicate REX. Anyway,
that's just a brief illustration of the fact that a single word might
indicate a whole variety of different letters. Have a good Christmas
and I'll see you in the New Year.
BIG
Answers to 1249
Across: Penguins, Frigid, Organic, Car Park, Adept, Dedicate,
Backdrop, Young, Nervous, Evening, Radish, Masterly.
Down: Profit, Guarded, Getaway, Dockyard, Grave, Cowardly,
Twitches, Stranger, Aborted, Bacon, Penance, Smugly.
coffee.felix@ic.ac.uk Make sure all entries have your name, department and year clearly marked

