F E L I X B U S I N E S S 0 7 Si 'tea
M
After a rather prosaic debut last week, I have decided to inject a dose of
inspiration into this obtuse little page. This shall come in the form of...
something that I am yet to think of. But give it time, I am sure
it will come. So, look out for something more interesting than
watching mold grow next week.
Elsewhere, with just one month to go before Christmas, we
can start looking forward to a better new year. Hopefully, every-
one should start spending lots and lots of money that they don't
have, lifting the economy out of its gloom. This way, I should
time. Now, assume for a second that the U.N. weapon inspectors' trip to
Iraq was all in vain, and Iraq doesn't really have any weapons at all, so
there are no more 'uncertainties'. Then keep your eyes on the per-
formance guidance for the coming year given by big companies in
December. Finally, dump all your cash into the companies whose
report doesn't contain the words 'profit warning', 'earnings
slashed', 'cost cut' or 'headcount'. A year from now, you will be
thanking me.
With my future career and your money taken care of then, let's
stop getting the avalanche of rejection letters from employers Artist impression of shift our attention back to the glamorous job waiting to be done
after employers. So, if we could all do our bit, and actually buy economic recovery here. Attention, fellow aspiring writers! Following the deluge of
something expensive for your parents this Christmas, I will be response from my plea for business writers last week, I now only
just fine. have 3 openings left. Rumour about promises of fame and fortune attached
Perhaps if you have twenty or so grand to spare, then here's an idea. The with the job is unfounded, not to mention the hefty remuneration package,
recent rally in the U.S and U.K stock markets looks as if it will hold up this So, write in now before it is too late.
This week in the City....
Sainsburys, the supermarket chain has
announced plan to expand into non-food prod-
ucts to match the sales growth enjoyed by Tesco
and Asda. Sainsburys will from now on man-
afacture its own homewares, cook wares, cloth-
ing and child products. This would get rid of its
partnership with manafacturers that have pro-
duced its non-food products for the past 2 years.
Moody's Investors Serviced] have warned that
banks are likely to continue to pursue aggressive
cost cutting in Europe, which roughly translates
to laying off more workers. As the equity and
debt underwriting[2] market continues to suffer
shrinking demand, major banks are likley to size
down their operations. The worse hit banks are
the likes of JP Morgan Chase, CSFB, Deutsche
Bank, Drsdner and Commerzbank. Only UBS
and Citigroup are well placed to withstand the
continued slump in the debt and equity market
to avoid further job cuts, err... I mean cost cut-
ting.
The Mill, Britain's pioneer
and only Oscar winner in
special effects (for
Gladiator) is to pull out of
films and concentrate on
advertising. This would
leave Britain with no special
effect house to rival those of
Hollywood. The Mill cited
that the film industry was
far too volatile and the
investment and time needed
to do films was preventing it from becoming the
leader in advertising that it strives to be. The
Mill's portfolio includes both Harry Potter films
to date and advertisements like Vodafone,
Guinness & Levi's.
MM02, the former mobile phone arm of BT
group had held merger talks with Dutch
End of the road
World Domination
Continues
telecommunications operator KPN over a merg-
er of their respective German operations, it
emerged. However, talks had stalled when
MM02 insisted that they were just joking after
all. Analysts are worried that MM02 are getting
the idea that they can now hold their own down
in Germany after finally reporting a postive cash
flow[3].
Coffee Rebuplic is to
sell 13 of its sites for
£2m to Starbucks,
despite a late £10m
indicative cash bid
for Coffee Republic
from Nero's Cafe.
Nero's bid would
have given Coffee
Republic sharehold-
ers 3p per share, but
the board rejected
the offer on the grounds that it 'undervauled' the
true value of Coffee Republic. Considering Coffee
Republic's stock climbed a whopping lp to the
dizzy height of 2.75p, maybe £10m was a bit
cheap.
LVMH Moet Hennesy Louis Vuitton, possibly the
longest company name in the world, is filing a
lawsuit against Morgan Stanley. Morgan Stanley
allegedly had a conflict of interest in its research
of LVHM, the world's largest luxury goods group.
According to LVMH, the research was biased
because of Morgan Stanley's long standing rela-
tionship with their rival Gucci. Morgan Stanley is
to stand by its analysts, claiming that their work
is independent and of the highest ethical value.
Fiera de Milano, Europe's 2nd largest trade
exhibiton centre, announced that it would
launch an IP0[4] in December, valuing the com-
pany between £200m to £240m. Up to 50% of
Fiera will be sold through issue of new and exist-
fl] Moody's: One of a few credit rating agen-
cies, who provide independent advice and rat-
ing on companies and industries. The credit
rating given by these rating agencies are often
used in analysing companies.
[2] Underwriting: The act of helping a compa-
ny issue equity, bonds or other capital raising
instruments. Anything that cannot be sold are
bought by the bank that is underwriting the
issuance. Means a completely different thing in
the insurance industry.
[3] Cash Flow: The flow charting where all the
cash goes, I guess.
[4] IPO: Initial Public Offering, which is basi-
cally the first time a company offers its stock to
the public. In other words, it lists its stock on
the stock market, and the public can then buy
them. Makes sense doesn't it?
ing shares at a price range of $7.5 to $8.75.
The flotation is expected to raise roughly $80m
for construction of new fair grounds. This is only
the 4th IPO of the year in Milan, amidst the
global slump in IPO market, as investors contin-
ue to shy away from equity market.
Lastminute.com
reports its first ever
quarterly profit of
£300,000. That is
before a £3.09m
redundancy charge and
property costs plus a
£6.75m goodwill
perhaps it isn't so much
J. Cow
charge. All in all then,
of a 'profit' then.
business.felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

