F E L I X I N T E R N A T I O N A L 0 9 ^ ' ^ :
flS?v&-i k« -flit. J ..^.fr ' *
W o r l d S o c
Where will the Children play? packed out db's
last Thursday, with an almost entirely Muslim
audience listening to presentations from journal-
ist Yvonne Ridley and a Save a Nation represen-
tative. Returning from a prayer session, "broth-
ers" and "sisters" congregated round tables on
their respective sides of the room, filling the time
before queuing for food by chatting to their
neighbours and munching on biscuits. Once
everyone had finished their rice, spiced stew
and sweet (all provided by a restaurant and the
Malaysian and Pakistani socs) the chair started
the evening with a brief talk from one of the
Islamic soc's "sisters", before introducing the
special guest.
Ms Ridley did not come across as being at
ease, and gave what I felt to be an over fervent
interpretation of the present situation in Iraq and
Palestine. This opinion is clearly subjective and
debatable, yet I felt slightly vindicated when the
floor was opened to questions, and many people
tentatively put forward mild versions of Ms
Ridley's assertions. The Islamic Relief speaker
(Jehangir Malik?) who followed was a more nat-
ural orator, and gave an impassioned plea on
behalf of the Iraqi children, convincingly making
a case for personal and family donations from all
present. On a very trivial note, the new brands
of cola from the Middle East, Zam Zam and
M e d i a a n d R e l l g i o n
Aztec Statues at the Royal Academy
Mecca were suggested as alternatives to the
ubiquitous Coke and Pepsi.
Israel and the media's guest speaker, the
Times' assistant editor Michael Gove, unfortu-
nately had to postpone his visit. Fortunately for
Jewish soc, Shimon Shamilla, a representative
of the Betar & Tagar movement attending, had
agreed to take his place. As his speciality did not
lie in the media, the talk was not intended to
focus on that topic. Instead, after a brief history
of the Middle East from his point of view, he
opened the floor to questions from the audience,
half of whom were of radically differing opinions.
Not to put too fine a point on it, bedlam ensued,
with the chairs just managing to keep a cap on
things. Semantics, rhetoric, "statistics" and
ignoring opponents' inconvenient points
abounded from both sides in a bitter match.
Incidental to the proceedings, Mr Shamilla's
answer to the eponymous question suggested
that European Media may be attempting to
compensate for a colonialist past by supporting
the perceived underdog.
The BIG bell tolls a week from next Tuesday
for India, Norway, Mauritius and Indonesia...
Diary: You might be able to follow the newly
formed Latin American society to the Aztec
exhibition at the Royal academy this evening at
6, though you'll have to buy your own tickets.
I'm rather cheesed off to be away for the high-
light of a festival of films by Japanese director
Akira Kurosawa at the ICA. Seven Samurai is
playing for the 27th to the 29th of December, so
try to catch it if you're here during the break, or
films such as Rashomon, which are on before.
That's enough, since mentioning any more films
now will lead to academic disaster as I have to
keep up appearances by watching them. Ed
FI n c u s
If you are an average British news-
paper reader these days, you
could be forgiven for thinking that
Nigeria is full of rampaging mobs
running around burning down
buildings while trying to kill beau-
ty queens for being beautiful. You
would also have heard phrases
such as "second most corrupt
country in the world" and "pro-
duces talented but inconsistent
footballers." Well, two out of three
isn't bad.
Nigeria has 115 million people,
most of whom hail from the 3 [of
350! Ed] main tribes, the Yoruba,
Hausa and Igbo (in the west, north
and east respectively); all neatly
divided by two rivers, the Niger
and the Benue. Enough facts, let's
talk about why Nigeria's great.
There is great diversity all across
Nigeria, with each tribal and eth-
nic group having a distinct identity
and language, making it seem like
many countries within one. This
diversity accounts for a lot of what
makes Nigeria good. I could start
to expound on the absolute wealth
of culture and give genuine rea-
sons to make this your holiday
destination (will you all please
stop sniggering!) but there isn't
enough space. Instead I shall talk
about the greatest thing about
Nigeria, the people.
N t g e r i a / y
' 'Cages'
' 'Cages'
•
To meet a Nigerian is to find a
good thing: a good Nigerian friend
will be loyal; a good Nigerian mum
will stuff you full of food (and good
stuff it is too, no fish and chips); a
good Nigerian aunt will smother
you with affection and advice, just
don't get on her bad side!!! A
good Nigerian Dad will make sure
you are taken care of to the best of
his ability, sometimes to the point
of trying to find a good girl for you.
Life in Nigeria can be a blast
and the best time of your life. The
economic situation aside, I can't
think of anywhere better to grow
up. When you get around
Nigerians, the general sense of fun
and laughter can get you through
almost anything.
Having said that, you want to be
careful which Nigerian you hand
your wallet to, because when
Nigerians turn bad, you do not
want to be anywhere in the vicini-
ty. Hence the news headlines that
generally say: "Don't ever think of
going near Nigeria, ever"
I say it's the kind of place that
makes you believe in God, the only
way you'll truly survive. Find out
for yourself: find a Nigerian, latch
onto them and discover what
makes this nation a place brim-
ming with potential.
Wait for the day we get our foot-
ballers sorted out, that World Cup
is just waiting to have our name
on it! Oluwatosin Ajayi
After the Teletubbies, Mr Bean is
probably the most universal
British TV export. In a similar
vein, and also seen at rerun sea-
son the world over is the other
man of silence, Benny Hill.
Chances are that you'll have
seen his antics (Yes you have;
he's the dirty old man being
chased to funny music). If it's
this sort of slap(and tickle)-stick
you're into, you should investi-
gate the Carry on films. Crude
and saturated with innuendo,
they're perfect as a counterfoil to
anything with pretensions. You'll
catch them on TV as the time for
old favourites (and chestnuts)
draws near. Men Behaving
Badly is a more recent series, in
a similar vein, which may throw
some light upon contemporary
British culture, at least on the
heavy drinking part. Ask any
paid up member of "lad" culture
to expound upon this series, or
better, to show you some -
they're likely to oblige as it is
very popular. Cholmondely
world.felix@ic.ac.uk For British and International students at IC

