C C H I
Bombed Out
With all the brouhaha over the Greenham
Common human chain over Easter, some of
you may not have noticed the human chain in
Beit Quad, protesting about the cruise missiles
to be sited on the Queens Lawn (see
FEELSICK). The lady in charge of operations,
Lady Ugly Wasteland, decided, in her position
as a Peace Artist, to have everyone holding
garlands.
A grid is marked out in the quad, and
everyone is to stand on one of the vertices of
the grid. Whenever three people are standing
"equally spaced in a straight line, they are given
a garland to hold. No more than three people
can stand in a straight line, nor can three
people stand in a straight line if they are not
equally spaced. At first the entire complement
of People In Social Services Under Protest
(eight of them) stood in the formation shown,
and between them carried seven garlands.
Later, when the President of IC Union, Steel
Goolies, came out to talk to them, the nine of
them stood in a new formation; what is the
maximum number of garlands they need?
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the
FELIX Office by Wednesday, 11:00pm. £5
from Mend-aBike for a randomly selected
entry.
Last week's solutions
Part the first
Quite a few people entered this, but I soon
realised the error of my ways—people, upon
seeing' a puzzle like this, sent in vast tracts of
algebraic calculations. All I needed was a
sensible diagram!
Assume, without loss of generality, that the
pond is one unit in radius. The man in the
centre of the pond, can row at the same
angular velocity as the man on the outside can I
run, at a radius of one quarter. Inside this
smaller circle, the man can row at a faster!
angular velocity than the man on the outside,,
and can thus reach the position shown (the'
man in the rowing boat is marked B; the man j
on the land is L). From here, by making a dash
for it, the man in the boat can reach a point
diametrically opposite the man on the land in a
distance 3
/ 4 (and thus in time -;
4). the man on
the land reaching that point distancert"away,
in time T\ U which is greater than ;
4 .
Of the seven entries, the randomly chosen
winner was N Gorsia of Maths 1 who can
collect his £5 cheque from the FELIX Office
after 1:30pm on Monday.
Part the Second
Well, this is a bit complicated. Take the
following argument: 'Once the boatperson has
established a strategy, it is pointless for the
man on the land to reverse direction, since the
boatperson can reflect his strategy or carry on
the same one, whichever gives him the greater
advantage'. Accepted? Well, just accept it for
this issue.
Now consider the boatperson's path takes
him from a point on the inner circle B, to a
point on the land B' (we start on the inner
circle since this is the largest radius from which
we can be sure that the boatperson can be
diametrically opposite the landman). The path
taken by the boatperson is clearly a straight
line; this is the shortest path between the two
points. Produce a tangent from B to the inner
circle, which cuts the larger circle into two
pieces, X and Y. To reach any point in Y, the
boatperson clearly has to cut into the inner
circle; when he again reaches the edge of this
inner circle, he will be in the same position as
before, or in a worse position, since the man
on the outside can then turn round and be
closer to the boatperson.
The point of destination of the boatperson
therefore lies in X.
Now we require calculus. Look at the
following diagram:
L represents the starting position of the man
on the land.
P is the tangent from B produced.
O is the centre of the pond.
B and B' as before.
The man on the land starts running
anticlockwise. The minimal distance from the
point L will reach to B' (A, say) is' given by
A = L'B' —R.BB'
where R is the ratio of the speeds, and L'B' is
taken around the circumference of the circle.
If o is the angle B'OB, then, using the cosine
rule,
BB' = J\ •+ r2
— 2rcoso'
where r is the radius of the pond, =
1 (say)
L'B' = n + 0
Let D (the D-operator) represent differenti-
ation with respect to a.
D(BB') = (r.sinoVBB-
So D(A) = l—(sin0)/(BB')
=1—sinB
> 0
for 6 > rr/2
Thus B will obtain the greatest advantage by
going along a tangent to the inner circle. The
maximum ratio of speeds can then be found.
This solution is slightly simplified, and leaves
many problems, some trivial, some more
difficult. What is the best solution if the man on
the land changes direction? What do you do if
he oscillates infinitely?
Anyway, my thanks to Dr Pretzel for such a
great puzzle and congratulations to Ken
Morison, Chem Eng PG, who was the only
person to even come close to the solution.
Cue for a puzzle
And now the moment you've all been waiting
for. I'm not sure how valid the first two
solutions are, not being too well acquainted
with the game of snooker, but I am assured
that they are well within the rules.
1. The highest break possible is 162 and is
achieved thus: you give away, without having
potted a single red, 159 points. Your opponent
then gives away a foul worth 4 points, but
makes it a foul snooker. You then pot any
colour as a free ball, then the black, then a
normal 147 break (all reds with blacks, all
colours). The score is then 159 all, with you on
a 155 break. The black is then respotted,
which you pot first shot, to give yourself a
break of 162.
2. The lowest total score with all the balls
down is 31 points; this is achieved by putting all
15 reds down in one shot, and putting the
white down in the same shot, which is a foul
shot, giving away four points. The colours are
then potted, a total of 31 points.
3. Finally, a break of eight points in which
the yellow (worth two points) goes down four
times is; your opponent gives away a foul,
giving you a free ball. You pot the yellow (one
point), follow it with a colour—the yellow
(three points), then pot the last red on the
table (four points). The colour you then pot
is—believe it or not—the yellow, followed by
the first of the colours to go down, the yellow
(eight points).
Port-Passing Pranks
The seating arrangement was:
Reisenschein
Admiral Z Gunter Schutzem Asst
Heidensieck Di Van Zoom Asst
Gunter Schutzem Admiral Z Asst
Di Van Zoom [Heidensieck Asst
Reisenschein passed the port to his left
(clockwise). Hence, Di Van Zoom purloined
the port, and three people hadn't any, viz
Gunter, Heidensieck and the Admiral.
Of the two people who entered this puzzle,
R Tan of Chem Eng 2 was selected as the
winner, and can collect his £5 from the FELIX
Office after Monday 1:30pm.
]
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Impen
Tel 01-589 5111 Ext 1048 or Internal 2881 Editor: Martin
al College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Unio
S Taylor; Business Manager: Peter A Rodgers: Advertising
n Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Manager: Nick Thexton. Copyright FELIX 1983

