IREVIEWSI
Screw Archimedes
I'm sure that most reviewers approached
Eureka 18 directed by Nicolas Roeg, now
playing at the Odeon Kensington, with a
degree of trepidation. Mr Roeg's films are
never straightforward, and one is always
worried about slagging him off for fear of
having missed the whole point of the film.
Nevertheless, I shall bite the bullet: this film is a
load of crud.
Our hero Jack McCann (Gene Hackman) is
a gold prospector down on his luck in snowy
Canada. Having all but given up, he slumps
down beside a tree with the wolves sniffing at
what they evidently consider an interesting
hors d'ouvres. Now things get silly: flash bang
wallop, a stone falls into his hand, a fire starts
and frightens the wolves away. He staggers off
to the local hotel-cum-brothel which is run by a
gipsy type who fortells his fortune will be made
and then tells him what she and her dead
husband (probably dead from exhaustion)
used to get up to. He finds the gold, becomes
hideously rich, acquires a Greek island, a wife,
a daughter and a son-in-law in that order and
then gets bored. He becomes paranoid and
believes himself beset by 'gold diggers' after his
money. He despises his son-in-law who
despises him for finding rather than working
for his fortune.
Well, the rest of the plot is equally silly
involving gangsters and rather spectacular
murder for no readily apparent reason. The
film is inexplicably set in war time and there
are many factual errors. Roeg implies that this
isiand sanctuary is passed by in the war raging
on the continent; however, at one point his
daughter mentions Rhodes which was Italian
owned and forcibly occupied by the allies in
1943. But this is mere carping over detail—it
just seems strange the way the American
gangster is able to move so freely in such
Friend or Fo?
Dario Fo in his classic Mistero Buffo,
Riveioidc Studios, Hammersmith.
Friend or Fo indeed. One of the greatest
talents in contemporary European Theatre,
actor, director, clown, mime artist, spokesman
for political theatre and author of the hugely
successful Accidental Death of An Anarchist,
Can't Pay Won't Pay! and Female Parts,
Dario Fo draws enemies as well as audiences.
The jovial communist hasn't just suffered
endless censorships at his adversaries' hands.
Several bold and determined attempts have
been made to run him over (nasty Italian habit
that). He has suffered police harassment,
evictions, kidnapping and imprisonment and
has even been in gaol. His wife and co-author,
Franca Faine, has been abducted and beaten
up. He's an extremely likeable man but it is his
communism that gets people you see. (In May
1980, Fo and Rame were denied entry visas
into the US. The time was 'not opportune for a
visit' according to the American Consul in
Milan.)
Such experiences are enough to make the
most hardened individual bitter. Not so with
Dario Fo. On the contrary, he has a positive
iust for life and a marvellously large and
contagious smile. Slightly corpulent with a little
white hair, he is what one imagines a merry
monk to be.
Like all Italians, Signor Fo uses his arms for
dramatic effect. 'Sono magnifici e stupendi' he
says of the Pope's vestemtns with an
expansive gesture of the arm. 'Fantastici
Gloriosissinni' he grins. Like his plays, he is
dangerous times.
Roeg's style of editing consists of putting the
film through a shredder and then glueing the
bits together as seems appropriate. This is an
interesting effect and can often be used to
emphasise a point, as in Bad Timing, but here
it merely adds to tne confusion. It is a pity that
he ruined what might have been a good idea
with bad screenplay. Some of the violence is
unnecessarily gruesome and there are no
really good performances, although 1 suppose
Gene Hackman acquits himself pretty well.
But, if you want to see this man at his best, see
Carnal Knowledge instead.
Sure of its footing, audience and approach
comes Friday the 13th Part 3, 18, director
Steve Miner, playing from May 12. Anyone
who saw the two previous parts will know what
to expect, but for those of you who remain in
blissful ignorance I shall explain. This is full
frontal no holds barred horror, gratuitous
violence ai its wuiai, and a real tour-de-force of
blood and guts. While not a devotee of this
genre, I recognise a masterpiece when I see it.
Despite all the gore they produce, horror
films often have a puritan streak in them. In
time honoured fashion, eight teenagers set off
for a dirty weekend in a remote cottage and
one by one are dispatched in gruesome and
higly imaginative manners. The moral is
simple: stay at home and be good or the nasty
bogey man will come and cut your head off.
This film continues the modern renaissance of
3-D, and you sit there with your specs on and
gasp as things leap out of the screen at you. I
suspect that its use will still be limited to the
schlock-horror end of the market as this is
where the greatest effect can be obtained,
making the audience cringe and squirm in
their seats, unable to detach themselves from
the gruesome goings on on the screen.
I must admit I found it all rather entertaining
and in very bad taste L e e p f l d d o n
Here comes the chopper to chop off your head-Friday the 13th.
WALKABOUT-
LOOKSEE
by Mobile Optics Inc.
Bntain's first ever Cubist exhibition has just
opened at the Tate Gallery. It's not a light-
relief-from-revision exhibition: it's a superb
display, in highly concentrated form, of the
essence of Cubist 'reality'.
The exhibition has been selected and
catalogued by Douglas Cooper, writer,
collector, and friend of Braque and Picasso,
and by the American art historian Gary
Tinterow, and does indeed present 'The
Essential Cubism'.
Approach via Benin
The roots of Cubism are in Cezanne's painting
(pop into the National Gallery for a start) and
in primitive Negro art (the Benin bronzes
displayed at the Royal Academy last term).
Cezanne had achieved a compromise
between the European tradition of naturalistic
illusion and a self-sufficient pictorial
composition. African sculptures and masks
inspired a new freedom of form and technique.
The resuit of these influences was Picasso's
recognition that 'A head is a matter of eyes,
nose, mouth, which can be distributed any way
you like—the head remains a head'. And so art
becomes an act of creation rather than
imitation.
The first part of the exhibition is concerned
with the balance between the internal reality of
the pictures and the violins, glasses, figures
and guitars they refer to. The fusion of at least
three viewpoints in one pose in Braque's
'Grand Nue' (1907-8) represents the starting
point. Picasso's 'Seated Nude' of 1910 emerges
from the background by spotlighting and
through the graceful lines of her breasts and
arms and the curve of her neck. By 1912 the
analysis of things seen has become almost
monochromatic and is so complex as to
obscure the link with external reality, making
the original object, at the least, very difficult to
recognise.
From this apparently dead end came the
fast moving and bouncy.
Riverside Studios have just opened with his
famous Mistero Buffo (Funny Mystery).
This is also Fo's British debut.
Mistero Buffo is a unique, original and
hilarious spectacle. It is inspired by the
tradition of the giullari, the medieval strolling
players and storytellers of the Po Valley who
busked and performed to the peasants of
Europe in squares and piazzas, frequently on
the run from persecution and censorship.
Mistero Buffo combines popular legend,
newspaper, farce and entertainment with
political and cultural satire and discussion with
spectators. It has lost none of its con-
temporary relevance, and in the sketches Fo
attacks bigotry, repression and blind
obedience to authority.
The first half of the show consists of three
grammelots. The grammelot originated in the
15th Century as a means of evading
censorship. It was a kind of garbled speaking,
leving spectators to appreciate what was
intended through bodily gesture instead—if
they had sufficient imagination. Fo has
developed a form of grammelot, a totally
onomatopaeic sound system in which few
recognisable words, if any, occur, but
accompanied by a highly expressive body
language. Fo's grammelot is adapted to any
language (including American) and is even
extended to represent sounds of machinery at
work. It is also very funny.
The first is the The Hungry Zanni. Zanni
who is directly related to the peasants of the
Po Valley, imagines in his hunger that he is
eating himself and goes on to eat people
standing around listening to him. He then eats
the mountains, and even God!
In Scapino's Teaching Lesson we see a tutor
who, at the death of the lord of the manor in
18th Century France, has to instruct the
young successor and son of the deceased in
the arts, manners and typical attitudes of those
in power.
In The Technocrat, Fo delivers a potted
history of aviation (a bit in the Donald Duck
style). He uses his American grammelot
without saying a single comprehensible word
Dario Fo-conscience of an age
ot English. The Technocrat has as its main
character a great scientist who gives a lecture
and demonstration on the infallibility of the
scientific method and the superiority of
modern man due to the technological
development of flying.
The second half of this great show takes on
a flavour of mockery and subversion. In The
Resurrection of Lazarns, set in the cemetary
at Pisa, Fo plays a whole crowd of astonished
people having come to see Christ 'do a
miracle'. The main motif of this sketch is a
satire on everything that contributes to the
'mystical experience'.
And finally, Bonifvace VIII (a bad Pope),
paints the Popie of the 13th Century preparing
for a procession by putting on the various
garments symbolising his temporal power. At
the same time, another procession crosses the
city: that of Jesus Christ on his way to Calvary
(a common element in Italian folk tales).
Hardly surprisingly, these two playlets aroused
bitter argument with conservative Catholic
clergy and elements of the Italian Christian
Democratic Party.
In Mistero Buffo, Signor Fo begins each
piece by talking about its origins and
background. He intersperses all this with jokes
on diverse topics: Italian bankers and the
Blackfriars Bridge, the Falklands War, the
Pope. He doesn't speak a word of English—he
speaks in Italian throughout, but this doesn't
hinder one's enjoyment or understanding in
the least. An interpreter and subtitles are on
hand at appropriate points, however.
It's an extraordinary thing that although Fo
has performed his Mistero Buffo literally
thousands of times in Italy, his performance
seems totally fresh and spontaneous. He is
indeed a very rare comic genius.
Mistero Buffo is on until May 15 or until
Signor Fo is arrested—whichever come
sooner. Molto recommended.
Nick Bedding
delightfully simp'e solution of papiers colles:
the cut out pieces are real imitations
of reality! In 'Still-life with chair-caning' (1912),
Picasso uses a piece of oil-cloth printed, with
the pattern of wickerwork chair-caning, and
Braque often uses wood-grained wallpaper—
paper masquerading as wood. The collages
have a spare, uncluttered elegance and are full
of humour. In Juan Gris' 'Man in a Cafe'
(1914), newspaper headline is a joky reference to
one of Cubism's preoccupations—'On ne
Cubism-waste of canvas?
Page 61 I May 6,19831
The Fulham Road goes on for ever but Fulham
proper doesn't start until Stamford Bridge
from where the Fulham Road curves
reluctantly into the shabbiness of Fulham
Broadway with its bingo hall, chip shops and
cafes. This is a seige town, holding its breath in
anticipation of the weekly invasion of hordes of
Chelsea fans, where the cavalry wear blue and
arrive well before the nick of time, in green
coaches.
Beyond lies a no-mans-land of low rise
council blocks and then on to posh Fulham.
The drabness of the Fulham Road belies this
description but then it is merely a kind of
alimentary canal y-'on't ask which end is
which) serving a monied hinterland.
As with all alimentary canals, food is a major
preoccupation and many are the establish-
mewnts which have sprung up to cater for
those inclined, on occasion, to defrost their
Neff ovens and Poggenpohl fitted kitchens. At
the Fulham Broadway end, the only eating
place of note is FAWLTY TOWERS (516
Fulham Rd, 736 0240), marked more by its
memorable eccentricity than its unmem-
orable — but perfectly edible — food, this
establishment attempts to recapture the
atmosphere of its TV comedy namesake.
Particular attractions are the obligatory rat
sandwich start featuring a large plastic rat,
various nasties falling out of the rafters into
your soup and endless John Cleese tapes
monopolising the sounds system. The waitress
volunteered the information that the
restaurant is very popular with office parties
where apparently this kind of behaviour is
considered rather a hoot. Prices are somewhat
above the Gastropod norm but if you are
thinking of organising an office party, no doubt
you will find the extra well worthwhile.
Well into the posh bit: CARLOTTES, good
food and a fairly live pianist, but can be a bit
truquera plus les oeuvres d'art'.
Synthetic Cubism
As well as playing on art's relation to reality,
collage represents a new concept in art that
goes beyond the technique of cutting and
sticking. The picture surface is now the
furthest point from the observer, not the
nearest. The space which was an illusion just
behind the surface, is now on or just in front of it.
Planes and lines appear to interact on a
platform in telephoto compression. And, just
as papiers colles can be applied to a canvas, so
can painted planes, resulting in simpler, more
lucid compositions—Gris' 'Watch' (1912), and
Picasso's 'Pierrot and Harlequin' (1920) are
particular beautiful examples.
In the synthetic phase of C u b i s m ,
representation of reality is the aim rather than
the starting point and reality is seen to lie
beyong objective perception. 'Nature and art
being two different things cannot be the same
thing', Picasso wrote. This, maybe, is the
essential message ot Cubism — through a
revolution in artistic style it expressed a new
meaning of 'reality' in art, a meaning which
pervades the 20th century.
Where? When? £?
'The Essential Cubism 1907-1920' is at the Tate
Gallery, Millbank until July 10. The exhibition
is open Monday to Saturday 10:00-17:50,
Sunday 14:00-17:50. Admission £1 for
students, otherwise £2.
expensive, especially if you succumb to the
cocktails.
RED ONION BISTRO (636 Fulham Road, 736
0920)—calling this place a rip off, I am giving it
the best review it is ever likely to get.
CROCODILE TEARS (660 Fulham Rd 731
1537): actually, they don't even weep crocodile
tears when they hand you the bill but, apart
fromk the fact that it is over-priced this is a
fairly acceptable eating place. A trendy wine
bar on the ground floor leads, via a trendy
spiral staircase, to an even trendier eating
place in the basement. Food is of the Chicken
Kiev variety abd oi
Kiev variety and portions can be on the small
side, but the waitresses are pretty and the wine
is good, so what the hell!
PIZZA T H E A C T I O N (Geddit?) (678
Fulham Rd 736 2716): Groan! Anyway, since
the disappearance of the two male waiters who
kept groping each other in full view of the
diners this has become one of the more
attractive eating places in Fulham. Interesting
decor combined with good value pizzas and
palatable house wine.
SHAHEEN TANDOORI (686ish Fulham
Rd): This popular and inexpensive Indian
restaurant is a must. The full range of standard
Indian fare is on offer and an excellent meal
together with a pint of lager can be purchased
for well under a fiver. Extra hot phal sauces are
available on request, but for alimentary canal
reasons are best left alone.
PETER'S PLACE (766 Fulham Rd 736 4376):
A reasonably priced Greek restaurant with a
pleasant atmosphere and good food. Try the
Meze (a little bit of everything) at £12.00 for
two.
STARLIGHT RESTAURANT (at the end of
the Fulham Road): to all intents and purposes,
a workman's cafe but if you ran stomach the
decor it offers excellent value for money.
LA BELLE E P O Q U E (45 Fulham High
Street 736 4372): round the corner in Fulham
High Street you can find one of the better
value Fulham eating places. Most of the menu
is taken up with burgers, but the steaks are
good value as well. Puddings are rather
disappointing and the service can be incredibly
slow. Worth trying if you're not in a hurry.
•Page7

