f
Rhyno takes a look at CRITICON, Imperial
College's critical review magazine and creates
critical review for critics.
Rampant
Ramblings
Criticarp
A most entertaining piece of prose fell into my
lap the other day, and I felt the opportunity
was too good to pass up.
Firstly let's explain the setting: Imperial
College Palm court Symphonia has just
performed (?) three pieces by Tchaikovsky,
Mahler and Walton. Enter our intrepid hero,
the immortal music critic Peter Wohlfarth, tar
M g£j>«VAtVLE ,Ta*tC^wiLt_i^M
AND HIS, KMKV
V
3T«LM£
brush in one hand, a set of aging Teutonic
programme notes in the other. He mounts his
faithful but ailing steed, CRITICON, and rides
forth into...the Concert review.
It contains all the gorgeously florid
phraseology worthy of a £2.99 Classics for
Pleasure record sleeve. Or was that the
sleeve pleasure classic at a record £2.99. Or
the classic pleasure for sleeves, recorded for
£2.99. I forget. It also becomes apparent during
the review that Mr Wohlforth has recently
taken a correspondence course in German.
Spurious phrases such as Das Lied Von der
Erde, Ging herd morgen ubers Feld and hum it
to yourself seem to appear randomly
throughout the text.
The man's astonishing perception strikes
one immediately. Mahler, we are told, has the
ability to express all the fears and aspirations
of mankind (no doubt on a plain postcard in a
witty and original fashion mentioning Brand X
soap powder in not more than fifteen words).
Does this imply that Mahler also managed to
experience all man's aspirations? (he obviously
got around a bit) or perhaps he just liked
meeting people.
The wordy Wohlfarth ploughs on through
the miry cultural expostulations to bring us
Life, Death and early Jewishness.
Only in the last half of the review are we
treated with a little resume of 'how the
orchestra did it', by way of relief from our
cultural edification.
Judging by his lack of comment, our
reviewer clearly hasn't discovered the Penguin
Book of Tchaikovsky yet, or is perhaps unable
to cope with a Russian correspondence
course. So, of course, Tchaikovsky, Walton
and Barry Douglas are condemned out of
hand, as a sort of also ran footnote. Perhaps
Mr Wohlfarth should have stuck to three blind
mice.
Which leaves one wondering if a man of
such culture, such undiminished arrogance,
and unquestionable verbose pomposity might
not be a suitable candidate for Prime Minister,
Leader of the EEC, or even ICU President.
Rhyno
Page81 May 6,1983 FELIX

