ICLUBS & SOCIETIES!
Bookshop
News
With regard to last week's front page, one of my
staff's only comment was 'He has still got his
shoes on'. I
f the gentleman concerned is going
to make this a habit along the Walkwav. would
he consider selling advertising space?
New Titles
A hundred years ago - Ford & Harrison,
Penguin £10.00
Hidden Places of Britain - Leslie Thomas,
Penguin £4.95
Barbecue - Maggie Black, Foulsham £3.95
Dear Bill - Ingrams & Wells, Private Eye £2.50
The Other Hal} -Ingrams & Wells, Private Eye
£1.95
One for the Road — Ingrams & Wells, Private
Eye £2.50
Vintage Thurber V2 - Penguin £4.95
Selected Letters of James Thurber - Penguin
£2.95
Genetha - Roy A K Heath. Allison Bushby
£2.95
Adams Story - Buchin Emechesta. Allison &
Busby £2.95
An Imagined World - June Goodfield. Penguin
£1.95
Twice Shy - Dick Francis, Pan £1.75
Roses in Winter - Joan Dial, Fontana £1>'5
Das Reich - Max Hastings, Pan £2.50
A Married Man - Piers Paul Read. Pavantv
£1.95
A Women of her Times - G J Scrimgeour. Pan
£2.50
Visions Before Midnight - Clive James.
Picador £1.95
Into that darkness - Gitta Sereny. Picador
£1.50
Lusitania - Colin Simpson, Penguin £1.95
The Gate of Heavenly Peace - Jonathan D
Spence, Penguin £4.50
Shearing the Ghosts Face with Ink -Raymond
Van Over, Picador £2.50
Phantom - Thomas Tessier, Pan £1.75
When the Tree Sings - Stratis Haviaras,
Picador £1.95
Celebrity - Thomas Thompson, Penguin £1.95
The Intruder - Gillian Tindall, Pavanne £1.95
McCarthy's List - Mary Mackey, Picador
£1.95
Diana Cooper - Philip Ziegler, Penguin £2.50
CND
We have invited Prof Mike Pentz, the vice-
chairman of CND to address a meeting at
lunchtime on Thursday May 12. He will speak
on: 'The Cruise Missile—'Deterrent' or a
weapon for nuclear war.'
Mike Pentz was a professor of physics here
at IC, and many of you may remember his
debate last year with Lord Chalfont, which he
dominated. He is an accomplished and
provocative speaker and well worth an hour of
your time. The meeting will take place in
Physics LT1 starting at 1:00pm, and we look
forward to seeing you there.
ICCND Group
STOIC
Good day and welcome to the twenty-fourth
week of full frontal television. Due to a severe
technical production problem (known as an
almighty cock-up), Michael Palin got away last
week but now we have found the scissors and
sticky tape we should be able to edit it in time
for this Tuesday. Watch out also for our new
fine weather service — including satellite
pictures more up to date than those on BBC
and ITV programmes; so if you want to know
whether the sun will shine (and if so which part
of Paul Simion's anatomy it will shine out
of)—see it first on STOIC.
Windband
Calling all wind players—this term sees the
repeat of the smash hit '1812' by Tchaikov-
sky, underthe Queen's Tower,completewithlive
mortar ettects. We still need more players to
supplement the band we have at the moment,
so if you can wield a wind or brass instrument
please come to the Great Hall on Monday at
5:45pm to give us a hand. To whet your
apetite, we'll also be playing the Dambusters
March (flying goggles not compulsory). The
concert will be at 1:00pm on Tuesday May 17.
See you there!
Chris
F E L I X H H H H I I H M H
Opsoc
A fortnight frolic 'midst the sun, sea and sand
of delectable Devon!
Sounds good, doesn't it? It's the Imperial
College Operatic Society's Summer Tour to
Budleigh Salterton in Devon. This year we are
performing Gilbert & Sullivan's The Gon-
doliers, a splendid show full of well-known
music. The dates \te July 23 to August 7
inclusive.
We need new members, though: Singers,
orchestra and stage crew. We rehearse every
Tuesday at 7:30pm in the Music Room, 53
Princes Gate. Come along and see us at
rehearsal or in the Southside Bar afterwards!
Alternatively you can contact us via IC Union
Office or Clive Paget, Elec Eng 2. It is not yet
too late to join, but don't leave it too long!
RCS
The details for Silwood tonight: sherry will be
served in the Bot/Zoo Common Room
between 6:30 and 7:30pm this evening. The
first coach will leave at about 7:00pm.
Next week we have the AGM on Tuesday
and Joint General Committee on Thursday.
The AGM starts at 1:00pm at Chemistry
lecture theatre A/B—just to confuse any
would be C&G Mascoteers. As usual this will
be followed by the new exec initiations
(revenge will be sweet). That evening there
will be an impromptu bar night.
The Joint Gen Comm starts at 6:00pm in
the Lower Refectory (not the SCR) following
the old (?) exec play the new exec at wine
draughts (groan). All reps, this year's and last,
are expected to attend as there will be lots to
discuss.
Finally a reminder that the Rag Fete takes
place next Saturday (May 14)—if you have any
ideas for stalls, etc, see myself or John
Ferguson (Physics 2) after all he's supposed to
be organising the whole thing.
See you this evening.
Fiona
Dramsoc
Diainsot' are once again going to the
Edinburgh Fringe (the world's largest drama
festival). This time under the pseudonym 'Beit
Theatre'. We have to change our name as
people wouldn't pay to see us if they thought
we were a punch of posing students.
The three productions we are taking are:
Between Time and Timbucks by Kurt
Vonnegut. to be directed by Mick Thackray
and Colin Cooper. This is a space fantasy TV
play with a relatively large cast (10 to 1000s)
and a lot of scope for creative costume design
and technical effects.
What Do You Say When You Say Goodbye
by Melodie Shan, a small cast play which will
be directed by Nick Moran and A Dramatic
Anthology of the Metaphysical Poets devised
by David Simmons. This will have a cast of
about five and hopefully one lute player.
Auditions: These will be held on Wednes-
dav May 11 at 7:30pm. Meet in the Dramsoc
Storeroom beforehand.
We are renting the venue in Edinburgh for
the entire four weeks of the fringe, and sub-
letting slots to other groups outside College
(some of them professional). This means we
need people there throughout the four weeks
to manage the technical side, and run front of
house. We also want people to deal with
publicity, for instance posters have to be put
up everyday as they get taken down so
quickly.
If you are at all interested in any of this
RUSH to the storeroom NOW and sign your
name up on the list of people thinking of going
to Edinburgh (this also applies if you want to
act but can't make it to the auditions).
PS: We still have two unsaleable morning
slots left, suitable for children's shows. So if
anyone can come up with a kiddies alternative
to Breakfast Telly (preferrably non-sexist, non-
racist, non-militarist, etc) see Colin Cooper
within the next week. A lot of money can be
made from this sort of show if it comes off.
¥ 0 Soc
I risk my safety with this revelation, but I feel
that the details of my friend Prof Paul Stark's
discovery must be voiced to the scientific
community—and I use this surreptitious
means to do so, maintaining my anonymity
into the bargain.
Some days ago Paul rang me in the early
hours of the morning, telling me that he had at
last developed a hundred percent efficient
synthetic elastic. He urged me to go down to
Cambridge straight away. As soon as I put the
phone down the dangerous implications of his
discovery dawned on me. I rang back but there
was no reply.
The sun was rising as I made my way to
Paul's lab. The door was locked but the
window through the door revealed Paul's fate.
Debris lay about the room, of both metal and
flesh. Blood splattered the floor and walls, and
a tiny black ball, looking just like a child's
power ball, ricochetted around and around the
room, never stopping. Paul was wrong, the
elastic was more than 100% efficient. The
thump of the ball on the door grew louder.
The army has cordoned off Cambridge and
MI5 want to 'talk' to me.
Doctor X
I May 6,19831 I Page9

