W H E N Y O U L E A V E C O L L E G E ,
D O N ' T L E A V E U S B E H I N D .
We're sure that over the past few years you've found it
convenient having your bank nearby.
It meant you could call in and talk about problems
rather than write. It also meant you were never far from
some helptul advice and services.
For these same reasons it makes sense to move your
account when you move. We'll make it very easy.
All you have to do is send us the coupon below and tell
us which is the most convenient Barclays branch for your
new address. (If you're not sure where you're moving to, just
hang on to this form until you are.)
Then when the time comes, we'll make sure your
new branch is expecting you and has your account all ready
for you.
We'll also arrange tor you to receive a new Barcl:."bank
card with the appropriate coding for your new branch. All
you have to do is make sure you hand in your present card
before you leave. One of the advantages you've enjoyed as a
student has been free banking. And that needn't change
when you move either.
If you keep a minimum of .('100 in your account your
cheques, statements and standing orders won't cost you a
penny.
As a graduate, though, there are several new advantages
to banking at Barclays.
There's our special Graduate Loan Scheme to help you
finance the time between college and your first pay cheque.
And when you have more money coming in it might be a
good time to think about opening a Bonus Savings Account.
This gives you extra interest if you save regularly.
For full information on all the ways we can help when
you graduate, why not call in and see your Student Business
Officer now.
For full written details of our credit terms, write to:
Paul Wilson, Barclays Bank PLC, 5th Floor, Juxon House,
94 St. Paul's Churchyard, London EC4M 8EH.
TO: BARCLAYS BANK PLC
Present Branch Address:
Please transfer my/our account(s) on:
(date)
together with any securities, boxes and parcels, authorities
and bankers orders which you hold on my/our behalfto:
New Branch Address:
I enclose my Barclaybank card. [_J
XO'l \: Any unused eheijiies drawn on l lit' hranih trom whjkh the aecount is transferred shun Id be
returned, preferably i
n person, to theoffkeon whieh they ate drawn or to the new .iciount-holdini:
br.mih I'nused personalised eredit slips should be destroyed and J
tresh supply obtained trom the new branch.
"Please advise Barclaycard ot my/our new address.
My/Our card number(s) is/are:
My/Our New Address:
Name(s):
Account Number:
Signature(s):
B A R C L A Y S
Page 101 May 6,1983 FELIX

