Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Do you have a great lecturer who teaches with enthusiasm? A supervisor who offered great guidance and advice to help you with your research?
Nominate them for an award. Got a lecturer who gives good, constructive and timely feedback? Share your feedback with us to give them recognition.
Has someone taught you in a really unique and innovative way? Tell us more!
Hundreds of students have sent in their nominations already, and we are looking for even more to help recognise the excellence and innovation
amongst Imperial’s academic and professional staff. By recognising and rewarding areas of excellence, Imperial College Union hopes that the SACAs
will continue to promote and develop high-standards of teaching across College.
For more information and to nominate a member of staff, head to imperialcollegeunion.org/sacas
Student Volunteering Week is back!
The Leadership Elections 2017 are your chance to shape the future of
student life at Imperial. Every single Imperial student, no matter their
subject, degree level, or campus, can cast their vote for the students that
will lead the groups that make this student community what it is. Imperial
College Union brings together Clubs, Societies & Projects, Constituent
Unions, Liberation Officers, Academic Representatives, and Community
Volunteers into one vibrant and active organisation.
Nominations open for all positions EXCEPT Clubs, Societies & Project
positions, which open Monday 13 February. Any student can run for any
of the many positions in The Leadership Elections 2017
. Some of the
positions are full-time, which means you need to take a year out of your
studies or be coming to the end of your course this academic year. Find out about all of the positions and stand now!
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
You are Imperial - stand in The Leadership Elections 2017
Showcase Poster & Pitch applications
We’recallingallStudentSocialEntrepreneursatImperialtotakeadvantage
of this exciting opportunity to showcase your social projects, initiatives
and enterprises. On Monday 20 March, we’ll be hosting the first ever
A.C.T. Now! Social Enterprise showcase. We’re looking for students to
submit an application to either pitch or present a poster at the showcase
and no matter what stage your enterprise is at you can apply for up to
£1,500 funding. Applications for pitching and poster presentations are
open now until Tuesday 14 February. To find out more, get involved and
submit an application visit
imperialcollegeunion.org/showcase-your-poster
StudentVolunteeringWeek (SVW) is taking place Monday 20 February – Sunday 26 February.
The aim of SVW is to bring together individuals and organisations from across the UK to
celebrate the achievements and impact of student volunteers in their local communities.This
year’s theme is Do Good;Feel Good!We will be doing good in the community at 12 different
events and feeling good for doing it.You can learn more about Scratch coding, planting seeds,
helping people with dementia and so much more. This will all culminate in the Volunteer
Dinner on Monday 27 February.
imperialcollegeunion.org/svw
Student Academic Choice Awards - nominations close 26 February

