Friday 10 February 2017 33
millennials.felix@ic.ac.uk felixonline.co.uk/millennials
felix
M I L L E N N I A L S
SEX
Well I guess it would probably involve one guy putting his penis in the
other guy’s mouth, or sometimes bum. Maybe some kissing.
Yes that’s fairly accurate. Most of my sexual encounters have
tended to revolve around oral or bum sex. There is a fairly wide
range of things guys do though, hand jobs can be fun. Mas-
turbating two penises together is another one. Rimming is also
great if you like that kind of thing.
A gay and a lesbian walk into a bar...
... and proceed to shatter any and all illusions you might have about gay sex
This week, I met with B.R Coli, a female queer friend, to talk about sex. We wanted to shed some light on the general ins and outs and common
misconceptions surrounding gay sex, as well as learn a bit about each other’s sex lives and see what common ground we have, and what’s different
between man sex and… well, woman sex. In adherence to heteronormative gender stereotypes B.R. Coli’s in pink and I’m in blue.
B.C. Maile
\\ Well
oral and manual
stuff definitely hap-
pens, but more often
than not toys are in-
volved \\
Man-on-man sex
My idea of lesbian sex is that it’s probably fairly orally focussed with a
fair bit of handy play?
Well oral and manual stuff definitely happens, but more often than not toys
are involved. Vibrators, dildos and strap-ons are common. It can be difficult
for a lot of girls to orgasm without using a toy of some kind. Do guys use
toys much?
OK, I think toys are a fairly common thing for gay guys, although I’d say
much less so. They are considered by many to be a bit of a kink.
Woman-on-woman sex*
*We are not sexist and will not refer to it as girl-ongirl sex
For guys, there’s usually a top (the guy who puts his penis into the
other one) and a bottom (the guy who gets a penis put in him).
There also tends to be a more dominant and a more submissive
partner. The top isn’t always the dominant one though, some-
times you get what’s called a ‘power bottom’ who takes the
lead in the encounter. For girls, is there a standard behavioural
dynamic where partners take distinct roles?
Yes, there tends to be a partner who takes a more dominant role
in lesbian sex too. Usually this partner will be using a toy or fingers
on a more passive or submissive one. There are some situations where
the roles are shared more evenly but I’d say for most, it’s an asymmetrical
dynamic. Age gaps are also a bit of a thing. Many women only feel able
to come out much later in life, and relationships between those women and
young lesbians are common.
Tops and bottoms
Actually a lot of the time you’ll fool around for ages without the orgasm
being a distinct aim, but it can still be a satisfying and pleasurable
sexual encounter without either partner coming. I’ve always been
curious though about bottoms. Do they cum?
Well generally guy sex ends in both partners coming. although
sometimes it’s just one or neither #helpful. The bottom gener-
ally does cum. During butt sex he gets a fair bit of pleasurable
stimulation to his prostate. Usually this won’t cause a hands free
orgasm but it makes it fairly quick when combined with masturba-
tion. Sometimes nobody cums but both partners have a great time.
It depends on the nature of the encounter really.
Cumming
Hookups
There’s a bit of a bar scene in London. There are some places where people
can go to pull. I’m not super into casual hook-ups but the bars are OK. From
my experience, they tend to be geared towards more femme girls and are
generally fairly cis-dominated environments. As for apps, the pickings are
fairly slim for girls. There’s Tinder, which people get some success on. There’s
also a dating app called Her which is aimed at queer, lesbian and bisexual
girls. People aren’t generally too willing to meet up on that one though.
I think it can be more difficult for girls meet each other. There is still
a lot of homophobia towards queer or lesbian girls so it can be
much more challenging to be open about your
sexuality.
I think that’s true. The male gay scene generally allows for
fairly easy hook-ups. Pulling in bars is fairly common. For me
I’ve met all of my partners through apps. Tinder is also used
among gay guys but in my experience, Grindr has yielded
much more success. For those who don’t know, it’s basically like
Tinder but everyone swipes right. Sometimes the hypersexual
nature of it can be a bit overwhelming though!
Well that’s all we have space for! I hope you guys enjoyed and learned
something from our chat. There was a lot of stuff I would have liked to
include, and many misconceptions about the way ‘the gays’ get down and
dirty that would be great to talk about BUT Rome wasn’t built in a day.

