FELIX
Steve Ragamuffin' verbosely speaks out on...
Charitable Fun
By now everyone should kno.w what Rag
is. The main aim is to raise money for
charity whilst having a fun time. This
may seem impossible, but it does work. I
feel totally justified in saying that,
because anyone who turns up to a Rag
Week event will automatically raise some
money for the worthwhile charities we
support this year and experience the best
way to enjoy yourself that's legal. So
what is Rag Week? This is twelve days of
events starting next Wednesday. Each
event is worth going to, so enjoy
yourself, let your hair down, forget all
about those (erm)...lectures.
Ta very much,
Steve, Happy IC Rag Chairman.
H o w to make a fully functioning Rag
Week.
Ingredients:
Lots of students, each with...
1 sense of humour
1 sense of adventure
1 monster thirst
1 brain
Stockings, basque, goats etc
1 sci-fi fetish
1 plastic bag and box of cotton wool
Lots of work to do
Some lecture notes (A4, any subject)
The desire to be entertained (TDTBE)
First, we take the cotton wool, plastic bag
and monster thirst and put them into the
JCR on Wednesday 14th. Here we
experience the Beer Festival. This is the
traditional start to Rag Week. There are
60 barrels of beer, cider and perries. It
runs from 12 noon 'till 11pm. The way it
works is: you buy a glass for £ 3 , this
carries the official beer festival logo and
is the only receptacle into which beer is
served, and presumably quaffed. For the
health food fiends, there should be curries
and burgers too. The monster thirst
should be allowed to soak in alcohol for
any of the 11 hours of the festival. The
plastic bag is for wrapping up your brand
new Rag Mag, which is launched at the
festival. The wrapping protects the Rag
Mag from the reader, and vice-versa. If
you don't have a sense of humour for
your ingredients list. One can be found
free, in the M a g .
Special limited edition 'Elephants Come
91' t-shirts will also be on sale from the
Rag stall along with other t-shirts, mags,
mugs etc. The cotton wool is used to
wrap the student and/or beer glass, to
avoid getting it smashed.
O n the Thursday (15th) we have Rocky
Horror Disco in the Union Lounge. This
requires the basque and stockings. The
night involves a bar extension, a disco,
thanks to the Ents kids and also the film.
The basque and stocking should then be
left to stand until (i) the Rag Raid or (ii)
The Mines Dirty Disco.
Friday (16th) sees the Hypnosis
Lecture. For this, take along the sense of
adventure and the brain to the great hall.
Martin S Taylor is a very good hypnotist.
I've even seen h i m hypnotise people to
laugh at FELIX, or even strange, imagine
that everyone else in the r o o m was
slowly taking off their clothes. The
lecture is a must for anyone who's
sceptical of hypnosis or just wants a
brilliant night's entertainment (bring
TDBTBE). If you're not sure about
volunteering, don't worry. Martin has
more to lose than you if he does anything
naughty and he doesn't do anything too
embarrassing anyway. If you're still
building the Rag Week at this point, let
your brain run free around the room. Let
somebody else control it for a while.
On Saturday we begin to get rather
busy. We have the Sci-Fi Marathon in
the SCR where you can watch videos and
play games. Bring along your sci-fi fetish
with you for 12 hours of intergalactic
bliss. For anybody who's stored away the
basque etc, they should come in very
handy at the Rag Raid. This is a trip to
Reigate to collect for BIBIC and is lots of
fun. It leaves the van park at 10am. In the
evening S C A B take over, for S C A B
Night. Don't worry it's not infectious, just
the entertainment/performance people
(Dramsoc, Rocksoc, Opsoc etc) putting on
one big production. So give T D B T B E
some exercise.
O n Sunday, y o u have the chance to get
out of your brain and socialise, with an
inter-CCU bar night. Everyone should be
providing a barrel (including me) so it
shoud turn out to be very interesting
indeed.
Monday plays host to Comedy Night in
the Concert Hall. There are a couple of
comics and a compere. Ents are providing
a disco, with a bar until 12 o'clock.
Next comes the C & G U Slave Auction,
on Tuesday 20th. So if you have your
'lots of work to do' ready, w h y not get
somebody else to do it. Slaves are
brought for a 24 hour period (any time)
but must be fed and watered. If you plan
to go for any of the tastier morsels, it's
best to group-bid, as Rugby Club usually
provide fierce competition. If anyone
wants to be a slave they can sign up in
the Guilds Office (Mech Eng, Level 3).
This is followed by Exec Initiative,
where the execs are dropped off in the
middle of nowhere and have to get back
to College, armed with only a lOp piece,
a Rag can and chained to somebody else.
In the evening we have a Barn Dance in
the JCR, w h i c h is pretty barn-like.
It's brain time again on Wednesday
21st, with the Bar Quiz. There's a chance
to beat that monster thirst by winning
lots of beer and several other prizes too.
Teams should be up to five people. O n
Thursday lunchtime there's plenty
happening in Beit Quad. For a few
pennies you can show your appreciation
of the Union and C C U execs by pouring
unpleasant things over them. Meanwhile,
overhead there are Aerosoc Darts flying
around. There's a prize for the furthest
and longest flights. The planes are
launched from Beit roof. So, those lecture
notes are A 4 aren't they? A t night ther's
the super, massive, RCS Smoking
Concert. This is a collection of rather
dubious acts. A n y o n e who possesses a
sense of humour is welcome to enter an
act. If you have any ideas, see Louise
Rafferty, RCS Office, Old Chemistry.
The entire Union Building is taken over
on Friday (23rd) for Guilds Carnival. By
this point, if you feel very tired but don't
want to stop, you're Rag W e e k is nearly
complete, however first y o u mut bttle
through two bands, videos, films and a
couple of discos, burgers, cocktails and a
2am bar extension. A n y potential helpers,
see Lucia Clipstone, C h e m E n g II (or
C&GU).
Relaxation is the name of the game on
Saturday 24th. W e start with a leisurely
streak back from Harrods: a leap from a
truck, wearing only a parachute, outside
Harrods—it's The Sponsored Kamikaze
Parachute Jump. (No brain, but a sense
of adventure required)—see Steve Farrant
DoC III or at the Rag Meeting if you want
to take part).
The afternoon has Bar Sports. So
teams of people who want to show their
experience at darts, shove ha'penny,
backgammon etc should meet in the bar.
There's also a knockout pool tournament
in the Snack Bar.
On Sunday (25th) it's C C U time again.
The traditional Tug-o-War takes place at
11am in Princes Gardens, followed by a
possible Raft Race over the Serpentine
for the C C U execs.
A n d then, finally, on M o n d a y 26th we
have the Mines Dirty Disco. The key
w o r d here is 'Dirty'. This has a reputation
for being probably the wildest
debaucherous party in Rag Week. It's
organised by the R S M and anything goes.
(Except perhaps the goats, so cross those
off the ingredients list.) So get that kinky
underwear out of the closet and show
your perversion to a room full of
strangers.
That's about it really, except there are
Hitsquad (Guilds), Gnoming, Grim-
Reapery and Pint-a-grams (RCS Office)
and Killer (RCS Office) running
throughout Rag Week. So go and see the
respective people for information.
OT1X)
10

