FELIX
Roland Flowerdew investigates the history that led to Professor
Freedom Fightei
Professor Fang L i Zhi, the dissident
Chinese astrophysicist who has been
described as "the most outspoken Chinese
scientist in the last ten years", is expected
to lecture at Imperial College next
Wednesday. (See the news pages for
more details.) Professor Fang recently
escaped from China, after a year in the
United States' embassy in Peking. His
release was probably partly in exchange
for the restoration of "most-favoured
nation" trading status of China by the
USA.
What part did Professor Fang play in
the Chinese students' protest in
Tiananmen Square, and w h y was he a
key figure in the improvement of Sino-
American relations?
During this century many changes have
taken place in China, the third largest
country in the world, and home to a
quarter of the world's population. Until
the early 1900s, China was under the rule
of dynastic emperors, and enjoyed a
political system much as is seen in
present-day South Korea, Singapore and
Taiwan: economic freedom but limited
political freedom.
China's civilisation is one of the oldest
in the world, but until the early
nineteenth century it remained in relative
isolation from surrounding civilisations.
This isolation meant that China failed to
react to the threat posed by the rise of
imperialistic nations such as Great Britain,
and it suffered in conflicts such as the
Opium W a r in 1839-42, at the end of
which Hong K o n g was ceded to Britain.
After this point internal troubles divided
the country, whilst the West and Japan
became controlling powers.
The last Chinese dynasty ended in
January 1912. The Nationalist party
attempted to unify the country, establish
statehood and introduce democracy.
However, they never had complete
control over the whole country: the
power was with the army and region was
set against region. Minor civil wars broke
out between Nationalists, Communists and
local warlords.
This strife was thrown into confusion
when Japan invaded in 1937, with the
loss of many lives and the destruction of
much of the national infrastructure. The
Japanese occupation continued until the
end of the second world war.
Once more civil war broke out between
the Nationalist and Communist parties.
The Communist party had the support of
the peasants who comprised the vast
majority of the population, and were
perceived to have tried harder and done
a lot more against the occupying
Japanese.
The civil war claimed between 11 and
12 million lives, and ended when the
Nationalist party fled to the island of
Taiwan and proclaimed the People's
Republic of China. The general population
of China were pleased that the
Demonstration outside Chinese Embassy in June last year.
Communist party had come to power: the
country was no longer in a state of civil
war, but was independent and free from
foreign control.
Under the leadership of M r Mao
Zedong, China turned to the USSR for
advice in building a socialist superstate. In
the early 1950s, all land was taken into
state ownership, and the possession of
machinery, property, farm animals and so
on was forbidden. Slowly disenchantment
began to set in.
In 1958 M r Mao abandoned the Soviet
approach, and launched the "Great Leap
Forward"; organising peasants into
communes, and forcing them to meet
state-set production targets. During this
time intellectuals criticised the Communist
party, and 20-30% of university lecturers
were punished for their criticisms.
The "Great Leap" did not work: the
commune system had to be relaxed and
incentives had to be introduced. The
recognition that economic Utopia was
unsuccessful did not extend to politics,
and in 1966 M r Mao introduced the
Cultural Revolution.
This was an attempt to stop the
emergence of an intellectual elite, and
was the external effect of a power
struggle within the Communist Party. It
aimed to clear out all capitalistic ideas
and thoughts, and wiped out all the
previous economic achievements. A s in
the French Revolution, many people were
denounced as being "bourgeois" and
"class enemies", and tens of thousands
were killed.
Although many people accepted this,
others began to look back and think.
Perhaps a friend or relative had been
killed for saying things against the state,
but was anything w r o n g w i t h that? They
started to doubt.
The Cultural Revolution ended in 1976
with the death of Mr Mao, and M r Deng
Xiaoping came to power. A t first he
allowed criticism, and there was a little
more freedom. A r o u n d 1977 there was
the "Peking Spring", similar to Speaker's
corner in H y d e Park, where people spoke
out, and posters were allowed. However,
people began to get bolder and started to
criticise the then-current situation and M r
Deng himself, which he failed to
appreciate, so the limited freedom was
removed altogether.
In 1979, a Chinese worker, formerly in
the army, began to criticise the
Communist party. M r W e i Jing Sheng,
described as "a pioneer in Chinese
democracy", said that Mr Deng should
not be treated like an emperor or another
Mao. He was jailed for 15 years, the
official reason being that he had leaked a
military secret to a foreign journalist.
(Since he had no access to military
secrets this is hard to believe!)
It was after the incarceration of Mr W e i
that Professor Fang became more
Fang Li Zhi's release from
outspoken, in open or semi-open
circumstances. H e made a lot of speeches
at universities, and brought an insight
into what was going on. M a n y of the
ideas or thinking of the students who
demonstrated in Tiananmen Square
originated with him.
The students were the people who
openly stated their dissatisfaction with the
Chinese system. Interestingly, the
demonstration in Tiananmen Square was
not so much because of the lack of
political freedom, although this is a major
issue, but because of increased economic
freedom without controlling laws and
effective taxation.
What happened was that restrictions
were lifted: people are able to buy small
houses, to o w n corner shops, to o w n cars
BUT the only people who can afford to
do this are those in or who have relatives
in the Communist party structure. Not
only this, but supplies of goods to shops
are controlled by party officials, and go
China.
to those who k n o w or bribe them.
Any taxation system that existed before
the rise of C o m m u n i s m has been
forgotten, hence those w h o have
influence can make money and get rich
very quickly, whilst helping no-one else.
The party leaders still have absolute
power, and their families make the most
of it, a fulfilment of the Orwellian "all are
equal, but some are more equal than
others." In other words, a few people are
in the position to make a lot of money
(and do so), but at the expense of
everyone else.
Things came to a head in M a y last year
when the inertial "fear barrier" was
broken: the students' feelings were shared
by the general citizens and workers of
Peking, culminating with the
demonstrations. The grievances are
many: the people are not happy with the
bureaucracy and corruption of the
present government, the low wages and
high inflation, the lack of restrictions as
FELIX
described previously, the lack of political
freedom, the lack of true economic
freedom, the lack of freedom of speech
and thinking.
The night after the massacre in
Tiananmen Square (4 June 1989),
Professor Fang sought sanctuary in the
US embassy, where he remained for
nearly 13 months. A t the end of June this
year, he arrived in the U K With his wife,
Professor L i Shuxian, and has since taken
up a guest research professorship at the
Institute of Astronomy, University of
Cambridge.
The restoration of trade links with
China has been welcomed by dissidents in
this country, because they consider that
sanctions will only make the country
more introspective and isolated. Trade
must continue so that people in China
can see some of the outside world and
tell others what it is really like. The
campaign for Chinese democracy
continues...
Opinion: US-Arab Alliance Crumbles
Why did the United States of America,
Israel's most powerful ally, condemn her
over the Temple Mount Killings?. The US
is perceived as friendly towards Israel and
inimical towards the Arab world. It was
necessary to reassure her new A r a b
military allies where her loyalty lay.
The US presence in the Gulf and Saudi
Arabia has complicated regional political,
religious and military problems. To a
Moslem, the presence on Moslem soil of a
Jew, Christian or pagan is totally
unacceptable; to be within one thousand
kilometres of Mecca or Medina, the
holiest of Moslem sites, is sacrilegious.
The US army is the major foreign force in
the Gulf—US army men are cooking
sausages on Saudi Arabian soil while
A m e r i c a n w o m e n are free to walk around
with uncovered faces and exposed skin.
The US, Israel's most powerful and
richest foreign sponsor, is now allied
militarily with almost the entire Arab
world for mutual protection against the
whims of Saddam Hussein. T h e alliance is
vulnerable: precarious enough for the US
to sponsor its first United Nations
condemnation of Israel.
Why does the US need this alliance so
badly? The US economy is a mess; the
budget deficit is high and a new world
recession m a y be imminent. One man,
Saddam Hussein, controls a large
proportion of the world's oil supply. The
crisis could not have come at a more
inopportune time. Despite all the
economic reasons for military
intervention, the American government
must justify both its initial reaction and its
escalating presence in the Gulf to the
American people.
Their first justification was the defence
and maintenance of internationally
accepted national boundaries. However,
in recent weeks the US has introduced
the phrase 'a new world order'. They
claim that out of the crisis can come
peace and serenity to the whole Volatile
region.
The vulnerability of the oil supply from
the Gulf is not a new issue. During the
Iran-Iraq war, the majority of foreign
support was given to Iraq, which was
perceived as a lesser threat to the oil
supply to the West. It was at this stage
that the CIA actively sponsored Saddam
Hussein's rise to power in Iraq. The
Soviet Union supplied arms and military
hardware, while the Germans and British
helped set up its chemical weapon
capability. Its future nuclear capability
(only five to ten years away) was aided
by Britons, Germans, Italians and French.
British relations with A r a b countries are
ambiguous; they are tainted with the
effects of international terrorism. The
bombing of P a n A m flight 103 was
organised by a Palestinian terrorist group,
based in Damascus and supported by
Syrians. The attempt to bomb an El A l
flight in w h i c h the pregnant Irish
girlfriend of a Palestinian was tricked into
carrying a bomb in her suitcase, again
received back-up from Syrians. Syrians
control the taking and release of hostages
in the Lebanon; it seems that no hostages
will be released until Britain restores
diplomatic relations with Syria.
Intervention by Europe and the US on
behalf of the A r a b world against Saddam
Hussein can easily be interpreted as
imperialistic action. This is distasteful to
an Arab world which has suffered m u c h
foreign-
intervention in recent times.
Historically the Moslem countries were
united in an A r a b world and at times
there were no borders. However, this was
before the concept of nation and
nationalities really existed. Modern-day
borders are seen as hangovers from
imperialistic days. Although Arabs share a
c o m m o n religion this has not always led
to peace in the region: as always, the
quest for power and yet more power on
the part of a few results in strife and
instability.
It was imperialistic intervention that
shaped the modern map of the Middle
East region. Kuwait is a principality, the
creation of w h i c h was heavily supported
by the British historically. For a brief
period in its history Kuwait was part of
ancient Iraq. However, the use of ancient
borders as an excuse for invasion is
invalid.
Several weeks after the invasion of
Kuwait, Saddam Hussein linked a possible
military withdrawal from Kuwait with an
Israeli withdrawal from Gaza and the
West Bank. A t that point Israel was
inextricably drawn into the conflict. The
world watched and waited. The killings at
the Temple Mount were a gift to Saddam
Hussein. It put the Arab-US alliance under
threat. Israel lost her blanket US support
and her international credibility, and the
first chink was made in the front against
Saddam Hussein.
Anna Teeman.

