Chris Riley reports on the recent Institute of Mining and Metallurgy (IMM) Remote
Sensing conference in which two Soviet scientists out-shined the multi-million dollar
satellite technology on display, with their revolutionary telepathic prospecting methods
of oil exploration.
W h e r e E a r t h m e e t s S k y
This week saw the long awaited I M M
conference on Remote Sensing at the
very unmemorable Novotel in
Hammersmith. Remote Sensing, as the
name implies, involves surveying a
planet; air, sea or land without direct
contact.
Such information from airborne sensors
offers a different perspective; a synoptic
or broad area coverage that makes it
possible to view entire mountain ranges,
river drainage basins or complete
weather systems. Isolated regions can be
mapped and elevations, geological
formations, drainage systems, water
depths or land-use patterns can be
recorded quickly and accurately.
The I M M Conference aimed to
concentrate on Remote Sensing as an
operational technology for the mining
and petroleum industries. The nature of
this subject brought the firmly Earth-
based traditional geologists into contact
with 'high-flying', image processing,
number crunching computer buffs.
Talk in the bars, exhibition halls and
restaurants was of GIS (Geographic
Information Systems) Raster Graphics,
VGA monitors, micro, mini and super
computers, parallel processing, 286's,
386's, Landsat T M (Thermatic Mapper),
MSS (Multi-Spectral Scanners), SPOT (the
French satellite), panchromatic images,
false colour composites, pattern
recognition, DEM's (Digital Elevation
Models), M T M ' s (Digital Terrain Models),
band ratios, edge enhancements, drop-
outs, spectral signatures, megabytes,
gigabytes and 'trilobytes'!!
Companies exhibiting at the conference
ranged from A / S G E O T E A M (representing
ENERGIA—the Russian equivalent of
NASA) to the Kent-based Nigel Press
Associates—founded in 1972 by a former
Imperial MSc student; all proudly
displaying aesthetically pleasing false
colour images.
Mouses clicked and hard discs whirred,
sending swirling paint box pictures of
artificially coloured deserts and mountain
ranges onto high resolution screens.
There were those developing software
to strip away vegetation coverings from
images, revealing potential mineral
settings and thus prompting the real
destruction of the vegetation during
exploration! Others were content to
develop educational software packages to
teach image processing techniques to
people who could then write more
educational software!
All this effort was aimed at cutting
down on time and money consuming
fieldwork, thus moving towards the
extinction of the geologist! Colourful,
glossy poster exhibitions complemented
the flashy computer simulations. T w o
researchers from Imperial College; Q M
Wang, and N P Vassos displayed their
work respectively on basin analysis in
China and mineral exploration in South
Africa. Liu Jian Guo and John M c M
Moore of the Royal School of Mines
presented a paper on image enhancement
of gold alteration in south-east Spain.
Other speakers came from America,
Russia, the U K , France, Germany, Spain,
China and Sweden. Geologists spoke of
over-active pattern recognition software
applied to images to highlight faults,
roads, fences, pipelines and anything else
vaguely straight. Computer buffs spoke of
nauseatingly user-friendly GIS which
integrated satellite images with geological
maps, geochemical data, geophysical data
and anything else they could lay their
hands on!!
BP, a co-sponsor, blew its o w n trumpet
deafeningly and splashed its new 'old'
green logo all over the screens.
The stars of the three days were the
Russians who told of their new methods
for forecasting onshore and offshore oil
and gas. They talked of simply drawing
concentric circles around the locations of
anomalous geochemical samples. Where
these circles intersect turns out
miraculously to be the source of the
anomaly. These circles can be thought of
as spheres in three dimensions—thus
providing a depth to the anomaly. The
crucial radius of the circles was calculated
by 'complex mathematics'; the details of
which were to be kept a secret, partly
due to the death of the leading scientist
in a car crash.
They couldn't explain the findings and
simply explained that it w o r k e d in 70% of
cases. Furthermore they had collaborated
with the famous mental spoon bender Uri
Geller in a sort of 'oil divining'
experiment by testing his predictions of
new oil fields in Siberia, Stautsev and
Karasev concluded their talk with the
statemen 'so this method works well!'.

