S p o r t
SPORT
Football
IC H - 4 Kings II—0
Even though he wasn't playing on
Saturday, P Gascoigne sadly couldn't turn
out for IC II to solve their player
shortage. Without his presence IC still
managed to w i n , in fact rather
convincingly, to leave Kings II with tears
in their eyes. They were no match for
the superior IC team. R Muthoo chipped
the keeper beautifully from outside the
box to give IC the lead. C Gilmour made
it 2-0 with a close range header. The
second half saw the appearance of S
Barry, the fragile centre-forward, w h o
finished off two classy team moves with
ease. A biased ref was Kings' only
defence against the rampant IC. A n
excellent team performance was
enhanced by debut right back A A n w a r .
Charing Cross II—0 IC I V - 1
After having been beaten 2-0 (by the
4ths) and 9-1 in their opening games of
the season, the 5ths decided to improve
their chances by importing a player from
a higher team to influence this match.
Versatile may be the word of the day as
Phil, the 5ths Captain, decided to do this
right back in goal.
Setting aside this strange lapse of
intelligence, they began the game with
some attractive football, and in fact it was
within these opening ten minutes that the
crucial goal was scored. Initial intense
pressure led to Nick Millman taking IC's
first corner. The box was packed, the
tension high, but the corner seemed to be
curling in too close to the keeper, and
the cause seemed futile.
Perhaps due to the chill w i n d blowing,
or the imposing character of the 5ths, the
opposition's keeper seemed to hesitate
and then completely panic as he found
himself totally musjudging the cross. Phil,
standing just behind the said keeper,
collapsed in an agonised heap, as the ball,
to his innocent surprise, passed through
the goalie's hands, hitting him on the
shoulder, to rebound into the net.
From then on, IC felt justified in playing
with a certain air of complacency, almost
to their regret. The opposition began to
pose more of a threat than was initially
expected, and it was only some good
defending that kept the score intact.
Hockey
IC Ladies 1 - 0
Southgate Adelaide II—0
The Imperial College team was somewhat
apprehensive about playing on the
Southgate cabbage patch after the
delights of the Imperial astroturf.
Nevertheless the skills of Imperial were so
finely tuned that we still couldn't stop the
ball or even hit it!
Imperial miraculously managed to
prevent the opposition from scoring.
Congratulations must go to the Imperial
defence for being consistently strong
throughout.
The forward line was somewhat
Badminton
Imperial College Badminton Club had a
promising start to the U A U season,
beating Kent University at home in all
three matches. Despite having three first
team players out, they w o n their matches
convincingly with the loss of only one
game.
Meanwhile the second team had no
difficulties white-washing the opposition—
mainly because Kent seconds didn't turn
up! The team, mainly made up of
freshers, were disappointed to win this
way—hopefully they will get a game next
time.
The IC ladies also had a comparatively
easy win. This year the ladies' team is a
lot stronger and will hopefully progress
into the latter stages of the championship.
The following Wednesday IC first team
had a close shave against the visiting
team from R H B N C . The match got off to
Running
Imperial College has produced two of the
best female runners in the University of
London this year. Helen Macintosh and
Keri Warden-Owen have been selected to
run in the W o r l d Women's Student Road
Relay Championships in Osaka, Japan.
They will be winging their way round the
world along with the other six members
of the U L team at the end of November.
Ten foreign countries are represented
including USSR, U S A , Italy and Australia
as well as 20 Japanese teams taking part.
It is an international event with several
Olympic athletes competing.
Helen is this year's U L Cross-Country
Captain and she was part of the 1989
muddled due to the fact that it consisted
of five inners. Afer a few hints from the
Captain, Darrell and Caren worked out
where the wings were but didn't see the
point of using them.
We had several attacks at goal which
would have been more productive if our
players had remembered that it was
hockey not football. W e were unlucky not
to score, but if the team continues to
improve as it has in the last few games,
there will be no stopping the ladies.
a good start with IC winning the first two
games. The visitors took advantage of the
lack of concentration by IC to level the
score before IC got back in control, with
Reshan Jumar and Richard Langford
giving IC an important point coming from
behind to win the rubber, set and match
17-16 to make the score 4-2.
IC firsts had to w i n one more game out
of three. Jin Y e e L i m and A l a n Crow
failed to do so losing a tight game 15-5,
15-17, 14-15. It was down to the reliable
pairing of Bharat Popat and Trevor
Kernick who wrapped up their match
easily making the final score 5-4 to IC.
The ladies continued their winning
streak this time whitewashing their
opponents 9-0. IC men's second team
repeated the score playing their first U A U
match this season.
Ekiden team. Last year she bumped into
Bono and B B King in the hotel and on
their way home to London, the team
were mobbed in Tokyo!
So if this has whet your appetite, the
trials for next year's team start at the U L
Athletics Championships in March,
although participation in the current
Cross-Country events will gain you
preferential selection. There are six
distances to run: 2 x 7.5km, 2 x 6km, 1 x
5km and 1 x 3 km, so there is plenty of
choice.
If you want to k n o w more contact
Helen Macintosh (Chem E n g 4).
18

