Sailing
The weekend of 3 and 4 November
turned out to be one of great contrasts as
far as IC Sailing Team were concerned.
Thirteen teams from all over the
country had converged at the Welsh Harp
for a weekend of sailing, drinking and
bonfire making. The trouble started
during the first match against IC O l d
Boys, who administered a sound
thrashing and continued through Saturday
until a short, sharp swim led to a
substitution in our last race of the day.
Swansea ladies had a bad start but with
a fumble at the bottom mark by our
second boat, they managed to get past
and they achieved a 2,3,4 winning
combination. In a last bid to stave off
defeat the offender took a different route
to the finish to the rest of the field; only
to find himself in second place across the
line and IC winning their second race this
term.
It was now time for the main part of
the day's business: the lighting of the
bonfire, the setting off of fireworks and
the drinking of beer.
Unfortunately we were scheduled for
the first race the next morning, but a
quick search through the bodies littering
the clubhouse could only locate a grand
total of two team members (out of six).
Undaunted, Richard M u r r a y and Henry
Nebrensky decided to compete anyway
after borrowing a few people and Liam's
late arrival. Just as we were leaving the
pontoon, we faced U E A again. They had
already beaten us the previous day, but
some small battered remnant of team
spirit pulled us together for a confusing
hectic race that left them defeated.
W e set off in a good m o o d for our next
race. Swansea II had clearly not
recovered from the night before, their
defence crumbled as we swept to a 1,2,3
victory. Unfortunately the rest of our
races ended up being cancelled.
Do you need a
cupboard?!
A 53cm x 90.5cm x 180cm wooden
cupboard in a very good condition;
used for only 3 months. It was bought
for £200, but it'll be sold for £95.
The cupboard is in Linstead Hall
Basement. If you want to have a look
at it or get more information please
contact:
Maha Halabi, BSc III Computing
C l u b s
Dance
Dance Club activities are in full swing
now, with the Ballroom, Latin American
and Rock 'n' Roll lessons well attended
and the teams training hard. W e are
starting an Intermediate Rock 'n' Roll
class on M o n d a y evenings at 6pm in the
JCR. A n y beginners from last year or
people with some experience are
welcome to c o m e along.
W e are holding a 24-hour sponsored
dance marathon for the B B C Children in
Need Appeal on November 16/17 in the
JCR. Not quite as tiring as it s o u n d s -
participants have to dance 12 hours
(minimum!) o n a rota system. This way
we always have a good number on the
floor. Last year we raised £5,000. W e ' d
like to do better this year, so anyone
interested in having a lot of fun for a
good cause can collect details from any of
our lessons.
A quick plug for the 1990 London Ball
on December 8. This event combines lots
of social dancing with the chance to enter
competitions, even at beginner level. It is
a great opportunity to show off your new
steps in a light-hearted atmosphere.
Details available in lessons.
W e will be starting new beginners
classes in January for all y o u would-be
dancers who didn't get going and join in
this term. So come along and learn to
dance in time for the Spring Balls!
Enviro
The Society had its first lunchtime lecture
on October 22, given by D r Shanklin of
the British Antarctic Survey on the
'Ozone hole over the Antarctic'. The title
of the lecture differed from the one
advertised, a n d we would like to
apologise for this and promise that it will
not happen again. The lecture was very
enjoyable with some spectacular slides.
Thanks to all of you w h o attended the
lecture, and we hope to see you in our
future events.
Many more lectures and events have
been arranged for this term, which will
be listed in the Society's newsletter sent
to all current members. The list of
members includes only those who joined
this year, and so please renew your
membership (£1.50) at the weekly
meeting, which takes place every Monday
at 12.30pm in the Southside Upper
Lounge.
ULUGay
& Lesbian
The three meetings held so far this term
have attracted a large attendance.
Michael Cashman (Eastender's Colin)
spoke to us o n October 11 about the
need for more equality for lesbians and
gays in Britain. A question-and-answer
session highlighted what w e could all do
to help this come about.
Our first social occasion (October 18)
enabled new faces to get to k n o w each
other. A new committee for 1990/91 was
elected, and the society's library of over
80 books was made available to all those
present. A discussion was initiated
concerning experiences of 'coming out',
and any lessons learnt were passed on to
those w h o need it.
This coming week our guest speaker is
Chris Smith—the only 'out' gay M P in the
House of Commons. He will be talking
about Labour's policy towards lesbians
and gays. A n opportunity for questions
and discussion will follow.
W e meet each week, as always, at
7.30pm in R o o m 2D (second floor) of the
University of London Union, Malet Street,
London W C 1 .
For further information or
correspondence, you can contact the
committee through the society pigeonhole
on the ground floor at U L U , or to me via
the Geology department student mail
here at IC (second floor, RSM).
Many thanks to last year's committee
for a marvellous job at such initial short
notice. I wish Michael Phillips all the best
in Geneva.
Photo
Do you want to learn how to develop
and print your o w n films? If so w h y not
come along on any Tuesday to Southside
Upper Lounge at 1pm. W e run lessons in
developing and printing black and white
and printing colour negatives and
transparencies. W e have our own fully
equipped darkroom with all necessary
materials to do black and white and
equipment for doing colour work.
If you are simply looking for facilities to
do your o w n w o r k and are already
proficient then just come along to find
out more details.
19

