The Ides of November
T o m Stevens, the Business Manager for
Imperial College, was dismissed in an
unexpected move last Friday. He was not
given any notice and cleared his desk in
three hours, after being called in specially
on his day off. There has been much
speculation upon the reasons behind the
action, but nobody is aware of, or willing
to reveal, the full official motives behind
the sacking.
Questioned officials were keeping their
knowledge close to their chests as
rumours spread. Mr Rob Northey told
Felix that he was 'surprised' by the move,
although his answers were short and
obviously pre-planned. It is k n o w n that
Mr Northey had been quite surprised by
the fact that Felix had not questioned him
upon the matter earlier.
Managing Director of the College,
Angus Fraser, was also keeping tight
lipped over the situation. He reacted in
much the same way over Mr Northey's
decision to resign three weeks ago
although he seemed more confident about
this issue. W h e n asked about the reasons
behind the sacking he said that he was
'not going to make any comment' on why
Mr Stevens was dismissed, and that he
did not see the advantage in speculation.
In particular Mr Fraser would not
comment on the speed of dismissal or the
reactions of the Rector, n o w in India.
The Rector was present at the time of
the meeting which decided the fate of M r
Stevens and left for India on 28th
October, five days before the dismissal
was made. It is thought that a decision
was made that depended upon the
opening of the tendered bids for
Montpellier occurring on 1st November,
for which the reserve price was &7.5M. It
would appear that no suitable applications
were received.
Mr Stevens was instrumental, in part, in
the setting up of the Clayponds contracts
with the estate agents Cluttons, which lost
the College an estimated £300,000, and
was in charge of the sale of Montpellier
Hall.
Angus Fraser did say that arrangements
had been made to split the responsibilities
of T o m Stevens job. This naturally
included Rob Northey on the catering
side and Gordon Marshall, the relatively
new Director of Estates, on the estates
side. This split leaves the situation much
as it was before the appointment of a
Business Manager. He did not however
wish to make any further comment on
the appointment of a new person to the
now vacant position. It is thought that
these matters were discussed at an
unscheduled meeting at 170 Queensgate,
the Rector's residence, on Wednesday.
People present included Angus Fraser,
Peter Mee and one of the Deans from the
Constituent Unions.
Angus Fraser-No Comment
As far as Clayponds went he said that
he had 'nothing to say on that point at
this time' but the matter was being
pursued to finalisation, as had been
planned.
Rob Northey is now staying on as
Refectories Manager and is likely to be
here untill sometime around July. On this
matter Angus Fraser said he had had a
chat with Rob and that they had agreed
to defer his finishing date. Previously,
after M r Northey's resignation, he had
failed to persuade him to remain, despite
a two hour long meeting.
College Day Elicits Response
Yesterday, the threat of a longer college
day produced the largest turnout for a
Union General Meeting (UGM) this year.
One motion and two bye-laws were
passed, the motion being that the Union
President, Paul Shanley, should convey to
the W o r k i n g Party on the College Day
the stance that changes to the college
day are not acceptable and that the, over-
theoretical, workloads should be reduced
from their artificialy high state.
The first bye-law change, speeding up
the merger of ICU and St Mary's was
passed without discussion. The second,
allowing sabbaticals to stand for a second
year was passed after a short debate. The
bye-law change will not allow a student
to have more than two sabbatical years
and restricts campaining to acts that in
no way affect their sabbatical duties. Both
of these bye-laws must be passed at the
next U G M at St. Mary's before they are
accepted.
After the bye-laws had been passed,
Paul Shanley asked the assembly for
feedback to take to the W o r k i n g Party as
he felt that he was not a representative
student in this matter. Taking a series of
votes, he found that most of the students
present would prefer the college day to
remain as it is, although some would
tolerate an extra half hour in the
morning a n d / o r evening.
Most of the objections to any changes
stemmed either from traveling times and
the difficulty of reaching the college early
in the morning or the difficulty of getting
to hall meals in time.
The RCS handed to Paul a survey that
had been undertaken in various
departments. The overwhelming
statement made by 646 replies to the
survey was that the college day should
remain as it is.
Chair Awarded KO!
Dr Tony Ridley, who has recently worked
on the Eurotunnel project, has been
announced as the holder of the Rees
Jeffreys Chair of Transport Engineering in
the Department of Civil Engineering.
The Chair is sponsored by the Rees
Jeffreys Road Fund who's interests are
based upon the recognition that travel
and movement of goods has to balanced
with the limitations of land space and
enviroment.
The Rector said that 'His appointment
will serve further to enhance the
worldwide reputation of the Department'.
The Imperial College Engineering School
has already been nominated by several
hundred academics within the EC, in a
poll, as the best in Europe and this
appointment can only help to keep it's
status as such.
A flying elbow sent Cathy McClay, City
and Guilds Union President, into
concussion last Thursday. The hit and run
elbow occured on the dance floor of the
C & G Boat Party.
Cathy was tended by Warwick Mullen
and Claire Kerry whilst the party
continued and was taken to hospital
when it ended. Cathy said that she had
not been into college m u c h during the
week but was recovering.
2

