Abaya
Dear Chris,
Having read the second letter by
Athena, I now realise how mistaken S
Choudhery was to attempt to reply with a
sensible factual argument. It is clear that
Athena likes being controversial and
inflammatory, hoping to overcome
apathy. I am, however, concerned
(honest, 1 a m losing sleep over that one!)
that there may be some people out there
among your readership who actually hold
such views. It is quite hopeless to try to
reason with such people, but fortunately
the majority of your readership are quite
sensible people. I thought it would be
worthwhile to look at the workings of
Athena's few braincells in an attempt to
explain this strange phenomenon.
There are two points I would like to
make here. First, I would like to
apologise to all Greeks and admirers of
Greek culture for the rather inappropriate
name chosen by the specimen in
question. T o avoid confusion I shall refer
to our subject as 'Ath', thus sparing
Athena the humiliation of being
associated with A t h .
Secondly, m a y I apoligise in advance
for m y ignorance of Ath's language but I
do have an excuse. Y o u see, I come from
an ancient civilisation, and while Ath's
ancestors were occupying charming cave
dwellings and communicating in a
combination of grunts and body odours,
my ancestors were already quite fluent in
an ancient language. Alas, it was not
English. I am, however, making an honest
attempt to learn the language. This is due
mainly to the fact that I a m studying at
one of 'his' Universities (thus subsidising
the Government), and not because I have
invaded any of his allies. O n that point, I
don't quite see the wisdom i n learning
Ath's language if all I want to do is
invade one of his country's allies, but on
the other hand, being allied to Kuwait, it
may be worthwhile for culturally more
advanced people like himself to learn its
language.
Back now to Ath's braincells. It is
interesting to see the warped logic in
minds such as his. Take, for example, his
views o n mature cultures. He assumes, of
course, that his culture is several hundred
years more mature than others. I
presume he also thinks that it is better
for the future of the world as a whole if
all peoples of the worlds adopt his
culture. I don't k n o w about you, but I
would worry if the accepted notion of a
good time, i n the world's most mature
culture were to be: the elimination of all
traces of blood from one's alcohol,
followed by excessive vomiting, urinating
through other people's letter boxes and
abusive behaviour towards all people
deemed to be of a 'less mature' culture.
Another interesting illusion i n the
specimen's clouded reasoning, is that
whole races can be culturally immature.
This obviously means that backwardness
is hereditary. This could be of great value
to scientific research into anthropology,
since it probably means that Ath's
ancestors used to relieve themselves i n
the entrances of each others' caves, a fact
which, if verified by any excavations or
such like, could explain a hell of a lot!
As for Ath's political views I think that
they are not really worth examining, not
even in jest, because for many people in
this college including myself, it would be
in very bad taste indeed. I still meet
friends who have just come out of
Kuwait, a n d have lost contact with many
others who are still there. There are
people in this college whose families are
still inside. Lives have been lost and
many more could still be lost. The end
result of all this is more frustration and
oppression of those 'culturally immature'
people for the sake of everyone else's
political and economic interests.
Finally, let us not forget that people
like A t h in positions of power are
dangerous. It was not so long ago, that
they were in hysterics about the
backward culture coming out of Iran, a n d
were all i n favour of Saddam Hussein
'...spending his money, not for the good
of the people, but o n arms, developing
nuclear weaponry, chemical weaponry,
fighting lengthy wars and killing people...'
. Yours sincerely,
Amin El-Choly, DoC PG.
P.S. I a m expecting a reply from A t h ,
because m y critical examination of the
non-functioning of his brain reveals that
he would not pass up o n such an
opportunity to make even more a fool of
himself. I urge you to cast the same
critical eye o n such a reply, to witness for
yourself how such 'minds' work.
P.P.S. It is quite possible that the
specimen is quite aware of its sad
affliction, and therefore refuses to reveal
its true name. Come out of the closet
Ath, it may not be curable, but w e can
stop it spreading.
Postgrad Lunch 12.30pm
Chaplains Office (10 Princes Gardens). See
West London Chaplaincy.
Fencing Training 12.30pm
Beginners Training.
Fencing Training 1.30pm
General.
Gliding Club Meeting l.OOpm
Aero 266. Come and arrange a trial flight. All
newcomers welcome.
Papua New Guinea Exp. '90 5.30pm
Meet W3/W2 (near Beit Arch). Three intrepid
third years speak.
Keep Fit 5.30pm
Southside Gym
Midweek Service 5.30pm
Chaplains Office (10 Prince's Gardens). See
West London Chaplaincy.
Social Ballroom 6.00pm
JCR. Intermediate.
Judo 6.30pm
Union Gym.
Social Ballroom 7.00pm
JCR. Beginners.
Latin American 8-.00pm
22
JCR. Gold medal class.
ICCAG Soup Run 9.15pm
Meet Weeks Hall Basement to take food to
London's homeless.
Small Ads
ADVERTISE SOMETHING HERE FOR FREE.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
• CANNIBALISM: The Papua New Guinea
Expedition 1990, expanded upon by George
'Cockroach' Beccalono, 'Fungus' Schoeman and
Mad Bad Fernly. Meet W3/W2 near Beit Arch
on Thursday at 5.30pm. Free refreshments
afterwards.
• WARNING: If you were resident in College
accommodation on October 10, are eligible to
vote, but have not yet received an invoice,
you will NOT be entered on the electoral roll
by College. To become registered you should
go to your local town hall and ask there. Any
queries should be directed to the Residence
Finance Office, 2 nd Floor, 15 Princes Gardens,
phone int 8649.
LOST & FOUND
• FOUND: Scarf at Elec Eng Buffet. Contact
Martin Stevenson via Elec Eng pigeonholes,
particularly if young, female and attractive.
• FOUND: Black Daler (artists?) diary found in
Southside on October 25. If it's yours contact
Shelagh on 071-603 0374 (ground floor).
FOR SALE/WANTED
• LOW ENERGY light bulbs. SI 1.50 each. Ring
Clare Smith, Env Tech ext 7204.
• KMD 100W valve amp + homemade 4x12
£200 Axxeman guitar processor £150. 071-228
0187.
• W A N T E D : 6" slide rule with case. Contact
Tom Yates on internal 6757.
PERSONAL
•JEREMY: you salad. Take the cabbage off my
photo or prepare to be decked. K.
• HELP: Is there anyone from Graffiti Soc out
there who knows how to use the silk screen?
Please phone Felix on 3515 and ask for Toby.
• RICHARD: Hope the operation at the clinic
goes well.

