Before going to the clinic, Richard Eyers gets on his bike.
C y c l i n g R e v o l u t i o n
Imagine nearly 2000 cyclists all travelling
in one direction between Battersea and
Trafalgar Square, with traffic brought to a
complete standstill. Well, at 2.15pm last
Sunday, that is exactly what happened.
A n organisation called the 'London
Cycling Campaign' (LCC) gathered cyclists
from all over London to meet in
Battersea Park, and cycle to a rally in the
shadow of Nelsons Column. The turnout
was excellent, and was obviously due to
the extensive advertising campaign that
lead up to the event - if y o u have a bike
anywhere in College, y o u probably found
a leaflet on it at sometime before Sunday.
For those of y o u w h o never saw the
handout, the rally had two purposes. The
first is explained i n the title 'Bike for a
Breath of Fresh Air', which speaks for its
self. There is definitely a pollution
problem in London, and the L C C wanted
to highlight this. 'One in five people are
seriously endangered by air pollution i n
London. For some pollutants, such as
benzene, there is no recognised safe
level. A m o n g those particularly at risk
are children, pregnant w o m e n and the
elderly.', states their leaflet i n eye
catching red type, though sadly they have
neglected to quote the source of this
information.
If y o u would like to see the facts about
pollution (in London), 1 can recommend a
recent article in the 'London Cyclist',
N o v / D e c issue. Entitled 'Your Last
G a s p ? - Everything y o u always wanted to
k n o w about vehicle pollution (but were to
ill to ask)', the feature runs through all
the possible products of vehicle exhausts.
It asks both h o w dangerous they are and
what can be done to reduce their
emission? It is not simply an attack o n all
none cycle road users and makes some
constructive suggestions. It is well worth
a read, even for such knowledgeable
science students as those at IC,(apparently
there are a few!).
The second purpose of the rally was to
get better conditions for cycling. Other
than improving the air quality in London,
(the L C C concern themselves specifically
with this city), the LCCs main a i m at the
moment is to see that their proposals for
a 1000 mile network of cycle routes
throughout London are adopted as soon
as possible. A plan which has apparently
been taken up by the Department of
Transport a n d the London Cycling Forum.
So What Happened In Battersea ?
Between mid-day and 2.15pm the
crowds of cyclists gathered in Battersea
Park. It was refreshing to see such a
variety of cycling 'types' i n one place.
There were of course the stereo-type
'racing enthusiasts' with their expensive
bikes and thigh clinging lycra, but they
were in the minority. Ordinary cyclists
whose main interest is i n using their
bicycles to get from A to B (or maybe Z)
were also strongly represented. It was
extremely cold but entertainment b y a
brass ensemble and a skiffle group helped
the time to pass, as did a demonstration
of stunt cycling by the world
champion,(at least I think that was his
title).
At 2.15pm the hoards gathered to leave
the park, bikes of all descriptions were
then ridden out and across Chelsea
bridge. The sight was an impressive one,
a steady stream of riders went all the
way to Trafalgar Square. T h e Police were
excellent and traffic was brought to a
complete standstill. O n e taxi did try to
join in (obviously in support of the
cyclists!) but he was soon turned back.
There was some enthusiastic tooting of
emphasis was on the fact that cycle traffic
has gone up 4 0 % in the last two years
and cycle accidents have gone up b y a
quarter in one year. This he blamed,
partly, at least, on the non-wearing of
helmets. It was later stated b y another
speaker, that statistically, injuries would
be reduced far more if motorists and
pedestrians were to wear protective
headgear! Strangely enough mentions of
Poll T a x from a minority i n the crowd
was ignored.
Labour M . P . Jeremy C o r b y n was far
more charismatic in his address, saying
that if three miles of motorway were
cancelled then the cycle routes could be
implemented straight away, though he
made no offer of exactly where they
could all be put. H e then went o n to call
for limits on private car use i n the Capital
The Campaign Banner Sported At Battersea Park
horns which were received by cheerful
waves, which must have infuriated those
drivers w h o were tooting because they
couldn't move for up to thirty minutes -
lovely.
Trafalgar Square - the speeches
begin.
Once in the Square w e had to stand in
the cold for about forty minutes whilst
various politicians said the same sort of
things, but with varying degrees of
success.
First to address the masses was Roads
Minister, Christopher Chope. He was
clearly in favour of the L C C p r o p o s a l s -
'...too many cyclists are the innocent
victims of accidents w e must n o w
ensure the speedy implementation of the
1000 mile n e t w o r k . . . ' - t h o u g h his
and for better public transport, all of
which was of course popular.
Finally the other speaker worth a
mention was L C C chair Paul Gasson. He
stated that although bikes were the
transport of the future, ' A t present only
4% of journeys in London are by bike
compared with up to 20% in some
continental capitals'. He called for
pollution monitoring and the sealing off
of the capital if levels become dangerous.
The rally in its self was undoubtedly a
success, but it remains to be seen
whether the government can get its act
together. W i l l they do what would benefit
thousands of people, including cyclists, or
will the proposals become lost in the
current bout of 'who's going to be our
leader?' that currently upsets the
government.

