On October 24 at the House of Commons
over 160 people, mainly women, of many
ages, races and nationalities, celebrated
Time Off For Women with a lively
speakout: Count Women's Work-
Legislation Now!. Every year Time Off
presses governments to count women's
unwaged w o r k in every country's G N P ,
the basic statistic of work and wealth.
W o m e n students in colleges and
universities take part in Time Off each
year, highlighting, for example, the work
of surviving on a grant, made more
difficult n o w with the loss of benefits, the
extra work w o m e n have to do to prove
themselves academically, the fact that we
have less chance of earning higher
wages, and the work of students w h o are
mothers. Time Off 90 student actions
included leafletting and petitioning at
Warwick University and Froebel College,
South London, and a r i m e Off-Day Picnic
in Oxford city centre. Time Off w o n a
paid day off for w o m e n employees at
Bristol Poly a n d Cardiff University
Students' Unions in recognition of their
unwaged work—a guarantee now written
into their constitution.
The Speakout, co-chaired by Wilmette
B r o w n (Black W o m e n for Wages for
Housework) a n d Nina Lopez-Jones
(English Collective of Prostitutes), opened
with news of progress towards counting
women's w o r k legislation in Britain,
Europe, Trinidad and Tobago and the US.
While Time Off presses for legislation, it
also aims to ensure that women, and not
legislators, define the unwaged work we
want counted b y counting it ourselves. In
a hall decorated with colourful balloons
and banners, w o m e n spoke out about the
housework of caring for families, for
others and for ourselves; w o r k i n g on the
land; fetching firewood a n d water; the
work of overcoming the divisions
between us, surviving and challenging
racism, apartheid, ageism, discrimination
against lesbian women, the
impoverishment of mining communities,
low pay, no pay, the poll tax, sex work
being made illegal, rape a n d other
violence.
W o m e n with disabilities, including
wheelchair users w h o with the help of
the organiser had to struggle to get into
an outrageously inaccessible House of
Commons, made clear that people with
disabilities are also 'carers', caring for
themselves, children and others.
Describing some of that work, Claire
Glasman of W i n Visible (Women with
Visible and Invisibale Disabilities) said:
'Most of m y unwaged work of disability is
not caused by m y disability but by social
policies are priorities which deprive us of
money, services, carers of our choice,
and appropriate equipment and
technology to adapt our homes and the
environment for our everyday use.'
The meeting heard messages of support
from the Payday men's network against
all unwaged work, from M P s and trade
Photo: Lisa Longstaff
unionists; and reports of Time Off 90
activities in about ten T h i r d World and
metropolitan countries, a n d 14 towns and
cities in Britain.
Selma James, founder of the Wages for
Housework Campaign w h i c h coordinates
Time Off, opened the Speakout saying
that while MPs 'debated whether to give
Child Benefit to some, many, or no
women, as if it were a charity, in fact the
money is a right—a small payment for
the work of mothering.' There was
unanimous agreement on the following
resolution:
This meeting is outraged that the
government who have been throwing
&2m a day into the Gulf feel they can
spare only &1 for an increase in Child
Benefit to mothers for some children.
Everyone welcomed the coming together
of black and white women from so many
different backgrounds speaking out about
their work as a reflection of how much
the Time Off movement is gaining
ground!
Students who'd like to take part in
Time Off, invite speakers, or help
circulate the ' W o m e n Count—Count
Women's W o r k ' petition available in 23
languages and in English braille, contact
the Wages for Housework Campaign,
King's Cross Women's Centre, 71
Tonbridge Street, W C 1 H 9DZ. Tel:
071-837 7509

