PI I s r a e l
REVIEWS The state of the art
The Barbican Centre is running an
Autumn season of Israeli arts and
culture.
The art is broadbased: painting,
sculpture, photography, film and talks are
all on offer. I visited the Chagul to Kitaj
exhibition (9th Level) and Israel—The
Stormy years (5th Level).
Chagul to Kitaj: Jewish Experience in
the Art of the Twentieth Century, to give
it its full title, is the first major exhibition
in Britain to bring together a broad range
of works which reflect Jewish themes and
concerns this century.
The first few galleries focus on religion
and the family; colours and textures are
vivid. The thread then weaves Jewish
culture in with its environment. There is
a fascinating display of set designs
produced by Jewish artists at the time of
the Russian Revolution including work by
Nathan A l t m a n and Robert Falk.
Some of the greatest figures in the
twentieth century are featured, such as
Marc Chagull and Jacob Epstein. Their
work is shown alongside that of leading
Israeli artists such as Reaven Rubin and
A n n a Ticho.
A separate section on the Holocaust
includes powerful works created both
during and after the war years. They
show the raw edge of personal and
collective anger and grief.
O n the ground floor are works which
have been produced within the last ten
years. Although this art is more
contemporary the themes can be traced
back through the entire exhibition.
A narrow wooden gangway,
reminiscent of a building site leads out
from the exhibition into the 'sculpture
courtyard'. A t the end of the gangway is
an olive tree closely guarded by tall
wooden ramparts. Surrounding this
symbol were other images of Mother
Earth and good. M y favourite was the
bright yellow nude astride a bright yellow
bicycle peddling madly in pursuit of
peace.
Israel—the stormy years is on the fifth
floor. The exhibition is a collection of
photographs by Robert Lepa and Misha
Bar-Am.
Robert Lapa, a Hungarian Jew, arrived
in Israel in 1936. He held a fervent
interest in the new country and, but for
an all powerful wanderlust, he would
have settled there. His pictures are direct
and, to the modern eye, perhaps even
naive. His camera recorded what he saw:
no frills.
Misha Bar-Am belonged to the next
generation where ideals were often
swamped by political complexity and
bitter struggle. His photography is less
direct and more questioning than Lapas';
his actual technique and its message are
more subtle.
Whatever your political persuasion the
Barbican's Israeli season is a fun and
inexpensive cultural feast. Israel State of
the Art (£4 full £ 2 concession) closes on
January 6 1991. Israel—The Stormy Years
(free) ends on November 29. Don't miss
them!
A n n a Teeman.
Love at Large
Harry Dobbs' private life is falling
apart. H e is on the edge of turning
forty, his girlfriend imagines that he is
sleeping with all his clients and he is
following the w r o n g man. His latest,
seductive and mysterious client Miss
Dolan has hired him to follow 'Rick', a
man she is infatuated with. Unfortunately,
Rick arrived at the Blue Danube late and
Harry is after Frederick K i n g instead.
Who's that following Harry, though?
The plot of this movie is more than a
little convoluted, and doesn't quite
manage to explain itself by the end, but I
have a sneaking suspicion that isn't
meant to be important. Somebody is
pulling a bluff on us. The movie is trying
to pass itself off as a detective film, and
indeed T o m Berenger, w h o doesn't so
much speak, as growl articulately, is the
epitome of a hard-boiled detective. Really,
though, in its heart of hearts, it's a love
story, or at least a story about love.
The characters all have their own
philosophy about love, and have a
strange tendency to inflict it on each
other at regular intervals. The w o r d is
love, as distinct from sex, for the two
backed beast only puts in one appearance
in the whole film. The relationships
between the players are affected by the
minor characters' own bizarre love lives.
W e i r d but strangely affecting stuff.
This is not a film that has spent much
time currying public acceptance -
commercialism doesn't seem to have
been sitting in the director's brain as an
economic conscience. Luckily the film is
all the better for it. Funny, romantic and
exciting, it will make a perfect evening's
viewing.
Pendragon.
Backstage tours
of the National/1
want to be a
Vicar
One c o m m o n feature of fringe
theatres, be they the numerous
venues around London or the even more
numerous Edinburgh sites, is their
intimacy (ie they're small). Most
productions use them as if they were a
normal theatre, ignoring the audience.
The first of these short one act comedies
defies this convention, by m a k i n g the
audience part of the backstage tour party.
Our guide takes us on a tour, not only of
the 'National' itself, but of the jargon,
pretentiousness and pretence that are the
endemic complaints of theatrical hangers
on. The w o r d Dahlings springs to mind.
Admittedly some knowledge of theatre
would be useful, otherwise most of the
jokes are going to leave y o u mirthless,
but in the main this is a very funny
spoof.
So, we move onto the second half of
the evening - / Want to be a Vicar. A
quirky little tale of a girl w h o has
aspirations to the cloth. She has a welsh
m u m w h o w o u l d prefer her to be a tart,
a boyfriend who has a Jesus complex and
a vicar who loves babies. In the course of
half an hour, one actress takes us through
her life, from theological college via
America to success as a transvestite vicar.
The audience's reaction to the play was
very mixed. Many people seemed to find
it merely silly, while others were in
stitches. A l c o h o l consumption level
seemed to play a fair part in determining
reaction.
The theatre is above a pub, so my
advice would be:- if you fancy a drink
and a bit of comedy, this may be worth a
visit, if only for the National segment.
These plays are at the Etcetera Theatre
Club, Oxford Arms, 265 Camden High
Road, N W 1 . The Box Office is on
071-482-4857. Membership is 75p and
student tickets cost £ 3 .
Pendragon.
—Film
—Theatre
—Exhibition

