B u l l s e y e
IM m m m . Just my luck. M y first
review for Felix, and it's a bit of a
toughy (Fnarrr). It's hard to say what the
whole point of it is. The plot revolves
around two over the hill villains (Michael
Caine and Roger Moore) w h o are the
near perfect doubles of two (successful!)
cold fusion scientists (Michael Caine and
Roger Moore), and a great deal of money.
In style, the whole thing seems to be a
tribute to the British comedy movies of
the sixties, complete with naff film
quality, naff dialogue, naff effects and naff
jokes. They even seem to have gone so
far as to use what appears to be a
ridiculously low budget. On top of this
the film is overly long, especially in the
middle parts, w h i c h end up dragging
horribly.
However, the end does come together
much better than you'd expect, and even
manages to keep a fair level of tension, despite the fact that you k n o w what's
REVIEWS
going to happen, and some gratuitous
cruelty to pigeons! Mr Caine is humorous
in his typical bumbling way, and Mr
Moore is at last beginning to show his
age (all of it), which serves him right.
Some light relief for all the sex-starved IC
males is provided in the form of Deborah
Barrymore as a young CIA agent who
may or may not be the daughter of one
of the heroes, and the farcical treatment
of the British and A m e r i c a n intelligence
(?) agencies is brilliantly done (Yes, O K , I
admit it: I like the Carry on... movies!).
So, if you're old enough to remember the
original films this will probably invoke a
pleasant sense of nostalgia. If you're not,
then it's a gentle way to waste a couple
of hours and a fiver, but it's probably
more sensible to wait for the video, get
some beers in and invite a few friends
around for a laugh.
Alien Sex Fiend.
The Maids F l a t l i n e r s
Tragedy
IWritten nearly four hundred years
ago this is a tail of love lost,
deception, adultery and death. In total
four people die, all stabbed and two self
inflicted. The plot is too complicated to
go into in the space available but its
themes of sexual frustration and intrigue
are as relevant now as when it was
written.
The quality of the acting was superb
throughout, no character shone above the
others and overall it was a very
professional and charismatic performance.
The set was definatly designed with a
heavy minimalistic slant, constisting of
three chairs, a table and a bed there was
nothing for the actors to hid behind.
For a play written just after the
Shakespearean period the language is
very 'quaint' but the clothing and the set
contrast against this being a mixture of
both modern and 30's styles.
Entertaining and thought provoking, it
is very much worth a look but you
haven't got long. 'The Maid's Tragedy'
plays at the Battersea Art Centre,
Lavender Hill, Battersea until the 18th
November. Concessions are £ 3 ,
membership is £5 per annum. The box
office is on 071-223 2223.
Ian Hodge.
Film Choice
Goodfellas, The little Mermaid,
Ghost, A Shock to the System, Bad
Influence.
Five medical students take life, and
death, in their hands in a macabre
experiment exploring the limits of
knowledge. One by one they submit
themselves to a near death experience,
controlled by their colleagues.
Unfortunately the experience does not
end when they are returned to the living;
their sins come to haunt them, causing
violence and pain.
The students each have their dark
secrets (obviously) but they vary in their
'sinfulness'. It is understandable that
killing somebody could produce guilt
feelings that take on a supernatural form.
It is less clear why the act of opening a
forbidden door and startling your father,
just before he dies on the road, should
have the same chilling effect. Also, what
is so sinful about home videos?
The answer may lie in the assertion
that there is no absolute scale against
which to measure a 'sin'. The measure
may be your o w n conscience, in which
petty misdemeanors may become heinous
crimes. Does this mean that a cold
blooded killer will not be tormented, or
will a childhood act produce misery
beyond the grave?
It is a credit to the film that it gives
time over to reflecting on these points
throughout the story, in passages that
could be construed as tedious in any
other production. One catches oneself
thinking 'What if?' as indiscretions well up
from the dark corner of the mind that
you thought you had locked.
The only quibbles I have with this film
are the use of cliches such as the climax
occurring on halloween and the lame and
unbelievable ending. This, I feel, was
concocted to leave the audience with a
feeling of well being, instead of having to
leave the cinema feeling depressed and
unlikely to recommend the film, which,
incidently, I do.
Toby Jones.

