Iron Maiden Bored!
Hammersmith Odeon 18.10.90 Take It Out On You LP
Hark, I hear a band playing! Can't still be
the support. Wait, it's Maidenl Must have
come on early so they could catch last
orders afterwards.
So, unfortunately, I a m unable to give
m y considered opinion o n the first two
songs. The favourite, Wrathchild, was
next in line, sounding as hard and raw as
ever. They then proceeded to play the
new album, No Prayer For The Dying,
bar about three songs, the title track, a
Steve Harris number, being the most
impressive. A smattering of the tried and
tested classics such as The Trooper and
Hallowed Be Thy Name were added to
good effect, but were too thin o n the
ground for m y liking. They even left out
Running Freel
Throughout the set, Harris' bass lines
thumped out the rhythm, the strings
striking the frets giving an almost
percussive effect. Janick Gers, more
suited to the Maiden style than his
Nirvana
Meanwhile, in the bowels of the Astoria,
fans were arguing over the reset cubicle
and overall supremacy of Godflesh. The
ensuing verbal battle was academic, for
on this occasion, Godflesh were well
below their usual bowel-thrashing
standard. The pounding rhythm seemed
repetitive and hollow, and the stage
empty after L7's over-amped guitar
frenzy. Only towards the end of the set,
after the addition of a second guitarist,
did they seem to get into their stride with
Like Rats and Pulp. Even the multitudes
of crusty's seemed disappointed.
After Godflesh, a remarkably strange
choice of support, L7's trashy overload
could be only be topped b y Nirvana's
immense opening. Powered by the nine
foot human pogo, Chris, o n bass and a
solid driving beat, the rhythm section was
rock solid a n d provided a perfect
backdrop for Kurdt's superhuman efforts
at what used to be a two m a n job.
W i t h the demise of Mudhoney, Nirvana
predecessor A d r i a n Smith, seemed to
enjoy himself, clambering over the amp
stacks, and was nearly up to the standard
of his counterpart, Dave Murray. Nicko
McBrain performed admirably on the
skins, as always, while Bruce Dickinson
screamed, hissed and growled (in tune,
most of the time) from start to finish.
The stage set was hardly as lavish as
expected, although a ten foot Eddie (see
any album cover, y o u non-believers) did
appear during the song Iron Maiden.
Bruce kindly refrained from kicking it's
head in and tearing out it's brains as he
did a few short years back.
They seem to be going back to their
roots, dispensing with the lavish and
expensive effects. Perhaps they're
strapped for cash! Nonetheless, it was a
very enjoyable mosh, as always, and a
must for any rock metal fan.
Up The Irons.
R. Snell
Bored! are from Australia and I'm going
to say they sound like ACDC anyway. Bet
that has pissed them off. There is more to
it than that. The lyrics are hardcore in
the Black Flag mould with raunchy riffs
to back it up. T h e bass is good and
twangy and is tuned to within an inch of
being a didgeridoo on Sweef Charity.
Beneath this neo-punk exterior lurks a
definitely Hendrix rooted guitar style.
This is refreshing in contrast to the
grinding bits, but y o u have to choke on
your o w n vomit to get away with over
two minutes of feedback at the end of a
track, the Final Solution.
The production is not obtrusive and
includes a variety of fade-in styles from
smooth and slow to John Peel. The
overall sound is probably too dirty for a
wide market, sounding downright live.
A l l the tracks get a general 'Yeah',
except, maybe, Satellite, w h i c h is a Pistols
cover and unnecessary. I w o u l d just like
to be the last person in this review to say
the title of the last number. Motherfuckin'
Motherfucker.
Mungo
Astoria 24.10.90
were set to take the lead in the sub-pop
set. However they are at present looking
for a deal with the majors 'for
commercial reasons'. Sell out or not, their
new single does not indicate a lowering
of standards. The new sound is mellower
but more diverse and shows a new side
to the band.
Tonight, Chris was as tall as the stacks,
and Kurdt's clean guitar cut through the
sludge left by Godflesh's Neanderthal set.
If audience reaction were to be a
measure of greatness, Nirvana are truly
gods. O l d favourites Love Buzz, Negative
Creep and Paper Cato were interspersed
between the newer, mellower songs. A l l
were received with wild stage-diving as
the bouncers tried to stem the tide.
The encore proved the worth of the
new single as is slipped in easily with the
monster Scool, whittled d o w n to crucial
riffs and crushing. Nirvana have
mellowed, but still shred.
Seb
Robert Riley &
the Buffalo Club
Gone Too Long 12"
This band have a stupid name. That is all
there is to say, apart from that the lyrical
style is sadly somehow familiar, the piano
support something from a T V theme. Sod,
I don't even like this country drivel about
how sad some bloke is, bugger
objectivity.
M u n g o
8

