Eat Interview
The time: 5.45pm, the place: the ladies
toilets in the Astoria. Ange, Michael
Hutchens look-a-like and Eats' lead singer
sat on the windowsill stradling a sink
looking bored whilst Paul, guitarist, busily
made a spliff. W h e n asked w h y they
called themselves Eat, Paul replied 'It's
like a reflection of our concern for
consumerism. Ha, no, it's probably
because the first song we ever wrote
together was called Eat Eat Eat so it
seemed to fit'.
Next there was a loud bang as the
toilet door flew open and in stepped an
Astoria muscleman 'Get out of here you
fucking arseholes', nice chap, it's really
odd too, he looked like J i m m y Saville.
W e restarted the interview backstage
fighting to be heard over the sound check
of the support group. Eat have been
together for three years n o w although all
of the members have k n o w n each other
for m u c h longer and have been in
various other groups, most notably Pete
Howard, former Clash drummer, but they
have only really been a public band since
February last year when they were
signed up by Fiction records. The band is
London-based and has a close affinity to
the city. 'Our first album reflected our life
in London at the time of the band
forming, squatting, moving around very
quickly lugging each others' gear around,
living in each others' pockets'.
Eat don't really fall into any musical
category as such. Their sound has almost
a Mancunian feel about it but is saved by
the rock guitar and punkish vocals. This
strange mixture comes from the fact that
all of the members have different musical
tastes, ranging from dance to blues.
They are currently working on a new
album which is due for release in
February. It's taken about five weeks to
record so far and should be finished soon.
'We feel that on this album we've finally
found ourselves musically and we're well
pleased at what we've done so far,
although I don't like the new single
much. It's good, but not quite right. The
vocals are out of tune and the guitars
aren't loud enough.'
Tonight is the last night of their U K
stint which brings an end to an extensive
European tour. Covering Germany,
Denmark, France, to name but a few
countries. 'We've really enjoyed this tour.
Especially playing Denmark, it was
brilliant. It's really laid back. Really
fantastically civilised. Like, the festival we
played there was so cool. Y o u could do
anything, anywhere. There was even an
S & M tent there if you're into that sort of
thing. We played two gigs there, one in
the afternoon and one in the evening
since They Might Be Giants didn't show.
The best part was when w e done a one-
off gig in the jazz tent, there were all of
these people sitting around smoking pipes
and waring casual sweaters and we came
on. The place just filled with Danish
rockers. Security couldn't handle it and
begged us to get off stage so that they
could regain control of the place. It was
great, we love one-off gigs, they're the
icing on the cake.
'I remember playing with the
Wonderstuff once in Gloucester, and w e
came on stage and I got this wet reeking
bra right in m y face, the two cups just
stuck, one on each ear, it was gross,
bloody funny though. M y wife was going
to arrange for someone to throw pants
lined with Philadelphia at us whilst we
were on, that w o u l d have been well sick
making 'cos we wouldn't have k n o w n . '
The band have no qualms about people
bootlegging their concerts. ' W e really like
the idea of someone having a kind of
record of the gig they wre at, something
to remember it by. I'm not so sure about
the people w h o bootleg to make money
because most of the time they are selling
sub-standard copies and are basically
ripping the fans off. W e gave The Mission
the idea of setting aside part of the venue
you are playing at just for recording
equipment so that people can make
decent bootlegs. I remember talking to
W a y n e one night in a bar and saying you
k n o w what you should do mate and he
went sort of 'Oh right, yeh, burp' as he
tends to do in the evening 'cos he's
usually out of his box by 5 o'clock, so he
goes 'Eh...yeh...argh....mmm' and passed
out, next concert they were doing it.'
Eat have serious money problems at
the moment. The tour, although they
played to packed crowds, has lost money
and they are on the verge of bankruptcy.
Hopefully they will get the money they
need from the new album but things are
going to be hard over the next few
months summed up well by Paul:
'Sometimes I wish I was working in
Dixons'.
B r i a n .

