It hasn't really been a good year for
students in London. Under the third
term of the Conservative
administration our position has never
been more threatened. The academic
freedom of our lecturers is under
attack. We can not afford the rents in
London, and these promise to
increase with the Housing Bill. The
level of financial support we receive
is effectively eroded and now again
under threat from student loans. Our
political representatives are divided
and spend more bickering about
leftish politics than student issues. Is
there any hope?
The grant for next academic year
for London students not living at
home will be £2425. This is a total
increase of 4.8 per cent. Rents have
increased by somewhat more. Last
year Kenneth Baker was quoted in
saying that students could no longer
afford to live on the grant. The
average overdraft after one year at
University is around £450. The
Government has responded by again
proposing the introduction of student
loans.
The Education Act was passed a
few weeks ago. During its passage
through Westminster it was known as
the Great Education Reform Bill (or
GERBill). Small and cute it was not.
This monstrous piece of legislation
changed the entire structure of British
education. It totally altered the
curriculum and control in schools
despite opposition from parents and
teachers alike. It set up new colleges
funded by industry to produce the
skilled workforce that they now
require. It abolished the Inner London
Education Authority.
GERBill's effect on students in
higher education is more subtle. The
funding of Universities and polys has
been radically altered. Previously the
government has been told by the
University Grants Committee what
the requirements of each institution
were and gave the UGC this money
(or less) to distribute to the
Universities. Polytechnics and other
colleges were all funded by local
authorities. Each institution
OPINION:
THE GREAT EDUCATION REFORM BILL
Neil Motteram is this year's Imperial College Union External Affairs Officer.
He is currently studying for a degree in the Department of Computing. He has
helped to organise the day of action protesting against the new Bill.
practically had the freedom to
distribute funds internally themselves.
Now the new funding councils will
merely advise the Government as to
how to distribute a set amount of
money. The Secretary of State will
actually have the power to allocate
exactly where money is spent in the
colleges and to demand its return if
not spent as to instructions. This has
been stretched such that it is implied
that he could actually refuse funding
for a person's salary ie sacking an
academic who speaks out against the
Government.
GERBill was considerably
weakened during its passage after
pressure from many opposition
groups (including Imperial College
Union). Even so. the freedom of the
college to control its own affairs has
been weakened. The cuts in our
Geology Department extend from a
system of bidding for grants on a basis
of cost effectiveness (called contract
funding). Widespread contract
funding, which could be introduced
under the Act, would probably place
a grave threat over such IC
departments as Physics, Maths and
Materials.
Wandering through the Lords' at
the present time are two Bill's which
further damage the position of
students in London. The Housing Bill
will deregulate the rented property
sector in which nearly all of us are
forced to live. Rents have already
been rising in London at a rate
considerably more than our income.
The changes in housing benefit in
April meant that nearly everyone lost
between two and six pounds per
week. This has not been made up in
the grant.
The Housing Bill is designed to
make investing in property and letting
it out more attractive to both private
landlords and institutions. It does this
by removing many of the rights of
tenants to security against eviction and
a fair rent. This will expand the
market in rented property supposedly
lowering rents to 'market levels'. The
problem is that the demand for
accommodation in London is so great
(with 100,000 homeless) that rents
will, in fact, skyrocket. It is estimated
that, combined with benefit changes,
the average under-25-year-old will be
up to £11 worse off after the Till.
Lagging slightly behind *he
Housing Bill is the Local Authorities
(Financial Support) Bill. This
abolishes the rates and introduces a
Community Charge common to all
voting citizens. The Poll Tax. It has
been put into the Bill that the
minimum that anyone (ie students)
will have to pay will be 20 per cent
of the full charge. In inner London
this has been estimated to be up to
£600. An extra £60 charge per year
which will not come out of any
increase in the grant. It is doubted that
landlords will reduce rents just
because they no longer have to pay
rates (even though local authorities
estimate 30 per cent of rents to be a
rate element).
Over all the situation for students
is slowly becoming untenable. The
political influence of the NUS (whose
policies we do not even influence) is
negligible. Our overworked students
have not the time nor interest to
protest their survival and it is doubted
whether our voice would even be
heard amongst the cries of support for
the Government from the yuppy
masses. We are being forced out of
London and into debt by the greed of
short-sighted administration. Could it
be that Imperial College Union
actually takes a political stance?
Could it be time that we no longer
reccommend that prospective students
come to London without independant
financial security? Is the death of
Imperial College forseeable?
FELIX Wednesday June 22nd 1988 17

