eature
New Union Manager David Peacock looking terribly efficient.
operation. RSMU President Geoff
Parsons 'charmed' industrial sponsors
to refurbish the Mines coffee room to
make a new Union Office. Whether
this has improved the amount of work
done in Mines is unclear, however.
Imperial's music societies were up
in arms when they realised that the
new School of Management had taken
over the Music Room in Princes Gate.
After many weeks of negotiations the
societies were allowed to use
Terminal Room A in the old Holland
Club. This was met with limited
approval, as it is accoustically far
inferior to the original Music Room,
not to mention the possibility that it
will be filled with computers which
will make rehearsals impossible. At
least the musicians have some practice
rooms in Sherfield. One proposed
solution is to build a room underneath
the old Holland Club...
Guilds' year started off well, with
the rebuilding of Bo and the election
of first year Chem Eng student Tanya
Maule as Vice President, after her
predecessor failed his exams.
However, they were led by their
President to steal FELIX, a ladder and
to attempt to steal the RCS mascot,
Theta. While the last of these may
have been a jolly decent effort in the
name of mascotry, the others most
certainly were not, nor was the
'Second Lieutenant's' threat to
damage STOIC equipment if they
broadcast during Guilds Carnival.
Steve Pierson and Vince Roper
were severely embarrassed at the end
of October. Their 'crime' was to
rescue a woman from drowning in the
Thames. The two were practising in
a coxless fours boat with two fellow
members of the ICU Boat Club and
were subsequently branded 'heroes'
by Club Captain Rob Gee, who was
also present.
Other Athletics Clubs were seen in
a less favourable light after visiting
Surrey University in November.
Their behaviour incited the Surrey
President to call for Imperial students
to be 'banned from every college in
the country'. His Deputy was less
vitriolic, and in fact the extent of the
trouble Imperial students caused is not
clear.
In a peace-making move, Imperial's
President Ian Howgate allowed
himself to be kidnapped. His captors
shaved off half of his famous
moustache and gave him a severe hair
cut. The rest of his hair was
ransomed—the more money IC
collected for Surrey Rag, the more of
his body would be shaved. Mr
Howgate was returned looking
somewhat streamlined.
Another IC student experiencing a
'close shave' was Hang Glider Club
Chair Andrew Hill, who had a near
miss with another glider over the
South Downs. The other pilot
admitted responsibility and agreed to
pay the repair costs of about £200.
Another display of anti-social
behaviour, this time at U L U , caused
trouble for IC Union in Rag Week.
Although drinking the U L U bar dry
ensured any profits went back to
students, the stealing of signs worth
about £1000 and generally disruptive
behaviour did nothing to enhance the
College's reputation. Most of the
signs were returned but the Rag
Committee later decided that drink-
a-pub-dry should not be part of Rag
Week any longer.
Although not of direct concern to
most students, the closure of Central
Stores will result in substantially
increased costs for supplies to the
Union and other parts of the College,
according to the staff unions. Mr
Terry Neville and College Secretary
John Smith have stated that the
savings would be of the order of
£ 1 0 0 , 0 0 0 by splitting up ordering
between departments, but this figure
is disputed by the unions who claim
£ 5 0 , 0 0 0 a year can be saved by the
centralisation of purchasing.
Major changes to ICU were agreed
in the Spring Term. Although it is
unlikely to trouble any world leaders,
generations of Imperial students will
feel the effects of the Union
reorganisation. The full details can be
obtained from the Union Office, but
roughly speaking the Union has lost
an Hon Sec (dogsbody) and gained an
Hon Sec (Events). The President and
DP will in future be expected to
represent students (so what were they
supposed to do in the past?) and the
Union has gained a Finance Officer
and Union Manager. The changes
were not universally popular, and
many people criticised the way they
were brought in.
The other two changes were the
moving of the sabbatical year a month
back, so that it now runs from the
beginning of August each year.
However, more shocking than this,
was the announcement that Ian
Howgate would not be Union
President any more. IC students
reading The Sun (page 3) were treated
to an article about 'Wacky Ian', 24,
who agreed to change his name if
sufficient money was raised for
charity. More than £800 was actually
raised; a Harbour-Bridge was born.
ULU, only just recovering from the
IC students' rampage, was shaken in
February by the resignation of its
Rag Chairman and President-elect
Nigel Baker taking time off in
between injunctions.
Vice President (Services), Lachie
Stuart. The unfortunate Mr Stuart was
forced to resign after a motion of no
confidence against him was passed at
the union's governing body, General
Union Council.
ULU hacks may also have been
rather shocked when an ICUGM
passed a motion supporting LSE
Union's campaign to force the School
to disinvest in South Africa. The
motion was the first time ICU has had
policy on South Africa.
Another astounding display of
students 'getting involved' occurred
at the beginning of March. The
lecturers' union AUT organised a
lobby of Parliament against the Great
Education Reform Bill, and a strike
organised by Sydney Harbour-Bridge
(name changed in aid of Comic
Relief) was very well supported. The
strike was sympathetic action, which
also gave the lecturers time to go to
the House of Commons.
Less-than-charitable goings on
were worrying Rag Chair Nigel Baker
at the time. Having discovered a
group called London Rag 88 selling
its glossy mags, he made enquiries
into the organisation and found their
named charity knew very little about
them. Mr Baker also rang some of the
advertisers in the London Rag Mag
to point out that it has no connection
with IC Rag. The London Rag
organisers responded to this by
threatening to issue an injunction if
he did not stop telephoning the
advertisers. They claimed that £4,000
worth of advertising had been lost
already. However, no further action
R E V I E W
FELIX Wednesday June 22nd 1988 21

