FELIX
'Oh dear,' said Largeamounts. 'Oh dear, oh dear.' The Phallix
Editor was having trouble getting her last issue out. She'd had
nothing but complaints about her new column, 'Larceny'. Chas
Takeiteasy was suing her for saying he had a sore plonker. Mr
Filofax was suing her for saying what he'd done with his plonker,
and Sidney Spanker (ne Whygate) was suing her because he was
a plonker.
'Why don't you bring back the Duke of Sluicegate, for the last
issue?', said Cwis Media.
There were two problems here. The first one was that Mr E
Baron-Writer wasn't writing the Duke anymore. All he wrote now
were letters of complaint to Phallix.
The second problem was that, in the last episode. The Duke
had been killed off.
'Hmm', said Largeamounts, 'I'll have to think about this one'.
The opening of the door was accompanied by loud singing.
'Up above the streets and houses. Rainbow flying high.' It was
Paul Floozie, the Phallix jester. Floozie had become a regular
feature in the Office of late, and had been leading Largeamounts
astray with wild drinking and gambling sessions.
'How do I resurrect the Duke of Sluicegate, Floozie?', said
Largeamounts.
'That's easy, Fatty', said Floozy. 'All you have to do is go back
in time, to before the last one was written.'
'Did I hear someone mention time travel?'. It was Willhebe
Goodforacolumninch, next year's elected Phallix Editor.
Everyone had started calling him Doctor Who lately. This was
because of the silly hat and scarf he wore during his election
campaign.
'I'M whisk you back in my Tardis', said the Doctor, 'Then you
can get the Duke's review of the year before he dies'.
'Oh dear', said Largeamounts.
'Blinding idea', said Floozie.
'Bwilliant', said Cwis Media.
'Crumbs', said Pippa Trout.
October saw the new leaders of Cheapskate on show to the citizens
for the first time. Everyone got on frightfully well for the first day or
two. Largeamounts, the Phallix Editor, was printing nice things about
the Citizens' Leader, Ian Whygate. Alan Ego, the Deputy Leader, was
only hitting Whygate every other hour, arid Chas Takeiteasy, the
Honorary Slave, was
doing all the duplicating
jobs that people asked
him to do. Even John
Secretary was going
around shaking hands
with everybody....
Later on in the month,
the annual event, Cloth
Week, took place. This
was the time for all the
citizens to do really
wacky things like
drinking gassy liquid,
throwing up and being
rude to everybody. It's a
wonder they didn't call it.
Cloth Year, really. There
were lots of really good things happening for this year's Cloth Week.
There was the Bore Festival, the Beputtosleepanddosillythings Lecture
and the Burning Concert. Chas Piano-Player spent two days playing
with his organ. Everyone paid lots of money to get him to stop.
The Cloth Chairman, Nige D Butcher took everyone to Separations
Bar at Zulu for the annual Strip-a-pub-bare Night. All the Cheapskate
citizens had brought their screwdrivers and crowbars with them. It
was great fun, especially as they had caused £1,175 worth of
damage.
The head citizen of Zulu wasn't too pleased when he saw the
damage that had been done. He phoned up Ian Whygate to complain
about it. Whygate immediately called Nige D Butcher into his office
to give him a good ticking off.
'It wasn't my fault, Ian', crawled Butcher, 'It was all those
fundamentallawsofnaturetesters and lumpsofmetalworshippers that
were causing the trouble.'
'Enough of your whingeing,' said Whygate. 'If this carries on, you'll
endanger your chances of getting elected.'
'You mean, to Head Citizen, Ian?'
'No, you fool, to join the Bricklayers.'
Also during Cloth
Week was an exciting
game called 'Murder'.
This involves citizens
squirting each other with
water, laughing, and
running away. Dave
Braincell hadn't wanted
to play this game. He was
wet enough already.
In December, Whygate
was taken prisoner by the
citizens of Sorryland.
Their head citizen had
demanded one hundred
pounds from Cheapskate
or else Whygate would
be kept. Alan Ego and
Chas Takeiteasy were in
a dodgy position here.
They didn't want
Whygate back, so they went round persuading everyone not to part
with their cash. Back in the Citizens Office, Mrs Jolly Hockey-Sticks
wasn't impressed with this, so she devised a cunning plan to get her
Head Citizen back.
Locked tightly away in the Cheapskate safe, was a large brown
envelope. It contained lots of money and had the following notice
written on the front:
Auntie Jolly's Naughty Brown Envelope
(only to be opened in emergencies)
1. To buy sherry and quiche.
2. To buy more sherry and quiche.
3. To bail Whygate out, where necessary.
'Ah, this'll do the trick,' said Jolly Hockey-Sticks, as she pulled out
five crisp £20 notes. 'I'll send the money off straight away. Now,
where did I put that glass?'
January was largely uneventful. Takeiteasy was complaining about
holidays everyone had been taking. Largeamounts had spent the new
year on the piste in France, Whygate had been living it up courtesy
of his captors in Sorryland and Ego had headed for Malta. Takeiteasy
soon stopped complaining when it was pointed out that he'd been
on holiday for five months already.
24 Wednesday June 22nd 1988 FELIX

