Libel
February saw the run-up to the r zens' elections in Cheapskate.
Anxious to influence the poll in whatever way he could, John
Secretary threw an impromptu party. He invited Ian Whygate and Nige
D Butcher for dinner at his house. Whygate was going because he
was in the same Bricklayers' Shack as John Secretary. Butcher had
been dying to join so he accep+
ed the invitation, too. After the meal,
Nige D Butcher asked John Secretary what he had to do to join.
'Well,' said John Secretary, 'You have to roll up your trouser leg,
show everyone your nipples and chant loads of meaningless words
over and over again'.
'Oh, just like a Lumpsofmetalworshippers' bar-night,' said Butcher.
Just before the
elections Ian Whygate
decided to change his
name. He was fed up
with having a normal
name like all the other
citizens and so he asked
everyone to start calling
him Sidney Spanker
instead. Someone put a
note up on his office
door:
Ian Whygate was my
name,
Now it's Sidney
Spanker.
I'm the head of all
Cheapskate,
But I am still a xxxxxx
The last word was crossed out but everyone had a good idea what
it should be.
Rob McNorthey, the Cheapskate Head Chef, was in the news that
month as well. He was fed up with the citizens slagging off his food.
So he decided to build another food shop. He already had Bullshit's
Pizza Bar, McNorthey's Burger Bar and his school dinner outlets. Now
he was opening his latest venture, the Roast-Dog, just above the
gassy-liquid shop.
McNorthey was trying to find someone to look after it for him. He'd
seen a very funny man on the television and thought of asking him
to run it. Unfortunately he got the name muddled and ended up with
Davros, the head of the Daleks, instead. As a result, Willhebe
Goodforacolumninch refused to eat in there again.
The elections came to Cheapskate. As expected Nige D Butcher
signed his name up for Head Citizen. So did Paul Floozie, who thought
it would be really wacky to stand. He never got as far as the ballot
box, though. Like a good Catholic, he pulled out at the last minute.
Brendan O'Spud also stood for election but didn't win the vote. A
case of the cabbage beating the potato...
Doctor Who/Willhebe Goodforacolumninch won the election for
Phallix Editor. All the Phallix staff were very excited by this. They
now had an office that was bigger on the inside than it was on the
outside.
May was an eventful month at Cheapskate. Arthur Michael left
Cheapskate for pastures new. Also, the Ghostly Drencher was back
in town. He (or she) had been going around throwing carrier bags of
water over people in locked toilet cubicles. The rumour was that Arthur
Michael had left before they found out who it really was...
In fact a great deal of citizens left Cheapskate that month. The
Citizen's Head Chef, Normal Nutburger, and his faithful pal Smudge
Wendison had been putting on a lot of weight for the last two years.
Normal was now so large that he had to be rolled to work every day
by one of the Foodie slaves. Sidney Spanker was beginning to smell
a rat—which wasn't at all surprising because the rat had been living
in his moustache for nearly a week already.
Mrs Jolly Hockey-Sticks had also smelt the rat, but she was too
polite to point it out to her favourite stab-in-the-back-it-all. Finally she
decided that the rat had to go because it was putting her off when
she took dictation. So she rang up her play pal Dr Bob Groper. Together
they devised a cunning plan to remove the rat from the Head Citizen's
upper lip and place it in one of Normal's deep freezers. 'This way
Sidney will come out smelling like roses and we can get rid of that
troublesome pair in the Foodie Palace,' laughed Mrs Jolly Hockey-
Sticks, as she took another sip of sherry. 'We all suspect that Normal
and Smudge have been eating all our Mars bars up and they've become
very fat indeed. I wouldn't be at all surprised if that Judith
Largeamounts had eaten a Mars bars or two! And Alan Ego has pi^t
on at least a stone in the last month. Normal has eaten so much that
he cannot do his job properly anymore. When we tell everybody that
a dead rat was found in one of Normal's ratatouilles, there will be
a citizens' revolt and it will give us an excuse to sack Normal. I think
that our plan is for the best, my dear.'
Meanwhile, Sidney was busy explaining to his disciples Neil
McCrafty, Atomic Weasel and Neil Moron why he was the best thing
since sliced quiche. The disciples were so stupid that they had not
noticed that Sidney had a rat living in his moustache. They just thought
that the funny smell was because he had eaten Normal's baked beans
for lunch.
'My master plan will make Cheapskate the best place in the land.
The only problems are Ego and Largeamounts. They are the only
citizens who don't share my vision. Here, have another Mars bar,'
said Sidney.
'I've got an idea,' piped •• Neil Moron. 'Why don't we produce
an alternative newspaper calle , sollox which says that Sidney Spanker
is a really wonderful person and that Largeamounts is a horrible, nasty
liar.'
'Brilliant scheme, Moron!' cackled Sidney, rubbing his palms
together in anticipation. 'I'm sure that even Mrs Jolly Hockey-Sticks
couldn't have come up with a better plan.'
So the new newspaper was brought out by the Sidney Spanker Fan
Club and it certainly lived up to its name.
Spanker was finally seeing his dream come true: he knew that he
would go down in Cheapskate history as a really great leader. The
best one ever, he hoped.
'Mmm,' said Largeamounts as she studied the news for the last
issue of Phallix. 'It's all very depressing. Normal and Smudge have
been forceably rolled out of the Citizens' Building for being fat and
unable to cook ratatouille. Alan Ego is earning pots and pots of money
in the City. And what am I doing? Scraping around for one decent
news story to put in my last issue.'
Largeamounts was a bit annoyed. The Citizens Media Committee
had elected Sidney
Spanker as Media
Supremo for the next
year and it was the job
that Largeamounts felt
was rightfully hers.
'Pissst,' said Paul
Floozie with a glint in his
eye. 'I've just made the
perfect bomb out of an
old milk bottle, some
plate fixer and a match. I
suggest you stick it up Sidney Spanker's bottom,
Largeamounts took the bomb from Floozie and left the Phallix
Office
• Will Largeamounts stick the bomb up Sidney Spanker's bum?
• Will Sidney Spanker get his come-uppance?
0 Will Mr E Baron-Writer pen another letter of complaint?
• Why wasn't the Baron of Cheapskate mentioned once throughout
the entire episode?
• Will he ever return?
• All this can only be answered in the nextl?) episode of the Baron
of Cheapskate.
All characters contained within the Baron of Cheapskate are
entirely fictional and bear no resemblance to anyone either living
or dead.
FELIX Wednesday June 22nd 1988 25

