completely different to Einstein's, so
different that they cannot be
considered true in any sense
(observations based on them are
approximately true in some
circumstances but in the crucial
experiments Newton fails).
Einstein's model too may someday
fail to achieve a majority in the
parliament of observations. The same
is true of all models used by all
scientists. So we can never be certain
that we have reached the ultimate
truth.
Many scientists were eager to
receive and practice Popper's
methods, but many others were
disturbed by the apparent loss of the
concept of truth. However, the
discoveries of quantum mechanics
gave an immense boost to non-realist
interpretations of reality. Quantum
reality is just so observably crazy that
it is difficult to maintain a naive view
of reality any more. The fundamental
entities of Q M are no longer
analogous to concrete objects in the
macroscopic world. Quantum logic
does not have the same set of rules
as the Newtonian solar system (at
least not while you are sober). The
nearest we can get to quantum reality
is mathematical models. So we are
almost forced to concede the ultimate
inscrutablity of reality.
The problem with
people
We do not normally, in our everyday
life, encounter quantum objects. In
fact a realist and Newtonian model is
fairly sufficient for our everyday
needs (but this does not make it true
in any useful sense). Human intuition,
based on the macroscopic well-
behaved world is based on a simplistic
view of reality. So there is a sort of
built-in resistance to the new ideas.
The same goes for the philosophy of
science. People tend to cling to the
idea that they are uncovering truth
rather than just finding a better model.
So when someone questions their idea
they defend it with passionate zeal.
Scientific disputes then become like
the deadly disputations between
medieval theologians. Scientists take
attacks on their ideas in the same way
they take attacks on their integrity:
after all they think truth is what is at
stake.
Such resistance to novelty is
apparently part of human nature, but
it gets in the way of scientific
advance. There is a natural human
tendency to want to be on the right
side of an argument. When this is
•pplied in science it leads to scientists
refusing to articulate clear ideas for
fear of being wrong; they prefer to
obfuscate and hedge their bets so that
they never have to face being clearly
mistaken. Yet science would move
more quickly if people were prepared
to stick their necks out more often.
Bold, clearly expressed theories
encourage clear-cut experiments, but
they therefore run a high risk of being
proved incorrect.
Another problem is that old fogies
in positions of power cling to the old
ideas with which they are comfortable
and block the rapid acceptance of new
ideas. Often in many areas of science
new ideas fail to be widely accepted
until the people who thought up the
previous set of theories have the
courtesy to kick the bucket. People
who believe they have found the truth
are very stubborn even in the face of
strong evidence to the contrary.
Science cannot easily afford such
resistance to change.
Indeed, the modern world (of
computers and digital watches) would
not yet have arrived if scientists had
held on to a belief in the truth of the
classical world-view that preceeded
quantum mechanics. The transistor,
for example, is completely
inexplicable in the classical model of
reality. Not that there was no
resistance, Boltzmann committed
suicide in 1908 because of the
resistance to his ideas of statistical
mechanics (and this was three years
after the Einstein paper on the subject
that ultimately nailed the lid on the
classical coffin).
Thomas Kuhn actually built a
whole philosophy of science on such
aberrations of human nature. He built
his philosophy on what actually
happens so he emphasises the human
resistance to change. What tends to
happen, according to his ideas, is that
observations at variance with the
accepted wisdom build up over a
period of time. Eventually the sheer
weight of evidence is against the old
ideas and they suddenly collapse in
a traumatic episode known as a
paradigm shift. Kuhn's ideas tell us
a lot about the basic stubbornness of
human nature without telling us how
to get round the problem. It is often
better to think of Kuhn as a sociologist
of science rather than as a
philosopher.
Doubt is good
A Popperian approach makes
scientific advance easier precisely
because it relinquishes its grasp on
truth. The job of science is, now, to
build models. Good models suggest
new experiments, the results of the
experiments say whether the models
are going to survive. Models are
mental constructs, they are simply
analogies which can usefully describe
some portion of the world. There is
no point in getting too attached to an
analogy. In fact, the best models are
the ones that have invited the most
criticism.
A healthy dose of doubt keeps old
ideas on their toes. Constant criticism
imposes a harsh selective pressure
that weeds out inadequate concepts.
Scientists should be open to critical
ideas as those very ideas are the
driving force for scientific advance.
If a theory fails under criticism, then
it will be replaced by something
better; if it survives then we have
more reason to trust it.
Popper basically presented us with
an idealistic view of how science
should be done. If we did science the
way he suggests we might actually do
it better and with less personal
bickering. Many very successful
scientists have been ardent disciples
of the Popper method and, since some
of them got Nobel prizes as a result,
perhaps we should take their ideas
seriously. One of the things we have
to do is to get away from the naive
idea of absolute truth. New science
will never appear if we cling on to
conventional ideas too much, so we
must abandon truth and
institutionalise doubt. We have to
learn to be critical of all scientific
theories. It is the asking of awkward
questions that suggests the new
experiments that prompt new science.
The more questions we are prepared
to ask, the faster science will advance.
Popper's ideas have other
implications. They provide a fairly
strict way to keep nasty ideologies are
completely irrefutable in the face of
any imaginable evidence and are held
for completely irrational reasons. The
criterion of falsifiability also
conveniently relegates astrology and
telepathy to the realm of
pseudoscience (believers are
notoriously unwilling to do critical
experiments and can always find a
way out when the experiments fail).
So what?
The job of the scientists is to make
models of the world that transcend his
own limitations.
Have we lost a belief in reality and
truth as a result of Popper's ideas?
Not really. Nothing in his philosophy
says that there is not tnith or that there
is no reality. He is just reminding us
that human perception is not a perfect
tool for appreciating either reality or
truth. Yes you can have an objective
real world, but you can never build
a perfect model of it. Yes, absolute
truth can exist, but people will
inevitably distort it according to their
own ends.
It is a prevalent and dangerous
myth that science offers a better path
to truth than any other human
creation. It does not and it never will.
Science is a human activity and will
always be subject to the problems and
distortions of human nature. A good
scientific philosophy (such as
Popper's) does its best to counteract
human frailty, but in doing so it
severely limits the scope of science
(we can have no good science without
carefully controlled critical
experiments). So science is powerless
when faced with the great questions
of existence (is there a God? Is there
any point to life? What am I going to
eat for lunch...).
Anyway, as Richard Feynman said,
'Science isn't the most important
thing in the world, Love is.'
FELIX Wednesday June 22nd 1988 27

