In 1985, in England, Scotland and Wales,
somebody killed themselves every two hours. For
people under 25 the number of suicides is
increasing and is second only to accidents as the
most common cause of death.
Yet suicide, one of the most
personal of acts, remains one of the
most puzzling. The apparently simple
task of keeping statistics is
complicated by various factors: many
deaths, for example being recorded
as of undetermined cause, or facts
being concealed among relatives and
friends because of the shame
associated with a verdict of suicide.
Even the definition, apparently,
simple, causes problems. 'The act for
instance of killing oneself
intentionally', says the Oxford
English Dictionary. But who can be
sure of the intentions of the victim?
The^ case of the 'gesture' going
tragically wrong is not unknown. And
even the victims may be unsure of
their motives. Survivors of suicide
attempts, when questioned, often
show confusion about the reasons for
the attempt, and indifference to its
results.
The quesion of motive, among
other aspects, was studied by the
Frenchman, Emile Durkheim. In
1897 he published what is by now one
of the most important sociological
studies of the subject, Le Suicide. The
main principle in this was that social
institutions such as the family and
religious groups are forces external
to the individuals and that suicide,
apparently a personal act, was
explicable only by the state of the
society to which the individual
belonged. On this basis Durkheim
divided suicides into three types. In
the first, egoistical suicide, the
individual is inadequately concerned
for. and involved with, society. This
group includes suicides of the
deprived, bereaved and physically
and mentally ill. The second type, far
less common is termed altruistic and
occurs when people are driven to self-
destruction by an excessive sense of
duty. To this category belong the old
and sick who feel they should
'relieve' society of themselves, the
self-sacrifice of martyrs and the
Japanese ritual hara-kiri peformed to
redeem the reputation of the person's
family. In anomic suicide, the third
category, an individual becomes
particularly vulnerable to self-
destructive impulses because of
weaknesses of society, for example
when the strength of religious beliefs,
or professional or marital codes
declines.
Durkheim's ideas, while they
account for some of the incidences of
suicide, are of mainly historical
interest: suicide as a function of the
state of society is now seen as only
part of the picture.
At the other extreme was Freud's
theory of a primary 'death instinct'
accounting not only for suicide but
also for acts of aggression against
others. But the psychology of the
individual differs from that of the
group and only study of both enables
either to be understood.
Religion
Attitudes of society to suicide have
varied as much as theories about its
causes. Variations between religions
are striking. Judaism, for example,
unconditionally disapproves of
suicide; in Islam it is regarded as a
crime worse than murder and is
explicitely forbidden in the Koran.
Roman Catholics also regard it as an
extreme disgrace for the victims of
their families, though suicide is not
expressly prohibited in the Christian
scriptures. The degree of disapproval
varies with the particular
denomination. Martyrs, however,
were admired particularly in Islam
and early Christianity—the religious
definition of suicide appears
somewhat narrower than that used by
some psychologists (Durkheim for
example).
Buddhist monk commits suicide
By contrast, Hinduism and
Buddhism tolerate suicide, or even
encourage it in some cases. Fanatical
followers of these faiths may seek
suicide for self-purification, or use it
in the cause of their religion. For
example in South Vietnam in 1963 a
number of Buddhist monks setfireto
themselves in protest against religious
persecution.
Social Attitudes
Even within a single culture,
attitudes to suicide change with time.
In European society the reactions used
to be of abhorence and retaliation—
comparatively recently (1823) a
suicide was buried at a crossroads in
Chelsea with a stake through his
body. This custom dated back to pre-
Christian times and was probably
based in a fear of evil spirits let loose
by the act of suicide. Nowadays the
attitude is more one of sympathy, and
it is realised that those who commit
or attempt suicide are in acute
distress.
In Japan the attitude to suicide has
moved in other directions: from a
society allowing feudal lords to
demand compulsory hara-kiri (a
practice outlawed in 1868) to one in
which the high number of suicides
among the young provokes concern.
The media display a keen interest
in the more dramatic suicides, as for
example in the wide reporting of the
deaths of Dr Gareth Bennet—the man
who criticised the Archbishop of
Canterbury. This plays an obvious
part in some attempts at suicide:
probably the most influential having
been Gandhi's fasting until his
political aim was achieved. Hunger
strikes, leading to death in at least one
case, were similarly used by
imprisoned Irish terrorists though
with less success.
The Law
This history of the laws relating to
suicide is complex and cannot be
accounted for solely by religious
influences. In Rome, for example,
people accused of capital crimes could •
save their estates for their heirs by
committing suicide before the state
could confiscate the property. This
led to the introduction of legislation
making such a suicide equivalent to.
a confession of the crime, carrying
with it confiscation of any property.
Roman law progressed from here to
make suicide alone a crime resulting
in forfeiture of property.
Under the law of England, suicide
may have been a crime from as early
as the tenth century. Religious views
probably strongly influenced this. But
the law has not always reflected the
attitude of society and has often been
inconsistently or unfairly applied. The
case of the man sentenced in 1955 to
two years imprisonment for
attempting suicide while in prison is
a particularly clear illustration of the
resulting hardships. As there was no
evidence that the threat of prosecution
acted as a deterrent, pressure mounted
to get the laws changed. In 1961
suicide finally ceased to be a crime,
and survivors were no longer liable
to criminal prosecution for the
misdemeanour of attempted suicide.
Under the Suicide Act of that year it'
remained an offence to 'aid, abet,
32 Wednesday June 22nd 1988 FELIX

