SOLAR in South London aimed to
provide a community service, not
only broadcasting community
announcements, news and traffic, but
actually getting groups in the
community to put their own points of
view. Clearly this was limited by the
station being illegal, but they showed
that it could be done.
At the same time, the campaign for
legal community radio began, as a
development of the Annan Report
suggestion that non-profit making
trusts be licenced to provide a
community radio service. At first the
campaign was led by the Community
Communications Group (ComCom)
and later by the Community Radio
Association (the CRA).
Again and again the campaign has
run up against the refusal of the State
to give up on control of the airwaves.
This is demonstrated by the DTI
policy of 'raiding' pirate stations.
First on the list come stations causing
interference to legal stations—this
rarely happens as it is not in the
pirates' interests to interfere. Next,
it appears, come politically sensitive
stations—ethnic stations like London
Greek Radio are repeatedly raided
while soul stations go for months
without a visit. It seems that it is OK
to put out alternative music, but not
alternative views and opinions.
In cities, the greatest need for new
radio services is from the ethnic
groups. There is virtually no coverage
of non-British cultures and languages
on the radio (or TV) and the
backgrounds of the members of these
groups make it particularly difficult
to gain access to the traditional media.
Many see radio as a very important
way of keeping their own culture and
of promoting harmony with other
cultures. There is no doubt that they
have a very strong need for new radio
services—this has even been
recognised by the Government. Many
of the pirates are 'ethnic': Greek and
Arab pirates have been particularly
successful despite repeated raids.
Community radio is an umbrella
term which covers all radio broadcast
to a particular community—either a
community living in a small area, or
one having the same interest. The
scale of such radio is much smaller
than the local stations of the IBA and
BBC: a station might cover an area
like Kensington, perhaps.
True community radio is run by a
committee elected from the
community itself. It seeks to break
down the barriers between the
broadcasters and the audience, by
encouraging the audience to take part
in running their station (a good
example of this is Radio Thames-
mead, which broadcasts via cable). So
that the station truly serves the
community, it should not aim to make
a profit—ILR has shown the effect of
commercial aims on station output.
Community radio would also offer
something different from pop music
all day. For example, a community-
of-interest music station could
concentrate on jazz for example but,
instead of DJ patter, its presenters
would be genuinely interested and
knowledgable about the music played.
This is what community radio
means to the CRA, as well as to
Australia, the USA and other
countries throughout the world. In
Britain, however, the Government
does not recognise the difference
between the no-profit, community-
type station and the scaled down ILR
stations which aim for profit. In the
UK, the words community radio are
thus used to cover both types of small
scale radio.
The French and Italian experiences
have been enlightening. Their
airwaves were opened up to anyone
who wanted to broadcast and
thousands of stations were set up.
After four years of competition for
advertising only the popular m-isic
stations were left, most of whicn had
merged with other stations or been
bought out. Competition for
audiences had reached a level where
'porn radio' could be received in
some areas. The warning is clear:
competition does not lead to greater
choice in broadcasting. It leads to
then followed six months of delay to
see who would receive the licences.
When the announcement did come,
it was that the experiment was going
to be cancelled because it was felt it
would be impossible to regulate the
21 stations if they were licenced
directly by the Home Office and
therefore by the Government. What
we have heard since indicates that this
decision came from Cabinet level.
On cancelling the experiment, the
Government promised a re-think in
radio and offered a Green Paper (a
consultative document) which was
released in Autumn '87. The paper
suggested the setting up of small scale
radio throughout the country, as well
as three National Channels of
Broadcasting—similar to Radios 1,2,.
3 and 4, but to be run commercially.
Home Secretary Douglas Hurd later
announced that a new 'Radio
Authority' would be set up. This
would be separate from the current
IBA and have the job of regulating all
the non-BBC stations. This change
should be presented to Parliament
soon in a general Radio Bill. The
Authority would cost around £1-1 ¥i
million (roughly what is spent trying
to stop the pirates) and would take
over the regulation of ILR stations,
as well as licencing the proposed new
stations.
The timetable was to have been as
follows: the Bill would be presented
fit in? In the late 1960s, student
stations were licenced on strict
condition that they could only be
received by students—hence
removing regulation worries. This is
why IC Radio only broadcasts to
Southside and Linstead. Their signal
(which like all student stations is on
Medium Wave) is confined by the
steel frame of the building so it cannot
be picked up by the mews residents
on the other side of the road. IC Radio
is the only student station to be
licenced in such a built-up area.
The only changes since then have
been that advertising (which most
stations now take) is now allowed
and, very recently, that a 'Test and
Development Licence' has been
granted to enable IC Radio and Radio
Falmer in Sussex to broadcast to
students on the FM band.
The future of radio is uncertain the
conflict between the Conservative
policy of deregulation and ^he
determination to keep control of the
media may result in some interesting
compromises. I'm sure many people
don't realise the scale of the effects
the changes will bring.
Finally, I can't claim this is
unbiased—I am involved in one of the
major pressure groups for change-
but I think it gives a background and
introduction to many of the issues
surrounding radio broadcasting today.
many stations going for the same
affluent audience and no service for
anyone else. Even the relevant
Parliamentary Subcommittee seems to
accept this.
Back in 1986, the then Home
Secretary Leon Brittan announced a
one year experiment in 'community
radio' (actually small scale radio),
with 21 stations to be licenced to try
out the idea. Given only a few months
warning, 277 applications were
received for the 21 licences. There
to Parliament this Autumn, the Radio
Authority would be set up next year,
and the first licences issued by next
Christmas. However, in the last
fortnight we have heard that the
Government (and the Home Office in
particular), is very short of
parliamentary time in the Autumn. It
looks increasingly likely that the Bill
will not be presented in 1988, so the
whole timetable will be pushed back
yet another year.
So, where do stations like IC Radio
Further information:
IBA, Brompton Road, London
SW7.
BBC, Broadcasting House, London.
Community Radio Association,
Room 119, Southbank House,
Black Prince Road, London SE1.
IC Radio, Southside, Prince's
Gardens.
Home Office, Queen Anne's Gate,
London.
40 Wednesday June 22nd 1988 FELIX

