• * i i .^gT —
F~ EE l _ I
As AP Editor for the last academic
year (1986/87) I was criticised by
some members of the academic staff
here at IC. None, as far as I am
aware, were prepared to officially
complain to me or to the Union on the
subject, but quite a few were prepared
to tell me personally just what they
thought of me and my work. At times
I found this extremely distressing.
The fiasco which has surrounded
the production of a supplement to my
AP has rubbed even more salt into the
wound. It could be said that those who
complained about the opinions
contained in my AP would now see
my work as tame in comparison with
the inaccurate rubbish written in the
supplement. However, whether or not
this clears my name it is quite likely
to mean the death of a publication
which I believe in and which I have
fought for ever since I came to
OPINION:
THE ALTERNATIVE PROSPECTUS UPDATE
Sunny Bains was last year's Alternative Prospectus Editor. She is studying
for a degree in the Physics Department and hopes to enter her third year
next year.
college.
The AP is not afun publication. It has
a negligible profile within College and
gets little support from the Union
hierarchy. It is almost unique in
Publications Board in that it is the
only publication that is not intended
to be primarily for consumption by
IC students.
' All this has the effect of making the
AP editor's post an incredibly low
status job, especially when compared
to the Handbook editor, as well as
being a very difficult one.
The Handbook editor has only to
tell a fresher what delights await them
in the following three years. The
fresher has no decision to make. If the
Handbook editor gets it wrong there
are unlikely to be any serious
repercussions.
On the other hand if the AP Editor
gets it wrong, not only do they risk
falsely enticing people to or repelling
people from IC, but they also risk
being attacked by College.
I still stand by my AP. If it was a
bit on the negative side then perhaps
that is justified on the basis of
balancing the sycophantic Official
Prospectus. No one can argue that I
did not work incredibly hard on the
project with only limited help from
the Union (with the notable exception
of Christine Taig, last year's
President and a very few Dep Reps).
It is very difficult to try to force Dep
Reps to write articles for you and to
have them checked etc without
appearing to be too pushy.
Anyway, back to the supplement.
If Martyn Peck spent almost no time
doing his job, and did the work he
completed badly, then he should be
criticised for it. If the Union President
saw it before it was printed and
approved it, then he should also be
criticised. But the main thing is that
because of one or two people's
incompetence, a good and useful
publication should not be allowed to
be crushed by admissions tutors who
have finally found the excuse they
needed. If the AP Supplement Editor
had been given more advice, help and
guidance by the Union, the present
difficulties'would never have arisen.
My feeling is that the Union would
like the buck to be passed to Martyn
Peck and stop there. Were this to
happen, then the Alternative
Prospectus will not survive the attacks
of the Admissions Tutors. 'If Maftyn
Peck is to blame,' they will say 'then
Imperial College could held to ransom
by any AP Editor with a grudge'.
Sunny Bains
P I M L I C O
(October 19th '88-Feb 8th '89)
Like a chance to communicate scientific
ideas and help teachers of Science and
Maths in local ILEA Primary and Secondary
schools?
Then join the scheme and the student
Pimlico Connection Society...
Details from the Humanities Dept.
Room 313C, Mech Eng
or
Room 501, Elec Eng
Summer Vacation
Employment
Queens Tower Guides
The Queens Tower will be open to the public again
this Summer not only to ensure that the College
stays firmly on the map but hopefully to produce
a small additional income for the College. Visitors
are to be conducted around the tower in groups
of 10 or so by guides who will provide some
background information on the features and
historical associations. A total of 6 guides will be
recruited with 2 of these carrying out gardening
duties except at peak times when the number of
visitors warrants extra control. Guides will keep
the Tower tidy and clean and man the ticket
kiosk/shop. Work will involve making • number of
journeys up and down the iron and stone spiral
stair cases each day. The guides will be divided
into 2 groups each group consisting of 2 guides
and 1 guide/gardener and working alternate days
over a 7 day week. The Tower will be open from
10am to 6pm between July 1 and Sept 30 1988
Guides will receive pay at the rate of £95 per week
and performance bonuses are to be paid at the end
of the opening period if the income targets are met.
If you would like to take part in the scheme
as a guide or guide/gardener please contact
Mr R L Chandler, Room 531, Sherfield Building
int 3409
FELIX Wednesday June 22nd 1988 45

