1' '
E163N
E170N
Anthocyanin—Plant pigp-;nts with colours ranging from
red to blue. Naturally present in red cabbage and grapes.
Calcium Carbonate (Chalk)—Naturally occurring mineral.
Its various functions include acid regulator, firming agent,
releasing agent and nutrient. It is added to white flour as a
calcium supplement to replace the loss due to refining.
Frequently an ingredient in bread and baked products.
E200-E282 are mainly preservatives and acids
E200N ' Sorbic Acid—Naturally occurring in some fruit but
generally manufactured synthetically for use as a food
preservative. Typically added to soft drinks, cheese spread,
frozen pizza and cakes.
Salts of sorbic acid performing a similar function include:
E201 Sodium Sorbate.
E202 Potassium Sorbate—Used to preserve glace cherries.
E203 Calcium Sorbate
E210N Benzoic Acid—Occurs naturally in cherry bark, raspberries,
tea, anise and cassia bark but is prepared synthetically for
commercial food use. It functions as a preservative and
antioxidant most frequently in fruit products and soft drinks
but may also be found in pickles and salad dressings.
Salts of benzoic acid performing similar functions include:
E211 Sodium Benzoate—In bottled sauces.
E212 Potassium Benzoate.
E213 Calcium Benzoate.
E(214-219) Hydroxy Benzoate salts.
E220 Sulphur Dioxide—Gas prepared chemically for use in food
as preservative, flour improver, bleaching agent and
vitamin C stabilizer. Products likely to include sulphur
dioxide are carbonated drinks, marmalade, glace cherries
and mixed peel, cakes, fruit based products and meat
products.
E222 Sodium Hydrogen Sulphite/Bisulphite—Synthetic
preservative and bleaching agent often added to wine and
beer. This should be avoided by asthmatics as should all
sulphites.
E223 Sodium Metabisulphite—Synthetic preservative best
avoided by asthmatics. Added to sausages and some bottled
sauces. * • j
E249N Potassium Nitrite—Naturally occurring mineral used in
cooked meats and sausages as a preservative and in cured
meats as a colour fixative. It should not be given to babies
under 6 months old.
E250 Sodium Nitrite—Derived from sodium nitrate by chemical
or bacterial action. Preservative and colour fixative in cured
meats, facilitating the characteristic pink colour. Added to
cooked and cured meats, bacon and pork sausages but is
prohibited in foods intended for babies and young children.
E251N Sodium Nitrate—Naturally occurring mineral usually
manufactured synthetically for food use as a preservative,
and colour fixative in cooked meats, bacon, ham and
cheese.
E2S2 Potassium Nitrate—Occurs naturally but may be produced
artificially from waste animal and vegetable material. This
additive is one of the oldest and most effective
preservatives for meat and also functions as a curing agent.
However, it may cause stomach irritation and an irregular
pulse in susceptible individuals.
In the body nitrates are converted to nitrites and this has
aroused conflict over their use. They offer valid and
significant protection against food bacteria, which may
cause a severe form of food poisoning. However, tests on
animals have shown that they may be carcinogenic. No
human studies have yet been reported. Further investigation
is required. Found in cured meats, cooked meats and
sausages.
E260 Acetic Acid—Natural component of vinegar but generally
E270N
E280
Salts of
E281
E282N
E283
E290N
manufactured from wood for use as a food preservative,
acid or colour diluent. Typically added to pickles, bottled
sauces and chutneys.
Lactic Acid—Produced by the fermentation of lactose,
which is the sugar present in milk. It occurs naturally in
soured milk and yogurt and acts as a preservative, acid,
flavour and assists the action of anitoxidants. Widely used
additive to be found in salad dressings, cakes, biscuits,
confectionery and certain types of prepared meat dishes.
Propionic Avid—Fatty acid produced by animals in the
process of digestion but also manufactured synthetically for
food application. Functions as a preservative when added to
baked foods.
propionic acid performing similar functions include:
Sodium Propionate
Calcium Propionate—Occurs naturally in Swiss cheese.
Potassium Propionate.
Carbon Dioxide—Gas present in air, but produced
synthetically for food use as a source of carbonation in
fizzy drinks. Its roles also include coolant, freezant,
propellant, preservative and packaging gas.
E300-E341 are mainly antioxidants and acid regulators
E300N L-Ascorbic Acid (vitamin C)—Occurs naturally in fruit
and vegetables and is synthesised biologically. It has many
functions other than as a nutrient. These are preservative,
antioxidant, meat colour fixative and flour improver. It is
often added to instant mashed potato, as potatoes are a
good dietary sources of vitamin C prior to processing
losses. Also added to fruit juices, bread and baked
products.
Salts of ascorbic acid performing similar functions include:
E301 Sodium L-Ascorbate^Often added to cured meats.
E302 Calcium L-Ascorbate.
E304 Ascorby Palmitate—Frequently used additive in sausage
and cured meats.
E306N Extracts of natural origin rich in Tocopherols (vitamin
E)—Obtained from soya bean oil, wheatgerm, rice germ,
cottonseed, maize and green leaves. They may be added to
fats and oils as an antioxidant and nutrient.
Synthetic products of Tocopherols performing similar functions include:
E307 Synthetic Alpha Tocopherol
E308 Synthetic Gamma Tocopherol
E309 Synthetic Delta Tocopherol
E310 Propyl Gallate—Synthetically prepared antioxidant added to
fats and oils and will, therefore, exist in some fried foods.
It may impart a bitter taste, but it is frequently only present
in trace amounts
Related synthetic products performing similar functions include:
E311 Octyl Gallate.
E312 Dodecyl Gallate.
E320 Butylated Hydroyanisole (BHA)—Antioxidant
manufactured synthetically for use alone or in conjunction
with E310, E280 or E330. However, it must not be added
directly to infant foods. Often found in crisps and potato
snacks, biscuits, pastry, bottled sauces and fried foods.
£321 ButyiatMi Hydroxytoluene (BHT)—Synthetically prepared
antioxidant not permitted for use in baby or infant food.
Usage is very similar to that of E320.
E322N Lecithins—Type of fat of lipid compound found naturally
in all living organisms, protective against cholesterol
deposition in the body. Egg yolk is a very rich source but
for commercial use it is obtained from soya beans. Used as
an antioxidant and emulsifier in chocolate and chocolate
products, powdered milk, margarine and potato snacks.
Salts of lactic acid (see E270) include:
E325 Sodium Lactate—Added to confectionery as a humectant.
E326 Potassium Lactate—Acid regulator.
FELIX Wednesday June 22nd 1988 59

