E327 Calcium Lactate—Acid regulator and forming agent
frequently incorporated into baking powder.
E330N Citric Acid—Occurs naturally in citrus fruits but may also
be prepared from the fermentation of molasses. It is
typically added to pickles, bottled sauces, dairy and baked
products where it functions as an antioxidant, preservative,
acid regulator and flour improver.
Salts of citric acid performing similar functions include:
E331 Sodium Citrate
E332 Potassium Citrate.
E333 Calcium Citrate—Acts as an acid regulator, emulsifier and
firming agent and may be found in carbonated drinks,
wines, confectionery and cheese products.
E334N Tartaric Acid—Natural products of wine-making added to
baking powder as an acid regulator.
Salts of tartaric acid performing similar functions include:
E335 Sodium L-Tartrate.
E336 Potassium L-Tartrate (Cream of Tartar)—Also a well-
known ingredient of baking powder.
E341 (a)-(c) Calcium Orthophosphates (Pyrophosphates)—Synthetic
products of a naturally occurring mineral. Its functions
include anti-caking agent, acid regulator, emulsifier, flour
improver, nutrient and aid to the action of antioxidants.
Most likely to be found in potato snacks, pastry and baking
powder.
E400s include emulsifiers, stabilisers, thickeners, anti-caling
agents, release agents and bulking agents ,
E400N
Salt of alg
E401
E406N
E407
E410N
E412N
E413N
E414N
E415N
Alginic Acid—Emulsifier, stabiliser and gelling agent or
thickener extracted from brown seaweed. Frequently added
to ice cream, instant desserts and puddings,
inic acid performing like functions in similar foods:
Sodium Alginate.
Agar—Naturally occurring gum extracted from seaweeds
and related marine plants which is not digested and,
therefore, acts as a source of dietary fibre similar to that
obtained from fruit and vegetables. Acts as a stabiliser and
gelling agent in the jelly surrounding tinned ham, in meat
glazes and in ice cream.
Carrageenan (Irish Moss)—Gum naturally present in red
seaweed which also provides a source of fibre and is added
to food for its emulsifying, stabilising and gelling
properties, it is used most commonly in ice cream. It has
been recently suggested that it may be carcinogenic.
Locust Bean Gum (Carob Bean Seed Gum)—Natural
extract from the carob tree seed with characteristics like
those of E407. Added to ice cream and certain soups.
Carob is a non-caffeine containing substitute for cocoa and
chocolate. Used in beverages, confectionery and baked
products.
Guar Gum (Cluster Bean Gum)—Naturally occurring seed
gum from a tree of the pea family, used as a stabiliser and
thickener. Has been tested in diabetic foods because its
fibrous nature reduces the rate of absorption of other food
components with which it is combined, such as sugar.
Added to bottled sauces, soup, ice cream and frozen
desserts.
Tragcanth—Natural gum obtained from a tree of the pea
family with functions including emulsifier, stabiliser,
thickener. Also used to prevent the crystallisation of sugar
in confectionery.
Acacia (Gum Arabic)—Origin and uses very similar to
those of E413.
Xanthan Gum—Frequently added to ice cream and bottled
sauces for its use as an emulsifier, stabiliser and thickener.
Prepared in nature as a result of the fermentation of
carbohydrate by bacteria.
E420N (i) Sorbitol, (ii) Sorbitol Syrup—Sugar alcohol produced
from glucose. It is less quickly absorbed than sugar but no;
less fattening. Occurs naturally in certain berries and taken
in large quantities may have a laxative effect. Widely used
in diabetic confectionery, preserves, biscuits, cakes and soft
drinks as a sweetener. Also a humectant and food colour
diluent.
E421 Mannitol—Sugar alcohol derived from mannose, but
generally prepared for commercial use from seaweed. Used
in confectionery and desserts as a sweetener, emulsifier,
anti-caking agent and thickener.
E422N Glycerol—Naturally present in many plant cells but
prepared commercially from fats and oils for use as a
humectant of confectionery and cake icing.
E440N (a) Pectin—Occurs naturally in fruits, roots and stems of
plants. Used as a stabiliser and gelling agent in preserves,
jellies and mint jelly.
E440 (b) Amidated Pectin—Chemically treated pectin added to
preserves and jellies as emulsifier and gelling agent.
E450 (a)-(c) Sodium and Potassium Phosphate Salts—Synthetically
prepared emulsifiers. stabilisers, and sometimes used to
retain moisture in meat products, especially frozen poultry.
Plays beneficial roles in bread, sausages, meat products,
cheese spread and cheese products by preventing products
becoming hard and dry due to loss of water to the
atmosphere or in cooking.
E460N Cellulose—Fibrous part of plant cell walls which give
plants support. Indigestible and therefore a bulking agent,
providing fibre. Widely used in high fibre bread and low
calorie products.
Substances derived from cellulose performing similar functions include:
E461 Methylcellulose—Widely used in slimming foods to create
a feeling of fullness without extra calories. It does this by
absorbing water and swelling in the stomach.
E465 Ethylmethylcellulose—May be added to fruit cake and
bottled sauces.
E566 Carboxymethycellulose—Can be used in ice cream, cream
products and cheescake mix.
E470 Sodium, Potassium and Calcium Salts of Fatty Acids—
Synthetically manufactured emulsifiers, stabilisers and anti-
caking agents found in crisps and potato snacks.
E471N Mono and Diglycerides of Fatty Acids—Main constituents
of animal and vegetable fats and oils. Normal products of
fat digestion but are prepared synthetically for commercial
use. Frequently added to powdered milk, packet soup,
cake, crisps and potato snacks, bread and baked products
and margarine.
E472 (a)-(e) Substances prepared from E471 by a reaction with the
following acids: (a) Acetic, (b) Lactic, (c) Citric, (d)
Tartaric, (e) Diacetyl Tartaric—Functions include
emulsifier, stabiliser, thickener, humectant and releasing
agent. Typical products for their requirement are
cheesecake mix, soups, bread and baked products.
E475 Polyglycerol Ester of Fatty acids—Synthetic products of
E471. Used as an emulsifier and stabiliser in puddings and
packet cheesecakes.
E481 Sodium Stearoyl-2-lactylate—Prepared synthetically from
lactic acid for addition to crisps and similar potato snacks
as a stabiliser and emulsifier.
Additives represented by numbers with no 'E'prefix
107 Yellow 2G (sctd)—Yellow dye added to similar products as
E102.
128 Red 2G (sctd)—Red dye which provides the pink colour
typically associated with pork pies, sausages and some
other meat products.
133 Brilliant Blue (sctd)—Blue dye often combined with E102
to produce a desired green colouring agent, for use in
60 Wednesday June 22nd 1988 FELIX

