F 1
+ i r r o <-
154
155
297N
435
500
504N
508N
509N
541
542
551
Salts of
552
553
620N
Salts of
621N
622
623
627N
631
635
bacon-flavour snacks.
Brown FK (sctd)—Brown colour often added to smoked
fish especially kippers.
Chocolate Brown HT (sctd)—Brown colour with less
specific uses.
Fumaric Acid—Occur; a nature but prepared synthetically
for food use as an acid flavour. Added to baked products.
Polysorbate 60—Prepared from sorbitol (E420) and
functions as an emulsifier and stabiliser. Frequently added
to bread and baked products.
Sodium Bicarbonate/Hydrogen Carbonate (Bicarb of
Soda)—Prepared synthetically for use as an acid regulator,
firming agent, release agent, raising agent and diluent.
Ofted added to malted drinks, tinned custard, cheesy potato
snacks, bread and bread products.
Magnesium Carbonate—Naturally occurring mineral added
to table salt and icing sugar as an anti-caking agent.
Potassium Chloride—Present naturally, often associated
with rock salts. Used as an emulsifier, stabiliser, salt
substitute and dietary supplement. Similar taste to table salt
and useful for some sodium restricted diets but not known
whether it is beneficial for the treatment of hypertension.
Found especially in low sodium or low salt products.
However, large intakes may cause intestinal ulceration and
affect normal functioning of the heart in susceptible
individuals.
Calcium Chloride— Product of natural salt brine which
may be prepared chemically. Added to red kidney beans to
perform functions of a firming agent and to prevent texture
deterioration.
Sodium Aluminium Phosphate—Synthetically prepared
raising agent functional in self-raising flour. Hence will
appear in baked products.
Edible Bone Phosphate—Mineral supplement and anti-
caking agent extracted from animal bones. Also used as a
filler for tablets.
Silicon Dioxide (Silica)—Derived from sand or rock and
processed for use in shaped crisps as an anti-caking agent,
silicon dioxide performing similar functions include:
Calcium Silicate—Also a glazing agent, acid regulator,
releasing agent and a coating agent in chewing gum. Found
also in meat pies, salt and confectionery.
Sodium Silico Aluminate—Frequently used as an additive
in packet noodles.
L-Glutamic Acid—Naturally occurring amino acid obtained
in many protein-containing foods but prepared commercially
by bacterial fermentation of carbohydrate. Used as a
nutrient to increase protein values and as a flavour
enhancer and salt substitute,
glutamic acid performing similar functions include:
Monosodium Glutamate (MSG)—Present naturally in
seaweed but more frequently prepared from sugar beet.
Flavour enhancer of protein rich foods, particularly meat,
and widely added to Chinese food, packet and convenience
meals and snacks, especially soups, dried products, crisps
and potato snacks. Excess has been claimed to cause
symptoms of 'Chinese Restaurant Syndrome', such as
nausea, dizziness, neck pain, migraine and palpitations in
susceptible individuals.
Monopotassium Glutamate—Not to be given to babies
under 12 weeks old.
Calcium Glutamate—Not to be given to babies under 12
weeks old
Sodium Guanylate—Occurs naturally in sardines and yeast
extract but manufactured synthetically for use as a flavour
enhancer in food. Typically added to crisps and potato
snacks, gravy granules and pre-cooked dried rice. Best
avoided by individuals suffering from gout or for anyone
following a low purine diet.
Sodium Inosinate—May be prepared from sardines and
meat extract. Characteristics and uses as for 627.
Sodium-5-Rinonucleotide—Mixture of 627 and 631 most
924
925
926
927
frequently added to crisps, packet soups and potato
products. Characteristics and uses as for 627.
Potassium Bromate—Oxidising agent, improver and
bleaching agent manufactured synthetically for use in flour
and thus bread and baked products. It may cause nausea,
abdominal pain and diarrhoea in susceptible individuals
and, as a result of the bleaching properties, it can cause
loss of vitamin E from the flour.
Chlorine—Synthetically prepared bleaching agent which
causes loss of vitamin E and possible irritation when added
to flour. Found in white flour, white bread, cakes and
puddings.
Chlorine Dioxide—Synthetically prepared additive with
properties and uses like those of chlorine in addition to
functions of water purification, bleaching agent and
oxidising agent.
Azodicarbonamide—Chemically manufactured flour
improver used to increase the dough tolerance to various
fermentation conditions due to yeast action. A common
ingredient in flour, bread and baked products.
Additives with no designated EEC number
Aspartame
New artificial sweetener of protein origin providing negligible calories.
Contains the amino acid phenylalanine (PHE), hence it should be avoided
by children with phenylketonuria (inborn error of metabolism).
Sweetening agent in 'Candarel' and 'Nutra Sweet' products. Likely to be
found in confectionery, ice cream, low calorie desserts and soft drinks.
Arrowroot N
Natural plant starch sold in powder form for use as a thickening agent in
glazes and jellies.
Caffeine N
Flavouring agent naturally found in tea, coffee, cocoa and some colas.
Offers stimulant properties.
Calciferol/Cholecalciferol N
Vitamin D. Important nutrient used to fortify margarine. Obtained
naturally by the action of sunlight on the skin or extracted.from yeast.
Assists the action of calcium and phosphorus in the development and
maintenance of healthy bones and teeth.
Calcium Bromate
Maturing agent and flour improver used in bread preparation to assist
dough development.
Calcium Phosphate
Raising agent used in various baked products.
Casein/Caseinate N
Naturally present milk protein widely used in food as an emulsifier,
texturiser and a dietary supplement.
Corn Syrup N
Glucose obtained from corn or maize starch added to foods for its
sweetening properties.
Dextrose N
See glucose
Dipotassium Phosphate
Acid regulator added to non-dietary powdered creams.
Disodium Phosphate
Emulsifier used in some macaroni products and cheese.
Extenders
Used in meat products to make the meat go further. Frequently a product
of soya bean origin, abbreviated to 'soya'. Usually a good source of
protein.
Fructose N
Naturally occurring sugar, present in fruit and honey. Acts as a
sweetener.
Gelatine N
Protein extract from animal bones and tissue. Obtained by the prolonged
moist cooking of meat. Used as a stabiliser and gelling agent in jellies,
glazes and certain dessert products..
FELIX Wednesday June 22nd 1988 61

