Glucose N
Sugar present naturally in grapes, corn and blood, where it provides a
source of energy. Main ingredient in confectionery, cakes and biscuits,
puddings and desserts, soft drinks and many convenience foods.
Glycerine N
Colourless sweet liquid obtained from fatty acids where it exists
naturally. Used as a flavour and bulking agent. Often added to cake
icing.
Hydrolysed Vegetable Protein
Produced chemically or by enzymatic breakdown of specific raw protein
materials. Added to soups, gravy and meat products to enhance existing
flavours or to create a meat flavour.
Invert Sugar
Syrup of 50% glucose and 50% fructose. Humectant and sweetener used
largely in confectionery and typical sweet products.
Iodine N
Nutrient found especially in sea food and required for the normal
functioning of the thyroid gland to produce hormones. Used in iodised
salt probably in a nature-identical form. The level present in fresh
vegetables depends on the soil content and that in meat, eggs and milk
depends on the animal's diet.
Iron N
Nutritionally important mineral required to carry oxygen in the blood
and for the formation of blood cells. Added to white flour to overcome
processing losses and used to fortify breakfast cereals. Rich natural
sources are red meat, liver, egg yolk and green vegetables.
Lactose N
Sugar present naturally in milk. Used as a humectant and sweetener and
as a nutrient in infant formulae. Naturally found in meat, dairy products,
cereals and vegetables.
Niacin/Nicotinic Acid N *
Nature identical B group vitamin naturally occurring in meat, fish,
cereals and vegetables, used for nutritional purposes. Fortifies certain
breakfast cereals and may be added to white flour. Required for the
utilisation of energy from food.
Propylene Glycol
Synthetic carrier for extracts, flavours and spices. Functions as a
stabiliser, humectant and prevents discolouration during storage.
Saccharin
Non-nutritive, calorie free, artificial sweetener with a bitter after-taste.
Used as a source of sweetening in low calorie products and often appears
in addition to sugar in soft drinks and confectionery.
Sodium Chloride/Salt N
Common table salt offering preservative and flavour properties. Large
quantities should be avoided by hypersensitive individuals.
Starch & Modified Starch N
Generally of maize (corn), potato, wheat or tapioca origin. The natural
starches form gels unstable to heat, freezing and acid which' necessitates
their modification. Widely used to modify texture and impart stability
when added to sauces, chutneys. confectionery, desserts, meat. fish,
dairy and baked products.
Sucrose N
Cane or beet sugar. Available as molasses, granulated, caster, icing and
demerara sugar. Used as a preservative and sweetener in ar, extremely
wide range of products.
Thiamin N
Nature-identical vitamin Bl added to food for fortification purposes but
widely distributed in animal and vegetable foods naturally. Common
additive to breakfast cereals. Essential for the release of energy from
carbohydrate in the body and therefore needs to be in proportion to
carbohydrate intake.
Vanillin
Synthetic nature-identical substitute for the natural flavour, vanilla. More
abundant, more economical to obtain and indistinguishable from vanilla
when used as a flavouring agent in baked products.
CLUBS
HAMSOC
Culture Vultures
The HamSoc Lemmings
Rather strange things have been
happening in the HamSoc shack
recently. The Chairman has suddenly
had an attack of 'culture' and the rest
of the membership have turned into
small brown furry creatures (see
photo)—it's amazing what effect the
exams have on some people! The real
significance of all this is to announce
to the world that HamSoc has adopted
the lemming as its 'official' mascot
(to find out why join HamSoc next
year!) and that an end of year poem
has been written:
The Chairman's Report
To all ye members of HamSoc,
from Mech Eng, Chem Eng,
Maths and DoC,
To all who like to call CQ,
I dedicate this verse to you.
Fruition of our grand designs
(people getting their callsigns),
And acquisition of a scope
leaves the club with future hope.
With licenced members next year,
the possibilities are clear,
To enter contests regularly,
(and even try some ATV!)
Construction projects would be fun
(with hints for those who've just
begun.)
There's more to Hamming, you
can tell,
Than just listening to CB3SL!
Have fun over the summer, and see
you all again next year,
Phil Pagelin (G4WWH) and Keith
Marlow (G7AFQ).
ALL CLUBS & SOCS
PLEASE EMPTY YOUR
PIGEONHOLES IN THE UNION
OFFICE. WOULD YOU ALSO
SUBMIT THE INFORMATION
FOR THE UNION DIRECTORY.
I NEED THE N A M E S OF
YOUR NEXT Y E A R ' S
OFFICERS.
THANK YOU
KATHY TAIT
COME TO THE
FELIX
SUMMER BUFFET DINNER
WEDNESDAY 22nd JUNE
Everybody welcome
Only £15
Which includes a horrendous
pigout and alcohol binge.
Dress: Formal or Fancy!
Wednesday June 22nd 1988 FELIX

