• To Trevor K, will you marry
me?—Graham M.
• Q. What's green, yellow and
horrible and growing on a neck?
• A. Neil's head.
• Tune in on Monday at 8am
and Wednesday 1pm to IC Radio
to listen to the Fast Trousers
Show.
• Remember Mike's handy tips
including this little gem: If you
are worried about burglars when
you go on holiday, why don't
you smash up your house,
including the breaking of all
windows. That way burglars will
think the house has already
been done.
• The trouble with trouble is
that it gets you into trouble!
• The Philippa Rowe Show will
be next week, Thursday
lunchtime (or around then).
• Finishing off with Spenser
Lane: 'He's my cuppa tea'—The
Brooke Bond Monkees.
• Finishing off with Neil Press:
'He's finished'—Madam Cyn.
• Apology: FELIX would like to
apologise to Shearson Leahman
Hutton for the content of Zev-
Green Jacket's small ad in the
last issue. We would like to
point out that all small ads
including in the paper do not
necessarily reflect the view of
IC Union or the FELIX Editor.
• RF, your place or mine?
Please say yes. SK. .
• S L who do you think I am?
SK.
• Mags, there's no one quite
like you, all my love—GB.
• Normal people just pick
people up. Hollywood superstars
marry them.
• Gareth of Silwood—All the
first years love you —BD and EG.
• All 3rd year chemists and
joint honours. Bye, glad to have
known you. All the best for the
future, Love and high yields, Roy.
• Penthouse Club Summer
Tour. See us in Cardiff,
Liverpool, Huddersfield,
Harrogate, Reading, Abingdon,
most of Cyprus, Jarrow,
Birmingham, London, North
Wales, Paris, Riviera, Rome,
Florence, Venice, Vienna,
Nuremburg, Wurzburg, the Rhine
Valley, Basle, Lucerne, Geneva
and Manchester.
• The Penthouse Club are:
Andrew Daglish, Paul Kendall,
Dai Williams, Mike Evans, Madan
Virdee and Mark Walker. See
you next year! (Except Dai
Wlliams).
Malcolm
apologises and
explains tactics
Dear Judith,
Andrew Haisley suggested I might reply to his letter,
published last week.
An apology is merited and I make it wholeheartedly.
An explanation is a bit harder to come by, since the
catalogue of errors he sets out is indefensible. What is
worse is that he was not the only person to suffer in this
manner.
I have apologised promptly and (I hope) sensitively to
veryone affected, sending copies also to the Registrar,
Senior Tutor, Warden etc, lest any stain should unjustly
remain on their characters.
I do not think I should take up valuable space in your
final issue with a blow-by-blow account of how the errors
occurred. In any case, I doubt I could make it half as
amusing as Andrew Haisley's letter. Suffice it to say that
all practical steps that can be taken to avoid this sort of
thing reccurring are being taken.
It may, however, be useful to add a few words about
the reasons for letters of the sort I (wrongly) sent to Mr
Haisley.
Unpaid bills are a major problem for the Students'
Residence Account. Debt collecting is always a thankless
task, and it is particularly unpleasant when the debts have
to be collected from students whom one knows full well
have difficulties in managing on their grant support. It
nevertheless has to be done, if the rents for College rooms
are not to be pushed even higher by the need to cover bad
debts.
Some of this year's problems have arisen from human
error, some from the administration's well-known
computer problems which are currently being remedied.
But I can understand how some of the problems with
unpaid bills arise simply from the increasing financial
difficulties under which many students labour. Some of
them simply cannot afford to pay.
The Rector and other senior officers take every
opportunity to press this point with the Government, but
as yet their pleas have fallen on deaf ears. The College
itself can do very little to help, both because it is
circumscribed by financial regulations imposed by the
Government, and because it has severe problems balancing
its own budget.
But whether a student can't pay or won't pay, we
nevertheless owe it to other students who do to use every
conceivable means to recover debts which are due.
Experience has shown that, if they are to be effective, debt-
chasing letters have to be firm and to the point. Of course,
this makes it all-the-more unfortunate when they are
wrong.
My letters dated 18 May have in fact resulted in some
£ 2 0 , 0 0 0 being received by the Students Residence
Accounts, some of which would undoubtedly never have
been collected otherwise.
Mr Haisley is right to remark that it is a serious matter
to threaten to stop someone's degree. It is precisely for
this reason that the sanction is so effective. (Incidentally,
invoking College Regulation No 2 does not mean that a
student is deprived of his degree in perpetuity. It simply
means that the result is not announced, and tb award
withheld, until the debt is cleared.)
It is arguable that we should have carried out further
checks before threatening to invoke the Regulation. One
thing we shall certainly do in future is to send at least one
earlier reminder letter to the student's parental or home
address, just in case the student is no longer living where
we think. (This appears to have been the root cause of
the problems in Mr Haisley's case.) And we shall continue
to try to anticipte other loopholes in our sy.,tem, difficult
though that can be.
I do not offer administrative error or convenience by
way of defence or mitigation for the error in sending
Andrew Haisley such a threatening letter. It was plainly
indefensible. But I hope this letter may help others to
appreciate why we appear sometimes to adopt such
aggressive debt collecting tactics.
Yours sincerely,
Malcolm Aldridge, Assistant Finance Officer.
Mangled story?
Dear Judith,
Mangled Story
I have great admiration for students who give their time
and talents to productions such as 'Phoenix', especially
when busy with important projects such as third-year
projects. Tight deadlines may limit the time for thorogh
proof-reading, but there is little point in producing such
publications at all if insufficient care makes them
incomprehensible to their readers.
When I sent my story, 'Premium Blonde and the second
coming', to 'Phoenix', I offered to proof-read it if used:
the offer was not taken up. My pleasure at seeing it
published, in the issue contained in FELIX of 3rd June,
quickly vanished when I saw the dreadful errors wrecking
the sense of continuity of the story. It would take a very
determined reader to work out that the tale jumps from
printed column 3, line 46, to column 4, line 15, to column
6, lint 1. Surely even one casual read-through by typist
or Editor, should have spotted such major disruptions in
the middle of other sentences? It is not even a case of
printing the pages out of order: the mix-up is far more
thorough!
Typing errors changing the meanings include: not/no,
now/not ('Now if you like' changed to 'not if you like'),
if/it, her/he, her/his, hum/him, of/or, then/the, it/I, it's/is,
loaves/leaves. The handwriting in the manuscript is clear
at each of these points (what ?—TS). Such stories can take
a long time to write, to set in type, and even to read: a
modicum of care by the producers can render all these
efforts worthwhile; lack of checking can render them
useless, making writer and editor appear incompetent.
It would also be useful to have the date and year on
this 'Phoenix', as on past issues. I hope that this literary
magazine, now beyond its centenary, gets the required
Editor for next year.
With best wishes for its future,
Yours sincerely,
Dr Bernard Lamb.
As Liz Holford, the Phoenix Editor, has left IC, 1 was
unable to get a reply from her. We did read the original
copy and the whole office is of the opinion that the
version we printed was a great deal better.
FELIX Wednesday June 22nd 1988 77

