r JbLilA
N E W S P A P E R O F I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E U N I O N
No. 158 FRIDAY 17TH FEBRUARY 1961 Price 4d.
STARVING HORDES RIOT
Chaos reigned at the Opening Ceremony
of the first Carnival Lunch held last Mon-
day in the Concert Hall of the Imperial
College Union. In the absence of the Pre-
sident of the Union, whom it appears,
was being entertained to lunch elsewhere,
the festivities of the day were opened by
the Union Secretary, Jim Carter. A jibe
from the back of the Hall "Are we quo-
rate?" brought a round of mirth.
After a few words of note Jim proceeded
to the lucky dip, the prize being a theatre
date with the Queen of Jezebel, Miss Judy
Lewis. Jim's luck was out, however. After
calling six different numbers and gaining
no response from the audience he gave
up and offered the prize to the first par-
son who could supply a sock. This left
the audience dumbfounded. What suotle
trick had Jim's quick contored mind con-
trived? After an uncomfortable pause a
panting individual charged forward and
presented... a sock. When asked his
name he did not at first seem to bee sure
P. Something Smith was the reply. He
was obviously in an extremely confused
state and it was only some delay that it
transpired his true name was, in fact,
D.S. Strand.
Finlay D. McPherson, who happened to
be on his way to a poetry meeting, dropped
in to entertain, so he thought. His
offerings were met with cries of derision
and the passions of the assembled mob
were raised so high that a barrage of card-
board plates and plastic beakers rained
down, on our unwanted literary genius.
Owing to the aerodynamic instability of
these missiles, however, few of them
reached their target.
Carnival Organiser Si Lyle then stepped
forwad and brought the ceremony to a
close with a certain amount of propaganda
and a 'joke' of dobious standing.
On Thursday, 9th February Bo pro-
ceeded to a garage in Putney where under
the eyes of three white triangles he
underwent a certain test. For this purpose
it was necessary that his array of lamps
be increased by one. This had to be done by
defacing him with the addition of a 'cycle
tail lamp'. Thus bedecked and with a
Crew who were rather worried by the ef-
ficiency of his brakes, he was submitted
to the mechanic's care. A short time later,
after only one query Bo as declared safe
in all respects. The query was that it ap-
peared that his king pins w
e
r
^
e rather
worn. This problem was easily solved when
it was explained that Bo had no king pins
and his frontal support relied on a series
of bearings.
BOANERGES MAKES THE GRADE
Thus Bo has become the first of three
I.C. vehicles to pass the 10 year test. It
is necessary, however, for the cycle lamp
to be replaced and theVice-Captain of the
City and Guilds Motor Club would be
much obliged if anyone who knows the
whereabouts of an oil tail lamp would con-
tact him.
Jezebel, it has been found, was only
registered as a private vehicle five years
ago and apparently does not have to take
the test.
As for Clementine II, she has been seen
about, but little of her present condition
is known.
JAZZ AT U.L.U.
"I have never had to judge a jazz com-
petition of such a high, standard." Heck-
ler: "You said that last year."
Thus Benny Green, to the judges*
began his summary of the University of
London Jazz Festival held at U.L.U. on
January 25th, his cliched comments con-
trasting nicely with the creative music
that had preceded them.
Eight bands took part, and it soon ber
came evident to I.C. participants that
their opposition was tremendous.
Goldsmiths opened with a fairly con-
vincing New Orleans group which, how-
ever, suffered from lack of rehearsal. The
thump of their tuba gave way to the
melodic lines of John Farnsworth's baas,
as the Stan Salmons Quartet took the
stand. The group, which was the first of
the I.C. contingent to face the fans, swung
quietly and tightly from the start. It
shone in Stan's '' Six-Four Blues", in
which Mike Porter, featured on flute,
fairly effervesced swinging phrases, and
Stan discovered some cross-rhythms which
delighted the audience but were evidently
too much for Benny Green.
A piano-less quintet from Chelsea then
made some lovely West Coast noises,
blowing arrangements written by their
baritone player. The voicing was beautiful
and had their improvised passages been as
great as the written ^ones, they would
probably have won.
When phenomenally competent trum-
peter Murray Smith lead the I.C. trad.
band into their session, we were in tor
one of the high spots of the evening. The
rock-steady beat and really musical front-
line counterpoint made this group excit-
ing and always interesting. Worthy of
special mention was the fine clarinet-play-
ing of Phil Cammerman. Little wonder that
they carried off joint first prize at the
end of the evening. By comparison, the
L.S.E. trad, band which followed, though
very good, was a little monotonous, lack-
ing the sense of climax of the I.C. group.
Next Q.M.C. put on a mainstream out-
fit whose performance was somewhat im-
paired by the poor intonation of the trum-
pet and alto, particularly noticeable in
unison passages.
Back to I.C. for the Jazz. Consortium
with Walter Skinner on alto, Richard
Rushton on piano, John Farnsworth on
bass, and Mike Smith on drums. Mike
showed remarkable versatility: earlier
he was restraining his drumming for the
closely-knit introvert jazz of the Stan
Salmon's Quartet; now, backing the ef-
fusive' ^Richard Rushton, he was driving
the combo along with a relaxed swing.
Needless to say, the group had a big re-
ception.
The last line-up was the U.C. modern
quintet (tenor, vibes, bass, drums, and
piano), and the polished sound of this
group, suggesting a great deal of exper-
ience behind it, certainly earned them
the first prize, which they shared with
I.C.'s trad. band.
In his summary, Benny Green laboured
the point that the "Six-Four Blues" went
into 4/4 for the solos, a point which Stan's
group hatl deliberately underlined (mus-
ically speaking), and also claimed that
the Consortium's "Flamenco Sketches"
was too ambitious. Both groups took it
as a compliment that Mr. Green found
such difficulty in offering them construct-
ive criticism.
The evening was a great success for
the I.C. Jazz Club which had two pict-
ures in the Press, a pot, and valuable
experience (as well as enjoyment) for its
musicians. It has high hopes for the two
quartets when they meet the pick of the
Universities' bands at Southampton on the
22nd of this month.
- UNION -
NEETING
INQUORATE
by Finlay McPherson
The Imperial College Union meeting on
February 9th was declared inquorate, and
was never opened. The quorum is 400 and
some 330 people, in fact, appeared. The
next meeting will be held in March.
Under no circumstances could the blame
be put on publicity; the publicity was
more than adequate. Why did only 11
percent of I.C. turn up?
The reason of course seems obvious;
students aren't interested in the abolition
of the means test; in short, student
aren't interested.
To go to a debate; to go to a constit-
uent college meeting; to go to a discus-
sion group and see the total lack of
speakers, is most disheartening. People
refuse to act. Unsure of what) they wish
to say; afraid to say it because of the
ridicule of friends and fellow-members,
they slip back into the haze of anonymity.
It is a tragedy to behold the metamorpn-
osis taking place at I.C. The change from
the eager student to the dull, book-bound,
mtrovertad, specialistdc moronic techni-
cian is a retrogression in evolution.
Graduates from this college often won-
der why promotion is so elusive in indus-
try ; why they, with their honours de-
grees, are passed over in favour of men
with little or no education. Is it surpris-
ing? After all, the student has no sign
of responsibility, no desire for original
thought.
It is well nigh time that we became
aware of the struggle for existance; re-
alised that if one wants something one
has to reach out and get it. It will not
be handed to you on a silver salver.
If members of this Union desire the
abolition of the means tost, they must
fight for it. Each person must contribute
in the shout for action if the fight is to
be won. Each studetat must A C T if
this Union is to thrive.
A Debating Competition has been or-
ganised between Mines Guilds and R.C.S.
The firat round had taken place. Only
80 people turned up only 2 spoke from
the floor. Perhaps you will begin to see
the seriousness of the situation.
It is not too late; not yet. Some of
you are not yet gripped by the cycle of
decadence. It is up to you to contribute;
to come to Union Meeting; to speak and
not care a damn what the other fellow
thinks, and by this method, by the into-
grated activity of Union members perhaps
a Union spirit will be invoked and the dis-
gusting sspecfcacle of an inquorate Union
meeting will never be seen again.
YEOMAN of) GUARD
J FEB. 20 - 24
I N C R E A S E D
R E F E C T O R Y
C H A R G E S
A meeting of the Refectory Committee,
convened on Wednesday 1st February,
agreed on the following increased charges
to take force as from Wednesday 5th,
April 1961.
The necessity arises from higher over-
heads and increased wage bills.
Sweets by Id..
Soup, when waiteress served, by Id.,
Sandwiches by Id. or ^d.,
Special teas by 6d.,
Roll and butter by \
Certain dinners by amounts ranging
from 6d. to 1.6d,
DEBATING
CHALLENGE CUP
The first round of the competition took
in the Concert Hall on February 9th
The motion before the House was "That
this House is worried about the preserv-
ation of Rural Britain."'
The motion was proposed by Mines and
opposed by R.C.S. The speeches were in-
teresting and one or two of the speakers,
notably P. Buet, E. Foresthall and A.
Logan were very amusing.
(After deliberation the judges declared
Mines the winner by 286 points to 274.
Thr second round will have taken place
by the time this reaches you but the third
round, the final round, takes place in the
Concert Hall on 23rd February. The mot-
ion, proposed by Guilds, is "That this
FIousp thinks that television is the idiot's
lantern," — Mines are opposing.
The round should be exciting and it is
Imped that as many people as possible will
conv1
along, and speak, and generally give
their team maximum possible support.

