STKLISC
fflEBHEH £ette*a ta the £dMm
by Judy Cox
The Union Library began as a general
library for all members of the College in
1930. Previous to this, it had been an in-
formal library for hostel residents, started
in 1923. At first, it was housed in the
Presidents offices but was later moved to
the Union building, and is now in Princes'
Gardens.
Initially a small subscription was
charged but this was soon abolished and
the main source of income was a grant of
£50 from the Union, rising to £100 at
the end of the war. Now, the income is
£550 from the College, a Touchstone grant
which is intended mainly for Non-fiction
and £350 from the UnHon. At present
there are approximately 7400 books:
2600 fiction. 4700 non-fiction and 100 re-
ference. Many periodicals are also avail-
able. In 1958 there were 480 members;
in 1959 — 930, in 1960 — 1200 and so
far this year there are 1100. The extent
of the library is small, only 1500 sq. ft.
but it is hoped that when the new College
block is complete, the library will be
larger and will be able to include a records
section.
The library is managed by the Haldane
Library Committee which consists of
three members of staff, three students
(from the students committee), the libr-
aian Mr. Quinsee and the Chairman Pro-
fessor Skempton. A second committee of
'thirteen students, [including one repre-
sentative from I.C.U. Council, arranges
lunch-',ime librarians, and recommends
books to be bought from the Union grant.
'The Library is now situated on the
first floor of Nos. 13 and 14 Princes Gard-
ens. The rooms overlook the Gardens hav-
ing french windows opening onto the bal-
cony and have plenty of comfortable easy
chairs. There are also on occasions inter-
esting examples of modern art.
Any member of the College may join
the Library by filling in a blue card.
Three volumes may be borrowed for a
fortnight but not more than two fiction
books at the same time. The Library is
open: Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays
from 11 a.m until 5.30 p.m. and Tuesdays
and Thursdays 11 a.m. until 7.00 p.m.
during term time. Books may be borrowed
for the vacations; but for those mem-
bers still in College during vacations, the
Library is open from 1.00 p.m. until
5.00 p.m. Books may be reserved by ask-
ing the Librarian and there is a suggest-
ions book for new additions.
There is a great diversity of books in
the Library: in the fiction selection many
classics are available as well as a wide
selection of modern novels and short
stories. There is also a large humour sect-
ion, excellent for a lunchtime browse. Al-
together the Library is an ideal place to
spend an odd half hour, relaxing in com-
fort. All told it makes a useful contribut-
ion to the liberal education of members
of I.C.
VOLUNTARY EUTHANASIA
Do you believe a man, suffering in-
describable pain only poorly alleviated by
drugs, a burden to his family and friends,
and with virtually no hope of recovery,
should be forced to continue living
merely because the law forbids any form
of suicide? If so then your opinion is
strongly contested by the Voluntary
Euthanasia Society supported by such
people as the Dean of St. Pauls (the
Very Rev. W.R. Mathews), Lord Wool-
ton, Val Guilgud, Rev. Leslie Weathe-
head, Sir Julian Huxley, Harold Nichol-
son, Etc., Etc., Lord Chorley, one time-
Professor of Industrial and Commercial
Law at L.S'.E., is a Vice-President of
the Society, and the College is lucky that
he is to speak here on this topic on Tues-
day week (Feb. 28th), at 5.40 in Chem.
Eng. Lecture Theatre, Room No. 102.
I myself can see nothing wrong in the
Voluntary Euthanasia Society's proposals
for reform in the Law, they conclude,
amongst others, the Conditions that:
1. The applicant must be over 21 and
of sound mind,
2. There must be a Euthanasia Referee
to whom 2 separate certificates must be
submitted, one from the applicant's G.P.
and the other from a specified qualified
medical practicioner.
3. This referee must visit the sufferer
and fully satisfy himself that the request
is above the board, and justified, and
that the applicant is fully aware what he
is doing.
4. The administration of Voluntary
Euthanasia should be a responsibility of
the Minister of Health.
Many Christians oppose this reform on
such grounds as:
It is not for mortals to terminate their
own lives, but that God in his wisdom
will decide when to call them — they
quote the Commandement. "Thou shalt
do no murder" — but .there are very
few of us who do not believe in defend-
ing ourselves or others from the would-
be fatal attacks of an agressor, even to
the extent, if necessary, of killing him,
the Bible does not state that the suicide
is a sin. (It is inconsistent to belive that
we must not attempt to modify our life
span at all, since, this would mean that
almost any form of medical treatment is
wrong, an idea held by very few people
OR, that the acceptance of Voluntary
Euthanasia is merely the thin end of the
wedge; but the conditions I've already
mentioned surelyexclude this, and any-
way, the legallising of divorce hasn't led
to the complete upheaval of our ideas on
marriage.
No doubt some of you have yet further
possible objections, so don't forget to
voice them at the meeting.
There is also to be a debate on Euthan-
asia on March 16th during the Lunch-
hour.
John D. White
HI from SI
As I sit here in the Felix copy room
with a typewriter before me and Rob
threatening me with a club I am rapidly
coming to the conclusion that it is again
time to come forth With some CARNIVAL
NEWS.
Last week has been rather successful
from the Carnival point of view as we
have had a ooupje of meetings and a
session with the local authorities, all of
which produced some concrete results.
fck> do try to come to eacn event, not
only you will have the time of your life,
but if we are lucky we might even raise
some money for the Oxford Committee
R.C.S. MATHEMATICAL
AND PHYSICAL SOCIETY
All members of the College are invited
to a lecture:
J O B B I N G M A T H E M A T I C S
To be given by
Mr. J.S. SEAGER
from the Safety in Mines Research
Establishment,
at 5.30 in the Phys. Leo. The.
Tea at 5.00 p.m. in the Lower Refectory.
for Famine Relief. To assist with this
latter requirement we are having a
raffle, a Carnival Magazine and door-
to-door collecting all of which we hope will
be supported mainly by the public. It is
here where you can help as we require
people to participate in these approaches
to the public; in that way the CARNIVAL
WEEK can be more for you, and less of
a maney making scheme.
Have you been to a Carnival Lunch?
You should try to attend some of them.
The first Carnival Lunch was attended by
300 of your fellow students, and? I hear
that a fair number are planning to make
the Carnival Lunch a regular habit every
Monday.
Have you a girl for Carnival Queen? It
is an excellent method of meeting some
charming girls as you can always use this
for your opening remarks. You can then
tell her that she along- with the other
nominations will be judged, and the three
selections will be the Princesses of the
May Carnival Ball at which one of the
three will be selected as CARNIVAL
QUEEN. You might even remind her that
the Queen will receive a gift from the Car-
nival.
On this note I shall close until next
issue. Rob lay down that club I have
finished. How about that he clobbered me
anyway, not that I blame him after read-
ing this article.
Dear Sir,
Reading Mr. Carter's letter in the last
issue of Felix reminded me of the advert-
isment of that allegedly religious organ-
isation Moral Re-armament. For, on read-
ing his letter, I was unable to find
amongst his tub-thumping and back- slap-
ping any reason for his being attached
to his ideas. In spite of being led to be-
lieve in the first paragrph that we are to
be let into the secret of what makes 'Jim'
fcick.X can only itmagine ythat aft«r the
first paragraph his brain (?) became dis-
engaged as he reached for his pint.
Another similarity between his letter
and the previously mentioned advertis-
ment is the use of the brief summaries,
better called half truths. He states that
the terms of reference of the Imperial Col-
lege Union are to foster the social and
athletic waifare of the students. However,
on inspection of the Blue Book, which he
commends to us, I find that this is only
a third of the objects of the I.C.U.
Section three of the objects states (in
full) that the purpose of the I.C.U. is:
"The provision of a corporate body of
students of the Imperial College to safe-
guard and advance the interests of stud-
ents of the Imperial College."
It is because this is an object of the
Union that I, along with many others
argue the affiliation of I.C.U. to N.U.S.
since that body was formed for the very
purpose of safeguarding and advancing the
interests of students in general. A purpose,
it would seem, that Mr. Career would
rather our Union did not fulfill.
If my memory serves me correctly, this
in affairs other than those social or athlet-
ic has only arisen since it seemed likely
fear of Mr. Carter's of I.C.U. dabbling
that he would rise to his present position
of emminence. I recall that Mr. Carter,
quite correctly, urged the Union to boy-
cott South Africans goods last March, and
indeed seconded a motion to this effect.
I wonder what his action would have been
if at that time the general climate of
opinion in the Union had been against
this. Yours faithfully,
R. Ellams
Dear Sir,
I read the divergent set of studerlt's
views expressed on page 3 of the last
Felix with great interest. Presumably I
am free to draw the following conclusions:
a. Anyone who disagrees with Mr.
Carter strongly enough to want to say
so is a power-seeking demagogue;
b. If everyone at I.C. agreed with Mr
Cox we would all be thinking men;
c. Members of C.N.D. claim they are
open-minded, and this would be a valid
reason for joining them;
4. R.T.L. Fotheringham is writing
under an assumed name and defending a
particular set of views because he has
been 'commissioned' to do so.
Please if we are going to have serious
discussion of student affairs in Felix —
1 hope we are — could we try and produce
a set of writers who are more interested
in respecting and answering the cases of
their opposition than in trying to over-
whelm us with admiration for their
cliches? For if this would be too much
to ask of your contributors, then there
really is something wrong with I.C.
Yours faithfully,
Dear Sir,
Peter Walles
In my opinion Mr. Brassard, while re-
viewing 'L'Avventura' in the last but o
n
&
edition of FELIX, has made a serious
error of judgement. The film does not
end on a note of fantasy. There is no-
thing fantastic about Claudia's search of
her fears of losing Sandro. They are r«al
as is later proved.
He also expresses dissatisfaction with
the ending. I think fts ending was the
greater thing in the film. It is tru that
Claudia forgives Sandro. That is not im-
portant. What is important is the way
in which this is done. In a moment of
complete self knowledge Sandro realises
just what he is — a philanderer. Claudia
too knows it and ye* she accepts him
wholly as he is and is content. There is
courage here and strength, but without
the frills of sentimentality.
There could not have been any other
ending capable of doing credit to the film.
To end it earlier would left a doubt as to the
happy outcome of the affair. Both lovers
honestly and sincerely hoped to make it
different to make it last. But they forgot
their limitations. It is only in the end, so
superbly contrived, that we realise that
their happiness is the result not so much
of ignorance, as of a frank acceptance of
the way they both are, an acceptance of
their essential humanity.
A.A. Qureshi. P.G. Chem. Eng.
Dear Sir
After perusing Felices for over two
years, I think it is my turn to add to
the large mass of illogical, inconsistent,
infantile and inaccurate writings which I
have stupidly wasted my time ploughing
through in an attempt to glean interest-
ing, important and 'Imperial' informat-
ion. The only reason I continue my
ploughing is that occasionally I do glean
something (for example, I much apprec-
iate your reviews of films etc.), and now
I would like to make a few comments
from which I hope your other readers will
glean something:
1. I was overjoyed to read that at last
J. Carter was going to put down on
paper, in his own succint way, why he
is 'so passionately attached to such ideas
as I.C. Union not joining N.U.S.,
I.C.W.A. not being allowed in the bar
etc.' But perhaps the Editor found his
letter too long, just as he found John
Cox's 'Comment' too long at the beginn-
ing of the term, for I could find no ex-
planation in Mr. Carter's letter, merely
a few highly controversial statements.
2. Dxvx Wxlbrxhxm, under the
'Fotheringham' pseudonym, counter- com-
ments that N.US. has been plugged five
times in succession — clearly he cannot
take a hint, for he has not bothered even
once to explain why he is against it, and
as impartial members of I.C. will remem-
ber, at the Union meeting which rejected
N.U.S., not one speaker on Wxlbrxhm's
side had any case to make. I myself was
dubious of the advantages of joining
N.U.S. jlast May, but after the Union
discussion, I saw the 'light'.
3. Otter writers have dealt with if, or
why, I.C. doesn't give a 'mature' educ-
ation. As I see it, if the Governors want
to increase Union activities, the only way
to do this without upsetting the curricula
is to built new hostels and this is being
done. Our students do not fritter away
all their spare time, but at present there
is still incentive to spend it here rather
than at home or in their lodgings. The
so-called 'brown-bagger' is an exaggerated
idea, all of us have extra-mural interests,
but many of these are more pleasantly
catered for outside College. The lack of
support for Union meetings is quite un-
derstandable — most students do not feel
that the activities at these meetings are
likely to affect them appreciably, but if
for example, all the refectories were
closed for a week without explanation or
alternative arrangements being, made,
then a meeting to discuss this would al-
most certainly be well attended.
4. Most of us accept the idea that one
man one vote is a good principle I
wonder how many of us realise that this
iccepts the intrinsic inequality that one
man by his fecundity will have far more
influence on the society in and after his
old age than more moderate man?
Yours faithfully
John D. White
PERSONALS
AT LIBERTY.
Poet-Artist-Philosopher-Metaphysician
seeks job cleaning windows,
Write Box 76.
TWO CONGENIAL Beatnik Psychotics
seek third to share padded apartment. Own
closet and Bongo-drums. Like we maim
you supply 'em yourself.
Box 81.
BIG AL — Like make it back to the
pad. All is cool. We still dig you. MOTHER
I am no longer responsible for any loot
owed by my chick. She left my pad and
like bored. "Hard Luok" Milton Bench 3,
Hyde Park.
MOTHER _ Like I can't make the
scene. I'm hung up in this crazy hotel in
Brighton. BIG AL.
ANYONE HAVING INFORMATION as
to the whereabouts of Charlie "Hip" Gran-
imis — like keep it down, hear] The fuzz
is on his til. A FRIEND.

