FELIX 3
Editorial comment]
Free Speech
Elsewhere o nthis page is printed a let-
ter setting a number of points against
Felix. Although this is the only letter re-
Elsewhere on this page is printed a let-
ceived to date on this subject it is obvious
that this writer does not stand alone. He is
one of many who would prompt the quest-
ion "What is Felix for?"
To answer this question we may profit-
ably look back a very, very long way. On
Friday, December 9th 1949, appeared
Felix No. 1. It consisted of five duplicated
sheets secured together with staples. Page
two carried the editorial comment which
we reproduce here:
"The need has been felt for some time
for a frequently published journal to com-
ment on the affairs of the College whilst
they are still topical ,and to bring to the
attention of its members the activities of
Clubs and Societies of which people at
present know little; and knowing little
tend to care even less. This is a function
which clearly cannot be performed by ihe
Phoenix, particularly since that estimable
bird is now to appear only twice a year,
and so Felix has to come to meet the
need. We do not intend to encroach upon
the literary field covered by the Phoenix;
rather do we intend to be complementary
to that journal, even if not always com-
plimentary. Neither are we in any way
connected with it, nor are we its offspring.
No, the Phoenix will remain an essentially
literary magazine, where as we shall con-
tent ourselves with providing a comment-
ary upon events and personalities."
Thus we have, set out this first para-
graph of this first editorial, the basic
functions of the newspaper which, every-
one must agree, are of fundamental im-
portance. The columns of Felix are wide
open to those who, possessing the courage
of their convictions, wish to make their
point of view widely known among those
who are sufficiently interested to take
note. Such is Felix at present.
In the second paragraph of this first
editorial the writer envisaged the diffic-
ulties which the paper was about to face.
He is to be congratulated on his foresight.
The problems he mentioned are a constant
source of trouble.
"The success or failure of this paper
depends principally on you, our reader. In
the first place we depend upon you to
produce many of our articles and reports,
since our staff cannot themselves attend
and report every College event. Secondly
we depend on you to maintain a lively
correspondence in our columns. Here is
an opportunity for you to air your opin-
ions, ideas, and grievances to the whole
College instead of just to those within ear-
shot of the bar, and replies can be publ-
ished before everyone has forgotten what
the original letter was about. Thirdly we de-
pend on you to buy your own copy of Felix,
and not just to read somebody elses copy.
We do not think that 3d. is beyond the
finacial scope even of a student trying to
live on a F.E.T. grant, and copies for a
term cost less than a pint of beer."
To return to the question in hand. Mr.
Irvine states, "It might be said that the
students are failing in their duty to the
magazine in that they will not contribute
articles of a suufficiently high standard
to be included in it, but I find it difficult
to bielieve that the editors receive no such
articles."
Incredulous though Mr. Irvine may be,
such is the case. It would be near impos-
sible for Felix to emulate any of the nat-
ional dailies or even any well known
student paper such as 'Sennet', 'Varsity',
or 'Kings News'. These are dominated by
members of tho Arts '(Faculties* Jour-
nalism and science are antipathetic. The
talent does not exist at I.C. and never will.
Having thus confirmed the darkest of
Mr. Irvine's fears there seems little more
to say. The situation is that here at I4C.
there is little interest in pure journalism.
It seems that this is one direction in which
the scientific mind does not readily move-
We must accept the fact that Imperial
College is a college of science and techno-
logy and those of us who feel out of place
here must make the most of it.
1000 FELIX REPORTERS read Felix
fortnightly. Are you one of them? Have
you anything to report? If so then drop
into the Press Room (third floor of Union
Building, opposite lira) any lunch-time
between 1.00 p.m. and 1.30 p.m,
COPY DAY for the next issue (Friday
3rd March) will be Wednesday 22nd
February for all letters, feature articles
etc., and Sunday 26th February for all
sport and other contributions concerning
topical matters.
Dear Sir,
We read in todays papers (Wed. 1st
Feb.) that the Oxford students magazine
has been censored by the Proctor. The
important question as to whether or not
this was a good thing in the interest of
free speech does not at the moment con-
cern me (though it would make a good
topic for an article), but the news did
make me wonder if such a thing could
happen to 'Felix'. T was sorry to came
to the conclusion that it could not. Sorry
because it seems to be a reflection on
the authority of the magazine. In other
words, the paper is so un-important< that
its criticism (if any) are looked on with
little seriousness by those people who
could in fact change things. Iais is a
serious paper and statements in it are ap-
parently taken to hear* by everyone at
the college. The undergraduates at Im-
perial College, however, look to 'Felix'
as a cartoon magazine, a viewpoint which
cannot be blamed entirely on them sinc«
it is the editors who will not put the
controversial! into (the paper. It might
be said that the students are failing in
their duty to the magazine in that they
will not contribute articles of a sufficient-
ly high standard to be included in it,,
but I find it difficult to believe that the
editors receive no such articles. In any
case is the duty of the editors to find
stories of the required standard, and if
they were to start this, then I have little
doubt that the trend would continue. If
this failed, then we could only conclude
that the students at Imperial College are
as narrow minded as many people out-
side the College would like to believe.
At least we could sav we tried.
Yours faithfully,
W.A. Irvine, Chem Eng.
1
C O M M E N T .
by John Cox
I will open this week with an apology
to Mr. Fotheringham for my attack of
last week. It would never have occured
if I had known that he didn't necessarily
believe in what he wrote. Furthermore,
my attack on his alleged censorship was
a result of information given to me by
Dave Wilbraham and I accept Mr. Foth-
eringham's statement that the allegation
was without foundation. While in this
mood I would like to congratulate our
President on his decision not to open the
inquorate Union meeting. Some people
suggested that he should have opened and
closed the meeting again immediately thus
satisfying the requirements of the Union
meeting a term. In the long run this
would have been extremely damaging and
would not solve the problem at all when
we came to the A . C M . when members
of Council are to be elected.
In the event of a quorum not being
obtained this term, I would suggest the
only legal way out of the impasse to be,
a request by Council, to the Governing
Body, to revoke their decision to ratify
the raising of the quorum from 200 to 400.
Humiliating as this course is, it is better
than either ignoring the Constitution, or
getting without any Union meetings ana
six members of Council.
I doubt whether a quorum oi 4UU can
be achieved in the future. Probably the
next attempt in March will be successful,
probably every first Union meeting of the
year will be attended by more than 400.
But I do not except any A.G.M. to be
quorate unless it is held a long time before
the examination period. Quite independ-
ant of subject matter, publicity and such-
like, a quorum of 400 in the Union Con-
cert Hall means a fair amount of discom-
fort' to a large number of people who
must stand at the back. A quorum of
300 is far more realistic until the new
asenibly hall has been built.
I noticed a novel interpretation of the
words "power seeking demagoges" in Jim
Carter's Setter to Felix last week. A demag-
ogue usually changes his opinion to suit
each situation. He has an extreme con-
tempt for authority when possessing none
himself, and a complete faith in authority
immediately upon achieving it. People
supporting such policies as N.U.S. af-
filiation, constantly, despite consequent
unpopularity, cannot be "demagogues",
and their "power seeking", if it exists,
is conciously inefficient. However,
"power seeking demagogues" undoubted-
ly exist at LC.
COUNTER COMMENT,
by R.T.L. Fotheringham
I thank Mir. Cox for his apology but I
am sorry to see that he has not the
magnanimity to leave it unqualified. The
somewhat sly play on names is rather
futile.
As I pointed out last issue my object
is to present an opposing case to that
in Comment. This week the task is dif-
ficult as the main topic is the attendance
at the Union meetings, a subject on which
most people agree.
Mr Cox is the Union Publicity Officer
and is responsible for advertising Union
meetings. The publicity this year has been
good, and it is not possible to blame in-
quorate meetings on lack of knowledge.
The claim that lack of seating reduces
attendance does not seem altogether valid
as even with ISO people standing at the
back, there (always seem to be vacant
seats in the hall. The conclusion must be
that out of 2,800 students there are not
400 interested enough to attend. This con-
clusion is upheld by the impression that
the same people attend every meeting;
there must be a large number of students
at I.C, who have never attended a Union
meeting.
It does seem that a quorum of 300 is
more reasonable, but surely we can gatner
400 people to change our own Constitution
rather than go cap in hand to the Gov-
ernors.
Casaell's dictionary gives for demag-
ogue: *a leader of the people; an agitatoi
who appeals to the passions and prejudices
of the people.' The N.U..S- advocates,
like any other faction leaders, are admired
by their own followers and disliked by
their antagonists. I think the cap of
demagogue fits Mosley and Foot just about
equally. Perhaps a poll would decide the
post of the Union demagogue. Applicants
should chain themselves to the Colcutt
Tower and with luck, will be buried
during the demolition. This will solve all
our problems as there will then be no
need for Union meetings.
In a letter this week Mr. White objects
to fay not presenting 'the case against
N.U.S. So far Mr. Cox has not presented
the case for N.U.S., but has mentioned
it in connection with many other topics,
hence my remark in the last issue. As
this topic was dragged through this paper
all last year I do not think that the major-
ity of Union members want to go through
it all again.
COUNTER-COUNTER-COMMENT.
by W.C. Urlingham
Re Mr. R.T.L. Fotheringham's sixth
paragraph, I would like to propose Mr.
Cox and Mr. Fotheringham as joint Union
demagogues. This is not because I cac
convince myself that these two fit
Cassell's definition, although they could
fit the definition given in the New English
Dictionary. For those who specialise in
using irrelevant information on strengthen
their arguments may I add that this dict-
ionary is published by Odhams Press Ltd.?
It is the fate of the Union demagogues
which makes me propose these two. For
the past two terms I have had to read
Cox and Fotheringham roughly three
times per issue: at least twice during the
production of this newspaper and once
when it's finally printed. I am sure that
most of our readers are sick and tired of
reading Cox's diatribes and Fotheringham's
counter-diatribes (reach for your diction-
aries, folks) and would prefer anything
instead.
Perhaps Jim Carter would stop writing
passionate rubbish and give us a griping
account of the Little Harwood clog-danc-
ing contest, to fill the space.
This is definitely the first, only, and
last counter-counter-comment.
SOCIALISM V
by D. Finney.
As there seem to be many in I.C. who
forever sing the song 'free for all' and
'private enterprise and yet seldom find
courage to attend Socialist Society meet-
ings where they might hear the other case
and propose their own, I intend to bring
the case for socialism to their bedsides
via 'Felix'. Essentially, socialism stands
for the generous impulses in man. A soc-
ialist exists for the well being of all its
members, not just a few priveledged ones.
The belief that the generous impulses in
men can be made dominant is based on
the assumption that if man's environment
;
s changed then he will change with it.
That this premise is true is probably the
first concrete discovery of modern phsy-
choiogi'cal and sociological research, al-
though it was first argued by Godwin in
1793.
If we are to change society, then our
first step is to analyse its characteristics
and find out which aspects inhibit our
better side. In Britain today, the obvious
focal point of society is our material well-
being which is a product of our econom-
ical system, termed 'capitalist' because
it relies for its impetus on the private
profit motive. Its justification is that
without the private profit motive our ec-
onomy will run down through lack of in-
centive. Certainly there must be an in-
centive behind every human endeavour,
but I find no evidence to suggest that
capitalism is the only or most efficient
source of this vital commodity. Indeed,
I hope to show that what incentive cap-
italism does provide is erratic, cruel and
selfish.
The second major discovery of the new
sciences'" is that we are all preoccupied
with our individual security. In our pre-
sent industrial society this is largely syn-
onymous with material security. It is
therefore to be expected that the busi-,
ness man always choses the most profit-
able course of action, regardles of reper-
cussions In any other branch of the
economy. He is not to be blamed for this ;
he is merely being a 'good' and 'efficient'
capitalist. Unfortunately, in a pure free
market economy, conspicous for its com-
plete absence of controls such decisions
lead to a state of false priorities. This
is largely the face of Britain today; a
land of mistaken, un-coordinated choices.
To give only a few examples, we spend
£670 millions a year on education; com-
pared with £400 millions on pernicous ad-
vertising ; exploitation. We begrudge
£700 million on Health Service when our
hospitals so obviously need rebuilding; the
present rate of hospital construction is
less than its ever been for a hundred
years! My wife struggles in an overworked
almoners <$eparfcment attempting to ob-
tain places in bulging old peoples' homes
and mental hospitals and yet we are told
"we've never had it so good." Perhaps
this means that £500 M. spent on pack-
aging is a good thing. The *Times \ 12th
May 1958. announces a new bank in Pic-
cadilly: "the interior decoration incorpo-
rates red marble quarried in Oran, ebony
black granite from Sweden, Italian glass
mosaic, Delabole grey and Italian slate
and..." There will be no black granite for
the hospitals. Use it to attract a casual
customer to the bank and forget the wor-
ried" mothers waiting five hours in the
out-patient department.
With this environment no wonder we
find little time to consider our dormant
generous impulses. As runners in a callous
rat race if we stop for a moment to con-
sider a crying child then we're trodden on*
from behind; we've no time to be human.
I would submit that a change in emphasis
is urgently needed.
Although capitalism may thrive on ex-
ploitation, this is not necessarly its worst
asnect. What is really frightening is the
'retreat from government.' The primacy
of private interests over public never as-
serted. It simply materialises. No indiv-
idual actually decides that social needs
are to be sacrificed for private brass; it
just happens, a consequence of impersonal
uncontrolable 'market forces'.
This process will sooner or later have
to be revised. I hope in my next article
to suggest how,by injecting socialism,
this drifting can replaced by determined
progress towards a more wholesome life
VOLUNTARY EUTHANASIA.
"TO BE OR NOT TO BE?"
a talk by
LORD CHORLEY
arranged by the Huxley Socity.
5.40 p.m. Tuesday 2Sth February
Chem.Eng. Room No. 102.

