F E L I X S C I E N C E
Tomorrow's Energy Supply...
from Space?
Population growth, urbanization and the
improvement of some people's quality of life are
some of the tendencies that are predicted for
this century. More people, more mega-cities
and better lives mean more electricity con-
sumption. And if we keep our current power
supply systems, then it also means accelerated
Greenhouse Effect and/or exhaustion of non
renewable energy sources.
Space Solar Power (SSP) could be a solution.
But what is it? Well, it is not new but not ready
yet. The idea consists of a system of satellites
in Earth orbit. The solar cells in space, convert
solar energy into microwave beams or laser
beams and then transmit these to Earth. On the
ground, receiving antenna stations convert the
radiated energy to useful electrical power.
Finally, utility networks distribute the electricity
like nowadays.
Peter Glaser is considered to be the pioneer
of SSP concept: He formulated the idea in
1968 i.e. 34 years ago! So why hasn't this sys-
tem been implemented yet? One of the obsta-
cles is still the high cost of transporting the
required massive structures to low Earth orbit.
Recent researches revealed that photovoltaic
thin film architectures were quite promising.
Some even suggested that materials for SSP
could be exploited directly from the Moon or
meteorites. Another issue is the impact of the
beams on our health. Still a controversial topic.
The pros say that firstly, solar energy is free,
clean, safe, and available to all humanity, so
let's use it. Secondly, solar panels in space have
higher efficiency since they don't have the
rainy-cloudy-day problem of their on the ground
cousins. Thirdly, in regard to the costs, the
price of electricity produced by nuclear plants
was also higher at the beginning. And regarding
health, people are still using their mobile
phones, even though it is supposedly harmful.
In any case, we usually use two-dimensional
reasoning in our quest for technical solutions,
ignoring possibilities offered by things such as
non-Terran environments where easy solutions
to our power problems could exist. Even if SSP
is not for the next 10 years, it is still a techno-
logical challenge and is very likely to find some
applications in other projects like Mars
Exploration and Space Settlement.
More information can be found at:
http://www.spacefrontier.org
http://www.ssi.org/energy.html
http://spacesolarpower.nasa.gov
Francoise Mei
IC Scientist Profiles
#1: Abdus Salam (1926 -1996)
Abdus Salam was the last
Imperial physicist and the first
Muslim to win a Nobel Prize. He
was born in Jhang, Pakistan, and
graduated from the University of
Cambridge in 1946 with a dou-
ble first in physics and mathe-
matics. He decided that his
interests lay in theoretical
physics, and after stints working
firstly at the University of Punjab
in Pakistan, and then as a fellow
of St. John's College in
Cambridge, he was offered the
chair of theoretical physics at Imperial in
1957.
Throughout the late 50's and early 60's,
Salam worked at finding a unified description
of the different fundamental forces. His work
led to the discovery of the electroweak theo-
ry in 1967, which unified the electromagnet-
ic force with the weak force. It was for this
work that Salam shared the Nobel Prize in
Physics in 1979 with Sheldon
Glashow and Steven Weinberg of
Harvard.
Salam accepted the post of sci-
entific adviser to President Ayub
Khan of Pakistan in 1959, with
the hope of advancing the devel-
opment of his home country.
Many of the schemes he pro-
posed, such as combating land
waterlogging, failed because the
government was unwilling to com-
mit the resources. He was suc-
cessful, however, in setting up an
International Centre for Theoretical Physics,
in Trieste, Italy, so that theoretical physicists
from third world countries could visit to keep
up with international research while continu-
ing to work in their own countries. This was
something that Salam had been unable to do
himself.
For more information about Abdus Salam
see union.ic.ac.uk/pakistan/tribute.html.
Felix needs
Science and
Technology
writers
Contact
science.felix@ic.ac.uk
with your ideas
science.felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

