Future
Saturday @ Ministry of Sound
The first thing I have to say is that it does
make a difference going to a clean, nicely dec-
orated venue - and the Ministry of Sound cer-
tainly is that.
After chilling out in the house room, it was
lam and time to move on to the main room for
the trance. Mr Dave Pearce was on the decks.
The room was rammed, and the King of Caps
(Pearce) played to the crowd - dropping clas-
sics like Cafe Del Mar. I thought this was a
great start to the night.
Unfortunately Guy Ornadel managed to play
a set not even worth mentioning (I heard it was
shit - Ed). The most memorable part was some
twat taking a leak in the corner, and then
jumping around with his cronies shouting the
lyrics to Hey Baby. Luckily John Askew man-
aged to play a good few hours to take me
through to 8am and leave me feeling in high
spirits.
For me, the music was too hard, too early -
but on the whole the night was good. I would
definitely recommend this night to anyone who
wants to experience a night out at a Super
Club. Tim J
Saturday 16th November
DJ Daj,
and Mark Spoon
1 lpm-8am
£15
Over 21's
Ministry of Sound, 103 Gaunt Street, SE1
www.ministryofsound.com
Peach
Friday @ Camden Palace
Located just outside Mornington Crescent
tube station Peach is one of London's longest
running and successful club nights.
Camden Palace is a very tall building made
up of two rooms (and millions of corridors). In
the small Black & White Room you can hear
some garage, but it's in the Main Room where
the real action happens. The music tends to
start with trancey breaks and finish with some
euphoric, uplifting trance.
For the Halloween Special the crowd was
treated to a live set by up and coming music-
maker Future Disciple. But it's at about 3am
when the best music kicks in. With Residents
Graham Gold (bald headed mongrel off Kiss
100) and Dave Lambert often on the decks for
the last few hours, you tend to hear a few
anthems along with the latest tunes like "The
Opera Song".
Peach is generally a minimal attitude, young
crowd with a first-class music policy. The only
down side can be the dirty floors and often
flooded toilets, but if you can cope with this
you'll be fine. A thousand people a week for 9
years can't be wrong? Tim J
Friday 15th November
Fu Man Choo
Goldenscan
10pm til 6am
£9 before 11pm, £12 thereafter
Camden Palace, 1A Camden High St, NW1
www.peachyravers.com
Competition
Peach tickets
Felix's Clubbing Section is giving you the
chance to win yourself a pair of tickets to
Peach. These tickets will be redeemable on
the any of the 15th, 22nd or 29th November.
There are two pairs available, the winners to
be chosen at random from all of you who
answer this simple question below:
What birthday did Peach celebrate this year?
E-mail your answer to clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk
before noon on Wednesday 14th November
for the opportunity of winning a pair of tickets.
Please include in your e-mail a contact phone
number, so that I can inform you if you are a
winner. These numbers will not be recorded or
used for any other purposes.
clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk "A really big frog... and a damn fine peach"

