C O F F E E B R E A K F E L I X
?QQ MK II by Bobby Cyclops & Dr Hot Fudge
T H E G R E A T F E L I X Q U O T E S Q U I Z
T H E Q U O T E S K A M B L I N G S
1. "You seem overly upset, Mark. To borrow a phrase from Navaro -
you need to chill."
2. "Benjamin is nobody's friend. If Benjamin were an ice cream
flavour, he'd be pralines and dick."
3. "They shall all drown in lakes of blood. Now they will learn why they
are afraid of the dark, now they will learn why they fear the night."
4. "I hadn't seen a body put together like that since I solved the case
of the Murdered Girl with the Big Tits."
5. "She tried to sit in my lap while I was standing up."
6. "Omnipresence. I like that in a woman."
7. "I think I'll eat your heart."
8. "Attention all units, emergency on theatre level. Suspect six foot
two, brown hair. He is one gigantic motherfucker!"
9. "First of all, Papa Smurf didn't create Smurfette. Gargamel did. She
was sent in as Gargamel's evil spy with the intention of destroying
the Smurf village, but the overwhelming goodness of the Smurf way
of life transformed her. And as for the whole gang-bang scenario, it
just couldn't happen. Smurfs are asexual. They don't even have
reproductive organs under those little white pants. That's what's so
illogical, you know, about being a Smurf. What's the point of living
if you don't have a dick?"
10. "There are two things that differentiate man from animals;
li we use cutlery, 2: we can control our sexual urges. You may be
the exception to this, but don't drag me down into your personal
hell."
11. "When someone asks you if you're a God, you say YES!"
Hello Fudge Packers, the old ball-and-chain is back again this week, so
I must be on my best behaviour. This week we are treating you to an
extended GFQQ, with some bumper sized quotes - be careful with them.
We had a little trouble presenting you with a half-decent coffee-break
website this week, so please, if you have a site you would like to share
with the masses, do not hesitate to contact us!
Remember, Fudge and I are being incredibly stringent on points, so
remember to give us all the details for song titles, films, etc. But note
that in our answers section, we will only put the original artist, but we
do accept cover versions, etc. B.C.
Can't be buggered to write anything constructive this week (do I ever?).
I've been having far too good a time away from this place, and it really
fucks me off to be back. Glad to see you're all still plugging away at the
quizzes, I particularly enjoy reading your attempts to beg for bonus
points, when I know how fruitless they will prove to be. Sorry readers,
I'm just really not in the mood for this right now. I would like to reveal,
however, that the mystery writer of last week's story, was in fact the
great cyclops himself, but he was still in too much mental (and physi-
cal) pain as a result of the incident to face his demons once more. As
for the identity of the assailant well who do you think it was? H.F.
k BLOW DRV
BY OUR TOP STYLISTS
£20..... LADIES
£17 MEN
Normal Price ij5
ACCESS VISA MASTERCARD CASH CHEQUES
'Still the best student offer!'
15a Harrington Ra
South Kensington
London SW73ES
Telephone 020 7823 8968 ^
A N S W E R S T O G F Q Q 1 2 4 6
1. Oskar Schindler/Liam Neeson - Schindler's List
2. President Thomas J. Whitmore/Bill Pullman - Independence Day
3. Pat Healy/Matt Dillon - There's Something About Mary
4. Mr. Bludworth/Tony Todd - Final Destination
5. Pvt. Jack Bell/Ben Chaplin - The Thin Red Line (1998)
6. Danny Oldsen/Peter Capaldi
— Mac Maclntyre/Peter Riegert - Local Hero
7. Dr. Ross Jennings/Jeff Daniels - Arachnophobia
coffee.felix@ic.ac.uk The Great Felix Quotes Quiz

