* I • m
F E L I X C O L U M N 0 5
Clinical Play 2002 - Arcadia
Forget the Freshers Plays, the musical and the
Spring Term 'BIG' production. The ICSM clini-
cal play is the true highlight in the Drama
Society's calendar. Produced, acted and
directed in by primarily clinical students, it
concentrates on the essence of the plot, using
experienced cast members, and comparatively
sparse sets, so the talent of the society shows
most effectively.
This year's production, Arcadia lived up to
the reputed high standards, and indeed,
exceeded expectations. The most hardened
cynic was convinced that he wasn't paying
(excessively) to sit in his own lecture theatre.
With great flair, the props and scenery were
displayed to provide a background for Tom
Stoppard's time travelling masterpiece, which
addresses major questions of art, science, and
history and how they intersect.
The play is set, in its entirety, in a single
room, overlooking a garden, at Sidley Park, an
English country estate. The scenes alternate
between the 20th century and the 19th, until
they finally converge at the end. In one period
- 1809 to 1812 - it is the residence of Lord
and Lady Croom, Lady Thomasina Coverly (a
teenage mathematical prodigy) and her tutor,
Septimus Hodge, amongst others. In the pres-
ent, an author, Hannah Jarvis, a scholar,
Bernard Nightingale, and the scientist (and
one of the children of the house) Valentine are
the main figures. Objects, letters, notebooks,
furniture - appear in both, bridging time.
The plot is catalysed by Thomasina's
impending womanhood, a source of tension
that rises as the play proceeds. Septimus is a
natural object for her affections, but he mean-
while is involved in another affair. Adding to
the complexity an unseen Byron, who went to
university with Septimus, visits Sidley Park.
The confusion of who did what (and, in
some cases, to whom) work to great comedic
and dramatic effect. Much of the fun comes
from the alternate scenes in the present, as
these characters try to understand from the
few clues left what exactly happened in the
past. Bernard is trying to prove that Byron was
involved in a duel with poet in residence Ezra
Chater, explaining Byron's unexplained two-
year absence from England. Hannah becomes
obsessed with a mysterious hermit who lived
on the property (and, to her great satisfaction,
manages to prove Bernard mistaken).
Having comparatively few characters,
Arcadia is indeed very challenging to act in, as
it lasts for almost three hours, and this alone
displayed the calibre of the cast. Andrew
Wheeler positively shone as the utterly repul-
sive Bernard, Thomasina, was ably trans-
formed to a thirteen year old by Sarah Hull,
the other teen, Katherine Sharpey being equal-
ly convincing. Valentine, (played by Tom
Sterling) one of the more difficult parts to carry
off, in my opinion, showed his true colours as
an actor, as he has become remarkably at ease
on stage since his casting in Hamlet, his
chemistry with Hannah (Gina Weston-
Petrides) being one of the more intriguing
aspects of the subplot.
In conclusion - if you haven't seen it this
time, you have seriously missed out! Do your
best to make it to next year's clinical play to
see the real talent in the Drama Society.
Sajini Wijetilleka
appealing i n the
at the U n i o n
C o m e d y C l u b
Martinez's wisdom and her impish delight in shocking her
audience wins them over immediately - The Observer
Since starting her stand up career in 1999, Francesca has
rocketed to comedy stardom, winning The Daily Telegraph
Open Mic Award which resulted in performances at the
prestigious Melbourne International Comedy Festival. She also
toured with her sell-out debut show at the Edinburgh Festival,
L'lmperfect.
Francesca is appearing in the Union's dBs Club Bar.
Thursday, November 14
• imperial
Doors 7:30, Show 8:30 * # * college
Union £3/£3.50 Guests/P2P £2.50 UniOfl
felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

