I N T E R N A T I O N A L F E L I X
Bangladeshi Society hosted its biggest event to
date last Friday, a dinner in support of "Bitan",
a charity based in Chittagong, Bangladesh. Over
200 guests attended, including students and
graduates from many other universities as well
as old-timers from Bangladeshi and Bengali pro-
fessional associations. Bitan works to 'Empower
Women Through Technology'; training women in
Bangladesh in usable computer skills (DoC
watch out!), so that they may work and provide
for their family. This enablement is crucial for
women who are divorced or widowed and have
no source of income. These development initia-
tives have tangible effects, and should be
brought to a wider audience at institutions like
Imperial, broadening our collective experience.
To the sound of monsoon rain Sachin, the
tabla maestro, set a thundering atmosphere for
the evening. Israt Alam then gracefully wooed
the crowd, performing a classical form of dance
known as 'Kathak' to an instrumental number
by Junoon. Poetry followed, notably by
Shabnam Parkar of Poetry Society who elo-
quently vocalised the charity's hopes and aspi-
rations. The audience was then wowed with a
superb high-energy salsa number act by
Shahnoun and Catherine. Before the
clapping/swooning ceased, food was on the
table to appease the hungry crowd, kindly pro-
Banq-ladeski S oc
Zone, to tell strange stories and eat chocolate.
The night was a success thanks to the attitude
of the audience and the kind support of the
Bengali community. The evening was filmed by
Bangla TV, so many mothers are eagerly await-
ing the airing, hoping to see their offspring on
the box! Ticket sales alone raised £1440, with
more to be added from the collection boxes.
Thanks to all who helped with the organising!
Shamim Rahman, President,Bangladeshi Soc
(Heavy editing has occurred, so any omissions
are on the cat's shoulders... Ed)
Bitan: High-Tech for Bangladeshi women
vided by Pride Of Asia Restaurant.
Andaleeb 'Starwatcher' Ahmed then sang
two beautiful Bengali songs. From this point
onwards, our guests were subjected to impro-
vised acts from members of the audience,
including bizarre impersonations of break danc-
ing to singing games known as "Antakshari". At
11pm the MDH floor was claimed by the danc-
ing few whilst others retired to the Chill Out
Do you want to review
an International Soc
event, or have Felix
review your
international event?
Contact us at
world.felix.ic.ac.uk
It's early days yet, so we're not dis-
mayed at the lack of submissions
for Focus on:. Nay, we are happy,
for our contingency plan seems a
lot more fun: we hold you to ran-
som, setting our resident bigots
and dim-wits, Baz, Jade and Jean-
Marie, to investigate a new coun-
try each week.
Details of which country they'll
be unleashed on will be in the pre-
vious Felix, so you'll have a week
to preserve the good name of your
country from vitriolic prejudice.
We'll give you a couple of week's
grace, as we weren't expecting an
immediate response from you and
because we dislike the task of get-
ting the bigots rabid (phlegm all
over the place). However, we do
need copy, so please write to us.
How about an African country next
week, for example Nigeria?
We dislike another proposal,
namely that we invent countries,
for we rather fear that Middle-
earth would surface all too soon,
and that the rest of the year would
include too much arguing about
rain shadows in Mordor and things
of that ilk.
Diary
There's a festival of "exploratory
music from Portugal" going on this
month, aka Atlantic Waves. It's on
at various venues, (Cargo, the ICA
and the Purcell room amongst oth-
ers) and includes a set by Lux DJs,
"Lisbon's best club"; Fado (bluesy
Portuguese traditional music,
believed to have African roots) by
Mariza and Lulu Pena and a cou-
ple of Jazz sets too. It looks as
though it'll be worth further inves-
tigation... For more info.-
www.atlanticwaves.org.uk
As we're dealing with that part
of the world, we can warmly rec-
ommend Hable con ella [Talk to
her], by Pedro Almodovar. This
touching, tragi-comic film has
been out for a while, and might
need some tracking down,
although we saw it this weekend.
Worth it for the score alone, it also
features some great acting from
the two male leads (Dario
Grandinetti and Javier Camara), a
cameo by Geraldine Chaplin
(daughter of Charlie) as well as a
very funny black and white erotic
sub-film. NB: Contains bull-fight-
ing scenes.
Another film that's piqued our
curiosity is Abouna - Our Father,
by Mahamet Saleh Haroun (Chad)
showing at the ICA between the
22nd and 30th of Nov. We can
only vouch that the music is likely
to be great, as the soundtrack is
by Ali Farka Toure, a brilliant
Malian musician. Extra info from
www.ica.org.uk
Ahoy there my roving bucca-
neers! One thing which you
may have already discovered is
that British news doesn't pro-
vide enough info, about your
home berth, unless there's a
disaster. No doubt you keep up
through a local website, but one
great source is the BBC World
Service. Broadcasting in many
languages all over the globe
from Bush House, (on the
Strand near LSE), it will keep
you up to date with the world.
For the whole experience it's
worth listening to the radio;
www. bbc. co. uk/worldservice
will give you more details on the
frequencies, as well as the text
versions of the reports. From
15:00 to 22:00, it's on 9410
kHz for example.
For the Brits, I hasten to add
that Britain is better than many
countries others will doubtless
think of; but it is more insular
(by definition for a start) than
several other European coun-
tries. Cholmondely
world.felix@ic.ac.uk For Imperial's British and International students

