F E L I X 0 7 /Sfe '/
W O R D S O F W I S D O M F R O M T H E E D I T O R S . . .
Bad news I'm afraid. Ever since Will caught me
with the Ladybird Little Book of Editing on my
desk he's decided that I need some help. So in
a clear move to disrupt my power base he's
appointed a co-Films-editor. Of course, little
does he realise that it will be a simple matter
to bend her impressionable mind round to my
increasingly machiavellian designs, as I'm sure
you'll see...
SI
Taped to my fridge is an article declaring that
my neck of the woods is now a designated
media community - and is to be renamed
"Media Vale". And clearly it is where you live
not what you know that now matters, as I too
have succumbed to the glamourous world of all
things communications. Which included head-
ing off to my very first, exciting-sounding "press
screening this week with your favourite (for
the moment...) film editor of Felix, the semi-
usurped Simon. We had met for the usual,
intensive brainstorming session that is the Felix
Editors' meeting, and after vetting him thor-
oughly (well, asking him his opinion on the
new episodes of Star Wars...) I decided that I
could probably put up with his megalomaniac
tendencies for now. And who knows, he may
come in handy for my own nefarious plans...
So I agreed to accompany him to deepest,
darkest Soho gathering knowledge for you out
there in Studentville, lest your hard earned
loans be wasted in the pursuit of media excel-
lence. And whilst the other writers there hid
behind a veil of cool detachment, we threw
professional caution to the wind and immersed
ourselves fully in the film to really understand
its motivation. Yes, I know - we really are com-
mitted and self-sacrificing. But thank us not,
simply join with us in our quest for world dom-
ination which begins right here, on the pages of
Felix. Get involved, go to films for free, see your
name in print, and give in to your inner desire
to be omnipotent. What are we going to do
today, Brain? Why, the same thing we always
do, Simon, try to take over the world.
Your sweet, innocent new co-editor, Liz
2 8 D A Y S L A T E R . . .
S T A R R I N G :
D I R E C T E D B Y :
C E R T I F I C A T E :
R U N N I N G T I M E :
R E L E A S E D A T E :
G I L L I A N M U R P H Y ,
N A D M I E H A R R I S ,
C H R I S T O P H E R
E C C L E S T Q N
D A N N Y B O Y L E
1 S
1 1 3 M I N
1 S T N O V E M B E R
Well, I have been ranting about this movie for
three weeks now and have finally managed to
squeeze myself into a cinema to actually see it.
And the long and the short of it is that you lot
should too. Where to start though?
The film opens in London at some generic
animal testing facility. Within the facility we see
lots of mad monkeys (which, in my opinion, is
a sign of a great film. Every film should have a
mad monkey) and a bunch of hapless animal
rights protesters, who are of course duty bound
to spring our simian friends from their evil cap-
tors. Which is all very well, but these particular
mad monkeys are particularly mad, due to a
highly virulent man-made pathogen known as
RAGE. So we can all see where this is going
and indeed our first sighting of hero Jim (played
superbly by Cillian Murphy) is when he wakes
up from a coma (28 days later...) in a deserted
hospital in the midst of a deserted London.
From here on in it is easy to draw stylistic com-
parisons with Day of the Triffids, The Omega
Man or even vintage Doctor Who episodes, as
well as the work of George A. Romero (as a big
nod for fans of the zombie classics, there's even
a Bub character). But this is far more than a
simple homage movie. It's far more than a zom-
bie movie - in fact it's NOT a zombie movie.
Zombie's were a horror born out of the intense
nuclear paranoia that existed in the 60's and
70's. Instead it's a movie that deals with the
paranoia of today - chemical and biological
threats - in the form of the terrifying "Infected".
As visions of the apocalypse go, this one is a
blinder. Danny Boyle and company have been
famed in the past for an almost sage-like abili-
The End is Very Fucking Nigh
ty to predict future trends and to have their col-
lective finger firmly on the pulse of a generation
(Trainspotting, Shallow Grave). This film in
many ways marks a return to form after the dis-
appointment of The Beach and it strikes the
cinemas just as public concern over biological
threats is beginning to spike once more.
Remember, this movie was written before and
filmed during the September 11th air-strike-
and-anthrax panic, so it's a farfetched vision of
the future that suddenly doesn't seem very far
fetched after all.
So it's a damn good movie, but why? Well
there really is something for everyone here,
which may actually not be so much of a good
thing - but more on that later. The striking visu-
als of a deserted country are spectacular, easi-
ly besting those of close siblings (such as the
Omega Man). Shot mostly at dawn whilst
teams of pretty young ladies held the morning
commuters back, the camerawork is deft and
the angles superbly considered to leave the
viewer with no doubt that Jim is alone in the
world. The director separates the poetic peace-
fulness from the gut-wrenching horror with
sped-up camera work and vicious scene
changes - which I think is a great touch, but is
the first of many reasons why it may offend die-
hard fans of particular genres. Musically, John
Murphy has expertly arranged a series of ethe-
real pieces that further immerse the viewer into
the loneliness of the world - but again fans of
Boyle's previous work, heavy on pop-culture
and each bearing a highly distinguished sound-
track, may be a touch distraught to find a eerie
series of more classical pieces. Maybe I'm too
cynical about the British public, I don't know.
Garland and Boyle have created a truly great
British horror movie. They have succeeded in
blending an unknown cast with a fantastic
screenplay to create a wholly new horror con-
cept - essentially zombies that can run, climb,
jump... The Infected are a brand new breed
folks. 28 Days Later... is both beautiful and ter-
rifying in equal measure. If art-house types can
bear the violence then they'll love it. If horror-
freaks can stand the lyricism and pacing of the
film, then they will love it. I'm neither so I was
an easy convert. I guess it helps that they
filmed in London and not, say, Milton Keynes
but even so. It's as good as Donnie Darko,
which is clearly (to my twisted mind at least)
the best movie of the year so far. I promise I'll
try not to say this too much more, but you have
to see this movie.
Get a big bag of popcorn and watch Donnie
and 28 Days back to back, then write and tell
us how fucked up your head has suddenly
become...
Si
Jim decides to take the tube
film.felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

