F E L I X
P R O F I L E : S T E V E B U S C E M I
Owing to the lack of actual content, we thought
we'd include random people's rants. Well,
actually its a thing we're going to do every once
in a while in a vain attempt to entertain you lot.
But anyway, here's the first, written by a man
with a scary penchant for Steve Buscemi...
Steve Buscemi. Skinny. Scary. Sublime?
Pale, weasly and intense, widely recognised
but not so widely known, Steve Buscemi's
unmistakable voice and countenance have seen
him cast as the peripheral oddball in a plethora
of nineties movies. However, his success is
down more to his unique brand of character act-
ing than mere appearance; consistently stealing
the limelight from the lead actors he supports,
he has carved a unique niche for himself in
modern cinema.
Perhaps the most pertinent reason for his rel-
ative anonymity is Buscemi's propensity for
making so-called 'indie' movies, although many
of these, (such as Fargo and Reservoir Dogs),
have managed to eke their way in to the main-
stream. Despite having starred in such
Hollywood money machines as Armageddon
and Con Air, he is known to prefer smaller, more
independent projects to bigger studio ones,
which 'feel more like a job'. His employment as
a good luck charm by many an independent
director has led to the epithet 'King of the
Indies'.
Born Brooklyn in 1957, Buscemi was to be a
ice-cream truck driver, fireman and like so many
actors before him, a stand-up comic before hit-
ting the 'big time' in 1986 with Parting Glances.
In a film directed by Bill Sherwood (who was
tragically to succumb to AIDS four years later)
he played an HIV-positive rock star, impressive-
ly outperforming the leads. Buscemi went on to
star in fourteen more movies that decade, but it
was not until 1992, and the release of Reservoir
Dogs, that he would fully infiltrate the public's
consciousness - playing a would-be-diamond-
thief who refuses to tip waitresses. In an ironic
twist, he would later appear in Pulp Fiction as a
waiter.
The remainder of the nineties heralded a slew
of critically acclaimed performances, such as his
role in as Mr Shhh in Things to Do in Denver
When You're Dead. 1990 and Miller's Crossing
saw the commencement of his long-running
relationship with the Cohen brothers, having
appeared in four of their productions to date,
including the seminal Fargo and The Big
Lebowski, where he played a bungling kidnap-
per and bowling-obsessed ex-surfer respectively.
Buscemi also made several forays behind the
camera, writing and directing Trees Lounge in
1996, a semi-autobiographical yarn about what
his life would have been like had he not become
an actor. The film was received warmly, if not
ecstatically, by critics.
Outside of film-making, Buscemi is seen as an
affable and sociable personality. He returned to
his old fire depot after September 11th, and
anonymously worked 12 hour shifts looking for
survivors and helping clear the rubble. His pri-
vate life is not without controversy, however, last
year he was stabbed in the throat, head and
arm during a barroom brawl which also involved
Vince Vaughn.
Buscemi has been compared in the past to
Peter Lorre (Casablanca, 20,000 Leagues
Under the Sea), and not without reason; there
are many similarities between the pair. Although
Steve has had leading roles, it is while support-
ing others that he has made his name, probably
due to his skill in playing marginalised
eccentrics. This should not be taken to suggest
a limited range: he effortlessly manages to con-
vey a great depth of emotions, from all-consum-
ing rage (Fargo) to stunned bemusement (Con
Air). Recent releases show no decline in his act-
ing prowess, in fact Ghost World (2001) earned
numerous plaudits as some of Buscemi's best
work yet. Although never likely to be an all-con-
suming megastar, he was ranked 52nd in
Empire magazine's Top 100 Movie Stars of All
Time, and continues to attract a strong cult fol-
lowing.
David
S H A L L O W H A L
S T A R R I N G :
D I R E C T E D B Y :
C E R T I F I C A T E :
R U N N I N G T I M E :
D V D R E L E A S E :
G W Y N E T H P A L T R O W ,
J A C K B L A C K
T H E F A R R E L L Y B R O S .
1 2
1 OB M I N
1 1 T H N O V E M B E R
Shallow Hal is probably the worst film I have ever
had the misfortune to waste valuable minutes of
my life torturously sitting through. For those of you
sensible enough to avoid it thus far, the basic
premise is that Hal (Black) loves pretty girls. I
would like to tell you that it gets more complex, but
sadly the title gives it all away. Constantly chasing
after beautiful women who are quite clearly so far
out of his reach he'd have to launch an Apollo mis-
sion, Hal whines on about how unlucky in love he
is. Well, duh, of course you are, you arrogant, ugly,
fat short little man. Comforted by his equally irri-
tating friend, he spends a vast majority of this
waste of celluloid cracking on to models and scant-
ily clad lovelies, who, for some reason, decline his
slimy advances. Plenty more fish? Try another
pond. Utilising a highly dubious plot mechanism,
Hal suddenly sees the "beauty within" and falls for
Rosemary. Aside from being vomit-inducing
Hollywood pap, the story then goes on to show
that the beauty within Rosemary (Paltrow) is a
skinny lollipop who happens to do charity work or
some such pathetic shit. After tedious picnic and
"love" scenes, the Hal realises Rosemary has in
fact eaten his girlfriend, and blah, blah, he doesn't
love her any more. Frankly, I care not. The fact that
Hollywood dares to make a film about looking at
personality not looks, and then cast Paltrow, who
refused to even consider weight gain for the role, is
downright ridiculous. I'm not one to doubt that
looks are important, but why only for girls? This
leads me to the main problem with the entire film
- no eye candy for the girls. Just call me Shallow.
Liz
W H A T T O W A T C H .
...at the Movies: 28 Days Later...
(Released 1st November, 18)
...on TV: The Negotiator (Monday 11th
November, Five, 21:00)
...on Sky: The Dish (Tuesday 12th
November, Premier, 20:00)
...on DVD: Attack of the Clones (Released
11th November, PG)
I C C I N E M A
Tuesday 12th November
18:00 - Spiderman
20:30 - Men In Black II
Thursday 14th November
18:00 - Men In Black II
20:15 - Spiderman
film.felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

