4
E V E R Y
F O R T N I G H T
No 121
I < ^ ^ ^ %
IMPERIAL COLLEGE FRIDAY MAY 23,1958 j B
P E R U E X P E D I T I O N
P L A N N E D
I N T E R I M G R A N T A W A R D E D
At the beginning of next term an announcement will be made about submitting
ideas to the Board for its consideration. The Exploration Society will be fully
informed of a l l arrangements and i t is hoped that Board and Society will be mut-
ually complementary. Any enquiries can be addressed to Dr. P.P. Taylor of the
Civil Engineering Department.
The Exploration Board has announced the award of an interim grant of £600
for a proposed expedition to Peru in the summer of 1959. The intention is that
six people will visit the area around the Nudo de Apolo-bamba, near the Bolivian
border, the objects being to explore, map and carry out glaciologlcal Investi-
gations. Geoff Bratt, one of the 1957 Earakoram expedition, Is among the organ-
isers. The interim grant will enable planning to be started, but the final cost
may well be in the region of £1000 even with considerable outside backing. Al-
though, as a result, there will be no large sums available for other expeditions
next year, i t is hoped to do something for one or two small parties.
H
E
W
S PLASH: JON STEPHENSON WILL GIYE A TALE ON ANTARCTICA OH JUNE 12th.
THREE EXPEDITIONS
THIS SUMMER
Provided that sufficient good
schemes are suggested, the principal
limitation i s that of finding enough
money to pay for expeditions. Follow-
ing upon the generous donations given
to the Board by the Governing Body
and the Union to launch the 1957
Karakoram Expedition, they have now
given us annual grants of £1000 and
£200 respectively. This enables us
to think ahead a l i t t l e and the
general policy whioh has emerged i s
that we «h«n be in a position to mount
major expeditions every three or four
years, giving more limited support to
small well-balanced scientific expe-
ditions in the intervening years. If
we are lucky then major expeditions
can occur more frequently. This is
an "in between" year, but we have
nevertheless made grants to enable
expeditions to go to Ghana, Iceland
and Norway.
The Ghana Expedition will be a
follow-up of the successful one last
year. The party of from six to eight
third year botanists and zoologists
will be led by Bob Starrock and will
be away for three months. By making
economies, mainly in travelling ex-
penses, this year's expedition will
only cost a l i t t l e over half as much
as last year's. The Board has given
a grant of £500 and a number of
other substantial grants have been
reoeived from interested outside
organisations. The expedition will
be based i n the Bobiri Reserve near
Kumasi and will study problems relat-
ing to the breakdown of dead vegetable
matter in tropical conditions, some
of the lesser known cocoa diseases and
potential carriers of Bilharsia. They
are taking a cine-camera and hope to
make a film about their work and sur-
roundings.
The Iceland Expedition is differ-
ently constituted, i t s interests being
geology and surveying. It will be led
by Dr. George Walker (Geology) and will
oonsist of nine persons drawn from
several departments: i t will be away
for about ten weeks. The geologists
will work on the Kirkjobal peninsuls,
on the east ooast of Iceland, where
the base camp will be situated. From
there the rest of the party will range
up and down the east ooast levelling
the raised beaches which occur along
the fjords. The Board gave this ex-
pedition a grant of £150 and i t has
been generously supported by the
Royal Geographical Society and the
Everest Foundation.
Botanists and zoologists seem to
be particularly active in the explora-
Continued on page 4
G U I L D S E L E C T O F F I C E R S
On Thursday Kay 13th C. &
held their Annual General Meeting,
graced by the presence of old man
Chadwick himself, followed by the
Field Cup Race. The main item on
the Agenda was the election of
officers for next session. For the
first time in three years there were
two nominations for the Presidency,
Dave Clark (Aero.) being elected in
a fairly even fight against George
Martin. The others officers £or
1958-59 are:
Vice-President .
Hon. Sec. • . .
Hon. Jun. Treas.
I.C. Council
Rep. . .
Jon Blok
Colin Frenoh
Pat Bruce
Marian Bianek
The Water-babies
The elections were followed
by the President's report on the
elections, reviewing C. & G.'s suc-
cess in both sporting and social
fields.
John Sheldon then gave details
of the Field Cup Race. It was to be
a two legged treasure hunt; logs were
to be used,being more expendible than
the boats which generally had to be
found by Asdic when the chaos ensuing
from this annual sport race had sub-
sided. The first object to be retrieved,
floating somewhere in the Serpentine
would give a clue to the second object.
They must then be transported to
Guilds and the winning department would
be rewarded with a crate of beer and
the cup.
Later, a mortally afflicted, and
uncontrollably twitching Guildsman
took occasion to draw the President's
attention to a malignant disease whioh
was rampaging through the first floor
of the Hostel. Mr. Mike Gorb, with
One leg horizontal, his eyes rolling
and with palpitating bosom, declared
that he had successfully overcome the
malady.
The A.G.M. was terminated by an
harmonious rendering of "Boomelaka."
AEROS WIN FIELD CUP
The teams assembled in Exhibition
Road and were sent away from a short
shot from Sheldon. The swimming teams
and logs were soon afloat - the
Chemicals, last year's winners, did a
neat flanking movement and were first
ashore only to face a fierce onslaught
from the other departments.
The Aeros, unobserved, got theirs
to President-Elact Dave Clark who took
flight to the Albert Memorial and pre-
sented i t to a waiting motor-bike .
The second object hidden around the
Memorial had already been taken to
Guilds - the Aeros had won.
A scroll was presented te them
and appropriately, together with the
two objects,was suspended from an
H - f i l l e d balloon and released into
the upper atmosphere by Miss Hilary
Matthews of the Keen. Eng. department.

