4 F E L I X
EDITOR I
PETER LEVIN FELIX
CIRCULATION
1500
T H A T Q U E S T I O N N A I R E
The response to the questionnaire in our last issue was rather mixed. While
the number returned (150) hardly permits of a statistical analysis, the replies
do give a reasonable indication of the overall state of affairs and provide some
interesting comparisons between departments.
"Do you consider that I.C. provides the right type of education?" Yes - 53;
Yes, a good scientific and technological training - 21; No - 62. The Civil Eng-
ineers were the most satisfied and the Physicists the least. Of those who replied
in the negative, 59 felt strongly enough to give a definite "No" to question 5:
"Would you recommend anyone to take the degree course in your department?" The
Physics and Chemistry departments showed clear majorities against recommendation,
and a similar trend was apparent among the Aero Engineers.
"Would you like to see more attention paid to the quality of the teaching?"
Yes - 121; No - 23. The most common reservation: "Lecturing is wanted, not
teaching - go to a polytechnic for that." The department of Electrical Engineer-
ing singled out professors for criticism, and was the only one to do so.
"Do lecturers take sufficient interest in your work?" Yes, on the whole -
47; No - 73. Only one Physicist in five was satisfied, and only one Mechanical
Engineer in three. "Would more personal contact be desirable?" Yes - 104; No -
21. By far the happiest departments in this respect were Mathematics and Geology,
especially the latter: "The classes are small and a friendly atmosphere prevails
between students and staff. Field trips encourage this as they provide an oppor-
tunity for exchange of views on toplos of a l l kinds." Several of those who ap-
proved the principle of more personal contact were sceptioal as to its usefulness.
"A good tutoring system calls for good tutors - more contact with this lot is
useless." One first-year Physicist had had no tutorials this year. Tutors whose
knowledge appeared restricted to their research and tutors who showed no personal
interest occurred in most departments.
"Does your department tend to discourage participation in College activities?"
Yes -31; Yes, by virtue of the quantity of work expected - 12; No - 103. The
outstanding department was that of Chemistry, where only three out of seventeen
felt that other activities were not discouraged, Some departments in Guilds re-
ported positive encouragement, notably Mechanical Engineering.
Complaints of "cramming" and an excessively large syllabus came chiefly from
Civil Engineers and Chemists. There was a total of 20 requests for a four-year
course.
C O N C L U S I O N S —
In drawing any conclusions from the results of this questionnaire i t must
be borne in mind that those who find fault with the present system are more like-
ly to have replied. Nevertheless, the fact that there are 120 people in this
College who think that something ought to be done about the teaching and 60 who
would not recommend their ooursos, can give no grounds for oomplaceney. What is
the remedy?
On 20 questionnaires were comments that students lacked initiative: "The
training at I.C. is good, and the facilities for students to educate themselves
are very good." This eritieism is perhaps justifiable. 104 students think that
more personal contact would be desirable; is i t really so difficult to make that
contact? Could not our untutored Physicist have got up and done something about
his position? The answer to this seems to l i e In the general opinion of the
quality of the teaching. When five students in six think that the teaching Is
not a l l It should be, i t is hardly likely that they will be stimulated to seek
any closer contact.
There would therefore seem to be a case for bringing to I ,C. men whose voc-
ation is university teaching, as distinot from academic research, but this will
call for students with the will and mental ability to take full advantage of such
a stimulus. Of course, there will always be some who will content themselves
with the word-perfect memorising of lecture notes, and a radical overhaul of the
selection system will be needed to ensure that a minimum number of these get here
in the first place. At the other end, a radical overhauling of the system of
awarding degrees will be" needed to ensure that the right men get them.
This is the last FELIX of the session, and my last as Editor. It has been
my privilege to work with an extremely energetic and efficient Board, who have
made every effort to bring you complete coverage of a l l "news, views and topics
ef the moment." Next session the blue pencil will be wielded by B.F. Kerrod
(Board of Studies permitting, of course). His ability being undoubted, I shall
wish him the luck to go with i t and look forward especially to some scintillat-
ing editorials.
Staff this session:
Fred Peacock, Ian Flummer, Jim Carter, Peter S. Smith, John K. Taylor,
"Killer" Kerrod, Susan Coombs, John Sellers, Paul Forgess, Jim Littler, Bob
Browning, Bruce Cozens, David Irving (eourtesy Phoenix),John Murray, Ulric
Wiokhardt, Mike Gorb, Sheenagh Wallace, Iris Dickinson.
E L E C T I O N R E S U L T S
ICWA
President Gill Tilden-Smith
(Independent)
Secretary Ann-Magret Radford
Entertainments
Officer . . . . Susan Coombs
RCS
President Peter Kassler
Vlee-President . . Phil Emerson
Exploration Board
Representative Kelr Hopkins
We thank the anonymous compiler of
the following F E L I X STAFF QUEST-
IONNAIRE. It will be circulated in due
course.
1. Do you oonsider that the Students of
Imperial College are fitted for
any type of higher Education?
2. Would you like to see more attention
paid to your teaching?
3. Do Students take any interest in
your work?
4. Do the Students in your Department
tend to discourage you?
5. Could you recommend any Student in
your Department for a Degree?
Comments:
(May 1958) Coarse Year.
THREE EXPEDITIONS THIS S
U
M
M
E
R
. . . continued from page 1.
tion field this year. Nine from the
second year, "led by J. Etherington,
have organised the Norway Expedition.
It will work near the head of Osa
Fjord! where the zoologists will study
the Fauna of glacier-fed streams.
The botanists plan to investigate the
non-random distribution of dominant
species in uniform plant communities
as well as collecting. This expedi-
tion, which will be away for six weeks,
has been given a grant of £175 by the
Board.
P.F.T.
Personal Advertisements
WANTED: Room or flat for party
night of June 26th. Invitation
and/or cash settlement. Contact
R.K.M. Johnstone per Guilds rack.
Applications are invited for
positions on the FELIX Board for next
session. A l l those interested are
invited to get in touch with the
Editor, per Union Rack.
FOR SALE: 500 cc NORTON ES2, New
Main Bearings, big and small end,
prim chain, silencer battery etc.
Excellent condition.
£67 o.n.o.
Contact T.Iutz through Union or
Chem. Eng. rack.
FOR SALE: 1952 MORRIS MINOR
2 Seatar Tourer,
good tyrea, £25 0 > B u 0 >
brakes,
etc.
Contact F. PEACOCK through Union
rack or Int. Tel. 875

