Ever met your idols? S t y l u s talked to the bond but he
quickly made a shocking discovery.
I could nevoi have known that the band I loved
jjllould soon be no more.
1
.till remembr" first hearing them. It was yet
another wet evening in Swansea and my brother
was playing pool downstairs with a one-legged
mechanic from Newport. "You can't lean on the
fable," I heard him scrlqm as Hop-A-Long
Higgins lined up another shot. My 'A' levels
were only a month away and so of course I
switched o n the radio John Peel was
broadcasting, populariser of the real S M I S .
I ve haven't got a n infection/Just a
disinclination/To sleep with any person not
asleep G O TO SLEEP'-
FII» Ft.rro Five's IF )
anthom to pn*/ciad acioss the an waves
and straight into my heart The Roses had cool,
REM had oblique politics and Th.s Sundays had
Harriet Wheeler, but F3
had it all wrapped i } J
with xylophones, double-distortion, di.;ads-
before-dreads-weie-trendy and an album called
'Wank, Wank W
Death of Marti Pellow'.
It's difficult to remember just how
revolutionary a band they were in thoso dayi In
a posthumous MTV address to the nation Kun
Cobai i • '
albun \\'\?-\ • --re. • ••
Rainc-j- -if -y.S' !
"i
••• . ' "
• •• • i • •: ' '
' • . > i • • : :
• • •'•:•!!.•:!
i. i i ir! • • •• I
double alburn 'I'm not going backwards, I'm
going to McDonald's' provided the real
soundtrack to the so-called Summer of Sloth.
And whilst o n holiday in North America they
informed a young studio-worker and fellow
party-goer, Eddie V, that "The best pearl jam
served north of Carolina resides at Jessie&Red's,
Nowfounmin, Seattle".
At least, that's how they remember it as we
laugh in the Queen's Arms. To my left sits
•HMpiO/ the goateed percussionist of the band.
Opposite, chuckling wildly, is spectacled rhythm
ggtfarist, poet and 'screamer' Peter Yang.
(Once, touring as guests of seminal Japanese
popsters The Boredoms, Peter outscreamed his
Boredom opponents to win, himself twenty
packets of allusive Lucky Strikes AND a four
week stay in hospital). With his mane of dreaded
hair bedraggled, Mr Zero looks more like a
Conservative scapegoat than 'Most Fanciable
Man in Holland' - Oops magazine. (Also playing
lead guitar, violin and bugle. Michael Stipe once
called him: 'Peter Buck without the glasses and E
chords - oh and he has hair where Pete has a
hat'). Finally, walking back from the bar comes
NoaK, self-proclaimed 'retro-vocalist and
samplist'. Wingshield, their press officer, has
agreed to this coup of an interview
only because F3
are 'in the area'.
Why? It seems as good a place to
start as any... but. it quickly
becomes the end.
Me: So how hove Fox Force Five
come to South Kensington?
Noah:Tube man
Me: But why?
Noah: No, tube man. Cathode-
ray, TV, the drug.of et cetera -
Pete: - We're filming in the Royal
Albert Hall
Me: Really?.
G e o r d i e : Not exactly (as he
removes his other shoe and places
his bare feet on the table top).
JNtaah: More Virtual
M e : You're getting into new
- 7 then?
an...
Geordie: Wore going to send it
M e : The Albert Hall? It'd have to be rather
'.iargef';, v ' , , ,';.
Mr Zero: Not the building - think, what do we
do? We're musicians not builders
Noarh#pltdOrs build, they don't destroy man
Pete: We're gonna send the medio down the
tube
Me: Urn?
Noah: We are going to end the Rock Business
Pete: It's what Zena would have wanted. [Ah
Zena, the lost'Fiver and first suicidalist]
Me: You are going to do what?! End rock? But I
Mm
love rock!
Noah: Tune in man, chill out
Geordie: Not exactly end rock
Pete: Just the business *vv
Noah: The whole slimy self-referential business
The conversation continued for hours but I
cannot transcribe it for two reasons. Firstly, and
most pressingly, I fotkvd - later that I'd
accidentally forgotte; ; the tape. It
hadn't recorded. Bi on F E L I X
allocated space for hone of us
guessed that we' jtion.
Fox Force Five told me over the next few
whiskies that they w to create a
'standard library' of of a 'virtual
band'. F3
would software: a
digital band that could instantly adapt to
changes in the musir business scene and to the
vagaries of the NME r d where the
music would be creatrH by a cumpjter Not a
post-modern joke but n post-modem invention,
it's only natural perhaps that they'd come to see
how the wires worked Fro hi JHlokes' - the
most recent being Quentif) Toramfno's fictional
i Sunset: The last days of F3
.
Ctbckwise: Noah Strohm, Geordie, Mr Zero, Peter Yang.
'Fox Force Five' television series in 'Pulp Fiction'
to sompled homages, (the Poppies 'Fox Force
.
'
/
I
I
I Eat Themselves'), they are probably the
rnjllllldigitised, cut up and regurgitated
musicians since James Brown.
Still, to attempt to formalise the process by
ences the music - to make
music without human input - is remarkable.
SI*5
Let me explain more clearly: Fox Force Five
as we know them will no longer exist. Using
complex Al hardware, immersion systems from
VR specialists New World and their entire back
catalogue as input, they will produce a band
that is in fact a computer system. It will produce
music and lyrics with music press feedback
rather than human musicians. Metres of footage
shot over the next weeks in the Albert Hall will
include 'blue space' (the special effect used by
television shows such as The Word) as a key
element. This will allow imaging systems to
continually mOp the band on to new surround-
ings, be they Brixton Academy or Sun City. Thus,
concerts will take place that never happened.
Music made from the bones of human music will
hit the airwaves having only been listened to by
record executives. 'The media, MTV and CD's -
it will all disappear," said Noah (I think!). "Every
band will eventually be replaced by the F3
computer. Only through real-life gigs will fans
reach an authentic band; Only live music will
count".
Thus the death of Fox Force Five will be the
rebirth of music. 13
Fox Force Five's final show takes place on
Saturday, 1st April. Tickets from the usual outlets.
F E L I X

