Feature Feature
H e a l t h
is no longer just a
medical matter. Now-
adays it is recognised
that social and cultural factors have provided a
form of health management. A more holistic
approach to health, in terms of prevention,
promotion, cure and rehabilitation, places the
physical and mental well-being of people as
first priority.
The major health problems of the
developing world stem from poverty. There are
clear links between a poor environment and ill
health. In the developed world the more
common environmental hazards to health have
practically all been eliminated, and so people
tend to die from genetic diseases or cancers.
As countries become more industrialised, some
health risks are alleviated, and others become
prominent. In many places, environmental
factors are the greatest culprits, enabling some
problems to be treated.
Health care, at its most basic level, does
not require medical specialisation. It can be
done through preventative health and welfare
programmes, community nursing, and health
education in schools. Basic health care
programmes of this nature ought to be
widespread. Sadly, they are not. There are still
over 1 billion people in the world who do not
have access to drinkable water, and nearly 2
billion do not have minimal sanitation facilities.
E
is the
• c r u c i a l
n v i r o n m e r i t factor in
h u m a n
health and disease. Around 80 per cent of all
cancers, for example, are caused by
environmental conditions, including diet and
smoking. Since many aspects of our
environment are under our control, arguably
much disease is preventable by changing the
environment. Managing the environment ha5*a*
major impact on preventing illness and
promoting good health. ,
At the beginning of the nineteenth
century, most deaths in the Western world were
from diseases such as tuberculosis, smallpox,
typhoid, dysentery and cholera. Marty of these
were dramatically reduced with the introduction
of clean water supplies and improved sewerage
systems. ~
Endemic infectious diseases also declined
with better food hygiene, housing and working
conditions. Advances in agriculture led to
improvements in diet, which enhanced
resistance to disease. Changes such as these
had a far greqjer effect than medical
treatments such as sulphorfcteWes, dfiribrotics
and vaccines. * «~ r *
In developing countries, hov
infectious diseases still dominate. Since the
major killers like diarrhoea, cholera and
typhoid are transmfn^d^ftfas^es, the ni»st <H
effective firsf interveiffim. is to imtlpve J b e ^
water supplies and sanitation. The Wr
estimates that the cost of providing adt-quuio
water and sanitation services is about Si5 per
F E L I X 22mnR95
person per year. This seems a small price to
pay for such an increase in quality of life, but it
quickly mounts up when you consider that you
would be catering for almost 2 billion people.
Next to these infectious diseases, you
may wonder why AIDS is given such
prominence as a major killer in developing
countries. It is not yet a major cause of death
protected by clean air legislation, smokeless
technology an'd use of alternative fuels. Air
pollution is still a major problem in former
Eastern European countries, however, where
uncontrolled emissions of sulphur dioxide have
led to high rates of respiratory illness and
mortality. Air pollution has caused one-quarter
of all respiratory-related deaths in Czech
as alternative liquid or gas fuels at affordable
prices.
Another environmental effect that is
causing worldwide concern is the depletion of
the ozone layer. This has been correlated to
the rise in the incidence of skin cancer in
Western countries. The protective layer of
ozone in the stratosphere absorbs ultra-violet
The best precautions are to wear
protective clothing and wide-brimmed hats, and
to avoid the midday sun. The use of sunscreen
lotions is deceptive in that they rub off easily
during movement or sweating; and although
they may reduce the risk of burning, they do
not protect against the immunosuppressive
effects of UV radiation.
WARNING
the dose and the risk of leukaemia failed to
account for the clusters. Furthermore, no
evidence could be found to support the
possibility that the children's fathers had been
exposed to high doses of radioactivity at work
at the place prior to conception.
The research team investigating the
clusters also studied the incidence of leukaemia
in places earmarked as potential nuclear sites.
These also had elevated childhood leukaemias,
even though the nuclear plants had not yet
been built.
L i v i n g on Earth can seriously damage
your health
R emote rural
worldwide, but it is a major killer inl^ie most
economically productive asjfc-gPlbp. In some
cities in Africa, the prevalence of .-.'OS is as
high as 30 per cc: it. Because it tends to affect
wtKK0f9SttQ, the illness of an adult in a rural
community leads to lower t op production, and
a reduction in income and nutrition for the
family. When whole communities are affected,
cash crops are uncared for and become
ravaged by pests. It is difficult for the heafml
care providers to know what the beft thing to
do is. Prevention through educ. ' i- ,s difficult,
and is limited in its effectiveness if not fully
comprehensive. In Uganda, AIDS .-: is
so high that many people assi me they are
infected. The people then decide that any
, chanqe in their sexual behaviour will be too
laJeV *
'•' ' co#tvtri4|s
• • • • I * a c e
hearth*
ndustriahsed -
— — ^ — ^ — — d ,
I
Kind. In the early part of this c
os a " ptooi'.m
combustion of cool and oil produc
sulphur dioxide and sulphuric a u
populations of most developed areas a
children in recent years.
Another type of smog in industrialised
countries is that produced by motoi vehicles
which is accentuated by sunny climates. This
photochemical smog consists of carbon
monoxide, ozone and hydrocarbons, and can
cause a range of health problems, from eye
irritation,tc» severely impaired lung function.
Another well-known pollutant from motor
vehicles is lead, which affects the mental
development of dren and blood.pressure in
adults. Most industrial countries limit lead
levels in petrol and use price differentials to
encourage the use of lead-free petrol. Th>'.
leading \c rj decline in levels of lead in blood in
urban pdultsjtGovernments hove irttocWtjld-
policies that improve fuel qualify^^SfSiife,,
engine"pertormaoce and reduce traffic volume,
In developing countries, indoor air
pollution is a fai greater problem. Burning coo'
o" i wood for cooking in poorly ventilated
of a homes increase; the oc< •
•
;
{
'
- :e c w
ante
ep#nt respiratory diseases, especial!/ •« women ono
children. In pregnant worr-»n, trie :-;>.a'..;
gases produce, can cause still ••>!:..
Pneumonia, respiratory infections nr ... a er
lung cancer an only be reduced by providing
information about the potential harms, as well
skin
The depletion inXeSme is *
per cent reduction in ozone
would produce at least 300,000
additional cases of skin cancer
and 1.6 million extra cases of
suffer from melanomas die , cataracts each year worldwide
from them. Melanomas can consequences of excess UV radiation are more
affect both the elderly and far reaching than this, however, because of its
(UV) fir . oping it from pene* a'mg > s
Earth s surface In the Third World, the main
effect of increased exposure to UV radiation will
be n
-
*
> increase in ca ai jets
cancer tends to affect white-skinned, people
On? in seven pe< pie vr •
The
young people, and tend to be found on men's
trunks and women's legs. Since office workers
are more at risk than outdoor workers, perhaps
occasionaliiigh doses of UV radiation'are-
worse than cumulative low doses. The UV
radiation has two effects: firstly, it damages the
D N A in cells that have been sunburnt, and stations, is oftl?^^^tel^e1|^ScVu»4Hy A
*selmd1y, it suppresses the natural immune 1983 publicised a
, rvthg imrnwte --a ess
ant to infectious diseases
diation fs not the only type of
i cause concern in the industrialised
clear radiation, in the f o r m of
eaks and waste from nuclear power
system which would normally destroy unusual
cells. The result is cancerous cells which are
not prevented-from spreading.
Ozone depletion is a recent phe-
nomenon, and does not account for the fact
that the incidence of melanomas is increasing
faster than that of any other cancer. The cause
is more likely to be increased offiuence and
holidays in the sun. Queensland, Austiulia
with its inviting beaches and plentiful sunshine
has the highest melanoma rate in
ot childhood leukaemias near the
clear reprocessing plant. The link
oodive discharge and the d.sease
cause the excess leukaemias
based on what was known about
^|j|PJ9es
' Pathways of radtct^^^gN^
djjjMt4th& relationship berwfetfjfej
a r e a s ,
often the
sites where
n u c l e a r
plants are built, tend to have higher than
average leukaemia rates. The building of a
power station generates many jobs, and
therefore attracts families from different areas
of the country to form a town. It is known that
areas with rapidly growing populations have
higher leukaemia rates. The rapid mixing of a
population inflicts on the people involved a
sudden exposure to a range of infections. If
these infections challenge an insufficiently
developed immune system, leukaemia may
result. Children are shielded from infections at
a very early age, only to be exposed later when
infections are imported by migration. It is
probable that a range of environmental
influences have an effect on childhood
leukaemia.
s Though most of us may not realise it,
exposure to natural sources to radiation far
outstrips Jh/e,
danger from man-
made radiation.
One source of
'.natural d r - is
:<••: jdio-
' - _ s
doce cl . V ,
-
•
decaying in rock
The qas rises from bedrock - gh"]j
i j ^ ^ f c S ^ p ^ ^ B l ^ ^ r f c ^ K c p l
' boMrms.
It is thought that radon causes up to
20 000 deaths from lung cancer in the US eoch
year In the UK. the figure is thought >
'
o bo
2,000. In areas with geology likely to produce
high radon levels leg Cornwall and D*vOf\: H
Is recommended thru homes are regularly
tested for radon levels. Measures like
ventilating cavities under houses and sealing
floors are used to prevent the radioactive gasss
becoming trapped in houses
Many health problems affecting the wc.:
d
i xlay rsrs eausr :'• by en ''• 3 'mer.ta! fact: t
careful manipulation of the environment, the
possibility of improving people's health is within
our qrnsp Peoples perceptions of health 'risks'
are nol always correct, and it is important lo
establish the e>.act cou'.es and dangers before
trying different i,";-jtlons &
mam F E Mm
by Lisa
Rajan

