Feature
Hie yeai 2120. a polnu JI system as close to rite
citizen as possible. In this article I will uv to
•jutiinc my vision of the futuic Uuruptdn
political Structure, and give a bl|epridt l«r i\w
European Parlj.mn.nt.
l$J&$«taastricht Treaty w
prepare the ground for an enlarged and
powerful future European Union, but because
it was drafted without adequate participation
or feedback from the people of Europe or the
European Parliament, it seems unclear and tool
complicated. In the end national interest
prevailed, and the Treaty ended up being
essentially a compromise. It failed to consider
the average European citizen, who was left to
swing between shallow Euro-sceptism and
constructive criticism. The democratic deficit,
arising due to the unmatched expansion of
the Parliament's rights - compared to the pace
of transfer of authority - from member states
to the Community, did not seem to have been
filled. B y the end of 1992 it sci-ined .!•> i ;
something had gone badly wrong, a sharp
crisis on European optimism was manifested
in every possible way across the Continent :
referendum^, populist cries and the E . R . M .
debacle.
E.U. member states are required to be
pluralist democracies; it should follow that
any organisation they create w i l l be
democratic too, and indeed such a political
structure exists alongside the instruments of
economic policy in the E.U. But at present
this political structure allows mainly for the
representation of the member state, rather
than the citizen. Hence it cannot incorporate
any truly European opinion and perspective;
instead discord and compromise between the
states shape common policies. Citizens need a
political system which provides a platform of
expression and an executive arm for the
majority opinion across Europe. Only then
will a genuinely European interest play a role
in steering the Continent.
The present structure is also accused of
inadequate accountability and a lack of
openness: too many decisions affecting the
lives of ordinary people are taken in Brussels
behind closed doors. One reason for this is
iitiPw
I g J D wnhfft the ITU? s t n w i r e ) a
I B f at a J g p m a l levjel, andijj|eir decisions
affecting the Union cannot be fully controlled
bv the othei oigjns. This has been one ol the
pww* -WVA: . y ; ^ « s<; •& AAI:ZA
national or supranational, can function
without its citizens' loyalty. As David Hume
realised in the sixteenth century: "power lies
with the governed". The citizens of any state
must be given ground to identify themselves
with the state's governmental system and be
sure that their interests are properly and
adequately represented. The present system is
'seriously lacking in this respect, let alone the
lack of a sense of common futme and identity
amongst Europeans; the combined effect has
gloved to be very dangerous.
There have been some moves towards
transparency and democrattsation within the
European Institutions. T h e Treaty of
Maastricht enhanced the European
Parliament's p
consuli.il inn and ihc right of co-decision with
the ('
Commission also decided to release to the
process during the preparation and drafting of
•;r, quite
inadequate and do not set the way from the
period till 2020; "the institutional structure
which results from the new Treaty contains
such deficiencies that it is very doubtful
whether the Union will be in a position to
achieve its stated goals."
The intergovernmental conference i n
1996 is an opportunity to deal with the
shortcomings of the Treaty. In particular, the
principle of subsidiarity must be clearly
defined. Cooperation in the areas of Justice
and Internal Affairs must be included and,
most importantly, the European Parliament
must be given the right of legislative
initiative. Furthermore it is the joint
responsibility of the Commission and the
national parliaments to begin to draft the
future European Constitution, containing an
explicit and extensive reference to the future
European Parliament.
The following steps jjpssi occur betwwn
before 2020:
i . Ihere should be a gradual shift of power
from the C o u n c i l of M i n i s t e r s to the
• . . • -nt oi the future United Europe
, 2. Tfoe European Parliament must be
allowed democratic control over the
C o m m i s s i o n and ultimately appoint the
Commission itself.
3. Cross-border cooperation between
political parties should be fostered, so that the
elections for the Parliament will begin to
change from being essentially a k i n d of
national election, to ultimately become the
podium where European parties are judged
and elected to represent pan-european
ideologies and interests.
4. T h e C o u n c i l of M i n i s t e r s should
ultimately act as an advisory body to the
Commission and the Parliament.
i|5. N a t i o n a l parliaments should exercise
democratic control within the states, thus
complementing the p.u liamentary tasks of the
European Parliament at a Union level. There
should be a demarcation line between the
Commission and national governments, set by
legislation referring to the principle of
subsidiarity.
Through scheme described above the
E.P. will begin to act, both as a source of
political will towards further integration, and
as a forum where political differences over the
U n i o n ' s future can be aired. T h i s w i l l
encompass all different perspectives over the
future of the Continent. A l l new legislation
should be as clear and concise as possible - to
avoid the setbacks experienced with the
Maastricht Treaty.
For me the most important short-term
need for the future of the European Union, is
to present a new pan-european perspective
catering for all Countries aspiring to share
interest, opinion and beliefs over the crucial
problems of the Continent. This would be a
blueprint for the united Europe as a whole. Qj
Kyriakos Hatzaras
I.C Delegation to the Europe "2020" Seminar
Chairman ofthe Societyfor European Youth

