Feature
Death without Question
Michael Ludlam investigates suicide and the e
nameless people who dissappeaf
The date is April 8th 1994. The place Seattle. The
body of a man in his late twenties is found in
his house, dead from a self inflicted gun wound
to the head. Not,
unfortunately, an
uncommon occurrence,
except that this man was
famous - K u r t Cobain.
Famous for hating his fame;
this the final rejection of
everything. He supposedly had it all; a wife, a
child, millions of dollars. And the media turned
his death into a feeding frenzy. It was if this
kind of thing didn't happen too often. However
in Britain in the week that he died around 90
people took their own lives. It is estimated that
one thousand people k i l l
themselves everyday worldwide.
In industrialised nations such as
Britain, suicide rates among young
men are rocketing. If this was a
disease, there would be a national
outcry.
The attitude to suicide worldwide seems
to follow a very British tradition: "We don't
talk about that sort of thing". The phrase 'to
•m1
'Wkd, c o m m
' t
suicide"
sounds like it is a
crime, as indeed it was
in Britain until 1961.
(It was only de-
criminalised in Ireland
two years ago). There
are stories in the 19th Century of people being
revived after attempting suicide only to be
executed. People were hanged for suicide. As
recently as 1950 a woman was given a
jail sentence for attempting to k i l l
herself. Thankfully this bizarre way of
dealing with those who give up on life
has ceased.
Sadly though, the secretness
carries on. While there is no denying
that suicide is an extremely personal act, there
is a very public statement in each one. It is this
public statement that is so often ignored. How
many people talk to their friends about suicide?
Not many I am sure even though I know that
everybody reading this article has thought
about it. Not necessarily their own suicide but
certainly why someone else
would take their own life.
A n odd situation that has
arisen, we shun the act itself
but have a strange
fascination with the person
involved. They become
idols, made heroes and gods once dead. Sylvia
Plath was virtually an unknown poet before she
put her head in a gas oven and killed herself.
Now she is famous, famous in her posthumous
life, and mostly for her death and fascination
with it.
But for most suicide is not the final act.
For many it is a cry for help, when there is no
where else to turn. It is a last resort for those
who feel their back is against the wall. It is a
surprising fact that most attempted suicides are
not intended to be final. Gender is an
important factor: more women attempt suicide
than men but men are approximately six times
more likely to succeed. The choice of method
for men is often a lot more final: guns and
hanging. Women are more likely to take drugs.
Men tend to be more determined while women
can be easily persuaded from it. There is a story
of a woman who on her way to the Severn
bridge was stopped by a couple who asked her
for directions. Able to tell them, she felt she
could do something with her life, changed her
mind and went home. For men crying for help
is not a socially acceptable solution. Their
methods are more often irreversible.
Measuring the rates of suicide is hard. It
is generally accepted that the official statistics
are only a fraction of the real figures. This is
not helped by the Irish coroner who
commented on one man's death: "Sure, he was
only cleaning the muzzle of the gun with his
tongue." However the statistics of student
suicide are surprisingly accurate. It has always
been assumed that students are more likely to
kill themselves than any other group, however
this is not the case. Universities are normally
very coy about discussing student suicide,
though one, Oxford University, has published a
report which compared student suicide rates
with Oxford City. It found that if all the 'open
verdicts' of the equivalent age group were
added then the difference with the student rate
almost disappeared. Students have always seen
to be more vulnerable than most other groups
in the population because they are far more
vulnerable to emotional and psychological
problems as they come to college. For most
college is an exciting experience, but for a small
number it is far too hard to cope with, academic
stress as well as interaction with other students
can often become unbearable.
So who are all these people? If there really
are a thousand people succeeding i n taking
their own lives how many are there 'failing'?
Who are all these nameless people and where
are they disappearing too? It is important not to
look at suicide as something that you can
eradicate. Suicide isn't a disease. There are no
answers, especially for the friends and family
left behind. It is something that appears to be
so unpredictable and unstoppable that we are
left helpless. Maybe if we weren't so taboo
about suicide we could personally do something
about it. Q
22IMiR95 F E L I X H

