Xtra Curricular
Rag Tour: Members of ICU's Rag Team line up in leg-hair length order
Hill)
Rag Review of Term
Keys: Chocolate, Keele, Pizza
Happy Easter everyone. Yes, it is the time of
year when we all consume large amounts of
egg-shaped chocolate and have four weeks
free of lectures! This is also the time for a
lesser known tradition the Rag review of the
term. Once again lots of people have raised
stunning amounts of cash for many well
deserving charities and had a great time whist
doing this. Many students have also gained
their Rag sweatshirts, T-shirts or mugs as
incentives for collecting.
The term began well as some of the Rag
Committee had been to the Keele Rag
Conference and were this full of enthusiasm
and new ideas when we got back to college.
First of all we had a London collection for
John Grooms (a charity for the disabled)
which, despite the rain, raised a fair amount
of money and earned our top collector of the
day, Eleanor Tench, a Pizza Hut meal as a
prize.
O n the 4th of February there was the
annual battle between the halls in the Hall's
Dirty Dozen competition. The team from
Beit Hall won and Chae Martyn was the win-
ning collector, raising over £70 for SCOPE.
The top collectors on this event also won
prizes in the form of music and meal vouch-
ers.
After a couple of weeks off collecting we
were ready for the major event of the term,
the Rag Tour, (see picture). This was a crazy
weekend mixing Rag Mag selling to fellow
students with socialising and generally hav-
ing a good time. We managed to cover most
of the middle/north of England Universities
in a couple of days without breaking the
F E L I X 2c(HllR9S
speed limit so thanks to Tim, Alaric and John
Turner for doing the driving. All in all it was
a very successful and eventful weekend and
we raised the stupendously large sum of over
£740 in the space of three days. For some rea-
son the hard core Rag Tour posse who stayed
until the Monday decided to show off their
legs to the camera, hence the picture featured
above.
Since then things have calmed down
slightly but we have still been collecting
amazing amounts of money for charity. On
the 3rd of March some of us managed to per-
suade commuters in a few train stations to
part with their cash and donate it to the
Cystic Fibrosis trust. Then on the Saturday a
few people trundled up to Oxford to go on a
Rag Raid and raise some money for Oxfam.
This term was a good one for prizes as a
couple of collections for the Royal Hospital
for Neurodisability in Putney gave participat-
ing students the chance to win a three month
Inter-railing holiday for two. The winner of
this prize will be announced next term as
they are not known at the time of going to
press.
The Rag Mag editors for next years Mag
were elected this term so this rather infamous
publication is already being compiled. If you
have any wildly amusing jokes then do let us
in the Rag Office know, so the Rag Mag for
1995/6 can be as hilarious as ever. We have
also elected a Treasurer and Secretary for
1995/6 and they are Jon Lambert and Mark
Harrison, respectively.
Next term you can look forward to more
Rag madness with the Rag Fete and Dinner
among other things. Martin Jones is our
newly elected Rag Fete co-ordinator so we
wish him luck with organising the event! To
find out more details of our events next term
and/or to stand for any of the committee posts
left then come to our meetings on Fridays in
the Ents Lounge at 1.10pm.
Thanks to everyone who has taken part
in Rag this term and we hope to see you after
the holiday.
I@QM3.0II>
What it you're ill over exams?
Keys: Doctor, Dentist, Genuine
Well, it's almost the Easter break and the
dreaded exams (arrgh!) are looming. But
what, I hear you ask, do you do if you get
struck down with a (genuine) disease (exam-
initus does not count!).
If you think you are ill enough for its to
affect your exam performance, this is what
you should do:
• See your doctor as soon as possible. If
your doctor agrees with you (they can tell if
you're faking!), you can obtain a doctor's note
saying so.
• Tell someone in you department. Y o u
should take your note to your personal tutor
or senior tutor. It should then be placed in
your records and, if necessary, taken into
account in your exam results.
If you are ill during your exams and can-
not attend them, you must ring in to your
department and follow the advice above. It is
also worth knowing that it is, in the case of
dental problems, possible to get a sick note
from your dentist.
So, stay well and good luck!
The Football Tournament Final
Keys: Iran, Pakistan, Powerful
As you all know an OSC football tourna-
ment has been taking place for the past five-
weeks. After a few postponements, due to
unfriendly weather conditions, the final
match was played on Wednesday the 8th of
March.
The two opposing finalists were Pakistan
and Iran. Great skill and team work, from
both sides, resulted i n an action packed
match that ended with a 2-0 score for the
Iranians. The advantage came at the sixth
minute into the first half when a brilliant
move from the Iranian centreback, Hamid
Fallah, resulted in their first goal. From then
Pakistan's team strategy shifted to an all out
attack searching for the equaliser. This pro-
vided them with a few very good goal scoring
chances, especially in the second half. Fast
and often powerful defence kept the score
from changing. The second match-deciding
goal for the Iranians came in the last minute
of the match. This was a result of the slack-
ened defence and low spirits of the
Pakistanis.
Since a team photograph of the winner

