Xtra Curricular
cannot be shown their names are as follows:
Ahmadreza Pishevor, K a v e h Ghayour,
Hamid Fallah, Pedram Mazaheri, Ahmad
Moheb, Mohammed Halali, A l i Sabzababi
and Hector Dominiguiz.
Although throughout the course of this
tournament, I, the organiser, was confronted
with many more problems than I would have
ever expected it all worked out fine i n the
end. I hope that all the players that took part
in the event enjoyed it as much as I enjoyed
making it. Although i n the end there can
always be only one winner (and a whole lot of
losers!), the most important thing: it's just a
game.
m
Imperial Queers
Keys: Vogue, Ignorance, Pride
We are IQ - Imperial Queers - the gay, les-
bian and bisexual group of Imperial College.
We're offering a place to meet socially whilst
aiming to change the atmosphere 'on the
walkway'. For too long it has been said "oh,
well, IC is a difficult place to be gay..." We
are changing that.
W h y are some people so arrogant?
Equality is so simple to understand, but these
people don't think. As a result there is confu-
sion and worse inequality - we are treated
unequally, we suffer discrimination, we lose
out. Some are content to judge and to dis-
criminate, and have been for too long. It is
time to bury those ideas forever.
IQ meets every Tuesday at 7.30pm in the
Brown Committee Room, or see us on
http://theory.doc.ic.ac.uk/pink - IQ's world
wide web pages. Come along and meet k.d.
lang, E l t o n John, Huffty, Stephen F r y ,
RuPaul, Oscar Wilde, D:Ream, H I H Regina
Fong, (and many many more) - perhaps.
J
C
3 i l j j ^ j j j i !
ICU Cinema gets High-Tech
Keys: Dolby, Surround, Wide
ICU Cinema has been closed for a couple of
weeks due to DramSoc's production of
Volpone but we've put the off-screen time to
good use. With the ever increasing popularity
of the Cinema, we felt it was time we upgrad-
ed the projection equipment i n order to
regain our position as the best student cine-
ma in London (in fact we're now officially
recognised as the best student cinema venue
in the whole country). Firstly, we've replaced
our lamp at a cost of £3,000 with a 1.6kW
xenon discharge lamp which means the pic-
ture is now twice as bright as it was. Most
noticeably, however, we have completely
replaced our sound system with the aim of
improving volume, clarity and high frequen-
cy response, and we have also taken the
opportunity to install D o l b y Stereo
Surround Sound to match the latest multi-
plex theatres.
Everyone who knows what it was like
previously is guaranteed to notice the
improvement, and i f there are any people
who haven't visited ICU Cinema, why are you
wasting your money going anywhere else?
With plans for the screen to be replaced over
Easter, we will match almost any cinema you
care to mention, except that our screen is
mush bigger, at 29ft wide, and our ticket
price is much lower (£l-£2).
We recommend you come and see Pulp
Fiction this week, which is in CinemaScope
and we'll be running a Dolby Digital copy of
it. See you there - don't forget ICU Cinema is
the only London screen where you can bring
drinks from the bar in, and remember to
bring some cash for an ice-cream in the pre-
film interval. And by the way, a tip: bring a
pint up for the projectionist and you'll have a
good chance of getting in free!
GSOna 8.0(3
Forthcoming Attractions
5pm.
To make use of the cinema's new sound
system we show Speed at 5pm Thursday.
This thrilling, edge of the seat film is even
more enjoyable, as the sound effects whirl
around your head. Turn up and absorb the
atmosphere. Stallone and Stone steal the
show later on, with bangs of both sorts, i n
The Specialist. Our Sylvester is an explosives
expert hired by Miss Stone to avenge the
death of her family.
The contrasting film for Friday at 8pm is
Amateur. The story begins when an unknown
man is taken in by an unsuspecting ex-nun.
There is no way she could be prepared for the
assorted people she starts to meet as a result,
including an ex-porn star and two hitmen.
The actors put i n sterling service and I can
only agree with Time Out's advice, 'Enjoy'.
With an upgraded cinema (brighter pic-
ture and full Dolby Stereo) and Pulp Fiction
again, what more could you want.
Humanities Art Exhibition
Keys: Sex, Drugs, Alcohol
Keys: Wellville, Amateur, Lion
The film society has had a small break from
film showing whilst the Concert Hall was put
to other uses. We now return with our leg-
endary end of term extravaganza.
We start today with The Road to Wellville
at 5pm, a must for all toilet humour fans. It
caters for all connoisseurs of enemas, colonic
irrigation and sexual deviance. Somewhat
surprisingly, Anthony Hopkins excels in his
role as Dr. Kellogg. Then at 8pm we bring
you back to Earth, by showing movie heaven,
Tarantino's Pulp Fiction. Incidentally this
also runs on Thursday at 11pm and Friday at
The 1995 Staff Student Art Exhibition starts
on 17 May and lasts till 16 June. We would
like any work to be brought in on Friday 12
May, 3-4.30pm in the Sherfield Ante room. If
this time is not suitable, please contact us.
This is just to remind you to prepare
pieces during the holidays and to bring any
other work. A n y medium is welcome; oils,
watercolours, sculptures, glasswork, etc. 2D
work should be framed with clips or hooks
ready for display.
Works of art displayed can be sold but
20% of sales goes to IC Humanities. For fur-
ther information please contact Leonardo
Society: I C U SCAB or leonardo@ic.ac.uk.
Confusion: 'If only I'd taken a course at Imperial', Jack thinks quietly to himself
2
2
H
1
H
R
9
S F E L I X H

