THG m
e
n
u
Standby
^ and snacks for all...
I'm greedy, but I think of it as just a
healthy appetite. I can eat anything
tasty-sounding, anytime. But an
impromptu picnic of chilli-
marinaded olives, a South African
liqueur rather like Baileys,
kangaroo meat, aubergine pickle
and chocolate spread at the good
food show two weeks ago made
me distinctly queasy.
The show is a bazaar, with a
couple of cookery demonstrations
thrown in. This was a bit of a
disappointment - what I wanted
was Food and Drink's Jilly in her
bondage-style finery screeching,
What you get, though, is stall upon
stall of promotions of the food you
just don't buy at Sainsburys. Apple-
flavoured, yoghurt-style soya
pudding, anyone? And if not, how
about that sizzling kangaroo meat,
which tastes rather like gamey,
chewy steak, or some Worcester
© rings of terror
sauce, evening primrose oil, or
dried pineapple (organic of
course)?
I'm not ungrateful, though.
You whisk round the stalls
sampling - there's rather more of a
crowd for wine, chocolate and free
bagels - and subside into a
cookery lecture with your churning
stomach. There you're lulled into
almost believing you might nip
home and knock up that salmon en
croute and seafish platter, with
homemade plaited rolls, naturally,
for your deserving flatmates. It's a
fantasy world for those middle-
aged at heart, plus retired couples,
all out for the trip and the tastes. ©
The Good Food Show is held at
Olympia, west London, every
spring. Tickets (concession price)
were £6.50 this year.
Whilst it may be becoming
something of an over-used
metaphor for the modern
condition, the telephone's also a
godsend for breaking up
monologues. It acts in both
capacities in nightshift, the so-
called 'comedy-thriller' written by
Stephen Dinsdale (Anorak of Fire).
Our heroine, the spunky
Maisie (Sarah Brignall), heads in for
another evening manning the lines
for a minicab firm. As time passes,
she deals with the normal rash of
calls and pairs them up with the
firm's ragtag collection of drivers,
who may or may not get there
depending on what's on telly. In
between calls we begin to hear
something of Maisie's life.
It's nothing out of the
ordinary. Her social worker
boyfriend's just walked out after
four years and she's trying to give
up smoking. She even starts on a
retrospective task of listing her
lovers, while various mundane
callers interrupt her flow - she
takes her chewing gum out for
them. Until, well until The
phonecall. It's abusive, but we
never know exactly how. We just
get to watch the colour drain from
Maisie's cheeks as her eyes start to
water in anger and fear. It's an
uneasy feeling which has been
utilised by many directors of both
screen and stage, but it's one
which seldom fails to grip.
Maisie's evening continues,
digging deeper into schizophrenic
bouts of terror and positive
thinking as calls of various
persuasions ring in and out of her
office. Yet there are no big issues
to be made here. Nightshirt's not a
parable, merely a modern tale,
well written and acted.
The ending has two decent
twists to it but the tag 'comedy-
thriller' never really fits. Perhaps
the simple description of an 'one
woman show' should be enough
for us. Whatever you want to call it,
Nightshift makes all the right
connections and is well worth a
visit.
I was a little wary of seeing
Drumstick's production of volpone
without knowing much about the
play, but thankfully Ben Jonson's
Elizabethan farce is not only readily
accessible, it's also very funny.
The plot (and counterplot) sees
Volpone feigning illness to play on
the greed of several Venetian
worthies, who each believe they
are likely to inherit the 'dying'
man's wealth, and are all tricked
into giving him gifts to gain his
favour. Much mayhem ensues.
Any criticisms? Well, the rape
scene didn't work, perhaps
because Jonson's female charac-
ters are all either caricatures or
plot-devices, while the final
confrontation seemed to lose its
way a little. But the biggest
disappointment was the small first-
night crowd; hopefully the other
performances will attract the large
audiences a production of this
quality deserves. Q
Is kangaroo meat and chocolate spread a bizarre
combination? KC delved and tasted at the good food show.
The telephone as a connection of life and death is explored in
the comedy thriller nightshift. Tintin went mobile. Back
home Joe watchs dramsoc's volpone.
In an occasional yet fulfiling new column, Magpie relives big
screen favourites as four weddings comes out on video.
Magpie finds that Einstein and love prove to be a volatile
combination in the comedy iq. Meanwhile KT decides on
what is and isn't a just cause and in the clouds, Jenny
reaches the drop zone.
Can contemporary art cope with the big issues of modernity?
Tintin takes a look at the after auschwitz exhibition.
A ragtag, bubble and squeak type week in rotation. Top ents
people Luke and Mark combine, excitingly with music ed, Vik
In the return of english bop, Davros C.Crippledick welcomes
radiohead, Vik kisses emf and Sty/us spits and polishes the
boo radley's bonedomes. In another world he/en-/ou/se fries
Apache Indian, Jeremy flies with mc 900ft jesus, Vik pulses
with mindfunk and Guy glides with massive attack.
The Patrick Wood - David Cohen push-me-pull-you rears into
action once again to review the ic symphony orchestra
concert.
hire for that special day
"Nothing so surely introduces a sour note into a wedding ceremony as the
abrupt disappearance of the groom in a cloud of dust" - PG Woodhouse
Yes it's back again, this time on video.
When four weddings and a funeral opened last year it managed
to stay in the top ten for 22 weeks and notched up £28m at the UK box
office. Everyone has probably seen it but now it's time to reminisce; Hugh
Grant mouthing expletives, morning suites, brogues and top hats.
When it first came out I was sceptical about the film. However being
forced to see it by circumstance of my own sister's impending marriage, I
was pleasantly surprised. It was a case of perfect casting allowing the film
to run itself.
For those who have yet to see the film it's about a group of friends
attending the weddings and funeral in question, but with a subplot
centring around Hugh Grant's inability to commit to any woman. Well
until his attention turns to Andie McDowell that is.
This is one video to add to your collection. 0
Four Weddings is available at video stores from March 27th at £14.99.
MM F E L I X 2
2
(
1
1flR9S

