News
News Review
ypnng
B Y A N D Y S I N H A R A Y
It was in the midst of Beit Brawls, ex-miners
earning millions, certain sabbs having lockjaw
and KCL finding themselves a tad lacking in the
stone lion department that college closed for the
holiday. But no sooner had Santa Claus left
South Ken, IC launched into a literally fiery new
year...
January
Arson attacks, absent aero assessments and
NUS affiliation were on the agenda...
F E L I X 1Q1 6
Linstead was still recovering following an arson attack before
Christmas. "The situation was tackled well," the warden said. (The
now notoriously overactive smoke alarm system was still not running).
ICU's new constitution got passed, despite various complications,
notably the much-amended 'Mary's Amendment' while the fact that
ICU itself could soon be in Sherfield met with mixed reactions. IC's
ex-rector Sir Eric Ash became Acting Head of the maligned Student
Loans Company, who say his experience is 'a valuable asset.'
F E L I X 1Q17
As the OSC squeezed the world into the J C R to publicise International
Week, Aero exam papers went A W O L , vanishing into the Christmas
postal quagmire. 4th years relaxed as exams were postponed. If the
summer papers were to disappear, an Aero chief mused: "I don't know
what you'd do then, jump out of the window or something." A n
election fiasco loomed; premonitions of the results or turnout?
Actually, not enough swipe card readers would be available. Our social
guardian, I C U Council, got its members writing to MPs highlighting
student poverty; in contrast it was reported that nationally, IC receives
the most academic funding per student. But student fraud still remains
a problem. Sir Eric clearly has his work cut out.
F E L I X 1Q18
Another brawl, another venue: Queen's Lawn. In the wake of a
catalogue of violent incidents, caution was called for when organising
drink-related events. The first candidate i n the sabb elections came
forward with campaign manager - New Election, passionately
persuading IC's electorate not to vote for any of the other candidates.
Meanwhile, back i n good old Beit, puzzled punters mistook a rape
alarm test for a car alarm; albeit one emanating from a car on the first
floor. It now seems anything could happen i n IC's own Bermuda
Quadrangle..
F E L I X 2
2
I
H
R
R
9
S
Birkbeck Safe
B Y A N D Y S I N H A R A Y
Birkbeck College claims to have
"not lost a bean" after being
caught out investing in Baring's
Bank. The merchant bank, which
recently collapsed after over-
extension i n its derivatives
trading, included some £6.5m of
Birkbeck's investments. Fears
had been expressed that the
money could be lost completely.
Although initially reluctant
to talk to F E L I X , a Birkbeck
spokesman later insisted: 'We
have lost nothing'. H e later
confirmed that their money was
intact, having been safely
deposited in a clearing bank.
Arrangements were made
last month with the National
Westminster Bank to ensure that
staff salaries could be paid. A
£2m loan was made by the
H i g h e r Education F u n d i n g
Council for England ( H E F C E ) ,
which has since been paid back.
It is also understood that
Birkbeck College will not now be
making representations for
compensation to H E F C E or other
bodies.
F E L I X was told that
NatWest had been "very
accommodating" and there is a
sense of relief over the incident,
which seems to be considered as
past history. "From our position
it was a bit of a non-event,"
Birkbeck insist.
Imperial's own bank is the
NatWest, and I C ' s Finance
Director Mike Hanson stressed
that Imperial has had nothing
whatsoever to do with Baring's.
However, he said that prior to
their collapse they were a "solid
bank... and a good credit risk."
ICU Cash-Cut?
B Y A N D R E W S M I T H
Imperial College Union's Clubs
and Societies are set to curtail
their activities next year with
their funding likely to drop i n
real terms.
College's subvention, which
makes up the vast majority of
ICU's income has (after inflation)
been cut, a move College blames
on their overall financial
position. While present budget
proposals are still not formally
agreed there is a working assum-
ption that with IC taking a cut in
their budget, I C U will have to do
the same.
Speaking to F E L I X Mike
Hansen, Director of Finance,
pointed out that with increased
trade the Union Bookstore and
other trading outlets should be
able to increase funding. This is
not being taken for granted by
Union officials; the latest Union
Finance Committee calculated its
spending plans envisaging less
money in real terms.
Two of the big losers were
Rag and C o m m u n i t y A c t i o n ,
losing just over 30% and 50% of
their budgets respectively. With
rising paper prices even causing
major printing problems for the
News International, Imperial
College's publications also look
likely to be hit. Needing £4,000 to
offset current paper price rises,
U F C decided to only grant the a
£1,000 rise. This is likely to result
in either a decrease in the size of
the publications themselves, or,
suggests one insider, to force
students to 'share' their copies of
publications such as F E L I X .
Having already agreed to pay
for an extra member of ICU's
finance staff, College's £8,500
proposed increase on their
£558,000 subvention clearly will
not be able to cover inflation.
Due to taxation changes the
Union also faces increased sports
costs and a loss of revenue from
gaming machines further adding
to depressed financial situation.
While M r Hansen stressed
that present plans had yet to be
approved by the Rector or the
Board of Governors he defended
the proposals. The Director of
Finance stated that in his opinion
U n i o n had not been ' d i s -
proportionally disadvantaged'
further suggesting that there was
'no reason to believe that other
Union income will decrease'.

