Standby
imperial college symphony orchestra
britten's babies
Violinist Madelaine Mitchell has a pretty impressive CV. Her speciality is
contemporary music: she has had pieces written for her by James MacMillan and
Michael Nyman, and there are plans for her to premiere works by Gorecki and
Robert Saxton. The Elgar concerto which she performed at the recent icso
concert is perhaps, new territory for her. Although warm in the central Andante,
her tone was occasionally wiry in the outer movements and her attack
sometimes a little scrappy.
ICSO have played Elgar before, but never with such a fine string section.
There may have been a few people in the audience unaware of the track record
of Richard Dickens and his players, but any misgivings they might have had
would have been immediately reassured by the strong surge of the opening tutti.
Neither orchestra nor soloist gave in to the temptation to wallow in the more
nostalgic passages. Further rapport between Mitchell and ICSO was perhaps
inhibited by a lack of opportunity for instrumental dialogue in Elgar's writing.
After some impromptu flamenco in the first half, in the form of the soloist's
rather audible foot tapping, the second half finished with the sensuous ballet
music of Ravel's 'daphnis and chloe suite no.2'. Before this was Britten's
'sinfonia da requiem'...
To the unversed reader, classical music critique might seem to be tuned to a
pointless note demanding wasted effort to understand. So I'll leave that to the
pros and programs. To me an orchestra is like a living organism, the musicians
its cells. When a cell malfunctions the entire organism suffers. ICSO performed
Elgar alongside Madelaine Mitchell, an alien body, and it showed. But the
second half brought redemption. A chest-thumping opening drum-roll
announced the fluid waves of sound which where to ensue. Benjamin Britten's
'sinfonia da requiem' was executed with torturous vigour. The 'opus no. 20'
spends the majority of its duration faltering its players, before the (brief)
crescendo at the end, leaving you petering on the edge of a rhythmic cliff. A
round of traditional applause provided a short prelude to 'suite no 2' of Ravel's
'daphnis and chloe'. Only my ignorance prevents me from citing the name of
the flautist who played the most beguiling solo, as an entree to the gentle
chorus. Bury the complex triads and white mohair scarves I say! 0
Thursday 23rd at 8pm Wednesday 22nd at 8
p
m
\ J =i • J :4Thursday23rdat11pm
m | ^ Friday 24th at 5pm
A F I L M B Y
T H E ROAD T O
W E L L V I L L E
H A L H A R T L E Y
Friday 24th at 8pm Wednesday 22nd at5
n
m

