News
No New Election
B Y J O H N S I N N E R A N D
A N D R E W S M I T H
This year's newly elected
sabbaticals almost lost their jobs
before they began as last
Tuesday's Imperial College
Union (ICU) Council ran close to
ordering a rerun of the elections.
With one member changing
his vote during a second count,
the decision rested with the
Council Chair. John Durrell,
permanent chair of ICU Council,
took the pivotal decision of
rejecting the motion, which
condemned the elections and
proposed a fresh ballot. Moments
earlier Stian Ingebrethsen, the
Aeronautics Academic Rep. and
attending his first meeting, asked
for an explanation of the motion.
As a result, he changed his vote.
Piers Williams proposed the
motion, seeking a rerun of the
elections and asking Council to
'declare a vote of no confidence
in the Elections Committee for
failing to adhere to the cons-
titution'. Piers, who manned the
St. Mary's Union ballot box, cited
two incidences where students
directly asked him who they were
block voting for.
The medics defended their
action, reported in F E L I X 1024,
of distributing hundreds of
'sample voting papers' to their
students, on the grounds that
Mary's voting procedures were
different to those of ICU. This
slip featured the names of the
actual candidates as an 'example'
of how to fill in the ballot papers.
Piers Williams, sitting on
Council as Publications Board
Chair, argued that these 'sample
voting papers' signed by Claire
Maloney and R a h u l Joshi, St
Mary's President and Vice
President, constituted a form of
Union 'media'.
The motion before Council
also stated that the position of an
ICU Exec Committee member on
the Elections Committee was
unconstitutional. The I C U
President, L u c y Chothia, has
now admitted that this is true,
saying: "the Constitution was
definitely broken". She earlier
apologised: "I definitely made a
mistake." Lucy insisted that this
had not affected the result of the
sabbatical elections.
After heated debate, a count
was called, resulting in 15 voting
for a rerun of the elections and 14
others insisting that the elections
were constitutional. As the
implication of having to rerun
the ballot dawned, a more careful
recount proceeded with the one
change of vote resulting in a 14
all draw. John Durrell, Council
Chair, was then called on to made
the casting decision, saving IC
from another election.
Last Friday Imperial College saw the private launch of National Science
Week 1995 (SET95) writes John Sinner. It features a series of events
organised by the British Association for the Advancement of Science.
Ministers for both Science and Technology and Agriculture, David Hunt and
William Waldegrave, were amongst the VIPs who participated in the launch
in a marquee in Princes Gardens, which even featured a presentation by
IBM. As part of SET95, IC was the site for the 'BAYSDAY', pictured
above, the British Association's Youth Section's annual event. It was open to
8-18 year olds andfeatured "Balloons, Bubbles and Boomerangs".
News Review
February
Days of Beit bar break-ins, computer heists and
yes, electioneering, as politicians came and went,
some never to return...
F E L I X 1Q19
"Shallow, abusive, personalised and inconsequential" said LabSoc
guest Tony Benn, not of ConSoc but of the current political system.
Elsewhere pro-Euro Tory David Hunt spoke to an audience of Euro-
sceptic ConSoc members. A student was threatened with prison for
alleged G B H (in a separate incident). Election fever began to not so
much hot up as tepid up with rumours propagating wildly over who
would be standing. ' F E E L S I K ' and ' F I D O ' appeared: one claiming
that DP(C&S) Ian Parish is an alien. I C U is in Beit Quad, remember.
F E L I X 1Q2Q
Back in reality, Beit Quad powered back into the headlines with a
vengeance after the Union Bar was raided by students of King's
College London (KCL). Ghassan Karian, prospective U L U president
and Labour councillor, also President of K C L S U , now believes
mascotry to be "toss" (despite displaying an interest earlier in the
year). The N U S also dropped by - to persuade Council of the benefits
of affiliation. And Election 'Fever' rose from tepid to positively luke-
warm as the first candidates signed up.
F E L I X 1Q2T
Confession! K C L ' s Cllr/President K a r i a n admitted that he'd
knowingly misled I C U over the bar break-in: he'd handed over the
keys for the minibus used in the raid. Denying that he'd lied over the
incident, he preferred to say that a 'collective cover-up decision' had
been made. Students were denied a referendum on the N U S issue on
technicalities, one being the upcoming sabb elections. (A technicality
which had candidates declaring themselves all over the shop). Political
inactivity of a different kind saw ConSoc snubbing another Tory M P .
A furious Theresa Gorman wandered around college with no-one to
meet her. ConSoc said there was a "breakdown in communication with
Mrs Gorman's private office."
F E L I X 1022
It was the turn of computing students to put their feet up, Aero style,
due to a £30,000 theft of computers. Election papers came down,
campaigning began in earnest, and the campus was deluged with a rain
forest's worth of posters. Meanwhile, the C & G election preamble
wasn't doing quite so well... Back at ConSoc, Lord Archer arrived,
declaring the publicly advertised meeting private. Consequently his
fascinating views of sex scandals, John Major and his own salary went
unreported. Gliding Club also had their newest aircraft publicised
with infamous inaccuracy...
22mHR95 F E L I X

