N E W S P A P E R O F I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E U N I O N
No. 175 F R I D A Y , 4th M A Y , 1962 4d.
EJECTIONS AND ELECTIONS
GUILDS
4 departments ejected.
The Guilds Union Meeting at the end (if
last term was puntuated by the. now tradit-
ional alarums, plastic bomb explosions, flour
bomb attacks and unguided flying toilet rolls,
but this did not deter 400 Guildsmen turn-
nig up and staying to the end. M r . Lyle was
there, and it must havebeen quite a shock
to him to see an IC quorum assembled. How-
ever, this was not his only reason for attend-
ing; he was speaking in the ballroom debate
on the motion "That five departments in
Guilds is far too many." Speaking on behalf
of Electricals, Si told all his limited reper-
toire of stories (what does he do at all the
dinners he attends?) interrunpted by a few
•slides; unfortunately the epidiascope was not
up to its job and a lot of the delicate model-
ling was obscured. M r . Finney speech was
the work of the best script-writers in the Col-
leee and was accordingly well-received. He
spoke at length on the work of Civil Engin-
eers in shafting through the Alps and on the
size of their erection, and Elec. Eng. demon-'
strated their technical competence by explod-
ing smoke-bombs by remote control. These
filled the room with smoke and made it very
hard for the rotten-fruit throwers to hit the
Executive at !|he front. Aero, were handi-
capped by the absconsion of M r . Carter, who
was to have spoken for them, and John White
had to fill in at short notice. Gopal Sruii-
vason mentioned the work of Chemical' En-
gineers in the rubber goods trade and a
Thunderflash, also the work of chemical en-
gineers, exploded and halted the meeting for
a short time. When something short of total
chaos was restored, Asit Chandmal told a
few old jokes on behalf of Mech. Eng., but
his inimitable delivery more than compensated
for the shortcomings of his material. The
vote was taken and according to the Pre-
sident's ears Civils won.
Other highlights of the meeting included
the presentation of Sociable Colours in the
form of a Garter *r> Thelma West. Miss West
wore black stockings and a frillv pink nylon
net underskirt. Vice-President Liberman re-
ceived a similar Garter, but its presentation
did not arouse the same interest as the first
one. Mr. Liberman wore pale blue Y-fronts.
The earlier part of the meeting was con-
ducted under a heavy barrage of assorted
missiles, and the Executive counter-attacked
frequently with heavy losses on both sides.
The manufacture of flour bombs ana
Kleenex mortars is an increasingly dominant
part of Union meetings.
by D A V E GILBERT
The meeting heard that Guild.' had won
a vast number of trophies and Friary Meux
was drunk 'in large quantities from 'fiitsrtt.
Mr. Chandmal gave some earthy fragments
from what must have been a verv sordid de-
bate between Mines and R . C S. in the De-
bating Competition which Guilds won, ot
course. Margaret lodge was nominated fo*
IC Carnival Queen, and a spontaneous sug-
gestion that she be named Bo-Belle and given
a sash was received with acclamation.. Pure-
ly by chance the Pdesident had such a sash
with him at the time and this was presented to
chance the President had such a sash with
him at the time and this was presented to
Miss Lodge. The victims of the Swimming
Gala Episode were given 15/- each in com-
pensation from the collection in all thedep-
apartments, and on this happy note the meet-
ing ended. Several public-spirited gentlemen
stayed behind to clear up.
R.C.S.
Women rejected.
The last R.C.S. Union Meeting held on
Tuesday 20th March in Chemistry Theatre B
attracted a total attendance of about 160.
The members dealt quickly with proposed
changes in the Union Rules, Hie proposals
being passed by a majority of 90, and list-
ened patiently with only mild cheer and boos
as John MacManus presented the I.C. COUB-
cfl Report.
The major item on the Agenda was the
Staff-Student Debate, the motion before the
House being: "This House believes that the
woman's place is in the home and not in
R.C.S."
Dr. Hills, the Senior Treasurer, was the
first speaker for the motion, and, speaking
with skill and precision, held his audience
from the beginning. He began in good de-
bating style by defining the terms of the mot-
ion, concentrating on the word "woman".
He said no clear definition was possible,
since women so often look like men, bu»
listed 6 properties;
1. Women usually have small feet.
2. Have a low power-to-weight ratio.
3. Seldom wear beards.
4. Generally do not have dirty fingernails.
5. Tend to have high voices.
6. Usually have a high chest-to-waist ratio.
Anyone who has 4 out of these 6 properties
can be fairly safely taken to be a woman.
Dr. iWfilson, opposing the motion, relied
most effectively on subtleties, hints, and
double meanings. He asked why, if wsmen
have equal desire, opportunity, and ability,
they should not come to R.C.S. A scientific
training would help them in their married
lives a great deal in saving fuel bills, for
example.
Mike Harris, seconding the motion, was
horrified at the effect R . C S . had on women.
Chemists smelt horrible, Physicists became
cross-eyed, Zoologists had parasites in their
hair, and Botanists had grass growing out
of their ears. His speech was high-lighted by
the way he nonchalantly caught an apple
hurled at him. Unfortunately it turned out
to be an egg of dubious age. which shattereo
violently.
Miss Carole Bedingfield also spoke for 'he
opposition, but she had scarcely informed
the Union (with some pride one felt) tint
she had spent the previous night (or was i*
evening) with Finlay D.
McPherson when another ancient egg.
thrown with fiendish accuracy, hit Robin
Salmon on the ear with such devastating
force that he was unable to take down any
more of her speech. Miss Bedingfield ap-
peared to be very popular with her audience
and as the applause died down the vote was
taken. The motion was passed by a large
majority with further egg throwing and loud
applause.
MINES
Elections.
M I N E S E L E C T I O N R E S U L T S
President — Brian Oldfield
Vice-President — Bob Slater
Hon. Secretary — Fergus Kerr

