_ 2 FELIX
Editorial comment
A few days ago, T received a letter from
the President of the Architectural Associat-
ion (who is an old student of T.C. asking if
we have considered the far reaching affects
of the proposal that the A.A. School should
become n fourlfi College of T.C. The enclosed
document says that informal discussions with
the Rector took place last summer, and a
few months later the Governing Body of ths
Imperial College passed a resolution author-
sing the Rector to conduct negotiations with
the A . A . The conditiouns fundamental to the
negotiations were that no additional finan-
cial burden shall fall on the College, the ex-
pansion programme of the College shall not
be impeded, and that the A . A . School should
be prepared to move into close proximity
with the College,
The negotiations, which are "not uncom-
plicated", are now going on.
The merger seems highly probable. What
would be the effects? The first thing which
strikes me is that efforts will be made to have
much closer links with the Royal College of
Art. Perhaps another merger, eventually.
Then why not a University of South Ken-
sington? Up crops the old question, old as
N.U.S. and Mooney's food. This is just my
guess. What do you think?
Talking of Mooney's food, there is an art-
icle this week on our refectories by Dave
Wilbraham. I agree with his views. Actualh
I'd like to see an investigation carried jut
by a batch of experts on the nutritive value
of the meals served in the Union refectories.
Many complaints lhave been made about the
taste of the food (all justified) about the state
of the food (also justified), and they seem
to have had litle effect. A charge of malnut-
ritive diet would be difficult to ignore (and
again it is a justifiable personal guess that
the experts would find the meals pathetically
ItWui
tbtk UitbL
near Sir,
With respect to the R.C.S. Smoking Con-
cert I agree with Mr. Guy that humour is
not synonymous with filth.
However, this year's Smoking Concert did
vot contain all the word's from "Lady C".
Words of this nature were cut by the pro
ducer beforehand, only to be re-inserted by
Ihe cast during the performance.
The main reason for the low standard cf
Several of the acts is that, had they been
omitted, the Concert would not have lasted
an hour. Scripts of high quality were, in fact
submitted, but later the departments con-
cerned lost interest, or decided "that it isn't
dirty enough for a Smoking Concert."
A recommendation will be put to next
year's committee to cut all four letter words,
references to sex, and not to supply free beer,
as this is the main cause of the rowdy at-
mosphere.
Yours sincerely,
DICK FOSTER
(Chairman, R.C.S. Ent. Com.}
lacking m the essential daily requirements
of vitamins, proteins, and minerals.).
A series of articles has been initiated to
inform the Union about the problems of
running the Union. This week we have two
experienced Union members, who have held
or are holding important Union positions
(ha, ha). Next week it is hoped to have the
Secretary of the Union, and the Presidents
of the Constituent Colleges, writing articles,
and the issue after that will carry articles
by the Chairmen of the S.C.C., R.C.C.,
A.C.C. and the Entertainments Committee.
The President will round of the series, and it
is hoped that you will write to us blasting off
at anything in the Union. These series
will also give an idea of what is in-
volved in holding the Union positions,
which will be contested next month.
In the next issue of Felix, I hope to hold
a Forum of discussion on the problems of
foreign students.
They encounter a number of difficulties in
finding accommodation (and believe me this
can reduce you to tears sometimes), and get-
ting used to the food and social customs
and the aching loneliness of being in an im-
personal metropolis thousands of miles from
home. I would appreciate it very much if
you write to Felix about any experience or
advice which could help solve this import-
ant problem. Some very good work has been
done by Dan Elwyn Jones and Fr. Ivor Smith
Cameron in connection with this problem,
and it is hoped that they will start off the
discussion.
Ultimately, without your active particip-
ation, whether it be a Carnival or a Debate,
nothing can be done. Without your help, >
every idea is still — born and every discus-
sion sterile.
Be fecund and write to Felix.
R.O.S. SMOKING CONCERT
Dear Sir,
While I would endorse M. Guy's comments
Regarding the deterioration of the R.C.S.
Smoking Concert I would not place the
blame entirely with those responsible for its
.production.
1 was concerned with the previous three
tConcerts, and not withstanding Mr. Guy's
reference to "an all time low two years
ago", we did strive to infect into the pro-
gramme sketches of a subtle, musical, or top-
ical nature. In most cases these were either
brutally cat-called or misunderstood by the
appreciative part of the audience because of
the verbal diarrhoea of i(he drunken remain-
der.
The trend 'is towards audience domination
yit can no longer be called participation).
I have been amazed at the implications an
audience has drawn from perfectly innocent
lines. Secondly, the attitude of pepole pre-
paring the material towards the prospective
audience degenerates from a desire to enter-
tain to contempt. The consequences are re-
grettable.
The audience at the Concert expects baw-
diness and the cast provides it at present.
Any improvement in the standard of enter-
tainment must come from both sides of the
footlights.
Yours sincerely,
STAN S A L M O N
I—CURRENT E
V
E
N
T
S — i
M C P H E R S O N G A T E C R A S H E S
13,000,000 H O M E S
I.C. TIES S H A R P L E S
by BRIAN B O N D
On the evening of March 21st the name of
I.C. was brought into millions of homes by
thirteen members of the Union when they
appeared on telvision of the Liberal Party
Political Broadcast
We questioned Jo Grimond on the broad-
cast. The programme was to be telerecorded
in the afternoon and televised in the even-
ing. We were told that Grimond had already
made a very good recording of a fifteen min-
ute speech, so our performance had to be
very good if it was to go on the air. We
made the recording and after a seemingly
endless delay, we were told we would be on
the air.
I have often wondered how spontaneous
these unrehearsed programmes are, but ours
certainly was spontaneous and unedited.
The press gave it a mixed reception. One
Sunday paper though it dreadful, one of them
liked the technique, and two of them even
quoted the question about "the Liberal Par-
ty being a penny ha'penny trying to be two-
pence."
T A M ratings placed us joint second with
"Coronation Street" so if we went in for tele-
vision in a big way, Ena Sharpies would run
into severe competition.
BLOOD
DONORS
WANTED
The S. London Transfusion Centre will
pay a visit to the College on Monday, 14th
May. Starting at 9.45 a.m. they will receive
volunteers in the Concert Hall. Volunteers
are requested to sign their names on the
appointments board, preferably by 7th May.
Those under 21 years of age attending for
the first time need the written consent of
their parents.
LAMLEY'S
T E C H N I C A L & G E N E R A L
B O O K S
A R T M A T E R I A L S
D R A W I N G I N S T R U M E N T S
S T A T I O N E R Y
P A P E R B A C K S
1, 3 & 5 EXHIBITION ROAD, S.W.7.

