FELIX 3 -
President's
Introductory
Note
Mr. Chandmal. the newly appointed Editor
of Felix, has arranged to run a series of art-
icles written by members of the Union who
have taken .or are stifll taking, an active
part in its administration. I hope that this
series will be of interest to the readers of
Felix, and at the same time inform them of
what is involved in running the Union.
It is fairly apparent that at the present time
there is a limited contact between the elected
representatives and the majority of the stud-
ents. This series of articles should help to
bridge this gap. and at the same time encour-
age more students to take an active part in
the Union.
It would be very fitting if you as a mem-
ber of the Union wrote an article for this
series stating what the Union does or does
not do for you. T think Mr. Chandmal would
undoubtedly find that these articles would
be an excellent way to terminate this series.
No Ape-ing ofOxbridge
Nobody sane comes here without the in*
tention of getting a degree and it is primari/y
for their technical qualifications that em-
ployers seek graduates from this College.
Anything students get up in their spare time
is really incidental. To hear some people talk
one would think the Union is the be-all and
end-all; but it isn't: it is, let's face it, another
incidental. I am not saying that incidentals
are unimportant, for if one is to spend sever-
al years of one's life at the job of getting
qualifications then how and where one lives,
eats, and relaxes, are very pertinent considei-
ations in the efficiency with which one does
the job apart from anything else. But one
should keep a sense of proportion and re-
member that the Union only exists to look
after these matters to some extent Sensible
Union policies should therefore be firmlv
based on the wishes and needs of the maj-
ority of Union members.
Every year the Union Council is respons-
ible for dispensing thousands of pounds of
members' money in futhering these interests.
By and large I think Council makes the
right decisions as to what to do with the
money most of it going into well tried chan-
nels. Any individual council only makes re-
latively small adjustments to the traditional
system, which is I think quite right and pro-
per. Some people talk of revolutionary
changes and they are wasting their breath as
the vast majority of members are quite satis"
fled with the basic mode of operation. The
average Union member is only too glad to
have a change from the lecture theatre and
laboratory and so I think it is absolutely right
that the bulk of the Union Budget should go
into the Athletic and Recreation Clubs Com-
mittees and into the Entertainments Commit-
tee (who run the hops and balls).
There is, however, one side of Union act-
ivities that is not as strong as those aspects
I have already mentioned. This is what might
be described for lack of a better word, as
'cultural' activities. Perhaps, you smile sar-
donically to hear of the Union publications,
the debating society* the political and re-
ligious societies, etc. called 'cultural' — as
well you might smile sardonically — but at
least you know what I mean. Chacun a son
gout and all that it might well be better for
the health, getting fresh air and exercise, play-
ing cricket or rugby, but ideas are not to be
sniffed at. When all is said and done, it is
the ideas men hold that influence society
more than anything else. I am convinced
that there are a very large number of Union
members who are interested in discussing
politics, religion and philosophy and that we
should be making greater efforts to extend
facilities for these things
College activities go up and down: one
year a particular society is in excellent shape,
the next it isn't so good perhaps (excepting
the rugby club, which always seems to be
good). So what of this year Well, I think
it has been an extremely good year. This
is perhaps partly due to our current Presid-
ent Whose injection of transatlantic pep has
been an object lesson to observe. Hardened old
hand as I might be, I have been most im-
pressed by his seemingly boundless enthus-
iasm. He has not got his own way over every-
thing, but then how many of us do?
He has been particularly good about the
new Halls of Residence. It is important to
see that when they are opened the Union
should have a fair say in running them. It
would be a thousand pities if these institut-
ions should be entirely run by the wardens,
however well meaning the might be. Surely
by the time a man gets to University he should
be capable of deciding his own likes and dis-
likes. Hall spirit should arise by itself and
not from enforced aping of Oxbridge. The
effect of the opening of Southside will be the
most important change the Union has to ac-
commodate in the next year or so, and we
must show that we are capable of judicious
management of the new facilities.
What the President and his Executive have
done this year is to keep the Union lovely.
Perhaps that is the secret of a good Union-
life and zest. Nothing is worse than Union
officers who behave like nattering old grand-
mothers. In a good Union one shouldn't sav:
'What's on in the Union?' but rather, 'What
isn't on in Hhe Union?' This has been a most
pleasant year, with initiative at a premium;
let us hope that next year will be as good,
and if not, better.
UNION
REFECTORIES
by DAVE WILBRAHAM
There is one aspect of life at I. C. which
almost none can avoid. Whether pink cherub
fresher or battle-scarred post graduate all
enter the refectories at some time or another.
For many this daily dose of masochism sym-
bolises College life. I fear that for many it
will have left an irradicable imprint which
will bear dyspeptic fruit in future years. On
this point, and probably only on this point,
virtually all internees are agreed; the fodder
purveyed in Mr. Mooney's Mashcatorium is
of a standard wanting close survillance by
by the vigilantes gastronomic of the Public
Health Department.
Why should the refectory food earn this
unpleasant description? Familiarity breeds
contempt, but I have found that uninitiated
friends quail at their baptism. It cannot be
lack of choice, as there is usually a choice
of some half-dozen dishes; order your indig-
estion to taste. The starting product is re-
asonable, the finished product is sometimes
palatable, the damage is done between the
end of preparation and the beginning of con-
sumption.
Plates holding full meals are sucked one
on another and stored under the hot plate.
Peas dry out, shrivel and set rigid so that
the only use they are fitted for is pebble-dash-
ing the President's Office. Chips go greasy,
soggy, grey and end up like sleeping slugs.
Meat becames parched< gravy ends up as
dark irremoveable stain. The only way to a-
vodd this ruination of food is to alter the
serving system.
Why not select a meat course from a pile
and then select vegetables which could be
served directly from vats? Thus the veget-
ables could be preserved in a prenentable state.
Who knows, it might even be possible to
have a Mooney meal without peas and with-
out a grey undercooked half tomato. Anyone
who has eaten at the many College refect-
ories operating under this system wjll know
that this method vastly improves the quality
of vegetables and allows the customer a
more flexible choice.
The usual cry which meets this suggestion
is 'lack of counter space'. This is rubbish.
There is a very large refectory in an unmen-
tionable .building in Bloomsbury which
serves vast numbers of meals to equally vast
numbers of students and uses this system of
dispensation with less counter space than
presently existing in the lower refectory. The
only alteration "necessary would be the re-
moval of the central pillar. The puddings
could be laid out in a much smaller space,
with one attendent to replenish supplies. One
person could dispense meat, one variously
disguised potatoes and one vegetables. Four
servers; not an inordinately expensive labour
bill if it meant improvement in quality, and
satisfied customers. Or am I right in wonder-
ing ir the Mooney Monopoly feels it need
not consider such irrelevancies as a service
to the customer?

