ftiv-lie Siqtor
C O L C U T T
We hear that an IC quorum, the IC Presid-
ent and the I C Secretary attended the last
Guilds Union Meeting, and this prompts
some alarming conjectures. For surely this
counts as an IC Union Meeting, and if the
Guildsmen present had passed a motion that
RCS should be ejected from the IC Union
or something similar could R C S have done
anything about it? No doubt our procedure
experts can sort that one out. The constitu-
ent colleges have certainly shown the I C
Union the way in getting people to attend
their meeting; all you need is a dispensable
room (size is not really important) and some
fairly bawdy entertainment laid on. Dead
easy. No doubt the technique will have to
be refined and given a transatlantic flavour
before its adopted for the IC Union A G M
but its always a possibility. Of course the
really effective way of avoiding inquorate
meetings is to lay on free beer: this pre-
sumes that at least 12% of the Union likes
beer enough to come along for it but we
think this can be taken as read. The beer
would be paid for out of increased Union
fees. Two practical solutions to a real pro-
blem and no doubt they will both be dis-
missed in favour of yet more nebulous talk
about the sins of apathy.
A n ex-editor of this paper who was taken
to task for his unfair treatment of the C N D
affair (if anybody remembers it now) has let
So the Editor has started a new series on
the Union. Oh, well, at least he's chosen
brave men, decisive men. Dave Wilbraham
is getting married in August. Bob Finch falls
next Easter (Wonder if it will be a Church
wedding)). Jim Carter has joined the Liberal
Party. I suppose it's better to have loved and
lost than to be married and bossed. Some
people don't think so. Pete McGlone is go-
ing to lead a felicitous life from now on.
Congratulations. And the same to Gillian and
Michael, and Judith and Morris, and Jocelyn
and Mick. Even Ged. Brough. Wedding Bells
next Easter for Ged and Janine. I suppose
anything which combines the maximum of
temptation with the maximum of opportun-
ity must be popular.
But some seem to be holding out. Quest-
ion: "Are you engaged!" Answer: "I'm not
saving anything." (Spud Oldfield). "Ssshhh.
I'm going to the hop." (Max Finney).
"(S)£&$%@£$&%" (Finlay Macpherson).
I never thought a taste of Mooney would
create such a fuss. Its not his fault. Its ours,
we eat the stuff.
Congratulations to the Carnival Queen.
And Thanks A Million.
out that at the time Miss Pat Arrowsmith
was being entertained at his home and was
in fact sleeping in his bed. The gentleman
concerned was not at home, let it be under-
stood. Pity he didn't tell us at the time. Talk-
ing of editors reminds us that we have yet
another one, the third this year. In pre-
vious years we seem to have got by with on-
ly one editor; is the job becoming more tax-
ing or have editors less stamina these days?
Anyway we extend a hearty welcome to
Asit Chandmal and let's have a few less
typographical errors this time.
There was some discussion recently about
what form Colours Awards to ICWArians
take. Apparently Colours ties are not very
popular with the ladies and they don't have
the ingenuity to devise anything more suit-
able, although lapel badges were mentioned.
Why not Colours headscarves, or those neck-
erchief things women wear on the sports car
ads? Of course they could follow the ex-
ample set by Guilds and award Colours Gar-
ters, to be worn in the regulation position
on the leg: this would give the men an o p
portunity for the chilvary the ladies complain
is missing nowadays, Honi soit qui mal y
pense and all that jazz. A n d the proposed
IC Honours could be the Order of the Gar-
ter. How about it ICWA?
U N E S C O has translated S T Y N X into 61
languages. A team of experts on English cul-
ture is arriving at I.C. to have the subtle
jokes and certain difficult words explained.
By the way we scientists are supposed to
have T W O cultures. Well I'll be snowed, f
ain't even got one. A n d the Debating Soc-
iety hasn't helped. What happened to last
term's Union Debate? And the Debating Soc.
Dinner and Debate? And the Carnival De-
bate? Tighten up, Dick.
Deputy ^\
President *
•
Council has considered the need for a re-
arrangement of the Union Executive and
decided that a Deputy President was required
to be the President's principal assistant, and
to -be elected as the Honorary Secretary is
at present. The post of Hon. Secretary will
continue, and the job will carry rather more
direct responsibiliy for the operation of fac-
ilities both in the Union and on South Side.
NEWS IN BRIEF
C O L L E G E CHOIR
Towards the end of last term, the College
Choir gave a performance of Beethoven's
Mass in C and Carmina Burana, by Carl
Orff, in the R . C . M . .Concert Hall. It was
believed to be the first amateur perfor-
mance of the latter. Though the professional
soloists did not reveal the ability expected
of them, the Choir sang magnificently and
many of the audience found it difficult to
understand why Dr. Brown did not bring
them to their feet to receive their own de-
served part of the appreciation. Should more
ambitious concerts be planned in the future,
perhaps financial help will be forthcoming
so that lower prices will attract many more
to hear them sing.
Y O U R GUESS
If one happened to enter the Union Office
at the beginning of term, the letter racks
could be seen to bear unusual identifications
being respectively, 'In' Out' 'Left' 'Right'
'Up' 'Down'l To the uninquisitive this pre-
sents no proplem. However, for otihers, 'In'
and 'Out' are self explanatory, and 'Left' and
'Right' could be special divisions for the act-
ive political groups of the College. But 'Up'
and 'Down' present no easy solution. Can it
be that they were required to deal with a
mass of correspondence concerning the Yo-
Yo habits of the new sports centre ceiling?
E X T E N S I O N S ?
For the less well informed, there appears to
be a controversy over the Union Bar ex-
tensions. The new licencing laws make it nec-
essary to apply for a new form of licence,
the College no longer being considered a
'Club' in the eyes of the law, and this is con-
sidered to affect applications for extensions.
Sides appear to be taken by those who want
applications to be unlimited, those who want
them limited to twelve, and about two thous-
and eight hundred who couldn't care less.
For those interested, a round the clock
service is feasible by having the bar installed
in a converted railway coach which could
move across the quad at a specified speed
and thus provide us with a moving bar.
There are rumours that the laws may be
manipulated to accomodate recognised sports
centres and clubs!
V i e w p o i n t s
"It's .amazing how Hilary and I think of
the same thing at the same time — and it's
not always sex."
Lawrie Austin, President of Guilds.
"I'm dressed, thank you."
Carolvn Russel to I.C. student at Shepherd's
Bush.
"I did it."
Finlay Macpherson, the first thing in the
morning after the Guild's Carnival.
"London Transport is quite good."
President of I.C.W.A. to Jo Grimond when
he offered her a lift.
"I forgot to radiate last night."
Pete Allison, Chairman of Entertainments.
ORBITING
IN THE NOOSPHERE
by CATCALL

