- 8 FELIX
RUGBY CLUB
BOOZE-UPS I N B E L G T U M
H O C K E Y CLUB
H O C K E Y C L U B T O U R
by T . PHILLIPS
The Hockev Club finished their seison by
entertaining the Forward Hockey Club from
Groningen University over Easter. After
three days in London both teams went to
the Lowestoft Hockey Festival. The first day
in London started with luncih at the Queen's.
Then we had a match at 'Harlington — they
won 2-1 — followed by a Mooney banquet
and a Garden Hall stag party. Too much
for some, but the Stronger men (most of
them Dutchmen) managed to get up for lunch
next day and see London in the rain. Two
idiots even played golf and. got soaked, but
some smuggled whisky kept them alive. That
night Garden Hall saw one of its finest par-
ties. Those Dutchsren were rather charming,
but there were some girls left for us. Thurs-
day was to have been occupied by a nice
quiet sleep in the coach on the way to Lowe-
sltoft. But they wanted to play again. We
didn't have a goalie, so they gave us one;
he was a left wing really. The score was 6-2
to them with fifteen minutes to go. It was
suggested that our skipper move from lett
back to right wing wlhere he would be less
in the way. He got two goals and made a
couple more, but they scored again. So we
lost 7-6. What a game!
We got some sleep the first night at Lowe-
stoft. The skipper picked the team and went
off to play golf. The first match was lost,
but it was a good game. That night the hos-
pitality of the Suffolk and Khe Royal were
enjoyed, but our landlady didn't enjoy the
result. Y o u can't take these soccer players
anywhere. The team P.R.O. had to pacify
her next morning, then we went off to play
Leicester University. The skipper had hurt
his knee (dangerous game this hockey) and
couldn't play for the rest of the Festival; he
couldn't even play golf so he must have been
hurt badly. We should have beaten Leicester,
but we drew 3-3. I reckon we'd have lost if
that loud-mouthed idiot on the touchline hadn't
given us so much encouragement. It's nice
to have supporters. I'm sure I've seen that
female umpire somewhere. We went to a
hop that night- The Entertainments Chairman
wasn't very impressed — a frightful crush.
The Landlady didn't complain again: we
weren't all that bad really. The sun shone
again next day, three days in a row; surejy
it would rain on Monday. We drew again
— why can't someone score isome goals?
Monday was the last day. We had to play
two games, a'nd the sun shone yet again.
The only committee member in the morn-
ing's team was the treasurer, so we won for
a change. We scored three goals. That soccer
player was a bit rude to the umpire, though
— hardly the festival spirit. We lost again
in the afternoon, but it was very close. The
umpires were a bit partial. Fancy one ot
them saying "Further into their half, Harry"
to their centre-half when he was about ;o
take a free hit. Pity that soccer player wasn't
playing.
It was a wonderful weekend, everyone en-
ioyed themselves. No-one got to see the fish-
ing fleet come in after all, but you can't do
everything, can you?.
Why don't you play hockey next year?
Twenty two members of the Rugby Club
left Victoria en route to Belgium on March
26th. The British Railways underestimated our
capacity and all the bottled beer had been
consumed before the train was an hour out
of Victoria.
In Brussels we were met bv a little man
who turned out to be M . Teddy Lacrois, the
Secretary General of the Belgian Rugby
Union. He was to be our guide for the tour.
He informed us that the landlord of the hotel
we have been booked to stay in had passed
away so he had arranged for us to stay at
another hotel.
Soon it was decided to set up a kitty of
5 Fr. each to be given to the first person who
found Belgian beer too much for him. This
was won about three hours later by Alan
Havard.
For our first game, on arrival at the ground
we could see nothing resembling.a pitch ex-
cept a large piece of white ground with white
lines on it. This proved to be the pitch as
after changing the Belgian boys appeared
with some appropriately painted poles which
they erected as goal posts. Despite a storm
during the game and the fact that a public
footpath ran across the pitch, we had quite
an enjoyable game and won by 62 pts. to 0.
One try was scored from a short penalty
after Alan Smith had slowly ambled through
the opposition holding the ball over his head
and watched by everyone else in sheer amaze-
ment.
The net morning we were invited to the
Martini Bar. Within an hour 130 Martinis
were consumed, with the youngest member
setting the pace at 14,
That evening our hosts were the Sporting
Club of Brussels. This side contained 7 new
full internationals and is one of the strong-
est in Belgium. Playing under floodlights we
won by 23-0, with 5 tries and 4 conversions.
We suffered the only injury of the tour dur-
ing this game when Roger Place broke his
nose and had to go to Hospital for two days,
returning like something out of an American
Space Rocket.
After the game we were presented with an
almost life size model of "The Mannekin
Pis", which can be seen in the bar. We re-
plied by giving S.C.A.B. an I.C. plague.
On Friday night it was decided to hold a
tournament between all members of the par-
ty at the billiards type version of table soc-
cer. This was supplemented by another tour-
nament between Harry Robinson and Alan
Morden and the local Bneweries. Morden
gave up at about 10 and just on his 15th
Robinson was struck down with a touch of
"rising stomach". The other tournament fin-
ished at about 2 o'clock when the party re-
turned to the hotel bv devious routes. A t one
stage the South African member of the party
found himself in possesion of the back of a
'disused" park bench. After a slight disag-
reement about passports with the local con-
stabulary most of us arrived back at 3 o'clock.
At this hour the landlord arose, claiming
unfairly, to have been disturbed in his sleep,
and found Alan Havard asleep on the floor
under (his mattress and a pile of pebbles, etc..
and his bed and the bed in the next room
neatly stacked against the wall.
On Saturday we entertained S.O.S. St.
Gillis — Dendermoncle. This side had played
only once before, so we mixed the two teams
for the first half, and played normally in the
second half. We won an enjoyable game by
32 points to 0.
Sunday witnessed our last game versus An-
derlecht. The opposition contained no fewer
than 8 internationals and the ensuing game
resulted in a win for I'.C. by 33-10, of which
Dr. Hearn (Oggie) accounted for 22.
Alan Smith had been christened by the
Hotel staff "L'enfant terrible" and in view
of this he was presented with a pair of plas-
tic panties, which proved too large for him.
so instead he was vested in a nappy and
brought down to dinner. The Lady of the
House insisted on feeding her new "enfant"
and was only just restrained from breast feed-
ing him.
The sea on our return turned not a few
stomachs, and we had to rescue the Treasurer
from the Customs Officer. Thank God we
escaped paying duty on Smith's blood.
"There has never been a tour like this",
was the thought with which we left for home.
J M K E H O E
THIS SPACE RESERVED
FOR YOU!
Advertise in FELIX
Published b , ? E L I X B O A R D , Imperial College, London, S.W.7.
Plates & offset printing by WEST L O N D O N OFFSET CO., 86, Lillie Road, London, S.W.6. Tel.: F U L 7969

