Manifestos FELIX, Friday May 8th 1987 8
P R E S I D E N T Paul Bailey, proposed by Anne Driver
Hi! The fact that you're reading this at all makes
you a very unusual person at Imperial. If you vote
in Monday/Tuesday's election you're even more
unusual. Why? Because you've shown some
interest in the running of your students' Union—
an activity that over the past few years seems to
have all but died out at this College. There is one
major reason for this change of attitude—the types
of students entering Imperial over the years have
changed whereas the type of people organising the
Union have not. There is no real feedback between
students and the Exec, no matter how
'approachable' they may claim to be, and so the
Exec, along with ents and other committees,
continues to do its own thing. Many past Execs
have complained about student apathy but have
done little to alter the situation. One of my first
tasks as President, should you elect me, will be
to draft some form of questionnaire in an attempt
to find out how you really want the Union's £2m
turnover spent. The President's main job is to
represent your ideas and views to the main student
and College committees, but how can your ideas
be known if you're not asked? The President is
also meant to be a forceful representative of student
life and opinions to the College block but too
frequendy in the past Presidents have backed down
to College upon confrontation to avoid 'trouble'—
this means that you lose out, something that I will
not tolerate. Many Presidents have said this in the
past but have felt obliged to be 'nice' to College
administration for an easier life. Who needs an
easier life?—I don't, and I'll only be nice to people
if students will gain from it.
So if you want your Union to show more interest
in you, vote for Paul Bailey on 11th and 12th of
May.
P R E S I D E N T Symon Corns, proposed by Alan Rose
Since coming to College I have had active
involvement in College life and hence I would like
to see the Union flourish next year. For this to
happen the Exec must be a strong group with a
strong President, able to lead and work in a team.
I believe that I am such a person and hence am
asking you to vote for me in the election.
A major part of the President's job involves
representing all IC students on various College and
Union committees. To be successful a calm and
responsible approach is required. Further personal
politics or prejudices must not interfere with
representing the majority student view. I do not
subscribe to any political party and have a wide
range of experience on committees.
The Union has seen several changes this year,
especially in outlook, initiated by this year's Exec
I would, if elected, give full support to these
changes and would try to use them to consolidate
the Union's strength. The Union faces changes next
year as well and for us to respond rapidly and
effectively a flexible approach is required. Chas
Jackson and Alan Rose have already spoken on the
required re-distribution of work amongst the
sabbaticals. I agree with their ideas and will
endeavour to have this redefinition of work-load
completed by the end of next year by working with
them as a team.
Please vote and use your vote wisely!
P R E S I D E N T Ian Howgate, proposed by Kenneth Young
Having worked with four of the last five Union
Presidents I have no reservation in stating that Ian
Howgate is potentially the best person I have yet
met for the position.
Ian's pedigree, unlike most other candidates,
hardly needs restating, although his contribution
in so few years bears reiteration.
84— 85 Captain of RSM Hockey Club
85— 87 Student coordinator of RSM Open
Day
86— 87 Geology Departmental Representative
86—87 Student Residence Committee Union
Rep
In my capacity as warden of Southwell House
I have seen Ian's tireless commitment to all matters
residential, with a particular responsibility for
security (hence the Linstead Hall lock changes).
He is a gifted and confident orator, whose ability
to cajole the opposition toward his opinion, yet still
retain the essential element of cooperation never
ceases to amaze me.
As I have already said, a more confident, amiable
and capable candidate I have yet to see. Therefore,
I strongly advise all voters to follow my example
and place a 1 by Ian Howgate—you won't regret it.
I have many plans for the Union, most of which
would bore the average student silly, but include;
Union reorganisation, pushing for better
accommodation and sports facilities, continued
improvement of College refectories and a drastic
reorganisation of the entertainments machine.
There is far too much of a 'College verses
students' feeling at present and these barriers need
to be broken down so we can all work together for
the best results. I became involved in the Union
last year, because I and friends were experiencing
little representation in halls and in my department.
The result was that I took up these jobs myself.
I now wish to work for all of you to make this
College a better place for everyone.

