Manifestos FELIX, Friday May 8th 1987 9
P R E S I D E N T Junichi Imura, proposed by Lawrence Kapalah
Hello to you all hardworking (?) IC students and
good luck to those taking exams!
Now, I bet you are wondering "who is this
foreign guy with a name that sounds like Zanussi".
Well, I am not a bloke with an endless list of Union
involvements and certainly not a washing machine.
So do I promise limitless supply of funds to the
College functions? or do I promise free booze and
no work for you all? I'm afraid I'm not a magician
but I am an IC student, just like you, who believe
that something can be done to improve the life at
IC.
How many of you attends U G M regularly?
Certainly not the majority of you, I reckon. Most
people I've spoken to felt that Union precedings
seems to take place behind our backs! IC Union—'a
faceless organisation' as described by the
Alternative Prospectus. Why this is so? Union
exists for everybody why not give priorities to
STOIC and IC Radio over other societies together
with FELIX so that IC students can be well
informed of what's going on. Also why not give
priorities to Ents Society because its contribution
has a great significance to the life at IC.
P R E S I D E N T Roger Loughney, proposed by Sri Moorthy
Union as an apolitical body and I oppose
membership of NUS, though I would encourage
a dialogue with other university unions; I am
against student loans; I welcome the merger with
St Mary's Hospital Medical School; I encourage
further links with the American colleges and see
their presence as only for the better.
What I offer, then, is communication between
the Union and its members, be it through FELIX,
CCUs or more importantly on the personal level
I will endeavour to be approachable at all times,
open to discussion of Union policy and willing to
help whatever the problem.
ICU Sabbatical Elections
Voting in all departments,
Tuesday M a y 12th and
Wednesday M a y 13th. Bring
your union card. Results in
FELIX next Friday
I also like propose the strengthening of liasons
with other colleges in London. How do we benefit
from this—facility sharing, livelier, social events
to name the few, and also this would be beneficial
to those who lives far away from IC.
I will be around so even if you are white,
coloured, straight or gay don't be afraid to come
and talk to me. I'm dying to hear your views on
IC Union.
I've come to my 300-words limit so I like to leave
you with a proverb I like you to remember before
the election—"Heap big smoke, no fire".
Cheers
The problem at IC is not apathy. Is it apathy that
motivates the members of the inumerable clubs and
societies? The problem is one of communication
between the Exec and the student body, and all the
consequences that this implies.
For my part all the energy and enthusiasm I have
will be channelled into creating a dialogue between
the Union and the student body. I believe the Union
has a duty to present the student body with every
opportunity to debate policy. Once decisions have
been taken at U G M , they will be persued
unceasingly. In dealing with student and College
committees, I make it clear from the outset that
I am not along for the ride, and I expect all those
participating in the Union to hold their own.
The issues: as a manager in SAC for the past
two years it is clear that the security of Southside
is continually compromised, a wholesale
reassessment of security being necessary; I am
totally opposed to any sale of Silwood land; I would
encourage clubs and societies to find additional
sources of finance by implementing their talents;
I would seek to develop foreign students'
involvement in the Union; I see the

