12 Reviews
" mm
1§M&
Ace Ventura:
Pet Detective
Starring: Jim Carrey, Dan Marino
Director: Tom Shadyac
The dolphin mascot of the Miami Dolphins has
been dolphin-napped (?) and the police are
stumped, so it's time to call in Ace Ventura, Pet
Detective, "all-righty that!".
It's out today and is the latest offering of a
new type of humour with the film debut of Jim
Carrey. This film blew the top off of the
American box office and is being hyped to do
the same on this side of the Atlantic.
The plot is fun and well paced, but what
makes or breaks the film is Mr Carrey. He made
it big in the American T V comedy 'In Living
Color' and is already 'star' enough to be the
day's guest on Sesame Street.
His style of humour is very fresh, with a face
malleable enough to make Phil Cool seem
wooden. Already likened to Jerry Lewis, the thing
that sets Jim Carrey aside is his plethora of
expressions, similar to that of Aardman
Animations (who did the Creature Comforts Ads).
Any hopeful fans should be warned that this
style of humour (sorry, humor) is different
enough not to be to everyone's tastes, but I
would think that most people will find enough
humour in the film to make it worth giving it a
go-
I found the film hilarious, but if it had gone
on much longer than 100 minutes I might have
felt differently - even the greatest chocoholic
can get sick of chocolate after a couple of hours
of face stuffing.
Still, you do come away wanting more, but at
a later date, and that's exactly what you'll be
getting with his second film coming out this
summer, and there are already sequals to Ace
Ventura in the pipeline.
Whether people like it or not, this film will
be a hit, though Jim Carrey's long term appeal
remains to be seen.
Finally, American Football fans should go
see this film, if for no other reason than the
guest appearance of Dan Marino as himself.
Sphen
Opens nationwide today. Warner West End, £7
(£4 before 5pm, Mon-Fri).
Kalifornia
Starring: Brad Pitt, Juliette Lewis
Director: Dominic Sena
Don't believe the reviews, this film is actually
pretty good.
The plot is a familiar one; essentially, it boils
down to a road movie as it would have been
done by John Carpenter, as two couples share a
car on a trip to California and one of the guys
turns out to be really, really horrible.
The performances are quite good (except for
Juliette Lewis' extraordinarily vacuous bimbo)
and the script isn't at all bad. The non-killer
couple are just a little too pretentious for my
(and also most people's) liking.
Kalifornia is very well-paced and starts off
interestingly enough, but unfortunately loses its
'what differentiates killers from normal people'
angle when the Carpenterish bits kick in, which
are admittedly well-enough done though.
Not a bad film at all.
Jk
Out already. MGM Oxford Street, £6 (cones
£3.50).
• F R E S H H A I R S A L O N
t h e b e s t s t u d e n t o f f e r in l o n d o n !
C U T &
B L O W D R Y
£ 1 4 LADIES
£ 1 2 M E N
Normal price: £28!
1 minute walk from South Kensington Tube St
C a l l : 0 7 1 8 2 3 8 9 6 8
15A H A R R I N G T O N R O A D , S O U T H K E N S I N G T O N , L O N D O N S W 7 3ES

