Reviews 13
Mother's
Boys
Hll^mHMHHHfflHH^HH
'msmmmmmsMsm
Starring: Jamie Lee Curtis, Peter Gallagher,
Joanne Whalley-Kilmer
Director: Yves Simoneau
L
Kes (Luke Edwards) finds Callie guilty of destroying his parents' marriage,
after seeing one too many episodes of "People's Court"...
Jude (Curtis) is the mother from hell who tries to
regain her family after a prolonged absence.
During her disappearance the whole family goes
through a traumatic period, especially the eldest
son Kes, whose inner anger explodes into violent
actions, leading him to stab a frog several times
during a dissecting class. Meanwhile, Kes's
father John (Gallagher) has started a relationship
with an assistant school mistress, Callie
(Whalley-Kilmer). They plan to be married once
the divorce procedures are over. However, when
Jude re-enters their lives, she not only wants the
boys but also her husband.
At first Jude is unable to seduce John back
into her disturbed life. John tries to prevent Jude
seeing the boys, but with the law being on her
side, she is allowed access. On their first visit
she showers them with gifts, hoping to win them
back. The younger brothers willingly accept
their mother's presents and quickly forgive her.
However, Kes still resents the fact that Jude
abandoned them and gives her the cold shoulder,
regarding the gifts as a simple bribe and so
maintains a continued denial of her supposedly
genuine love for the family.
From then, Jude slowly imposes herself on all
of them, even threatening Callie at school.
During each visit Kes unwittingly starts to trust
Jude and is brain-washed into thinking that
Callie was the cause of the separation, despite
the fact that she did not meet John until long
after Jude had left.
Finally Jude devises an elaborate plan to kill
Callie, hoping that once she is removed, the
family can be reunited. This plan is the most
absurd aspect of the film, requiring Kes to be
able to drive a car, but being under-age he has to
be taught by Jude.
The first half of the film has a few heart
stopping scenes and I expected the rest to have
the same suspense. But as the plot evolves it
becomes ridiculous; the final death scene has the
cliched car hanging over a cliff edge.
Magpie
Opens nationwide today. Warner West End, £7
(£4 before 5pm, Mon-Fri).
Fearless
Starring: Jeff Bridges, Isabella Rosselini,
Rosie Perez
Director: Peter Weir
During a business flight, there is a complete
hydraulic failure. Max suddenly has to face his
fear of flying, and in facing the threat of death,
overcomes his phobia and is no longer afraid.
After the crash landing, he leads the survivors to
safety, and is heralded as a hero. After this
ordeal, he slowly begins to feel that he is
immortal and that nothing can kill him.
On returning home, by plane, he starts
experimenting with his life. One time,
deliberately crossing a road in the peak of
traffic, proving to himself that not even God will
let him die. He is introduced to another to crash
survivor, Carta (Perez), who had lost her two
year old child in the crash, by a crash
psychologist, in the hope that together they will
solve their inner problems.
Meanwhile, his relationship with his family
begins to suffer, as he alienates himself from his
wife, Laura (Rosselini), and his son, by
constantly flirting with death.
This is a complicated film with a subplot,
mainly concerned with the crash survivors and
the crash psychologist. The visual atmosphere
and cinematography is stunning, the light at the
end of the tunnel scene is given a new less of
life and another when Max walks around the
ledge of a skyscraper is as nauseous as always.
Fearless is a familiar life and death
Hollywood movie, however the cinematography
adds originality to an old plot. The soundtrack is
the biggest let down of the film, an intentional
thumping sound throughout, with no apparent
reason besides to add atmosphere (?).
Magpie
Out already. MGM Fulham Road, £6 (£3.50
before 6pm, Mon-Fri).
Backbeat
Starring: Stephen Dorff, Sheryl Lee
Director: Iain Softley
Thank God this film isn't just about the Beatles'
music. Sacrilegious as it may seem, I don't think
I could sit through that for two hours. Happily
enough, this story, as most of you ought to
know by now, isn't about their music. Rather
it's about the fifth 'lost' Beatle, Stuart Sutcliffe,
and his doomed affair (he died) with Hamburg
photographer Ingrid.
The 'period' is evoked very well and the
performances aren't bad either. The story is also
pretty interesting, while the music in thefilmis
actually rather enjoyable. The movie's worth
watching just for the extraordinary Macca
lookalike and John Lennon's (as played by Ian
Hart) acerbic wit. Highly recommended.
jk
Out already. MGM Oxford Street, £6 (cones
£3.50).
Next Week: Reviews of Tom & Viv and The Paper

