Reviews 15
High Class Weir And ASteep Rake
Composer Judith Weir's first theatrical work, King
Harold's Saga, was a grand opera in three acts for
solo soprano, of some twelve minutes' duration.
Blond Eckbert, an ENO commission and Weir's
third full-length opera, lasts an hour and a half but
is clearly related to her earlier small-scale chamber
pieces. In complete contrast to Birtwistle's
Gawain, a Royal Opera House commission
revived a few weeks ago, Blond Eckbert, seems as
if it were meant for a much more intimate
environment: Weir uses a full-sized orchestra
sparingly and only four singers are required.
The principal character, the reclusive Eckbert,
is married to Berthe, a woman with a mysterious
childhood. Eckbert kills his best friend Walther in
a hunting accident and is consumed with guilt. He
leaves home, and in the course of his wanderings,
learns that his wife is in fact his half-sister. The
music is subtle, tuneful and varied - I'd like to
hear it again. For an idea of what to expect, you
could try Weir's excellent The Consolations of
Scholarship, a twenty minute chamber opera
available on C D from Kensington Central
Library. In Blond Eckbert, she has enough ideas
not to need to take refuge in obfuscation and a
strong personal style that can incorporate to good
effect things like the deliberate nod towards
Wagner at the beginning of the hunting scene. (A
moving passage: Walther unconcernedly collects
falling leaves while Eckbert's neon crossbow-bolt
glides across the backcloth.) Music Director Sian
Edwards conducts.
Also at the Coliseum there's time to catch one
of the last three performances of Julia Hollander's
new production of Tchaikovsky's Eugene
Onegin. The young cast of excellent singers is led
by Peter Coleman-Wright in the title role and
includes Bonaventura Bottone's superb Lensky. I
should mention, however, that I was lucky
enough to be in the fifth row of the stalls; the
unforced acting which I found so involving may
seem less so from, say, the gallery. The produc-
tion is in the same vein as the recent R O H
staging: elegant but not wildly original.
In case you're thinking life is all compli-
Eugene Onegin (Peter Coleman-Wright) and Tatyana (Cathryn Pope) in Tchaikovsky's Eugene Onegin
mentary seats for us freeloading Felix hacks, let
me say that I was unable to get press tickets for
Opera Factory's new production of Stravinsky's
The Rake's Progress at the Queen Elizabeth Hall.
But, such is my sense of duty towards you, the
readership, that I went anyway. W H Auden's
libretto, based on Hogarth's series of etchings,
charts the decline of the susceptible Tom
Rakewell, who is lured away from his fiancee,
Anne, into a life of debauchery by the smooth-
talking Nick Shadow, who turns out to be none
other than Old Nick himself. To make sure we get
the bit about the debauchery, Opera Factory pull
no punches in the episode that leads to Tom's
undoing - literally in this case. Looking like a
youthful Malcolm McLaren in the first spasms of
strychnine poisoning, Mark Tucker's Tom is
unable to keep his head, let alone his boxer-
shorts, amid the jiggling tits and lacerated fishnets
of the outrageous brothel scene.
These and other distractions, including quite a
lot of stage noise, may not make this an ideal
production for a full appreciation of the music
(although Mary Plazas sings Anne beautifully),
but the staging is so inventive and the
performances delivered with such energy and
commitment, that the effect is ultimately moving
and thought-provoking. And if you sit by an aisle
in the stalls you might get a doughnut. It's not
cheap though - even a standby is £12 (ouch). You
could try turning up at five to seven and haggling.
Patrick Wood
The Coliseum. Tube: Leicester Square. 071 836
3161. The Queen Elizabeth Hall, South Bank
Centre. Tube: Embankment Tube. 071 938 8800.
Nerys Jones as the Bird in a scene from Judith Weir's Blond Eckbert
How positive is the future for women in science? See page 5

