16 Reviews
L3-
Rollins Band
Weight
Survival. A heavy word and one that Henry
Rollins undoubtedly had in mind when he wrote
this album. After all, he may be an actor, body-
builder, book publisher, comedian and video
collaborator, but at the end of the day he still
needs to find catharsis and, for the moment, that
lies in his music.
We're left in no doubt as to the intensity of
the man's frustration with all things life related
when he cries, "I wanna disconnect myself, pull
my brainstem out and unplug myself," during
the opener 'Disconnect'. And by the time 'Fool'
kicks in with lines like "Self-mutilation is the
only thing I know", you'd be forgiven for
*Miiiiiiiliiiini'"-
thinking you were an audience to some kind of
suicide trip. Not so, for although Rollins can be
self-effacing with the best of them and has lost
none of his visceral contempt, the arrival of new
bassist, Melvin Gibbs, has led to an psycho-delic
backdrop for the diatribes. Nowhere is this more
evident than on the album's creative zenith,
'Liar'. Here a spoken word intro, laid over some
funky, fusion guitar work, leads to the paint
stripping taut of "I am a liar, I'll rip your heart
out, I'll burn your soul".
Thankfully, there is light at the end of the
proverbial tunnel. The final track, 'Shine', is a
wake-up call that sees old Henry articulating his
own manifesto. "No such thing as free time,
spare time or downtime, all you've got is life
time...get up, get up, get up...It's your own time,
it's hero time, it's time to shine." Well, you
heard the man - shine to survive. (7) Vik
Madder Rose
Panic On
After the clash of acclaim which signaled their
debut, 'Bring It Down', the horticulturalists of
N Y C have taken some home-grown advice and
done exactly that: gone down. 'Panic On' is an
album which applies its brakes and attempts a
change of course. Perhaps this is only
unexpected because of all the lazy Velvet
Underground, Juliana Hatfield, Mazzy Star
comparisons which tend to dog their steps.
Madder Rose speak more of Y o L a Tengo
influences and that's the camp they approach, if
any at all.
With that straight, 'Panic O n ' becomes
clearer. Only the superb 'Car Song' is of the old
school. The rest are of a very different breed.
There's a peculiar naivety involved for one.
Billy's guitar and Mary's underplayed vocals are
skewed, destined never to meet but always to
flirt towards a connection. Mary's writing is also
more in evidence this time and it is her 'Happy
New Year' which best shows their maturing
course.
It's plain creepy and yet retains the lyrical
sharpness which has been one of their greatest
strengths. "He had this weird ability, he wanted
them to sing, so he unchained every melody."
The Righteous Brothers should be chilled right
through. Equally, the guts of 'Car Song' rotate
around the anti-dream call of "I think of you all
day long, so try and get some sleep". Sleep has
become an escape from waking obsession.
Madder Rose have still to produce their
masterpiece but 'Panic On' is more messy and
individualistic than we were led to believe.
They're heading out of a crowded planet of
sound into their own garden. Time to listen out
for the sound of buds ripening. (8)
Four weeks to catch up on,
including the day that will
shape the music papers' year.
The man who wanted to be
alone finally got his way and
left the building. Wait for
those tribute albums to roll in.
To more stirring matters. Joe Henry is not
perhaps well known in the Rock Hall of Fame.
One, because he is more roots than urban and
two, because he only released his Fireman's
Wedding EP on Monday. A young timer playing
old, he invokes a bluegrass style which hits you
in whatever gaping hole you carry as a heart.
Not one for avoiding trouble, he even manages
to use Billy Bragg's nasal tones to effect.
There's gold in them there hills.
And in a terrifying chain of coincidence, the
man Joe has just finished touring with is up next
and has brought some friends. Jimmy Dale
Gilmore and Mudhoney play an interesting
game of swap and match as they cover each
others songs. Blinding Sun and Tonight I Think
I'm Gonna Go Downtown are the articles in
question, before everyone combines on Townes
van Zandt's Buckskin Stallion Blues. Deja vu
anyone? (Look right if not.)
A slow entry masks the return of those ol'
navel glazers, Ride. This time they are lifting up
their eyes to heaven and they're spying a
blackbird. Hence the title track. Birdman
doesn't sound that inspiring but it is
atmospheric in its own chilly way.
The Flying Nuns are not atmospheric or
inspiring, though I'd be surprised to see Sister
Wendy and her brood launching through the
ether. But the nuns in question are more satisfied
to sound like Pavement, which is no problem,
just don't feel cheated. The single is Yard.
I started off hating Come's Wrong Side but I
was hijacked. You have to admire their ability
to violently underplay a song that it grips you so
tightly by the throat, the last sounds you hear are
howling whitegirl blues. There's an excellent
woodcut record cover too.
And then there are things that
make you go uurggggh! Well,
maybe only urgh. The G i n
Blossoms are pleasant and I
thought that Allison Road was
great but Found Out About
You, the current single, is
bland fock (or rolk), a case of milking an album
for too many singles? 81 Mulberry are also
down in the dumps as they journey across South
Anna River. Tangential guitars are hauled back
at the last minute and everything ends up coarse.
I'm surprised about the status of singles from
the Walkabouts and Monsterland. Both bands
are garnished with critical praise but the goods
don't appear to be on the shelf at the moment.
Monsterland's All One With Time mini-album
is rather flat, despite the second track being
called Jane Wiedlin Used To Be A Go-Go As
Far As We Know. The Walkabout's Good Luck
Morning is more brutal than I thought they got
and I don't like it. Goodnight. Tintin.
we've missed you, we've missed you, we've gone far away

