Reviews 17
In true Rapido style I say 'ello to all my British
chums. Welcome to another column from the
land of the free. Free to do whatever you like
especially if it involves firearms.
The Supersuckers are first on my list of
rotating stars and stripes. With their album La
Mano Cornuda consisting of thirteen tracks
which are all finished in 26 minutes, they could
well be defined as short, sharp Texan punk
laced with chilli sauce. Now the rednecks are
doing this one for themselves so we also get
treated to a track fourteen which consists of all
the previous thirteen repeated. Two for the price
of one.
They don't care to much about us though,
they're too busy cussing and acting as
misogynistic as they wannabe with songs like
'She's My Bitch' and 'On The Couch'. In such
a vein, the classic 'How To Maximise Your Kill
Count' is hopefully tongue-in-cheek with its call
of "gotta get three, if you want to be a massacre
messiah", but with these guys you're never quite
sure. (6)
In for a father, in for a son is a call in favour
of Jeff Buckley, son of tragic star Tim. With his
late father's masterpiece, 'Live A t The
Troubadour 1969' reissued this year, Jeff
certainly gets my vote for taking the bull by the
horns. His four-track mini-album, Live At Sin-E,
points to big things as Jeff tears his way
through 'Je N'en Connais Pas Le Fin', which
was an Edith Piaf slow burner, amongst others.
Acoustically clean grit and a bared soul are
much in evidence, but patches of atonal shrieks
do make this slightly too introverted in parts,
but with his pedigree, boy you could be
something special. (6)
Skipping merrily northwards, the final album
takes us into the civilised nation which is
Canada. Last time I heard of Courage of Lassie
was five years ago when they were being touted
as breakthrough material with the likes of
Halfway to Eddie's and Crime and the City
Solution. Their long pregnant third album, This
Side Of Heaven had finally arrived and a
delicate flower it is.
Drawing on Canadian traditions such as
reverting to French for the doom laden 'Pour
Toi Mon Amour', Courage of Lassie manage to
shape a meaningful collection of songs which
are vaguely comparable to the McGarrigles in
style and context. The aforementioned 'Pour
Toi...' is the best as a lover progressively
acquires objects for his love: birds, flowers and
heavy chains ? before losing his soul in mythical
folk style. The only catch is a rather cliqued
eco-disaster song 'The Rain Forest Falls'. The
folkies' equivalent of rock's drug abuse song
hangs heavy in an otherwise intelligent album. (7)
Until next week. The question that remains;
Is it better to burn out than fade away? Tintin
Lisa Germano
Happiness
After producing one of the best EPs of the year
so far with 'Inconsiderate Bitch', there was a
certain appetite in the air come the U K release
of Lisa Germano's album. So is the smell of
Bisto better than the cow's dripping haunches?
Maybe. Lisa fits the 4 A D pigeon hole too
well. It's a beautifully packaged album, she's a
virtuoso multi-instrumentalist, specialising in
violins, and her music verges on the kooky with
the occasional burst of dry wit. Back to the
gravy. The main trouble is that the best tracks
were on the EP, which leaves the remaining
eight being something of a lost opportunity.
That's not to say that this is anything less than
satisfying, only slightly fey.
To that meat.'Cowboy' is a slow steel pedal
through the macho stetsons that most men seem
to wear while pretending that they never shed a
tear. And 'The Dresses Song', "you make me
want to wear dresses", is in its own way a brave
reversal of muscle bound feminism before the
delicate 'Darkest Night Of A l l ' breaks the
album to an end. 'Happiness' is pleasant and
clever, but I just wish she'd put her foot down
and break through to low power pop rather than
getting stuck in the limits of high class 'art'. (6)
A living legend in the dry winds of Texan song
writers, Townes van Zandt cuts a lean figure in
the majesty of the Union Chapel. A man, a
guitar and a head full of beauty, he came and
conquered for over two hours. The master of the
talkin' blues did both and made us laugh with
stories as long and thin as the fingers which
plucked out the rhythm of the saints.
Like the one about the friend who was buried
and then had to be dug up again because he had
a pawn ticket for a guitar in his suit pocket.
Another departed soul's end was recorded on
ansaphone. "Coco, this is the sound of a broken
heart - B A N G ! " As Townes smiles wryly to
himself he ends: "I can tell you this because Rex
and Blaze are here tonight...somewhere." I look
up into the darkness of the church's roof and he
M' ' i m .
itlHHHtiimu*
Blur
Parklife
A four-headed Brit machine, back to basics.
Blur shake like Madness meeting clever lyrics
on a postcard from 'Magic America'. All things
bright; red, white and blue, or is that red, white
and Blur! Pennyroyal tea? No, only earl grey
will slide down the gullets of the lads down the
funpubs, laughing, working, going down to
Southend for a 'Bank Holiday'.
Turn on the TV, see sex, see love on channel
44. In jumps Damon; "Cut down on your
porklife," he hurls. Get some exercise, go
jogging, round and round and round and round.
Or just get a taxi, down the high street, past the
traffic lights, ticking meters, police, dustmen,
aargh ' A Debt Collector'. 'London Loves' its
own. London the urban collective collects Blur
into its arms. A large part of this record will
always be in a little part of England, sitting in
'Clover Over Dover', by the white cliffs. 'To
The End', 'This Is A Low'.
A patriotically hyperactive reviewer? After
hearing 'Parklife' a couple of times - yes. If you
too want to be immersed in a culture as warm and
comforting as village beer, they can serve it up,
overflowing. The boys from Blur remain truly,
madly, deeply, traditionally, greatly, British. (7)
could be right. Their memories are very much
part of the present as Townes wanders into
'Rex's Blues'.
There was also history in his song credits.
When he says "I wrote this one for Janis Joplin"
or, "when I was playing with Lightin Hopkins"
you know that the craftsman has learnt with the
best. And the songs themselves, are stories of
gambling, rambling and meeting no-one on the way.
'Tecumseh Valley', maybe the lowest song
of a fist full of blues, makes us holler and
Townes reels out some more troubadour magic -
'Loretta', 'Kathleen' and 'The Catfish Song' to
end. Except he returns to play out the 'Buckskin
Stallion Blues'. "If love can be and still be
lonely, where does that leave me and you...?"
Enthralled.
Townes van Zandt
he wore his gun outside his pants for all the honest world to feel

