18 Opinion
Editorial
College has life quite easy when it comes to
getting people to fill the halls of residences.
They send out the barest details of what's on
offer to all the prospective first years and they
all fill in the forms, not knowing exactly what
they are letting themselves in for: high rents and
poor facilities (one cooker, fridge and freezer
between 20 students).
How are they going to know any different?
You don't really get to see that much when you
come up for an interview or an open day; and
what other choices are there? You could rent a
bedsit, but it's not exactly easy to do that sort of
thing from home. Besides, in hall you're with
people who are in exactly the same situation as
yourself. It's an ideal way to meet people
aswell, but then they're reducing the common
room facilities...
When you do finally realise what you've let
yourself in for, what can you do about it? You
can complain to the Union or to College, but
that doesn't seem to be doing any good for the
residents of Evelyn Gardens. But why should
College bother? Their prices are ever so slightly
cheaper than living out, so people stay put.
Students can scream and shout as much as they
like but, come the end of the year, a whole new
group of students arrive not knowing the
situation and the whole thing starts all over
again.
Maybe sending letters to schools as the letter
on the opposite page suggests, is the only way to
make College sit up and take notice.
Credits
Printer: Features:
Andy Thompson Joe McFadden
Aaysha Shah
Business Managers: Natasha Loder
Steven Newhouse Anas Ayoub
Simon Govier
Music:
Typing & Proofing: Jon Jordan
Wei Lee
Tim St Clair Opera:
Joe McFadden Patrick Wood
Puzzles: Photography:
Sphinx Ivan Chan
Bryan Crotaz
News:
Cinema: Mike Ingram
Wei Lee Simon Shaw
Joe McFadden Joe McFadden
Tell It How It Is
Do you think you were mislead about IC before
you came here? Do you think there are things
that prospective students should know about the
courses and the facilities here?
Then why not stand for the position of
Alternative Prospectus Editor. Y o u will be
given a budget with which to produce a guide
that fills in the gaps left by the IC prospectus.
For more information, contact Greg lies, c/o
Pub Board Exec pigeonholes, Union Office.
Chaplaincy And Exams
How can the Chaplains help as exams
approach? All of us in the Chaplaincy are
graduates, so we know what a stressful
time exams can be. We are willing to
help in any way we can. We can't wave a
magic wand or say prayers to guarantee a
first. What we can offer is a listening ear
if you feel stressed and want to talk.
We can also offer a place where you
can relax or read, away from panicking
colleagues. Those of you who have been
along Prince's Gardens recently may
have seen our board advertising the
Chaplaincy Coffee Shop. We are open on
Mon, Wed and Fri, 2.30pm to 4.30pm.
All are welcome. You don't have to talk
about religion; you don't have to talk at
all if you don't want to. Have a coffee/
tea/chocolate/blackcurrant and relax.
You can ring us on 071 225 8633 (ext)
or ext 8633 (int) if you would like to talk
without actually coming in or if you want
to make an appointment to see one of us.
Our best wishes for the exams and for
the future careers of those doing finals.
Satanic Verses
Dear Beccy,
Anthony France, in his letter to Felix of 25th
March, wrote on how "unjust" it is that Salman
Rushdie should be in hiding "for writing a book
offering a different opinion on aspects of
Islam".
Quite frankly, I don't think that M r France
has actually read Salman Rushdie's book, for
the book is quite obviously far from being
merely an "opinion". 'The Satanic Verses' does
not constitute a "criticism" of Islam; rather it
presents a multitude of insult, abuse and
unsubstantiated accusations against the person
of Muhammad and other prominent Islamic
characters. The author falsifies remarks
concerning the prophet and his companions,
charges them with ethical lapses and sexual
perversion and derides the Islamic tenets in the
most offensive and obscene manner.
British law does not allow such profanity
against the Christian faith, but fails to provide
the same kind of protection for other religions.
Publicly ridiculing Jesus Christ is a criminal
offence and subject to prosecution; insulting
Muslims and their prophet is not. It is this clear
line of discrimination and double standard that
has outraged the Muslim community.
May I suggest to M r France and to anyone
else who seeks the truth in this matter, to study
Salman Rushdie's novel and then judge for
themselves whether they would tolerate that
kind of slanderous abuse against a member of
their own family, let alone the dearest and most
respected leader of their faith.
Yours faithfully,
Yasser Hatami
Elec Eng 2
C A R E E R S INFORMATION
Vacancies. Don't worry if you were too late to
apply for the Milkround, we are writing to
employers asking for details of their remaining
vacancies and you should apply in May or June
at the latest. Ask to see the Vacancy File in the
Careers Service.
Summer Vacation Training Opportunities are
now in the Careers Service. Over 80 employers
have supplied details. Details of the UROP
scheme are available in departments and in the
Careers Service.
Penultimate Years. Start thinking about your
future now. If you don't know what you want to
do, come to the Careers Service and try
PROSPECT - our computer careers guidance
system.
For Further Information come to the Careers
Service, Room 310, Sherfield, open from 10am
to 5.15pm, Monday to Friday. A Duty Careers
Adviser is available for quick queries from lpm
to 2pm daily. Y o u can also book a short
appointment of up to 30 minutes between 2pm
and 4pm on Mondays, Tuesdays and Thursdays,
or a longer appointment of up to an hour at other
times.
CHAMBERS
3D Crossword II
- Update
The crossword competition closes at
5pm, Tuesday 3rd May.
No more errata have come to light
and the entries to date are a
testimony to the fact that the
crossword is solvable. Even if you
haven't managed to complete the
whole thing, you might still
(somehow) win a prize.
You might also like to dabble into
clue-writing by entering the separate
clue writing competition. It takes a
lot less time to enter and is almost
as much fun!
Any diehards who think they can
solve it before Tuesday can get a
copy from the Felix Office today. It's
technically possible with 8 hours
sleep and one clue every 10 minutes.
Recipes for two Indian salads are on page 8

