Opinion 19
Arrogance Common Room Jokes
Dear Felix,
"Islam Soc...attacking many aspects of the
British way of life." (Anthony France, Felix
995.) Now strike me down and call me Morrisey
if you think I'm going to let that one pass.
The "British way of life" is a myth. Offer me
E M Forster and Merchant-Ivory and I'll spit
Martin Amis and Ken Loach back at yer. It's a
dynamic mish-mash and to assume it doesn't
deserve questioning or, goddamnit, "attacking"
(be it from Islam Soc or Class 3 C W Steam
Engine Soc) is arrogance of the highest order.
Now where did I put those bloody unity vibes...
Rahul Joshi
St Mary's Hospital Medical School
S M A L L A D S
Short-term accommodation urgently required.
Professor and family arriving 20th July urgently
requires two-bedroom flat/house for at least one
month. Near College or within easy commuting
distance. Contact Georgina or Monika, HUB
Office, Rm 355, Sherfield, ext 3021 or 3405.
British Sign Language. I'm currently learning
sign language and am finding that I need to
practise to stay on top of what I'm learning. If
anybody out there has any knowledge of sign
and would be willing to meet up in a lunchtime
to practise, I am keen to hear from you. I'd even
buy you lunch in College! What a treat!! You
can contact me, Paula, on ext 3256.
Dear Felix,
We are writing to make a public protest at the
conditions in Holbein and Willis Jackson house.
There are two main problems we would like to
raise: the amount of kitchen space in Willis
Jackson and the pitiful lack of common room
space for the use of both halls.
At present there are only two kitchens in
Willis Jackson. There are about four cookers,
four fridges and four freezers to share between
about 80 residents. How would you like to share
your fridge with about 20 others? It is also no
surprise that food goes missing when so many
people use the same facilities.
There is no common room in Holbein House.
When this 'showpiece' hall was renovated last
year the powers that be decided, in their infinite
wisdom, that a common room wasn't necessary
(you can cram more students in and get more
money). Instead they decided that the residents
of Holbein should be allowed to use the
common room in Willis Jackson. This idea may
have worked except for one little thing: the
common room in Willy J isn't big enough to
swing a cat in. You can fit about 20 people into
the common room and no more. There is no
other room where people can go and no study
room.
How can a room big enough for 20 cater for
the social life of 180 residents of both Holbein
AND Willis Jackson? This, to be quite frank, is
a joke and not a funny one at that. A l l of the
social events that have occured in the hall have
been blighted by this lack of space. The result is
that the residents do not interact fully as one
would expect. This cannot be good for new
students away from home for the first time.
You may be thinking why no one has
complained until now. In fact, we have been
complaining. IC Union Housing Committee has
been made aware of the problem and we are told
they have raised this point before with people
such as the Rector and the Director of Estates.
However, nothing has been done yet. A l l we
have heard so far is that College thinks the best
solution is for there to be only O N E common
room in all of Evelyn Gardens! What does that
mean for us? Will we now be expected to go
across to Fisher Hall or Southwell? Is College
telling us that these halls have so much common
room space that they can fit A L L of Evelyn
Gardens into them with no problems at all? Is
that a pig flying over there?
It seems to us that the normal means of
complaining about these problems are not being
listened to by College. Any changes that do
occur will be too late for this year's residents.
Many of us feel that the facilities provided are
inadequate and we would not wish this to
happen to next year's residents. Indeed, some
even think that they should write to their schools
and recommend that students do not come to
Imperial. Maybe this letter will change that.
Yours faithfully,
The residents of Holbein and Willis Jackson
House
N
I
O
N ifIR
Breakspear's £1 .50
Flowers IPA £1 .24
Boddingtons £1 .35
Theakston's £1 .30
Old Peculiar £1 .60
Smile's £1 .40
Newport Nobbier
(from Monday)
State of the art equipment ensures each pint is of
the very highest quality, and in order to maintain
our high standards, some of the above ales may
not be available from time to time. Prices quoted
are per pint. If there is a special ale you would like
stocked, please contact the Bars Manager.
P l e a s e N o t e
From now onwards, could
anything submitted to FELiX
be supplied on PC disks.
If you would like to help type
up articles and gain
experience of Desktop
Publishing, drop into the
FELiX Office any time.
(And there's free tea or coffee, too)

