Feature 5
The Indian Cow
Calcutta's Telegraph has an answer paper of a
candidate at a recent UPSC (erstwhile the Indian
Civil Service during the British Raj) exam. The
candidate has written a compulsory essay on 'The
Indian Cow' - to be written in English.
"The Cow is a successful animal. Also he is
quadruped, and because he is female, he give
milk, but will do so when he is got child. He is
same like god, sacred to Hindus and useful to
man. But he has got four legs together. Two are
forwards and two are afterwards.
"His whole body can be utilised for use.
More so the Milk. What can it do? Various ghee,
butter, cream, curd, why and the condensed milk
so forth. Also he is useful to cobbler, watermans
and mankind generally.
"His motion is slow only because he is of
asitudinious species. Also his other motion is
much useful to trees, plants as well as making
flat cakes in hand and drying in the sun. His
motion after drying can be acted as a good fuel
for making tasty foods. Cow is the only animals
that extricates his feeding after eating. Then
afterwards she chew with his teeth whom are
situated in the inside of the mouth. He is
incessantly in the meadows in the grass.
"His only attacking and defending organ is
the horn, specially so when he is got child. This
is done by bowing his head whereby he causes
the weapons to be paralleled to the ground of the
earth and instantly proceed with great velocity
forwards.
"He has got tails also, but not like similar
animals. It has hairs on the other end of the other
side. This is done to frighten away the flies
which alight on his cohoa body whereupon he
gives hit with it.
'The palms of his feet are soft unto the touch.
So the grasses head is not crushed. At night time,
he poses down on the ground and he shuts his
eyes like his relatives, the horse does not do so.
"This is the Cow".
P.S. We are informed that the candidate passed
the exam.
Future Positive?
Natasha Loder writes on thefuture of women in
science and the problemsfaced by them.
A recent science event arranged for Set7 brought
together a team of scientists and politicians at
the London School of Economics to discuss the
future of British Science.
One of the topics covered was that of the
position of women in science. A recent New
Scientist had commented that of the forty recent,
prestigious, appointments to the Royal Society
(RS) this year, only one was female. The Society
was likened to an Old Boy's Club in the best of
British traditions.
The statistics proved horrifying. When one of
the panellists, Jocelyn Bell, was made a Fellow,
the number of female astronomers in the society
were doubled! RS membership has remained
static at 3% female from the sixties to the
present day.
Ann Campbell (Labour MP) highlighted the
root of the problem. She said that despite the
surge of females into all areas of science and
their increased promotion from lower to middle
grade, a recent survey found the real promotion
blockage was between the middle and higher
grades. This 'glass ceiling' was blamed on a
reluctance to promote women to high grades by
male superiors. Furthermore, any kind of career
break was seen in a negative light by
appointment and promotion boards.
Sadly, despite the fact that women have been
actively encouraged to enter science, the bottom
line still seems to be that the cards are
overwhelmingly stacked against them.
Our Time
Has Come
Anas Ayoub talks about
the winds ofchange
that are blowing in
South Africa
The winds of change are blowing in South
Africa. Over the past few years, this wealthy
country, at the tip of the African continent, has
undergone radical changes. Waves of hope have
been washing onto the shores of the Cape.
Apartheid, which has deprived the blacks of
their country's riches and killed many
thousands, is no more.
In the months up to the elections, the people
of South Africa have suffered greatly; the
violence between the A N C and the Inkatha
Freedom Party has resulted in the deaths of
hundreds. The people finally have freedom and,
like releasing a hungry lion from its cage, the
blacks have shrugged off all the oppression,
racism and prosecution that they have been
suffering from since the turn of the century.
South Africa must now look to the future.
This beautiful country has the potential to be
one of the great countries of the world. This
depends on the policies of the new African
government. Will they turn to communism? The
A N C is known to be leftist and it favours a
centrally regulated economy. This threatens the
capitalist institutions of the country. The ANC's
manifesto promises jobs, houses and a better life
for the million living in squalid conditions in the
hometowns.
Will Mandela's government rush to fulfill its
promises and borrow billions from the IMF and
the World Bank? W i l l Mandela's already
scandal ridden top men cash in? Will the Zulus
return to the carnage we saw in the precedence
to the elections? W i l l the blacks raid the
Afrikaaner farms? All these question remain to
be answered. The country is at a crossroads.
In a continent where tragedy and suffering
thrive, South Africa has been a light at the end
of the tunnel. Will South Africa be a paragon for
Africa, or will it will be forgotten and become
another debt-ridden sub-saharan African nation?
All we can do is wish South Africa all the
best and, like the A N C banners read, 'Our Time
Has Come'.
Yes, their time has come, but what will they
do with it?
Read all about this year's Rag Fete on page 8

