Feature 7
The Currency of War
The yellow dot failed to blink again; cruelly
extinguished to be replaced, in time, by the
flame of a gentle candle in a distant church. A
successful hit was confirmed by the computer
through the voice of a dark-eyed seductress. Sam
wrinkled his forehead and, trying to smooth it
back into shape with his right hand, issued his
orders.
The textbook response started in a
complicated evasive manoeuvre followed by
target acquisition and ended waiting into the last
picosecond to react. The manual reduced this to
a single command that the computer reduced to
an involuntary duty.
" A long haul, Sir?" queried the docking
attendant as Sam passed on his return. Giving
his usual smile Sam nodded, heading for the bar;
he seldom changed out of his grimy flight
clothes. The bar maid, as always, took his
helmet from the bar top and mutely exchanged it
for a drink. He had only twice heard her speak
and, although age veiled his memory, he felt
sure she had the voice of his flight computer.
Taking his drink, Sam scanned the faces in the
bar. Through the haze of plutonite visors, an
antipathy of young men stared back.
"How's the war going?" asked Jack as Sam
approached his table.
"You ask me? I only fight it." The reply came
without a taint of humour.
Jack was around sixty years old and what
remained of his hair was rapidly greying. When
not flying, he drank "because a man needs to
occupy his hands when he can't fly". Besides
haggard looks and roughly equal ages, he and
Sam shared peculiar status as the two most
unlikely people in that bar.
'...half of the men you
meet here... won't
survive beyond one,
maybe two sorties."
A m i d the clean-cut, muscular young
immortals of T A 16 flight group, the old men
looked more likely to be bussing tables than
claiming the highest kill ratios. They sat together
in easy silence, overhearing the loud bravado of
younger men discussing flight tactics,
illustrations given with palms that cut attack
formations through a sweaty soup of testosterone.
A group of four guys and three women came
and sat at an adjacent table. Sam and Jack paid
them little attention, as the same show available
to the girls at any of twenty or so other tables
had begun. The group eventually stirred, moving
on to a club, or perhaps straight to mutually
satisfying sex. One of the girls made an excuse
and the others left before her. Now alone at the
table, she finished her drink and began readying
herself to move on. Doing so, she caught Jack's
eye and smiled.
"Busy day?" was her polite enquiry as she
brushed past their table.
"Banal and fruitful," Jack replied, as he stood
to get another drink. Then, in the momentary
hope shared by all balding sixty year olds that
this might be the myopic nymphomaniac all
other balding sixty year olds profess to have
met, he asked if she'd care for a drink. To his
surprise she agreed.
Mistaking the grime under Sam's fingernails
and the grease in his voice, she asked, "So,
you're mechanics with the flight team?" Then in
a slightly more patronising tone, added: "It must
be so fascinating to work on T A 16." Maybe
Sam took no offense, or maybe his attention was
distracted by the imagined tumescence of a
nipple through her otherwise unflattering dress.
In either case he replied that they both flew and
Jack, returning with the drinks, affirmed it.
The girl's eyes widened as she sat forward
"My God, you fly, you must be so...I mean it's
so exciting...My God you look too..."
Ten years of waiting in that bar, watching
young male perfection bragging to its female
counterpart about reverse overhead split
evasions. Ten years of watching young virgins
entrapped by it. Ten years of young men not
returning from more than two missions had
made them bitter, angry and, although they
wouldn't admit it, jealous. In their rage they
leant their chairs back, raised their heads, and
chuckled.
In mock disbelief now.
"You believe them? You really suppose the
airforce entrusts two million dollars' worth of
tactical airborne perfection to us dick-smart
pilots?"
The girl recoiled and the second pilot spoke.
"You think we, the brave few, fly through
skies that swarm with gunfire? That we can just
lift the nose, slam on the anchors and a Kappa 4
intense logic missile'll just 'fly on by'."
The girl was still perplexed.
"Play chess do you?"
Even more perplexed, she said that she did.
"Ever played a chess computer? Ever won?"
"You see it? We can't fight the battles, we
simply initiate the attack code to our computers
and the other guys initiate the evasion to their
computers and so on."
"Chess."
"At least half of the men you meet here night
after lickerish night won't survive beyond one,
maybe two sorties."
Leaning forward, the pilot pinched the air and
shook it, his conviction suddenly finding some
shape.
"They think like you, they believe they'll still
fly the planes. Maybe they suppose they're faster
than computers, or that they've thought of some
new manoeuvre. Sometimes perhaps they're
right, but on aggregate they lose."
"Checkmate."
As the irony came full circle, a bitter grin
"We are both the
bounty and the currency
ofwar..."
spread across the pilot's face. Initial sarcasm hid
anger and sorrow.
"Oh yes and what a noble end; half the time
we're fighting blips on a radar screen or, if we're
lucky, perhaps the flash and shriek of a passing
aircraft. Mostly we fight tens of miles apart,
never seeing the charred corpse or the moment
when gimlets replace our prey's living eyes. We
won't even feel the pain of our own end: logged
a hit, cremated and our atoms scattered into the
briny before the computer completes a million
cycles or the breath of a scream is squeezed
from our lungs."
"Isn't this the logical conclusion of
technological warfare: sanitised, virtual war?"
A reverent hush befell the three until, like
sneezing in a sermon, the girl spoke.
"You'll do this again tomorrow; the plane
could fly itself, but you'll go out and fly it again
tomorrow. Why?"
Satisfied now, a convert made, the final
secret can be delivered.
"Because life and sacrificial death are the
stuff of war. When the pretensions of honour
and courage are removed, it is lives that are
exchanged, the peoples that are won. Today, on
the bloodless shrinkwrapped battlefield, the
paradox is clear, we are both the bounty and the
currency of war."
Lacuna
If you have any short stories, please drop them into Felix

