ft Feature
Cookery Corner:
Two Indian Salads
Paula Bhattacharyya introduces you to two healthy and delicious salads
which is easy to prepare and idealfor the summer, (each serves 4-6)
Channa (Chick Pea) Salad
Ingredients: To Prepare:
• 1/2 lb of chick peas
• 1 medium-sized potato
• 1/4 cucumber
• 1 tomato
• 1 small onion
• ginger
• red, yellow, green peppers
• lemon, salt
• optional garnish: coriander,
green chillies
1. Wash the chick peas thoroughly.
2. Soak them in hot water for 4 hrs.
3. Boil the chick peas for about 45
mins/1 hr until they are soft.
4. Boil the potato.
Method:
5. Drain the chick peas.
6. Cut the potato into small cubes.
7. Chop the cucumber, coriander,
onion, ginger, tomato, chillies,
and pepper into small pieces.
8. In a big bowl, mix the chopped
ingredients with the potato and
chick peas.
9. Add salt and lemon juice to taste.
Cucumber and Moong
Dahl Salad
Ingredients:
• 1 chopped cucumber
• 1.5 teacups of moong dahl
• 2 tablespoons chopped coriander
• 2 chopped green chillies
• juice of 1.2 lemon
• salt
• optional to taste: pinch of sugar,
grated coconut, fresh coriander
for decoration
To Prepare:
1. Soak the moong dahl for 2 hours
in warm water then drain.
2. Mix all the ingredients together
3. When serving, sprinkle grated
coconut and fresh coriander on
top
n.b. Moong dahl is only available
in Asian food shops.
• W A R D S
• Do you like working with people?
• Are you a confident, intelligent person that can think on their feet?
• Can you be assertive without being aggressive?
We are looking to recruit new stewards for the remainder of this, and next academic year. Union stewards work
closely with Union staff, sabbaticals and the bar staff to ensure the smooth running of Union events. Applicants
should be easily contactable preferable by telephone, and generally available for work throughout the course of the
term. The post can involve duties as varied as stewarding the Fresher's Week carnivals to assissting guests at
dinner functions. There are reasonable amounts of work throughout the year, and sometimes through the holidays
as well. The Union offers good rates of pay and training for these positions.
If you think you fit the Bill, then please leave your name and department with reception in the Union Building, or
pop a note in the internal mail marked for the attention of the Events & Marketing Manager.
You will then be contacted for interview, if you cannot make this time then please contact the Union Office to re-
arrange the appointment. There will be a training day on a Saturday nearer the end of term, attendance is
compulsory If you have any questions please contact the Events & Marketing Manager on x8586.

