1
No- 218
WEDNESDAY
JUNE 2
1965
0>
Felix Staff Resigns - page 13
THREAT OF FINES
TO HAIL RESIDENTS
HECTIC IHREE WEEKS
FOR JAZZ CLUB
The I.C. Jazz Club has just experienced a very unlucky three
weeks. Al Higson, the Jazz Club President, had most of his £150
drum kit stolen. Two trumpets (about £150) were removed from
the Jazz Club Room. And one of their pianos was smashed to
pieces at the Carnival Fete.
The drums have, however, been recovered by their owner in the
course of a search through London music shops. The police have
a suspect and are investigating.
The trumpets which were stolen
on the night of the Film Festival;
have not been recovered. This is
just one more example of how in-
credibly easy it is to steal from
the Union, whether it be merely
copies of Felix or drums. The Jazz
Room is not even allowed a lock
on the door because of fire regu-
lations.
As for the piano, this was re-
moved by a gang of Carnival-
happy students from the lower
Union lounge and dumped in aid
of charity.
The useless piano which was
meant to be destroyed remained
in Committee Room B. The I.C.
Union Executive has decided that
the Union will pay for another
piano with the Carnival Com-
mittee contributing £25.
PETER COMBES
CARNIVAL: £2.600
Well, that's this year's Carnival over and done with. Once
again we have made a record profit—about £2,600—£200 more
than last year. We took a total of about £4,300, and spent some
£1,700, which is not much considering that this includes the price of
the raffled Hillman Imp, won by J. R. Birtwhistle, Mech. Eng. III.
One thing, however, has marred what would have been a most
successful raffle ; this was the large number of raffle ticket stubs
not returned on time. While the collection system is open to improve-
ment, it is ultimately the responsibility of the people who sell the
tickets to ensure that the subs are returned in time for the draw. If
they do not, they are in effect " taking money under false pretences."
We have received a small but
steady stream of stubs ever since
the draw, but it is hoped that the
future years will not see this per-
formance repeated.
One suggestion for next year is
that a system of Carnival Year
Reps., should be nominated by
the constituent Union Year Reps.
This would, we think help a great
deal in matters like raffle tickets,
and in general publicising Carni-
val.
On thefinalday of the Carnival,
the processions made £180 and
the fete £230, but it is unfortunate
that some £15 will have to be spent
in moving the wrecked car from
Princess Gardens. It was not an
officially authorised " stall " and it
is a pity that the Carnival should
have to take the blame for a few
people's irresponsibility in failing
to clear up the mess.
In conclusion, on behalf of the
Carnival Committee, I would like
to thank all who helped in man-
ning the Carnival—there are far
too many to recognise individ-
ually. But the organisers of the
separate events in Carnival week,
and Bruce Copper with his Com-
mandos must stand out from the
crowd. Without people's help
Carnival just wouldn't exist, and
this year we have again succeeded
in proving that it does.
HUGH AINSLEY.
DON'T FORGET
All copy (especially clubs' sum-
mer tours) for publication in the
first issue of Felix for the autumn
term must reach the Felix Editor,
c/o Union on or before 28
September.
If you are rejoicing in the fact that your grant will next year
rise by some £30, then think again. For rumours have been circu-
lating among hall committees over suggested fine deposits of up to
£25 payable at the start of the academic year. This comes as one
solution to the problem of setting punishment short of expulsion from
Hall and stronger than a reprimand.
Tizard began a system of expulsion from hall for a short period
such as a neck, a plant which has been copied by other South Side
Halls. Other suggestions have included the inconvenience of report-
ing to Wardens at various times of the day or fines.
At the Beit meeting on Monday, 17th May, the suggestions was
put for a deposit to be placed at the beginning of term by all resi-
dents. For his (or her) misdemeanours the students would lose a
proportion of his deposits, which when finally cleared would have
to be replenished or the student would be thrown out of hall.
Figures ranging from £10—£20 were suggested on this occasion
as suitable deposits, but it was pointed out that especially in the
Christmas term students could not afford such afinancialburden.
For this is the time when book bills are highest, a £5 breakage
deposit in the departments has to be paid by all freshers and key
deposits are due. On top of this some money must be put aside for
the holiday period if only for buying Christmas presents. But, if
Coot OB p. 12
A prehistoric monster " Rachmanosaur" after his journey in
the Carnival Procession.

