10 FELIX-
72V
Expansion linked to all four major areas
of economic growth
Turner & Newall is one of the strongest, most important
groups in British industry. With a large and growing stake
in asbestos-cement, in insulation, in brake linings and in
plastics T & N is closely linked to all four major areas of
economic growth. To the building industry; the motor
industry; the newer plastics; and to activity in the developing
territories of the Commonwealth ... all adding up to a strong-
ly-expanding £100,000,000 business with 39,000 employees.
Overseas, with 17 companies in 10 countries, T & N has
doubled its interests in ten years.
A Career with T & N
T & N offers outstanding graduates in science, engineering or the arts, a
career of great scope, keyed from the first to areas in which expansion is
at its fastest . . . opportunity at its best. Moreover, under our broad and
flexible training scheme, the graduate assumes managerial responsibility
more confidently, and certainly earlier, than is often the case in industry
today. T & N also recruits scientists and engineers direct into its research
and development branches, whose projects are particularly closely linked
to the needs of the expanding industries. Opportunities for supervising
work with a practical application, as well as for fundamental study, are thus
outstandingly good.
If you are interested, ask your Appointments Board for further details, or
write direct to: Management Appointments Adviser, Turner & Newall Ltd.,
15Curzon Street, London, W1 (Telephone GROsvenor 8163)
TURNER A NEWALL LIMITED asbestos, plastics and insulation
• • • I Turners Asbestos Cement Co. Ltd 'Turner Brothers Asbestos Co. Ltd • Ferodo Ltd • Newalls Insulation
_5§pyr 4 Chemical Co. Ltd • J. W. Roberts Ltd • Glass Fabrics Ltd . British Industrial Plastics Ltd • Stillite
• • • • • Products Ltd • Turners Asbestos Fibres Ltd • and 17 Overseas Mining & Manufacturing Companies
TN3/12C
Underwater Club
Back in the Cold
The Eddystone Rocks lie about
twelve miles south oi Plymouth
on a line from Start Point to the
Lizard. A boat was available for
use free of charge, at Salcombe,
twenty-one nautical miles from
the rocks.
Saturday, 15th May, dawned
fair and ninety minutes later the
lighthouse materialised out of the
sea mist. The rocks rise almost
sheer from an average bottom
level of 180 feet down. That is
too deep for the average club
diver but the chart did show a
narrow ridge 50 to 100 feet deep
extending about 300 yds. out to
the West-south-west of the light.
The ridge turned out to be very
narrow and took some finding.
Eventually we anchored satis-
factorily, keeping a wary eye on
the distance to the rocks, only
150 yds away, and proceeded to
dive.
Abundant Life
As always where there arc
rocks there is an abundance of
marine life. Many of the fish
seen were larger than the fish
we saw in the Mediterranean
at Easter. We had anchored in
some sixty feet of water and this
is the depth that most people
reached. One pair went straight
down from the boat, which is not,
of course, directly above the
anchor but some 250 feet away,
rather than down the anchor
rope. The water here was 95
feet deep and very clear below 80
feet which seemed to be the lower
limit of the algae belt. There
was an even greater profusion of
fish here than at 60 feet but there
was not enough light to take any
photographs with the colour film
in the camera at the time.
GOLF
Of the 12 matches played this
year, 8 were won, 2 drawn and 2
lost. Opponents included South-
ampton and Bristol Universities
and numerous London Colleges.
The summer meeting was held
at the Stoke Poges (Goldfinger)
Course.' Competitions were held
in the morning and afternoon for
the Presidents' and Lawson Cups
—-these being won by P. K.
Cotton and I. L. Griffith respec-
tively.
This is the best record for
many years, and the Association
is looking forward to the new fix-
tures (including Cardiff and
Birmingham Universities) in the
coming year.
There are a limited number of
places available for P.G.s who
would like to play golf at West
Middlesex G.C. during this sum-
mer vacation. Anyone interested
should contact C. S. Harris,
Keogh Hall 285.

