4 FELIX-
Mike Scott, President-elect R.C.3. Dickie Gash, President-elect Mines Dai Howell, President-elect C&G
by President SADHVANI
Here comes the end of yet another session with the exception
of exams in the near future to plough through. Now to summarise
on the year's activities, which have been from moderate to brilliant,
nothing less. The year started with the usual run of freshers' dinners
and inter-mascotry sport. The serious sports on Morphy Day and
Swimming Gala didn't quite do justice to a college of our size, but
on the light-heated side, we, as usual, came out tops.
Later, during the year, our athletes showed that we only had a
temporary relapse. Well done, Soccer Club, for winning the Im-
perial College Technology Cup, and the Athletic Club for winning
1 out of 13 possible cups on Sports Day.
In other clubs and societies all had a successful season. One
worth mentioning is the Chemical Society which sent a representative
to a Congress of the Communaute Europeanne Culturalle des
Etudiants en Chemie at Zurich. He turned out to be, in fact, the
only representative from England. As a result, plans are being
made for a Congress to be held here in 1966. A proud position for
the Society.
The Motor Club has been overworking in the complete reno-
vation of our mobile mascot Jezebel and should finish pretty soon.
Its absence has been felt strongly and the production of the Pedal
Car Jezette, which did very well activities with n - and splash in
at Bristol, has helped to tem-
porarily substitute Jezebel. A
very good effort.
As a sideline, the R.C.S. Film
Unit was out to shoot the Pedal
Car Race and returned with a
magnificent movie due to the
efforts of Nick Coope. The Union
will always be proud of this ven-
ture.
On the social side, an evening
was arranged with a teacher train-
ing college in Tooting and pleasant
memories of the successful evening
still linger.
The Entertainments Committee
has excelled itself again in pro-
viding I.C. with the best Carnival
night and Smoking Concert. Sil-
wood Ball, as the highlight is yet
to come this Friday.
The important addition to the
year's events on the Calendar was
a very successful R.C.S. Annual
Dinner. An event, which seemed
to fill a long awaited gap in the
Union Social activities and I hope
will in time be established as the
highlight of the year.
At the Annual General Meeting
held two weeks ago, next year's
President Mike Scott and Vice-
President, Ken West, were elected,
the Round Pond.
On the whole, tiny year has
been a year of stabilisation and
strengthening of the Royal Col-
lege of Science Union spirit into
one that will outclass everything
next year to put it back to its
right position in I.C.
Guildfinger
David Bishop's Presidential
year is over. Much has hap-
pened in these last few months,
some of it good, and some not so
good. Those of you who were
Freshers at the beginning will
remember the turmoil of
Freshers' Day, when Guilds
Union presented three hours of
television.
Then there were the Freshers'
Dinners, a good feast, but some-
times marred by weak support in
the bar afterwards. Modifica-
tions to improve the dinners
have been considered, and a re-
commendation made for next
year's executive to consider.
In these early days, Theta was
borrowed, but Spanner was for-
tunately, less inclined to stray.
Morphy Day resulted in a tow-
path win for Guilds, and two
good wins in the races. Bo ran
to Brighton in excellent time,
having received a royal send-off
from Hyde Park. This year's
Lord Mayor's Show was Guilds-
men-enriched to a greater extent
than in the past. Stanley Tools
were well pleased with the free
publicity that enterprising Guilds-
men obtained for their product,
and presented the Union with an
8ft. Spanner.
and the meetr.7 ended the year's Sadhvani—Sad farewell
This year's Union Meetings
have been professionally handled
and well attended. Besides the
more serious business, there has
been a Fashion Show, a Panto-
mies, a Festival of Music and
Culture, a secret listening in to
an R.C.S. Union Meeting, diverse
tapes, and the very successful 20
minute film " Only a Game in a
Guilded Box."
Two informal dinners with the
Dean and the Heads of Depart-
ment in Guilds have been held,
and led to much closer Staff-
Union co-operation. The Colours
Sub-committee has been recon-
stitutioned, as has the academic
Sub-committee. This is perhaps
one of the best innovation this
year, for academic matters affect
everyone (although some will not
admit to the truth of this) and
this year's academic report under
Chris Molam's guidance promises
to be more comprehensive and
worthwhile than its predecessors.
The Old Centralians have
again taken a keen interest in the
affairs of the Union, and Sherry
Parties have been held for 2nd
and 3rd year men. The various
entertainment functions have
been excellently organised this
year by the Ents. Committee. The
Engineers' Dinner and Dance de-
serves special mention being sans
pared.
In the sporting sphere, the
statistics are dismal. At hockey
(Stephenson Cup), Tennis (Brown
Cup). Soccer (Tech. Cup), Rifle
Shooting (Courtman Shield), and
Rugby (Sparkes Cup) Guilds lost
to either R.C.S. or Mines. Guilds
did however retain the Morphy
and Lowry Cups (rowing) and the
Swimming Gala, plus winning the
Governors' Shield for Athletics
for the first time since 1959.
The year reps, the unsung
backbone of the Union, have
worked extremely hard this year,
with the result that more people
have taken an interest in the
Union. And if you want any
more information, it's all in Span-
ner, now on sale and price only
Brian King

