FELIX 5
GENTLEMEN OF MINES
NEW MINES MASCOT
At the instigation of Nigel Gravette a motion has been raised at
Successive I'nioii Meetings. The motion reads that " Mitch," a
Michelin man, be replaced by a mascot more applicable to the Royal
School of Mines. Various arguments against Mitch were put forward ;
it is not unique, being easily duplicated, and is in fact also the mascot
of the College of Rubber Technology. The argument in favour of
Mitch, one of tradition had little popular appeal.
It was universally taken for granted that a new mascot should
be adopted. Various "objects d'art " were suggested, a favourite
one being a sea mine. In fact, a request for such had been sent out
and had brought a reply from the First Lord of the Admiralty, stat-
ing that he had passed the matter on to the Chief of Armaments.
At the Union meeting on Tuesday, 18th May, an alternative
mascot was produced. A 3 ft. high model of one of the earliest
Davy lamps, had been designed by Fergus Kerr and built by Bert
West of the Metallurgy Department.
Unshrouded and seen in its fully glorious state it was quickly
accepted by the meeting. An official christening ceremony is to take-
place later. Meanwhile, a name is being sought, and suggestions are
to be posted to R. Gash via the letter racks ; a small reward is being
offered.
CLEMENTINE
Clem advertised Mines proudly on a Veteran Commercial
vehicles run to Brighton. Her average speed for the journey was
4 m.p.h. up on her previous best. A garaae is urgently being sought.
MINES NIGHT
Battersea fun-fair was the target for a hard core of Minesmen.
The presence of 50 per cent, of Mining II, relatively fresh from a
survey course at the remote Tywarnhale Mine in Cornwall indi-
cated that excitement and thrills were to be the features of the party.
No so for several Minesmen met on the way ; one had to be bodily
carried
way
head
The New Mascot
first into one of the many rest houses visited on the
Once inside the fair the rotor provided a big attraction and
really sent spinning " Gimme an M " and " Cats." The big dipper
and dodgems were taken over as was one of the bars. An enjoy-
able time was had by all and very little trouble ensued on the home-
ward journey. D. GASH
A WORKING
PARTY
The penultimate Council
Meeting of the session was held
on. 17th May. Among the sub-
jects discussed were the follow-
ing :—
Council Composition
A motion was passed setting up
a five man working party " to
look into the composition of
council, with particular reference
to the positions of the nine repre-
sentatives of the Constituent Col-
leges and old student associat-
ions—their method of election
and their duties." In view of this
it was decided to postpone any
decision on postgraduate repre-
sentation on Council, and to post
a notice stating that next year's
Council Reps would be expected
to perform the duties of U.L.U.
Agent, P.G. Rep., and External
Affairs Organiser.
Finance
The estimate for the 'new look'
lower lounge, carefully prepared
by the deputy president, was re-
ported to be £6.497 and included
£1,500 for lighting and £450 for
fees. As there was no real need
to complete the job this summer,
it was decided, to defer any deci-
sion until other estimates had been
obtained.
Council decided that it had not
the financial resources to agree to
a request for £286 (further to the
£160 already given) from the G.
& S. Society for their summer
tour. The President was asked to
approach the college for the
money and there seemed a strong
likelihood that it would be forth-
coming^
R e a d w h y a n E n g i n e e r
( m e c h . o r e l e c . )
g e t s m o r e o u t o f l i f e a s a n
E n g i n e e r O f f i c e r
i n t h e R o y a l N a v y
T h e n s e n d u s t h e c o u p o n
As an engineer officer in the Royal Navy
you work with some of the most advanced
equipment available anywhere. Think of
nuclear submarines. Or guided missiles. Or
supersonic strike aircraft. Do you see why
the Royal Navy wants men with your
qualifications ?
But there's more to it than being an
engineer. You're an officer, with responsi-
bility not only for million-pound equipment,
but for men too, and often for the very
success of a mission. These are great respon-
sibilities, and they're all part of an even
greater one: front line preservation of peace
throughout the world.
As an engineer officer in the Royal Navy
your pay is good. (Example: a young
married man with a degree and some post-
graduate experience could well join at a
starting salary of £1,300 - all found!) You
live a varied life, with world-wide travel and
plenty of sport, and as an officer in the
Royal Navy, you enjoy a very special status.
If you are planning to take your degree
or Dip. Tech. in engineering (mechanical or
electrical), send us the coupon. We've much
more to tell you.
Royal Navy
Instructor Commander D . C . F . Watson, M . A . , R . N . ,
University Liaison Officer (PBA 231/A),
Officer Entry Section, Old Admiralty Building,
London, S.W.I.
Please send me details about permanent • five year
short service • commissions in the Engineering Branch
of the Royal Navy. Please tick accordingly.
NAME
ADDRESS
Date of Birth -Course of Study _

