6 F E L I X
felix
EDITOR
ASSISTANT EDITOR
D. I. WILLIAMS
Production Manager Alan Oxley
Sports Editor Dave Hunt
Late News Editor Ted Needham
Sales Andrew Mayo
Jocelyn Mackintosh
Pete Ash
Photos Brian Ray
John Cawson
Warwick Faville
Will Chorley
Brian Compton
Production Assts. Mike Leppard
Graham Bolsch
NEWSPAPER
OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Circulation, 1700 ~
N. J. WALKER
Business
Sub-Editors
Secretaries
Reporters, etc.
Robin Webste
Peter Combe:
Geoff. Bean
Barrie Pinchlei
Melvyn Owen
Frank Hobson
Gill Steele
S. Vogler
Peter Cartwright
Richard Walker
Chris Cooper
Mike Edwards
Christ Lampard
D. S. Virk
Tim Doe
Mike Scott
Nesta Pleadon
I would like to offer my sincere thanks to everybody on the Felix
staff, who have made this such a successful year and to Educational
Publicity (our advertising agents) through whom our advertising
revenue has nearly doubled. Next year, Ian Williams will be Editor 5
I hope he gets similar support to that which I have received this year.
Felix during the year has suffered because of lack of support
from the majority of students. More than a few club and society
officials have complained to me because no reports of certain meet-
ings have appeared in Felix. Work on Felix is supposed to be a
part-time job—we are all at I.C. to get degrees—and the Felix staff
would need to be trebled to be able to send reporters to every meet-
ing of note ; surely these Society officials are capable of writing
reports at their important meetings. To this end the Felix Board
has decided to suggest that each club elect a Press officer to be
responsible for sending reports of meetings to Felix.
During the next year it is hoped to increase the Felix page size
—which will improve its " look "; Felix is starting a " What's On "
Column and again should grow in size. With these improvements
a larger staff will be required. If anybody is at all interested in
becoming a part-time (or full-time) reporter, feature writer, news
photographer or helping on the business side, please put a note in
the Felix Rack (Union Lower Lounge) with department, year, which
post interested in with any other useful information. Your active
support is urgently required.
N. WALKER.
SHORTJ Q 3 S
The Union Executive are to
look into a proposal that internal
telephones be installed in the
Union part of Southside.
Following the Union's Annual
General Meeting, Adrian Fletcher,
ex-" Colcutt," took over the gavel
to auction off (in Dutch fashion)
a television set, which raised
£3.16s. for the Carnival.
Leading members of the
U.S.S.R. Educational and Scienti-
fic Workers Union (over 1 mil-
lion student members) spent
three-quarters of an hour answer-
ing questions from committee
members of the I.C. Student
Group of the Association of
Scientific Workers on May 13th.
On Tuesday night, 25th May,
David Watson, last year's I.C.
Union President, won about fifty
shillings in a sweepstake in the
Union Bar.
The pile of broken chairs in the
Union Snack Bar now nearly
reaches the ceiling.
A permanent bar is to be in-
stalled in the Crush Hall of the
old Union building.
The Duty Officer system next
year will revert to that used in
1963-64.
It was almost certain that Hall
fees will be raised in the near
future, the only question remain-
ing to be decided being how
much by.
The Halls Committee is to dis-
cuss a plan of Mr. Irving's to de-.
randomize selection pro:eedures
somewhat.
Deputy President, Barry Mair,
suffered bodily harm at a late
night prirty in North London in
the early hours of the 23rd May.
A fortnight ago Radio Tizard
intercepted internal telephone
calls and broadcast without the
callers' knowledge. The offenders
have been leprimanded.
Radio Tizard on Sunday week
broadcast on Beit Radio by means
of a telephone link.
Residents of Keogh, Selkirk
and Falmouth Halls complain
that they are disgusted with the
rowdy behaviour of Tizard Hall
residents, especially since all four
South-Side Halls are blamed
equally for incidents.
NEW AND OLD ANGLES
It appears that my complaint about the profu-
sion of Union pianos last term did not go un-
heeded. The solution to the problem—obvious
really—was demonstrated by the hockey club,
who were charging Carnival Fete goers a tanner a
time to " have a go," at what they thought was
an old piano, with a sledge hammer.
Too late the discovery that the Jazz Club piano
was missing from the Union and the old wreck
bought for the occasion was still residing happily
in committee room B. Nett receipts from the
stall ?—about thirty bob. Value of piano ?—
between twenty and fifty quid, depending on
whether you are on the paying or receiving end !
Accidents will happen. . . .
Strong words have been spoken on the subject
of gate crashers, but whatever one's views it
appears that nowadays the problem is much less
than in times past. Ten years ago, RCS were so
worried that they seriously considered holding
their Carnival on Thames barges towed out into
the middle of the river !
MONEY
I welcome the increase in student grants an-
nounced last week (who doesn't!). It is also good
to see that the Hall/Digs differential has finally
been abolished. I only hope that this increase
will be followed by one of at least £100 in DSIR
postgraduate allowances. Really, £450 for some-
one who has a good degree and does not have the
luxury of long vacations in which to supplement
his income, is nothing short of an insult.
IN MEMORIAM
Although the season of mutual back slapping
and UGAs has arrived again, I have made no
attempt to compose one of the weighty analyses
of Union activities, etc., which tend to be churned
out at this time. Mainly because I don't think
the average student is interested, and worthwhile
achievements speak for themselves anyway. A
brief word of thanks, however, to Messrs. Price,
Mair, and Utting, in particular, who do a vast
amount of work that most people don't realise
exists, and get very little credit for it—especially
from columns like this !
I suppose I should conclude my one and only
sally into the world of letters (or something) with
a series of gross libels on Walker, who has threa-
tened to expose me in this issue. I have dis-
covered however, that the misguided fellow
intends to do this by printing my photograph—
which should be unrecognisable if the paper
maintains its usual standards ! Which thing hav-
ing been said, and having forgotten Newton's
third law for the sixth time to-day, I shall retire
and hand over to my successor, whoever that may
be.
VACATION WORK? WHY NOT
TRY SOMETHING DIFFERENT!
Get away from the world of books a n d study a n d let your
vacation work be an introduction to B u s i n e s s a n d Industry.
M A N P O W E R has a wide variety of interesting jobs to ofler
both w o m e n and men. Y o u c a n work when you want, where
you want.
Office Temporaries are needed as Secretaries, Receptionists,
Clerks a n d Typists. T o p rates paid.
Y o u n g men c a n be found instant, congenial employment o n
light industrial work:
M A N P O W E R
97 Jermyn St., London, S.W.I. WHI 0041
87 Baker St., London, W.l. WEL 9971
123 Newgate St., London, E.C.4. MON 0059
20-21 Albert Sq., Manchester BLA 6844
38A Paradise St., Birmingham 1 Midland 9341
24 Duke St., Brighton 26544
18A Bargate, Southampton. 25441

