8 F E L I X
Si 0 0 0
Dear sir, Thank you Folks !
Now that the Guilds Union year has officially ended, I should
like to thank the many people who have given their time to the Union,
helping to make this year successful. We have Ixad crowded Union
Meetings right tlirough the year, and there Ixave always been personnel
on hand to guard Spanner, to sell magazines, to decorate the concert
hall, to fill flour bags, to perforin for Guilds, to instal electrical equip-
ment, or stand and cheer, and promote Boomalaka.
This has been a year of increased participation in most depart-
ments. It \has been a year of innovation, and of cliange; a year of
purpose. Many tlianks must go to the twenty year Reps., wlio have
been able to work harder this year, tlum for many years. 1 would
urge all those who have achieved positions of responsibility in the
coming year, to do that job to the best of their ability. The ultimate
reward is most certainly theirs.
Finally, I nutst tliank the anonymous group responsible for pre-
senting me with the small Spanner at the last Union Meeting. What
it represents, lias made this year worthwhile for me.
D. G. BISHOP
Legalise
Gatecrashing
Dear Sir,
Felix always reports that " re-
sponsible " members of the Union
gate crash into parties, concerts,
etc.—Why shouldn't they? Offi-
cials of the Union and others who
spend a good deal of their time in
running the Union should I be-
lieve be entitled to certain pri-
vileges, like free or half-price
entries into concerts, stomps,
dinners etc. . . and this should be
made legal. If a majority of
students virtually volunteer to do
certain jobs free why shouldn't
we reward this minority in a small
way. Perhaps this might solve the
" apathy " problem which Felix
so much talks about and stir some
students into action.
GEORGE BARAMKI,
Physics 1.
No Bin
SteelI S P R O G R E S S
Group Briefing for a 'Management Game', Ashorne Hill
T r a i n i n g f o r M a n a g e m e n t
Nearly 1400 managers and assistant managers have attended
residential courses atthe British Iron and Steel Federation's
own management college in Warwickshire. Courses are
designed to enable men from different departments and
companies to see the steel industry in perspective, to
increase their technical and commercial knowledge, to meet
leading figures in the industry and to practise committee
work. These courses also help them to develop their capacity
for solving management problems, both human and tech-
nical and occasionally to study specialist techniques, such
as Industrial Market Research and Systems Analysis.
The Steel industry regards management as both an Art and
a Science. In addition to its intensive programme of manage-
ment training, the Federation is currently engaged in a
substantial programme of research into management
problems within the industry.
Steel gives a man the opportunity
to rise by ability and achievement,
irrespective of age, in one of
Britain's biggest manufacturing
industries. This is a diverse and
alive industry which welcomes
men who can take responsibility
and play a part in the many new
developments now taking place-
in manufacture, in research, in
application. If you are interested
in a career in Steel—scientific,
administrative, manufacturing or
commercial—contact the Univer-
sity Appointments Board, or write
to the Training Department:
BRITISH IRON AND STEEL FEDERATION STEEL HOUSE TOTHILL STREET LONDON SW1
Dear Sir,
In a Union meeting last Novem-
ber a student asked whether a bin
will be placed in Tizard Lounge
in the hope of improving on the
untidy scene in the Lounge. Price
promised that one would soon be
placed. Now Six months have
passed but no bin can be seen any
where. Surely the Union Officials
cannot be so inefficient. A bin
could be bought in one afternoon.
As for the Union Ist Floor lounge
the usual untidy scene (papers
lying about, half torn etc.) pre-
vents me from bringing guests in.
Surely, a table can be placed in
one corner of the lounge on which
all newspapers could be placed
(like the one in ICWA lounge) and
it is the responsibility of the
students to return the papers to
the table after they 'have read
them. Students cannot be a
" untidy lot " (next year's deputy
president please note).
GEORGE BARAMKI
Physics I
Stolid
Sir.
A dictionary definition of " sto-
lid " is as follows—" hard to
excite SYN. \lieavy, obtuse, slow,
insensible."
An acident occurred on Satur-
day which has forced us to the
conclusion that this epitomises the
English character. We observed
a carnival float being carried
towards the Albert Hall, where it
was deposited before the main
entrance. It thus passed several
hundred people. All of those saw
it, but did not take notice, and
further, it remained there for a
full half hour.
It was then removed to the mid-
dle of Beit Quad, where, we esti-
mate it had to be avoided 2,500
times before it was removed.
Although we realise that these
things caused slight inconveni-
ence, the malefactors should be
excused, for the incident once
again demonstrated the keen,
probing nature of our educated
minds.
Yours faithfully,
R.C.P.H.
L A M L E Y ' S
T E C H N I C A L & G E N E R A L
B O O K S
A R T M A T E R I A L S
D R A W I N G
I N S T R U M E N T S
S T A T I O N E R Y
P A P E R B A C K S
1 3 & 5 EXHIBITION ROAD,
LONDON, S.W.7

