1 2 M U X
F O R M
Sean Barker
Watney's is better than Tartan.
'Watney's is better than Tartan. I know what I like, and that's
good enough for me'. Anyone saying this in the Union would
be told he was a fool, a
* trog or a xxxx. But a similar remark
about, say, modern art, would hardly raise a murmur. I am not
here to defend modern art, but more to attack the anti-
intellectualism that allows such remarks to pass unchallenged.
A few years ago I subscribed to the 'I know what I like'
view, but I decided to find out why the 'classics' have been so
highly rated for so long. I found the Iliad boring because over
eight hundred pages were just description of slaughter. But most
of the others I read from Xenophon to Koesler, were suprisingly
Interesting. This maybe because the author was not trying to
sett a million paperbacks, and so not restricted to boring plots,
lifeless styles and utterly predictable endings. After this brief
exposure to 'literature', I began to find S.F. boring and badly
written, so I tried to analyse why. As a result I can begin to
see what a book is really about, and how and why it was written.
I wandered through the halls of a few art galleries to see if
I could make sense of modern art. Some were self-explanatory
the rest were incomprehensible. Last year I went round part of
the RCA exhibitions, and, with the help of one of the students,
and the drawings and photos of some others, I began to see what
they were trying to say.
A friend from the RCM was talking about 'Mahler expressing
his spirituality through his music', but he knew what he was
talking about, and it wasn't rubbish. Now, when I see send
ups of people who 'try to express the inner meaning', I realise
that these are only funny because the writer of the send up
does not know what he is talking about. Recently people have
been telling me that I am an intellectual. I protest that I only
read the books for fun, but they say that that is what being an
intellectual means. I must admit that people who say 'You
dont't have to know what it means if you like it' annoy me. My
mate John did. He has started reading Aldous Huxley for 'fun'.
I'm told it takes several pints to acquire a taste for Guinness.
DOMINE, DIRIGE NOS
God perceives our thoughts and leads us
To a thinking silence where
Word is given work awaits us
Through the love revealed by prayer.
Then at awkward times He calls us
With an urgent, muted sigh;
Tells us where a task awaits us;
Even gives us faith to try.
So it seems that mystic instincts
Make us take some strange and odd
Paths that lead to troubled precints
Where there's hidden work for God.
© N. Racine-Jaques, 1974-
The South East Asia Society of Imperial College,
oresents:-
The Sitarist S.L. Bhandari accompanied by
R.S. Plaha (Tabla) at 7.00p.m. on Tuesday
19th November, 1974, at the Great Hall.
Tickets available from any committee member or
S. Gunasingham in the Botany Common Room between
1.00 — 1.30 p.m. Price: 30p only.
P H O E N I X
o f
i m p e r i a l
C o l l e g e
l O Y O U :
WRITE ?
DRAW ?
TAKfci P H O T O S ?
P R O D U C E MAGAZINES?
all contributions etc
to
c/o I.C.UNION OFFICE

