S
4 F E L I X
Jack Llewellyn
sounding board which defies description.
This unusual album definately caters
for those people for whom music can
conjure up strong images. A significant
album indeed.
Triumvirat: Illusions on a Double
Dimple (Harvest, EMI).
BASED IN Germany, Triumvirat are
clearly going to go a long way if they
continue to produce albums of the same
quality as 'Illusions on a Double Dimple'.
Their style is in many ways similar
to the Emerson, Lake and Palmer of
three years ago — imaginative, classically
oriented and melodically eloquent. The
comparison does not stop there — for just
as Keith Emerson is the keyboard
virtuoso and guiding spri it of ELP, so
Jurgen Fritz performs the same duties for
Triumvirat. There is not one track which
could in any way be described there to
fill the gap.
It is consequently extremely difficult
to single out one particular section (the
music is played continuously), but I think
'Illusions' has a certain edge on the
rest with its resonant grand piano,
echoing percussion, a full orchestra
thrown in and a Moog reminiscent of
eLP's classic first album.
The second side, 'Mister Ten Percent'
is just as good, with a phenomenal
piano solo early on that will have you
groaning with appreciation. Don't just
sit there, get it!
Kayak: Kayak (Harvest, EMI).
THIS IS the British debut album of the
Dutch-based group, Kayak. They have
achieved what can best be described as
'a professional sound' and it is easy to
understand why they have such a large
following in their own country. The
music they produce is in no way due to
any gimmicky instruments; the only
out-of-the-ordinary equipment they resort
to are mellotrons and an accordion.
The first track of side 1, 'Alibi', is
typical of the whole album. It is fast
and rhythmically well-adjusted. The
principal vocalist has a voice very
similar to that of Jon Anderson who is
part of Yes, but this does not detract
from the essential quality of the song.
The last two tracks of this side,
'Mountain Too Rough' and 'They Get To
Know Me', seemed etched with that
essential emotional ingredient, nostalgia.
Both are damn good listening.
Flipping the record leads are to the
inevitable conclusion that there are
definite similarities between Kayak and
Yes. 'Woe and Alas' sounds as though
it could have been cribbed from Jon
Anderson's sketchbook, though the
lyrics are appropriately less wetontinus.
&o jr. oo many aiDums they leave the
best track till last 'His Master's Noise'
(apparently dedicated to their Roadie)
although less than two minutes long,
has a tranquil lull to it which transcends
the normal sort of corn. It sets the seal
on a fine album.
Tangerine Dream: Atem (Polydor).
WEIRD MAN, real weird. Echoing
pulsations, rhythms, electronic feedback
and reverberations reminiscent of early
Pink Floyd go to make up this Berlin
'rock', (however, for this album that
epithet seems a trifle invalid) band's
third album, though it is the first to be
released in this country. This record
represents a stunning innovation in sound,
abounding with atonal clusters which
gently cascade and scatter in a myriad
of notes. There are no words to. latch
onto and few definite musical lines to
follow, but the resulting effect still
manages to retain a coherence of mood.
Side 1 is the title track Atem(Breath),
which is a heavily rhythmic aggregate of
electronic guitars, synthesizers, mello-
trons and percussion. After building up
to a noisy climax, the music folds into
a serenity of drifting sounds. The effect
takes a little getting used to, but is well
worth the effort.
Side 2 kicks off with Fauni-Gena and
the connection with nature and living
things is clear. Slow, fragmented melodies
drift over a staccato texture which sounds
like the incessant chattering of birds
and acoooiated creatures in an Amazonian
rainforest.
The final track of Side 2 Warm ia an
amazing mixture displaying all the
possible textures available from a human
throat. Zaps, groans, grunts and screams
are moulded into a kind of primeval
music. The track develops in a percussive
Andrew Osborne
Wet Willie:
(Capricorn).
Keep on Smilin'
DOES YOUR local council recycle
waste plastic? Ours doesn't so it is
with some degree of guilt that I consider
the battered and forlorn disc, lying in the
Winfield superette waste paper bin, in the
corner, and reflect on the current
resources crisis.
The record is Keep on Smilin' by Wet
Willie. It contains soul music of no great
originality, and this is precisely my
complaint about that whole genre: it's
all the same. Even though this group
uses somewhat non-typical instru-
mentation, such as electric trombone,
the sound they produce is remarkably
typical. Now, I've often been told 'Yous
white folks, you ain't got no soul' and
then assured that 'white music' lacks
some sensuality supposedly associated
.with soul music. Maybe, but Wet Willie
are a white band and their sleeve notes
and their lyrics indicate that they believe
they do have soul. I'm not qualified to
judge.
Hailing from Macon, Georgia, they
sing; predictably about their home town,
the countryside, fishing, banjos and
playing crap. The first track, 'Country
Side of Life', is funky, features electric
trombone and becomes boring after the
first verse. The second track is the title
track, their big hit single (so you've
probably heard it) and is nearly in-
distinguishable from the first track.
'Trust in the Lord' is, as the name
suggests, Jesus jive and differs from the
first two tracks only in its faster tempo.
Next comes 'Soul Sister' which can
only be described as monotonous. Then,
just as you're about to lose your temper,
up comes 'Alabama', a ballad and a
pleasant change from the rest.
Thus it was with some hope that I
played the second side. You've guessed
the result. The first track is bad. The
second track is the same as the first.
The thffd track is the same as the second.
The fourth track is the same as the third.
The fifth track I never heard the. fifth
track because as the fourth ended I
finally cracked and, rushing across the
room to the Sounderama portable hi-fi
with detachable speakers, I seized the
record and flung it to the waste bin.
I wouldn't buy this record.
Up Country (BBC Records).
HOWDY pardner. Here's some sounds
from the mountains and prairies, way
down south in Shephard's Bush. Some
real cotton picken', foot tappin', hoot n'
nanny music. Strange then, that all the
bands are English — The Roger James
Group, Lome Gibson Trio, Redwood and
The Down Country Boys. Yah hooo!
It's finger pickin' good. Anyone con-
sidering buying this album would certainly
be put off by the thirty five year old hag,
dressed 'up as a cowboy, leering out of
the cover;
If you asked my opinion, I'd say
'Up Country'.

