Union Page
We’re here for you
Comedy Night
Postgrads have their say
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
Witness some of the UK’s finest stand-up comedians work their magic
on stage in the Union Bar on Monday 4 November. This month’s acts
include Simon Brodkin, Lloyd Griffith, Holly Kavangh, Nick Huynh,Tawfik
“Toffee” Ramses and will be MC’d by Sonia Aste. £6 tickets (tickets are
£4 on the door) include one drink and you can choose from:
Small Wine (Red/White/Rose)
Carling Cider Pint
Carling Pint
VK
Single Spirit Mixer
Draught Soft Drink (Coke, Lemonade)
Doors open at 20:00 and the show starts at 20:30. Buy your tickets at
imperialcollegeunion.org/comedy-night
The Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) is a biennial
survey completed by Postgraduate Research (PGR) students in which
they assess the College (and their experience) on areas such as
Supervision, Research Culture and Professional Development.
Your Deputy President (Education), Ashley Brooks, along with the
Graduate Student’s Union and Representation Team, have collated the
comments from this year’s PRES to write a report, which summaries
students’ feedback and provides College, and the Union (new for this
year), with recommended actions that can be made for improvements.
We’ve taken these recommendations to College via the Postgraduate
Research Quality Committee (PRQC), with changes being tracked by a
newly formed sub-group, with the DPE and GSU reps sitting on both
groups.
Visit imperialcollegeunion.org/responses to read the full report.
The Union is here to support all Imperial students in the following ways:
Academic support
If you’re facing problems regarding your studies, you can get advice and
support from our professional adviser.
Non-academic support
If you’re having problems outside your studies, such as financial,
housing, or legal affairs, we’re here to help.
Support for sexual violence
If you have faced sexual violence, you can get support from a Sexual
Violence Officer.
Wellbeing support
Being at university can be hard and sometimes you just need someone
to talk to and someone to listen.
For more information, go to imperialcollegeunion.org/advice
Tell us your idea
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
Do you have an idea on events and projects the Union should create
to make an impact on the College community and improve the overall
Imperial experience?
Tell us your ideas and we can make the Imperial community bigger and
better. Everything we do stems from an idea a student had, so we’re
always on the lookout for more.
We can provide you with dedicated support from student officers and
Union staff, as well as funding and resources to take your idea from the
drawing board into reality.
Submit your idea at imperialcollegeunion.org/your-idea

