film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film
Film Editors – Zuzanna Blaszczak and Jonathan Dakin
The whole world knows how angry Christian Bale can get, but to kill
for more on-screen time is slightly overdoing it.
Zuzanna Blaszczak
Film Editor
Out this
summer ...
L
ovely weather and the 40
degree heat-waves this week
must have, without a doubt,
proved to the disbelievers
that summer is quickly ap-
proaching and caught the people in
the library unawares that they are soon
to roast to death, providing free food
for those needing carbs and protein
before their exams. When I write sum-
mer I mean that precious time of the
year when London gets more rainfall
than during any of the other quarters,
when college and coursework and ex-
ams seem nothing but a very bad, very
long and slightly too realistic dream
and when faraway lands beckon with
the promise of real adventure meeting
the primeval and usually barbarian lo-
cals in places as exotic as New Cross
or Brixton. In case you don’t yet have a
summer trip planned, or like me, have
chosen to spend a week in Greece and
are still trying to pick at random from
one of the multitude of Greek islands,
don’t despair as help is on its way –
Hollywood has prepared something
extra special for us for the lengthy and
never-ending summer days. This time,
the ever creative, extremely talented
acting, directing and producing gods
in California have decided to break the
mould, go out on a limb and treat us
to something other than huge action
movie blockbuster productions. So,
what can you look forward to seeing in
July and August?
Well, firstly let me recommend, what
promise to be fascinating and uncon-
ventional dramas – Blood: The Last
Vampire, Transformers: Revenge of the
Fallen and last but not least G.I. Joe:
The Rise of Cobra. Blood, is a penetrat-
ing meditation about vampires, their
slayers and the power of human emo-
tions and is based on a popular manga
series. It’s not often that you get to
see a sequel of a drama movie, but the
original Transformers film portraying
the ups and downs of adolescence and
what it means to have a ‘cool’ car, was
so successful that the producers decid-
ed to bless us with more. But probably
most surprising for its daring subject
is the adaptation of the 20th Century
classic, the ‘G.I. Joe’ graphic novels.
Themes of death, loyalty and courage
have not yet been approached in the
manner that director Stephen Som-
mers has in store for us.
For those with younger brothers,
sisters or other relations, Hollywood
has decided to team up with teachers
and scientists this summer to bring
you real educational gems. Everyone’s
favourite Ice Age is now set in the dino-
saur era so that little kids can familiar-
ise themselves with the Earth’s biggest,
scariest and strongest reptiles. For the
slightly older kids and teens Harry Pot-
ter and the Half Blood Prince will pro-
vide the perfect way to keep their phys-
ics, chemistry and biology knowledge
fresh over the vacation.
Unfortunately, the sudden urge to
make consequential and momentous
movies did not spread throughout
Hollywood as widely as one might
have hoped. Hence, there are a number
of films you might wish to avoid. In
particular, keep clear of the mundane
and drab Sunshine Cleaning, the un-
original and disappointing Lars von
Trier film Antichrist. There is also the
ironically titled Tenderness with an
out-of-this-world plot and novice cast
that spells ‘fiasco’. And beware not to
make the mistake of getting tickets for
the French Mesrine: Killer Instinct –
the trailers look dreadful.
In the name of Jonathan Dakin and
myself, I would like to say goodbye to
everyone who skimmed through the
film section from time to time. It’s
been a great pleasure to write for you
and we really hope you enjoyed the re-
views. Have a great summer.
P.S. Please don’t think that the irony
of placing this column piece next to a
review of the three star rated Termina-
tor is lost on me. My only excuse is the
famous phrase ‘to each his own’.
This film is probably more famous
for the on-set rants of its star than
anything else. Who hasn’t heard about
Christian Bale screaming an f-word
laden tirade against a member of the
crew for minutes on end? It is a shame
that this incident has cast a shadow
over the movie itself, because it is a
thoroughly enjoyable and fast-paced
action adventure.
Set in an alternative future, John
Connor, a survivor of the robot in-
duced holocaust, is fighting against his
cyber foes in order to keep the human
race alive. If you don’t know the plots
from the three films that preceded this
one, then perhaps it is about time you
watched them (definitely the first two).
After his mother survived a killer robot
played by Arnold Schwarzenegger in
the first movie, a teenage John Connor
joins forces with Arnie in the second to
fend off another killer robot. The third,
in my mind never happened, mainly
because of the absurdly stupid ending,
which led John into the destroyed fu-
ture where robots have awareness and
decide humanity is their biggest threat
– and so try to wipe humans out.
So we begin the movie with a few hu-
man survivors fending off attacks from
all kinds of assorted robot villains: ro-
bot humanoids, robot human catch-
ers, robot aeroplanes and even robot
motorbikes (which are really cool).
Trying desperately to fulfil the proph-
esy that he would one day destroy the
robot overlords, Connor (played by a
very serious Bale), has to save his fa-
ther who is not yet his father in a pre-
established time paradox from the first
film, with the help of stranger Marcus
(Worthington). The action mainly fo-
cuses on Marcus’ exploits, and this is
supposedly because the part of Con-
nor was originally meant to be a small
cameo, until Bale decided to pad it out
and give himself an equally starring
role. Helping Marcus is sexy pilot Blair
(Bloodgood) who provides the female
eye-candy against the often topless
Marcus. Will they be able to save Con-
nor’s father, and at the same time de-
stroy the robots who are trying to wipe
them out?
Terminator: Salvation is a non-stop
exciting and thrilling two hour action
film, and if the idea of a fast paced ac-
tion adventure doesn’t float your boat,
then don’t bother watching it. The ac-
tion sequences last for a significantly
long time and in this reviewer’s opin-
ion this is a good thing because they
are very enthralling and exhilarating.
Sometimes the camerawork is annoy-
ing as there are very fast and choppy
moments of editing, but overall the
film really shines because of its action
set pieces. The cast give solid although
two dimensional performances: Bale
and Worthington are stern but like-
able, and Bloodgood proves she is
more than just an attractive add-on. At
places the script is tacky and cheesy;
especially when Bale says the infamous
catchphrase ‘I’ll be back’: at this point a
watching.
Overall, this is a solid action film, and
if you like action films then you should
definitely see it. If you like Terminator
films then I would also recommend
it, even though, in my mind, the Ter-
minator series ended with the second
one (and the third one doesn’t exist), as
there are enough references to the oth-
er films, including a shocking cameo.
I pretended this wasn’t related to the
first two Terminator films, because to
Terminator:Salvation HHHKK
Director: McG (what a name!)
Writer: John D.Brancato
Michael Ferris
Cast: Christian Bale,
	Sam Worthington,
	Moon Bloodgood
(I kid you not, that’s
her given name!)
Jonathan Dakin
Film Editor
The new Terminator
saves the franchise?
groan erupted in the auditorium.
The fact that this is the fourth in-
stalment of the Terminator franchise
makes one wonder how they could do
anything unique or different to what
they have already done in the previous
films. But the setting of post apoca-
lyptic robot-controlled war zone is an
interesting one, and it gives the film
a strong and dangerous environment
for the audience to explore along with
the characters, a feature that keeps you
do so would be heresy (the bomb still
went off – what the hell was the point
in the first place???), so ignoring the
fact this film is destroying their legacy,
I just pretended this was unrelated and
sat back and enjoyed it.
It’s a really good film, but I have a
feeling you will only agree with this
opinion if you like explosions, shoot-
ing, sexy women and people being
chased: all the essentially key ingredi-
ents of a good action film.
Or can the Terminator: Salvation box office results be ascribed
solely to Christian Bale’s five minute freak-out on the set?
Bruno will do for the image of Austria, what neither Hitler or Fritzl
managed to achieve... How will they ever pay him back?
20 felix Friday 19 June 2009
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Food
Food Editors – Rosie Grayburn & Afonso Campos
Afonso Campos
Food Editor
Want curly fries
with that?
A
nd this is how it ends...
no tears, no kicking and
screaming and as usual
an unmet deadline. Writ-
ing this as Jov furiously
CMYKs a hundred million different im-
ages reminds me that this is actually the
last issue. It makes me sad that for the
next however many weeks there isn’t go-
ing to be something keeping me awake
on a Wednesday evening or getting me
out of bed on Friday mornings.
I’m not usually a sentimental guy –the
last time I felt any emotion was prob-
ably when I was starving coming out of
my mother’s womb (does hunger con-
stitute an emotion or a state of being?)...
as such I will try to keep this last edito-
rial as corniless as possible under the
circumstances.
This year, the newspaper saw old edi-
tors flourish and become more settled,
more sure of their own writing and
their stance on issues. It saw an influx
of amazing new editors too. The tech-
nology and music pages have been sen-
sational week and week on end and the
guys (and girl) editing them could not
be more awesome. They have come into
what can oftentimes be a rather stifling
environment for a newcomer and found
their place in a heartbeat. I am happy to
have worked alongside them for many
hours this year. I hope they stick around
of the wallpaper at my gran’s house in
Somerset. It has that rustic and antique
quality to it that the connoisseurs of
great and ancient wallpaper design
go nuts for. For me however, what
makes the place special is that sur-
real feeling of being back at boarding
school… long communal benches and
tables. Nothing says intimacy like en-
joying a delicious meal surrounded by
strangers. In this manner of new-wave
dining, I am able to obtain construc-
tive criticism from randoms about my
conversations with a significant other.
If I start swearing or mentioning her
weight, I can almost always observe a
face of disapproval or disgust nearby
that helps me give up the subject and
steer my conversation to something
less obnoxious. Genius.
And speaking of dining, food at da-
Vinci’s is clearly the highlight. The
restaurant has recently been known
to be operating a recession-proof
lunch menu from 12 to 2. One is able
to choose from a huge variety of inter-
national haute cuisine dishes at very
affordable prices. Food names like
‘chicken chausser’ are bound to be a hit.
If the names don’t do it for you though,
the sight of the delicacies placed upon
the silver trays will most definitely do.
It is rare to see ‘noir french fries’ in
most places, but this restaurant man-
ages to carbon cook them to perfec-
tion on almost daily basis. Served
with ‘radioactive orange’ chicken the
vibrant colours really are quite spec-
tacular. The manager obviously takes
your health into account and insures
portions remain smaller than a baby’s
fist just like all the supermodels love
(fact: Imperial breeds supermodels).
I felt at all times engaged by this eat-
ing experience. I think my favourite
part was queuing for the food. It made
me feel like part of a secret society of
thinkers and intellectuals that do not
need anyone to do anything for them.
Independent thought is the phrase of
the day here; the restaurant constantly
reminds us that good things come
only through hard work.
The dinner menu is an even more
upscale. An absolutely unforgetta-
ble evening can easily be had. Every-
thing on the menu is cooked to or-
der. When I say cooked, I mean put
in the microwave for thirty seconds,
because management is clearly in tune
with your time constraints and is fully
aware of your busy life. Cooking from
scratch would be too detrimental to
your schedule. Consistency in serving
times is something that all the staff
seem to be proud of.
The staff are usually elegant and
speak to you in completely unbro-
ken English an astounding 15% of
the time. They are clearly happy to
serve fellow students and friends in
what is not a completely humiliat-
ing experience. If you have never
been before I have to suggest the fa-
mous french traditional ‘mixed plat-
ter’ which includes a myriad of differ-
ent deep fried foods. It is hard to tell
what they are by taste or sight, but I
assume this was a deliberate choice by
the chef in an attempt to engage the
diner with all senses and enjoy an ex-
perience that resembles discovering a
new country. Each bite is preceded by
a little bit of fear, which definitely gets
the adrenaline going. With enough
care, I make out what seem to be on-
ion rings. They are cooked in 3 week
old oil. People around you may be say-
ing that the oil should be brand new,
but you known deep down they are
uncultured noveau-riche who do not
understand tradition and have no idea
what a coat of arms is. They do not
understand that just like meat needs
to be hung for a few weeks for maxi-
mum taste, oil must follow a similar
process. They probably also do not
enjoy the great feeling this delecta-
ble meal leaves in your stomach for
the next three days. I for one under-
stand the chef’s psyche and know for a
fact he wants the restaurant to leave a
lasting impression on you. Overall,
there is nothing to fault about this
place and I must congratulate whoev-
er runs it. I shall return soon but not
too soon for I am still overwhelmed.
Bravo!
F
or many decades now, the
Imperial College elite (read
best, brightest, richest, pret-
tiest, skinniest) has been
dining in style while you’ve
been stuck in the MDH, JCR or SCR.
I am absolutely sure that as avid read-
ers of this section you are included
in this intangible elite, and have been
lucky enough to try out the wide selec-
tion of food available daily at daVinci’s.
While this outstanding review is quite
possibly a complete and utter moot
point, I still think it is worth singing
high praise to this most venerable of
places, where anyone who is anyone
has ever sat down for a meal with the
inherent capacity to change lives.
There are a few things I would very
much like to put on a pedestal in this
little but hopefully enlightening piece.
These include but are not limited to:
the atmosphere and setting, the food
quality and the service. The famili-
arity with this trifecta of aforemen-
tioned details is obviously ubiquitous
throughout the campus, but again, not
enough can be said about the place as
a whole.
From the second one walks into the
restaurant, one is inundated by a feel-
ing of calm, happiness and familiarity. I
am not one hundred percent sure what
does it for me, but perhaps it has some-
thing to do with the black walls and
blue LEDs. Maybe it’s the absolute-
ly delightful wallpaper that reminds me
Serves 4
2 tbsp Harriet Harman
1 red faced Hazel Blears
2 cloves of Jacqui Smith’s garlic breath
400g cooked duck (Tory duck house reared)
150g frozen salaries
Handful of “within the rules”
200g of church donations
6 MPs, disgraced
In a large frying pan, throw Jacqui Smith’s porn videos and cook
until soft and golden. Add a mixture of public outrage and op-
portunism from fringe political parties like the BNP
. Cook until the
next General Election, or until the Cabinet get the balls to stab
Gordon in the back.
As soon as the expenses scandal hits the front pages, pretend
that you have always railed against political corruption and re-
brand yourself as a reformer. Place your proposals under a hot
grill for 2 minutes and then introduce proportional representation
thoughtlessly with no care for the consequences.
ExpensesScandal
Salad
for next term as well. As it is inevitable,
some of the awesome staff here is leav-
ing, probably to count money at some
investment bank or build tree houses in
Norfolk... wherever they are going, and
whatever they are going to do, I wish
them the best of luck.
This actually opens up many vacancies
here. I do hope that if you ever had any
inclination to write for felix, you do. Get-
ting involved in this thing at the begin-
ning of my first year was the best thing
I have done at this foresaken university
(and also possibly the silliest). In fact,
Food is looking for a new editor as I will
be venturing on to something new and
different come the next academic term.
If you have a passion for gastronomy or if
you just enjoy all the pleasures of eating
and its benefits, get in touch. It would be
great to have you around. You may even
be able to score free meals at some of the
city’s best restaurants and get to review
them. Next year is Felix’s 60th anniver-
sary and even though Dan, the new edi-
tor still, has not officially taken over, it is
shaping up to be incredible.
It’s all over. Drop the books, ditch the
nerdy glasses and have an amazing holi-
day. Be bold. Eat horses’ testicles, drink
snake blood, nibble on scorpions, imbibe
rice wine in Indonesia... whatever you do,
do something different. It sounds long,
but 15 weeks are over in a heartbeat.
Haute cuisine at daVinci’s
Alfonson Camponan visits Imperial’s best kept secret
daVinci’s HHHHH
Imperial Colle Union, SW7 2BB
www.imperialcollegeunion.org
Best bits: The people, the food,
the atmostphere... too much to
mention.
Worst bits: Not having any bad
things to say about it for the
review
Price: £95 inc. canned drinks
Diners deep in thought... just what the chef ordered...
21
Friday 19 June 2009 felix

