news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 19 June 2009 felix
News
4 felix Friday 19 June 2009
felix review of the year ‘09
the felix news team go through this year’s news and pick out the best bits, in comic book form...
Let’s start at the start. At the begin-
ning of the year a bunch of our stu-
dents had to live at a Thames Val-
ley University Hall called Paragon.
Bit of a balls-up by accommoda-
tion but they eventually got moved
into Imperial Halls.
Then there was that Palestinian
student Zohair Abu-Shaban. He
had a scholarship to do Electri-
cal Engineering at Imperial but he
couldn’t leave Gaza. Eventually he
escaped by boat and he’s going to
start his course next year.
That’s you just wanting to show off your news pieces
Kadhim. Both matters got resolved though, which
was good. A few of the freshers came to Southwell
and they seem to have settled in nicely.
One of the best stories was when the Canoe Club
saved a man’s life. Apparently he was having a bit
of trouble in the water and they dived straight in.
Legends.
Unlike the Football Club, they made the headlines
for smashing up pubs in Hammersmith. People were
not best pleased. They ended up doing community
service.
Then we had some really good news in Novem-
ber. We won Best Newspaper at the Guardian
Student Media Awards and last year’s Editor
Tom Roberts won Journalist of the Year. Angry
Geek and iScience both came runners up for
Best Columnist and Best Magazine.
That was the first term, and while we were
relaxing over Christmas a couple of Geology
students were busying getting fined by the
Chinese government for “illegal map-making”.
They were doing geological surveys as part of
their course and the College agreed to pay the
fine for them. Win!
We finally got to meet the new Rector in he
Spring term. He was a bit of dude wasn’t he?
Sure he said some pretty controversial stuff
about increasing fees and privatising universi-
ties to be like Yale and Harvard but still, bit of
a dude.
There were some more problems with football teams, even after the
Hammersmith incidents. The Gaelic Football team were a bit aggressive
in the Union and chanting stuff about the IRA… definitely not cool.
It seems like violence was a bit of an ‘in-thing’ this year. There was a bust
up at House of Coffees and one guy got hit over the head with a chair.
The worst is that there was a girl in crutches who got showered with
broken glass and had a cut on her forehead.
But it wasn’t all bad news with sport. Varsity was a great success as
usual, even if the Medics won the JPR Williams Cup again.
That’s not funny
So what happend
with the medic’s this
year Dina?
Well, a surgeon at St
Mary’s took out the wrong
organ. She was meant
to have a gynaecological
operation but got her gall
bladder removed instead.
Then a consultant tried to
poison his pregnant girl-
friend in order to make her
miscarry. It goes without
saying that he’s been dis-
qualified from working at
St Mary’s.
On a more lighthearted
note, a Medic student went
on the ITV show “The Col-
our of Money”. Almost
nobody watches it and
unfortunately the student,
Sumera Shaheny went
home empty handed.
To end a year of mishaps
for Medicine at Imperial,
it turned out in May that a
taxi-firm had conned Impe-
rial College NHS Trust out
of £280,000. Employees at
Lewis Day Courier made
up fake journeys and then
invoiced the Trust for them.
So basically Medics are
better than IC at rugby but
shit at everything else?
Perfect
In the final term it seems like things kept getting shutdown. On top of
the Humanities cuts, the library in the Aero Department was closed
down. People really got annoyed about the Humanities cuts, there was
a huge protest (well around 100 people), a petition with over 1,000 sig-
natures and a council motion opposing the cuts but it’s not clear if the
College are actually going to pay attention.
Also students cycling into the bike rakes outside Blackett were fined by
police officers one afternoon for going on the pavement for a couple
of metres. And there were a few dodgy dealings in the ACC with the
clubs belonging to the ACC Chair and the ACC Treasurer getting big
increases in their budget… bit below board I think.
Obviously we had elections for Sabbs as
well. Ashley Brown won President, Danny Hill
won Deputy President Finances & Services,
John James won Deputy President Welfare,
Jonathan Silver won Deputy President Educa-
tion and Jenny Wilson won Deputy President
Clubs and Societies. I don’t remember who
won felix Editor can you?

