8 felix Friday 19 June 2009
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 19 June 2009 felix
Comment
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
S
o this is it, my last issue. The 18 month
journey that started in January 2008 is
slowly but surely reaching the end, and I
feel that an editorial is appropriate.
To start off with, I would like to apolo-
gise for the length of this article, although I might
get this wrong and it might end up being quite
short! But the fact of the matter is that there has
been a lot on my mind, a lot of issues that have
been burning away, which I have held back, mainly
because I was unsure of the consequences it might
have on the paper. But then again, this is the last
issue, what’s the worst that can happen.
Let’s start from the beginning. The first term is
always full of optimism! Whether you are a first
year student, a returning student or a graduate
who has, for some bizarre reason, decided to stay
on for one more year to run the student newspa-
per, all of you will feel optimistic. “This will be a
new year” you say to yourself, “things will be differ-
ent” you reassure yourself. This optimism vanishes
as quickly as it appeared, as soon as you step foot
on the campus, it is gone. I, for one, was optimistic
that our new sabbatical team will be different this
year, that they will show themselves as the voice of
the students and not just someone who is doing the
job for their own gain! To me, this means showing
your face every now and then, and what better way
to start than the Freshers’ Week nights. Alas, they
did not go. The only ones to make it were myself,
Hannah Theodorou and Mark Chamberlain, the
last of which is the ICSMSU President and even
he managed to come to our Union to show that he
was there for the Medical students. If you want to
get the students involved with the Union, then you
have to show your face, it’s your bloody job! You
are there to represent the students, how can you
represent them if you do not know who they are?
So it wasn’t the best of starts for them, but at least
they did make it up as the year went on, most of
them that is; Carter (DPFS) still manages to get in
at 10:00 and leave at 16:00 without fail, also trying
to find him during those hours is also a fun game!
My advice to next year’s Sabbatical Officers, GO
TO THE EVENTS AT FRESHERS’ WEEK! Show
your face, wear brightly coloured shirts, wear your
badges, show them who you are and that you are
easily accessible.
As for me, I was full of high hopes that this year
will be a good one, all I wanted to do, was expose
the problems that I thought existed within our Un-
ion. All credit to Tomo, he did an excellent job last
year but there were a few stories that I though he
should have ran but there was, of course, the fear
that we would be sued or that the paper would be
impounded. This fear was manifested from the
Students’ Union, who came down to the office and
basically told us that we can’t write that. The result
of that was the birth of the gag and an interesting
front page that was blank but for a few words. We
had been censured, the cat had been gagged and
for every issue since then, our logo has had a gag
over the mouth and we’ve written ‘news’paper. I for
one was outraged at this, not the act of gagging the
cat, but the act of being told what you can and can-
not write. This all boils down to the Student-Staff
protocol which protects the Union staff from any
criticism in an open forum i.e. media! My argument
has always been that they are here to serve the stu-
dents of the Union, therefore if they do not do their
jobs properly and it has an impact on the student
population, then the students have a right to know.
This is essentially what annoyed me because the
members of staff could continue to fail at their jobs
and were getting away with providing a sub stand-
ard service. So I kept the gag, kept the design and
went in with the mentality that if something similar
came up again, then I would actually print it.
Just in case you are interested, the stories that we
were told not to print included the old bar man-
ager allegedly beating up a student at the bar when
drunk and that some money had gone missing from
the safe. Ooops, not sure if you guys were meant to
know that!
So for those of you who might have been wonder-
ing why the cat was gagged and all that, now you
know!
But what has been achieved since the cat had
been gagged? Have we done enough to ungag the
cat? I think we have, which is why there is a brand
new look. If you ever needed any proof, then here is
a list of some of the problems we have had this year:
• Formal reprimands from the Union
• College complaints over the Horoscopes
(lol!)
• Threats of lawsuits from Union Enter-
tainment Department (threats, meaning
they thought about it and realised that
they can’t win!)
• Threats of lawsuits from Union Finance
Department
• Complaints from Union Catering Depart-
ment (mega lolz!)
• Threats of ‘no-confidence’ vote over
Hangman articles (again, thought about
doing it, then changed his mind!)
There are more, but the whole page would be
filled which would be pointless, but the message is
clear; if you don’t do your job properly, you will be
criticised. Oh, and before any of you say that I’m
just being a moaning git, I have been criticised for
my work. In case you haven’t noticed, we have had
a few spelling fails this year; several of you have
come down to the office to point out the mistakes,
yet none of you offered to help out, instead you
just moaned how the spelling was atrocious and
left very quickly when I asked you if you wanted
to help us out! Apart from the spelling mistakes,
there are those of you (all 13 that is) who complain
that I don’t write enough about the matters that
are affecting the students, like the latest change to
paragraph seven, line two of Section B in the Impe-
rial College Union Constitution. The reason I don’t
write about crap like that is that people couldn’t
care less what needs to be put on official voting
posters or arguing for two hours over wether or not
we should twin with a university in Gaza and then
there being an overwhelming rejection of the pa-
per. People will not care about any of this because
the fact of the matter is that students are too apa-
thetic over what the hacks do in the Union. Luckily
for me there are, however, people who are willing to
write about that sort of stuff.
Live! has developed a reputation for covering
the more serious (read boring) stories that go on
around our campus. Saying it’s boring is probably
a bit too harsh, but from experience, I find writing
them incredibly boring mainly because I couldn’t
care less what they do, unless it actually affects the
students directly; the ACC Scandal story springs to
mind! At the same time, despite the fact that some
of them might seem boring, some are incredibly
useful for the students to know, which is why there
is a need to develop a relationship with Live!. We
are very fortunate to have a wide range of media
outlets at Imperial, and I see no reason why we
can’t work together, after all we are all trying to get
the news to the students. So I would like to take this
opportunity to thank Live! for making my life a little
bit easier and not having to put me though writ-
ing those stories, yet at the same time, thank them
for providing the initial information from which to
build a story on!
Carrying on with the gratitude, I have to thank
my entire staff. Throughout the year we had up to
40 people working on the paper (not many copy
editors mind (p.s. Louise thanks for always being
there)) which is an amazing achievement. Without
them, we would have nothing but a four page paper
full of news, which would be incredibly boring. I
can not take any credit for the paper this year, the
fact of the matter is that I am here to put all of the
pieces together, regardless of where the source is,
so a massive thank you to everyone who was in-
volved this year, you have all been amazing and I
hope that you can carry on with the great work
next year. I would also like to make a special note
of three particular members of my team, firstly my
managerial team. Kadhim and Gilead have been
absolutely amazing this year, always there to give
me a helping hand and go over the finer points of
some of the more problematic stories. I am indebt-
ed to their contribution this year. Finally, I would
like to create a little felix award for the best editor
this year and will hopefully get a tankard set up for
them. This year, there has been one person who has
gone beyond anything that I have ever expected,
even travelling thousands of miles to cover a story.
The Technology section has been an incredible
success and has included reports from as close as
Birmingham and as far as Las Vegas (yes, he actu-
ally went to Las Vegas for a Technology fair!). He
has consistently provided content of a high quality
and so this year’s felix Editor Award goes to Richard
Lai! My final set of thanks go to the various peo-
ple who have been helpful on a multitude of levels:
Alex McKee for his technical support when things
have gone bad with the computers as well as help-
ing out with the new digital archive (which will be
done in November, keep an eye out), same goes for
Phil Power and finally, I’d like to thank Alissa Ay-
ling for helping us out with the felix Sports League
which is proving to be extremely popular.
A quick note about this week’s issue, we have
given it a bit of a light-hearted touch, everything
has been done in a much more relaxed manner and
we hope you enjoy it (p.s. seeing as there is little
sport going on now, the sport section has been very
creative with its content this week, as has most of
the paper!).
That’s about it from me; my final note goes to next
year’s editor Dan Wan. I wish him the best of luck
next year and would like to offer him this advice; do
not be scared to print what is necessary. If someone
in the Union isn’t doing their job and it is affecting
the student body, let the students know. The same
can be said for the members of the College, prob-
ably one area I didn’t focus on enough this year! I
would also strongly recommend that you not only
continue building a relationship between felix and
Live!, but with all of the media sources at Imperial
so that our media output is a string voice to the
students.
The Cat is free, let’s keep it that way!
Nothing more left for me to say apart from it’s
good-bye from me, and hello from him...
I
sometimes need to pinch myself to
realise I have been at university for
two years. As I muse over these last
couple of years, I try to think what
I’ve actually done with my time.
College data files and records will tell of
a below -average student bumbling his
through a Biology degree.
Between the heady hours of lym-
phocytes, nematodes and actinomyosin
mechanisms, I’ve been doing what I’ve
been most proud to have done at Impe-
rial. It is exactly what I’m doing now; writ-
ing for felix.
I have written under two great Edi-
tors, Tom Roberts and Jovan Nedic. Both
have had a firm grip on the scruff of Felix
the cat’s neck. Their commitment to the
newspaper has been outstanding, and has
been evidenced every Friday when a new
issue arrives around College.
Tom “the Bob” Roberts will be leaving
Imperial this year after somehow scrap-
ing out a Physics degree from bottom-
less pit that is his abilities. He shall leave
in the highest regard, not only amongst
felix writers and readers, but the nation’s
media industry. Under his Editorship last
year, felix won Guardian Student News-
paper of the Year. Alongside that, the
Guardian awarded him Student Journal-
ist of the Year. He’s also the brains and
founder of Imperial’s own gaming maga-
zine Another Castle, and hence I’m sure
he needs no luck in finding employment
after he graduates. The prick.
This year, Jovan has arguably had a
harder task as Editor. Keeping up with ex-
pectations and reputations of an award-
winning newspaper is not an easy feat.
He could have easily suffered from ‘sec-
ond-time syndrome’, but instead has kept
a steady ship throughout this academic
year. He has ruthlessly lifted the lid on the
many aspects of College and the Union
that needed bringing to account, and that
is the true-calling of a student journalist.
Through these two people though, I
have learnt many a lesson. But on behalf
of the entire felix team, I sincerely thank
both Tomo and Jovan for the hours they
have spent in the dungeon that is the felix
office as Editor-in-Chiefs. Felix would be
a fraction of its current form in terms of
reputation, quality and readership with-
out these two Editors.
Next year however, it will be my lap that
Felix the cat will reside on. Depending on
my exam results, you shall see a felix next
year which will be refreshed and purring,
awaiting the new Freshers’ arrival and
beyond.
IamnotmistakeninthinkingbeingEd-
itor will be an easy task. It is an immense-
ly difficult one. It will be a spirit-sapping
challenge to get to the printing deadline
with a newspaper I will be satisfied with.
One good enough to release to the masses
of Imperial each week. However, my two
years as Fashion and now News Editor
have taught me I’ll enjoy the many rushes
and stresses that it will bring me.
The very being of felix is not possible
without the contributions of so many
people each week though. The receiving,
reading and discussing of people’s articles
is one of the most fascinating aspects of
editing for felix. I love seeing the diversity
of activity and opinion that comes from
the people at Imperial. Hence, I hope
contributions will continue into next
year because I’m definitely proud to pub-
lish them.
So this is my early call-out to everyone
that wants to contribute. I’ve been recent-
ly been made aware that a lot of people
want to write for felix, but either don’t
know how, or feel they don’t know what
to write about. Just write. Write to argue
a case, to fight a cause, to show off, what-
ever. You can definitely tell when some-
thing is written with enthusiasm and
that’s pretty much what most writing is
based on. felix rarely, if ever, reject a con-
tribution. I’d only reject a contribution if
it’s blatantly offensive. Even if you think
you can’t write, you probably can. Even if
you genuinely can’t, well, that’s what the
Editors are there for!
Felix doesn’t particularly look for pieces
that are of the highest journalistic or nar-
rative quality. It looks for writing that is of
interest to you, the writer, and inevitably
others. A student newspaper should rep-
resent the interests across a student body;
and you’re the only ones that can provide
that. I wouldn’t say I’m a great writer by
any means. I just started writing because
I enjoyed it.
We’re all scientists, engineers and med-
ics. We’re not writers. In a way, this works
to our advantage. Everything we write
is contributing nothing towards our de-
grees, but a lot towards being part of Col-
lege life. I see felix as weekly snapshot of
life at Imperial College.
If you haven’t written for felix before,
I hope next year will seem like an open
opportunity. Don’t wait for editors to
ask. Do the writing first, and then email
it over to felix@imperial.ac.uk. It’s actu-
ally that simple. As I said, it’s not like
we’ll send it back with a giant metaphori-
cal red “REJECT” rubber stamp on it. I’ll
then direct it to the appropriate section
of the newspaper, and we’ll tart it up for
publication.
For those that are really serious about
getting involved with felix, there’s going
to be various editorial roles vacant come
October. With the inevitable cut in hu-
manities options next year, you might
need something else on your degree to
justify your (my) 2:2 honours. Being able
to edit and layout a newspaper is a useful
addition to your ever-expanding skillset,
and hey, you might even start to enjoy it.
It’s all fun and games down in the of-
fice, which is located downstairs in Beit’s
West Wing. Just head towards the lawn
in Beit Quad, and just before you get to
it, turn left. We’re through the doors and
down the stairs. There’s loads of cool
people to meet and talk with, and the
door is quite literally always open, so just
waltz in at any hour of the day (and half
the time, night). Failing that, I’ll always
be there, undoubtedly with my eerie yet
welcoming Cheshire cat grin.
So with another year over, here comes
the three months of anything that isn’t
Imperial College. Unlike most though, I
don’t get a real summer, as I’ve got to start
on this year’s Freshers’ Handbook. You
know, that thing you got in the post as a
bright-eyed Sixth Former but never really
read. Oh yeh, that thing.
L
ast Sunday, I went on an
adventure.Now, when I say
adventure, I may be exag-
gerating just a tad. I had
woken up with the desire
to see Hampstead Heath, or rather, to
see the view from Hampstead Heath
which I’ve heard is quite spectacu-
lar. My adventure might not have the
scope of Middle Earth, or the religious
overtones of Narnia, but, I realised, it
still made a damn good allegory.
Here we are, coming to the end of
another year at Imperial. For me, my
first year is coming to a close. Frankly,
I can’t believe it. It seems like only yes-
terday that I moved into halls, fresh-
eyed, bushy-tailed and with only a me-
diocre recipe for beans on toast under
my belt. Now, I’m a little older, (hope-
fully) a little wiser and a little more
competent in the kitchen. Exactly how
did I get here?
I began my journey to Hampstead
Heath on the cultured pavements of
Exhibition Road. I mingled with tour-
ists as I passed by the erudite edifices
of the Natural History Museum and
the V&A. I knew to get there, indeed,
anywhere in London, I’d need to take
the Tube. The Underground has al-
ways seemed a bit alien to me. You de-
scend into the darkness, impenetrably
deep, to be whisked off by iron hors-
es to a far-flung destination at high
speed, guided by the ethereal music of
the buskers. The escalators in Leices-
ter Square Station are just another
rabbit-hole.
It reminds me of my first days here.
To an outsider like me, London was
a big and scary place. There were so
many places to go, so many places to
be. It sometimes seemed that London
was merely a collection of landmarks
connected only by tour-bus routes.
And Imperial itself, with its myriads
of students. Never mind the architec-
ture, it was easy enough to get lost in
the people.
First the Piccadilly and then the
Northern Line took me to my destina-
tion. I emerge somewhere in Camden
and am greeted by very unfamiliar sur-
roundings. I know I’m still in London.
I’m always in London. With my A-Z
map in hand, I stride forwards boldly
into the unknown. In his travels, the
hero journeys to unknown lands, in-
habited by strange peoples.
By the second term, I had settled in
to some extent. I had acquainted my-
self with my colleagues and the rel-
evant stops on the Underground. I was
beginning to feel comfortable, like I
knew where I was in the big city. But
London and Imperial still had more to
offer and to throw at me. I’ve been
stripped to waist and shown where
my Xiphisternum is; I’ve been offered
Charlie five steps after a bunch of
roses; I’ve asked City Bankers for mon-
ey at five in the morning. I am indeed a
stranger in a strange, strange land.
Eventually, I reached Hampstead
Heath. But there’s more to go. Elevated
as it is, I need to go higher, to the top
of Parliament Hill to take in the capi-
tal. I soldier on up the hill as families
and friends enjoy the summer on ei-
ther side of me. The climb isn’t par-
ticularly steep but, combined with the
heat raining down on me, is enough to
bring sweat to my brow. Almost there,
I mutter, almost there. The climax
of the tale, wherein the hero battles
countless foes, slays the dragons and
wins fair ladies’ hearts. The darkest
hour is just before the dawn – even if,
scientifically, it’s actually in the middle
of the night.
The third term lay in the shadow of
the valley of death – that is, exams. I
watched as cool, well-adjusted stu-
dents (Well, by Imperial’s standards)
dissolve into neurotic bags of paranoia
and insomnia. In lectures, part of my
mind wondered, would this be on the
exam? Was there any point in learn-
ing this? As May gave way to June, life
became an ever-more delicate balance
between learning the current work
and revising the work of the previous
two terms, and sleep was entirely op-
tional. It culminated in my first year’s
exams, five days of diarrhoea, mental
and otherwise.
Back on the Heath, I finally made it to
the top. Like Orpheus, I had to piously
resist the temptation to glance back at
where I had come. Only when I was at
the summit did I turn to gaze. The view
was everything I had been told it was.
From the City in the east to Crystal
Palace in the west, via St Paul’s and the
London Eye, I could “see the world in
a grain of sand.” With my head down,
hurrying across to the Charing Cross
campus for another Anatomy lecture,
London just seems like a ubiquitous,
amorphous mass of bricks and people.
But up on the Heath, you get to see the
creature whose arteries you walk down
every day. It’s almost soulful.
In a book, this would be the end of
story, the journey completed. But, cli-
ché as it may be, this is far from the
end. Imperial and I have many more
years together yet. And I can’t wait!
So yes, for most of us now, the exams
are over. Woohoo! To those still burn-
ing the midnight oil in the library, good
luck. To everyone else, have a great
summer and (with any luck) I’ll see you
again in October!
Rhys Davies goes on an end-of-year adventure
“If you haven’t
written for
felix before,
I hope next
year will seem
like an open
opportunity”
“I’ve been
stripped to waist
and shown
where my
Xiphisternum is”
Editor in prowling, Dan Wan, needs you
Jovan Nedić
Editor in Chief
Reaching the end of
the road

