politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 felix Friday 19 June 2009
Politics
Politics Editors – James Goldsack & Katya-yani Vyas
Above: the old Union logo with the new one below it
Haxor McRandy
Hacks spend hours arguing
over £1 for IC Boat Club
Major changes in Union
Political structure
At the last meeting of the Imperial
College Union Council, some major
changes were made to the Constitution
and the management structure. After
a 15-hour meeting, which included
a heated debate over a new Imperial
College Union logo and its slogan, the
Council finally agreed upon certain
changes to the Constitution, docu-
ment which governs the running of the
Union.
One of the major changes included
changing the Union’s logo from the
‘Blue Swish’ to the new and improved
‘Block’ design, as can be seen in the
picture adjacent. The biggest protest to
the new logo came from Deputy Presi-
dent (Finance & Services), Christian
Charles Elizabeth Chigsworth Carter,
who questioned the grammar used in
the new slogan “Actualising student
potential; always”, however, after con-
soltation with the felix Editor, Jovan
Žarko Kalashnikov Nedić, it was found
that “both the speling and gramer was
perfect [sic x 10].”
Other changes that were made in-
cluded changes to Page 3, Section A,
Part X, Paragraph 12, line 2, word 9 of
the constitution where they changed it
to ‘there’ and Page 3, Section A, Part X,
Paragraph 12, line 3, word 12 to ‘sexual
needs’, so that the whole paragraph
now reads:
“The Deputy President (Education
& Welfare) will be there for the sexual
needs of the students of Imperial Col-
lege Union.”
One student welcomed the changed
saying that the current DPEW is “well
hot innit bro” and that he would “smash
that!”. However, one second year medi-
cal student said that “I wouldn’t touch
the new DPW (Jonathan Silver) with a
barge pole. This is just an attempt by
the Union hacks to get with some girls
when we all know that they haven’t got
a chance in hell. It’s nothing more than
student politics gone mad!”
Although there was some criticism
of the decisions made in Council, most
of them have been ignored with Coun-
cil Chair Afonso Costa Campos ex-
plaining that “the numbers lodging the
complaint were nor quorate and thus
their motion was unable to be eligible
in Council”. Many senior hacks have
doubts over this decision and are look-
ing into the strange activities of Mr
Camp(os), which include buying the
election in which he won the Council
Chair last year (felix Issue 1,405).
In other news, there have been ru-
mours that next year’s ICU President
Ashley Brown, has decided to drasti-
cally change the personnel at the Un-
ion. Every member of staff has been
fired, except for the felix Editor elect as
Mr Brown is scared of what the man
can do, and have been replaced by
Oompa Loompas. Mr Brown told felix
that:
“It was the logical solution in the
current economic climate. Mr Wonka
clearly demonstrated that Oompa
Loopmas were very diligant and loyal
workers, and that they would obey
whatever their master would say.”
Although this is a bold move by the
bawlding President-elect, many ques-
tion whether or not this was just an
attempt to make him feel bigger than
he really is. This fact has mainly been
overlooked as more students were con-
cerned as to what the Union would be
serving. When asked about this, Mr
Brown told felix that:
“We will open a new confectionary
shop in the Union to take advantage of
the skills of the Oompa Lumpas, how-
ever, we will also be aiming to improve
the quality of service offered through-
out the Union, including Entertain-
ment, Catering and Finance.”
Only time will tell if the promises
made by Mr Brown will be true.
(ED: Most or all of the facts in this
article are false, however, some of it is
true. Find out more next year, possibly!)
Ashley Brown with his new working force
Wayne Kerr
The Hacks, see definition courtesy of
Live! had one of their best meetings a
couple of weeks ago when the Clubs
and Societies Board (CSB) met to dis-
cuss budget appeals.
From the Athletics Club Committee
(ACC), two clubs logged an appeal in
the hope of getting a larger grant than
they were originally assigned by the
ACC Chair and the ACC Treasurer
earlier that month. The Football Club
asked for an increase of £1,400 to cover
their large travel expendatures, whilst
the Boat Club asked for £3,350 more
after they felt hard done by when they
only received roughly £10,000 of the
£70,000 they asked for (Ed: they were
never going to get the full amount!).
It was decided that the Football Club
would receive the full amount, howev-
er, the initial claim of £3,350 from the
Boat Club was rejected. There is no
doubt in anyone’s mind that the Boat
Club contribute greatly to the Col-
lege, bringing in more BUCS points
than the rest of the clubs combined
(a fact they know far too well!), and
they need the money to continue this
Dictionary
hack |häk|
noun
1: Within Imperial College Union, a hack
is one intensely involved in union politics,
usually with an unhealthy knowledge of the
union’s procedures or constitution. Hacks
tend to form a clique, which may seem im-
penetrable to outsiders. Any members of
the student media covering political issues
are also hacks, by virtue of understanding
what is going on. (Ed: except felix writers!)
Origin: live.cgcu.net
H
high standard. After hours of arguing,
which included certain Hacks arguing
that certain changes were not consti-
tutional, the CSB eventually decided to
give the Boat Club £3,349, £1 less than
they originally asked for.
This writer wonders what was the
fucking point of wasting so much time
for a pound. Hacks fail yet again!
H
e’s 10 feet 5 inches tall,
you know, and that‘s
without shoes on. I’m
talking about Barack of
course, who else? Yes,
I can call him Barack, we are on first
name terms, and no, you cannot, he
doesn’t like you.
In other news, Brown (Gordon, not
Ashley, you silly silly hacks) was seen
buying large quantities of compost last
week lending credibility to the rumour
that he is undertaking transfiguration
classes at Hogwarts in an attempt to
spy on his rivals. It is believed that he
has chosen the form of a fly as his dis-
guise. The evidence is stacking up...
David Cameron has been overheard
complaining about the fact that flies
seem to be constantly circling above
his head, nothing to do with the stench
of hipocrisy emanating from him of
course...
In the recent expenses row it came
out that Hazel Blears has been claim-
ing for fly spray and fly swatters, when
questioned about the odd purchases,
she only commented that Gordon
Brown needed them for his tendency
to speak/breathe/exist. Coincidence?
Perhaps the most compelling evi-
dence involves Demi-God Barack
Obama. No doubt you will have heard
the furore over Obama vanquishing a
fire-breathing dragon merely by look-
ing at it with mild amusement. Well
it seems that he has now developed
a new super-power to add to his ever
growing arsenal. Yes, thats right, with
one swipe of his hand, he is able to
render even the most persistent of flies
unconcious.
Barry (yes, I can call him Barry)
knocked a fly for six in an interview
recently, prompting speculation that
he is not actually human, but rather
a descendant of some kind of alien
super-race.
Interestingly ‘not-so-flash’ Gordon
turned up at Downing Street the next
day with two black eyes, a broken arm,
multiple rib fractures and what looked
like a prosthetic leg.
The buzz in London is that ‘paper
bag’ Brown was attempting to gain
an insight into what charisma is from
his counter-part across the swamp.
My advice, Prime-minister, is that you
should talk to Sir Peter Viggers about
hiring out his duck island, take some
time off, reconnect with nature, learn
how to dodge like a real fly!
Ok, so, Gordon’s a lost cause, let’s
face it, he’s less popular than malaria.
What we Brits need to concentrate on
now is trying to get Bazza to ditch the
US and come over here to swat all our
flies, I don’t know about you but they’re
getting pretty damned annoying.
It seems that the Royals are doing
their bit, inviting the Obama’s over to
the palace for tea. Michelle Obama
even went in for a hug with the Queen.
Obama was about to follow suit and
give Phillip a cuddle, luckily the D of
E mistook the gesture for an excuse to
show of his new break-dancing moves.
Don’t do things like that Barack, don’t
you know uselessness is contagious.
So, in conclusion, Obama has signed
a contract to be a judge on the X-fac-
tor whilst Gordon Brown has eloped
with Susan Boyle, current location
unknown.
Katya-yani Vyas
Politics Editor
I was a ginger
baby
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Business
Business Editor – Luke Dhanoa
Luke Dhanoa
Business Editor
As I was walking towards college, late
for my group meeting, a homeless
gentleman asked me if I could spare
some change. And as I was about to
explain that I couldn’t and shuffle on
embarrassedly it occurred to me that
this pungent gentleman was in a bet-
ter financial position than I was in. In
fact he was in a much better financial
position than most of the students at
Imperial…
An entities net worth (or equity) is
the difference between their assets
(stuff they can sell in the long or short
term) and their liabilities (money you
owe). This gives us ALE, the account-
ing equation:
Assets – Liabilities = Equity
For the homeless man, who has no li-
abilities, equity and assets are the same
thing. So the Homeless man I saw had
a net worth equal to that of his clothes,
his money and his dog.
For your average final year student,
things are worse. Assets are essentially
anything that exists in the students
flat, and liabilites are anything that the
student owes i.e. a huge student loan.
A final year students net worth will
only be greater than zero if they have
worked a job during their time at Uni
that has paid off most of their debt –
i.e. once every million years. Other-
wise the greatest net value that a final
year student can have is zero – here’s
how:
Case 1: You took out a student
loan.
All the stuff you bought with your stu-
dent loan has been decreasing in value
as you were using it (depreciation) and
so even if you tried to sell it all you
would never get the full amount back.
Add to that all the money you spent on
food and drink (which didn’t give you
anything useful apart from prolonged
life) and it is clear that taking a stu-
dent loan massively decreases your net
worth over four years.
Case 2: Mummy and Daddy paid
for everything.
Anything bought by your parents (or
with their money) doesn’t count as
yours and so isn’t an asset. In that case,
your best case scenario is to have ab-
solutely no assets, no liabilities and so
exactly zero net worth.
Since most people are a combina-
tion of the two it is clear that the av-
erage leavers net worth cannot exceed
zero. And since the homeless man has
clothes, spare change and a dog, he is
in a better financial position to you.
But chin up soon-to-be-graduates;
the homeless man is doing ridiculously
well these days. Consider the fate of
the major companies that fell befoul
of subprime mortgages: most of these
institutions are also worth less than the
homeless man. HBOS, Lehman Broth-
ers, JP Morgan and Citibank all had
negative net value over the last twelve
months, whereas our homeless man
stayed consistently in the black with his
rags, loose change and dog heavy port-
folio. In fact that simple, diversified,
steady portfolio has seen the homeless
man rise in value against GM, Chrys-
ler, AIG and countless other firms.
And not just by marginal amounts. De-
spite these companies having received
billions of dollars of government bail-
outs, the homeless man still outvalued
these companies – with little or no
government help. Armed only with a
sympathy-evoking canine and a stench
that charms pennies from purses, the
humble homeless man has managed to
outperform some of the largest com-
panies on earth, comprised of some of
the best minds of their generation.
The unsinkable
value of the
homeless man
felix takes a look at how much poorer you
are than homeless people
Homeless men
have risen in
value against
GM, Chrysler,
AIG, and
countless other
firms.
And homeless women have done
even better, because on top of the as-
sets of homeless men, homeless wom-
en have (I assume) bras, too.
For investors, this is frustrating. Not
just because of the performance gap
between the homeless and the down
stock market, but because there is no
real way for them to tap into the rock
solid dependability of homeless net val-
ues – though not from lack of trying.
After the burst of the Internet bubble
in 2001, bankers from Morgan Stanley
famously attempted to capitalise on the
“bankability” of homeless people by
“buying” them.* But because nobody
owned the homeless people in the
first place the bankers just gave some
money to the homeless people then
claimed them as a commodity. This
then boosted the homeless peoples as-
sets, skyrocketing their value. Traders
at the bank then decided to float these
new commodities on the stock market,
and because their value had been sky-
rocketing, investors bought up home-
less people in droves, expecting their
value trends to continue. However, at
around lunchtime, many of the home-
less bought some lunch with their new
found “wealth” which devastated their
asset base and ruined their value in the
market. The homeless person com-
modity then crashed spectacularly,
providing a lasting lesson about trying
to buy homeless folk.
*Not an actual historical event.
The last weekly news
round-up, you may cry
Rich Enough
This week the number of people
wealthy enough not to need to work
reached a twelve year high of 2.3 mil-
lion. The spike has been attributed
to Gordon Brown’s divinely-inspired
stewardship of the world economy
over this period. Increasingly many at
home and abroad have been able to
retire early, confident that they have
enough to stay wealthy for life.
The recent surge in the people’s
wealth has specifically been attributed
to rising consumer confidence as the
PM promised all voters a lick of brown
sugar if re-elected.
The French are currently ahead with
8.7% of their workforce not needing to
work, compared with the UK’s 7.1%.
This has caused their trade unions to
become increasingly jealous, meaning
that this week they had no specific rea-
son not to protest.
The protestors have not realised so
far that if they do more working and
less striking, they too could afford to
retire early, because they are French.
*May or may not be true.
Success at the European
Elections
Three weeks ago, felix was heavily crit-
icised for its endorsement of the BNP.
Angry students argued that since they
could never win a seat, we were only
damaging the chances of UKIP as our
second choice. Today we can say we
told you so, and are delighted to re-
port that the tireless crusaders of the
real interests of indigenous voters have
won two seats in the European Parlia-
ment. This has already been hailed by
ordinary people as a victory for seekers
of the truth against the fascist oppres-
sion of the mainstream parties, who
all conspire to keep their snouts in the
trough.
Over the last week, however, leading
economists have also joined the cho-
rus of enthusiasm arguing that their
economic policies offer the only true
hope for the future of Britain. Led by
beloved leader Gordon Griffin-Brown,
whose calls for ‘British Jobs for Brit-
ish People’ have energised the party
base; the BNP has already vowed to
stop all them immigrants, especially
them illigals, taking are jobs. This will
represent a major set-back for the big
corporations but lead to improved liv-
ing standards for indigenous British
people.
Economists are reminding us the
benefits don’t stop there either. Nor do
they stop at their other economic pol-
icy to end the ‘socially, economically
and politically damaging monopolies
now being established by the super-
market giants.’ Many of the BNP’s
social policies will also benefit the
economy. For instance, capital punish-
ment for those ‘caught red handed’ will
deter and thus reduce crime, increas-
ing public confidence. The optimistic
sentiments about the prospects for
BNP government following the next
general elections have gripped both of
the country’s non-Jewish economists.
Markets saw their weekly peak on
Thursday, in anticipation of the news.
Swine Flu
Just when we thought swine flu was
once again confined to where it be-
longs, a new wave of infections has
spread beyond Mexico. It appears the
new world order elitist conspirators,
who oppose rising economic opti-
mism, have reinstated the illness in or-
der to prolong the state of hysteria that
makes the public ignore violations of
their rights. Doctors are warning that
the disease remains extremely rare so
virus enthusiasts should still consider
choosing to be gay as their best bet. For
those who dislike illness, the advice re-
mains unchanged: avoid anyone with a
poncho or a lawnmower.
Broadband Broadened
The Government has announced
new plans to create a ‘Digital Britain’
where everyone has access to broad-
band internet. The plans are so good
that they cannot be trusted to existing
providers to offer interested clients, so
all users of the Internet will have to pay
for it. The plans also include renewed
efforts to fight piracy, which have been
welcomed by Mogadishu.
Recently speaking at Imperial College, Nick Griffin commented that he didn’t like the way that many of the
students were squinting at him, whilst he tiraded against “forrins, facists, pakis and all darkies in general”
“The French are
currently ahead,
with 8.7% of
their workforce
not needing to
work, compared
with the United
Kingdom’s more
modest 7.1%”
Sina Ataherian takes a brass-eyed look at this week’s
comings and goings in the business and political world
Stay away from these people
11
Friday 19 June 2009 felix

