12 felix Friday 19 June 2009
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
113
Friday 19 June 2009 felix
Arts
Shit Art: art that is shit/shite/wank
The last issue of felix arts that David, Emily and Caz will contribute to. A very sad prospect indeed, so for fun
Emily Wilson and Caz Knight are throwing tact to the wind to tell you what art to avoid
Critic # 1: Emily Wilson
The majority of what I’ve written
for the arts and culture pages of Felix
over the past two years has been very
polite and appreciative of everything
I’ve reviewed. Criticisms are construc-
tive and balanced, and always along-
side lots of compliments. But recently
I dissed Richter, and it felt good. So for
my final ever (will you miss me, read-
ers?) issue as an arts editor, I am going
to unleash my rage and urge to bitch
mercilessly via the medium of... Shit
Art.
Photography
Let’s kick off with something con-
troversial. When I declared Gerhard
Richter to be shit, really I was think-
ing that all photography is shit. All you
have to do to be a photographer is a)
spend a lot of money on a wanky cam-
era (then show it off to all your pho-
tography geek mates), b) point it at
stuff (trees, buildings, famous people,
boobs), and c) press the button. Come
on – any moron can do that! If you’re
really clever you can add d) photoshop
it a bit. That’s it. It’d be a good way
of making art more accessible to the
mentally retarded. I don’t care if Pho-
toSoc form a lynch mob... you’re shit.
Sad Clowns
Ah, the sweet cliché that is the sad
clown. Nobody can argue here. Sad
clowns are awful, edging on scary, even
if done for ironic comedy value.
German Expressionism Art
I saw an exhibition in my innocent
teen years (cough) that involved a mix-
ture of Impressionism and Expression-
ism from all over Europe and beyond.
I noted that all the shittest ones were
German. Because I am a fair and bal-
anced journalists, I did look up Ger-
man Expressionists on t’interwebs, and
I genuinely cannot find any that aren’t
vile. They’re skanky mash-ups of lurid
colours that look like not a lot, though
they’re probably supposed to be stuff.
Thoroughly shit. Let’s face it – can
you name any good German artists?
Gerhard Richter’s German, for a start.
Right, I declare ALL German art to be
shit.
Tigers and Wolves
If your favourite animal is a tiger or
a wolf, you probably need to be shot.
Least not because you’re much more
like to own tiger/wolf “art”. You know
the kind I mean. They’re usually in
the snow, under moonlight and on the
back of a garment bought from a naff
market stall. Or tattooed on the arm of
a serial killer with no taste. I could add
“unicorns” and other offences to taste,
but it’s the tigers and wolves that get
to me.
Prints of Famous Paintings
While we’re talking about art you
might actually own... is there Shit
Art in your living room? What really
offends me is prints of Monet’s wa-
terlillies, Van Gogh’s chair, Renoir’s
‘Luncheon of the boating party’... IT’S
SO NAFF. Plus somebody might be
stupid enough to believe you own the
original, which would send my head
colliding with the nearest blunt object.
Please do the art world a favour and
burn your naff prints. Get something
tasteful. I was going to declare “art you
bought in Ikea” to be shit, but if it re-
places a naff print then I’ll tolerate it.
Artsy Films
You know, when you’re at Tate Mod-
ern and you turn a corner and find
yourself in a dark room showing a film?
They’re never good, are they? A mem-
orable highlight was when I to, I think,
the Tate at St Ives, and there was a film
of a man with a carrot wedged up his
arse, and he was wiggling about. That
was supposed to be art. WRONG. IT’S
NOT ART – it’s a man with a carrot
up his arse!! I also have mixed feelings
about that Dali film where somebody
cuts into their own eyeball, and ants
start crawling out of their hand. It gets
rolled out all too often, and it’s more
disgusting than anything else. Blergh.
Let’s bin it.
The Art in the Library
By popular request. Seriously, it’s a
library. Does it need art? No. Does it
need really shit art? Somebody (the
rector?) apparently thinks so.
YBAs
The Young British Artists, for those
whose lives have not been tarnished.
Think Damien Hirst, Tracey Emin...
basically any British twat who has
made millions by churning out a pile
of wank. I quite like certain Damien
Hirsts, but that’s not to say he isn’t a
massive twat on an epic scale. And
don’t get me started on Tracey Emin.
Alongside this article I was tempted to
photoshop a list of everyone I’ve ever
shagged onto a picture of my bed, but
I’m not a complete tosser so I am able
to refrain.
Wank Theatre
Look, if you do a Shakespeare play
where all the characters are suddenly
in Nazi uniforms, or you set it in the
future, it’s going to be shit. Leave The
Bard the fuck alone. Similarly, nobody
wants to see your interpretative dance.
Just don’t.
Celebrities in Art
If you’re a moron like Sam Taylor-
Wood (YBA twats strike again) then
you might think that a portrait of
David Beckham sleeping is good. And
if you’re Julain Opie you can appar-
ently achieve eternal admiration by
doing portraits of Blur, which seemed
good for about 5 minutes but are now
disgustingly over-exposed. Putting a
celebrity in your art will make you fa-
mous, but it doesn’t make you good.
‘Dali is my favourite artist’ or ‘Om-
igod, I love surrealism’
This is not Shit Art. I like both Dali
and surrealism as a movement. But I
hate hate HATE people who use these
phrases, because they’re guaranteed to
be epic cunts of the first order. Or re-
ally tragic teenage boys. Yes, Dali is a
very good artist, but there is OTHER
ART OUT THERE. Liking a few melt-
ing clocks does not make you “alter-
native” or “dark”, it makes me want to
punch you.
The Mona-Emily by famous art/inventor Lucy Harrold
Bling skull by YBA (Young Bullshit Artist) Damien Hirst
An example of German Expressionism, so shit it doesn’t deserve a title
Critic #2: Caz Knight
As an Arts editor I probably know
more than the next person about all
things of a cultural and artistic nature.
As one of Imperial College’s arts edi-
tors I definitely know a lot more about
things of a cultural and artistic nature
than the next Imperial student. So, for
the last issue of term I will take a break
from telling you about art worth seeing
and instruct you in what art to avoid:
shit art, basically. Here are my top five
offenders.
Francis Bacon.
His dying wish was to have his re-
mains put in a plastic bag and thrown
away. This artist was an atheist of the
“hardcore nihilistic” kind (yes, do note
my closed minded choice of words)
and sought to convey through his art
life has he saw it: one without God or
afterlife. This was a man riddled with
angst, living life in a state of “exhila-
rated despair” and this is brilliantly ob-
vious when examining his paintings.
Ok, Ok, so what the man wasn’t an
infuriating optimistic painting pictures
of buttercups and daisies and sunshine
(these would make for shit art, too) but
Bacon’s work is macabre, visceral and
nightmarish to the point of inducing
nausea. Although Bacon is undoubt-
edly skilled at his art, his art still stinks.
Of shit actually, as there is plenty of the
stuff depicted in his art work which is
not surprising as Bacon was gay. And
it’s quite hard to avoid shit when anal
sex comes up.
Cy Twombly.
Yet another revered artist who did
things like “pave the way” for new
types of painting after American Ab-
straction… whatever that may mean.
Basically, what Twombly does is get a
canvas or another surface appropriate
for making art on, and flick paint at
it. Sometimes he will scribble. Other
times, smear. The oft-heard, uneducat-
ed comment of “a two year old could
have done that” may be applicable
here. The main reason for Twombly
making it here is because his paintings
do actually look like shit (the exhibi-
tion guide used the term ‘scatological’
frequently), as if shit were used instead
of paint, or as if soiled sheets were used
in place of a canvas. Cy also makes it
here because his name is shit too.
Conceptual art
This type of art could be described
as art whose purpose is to convey a
broader message, and in doing this per-
haps glorious originality is achieved. It
has the potential to be genius, mind-
blowing, eye-opening. It can also be
an excuse for artists to dress up their
works of crap with the excuse that they
are conveying a message. Like Tracy
Emin’s damned bed, except I don’t re-
ally see what message can be gained
from that. It should be noted that
meaning can be found ANYWHERE.
There is a term for this propensity of
ours to find meaning where there is
none (apophenia) and this is why, now-
adays, anything can be termed art. As
long as you can find a reason for why
something is art, it is. This is, in one
respect, a great thing as it has expand-
ed art’s horizon and the way we see it.
However, it also allows for exhibitions
to take place which are wank. Take, for
example, the ICA’s Dispersion exhibi-
tion which was held before Christmas
2008. One piece was made up of video
clips haphazardly flung together while
lemming-like noises played over the
top. Another was a projection onto
four walls of a room of paint on a door
drying – PAINTING DRYING! Yet an-
other looked like what pot-smoking,
GCSE students would hand in for a
piece of coursework entitled “Gay and
lesbian artists: a few examples”, com-
plete with unglued-down, fraying edg-
es of newspaper cuttings and dashes of
highlighter. Truly an aberration and I
think the ICA should be ashamed of
themselves.
Musicals
It seems that, for some, the most
flattering way to pay homage to some-
thing is to make it into a musical.
Shrek: the Musical!, Lord of the Rings:
the Musical!, Jade Goody: the Musical!
I’m still waiting for Barack Obama the
Musical! I’m shocked we haven’t had
a Harry Potter: The Musical! but it’s
only a matter of time. Love of money
will always win over artistic integrity, it
seems. I know, these shows are always
big hits and so they can’t be that shit,
can they? Wrong. The Crazy frog’s al-
bum got pretty high in the chart, too,
and that was wank. Most people do
not know anything about good theatre,
hence, musicals. Yes, there is singing
and smiling and dancing but most of
them are still shit. Don’t get me wrong,
though, shit can be a lot of fun. (I still
love mainstream 90s dance music).
I find the music irritating as if it was
only half heartedly composed, the lyr-
ics uninspired and the dance routines
and accompanying frivolity tiring to sit
through. I make exception only for The
Rocky Horror Show (the film version
so it might not strictly be a musical).
Excess of sexual innuendo
I probably indulge in crass and crude
humour more than the average lady.
But I never do this when I am adapting
or writing plays. (I have yet to do this).
It seems that the modern formula for
adapting plays, especially the old clas-
sics, is to revamp with plenty of innu-
endos and simulation fucking. Alter-
natively or in addition to, stick in lots
of scantily clad slags and make sure
everyone gets to say “cunt” a lot. This
is meant to lure in and impress the
plebs that would not usually go to the
theatre. Seeing two fully clothed peo-
ple do it doggy style is hilarious! When
you are fifteen and haven’t had sex yet.
But now, it grows a bit tiresome and
cringe worthy after the fifth pretend
blow job or watching someone moan
and get fingered, especially if you are
with your mother. (This was at a play at
the Barbican and not anything else you
might be thinking of). Recent offend-
ers include The Taming of the Shrew
(we expected more, Royal Shakespeare
Company), Enjoy by Alan Bennett and
Peer Gynt at said Barbican. How hypo-
critical of me, I have used expletives
and innuendo aplenty in this “article”.
Oops. This is why I don’t direct plays.
Henrik Olesen: the “GCSE art student”
Scat, anyone? Cy Twombly demonstrates his smearing ability
The man who brought us Imperial’s arts magazine Pheonix: David Paw
This is not Caz Knight... or is it?

