arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
Is Sam Mendes building bridges?
American Beauty director Sam Mendes brings us a theatrical double bill as part of his ambitious Bridge
Project. Caz Knight goes to see whether the cast reach the goal set for them.
A
ccording to the Guard-
ian’s chief theatre critic,
Michael Billington, see-
ing two great plays in
one day is a bit like gorg-
ing on peacock. I have not done nei-
ther but I would imagine bingeing on
such a beautiful and rare bird would
leave one feeling sick and full of guilt
- certainly not how you feel after leav-
ing the Bridge Project’s production of
The Cherry Orchard and The Winter’s
Tale. But then again I did see each play
on consecutive nights: a much more
sensible and enjoyable option to gorg-
ing on peacock.
The Bridge Project theatre company
was created when Kevin Spacey and
Sam Mendes (of American Beauty
fame, and much more) decided to pool
resources and actors and resuscitate
classic plays: an American in London
running a theatre and a Brit in New
York directing plays. Bridges were built
and a stellar cast with a seeming abun-
dance of energy and capacity to memo-
rise lines came together to give us this
Chekhov/Shakespeare double bill of.
There was some trepidation among
the cast and director about perform-
ing such difficult plays and doing them
back to back. One cast acting out two
plays a day for the length of summer is
one hell of an order, but this cast lives
up to the hype that the Bridge Project
has created. As director Sam Mendes
says, “pressure is no bad thing”.
The choice of plays could not be
more topical today, despite being writ-
ten in 1904 (The Cherry Orchard was
Chekhov’s last play) and 1623. Both
are “tragic comedies” which move be-
tween scenes of devastation and angst
to gay abandon and frivolity the next.
The Cherry Orchard tells of a rich
family who are on the point of having
their estate sold at auction to repay
their debts built up from a life of deca-
dence. The Winter’s Tale tells us of a
king, driven mad with jealousy when
he suspects his queen of cuckholding
him, to the point where he abandons
his new born and recently made moth-
erless daughter. The daughter grows
up a shepherd’s daughter, falls in love
and eventually finds herself back in her
father’s court with her fiancé.
Tom Stoppard has adapted this
Chekhov play, the second of the Rus-
sian playwrights plays to be adapted
by him for the West End in the last
nine months (Ivanov starring Kenneth
Brannagh showed at the Wyndham’s
theatre in October 2008). As a Stop-
pard fan I thought this adaptation de-
cidedly lacking his usual lightning wit.
Perhaps this was on account of the
sombre subject of the piece or because
this version should probably be credit-
ed to Helen Rappaport who translated
the play from Russian directly.
Adaptations aside, the cast are su-
perb. Rebecca Hall as the most demure
daughter, Varya, and Simon Russell
Beale, as the servant turned business
man Lopakhin, make for a powerful on
stage match. Hall’s choked sob creates
a palpable despair as Lopakhin fails
to propose to her after a charged and
suggestive stroke of her face. The two
actors recreated their onstage chemis-
try beautifully as King Leontes and the
suspected adulteress Hermione in The
Winter’s Tale, stealing both shows.
Special mention must surely go to
Ethan Hawke who shatters any image
I had of him as a generic action man.
The serious, eternal student, Trofi-
mov, in The Cherry Orchard couldn’t
be more different from his part as his
Ethan Hawke shows us there is a lot more to him than scrummy looks. As Trofimov in The Cherry Orchard
court-jester/Jack Sparrow type char-
acter, Autolycus, in The Winter’s Tale.
Not only does he inject a hefty dose of
comedy into the latter earning much
riotous laughter, but he entertains with
many a song and strum on the guitar.
Another comical interlude comes from
an impromptu hoedown which would
not be out of place in the deep south:
the red, white and blue balloons bring-
ing back recent memories of the newly
elected President.
If all the recent productions of
Shakespeare I have seen in the last year
are to go by, then modern adaptations
of Shakespeare entail adding as many
lewd and crude gestures and innuen-
dos as possible to get laughs and appeal
to all the less theatre savvy. Luckily,
The Winter’s Tale is all but devoid of
these apart from a few tugs and grabs
at suggestively shaped balloons at the
hoedown.
This endeavour from Mendes brings
together two weighty plays and a
strong cast in the glorious Old Vic,
making them both extremely accessi-
ble. Seeing these actors in two plays on
two nights only goes to show what they
are made of. Whatever doubts they
had about the project should surely be
dissolved by now.
Until 15 August 2009 at the Old
Vic, Waterloo
Simon Russell Beale and Rebeecca Hall in The Cherry Orchard Ethan Hawke as Autolycus in The Winter’s Tale
Shakespeare: pure and simple
I
knew absolutely nothing about
Hamlet before seeing this pro-
duction, having never been
subjected to its over-analysis in
school, and not being the type
to read Shakespeare for pleasure. A
friend helpfully informed me the plot
is “just like in The Lion King” (presum-
ably with fewer lions and less singing),
though this similarity proved to be
tenuous.
I was lucky enough to have one of
the best seats in the small and civilised
Wyndhams Theatre – centre of the
stalls, just close enough to the front.
Without a press ticket, this would have
set me back £32.50, which is actu-
ally quite moderate for a high-profile
production in the West End. Standing
tickets are available for a mere £10, but
who wants to stand through a 3 hour
play?
I won’t bore you by relaying the plot
of Hamlet in too much detail. The
upshot of it is that Hamlet’s father,
the King of Denmark, is dead and his
ghost appears to tell Hamlet that his
uncle, Claudius, murdered him so he
could steal his throne and wife, Ger-
trude. Hamlet goes a bit mad, and in
the general madness kills Polonius,
who works for Claudius. Ophelia, Po-
lonius’s daughter and Hamlet’s would-
have-been girlfriend, is a bit upset
by this and goes mad too. Then she
drowns herself, and ultimately every-
body else ends up dead too. The End
(sorry, Shakespeare).
As Shakespeare goes, it was better
than I had expected of a tragedy. It’s not
boring by any means. There are plenty
of laughs and a sword fight (CLEARLY
the best bit!) to keep you entertained.
There were bits and bobs that went
over my head, such as whatever was
going on with Fortinbras, the prince
of Norway. But I think anybody could
understand who’s who and what’s go-
ing on. Three hours isn’t as long as you
might think, particularly when there’s
an interval with ice cream on offer.
But why go and see this production
in particular? A lot of people will go
for Jude Law, who stars as Hamlet.
Admittedly, he is an extremely good
actor and his performance did not dis-
appoint. He played the role with skill
and emotion, making it funny in all
No futuristic settings, no conceptual adaptations, just the Bard at his simplest: how it should be. Emily
Wilson goes to review the Donmar West End’s production of Hamlet, starring Jude Law.
the right places, without going over-
board. But let’s not forget the rest of
an extremely good cast. I recognised
Penelope Wilton, who plays Gertrude,
from various television appearances,
and she was a thoroughly capable in
the role. Ron Cook was an excellently
cringe-worthy Polonius. Ophelia was
played by Gugu Mbatha-Raw, who
was generally good but didn’t do a very
convincing job of going mad. There
seems to be a misconception in theatre
that if you sing a bit, that means you’ve
gone mad – as Daniel Radcliffe did in
Equus not so long ago. It really needs
something more.
Peter Eyre, who played the ghost of
Hamlet’s father and the player king,
was outstanding. However, I do find
that when actors double up roles it can
be a little confusing if you’re not famil-
iar with the story. There were several
cases of this here. Special mentions
most definitely go out to the very fine
young men who played Rosencrantz
and Guildenstern, Hamlet’s chums,
and Laertes, Ophelia’s sword-wielding
sibling. They provided top quality the-
atrical eye candy. And Hamlet’s other
chum Horatio wasn’t bad either, sport-
ing a nifty leather jacket and biker
boots. Who says Shakespeare is stuffy?
There were other good things about
this particular production. There is no
arty farting about with setting it in a
weird time period or making it “con-
ceptual”. It was straightforward and ba-
sic with a plain castle-style set and sim-
ple black costumes (except the players,
who were in white – an effective dif-
ferentiation). It left the play itself and
the skill of the actors to shine through,
which is definitely how I think theatre
should be.
I’m not an expert on Shakespeare
or even theatre in general, and this
is the only production of Hamlet I’ve
seen, but I loved it. It’s simple and ac-
cessible but well-constructed and with
some top quality actors. It was a fabu-
lous afternoon out that leaves you with
something to talk about and a greater
appreciation of The Bard.
Hamlet is on at the Wyndham’s
theatre until 22 August 2009
The Prince of Denmar who loses it: Jude Law as the lead role
14 felix Friday 19 June 2009 115
Friday 19 June 2009 felix

