12 Film 4 May 1999
8mm * * *
Starring : Nicholas Cage, Joaquin Phoenix, James Gandolfini
Director: Joel Schumacher
O
nce again we find ourselves
in "looked like a great idea on
paper" territory, with
Columbia Pictures this time footing
the bill to bring together a highly prof-
itable director (Schmacher), an
immensely popular and talented actor
(Cage) and an acclaimed scriptwriter
(Se/en's Andrew Kevin Walker). A n d
yet again the Hollywood money-men
are proven wrong, thanks to a pass-
able but ultimately disappointing
movie which has struggled to recoup
its $40 million budget.
So what's the problem? Put simply,
it's that the movie isn't sickening
enough. 5e7en had even the hardest
horror nuts on the edge of their seats,
waiting to see what Brad Pitt would do
when he found out what was in the
box; meanwhile, 8mm will leave you sit-
ting comfortably. You see, 8mm is a
movie about snuff films - movies which
seem to show a real murder taking
place - a n d Schmacher seems to
believe that Nick Cage g o i n g " O h
no...oh...please... oh....no" all the time
is going to convince us that he really is
in a murky, unpleasant world. It does-
Iflt shocks Joaquin Phoenix then It's gotta be nasty.
n't. Indeed, in this graphically-violent
age, even the snuff movie itself simply
isn't shocking enough.
You see, traditionally, snuff movies
have largely been considered some-
thing of an urban myth - with the
majority of polite society unable to
accept that anyone would be sick
enough to pay for (and get thrills out
of) some grainy footage of a real mur-
der. Cage's role is thus to do the pri-
vate-eye thing, and find out whether or
not they're really out there - and in so
doing he begins to lose his own sense
of morality, slipping further and fur-
ther into the abyss. Which (as
Schmacher can't resist drumming into
whenever possible) is the real thrust of
the movie. He starts out as a moral,
family loving g o o d guy, and is pro-
gressively drawn deeper into a world of
porn, S&M, seedy directors, coming
out the other end as a murdering, trau-
matised, emotional wreck. Yawn. Sadly,
that's hardly enough to keep you going
for the requisite 90 minutes, so whilst
there are moments when 8mm seems
on the verge of crackling into life, it
simply fizzles along.
Despite Cage's dark portrayal, with-
out the necessary feeling of horror or
revulsion you're left with a distinctly
average thriller, which, whilst painfully
yearning for indie credibility, ultimately
finds itself plastered in Hollywood
cliche and morality. Q
Dave
Message In A Bottle * *
Starring : Kevin Costner, Robin Wright Penn, Paul Newman, Robbie Coltrane
Director: Luis Mandoki
C
hick-flick is a term I try to avoid
under normal circumstances,
largely because I really love your
average soppy romantic comedy, and
I'm worried what that says about my
personality. However, once in a while
you come across the type of movie
which is so completely fuelled by long,
meaningful looks into the middle-dis-
tance, deep, deliberate sighs a n d
moonlight dinners that there's simply
no other term to describe them. We're
talking movies that are trying to make
you cry - the kind of movies your m u m
probably likes....and the kind of
movies that should o p l star Kevin
Costner.
As you've probably guessed, Mes-
sage In A Bottle is such a movie. Wright
Penn is a divorced journalist who finds
a bottle with a (yep, you guessed it)
message inside, which is so heartfelt
and romantic that she instantly falls in
love with its writer and begins to track
him down. Sadly, the letter's writer isn't
In the words of Sting: "Sending out an SOS to the world".
the fabulous Paul Newman (engagingly
grumpy in every scene); rather it's his
son, Costner, a small-town boat-builder
who's still mourning the loss of his wife,
two years earlier. In essence/it's pretty
standard, predictable stuff, which
hinges on a few twists - mostly non-exis-
tent, and certainly insufficient to pad out
a two hour movie - and some decent
performances from the leads. Oh dear.
You see, the real problem with
Kevin Costner, the real reason why most
of his recent movies have flopped so
spectacularly, is that he's so incredibly
dull. This man is not someone you're
going to fall in love with - you're going
to be falling asleep before the end of
the first date. We're talking an honest
to goodness, solid timber, special-offer-
at-Homebase, 2" by 4" plank. Conse-
quently, despite the best attempts of '
Newman and Coltrane (who puts in a
surprisingly convincing US accent
alongside his usual enjoyably-hammy <
performance), this is a movie that sim-
ply falls to engage on an emotional
level - even when the "surprise" ending
lurks into view.
All of which adds up to a pro-
foundly unsatisfying experience, embla-
z o n e d with absolutely no sense of
realism and some painfully cheesy dia-
logue - and it's not even feel-good. A
chick-flick indeed. Q
Dave

