14 Arts 4 May 1999
WILLIAM KENTRIDGE
Serpentine Gallery
W
illiam Kentridge is a powerful
film artist. H e w a s born in
Johannesburg in 1955 and so
grew up under apartheid. He was a
student of Politics and African culture.
The films he creates are potent attacks
on aspects of society, particularly with
regard to the injustices of the capital-
ist system and the effect these can
have on the individual.
The method employed to produce
his graphic portrayals is unique. After
drawing the first frame - with charcoal
and sparse use of pastel colours - he
photographs it. Next he modifies and
reforms, blends, erases and redraws,
and thus transforms the first frame into
the second. This step by step approach
leaves trace markings of the previous
frames, showing the passage of time
within every moment. Very original,
very striking.
Kentridge, rather than being specif-
ically concerned with apartheid,
reaches to and explores wider issues of
suffering. Issues such as the longing of
the individual versus responsibility
towards society as a whole. He does
not use his art as a political instrument
to didactically sway others to his own
beliefs, but rather uses these issues as
a spring board for his films. He views
his creations as pure and thinks them
void of social morals - "I don't think
there is a social responsibility for an
artist".
Incidentally, the man pictured at
the top, and used by Kentridge to sym-
bolise how ill capitalist greed can make
you, is called Felix - how ironic.
• '. . ::• .... '
For those turned off by politics, I
can assure you that the films are enter-
taining. Judging them aside from any
political criteria they are still well worth
It; at times shocking and often funny.
The films are not pessimistic or maudlin
images of the ills of society but instead
vigorous attacks on these ills. It is quite
possible to appreciate the work for just
this vigorous energy and nothing else.
Personally, I found this the most
intriguing aspect of his art; it would be
lying to suggest that the meaning or
plot of some of the more obscure
scenes were easy to understand from a
first time viewing. But when I was per-
plexed (which is not hard) I sat back
and just let the film play to me, being
able to enjoy it on a much shallower
level. Never did I find them pretentious
even if I did at times find them hard.
If you go and see these films, you
will see a man who grows so fat from his
profits that he is unable to move from
his pulsating, sweating bed. A violent
crash between a cyclist and a car so
graphically illustrated that you see his
bones smash from within as well as
from without. A French kiss in a man's
daydreams which changes before your
eyes into the passionate thrusting of
the lovers (some time after they moved
on from kissing!)
He does not pull any punches. This
artist is not afraid to deal with con-
tentious, powerful issues head on and
close up.
It is also free and only two minutes
away - go and see it.

