18 Competitions 4 May 1999 t
Xii E DQLEG&fcAlton Tow0J?s
Those silly people at Beatwax foolishly let two of our 'crack' reporters loose at Alton Towers. Here is their experience, lovingly written
for all to enjoy. Not good enough for you? Well, you too can experience it for yourself, by entering our crazy competition at the end.
The mission was simple, we had been sent out to check
on five scary rides deep in country. We weren't Ihe only
ones out there though. The opposition, student media
types all, would be there too all trying to survive the
theme park jungle. It was going to be fun, tough but fun.
Day 1 - The Black Hole
Remember when you were young and horror films
shown in the cinema were really scary but when you see
it on video during the day it wasn't quite as good. Well
these fiends have reversed this process for roller-coast-
ers. By covering it up, and not bothering with things like
lights, it has been turned from a gentle fun ride into a
rictus wide grin moment and a half.
One down, four to go both of us came out of that
well despite having to suffer Anjit on my lap. Ihe next
target was the Oblivion. Intel reports on this were
sketchy, it was tall and fast but that's all we had been told.
Day 4 3 - Oblivion
The trek from the exit of the black hole to the entrance
of the oblivion was
completed as fast
as we could, to
stay as dry as pos-
sible. We were
doomed to stay
dry for too long,
but we finally
realised this when
the stinging rain
pricked us in the
face when the
Oblivion began its
climb to the top.
The climb was wet, but we soon forgot about the
/ rain. Intel reports had also
^ / said that this ride was quick,
they failed to mention just how
*"/
~>N
-»v it was quick. It is quick, but
that is like describing a
hurricane as a little
windy and wet. From
one hundred and fifty feet up you drop through a steam
shrouded hole and hurtle underground until the screams
- a time when even Dr Who could cause slight anxiety
attacks. We took the cable car to the final two rides. Our
nemesis awaited.
D a y 6 8 - Ripsaw
and perhaps in hind-
sight making Anjit ride in the
front was a little cruel. But reporting is a cruel game and
there was no place for mercy. There was also no time
for a second go, the enemy time and the opposition
were all that stood between us and the free alcohol err
mission.
D a y 6 2 - The Corkscrew
The rush of the obliv-
ion firmly behind us
we reached the edge
of Ug land. Ug land -
the land that sun for-
got. Base had man-
aged to get some
pictures of the leg-
endary Corkscrew to
us on the ground. It
was, as we expected,
• deep within ug-land.
We crept under Ihe
cover of heavy rain, pausing only to cover our tracks using
the adolescent life that teems about the larger rides,
finally we found the corkscrew - the holy grail of British
roller-coasters. Over a decade ago this twisty turney
thing first started to scare as only a twisty turney roller-
coaster can. Time hasn't been gentle to this old lady of
twist, and even anjit came away with a sense of unfor-
fillment. It was still fun, the triple corkscrew bit was still
twisty & turney but we had all been much younger then
This was going to be the wet one. Every theme park was
at least one and this was the latest Alton Towers attempt
to drench the unsuspecting punter. The ripsaw was
ihought up by someone whose idea of a good time was
putting a fountain underneath a fast spinning bench. Out
nerves, shot to pieces by the cable car, liked the calm-
ing effect the harness that locked us firmly in had. We
might never be spawn children or speak quite as deeply
ever again but we were firmly held as the bench was
spun and rocked. We took the soaking well, possibly
because we were already wet. The spinning though was
severe. For the first time my veteran's stomach was
churning-just a little. Four down, one to go. We had to
face nemesis to complete our mission.
Day 69 - Nemesis
We were finally here, the nemesis, the scary one. From
the moment the har-
ness comes down
and the floor drops
away we realised that
it was still the nastiest
piece of work in the
park. The Oblivion is
big and quick, the
black hole scary but
the Nemesis is just
down right evil. The
arcing left hand turns
all lead up to a loop
where only half of it is above ground level. All of this
while sitting on a seat which has the friction content of
a freshly shlned burger bar plastic special, allowing you
to dangle and swing your feet in fresh, unsupporting air.
Evil, pure and unadulterated minute madness. The grin
from Anjit after he got off this one worried me for a few
minutes though after a few slaps he regained enough
composure to race to the evacuation point.
Competition
Thanks to those lovely people at Beat-
's^ wax, we have five pairs of tickets for
I Alton Towers to give away, valid until
the Autumn. The only catch is
that we can't provide travel
for you. "So where is it?" I
hear you cry! Well, that's for
you to find out:
To enter the competition,
I place a dot on the map oppo-
site where you think Alton Tow-
ers Is.
Entries should be in by Wednesday
5pm, and the closest five will win.
Summer Ball 1999
Win a load of Jelly Bellys with our exclusive competition!
With tickets for Imperial's ball now on sale, you can expect a host of give aways and
competitions in the coming weeks. Currently, we have a stash of jelly bellys to give
away (about 10Og per winner). To get them, simply answer the following question:
What do Glastonbury and the Summer Ball have in common?
a) They arc both attended by thousands
b) fhey both use the same lighting contractor
c) 25th June is the date for your diary
d) All of the above
The first five people to tell the editor the correct answer after noon today (Tues-
day), and utter the magic words "I want to have a ball" get the candy. Silly, Isn't it?

