4 May 1999 Editorial 7
To Regulate or Not?
The complete lack of news this week
(come on, you don't really expect me to
talk about sports grounds at this time in
the morning, do you?) has forced me to
look elsewhere for inspiration for this
column. And, fortunately, I didn't have
to look far - as far as Darshan's website,
in fact (see last letter opposite). Ignor-
ing for the moment the somewhat ego-
tistical content of said site (in fact, let's
ignore it all together), and without any
comment on the designer's HTML skills,
browsing through the pages reminded
me of a subject that has received little
attention in Felix; the regulation of the
Internet.
Recent events across the Pond
have led to many clamouring for tighter
regulation of information on the inter-
net. After all, we all know that you can
find cake, love and bomb making man-
uals on the web - and so can your kids.
Admittedly regulation is getting better,
and Internet Explorer 5 has a whole
range of options to prevent unautho-
rised access to certain sites, but it is up
to the computer administrator to
enforce these rules. Given that most
kids know more about the family PC
than their parents, it is not really a
viable solution.
What I dislike most is the argument
that it must be the kids who are
screwed up, and it Is not the fault of the
Internet or anyone else. Why can't we
just accept that humans are naturally
inquisitive, especially when young, and
have a tendency towards violence and
'moral' wrong? Show teenagers how to
make a bomb, they'll do it. Give stu-
dents a gun, they'll use it. Comments
please.
Is it Right to have Rights?
Another angle on the high-school
killings is the fallacy of a bill of rights,
for a long time I was very keen on the
idea, and couldn't believe Britain didn't
have an equivalent, but I've changed
my mind. Consider this. When the Con-
stitution was drawn up it seemed per-
fectly sensible that every American
should have the right to defend his
home - in those days homes needed
defending, and even the most peace-
ful family would be advised to keep a
gun handy.
Two centuries on, however, that
need has diminished, and the ease
with which guns can be purchased is
certainly not good for social cohesion.
Yet America is tied to an outdated con-
stitution, which can be quoted by every
gun fanatic as a basic human right,
making it very difficult to pass amend-
ments and change the status quo. It
may seem a good idea to draw up
some basic moral rights that will hold
for all time, but it is actually shooting
yourself in the foot (no pun intended).
For what is morally right for one society
at one time is not right for all societies
at all times - and clearly the use (and
misuse) of guns In America is not good
for anyone, except gun shop owners.
In the News this Week...
Well, it seems there was some news
after all. Commlsserations to IC Radio
for not obtaining their one month FM
license -1 hope that it will not dissuade
future committees from re-applying. As
for the windows in Southside halls, this
does seem a little draconian, and some-
what pointless. Given that it is not gen-
erally the student residents that have
been at fault, and that you can still
throw stuff out of them, I see little
virtue in barring them. The total cost of
the operation, Including the fans, must
be enormous. Perhaps a poster cam-
paign around hall, with the words
'Those found throwing items out of
windows will be fined £500' w o u l d be
more effective. If you were going to d o
it, it would have been nice to consult
the students before hand.
A small plug next, for the Open
Mic Semis this friday. It should be a
good evening, with a decent slice of
comedy, so I would recommend it to all
and sundry. Telegraph and other jour-
nalists will be there, which obviously Is
a plus point for us here in the felix
Office, and the evening looks like being
highly enjoyable.
In the News next Week...
I completely forgot to mention it last
week, but Saturday May 1 was the
Cannabis Coalition's protest march from
Brixton Hill to Clapham C o m m o n (no,
the irony of that sentence isn't lost on
me either). Anyway, I hope anyone that
went enjoyed themselves, as well as
getting involved in the serious debates
that were going on - there'll be a full
report in next week's news (assuming,
that is, that I remember to write it). If
you did go, and have any cool photos
of the afternoon, I would like to hear
from you, preferably before this
Wednesday evening. Anonymity pre-
served, of course... - Ed
Tickets are available NOW! from the union office

