Feature
Another
picture
Another
down the
mammal
corridor; see the
proud buffalo, a
large circular
patch stitched
into its backside
where, I'll bet,
the bullet
entered."
Winner of the Eric Hosking Award. The British Gas Wildlife Photographer of the Year
competition organised by BBC Wildlife Magazine and the Natural History Museum.
The Victorians were great
Collectors. If something
unknown fluttered, slith-
ered or scuttled past, the sad,
inevitable result was, BANG!...,
thud, "...oh, it's one of those". The
resulting specimen was often
stuffed and put onto display.
In fact, most natural history museum
collections were pioneered this way.
Testament to this, you will find in the main
hall of the Natural History Museum a bronze
bust of Captain Frederick Selons, hunter,
explorer and naturalist, his rifle cradled in his
arms. Or, take a walk down the mammal
corridor; see the proud buffalo, a large
circular patch stitched into its backside,
where, I'll bet, the bullet entered.
Times and tools have changed, and so
have collectors. Point, aim and trigger; they
immobilise the buggers perpetually on
celluloid. And now, wildlife photography has
a huge impact on our attitudes towards the
environment. So, while most of us value
tropical rainforests and would pay to protect
them, none of us have been there. Our
dedication is entirely due to the publication
of images of this unvisited world, especially
through television and photography.
While the most important television is
undoubtedly made by David Attenborough,
the most important photographs are possibly
the annual Wildlife Photographer of the Year
competition.
The Wildlife Photographer of the Year
competition is in its 11th year. The winning
photographs are dramatically displayed as
backlit transparencies, in a darkened wing of
the Natural History Museum. Curiously, the
initial impression is of entering a church.
Coloured light streaming in from windows
(the backlit photographs), pews projecting
from the walls and the vaulting roof help
create a feeling that makes most people talk in
whispers. This year's overall winner, 'Polar
bear and Arctic fox', shows the two animals
standing in the middle of hundreds of miles
of white wilderness. Closer inspection of the
photograph reveals the ice to be waves, frozen
immobile into spectacular ice sculptures.
David Bellamy, presenting this year's awards,
remarked that "two of the saddest sights on
Earth are to see Polar bears in zoos, however
well looked after, and Arctic foxes caged in
fur farms. They belong in the wide open
spaces of snow and ice - to shut them away in
captivity is the cruellest thing we can do".
Often, without meaning to, the wildlife
photographer has a conservation message.
They show us this other planet that we will
probably never visit. Such pictures serve the
same purpose that the stuffed bear did for the
Victorians. They remind us that other
creatures exist, and are worth preserving.
Anyone failing to be impressed,
awestruck or moved by the photographs
should remember that, at a conservative
estimate, around 150 species are lost every
year. And, that our devastation of the natural
world coincidentally began in earnest at the
same time as our 'exploration'.
The Wildlife Photographer of the Year exhibition
at the Natural History Museum runs until
February 1995. Entrance to the museum is £2.50
for IC Staff/Students except after 4.30pm
weekdays (5pm on Saturday), when it is free.
25R0U94 F E L I X H I

