who: Exploration
What: Amazon Canoe Adven.
Keys: Creek, Brazil, Cave
At 6.00pm on Thursday the 1st of December
in Mech Eng room 220, IC Exploration
Society presents 'Canoeing Adventures in the
Amazon'. John Harrison will be giving an
illustrated lecture about his ten years of
unsponsored and frequently foolhardy river
expeditions in remote Amazonia.
John Harrison has been on 8 expeditions
to the Amazon since 1979, published the
book 'Up the Creek: an Amazon Adventure'
in 1986 and was the subject of an episode of
the BBC TV 'Voyager' series entitled 'John
Harrison: Explorer'. His expeditions are
always made with one companion, no backup
radio, and to places where it is still possible to
paddle for months and see no-one.
John will be talking about the Jari River
and a crossing of the wild and remote
Tumucumaque Hills on the border between
Brazil and Surinam. 400 miles from the near-
est habitation, carrying his canoe from one
river to the next, he experienced lots of hard-
ship, malaria, pain, wildlife - a true adven-
ture.
IC Exploration Society have two other
lectures planned for the near future. On the
15th of December at 6pm, Dave Edwards will
be giving a talk about White Water Wildlife.
Dave studied management at IC and is now
going through his officer training at
Sandhurst. He has experience from expedi-
tions in Cameroon and the Himalayas.
During the summer of '93 Dave led three
other students on the first ever canoe descent
of a large section of the river Nyong in
Cameroon. They also made a photographic
record of frog species, and recorded bird
species and several deadly snakes and croco-
diles within the bordering rain forest.
On the 19th of January at 6pm Dick
Willis will be giving a talk on 'The Practical
Considerations of Adventure'. Dick Willis
has been caving for 22 years and is one of the
world's most experienced expedition cavers.
He has been caving in Papua New Guinea,
France, Spain, Greece, Italy, Irian Jaya, Java,
Borneo, Thailand, China and USSR. He was
the leader of the expedition to Mulu which
discovered the Sarawak Chamber, the largest
underground chamber. He was elected fellow
of the RGS in 1981 and was secretary of the
British Cave Research Association for 5 years.
His lecture will show how modern cav-
ing expeditions contribute to a range of scien-
tific and development projects through prac-
tical field work carried out in association
with local people. The lecture will be well-
illustrated with Dick's own photos, and slides
taken by some of the world's best under-
ground photographers.
Admission is £1.50 to non members and free
to members. Membership is £3.00.
who: Jewish Soc
What: Chanukah Festival
Keys: Latkes, Dreidel, Candle
Coming up this week, for eight days from
Monday night 28th November to Monday 5th
December is the Jewish festival of Chanukah.
This festival is in commemoration of the
restoration of the Second Temple to the
Jewish people, after the Greek king
Antiochus had tried to convert them to his
way of life.
In order to fully restore the temple, a
candelabra which burned eternally had to be
relit using pure olive oil. Only one jug of oil
was found and miraculously burned for eight
days until more oil was made.
During the festival, an eight-branched
candelabra is lit, one additional candle being
added for each night. Presents are exchanged,
doughnuts and 'latkes' (potato pancakes) are
eaten and the 'Dreidel' is played, where your
chances of winning are slightly higher then
the National Lottery.
As usual for a Jewish festival, celebra-
tions involve consuming vast amounts of
food, this time of a generally oily nature, due
to the miracle of the oil. To celebrate
Chanukah, Imperial College Jewish Society
invite you to participate in a candle lighting
ceremony with them on Tuesday 29th
November at 5.00pm in the JCR. There will
also be a chance to sample some doughnuts or
potato pancakes, and play the dreidel game.
On the Wednesday night (30th
November) there will be a big Chanukah
party at Hillel House in Euston at 8.30pm,
where there will be more food and a casino.
That Friday night in Hillel House there will
also be a special 'Friday Night Fever' at
7.00pm priced £2.50. If you would like to go,
please call Hillel to book your place.
For more information about the Jewish
Society, see Sarah Waiman, Chem Eng 2 pigeon
holes or email ic-jsoc@doc.ic.ac.uk or
s.waiman@ic.ac.uk. Membership is £3.50 for the
year and includes lots offree food.
Who: iCSf
What: Kafka
Keys: Prague, Sex, Parsec
Something is amiss in the twisted, cobbled
streets of Prague. When harried office worker
Kafka notes the absence of a colleague in the
sprawling bureaucratic nightmare in which
he works he is drawn into a hidden world of
conspiracies involving disappearing bodies
and anarchist subterfuge. Behind it all is the
foreboding Castle, whose insane Escher-like
geometries withhold a terrifying secret.
Evocatively shot in black and white, this
film was just not done justice when it was
released last year in only two cinemas.
Director Steven Soderbergh (of Sex, Lies and
Videotape fame) has crafted a beautiful
homage to German expressionism by melding
events in the life of a fictional Kafka with sit-
uations worthy of the stories of the real
Kafka. The pervading mood is one of oppres-
sion, broken by some startlingly tense chase
sequences, the scariest of which sees Kafka
pursued through his locked up office build-
f F E L I X 25nOU94

