Xtra Curricular
who: Euro Youth
What: Speaker's Corner
Keys: Times, Le Monde, Union
ing by a shrieking disfigured lunatic. Jeremy
Irons is perfection as Kafka, the script is
witty and nightmarish by turns (with several
knowing winks to actual events in the real
Kafka's life) and the direction is flawless.
Don't miss it this time round.
For those interested, icsf s fanzine,
Parsec, is ready to receive your prose, poetry
and reviews for a March publication. Anyone
interested in submitting material should
either come to the library or mail the Editor,
Stain - by email to s.ingebrethsen@ic or via
the Aero UG 2 pigeon holes.
Entrance to the film is one pound fifty to
members or two pounds to non-members.
Membership for the year is three pounds with the
firstfilm free, and also gives you use of our library
of 3000 books, videos and graphic novels. For
more info, see http://www.ph.ic.ac.uk/moontg/
using a www browser like Mosaic, or email
icsf@ic.
Who: Film Soc
What: Hudsucker Proxy
Keys: Clear, Present, Danger
This week heralds the last two films
before the Christmas Movie Madness at the
end of term. Saturday's evening film is The
Hudsucker Proxy, starting at 8pm. Set in the
fifties, it stars Tim Robbins, Jennifer Jason
Leigh and Paul Newman. Our Tim has been
promoted to the top of a successful company,
but it's all a plot by Paul Newman to devalue
the shares. Tim's naive hopeful invents the
next big thing, and The Future is Now!
Clear And Present Danger shows twice
this weekend, on Saturday at 5pm and
Sunday at 8pm. Harrison Ford returns to the
role of Jack Ryan from Patriot Games. Once
again, the film is adapted from the book by
Tom Clancy', a combination that ensures a
roller-coaster ride of entertainment.
who: Rag Week
What: Were you there?
Keys: Raid, Mag, Pub, Jump
For anyone who missed it (where have you
been?), here is a quick snapshot of the events
of Rag Week 1994.
The week kicked off with hours of laugh-
ter at the comedy night and was swiftly fol-
lowed by a hugely successful Rag Raid to
Cambridge which raised a record amount of
money. Unfortunately we were unable to take
all the people who turned up to collect so Rag
would like to apologise to all those who could
not go. Monday was the Mines Dirty Disco.
At this event people arrived at the door in
various states of undress in order to get in by
paying as little money as possible. It was
quite revealing to see how far students will go
to avoid paying out cash! Next was the
Guild's Slave Auction. Did you buy anyone
to tidy up your flat, do your coursework , or
your laundry? This event was yet another
success with over 20 willing(?) slaves being
sold.
Wednesday was probably the highlight
of the week as it was the annual RCS Beer
Festival. Hundreds of people gathered in the
JCR to sample the wide range of beers and
cider on offer. This day also saw the launch of
the already infamous 1995 Rag Mag - have
you got your copy yet? For those who had
recovered from the Beer Festival, on
Thursday there was a showing of the ever
popular Rocky Horror Picture Show.
On Friday afternoon a few students
joined the security staff and walkers from
Liverpool on a walk from Marble Arch to
Kensington to raise money for the Roy Castle
Walk of Hope. This was before the Rag Bash
in the evening. At this party you had the
choice of listening to the bands downstairs or
visiting the Cocktail Lounge. Here you could
listen to music from the Imperial College Jazz
Band whilst being served a range of cocktails
all at unbeatable prices.
Rag Week carried on through the week-
end, first with the Sponsored Nude Kamikaze
Parachute Jump on
Saturday for those
who dared to bare all
in public. This was
followed by the more
sensible(?) 5 legged
pub crawl around the
local area. The final
event was the
Sponsored Bungee
Jump which was done
by the more coura-
geous of you out there.
All things consid-
ered, the week was a
storming success, so
well done to Ian, Tim
and Jon for doing
most of the organis-
ing. As a final note I
would like to say that
Rag does not disap-
pear after Rag Week
so come to our meet-
ings on Fridays at
1.00pm, or read
F E L I X to find out
about our other
events. The next one
will be on the 3rd
December, selling Rag
Mags at U L U and
other London colleges
so we hope to see you
there.
The Society for European Youth will present
this activity every Monday at lpm in Chem
Eng Rm 306. We will be discussing and
debating issues that concern the European
Union and its external relations. Each time
the discussion will be based on one article
from the Times, The Economist, or even
from Le Monde, die Frankfurter Allgemeine
and other such newspapers and magazines
(English translation always available!).
In the first meeting we will begin to
learn about the early stages of the European
Union, the principles and needs out of which
it grew, and about the people who were
responsible; Robert Schumann, Jean Monnet,
et al. Those of you who have applied for the
Oxford conference will find these meetings
very informative and very useful to your
preparation.
The first of this series of meetings will be h
this Monday.
Important: The Conference applicants
should come and collect their application form
they have not done so yet!
Imperial College Exploration Society
Canoeing Adventures in the Amazon
...Ten years of unsponsored and frequently foolhardy
river expeditions in remote Amazonia
an illustrated lecture by
JOHN HARRISON
'splendidly pointless journeys in the
true "because its there tradition"
Dr John Hemming,
Director Royal Geographic Society
'He escaped death, I don't know
how many times, in places where
there was no hope of rescue'
Daily Telegraph
'He was born a centurv too late. He should have
been oat there with Livingstone, Speke and Selous.'
Dervla Murphy
In Mechanical Engineering 220
on Thursday 1st December at 6pm
Admission 1.50 for non members, free for members (membership 3 pounds)
F E L I X

