feature
UNITED W E S T A N D
ICU believes committee meetings are more import
explains why we aren't in the NUS
WE FA
iortant than marches.
Samanfha Nagaitis
Another year. Another bunch of eager
freshers join Imperial College and its
Students' Union. Everyone will be hoping to
get different things out of their Union: some
will want to campaign about grant cuts, some
will want to battle against racism or sexism
and some just want the cheap beer - pretty
much the same as any other freshers at any
other university. There's just one difference:
Imperial College Union is not affiliated to the
National Union of Students (NUS). I ask the
simple question: why?
There are a mere thimbleful of
universities not affiliated to the N U S :
Edinburgh, Glasgow, St Andrews and IC. We
opted out of the NUS in 1976 for reasons that
aren't known but are assumed by some to be
socio-political - ICU disagreed with the
NUS's policy on, for example, women's right
to abortion, lesbian and gay rights and anti-
racism campaigning. However, if this was the
case, it certainly isn't now. Today's barrier
appears to be a financial one.
It costs an overwhelming £40,000 to
become affiliated to the NUS. The NUS
claim, however, that figures for other London
colleges and universities show
that this investment is
profitable. ICU disagree.
There are four main
areas of NUS activity that ICU
could benefit from. First, the
NUS buying groups. The NUS
invite breweries, for example,
or publishers, to compete on
price. ICU simply snaps up the
companies rejected by the
NUS, and still gets reasonable
prices. Apparently, we have
good relationships with some
of these companies: ties that
would have to be broken if we
affiliated. Second, the NUS
offer training. Union officers
need to be trained in the
necessary skills in order to
operate efficiently. For
example, entertainment officers
are taught organisational skills
so they can organise effective
entertainments, and so on. But
we get sufficient training from
ICU and U L U , and other
F E L I X
London colleges agree that NUS training isn't
needed. Third, legal advice. NUS do give
good legal advice. But then, ICU could buy
better legal aid with the £40,000 saved by not
affiliating. Finally, the NUS offers research.
You may, throughout your student life, need
advice on matters such as grants, loans,
taxation, housing and so on. Your Union
should be able to research either your
problem, or a general problem affecting a
number of student. But again U L U can
provide all the research we need.
So, what are the benefits of affiliation
with the NUS? We would have extra
discounts in clubs and shops. We would join a
united body of students. OK, we are entitled
to join any large demonstration the NUS
holds to make up the numbers, but by
affiliating we show the Government that all
students are united. Our beliefs would have
more impact if all students in Britain
belonged to one union: "United we stand,
divided we fall."
But this begs another question. ICU is
not political. This means that all the political
benefits of a single union are irrelevant as far
I
i-hi -»
as ICU are concerned.
Not being political is rather a
strong conviction. But Lucy
Chothia, IC Union President,
believes it to be the best stance. She
said "it is more important for me to sit on the
College Welfare Committee than to go on a
march." In this way our hardships would fall
on the ear of the Rector, who would have
much more pull on the government than
thousands of rowdy, possibly violent, students
marching through London.
Does this apolitical stance mean that we
cannot affiliate without having our views
radically changed? Surely, if we affiliate, all
NUS policies will be thrust down our throats
and we will be expected to accept them
wholeheartedly? Apparently not, according to
Sharon Hunter, Regional Officer of NUS
London Area. Sharon maintains that the
"NUS is a federal organisation. Our policies
are not forced; you are entitled to disagree."
What would be the consequences of
affiliation? ICU has considered holding a
student referendum on this issue. If the
consensus was to affiliate, ICU would have to
have to find the money from
somewhere. It would probably
come from clubs and societies.
ICU spends more money on
student activity than any other
university union in the U K .
This is why the membership
fees for our clubs and societies
are so low. If ICU took some of
this money away, the students
will pay through increased
membership fees.
Make up your own mind.
If we did affiliate, we would be
joining a countryful of students
fighting for our education and
rights, at the expense of our
personal welfare and pockets. If
we don't, ICU will continue to
look after its own - we'll place
our grievances into the hands of
the College Welfare Committee
and our money back in our
pockets. It's up to us. I'm not
trying to tell you what to think;
I'm telling you to think. B

