Standby
which way does that old pony run?
Forty-four is middle aged. Period.
Tom Petty's there and to that
extent I suppose that he's passed
through whatever it was he got to
be. Yet it seems to be a commonly
held thought that as with many of
the old time heroes of the 80s he's
hitting a vein of new found vitality in
the 90s. Personally I can't hear it.
For me Petty reached his high two
albums back with 'full moon fever'.
Since then he's been workmanlike
but nothing more and so it is with
his new album, wildflowers.
Petty's main failing has always
been his lyrical waywardness and
here his shotgun is in blunderbuss
mode. Check out; "I'll be king,
when dogs get wings" and "her juju
beads are so nice, she kissed my
third cousin twice" for nonsensical
rhyming and you get the jist of
what's going on. This is not to say
that the songs which contain these
lines are awful; far from it. 'Good to
be king' and 'Honeybee' rank
amongst the best tracks on offer. It's
just that when you appear to be that
limited in songwriting craft, the
overall battle gets lost as soon as
the listeners glance through the
liner notes. Still his nonsense
approach to words is one of the
reasons that he remains one of the
genuine feelgood writers in the
americana theatre of operations. To
that extent you don't need proper
lyrics, all you need is some idea of
emotion, tune and melody.
His schemes, as they always
seem to, involve small town girls
and boys, locked into the road,
radio on, pants askew but without
any real idea of where they're
going. Which is rather like most of
the album's direction really.
The most focussed Petty gets is
in the sleazy 'Honeybee' but there
consistency we find is held within
lines like "don't tell your momma,
don't tell your sister, don't tell your
boyfriend" to the accompaniment of
grinding riffs. I guess that there's
some kind of satisfaction there but I
wouldn't call it pure. (6)
Articulate, intelligent yet softly-
spoken. That's how Page Hamilton,
lead singer and guitar slinger for
Helmet, comes across in interviews.
Articulate, intelligent yet brutal.
That's how he comes across on the
new mini-album, wilma's rainbow.
The title track itself still boasts
the trademarked, shredding guitar
riffs but manages to weave a subtle
and surprisingly melodic vocal over
the top while 'Sam's hell' is a
bizarre, two-minute, distorted
country pastiche that showcases
some of Hamilton's threatened
experimentation.
S
i
l
l
"
But it's in the live arena that
Helmet really shine and the closing
pair of 'Just another victim',
complete with one of the most
slashing guitar parts you're likely to
hear, and signature tune 'In the
meantime', with its somehow
soothingly intense build-up, make
this stop-gap release strangely
satisfying. (7)
A brief description of the style
of the Tansads would normally put
them on my 'I wouldn't listen to this
crap even if threatened with death
by Des O'Connor' list. However,
despite their gaelic rock-pop-folk
origins and heavy political
overtones, they are atypical of their
genre.
The political content of their
new album, flock, is high, covering
the usual fashionable topics such as
the environment and, surprisingly
enough for a Scottish band, the
state of the Union. This kind of thing
usually gets right up my nose, but
on most occasions the sentiment is
tempered by realism, notably in 'I
know i can (but i won't)'.
The actual playing is always
competent, though what stands out
most are the haunting vocals of
Janet Anderton. Her slightly rasping
style adds real atmosphere and the
better songs are usually those with
her voice. Arguably the best song is
'Sunlight in the morning', an
apologetic love song which again
features Anderton, adding emotion
sometimes lost in other songs on
the album.
There are no duds here, and a
liberal spattering of corkers raises
the overall standard from
reasonable to actually quite good,
much to my pleasant surprise. It will
never be regarded as a classic,
except perhaps by die hard fans, but
makes good listening on those rainy
Thursday afternoons. (6)
There's something of the same
gentle political forces at work in the
music of the Indigo Girls. However
that they're Americans mean that
it's politics of the self referential
kind. That's not so much burning
down the barricades as smokin' out
the devil inside.
Live, the Girls invoke a bit more
urgency than when recorded but
whether that's a good thing rather
depends on your view concerning
the electrification of folk music.
Some people still haven't forgiven
Bob Dylan for his post-'blood on the
tracks' excursions and tonight it's
when they plug in that the Indigo
Girls are at their blandest. The less
commercial feel of their early work
still shines though, only now it's
filtered by the necessity, or the
want, to play some stuff from their
last album, 'swamp ophelia'.
On stage with the girls is their
long term bassist, Sara Lee, a giant
of a drummer and occasionally Gail
Ann Dorsey. They're a tight rhythm
section, but basically unexciting.
Really the Indigo Girls are all about
the two figures up front who play
their own acoustic guitars, sing the
songs they wrote themselves and
wrap up the audience in the tangle
of word driven emotion and flowing
harmony.
Yet out of the four times I've
seen them, this is the most
unconvinced I've been. Maybe it's
just that my musical tastes are
changing as I'd hate to think that
it's anything on their part.We invest
such a lot in those we musically
connect with. To lose them would
be sign of someone's neglect. ©
^ songs from the dead
Hans Werner Henze's Requiem grew out of a piece written in memory
of Michael Vyner, the late artistic director of the London Sinfonietta. An
hour long, purely instrumental work, the Requiem is subtitled 'Nine
sacred concertos for solo piano, trumpet concertante and chamber
orchestra'. A first recording has just been released by Sony Classical,
with the Ensemble Modern conducted by Ingo Metzmacher.
Henze is an atheist, and has taken the imagery of the Catholic
mass for the dead as the starting point for a humanist rather than a
spiritual exploration of death and grief. Thus the Rex tremendae (with its
giddy trumpet solo superbly played by Hakan Hardenberger) becomes a
depiction of earthly might, inspired by images of the Gulf War and Nazi
rallies. This evocation of the vertigo of power reaches a brutal climax
with the quotation of Hitler's favourite military march - a lurid touch of
irony worthy of Berg.
Altering the traditional order of the mass, Henze ends not on a
note of supplication but with an affirmative, hymn-like Sanctus. There
are also suggestions of optimism in the driving rhythms of the excellent
Tuba mirum, here placed after the numb disintegration at the end of the
Agnus Dei. Another high point comes with the grinding trombones and
flailing percussion that close the Dies irae track 2 from 6'20".
This is certainly not easy listening; the idiom is often
uncompromisingly atonal. But the perseverant listener will be rewarded
by a masterpiece of beauty, drama and pathos. 0
see a/so seven day guide
F E L I X

