News
ULU Funds Cut Dance Club Live!
BY ANDY DORMAN-SMITH
In line with Government orders,
Imperial College Union (ICU)
will soon be deciding how much
money it wants to spend on the
University of London Union
(ULU). The new system will at
last mean that students will not
have to pay for services and
facilities they do not use.
At the moment a set amount
of money is paid to U L U by the
Higher Education Funding
Council of England (HEFCE) for
each college. There will be a five
year transition, beginning next
year, which will end with 50% of
present funding being paid
directly to U L U , with the
individual colleges controlling
the other half.
Currently, U L U is neg-
otiating which services will be
considered as essential, and
which they will allow colleges to
BY MICHAEL L U D L A M
Hopes of free Friday nights at
the Union were dashed at the
Union General Meeting (UGM)
last Friday. A motion, calling for
the entrance charge to be
scrapped, was rejected, and it will
still cost £1 to get in. Helen
Teasdale spoke against the
motion, saying that it would be
difficult to find the funds to
support the disco and the bar
extension without a change to
the cost of the clubs and
societies.
The proposer, Chris Berry
came in for criticism for the
ambiguous wording of the
motion, which provided no
indication of how it was to
implemented. There were also
buy. The results of these
consultations will be published
on "Consumer's Day", scheduled
for 25 January 1995, when
individual colleges will be able to
consider which services they
require.
Lucy Chothia, I C U
President, has indicated that she
regards both Sports and Welfare
as two services most likely to be
paid for by the Union. She
insisted that extensive con-
sultations will be required within
IC before any final decision is
reached. Suggesting that the
U L U buildings and inter-
collegiate halls are rarely used by
Imperial students, she said that
these services might not be paid
for by ICU.
With the final equations
being available around Easter,
the Union will then decide the
spending plans for the next three
years.
complaints that he spoke too
much during the meeting; he
also stood for the temporary
accommodation officer post but
was defeated by Joanne Cole.
In a last ditch attempt to get
the Sabbaticals to take their
clothes off, the U G M
enthusiastically accepted a
motion requiring them to take
part in the sponsored 'nude
kamikaze parachute jump'. This
was supported almost un-
animously, except for those who
complained they did not want to
see Union staff 'get their kit off
for rag', as they had been exposed
to quite enough at this year's Rag
slave auction. In the event, none
of the sabbaticals turned up for
the naked race through
Knightsbridge.
BY OWAIN BENNALLACK
Over thirty Imperial students
will tonight be appearing live on
the other side of the television
screen. The starstruck students,
all members of Imperial College
Dance Club, will be swinging
their hips during BBCl's
Children In Need. This follows a
sponsored dance, held two weeks
ago, in which one hundred and
seventy people attempted to
dance non-stop for 24 hours.
The group included part-
icipants from Royal Holloway,
Surrey and Cambridge Univer-
BY ANDREW SMITH
Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II
will present Professor Sir Ronald
Oxburgh, Rector of Imperial
College, with one of her
Anniversary Trust Prizes in
Buckingham Palace next
February.
Imperial College's Centre for
Environmental Technology
(ICCET) has been awarded the
prize for its 'outstanding
contribution to environmental
teaching and research', from
among over 700 eligible
universities and colleges. The
announcement of the first group
of prize winners was made in St
James' Palace by the Chairman
sity as well as IC and raised over
£3,500. Music was provided, free
of charge, by IC Jazz band and
the Tony Strudwick Orchestra.
During the televised slot,
dance team members will present
a cheque followed by a
demonstration, including the
Quickstep, Cha-Cha and a
'Lindyhop'. Brian Crotaz, a
member of the ' A ' team and
organiser of the event comm-
ented: "It's a brilliant oppor-
tunity for the IC dance club to
gain some recognition for the
work its members do, and it can't
be bad for the college either."
of the Royal Anniversary Trust.
Since 1977 the Centre has
produced over 800 graduates
from its MSc course in
Environmental Technology.
They are now employed in areas
as diverse as government,
manufacturing and consultancy.
Groups from the centre work in
such places as the Amazon River,
investigating the disastrous
impact of mining, and the
Falkland Islands, with the
Argentinians on the depletion of
fishery stocks. One of ICCET's
groups has even suggested that
the international demand for
rhino horn and elephant ivory
could be filled with the farming
of the two animals.
£ 5 0 0 Bursary for First Year Engineering Students
To meet an urgent need for people of the highest calibre in British Industry, the Department for
Education and the Engineering Council have introduced from September 1994 the TOP FLIGHT
Bursary Scheme which is aimed at attracting highly talented people to a career in engineering.
All students at Imperial College who appear to be eligible have been sent to application form for
a bursary through the internal mail. To qualify for the bursary students must:-
1) be starting their course in October 1994 (the bursary will also be available to students starting
in October 1995 and October 1996).
2) be in first year of an accredited engineering degree (all engineering courses at Imperial are
accredited except Mechanical Engineering with a Year Abroad, Engineering for Petroleum
Studies, Environmental and Earth Resources Engineering, Environmental and Earth Resources
Engineering with a Year Abroad).
3) have obtained grades AAB at A-level (or equivalent grades in another qualification).
The application form is very simple to complete. Students should bring their complete form to the
Registry (Room 343 Sherfield) for checking and verification; they will be advised when their form
will be ready for collection. Students are personally responsiblefor collecting their verified form
from Registry and ensuring that this reaches the Engineering Council before the Council's closing
date of the last day in December.
Registry understands that this scheme is intended for UK nationals and that overseas candidates
are unlikely to qualify. The position of EU nationals has not yet been clarified by the Council.
No Free Fridays
Another IC Award
Have you heard the voice? writes Andrew Dorman. The voice of
ProfessorJohn Archer, Deputy Rector ofImperial College is coming to your
radio. Each day London Talkback (1152kHz) invites a studio guest to
comment on the morning's newspapers. John Archer has agreed "in
principle" to appear, and FELIX can exclusively reveal that if you prick
your ears between 8 and 9am next Friday 2 December you might just hear
one ofhis two five minute slots.
H5H0U9H F E L I X HH

