BackChat
From Undergrads to
Elephants
decided he liked animals instead of ships and ended up at Imperial.
I begun to understand something of the
passion and fervour which has surrounded
the affairs of London Zoo over the last few
years as I wandered through the doors of the
Zoological Society of London. Staring down
is the bust of the Society's founder, Stamford
Raffles. He died in 1826 so there's a lot of
history bound up in the Zoo. Indeed for all
the specific issues of balancing conservation
concerns and profitability necessities it could
be just that London Zoo is suffering from the
malaise which seems to have gripped most
British institutions over the last twenty or so
years. What is clear, however is that Jo (short
for Jonathan) Gipps is the man credited with
keeping the Zoo open over the last two years
as well as being the man who will have to
walk the tight-rope that will keep it open to
the public in the future.
Jo has had what could be described as a
rather disjointed career path to arrive here.
Initially he went into the Navy as an engineer
but as he says, "I discovered that engineering
wasn't for me. I didn't enjoy the inanimate
nature of engineering and I'd always been
quite keen on biology, although I'd never
done it properly. I mean I'd not even done
biology 'O' Level". So after consultation with
several universities he got out of the Navy and
did Biology 'A' Level in a year. It was about
the same time that Jo got married to the sister
of one of his Navy colleagues.
He was accepted by Imperial to do a
Zoology degree. It doesn't take too much
thought to realise that he wasn't really a
typical Imperial student. "I was probably
incredibly pompous as a result" added Jo. "I
was five years older, I was married and I had
done something before so I was a bit different.
And on a general point, it meant that I was
utterly committed to do well. I'm not stupid
but, you know, I'm not brilliant and I worked
hard and it was easy to work hard in that
environment ... I was doing it as a sort of
second career, so it was important to do well."
From there Jo went on to do a Ph.d at
Royal Holloway College, as it was then, in
small mammal ecology and behaviour. The
lure of further research in voles and lemmings
then took him over to the British University
of Vancouver in Canada for two years. The
next five or so years were spent doing various
academic things before the conveyor belt
appeared to come to a stop.
As Jo says, "I ran out of soft money. I
mean I didn't secure a permanent post which
was what most people expect to do if they're
staying in academic life and doing research...
but I didn't and I found myself at the end of
my fellowship unemployed and I had to make
a decision what I wanted to do next. I wanted
to go on being a biologist but if I couldn't do
that, what could I do that was useful, and
would look reasonable on the c.v. and pay the
mortgage and be interesting and exciting to
do? So I actually went on a short system
analysis course".
So, strangely, the ex-Navy engineer
turned small mammal ecologist spent the next
couple of year working at Kingston
Polytechnic in their computer centre. Still,
behind the scenes Jo was still keeping his
contacts in the animal world.
"I was on the council of a thing called
the Mammal Society, which is a kind of half
scientific and half amateur thing and Peter
Joule, who'd been my Ph.d supervisor, was
the chairman. The then curator of Mammals
at London Zoo was a man called Brian
Bertram. He was also on the council and I
went up one day ... I'd just seen Brian's job
advertised in the paper. Peter Joule said to me
'well why don't you apply for Brian's job' and
I said 'oh dear no'. I thought that looked a bit
serious, and he said 'give it a go' as actually
what he'd said to Brian ten years earlier was,
'why don't you apply for the curator of
mammals at London?' and Brian had said 'oh
no'. So it was definitely a question of history
repeating itself."
From there it only took six years and a
particular nasty bout of internal fighting to
propel Jo to his current position as the
Director of London Zoo. So, is a good career
planned or fallen into?
"I think that there are some people who
have a clear view of where they're going. I
reckon if you ask most people at the end of
their careers well how much was planned and
how much was chance, I reckon there'd be as
much chance as planning", says Jo. "If I'd
gone straight to university and done a degree
in Zoology I don't know what would have
happened. I would have been younger, I
probably wouldn't have got such a good
degree, I might not have got a Ph.d, but you
can't tell what might have happened and I
certainly enjoyed my four years in the Navy.
It was good fun, going abroad and all that sort
of stuff. Certainly one of the things that has
come out of that as far as I'm concerned is
that people who go to university straight from
school, I think miss out on something."
As for the future? Jo's got a long way to
to go. His 10 year, £21 million redevelopment
plan is underway but only time will tell how
the Zoo, which opened in 1826 to show the
wonders of the animal world to a disbelieving
public, will enter the twenty first century. As
he sits surrounded by the agenda for his next
governing body meeting, budget statements,
marketing plans and mission statements, Jo
says, "What I find myself doing now is very
management orientated and a little bit to do
with the animals. I'm not regretting that in
any sense, I love it." Q
F E L I X

