Feature
Welfare Week
Let's face it, everyone has problems. Fortunately, there are people who can hel
It doesn't take much time away from home to realise that life without
parents isn't quite the easy ride you may have expected. Childhood
dreams of growing up evaporate rapidly into worries about bills, the
chances of your condom splitting, and the fastest possible ways of
escaping from your fire breathing landlord. These and many other
issues are the prime concerns of a small (but noble) team of union
hacks. Hence WELFARE WEEK '95 - a time for you to pour out your
pre-Christmas bank balance worries into the caring, sharing ears of
Union welfare.
WELFARE WEEK AIMS (yours):
1. Meet the welfare team... at lunch on Tuesday, i.e. free food.
2. Get educated-at the various stalls dotted around Sherfield and the
Union.
3. Remember that Thursday is World AIDS Day. Statistics show that
if you don't know someone dying of AIDS yet you will within the
next few years. Maybe it's time to get prepared. In the meantime get
yourself to Wednesday's Benefit Disco.... with willing donations
clutched tight in your sweaty little palms.
4. Celebrate the arrival of the weekend at Fridays hip-wiggling Latin
American night.
Whether it be accommodation, loneliness, prejudice, abuse, childcare
or health, the Union really is interested, and IS here to help. I
recommend you use it.
The College Tutors
Drs Gareth Jones and Margaret
Goodgame are the two tutors who
oversee the college tutoring
system. This seeks to fill the gaps
which sometimes can exist
between departmental personal
and senior tutors and their
students, both under and post-
graduates. In particular it
provides a forum outside
departments where students-staff
disputes can be aired. Students
can raise any matter in
confidence with the tutors. The
college tutors also represent
students on a number of
committees and Dr Goodgame
has particular responsibility for
women students. Dr Jones can
be contacted in the physics
department in room 525 and on
x47805 and Dr Goodgame is in
the chemistry department in
room 238 or on x45722.
Sarah Edwards
Welfare Rep. St. Mary's
Hospital Medical School
St Mary's, being a small place
with everyone studying the same
subject, whilst on the one hand
being friendly, can become a
little claustrophobic - especially
around exam time. This, coupled
with the fact that any gossip
spreads like wild-fire, can mean
F E L I X 25NOU94
that a confidential voice can
sometimes be a help. I'm happy
to talk about any welfare issue, or
refer people for further help or
advice if so needed, (or call in
just for a beer and a chat!). At St.
Mary's we don't, as yet, have our
own Women's Officer, Lesbian
and Gay or Equal Opportunities
rep. All these areas are currently
dealt with under the title of
'welfare' along with the issues
dealt with by other welfare
officers. Obviously any problems
will be handled in a non-
judgemental manner and in
complete confidence.
Don Adlington
Student Counsellor
Don Adlington is the student
counsellor. His job is to help
students who run into personal
difficulties, of any kind. He
operates independently of the
other services in College, and his
work is confidential. He will see
students by appointment -
almost always the same day - or
without appointment if he
happens to be free, and is
available in normal office hours
including lunch times. Ring him
on x49430, or call at his office at
15 Princes Gardens (the same
house as the Accommodation
Office).
Spiraling clockwise from top: Don Adlington,
Minever Kavlak, Sarah Edwards, Sue Thornett,
Andreas Mershim, Annie Matthewman, Martyn
Crook, Loretto O'Callaghan, Jo Cole.
Annie Matthewman
ICU Welfare Officer
Hello! I'm Annie Matthewman,
ICU Welfare Officer. It's my job
to oversee welfare as a whole for
the Union. If any student has a
problem during their time at
college, then even if I myself
can't help - I'll know someone
who can. I am contactable via the
welfare officer pigeonhole in the
Union Office, or by email to
aml6@doc.ic.ac.uk. So come and
have a chat!
Paul and Karen
The College Chaplaincy
The chaplaincy is situated in the
basement of 15 Princes Gardens
and can be contacted on x49600.
The chaplains are happy to talk
over all kinds of life problems,
whatever your religion. They also
provide spiritual guidance and
anyone is free to visit for advice
or directions to a place of
worship.

