2 THE FRIDAY FELIX, Friday, May 26, 1995
H e ' s S i r - t a i n l y R o n t o a
w i n n e r !
BY THE IC DISTORTER
I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E head-honcho Sir Ronald McDonald
is to invest millions in a new hi-rise IC C a s i n o , it was
announced yesterday.
Rector Ron, 54, got a six-figure payout when his lovely
daughter, blonde Jemima McDonald wedded Pakistani American
Football player lam Rank-Han last month. Yet the news angered
Imperial's high-brow intellectuals who were still fuming over the
loss of the Civil Engineering building. It was demolished last
week to make way for the fifty-storey gambling-den.
•Inker
But as the 63-year old Rector jetted in on his private plane, he
swept aside complaints that he had destroyed the best Civil engi-
neering centre in the country. "They certainly weren't polite to
me," he joked. "Research has shown that unemployed engineers
make excellent croupiers," tycoon McDonald, 75, later insisted.
Flutter
The octogenarian Lancashire likely lad admitted to 'liking a
bit of a flutter' himself. But he claimed the multi-million pound
scheme was done all for the love of the college. "This place is like
a home to me," brunette Sir Ronald said today, swinging an enor-
mous sledge-hammer into the Grade A listed building.
Girders
Meanwhile, IC's egg-head boffins were making last minute
calculations to ensure the structure's safety. "It's important to
10
COMFY... Wealthy play-boy Rector, Sir Ronald, 33, sitting pretty in his private jet.
make sure it doesn't fall down,"
said one very civil engineer.
"Bricks are good for that."
Bather
One key plan element is
Ron's top storey swimming
pool. This time the engineers
will be sure to remember to
include the knight's heavy
chain-mail armour and broad-
sword (without which he never
takes the plunge) into their for-
mulas.
Age
McDonald is rich.
S T U N N I N G
S E C U R I T Y
S E R V I C E
BY MATILDA JONES
College security staff are to
get electric stun guns in a
move to deal with the
increasing lack of coopera-
tion of students and wide-
spread computer theft.
Top Security Armourer,
Rod 'Clint' Eastwood, said
that such weaponry would
act as a deterrent and reduce
thefts and violence in the
college. "They won't be
able to escape down
Exhibition Road if they're
paralysed from the waste
down-hehehehe," he added.
However students have
hit back. "We are not cat-
tle," said Miss Emma
Fresian, 19. "We demand
the right to be shot like
proper human beings!"
N E W S I N B R E I F S
Super brains working at
IC's :
have
(Mil
Icud to ihc 'formiiU of
Tow
Andrew Smjih Dm man
Smyth -IJMiiteaafli-oimarT
COLLEGE EXAMINERS IN CASH
FOR QUESTIONS SLEAZE
BY OUR VICE UNITS
Last week we discovered college examiners
are receiving S E C R E T F I V E F I G U R E P A Y -
M E N T S from IC coffers in return for writing
questions to be tabled in exams.
Bigwig
In an exclusive Friday Felix interview, IC'S
finance bigwig Charles Outsize-Salary, 52,
rejected any allegations of sleaze: "It is not
uncommon for our examiners to simply receive
monthly envelopes containing cheques for up to
£2,000. The college payroll is still using type-
writers don't you know."
Cover-up
We managed to track down one of the exam-
iners targeted by the corruption claims, Mr I A
Straight-Honest, 42. He reluctantly spoke to us.
"There is nothing untoward happening here, you
ignorant scaremongers," he slandered. "Now get
off my neck. Security!" Our reporters were then
roughly thrown out without provocation in a
B L A T A N T cover-up attempt.
Jargon
IC finance office later released a cryptic
statement: "We find it hard to believe that any-
one could have his physiognomy inserted so
extensively up his own posterior that they can
initiate a scandal over this issue.".
Stupid!
We asked our language expert Choam
Nomsky to explain this jargon. He told us what
we had already guessed - that IC finance are
using difficult legal talk to throw us off the
track. They must think we're stupid! We will not
let this scandal drop (unless we get some more
news). Anyone who thinks that they can fool us
and that sleaze like this can be brushed under the
carpet must have his head up his own arse!
THE FRIDAY FELIX SAYS: Hang 'em! Cynical
exploitation of young people at the end of
their tethers deserves nothing less

