4 THE FRIDAY FELIX, Friday, May 26, 1995
T H E FRIDAY
BENDER-LACK
OUR DITCHED commander is no
loss around FELIX TOWERS.
Barmy Bennallack drove everyone nuts with
his endless 'news' stories about computer thefts
and medical buildings.
But now he's got his just deserts - we've nicked
his job and sent him to the cleaners.
He never understood that the F E L I X editor was
supposed to entertain his wage-paying punters, not
send them to sleep with everyday facts.
Lies are what's needed in today's society! With
all the misery about, common people just need a
good laugh.
And you can be sure his mates are laughing
behind his hack tonight.
NUS? Not Us!
SO THE DISCREDITED National
Union of Students thinks it can
join ICU through the back door.
Do we look mad? Imperial is a college full of
big-brained science scholars, not bird-brained arty
tossers.
We've fought hard to gain our unique position
in the UK. And we won't give way, not through the
front door, the back door or over our dead bodies.
Honest Imperial students can't be convinced
with sweet talk and fancy words. It takes good
hard cash, and lots of it.
About four hundred thousand million pounds
would be about right.
A million for every loser.
Hot water for QT
COLLEGE'S PLANS for our famous
Queen's Tower are certainly
ambitious.
And that's just what General Custer's second in
command said when was told about 'Plan B ' .
The Queen's Tower is for jumping off, yes. But
the only thing that the divers should meet is ROCK
HARD EARTH.
Have our bigwig bosses actually thought this
through? What will IC do with all our ambitious
under-achievers i f they are to be denied their final
rights-of-non-splashage?
If anything the Queen's Tower should be
packed up and sold to Euro-Disneyland.
Cos with plans like these, it's obvious our
Sherfield rulers have already made the trip.
May 22nd - June 21st
Typical Gemini, you're a complele lightweight. Stop
pestering that chap/chapess. They already know
you're a schizophrenic with the morals of an alley-cat.
Your week is ruled by the letter'T' for tart.
June 22nd - July 22nd
You are the moodiest of moody people. Nobody is
going to want to know you in this state so stay in and
try and relax a little. Get out that old wig and dress up
in lady's underwear. Strut your funky stuff!
Your letter this week is a capital V for Sad.
LTJO
July 23rd-August 22st
This is your week to be star of the show (what's new).
Try and keep your cool while you shine. You won't
need to seek attention this time, all eyes will be on
you. It will be a natural progression from Git to King.
Your 'shiniest-happiest-Leo' day is Friday.
Vl'RQO
August 24th September 23rd
As the queen of virgins you should be able to take
your pick as to which tunnel of lurve you choose to
grope down. But beware, if you're too nit-picky you'll
end up with amble reason to be as neurotic as usual.
Your (de)flowering day could be Tuesday.
September 24th - October 22nd
Your normal spineless self is no more this week.
Thanks to those steroids you're well on your way to
becoming the channelled and determined individual
you always dreamed of. But adhere to good advise
about buying cuddly toys. They're not hip anymore
and may result in rekindled that 'teddy i o v e '
infatuation which proved so embarrassing in court.
Your letter of the week is X .
SCO<R$IO
October 23rd - November 22nd
Your obsession with sex is just too overpowering this
Tuesday. Instead lay back, take a back seat and enjoy
the ride. (Keep your big mouth shut too).
The number 3 bares great significance for you.
November 23rd - December 22nd
Now remember, engage brain before opening mouth.
If you don't take heed of this advice then expect
'tactless', 'thoughtless' and 'plain stupid' to be the
probable middle names fist-tattooed across your face.
Your words of the week are 'Xanthippe' and 'Ough'.
CSVgRJCOXfK.
December 23rd - January 20th
Relax this week Capncorns and enjoy a bit more of
life than you have so far. Grab the bull by its horns
and get together with a Taurean; find a china shop
and leisurely paint the town red.
'Ph' is your letter of the week.
January 20th - February 1 9th
You are quite simply, too mad, for this week. In fact
eccentric is too kind - w a c k o would be more
appropriate. Get in touch with the real world and start
on a concentrated dosage of Lithium. Perhaps a
change of vocabulary wouldn't go a miss either.
The word of the week for you is 'pig-headed'.
TISCES
February 20th - March 20th
Wet, wet, wet. You can feel it in your fingers and feel
it in your toes... Sort yourself out you miserable
individual. Stop being so soppy and pull yourself
together. You should kill anyone called Jennifer.
Word of the week; 'string' but could be 'piano-wire'!
WRITS
March 21st-April 20th
A word of advise, don't start any fights. Try to be less
aggressive in general. You take up a sport or join a
drinking club to channel your energy into.
'Pavement Pizza' should be your colour for the week.
lyiwms
April 2 1 s t - M a y 21st
You're a hunted individual this week - that crazy
Capricorn is after your horns, so get running.
You'll find 'invisible' to be an invaluable tone.
\7©QD Q C 2 G D Q Q Q G Q Q C ? OQmGOQG
Gin© znsGws^Moa© G
Q
a
o
©
G
a
g
j
G
a ©
D
c
a
c
p
s
© LD©GGD© ©o waoQOooas
©C? ©CD 0©a=&Q=®©a=3i7Q5>

