Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Friday 18 May
Nominations open until Wednesday 23 May
Nominations are now open for a range of positions in Summer Elections 2018. This is another opportunity, following our Leadership Elections in
March, to stand and lead the change at Imperial. Positions are open across various areas of student life, including Liberation, Constituent Unions,
our Academic & Wellbeing Representation Networks and our biggest Clubs, Societies and Projects.
Nominations opened: Noon, Wednesday 16 May
Nominations close: 23:59, Wednesday 23 May
Candidate manifesto deadline: Noon,Thursday 24 May
Candidate Briefing: 13:00,Thursday 24 May
Stand now at imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
Summer
New Draught Supplier chosen
After 5 months of bid presentations and tastings from 10 suppliers, the
Union has appointed Molson Coors as our draught supplier across all
our bars. The 3-year deal will start on 1 August 2018, when our current
contract with Greene King finishes.
The decision was made following feedback from over 700 students in
our House Lager Survey in December, and by a panel spearheaded by
Deputy President Finance and Services, Matt Blackett, along with Claudia
Caravello (CGCU President), Rhys Smith (ICSMSU President) and Marin
Tuleu (h-bar Duty Manager). Members of the Union’s Commercial team
were also on the panel.
The decision to appoint Molson Coors was unanimous as it was deemed
to represent best value-added for members.
How we will benefit:
• A wider range of new and exciting products
• More event support, including speed pouring machines and
• outdoor bars
• New and increased number of taps for faster service
• Increased training and support for our hardworking student staff
Name our House Cider
The change of supplier also provides the exciting opportunity for us to
name our own cider. Read Matt’s blog for more info on the supplier
decision and use the opportunity to tell us what you think our cider
should be called.
Find out more at imperialcollegeunion.org/bar-supplier
Candidates revealed and campaigning begins: 07:00 Friday 25 May
Voting opens: Noon,Thursday 29 May
Voting closes: Noon, Friday 1 June
Results released: Evening, Friday 1 June

