F E L I X
IT'S WORTH KNOWING
H _
~ F E L I X
CIRCULATION
1500
EOfTOR. M.R.HONER
IMPERIAL COLLEGE
E D I T O R I A L C O M M E N T
A Mr. Norman Scott, of tha United
States Information Service, has said
this in a recent article about editorials;
"For the reader, the editorial page
can help to bring order out of the
chaos of the glut of daily occur-
ences: fight his battles, set him
thinking ... and enable him to be
on guard against the editor's
human weaknesses in presenting
and playing the news."
This quotation is a l l the more
interesting, for recent College dis-
cussion has been centred around two
editorials, one in "Phoenix" and the
other in the la3t issue of "Sennet*.
Concerning "Phoenix", so much has
been written to this newspaper about
(mainly) David living's editorial that
i t has been necessary to select from
them. An official reply from Michael
Banks, for Phoenix, is included in this
issue. While i t is ridiculous to create
the situation of playing at being a
"controversial free-thinking student",
i t is equally ridiculous when other-
wise adult students stated categorical-
ly that the Editor has no right to ex-
press personal views in an Editorial.
He has every right to do so, i f (and
only if) there is no attempt to influx
enoe the reader into the acceptance of
view which is not directly stated, but
can be inferred only.
Whether, in fact, David Irving has
overstepped that limit is a question of
personal opinion - there is a school of
thought, which rates the Editorial as
too trivial to be worth writing about.
In "Sennet" the Editor has, to
some at I.e., overstepped that boundary.
For one thing, the whole problem of
Constituent College Hostels has been a
vexed question for some time in I.C.
Unfortunately I.C. has usually been
neglected, far some time, on the columns
of Sennet. Now we have a U.L.U. Agent
and we hope that ha will keep the Edit-
orial Board at Senate House better i n -
farmed. There is, in fact, to be no
referendum on the subject of Con-
stituent College Hostels; they will
not apparently be bailt. The remarks
about I.C. putting their'tribal instin-
cts behind them" is considered to be in
rather bad taste, as well as an attempt
to direct opinion here, or, as Mr. Scott
calls i t , "playing the news".
The front page of this issue carries
a topic of interest to a l l n—mini n of
this College - membership of N.U.S. i t
la important, because - with King's and
Manchester University Union, we are
outsid- that body.
Perhaps the amount of space given
in this issue to the Phoenix fracas will
ixlaar this particular Editor of the
charge that he i s taking sides.
THE LONG AND THE SHORT AND THE TALL,
which is at present runr.ing at the Royal
Court, Sloane Square, has sufficient
reality in i t s theme and dialogue to
bring home to the audience the poignancy
and tragedy of the situation; the
scene is a hut in the Malayan jungle at
which a small British patrol has just
arrived, and when the temperaments of
the soldiers have bean revealed, a
Japanese prisoner is caught. This
posew the problem pf whether to k i l l
him, and brings out the indecisiveness
and vulnerability of men under great
stress.
This will probably move into the
West End soon.
On Sunday evening at the Festival
Hall i _ a Mozart concert, which will
include his Violin Concerto in D and the
34th and 38th symphonies: they will be
performed by the London Symphony Orch-
estra under Peter Maag, and Campoli will
be the soloist.
The last performance this season
of Verdi's FALSTAFF is being given at
Sadler's Wells Theatre on February 4th
O R I G I N S
GENERAL STUDIES LECTURE
"In the beginning, God created the
world* and "in the beginning was the
primaeval atom*, may at first seem
contradictory: but, suggested Dr. McKay
in his lecture on Christian and Scient-
i f Views of Origin, they may be two ways
of answering the same question.
Scientists study nature in terms
of cause and effect, while the theistio
view of God is as a cosmic mechanic who
has only, to oil and repair the clock-
work machine: further, the antheist
identifies God with nature to the extent
of worshipping nature.
Perhaps the meat way is to think
of God aa a casmio artist - first he
sketches a static scene on the screen
of a X.T. tube, and this he then brings
to life:from this stage, the theist
asserts that the situation will have
laws of its own, but the world would
not be possible without the stability
of the artist. He has the origin of the
whole show in his mind although his
character i s not necessarily linked
with i t .
By bringing into being a world, God
alao created its paat, present and future
hence Genisis describes the bringing i n -
to being of a
> world which already has a
past, whioh the scientist is now try-
ing to discover. This is the Christian
doctrine of creation: the test is whether
God i s willing to make himself known
to us - for no soiamtifio discovery is
antithetic to this doctrine. If i t is
true, scientific facts will f i t in with
i t , and should not be disregarded as
irrelevant, nor should they be confused
with any explanations in Genesis which
are not attempting to answer any hist-
orical questions.
The world was not created in time
as we think of i t , bat rather was time
an aspect of God's creation: returning
to the analogy of the TV'/, screen, there
and the last two performances of THE
FLYING DUTCHMAN (Wagner) on February
3rd and 11th.
A Tchaikovsky Festival is being
held at the R.F.H. next month, when
eight Soviet musicians will be per-
forming his works: the first of
these concerts is on 12th February, and
includes the 5th Symphony, Violin
Concerto, and Romeo and Juliet Overture
and among other well-known works will
be the ifth Symphony, the 1 st and 2nd
Piano Concertos, and an excerpt from
"Eugene Onegin".
Walt Disney, renowned for the
impeccability of his cartoon pro-
ductions has completed filming "Tho
Sleeping Beauty", and this i s likely
to be seen in London during the spring:
and he is now proposing a live-film
version of R.L. Stevenson's "Kidnapped".
In the North and West (first week
release area) i s HOUSEBOAT, a light-
hearted comedy starring Sophia Loren:
she volunteers to look after
widower Carey Grant's children, and the
end may be forecast with l i t t l e diffic-
ulty.
John Boulting is now making a new
comedy, I'M ALL RIGHT JACK and i f the
cast (Dennis Price, Richard Atteriborough,
Peter Sellars, Ian Carmichael and
Terry-Thomas) is any criterion- i t
certainly will be " a l l right".
is no connection between origin in
terms of the scene depicted there and
origin in terms of i t s conception in
time - creation is continuing a l l the
time.
This world is a fallen world, and
so in theory i t should be possible to
return to the atage where thing were
better, before man knew of cruelty: but
the whole struotute of God's programme
was affected by the f a l l and not just
sections of i t and so the previous state
oannot be discovered by probing the
past of the present world - a l l the rules
of stability have ehanged.
ENGAGED
Lady Ann FEHY, 30 year-old daughter
of the Earl of Limeriok, is engaged
to marry the Deputy Serjeant-at-Arms
at the House of Commons, 44 year-old
Lieutenant - Colonel) Peter Thame.
Lady Ann is a scientist, a doctor
of philosophy, and lectures in physics
at the Imperial College of Science and
Technology.
OMISSION
Soon after the last issue of Felix
appeared, the Editor was deluged by ICWA
who pointed out that Dr. Helen K. Porter,
quite apart from her unique position as
a woman professor at I.C. (see page 4 -
last issue) also holds the distinguished
post of Vime-President of ICWA. The
Editor wishes to amend his omission -
such a singular honour oannot, of course,
be overlooked.
F O R S A L E
ELECTRIC SHAVERS, CIGARETTE LICafTERS,
RECORD PLAYERS, RADIOS.
12JS DISCOUNT
All makes - Guaranteed. Contact
C.G. Davies, Union Rack.
Opening last Tuesday at the Saville
Theatre was VAIMOUTH, a musical play
based on a novel by Ronald Firbank:
this has been running in Hammersmith,
and, set in an extravagantly fanciful
holiday resort, stars Fenella Fielding,
Cleo Laine, and Barbara Couper.

