FELIX FRIDAY 2 1 ST FEBRUARY NEWS FEATURE 11
Would
the real
Dr Rodney
Eastwood
Deputy Rectoii
| Directors
B (_J Dr Marion Kirnbefley
[+] <_] Ian Caldwell
J Lynda Davie:
. J M 1
" ' ;
'
Dr Eastwood, Director of
Planning and Information
Management Services. Hmm,
sounds important. What is it?
Well, Planning and Management Information
Services is a new part of university administration,
responsible for liaison with funding charities and
the Higher Education Funding Council for
England, HEFCE, and therefore for roughly 50
million pounds worth of grant that we get every
year, and making sure that we maximise it. I am
also in charge of running the resource allocations
planning round, where each department is asked to
supply their financial and resource requirements
for the coming year. This is also a way of manag-
ing student numbers, because wc are limited there.
I should also mention the management information
side, which is concerned with running the main
administrative computer systems: finance, payroll,
registry. We are also responsible for providing
information at a high level for departments. We are
developing a system whereby you could look at all
the information held on a student from all the
administrative departments or all the details about
a particular department, group or even sub-group.
For example, where their funding comes from,
whether charities or research councils or industry,
or the nationality of students and who pays their
fees. Any student could see what we hold on them,
though it would be fairly boring.
How would you say that your job impacted on
students?
Well, I'm not involved with any of the students
on a personal level, sadly, though I enjoy meeting
students. I tend to get involved on populations of
students, and the number of students in each
department and the relationship between under-
graduates and postgraduates.
How long have you been at IC in your current
position?
I joined the College nine years ago, and became
planning and information in August when I took
on the information side.
What was your first job, how much were you
paid and how long did you hold it?
My first ever job was computer programmer at
the Natural History Museum. I've been in SW7 for
all my working life. I remember exactly how much
I was paid, it was all the twos, £2,222.1 was at the
Natural History Museum for thirteen years in vari-
ous jobs. I ended up as assistant to the director of
the museum. This was at the time when they first
introduced admission charges. We can trace your
hand in that can we? Yes, though I was fairly
junior and wasn't a prime mover, but I was respon-
sible for writing it down, trying to make it look as
attractive as possible in the short term.
You must have seen some significant changes
on the SW7 site during your time, could you
yourself describe some?
The greatest ones are still to come! Apart from
all that going on out there [gestures at BMS site]
the museums have development plans, and the
Albert Hall has its Millennium redevelopment plan
and the V & A have got its boiler house or whatev-
er it's called now. It will be a bit of a building site
until the millennium, and of course the Albert
Memorial will lose its plastic coat. But going back,
the most significant thing that I can recall hap-
pened just before I got here when the Natural
please
step
forward...
History Museum had a face lift. It was filthy dirty
and you couldn't see the facade and now you can
see this wonderful Waterhouse building with ani-
mals running up the columns.
Building work aside, what image does the pre-
sent College environment give you?
I was involved in raising the money for that [the
BMS building], so its nice to see it going ahead.
However, the campus is not the most inspiring of
places, though one would hope that people would
be coming here because of the standard of its edu-
cation, not its architecture. The walkway is really
grim, grim and windy. The whole design of the
place is actually flawed, east-west orientated build-
ings like the Sherfield building suffer from being a
solar trap. If you are on the south side you fry in
summer and freeze in winter, it hopeless. You get
a huge solar gradient across the building which
means that the north side and the walkway are
freezing and generate a huge wind, the chill factor
must be quite high.
Do you foresee any other mergers or acquisi-
tions?
Not in the immediate future. I mean one of the
remaining independent medical institutions might,
that is the Institute of Cancer Research, but they
don't wish to at the moment, and we're not push
ing them on it. However, we do now have a grade
five History department, so we are therefore a nor-
mal university. A few years ago we did have some
discussions on the subject of expanding, and
before my time we were having discussions with
Royal Holloway, but it didn't come to anything. A
couple of years ago there was talk of Imperial
withdrawing from the University of London
and awarding our own degrees, what has come
of this? You know we are having a new charter
because of the medical mergers - the old one can't
cope and that will give us the power to award our
own degrees. We have no intention to at the
moment, but the last charter lasted ninety years,
who knows what's going to happen in nine years
time let alone ninety years time? It is, if you look
at it, rather ludicrous that the University of
Westminster can award its own degrees but
Imperial College, an institution of world-wide
standing, cannot.
Where were you born and brought up?
Well, I was born in Croydon, south London,
then in Surrey, and I lived there until I went to uni-
versity, when I was 18. So would you class your-
self as a 'Londoner' perhaps? I suppose so,
though for seven years I lived in Newcastle where
I went to university, and enjoyed it very much.
What do you do in your spare time?
I play music. Keyboard and Organ, cello at
school and the viol which is a form of violin, and I
sing.
Could you describe an anecdote typical of
you time as a student.
It's not very typical, but when I was on a marine
biology field course, (I study zoology at universi-
ty), on the North Sea in March. The engine of the
boat I was in stopped, and I was quite unwell for
some time. The educational content of that partic-
ular field course was lost on me, and plenty of my
colleagues I might add. My future field trips took
in the beach side of things.
Were you involved in any student clubs or soci-
eties?
I was secretary of the biology club, and a lot of
music, choir and so on.
Succinctly as possible, how would you describe
today's students?
Urn.. The ones at Imperial College are very
interesting, and make a valuable contribution to the
life of the College and will go on to make a very
big contribution to society in general.
Words and pictures by Alex

