FELIX FRIDAY 21ST FEBRUARY LETTERS & EDITORIAL 1 3
LETTERS TO FELIX
Student Newspaper of Imperial College
Editor Alex Feakes / Advertising Manager Mark Baker
Dear Sir,
With regard to your editorial on
7th February. It is damaging to both
parties when such poorly researched
rubbish is published in your pages.
After years of effort, progress is
being made in relations between IC
and ICSM at St Mary's. Calling us
"those students", "pesky medics"
and suggesting that something which
would be of benefit to us would be
"at the expense of IC students" is
unpatriotic and confrontational.
The Student Union of the new
Medical School will have to run that
union on 5 separate sites. It will have
to have a sabbatical president. It will
have to have separate sports teams if
it is to continue the tradition of com-
peting in Medical School competi-
tions (the U H cup). A l l these things
will cost money, and are a cost
unique to ICSM. The other CCUs
have nothing similar.
Regardless of the rights or wrongs
of closer social integration, these
necessities mean that the level of
funding will have to be different. Our
fellow students currently based on
the South Kensington campus will
not notice the difference in their
funding, because it will not decrease.
Nor will our funding increase. We
will have more students to cater for
than ever before, and more sites than
ever before on which to do it.
Please don't suggest that the sub-
missions of SMHMSSU to the IC
hierarchy were hasty or ill thought-
out. They weren't. Prof Swanson
didn't give in to "a room of baying
medics", he saw the sense of our pro-
posals. They are the best thing for IC.
With the merger approaching now
in its physical sense, harmony and
closer links are more important than
ever. Reactionary reflex criticism of
anything seen to be "good for
Mary's" must stop. Medics are going
to be a significant part of life at IC
from 1998, making up 24% of the
students. This is something we are all
going to have to get used to. We
should all be looking for what we
have to gain from these closer links,
not what we stand to lose. With
Charing Cross about to join IC, what
sort of impression does this in-fight-
ing give to them?
For our part, we are committed to
closer and more friendly links.
Would that that were reciprocated by
the rest of the students of IC.
Yours faithfully,
Nick Jenkins, 1st year rep
Your letter contains a lot of sense,
something that is often missing in
this debate. However, it also con-
tains a lot of the usual St Mary's
propaganda, which leads me to
suggest that it wasn't penned by
yourself. For a fuller reply see the
editorial.
Dear Mr Feakes,
The person who wrote against
protest in Felix 1079 has got their
facts very wrong. Changes in Law
brought in by Conservative govern-
ments over the last 17 years have
eroded the rights of the people in this
country to such an extent that they
are forced to break laws that did not
exist before. Protest, often violent,
has always been the driving force
behind changes in legislation in this
country since the Breach of the
Peace Act of 1324. The authorities
ignore reasoned argument and would
never bow without pressure, this
country has riots whereas others
have revolutions, I know which I
prefer. The Bill of Rights of 1689,
though Statute Law over Britain and
the European Community, has been
ignored even otherwise the incum-
bents of the House of Commons
would have all been hung for treason
along with the lovers of Princess Di;
so even politicians ignore the Law.
The two people killed at veal
export protests were both protesters
(one died of natural causes anyway)
and by the thinking of the author
appeared to deserve the conse-
quences. Is this what he/she really
intended to convey? With regard to
trespass, it is not a criminal offence
to trespass anywhere in this land
although you could face civil litiga-
tion for damages caused by that tres-
pass.
Finally, the largest number of
deaths worldwide from E-coli were
the result of eating McDonalds burg-
ers (17 in the US, 2 in Sunderland) so
is telling the truth really a thing that
should be stifled by the improper use
of libel law?
Yours Sincerely,
Nicholas Royall
I am glad that you identified the
'pro' article as provocative. I
would add that the C J A 1994 to
makes trespass an offence.
Dear Alex,
Re: Names of Union nights
Out of interest, how long do you
think it will be before the Union call
their Friday night "Naked girls get-
ting off with each other'V'Four
naked girls and one bloke'VCum-
sucking lesbians"?
Yours sincerely,
Sacha Manson-Smith.
Deadline for letters in Felix 1081
is Tuesday 25th February.
Letters may be e-mailed to our
address: felix@ic.ac.uk
"I WOULD H A V E G O T
A W A Y WITH IT..."
Nick Jenkin's letter (this issue) and
Nitisha Singh's letter (last issue)
about my editorial in 7th February's
Felix raise a number of points worth
answering.
Firstly, I would counter Nick's
claim about my editorial being unpa-
triotic with charges of hypocrisy.
Secondly, with today's financial
strictures, no source of funding is
secure, so if the medical students
receive a 'ring-fenced' amount of
money, where are the inevitable cuts
going to come? Other, non-ring-
fenced, student funding perhaps?
Such favouritism is bound to
increase resentment between medics
and non-medics, which, I agree, we
must work together to dispel.
Nobody denies that the geography of
the medical schools will incur
increased costs for the various
unions, but the best and fairest way
to disburse funds amongst student
services and societies is through the
existing mechanism, ie ICU. This
will have the additional benefit of
proper financial accountability to the
union's members.
Finally, the only reflex criticism
that occurs when St Mary's is in the
news is by medical students' 'repre-
sentatives' reacting to comment they
see as detrimental to their 'cause'.
Why these 'representatives' assume
a victim complex every time there is
any comment about them I have no
idea, but it is definitely reactionary.
We (by which I mean all non-
medics) are not trying to put you (the
medics) down; we simply are not
that bothered. Any antipathy that
docs exist has been generated by St
Mary's xenophobia, which is some-
thing the students of Charing Cross
might do well to dwell upon.
Produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board.
Printed by Imperial College Union Print Unit, Beit Quad, Prince Conson Road,
London SW7 2BB. Telephone: 0171 594 8071
Copyright Felixl997. Telephone/fax: 0171 594 8072. ISSN 1040-0711
NEWS: ROBIN; FEATURES: A F U A ; ILLUSTRATIONS: STAVROS;
PUZZLES: DUNCAN; GRAPHICS A N D LAYOUT: D A V I D A N D M A R K ; W E B
EDITOR: L E O N ; PHOTOGRAPHY: ALDOUS AND FRANK; SPORT: SIMON AND
M O ; COLLATING LAST ISSUE: ISLAM SOC, THANKS
Single room available in fashionable Earls
Court. Share with six friendly third year
IC guys. Rent £64/pw not incl. bills.
Tumble drier and washing machine.
25 mins walk from college, 2 mins from
West Brompton Tube.
Call Mark on 0171 381 6306 (evenings)
or email mltb1@doc.ic.ac.uk
M i s c e l l a n e o u s M a i l
A huge quantity of incorrectly addressed internal mail is at present
being received by the mail room. This will be held for one month
only. If you are expecting mail that has not yet arrived, could you
therefore go to Sherfield Room 174.
In future, please address all mail with the name, address
and department of the intended recipient.
Hustings
Tuesday 25th
18:00, dB's
Wednesday 26th
18:00, St Mary's
Academic Affairs
half-day
14:00, UDH
Wednesday 26th

