4 NEWS FELIX FRIDAY 21ST FEBRUARY
continued from front page
repay hefty tuition fees through a
period of employment with the gov-
ernment.
The meeting was then thrown open
to discussion. The small audience of
around 25 students, nearly all of
whom were Union Officers, were
encouraged to voice their opinions.
Sir Ronald, acting as impromptu
chairman, agreed with one sugges-
tion that there might be too many
new courses and Colleges in the UK,
admitting "I think that some parts of
the current system are very hard to
justify."
One audience member asked the
representatives of the committee
whether they believed that, if stu-
dents were asked to pay for their edu-
cation, equality of opportunity could
be maintained. Simon Wright point-
ed out that the current means of fund-
ing is already fundamentally unfair.
Bright candidates from lower-
income families are dissuaded from
attending due to financial pressures,
while less able students from wealth-
ier families can receive an education
subsidised by taxes from poorer par-
ents. Sir Ronald added that scholar-
ships could return to address the bal-
ance, enabling students from poorer
families to study at prestigious insti-
tutions.
After a brief show of hands, it was
PHOTO: ROBIN
Funding dilemma. Simon Wright, the Dearing Committee's student rep,
ponders the fate of his comrades.
quickly established that all those stu-
dents present had been forced to take
out a student loan. Medical students
in particular suffer from high levels
of debt. The Rector conceded that in
America the pressing need to pay off
large loans had seen a drift towards
safe, lucrative subjects such as busi-
ness and law. However, studies show
that students still stand to gain signif-
icantly, through higher wages, from
their higher education, and so should
expect to shoulder some of the bur-
den.
In response, some students
claimed that the prospect of a more
highly-paid job rarely figured in the
decision of sixth-formers to study at
university. They also expressed their
dissatisfaction with the current loans
system, and that they "...didn't know
who would be running it in five years
time." Piers Williams, ICU Deputy
President for Finance and Services,
accused the Inquiry of being 'pro-
debt.'
To the dismay of many in the audi-
ence, Sir William did not pose the
crucial question; whether students
would prefer larger loans or a gradu-
ate tax, until the end of the discus-
sion. The general consensus was that
a higher rate of income tax for grad-
uates would be less painful for cur-
rent students, and have fewer detri-
mental effects upon the number and
subject choice of new candidates.
A graduate tax, however, fails to
address a number of issues; it does
not solve the problem of different
institutions needing to charge their
students more than others, and, as Sir
Eric Ash pointed out, it is not always
possible to define who is or is not a
graduate.
Perhaps most crucially, a graduate
tax cannot begin to raise large
amounts of money until today's
graduates constitute a significant
fraction of the workforce. This may
be several decades away, while the
current expansion in HE requires
immediate funding. The only solu-
tion may be to increase loans in the
short term, and introduce 'top-up
loans' for those students whose par-
ent institutions decide to introduce
top-up fees. At the same time, a grad-
uate tax should be slowly phased in,
with different subjects and Colleges
attracting different rates.
The Dearing Inquiry on HE fund-
ing policy is not due to report its find-
ings until after the election.
i C U Overseas Students Committee
Pre .L-n'.s .. ..
STA TRAVEL

