6 NEWS FELIX FRIDAY 21ST FEBRUARY
Pepsi canned after Burma protest
PAUL SQUIRES
US snack giant Pepsi intends to with-
draw completely from the Union of
Myanmar (Burma) by 31st May,
according to a statement issued by
Oliver Wheeler, Pepsico's U K Head
of Public Affairs.
In November last year, Third
World First and several other student
organisations in Europe and America
informed Pepsi that they were con-
sidering instructing their members to
boycott Pepsi's soft drinks. They
were followed this year by the
National Union of Students and
ULU.
The student organisations cited
Pepsi's continued presence in
Burma, alledgedly selling Cola in
collaboration with the country's
oppressive ruling junta, the State
Law and Order Restoration Council.
Last month, Pepsi relented and
announced its intention to discontin-
ue all operations in Burma. Although
many of the student organisations
supporting the boycott claimed a vic-
tory, Mr Wheeler was quick to refute
their claims that Pepsi's decision was
a result of their action. Speaking to
Felix, Mr Wheeler went on to claim
that the reasons behind the withdraw-
al could not be so easily expressed.
Pepsi's involvement with Burma
began early this decade, when Aung
Sun Suu Kyi, the leader of Burma's
National League for Democracy,
appealed to foreign companies to
invest in Burmese industry, believing
that SLORC would soon restore the
democratic constitution, suspended
in 1988.
Pepsi was among those companies
which responded to the call. To
ensure effective distribution of its
product in the long term, Pepsi must
secure a great deal of investment in a
country's infrastructure and industry.
Essentially, all Pepsi soft drinks
are produced at a single site in the
United States, from where they are
transported in concentrate form to
the country of destination. There, the
concentrates are diluted, carbonated
bottled and labelled. This process is
always carried out by a local firm,
SLORC and the Prime Minister,
General Than Shwe.
According to Mr Wheeler, Pepsi
made every effort to disengage its
distribution network from the South-
East Asian state, but were bound by a
long-term contract with a Burmese
bottling firm. To breach this contract
would in turn be against internation-
al law.
^Wl^M^"^"^^ WSJ
Pepsi: Squashed, by students.
operating under an extended licenc-
ing agreement with Pepsi.
This method of distribution was
adopted in Burma, and, in accor-
dance with Suu Kyi's wishes, Pepsi
was permitted to hold assets,
employees and investments in
Burma's usually closed regime.
However, as the chance to restore
democracy in Burma faded, The for-
mer leader appealed to international
companies with assets in Burma to
withdraw their investments, seeing
this as a way of exerting pressure on
In order to break the agreement,
Pepsi needed US foreign policy
towards Burma to permit, or at least
appear to permit, the premature sev-
erance of contracts between US and
Burmese companies. At the time of
Suu Kyi's appeal, such a change in
policy seemed unlikely.
As a result, Mr Wheeler claims,
Pepsi tried to withdraw everything it
could without actually breaking the
contract. This included all invest-
ments, assets and employees. After
April last year, shipments of cola
concentrate remained the only form
of trade between the two firms.
Despite these developments, in
November Mr Wheeler received a
communication from a number of
student organisations threatening to
boycott Pepsi and its products. Many
of these threatened boycotts came
into effect at the beginning of the
year. In January, Pepsi re-examined
US policy towards Burma and inter-
preted it to permit a breach of con-
tract with the bottling firm. On
January 15th, Mr Wheeler issued the
following statement:
"Based on our assessment of the
spirit of current US foreign policy we
are completing our total disengage-
ment from the Burmese market.
Accordingly we have severed all
relationships with our former fran-
chise bottler, effective May 31st.
The bottler in Burma is taking appro-
priate steps to ensure that all produc-
tion and distribution of our products
are ceased by May 31st 1997."
Whilst consisitently denying that
the disengagement came as a result
of the boycotts, Mr Wheeler conced-
ed that they may well have played a
part in Pepsi's decision. The larger,
federal student's unions such as U L U
and the NUS constitute powerful
buying groups and major consumers
of Pepsi products. Last week, repre-
sentatives of the University of
London Union celebrated Pepsi's
climbdown, and made a show of
drinking Pepsi products at a General
Union Council meeting. Although
they remain bullish, some of the
U L U executive admitted that their
own protest actions may have been
overshadowed by threats from influ-
ential American Universities, includ-
ing Harvard.
T E L
M P E H
Get involved in your Union's own student TV station!
1 THE STUDENT TELEVISION
OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE
I n v i t e s y o u t o a F R E E b u f f e t
Learn about camerawork, vision mixing, editing,
directing, presenting, lighting, scriptwriting, transmitting,
11 special effects, location filming... anything to do with TV.
No previous experience preferred!
1:00 pm Wednesday 26th February
STOIC studio, 3rd floor & left, Union building

