FELIX FRIDAY 21ST FEBRUARY SABBATICAL MANIFESTOS 7
SABBATICAL ELECTION MANIFESTOS
PAPERS ARE DOWN AND POSTERS ARE UP, SO IT'S TIME fOR THE SERI-
OUS CAMPAIGNING TO GET UNDERWAY...
ON THE NEXT THREE PAGES, THIS YEAR'S CANDIDATES EXPLAIN WHY
THEY DESERVE YOUR VOTE.
New Election
As an incumbent Sabbatical it falls to
me the happy duty of championing the
cause of Mr Election, since New him-
self cannot be here this evening.
New (or Ron, as he is sometimes
known in other colleges), has been
trying for years to get elected to any
union post that he can. Unfortunately
every time he meets with success the
Returning Officer 'decides' to have a
new election. Dashed unfair on New,
one might suggest, but it has been
used in previous years as a vote
against all candidates, a deliberate
'none of them are any good' as
opposed to a 'dunno, not sure,
abstain' kind of thing.
Not that New is particularly happy
about this kind of thing - and will be
trying particularly hard this year to
prove himself better than the other
candidates - but due to his propensity
to have victory snatched from him,
and another election called, New does
advise people voting for him to con-
sider the hassle of re-opening nomina-
tions, and whether the candidates cur-
rently standing really are all crap, or
might just about do.
More sagely, he'd also advise vot-
Sam Baker
All Posts
ing for people on a more than just the
quality of their posters, getting a
Union card so you can vote in the first
place, getting your mother to help you
with those sharp scissors and not
putting too much salt on your food
(it's bad for the hole in the greenhouse
layer).
Oh, and for Christ's sake don't vote
f o r X
President
Coming form a varied background encompassing
RCS Academic Affairs Officer, Dance club
President and through sitting on ICU council, I am
in an excellent position to appreciate from various
perspectives the many issues facing the union in the
year ahead. These are the continuation of ICU's
retailing activities, the arrival of the first medical
students on the South Kensington campus, the ongo-
ing debate concerning student finances and the
improvement of social, recreational and sporting
facilities.
As president I will ensure that the students inter-
ests are served within any college proposals for
changes to student areas and services. I feel that the
union is in the best position to provide this and will
continue to expand the trading activities. The arrival
of the first medical students requires new attitudes
from many areas, I will represent the wishes of both
the new and current occupants of the South
Kensington campus in leading a union that is dedi-
cated to working for all its members. On the issue of
student finances I will convey the consensus opinion
of the students to other bodies whilst retaining the
independence and identity of ICU, giving a voice to
the views of you the student. I fully support the
efforts of removing red tape from the running of
clubs & societies whilst increasing support and
assistance in facilitating their activities.
It is vital to improve the communication channel
and liaison between college and students. I am well
suited to performing this task as I have had much
experience in both dealing with college committees,
working within a team and in leadership as part of
the union positions I have held. Finally I would like
to encourage you all to use your vote and have a say
in the running of your union.
Omar Kheir President
N o p h o t o
s u p p l i e d
i
Top-up fees. They seem to be weighing heavy on
most students' minds. My solution to alleviate this
potentially financial burden? Upgrade IC into a
monumental amusement park and leisure complex
to out-commercialise all others in time for the mil-
lennium. Think of it, imagine a revolving observa-
tion dough-nut riding up and down the Queen's
Tower; an accelerated death slide from the top of
Elec. Eng. plummeting twelve floors at near termi-
nal velocity before delivering you gently to the
brand new Beit Quad 'restaurant pavilion'; or even
the enormous 'virtual university' suite in
Computing, where you too can experience what it
was like to attend university when students were
'granted' money, and used their time for more then
just work.
The market for such a venture in the heart of
London is obvious. Not only strategically situated
within spitting distance of Hyde Park, the Natural
History Museum, the Science Museum and the
V&A, IC is the perfect site to develop our vision, as
thousands of school children visit these fonts of
knowledge every year. Viola!
Instead of bothering with the bureaucracy of
planning permission, tendering the contracts, the
local residents harassing the council, if a few brave
soldiers of Imperial College Entertainment
Complex Revolutionary Enterprise And Money, or
ICE CREAM, volunteer to violate the Campus
Renaissance architect's office, switch the blueprints
and hope no one notices, our goal will soon become
reality. Thank you, Comrades. All volunteers wel-
come. Solidarity, Brothers and Sisters.
PS If you wish to discuss further issues plighting the
average IC student feel free to call on me in
Southside Bar, anytime.
H U S T I N G S A R E T U E S D A Y 2 5 ™ F E B R U A R Y IN D B ' S A N D W E D N E S D A Y 2 6 T H A T S T M A R Y ' S
V O T I N G T A K E S P L A C E IN A L L D E P A R T M E N T S O N 3 R D A N D 4 T H M A R C H

