8 SABBATICAL MANIFESTOS FELIX FRIDAY 21ST FEBRUARY
Smita Chaturvedi DP (Clubs & Socs)
I have accepted to propose Smita through my confi-
dence in her to fulfil the position of DP C&S. With
her prowess in IC hockey club, her ability to chair
the ACC at short notice, and a wealth of other
achievements in her life, I can only say that Smita is
the only viable candidate in my mind, that shows the
energy, drive and creativity required of successfully
committing herself to the post. Andrew Gilder
Currently I am in my second year of Biochemistry.
As captain of the IC ladies First XI hockey team,
and being actively involved with the ACC, I have
become very interested in the running of the Union.
Taking a year out during my degree, as a sabbatical,
the decisions I make and projects I undertake will
also effect me as I still have a final year left at IC.
As DP my goals will be a little more realistic and
less over ambitious. However:
- With the merging of St Mary's and IC looming,
I will keep motivating clubs and societies to estab-
lish contacts with their St Mary's counterparts. I
would like to organise a social sports day with St
Mary's, encouraging (friendly) competition howev-
er still trying to create a feeling of unity.
- I aim to ensure the smooth running of the new
Clubs and Societies Resource Centre, whose plans
are now well underway. I feel the facilities it will
provide will be highly beneficial to all.
- I feel it is necessary to improve the medical
facilities at the sports ground. There should be help
available whenever any sports team is using the
grounds, and not only on Wednesdays.
- Finally, I would like to promote the Arts through-
out IC. International night being a great success, I
would like to enhance the awareness of the social
and X
Sarah Thomas DP (Clubs & Socs)
Jeremy Thomson
Congratulations. You 're reading a sabbatical elec-
tion manifesto. You're better informed and more
aware than 50% of the college population. Before I
lose your attention, let's talk about the fun stuff...
ENTERTAIN
Music, theatre, the big screen, arts, books, clubs and
more. Felix may be a student paper, but it produces
up to the minute reviews to rival many nationals. I'll
try to make this popular section more diverse and
comprehensive.
The apathetic among you may like to turn to the
more light-hearted SFTW now, because the next
part is serious...
INFORM
Great change is imminent at IC. Whole departments
and campuses are shifting in the largest develop-
ments since the 1960s. There is opportunity, but also
risk that the needs and wishes of the students and
their union will be further marginalised. I believe
I'm Sarah Thomas, a 4th year Chemical
Engineering student and I'm standing for Deputy
President (Clubs & Societies). I believe I am a
good candidate for the job since I am organised,
friendly, approachable and I have experience of
the way the Union works. During my time at
Imperial I have been actively involved with the
Hockey Club and have been President of the City
and Guilds College Union, so I have witnessed
first hand many of the problems a student club or
society encounter both from the society mem-
ber's vantage point and from a CCU/MSC level.
As C&G President, I felt frustrated that I didn't
have enough time to dedicate to the post. As a full
time sabbatical, I believe I would have the time to
achieve more and make a bigger difference. I
have also been a member of many ICU commit-
tees and currently chair Union Council and
Executive.
Felix has a duty to inform - so you know about the
decisions that affect your life, and your opinions will
be heard.
If you've got this far, I suppose you really are
interested. In that case...
INVOLVE
I want greater student involvement. Felix has a great
deal to offer students directly. It provides opportuni-
ty for aspiring writers, photographers, designers,
reviewers and columnists to see their work in print.
It offers experience in finance, advertising, and
research. It has excellent production facilities. It's a
diverse social centre. Plus, it's the perfect place to
eat your lunch-time curry.
I'm not making any specific election pledges.
Instead, I promise to do the job to the best of my
ability so that you get what you want. I believe that
I can succeed, but I need your help. Make it happen!
The integration of the medical students is a
large ongoing issue which will become even
more important next year as the date of their
move on to the South Kensington campus gets
closer. I would like to encourage communication
between "overlapping" clubs but believe it is up
to the individual clubs to decide whether they
wish to integrate or remain separate.
I also believe that the Clubs & Societies
Resource Centre, due to be built this Easter, has
the potential to provide a wide range of services
to the students. I would like to investigate this
further.
I believe that I have got a lot out of the Union
during my time at Imperial and see this as an
opportunity to put something back and to help
others benefit fully. I also believe I would enjoy
the job and would do it well. VOTE SARAH
THOMAS FOR DP(C&S)
Felix Editor
Hustings are Tuesday 25th February in dB's and Wednesday 26th in St Mary's
Voting takes place in all departments on 3rd and 4th March

