FF.I.TX F R I D A Y 2 1 S T F E B R U A R Y SABBATICAL MANIFESTOS 9
DP (Finance & Services) Rob Clark
During my four years at Imperial I have noticed that
there has been a steady decline in the numbers of
students taking full advantage of all the available
facilities offered by Imperial College Union. Many
students automatically assume the Union will
always be there to finance the clubs they join, and
provide the services that they take for granted. The
recent loss of the Union Book Store to Waterstones
shows how quickly a Union trading outlet can be
suddenly replaced, overturning many years hard
work by staff and students committed to ensuring
that the best possible service and widest range of
stock are provided. I intend to stop this trend by
strengthening the Union's trading position within
College. Increasing awareness of exactly what the
Union has to offer students, so that every member
understands the need for a strong and financially
independent Union is also a high priority.
The experience I have gained while running IC
DP (Finance & Service)
Over the past few days a number of people have
asked me why do I want to do this job. Some have
said I must be mad, for not wanting to take a well
paid job immediately on graduation. I think it's
more a case of ensuring that future students have the
same opportunities that were open to me during my
time here.
University is not just about doing a degree, it's
also about enjoying yourself and making the most
of the facilities and services you have on offer,
funded by the Union.
I feel we need to make more students aware of the
facilities run by their Student's Union, for them. It's
not just the fact that they exist, but we need to
ensure that they really are top quality. In 1998 stu-
dents from St Mary's and Charring Cross medical
schools will be studying on the South Kensington
campus. This means that there will be an increase in
the number of students using the facilities. The next
DP (Finance & Service)
twelve months needs to be used to ensure that
enough services exist to cope with the extra num-
bers. Anyone who was present in the Union when
England played Italy last week will know how
packed the place was. We cannot afford to sit back
and hope it all just happens.
Of course there are societies that already exist on
both campuses, funded by the respective unions.
We need to ensure that when, and if, societies
merge, that the same level of funding is available. It
would be a tragedy if funding was to be cut on the
basis that two societies doing similar activities is
tantamount to duplication of services. I'm not say-
ing that I'm against progress, more saying that we
need to be careful over the next few years that we
don't X
:: /
|: /
This year has been a difficult year for ICU, the low
point being losing the Bookstore bid. This is now
gone, but we need to pick ourselves up, and capi-
talise on the assets that we do run. The bookstore
13 premises are still under our control, and I believe
1 H that using that space effectively is key to the
1 Union's success in the future.
This year has seen a small working party (which
I was part of) prepare long term plans for the shape
of the Union Building in Beit Quad. I think it is vital
that these proposals are carried forward next year,
J and we begin to implement them in preparation for
the influx of new students following the arrival of
the Medics on campus. This is an excellent oppor-
1
1
1 tunity for ICU to start a physical and ideological
1 rebuild.
Throughout the merger, communication between
ICU, the Medics and college will be of primary
importance, but I believe that at the present it is the
Radio and being a member of Union Finance
Committee, Publications Board and House
Committee, puts me in a strong position to under-
stand the Union finances. During the course of my
degree I have also worked for an industrial research
lab preparing laboratory test rigs and assisting in the
tendering process for contracts. Additionally in the
five months before Christmas of this year I was
working as part of a scientific sales team with
responsibilities for technical support, forecasting,
market research and various other aspects of cus-
tomer support and sales. I believe that over the last
4 years I have gained the experience to do the job of
Deputy President (Finance and Services) well and I
hope I will receive your support.
John Savery
Duncan Tindall
communication with the bulk of Student population
that lets ICU down. The new clubs and societies
room will be completed soon, and this is a prime
opportunity to increase communication. If elected I
would ensure that there was sufficient resources for
clubs and societies to plan events, with records of
previous event budgets, easy to understand guides
to finances, and personal support readily accessible
to all.
Whilst at IC I have been heavily involved with
CCUs, have sat on Council for the past 2 years,
ICU Exec, for the past year, and am this years ICU
Transport Officer. This has given me a chance to
learn how the finances of the Union work from sev-
eral different perspectives, and in my opinion, more
importantly an understanding of where problems
and difficulties occur.
Hustings are Tuesday 25th February in dB's and Wednesday 26th in St Mary's
Voting takes place in all departments on 3rd and 4th March

