The Student Newspaper of Imperial College Issue 1244
A Turnip. Reprenseting
Turnip Henry, back for
one night only-
Page 21
Felix Film makes a
comeback with oceans
Eleven.
Page 11
S
>
On Monday 14th October, Felix published the news that Imperial College was planning to merge
with University College London and, seperately, to charge its students £10,000 top-up fees.
Rector's UCL Plan
After the initial publication, Felix has since
learned that Imperial College's Rector Sir
Richard Sykes was UCL's first choice to replace
Sir Derek Roberts in the post of UCL Provost
during Sir Richard's days at the helm of
GlaxoWellcome, before the company merged
with SmithKline Beecham.
Sir Derek Roberts, now in charge of UCL
once again as caretaker after the forced resig-
nation of Sir Chris Llewellyn Smith, said of Sir
Richard "When I first retired four years ago,
Richard Sykes was the first choice for provost.
We have been waiting for four years to get his
services."
Sir Derek also commented that Sir Richard
was days away from accepting the UCL position
when GlaxoWellcome's merger talks with
Was UCL Sir Richard Sykes' plan all along?
SmithKline Beecham collapsed in February
1998, after which Sir Richard elected to remain
with GlaxoWellcome. The successful merger
which formed GlaxoSmithKline was re-
announced in January 2000.
If Imperial College and University College do
merge successfully, Sir Richard will ultimately
become head of one of the largest institutions in
the world.
Sir Richard has certainly expressed an inter-
est in influencing the country's research in the
past - particularly in biomedical sciences -
though whether this merger is part of some
grand plan is unclear. However, the merger will
provide an excellent stage to direct policy on
how universities are run, not just about their
research, but the whole of the British higher
education system. AW
Full details of the UCL merger can be found on
page 3; a Union statement is on page 4.
College Denies Top-up Fees
Despite the planned presentation
of a paper to College Council on
Friday backing the payment of
top-up fees by Imperial students,
the College has told the BBC that
it was "absolutely not true" that
the introduction of top-up fees
would be discussed.
This seems directly contrary to
the paper, which asks Council to
agree that the College should pub-
licly announce its wish to intro-
duce top-up fees for its students
should the Government remove
the £1,100 cap on tuition fees.
The paper does not specify the
level of fees that Imperial would
hope to introduce, but £10,500
was used only as an example in a
calculation representing the
advantages to top-up charging.
Regardless, there certainly
appears to be a disparity between
the papers published for Council
and the impression College
sources are giving to the national
media. In an interview with the
Union media, Director of Strategy
and Communication Chris Towler
said "it's very clear what the
deficits in university funding are",
stating that Imperial College lost
£2,800 per year on each student.
Pending a government white
paper, the contents of which the
College administration did not
"officially know", he indicated that
top-up fees "will be an acceptable
way forward."
Fees are unlikely to be intro-
duced before the next general
election, nor will any currently reg-
istered students be expected to
pay top-up fees. AW
Be informed. See inside for the
full story of the top-up fee pro-
posals and what they mean.
Sen (Union President) explains |
what the hell is going on.
I (Will, Felix Editor) also try and
explain what the hell is going
on. But perhaps not quite so
effectively.
Alex makes absolutely no
attempt to explain what the hell
is going on.
This being a science university,
we thought we should have a
science page. What's going on?
18th October 2002
"I'm knee-deep in Union shit!" / "If it hasn't got a penis, I'm not interested" http://www.union.ic.ac.uk/felix/ • felix@ic.ac.uk

