F E L I X F I L M R E V I E W S 11
7~r
Screen
Welcome to the new and improved(?) Felix
Film pages. My name is Simon and I will be
your editorial guide (until Will comes to his
senses) to all that is great and good in the
world of film. And yes, this is the reason why
I'm not defending my GFQQ crown - apparent-
ly having access to the writers of the quiz is a
"conflict of interest" or something official
sounding like that, so I am forced to retire...
unbeaten....
Anyway, hope you find these pages to your lik-
ing. If you lot out there in the real world have
any suggestions as to what you want, then feel
free to get in touch (felix.film@ic.ac.uk) and I'll
see what I can do. Later...
1/1/ 1
/
This ore is going to be short on the Review
and long on the social commentary. Yes, I
am lazy. Yes, it is getting on for three in the
morning. But don't fool yourself into think-
ing these are the reasons I'm being skimpy
on the copy. I just don't want to give any-
thing away
I saw this movie in the company of one
exceptionally jumpy girlfriend in one very
gothic-esque, empty, echo-y cinema - with-
out knowing anything about the film at all.
And this is how I would love you lot to see
it too. Its one of those movies that is
defanged by overly detailed reviews (Heat -
forshame!). Big Brother meets Blair Witch
head on, with steadier cameras. That sums
it up rather nicely I think.
Five relatively unknown actors 'star' in a
low-budget suspense/horror movie of the
jumpy persuasion. Their remit is to slum it
for a few weeks in the quest for a million
dollars. So long as none of the five lose
their bottle early everyone gets a share,
while the whole thing is broadcast live on
the internet.
Billed by the distributors as a film to rival
Psycho and Halloween, expectations among
horror veterans were huge prior to its
October release in the UK. To my mind they
weren't far wrong. I'm not a huge horror
fan, mainly because I scare too easily, but
I've watched (and been scared by) my fair
share. My Little Eye managed to give me
The Fear in a way I have never encountered
before, so it's fair to say I was impressed.
The effects (for once aural rather than visu-
al) are spot on, with some fine musical
selections - most notably the hugely claus-
trophobic track "Fuck the Pain Away" by
The Peaches.
I have to be honest and admit that I did a
little bit of cheating before writing this
review. Partly due to lack of faith in my own
judgement and partly due to curiosity as to
how sane people view this movie.
What did I find? Polar opinions are what.
Now, anyone who's read far too many
reviews (me, for example) knows this is a
good thing. You will either love or hate this
movie, it's that simple. 50-50 chance to
those of you with a betting streak. If you
fancy a jumpy horror/thriller of the
Hitchcock persuasion (bearing in mind the
guy is dead and no-one directs a thriller like
Alfie) then go see now. You've got a fairly
good chance of not being disappointed....
My Little Eye was released on 4th
October, Cert 18
Donnie Darko
Freakish high-school kid has run in with
the cold, dark rabbit of his soul. No, I am
not on any prescribed medication - this is
probably the best description of this movie
that you will read. Best movie of the year?
You'll certainly be finding people debating
that once it hits the multiplexes, because it
is that good. I bet not one of them can
explain the damn thing though - I've been
trying to for about three months (it was out
in the States in 2001) and the best I can
come up is the fifteen word line at the top
of this review.
For first-time writer/director Richard Kelly
this is an astonishing debut, bearing more
than a little resemblance to Lynchs best
work. Intriguing and confusing in equal
measure with a sharp black humour running
thickly through the plot, Donnie will really
draw you in. The solid soundtrack, filled
with eighties staples like Joy Division and
Duran Duran, is topped off by a wondrous
cover of the Tears for Fears track "Mad
World". This one will be lined up alongside
REM and Radiohead on moody teenage
compilation CD's by Christmas.
Don't try to understand, don't try to work
it all out - you'll only succeed in blowing a
fuse. Lie back and enjoy the strangest
movie you will see this year. I guarantee
that this is the best film ever made starring
a man sized rabbit called Frank.
Donnie Darko is released on 25th
October 2002, Cert. 15.
Oceans 11
Ahhh what a lovely watch this is! A film to
suit all parties, if ever there was one. For
the boys we have cool gadgets and Mission
Impossible style stunt work, with the excel-
lent pairing of Clooney and Pitt in the lead
roles. For the girls we have... well, Clooney
and Pitt in the lead roles (nb - I checked
with a few ladies before writing this and
they happily confirmed that yes, they have
seen/will see/are watching this movie main-
ly because of the dynamic duo).
A remake of the "classic" Rat Pack film of
the 60's, this is one of those rarest of rari-
ties - a cover version that outshines the
original. By a long way. The plot centres
around a typically audacious attempt to rob
some casinos in Las Vegas, a cool premise
for the cool cast, cool clothes, cool music
and cool dialogue. Thoroughly enjoyable
festival of all that is cool in the world.
Ocean's 11 was released on 14th
October 2002, Cert 12 on DVD and video
What you should be watching....
...at the Movies : My Little Eye (Released 4th
October, 18)
...on TV : Chasing Amy (Saturday 19th
October, 22:35, BBC2)
...on Sky : Almost Famous (Sunday 20th
October, 22:40, Premier 3)
...on Video : Oceans 11 (Released 14th
October, 12)
film.felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

