F E L I X 1 7
N e w s in B r i e f
Mission to Mars?
Apollo astronaut Dr David Scott, speaking at a
debate on space exploration, has said that one
day man will walk on Mars. He argues that the
technology is available but prohibitive costs
mean that it might not happen for hundreds of
years.
Robots and probes are capable of doing all
the work carried out by astronauts on the moon
but Dr Scott thinks that man will want to see
for himself.
On the pathfinder mission, images were
taken using rover robots
Pill camera
A camera the size of a pill has been tested by
a patient at the Royal Hallamshire hospital in
Sheffield, giving detailed pictures of her diges-
tive system. The camera measures 26 mm by
11 mm and passes colour images to a belt unit
worn for the eight hours it takes to travel
through the body. The images can be watched
by doctors to diagnose problems in the small
intestine, which would normally require the
use of an endoscope or barium meal.
New camera the size of a pill could revolu-
tionise medical diagnosis
Bid to clone humans?
The scientists who cloned Dolly the sheep at
the Roslin Institute in Edinburgh plan to put in
an application to clone human embryos within
six months. Professor Ian Wilmut would like to
produce stem cells using the same technique
that produced Dolly. He would grow stem cells
that could be used in the treatment of heart
disease or Parkinson's disease, for example.
The application would have to be approved by
four ethics committees.
Dolly the Sheep was the first successfully
cloned animal
Dr Scott advised that a manned trip should
include poets and writers, versed in skills such
as communication and metaphor who could
convey the "beauty of space" to humanity bet-
ter than scientists. He also thinks that space
tourists should have a place in helping to
advance space exploration. As his colleague
Professor Pillinger says, space tourism was "no
bad thing".
"It's going to make space exploration go
much faster".
Dr Mark McAlindon said: "This is a major
advance. It provides a far better picture of the
small intestine. ... Now we can see all five plus
metres of it".
The patient, 26 year old Joanne Rossall,
said: "I was quite worried that it wouldn't go
down. I generally get stomach pains but this
was no worse than normal". While the camera
was inside her, Joanne carried on her life as
normal, by having lunch and going for a long
walk.
The Scottish Catholic church is strongly
against any research involving human
embryos. A spokesman said: "An embryo is a
human life with potential. To use that as a
means to someone else's end - however well
intended - is wrong".
Professor Wilmut said in January that Dolly
has arthritis, possibly because of genetic
defects introduced in the cloning process. He
thinks that all clones are possibly genetically
defective.
I need 20 rubber chickens, all
with squeakers...
Wanted:
Science
Writers
Contact
rosemary.chandler@ic.ac.uk
with your ideas
Editorial
This is the first installment of a
weekly science column, and was
prepared by me during a Sunday
visit to my parents-in-law. In the
future I would like to include con-
tributions from students in all IC
departments, so if you fancy
being a science or technology
writer then contact me at rose-
mary.chandler@ic.ac.uk with
your ideas. In upcoming issues
there will hopefully be articles
from IC scientists and engineers,
and also from other research lab-
oratories across the country, but I
bring you this week's column
mainly from the BBC web pages.
An essential skill as a scientist is
to be able to write convincing
research proposals to get that all-
important funding. In order to
lighten up the science pages of
Felix, I would like you, dear read-
er, to set your mind to writing, in
100 to 200 words, a proposal for
an experiment or project that
requires the items described in the
title of this section, namely twenty
rubber chickens, all with squeak-
ers.
Perhaps you want to investigate
"Schrodinger's chicken" by setting
up an isotope decay to trigger a
squeezer that squeaks the chick-
en. Or maybe you are interested in
creating exotic chicken breeds (or
perhaps even "anti-chickens") by
colliding high velocity rubber
chickens into a target.
Send your proposals to rose-
mary.chandler@ic.ac.uk.
felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

