1 8 B O O K R E V I E W S F E L I X
A Certain Justice
P. D. James
Bad Heir Day
Wendy Holden
Cocaine Nights
J. G. Ballard
This is the first R D. James novel I've read and
I'm hooked. I love a really good whodunit and
this is the genre at its best. James tosses your
imagination around so that at the final con-
frontation with the murderer you have suspect-
ed and disregarded just about every character
in the book.
Adam Dalgliesh is the chief investigator; he
and his team were brought in because of the
high social standing of some of those involved.
Venetia Aldridge, QC, is a brilliant, ambitious
woman with the ability to rub everyone she
meets up the wrong way. This includes her ex-
husband, his new wife and child, her own
eighteen year old daughter, her boss, her col-
leagues. In fact, the best thing that anyone can
say about her after her death is that she was a
"brilliant lawyer". So Dalgliesh is not short of
suspects, since the murder took place in
Chambers it had to be committed by someone
with a key or someone whom she knew well
enough to let in. There is also a strangely sym-
bolic act of desecration to the murdered body
of Ms Aldridge which adds another dimension
to it as far as the investigating officers are con-
cerned.
The police have the added problem of deal-
ing with lawyers who are skilled at the art of
not telling the whole truth without actually
lying. This results in obstructions and problems
which slow their progress. These sometimes
political, sometimes selfish acts have serious
ramifications in the end as another murder
takes place. This time, the prime suspect for
the murder of Venetia Aldridge is the victim,
but is it the same murderer? It has to be con-
nected, but it is difficult to see how. As the con-
nections become clearer and the murderer's
identity emerges, there is a race to stop further
deaths.
James also questions our morals, when is a
crime not a crime? Is our justice system right if
someone who is known to be guilty can be let
off by a jury? Innocent until proven guilty? Are
some crimes forgivable under certain circum-
stances?
P. D. James has written an evocative,
thought provoking mystery that I thoroughly
enjoyed reading and hope you will too.
Published by Faber and Faber Ltd.
ISBN: 0-571-19541-5
£9.99
Ok, so this is not a highly intellectual book but
if you like to escape into a different world with-
out having to occupy any brain cells, then this
does a pretty good job of creating a suitable
world for you.
Anna Farrier begins the novel in a live-in rela-
tionship with a gorgeous heir called Seb
Lavenham. Unfortunately he is also a complete
nightmare to be with and live with. Anna starts
to have doubts despite being head over heels in
love with him. After receiving advice from her
new friend, Gina, she leaves an advertisement
in the Kensington library to try and find a place
as an author's assistant. She takes up a posi-
tion as an assistant to the famous novelist,
Cassandra Knight, with the intention of
advancing her plans for being an author her-
self. However, she in fact ends up as a general
scivvy pandering to Cassandra's every need,
and nanny to her appaling child, Zac. Zac who
finds it funny to put cereal in Anna's hair on the
way to school. Zac, whose sole aim is to make
his nanny's life hell and is very good at it. Zac,
who has been through five different nannies in
twelve months.
For me the most wonderful thing about this
book is what the Literary Review describes as
the "nanny mafia". The idea is that nannies
conspire to create a demand so that they have
better working conditions than their employers,
with posh cars, holidays organised around their
demands plus fantastic accommodation. The
sole purpose of the nannies, male and female,
is to capture a rich, important partner and Gina
takes it upon herself to find Anna a suitable
match. This match ends up being yet another
gorgeous heir, this time to a Scottish castle,
Jamie. Anna begins to develop an attraction to
him before her break up with Seb and contin-
ues feeling it at a chance meeting while acting
as nanny to Zac. It is Anna's tendency to get
involved with men who are heirs to a fortune
that provides the title for this book.
This is a cheeky, cheerful book with a very
humourous take on the life of the upper class
wannabes. It is an amusing tale, with stereo-
typical characters resulting in a fun, entertain-
ing story of life's little problems and bigger
mishaps.
Published by Headline
ISBN: 0-7472-6130-X
£5.99
Oh dear, will everyone please do me a favour -
do not buy this book. It is not good. In fact, I
will go further than that and say I really did not
enjoy reading this. The sole reason I finished it
was because of you guys. I decided that if I
was going to be this rude about a book then I
really ought to have finished reading it. Less a
novel about the deleterious effects of cocaine
on a society and more an advertisement for
how "cool" the author thinks he is. If you only
read these reviews to find a good book, then
stop now. If, however, you want to listen to me
having a good moan or you're incredibly bored
then carry on. Either way, it makes no differ-
ence to me because I've still got this printed
and off my 34D chest.
Frank Prentice admits to quintuple murders
to the shock of the many people who know and
love him. Frank's brother Charles is informed
and sets off to try and discover the truth since
he cannot believe that his brother could do
such a thing either. All this takes place in a
sexy Spanish resort for British people with far
too much money and far too little sense. The
sophisticated appearance of the resort at first
impresses and stuns Charles but soon he dis-
covers that this is, in fact, a smoke-screen cov-
ering up a society with an insatiable and dan-
gerous desire for fun and leisure. This novel
could be viewed as a sociological study when
Charles takes charge of the creation of a new
leisure plaza. He attempts to establish a com-
munity in a limited time scale and in the
process of doing this he discovers the weaker,
more brutal side of human nature.
What really confuses me is the number of
brilliant write-ups this book seems to have
received from critics. I think that it could be
due to the fact that this book was short listed
for a Whitbread award. Once one 'literary
genius' has decided it is to be a modern clas-
sic the rest follow in a somewhat disappointing
fashion. Reading is a personal and individual
experience, so I cannot guarantee that you will
dislike this as much as I did. I can only give
you my opinion, which is what this column is
for. I think it was a waste of good trees and will
be a waste of your good money if you buy it. So
don't.
Published by Flamingo
ISBN 0-00-655064-9
£6.99 Jenny
felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

