F E L I X C O F F E E B R E A K
GFQQ MK II by Bobby Cyclops & Dr Hot Fudge
THE GREAT FELIX QUOTES QUIZ
T H E QUOTES llA
1. "As you wish!"
2. "I see you shiver with antici pation."
3. "The meanies are coming!"
4. "You obviously have no idea who you're fucking with!"
5. "If only you could see what I've seen with your eyes..."
6. "I'm sorry, Dave, but I'm afraid I can't do that."
7. "Imagine the size of his balls... Imagine getting into a fight with the
fucker..."
—"Please, I don't feel well"
"That's what you'd say, but that wouldn't wash with Geoff. He'd
want some pleading first. He'd probably tell you what he was going
to do before he actually did it. I'm going to rip your head off. No,
please, don't rip my head off. I'm going to rip your head off, because
I don't like your head."
A N S W E R S T O G F Q Q 1 2 4 2
1. Chunk/Jeff B. Cohen - Goonies
Mouth/Corey Feldman
2. Spiderman/Toby Maguire - Spiderman
3. Nick/Christopher Walken - The Deer Hunter
4. Annie Wilkes/Kathy Bates - Misery
5. Yoda/Frank Oz - Star Wars Episode II - Battle Of The Clones
6. Shooter McGavin/Christopher McDonald - Happy Gilmore
Happy Gilmore/Adam Sandler
7. Marsellus Wallace/Ving Rhames - Pulp Fiction
WE '1?
I OF T H E WEEK
www.extremeironing.com
What more can you ask for? A website that combines the adrenaline
fuelled excitement of free climbing with the joy of a newly pressed shirt.
Go here, and you need never wonder whether it's possible to paddle
in a canoe while ironing again.
Coffeebreak score: 8/10
i\GS
In very much a similar way as Dracula in the film 'Dracula's Dead', in which
the aforementioned Count is raised from the dead in a particularly unlikely
way (but not, in fact by a pig passing by Castle Dracula on a Tuesday play-
ing a banjo), I, the turnip of destiny, have return-ed to wreak mighty havoc
upon your unsuspecting cerebella. Some of you may not remember me at all,
your youth still flowering like a geranium, but the older, and perhaps better
of you will certainly recall the fiendish way I taxed your minds with such
clues as "Rub oil around large breasts for phallic fun! (5)". Ah, the days. But
why have I returned, you may ask, consternation dripping from every pore...
drip. drip. drip. Mmmsk!... It involves a freak accident with three paw-paw,
a violin, not to mention a large bowl of banana custard. Suffice to say that
the good Doctor and his monocular compatriot are temporarily engaged else-
where, allowing me to wreak my vengeance on the unsuspecting Coffee
Break page (and my, how it's grown...)
Anyway, the point of all this is that I am Turnip Henry the instigator of all
this madness: all who hear my name tremble at the sight of my visage. And
so to end, because I'm running low on melodrama, I will tell you this:
"A damsel with a dulcimer, in a vision once I saw. It was an Abyssinian
maid, and on her dulcimer she played, singing of Mount Abora. And should
I revive within me her symphony and song? Oh, with what delight t'would
win me, as with music, loud and long, she'd build that sunny dome in air;
that sunny dome, those caves of ice, and all who heard should see him
there, and all should cry beware, beware, his flashing eyes, his floating hair.
For he on honey dew has fed, and drunk the milk of paradise."
m m t l tAkWS AM <HtAr
m M
O
T
O
U
*
coffee.felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

