C O L U M N F E L I X
From The Union
Student Fees
No doubt you will have read the news that the
Rector has presented a paper to the College
governing body asking permission to charge stu-
dents fees to home and EU students that reflect
the true economic cost of education.
The introduction of fees that correspond to
the full economic cost of education represents a
fundamental shift in the funding of higher edu-
cation. The Union realises that the cost of pro-
viding an international standard of teaching and
research must be met and that there is a fund-
ing shortfall in undergraduate teaching. A
recent review showed it costs approximately
£10,500 to teach a Home/EU student.
Currently the College receives about £7,700
from HEFCE and student fees, this represents a
short-fall of £2,800.
The Union recognises that we cannot allow
this funding shortfall to continue. However, we
are concerned that most Imperial students are
already expected to contribute some of these
costs, and any extra financial burden may fur-
ther increase student hardship.
The College are suggesting charging full fees
of £10,500 with the caveat that the College
retains its current teaching grant from HEFCE
(approximately £50M) to fund bursaries for stu-
dents that cannot afford to pay full fees. The
College aims to implement a needs-blind sys-
tem, one that aims to allow the top-calibre stu-
dents to enter College regards of their financial
background.
Any system for assessing the bursaries will be
based on a means testing scheme. Means test-
ing assumes that parent's wealth equates
directly to their generosity towards their chil-
dren. This is not always the case, indeed a
recent survey conducted by Barclays Bank
showed that 17% of students receive no contri-
bution from their parents. A further 30%
received less than the government's recom-
mended contribution. There is a real danger
that a large proportion of high quality students
could not afford to attend Imperial.
Imperial College is a world-class higher edu-
cation institution that must continue to attract
the best students regardless of their financial
background. We continue to support widening
access for all students; and the Union has stat-
ed that it opposes any changes that compro-
mise this principle. There is a very real danger
that the perception of large debt will stop stu-
dents from entering higher education.
To gauge the student opinion, I called an
emergency meeting of the Union Council on
Wednesday where these issues was discussed.
The meeting was one of the best attended in
recent years. The students gave a clear mes-
sage that they are totally against the principle of
charging full fees and vehemently opposed the
paper tabled by the Rector. The strength of feel-
ing was such that the students have organised
a protest on Friday morning to show their oppo-
sition to the their scheme. One of the clear mes-
sages was that students felt offended that they
were not consulted on the issue of student fees.
As a major stakeholder, students or their repre-
sentatives must be involved at all stages when
key decisions are being made about the future
of their university.
Any proposed changes are unlikely to take
effect till 2006 and indeed many students feel
that it does not effect them. It is important to
realise that if this system is introduced, you will
have to start planning to send your children to
higher education institutions that may charge
full fees.
UCL Merger
The Union was surprised by the announcement
that Imperial College are in talks with University
College London with a view to a possible merg-
er. The College have stated that it will undergo
a consultation with the key stake holders with a
view to making a decision by mid December.
Proponents of the merger argue that this will
create a "super-university" with a combined
population of 28,000 students and the critical
mass to compete on the international scale. The
proposed merger raises a whole of number of
issues and it is important not to jump to con-
clusions. The Union welcomes the chance for
an extensive consultation process with the stu-
dent body. Any merger proposal would need to
show that the university experience for Imperial
College students will not be compromised and
the proposed merger will add value to the
organisation. The Union will engage in a wide
consultation with the student body over the next
few weeks. We will conduct college wide
debates on the issues and will seek to produce
a response to the governing body in December.
UCL is an institution which shares our pursuit
of excellence in teaching and research, and the
Union is always in favour of enhancing the aca-
demic experience of our students. We must
work to ensure that the quality of our teaching
and research is not compromised by any pro-
posed merger.
The idea raises a number of important ques-
tion for the Union. Will there be one Union?
Where will it be based? UCL Union are in the
NUS and we are not and how that might affect
the students here. It is also recognised that the
cultures at the two institutions are different and
that will present extra challenges for any pro-
posed merger. There has already been concern
expressed about the relative sizes of both insti-
tutions. UCL has some 18,000 students and
Imperial has 10,000 and in a democratic sys-
tem, UCL students may dominate in the arena
of Union governance.
It also begs the question of what will happen
to the University of London. There have been
some clear indications from the College that it
wishes to leave the University of London and
setup as a stand-alone institution. Indeed it is
expected that the Privy Council will grant the
College reserve degree awarding powers this
autumn. If this combined institution was to
leave, University of London will be struggling to
survive.
These issues and more will be discussed
openly. We need an informed debate based
facts and figures, and focused on the real
issues. We have met with UCL Union to start
discussions and will be producing a joint state-
ment of intent. The Unions will be setting up a
joint group to co-ordinate our efforts and both
Unions will produce a response to the proposed
merger plans. I will outline a more detailed
timetable at the meeting of Council on Monday
21st October identifying key milestones in the
process.
The proposed merger must not come too
much as a surprise. This has been a trend with-
in the UK. Recent high profile mergers have
included UMIST and Manchester, and Guildhall
and North London. There seems to be a clear
strategy to create large higher education institu-
tions that can compete on the global scale. This
would radically change the tertiary education
landscape in the UK.
A final word
These are undoubtedly the two biggest issues
the College has faced in recent years. It is
important that the Union plays a key role in
ensuring that students' views are taken into
account when important decisions are made
about your future. It is equally crucial that the
student body is active in letting its voice be
heard. Over the coming weeks your representa-
tives will be contacting you to gauge your views
or you are welcome to contact me to express
your opinions. So please get involved and have
your say.
felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

