F E L I X
QiGong
Qi gong-strengthens your mind to achieve
happiness
Teachings from ancient China-qi gong, are
now taught at Imperial by Prof Zhao Lianting
from China. With the aim of achieving fulfil-
ment these exercises are rooted in traditional
Chinese, rather than western science. But do
they work, and how should a western scien-
tist react to this very different theoretical
framework?
Want Happiness? Probably. But what do
we really mean by happiness? One could ven-
ture to say that this question lies at the heart
of each human being's life and at
the functioning of a society. You
may agree that an attempt to define
happiness will end in something
like: happiness is a state where one
'feels happy', and is thus subjec-
tively determined.
A scientist, however, might click
at the word 'state' and say: "states
of happiness could perhaps be
identified by looking at people who
feel happy. It should be possible to
determine some key variables that
they have in common and hence
arrive at a determinable and meas-
urable definition of happiness,
albeit originally based on the test
persons 'feeling happy'".
So what do you think these key
variables would be? Some of you
will probably think of very tangible,
concise things, perhaps even the
right house, car, good-looking
spouse, whatever.
Some, be it the Dalai Llama,
Muslim/Christian priest or a
Chinese qi gong master, would say
that this notion of happiness lies at
the heart of the problems in the
western world, amongst others.
An alternative view on happiness
is to identify other key variables,
such as the degree of true love you
have towards yourself and others. Identifying
such variables should properly be considered
one of the main tasks of science.
A very specific approach towards achieving
happiness can be found in the ancient
Chinese teaching of qi gong. Prof. Zhao from
the Chinese National Institute for Qi Gong is
now teaching a course here at Imperial. He
formulates the aims of the exercises as (i)
health (ii) become good person. This is the
path to fulfilment, or tao, as it is called.
Qi gong thus identifies physical health as a
main concern, which you will probably agree
with from your own experience. It is hard to
be happy when you feel a lack of energy, feel
tense or something else is wrong with your
health. It is also hard to achieve happiness
without love. In the words of a famous taiji-
quan master: Chang San-Feng,
...to those who want to know the way to
deal with the world, I suggest, love people.
A westerner approaching qi gong will
encounter some thresholds. The most obvi-
ous one appears when a master explains why
a certain exercise is performed. Chinese phi-
losophy argues that everything has a corre-
sponding antithesis (yin-yang). Hot defines
cold, long short, for a sunny side there is a
shade etc. Tension between the poles drive
change, e.g. weather effects between high
and low temperatures or pressure. The inter-
change between the two is categorised into
five elemental phases which need to be har-
monised to achieve balance and health.
Western science will agree with some con-
clusions formed within this framework, like
the inter-changeability between matter and
energy but in general these ideas sound
'unscientific' to someone schooled in a differ-
ent environment.
Just to open your mind to the possibility
that qi gong may work, consider that these
ideas have been tested in a quantity and over
a time-period that dwarfs the western medi-
cine. Consider also the well-documented
results these methods have had on some
patients considered terminal by western
medicine. Can it not be the case that these
two sciences can learn from one another?
Sadly, although some are open minded to
teachings expressed in a different theoretical
framework to their own, there is often dogma
when sciences collide. Stories about priests
refusing to look at the results of experiments
because they are not in the bible come to
mind.
n n m The tension between traditional
I Chinese science and western sci-
I ence is also clear in China today.
1 The Chinese government is pushing
for proliferation of western science
and seeks to diminish superstitions
in the populous. As a western sci-
entist you would probably find
some of the ideas circulating in
China unscientific, as would many
qi gong masters. It is important
that perceived superstitions are
met by arguments and evidence
rather than oppression, like in the
case of falun gong, lead by a man-
with political ambitions - referred
to as a charlatan in government
leaflets. Note that apart from some
superstitions, there is serious med-
cal knowledge in China recorded
and tested over thousands of years
that should not be denied the
future world.
The first time I personally
encountered the qi, a Taoist con-
cept similar to energy, was during a
gap year in China. A doctor and tai-
"iquan master performed move-
ments around me and behind my
back that I could feel from meters
away. I thought long and hard
about whether I could be fooling
myself but have not arrived at a
reasonable explanation. There appears to be
a physical, objective reality behind these
ideas. Western scientists are succeeding in
explaining some of these sensations in terms
of electromagnetism, but a complete incorpo-
ration of observed phenomena into western
science might require expanding the current-
ly accepted limits of the mind's power over
energy.
Go to some qi gong classes with Prof. Zhao
and try for yourself. Properly trained, you will
learn how to feel good, get more energy and
move towards fulfilment. You will also get an
understanding of a different approach to the
world.
felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

