According to new analysis of more than 160
years worth of data, the North Star may be wast-
ing away, shedding an amount of gas equivalent
to up to the mass of the Earth each year.
The North Star, also known as Polaris, has
been used by navigators for centuries, as its
alignment with the Earth’s rotational axis
means it always sits directly above the North
Pole. It is also a ‘Cepheid Variable’ star, mean-
ing it pulsates, getting dimmer and brighter as
the conflicting forces of gravity inwards and
radiation pressure outwards constantly tug the
outer layers back and forth from its dense, burn-
ing core.
This ‘pulse’ of the star, with a period of
around 4 days, has been observed by ancient
astronomers for hundreds of years. In 2004,
David Turner, of St. Mary’s University in Hali-
fax, Canada, compiled an archive of these mea-
surements. His analysis, including data stretch-
ing back as long ago as 1844, showed that the
North Star’s pulse was slowing down. Turner
justified this increase in the star’s time period of
around 4.5 seconds per year by concluding that
the star was in the early stages of its evolution
on its first crossing of the ‘Cepheid instability
strip’, and still burning only hydrogen – a trade-
mark of a young star.
However, Hilding Neilson of the University
of Bonn, Germany, was not so sure. Combining
his own recent observations with Turner’s ar-
chived data, Neilson and colleagues compared
the star’s measured behaviour with state of the
art models of stellar evolution. They didn’t
match up.
“Only if the star is losing a lot of mass can
that [discrepancy] be resolved,” says Neilson,
referring to the North Star’s mysteriously de-
creasing pulse. In a paper published recently in
the Astrophysical Journal Letters, he explains
how the time period data is inconsistent with
all regular phases of stellar evolution, and, in
contradiction to Turner, he asserts that the star
is old, having passed through the red giant stage
and already burning Helium. In Neilson’s mod-
el, as the star pulses, swathes of gas are pushed
out from it in waves, as the pent-up light bursts
through the star’s outer layers. He concludes
that the North Star must be losing mass, at
the rate of around one Earth mass each year –
equivalent to roughly a millionth of the mass of
the star itself.
The result is particularly exciting because it’s
the first truly strong argument for such extreme
mass loss in a Cepheid star. While most sus-
pected examples of Cepheid stars losing mass
North Star is shrinking
All other stars appear to rotate around the North star as the Earth spins
are uncertain, as they are based on shaky ob-
servations of the surrounding stellar material,
this novel method employs the wealth of data
already gathered about the North Star, to make
actual quantifiable measurements of the rate at
which it is wasting away.
The quest for understanding the mechanisms
of the North Star is not over, however, and
Turner is the first to admit that “there are many
mysteries about Polaris that defy simple expla-
nation.” In the coming months and years, new
data from the Hubble Space Telescope about
its distance from Earth, and its luminosity, will
hopefully help solve the mystery once and for
all of what exactly is going on deep inside the
star we thought we knew so well.
DOI:10.1088/2041-8205/745/2/L32
In a paper recently published in Science, a
team from the University of Manchester has
reported that graphene oxide is capable of
selectively filtering water molecules, leaving
all other types of molecule blocked. This is a
particularly surprising result for the team, who,
from previous research, expected the graphene
derivative to be completely impermeable.
More surprising with this research is that
water permeated through the membrane at a
rate very similar to that of water permeating
through a system with no membrane.
The team used a cylinder filled with water
vapour to conduct the investigation. A seal
made of porous copper plates coated with gra-
phene oxide was used to cover the container,
and then the loss of mass of the cylinder over
time was measured.
Additionally, when the cylinder was filled
with other gases (such as hexane, ethanol, and
helium), there was almost no loss of mass over
a 24-hour period. This shows that the mem-
brane prevented any gases other than water
vapour from escaping.
This seems to be a property of graphene ox-
ide, rather than graphene itself – when the film
was made of chemically derived graphene,
permeability dropped again.
Producing substances capable of blocking
helium is a non-trivial task, with even glass
allowing some to permeate through. The
fact that graphene oxide allows water to pass
through almost unimpeded, yet completely
blocks other gases, surprised scientists.
Under normal conditions, graphene oxide
would have water molecules in capillaries lo-
cated within the layers (where the other gas-
eous particles would otherwise travel), and
it is these molecules that prevent the flow of
other gases. Water can still flow through, as
the water at the top of the layer evaporates off
leaving .
In low humidity (i.e. when there is not much
water vapour in the cylinder), the water within
the layers is not replenished when it evaporates
from the top, causing the capillaries to shrink.
This also prevents water molecules escaping.
Applications for this could include filtration
and separation, and could find use in situations
where it is desired to remove just water from
a sample. In a more humorous test, the team
sealed a bottle of vodka using the same mecha-
nism, and found that the vodka became stron-
ger over time as the water vapour evaporated
through the seal.
DOI: 10.1126/science.1211694
Philip Kent
FELIX
Friday 10 February 2012
12
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
SCIENCE
In brief
Arianna Sorba
Anxiety
by Maria Veiga
Last year, at an intelligence squared event, James
Watson stated that one of the biggest improve-
ments in medicine would be personalised genome
sequencing, whereby patients will have a person-
alised healthcare plan developed from their ge-
nome sequence. Personalised genome sequenc-
ing is now becoming a reality in Norway, less than
a decade after the first human genome was fully
sequenced.
Norway’s plan is to focus on cancer care. Sev-
eral phases have been outlined. Initially, in the
pilot phase the Norwegian Cancer Genomics Con-
sortium will look at 3,000 previous tumour biop-
sies to better understand how different cancer
mutations respond to drugs. Furthermore, 1,000
patients will also have their genomes sequenced.
The next phase will see specific clinical, comput-
ing and laboratory infrastructure being built.
Although, Norway is the first to incorporate ge-
nome sequencing into its national health system;
it is not the first country to have personalised med-
icine. The UK and USA already have personalised
medicine; just not on as large a scale as Norway’s
proposed plans. In the UK, the NHS is currently
only conducting research, with DNA extraction,
storage and testing of tumour genomes. In Bos-
ton, USA, researchers at Massachusetts general
hospital have developed a test for 15 genes which
are already targeted by current cancer drugs. Nor-
way’s plans differ to Boston’s targeted testing,
for within their healthcare system they plan to
sequence entire genomes. It will be interesting
to see which country’s strategy is preferable. Nor-
way could just be putting in place infrastructure for
general personalised healthcare, which does not
just focus on cancer treatment. Furthermore, who
knows what the extra data could reveal, perhaps
even mutations in other genes.
It is exciting to see how research and health-
care are merging together more and more. Who
knows what could be revealed through using per-
sonalised genome sequencing and how the future
of healthcare will be shaped.
Jula Humphries
Norway puts genome sequencing
in national health system
Wang Jinglei and Jia Hao, NASA
Graphene oxide filters out water
90% vodka, anyone?

