SCIENCE
FELIX Friday 10 February 2012 13
Wall Street Journal denies climate change
With the 2012 US election fast ap-
proaching, the politicisation of climate
change is something that many Ameri-
cans can look forward to. It would be
foolish to assume that US media is also
immune from political influence in a
system as pervasive as the USA’s – most
media corporations fly their blue or red
flags willingly. One such media outlet
that has come under repeated criticism
for its editorial board’s willingness to
publish factually incorrect and mis-
leading opinions about climate change
science is the News Corp Wall Street
Journal, the most widely circulated
newspaper in the Western world. On
January 27, it published a letter from
16 scientists claiming climate alarmism
is a ploy by scientists to maintain fund-
ing, for governments to raise taxes and
for charities to trick people into donat-
ing money to them. Paranoid conspira-
cy, anyone? They also claimed there is
doubt in the scientific community on the
relationship between carbon dioxide and
temperature, that global temperatures
have not increased in the last 10 years
and that there is disagreement in the cli-
mate science community that climate
change is even happening (97% do,
actually, agree). In fact, combined land
and ocean surface temperature measure-
ments reveal that eight of the warmest
years on record have occurred in the last
ten years, with 2005 and 2010 being the
warmest ever recorded, 0.64°C warmer
than the 20th Century average (source:
NOAA).
It is important to note that the Wall
Street Journal had previously refused
to publish a comparable but accurate
letter written by 255 members of the
US National Academy of Sciences that
highlighted the scientific consensus
that humans are having a very serious
and dangerous impact on our climate,
Life on Mars? Not likely
and called for an improved and serious
public debate to deal with this problem.
Despite claims of openness and indepen-
dence, it appears as though the editorial
board of the Wall Street Journal is rather
eager to fuel the public’s unfounded con-
fusion and doubt about climate science,
and play them right into the hands of the
conservative candidates they support.
In all fairness, the Wall Street Journal
did publish a rebuttal letter in its online
version on February 1, penned by 38
eminent climate scientists and experts
from all over the globe, including Sir
Bob Watson, climate change advisor to
the UK government, and Chris Rapley,
former head of the British Antarctic Sur-
vey, who criticised the fact that many of
the authors of the previous letter were
not climate scientists, and those that
were, were known for their extreme
views in the climate science community.
They likened these outliers to the few
retrovirus experts that do not except that
Annina Sartor explains how an analysis of Martian soil shows it is not suitable for life
HIV causes AIDS, and the few medical
experts who claim smoking does not
cause cancer. The letter highlighted that
every authoritative body of scientists
in climate science globally have stated
repeatedly that the science is clear – in
fact, reports commissioned by the US
congress concluded unanimously that
climate change is happening and that
it is largely caused by human activity,
the same conclusions held by NASA,
the Environmental Agency and the US
Departments of State, Defence, Agricul-
ture, Energy, and Health.
The science is real, the consensus is
huge and the concern is massive – it
would be severely foolish for any po-
litical leader, American or otherwise, to
disregard that evidence and ignore the
colossal risk that inaction poses, even
if it means coming under criticism from
right-wing media, whose motivations
may often not be as clear-cut as they ap-
pear...
Modern
medicine
Laurence Pope
You might not immediately assume
DNA sequencing technology and hu-
man medicine go hand in hand, but
you’d be wrong. Research currently
being carried out by scientists in-
volved in the Human Genome Proj-
ect is having a huge impact on 21st
century medicine.
In a lecture on February 2, organ-
ised by the Friends of Imperial Col-
lege, Imperial Professor Timothy
Aitman talked about human genom-
ics and its influence on 21st century
medicine. The professor, currently a
member of quango ‘the Human Ge-
netics Commission’, discussed the
advances made in the identification
of genes involved in both rare and
common genetic disorders, as well
as a brief history of how geneticists
have gotten to where they are today.
Professor Aitman claimed that “the
tipping point is very close now,” in
reference to the fact that genome
sequencing is now so cheap that the
‘thousand-dollar genome’ is likely to
be made possible by the end of 2012,
if not sooner. He spoke only briefly
about the ethical issues that surround
genetic testing, though with only
an hour at his disposal the profes-
sor was hard-pressed to do anything
more than scratch the surface of the
vast topic.
Professor Aitman spoke both en-
thusiastically and knowledgeably
over the course of his hour-long talk.
He explained otherwise complicated
technologies very succinctly and
presented information in a clear,
concise way that did not leave people
with limited biochemical knowledge
in the dark.
Though this member of the audi-
ence is well acquainted with the
biochemical principles underlying
DNA sequencing and the Human
Genome Project it was nevertheless
a very engaging talk that prompted
one to think about both the near and
far-future. Professor Aitman neatly
brought together scientific research
and its practical applications in per-
sonalised drug therapy and preventa-
tive medicine. Whilst ethical issues
must be faced it is clear that 21st
century medicine has a bright future
ahead of it.
The Friends of Imperial College is
dedicated to spreading enthusiasm
and knowledge of science, technol-
ogy and medicine. It is independent
of, but linked to, one of the premier
scientific establishments on the globe
and organises lectures and events to
spread knowledge and stimulate at-
tention to up-and-coming scientific
developments. It can be contacted
via www.friendsofimperial.org.uk.
NASA/JPL-Caltech/University of Arizona/Texas A&M University
Carys Cook
W
hile May 25, 2008
– the date of the
Phoenix lander’s
descent onto Mars’
surface – may be a
day long forgotten for most, the same
cannot be said of Dr Tom Pike of the
Department of Electrical and Elec-
tronic Engineering at Imperial College
London and his team, who, for the last
three years, have been analysing data
provided by the lander, along with col-
leagues. The results of their work were
discussed at a European Space Agency
meeting last Tuesday.
The team of researchers analysed
soil samples using optical and atomic
force microscopes, allowing them to
resolve particles with diameters of as
little as 100 microns. They have since
been diligently cataloguing the particle
sizes present in the sample. The par-
ticles’ make-up and distribution reveals
key information about the formation of
Martian soil and its interaction with liq-
uid water.
The researchers searched for clay
particles formed by the chemical pro-
cess of water breaking down rock. No
evidence of such microscopic particles
was found. Even when making the as-
sumption that all particles within the
size range comparable to analogous
particles in Earth’s soil were clay, these
would only make up about 0.1% of
Martian soil. Comparing this to Earth’s
soil, where clay content can be as high
as 5%, suggests that Mars’ surface has
a very arid history, unfavourable for the
development of life.
The particle size distribution (PSD)
of soil being studied can be used to
draw conclusions about its exposure to
liquid water because the proportion of
clays depends mostly on length of water
exposure and the conditions thereof. In
the case of the samples of Martian soil
studied, this analysis revealed that the
soil could not have been in contact with
liquid water for a total of any more than
5000 years throughout the planet’s 4.6
billion years of history. This window
of time, even when assuming that the
5000 years occurred in one continuous
period, is too short to reasonably expect
life to have formed.
In fact, the PSD of Martian soil
matches that of the Moon more closely
than that of Earth; it shows signs of ex-
treme physical weathering during its
formation. While on the Moon, which
is not protected by an atmosphere, this
is likely due to frequent collisions with
meteorites, Martian soil is weathered
mostly by strong winds, again suggest-
ing a very hostile environment.
While this study examined only sam-
ples from Phoenix’s landing site, close
to the northern polar cap, satellite im-
ages suggest that there is little variation
in the soil’s consistency between differ-
ent areas of the globe. The same conclu-
sion may thus be drawn for the planet
as a whole.
However, all hope is not yet lost. Pre-
vious research showed that Mars likely
had a warmer, wetter period earlier in
its history. This would have been more
suited for the development of life. To
find out more, scientists must dig deep-
er and look beyond the surface – liter-
ally. Life may still be “taking refuge un-
derground,” Pike says. More research
is necessary before the idea of life on
Mars can be dismissed entirely.
DOI:10.1029/2011GL049896
NASA’s Mars Phoenix Lander on the surface of Mars

