Tips & Hacks
Etymotic MC2 headset review
The Etymotic MC2 headset is an in-ear, noise iso-
lating headphone and microphone combination
promising high-quality sound. It also has a single
button that can be used for tasks such as answer-
ing calls or pausing what’s playing. I’ve been using
them for the last week, and I have to say I’m find-
ing them pretty good. Of course, compared to a
particular known-brand of white earphones (don’t
ask – my old earphones broke), most headphones
are going to be a decent improvement. However, I
also have a separate pair of over-the-ear ‘phones,
so they’ll be my point of reference instead.
Let’s first look at what you get for your £75. Et-
ymotic supply four different pairs of eartips, so
you can choose the style most suited to your ear.
There’s also a custom ear-mould service avail-
able, but at another £75 I decided not to try it. You
are additionally given a spare pair of filters, and a
zipper pouch to store the headset in. While it’s no
metal box, it gives more protection than nothing.
The cable is meant to be reinforced with Kevlar
too, which can’t be a bad thing for durability.
So how good are those supplied eartips at shut-
ting out the distracting sounds of the outside
world? It depends on what eartip you prefer. I use
the foam ones, which are great. My experiences
with the two sizes of three-flange variety show
they perform well also. The ‘glider’ tips don’t stay
in my ear however, so I can’t really comment –
but I assume they’re not as great, as otherwise
they’d fit better. My tips are comfortable too, with
prolonged use causing no discomfort whatsoever.
Now for the important part – the sound quality.
While not the most expensive headset/earphones
on the market, you’d expect good results for your
money with the MC2s. I’ve listened to a range of
music genres as well as spoken voice, and I can
safely say the earphones don’t disappoint. While
they’re not the ‘bassiest’ headphones in the
world, you can hear each note of bass, and the
overall sound they deliver is full and rich. Those
little nuances in the music that you don’t notice
in cheaper headphones are audible, and you can
hear all the parts of a given track. Overall, I’ve
been impressed with the quality of audio that the
earphones put out.
The microphone part of the headset worked well
for a long telephone conversation I had while in-
doors, but apparently when outside there was a
fair bit of ambient noise that made it difficult to
hear me. Other than that though, the Etymotic
MC2 is a good quality headset that delivers on the
sound front.
Chris Bowers
I have to say, I’m not much of a tablet man. If
I really must surf on the move I’m perfectly
happy with my BlackBerry, and my laptop sat-
isfies all my mobile computing needs. How-
ever, when a friend of mine bought the new
Asus Transformer Prime tablet, I had to give it
a go – so I borrowed it.
The tablet’s predecessor – the Transformer
– was a good tablet according to its reviews.
Perhaps its most distinguishing feature was the
keyboard dock, which makes its return with
the Prime. This fully integrates with the tab-
let to give you what is basically a netbook – it
features a trackpad and a full keyboard with
all the important Android keys, so you won’t
be switching between typing and touching the
screen. It also has a USB port, SD card slot
and an in-built battery pack, which boosts the
tablet’s in-use battery life from 12 hours to 18.
The Prime however, has more than just its
dock to its name. It’s one of the first major tab-
let to feature Ice Cream Sandwich (which is
lovely on it), and indeed to use nVidia’s quad-
core Tegra 3 chip. All cutting edge so far, I’m
sure you’ll agree. The rest of the hardware
doesn’t let down either, with a 10.1” Super
IPS+, Gorilla Glass screen, 32/64GB of inter-
nal storage and an eight-megapixel camera on
the rear with flash, to name just some.
Of course, statistics and specifications only
say so much about a product – you have to use
it to really know how good it is. However, with
the Transformer Prime, it doesn’t take you very
long to reach your decision – this tablet is re-
ally nice to use, with or without the dock. The
tablet itself is very responsive, and the dock’s
keyboard was good when tested using the sup-
plied Polaris Office.
In fact, there are occasions when using the
tablet that really make you enjoy using it. For
example, closing a background task/applica-
tion sounds boring, but swiping its tile off to
the side of the screen is so satisfying when ev-
erything flows in the way it does. A software
feature, yes, but one that does need responsive-
ness to pull off well.
That isn’t the best test of the powerhouse
sitting under the bonnet though. In fact, there
didn’t seem to be much that would strain the
quad-core chip. While perhaps not a world-
respected benchmark, Angry Birds was as
smooth as could be, as was pretty much ev-
erything else.
The only time I encountered any issues was
during web browsing. This was rare, and only
with heavily media-based desktop sites (there’s
an option to always load the desktop version of
a website). It’s probably more likely that this
was a by-product of the browser’s rendering
A Prime tablet specimen
FELIX
Friday 10 FEBRUARY 2012
14
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Technology Editors: Chris McBowers
Feroz Salamander
TECHNOLOGY
Chris Bowers
Zuckerberg bored; enter Timeline
Tell your life story with a new kind of profile.
Or so the marketing material goes. The latest
revamp of the Facebook profile page has divid-
ed opinion among many people and it has not
been embraced by as many people or as wide-
ly as Mark Zuckerberg would have wanted.
These changes are possibly more far-reaching
than any single modification to our favourite
social network in its entire history. Like it or
not, they will be made compulsory for every-
one within the next month.
In case you’ve blocked yourself from on-
line procrastination for the last three months,
the Facebook Timeline is a new way of pre-
senting your photos, status updates and all the
other great things that adorn what is currently
your Wall.
Possibly the first new feature of the Time-
line that you’ll notice is the Cover Photo – a
banner which stretches across the top of your
profile and dominates what visitors to your
profile will see when they first visit it. Profile
pictures have now been relegated to a small
square displayed on the bottom left corner of
the Cover Photo, and are still used throughout
the site and displayed next to your name in all
your posts scattered across your friends’virtual
lives.
There is also an increased amount of cus-
tomisation that is given to users – every time
someone tags you in a photo, or a comment,
it goes straight to the ‘Activity Log’. This is a
brand new view of all our activity since joining
Facebook. From here, we can see absolutely
everything that we have done on the network,
and it is possible to manually hide things or set
Facebook to prod you via a notification to get
you to approve new posts onto your Timeline
before it shows up. This is a great way to en-
sure that those embarrassing banterful photos
of your Sports Night antics don’t end up as a
banner on your profile page.
The downsides however are numerous, and
mainly revolve around privacy issues; yet again
a thorny issue which has cropped up through-
out Facebook’s history. Firstly, the default pri-
vacy options for new Timeline posts are actu-
ally set to ‘Public’, which means that what is
likely your entire life will be available for all,
including Google and your potential employers
to see. In addition you will be dragged kicking
and screaming to the new format, and you will
need to prepare yourself. It is currently pos-
sible to conduct a seven-day trial of the new
Timeline feature where you can purge every-
thing that you don’t want others to see.
Jason Ye
engine, as opposed to the processor. The rest of
the time the browsing was good – and it even
supports Flash, so there are pretty much no
limitations on what you can access.
For me, the only gripe I had with the tablet
is the balance of the unit when using it with
the dock. It felt as though it could be dislodged
and fall backwards too easily. While it may not
be in the mentality of this light, thin tablet, I
think the unit as a whole would benefit if the
dock had a bit more weight in it, so as to dis-
tribute the balance a little better.
However, other people have reported issues
with both the wireless and GPS in the tablet.
Asus have actually confirmed this is an is-
sue with the (pretty) metal back on the tablet.
There are rumours that a follow-up with a full
1080p screen will appear soon, that also fixes
these issues – so if you’re considering buying
this, it might be worth waiting for more details.
All in all though, I was very impressed with
the Transformer Prime. If I were ever to buy
a tablet, it would be one of these, or one of its
successors.
Facebook: bringing you a sudden influx of misused memes

