Got something
to say? Email
articles to:
politics.felix@
ic.ac.uk
POLITICS
FELIX Friday 10 february 2012 15
I
n the wake of last week’s pay
scandal concerning RBS CEO
Stephen Hester, a lot has been
said in regards to the opulence
of bankers’ bonuses. In fact, in
the private student accommodation in
which I live we even held a debate at
the weekend, with a slim majority vot-
ing for motion which stated that the
government should prevent excessive
pay. Since the recession and our slow
economic recovery, the public has been
baying for blood at the mere mention
of a large bonus, with heads of public
bodies afraid of the public backlash of
receiving a bonus, no matter how well
deserved. Over the last two weeks, the
Chairman and CEO of RBS (83% state
owned) both declined to take a bonus,
followed by several directors of Net-
work Rail. Now, while these companies
are both controlled by the state that, as
majority shareholder, has the right to
veto executive pay packages, some peo-
ple are starting to call for the govern-
ment to cast its net wider and consider
banning bankers’bonuses in the general
financial industry.
The general consensus is that the Global
Financial Crisis of 2007-8 was caused
by the financial services industry us-
ing risky sub-prime mortgages sold to
a low-income section of society with a
high risk of default. Some believe that
the banking bonus culture propagated
the system failure, arguing that mort-
gage sellers aimed to sell large numbers
of adjustable rate mortgages to custom-
ers with a high risk of default because
they were more concerned about short-
term achievements such as hitting targets
and getting bigger bonuses than about
the long-term risk of their investments.
A main criticism of bonuses is that they
encourage the purchase of riskier debt by
bankers, the pay of whom is only related
to short-term performance and not the
long term performance of the deals they
make. This behaviour lumbers the bank
with toxic assets, which can turn bad at
short notice that, as was seen at the time,
puts the customers of the bank at risk
and can lead to bailouts by governments
world-wide.
Another argument for banning or cap-
ping the bonuses of bankers is that
they are simply given too much mon-
ey. Banking bonuses can range from
tens of thousands given to graduates
in their first to the odd million pounds
given to a bank’s top performers and
executive staff. This is in a stark con-
trast to the median American annual
salary of $26,364 in 2011 or a mean
UK household income of £26,000.
Many say it is negligent to allow
bankers and CEOs of top companies
to be allowed to propagate income
inequality by being paid many times
the amount of an average employee in
their company (or in the case of banks,
an average person).
Since banks handle such large sums
of money and gain astronomical rev-
enues, it is fairly accepted that banks
have a lot of money available, however
they seem to distribute a large amount
of this to their employees instead of
giving some benefit to their customers
or investing in community programs.
Banks pays their employees a lot of
money simply because they can, not
necessarily because it is deserved.
People do also wonder if the amount
given can be in any way related to the
extra value an employee has brought to
a company. Certainly there are the odd
few stories of hedge fund managers
having being paid 50% of the returns
made by their funds in recent years.
Similarly for CEOs, do million pound
bonuses (like the one offered to Ste-
phen Hester) accurately reflect the ex-
tra work and results that the payee has
given? Surely they, and other employ-
ees are already compensated enough by
100,000 or million pound base pack-
ages for salaries? In fact many people
believe that bonuses given to bankers
are not performance related at all but
are in fact an way to give their employ-
ees more money, whether earned or not.
The aforementioned points are a few
of the reasons that people have raised
their spears in the direction of bankers’
bonuses. Why doesn’t the government
do something, like tax bankers or even
ban bonuses? Indeed who else can ef-
fectively regulate the financial services
industry to reduce the kind of risky be-
haviour that can lead to another finan-
cial crash? But what should the gov-
ernment do? There are already some
regulatory bodies like the Financial
Services Authority in the UK and Fed-
eral Reserve Board of Governors and
the Securities Exchange Commission
in the US, however they are not always
able to keep abreast of the latest devel-
opments in the financial sector and so
at times they can only offer a knee-jerk
reaction to negative practices which are
eventually brought to light. Increasing
the awareness of such bodies and tight-
ening regulations would be a good start
to make the financial services industry
more transparent. The government also
has the option of increasing the rate of
tax paid by bankers, however this is
not so easy in practice. Since they can-
not single out employees from a single
industry for tax purposes they would
have to either increase the top rate of
tax for high earners, introduce a new
higher rate tax band or increase taxes
on financial institutions. There are, of
course, problems associated with each
of these approaches, the most obvious
being that an increase in tax paid by
wealthy individuals or companies will
lead to a ‘talent drain’ where these indi-
viduals will simply move to a different
country where they can enjoy a larger
disposable income. Also this may en-
courage such entities to use tax avoid-
ance or evasion techniques to hide their
earnings from the state. This can be a
problem, especially in countries like the
UK where the financial services indus-
try is a major part of the economy and
large companies pay around 60% of all
taxes received by the government.
Another problem we face is determining
how involved the government should be
in the affairs of private sector compa-
nies. In the western world the capitalist
system is generally embraced and the
ideal of the free market is roughly ad-
hered to, excusing some interventions
by the government like competition reg-
ulations and the minimum wage. With
Bringing down the Bankers
Joseph Letts looks at the future of performance-related pay in the City
Bankers like Hester earn over £2m. Meanwhile, print journalism is dying. Nice
this system in place it seems impossible
for a government like that of the UK to
credibly place restraints on the behav-
iour of companies in the private sector
yet some still call for the government to
set a maximum salary or to ban bonuses
altogether. Taking the UK government
as an example, with their reluctance to
employ a financial tax on banks without
a similar effort being made globally it
seems unrealistic to believe they would
take a more hands on approach. Aside
from the fact that enforcing such mea-
sures in the UK would wound our com-
petitiveness internationally it is easy to
imagine that the unease caused by the
government micromanagement could
send companies running to the arms of
a much friendlier ruling body. Not to
mention the legality of such actions. In
a democratic country the government
simply does not have to right to influ-
ence or penalise what they consider bad
management decisions made by private
companies.
But what could the government do in-
stead? One suggestion is to give more
power to shareholders, an idea already
being considered by the Con-Lib coali-
tion. Giving shareholders more control
over executive pay and allowing ordi-
nary employees to sit on the pay com-
mittees in companies are two ways in
which the government can give more
power to the stakeholders of a business.
Another idea being floated by David
Cameron is a proposal to cap the ratio
of executive to average employee sala-
ries, a policy designed to even pay in-
equality in companies and keep rising
executive pay in check.
People are of two minds considering
bankers’ bonuses, some consider bank-
ers to be a necessary evil and a less than
savoury consequence of the capitalist
system while others believe them to be
lawless rogues who need to be reined
in and forced back in line with the rest
of society. And of course many of the
bankers themselves aren’t about to look
a gift horse in the mouth. It will be in-
teresting to see how the bonus culture
weathers the next few years and if pub-
lic condemnation will bring a change to
current banking practices.
Bonuses as incentives
Too much money?
The long arm of the law
Government Intervention
Performance related pay
or just extra pay?
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Politics Editors: Rajat Jain
Joseph Letts

