towards services?
CC: Well the government of course
would like to base future economic
growth on science based companies –
the famous “rebalancing” phrase. Too
much has been tilted towards particu-
larly financial services, and they want
to put some back. Not into old-style
dinosaur manufacturing industries, but
into the new-style science based com-
panies.
FB: Would you then agree that man-
ufacturing and R&D should carry a
more prominent role in the UK econ-
omy?
CC: I think so. Given that we have a
highly-skilled, highly-educated work-
force and a good science base, and
excellent universities like this one pro-
ducing people who could do this, and
considering companies based on sci-
ence have a much higher value added
per-person than others, it makes sense
to base the future on it, yes.
FB: On that point, what do you think
of City firms poaching science gradu-
ates away from engineering and high-
tech firms? Do you think that the lure
of the high salaries these have to offer
is distorting the UK economy?
CC: I think it was doing so, but that
now there is going to be much less of
that because City firms are not grow-
ing to the same extent – some of them
are laying off people. So I think that’s a
problem of the last decade; it’s less of a
problem for future decades, or this de-
cade. But I actually think it hasn’t been
bad for the whole field because there
is an uplift: if physicists and engineers
and mathematicians can get vast sala-
ries in the financial industry, that forces
other employers, like old-style techno-
logical industries such as Rolls-Royce,
to pay more than they otherwise would.
I would say that it has been good for
science and engineering because it has
produced an uplift for salaries through-
out, which would be even lower other-
wise.
FB: Concurrent to this change in
economic landscape here though,
there seems to have been a change in
the time-scales associated with invest-
ments. Speculative trading is a noto-
rious example of short-termist think-
ing, and this is in stark contrast with
the returns on R&D expenditure: for
instance, the return time on a jet en-
gine is 25 years. How can investment
in R&D, being so long-term, be en-
couraged in an environment where
you can make money in seconds?
CC: Well, I would put it a different
way, because although the trading itself
is very short-term, remember there’s
R&D behind that as well. The trading
algorithms and so on are not thought up
in seconds; they take years of underly-
ing research, and scientists who went
into the City have contributed to that.
So I think it is a mistake to look at ev-
erything in financial trading as being
short-term, when the underlying strat-
egies have probably been thought up
over several years – not as many years
as a jet engine or a pharmaceutical
product, but they are not as short-term
as it might seem. In terms of what you
can do about it, there’s nothing you can
do about it in a capitalist, free-market
economy, absolutely nothing. You can
juggle with the tax system so that, as
they do in America, you pay more
capital gains tax on an asset you have
held for less than a year than for more
than a year. You can try and fight short-
termism in that way, but fundamentally
it is just part of the system we live in.
FB: Do you think the different time-
scale associated with investments for
a company like Rolls-Royce hampers
the way it spreads its finances – hav-
ing to set aside large amounts of
capital that aren’t going mature for
decades?
CC: I don’t think so. Remember that
Rolls-Royce and the big pharmaceutical
companies have, for the last few years,
been very profitable. I think that there’s
a very good cash flow in these compa-
nies; for example in Rolls-Royce’s case
from maintenance, or more importantly
selling spares for their engines. And the
whole thing is geared up for the long-
term. They are making money now out
of investments they made 25 years ago;
the cash is coming in.
FB: Doesn’t that create a barrier for
new businesses to start up in those
kinds of industry?
CC: Oh yes, it’s a huge barrier. In the
aerospace industry, for example, it’s a
very big barrier to starting up, which is
why there haven’t been any successful
start-ups in that particular field. At least
not in Europe.
FB: What about the political timeta-
ble? Because that’s also quite short-
term. Do you think scientific develop-
ment requires more constancy than it
gets in terms of government policy?
CC: Yes, I do. Though there’s more
continuity in government policy, I
would say, in science than in many
other areas. In this country there is not
a big party-political difference: La-
bour science policy and Conservative
science policy are, broadly speaking,
very similar. I don’t think there are big
ideological differences. Yes politics
thinks in the short-term, but it’s not a
case where one government will tear up
what the other one has done.
FB: Would you agree that there is a
bias against strong scientific policy
due to the backgrounds of govern-
ment ministers, which are over-
whelmingly humanities and social
sciences?
CC: Yes. And that’s true more gener-
ally of politics and the civil service.
Obviously the backgrounds of govern-
ment ministers reflect the backgrounds
of members of parliament in this coun-
try, and there are far too few MPs with
any sort of science, medical or engi-
neering backgrounds. The same applies
to senior civil servants in government
departments – there are some, but there
aren’t very many. I wish more scientists
would go into politics, and non-scientif-
ic administration.
FB: So does talk of revitalising the
UK’s manufacturing sector require a
technocrat minister – someone with a
PhD in some scientific discipline?
CC: It doesn’t require it. It would prob-
ably be helped, but I don’t think we
should despair because these people
aren’t around. It’s going to take a gen-
eration, if it happens at all, to get more
scientifically trained people into these
senior government leadership jobs. No,
I don’t think it requires that. It would be
nice, but not essential.
Reporting Science in
Financial Times
FB: And do you think that the last
reform for higher education, with so
much of a focus on science and engi-
neering education, will actually pro-
duce that shift towards having more
MPs, senior civil servants, or politi-
cians in general, coming from a sci-
entific backgrounds?
CC: Yes. It’s going to be a slow pro-
cess, but I think it’s part of a general
trend – yes. But it’s clearly going to
take decades. I think it’s going in the
right direction.
Felix Business Editors Benat Gurrutxaga-Lerma and Nina Kearsey talk to Clive
Cookson, Science Editor at the Financial Times, about the argument for business in-
volvement in science, and about the challenges and changes facing science journalism
T
o begin, as interviews
commonly do, with some
scene-setting by way of
a weather report, it was a
cold albeit sunny morning
(one of those ironies so common to the
English winter) when we met with the
Financial Times’ Clive Cookson to talk
science and business. Both a scientist
and journalist by training, Cookson’s
work for the FT has involved writing
everything from blogs and podcasts
to teeline shorthand. Thus embodying
both the new- and old-schools of jour-
nalism, he is well placed to share his
thoughts on the changing status of sci-
ence and science reporting. Retreating
from the unremitting cold of the winter
anticyclone to RCS1, and with coats
still drawn around us against its lasting
chill and the capricious air-con, we be-
gan the following conversation.
Felix Business: The Financial Times
is a specialist, financially oriented
newspaper. Having established itself
as the friend of “The Honest Finan-
cier and the Respectable Broker”,
with a strong focus on business and
economics, why does it need a science
editor?
Clive Cookson: Well, the narrow an-
swer is because so much business is
science based. Everything from the
pharmaceuticals and biotech industries
through to materials, chemistry and
electronics; computers, IT; all those
have, ultimately, a base in science –
so that’s the answer to why a business
newspaper needs a science correspon-
dent. But the broader answer is that
the FT is not any longer just a business
newspaper. We also have Arts sections,
and we write about science as science:
I write about cosmology and the origins
and future of the universe – that has no
immediate business applications. So in
summary, a business newspaper would
need a science correspondent, but we
also cover non-business topics.
FB: That begins to answer our sec-
ond question, which was that the gen-
eral public has this view of science as
connected to the manufacturing in-
dustry and high-tech companies. But
does it still carry the same relevance
as the economy shifts from products
On Science Journalism
BUSINESS
FELIX
Friday 10 february 2012
16
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Business Editors: Beñat Gurrutxaga-Lerma
Nina Kearsey
FB: We now have some more general
questions on science journalism. One
of the challenges of reporting science,
it seems, is to avoid being reductionist
in your efforts to communicate tech-
nical information to a non-scientific
audience; is this necessary, do you
think, or should you demand more
from your readers? Does it detract in

