any way from the science itself?
CC: Personally, I think that if you’re
writing a science story in a newspaper
like the FT for example, for an intelli-
gent but generally non-scientific read-
ership, you should be able to include
some details which will not be under-
stood by everyone, and will be under-
stood, and illuminate the piece, say, for
scientists. It shouldn’t put off non-sci-
entists. In other words, the piece should
be comprehensible to any intelligent
reader, but that does not mean that any
intelligent reader should be able to un-
derstand every detail in the piece. You’d
never get anywhere if you had to spell
out all the details. I am a great believer
in pieces that can be read by everyone,
but will not be so over-simplified for
the scientist.
FB: What of the different vocabu-
laries used? The scientific training
provides a very different working
vocabulary – for example those cases
in which journalists ask astronomers
whether there is a chance of a mete-
orite hitting the Earth, and the scien-
tist would say, “Well there is a 99%
chance that it won’t hit the earth,
but...” and immediately the journal-
ist asks, “But is there a chance?”
– “Well, I can’t assure it won’t hap-
pen...”. Obviously, when that word
is said in a scientific context it would
denote that the chances are it will
never happen. But said in a general
context, without the implied scientific
caution, it may give the impression
to the general public that there is a
fair chance of a meteorite hitting the
Earth.
CC: I agree there is a different vocabu-
lary, not just in terms of technical terms,
but even just the way everyday words
are used, which journalists sometimes
don’t get. I’ve learnt to interpret this for
the public in a way that will not embar-
rass the scientists. But some scientists
do take it too much to extreme, like
quantum physicists, who will say “there
is a chance that this chair will levitate
itself”. They say that, but in fact there’s
zero chance. I would say it’s impos-
sible, but quantum physicists would say
it’s not impossible. It depends what you
mean by impossible.
FB: Related to that it seems, espe-
cially in the US media, that there’s a
tendency amongst the public to con-
sider expert opinions merely as opin-
ions and so, for example the educated
opinions of climate scientists about
global warming is sometimes put
on the same level as general opinion
leaders with no particular expertise
– is this a problem when it comes to
science journalism? Is it right that
non-experts be given equal platform
to experts?
CC: No, it’s very wrong, and certainly
at the FT the policy of our editor – all
FT editors in my memory – has been
that if it’s a science-based issue, the
voice of scientists is paramount. If the
vast majority of scientists are saying
one thing, well, you should reflect that
opinion, even if there’s a small number
of scientists saying something different.
Obviously on climate change there are
some scientists, even a few who know
quite a lot about climatology, who chal-
lenge the orthodoxy. But when the vast
majority of scientists say one thing, we
follow them. Likewise on the safety of
genetically modified foods and other is-
sues.
FB: The BBC tends to take a different
opinion, in that it will try and present
all views – to not really side with any-
one. And there are these Newsnight
style panel debates where you’ll have
the creationist sitting opposite the ex-
pert in evolution. Do you think that’s
damaging to the scientific message,
having these very polarised debates?
CC: Yes, I think it is damaging. For ex-
ample, on the issue of climate change,
climate sceptics regard the BBC as
being very much against them, very
much the voice of scientific ortho-
doxy. Whereas from the point of view
of most scientists, the BBC gives too
much weight to the skeptics. The BBC
is particularly exposed, and on this
sort of debate it just can’t win. I rather
sympathise with them on this. Yes, they
give probably too much voice to very
minority views, but in their position
they have to really.
FB: Do you think the social media
and the blogosphere are, in part,
responsible for the laudation of non-
expert opinions? Are they affecting
science journalism?
CC: I think they are affecting science
journalism, but I think things are get-
ting better. When blogs were quite new,
a lot of weird stuff was going out there.
Now that it’s so easy, there are more
scientists in the blogosphere, so there’s
more of a weight of sensible scientific
views than there used to be. I think that
balance is tilting back towards science.
There’s just so much there! So many
scientists are taking part I think things
have got better.
FB: Most of the science journalism
news are reports about scientific dis-
coveries. I wonder if you’d agree that
engineering as a discipline doesn’t
get that much of a covering in gen-
eral?
CC: Yes I agree.
FB: For example a mobile phone
is something that people take for
granted, but when you actually study
what’s inside them, you find some-
thing preposterously complicated
and sophisticated. It seems that that
people do not get to appreciate, in
the same way as with science in gen-
eral, how much work and how many
breakthrough discoveries are in-
volved engineering as a field.
CC: What you have said is very true.
I would say there are two field which
are under-reported: engineering’s prob-
ably the biggest one, but also the whole
of chemistry is very under-reported.
It’s difficult to know how to report ei-
ther of those. I do try. But it’s difficult
compared to discoveries in biomedical
research or even physics, where there’s
more of a sort of gee-whiz factor, a
wow factor – particles going faster than
the speed of light, or some new step to-
wards curing cancer. Yes it is a fault in
the whole system; I think it always has
been probably.
FB: But, for instance, in the 19th
century writers seemed very excited
about new machines that were in-
vented. I don’t know whether we
have already taken for granted that
technological progress is going to
keep happening on an everyday ba-
sis, so that now we are not surprised
by the amazing feats engineering of-
fers continuously.
CC: Well I think one of the things is
that now a lot of the engineering – the
basic engineering breakthroughs – are
made in companies that don’t want to
talk about it; whereas in the 19th cen-
tury it was more open. Mobile phone
companies don’t want to give away se-
crets really. If you look at the science
and engineering that’s reported in the
media, the vast majority comes out of
universities and public research labs be-
cause they want to talk about it whereas
the companies only want to talk about it
in terms of selling their product, rather
than talking about their underlying sci-
ence and technology. And then also
what engineering needs is a sort of Bri-
an Cox equivalent, who can really win
over hundreds of thousands, millions of
people by popularising it. There isn’t
anyone like that in engineering as far as
I know. Or chemistry.
FB: Each year there’s a Royal Col-
lege of Science Union ‘Science Chal-
lenge’, which is an essay competition
for students here at the college, and
one of the questions this year was set
by Pallab Ghosh, science correspon-
dent at the BBC. How would you be-
gin to answer his question “What is
the role of science journalism in the
21st century?”
CC: That’s a very good question! I
suppose the simple answer to Pallab’s
question is that science journalism is
the medium by which scientists com-
municate with the general public. So
looking at it from the scientist’s point of
view, even with the latest technology,
very few scientists can get through to
very many people. For most scientists,
if they want the world to know about
their research – and more and more of
them do – then science journalists are
the best medium, the best means of
communication. And you can look at
it from the other way around, from the
point of view of the general interested
reader or viewer or listener. Then you
would like to find out about what’s go-
ing on through science journalism be-
cause the average person is not going to
read Nature or Science or any other pri-
mary journal, so you’re going to have to
use a secondary or tertiary source. For
most people, that’s going to be science
journalism and the mass media.
BUSINESS
FELIX Friday 10 February 2012 17

