FELIX
Friday 10 february 2012
18
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment Editors: Tim Arbabzadah
Sam Horti
COMMENT
FELIX
N
ot here, surely? Sexism
is everywhere: in the
media, in politics, in
the arts, but at univer-
sities? The centres of
liberal thought and tolerance? Where
everyone is open-minded and friendly
and – above all – extremely egalitar-
ian? If there were ever a place where
sexism shouldn’t exist, it is here. And
yet it persists like an ugly, cunning
mouse peskily dodging the hungry cat
of equality.
In lectures, (in most of them, in fact)
I listen to the irritating chorus of male
voices in the rows behind me discuss-
ing the sexual attractiveness of the
women in the audience. Life for these
boys (they can hardly be called men) is
black and white: the girls are divided
neatly into fuckable and unfuckable,
hot and ugly, those who are “fit” and
those who are “wastegash”. And all
of this within earshot of the very same
women they are “classifying”.
To point out a particularly attractive
person to a friend is normal; to clas-
sify a whole cohort of humans by their
looks – dismissing the majority with
the awful term “wastegash” – is slight-
ly worse than unpleasant. Perhaps these
boys should be reminded that fourteen
Oxford students were suspended for
identical behaviour two years ago.
In a slightly less provocative ex-
ample earlier this year, a mathematics
professor instructed his male students
to get girlfriends. His hope was that
their newfound loves could write up
their coursework for them, while the
boys got on with the serious business
of mathematical study. For most of the
boys in the lecture this was understood
to be banter; but for the girls it set up
an unnecessary divide, ostracising them
from the overwhelming male majority:
science is for men, typing is for women.
But these are just stupid boys being
boorish with friends and an old profes-
sor out of touch with modern social
norms, sexism is to be expected; surely
we can find more rounded views from
the mature, creative students who write
for the student newspaper? But no. Fe-
lix, too, has a healthy dose of misogyny
in its pages.
You will, perhaps, remember the sa-
tirical character “Gurl with Opinions”.
To the writer of these dreadful and un-
funny articles, girls’ opinions involve
how they look, animal welfare, and...
nothing else. Combining the usual
straw-feminist non-arguments (“this
guy held a door open for me and I was
like, I can open doors, you know!”)
and typical women-should-care-only-
about-looks sexual stereotyping (“de-
pressed girls just give up on themselves
and let their hair go all frizzy and start
wearing baggy jeans”) these columns
served no purpose but self-gratifying
sexism. Hahaha, imagine girls having
opinions. Hahaha, their opinions are all
so trivial and unimportant. Hahaha...
On top of this, the usually amusing
Hangman regularly leaves the realm of
humour to enter the wonderful world
of misogyny. This year, the infamous
section of the paper described success-
ful businesswoman Deborah Meaden
as “a grumpy bitch” and told her “you
sacrifice your entire life… to the detri-
ment of your children’s happiness, any
respect from the male species, and any
form of femininity (like you had that
anyway).”
Discussing female Imperial students,
it divided them into those who are “ac-
tually pretty fit” and those who could
be described as “some dumpy short
bitch who wouldn’t even get a second
look if she went to UCL.” On top of
this, three weeks ago Hangman said of
female readers, “God knows, it’s hard
thinking down to your level”, and last
week said that misogyny was “not a
viewpoint [but] a default”. Hopefully I
don’t need to explain what is so very
sexist about these comments. If I were
female, these examples alone would be
enough to put me off working for the
newspaper.
Admittedly, Hangman is a section
that explicitly aims to be offensive, and
I wouldn’t begrudge Felix the right to
print “humorous” sexist comments if
there are people willing to write them.
But the fact that there are students who
write these articles – and who presum-
ably find them funny – suggests that
feminism still has a lot of work to do:
if some of the most intelligent, open-
minded people in the country find sex-
ism and misogyny amusing, what hope
is there for everyone else?
All of this takes place against the
background of what – for the students
at least – defines Imperial: the gender
ratio. Imperial College, the country’s
top science and technology university,
constantly admits twice as many male
applicants as female ones. Although
this is certainly not a conscious bias
by admissions tutors, to an outsider it
implicitly suggests that, in the world
of Imperial, men are considered better
at science and engineering than wom-
en. This is clearly something likely to
make a potential female applicant de-
cide against applying to the university.
All this (you would think) should
be fertile ground for a student society
Sexism at Imperial College
like Women in Science, Engineering
and Technology (WSET) to challenge
perceptions and make a difference.
Although I have great respect for their
excellent breast cancer fund-raising ac-
tivities, in the area of female empower-
ment they appear to have done more to
entrench stereotypes than to challenge
them.
You may recall a particularly allur-
ing advert for their club night called
“Girls Girls Girls” described as “Impe-
rial’s best looking Metric night”. It was
set to feature “jugglers, belly dancers,
and lots of sexy scientists!” and at-
tempted to lure people along with the
promise that “Our sexy ladies will be
taking down your bets throughout the
night”. Undoubtedly, the night was just
intended to be light-hearted fun (what
better way to attract Imperial students
than with the promise of girls, girls,
girls?), but when the closest thing our
university has to a feminist society
seems to encourage the lazy perception
of women as tools for sexual gratifica-
tion, something is clearly wrong.
Obviously, this is not just a prob-
lem at Imperial. At least we have not
reached the level of The Beaver (the
student newspaper of the LSE) whose
editor faced calls to stand down after
printing jokes about rape. Moreover,
by the standards of the outside world
– where sexism pervades every part of
life from The Sun to the billboards on
Cromwell Road – Imperial is positively
progressive.
But we really need to aim higher. As
students we should be leading the fight
against sexism, not helping to perpetu-
ate discrimination. If you care – and I
hope you do – then read a book, write
an article, go on a protest, maybe even
start the Imperial Feminist Society.
And, most importantly, get angry. Sex-
ism: it’s everywhere and it’s worth get-
ting really fucking annoyed about.
Are you a
multi plati-
num selling
rap artist
and think
misogyny is
a way of life?
Why not tell
everyone at:
felixonline.
co.uk
Stephen Smith
The poster for the WSET. This means we can charge
them for an ad again, right?
The stage has been set for a discussion
on the future of both the Holland Club and
Clayponds. Next Thursday (February 16) will
see Imperial College’s Graduate Students’
Association host a panel on the potential
changes to the status of both the Holland
Club and Clayponds, both without a doubt
the most contentious issues affecting both
staff and students at Imperial currently. If
you have any interest whatsoever in the on-
going situation, then it is crucial you attend.
Online discussion, such as that dem-
onstrated by the ‘Save the Holland Club’
Facebook campaign has been notable for
highlighting those who have strong feelings
regarding the situation (not to mention a
genuine form of respite from the sudden
and ‘dramatic’ influx of ‘Imperial Memes’),
and is indeed impressive by the amount of
support that there has been from staff and
students across college. There is only so
far that this can go, however. At its heart,
the vast majority of those belonging to the
campaign group have their own reasoning
for the Holland Club remaining unchanged
by the feasibility study and will ultimately
voice their opinion in line with this. The
arena for opposition, for whatever reason,
is restricted, especially in lieu of actual
confirmation by Commercial Services as to
their plans. Until now, opinions have been
posted on the campaign group, with no of-
ficial statement being made by Commercial
Services with respect to any form of new
layout, and with Commercial Services in-
forming people that no firm decision has
been made, something that the campaign
group strongly suggests that in their view,
is false.
Where better to instead fully clarify the
entire situation than with a panel free from
the confines of internet debate? This is a
place where full and frank discussion can
be held between attending parties, and
where individuals can be questioned in the
flesh, allowing for greater accountability
and understanding behind the situation.
So whether you have concerns about the
immediate future of Clayponds or the po-
tential changes to the layout of the Holland
Club, now is the time to take your points to
those who have the power to represent your
views and gain a deeper understanding of
the entire situation from those who direct-
ly at the centre of any potential changes.
There is no choice but to attend the meet-
ing and make your voice heard, and to listen
to all the evidence (or lack thereof) on offer
in a hope for transparency, rather than al-
leged truths.
Have your say on the
Holland Club and
Clayponds

