Amidst all the excitement over Imperial
Memes (has it ended yet?) RAG have
something exciting planned for you lucky,
lucky people. RAG Jailbreak returns!
All you need to do is get as far away from
campus as possible in 18 hours, get a
photo of yourself holding a copy of Felix
wherever you end up and make it back in
time for Monday lectures.
All this without spending any money in the
process. It’s the most fun you can have in
a weekend (citation needed), and a great
opportunity for a free holiday – not to
mention something to do over the weekend.
Editor
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2012.
Editor-in-Chief Matthew Colvin Deputy Editor Charles Betts News Editors Sophia David Alex Nowbar Features Editors Katy Bettany Stephen Smith Sports Editors Indy Leclercq Sports Rookies Gabriel
Oppetit Johnny Wong Science Editors Kelly Oakes Alexander Karapetian Politics Editors Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Business Editors Beñat Gurrutxaga Lerma Nina Kearsey Technology Editors Chris
Bowers Feroz Salam Comment Editors Tim Arbabzadah Samuel Horti Arts Editors Will Prince Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Mark England Íñigo Martínez De Rituerto Alex Ramadan Fashion Editors
Saskia Verhagen Alice Yang Television Editors Matt Allinson James Simpson Film Editors John Park Lucy Wiles Games Editor Laurence Pope Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Food Editors Anastasia
Eleftheriou Michael Krestas Travel Editors Dushi Arumuganesan Chris Richardson Online Editors Chris Birkett Philip Kent Jonathan Kim Kadhim Shubber Puzzles Captain James Hook Photo Editor Miles
Robertson Copy Editors Veli Akiner Carol Ann Cheah Iulia Gherman Philip Kent Jonathan Peek Annina Sartor
What’s on RAG Jailbreak
Bust out of Imperial and escape
endless memes
Sean Bean, the only redeeming feature
HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
Friday 10 february 2012
2
CLASSIFIEDS
INNOVATIVE WEB START-UP IS NOW RECRUIT-
ING STUDENTS (paid part-time internship, flexible
hours/duration, starting 20th February 2012 at IC
campus)
Youny is a start-up venture led by two recent
graduates with entrepreneurial drive. Our mission
is to launch an innovative web-platform specifically
designed for university students to post/answer
course or topic specific questions to peers across
universities and academic years.
We are looking for one enthusiastic student/pro-
fessional, with offline and online marketing expe-
rience/skills, passionate about start ups, to plan
and organise the launch and promotion of Youny at
IC, LSE, UCL and KCL.
If you don’t want to miss the opportunity of chal-
lenging yourself, being part of a passionate team of
forward-thinkers, email your CV to paolo@youny.org
The deadline for applying is the 15th February. For
more details http://db.tt/XSSV4ls5
Lolcat of teh week
Gas permeation in high
flux membranes versus
thick glassy polymer films
Professor Donald Paul, University of Texas at Aus-
tin, talks about his gas in this Chemical Engineer-
ing seminar. This lecture will be about making
films that are “bare thin” (20nm!) and characteriz-
ing their behaviour by various spectroscopy. Don’t
worry, tea and coffee will be served from 15.30 in
the walkway outside Lecture Theatre 1.
Lecture Theatre 1,
Chemical Engineering,
15 February 16:00-17:00
Lunchtime Concert
Alvin (not a chipmunk)
Molsey will be playing the
piano like a full on bad-
man/pianist. Clothes op-
tional, enjoyment not.
Contact a.robins@impe-
rial.ac.uk for more infor-
mation.
Read Theatre , level 5 Sherfield
South Kensington Campus,
07 February 13:00-13:45
The Magic of Medicine
Speakers from Imperial, Warwick and industry talk
about how close we are to personalised medicine
that is linked to our genomes. They discuss how
genetically modified humanised mice can help im-
prove the drug making process (as in, by studying
them, not that they’ve made Pinky and the Brain).
Book a free place by calling the Dana Centre.
Dana Centre, Queen’s Road
South Kensington Campus,
07 February 19:00-21:00

