It is very difficult to retain a historical perspec-
tive of the present. Artistic movements only ac-
quire recognition and an associated nomencla-
ture once they are well established, or in many
cases once they have peaked. However, I am go-
ing to stick my neck out to predict that art histo-
ries yet to be written will refer to ‘Sciencism’ or
‘Technophilism’originating in our time. Perhaps
some other silly name will be used, but I stand
by my hunch. A term will be required to collect
the current dearth of art/science collaborations.
Art has always drawn inspiration from scien-
tific advance and vice versa. One could point to
the Renaissance or Futurism in the early 20th
Century as a precedent but at no time in history
has this truly cross-disciplinary conduit been
more alive with crackling, electric energy.
We currently live in a society saturated with
technology to an extent never seen before. The
fruits of nanotechnology, genetic engineering,
and quantum physics are no longer confined to
the space program and international research es-
tablishments. These developments are present in
our pockets, on our plates and in our hospitals.
FELIX
Friday 10 february 2012
22
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal
ARTS
The Poets are on holiday:
Fusion
What do Lady Gaga, Made in Chelsea, and Chicago
have in common? A high level of entertainment.
Sex Appeal. Great hair. And Fusion@London.
You’ve probably heard of Fusion@London. But
you might be wondering what it is and why you
should care. Fusion brings together music, dance,
and fashion. All four headliners are ones to watch
in 2012. Clement Marfo & The FrontLine (rap
meets rock meets dubstep), Angel (R&B’s best
kept secret), Charli XCX (80’s pop, but better), and
Sunday Girl (synth-pop, but melancholic) have all
been featured on MTV’s Brand New Artists.
On the fashion front, the designers are just as
cool as the headliners – Central St. Martin’s grad-
uate Ara Jo has dressed the likes of Lady Gaga
and Jamelia; designs by LCF’s Jenny Morris can be
seen gracing the shoulders of Girls Aloud star Nic-
ola Roberts; and Viven of Holloway’s fifties style
dresses can be spotted all over the red carpet. Fu-
sion can boast even bigger street cred with names
like Jaeger and Hugo Boss – also providing looks.
So who has put this all together? Well, the com-
mittee and cast are drawn from all over London.
That hot girl in your engineering lecture? She’s
probably modelling lingerie. The guy from the gym
in those ridiculously cool high tops and hipster
glasses? One of the choreographers. Your house-
mate’s boyfriend’s friend? Chances are he’s in it
too.
Presented by Binky, Hugo, and Spenser from
Made in Chelsea, Fusion@London is a collective
effort by students from all cultures, all universi-
ties, and all disciplines to raise as much money
as possible for Cancer Research UK. And it’s no
bake sale (those rock though). It’s twelve months
of hard work. Money invested on lights, music,
choreography, costumes, and venues (plus all the
stuff they got for free). And two hundred brains
and bodies working day in, day out, to put this
thing together.
Fusion takes places on the 25th & 26th February
at Troxy, Limehouse. Tickets are £15, Visit www.
fusionatlondon.com for more info.
surprise. The exhibition was held last September
at Imperial College’s Blyth Gallery. For those
who missed it, we had seven exhibits, each with
their own imaginative take on the theme. These
pieces included ceramics, glassware and book-
bindings on themes as diverse as viral evolution,
environmentalism and MRI tomography. I ob-
served a real curiosity on the part of the artists
to understand the work of the various scientists
involved but more importantly an eagerness to
express a meaningful response.
This meaningfulness is important. It is not
enough for art to simply draw on the imagery
of science nor to simply exploit new methods of
producing work. Art is important because it can
react and respond in a considered yet emotive
way to its influences. If science reflects society’s
rational, analytical aspect, then art is the exhibi-
tion of its spiritual and sensitive side. As anyone
who has ever been a human will testify, an indi-
vidual will suffer if these two elements are not in
phase. The same is true for a culture. Welcome
to the world Sciencism. I hope someone finds a
better name for you.
Speed dating will take place on Feb 23.
Please email artifact@imperial.ac.uk for
more information
Meredith Thomas Popular culture, and the arts in particular, has
been very slow to come to terms with this reality
but a new generation of artists is finally begin-
ning to tackle the reality of our age. An age best
described as scientifically enlightened but so-
cially and politically backwards world. One sees
evidence of this slow shift everywhere. Rambert
Dance School now has a scientist in residence
and Imperial College Physics Department has an
artist in residence. David Hockney paints with
an iPad and our own Computing Department
programs computers to paint. There are now gal-
leries and arts fairs in London entirely dedicated
to technological new media art. I could, as you
might guess, list examples of projects and artists
working in this arena for pages, but I will refrain.
The truly exciting thing is that this movement
is happening now, today, in this city. What is
more, you have a chance to contribute. It was my
own interest and enthusiasm for art/science col-
laborations which lead me to chair Artifact last
year. For those of you who have not heard of the
project, the basic premise was to pair scientists
from Imperial College with artists and design-
ers from the Royal College of Art. We sought
to provide a central forum where people could
exchange ideas and inspire each other’s work,
very different from the ad-hoc collaborations I
had seen to date. The enthusiasm was palpable.
Almost two hundred people signed up for our
initial speed-dating just under a year ago. There
were talks from speakers and lots of ideas buzz-
ing around during an extremely fun and lively
evening.
So, after the hangovers had dissipated, what
actually materialised from the hours of talking
and the brainstorming? Quite a lot, rather to my
“Welcome to the world,
Sciencism. I hope some-
one finds a better name
for you”
A step towards cross-f***ing
IC joined forces with the RCA to create art inspired by sci-
ence; Artifact is happening again this year
“Art has always been an
inspiration for science
and vice versa”
The early plans for the Central Line extension were quick to be shelved
Fusion – the answer to our all our energy needs

