of human hands, a woman’s head from
varying angles and the paws of an ani-
mal are just a few examples; placed
later into a final painting, the sketches
give a sense of déjà vu when viewing
the final piece for the first time. These
paintings were not created in flashes
of inspiration, but were the product of
years of study in the pursuit of perfec-
tion.
In fact perfection, and in particular
idealised beauty, was another theme
that ran throughout this particular se-
lection of pieces, and indeed through
all of da Vinci’s work. In his portrayal
of women, such as Cecilia (Sforza’s
ARTS
FELIX Friday 10 FEBRUARY 2012 23
Veni, Vidi, Vinci
Deepka Rana and George Howard came to the Leonardo exhibition, had a look
around then, err, wrote a review, unearthing a few conspiracy theories along the way
W
e would never
claim to have an
impressive bank of
knowledge of the
arts, however this
did not reduce the sheer excitement felt
when, against all odds, we secured a set
of, now hallowed, tickets to the Leon-
ardo da Vinci exhibition.
Since November, more than half of
the Old Master’s existing paintings
and a multitude of his drawings have
been hanging within the halls of the
National Gallery’s Sainsbury Wing.
Insured for a breathtaking £1.5bn,
the collection was remarkable for its
unprecedented scale, displaying paint-
ings and drawings never before seen
together. In fact, this was an exhibi-
tion of many firsts – notably, the two
versions of the ‘Virgin of the Rocks ‘
could be seen facing each other - and
certainly did not disappoint as a once-
in-a-lifetime show.
The selected works, shown under
the title of Painter at the Court of
Milan chronicled the time Leonardo
spent in the employment of Ludovico
Sforza, the Duke of Milan, during the
late 15th Century. It was this partner-
ship that was responsible for the re-
markable metamorphosis of the art of
painting that took place during his 18-
year residency; although Leonardo did
not complete a great number paintings
in his lifetime, this particular period
was responsible for some of his most
revered work.
It was almost reassuring to find that,
even for a master craftsman like Da
Vinci, the mantra of ‘practice makes
perfect’ still holds. Adorning many
walls was a wide selection of com-
paratively small sketches or ‘studies’,
most of which are part of the Royal
Collection, on loan from Her Maj-
esty the Queen. Leonardo used these
to practice the many intricate details
of his paintings before beginning the
actual piece. The importance of these
studies can truly be appreciated as the
exhibition continues from room to
room. Rough sketches such as those
long term mistress) in ‘Lady with an
Ermine’, da Vinci gives the subjects
such perfect features that it was often
questionable whether he actually paid
much heed to the sitter’s true form.
This idealisation was fuelled in part
by the belief that outer beauty reflect-
ed the virtue within a person. In fact
the portrait of Cecilia was deemed so
beautiful that it moved Bellincinio, a
court poet, to write a poem about it,
displayed in the exhibition adjacent to
the painting itself.
This review could not pass without
a mention of the extraordinary agree-
ment with the Louvre that allowed for
the remarkable sight of both versions
of the ‘Virgin of the Rocks’ hanging
side by side. This was a juxtaposition
never seen during Leonardo’s lifetime,
or ever since, and is unlikely to be re-
peated. Although superficially similar,
the subtle intricacies of the two works
revealed how Da Vinci’s technique
and style changed over his time in
Milan. They also served to emphasise
the attention to detail that Leonardo
poured into each of his works, with
some elements so similar that it was
hard to imagine that they were painted
independently of each other. To be
able to stand in the centre of a room
with these two masterpieces on either
side for comparison was a truly amaz-
ing experience.
The final ‘pièce de résistance’,
reached by a short detour into the
bowels of the main gallery, was most
definitely worth the suspense. Enter-
ing the second part of the Da Vinci
exhibit, and turning the corner, one
was greeted by the awe inspiring Last
Supper, reproduced by one of Leon-
ardo’s students on canvas. Leonardo’s
original, painted on the wall of the
Santa Maria delle Grazie monastery in
Milan, has sadly hugely deteriorated
since his time, partly due to the ex-
perimental materials the artist used to
seal the wall after painting. However,
two contemporary copies do luckily
exist which provide a valuable record
of the original.
This scene has been subject to many
a conspiracy theory in its time; ranging
from the presence of a pregnant Mary
Magdalene to stories of the chalice
and the Knights Templar. Some have
even gone to such lengths as to super-
impose a mirror image of the painting,
and ‘see’ a Templar Knight and a baby
pictured, raising many questions as to
Leonardo’s true intentions in his por-
trayal of biblical scenes. Unable to ob-
tain any comment from His Holiness
the Pope, the authors can neither deny
nor confirm such theories…
Unfortunately, Leonardo at the Na-
tional Gallery has since finished
“Idealised beauty
was a theme that ran
throughout this se-
lection of pieces”
The consumer response to the release of the Samsung Galaxy Tab didn’t quite match that of its competitors
“This was an exhibi-
tion of many firsts –
a once-in-a-lifetime
show”
He knows

