CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX
Friday 10 february 2012
24
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Picocon returns to Imperial College
The Science Fiction, Fantasy and Goth-
ic Horror Society is preparing for its
annual convention, Picocon, due to take
place on Saturday 18 February at the
Imperial College Union. Picocon has
gone from strength to strength since it
started in 1984 and this year’s event has
all the makings of being one the best
ones yet.
Given the theories relating to the end
of the world in 2012 the theme this time
is “Apocalypses”. Upon arrival guests
will be sorted into three teams, each
based on a different type of apocalypse
– nuclear, zombies, and giant Elder God
tentacles from the sky. A scavenger
hunt for items such as “a non-euclidean
triangle” and “happiness of greater than
or equal to 0.1M concentration” will al-
low people to earn points for their team.
Other planned activities include a
quiz, silly games, and the ‘Destruction
of Dodgy Merchandise’. The latter is
a long held tradition Picocon and of-
ten involves liquid nitrogen and large
sledgehammers. Guests are encour-
aged to bring their own contributions
to destroyed. In addition, there will be
stalls selling books and official Picocon
T-shirt as well as all day LAN gaming
featuring Unreal Tournament 2003 and
the theme-appropriate DEFCON, pro-
duced by Introversion – a company set
up by former Imperial students.
The highlight of the day looks set to
be the three guests of honour, who will
be giving individual talks as well as
participating in a group panel. Adrian
Tchaikovsky is a fantasy author well
liked for his long running Shadows of
the Apt series, set in a world populated
by races of people having the charac-
teristics of different insects. Justina
Robson is the author of the Quantum
Gravity series and the highly acclaimed
Natural History, which explores the
conflict between normal and genetical-
ly engineered humans in the far future.
The Guardian has called her “one of
the very best of the new British hard SF
writers”. Tricia Sullivan writes mainly
science fiction, with a fantasy trilogy
written under the pseudonym of Valery
Leith. Her novel Dreaming in Smoke
won the prestigious Arthur C. Clarke
award – often considered as the science
fiction equivalent of the Booker Prize.
All are welcome to attend with entry
£8 for students, £5 for society members
and £10 for others. Doors open at 10am
for what promises to be an exciting day,
and not just for fans of fantasy and sci-
ence fiction. More information can be
found at www.icsf.org/picocon.
Annual Science Fiction convention celebrates 2012 with apocalypse theme
Maciej Matuszewski
“The Destruction of
Dodgy Merchandise”

