MUSIC
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
This week’s band have arguably had the most
mainstream success out of all the bands that will
feature in this series and prove that post-hardcore
music, while perhaps a relatively niche genre,
comes in various shapes and sizes.
The Fall of Troy split recently after their brief but
fruitful career. They released their first full-length
album when they were just 17-years-old, to vast
underground success. This then led to them being
asked to return to the studio to record their sec-
ond release Doppelgänger and boy did they deliver.
This album is a milestone in the history of post-
hardcore and rock music in general. I truly can’t
stress enough how much of a masterpiece this re-
cord is, and if you like any type of heavy rock then
you have to listen to it at least once. When you
listen to Doppelgänger, or any of their albums for
that matter, you realise that The Fall of Troy don’t
mess about. On putting the CD into the player,
you’re ears are immediately graced with a wailing
tapping riff from guitarist and singer Thomas Erak
(who most fans consider something of a deity) and
this opening explosion of noise seems to just con-
tinue for the duration of the album.
The band is known for Erak’s immense guitar
playing skill with every lick being something spe-
cial, whether it‘s a heavy breakdown or intricate
math-style piece. For this reason, the band is
widely loved by guitar players of all musical prefer-
ence. Doppelgänger brought The Fall of Troy (rela-
tively minor) mainstream success, mainly from the
track ‘F.C.P.R.E.M.I.X’ which was featured in sever-
al video games including Guitar Hero III. Although
this track is not one of their best, if you are new to
hardcore then I would definitely recommend it to
‘break you in’ so to speak.
Their subsequent albums saw them drop such
an aggressive line in the song-writing procedure,
although they continued to show great musical
skill. If you like your hardcore hard then stick to
the older stuff and check out the recommenda-
tion below, if not then what the fuck are you doing
here anyway you pansyman!? Nah, just kidding,
try ‘F.C.P.R.E.M.I.X’ for something a bit softer and
remember to come back next week when I’ll be
cracking into the UK underground scene; it’s going
to be a good’un!
Writer’s Recommendation
Listen to ‘Laces Out, Dan!’ – a personal favourite
of mine, although a bit heavier than some of their
other tracks.
George Jeffery’s
A beginner’s guide to
post-hardcore
Lesson 5: The Fall of Troy
FELIX Friday 10 February 2012 25
Ross Gray on Nicolas Jaar at the Roundhouse
Jaar does the rounds
O
n Thursday the 3rd of February,
my flatmate and I decided to
take a risk. We decided to pay
for a gig that cost more than
£15 and wasn’t run by ATP –
a risk we would come to bitterly regret. The
gig in question was Nicolas Jaar’s Clown
& Sunset showcase at Roundhouse, a pretty
large venue. As far as we had gathered from all
of the promotional material, more than just a
Nicolas Jaar show, this was an opportunity for
him to showcase the talent from his new label.
Disappointingly, the gurned up north London
hipsters, with too much money to piss away
on gigs they seemingly don’t even care about,
apparently didn’t agree.
Soul Keita, an extremely talented 18-year-
old from Ethiopia, was performing his first
ever live show. A fantastic blend of minimal
beats, jazz and soul samples, and at times
odd drum patterns and vocal samples was
accompanied by a massive screen filled with
mind boggling visuals and quotes from Guy
Debord’s The Society of the Spectacle. We
struggled to listen over the incessant talking
from everybody around us – there was no way
to shush as everyone around us was talking.
Not only did it completely ruin the (as far as
I could tell) promising performance, I felt it
was incredibly disrespectful to a man who has
just travelled all the way from Ethiopia to give
his live debut. We hoped that the actions of the
audience would be a one-off, but sadly they
were a sign of things to come.
Soul Keita’s brilliant live set was followed
by one and a half hours of average DJing from
Acid Pauli. Apparently this was when the
drugs kicked in for the rest of the mugs as they
felt a DJ set of tracks pretty similar to what
Soul Keita was doing live was more silence
and dance-worthy than the interesting live set
that had come before. As if a higher power was
just trying to anger me more, on top of the ex-
treme irritation caused by the idiocy surround-
ing me, the set was ended with remixes of Ra-
diohead’s ‘Creep’ and Joy Division’s ‘Love
Will Tear us Apart’ songs I found interesting
when I was 11. Obviously these tracks were
met with great joy by the rest of the audience.
Everything implied that the rest of the audi-
ence was pumped for an upbeat, dancey set
from Nicolas Jaar. We derided their idiocy,
assuming that his live set would be similar to
his studio work – quiet, subtle, beautiful – but
we received a slap in the face when it turned
out the idiots were right. He opened with an
ambient number, which was met by repeated
whopping and yelling by the audience. I tried
to get some sense of respect by shouting “shut
the fuck up” at a particularly loud guy, but sad-
ly this just fuelled him on further. Apparently
bored by the only track bearing much resem-
blance to Jaar’s studio work, he shouted “drop
a bassline Nico!! YEAAAAHHHH!!!” I re-
mained silent this time, hoping that Jaar would
come through for me and provide a set full of
minimal beats, subdued piano and hushed vo-
cals. He then proceeded to destroy all of my
dreams by launching a huge beat, destroying
the nuance that makes his tracks so different.
Eventually I managed to get into this style
of presenting his material (although my flat-
mate was so sickened he had to move out of
the centre to the edges) and did have a good
time dancing. I couldn’t help but feel, how-
ever, that if I wanted to dance about to some
thumping 4/4 bass with a bunch of pilled-up
morons I could have just gone to a club night,
which these days I try my best to avoid. Luck-
ily, toward the end of the set, and much to the
dismay of everyone else, Dave Harrington
came on and performed the Darkside EP in its
entirety, with some lovely pedal work on the
guitar and a little more subtlety to the music.
We left during the second encore as it was
starting to get a little needy, and generally I ap-
preciate some modesty from artists. Also, one
hour and forty minutes of being surrounded by
people doused in sweat and smashing into me
constantly was beginning to get a little tire-
some. I would surmise that if you like Nicolas
Jaar’s music for everything that makes it good,
and wouldn’t say while listening to his albums
“GOD I wish this had more bass on it”, you
should probably never see him live; especially
not for £22 a ticket at the Roundhouse.
Get your foot away from my face
The Dublin Castle
Camden Town
Saturday 11, Feburary
Kadhim’s totally hot
album of the week
Django Django
Django Django
Because Music
2012
I’m bAAAAAck! Terribly sorry about last
week; unfortunately my ghostwriter was on
holiday, so doing my column was a bit trick-
ier than expected. But now that he’s taken his
leave for the next 12 years, we can continue on
as normal. Django Django’s Django Django
is this week’s Totally Hot Album of the Week
(try saying that while covered in cheese, hang-
ing upside down from a monkey’s uncle). The
1st class students amongst you may have no-
ticed that, that sentence didn’t make sense; this
album is just as awesomely weird.
There comes a point in a lecture, just mo-
ments before the end of a long and complex
derivation, when your higher brain functions
collapse. 30 minutes of barely comprehensible
lecturing lead you to the end of the Yellow
Brick Road when out of nowhere your brain
says, “Fuck this”.
At those times, you need something differ-
ent, something to cleanse the mental palate;
maybe something a bit 60s; maybe something
a bit psychedelic rock; maybe something Paul
Simon-esque? Ahhh, Django Django, you are
the perfect cure to a hectic week.
Like a crisp, chilly lemon sorbet, Django
Django isn’t for large-scale consumption. But
if you feel like heavy weights are pressing into
your temples, this album could be your sav-
iour.
If you feel irreconciably aggrieved by this
column’s absence last week, tweet me @kad-
himshubber and call me “a swine!” Alterna-
tively go post some Imperial-related memes on
facebook.com/ImperialMemes
Be sure not to miss...
The White Lions
Don’t miss this Imperial band’s spir-
ited takeover of the Camden night
light. Lying somewhere between
sleepy psychedelia and alternative
rock, their songs let shine a gentle
crafting of riffery and intimacy.
Heartthrob vocals colour the
crooning instrumentation, bearing
a likeness to British Sea Power.
Reminding of The Durutti Column,
guitars echo past, wrapping you in a
fuzzy blanket of distortion while the
sparse low end sway lulls you along.
Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Music Editors: Simon Hunter
Alex Ramadan
Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Mark England

