A
long time ago, in a multiplex not
so far away, Star Wars: Episode
I – The Phantom Menace was re-
leased to a baying public, hungry
for the most hyped film of the
millennium. As parents accompanying their
children fell asleep and grown adults cried
out in horror at their collective childhood be-
ing destroyed by what they were watching on
screen, the eight-year-old me sat there, dazzled
by the then groundbreaking special effects and
Liam Neeson. Watching it today, of course, I
note the many, many obvious flaws and its en-
tire existence as a merchandising opportunity,
but it still holds a special place in my cinematic
memory. A special place that is in the process
of being tainted by a 3D re-release this week.
3D and me? We don’t really get along. The
proliferation of inter-dimensional spectacles
has joined food and drink as one of my (pre-
tentious) pet hates of the cinema. I’ve managed
to put up with it over its various novelty resur-
gences over the years. Heck, I even enjoyed the
experience the first time I saw it, used for an
educational film in the Science Museum when
I was a young’un.
And then along came Avatar in 2009. I could
accept this. What appeared to be an ambitious
film (at least visually) by an accomplished di-
rector who clearly wanted to push the format,
despite its lingering limitations, was to be
praised. Hey, at least we were out of the red
and cyan flimsy plastic glasses phase. No, it
was the consequence of Avatar’s success that
offended me. The complete saturation of cine-
mas with 3D films, turning the multiplexes into
fairground rides rather than, well, cinemas.
The ten-a-penny 3D cash-ins that emerged
from the shadow of Avatar were relegated to
FELIX
Friday 10 February 2012
26
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
no less than Best Film at the Academy Awards.
And 3D shows no signs of slowing down at
the multiplexes. Other big-hitters scheduled
for this year include Marc Webb’s reboot of
the Spider-Man franchise with The Amazing
Spider-Man and not forgetting Peter Jackson’s
return to Middle Earth with the first of his two-
parted adaption of The Hobbit.
These are big blockbusters, however. And
I’m wary as to the exact input the directors
have had behind the scenes. J.J. Abrams, di-
rector of the upcoming Star Trek sequel, has
stated in an interview that he didn’t “fight” for
the use of 3D in the sequel, heralding its use
as a studio decision over anything else. Peter
Jackson, on the other hand, remains full of ad-
miration for the concept of using 3D to shoot
films.
It’s not going anywhere fast – not as long as
it remains the industry’s biggest money spin-
ner outside of Christopher Nolan. I still remain
to be convinced, given Hollywood’s unlearn-
ing focus on profit and keeping shareholders
happy. Just look at sequels and, well, George
Lucas.
At the end of the day, 3D is an elaborate ma-
gician’s trick. But it’s a noticeable one. Give
me a couple of auteurs ready to take the format
in a new direction, akin to Nolan and IMAX,
or Scorsese with his Oscar-nominated antics,
and I’ll start to pay more attention.
Until then, it’s 2D for me. That is, after I’ve
queued up first in line for Star Wars: Episode I
– The Phantom Menace 3D. Sorry, but I really
do have to see intergalactic trade disputes in a
whole new dimension.
Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Men-
ace 3D is out now
FILM
Are 3D films worth it?
Even the great Yoda cannot escape this 3D craze – his force clearly wasn’t strong enough
slashers (The Final Destination, Final Desti-
nation 5), bog-standard action films (Clash of
the Titans, anyone?) and animated films, re-
turning to the concept of Episode I’s original
release and becoming a way of drawing young-
sters in, at now exorbitant costs.
Under normal circumstances, and with such
a bevy of not-so-great films under its belt, I
would argue against the format entirely, cit-
ing its very existence as a demonstration of the
worst Hollywood excess; a vehicle for visual
spectacle over any semblance of emotional res-
onance. Cheap thrills dressed up as expensive
entertainment. In short, a gimmick. I would
gladly side with the most stringent of naysay-
ers, arguing against the dimness that 3D glass-
es over, sucking the colour from even the most
vibrant of films. I would argue that the practise
of 3D films are a means of studios squeezing
extra cash from its audiences. I realised this
most of all with Tron: Legacy. If ever there was
a film most ‘suited’ to the format, it was this
video-game based fantasy. Unfortunately the
best part of it was the Daft Punk soundtrack.
A feast for the ears rather than the eyes, es-
pecially since the 3D glasses dimmed out the
already dark imagery.
And yet, here comes Martin Scorsese,
fresh from pitting Marky Mark against Jason
Bourne in one of his many Very Serious Adult
Films (read: The Departed) with Hugo, filmed
with 3D firmly in mind. An acclaimed direc-
tor, winner of countless awards, taking the
format and running with it. Creating what I
thought never possible, a 3D film with heart, a
3D film that wows the critics with its heart and
well as spectacle, where 3D is no longer a gim-
mick, but is used to draw the viewer into an
emotional journey. A film that is nominated for
Matthew Colvin is not convinced by the latest Hollywood invention
Top 10 Box Office films
in the UK this week
1) Chronicle – 12A – Dane DeHaan, Alex
Russell, Michael B. Jordan
2) Journey 2: The Mysterious Island – PG
– Josh Hutcherson, Dwayne “The Rock”
Johnson, Michael Caine
3) The Descendants – 15 – George Cloo-
ney, Shailene Woodley, Amara Miller
4) War Horse – 12A – Jeremy Irvine, Emily
Watson, Tom Hiddleston
5) Jack and Jill – PG – Adam Sandler, Ka-
tie Holmes, Al Pacino
6) Man on a Ledge - 12A - Sam Worthing-
ton, Elizabeth Banks, Jamie Bell, Ed Harris
7) The Grey - 15 - Liam Neeson, Dermot
Mulroney, Frank Grillo
8) A Monster in Paris – U – Adam Gold-
berg, Bob Balaban, Catherine O’Hara
9) The Artist – PG – Jean Dujardin, Béré-
nice Bejo, John Goodman, James Crom-
well
10) Carnage – 15 – Jodie Foster, Kate
Winslet, John C. Reilly, Christoph Waltz

