FILM
Witness the birth of psychoanalysis
FELIX Friday 10 February 2012 27
servative experience, visually, although
it doesn’t suffer from the stuffiness of
historical reconstruction that can so of-
ten occur, especially when so much of
the drama is filmed inside. It has to be
noted that the actors all speak in fluent
English with varying European accents,
which was really quite annoying, even
if Knightley’s attempt at a Russian ac-
cent was quite impressive. The strength
of the film, and of Hampton’s script,
lies in the fact that the film’s two main
stories, Jung’s friendship with Freud
and his romance with Spielrein, are to-
tally complementary and each cleverly
sheds light on the other. By the time the
film leaps forward for a final epilogue
in 1934, you feel that Cronenberg and
Hampton have succeeded in a full and
all-too-telling professional and personal
portrait of Jung, which has drawn you
in to the end.
Director David Cronenberg
Screenwriters Christopher
Hampton (play), John Kerr (novel)
Cast Viggo Mortensen, Michael
Fassbender, Keira Knightley
A Dangerous Method
Lucy Wiles
A bit of an intense film, this one – a
very starkly constructed look at a few
strained relationships, most notably
that of Carl Jung and Sigmund Freud.
Having enrolled a few big names in
Fassbender, Mortensen and Knightley,
Cronenberg does a very good job here,
despite this film not being his usual
cup of tea (his previous works include
Crash and A History of Violence). A
Dangerous Method is a clear, clever ac-
count of the overwrought relationships
between top Swiss psychiatrist Carl
Jung (Fassbender) and his patient – and
later lover – Sabina Spielrein (Knight-
ley) and Jung and his better-known
Austrian colleague Sigmund Freud
(Mortensen). The script is very care-
fully written by Christopher Hampton
(Atonement, Cheri) based on his criti-
cally-acclaimed 2002 play The Talking
Cure, and this combined with Cronen-
berg’s plain, understated filming makes
for a very interesting movie.
The story is told over a short timeline
from 1904 to 1913 – the period in his
life when Jung seems to develop most
as a professional psychiatrist. Though
settled with his wife and children in Zu-
rich, he takes on the unsettling case of
a young, beautiful, disturbed Russian,
Sabina Spielrein. Though highly intelli-
gent, Spielrein is haunted by a troubled
family past, and there is a strong sug-
gested link between this uneasy history
and her subsequent distress, and her
sexual needs and preferences; she has
a desperate desire for sado-masochistic
sex, and has done from an early age.
Around the same time, Jung strikes up
an intellectual relationship with Freud,
who is practicing in Vienna. Although
the two men share some ideas, they
differ greatly in some aspects, causing
clashes over cigars and brandy. Along-
side this turbulent friendship, Jung’s re-
lationship with Spielrein crosses a very
dangerous line as the boundary between
patient and doctor crumbles.
As a good introduction to Freud and
Jung’s ideas and their psychoanalytic
revolution, the film makes for very good
viewing. Knightley’s creepy portrayal
of her character’s wild hysteria and ma-
niacal moments is very convincing - “I
should be put away forever,” she spits
– and as Spielrein begins to recover and
You may be a sex addicted, metal-controlling psychopath – but I will always love you...
A film about freeing three Free Willies
Director Ken Kwapis
Screenwriters Jack Amiel, Michael
Begler, Thomas Rose (novel)
Cast Drew Barrymore, John
Krasinski
Big Miracle
John Park
was really this tame.
That said, the delightful, uplifting
moments are an absolute joy to watch.
The beautifully designed whales,
which look incredibly realistic, were
in fact, puppets, controlled by hydrau-
lics and robotic technology. Even the
small, minute details are paid atten-
tion to, most notably on the youngest
whale that becomes severely injured.
His scarring, as well as his weakened
movement are captured so well that
you would mistake it for being a real-
life animal. Barrymore and the highly
reliable Krasinski make a nice couple,
with supporting players Ted Danson,
Dermot Mulroney and Bell all chipping
in to complete a more than watchable
ensemble. Big Miracle is sweet, often
funny and touching: a trifecta needed
for every family film to entertain the
parents as well as the kids.
around the States, and later the world,
flock to Alaska in the hopes of getting
a glimpse of the whales. Adam is par-
ticularly glad to see Jill Jerard (Kristen
Bell), a talented, ambitious young an-
chor he has fancied for a long time.
A rescue mission is put together to
free these whales – a process that does
not come about easily. But it’s thanks
to Greenpeace worker Rachel Kramer
(Barrymore) who relentlessly goes after
Mayors and Congressmen, that after a
while, her efforts pay off and even The
White House gets involved in the effort.
It’s not initially easy trying to get high
political staff interested in a few whales
struggling to survive, but Barrymore
speaks with humour, heart and convic-
tion. Her endless passion on this subject
matter may be hard to comprehend at
first, or even particularly like, but the
actress’ consistent effort mirrors that
start off almost straightaway seeing the
poor three whales trapped under the
thick ice of Alaska with only a small
opening providing room for breathing.
Their only way to escape is five miles
away, the kind of distance they cannot
swim for without coming out of the wa-
ter to breathe; and because of Alaska’s
harsh climate, the only air-hole that is
keeping them alive is starting to close
up.
Their struggle for survival is uninten-
tionally discovered by Adam Carlson
(Krasinski), a news anchor dispatched
to Alaska who is looking to make a
name for himself despite being in a
place that hardly generates any substan-
tial news for the rest of the world to see.
What starts off as a local sensation turns
into a national news topic, where even
people in sunny California are capti-
vated by the news. Reporters from all
Whales... gotta love them; and this is
exactly the kind of emotional response
Big Miracle is counting on. Even for
those who couldn’t care less about
animals or the environment, Kwapis’
pleasant enough family picture where
we see a group of brave scientists, en-
vironmental activists, reporters, native
Alaskans, and Russians (??), trying to
rescue three trapped California Grey
Whales will have enough emotional im-
pact to tug at the heart strings.
Inspired by true events of 1988, we
develop, so does Knightley’s perfor-
mance – culminating in a very complex
character who is displayed beautifully;
a far cry from the film’s opening scene
of her kicking and screaming as she is
forcibly carried into a mental hospital.
The majority of the scenes between
Fassbender and Mortensen are informa-
tion-heavy and very rigorous – and by
that I also mean a little bit wordy – but
they add a few good pieces of meat to
the film’s occasionally rattling bones.
Vincent Cassel’s somewhat brief (some-
what unnecessary) appearance as the
psychiatrist Otto Gross is clever, with
Gross acting as the devil whispering in
Jung’s left ear, encouraging him to let
his instincts have control and resulting
in Jung starting up a sado-masochistic
affair with Spielrein (cue nipples on dis-
play and excessive spanking).
It cannot be denied that this is a con-
of her character, and at some point, she
does win people over. Her performance
feels genuine, and it’s with her kind of
likability that Big Miracle soars past the
usual sugary sweet animal drama.
Clearly aimed for families, and there-
fore children, Big Miracle does not
hover over the serious aspects of its plot
for long. With every difficulty comes an
immediate, back-up, almost too conve-
nient answer, without ever exploring to
much depth the more realistic, pessimis-
tic side of events. At times it becomes
too simplistic and refuses to look at the
big picture. What about the massive fi-
nancial cost this must have had? Surely
not everyone was up for spending tax
dollars rescuing some animals? Perhaps
I’m over-thinking this, but when a film
moves this comfortably, without much
fuss, it is only natural to wonder wheth-
er the true events on which this is based

