FILM
FELIX
Friday 10 February 2012
28
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
L
ast week, Felix Film was
lucky enough to wangle
a seat in a round-table
interview with Viggo
Mortensen – yes, an ac-
tual real actor – who played Freud quite
brilliantly in A Dangerous Method. The
interview took place at Freud’s old Lon-
don house (which is now the quaint and
interesting Freud Museum, hidden in
a residential area of North London) in
Freud’s drawing room, around Freud’s
table… it was all rather strange, ac-
tually. You feel a little bit intrusive
– Mortensen describes our ability to
wander round Freud’s house and touch
his things as “perhaps wrong… maybe
tacky,” although he later laughs that he
got over it when researching his char-
acter. It is clear that Viggo Mortensen
is a very polite, very considered man,
who has clearly spent a great deal of
time studying Freud for this role, and
seemed happy to have a conversation
with us about it all.
Having visited the Freud museums
in both London and Vienna, Mortensen
tells us how he enjoyed getting a real
feel for the places – Freud’s home in
Vienna was temporarily ransacked by
the film crew for props and artifacts, so
the London home actually gave him the
best idea of what Freud’s home looked
like. “I liked thinking of him in the
garden, seeing the images of him back
there,” he says, while wandering around
the room and looking interestedly into
the garden, “That always helps me as an
actor.” The film itself was mostly filmed
in a studio in Cologne, Germany, where
the interiors of Jung’s house and Freud’s
office were copied down to the very last
possible detail – Mortensen tells us that
the film’s director David Cronenberg
even had the blueprints of both houses
so that the sets were really perfect. The
exterior for Jung’s house was filmed
in southern Germany, as well as a few
other little scenes in various places.
It’s well known that Mortensen is
keen on researching his roles, immers-
ing themselves in their lives as much
as he can. When asked whether there
was simply too much to absorb with as
complex a character as Freud, he spoke
about the impossibility to absorb a per-
son’s whole life in such a short time
frame. “If I had a choice, I’d always
ask for more time,” he shrugs. In his
short period of preparation however, it
seems Mortensen managed a great deal,
amassing vast quantities of articles, pa-
pers and descriptions of Freud, as well
as reading through some of Freud’s own
work. He assures us that understanding
Freud’s behaviour and mannerisms is
more important for an actor to grasp the
character than simply learning about
in that play than in my last ten or fifteen
years in filming,” he says, seriously.
“There’s no saying cut, you just figure
it out; it’s like an hour and forty min-
utes long take. I really loved it, loved
the connection with the audience.”
Mortensen speaks about how he likes
hearing how the audience truly reacts
to a film, and admits that he has been
to see his movies aside from premieres.
“It’s more interesting to see them with a
regular paying audience because there’s
no favouritism, just people reacting
honestly… that’s probably the best way
to see it,” he muses.
Moving back onto the subject of
Freud, Mortensen is asked what scene
he would have liked to have elaborated
on in A Dangerous Method, given the
opportunity.
“I don’t think anything was miss-
ing from the slice of time that we were
dealing with,” he says, “But it might
have been interesting to see Freud in
the United States in 1909 lecturing and
interacting with Americans, not just
American academics, but American
audiences. [A brief scene in the movie
shows Freud and Jung getting onto the
boat to go to America for a conference.]
He had a lot of preconceived ideas -
not all good, mostly not good - about
Americans!” Talking about a very well-
acted (not that Mortensen mentioned
that himself!) scene where Jung has a
first class ticket on the boat, and Freud
doesn’t react to it although clearly put
out, Mortensen says, “I think he [Freud]
was a natural gentleman, and although
the Jungians or anti-Freudians might
disagree, I would say that he was essen-
tially a modest person and a generous
person… But he could also be very cut-
ting, he didn’t take well to being con-
tradicted… He was insecure - like we
all are.” Which again brings to light just
how much work Mortensen put into the
role.
We idly discuss how much we en-
joyed the film, even though a few of us
had very little knowledge of Freud or
Jung. “I don’t think you have to know
anything about psychoanalysis, or the
history of psychoanalysis, to enjoy this
movie,” says Mortensen, “Because it’s
essentially about people who are in-
teresting, who are intelligent, who are
very ambitious and keen to make their
mark in their field, but who are also
very competitive, jealous insecure and
behave often as childishly as the people
they are supposed to be helping.”
And with that, and a brief handshake,
he was ushered from the room to other
duties. And I didn’t shriek “Aragorn!”
at him once.
A Dangerous Method is out today
Freud’s academic ideas. Mortensen
studied Freud’s posture, the way he
sat, how he held his cigars, and how he
composed himself in order to get a clear
picture to represent – quite a feat for
Mortensen to have accomplished from
the limited descriptions of his character.
He adds that he had to smoke a lot of ci-
gars on set – “He [Freud] smoked twen-
ty-two [a day], but I had to smoke many
more parts of cigars!” he laughs, adding
that it was hard to get used to, as well as
being hard to recover from. However, it
wasn’t all bad as the cigars hold happy
childhood memories for Mortensen,
whose grandfather (who was a farmer
in Denmark) smoked them, and his
grandparents house smelled like it.
“The sense of smell is definitely under-
rated,” he says.
It was mentioned in the interview that
Freud’s witty side is not so well known,
and it was asked whether Mortensen
was keen to show this side of him. He
spoke about his initial worry that Freud
was just a ‘stern academic type’, and
that his portrayal would be hugely dif-
ficult – especially as his part in this film
involves long stints of intellectual dia-
logue. On discovering his love of jokes
and humour, however, Mortensen was
less concerned, and found out more
about this side of Freud. “He even sup-
posedly once met up with Mark Twain,
and they sat and smoked cigars and told
jokes for hours,” he smiled. Unlike his
academic peers, Freud chose to spurn
Latin and Greek vocabulary, and spoke
in what Mortensen describes as ‘good,
clear German’. He didn’t always take
himself too seriously, and made many
jokes and witty asides – untroubled as
to whether they were recognised or not.
“He was very English, I think, in that
way – had a very English sense of hu-
mour,” remarked Mortensen, even go-
ing as far as to likening Freud’s sharp,
dry sense of humour to his director’s;
“It maybe helped make it a such a good
movie.”
Talk moved onto David Cronenberg,
the director of A Dangerous Method.
When asked if Cronenberg told his the
reason for his casting, Mortensen says,
modestly, “He never came right out and
said it… I guess there was something
right.” He remembers how much fun it
is working on set with Cronenberg, and
cites this as one of the main reasons he
decided to take on the role, alongside
Cronenberg’s interesting ideas and at-
tention to detail. “Its’ fun working with
David… he’s excited, running around,”
grins Mortensen. “David remembers
that, after all, it is play. It’s make-be-
lieve. It’s a game which he enjoys play-
ing.” Despite many critics saying that
this is a departure from Cronenberg’s
usual type of movie, Mortensen insists
that it’s not so strange. “I thought East-
ern Promises was quite different from
A History of Violence, and this film was
quite different from those two.” He goes
on to praise his director: “I don’t think
he imitates himself… he’s not at a lack
for good ideas. Some living directors
who’ve been making movies for forty
years like he has… become less inter-
esting as directors, and seem trapped by
peoples perceptions of them.”
Having discussed the idea of direc-
tors becoming less interesting because
of ‘staying safe’ strategies, it was won-
dered aloud whether some actors might
have the same problem. “As you get
older you get tired and it takes a lot to
challenge yourself. But then it can be
invigorating, probably rejuvenating,”
says Mortensen, enthusiastically. He
clearly feels strongly about this point,
and it’s safe to say he doesn’t shy away
from a different kind of role. “But you
do have to face it – with fears of ‘am I
going to fail this time’ ‘I haven’t tried
this before’… some actors get tired and
they get lazy. And it’s safer to repeat
something you know works, and that
you have a target audience for. Some
actors perfect [their repeated role] in
a ‘zen fashion’, some challenge them-
selves to new roles. “Actors who like
myself are terrified of doing a bad job…
you don’t want to let anyone down,
don’t want to let yourself down,” he
tell us. “And it takes a lot of work to do
it, so you want to do it right… Life is
short, why not try and do the best you
can?”
Mortensen clearly prefers to take a
risk once in a while and work hard to
perfect a role – he clearly is unhappy
with the idea of ‘staling’ and being
the same kind of character over and
over. “It’s approaching new things that
makes me afraid.” He is happy to take
a gamble on a role, providing a good
director he can trust feels he’s up to the
part. “Although I don’t think any other
director in the world except Cronenberg
would have thought that I was right for
Freud!” he chuckles. Having just fin-
ished a run of the theatre production
‘Purgatorio’ in Spain, which involved
just two actors (Mortensen and an ac-
tress) on stage for almost two hours,
with no interval and no scene changes,
Mortensen knows about a challenge. “It
was terrifying,” he remembers, “Those
first performances I was thinking ‘what
have I done?’, but by the end I loved it.”
He adds that he felt he owed it to the
people who wanted to see the play and
owed it to himself to step up to the chal-
lenge of intense theatre, and he will al-
ways be glad that he did, as he should -
the play was a resounding success with
very good reviews. “I learned more
about acting and thinking on your feet
Felix Film talks to Aragorn
Lucy Wiles interviews Viggo Mortensen, the star of A Dangerous Method
Dear Mr Mortensen, will you be my Valentine?

