More student cuts
More student cuts for Imperial
students at South Kensington’s
FRESH Hairdressers.
Men’s cuts £22
Women’s shampoo and cut
and shake dry £28
Women’s shampoo, cut and
blow-dry £38
All of our cuts are done by
highly experienced stylists.
Tuesday to Fridays 9.30 to
4.30 (sorry no discounts on
Saturdays).
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington tube station
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
To book an appointment,
call 0207 823 8968. Ask for a
student discount and bring your
Imperial ID.
Dawn on the Horizons
Monday 23 saw the start of the Hori-
zons program, an experimental scheme
that sees 200 undergraduates from de-
partments across the college meeting
for a series of lectures and tutorials
over the next 8 weeks. Using the topic
of climate change, the program aims
to develop participants’ awareness
of how scientific issues and debates
can have wide reaching impacts on
an international scale: from affecting
policy making in Governments to new
technology in people’s homes.
The pilot scheme is using the topic
of Climate Change as the basis for
the lectures and discussion with the
view that if the scheme is repeated
other topics such as food security and
changings in the global population be-
ing used instead. Supporting the series
of lectures by leading experts in fields
relating to climate change is a number
of tutorial sessions where undergradu-
ate from all the different departments
of the college can discuss ideas raised,
Jonathan Peek
NEWS
FELIX Friday 10 february 2012 3
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
develop team working skills and ex-
plore the topic from other viewpoints.
The opening lecture was presented
by Professor Sir Brian Hoskins, Direc-
tor of Imperial’s own Grantham insti-
tute for Climate Change and member
of the UK’s Committee on Climate
Change: the committee tasked with
advising the Government on how it
can meet the 80% cuts in CO2 emis-
sions by 2050 set out in the Climate
Change Bill in November 2008. The
lecture presented an overview of the
topic of Climate changing touching on
early work on the Green House gases
dating back to early 1800’s though to
our current understanding of the driv-
ing principals behind climate change.
Taking in the developments to how
we now study changes in the climate,
what climate models are currently
predicting, and some of the contro-
versies that surround Climate change
–the ‘Climate Gate’ scandal based on
emails leak from the Climate research
Unit and the ‘errors’ in the 2006 In-
tergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC) report both of which
made headlines around the world.
Concluding with a thought provoking
slide on why trying to take any action
about climate change runs in to diffi-
culty, the lecture was a good summary
of the underlying issues of climate
change and was a good opening to the
scheme.
The lecture was followed by a tu-
torial that gave the Undergraduates a
chance to start exploring what policies
the Government should be bringing
into effect to help stop climate change.
Discussions as to why people were
taking part in the program was more
that people were interested in Climate
change than the opportunity to devel-
op their professional skills, with a lot
of emphasis on the actual science be-
hind the headlines in the media.
With the next lecture being present-
ed by leading figures in the Media the
program looks set to hit its targets of
giving Undergraduates the chance to
look at Climate Change from a range
of viewpoints.
Wilson review could lead to rehousing
“Imperial has an
exceptional achieve-
ment of Athena
SWAN awards”
There is uncertainty about the future of
halls of residence, Wilson House, this
week as it is scrutinized for feasibility.
Due in the coming weeks, the report of
an on-going feasibility study will help
determine if and when Wilson House
will be closed for refurbishment, po-
tentially during the next academic year
(2012-2013).
A College spokesperson commented
that the feasibility study was commis-
sioned by the College Portfolio Review
Board to look at “the possibility of re-
furbishing Wilson House to improve fa-
cilities and the use of space, which will
increase the number of bed spaces and
improve the current ratio of kitchens and
bathrooms to bedspaces.” According to
the College spokesperson, the timeline
for the refurbishment will be finalised
pending the results of the feasibility
study. Some students, particularly cur-
rent and previous inhabitants of Wilson
House, have stated their belief that the
hall is in dire need of refurbishment,
with particular mention to the kitchens,
bathrooms and common room, along-
side motions to solve central heating
break downs in winter and overheating
in summer. Students have also con-
curred regarding the ratio of kitchens
to bedspaces issue, claiming a lack of
fridge and freezer space per student and
a number of broken ovens.
However, refurbishment could po-
tentially cause disruption to students.
Among the options that have been con-
sidered in the case of temporary closure,
it has been suggested that students could
be rehoused in the Elephant & Castle
or Waterloo area, with representatives
from Imperial College Union having a
visit to view accommodation in the area
scheduled. The College spokesperson
stated in response to the possibility of a
move, “In the event that Wilson House
is closed for a period of refurbishment
the College will need to find an addition-
al 270 bedspaces to temporarily replace
the Wilson House rooms and is look-
ing for other suitable accommodation
options to serve this purpose.” Wilson
House’s warden, Dr Bluck comments,
“Should closure of Wilson be required
(whenever that may be), other halls
would likely be needed temporarily, in
order to meet the guarantee we make
to 1st year undergraduates. In addition
to the Wilson issue, there are other de-
mands arising indirectly from the clo-
sure of Clayponds. In either case, appro-
priate replacement capacity would need
to be found and the College is looking at
a number of options.”
The possible plans to temporarily
close Wilson House, one of Imperial
College’s notoriously affordable halls
(with fees currently from £104.08 per
week for a single room), while works
are carried out, come following a series
of high-profile moves relating to Impe-
rial College accommodation provision
involving halls such as Griffon Studios
(with fees from £235 per week for a sin-
gle studio), Fisher Hall, and Clayponds
Village.
Considering the genuine need for re-
furbishment, one could speculate that
the Wilson refurbishments are likely
to take place, at the very least causing
students to be temporarily displaced to
alternative accommodation.
Wilson House is one of Imperial’s most affordable halls
Alex Nowbar

