Oh, so you were expecting a review on a new
game? What new game? January and Febru-
ary are hell for game reviews; nothing’s being
churned out by the video game companies. So
instead, I’m going to take the time to wind the
clock back and review a game I played when I
was eleven. It was brilliant then and it’s still a
masterpiece today. I’m talking about Cavedog
Entertainment’s real-time strategy game Total
Annihilation.
Total Annihilation was a standout game for
many reasons, and whilst over 14 years have
passed since it was originally released in 1997
it has secured a comfortable place in the hall of
video gaming honours. The story is explained in
an introductory scene few can forget, the final
sentences clearly laying out your aim — “This
is a fight to the death. For each side, the only
acceptable outcome is the complete elimination
of the other.” Very few games since have cap-
tured such badassery in less than 35 seconds.
Despite this basic goal and the game’s brut-
ish title T.A. required more than just grouping
a bunch of units and slinging them across the
map. Unlike other RTS games at the time T.A.
utilized a multitude of different environments,
requiring you to plan out your strategies before-
hand and scouting ahead to see what fortifica-
tions lay ahead. Some planets were large open
waterworlds, others filled with lava lakes and
meteor storms.
The goals too changed level to level. Whilst
some did require you to hunt down everything
in sight others required more tactical planning,
Total Annihilation totally
annihilates boredom
“This is a fight to the death. For each side the only accept-
able outcome is the complete elimination of the other”
“Despite the game’s
brutish title Total
Annihilation requires
more than just slinging
your units across the
map”
Closure
http://www.closuregame.com/closure.php
How do you go about terraforming a planet? Ob-
viously you smash together attacking spacecraft
and absorb their energy. Wait what.
Tetraform is all about growing your planet from
a barren lump of rock to a flourishing green won-
derland, achieved by colliding together the space-
ship surrounding your little world. They don’t take
it quietly though – they buzz around, go invisible
or just plain pelt you with rockets. It’s incredibly
addicting; in fact, you could go so far as calling it
smashing fun (badum-tish).
For a Flash game Closure is pretty scary. Well, may-
be not that scary, but certainly sinister.
The game is built on the basis of orbs of light
that, when held, light up the level. Drop it, and
you’re just going to fall into the black abyss. You
have to manoeuvre your way around the level by ma-
nipulating the glowing orbs to create paths to the
exit door. Things only get more difficult when you
have to pick up keys and deal with multiple orbs. A
worthy, if somewhat creepy, challenge.
FELIX
Friday 10 february 2012
30
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
GAMES
Free Web Games
Well would you look at that? Two web games again.
Aren’t you all amazingly lucky? So here we are, two
(not one!) totally awesome web games that you can
play right now in your web browser. In order to enjoy
these you’re going to need the Adobe Flash Player
plug-in, which can be installed from http://get.
adobe.com/flashplayer/
Tetraform
http://armorgames.com/play/5062/
tetraform
Laurence Pope
Can you write better than me?
Prove your worth in the arena of
battle (i.e. this page) and write in
to games.felix@imperial.ac.uk!
be it capturing an important target, stopping
and enemy rush or in one case simply sending
a defenseless target through a well-defended
passage.
T.A featured a 2D environment but utilized a
3D height variation, meaning artillery fire was
blocked in certain cases, whilst units on higher
ground had an advantage over those stuck be-
low. Gravity values too changed depending on
the planet you were situated on, which in turn
affected how far projectiles flew and whether or
not you could fly aircraft.
The crowing piece though was its mu-
sic, composed by Jeremy Soule, featuring a
96-piece orchestra. Depending on events it
changed from slow and quiet to fast and fierce,
and managed, quite successfully, to get you in
the fighting mood.
In the current gaming era Total Annihilation’s
graphics may appear a little dated, but they’ve
aged far better than most other games of its era.
Getting a copy of the game now may be a little
difficult, but if you do you’ve obtained some of
gaming history’s gold dust.

