Link’s latest epic escapade
Not the best, but certainly not the worst. Rhys Davies embarks on Link’s most
recent epic, The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword
S
o I finally completed The Legend of
Zelda: Skyward Sword last night.
Zelda has always been a passion for
me, even within my geeky realm of
video games. I was blown away by the
beauty of Ocarina of Time when I first saw it and
with each new game, a new fix for my addiction.
So when I heard Skyward Sword was on the way, I
started salivating. Quite Pavlovian. Even more ex-
citing were the reviews I was heard second-hand
through my housemate. The greatest Zelda ever?
Uh, no. Not really.
It’s by no means a bad game but it just doesn’t
hit the high notes I’ve come to expect.
In the confusing, timey-wimey in-game history
of Zelda, this slots in right at the beginning. Link
quests to prove himself the hero spoken of in leg-
end and to power up the Master Sword, as it is to
become. That second point is remarkably similar
to the second half of The Wind Waker so already
it isn’t winning on originality. The Big Bad in
this game is Demise, a demon so powerful that
the Goddess Hylia lifted humanity into the skies
and sealed his ass in the ground. However, in the
game, after three attempts to leave his seal as The
Imprisoned, he is finally revived by his follower,
Ghirahim. Ghirahim has much more presence
as the bad guy but even he only shows up a few
times. As a villain, he’s quite fun, mincing camply
across the stage, but for the majority of the game,
there’s no palpable threat. After the time-skip in
Ocarina of Time, Ganondorf’s presence as the evil
master of Hyrule is absolute (feeding Gorons to
Volvagia, freezing Lake Hylia, putting Ingo in
charge of Lon Lon Ranch, etc.) That darkness vis-
ible just isn’t present in Skyward Sword.
Graphically, it’s quite pretty. Cel-shading makes
a return from The Wind Waker but with a more re-
alistic feel. The forests feel luscious, the volcano
is sweltering, the sky is so expansive. Nintendo’s
hallmark is to continue experimenting with their
franchises and here it pays off.
But it feels small. This is the cardinal sin of Sky-
ward Sword. One of Zelda’s greatest’s strengths
is the expansive, filled-in worlds. You always feel
like there is something going on and everywhere
is connected. Not in this game. On the surface,
there are three designated areas (Forest, Volcano
and Desert) which you have to visit at least three
times within the main plot. Sometimes, different
“A rewarding retrospective
for experienced Zelda
aficionados and highly
accessible for anyone
picking it up for the first
time”
“One of Zelda’s greatest
strengths is is the
expansive, filled-in worlds.
Not in this game”
Argument no. 34 in the fight against GM technology
parts become accessible or sometimes, the way to
handle the area changes (at one point, the forest
floods) but there are still just these areas, which
can only be reached from the sky above. And the
sky! Fairly big, sure, but with no point. There
are hundreds of little islands dotted about but
apart from Skyloft, where everybody lives, and
the one with the pub on it, there is nothing to do
anywhere. Compare with The Wind Waker which
had 49 squares of massive ocean and in each one,
there was an island with something to do on it
(and I’d be lying if all the adventure happened on
the islands).
The characters, true to Zelda form, are quite per-
sonable and full of charm. If only there were more
of them. My favourite game in the series to date is
Majora’s Mask for the sheer amount of characters,
each with their own unfolding and intercrossing
dramas. With such a small cast, there is only so
much you can do here.
Skyward Sword was released last year, during
the 25th anniversary for Zelda. You can tell. The
game works very well as a Zelda retrospective.
The weapons have all been seen before, from the
double clawshot (Twilight Princess, a welcome re-
turn) to the bellows (Which I’m sure I saw in The
Minish Cap). Familiar names and faces crop up
continually. The three provinces, and their guard-
ian spirits, share the names (and rough locations)
with those of Twilight Princess. There are a few
gorons about, who evolution seems to bounce off
like rubber, and amazingly Beedle. That travelling
salesman has some very, very strong genes. As-
pects of gameplay also resurfaced, most notably
the spirit trials, which Nintendo loved so much in
Twilight Princess, they’ve apparently lifted them
wholesale from that game. Another trope I was
pleased to see return was “Let’s put Link in a can-
non!”
A less welcome return is the annoying helper.
This time, it comes in the guise of Fi, the spirit
of the Master Sword. She’s butts in constantly, to
point out the most obvious of facts, in an oddly
technical language. “There is a 60% chance
that…” , “I have calculated that…”, “My records
indicate…” This is the earliest Zelda game and
you’re accompanied by a computer devoid of
personality. In fact, after struggling up to the first
dungeon with her, I saved, turned off, and then
didn’t play the game for two weeks. That is how
grating she is. (Also, the start of the game is slow.
Paint-drying slow.)
However, I returned, stuck with it and finally
completed it. I’m glad I did. Nothing about it
makes it the best Zelda game ever but it is still a
good game. A rewarding retrospective for experi-
enced Zelda aficionados and highly accessible for
anyone picking it up for the first time.
GAMES
FELIX Friday 10 february 2012 31

