S
aariselkä is a small tour-
ist village in mountainous
northern Finland which of-
fers a beautiful landscape,
various snow-based activi-
ties to get involved in and, of course, an
opportunity to see the Northern Lights.
1. Freeze to death
This is the Arctic Circle, which means
temperatures that will probably freeze
urine in your urethra if you ever found
yourself unable to find a toilet. Tem-
peratures are typically about -15°C,
regularly dipping below -20°C with-
out including wind chill. There’s not
much difference between day and
night because, let’s face it, Saariselkä’s
feeble winter sun is nothing more than
a symbolic gesture. As long as you’re
dressed in warm water and windproof
clothes, you’ll barely feel the ele-
ments, especially when you’re work-
ing up a sweat climbing up hills or rac-
ing through (and inevitably followed
by tripping into) foot-thick snow. Un-
fortunately, I cannot guarantee you’ll
stay warm if, say, when opening the
door to your cabin the key breaks in-
side the lock and you have to wait an
hour outside for some guys to jimmy
the door open with a crowbar. Making
things worse is imagining the sauna
that you could’ve been in all this time
rather than staving off frostbite while
you try to pry the key out with a Swiss
army knife.
2. Toboggan down a slope
Making gravity do all the hard work
for you has always been entertain-
ing. The problem arises when you’re
careering down a slope at ridiculous
speeds but you suddenly need to steer
to avoid an impromptu meeting with
a tree, which is a lot less trivial for a
beginner than those little Finnish kids
whizzing past you make it seem. Or
more awkwardly, you could be on a
collision course with someone walk-
ing up the slope who dodges left and
right to avoid you, much like trying
not to walk into someone in a street,
except at much higher speed. You use
your legs to dig into the snow, which
works rather well except it then throws
Things to do in Saariselkä
“The winter sun is
nothing more than a
symbolic gesture”
a load of snow straight into your face,
blinding you and making you feel like
you’ve just been socked in the face by
a snowman.
3. Go snowmobiling
Riding machines with motors not much
smaller than themselves is always a
laugh tinged with the risk of forcing
you to ride a wheelchair forever af-
ter. Several companies offer snowmo-
bile trips outside town to get a better
glimpse of the Northern Lights that are
pretty safe since you’re stuck behind
whoever’s behind you and no room to
overtake. It’s a bit like being in traffic
but with better scenery. Except you can
just slow right down, build up a bit of
distance between the vehicle in front
and then slam on the accelerator if you
feel like the ride is too pedestrian for
you. Just keep your eyes peeled for the
stop signs where roads cross the path,
because if you’re crossing those at 60
kilometres an hour when a car is com-
ing down the road like I did, there’s no
chance in hell either of you are going
to brake in time on snow and ice. There
is also the hazard of doing this down
a stretch that isn’t quite as flat as you
thought, which results in the snowmo-
bile rocking side-to-side momentarily
losing contact with the ground, mak-
ing you shit bricks for a few seconds
as you prepare to flip over. Apart from
that though, it’s perfectly safe, I swear.
4. Eat reindeer
Yeah, they’re cute; get over it and tuck
in. You’d expect it to taste a bit like
venison but instead has a mild beef
flavour, which isn’t that exciting but
beef is just as expensive there so why
not? Besides, you can sing Jingle Bells
in a maniacal voice between mouth-
fuls of braised reindeer, pretending
you’re eating Rudolph or Blitzen. If
that doesn’t take your fancy, you can
get it in pretty much any other form:
smoked (utterly delicious with sautéed
potatoes and cheese), thinly sliced and
cured (or eaten frozen) - even canned.
5. Burn money
It seems like a common theme among
Nordic countries that the price of ev-
erything is as if they’re using the notes
to fuel a smelter to melt the coins into
model reindeer. A simple reindeer
burger will set you back €5, while a
proper meal is a “good deal” at about
€13. You may want to pack your suit-
case with food to make things more af-
fordable, which has surprisingly little
shame to it given how much you‘ll
save. Oh, and if you want to get fes-
tive bring a bottle - there’s a monopoly
on the Finnish spirit industry pushing a
litre of vodka up to about £40.
6. See the Northern Lights
Strictly speaking, you don’t need to go
to Finland, or even Northern Europe
for this. On occasion there’s enough
solar activity to make the Aurora Bo-
realis visible as far south as Newcastle,
which is somewhat galling for anyone
who travelled specifically to see them.
Nevertheless, they are pretty much
what you expect them to be: green,
wispy cloud-like formations that dance
across the sky that take your breath
away if the -20°C air doesn’t do that
already. If you book more than a week
in advance it suddenly becomes a bit
of a lottery whether you see them ow-
ing to weather conditions. Thankfully,
Saariselkä has enough to offer to make
the trip worth it in the event clouds do
ruin your day, as if they’ve sensed that
you’ve come from England.
7. Buy racistly-advertised child toys
Good luck working out what emotion
that facial expression (bottom right
image) is meant to convey. The rac-
ism isn’t immediately evident until
you notice the chain round his neck
which either implies he’s too poor to
afford even a gold-plated one (damn
you, Finnish income tax!) or that he’s
meant to be a slave. What we can
definitely infer though is that Finnish
children get mad amounts of pocket
money: you need at least €20 to get
all ten grills.
8. Throw your circadian rhythm into
chaos
The good thing about long nights dur-
ing winter is that you get a huge win-
dow to see the Northern Lights. The bad
thing is that the day lasts maybe four
hours in January which means that the
Sun pops up slowly, only to come back
down before it has a chance to go from
red to yellow. The result is looking up
at the sky and having no idea whether
it’s sunrise or sunset, and when you’re
out hiking in the wilderness constantly
wondering whether you’ve wandered
past the border into Russia, it’s easy to
lose all sense of time.
9. Pretend you’re on an alien planet.
First, you have the Finnish language:
it’s hopelessly unlike any European one
apart from some in the Baltic countries,
but nobody cares about those. It can be
rather frustrating being unable to make
heads or tails of it if you have a general
knowledge of a wide range of European
languages, but in practice you’ll have
no trouble because everyone speaks
English there. Throw in the clouds that
glow orange from the lights below, tree
lines in the horizon that look like cloud
cover at night and everything on the
ground glazed with snow and you have
yourself the perfect setting for a sci-fi
flick.
TRAVEL
FELIX
Friday 10 february 2012
32
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel Editors: Dushi Arumuganesan
Chris Richardson
What’s the time, Mr. Wolf? I don’t have a bloody clue
Veli Akiner ventures to northern Finland in search of snow, and finds braised rein-
deer, dubiously advertised toys, and long nights along the way
“You have yourself
the perfect setting
for a sci-fi flick”
Magnificent
Is it a tree? Or is it some fractal
nightmare in a future where we’ve
colonised Europa?
It’s like Lil Jon and Arnold
Schwarzenegger had a kid in a
bizarre sequel to Junior

