HANGMAN 2.0
FELIX
Friday 10 February 2012
hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
34
hangman
Reporting from in your mum
newimperialhallstobe£1000aweekfor
atripleandmovedtobrixton
RossGoldbergIIIreportsonthenewsandtingblad,whiletryingtofitinatthenewhalls
Valentine’s Day: one of those days
that I hate with a passion. The outside
world looks like the inside of a vagina.
Pink and moist. Everywhere.
The good thing about Valentine’s
is that it’s the one day when paying
for sex is acceptable. For a box of
chocolates and a of couple flowers,
you get a blow job. Pretty decent
deal in my opinion. I can feel like
Berlusconi and not spend thousands
of euros. Lad dolce vita.
It’s four in the morning, and
you’ve awaken from a drunken
stupor to find banana skins all over
your bed and a now revolting scene
of hentai on your laptop screen.
Banana wanking, really? You drain
the life out of me. Your “wild night
out” consisted of your questionably
hotter friend fingering a blonde
on the dance floor and your quiet
flatmate in Computing awkwardly
raising one arm and looking scared
asfuck.whileYourinitiallysuccessful
contact with a “fit” girl leads only to
puke all over your shoes and an
unsatisfied boner for the rest of the
night. All for the reasonable price
of an empty wallet and a hangover.
You’re wondering whether one’s
virginity can actually grow back.
The reflection in the mirror only
shows a pathetic, dangly thing and
no trace of the biceps you set out to
get that one time in November you
decided to work out. You little sod,
take this shit in hand and deal with
it. FYI your spouse in Skyrim does
not count you sad, sad fuck.
snow leaves imperial Chinese students
strandedinlibrary-Chileansempathise
rossgoldbergJr
wannabe badman
Hundreds of eager students were
left isolated in dark, humid condi-
tions, while snow poured down upon
the South Kensington campus. The
recent bout of weather spelled dis-
aster as the new library entrance
(costing £7 billion) failed to open
Saturday afternoon. The door fail-
ure, which has since been attributed
to a simple electronic malfunction,
left a contingent of extremely dili-
gent undergraduates and some less
than diligent postgraduates to fend
for themselves. As the snow fall on
Queen’s lawn rose to a staggering 3
inches, the 27 hour ordeal reached
a climatic turn for the worse when
one student sadly passed away af-
ter he was unable to receive medical
treatment for his caffeine overdose.
Several legions were found on the
body, suggesting that other victims
resorted to feeding off the corpse.
The predominantly Chinese group
of library enthusiasts were finally
saved after a relief effort sent by the
Chinese embassy successfully re-
placed the faulty electronics; using
superior components made in Chi-
na. After speaking to the survivors,
Hangman discovered that emergen-
cy food provisions were extremely
low, and highly inadequate. The Din-
ner lady (responsible for all food re-
lated queries) has launched a formal
enquiry into the matter, claiming that
the Library Cafe should have been
fully stocked at all times for desper-
ate students to purchase “Wraps” at
the slightly inflated price of £99.99.
A formal statement from the col-
lege rector, Sweet Potatoes, read
“We at the College are deeply sad-
dened by the incident that occurred
over the weekend. It just goes to
show that no matter how much
money we waste, college facilities
will inevitably fail in certain condi-
tions. As for the poor student who
sadly passed away, our condolenc-
es go to his family. We at Imperial
understand that the one child policy
proves to be a risky strategy for Chi-
nese parents, and should they have
a second child we would welcome
them to Imperial on a conditional
visa.”
Another survivor described the in-
cident as “..traumatic, I didn’t know
if I was going to survive. One good
thing that came out of it was the
journey of self discovery I departed
on.” While a further survivor said “I
didn’t even know it snowed.” One of
Imperial’s Black minority students
was happily relieved to “make it out
alive! I thought I was a gonner for
sure. Have you not seen all horror
films?” Hangman had to promptly
remind him that this wasn’t scary
movie.
Many have likened this ordeal to
the Chilean miner incident, just a lot
less dramatic or interesting. Howev-
er a strong network of Chilean em-
pathisers were at the scene, cheer-
ing the survivors as they emerged.
Caucasian-looking chinesejubilantinreunion
“HEY I MADE A GREAT MEME
MAN IT’S ALL LIKE...” It’s not fun-
ny anymore, it’s Valentine’s day.
Shouldn’t you be getting rejected
by someone who’s out of your
league (i.e. everyone).
thenewentranceismeantpurelyfordisplay;it’sactuallymalfunctioningwhenthedoorsopen
It was found out that some freshers
at Imperial have enough money left
over for having fun. Therefore, halls
are to be immediately shut down.
The more affordable halls will stay
open for the next month. Rather
than using the rare chance to be the
last group of freshers to not have to
work as a rent boy to survive, the
students used this opportunity to sit
at home and set up a meme group
on Facebook. One fresher said:
“lmao this is so funny!” as he is a
massive cuntbag.
To help students blend in to the
surroundings they will be given an
ounce of marijuana so they can
start their inevitable career as a
drug dealer. They will also be given
lessons in street speak. “Dis lectur-
er iz a wasteman blud, u get me” is
expected to be heard around cam-
pus next year.
The students will also be given
stab proof vests to ensure their safe-
ty. El Presidente said of the move: “I
have no strong feelings either way
and have no opinion that might
alienate one group of people”.
Imperial Training Academy did a
quick Q&A session in which they
found out that when asked, people
want really nice halls. They unfortu-
nately neglected to mention that it
wasn’t just better halls, but better
halls at a massively inflated prices.
The halls will feature or be
“pimped out” with five TVs in each
kitchen that will vary between 50
and 100 inches. They will also
vary between used once and used
twice, as no one is brave enough
to publicly show what they like to
watch in case it makes them look
weird. If you’re wondering if it does,
then it does.
NEWSINBRIEF–Likeanewsstoryforlazypeople
Old jokes regurgitated and played off as novel in meme
craze, everyone now on comedown realising they’re lame
Imperial makes £600 million profit. Library worker drops
and loses 1p, is immediately fired and sued for losses
Last week’s centrefold results in 20% spike in Kleenex sales
Superbowl means Union crowded and attractive, friendly
American girls are everywhere. Men confused
Deputy President of Education reinstated after week long
absence – nobody notices, no different amount of work gets
done
“I KNEW IT” shouts Thatcher after Falklands oil discovery
Europe continues hints to Greece that they are not welcome
– Greece ignores hints like “that guy” at the party

