In Brief
Registration opens for TEDx
Ticket prices for TEDxImperialCollege have been
revealed as registration opens today. Tickets for
students will be £10, while all others will pay £25.
It has also emerged that Google is to be the main
sponsor of the event.
The organisers have stressed that registration
doesn’t guarantee a ticket. “Registering means
you’ll get advance notice of when ticket sales
open. If you haven’t registered, you won’t be able
to buy a ticket”, said organiser Kadhim Shubber.
He declined to specify when ticketing would open,
but hinted it would be around the end of February,
and beginning of March.
So far only 5 of the speakers have been revealed.
These include John Graham-Cumming, the man be-
hind Plan 28, a project to build Charles Babbage’s
Analytical Machine for the first time; and Andrew
Shoben, founder of greyworld, a group of artists
that create large-scale public art – most notably
The Source at the London Stock Exchange. “We’ll
be revealing the other speakers one-by-one in the
coming weeks,” said Kadhim Shubber.
TEDxImperialCollege will be held on March 24 in
the Great Hall.
Matthew Colvin
NEWS
FELIX
Friday 10 february 2012
4
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
Holland Club panel to be held
‘No guarantee’ over proposed floor plans
The programmes at Imperial College Business School
demonstrate a perfect combination of theoretical and
practical knowledge.”
“
Imperial College Business School is different from other business schools. It's
located in London, one of the world's leading financial centres, yet it doesn't
just focus on high finance and the City, but offers real diversity and creativity.
Lujia Wang, studied BSc mathematical Statistics at Imperial College
• Full-Time MBA
• Executive MBA (weekday or weekend)
• MSc Innovation, Entrepreneurship &
Management
• MSc Economics & Strategy
for Business NEW
• MSc Strategic Marketing
• MSc International Health
Management
• MSc Management
• MSc Finance
• MSc Risk Management &
Financial Engineering
• MSc Actuarial Finance
• Doctoral Programme
Join us at our next information session. Find out more and register online.
SHAPING YOUR FUTURE
www.imperial.ac.uk/business-school/knowledge
Imperial College Union President Scott
Heath emphasised that he was open to discuss
the plans in whatever form they will eventually
take, telling Felix that “there is no guarantee
of what the space will become. If it ultimately
becomes a postgraduate space, we will want
to see that postgraduate students are repre-
sented.”
“I see lots of advantages with the proposed
changes. One is disability access, and the sec-
ond is huge flexibility with the room. In addi-
tion there is a potential for food service, which
frees up the Queen’s Tower Rooms, which in
turn frees them up for club activity. The new
space would fit one and a half times the Hol-
land Club in its current layout.”
Heath stated his hope that any new space
would provide a “common room space for
taught postgraduates, who are excluded from
the Senior Common Room and may feel un-
comfortable in the Holland Club.”
“It’s to everyone’s benefit that we get [any
change to the Holland Club] right. There’s no
benefit to getting rid of a social facility and re-
placing it with nothing.”
The Graduate Students’ Assocation will be
holding an open panel next Thursday (Febru-
ary 16) at 6pm for a discussion on the future of
both the Holland Club and Clayponds, where
the Union President will be in attendance
along with Mr Young. The proposed floor
plans will be made available at the meeting,
and Heath hopes to launch a survey to deter-
mine what students would like to space to be-
come should changes come into action, includ-
ing such choices as a café bar or a “common
room space”.
...Continued from Front Page
The Holland Club is named after Sir
Thomas Holland, former Rector
“There’s no benefit to
getting rid of a social
facility and replacing it
with nothing”

