W
WILKINSON – GABOR – LINSTEAD
EASTSIDE HALL SENIOR POSITIONS 2012-13
The wardening teams are looking for enthusiastic people to be part
of the Eastside Halls senior teams for 2012-2013
For more information, contact seniors@eastsidehalls.org
APPLY NOW – DEADLINE FRIDAY 24TH FEBRUARY
Application forms can be downloaded from http://www.eastsidehalls.org/
or obtained from the Student Hub in Sherfield Level 3
the biggest challenge; she’s been bang-
ing on for weeks about how she can’t
stand the taste of soya milk in her tea
and is actually considering abandon-
ing her daily English Breakfasts all to-
gether.
For Clare, news of the challenge has
been met with incredulity, many dis-
believing that she would make even
a week. Reactions on Facebook have
been mixed, with one friend threatening
to “wave a juicy steak” in her face (good
to know you can count on the support
of friends in times of hardship!). But
I
magine living life without the
flavour of a juicy hamburger, a
quick sushi snack, cheese grated
on top of a big bowl of spaghetti
bolognese or even milk in your
coffee. Throughout our lives, we’ve
boasted of loving the uninhibited taste
of all foods. We love to challenge our-
selves when it comes to our grub, eating
basically anything that’s put in front of
us. But we think we’re about to under-
take the hardest challenge yet when it
comes to food. We’re taking the plunge
and giving up all the foodstuffs we love
so dearly for the Multiple Sclerosis
Trust: we’re going vegan.
Already as we write this we are regret-
ting undertaking this challenge. It’s now
ten days until we will have to ditch the
frozen prawns and pizza in the freezer
and all we can think about is how we
can fit in our last steak from Gauchos on
SloaneAvenue. Tea, for Hannah, will be
for the two of us we know we can do
it because it’s not just for us; it’s for the
people out there who suffer from mul-
tiple sclerosis.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is the most
common neurological condition affect-
ing people of our age. The neurons of
the central nervous system are attacked
by their own immune system, damag-
ing the myelin and eventually the axons
themselves. The effects are extensive
and depend upon the degree of neuron
damage, and include emotional effects,
such as depression and anxiety; cogni-
tive effects, such as forgetting recent
events; and physical effects, which af-
fect the entire body. Individuals with
MS can have problems with their vision,
balance, bladder control and movement,
and in some cases they can become se-
verely and rapidly disabled.
The cause is still unknown and there
is no cure. The Multiple Sclerosis Trust
is a charity that provides information
and education for the worried, training
for professionals, and funding for re-
search into new treatments. As we all
know, funding is the key to any success-
ful research – without the funding the
research doesn’t happen.
For Hannah, this is also a very per-
sonal challenge, having several family
and personal friends who suffer with
MS. We’ve raised £215 already and we
haven’t even started yet – proving that
there are people out there who think we
can do it!
But this month of veganism won’t
have to be hell. We’re going to explore
all the possibilities and make the mea-
gre diet of a vegan into a delectable
variety of satisfying meals – well we’re
going to have a good go at it anyway.
As a good luck present Clare has been
bought a vegan cookbook and we’re re-
ally excited to open it up and get started.
So over the next month starting from
the 20th of February to the 20th of
March we’re going to be writing weekly
updates on our progress in Felix’s Food
Section. We’ll be including our favou-
rite recipes that we’ve tried and tested,
where to get your best vegan groceries
from, vegan restaurants that do some
good nosh, and the latest activities we’ve
been up to to raise awareness for our
campaign. Please support the MS Trust
and sponsor us on Virgin Money Giving
at http://uk.virginmoneygiving.com/
team/goingvegan.
Say hello to soya milk, we’re Going Vegan
Clare Cheng and Hannah Cox on why animals are safe for a month thanks to the MS Trust
FEATURE
FELIX
Friday 10 february 2012
6
features.felix@gmail.com
Features Editors: Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith
“All we can think
about is how we can
fit in our last steak”
“This month of veg-
anism won’t have to
be hell”

