A L B U M S
ALBUM OF THE YEAR
Faith No More
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN WE
ARE FLOATING IN SPACE
Spiritualised
Between the beginning of the title song and
the end of the bluesy Cop Shoot Cop, there are
seventy minutes of pure laid-back cool here.
This is an album that switches and changes
whilst constantly keeping a wall of sound at
the foreground and remains interesting
throughout. At stages, it goes through a
Primal-scream-do-loaded phase (Come
Together\s a good example). Here, horns and
swathes of brass punctuate the simple
melodies and hypnotic droning in the other-
wise organ-laden atmosphere. Then we get
stages of Pink Floyd-ness with delayed guitars
overlaying great organ backdrops on songs
such as / Think t'm In Love.
There are also moments of just plain weird-
ness for example quite often, there are tracks
that end in, what sounds like, a band trashing
all of their instruments at once. Hey, this would
be just fine if you want to reach some sort of
monumental crescendo after a triumphant
track, but after about two minutes this gets
A TASTE OF ...3RD STONE
RECORDS VOL.2
Various
This is what label compilations should be all
about: 18 mostly exclusive tracks by 18 different
artists, a generous 78 minutes long and all for
a mere fiver. However all the value for money
in the world is worthless if the music isn't up to
anything, so it's another triumph that the cool:
pants ratio is unusually high.
Most of 3rd Stone's output is most accurately
described by A.R. Kane's self descriptive
phrase "dream-pop": gorgeous tunes with
added twinkly bits, basically. None of the more
well-known acts on display provide anything
particularly great, however - the aforemen-
tioned A.R. Kane's Cool As Moons merely
serves as a reminder of how brain-meltingly
brilliant they once were; Bark Psychosis' Murder
City replaces their usual intricate, jazzy sensibil-
ities with sledgehammer noise, to no great
effect; Spacemen 3's / Want You Right Now
lurches through a lo-fi narcotic haze; and, God
help us, Chapterhouse give us // Won't Be
Wrong which is, of course, utter shite. Ifs thus
left to lesser-known talents to provide the real
highpoints, which is appropriate; no point in
preaching to the converted after all.
Insides break a 3-year silence with the brittle
All Life Long, auguring well for their forthcoming
new album. No-Man's Sweetside Silver Night is
a swooning piece of romanticising, and Fancy
Swim by Reverberation marks them out as a
kind of French Spritualized, only more clear-
boring, ff
As far as lyrics go, Spiritualised have got it
sorted. Literally. If Jarvls got his wrists slapped
for saying that he was sorted for E's and whizz
then singer, J. Spaceman, is just as guilty
although maybe he is a little more subtle
about things. On Home of the Brave, for exam-
ple, he talks about sometimes having his
breakfast right off of the mirror, or sometimes
having it right out of the bottle. Fucked up
indeed.
This is an album of more than just weird
sounds and mad lyrics. It is more than a set of
well-timed loops and samples. It is an album
to create a mood and an atmosphere. Ifs
there to be in the background-not specifically
listened fo. It may sound insulting to describe
an album in that way but I'm not talking back-
ground fo just any old cocktail or dinner party. I
mean those ones where it will just sort of take
on its own Identity. Ladles and gentlemen, ifs
time to sit back and relax...(7)
Alok
headed: high on life rather than illegal sub-
stances. If all this spacious dreaminess gets a
bit much there's also the likes of E.A.R. and
Octal, whose Stairs Leading Up (Pad 21 is
bleached-white and forbidding, the point
where the dream turns nasly and you wake up
sweating and dry mouthed. There's even a
couple of punk tunes from the subsidiary
Them's Good label. So, while this may be a
mixture of contrasting flavours ifs definitely a
taste worth acquiring. (8)
K. S. Pulaski
IT MUST BE A DREAM
Bim Sherman
Ifs been a long time since I have been
suprised by an album. I remember a few years
ago listening to Marvin Gaye's What's Going
On for the first time in almost disbelief that such
a great album had managed to evade my ears
for so long. Listening to It Must Be A Dream
brings up much the same sentiments. No
doubt, the album is not as good as What's
Going On, but the way in which it sounds whol-
ly refreshing is much the same.
The album is a re-work of Sherman's last
album Miracle with eleven top mixers, each
mixing a song each, brought in to give his reg-
gae style a more upmarket dance music feel.
One might expect the mish-mash of mixers to
spoil the broth, but each song compliments the
next perfectly as drum and bass tunes slip and
slide among the ooze of Sherman's lyrics.
1088/11
2 3 0 5 9 ?
Bloody hell, they play harder than I remem-
ber. Collision is an epic opener with sufficient
energy and bare-faced cheek to justify fhe
wildly arrogant album title. It roars and
screams along, riding an A-bomb to apoca-
lypse like Slim Pickens, insane grin plastered
all over its twisted face. But it's not all metal
mayhem round these parts. Just remember
the irony-free cover of Easy, and then listen fo
it blatant-
ly
rehashed
on the
soulless
soul of. i |
She
Loves me 11
Not. One of FNM's strengths has always been
a refusal to toe the rock-funk line that From
out oi Nowhere drew in the sand, but their
experimentalism is often hit and miss. It prob-
ably pains them to hear it, but they are usual-
ly at their best when rocking like bastards, as
on The Last Cup of Sorrow, where slabs of
finest Metallica are cut with scary whispering
and monolithic bass. Naked in Front E S x J l
of this Computer is a barefoot sprint
across chopped glass, tickertape
drum-beats dragging you along for
the ride. The variable quality of the
album might be due to the fact that some of
the band members are obviously a bit crap.
When lead singer Mike Patton is left to get on
with it, he produces some wonderfully claus-
trophobic sounds. Home Sick Home lets you
feel the hot breath of Big Brother on your
cheek as panic folds in around your head.
New boy John Hudson seems to be pretty
handy with an old Queensryche riff too, but
ultimately ifs not enough to lift the album
from a mire of mediocre tracks that bury any
sparks of real power. Album of the year? Not
even close. (5)
Norm
With so many others trying the cross - over
of styles lately, you would think it might be easy
to pigeon hole Sherman. Ifs not. The album is
certainly more Massive Attack than Fugees and
more Bob Marley than Shabba Ranks, but
comparisons are not what this album deserves
as it really is a change from the norm. There's
no catchy seventies samples, no needless
anger in the lyrics and not one filler track in the
eleven. There is no doubt that I love this album.
I had never heard of Bim Sherman before, and
unless I keep a look out I probably will never do
so again. This is a stunning album that every
one should own. but you will be lucky if you
even ever hear it.(8)
James
music

