Now
Showing
Love and Other
Catastrophes
Originally reviewed in Felix
1084, the release of Love
and Other Catastrophes
was delayed at the last
minute for some reason or
another. Made for around
£20,000 this first film by 23
year old Emma-Kate
Croghan features a day in
the life of five Australian
students. Every element of
student life is included,
from searching for accomo-
dation and sex to trying to
dodge lecturers owed
work. Unfortunately the lack
of money behind the film
sometimes shows and
there's not that much to it,
but the characters are all
endearing and ifs an
amusing way to while
away an hour or so.
B e a v i s A n d B u t t h e a d D o A m e r i c a
Okay, so it isn't exactly
Shakespeare but then anyone
who goes to see a film with
'Butthead' in the title wouldn't
really be expecting that would
they?
For the uninitiated, Beavis
and Butthead are two American
teenagers with a very basic
vocabulary and sense of
humour. To put it bluntly, they
make Anthea Turner look intelli-
gent. You may have caught
their animated TV series on
MTV of Channel 4 but now they
are invading the country
through the medium of film.
The story, such as it is, centres
around the catastrophic theft of
their TV, eventually leading to the duo finding themselves
travelling across America with the FBI hot on their trail. Did
I mention that Beavis has a vial of deadly virus sewn into
the seat of his pants?
As you can imagine, this is hardly taxing on the brain
and that is probably the strong point of the film. It allows
you to regress to your childhood as you find yourself
laughing at jokes you would have found childish when
2 3 0 5 9 ?
The Relic
The most decapitations
since Highlander and a
Poseidon Adventure-esque
escapade combine in this
gruesome thriller. Chicago's
Natural History Museum is
the setting for a battle of
wits between an evolution-
ary biologist and the
"Kathago", an evil DNA
concoction of reptile, insect
and human. Humourously
handling extremely
macabre scenes such as
beheaded victims this is
suprisingly enjoyable stuff.
The cat-like monster, when
it finally comes out from the
shadows, is refreshingly
different to the usual varia-
tion on Alien, and would be
cute if it didn't have such a
fondness for certain parts
of the human brain.
Despite a slightly disap-
pointing ending, the joyous
way in which each victim is
dispatched means this is
recommended therapy for
exam stress.
sjmk
Beavis and Butthead on their tour of America. Wonder what they're laughing at?
you were seven. You'll either leave the cinema at the end
and find yourself shouting 'full cavity search!' at the next
person you meet or you'll have left the cinema five min-
utes into the film wondering who on earth would want to
watch such puerile rubbish. But you really have to admire
a film whose closing credits music is a song, sung by
Engelbert Humperdinck, entitled lesbian Seagull.'
Katie
V i d e o s t o B u y
Not much can be said about The Deer
Hunter that hasn't been said before.
Robert De Niro and Christopher Walken
come together in a classic film which
traces their experiences in Vietnam and
the effects this has on the rest of their lives. Visually strik-
ing, this multi-Oscar winning epic is full of symbolism and
poignant images, such as young American POWs being
forced to play Russian roulette by their captors. This was
the first film to tackle the sensitive issue of Vietnam and
doesn't shy from portraying the insanity of the war. The
leads put in incredible performances, as does Meryl
Streep as De Niro's girlfriend. It was justly given an Oscar
for best picture in 1978 and, since it is now available in its
original widescreen format, deserves to be in any self-
respecting movie fan's video collection.
Equally as visually impressive as The Deer
Hunter is the less well-known The Mission
Starring with de Niro is Jeremy Irons as an
eighteenth century Christian missionary
attempting to convert a South American
tribe. De Niro plays Mendoza, who was once a slave
trader but is now also a missionary, and the film centres
on the struggle between the two for the leadership of a
converted village. It won a deserved Oscar for cinematog-
raphy in 1986, but there is something missing which is
probably why it failed to win the best picture award for
which it was nominated. The director is unable to make
us care for either of the missionaries, so when the film
reaches its climax with a battle between the two the view-
er is unconcerned who wins. Unfortunately this turns a
potentially great film into just a better-than-average one.
-~o'srt'Y w 2. a m p l e , a b u n d a n t , copiout; f
rkl'i a n d lull. 3. H t » < e ~ m i « i , i " * f e | l ' . O F .
I, *«w,0.v#, ;as <J»Ni.s; *(•<- -o,:*) miblr, m.i^ii;
Superlatives fail us as we announce that we are giving
away another five pairs of tickets for the latest block-
buster, donated by, as usual, the Odeon Kensington. The
film, reviewed next week, is Absolute Power, directed by
and starring Clint Eastwood, along with Ed Harris and
Gene Hackman. To enter, simply drop into Felix with the
answer to the following...
In which multi-Oscar winning western did Eastwood
and Hackman star with Morgan Freeman?
We were giving away tickets to see The Relic last week.
The question was,
'The monster in The Relic comes from the same South
American coffee-making country as the snake in
Anaconda. Which country is this?"
The answer is "Brazil" and the entrants winning a pair
of tickets to see the film at the Odeon Kensington are:
David Roberts
Faye Moryc
Yee Kien Ling
Tom Howell
Revathy Sivathasan
Physics 1
Maths 3
Chem Eng PG
Mech Eng 4
Maths 3
film

