careful when standing on the two planks which separated
you from the toilet pit and the possibility of standing knee-
deep in shit. You could watch the sun set over Rethymno
as you stirred your typical meal of pasta in the al fresco
kitchen.
My fellow volunteers included Germans, French,
Australians, Scandinavians, Britons and Israelis as well as.
Greeks. Between us we covered the 11 km of beach where
the mother turtles nested. There are several other nesting
sites, all with teams of volunteers, on a few of the other
islands (the most important site in the Mediterranean
being Zakynthosl and the mainland of Greece and Turkey.
It was mid August and hatchlings were emerging each
night from their nests buried in the sand where the moth-
er's had laid clutches of about a hundred eggs two
months earlier. I was sad to have missed the amazing
experience of witnessing a mother turtle coming ashore
to nest but saw plenty of the cute hatchlings. After hatch-
ing, the young turtles dig their way up through a foot of
sand and lay torpid just beneath the surface until a drop
in temperature triggers them to emerge under the cover
and less dehydrating conditions of darkness. They scram-
ble over the sand like little wind up toys, using the reflec-
tion of the moon on the sea to direct them to the watery
world where, if they're very lucky, they will live for perhaps
a hundred years. Females are mature at around twenty-
five years and, somehow, they manage to return to the
beach from which they hatched to lay the next generation
and repeat a cycle which has been going on since the
age of the dinosaurs.
However, if care is not taken they may have the same fate
as their extinct relatives. The older citizens of Crete can
remember a time when the beaches turned black with
masses of hatchlings. The recent development of tourism
in this area is gradually turning them white again.
Mother's are deterred from coming ashore at night by
beach furniture left out and the noise from hotels, tav-
emas and couples bonking on the beach. The nests are
at risk from vehicles and being stabbed with umbrella
stands. Hatchlings confuse the lights of the hotels with the
sea's horizon and wander around until they dehydrate.
Propellers and fishing nets maim and drown adult turtles.
Fortunately there are organisations like the STPS which are
making an effort to ensure the survival of the loggerhead.
Their work is both scientific and practical. The volunteers
set off before dawn and search the beach for nests laid in
the night. The number of eggs are counted and then pro-
tective cages are placed around the nests. Mother turtles
are tagged after they have finished laying so that individu-
als can be recognised again and their movements
recorded. They have a rescue centre which rehabilitates
injured turtles and returns them to the sea. The STPS are
also trying to stop the problem at its source by working
with local people such as fishermen and hoteliers and
giving slide shows to tourists at night. The work's hard but
very rewarding.
So if you're looking for something constructive to do this
summer I can think of one organisation who want to hear
from you.
For more information,
contact:
The Sea Turtle Protection
Society of Greece,
35 Solomou Street,
GR -106 82,
Athens,
Greece.
travelogue

