F E L I X FRIDAY 2 3 R D M A Y NEWS 3
BEIT H A L L
SUB-WARDEN VACANCY
A vacancy exists for the post of Sub-Warden in
Beit Hall. We are seeking to appoint a suitable
individual to this post starting from the middle of
September 1997. The duties include; pastoral
care of students, organisation of social events
and involvement in the day-to-day running of
the Hall. The successful candidate is expected to
be highly motivated and have a demonstrated
aptitude for this type of activity. The ability to
take responsibility whilst maintaining friendly
relations with students is essential. Although the
post is open any member of College, a post-
graduate student or post-doctoral researcher
with a minimum of 18 months remaining in the
College is preferred. The accommodation avail-
able with this post could be suitable for a cou-
ple.
Applications comprising a covering letter, a cur-
riculum vitae and two letters of reference should
be sent to Dr Jon Marangos, LASP 2, Physics
(47857 (work) or 49453 (Flat)). Please give full
contact details (including e-mail address) in your
covering letter. The closing date for applications
is the 18th June 1997.
Applications are invited for the postion of
SUB- W A R D E N
IN FISHER HALL
We are looking for a friendly,
resourceful and responsible individual
to assist the Warden in the day-to-day
running of the Hall, in return for rent-
free accommodation suitable for a
single person.
Application forms are available from
the Student Accommodation Office, 15
Prince's Gardens and should be
returned to Dr RJ Murphy, Department
of Biology by 5pm on
Monday 2nd June.
Microsoft Student Software Special Offer
***Also available to staff and research assistants at Imperial College***
New Products Available...
Windows 95 AND NT Workstation 4.0
Works for Windows 95
Publisher for Windows 95
Still in stock...
Visual Basic Pro AND Visual C++ Pro only
Office Pro 97 OR Office 4.2 for MAC only
only
only
only
All Prices Include V . A . T
£99.88
£99.88
CCS SHOP
Level 4, Mechanical Engineering Building, ext. 46953, ccs-shop@ic.ac.uk
9.30am - 5.00pm (Wed 10.00am - 5.00pm)

