4 NEWS F E L I X FRIDAY 23RD M A Y
Top technological tea bag triumph
KELLY ROBINSON
Once again, Imperial College has
demonstrated itself to be at the cut-
ting edge of technology by investi-
gating the nation's morning cuppa.
Dr Fred Marquis, a lecturer and
researcher in the Mechanical
Engineering Department, has been
heavily involved in the testing of the
new PG Tips 'Pyramid' tea bag.
These revolutionary tea bags, now
on sale in supermarkets, are the result
of four years top secret development
at Unilever's Colworth Research
Centre. The design brief for the crack
research team working on the pro-
ject, code named "Project Magic",
was "functionality, novelty and
exclusivity".
Phil Evans, Beverage Research
Programme Manager, reported, "We
looked at a whole range of concepts -
including windowed bags, pouches
and even see-through bags, but the
tetrahedral shape scored highest by
far for all three of the aforementioned
attributes." To verify this, PG Tips
enlisted the expert help of Imperial's
Dr Marquis. As a member of IC's
Thermofluid section, Dr Marquis
studies fluid mechanics, thermody-
namics and heat transfer, making him
the obvious choice for this momen-
tous task.
Dr Marquis claims that the innov-
ative bags are the currently the clos-
est thing to ideally shaped tea bag.
He said, "The processes that go on
within the tea bag are a lot closer to
what happens when you brew tea in a
pot." To test the bags, Dr Marquis
and his team apparently employed
the latest virtual reality computer
methods to enable them to investi-
gate the liquid flow process involved
when a tea bag brews. "We back-lit a
typical brewing container with a tea
bag in it and then we made a video
film so that we could actually see the
tea coming out of the tea bag"
explained Dr Marquis.
A fundamentally important aspect
of the brewing process is the rapid
circulation of liquid through the bag.
In this respect the tetrahedral bag is
particularly successful. Kevin Potter,
PG Tips beverage development man-
ager, explained the advantages of the
novel bag. "First of all, the natural -
3D shape of the pyramid bag means
that it acts like a mini tea pot, giving
the tea 50% more room to move than
conventional 2-D tea bags. Secondly
it floats just below the surface just
like an iceberg allowing much faster
transfer of the tea liquor". As a result
of this the bags provide a whopping
15% more flavour over a 40 second
period, although quite how this was
established remains to be seen.
Dr Marquis' research has indeed
paid off and PG Tips are reaping the
financial benefits of some well
founded research, as increasing num-
bers of people are turning towards
their tremendous tetrahedral tea bags.
Meanwhile, Imperial College leans
back and sips its tea, basking in the
national coverage that this project
and its novel designs have brought.
Albert Hall expansion plans go public
LILI T C H E A N G
The Royal Albert Hall is planning a
major reconstruction in the hope of
improving facilities for future audi-
ences. The Albert Hall, a grade one
listed building, will be expanding to
rationalise its loading areas and to
develop a more open foyer to accom-
modate small exhibitions, talks and
conferences.
Much of the work is to comply
with the minimum foyer space
requirements for refreshment and cir-
culation space in a public arts build-
ing, but also to lessen the impact of
late night loading and unloading for
the local residents. This will help the
Albert Hall remain competitive in
relation to venues such as the
Barbican centre and others around
London.
The main reconstruction will
include building an extension to the
south entrance, which can be used as
administrative space for the running
of the Hall as well as providing a
larger box office area and a refresh-
ment area.
Other changes include the possible
replacement of the Hall's famous
'sonic mushrooms', installed in the
sixties to improve the acoustics, in
favour of a design similar to the orig-
inal ceiling design. This is likely to
incorporate a concave shape in order
to reduce echo. Additional insulation
in the ceiling will reduce noise ema-
nating to the surrounding residences.
Circulation space will be further
improved by opening the basement
rooms around the south-side
entrance, along with the introduction
PHOTOS: LILI
The Royal Albert Hall (top), as seen on an average English spring morning. These steps are soon to be tem-
porarily removed while excavations for the Hall's new loading bay are completed.
(Bottom), The Hall's public consultation and information boards on the Grand Tier. The Hall has held a
number of 'open evenings' for local residents, including those in Beit Hall and Prince's Gardens.
of lifts to accommodate disabled was served by the Royal This was replaced by the south
audiences more comfortably. Horticultural Society's conservatory entrance which proved to be wholly
which adjoined the Hall to the south inadequate for an average-sized audi-
but this was demolished in 1889, fur- ence. The proposed improvements
ther reducing the space per person, hope to remedy this condition.
Originally, the Hall was built on a
limited budget, with seating being
the main priority. Refreshment space

