SCIENCE
FELIX
10 Friday 14 october 2011
Every second each centimetre of the surface
of the Earth is bombarded by 6×1010
solar
neutrinos — produced by nuclear fusion
and the decay of isotopes such as beryl-
lium-7. Writing in Physical Review Letters,
an international collaboration of scientists
has announced the unprecedented accuracy
of new solar neutrino data from the BO-
REXINO experiment at the Laboratori Na-
zionale del Gran Sasso, in central Italy.
The BOREXINO neutrino detector con-
sists of a special organic liquid called a
scintillator. When neutrinos collide with
electrons in the liquid at high velocity the
electrons start moving faster. These fast
moving electrons cause the scintillator to
emit light, which is detected by the sur-
rounding array of 2200 photomultiplier
tubes. Since neutrinos are so weakly inter-
acting — being only affected by gravity,
which is insignificant at subatomic scales,
and the weak nuclear force — they are very
difficult to detect and so a large mass of
scintillator, approximately 278 metric tons,
is required.
A major problem with detecting neutrinos
is background radiation. The BOREXINO
team solved this by building the detector
1.4km beneath the Apennine Mountains.
A thick layer of ultra-pure water surround-
ing the scintillator blocks any radiation that
makes it through the mountains.
This shielding has allowed the number
of solar neutrinos from beryllium-7 decay
reaching the detector to be measured with
an unprecedented 5% uncertainty and has
made it possible for the first time to detect
neutrinos with energies of under 1MeV.
The data collected has already provided
evidence for the theory that neutrinos can
oscillate between their three ‘flavours’ —
electron, muon and tau. This suggests that
neutrinos have mass, which goes against
the Standard Model — the leading theory
explaining the subatomic world. The detec-
tor will also be used to explore the com-
position of the sun. Laura Cadonati, part
of the collaboration and based at the Uni-
versity of Massachusetts Amherst, said:
“BOREXINO is the only detector capable
of observing the entire spectrum of solar
neutrinos at once.
Our results, the culmination of 20 years
of research, greatly narrow the observation
precision. The data confirm the neutrino
oscillations, flavour changes and flow pre-
dicted by models of the sun and particle
physics.”
There also exists hope that the experiment
may yield some more unusual results, such
as the discovery of a new flavour of neu-
trino. Another University of Massachusetts
member of team, Andrea Pocar, has com-
mented on this, saying, “You always have
the hope of seeing surprises, some small
deviation from the expectations. And this
you can only have if your accuracy and pre-
cision are good enough to see very small
variations.”
Maciej Matuszewski
Measuring solar neutrinos
A scintillating view of the BOREXINO neutrino detector in Italy – top lads
Blood sugar measured by lasers
The search for a non-invasive, effective
technique with which to measure the blood
sugar levels of diabetes sufferers has long
occupied researchers in the medicine and
applied biophysics communities. For the
last 20 years, research has centred on the
potential use of wavelength-modulated laser
radiometry – that is, shining lasers tuned to
specific wavelengths at human blood sam-
ples and measuring the response.
New research by Andreas Mandelis of
the University of Toronto has followed this
blueprint but made some changes that may
prove to be an innovative leap forward. The
wavelength often used in past studies is in
the near-infrared, but Mandelis and team
focussed instead on differing wavelengths
of mid-infrared light, utilised in two laser
beams simultaneously.
The method involved relies on the chemi-
cal bonds present in the glucose molecule.
Laser light can pass harmlessly through
layers of human skin and interact with mol-
ecules present within human blood plasma.
As glucose molecular bonds are hit by la-
ser light at certain frequencies they absorb
energy and vibrate, thus creating a measur-
able response. This glucose fingerprint is,
however, quite tricky to isolate due to the
very nature of human blood; water is an
overwhelmingly strong absorber of mid- to
near-infrared light, and blood is composed
of approximately 92% water by volume.
However, this did not stump Mandelis and
colleagues, who instead made use of this
strong wavelength dependency by tuning
two laser beams to very slightly different
wavelengths — one that is prone to absorp-
tion by both water and glucose, and one just
by water. When both of these beams are
focussed on the jumble of molecules that
make up human blood, the water absorp-
tions effectively cancel out and the returned
signal is solely due to glucose absorption.
This highlights the glucose levels within the
blood and minimises the interference caused
by water molecules.
This non-invasive and pain-free method
has shown great promise in being highly
sensitive to even trace amounts of glucose
present in the test substance. However, there
is a long way to go before the method can
be considered as tried and tested; so far the
procedure has only been trialled on samples
of blood serum and sugar dissolved in wa-
ter. Mandelis is currently working with col-
leagues at Toronto hospital to enable a test-
ing programme involving human patients.
The team hope that their work may even-
tually lead to mass commercialisation of the
technique for use in hospitals to continuous-
ly monitor diabetic patients, with the added
potential for miniaturisation for use in the
home.
This may be very difficult to achieve; the
nature of the work involved brings many
inherent restrictions such as the size and so-
phistication of the lasers involved, the need
for personalisation to each patient before
use, and inevitable price limitations.
If, however, this were possible, it may
lead to a greater in-depth understanding
of diabetes itself. The ability of lasers to
continuously measure blood sugar levels is
hugely contrasting with the current method,
which can only analyse samples of blood
taken at discrete time intervals.
Despite the fact that such research is as
yet unproven on human patients, the method
shows greater promise than comparable past
studies. The frequency of research in this
area reflects the importance of pioneering
a successful technique in order to fully un-
derstand the disease and aid its sufferers in
the future.
Mandelis and colleagues describe their re-
search in full in an upcoming issue of Physi-
cal Review E.
Nicola Guttridge
Genetic link for ‘heavy
heart’ condition identified
Follow the latest science news
from Imperial and more on our
Facebook page:
facebook.com/FelixScience
Like us on Facebook
Folk remedies for a heavy heart have ranged from
white wine heated with red-hot steel to the flesh
of a screech owl. But an Imperial-led international
team of scientists from Europe, the US, and Japan
have eschewed such treatments in tracking down
the gene that causes cardiac hypertrophy – literally,
a heavy heart, caused by a thickening of the walls of
the left ventricle. This condition often leads to heart
failure as the thick and stiffened heart muscles
struggle to pump blood around the body.
Though cardiac hypertrophy was known to be a
heritable trait, previous studies failed to pinpoint the
relevant gene associated with left ventricle mass.
However, by taking advantage of recent advances
in approaches to rat genetics, the team were able
to identify the gene in question as endonuclease
G, or Endog, a gene also known to be connected to
apoptosis, a form of generally benign cell death that
plays a part in processes such as the differentia-
tion of fingers and toes in embryos. As the authors
put it, in a paper published this month in Nature,
the study “has further established the link between
mitochondrial dysfunction, reactive oxygen species
and heart disease and has uncovered a role for En-
dog in maladaptive cardiac hypertrophy”.
“We found that a faulty copy of this gene causes
the heart to become thick and fatty, making it
‘heavy’ with poor function”, says Professor Stuart
Cook from the Medical Research (MRC) Council
Clinical Sciences Centre at Imperial, who led the
research. “It does this by interfering with the heart
cells’ energy source – the mitochondria. Like any
other muscle in our body, the heart needs energy
to keep it pumping. If the mitochondria don’t work
properly, the heart struggles to make enough en-
ergy and the cells produce toxic by-products, called
reactive oxidative species, which increase thicken-
ing of the heart wall.”
The importance in knowing the gene behind the
condition is, of course, in the new potential this
gives for tackling the cause rather than just the
symptom. “We can now start to investigate new
ways to develop treatments which target the mito-
chondria and toxic oxidative molecules.” says Cook.
There’s also an important wider lesson in the fact
that Endog was originally an unsuspected culprit —
so much of the genetic code remains uncharted ter-
ritory. As Professor Amanda Fisher, Director of the
MRC Clinical Sciences Centre, says “This discovery
emphasises the importance of deciphering the ge-
netic code of a broad range of mammals alongside
that of humans eventually to allow us explore new
avenues for better targeted drugs”.
Douglas Heaven
Science Editors: Alexander Karapetian
Kelly Oakes
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk

