SCIENCE
FELIX 11
Friday 14 october 2011
Are particles self aware?
We all think we know what Browni-
an motion is. It is the way physicists
describe the motion of fluids like
air and smoke in which the particles
moves about, seemingly at random,
and diffuse throughout a volume.
However, by looking at the micro-
scopic scale where the particles in-
teract, scientists have found a new
phenomenon.
Firstly there are two governing forc-
es used to explain Brownian motion,
which are ever competing for control.
The collisions with surrounding mol-
ecules transfer momentum and this is
known as ‘thermal noise’. Assumed
to be random, it is characterized by
a white noise spectrum, which re-
ally means that the power (or in this
case collisions) contain equal strength
within a fixed bandwidth about a cen-
tre frequency. In the white noise spec-
trum (shown right), there are random
peaks over all frequencies without
clear correlation.
The second force is the viscous
friction between the particles and
the solvent. In the case of smoke,
as the smoke particles diffuse in the
air, the higher the viscosity of air
the slower the smoke particles dif-
fuse. The effect is one of damping
the motion, trying to slow down the
particles to rest. An experiment set
up by Thomas Franosch, at the In-
stitute for Theoretical Physics at the
University of Erlangen-Nuremberg
in Germany, and his colleagues
shows that it is possible to measure
the self-interaction of the particles
— how they can interact to change
their own motion.
The team trapped a colloid in liquid
suspension held in a laser trap to ob-
serve the effect of Brownian motion.
The sphere of solution was of the or-
der of nanometres in size and when
held by the laser, can be modelled
as a harmonic oscillator. It was pre-
viously considered that the viscous
force over-dampens the system and
the fluctuating motions are uncorre-
lated and constant at small frequen-
cies. However, when you bring in
the idea of self-interaction, the fluc-
tuations should change and correlate
with time.
In order to make the principle of
self-interaction apparent, Franosch
and his colleagues tune the harmonic
oscillator to its relaxation time. In a
colloid, the immersed particles will
eventually settle and the time it takes
to reach this equilibrium position is
the relaxation time. As a laser was
used to hold the trap, by varying the
power of the laser, they could alter
the stiffness of the trap and effective-
ly ‘tune’ the relaxation time.
Additionally, using the particle’s
diameter and fluid’s viscosity as pa-
rameters, the diffusion time (the time
to diffuse over the diameter) could
be tuned also. Franosch and his col-
leagues found that the optimum re-
sults were obtained from a melamine
resin colloid, 3 micrometres in diam-
eter, when immersed in acetone.
The result was a correlation be-
tween the fluctuations due to self-
interaction and times. It soon be-
came apparent of a hydrodynamic
‘resonance’ occurring close to the
relaxation frequency. The power
spectral density increased and the
‘white’ noise became ‘coloured’ as
the peaks were not constant for all
frequencies.
The ramifications of this are re-
markable; this is the first time exper-
imental evidence has been found to
support the theory of self-interaction
on these scales.
It has become clear that particles in
solutions are able to affect the result
by their presence and hydrodynamic
resonance can occur, changing the
power spectrum.
One possible move for the future is
to create more sensitive equipment,
able to work at the micro- and nano-
metre levels, to measure the shapes,
surfaces and distribution of small par-
ticles, right down to biological cells.
Pavitar Devgon
In 2008, astronomers obtained the
first direct visual evidence for a
‘multiple exoplanetary system’ — a
system of planets orbiting one central
star that isn’t our sun — using near-
infrared ground-based images taken
with the W.M. Keck Observatory and
the Gemini North telescope. A fourth
planet orbiting the same star was re-
vealed in 2010.
Extrasolar planets, or exoplanets,
can be difficult for astronomers to
detect, partly because they are often
so overwhelmed by the brightness
of the star they orbit. The 2008 dis-
covery of three exoplanets orbiting
a young star, HR8799 was made by
Christian Marois of the National Re-
search Council in Canada. However,
it wasn’t until a year later, when Da-
vid Lafreniere of the University of
Montreal reanalysed data originally
recorded back in 1998 by Hubble’s
‘Near Infrared Camera and Multi-Ob-
ject Spectrometer’ (NICMOS), that
the actual position of one of these ex-
oplanets was identified. Where previ-
ously the central star had outshone
the planets surrounding it, Lafreniere
used a library of images of reference
stars to accurately strip away some of
this obscuring glow, confirming the
existence of the outermost one.
Now, Remi Soummer of the Space
Telescope Science Institute in Balti-
more has taken this method one step
further. By reanalysing the same
Hubble data as Lafreniere with even
more sophisticated software, and us-
ing over 460 images of reference
stars taken from NICMOS’s exten-
sive decade-spanning library, Soum-
mer’s team have completely removed
the diffraction spikes from the im-
age (an issue common for telescope-
based image systems), boosted the
contrast, and dramatically reduced
the surrounding starlight, thus draw-
ing the positions of the three previ-
ously elusive exoplanets out from the
haze.
In Marois’ ground-based data,
meanwhile, the fourth orbiting exo-
planet has been detected, which, at
2.4 billion kilometres away from the
central star, is too close for NICMOS
to directly observe — it lies on the
very border of NICMOS’s ‘corona-
graphic spot’, a disc that aims to ob-
scure most of the light from the cen-
tral star to aid in observations of its
surroundings.
The combination of recent ground-
based observations, such as those of
Marois, and the much older Hubble
data from NICMOS, has proved ex-
tremely helpful to astronomers, as
the passage of time across the images
means that the shape of the planets’
orbits can be tracked. This in turn can
provide other valuable information
that is usually impossible to deduce
from single images alone, such as the
planets’ masses, eccentricities, and
how they interact with each other.
The three outer exoplanets have ap-
proximate orbit periods of between
100 and 400 years, so observation
over much longer timescales is need-
ed to map and fully comprehend their
movements. However, a decade-
sized ‘head start’ is still a great gift
Arianna Sorba
The white noise spectrum, random peaks over all frequencies without clear correlation... trippy, yo
Decade old Hubble data reveals planets
to astronomers studying this system,
especially as regards the innermost
planet, where a substantial amount of
motion can already be detected. ‘It’s
10 years of science for free,’ says
Soummer.
The success of this new analysis,
which is to be published in the As-
trophysical Journal, has prompted
Soummer’s latest plan to reanalyse
images of approximately 400 other
stars from the old NICMOS archive.
From this his team will compile a
list of ‘planetary candidates’, which
in turn will be verified by ground-
based telescope observations, much
the same as how has occurred with
the planets orbitting HR8799. Thus
the re-examination of archive data
could produce a wealth of new dis-
coveries of these elusive exoplanets.
“Evidence has been
found to support the
theory of self interac-
tion on these scales”

