TECHNOLOGY
FELIX
12
Tips and hacks
Technology Editors: Feroz Salam
Chris Bowers
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 14 october 2011
Facebook chat for the soul
Facebook’s entrenched as the most effective time
sink in university life, but if you’re bored and looking
for something slightly more worthy to spend your
time on, give CompassionPit a shot. If you have ever
spent any time on Chatroulette, you might be famil-
iar with the format - you’re paired with a stranger to
talk to. The twist lies in how CompassionPit pairs
you with a partner, however. On loading the website
you get to choose whether you want to be a ‘venter’
or a ‘listener’. If you have something on your mind
- pick ‘venter’ and you’ll be paired with a ‘listener’
who will listen, give you advice or simply distract
you from your troubles. Pick ‘listener’ and the roles
reverse. It’s an excellent way to get something off
your mind to a complete stranger, or pass an oth-
erwise idle hour or two. As with anything on the in-
ternet however, there’s an occasional troll, so make
sure you’re not easily offended.
Fed up of watching keyboard cat? You’re in luck - You-
tube this week announced that they have rolled out
their film rental service to the UK. It’s an interesting
choice, with LoveFilm so established over here, but
the newcomer is off to a good start with almost iden-
tical pricing. You’ll pay between £2.49 and £3.49 to
rent a film, with an obvious correlation between price
and how long it’s been out for. With that, you get 30
days in which to watch your movie. But once you’ve
started watching it, you only have 48 hours to fin-
ish. Currently about 1000 titles are available to rent,
but - being Google - you can be sure that number
will grow. With many of those movies you also get
extras such as interviews and documentaies. You
also get access to your loaned film from pretty much
anywhere, as it will be available on any computer you
log on to YouTube with. The service will additionally
be working with many Android devices, giving the op-
tion of entertainment on the move.
Rent films from YouTube
I
have to admit that when I first picked
up Livescribe’s Echo Smartpen I was
more than a little skeptical, for good
reason. I’ve seen electronic note-taking
aids from my first year at Imperial, and
there’s good reason why the Union Shop does
such good business at the start of term: it will
take a lot to beat the simplicity of pen and pa-
per.
The Smartpen doesn’t try to replace the phys-
ical writing process, but instead captures an im-
age of the page as you write on it, which you
can then transfer to your desktop. Despite find-
ing it a bit gimmicky at first, using the device
did a lot to convince me that there is a niche
for this sort of product; whether the average
student fits this niche is another matter entirely.
Once I had written a few pages, I decided to
take a look at the notes on my laptop. This
proved to be a slightly more complicated
process than I would have liked. I first had to
download an installation bundle from the Li-
vescribe website (they don’t offer a disk), but
even after doing that I wasn’t able to synchro-
nise the files on my pen with the desktop - I
had to download a 200MB update for the pen
and then install it on the device before I could
view my writing. While only a one-time an-
noyance, I can’t see why Livescribe released
the device lacking its most basic functionality.
The pages, once loaded, are of surprisingly
high quality, capturing the curves of natural
writing with no pixelation or clarity loss what-
soever. Livescribe also claims that you can
search your handwritten notes through their
software, but I only managed to hit one word
in five tries on some fairly neat handwriting,
so you’re not very much better off than with
a paper notebook. Despite this, the realistic
nature of the notes means they might be very
useful for those courses that need a fair few dia-
grams, such as chemistry or physics. You can
read them on Livescribe’s own software, ex-
port them to PDF, or share them on a variety of
sites from Facebook to Google Docs. The best
part about all of this is that it really does ‘just
work’. There is no fiddling around with settings
before you get started, and barring the minor
annoyance of the desktop software installation,
you’re ready to go the minute you open the box.
notebooks setting you back another 20 pounds,
you’re looking at organising your notes at the
cost of a new touchscreen Kindle. Livescribe
are the only people who make the required
notebooks for their pens, which means that if
you want your pen to be anything more than a
pricey ballpoint, you’re locked into their ‘eco-
system’.
A smart choice for lectures
Console yourself about your lack of human interaction with a shiny new pen. Who needs friends when you have a pen that talks?
Feroz Salam reviews Livescribe’s new infrared superpen
Getting Started
The Smartpen is a sleek but supersized ver-
sion of your standard biro, looking something
like a space-age marker. It’s ready to use as
soon as you pull it out of the box. Getting
started really is as simple as opening the sam-
ple notebook provided in the box and starting
to write. With a standard ballpoint tip, it’s a
feeling most of us are used to, and apart from
the weight of all the electronics, it’s no differ-
ent to using any other pen, if you can get used
to the extra heft of the electronics inside.
At the bottom of every page there’s a ‘re-
cord’ button. Pressing it will use the pen’s
inbuilt microphone to record sound while
you write, a sort of stream-of-consciousness
dictaphone that might be very useful in lec-
tures. The microphone is surprisingly clear
and doesn’t suffer from the cheap tinniness
that is all too common on this type of device.
Recordings, like the images of pages, can be
uploaded to your computer, but you can also
tap on the start of a piece of text to listen to
what you were recording while you wrote it
- a brilliant feature that worked suprisingly
well.
On your desktop
Lifetime Lock-in
Niggles aside, the Smartpen would be a truly
outstanding product if it wasn’t for the sheer
cost of using it on a regular basis. Amazon is
offering the cheapest version of the pen for
100 pounds a pop, and you’ll be needing regu-
lar purchases of their dot-paper notebooks to
make it worth your while. With four 100-page
Livescribe’s digital pen mostly deliv-
ers what it promises - neat images of your
notes with little hassle. The microphone is a
strong addition as well and gives the feeling
of being a well planned feature rather than a
hasty afterthought. In terms of digital note
taking solutions, this is one of the nicer ones
I have seen, combining the familiar feeling
of writing on paper with an electronic inter-
face that’s a lot more than flashy lights and
noises.
Yet I have mixed feelings about how rel-
evant such a device would be to students.
Most people I know make do with a refill
pad and a cheap pen for everyday note tak-
ing, and I doubt my spending on stationery
has hit more than 100 pounds over my four
years at Imperial.
Despite this, whether you find the Smart-
pen worth your money will depend on the
type of student you are. If you’ve ever found
yourself arguing that ‘I know where every-
thing is, it’s my mess!’, you probably won’t
want the Smartpen.
Those who like their notes meticulous and
tidy, however, might find value in a device
that can pull together an entire lecture, from
the lecturer’s voice to diagrams on paper,
into one easily browsable interface. With
solid build quality and an easy interface, I
can see this device lasting a long time with-
out needing repairs. The Smartpen is well
worth the purchase if you can justify the
price.
In Review

