POLITICS
FELIX
14 FRIDAY 14 october 2011
I
have a confession to make. Over
the last year or so, I’ve been re-
ally quite evil. I really never
meant to be, but there it is. Evil
as a doorknob. Like many of my
ilk, I can pin point the exact day the evil
started, it was in November 2009 and I
was in the Felix office, chatting to the
Business Editor. The chat went some-
thing like this:
Moi: The government should really
pay for education/ health/ hash brown-
ies for the poor.
Satan: Well, if it’s such a good thing,
why don’t richer people just pay for it
for them anyway? Can’t people just be
charitable, or are you saying the gov-
ernment is more moral than everyone
else?
And there the bastard had me.
Wouldn’t it be a whole lot better if
people just came together themselves
and sorted out each other’s difficulties?
What was it that made government in-
tervention so much better than private
action? This got around a WHOLE load
of issues too. Want your child to learn
evolution? Set up a school that does it.
Want poor kids to learn about evolution?
Set up a school for them too. Is it really
that different from the government do-
ing it? In fact, it should be better - be-
ing controlled from near, not Whitehall,
means better efficiency and accountabil-
ity. On top of that, surely the freedom to
teach as you wish has a moral value to
it? It’s not like current state schools are
anything to write home about. Assum-
ing you can write, that is.
I started to see the benefits of privati-
sation everywhere. I didn’t believe that
cuddly services such as health and edu-
cation should be run purely in pursuit
of profit, rather that the freedom should
be given to professionals, patients and
parents to make their own decisions
about services and this freedom comes
from privatisation. Every time someone
complained that the government should
do more for such and such I’d think,
“Why don’t you just go ahead and do
it, or convince professionals to?” At
every stage this was my outlook. How
on earth could the government do some-
thing better than its citizens, I thought.
Yes, most of us don’t have the expertise
to set up a school, but neither do most
politicians. They hire professionals with
our money, why not cut out the middle-
man and hire them ourselves?
But I wasn’t an evil voice in the wil-
derness, I had my Gospel and I read it
religiously; The Economist magazine.
You really have to read the thing to un-
derstand its allure, but basically it kept
me in market- loving, unions-hating
rapture for hours on end every week.
And when my sister got me a Kindle
subscription for Christmas? In the Holy
Name of Friedman, I just didn’t stand
a chance.
It all reached its zenith when, one
fateful May morning, I put an x beside
the name of Sir Malcolm Rifkind, Con-
servative MP for Kensington. Yes, that’s
right. I’m Rory the Tory. Rory the Milk
Snatcher. The Sheriff of Ror-ingham.
But things have since changed. Let
me be clear, I really didn’t mean to be
evil. I honestly believed in the freedom,
efficiency and accountability that let-
ting the market into public goods would
bring. I now realise I was mistaken. The
purpose of this article is to explain just
why I was mistaken: why markets really
aren’t as wonderful as free marketers
such as my younger self might hope.
Perhaps in the process some other poor
devils might realise the errors of their
market-orientated ways, too.
Firstly, I have no problem with fruit and
neither do markets. We’re talking about
Lemons with a capital ‘L’; crap cars. It’s
a well known fact that the very second
you drive a new car out of the car shop,
it drops fabulously in price in a way that
doesn’t make perfect sense. It’s true that
everyone likes the idea of being the first
owner of a car, but not so much that they
would insist on paying many thousands
of pounds less just because someone had
‘her’for a week. Instead, there’s a classic
market failure operating.
Imagine you see an ad for a car. It’s al-
most new and so going for a price not too
far off what it would have been hot off
the shelves (that’s how a car shop works,
right? Shelves and massive industrial
trolleys?). It seems like a good deal, but
something’s bugging you. If the car’s re-
ally so good, why is the guy trying to sell
it? Sure you can give it a test drive and
check out the MOT, but all that already
takes up time and time is money, already
making the car more expensive. And
even if the MOT etc. checks out you’ll
still be left wondering why this car’s on
sale - unless it’s faulty? Because you
don’t know everything there is to know
about the car, there’ll always be that
doubt. Coupled with the extra money
and time it takes to check the car out, this
means that inevitably you’re going to of-
fer a lower price than the seller should
really get for the car, to compensate for
the uncertainty.
But now look at it from the car owner’s
perspective; he realises that if he tries to
sell the car, the above reasons will mean
he gets a poor price. Which means that
unless there is an emergency (a new
baby, unemployment) he has little incen-
tive to sell a perfectly good car. Unless,
of course, it’s faulty. Then he still has ev-
ery incentive to get rid of the thing.
And now we can see that both buyer
and seller will create a spiral; the buyer
is scared of Lemons so he offers a low
price, the seller doesn’t like the low price
so he only sells if he has a Lemon which
means even more used cars are Lemons
which means the buyer will offer even
less to compensate for the risk and so on.
This isn’t so bad if it only affects cars and
manufactures now offer guarantees on
used cars to alleviate this, though it’s still
an issue. The big problem is the exact
same market failure exists in healthcare
- just as Lemons are more likely to be put
up for sale, sick people are more likely
to take out health insurance; pushing up
its price and driving healthy people out,
further pushing up the price. People get-
ting lower prices than they would like for
their cars is OK, but sick people finding
themselves priced out of insurance really
isn’t. There is a clear case for govern-
ment intervention here. This leads us to
the next market failure:
One little piggy went to market
Rory Fenton talks about his struggles with free market and government interaction
but if the other guy ‘fesses up things are
reversed, he gets 2 years you get ten. If
you both confess, you get 5 years each.
A confusing state of affairs, but it’s clear
that the best result for both is to keep qui-
et. The problem is, since neither of them
can be sure the other won’t say anything,
the most rational move for each is to con-
fess, rather than run the risk of being the
only silent one. All things being equal,
keeping quiet gets you an average of 5
years locked, speaking out gets you just
3.5. Two rational prisoners will always
tell on each other, leaving both unneces-
sarily in prison.
There are many real world examples
of this, an obvious one being hygiene.
Sandwich shops, for example, would
have no incentive to spend a small sum
on making clean sandwiches if it means
making them slightly less competitive
than rivals, despite the fact that sandwich
shops making people ill is bad for the
industry as a whole. Clearly businesses
need educated workers and yet it makes
no sense for any individual business to
invest in schools if those guys are just
going to work for someone else. Again,
there’s a clear case for government inter-
vention here.
“Can’t people
just be charitable,
or are you saying
the government is
more moral than
everyone else?
”
Politics Editors: Rajat Jain
Joseph Letts
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Market Failure
The Prisoners’ Dilemma
Halfway to Damascus
Even in theory, markets can’t always work
properly. A year ago, I’d have said that if
there were a more efficient way of doing
something, the market would always find
it and adopt it, because otherwise busi-
nesses wouldn’t survive. Unfortunately,
this isn’t the case and market failures can
appear in two fundamental ways:
The Problem of Lemons
This one’s a nice economics parable.
There are two recently arrested prisoners
being interrogated separately by police.
Whatever evidence the police have, it’s
not enough for a conviction. The prison-
ers are each given a choice; either own
up to what you and your friend did, in
which case you get 2 years in prison and
the other guy 10, or you can keep quiet
I was gradually convinced that markets,
however rational, could never fully create
the optimal outcome for everyone and,
sadly, it’s the poorest who would lose out
the most. I’m no commie, mind, but these
are sensible reasons for a well regulated
market system with social welfare and
public goods. I haven’t changed alto-
gether. In an election tomorrow, I would
still vote Tory (they’re hardly full on free
marketers these days) and I don’t neces-
sarily support every last penny spent in
the name of welfare. So I’m a long way
from skipping down a small country lane
with pretty petals in my hair nursing an
injured baby rabbit, but the evil has re-
scinded, somewhat. Unlike, alas, that tat-
too of Thatcher on my shoulder…

