POLITICS
FELIX 15
FRIDAY 14 October 2011
Poles at the Polls
A radical libertarian party could hold
the key to power in Poland after Sun-
day, when the EU’s sixth largest econ-
omy and only country not to contract
in 2009 held parliamentary elections.
Unsurprisingly, the incumbent centrist
PM came out on top; Donald Tusk’s
Civic Platform won 39.2% – a slight
decline from the 41.5% gained in 2007.
The main opposition, the right wing
Law and Justice, gained 29.9% – also
a small reduction from 32.1% in 2007.
However, the newly formed breakaway
from Tusk’s party, Palikot’s Movement,
gained support from 10.2% of Poland
(including myself), making it the third
most popular party.
The party is now one of the most
Radical Liberals look set to be incumbent’s kingmaker
Piotr Faba radical liberal parliamentary parties in
the EU – supporting full separation of
church and state, legalisation of abor-
tion and marijuana, and removal of the
Senate (upper house). The result is a
surprise; particularly in strongly Catho-
lic Poland. And with no majority party,
Janusz Palikot may now have the influ-
ence of a kingmaker.
With the economy doing well com-
pared with other EU countries and a
sense of progress in Poland, voters did
not make this decision as an act of re-
bellion against an unpopular adminis-
tration. I was also surprised to find their
main voter base was not just students.
Exit polls showed 18.6 % were students,
while 37.5% were over 40. The bias to-
wards the young, urban and educated is
not as great as one might imagine.
This reflects a changing attitude
throughout Polish society. The Roman
Catholic Church, until very recently,
had a great deal of influence in the new-
ly democratic Poland; they are credited,
under Polish Pope John Paul II, with
helping bring about the fall of commu-
nism. However, in recent years there has
been a sense that this is no longer appro-
priate. The importance of the church has
made it rather taboo to openly support
anti-clerical policies. However, with a
closed box election and a radical party
on the vote slip, many Poles showed
their true beliefs.
It should not necessarily be assumed
that this is a growing atheist movement.
For instance, I still attend Church be-
cause the spiritual experience is still
important to me in my everyday life.
However, I do not feel that the church
as an institution should be interfering
with any aspect of how the country is
run.
Recently, many Poles had been look-
ing at models followed by other Catho-
lic, but more liberal, European coun-
tries, such as France, Italy and Spain.
Now, with Palikot’s increasing popular-
ity, Poland could soon be the leader for
other European liberals to follow.
If you’re looking at this page and
thinking that writing about the latest
political developments from across
the globe is right up your street, then
you might just want to be a Politics
Reporter. If you’re interested, get
in touch with the Politics Editors at
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk.
The media’s inevitable right wing slant
Jakov Marelic provides his view on media politics in the modern world
W
e live in democracies
where we hold those
in power to account
using elections. To
help us make in-
formed choices about our society there
are many kinds of media on the market
whose job it is to tell us all the bad stuff
and to suggest solutions to them. The
idea is that this will build a public sup-
port base, which will propel a good rep-
resentative to electoral victory and kick
out bad representatives.
Now then, media channels (newspa-
pers, magazines, radio, television, jour-
nals, etc.) compete with each other for
customers; media that does well (at keep-
ing us informed) will be rewarded with
money and can expand. Media providers
who do badly will decline in favour and
be punished by bankruptcy. This compe-
tition keeps quality high, costs low and
incompetent providers out of the system.
This is how it works, right? Wrong.
What I’ve just described is the free
market of media companies and a good
rule of thumb for free markets is that
people are not equal but those with the
most money have the most power. Be-
cause of this, media operating in a free
market will always bias against the in-
terests of the political left and the lower
classes. Let me explain why.
The argument commonly goes, “If
people didn’t like this or that media
they would stop buying it”. Apart from
the fact that this could be used to justify
the USSR totalitarian-controlled media
(since back then Russians also bought
and consumed it) it actually turns out
the public have very little say in what
the press offers to them because news-
papers do not get most of their income
from sales.
You may notice that the price you pay
for each newspaper is minuscule. The
cost of The Sun newspaper is 20 pence.
This doesn’t even cover the ink! Same
holds for television and radio where
there is zero income from the consumer.
Newspapers and other media actually get
their money from corporate advertisers.
The media generally cannot run stories
that offend corporations because spon-
sors will threaten to pull their advertis-
ing money. In 1980, the liberal staff at
the Mother Jones magazine debated over
whether or not to publish a series of ar-
ticles linking cigarettes to cancer. The
editors knew that the tobacco industry
would punish them by canceling their lu-
crative advertising contracts, which the
young, struggling magazine desperately
needed. Mother Jones stuck to its princi-
ples and printed the articles anyway; and,
just as expected, the tobacco companies
angrily pulled their ads.
A few months ago we saw anti-tax
evading protests in Britain and America.
The US Uncut group, for example, pro-
tested against the American company
General Electric which hasn’t paid a sin-
gle cent in taxes to the US government
since 2006, despite making over $26 bil-
lion in profits. The same General Electric
also owns MSNBC, usually a centre-left
channel that would oppose corporate
welfare, yet on this instance they were
critical of US Uncut.
Advertisers also want their adverts to
be viewed by people who have money to
spend buying their products. This auto-
matically discriminates against any me-
dia with a predominantly working class
readership.
Between 1912 and 1964 there existed a
British newspaper called the Daily Her-
ald. At one point its politics were broadly
syndicalist: it gave unconditional sup-
port to strikers and argued for a social-
ist revolution based on worker’s self-
organisation in trade unions. It also gave
strong support to suffragettes and to anti-
colonial struggles, especially in Ireland.
Early issues dealt with the loss of the
RMS Titanic, emphasizing the dispro-
portionate loss of life among crew mem-
bers and poor third-class passengers.
In 1933 the Herald became the world’s
best-selling daily newspaper, with cer-
tified net sales of 2 million. Even when
it closed down in 1964 it was probably
among the 20 largest circulation dailies
in the world, this meant it was selling
far more than The Times, the Guardian
and the Financial Times put together. It
didn’t die because there wasn’t enough
demand for it, it died because the paper’s
predominantly poor readership was not a
worthwhile target for advertisers.
This system explains why in our time,
the centre-left Guardian and Independent
are struggling financially and the centre-
right Daily Telegraph, Daily Mail, and
The Times are in rude health.
It should not be surprising that these
advertising and media companies, like
most big businesses, are extremely con-
servative. They have certain agendas:
they desire lower taxes, fewer lawsuits
from the public, fewer environmental re-
straints, better public relations (a euphe-
mism for less public exposure to scan-
dals), higher profits and more effective
lobbying power in government. Control-
ling public opinion would give them all
these things.
10.2%! It bring’s a tear to my eye. Where’s my hanky?
Rajat Jain
“The Catholic Church,
until very recently,
had a great deal of
influence in Poland”
“The public has very
little say in what the
press offers them”

