COMMENT
A
guy got on the tube and
sat down next to me last
week, which is a momen-
tous enough event for me
to open the column with
because being that close to another
human is a sure-fire way to ruin my
week in spectacular style. Fortunately
for me, the chap in question pulled out
an iPhone and opened the notes app,
where he began adding to a list – a list
which would turn out to be the high-
light of the day.
The list was topped with the words
“BE DO HAVE”, like the half-finished
lyrics to a jazz freestyle session, and
underneath was all manner of seem-
ingly disconnected phrases. “Live In
France”. “Sing At A Club”. “Learn
To Tango”. At first I assumed he was
making a list of things that he couldn’t
possibly do when dressed like he was.
However as my eyes progressed down
the list the items started growing con-
siderably stranger and shed more and
more light on what the list’s real pur-
pose was, until I had to stifle a chuckle
as I came across the entry “Travel to a
pacific island and take those strong hal-
lucinogenic drugs they have”.
Google later confirmed that “Be,
Do, Have” was some self-motivational
system for something called - among
other things - The Law Of Attraction.
The idea being that by writing down the
person you want to be, and the things
that person would do or have, you men-
tally bring yourself closer to being that
way. Or, as I like to think of it, by writ-
ing down the person you want to be,
and the things that person would do or
have, you allow yourself to avoid actu-
ally doing any of those things and just
think about them instead. Hooray for
self-help.
There are good intentions behind
some of this stuff, if you look for it hard
enough. It suggests that by adopting the
mentality of a person who is fit and
healthy, for instance, that you’ll avoid
eating things that are bad for you be-
cause a fit and healthy person wouldn’t
do that. Right? That’s fine. That’s a log-
ical thing to do. At some point the logic
breaks down though, usually around the
time that they start talking about mil-
lionaires.
“You must BE the millionaire first,
long before you actually have the mon-
ey in your bank account!” the website
proclaims unhelpfully. “How would
a millionaire think? How would they
make decisions?” to which the logical
response seems to be, “They would
throw money at the decision, because
they are a millionaire.” And if it’s not
that response, then I don’t know what
they’re getting at. Most millionaires
I know of have pretty poor decision-
making skills.
The guy’s list went on: “Live in si-
lence for a week”. “Spend a night
sleeping alone on a deserted island”. I
don’t know what kind of person he was
trying to visualise but it seemed to be
the lead character in a Danny Boyle
movie. There was nothing on the list
about eating your own weight in ice
cream, or painting a gigantic wang on
the side of an Olympic billboard. What
kind of aspirations were these anyway?
This is why I stray away from making
long-term dreams too specific. Once
you start to write them down and focus
“positive energies” on them, or what-
ever schlock you’ve been told to do,
you start setting yourself timers. Little,
insignificant reminders like the ones on
your phone that don’t work very well
and just irritate you with their whin-
ing. Every day that goes by with you
“visualising” these dreams rather than
actually achieving them will be another
contribution to your inevitable, crip-
pling sense of worthlessness. Which
will probably lead you to making more
lists, and feeling more useless when
they don’t get you anywhere.
It’s far easier to just stick to doing
what you enjoy, right now, and leave the
worrying about where it leads for later,
particularly if you’re young enough to
be at Imperial. Learning to tango while
your head’s being rammed with pe-
yote isn’t going to make you any more
whole as a person than buying the new
Elder Scrolls game and going to a half-
decent fireworks display.
So there. Watch out this week for my
£15 pamphlet series: “Giving A Fuck
And You: Self-Empowerment Through
Not Caring”.
The unhelpfulness
of self-help
Angry Geek
The box was opened. It turned out Schrödinger’s
cat was alive and a fuck of a lot more hostile than
before
“
g
e
s
-
,
,
,
n
”
... insignificant reminders like
the ones on your phone that
don’t work very well and just
irritate you with their whining
University College London (UCL) this week an-
nounced their planned adoption of the Ameri-
can-style grade point average system in lieu of
traditional degree classifications. Naturally, this
raises the question as to whether UCL are lead-
ing the charge against a “crude and undistin-
guished” system in an attempt to improve the
value of a degree, or whether they are simply
hoping to ensure easier comparison with Ameri-
can institutions.
A prime issue with the new system that should
be considered is the effect that it could poten-
tially have on students themselves. The grade
point average system, existing as an average
of the numerical grades received across all ex-
ams, allows for an even greater comparison and
ranking between students.
While there is truth in the sentiment that com-
petition encourages subsequent determination,
such competition may also generate additional
pressure on students already striving to be the
best in one of the most academically tough and
rigorous institutions that the country has to of-
fer.
The current system of degree classifications
allows some room for manoeuvre in terms of
students who may inadvertently perform less
well than expected during an exam. Indeed, all
it takes in some cases is one ‘bad exam’ for an
overall average to significantly drop. Cases like
this are not rare, and an encouragement of a
more detailed ranking of students may height-
en the tensions that the end of year inevitably
brings with it.
In many cases the current classifications al-
low employers to see where a student roughly
stands academically, without becoming entan-
gled in comparing individual marks. A move to
the new system could easily remove the mean-
ing of interviews – to demonstrate capabilities
besides academic prowess.
Grade inflation must be tackled, of course.
Even so, it is not a problem wholly unique to
higher education. It is instead an issue that
affects all levels of education, including GCSE
and A-Level. With the International Baccalaure-
ate being adopted by an increasing selection
of UK institutions as a possible counter mea-
sure, those with the power to make changes to
degree systems may do well to follow such an
example.
Ultimately, any radical venture towards the
adoption of a new system must be carefully con-
sidered by academics and students alike – a nu-
merical mark can never be entirely demonstra-
tive of a student’s capabilities. It would not be
a surprise should the scheme be implemented
for dissatisfaction to be voiced, not only among
employers who must adapt to the change in or-
der to accommodate UCLs plan, but also among
students who primarily come here to best them-
selves, and not prove their own ability over oth-
ers.
FELIX
We must continue to
honour the past
Read online at felixonline.co.uk
So, all I need to do is write
something and send it in and I
get a picture of myself splashed
around in Felix?
Yes, but saying splashed around
makes it sound dodgy.
Hmmm, yeah, it does a bit. Where
do I send it?
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FELIX
18
Comment Editors: Sam Horti
Tim Arbabzadah
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 14 october 2011

