I
t’s my 6th year here and my
brain has been permanently dis-
figured, forever transformed by
all that Science. It’s my 6th year
of student discounts. My 6th year
of Tuna-pasta dinners. My 6th year of
pretending that I know stuff, and my
6th year of exam-period all-nighters be-
cause I don’t.
It’ll also be my last year in post-kid-
pre-man limbo, before I can finally
show the world just how much I’ve
learnt. LOADS, obviously – emotional
growth and all that. My emotions are so
big now. Along the way I’ve even learnt
some medicine and, in a year, will be a
doctor. But I’ve been wondering, what
if I just ditched this science lark and did
something else? Like banking, as seems
to be the craze.
After just a few years of being a wolf
in a sheepish-scientist’s clothing, should
I cash in my degree for a fabled Gradu-
ate Career? Would all that science-y
learning have been a waste? No chance
– not when it’s left such a mark. All that
thinking has been too tricky to leave my
mind unscarred. Like I said, my brain
has been permanently transformed
by all the concepts I’ve had to curl it
around.
Heck, even the everyday tools I’ve
learnt to use in medicine have blown
my mind. Like a Cannula; a needle
in a plastic tube, which you ease into
a patient’s vein before, listen to this,
you REMOVE THE NEEDLE AND
LEAVE JUST THE PLASTIC TUBE
INSIDE. Mind. Blown. I mean literally
blown by a BREEZE OF AWESOME.
And with ECGs, balloon catheters and
stethoscopes as my toys, it just keeps on
getting better.
I’ve felt spoilt. Spoilt to be using so
casually these tools, which are probably
thousands of years of human know-how
Omar Hafeez-Bore
NHS Reforms? What NHS Reforms?
What does it matter what I learnt here?
distilled into practical instruments. I’ve
often thought: “I couldn’t think this
stuff up if I tried!” I can’t actually try
now, though, because I already know.
But I’m pretty sure I couldn’t.
What I could do, however, is apply
these principles that I’ve learnt else-
where. When the plumber comes round I
could casually discuss the fluid dynam-
ics of the house piping system, using my
knowledge of cardiovascular physics.
Then, having proved myself the Alpha-
Male of Intellect, I’d also drop in details
of the fluid dynamics OF MY URINE,
which I spray round the house to mark
my territory because I’m so alpha-male
now! Raaaaaar! I put Extra ‘A’s in that
word, because I’m so full of alpha.
But the feeling doesn’t last long. Just
when I feel like a genius, on top of The
Learning, new lectures will add a new
consideration, requiring a new kink in
the ol’ cortex. Tougher still is the more
abstract stuff, the models and theories
that try to describe the unseen workings
of the body. Ones that try to reverse-en-
gineer the filigree clockwork of human
physiology, but are often left only able
to observe and describe what we’re un-
able to explain.
Like a real scientists, as a student I’ve
just been trying to fit all sorts of dis-
parate principles and observations into
a one-size-fits-all model that I can call
maybe-possibly true. Good enough to
work with for now. Sure, I’ve tried to
understand the incestuous web of in-
teractions of our chemical messengers,
or extrapolate chemical results to pre-
dict invisible mechanics. But mainly,
I’ve become familiar with the actual
concepts, besting them with study until
they can be used easily as tools of un-
derstanding. What was a barrage of non-
sense and unsatisfying mess in 1st year
is (sometimes) par-for-the-course by the
Y
ou’d think that when
Parliament was on the
verge of passing a bill
to effectively abol-
ish the NHS it would
be front page news, but apparently
not. By the time you’re reading this,
the House of Lords will have decided
whether or not to pass the 2011 Health
and Social Care Bill. For both your
sake and mine I hope they have not;
here’s why.
Firstly, the bill will eliminate the
duty of the Secretary of State to pro-
vide free and comprehensive health-
care for British residents. That is to
say, the Government could, whenever
it felt like it, stop giving money to the
NHS, and they could either sell it or
abolish it completely.
Secondly, the Government would
no longer be able to intervene if the
NHS were to provide poor healthcare
in a particular constituency. All this
responsibility would be shifted to an
unelected combination of GPs and pri-
vate companies. The NHS itself would
effectively become a private company
with arbitrary Government subsidies.
Thirdly, any behaviour in the NHS
that is deemed anti-competitive (that
is, unprofitable) must legally be
stopped. This is all the more heinous
since the NHS was never intended to
make a profit, and it certainly doesn’t
make a profit today. The entire NHS
could be abolished under this rule.
Fourthly, there would no longer be
a limit on the amount of profit a hos-
pital can make from providing private
healthcare alongside free healthcare.
That is, there would be nothing to stop
an NHS hospital charging money for
everything and anything.
Hopefully these four issues are self-
evidently problematic. Possibly more
problematic, however, has been the
public reaction to this bill. On Satur-
day and Sunday, I read from front to
back my Dad’s copies of The Times,
and not once were the impending NHS
5th year, sheathed and ready to use.
I may not be able to discuss it casu-
ally over a Tetley with the plumber, but
having once troublesomely navigated
down these twists of logic, I can now
zoom round them with ease, perhaps
driving a new idea through and seeing
how it comes out. It’s like the mental
version of muscle-memory. I could ap-
proach businesses with revolutionary
applications of the coagulation cascade
to their management hierarchy, or use
the practised clarity required in taking a
patient’s history to write Oscar-winning
dialogue. I could describe a friend’s
need for a new relationship as like a
cannula, a necessarily awkward time
of pain and discomfort that will later be
eased out leaving access once again to
his veins. As in his heart. As in romance
and all that.
Anyway, you get my point. The im-
print of my learning will not just be in
my recollection of specific details or
facts, but in an appreciation of the sub-
tleties of our reality, and the hard-earned
tools of thought, swords of the psyche
and… um, mallets of the mind that I’ve
crafted to understand them.
reforms mentioned. In fact, I only be-
came aware of the existence of this Bill
by trawling through the lesser-viewed
sections of The Guardian’s website.
Why this appalling piece of legisla-
tion hasn’t received more media at-
tention in the week building up to the
House of Lords debate is beyond me,
and all we can hope for is that they
stop the bill before it can become law.
If they don’t, then the only thing stand-
ing between us and a future of US-style
private healthcare is the Queen; and
since taxpayers already pay for her spa
treatments, I don’t think she’ll give the
bill so much as a second glance as she
descends into the bubbles.
Stephen Smith
Okay, one thing’s for sure, - that’s not what the brain looks like. Pfft, artists
I’d also drop in details
of the fluid dynamics
OF MY URINE
I’d also d
I’d also d
of the flu
of the flu
”
ynamics
ynamics
COMMENT
FELIX
20
Comment Editors: Sam Horti
Tim Arbabzadah
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 14 october 2011

