Yes – James Clough No – Ed Middleton
IC Debating Society asks ...
O
sama bin Laden was, for the past
decade, the human face the Western
World gave to al-Qaeda. He was the
living embodiment of Islamic Terror.
His ability to elude the most power-
ful militaries and intelligence agencies for years
gave him an untouchable aura. As such, removing
bin Laden from al-Qaeda’s chain of command and
destroying him as a figurehead was an important
act. It was a symbol of victory in the War on Terror.
But the secretive manner of his death means that
he, and al-Qaeda, retain their air of mystery. Bin
Laden is now a martyr for the cause. Imagine if
America had captured bin Laden. They could have
demonstrated their victory publicly, humiliating
him without having to kill him. They would still
have seen all the benefits of killing him: removing
his capacity to assist and direct al-Qaeda, emascu-
lating a former inspiration for prospective suicide
bombers, and proving that al-Qaeda could not out-
smart the West, but there would have been further
benefits to capturing bin Laden and giving him a
trial.
He could have been questioned, and there is a
possibility that he could have provided invaluable
information. Demonstrating the capability to cap-
ture such a prized target would have provided a
much greater deterrent to potential terrorists than
killing him; most of them are happy to be killed for
their cause, whereas decades in a foreign prison is a
much less appealing prospect. Imprisonment would
have provided a greater punishment for bin Laden
than death, and seeing him suffer this punishment
would have given families of his victims a greater
sense of closure.
We must also consider the justice of bin Laden’s
assassination. Though it is easy to say that he de-
served to be killed for the murders he committed,
by retaliating in kind America only reinforced the
narrative spread by militant Islamists: the West are
unjust oppressors. If America really believes it is
fighting the good fight, it cannot act in the same
way as its enemy. It must openly and publicly be-
have in a more just, legal and measured way than
the people it is trying to tell us are the bad guys. In
a war of ideas, it cannot afford to compromise on
the liberal Western values it claims to fight for, else
it will lose legitimacy at home and abroad. Even if
we believe that America was morally justified in
its killing of bin Laden, we must admit that if this
conflict is to end it will not be because we kill every
single terrorist; it will be because they won’t have a
reason to be terrorists any more.
Perhaps it would have been more difficult to cap-
ture bin Laden than to kill him, but it is reasonable
to believe that it would have been possible to arrest
him and bring him to trial; and in any case, given
that bin Laden was unarmed when he was shot, it
seems that capturing bin Laden was never an op-
tion America were willing to consider.
Bringing bin Laden to trial would have been
more just, legal and impressive. It would have hu-
miliated al-Qaeda with a public defeat. It would’ve
shown the whole world the difference between the
West and al-Qaeda, it would’ve been a more ef-
fective way to help win the War on Terror, and it
would’ve sent the strongest possible message that
the West are the good guys. If America had cap-
tured bin Laden, they could have given him the
death sentence, giving us the same end result. But
because they killed him there and then, the oppor-
tunity to do the right thing has been lost. Bin Laden
would surely have preferred death to capture. This,
as much as anything, tells us thatAmerica made the
wrong choice, and that bin Laden was able to have
the last laugh after all.
W
e have the wolf by the ears;
and we can neither hold
him, nor safely let him go.
Justice is in one scale, and
self-preservation in the oth-
er.” These words spoken by Thomas Jefferson fit-
tingly describe the quandary faced by the Western
world when fighting the War on Terror; and let us
be clear about this, we are indeed fighting a war.
The nature of warfare has changed since the days
of soldiers standing in an open field wearing their
nation’s banner. In the age of globalisation, war is
fought over great distances by splinter cells com-
prised of anonymous soldiers. In 1998, Osama bin
Laden declared war on the Western world and in
2001 George Bush reciprocated. Osama bin Laden
was a soldier in that war and his death was one of
the many casualties. Here I will show you why the
death of Osama bin Laden was justified as an act
of war, and why the alternatives made this the only
viable option.
When fighting against an opposition comprised
of splinter groups and isolated cells, the chain of
command that links and organises these cells be-
comes a very significant strategic target. Osama
bin Laden was also pivotal in uniting al-Qaeda,
recruiting new soldiers and funding a number of
their operations. It was for these reasons that he
was killed. The United States discovered the loca-
tion of a high-value target (HVT), crucial in the
running of al-Qaeda and had it removed, as you
would any other military target. There have been
no calls to bring the countless al-Qaeda soldiers
fighting in Afghanistan to trial, so why should
Osama bin Laden be different? People often cite
examples such as Adolf Eichmann and Charles
Taylor, where those implicated in war crimes were
tried in an international court. However, in both
these instances the conflict had ended and the indi-
viduals provided no strategic advantage in an on-
going war. As such, they were not counted as valid
military targets.
Now we will look at the alternative to killing
Osama bin Laden: trial. This already assumes that
an alternative was possible – that he could and
would allow himself to be taken alive. Resistance
was encountered by the US SEALS who sought
to capture or kill Osama bin Laden and it may not
have been possible to capture him without giving
him ample opportunity to escape or take his own
life.
Many people claim a trial would have been a far
better outcome than killing him. The purpose of
a trial is to identify the level of involvement and
guilt of a party in a crime and provide an opportu-
nity for the event to be analysed and investigated
publicly. A trial of Osama bin Laden would be re-
dundant on both these counts. Firstly, not only is
there irrefutable evidence condemning Osama bin
Laden, but he has also confessed to the atrocities
listed against him. Secondly, the chain of events
surrounding Osama bin Laden’s crimes is already
well documented. If this has not been done to a
satisfactory level then there is still an opportunity
to lead a public investigation or put him to trial
‘post-mortem’.
Any case that opposes the killing of Osama bin
Laden on the grounds that he should have been
put to trial does not appreciate the fact that the
War on Terror IS a war and one that is on-going.
Osama bin Laden was killed as a soldier in that
war. Bringing the War on Terror to a conclusion
as swiftly and bloodlessly as possible is a greater
priority than acting out a trial for mere show pur-
poses, while endangering the lives of more inno-
cent civilians the world over.
Should Osama bin
Laden have been
brought to trial?
“ ”
If America really believes
it is fighting the good
fight, it cannot act in the
same way as its enemy
“ ”
... the War on Terror IS
a war and one that is
on-going. Osama bin
Laden was killed as a
soldier in that war
Whenever I’m down, I think about the
72 virgins awaiting ... I’m studying
computer science next year Who said terrorists couldn’t blue steel?
“
FELIX Friday 14 october 2011 21
COMMENT

