FELIX
24
Poem for the Week
ARTS
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 14 October 2011
Us
by Kadhim Shubber
We’re the ones who were left.
Stunned, confused as hard rays
Of lamplight rebound off textbooks,
Through windows bound for the dark
Abyss. Unsure. Dazed.
We’re the ones arms stretched,
Fingers touching, warmth, meaning.
Surrounded by giggles, laughs.
The hope of fresher minds.
Patience tested. Yearning. Feeling.
We’re the ones left barren, hopeless.
Small smiles, bursts of happiness.
Tender hearts, senses. The song
In the pub, where am I, where are they?
Fences invisible but real, divisive.
We’re the ones lonely and uncertain
surrounded by ghosts and everyone who isn’t here,
who is now someone else.
Who is now another.
No longer my brother.
We’re the ones.
We’re the ones.
We’re the ones.
A warm welcome back from ARTSOC! We have the
pleasure to present you all with very special offers
of discounted musical tickets!
Date Musical Price Value Save!
20 Oct Legally Blonde £20 £66 70%
24 Oct 39 Steps £10 £47.5 79%
31 Oct Les Miserables £30 £65 54%
3 Nov Dreamboats £15 £52.5 71%
Tickets of the shows above will be sold in the first
ARTSOC meeting.
Date: 20 October 2011 (Wednesday)
Time: 12:30pm – 1:30pm
Venue: Physics Room 741
Felix Arts is constantly looking for new poets. If you
want to see your work appearing here, do get in
touch. Additionally, those interested in joining Po-
etry Society, contact Osas, at osamudiamen.omoi-
giade09@imperial.ac.uk
Film classic returns to it roots, with Jones in driving seat
From screen to stage, Miss
Daisy hits the Wyndhams
Vanessa Redgrave and James Earl Jones
are acting royalty, both on stage and screen,
whose careers have spanned decades and yet
show no sign of slowing down. Standing tall in
both stature and talent even at their admirable
ages of 78 (Redgrave) and 80 (Jones), the two
veterans still command the stage like never
before, and it is precisely their excellent per-
formances that make this production of “Driv-
ing Miss Daisy” worth every penny, which is
why this very limited 12-week engagement in
Wyndhams Theatre, Leicester Square is an ex-
perience you cannot afford to miss.
It would be hard not to compare any adaption
of “Driving Miss Daisy” to the Oscar-winning
hit film which starred the sublime Jessica
Tandy and Morgan Freeman in the lead roles,
which Redgrave and Jones take over respec-
tively. In the role of Miss Daisy Werthan, a
frail, old yet proud and tough Southern Jewish
woman, Tandy obviously has the upper hand
with her more delicate features. Redgrave
on the other hand, towers at an astonishing
5’11”somehow not immediately convincing as
a woman nearing death and someone who will
have to deal with the effects of Alzheimer’s.
But fear not, for Redgrave’s subtle yet huge-
ly effective changes in both her posture and
speaking voice throughout the play make it ob-
vious of Miss Daisy’s deteriorating condition.
She starts off as a proud woman in a comfort-
able position who hates the idea of having to
hire a chauffeur. After a bad crash for which
Miss Daisy will forever blame her car rather
than her weakening driving skills, her con-
cerned son, Boolie (the equally fantastic Boyd
Gaines in a crucial supporting role), eventu-
ally manages to employ a willing African-
American driver, Hoke Colburn (Jones). And
so begins an unlikely yet touching story of
friendship that spans an era, having profound
influence on both characters.
This is a play that thrives on subtleties. For
those familiar with the film, you will remem-
ber that racism, prejudice and civil rights
movements are what it focuses heavily on. For
a play on a stage and a budget with limitations,
the scope cannot be too broad, and even the
cast only consists of the modest yet always-
reliable three. We do see numerous brief pro-
jection-reels that show the political changes
in hate-filled America that are slowly moving
towards racial equality, but much is left out.
The social commentary underlying the script
is merely hinted at, although never quite fully
addressed. This is neither a compliment nor a
criticism of the play – it’s a modest production
more interested in the spot-on actors.
So does it really matter that Redgrave doesn’t
quite hit all the unique distinctions of a South-
ern accent? Not at all. She adds so much detail,
depth and it is obvious she has given a lot of
careful attention to her performance. It is Miss
Daisy’s gradual decline that she portrays so
well on stage that there is no need for cheesy
music (of which there is some, to fill the gaps
of scene changes) to have that heart-wrench-
ing finale. Her head gradually sinks into her
shoulders, her walks become slower and more
uneven, and she has difficulty walking down a
flight of stairs. As the play begins, Redgrave
shows Miss Daisy’s feisty side by fighting
John Park “Redgrave adds so much
detail, depth and it is
obvious she has given a
lot of careful attention
to her performance”
off her son’s insistence to hiring a chauffeur
whilst making a pie, both tasks Redgrave mar-
vellously masters in one clean swoop.
Miss Daisy is initially sceptical of hav-
ing a stranger in her home; she even accuses
Hoke of stealing a can of salmon, in a scene
of genuine comedy in which Redgrave shines
yet again, standing so upright and self-confi-
dent, holding the empty can and pointing it
at Hoke as if she’s about to stab him with it.
But the wise and warm Hoke turns out to be
invaluable company as time goes by, whilst
of course being an excellent, reliable driver.
Jones gives a firmer, more reserved perfor-
mance, something that plays off perfectly with
Redgrave’s more frantic, wordy one. Despite
the abuse and humiliation he must have faced
over the years because of his colour, Hoke is
an unquestionably dignified man, a perfect
gentleman who stands beside a woman who is
somewhat oblivious to what is going on in the
outside world, without wanting to admit that
she is not perfect.
In a short period of time (the play wraps up
neatly at around 90 minutes), director David
Esbjorson has a lot to cover, and he chooses to
go about the material with many time jumps,
occasionally reminding the audience of what
year we’re in with clumsy captions that are
projected in the background. The result is
many narrative breaks; patchy work and a
disjointed structure that make many scenes
feel episodic. But the each scene has merit of
its own, thanks largely to the unquestionably
good duo. The final scene has impact, perhaps
not as powerful as what the film managed to
capture, but it’s quiet and potent in its own
way and certainly puts a beautiful end to a
low-key, memorable production.
Driving Miss Daisy runs at the Wyndhams
Theatre until December 17
This is actually how Darth Vader steered the Death Star. Probably

