FELIX Friday 14 October 2011 25
ARTS
Watching a ballet from the wings is an
experience akin to glancing through an
open window into the life of a strang-
er. A voyeuristic experience perhaps.
Dancers on a stage appear as magi-
cal and ethereal creatures, even in the
most human of roles. They are perfectly
poised, every movement apparently ef-
fortless. However, in ballet there is little
that can be done without effort.
‘Jewels’, choreographed by George
Balanchine and danced by the Royal
Ballet, was a joy to behold from the
wings of the Royal Opera House stage.
The corps dancers wandered around in
leg warmers, joking with friends and
trying the more complicated steps one
last time before the performance. Ten-
sion and concentration was far more
palpable in the faces of the principals.
As soon as the curtain rose however,
intense professionalism took over the
entire company. Ballerinas wore smiles
on stage, but these disappeared in an in-
stant in the darkness of the wings, and
were usually replaced by grimaces or
cursing. The final curtain calls brought
relief to the corps and ecstatic joy to the
principals, who went home with arms
full of flowers . Ballet is tough, espe-
cially for those lowest in the hierarchy,
but this company showed that it does
not necessarily have to be tragic.
A second ballet event took place last
week. A triple bill is currently playing
at Covent Garden, showcasing the work
of three British choreographers. The
evening begins with ‘Limen’, a visually
stunning piece devised by resident cho-
reographer Wayne McGregor. The danc-
ers move with virtuosity upon a stage lit
by the digital artist Tatsuo Miyajima’s
LED projections, with an elegance that
has become McGregor’s signature.
Ending the evening was Kenneth Mc-
Millan’s ‘Requiem’. It is a somewhat
stilted ballet, with never-ending lifts
and little in the way of dancing. Set to
Fauré’s Requiem, it is inevitably fune-
real in tone. However, Leanne Benja-
min was soft and precise in her solos
and Carlos Acosta, although minimally
involved, lent some of his star quality to
the performance.
The real gem of the evening was un-
doubtedly ‘Marguerite and Armand’,
a Romantic ballet originally choreo-
graphed for Margot Fonteyn and Rudolf
Nureyev by Fredrick Ashton. The bal-
let itself is a captivating piece, Ashton’s
choreography at its best to the Liszt pi-
ano sonata. It manages to compress Du-
mas’ La Dame aux Camèlias into half
an hour without losing the essence. The
designs and costumes are by the legend-
ary Cecil Beaton, famous amongst other
things, for ‘My Fair Lady’.
The piece has been danced few times
since Fonteyn and Nureyev, but Tamara
Rojo and Sergei Polunin can compete
with the greats. With Polunin, the Royal
Ballet finally has a male dancer they can
be proud of. He not only has a phenom-
The Royal Ballet Is Alive And Well
A ballet from the wings and a strong triple bill made for two very special evenings
at Covent Garden. Dance in Britain is going strong
“The real gem of
the evening was un-
doubtedly Margurite
and Armand”
enal jump and a forceful technique, but
also a raw talent for acting. As Armand,
Polunin displays both these qualities
and combines them to give a passionate
performance. Rojo is the ultimate tragic
actress in ballet; and it is impossible
not to be moved by her Marguerite.
Moreover, her technique is impeccably
light and she moves on the stage with
a rare security. Marguerite and Armand
provides the opportunity to see a ballet
partnership with chemistry, something
unfortunately too often missing in the
dance world. One can only hope Rojo
and Polunin will be partnered again
soon.
Limen, Marguerite and Armand, Re-
quiem: until 20th October at Covent
Garden. Tickets from £4
Eva Rosenthal
Rojo and Polunin: a lesson in passion
Frieze: A Preview of the Madness
There is a whole lot of STUFF worth seeing at the Art Fair. Not all of it is Art
Eva Rosenthal
The talk of the day at Frieze Art Fair,
from some grasped snippets of con-
versation, was a Yacht. It was, quite
literally just a yacht that the artist
Christian Jankowski was going to
sign. Apparently this sort of thing
is called “ready made art” and “the
viewer gets to decide on whether or
not to consider it art”. How lucky
for “the viewer” right? It is neces-
sary to have a vast amount of cheek
in order to get away with it. I was not
convinced although, as someone very
kindly put it, “Yeah…. But you get
the signature!”.
In spite of all the rubbish that makes
it into Frieze in the sacred name of
Art, there were many beautiful ob-
jects worth looking at. The following
comments are simply on a few per-
sonal favourites.
At the Gagosian stand was a ba-
nana suspended by two strings and
projected onto the wall to look like a
wine bottle. This sounds rather silly;
in person it is captivating. Work by
Carsten Nicolai at Galleries Pace, Ei-
gen and Lorcan O’Neill, is as elegant
as it is complex. He brings together
the seemingly opposing worlds of art
“Yeah... But you get
the signature!”
and mathematics with mesmerizing
designs. Finally, some striking col-
laged books by young Czech artist
Eva Kotatkova, also caught my eye.
By seven in the evening, after 6
solid hours, there has been a torrent
of art shoved down your eyes, your
throat, your ears, and they can take
little else. You are in an arty stupor
and wandering through the ether,
drinking in only the atmosphere, the
characters, and hopefully the cham-
pagne. Because Frieze Art Fair is just
as much about the people traipsing
through it as it is about Art. There are
some wonderfully mad ones, in the
best sense of the word.
Frieze Art Fair, 13 October – 16th
October . Tickets from £27 “Who runs this mother?” I think yacht-buying millionaires might...

