ARTS
FELIX
Friday 14 October 2011
26
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Karole Armitage’s limited run of performances
at the Southbank Center were billed as science
inspired punk-ballet. On the basis of that de-
scription alone I realised that my attendance
was inevitable. Nothing however could have
prepared me for the breathtakingly energetic,
shockingly beautiful dance I witnessed. The
show featured extracts from Two Theories and
Drastic-Classicism both groundbreaking, icon-
oclastic works from the Director. Armitage’s
choreography subverts classical ballet through
modern and street influences to create some of
the most visceral, thrilling, yet technically im-
maculate dance I have ever seen.
When I discovered that an Armitage produc-
tion was scheduled at Imperial College later in
the week I grabbed my chance and was kindly
offered an impromptu interview after the show.
Meredith Thomas: I understand you have
been in this game for a while.
Karole Armitage: I have. I actually I started
dancing when I was four. I was first a ballet
dancer. I danced with George Balanchine who
is kind of the Shakespeare of ballet and with
Merce Cunningham who was a very important
force in modern dance. During the time I was
with Merce Cunningham in the late 70s punk
hit and I became very interested in combin-
ing punk and raw influences with my masters.
I did a piece that became very famous called
Drastic-Classicism for guitars and drums with
music by Rhys Chatham. It was the first time a
real rock, raw-spirit was combined with Ballet
refinement and it created a revolution. I think
that’s the perfect title for my work to this day...
Drastic-Classicism.
MT: Was that an idea that came to you im-
mediately?
KA: It just came. These two kinds of dance
were enemies. They were absolute enemies and
even to this day there is still a lot of animosity...
when I say those two kinds of dance I mean
ballet and modern... let alone punk. Ballet and
Modern had different philosophies and they
did not like each other. But I liked both and I
put them together to create a new language of
dance and then added in this kind of rock... the
raw rock emotional side and that launched my
career as a chorographer. Then I worked for
people like Madonna and Michael Jackson and
I choreographed Hair. But my heart really lies
in innovative stage dance.
MT: I got the feeling form the second half of
the performance that you were someone who
had been to a lot of punk gigs and knew how
tiring and energetic that was.
KA: I did in the late 70s. I was living in New
York though I was in London quite frequently
at that time. Micheal Clarke was a great friend;
actually he was in Drastic-Classicism. We met,
we hit it off... he became my partner and we
performed together. I was in London a lot and
so I went to a lot of Punk gigs here. In New
York I went almost every night, although I
was dancing all day. I didn’t need sleep I don’t
know how really but the energy was just so ex-
citing. I wasn’t trying to imitate punk I was just
using it as spice... a flavour.
MT: And that’s the punk side. What about the
science...
KA: I have always been interested in science.
I think that art always has a kind of scientific
discipline to it. For a great painter, the geome-
try, the way colours work together, the sense of
architecture all work together. Those structural
things really make the kind of art I like. Be-
cause I don’t really like people who just come
out and it’s pure self expression; just vomiting
their emotions. Who cares what someone feels?
What you really want is to see feelings through
the prism of some universal sense of pattern,
some way of things unfolding so it’s, in some
way outside the person.
MT: So you would say that this kind of phys-
ics is something that inspired your work or is
it something that you read about and then you
want to communicate it to other people?
KA: I would say that the spirit of innovation
is something I would like to use and communi-
cate to other people. The physics itself is more
of an existential meditation. Einstein though
the world was so predictable. It’s very interest-
ing that the people who came after him thought
Armitage Here?
it was chaotic and completely unpredictable.
The latest innovations in physics are saythat
you have to have both in. To me it’s a way of
questioning what is reality? What is our experi-
ence in life? What is it that makes us tick?
MT: Can you give an example how that has
inspired your choreography?
KA: I’m very interested in fractals; the
geometry of clouds and mountains and sea-
shores. Dance used to be all Euclidean. Verti-
cal and horizontal lines only; all about stability.
It was the sovereign image of incredible pomp
and prestige. That is ballet’s roots. The new
democratic idea is about using things like frac-
tals to make all kinds of curves and final tene-
ity. You have great individuality and yet there
is a common purpose so it’s still legible. I’m
interested in the way that dance can become as
funky and democratic and multidimensional as
our way of living and as our knowledge of the
universe is now.
MT: The troop you are working with at the
moment, are they people you have worked with
before?
KA: We are based in New York. We work
more than half the year together. I takes a great
deal of rehearsal to do this kind of extremely
virtuosic, high powered dance and also to allow
that much individuality and yet to keep it very
articulate.
MT: That idea of characterisations seems
quite important. I really felt that you knew the
dancers well enough that you could bring out
their own character.
KA: That absolutely right. I love that. But
behind that there is a very rigorous disciplined
structure. Once that is achieved then lots of per-
sonality and complete individual personality is
allowed to emerge. Every dancer is different
and I am not ever trying to create a bunch of
“Armitage’s choreography
subverts classical bal-
let through modern and
street influences”
As Watteau Duets comes to Imperial, we speak to its
choreographer, original punk ballerina Karole Armitage
Meredith Thomas
Karole Armitage - so active that we couldn’t find a photo of her without motion blur
Theatre
Cool Hand Luke
Mark Warren (Hustle, Mad Dogs) is the charismatic
rebel in this production at the Aldwych Theatre. Un-
til November 21st.
Something About You (makes me want to hurt you)
Time Out Fringe Show of the Year winner Dirty Mar-
ket return with a new site-specific piece. A fusion
of theatre, dance art inspired by Electra at Asylum
Chapel. www.dirtymarket.co.uk
Spoken Word/Poetry
Old Me (Camden Roundhouse)
Wednesday 23rd November PRESS NIGHT
“His minimal style and unsettlingly straightforward
and blunt lyricism make him shine out” Dazed &
Confused
“You must go and listen to this man’s work” XFM
http://www.roundhouse.org.uk/whats-on/produc-
tions/old-me
Exhibitions
Folio (RCA)
Thursday 20 October
An exhibition of prints from the RCA Printmaking
programme, with a chance to interview artists in-
volved.
The Unilever Series 2011: Tacita Dean
Tate Modern, Turbine Hall
11 October 2011 – 11 March 2012
Miracles & Charms (Wellcome Collection)
Until 26 FEBRUARY 2012
Felicity Powell combines her own work with Mexican
miracle paintings from the Wellcome Collection,
Comedy
Laugh or the Polar Bear Gets It (Hammersmith Apollo)
Friday 18th November.
The line up includes: Tim Minchin, Greg Davies,
Francesca Martinez, Dan Antopolski, Simon Day,
Richard Herring, Lucy Porter and music from special
guest Badly Drawn.
East End humour
Thursday, 24 November
The best of new comedy in London at the Museum
of London Docklands
Late & Live
Friday 28 October
Leicester Square Theatre and Avalon Promotions
present late night comedy and cabaret in the heart
of the West End. This month featuring Fergus Craig,
Jimmy McGhie, Roisin Conaty and Alun Cochrane.
Felix Arts has free tickets for
these and much, much more. If
you want to review (and get in on
the freebs) get in touch and you
could be hobnobbing with the best
of them before you know it.
Why pay for tickets, when you
can get them for free??

