ARTS
FELIX Friday 14 October 2011 27
robots. Dance used to be everyone in perfect
unison. It’s as if you would see birds all flying
with their wings going up and down together. It
just doesn’t make sense to me.
MT: So the two shows that you had... this is
the last one?
KA: This is the last of these two productions.
The one we are doing on Friday is called the
‘Watteau Duets’. What we are doing at Imperial
College is actually a double duet. It has these
two fantastic musicians and these two incred-
ible dancers. It has this riotous portrait of love
and destiny. The dancers start out being very
interested in each other. It gradually gets very
erotic; interest, romance, eroticism, neurosis.
In the mean time the musicians are just getting
crazier and crazier. They start climbing over
their drums and all kind of things are getting
out of control. It’s like this force of destiny, the
fact that we don’t control out lives and love is
unpredictable. It’s a kind of comedy of desires
versus reality. It is tied into the V&A museum
show Postmodernism: Style and Subversion
about the 80s. So I think that’s a really inter-
esting parallel. I work a lot with visual artists.
like Jeff Koon and Brice Marten, people who
are quite famous. It’s very interesting that this
performance ties in with art, music and dance.
Then we are going to be at your university.
That’s a really nice panorama.
MT: As you going back to the sates after
that?
KA: We have been in Moulon for two weeks
doing even more productions. We go to Ger-
many next, so we see a little bit more of Eu-
rope before we go back to New York.
MT: What is next on the Horizon for you?
I have been asked to work on a Cirque du
Soleil project, choreographing acrobats. I am
working on a Chinese language rock musical
film in Beijing. Then of course things with my
company where I am doing quite a few differ-
ent ideas. I am doing a piece that is hope-
fully an entertaining look at global warming
through ancient fables from around the world.
It’s all these animals speaking about power.
It’s a thrill to be in London.
Armitage Gone! Dance – The Watteau Du-
ets take place today, Friday October 14 at
7pm, in The Great Hall, Sherfield, Impe-
rial College. Tickets: £12 (£9 concs). See
http://www.vam.ac.uk for more informa-
tion.
Parents were less impressed with her take on the nativity play
“Dance can become as funky and
democratic and multidimensional
as our way of living and as our
knowledge of the universe is now”
Whoa! Stand still!
“Its very interesting that this per-
formance ties in with art, music
and dance”
FELIX
Fed up of mistakes?
It’s you’re paper.
Come and lend a hand with copy editing every
Thursday!
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk
Facebook: Search ‘Felix’
Twitter: @feliximperial

