MUSIC
FELIX
28 Friday 14 October 2011
music.felix@gmail.com
Kadhim’s totally hot
album of the week
Girls
Father, Son, Holy
Ghost
2011
Girls’ frontman Christopher Owen is an opiate-addict-
ed former cult-member: have I got your attention?
Good. Father, Son, Holy Ghost is the richest indie-rock
album that anyone has made in a long time. It’s as
rich as a warm chocolate brownie with artery-clogging
chocolate sauce on top and a dollop of triple cream
on top of that for good coronary measure.
Their first album was enjoyable enough; it pushed a
somewhat immature sense of angst about girls, be-
ing crazy, and wishing you had a “pizza and a bottle
of wine”. It tugged at the heartstrings with the intel-
lectual rigour of a stupid, slobbering puppy.
Their second album, on the other hand, touches
parts of me that have never been touched before (cue
‘hilarious’ joke about Imperial virgins). But seriously,
this album croons, shakes it hair out, beams a smile
across the room at you, cuts its arms, headbangs
like a crazy muthafucker, and bares a soul so sad, so
lonely, so yearning for redemption that you can barely
keep listening. But, crucially, it rewards repeat lis-
tens. These are emotions to be understood with care,
not simply gawped at for disposable amusement.
I’ll end with a slightly trivial point. Around half-way
through the album, near the end of the song ‘Vomit’,
you’re suddenly surprised by gospel singers belting
out harmonies; I haven’t had the words “so fucking
good” explode out of my head so powerfully than at
that moment.
Tell me the last song that made you think “so fucking
good” by tweeting me @kadhimshubber. If, by some
coincidence, it happens to be ‘Vomit’, tell Christopher
Owens direct by tweeting him @Chri55yBaby.
Music Editors: Iñigo Martinez de Rituerto
Stephen Smith
W
hen I got elected as sta-
tion manager of IC Radio
for the coming year, many
people were surprised…
including myself! I stood
a clueless (albeit enthusiastic) fresher whose
first suggestion to get the station on FM air-
waves was very swiftly shot down (An on-air
radio license in the middle of London? Good
one, fresher!). Honestly, I don’t know how I
got elected – I remember saying the phrase
“I’m charming, so vote for me”. Must be the
Irish accent that made that statement seem en-
dearing rather than obscenely obnoxious. Any-
way, I can tell you now, that despite being bar-
raged with hundreds of emails, being station
manager of a student radio station really is as
awesome as it sounds.
But enough about me. What does the ra-
dio society actually do? Who are we? What
on earth are these programmes broadcasted
so shamelessly for the entire world to hear?
Why do you care? Why are you reading this?
Shouldn’t you be studying? Where am I?
IC Radio is the official sound of Imperial
College London. We’re an internet-broadcast-
ed station playing 24 hours a day, 7 days a
week, alternating between live broadcasts and
a play-out of our enormous library. Our music
team is working hard on reviewing new music
that we’re sent every day from labels, inde-
pendent artists and flat out gangstas to ensure
that our play-out system only contains quality
tunes. Our presenters are students just like you
– hard working (ish) nerds who sincerely love
a laugh.
Radio is fun. Even for people who get a little
bit nervous speaking in front of people, you can
still tell yourself that you’re really only speak-
ing to the wall when you’re in the studio. Listen
to any decent station and the presenters are gen-
erally having a good laugh (unless they’re read-
ing the news, in which case that’s incredibly un-
professional and I highly disapprove). Societies
are meant to be fun and rewarding – otherwise
what’s the point?
Here at IC Radio, we will give you a show
which you can make your own. We only ask
that you undergo a 20 minute training session
on how to use the equipment and obey the
usual don’t-be-racist, etc. From then on, you’re
basically given free rein to do whatever genre
of programming you like – talk, pop, rock,
electronica, psychedelic funk, Australian folk,
whatever. Once you have joined the society
the door is pretty much open for you to use our
gear. If there isn’t a show on you can come in
and practice on the decks in the studio - much
IC Radio wants you!
Aislinn Hayes tunes in as new Station Manager
1xtra. [Insert further cheers here.] For anyone
who’s even vaguely thinking about a career in
the music or media industry, we have some re-
ally incredible opportunities coming our way all
the time where you can gain invaluable experi-
ence.
Honestly, I can’t imagine the week with-
out my one-hour slot (entitled “Mad Craic”)
in our modest Beit West Wing Basement stu-
dio. I wouldn’t be at Imperial if I wasn’t at
least vaguely technical and all the buttons and
slides down there make me positively gleeful.
Music, technology, and the sound of my own
vo– I mean, banter with my co-host, notorious
biologist Craig Woods. What else does a girl
need? It’s an absolutely brilliant society to get
involved in - whether it’s music, production,
presenting, technical, DJing, or even marketing
that you’re into, we’ve got an enthusiastic com-
mittee member who can help you out!
Check us out on www.icradio.com, where
you can listen live or listen back to previ-
ous shows, and hear some of our best ses-
sions and recordings!
To get involved in our music team, con-
tact music@icradio.com
To get involved in our live sessions and
recordings, contact production@icradio.
com
To hire equipment or get some DJing gigs,
contact discos@icradio.com
To get your own show, contact program-
ming@icradio.com
To complain about the length of this
article, contact manager@icradio.com.
Cheers!
cheaper and convenient than buying your own
stuff and carting it to uni every time you want
to jam. And all for a very reasonable 8 pound
membership fee? Simply fabulous, dahling.
24 hour music and programming isn’t all we
do. We are blessed with a fully equipped re-
cording studio as well as our production studio,
meaning we get plenty of bands and artists in to
do live sessions and recordings. We are pretty
unique to have such a facility as a student radio
and we’re planning on holding lots of live ses-
sions this year. They are open for anyone to turn
up to and watch, and are held in our “shared stu-
dio” (completely separate to our production and
recording studios, and shared with Music Tech,
Photosoc and Stoic). Some names we have lined
up for this year include Tay Mos, Sam Gray, The
King Blues, and Missing Andy. I was told by
the previous station manager that our recording
studio is unrivaled by other student radio sta-
tions here in the UK – in fact, he compared our
studios to the professionals at XFm. Not to be
tooting our own horn or anything, but I think
that’s pretty impressive – even if the man I’m
quoting basically founded IC Radio Recordings
himself and is therefore fairly biased.
We also make a point of hiring out our equip-
ment to parties and events to make some extra
cash so we can buy new toys (and pay our li-
cense fees, etc.) and there are always opportuni-
ties for budding DJs to play some gigs, which
our members do take advantage of whenever
they can.
As a London-based station, we have the ad-
vantage/disadvantage of getting lots of emails
from those in the media industry and upcoming
artists. True, we get a lot of spam, but sometimes
a golden ticket flies our way. Just last month we
were contacted by the presenting company for
the Olympics with an opportunity for budding
presenters to audition for 2012 events. [Insert
scream here.] And just last week, a representa-
tive from the Student Radio Association con-
tacted us about some radio work with BBC
Tonight in Dalston
Somewhere between talking to a rolling meadow and
hugging a star, Mark McGuire’s solo adventures all
but mirror the chromophilic swells of electronic trio
Emeralds. A cursory listen of their last full length Does
It Look Like I’m Here reveals the strange but famil-
iar space their sound inhabits, somewhere between
the psychoelectronic explosions of 1970’s synthetic
Germany and the most intimate musical encounters
of recent years. His second solo album on Editions
Mego, Get Lost feels like a suspension of a summer
day and night in parallel.
The Shacklewell Arms is a unique pub, straddling
the line between a recovered shipwreck, a hazy New
Mexico adobe abode and a secret alley deep in the
tunnels of the London Underground. The nondescript
tropical murals adorning the walls will certainly help
to set the scene in what is sure to be an unforget-
table night. Iñigo Martinez de Rituerto
Mark McGuire (of Emeralds)
The Shacklewell Arms, Dalston
Friday 14 October
“Our recording studio
is unrivaled by other
student radio stations
here in the UK”
Now in Technicolour! IC Radio keeping current in 1986.
BREAKING NEWS
Aislinn has just been nominated for
Best Newcomer at the Student Radio
Awards!

