FELIX Friday 14 october 2011 29
MUSIC
A
ccounts of the first instalment
of Outlook Festival four years
back (held in a Croatian night
club with relatively low atten-
dance and a lot of rain) sound
like Phoenix Nights on the Adriatic. Since then
the event has come a long way.
This year saw close to 12,000 festival-goers;
some of the biggest names in bass-heavy music
performing and an arena re-vamped so fittingly
one can’t help but imagine that when they built
Fort Punta Christo however many centuries ago
they must have had the festival in mind. Couple
that with the mellowed beauty of the location
(at least on day one), some darn fine weather
and a young energetic crowd and you get a feel-
ing for why Outlook is in a league of its own.
The festival is split between the campsite
and the main arena. The campsite is located
around a bay on the Adriatic and contains a su-
per market and a number of bars and pop-up
restaurants. Daytime sees mass migration to the
various beaches where the two or three sound
systems play out until the evening.
The arena is split between the main stage-a
large open space by the waterfront-and the fort
which itself contains a number of smaller stag-
es, all equally impressive.
Despite Barrington Levy’s last minute with-
drawal, the quality of performances was never
going to be an issue. David Rodigan opened
the main stage with his trademark feel-good
Outlook Festival returns
Daniel Oppenheimer reports from sunny Croatia
It’s very difficult to fault Outlook - in fact, it
requires resorting to geriatric-style complaints
regarding things like organisation (there was a
lot of queuing where it felt like there shouldn’t
have been). Having said that, there was a clear
sense of nostalgia from many of last year’s re-
turnees who felt the festival had grown exces-
sively and in doing so lost its former intimacy
and relaxedness. Organisers should be mindful
of not spawning another Reading or Leeds in
Pula. For the moment, suffice it to say this:
Carlsberg don’t make festivals but if they did
they’d probably be something like Outlook.
history lesson. The reggae-dub theme was fol-
lowed up by The Gentleman’s Dub Club, Ira-
tion Steppahs and, elsewhere in the fort, The
Heatwave.
Grime was well represented by Newham
Generals, Logan Sama and a mammoth set
from P Money that seemed to straddle at least
4 or 5 DJ sets. The second and third nights
were dominated by El-B, Rustie, Hudson Mo-
hawke and the Hessle Audio bunch while the
final night saw Marcus Nasty tearing it up fol-
lowed by Night Slugs DJs, Mosca, Bok Bok,
L-Vis 1990 and Girl Unit.
Dude, where’s the beach?
Rototom Sunsplash is one of the largest and
longest running Reggae, Dance Hall and Dub
festivals in Europe. In fitting with the music it
endorses, its appeal spans a cross-section of fes-
tival goers from the ignorant non-connoisseur to
the dub-geek-stoner. The recipe is very simple:
an entirely laid back dynamic, a hot climate and
enough people to make you feel it was worth
coming but leave you with space to move.
The festival is set outside the Spanish town
of Benicàssim on the same site as the Festival
Internacional de Benicàssim. With music be-
ginning in the early evening the daytime sees
a mass migration from the shanty-townesque
campsite to the beach. However, for those who
stick around the arena offers a mellowed atmo-
sphere, hammocks and shade as well as lectures
and presentations on topics ranging from The
Life of Bob Marley to Man Vibes: Masculinities
in the Dancehall.
Spanning ten days the festival manages to
cram in a large number of musicians. The main
acts finish at around 1 am but DJs continue play-
ing on the Dance Hall Stage and Dub Station
until much later. This year some of the best per-
part conspicuously absent creating, at times, a
distinct sense that some heavy cultural tourism
was being indulged. This was underpinned by
an ostentatious, pseudo-pagan inclusion of Bob
Marley’s memory in nearly all aspects of the
festival. For the relentless neurotic this might be
a turn off, but if you want sun, don’t mind slow-
ing down the pace for a week or so and like reg-
gae music, even just a little bit, then Rototom
Sunsplash comes highly recommended.
formances came from the charged and energetic
Capleton; the evocative Marley clan (Stephen,
Ziggy, Ky-Mani and Rita Marley) and the char-
ismatic Luciano, who was kind enough to lend
me a lift from the airport to the festival site. Both
Jimmy Cliff and Toots and the Maytals were
also reportedly very good.
The character of the festival draws more from
hippy themes than Jamaican ones, indeed this
year actual Jamaican people were for the most
Sicily: land of citrus fruit, olive oil, Cosa Nostra, and
Uzeda, a band hailing from the foothills of smoking
Mt. Etna. Three of their five albums were recorded by
Steve Albini, the pixie of punk rock himself, and re-
leased on the Touch & Go label. Albini’s instantly rec-
ognizable sound on 4 (1995), Different Section Wires
(1998), and Stella (2006) encouraged online music
magazine Pitchfork to call Uzeda “a T&G cover band
with Kim Deal on vocals”. But that’s no bad thing.
They share a soundscape with Touch & Go labelmates
Shellac (Albini’s own band) and the David Yow-fronted
Jesus Lizard. “Tighter than a supermodel’s stomach”
is one way I’ve heard the Jesus Lizard described and
that’ll do just as nicely for Uzeda. And never mind the
Pixies’ Kim Deal; Uzeda’s vocalist Giovanna Cacciola
is a female Yow, cooing and moaning and pleading
in a monologue that tugs at the engine of the band.
And what an engine: “a tribal-jazzy rhythm section
that indulges in time changes worthy of prog-rock but
coupled with shrieking guitar that makes Sonic Youth
sound mainstream”, says Piero Scaruffi in his online
History of Rock Music. There’s a wildness here, the
bass growling like a feral dog, the guitars spiking like
the tongue of a snake, unpredictable and languid. But
the tightness makes it more machine than animal: a
well-tuned engine bolted together by the piston snap
of the snare.
Check out www.uzedatheband.com for audio and vid-
eo streams of all the band’s recorded material.
Punk planet by
Douglas Heaven
This week: Uzeda
Beautiful Benicàssim
Spanish Rototom Sunsplash impresses over ten days
“Terribly sorry, I can’t quite hear you!”
Make sure not to miss
Electric wizard and founder of avant-garde music
distributor Mimaroglu Music Sales, KFW crosses the
ocean for a rare appearance in London next week.
Bending ear drums as he ignites the air, sending un-
precedented patterns across the room and exposing
the infinite space held inside a momentary burst of
sound, KFW has become one of the most striking fig-
ures in modern electronic music. His music spans a
colourful spectrum from ambient guitar to decimated
synthesis, opening our ears to open our minds. Like-
nesses can be drawn to a melodramatic R2D2 stuck
in rehab or an internet chat between an excitable
bird and stuporous orca, after throwing a modem
into the sea. Iñigo Martinez de Rituerto
Keith Fullerton Whitman
CAMP (City Arts & Music Project), Old Street
Tuesday 18 October
www.upsettherhythm.co.uk
Daniel Oppenheimer

