FELIX
30
Television Editors: James Simpson
Matt Allinson
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 14 October 2011
I had pretty high expectations of Fresh Meat,
the new comedy drama about seven students at
a Manchester University sharing a house. The
show (or at least its first episode) received rave
reviews and is from the creators of Peep Show,
a programme which can generally guarantee a
good laugh.
Of course the biggest draw was the University
setting: I generally find comedy dealing with
things that I am familiar with far more engag-
ing. Here I found my first disappointment. A
good comedy can often make fun of a mundane
situation by taking it to extremes but I feel Fresh
Meat takes it too far. It feels nothing at all like my
student experience, there’s nothing recognisable
that could make the show a personally poignant
experience. Take, for example, Josie - a kind and
innocent dentistry student who sleeps with the
Pick of the week
Like these shows? How
about a review then, bitch?!
Friday | 2100 - 2130 | BBC1
Have I Got News for You
Jo Brand hosts the nation’s favourite satirical
news quiz.
Saturday | 2145 - 0000 | Channel 4
Die Hard II
Bruce Willis stars in this second part of the leg-
endary action movie series. Lots of guns and
Bruce Willis.
Sunday | 2100 - 2200 | BBC2
Fry’s Planet Word
Something about Stephen Fry’s voice implies er-
udition, so why not listen to him talk about lan-
guage for an hour. Pity he used Comic Sans for the
subtitles. Eurghhh.
Monday | 2100 - 2200 | Chennel 4
Embarassing Bodies
The team deal with a cornucopia of genital prob-
lems. If you’re feeling down, have a look at some
other people’s problems.
W
riting reviews on
shows I love is some-
thing I have found
to be quite difficult.
When I try to per-
suade someone to watch something I like,
it generally ends with me saying “Erm,
yeah, you just need to watch it, cos it’s
amazing.” And reviewing a show like
LOST is even harder, because I never
want to give away too much, because it’s
the secrets and surprises that make it so
enjoyable.
I’ll be honest with you. I was quite a
late-comer to LOST, mostly due to my
own skepticism. I mean, it’s just a bunch
of people who crash on an island and try
to survive, right? That’s been done so
many times; it’s hard to keep count. Oh,
how very wrong I was…
The pilot episode, which incidentally
was the most expensive pilot ever made
costing between $10-14 million, introduc-
es the viewers to the survivors of Oceanic
Flight 815, flying from Sydney to LosAn-
geles, which crashes on an island some-
where in the South Pacific. For you avid
readers out there you will quickly draw
parallels with Treasure Island and Lord
of the Flies as the first couple of episodes
explore the makings of a hierarchical soci-
ety. That’s pretty much where most simi-
larities to other island survival shows end.
The first night on the island is spent build-
ing a fire and trying to understand why
the jungle makes strange metallic noises
whilst trees topple left, right and center.
The next day, a brave group goes into the
jungle to try and send a distress call from
the cockpit. They manage to find a trans-
ceiver and even the pilot is alive, but he is
soon killed by the unseen monster. Crazi-
ness ensues as other survivors encounter a
polar bear, build a golf course and hear a
mayday, in French, that has been repeat-
ing on a loop from somewhere on the is-
land for 16 years. Weird stuff…
Why did they crash? Where did they
crash? Why did these specific people sur-
vive? Those are just a few of the questions
that audiences ask themselves when they
watch this show. That’s the wonderful –
and infuriating – thing about LOST: every
answer just leads to more questions. This
can get a bit annoying and I do know a
few people who simply gave up after a
few seasons of increasingly complicated
plotlines. If you are such a person, I rec-
ommend you go back to the beginning
and watch the whole thing all over again,
because this really is the kind of show one
needs to watch back-to-back in order to
fully appreciate it.And the majority of the
questions do get answered by the end of
season six.
And what is there to appreciate, you
ask? Well, let’s start with the location: Ha-
waii! The beautiful scenery and sudden
day-turning-into-night-end-of-the-world-
type-weather makes it the perfect setting.
Then there’s the music, as composed by
Michael Giacchino, which in a way, has
come to define the show. In fact, I’m
pretty sure it was when I started watching
Lost that I came to fully appreciate just
how important the music in a television
show can be. Just the main tune ‘There’s
No Place Like Home’ manages to be
heart-wrenching, yet oddly uplifting at the
same time. Genius.
As I already mentioned in previous re-
views, the thing that’s most important to
me in a series are the characters. If they’re
not interesting or don’t develop, I just
tune out. Thankfully, LOST is jampacked
with character development and intrigu-
thoroughly obnoxious JP as soon as she arrives
because she is convinced by her new housemates
that this is the sort of thing one does during the
first week at University. Or Oregon, who is so at
pains to conceal her studious, middle class back-
ground - despite none of her friends really car-
ing about it - that she lies about having a car and
having done well at school. Or Kingsley, who
decides to switch from geology to drama after
only a few days to try to get girls and avoid one
somewhat annoying lecturer.
Of course not everybody will care about this
and I guess that some might even find the situ-
ations presented somewhat familiar. I’d be the
first to admit that I’m hardly the typical student,
more like the unsociable and never seen Paul
than any of the other characters. As such its only
to be expected that I don’t find their problems
familiar. Perhaps this makes me unqualified to
comment on the show, but I daresay that there are
more than a couple people like me at Imperial.
None of this would really matter if the show
was at least funny, but it simply isn’t. I can’t
really explain it - I just didn’t laugh a lot while
watching it. When I did it was mainly from em-
barrassment at the often puerile jokes. In fact, I
found the more ‘dramatic’ elements of the show
- like awkward Howard’s attempts to get a date
with outgoing Voz - far more interesting.
This is by no means a horrible show and you
should probably check out at least one episode
to see if it’s your sort of thing - just don’t expect
anything brilliant.
Have your say
on this or any
other article at
felixonline.co.uk
“Switch from Geology to
Drama after three days
to get more girls”
Maciej Matuszewski
New comedy series has more sex than Imperial, dammit
Fresh Meat deserves a roasting
Sometimes answers just lead to more questions
Lucia Podhorska takes a retrospective look at LOST
TELEVISION
Could you write a review of Hidden, DCI Banks, The Great British Bake-Off, Educating
Essex, One Man One Jar, Blue Bloods, House, or ANYTHING? We need you! Email us.
Tuesday | 2305 - 0010 | Chennel 4
Shameless
Funny not only because it’s funny, but also be-
cause people this feral do actually exist. Go and
get yourself an ‘E’.
Wednesday | 2100 - 2200 | Channel 5
Paul Merton’s Adventures
He’s back for a new series don’tyouknow.
Thursday | 2000 - 2100 | BBC2
The Great British Bake-Off
Highlights of the first series. Excellent viewing if
you are hungry and/or want some cooking ideas.
Mmm yummy mummies. This style of poster is compulsory for every American
TV show

