TELEVISION
FELIX Friday 14 October 2011 31
Jeremy Kyle ‘guests’ should cease breeding
The Jeremy Kyle Show... wow. Where
to start? I suppose I could start by telling
you that the comedian Jim Davidson once
suggested that the producers of the show
catch the vermin who appear on it out-
side Lidl with a large net. Or I could tell
you that a judge called it “human bear-
bating”. Or perhaps that it’s also been de-
scribed by a Labour MPas a “modern day
freak show”.
Episodes usually fall into four catego-
ries; ‘heartwarmers’ (where someone has
a genuine disability or issue that the show
helps them out with by funding treatment
or some other form of help) - meh, bor-
ing. Rehab episodes, still boring. The
final two involve either DNA or lie detec-
tor tests; this is where the real shit goes
down. In case you aren’t familiar with
the show, here are a few example episode
titles: “I’m A Binge Drinker And A Drug
Dealer, But I’ll Be A Great Dad!”, “My
Kids Are Black and Angry!”, “Why Do
You Nag Us About the Heating Cost-
ing So Much and Then Leave Windows
Wide Open?” (could be a reference to my
housemate...), “Who’s Father To Your
Baby? Me Or My Dad?” and my personal
favourite “Why Deny Paternity Just Be-
cause the Baby Is Ginger?”. I think we all
know the answer to that one.
I don’t know what annoys me most
about the Jezza K show. The fact that
these people exist, the fact that most of
them are unemployed and are leeching
off the government because they’re too
damn lazy to get a job, or the fact that they
are just incredibly rude. How can they be
willing to go on national television in
front of a reported 1.8 million viewers to
sort out their problems if they cant even
listen to Jeremy without interrupting him
every 4 seconds. But then again that’s
what you expect from these people, they
need educating; in life, manners, decency,
English (I doubt the participants even
know what grammar is) and arguably
George Barnett
most importantly - how to use a condom
(we don’t want to breed a generation of
retards now, do we?).
On a somewhat more political note, it
shocks me that these people are allowed
to vote. Most seem to be less intelligent
than the average three-year-old. These are
the sort of people who are quite happy to
shag their partner’s parents, they think be-
ing a good father is buying an Xbox 360
and a 32” TV instead of spending time
with their children, they think being a
grandmother and having a swingers party
is normal. That’s just disgusting, there
are things you just shouldn’t do at certain
ages. Just imagine it, a granny who looks
and probably smells worse than a bull-
dog’s dirty arsehole having an orgy. Eugh.
It probably sounds like I detest the Jer-
emy Kyle Show. But you’d be wrong to
jump to conclusions - it’s quality; daytime
television at its best. It may well be “hu-
man bear-bating”, but to be honest it’s
funnier than a penguin playing a banjo. In
one show, a woman who had slept with
two men in as many days (one of them
being her ex with whom she already has
a child with) ran on stage and punched
aforementioned ex in the face before
running off stage again. She was then re-
strained by a vast amount of hired muscle
whilst Jeremy explained to her why what
she did was wrong. Her response? “Nah
mate. Naaah mate. Naaaaah”. Fuck-
ing chav. She then decided that the best
course of action would be to run off and
smash a window. Clever girl.
I do wonder whether it’s wrong to laugh
at these people though; because they
clearly do have some serious issues, and
I do genuinely feel sorry for the people
who get caught up in it all - those who
get abused by some prick on drugs, or the
children who are born into already broken
and dysfunctional families. I even feel
sorry for the guy who was stabbed just be-
cause he was covered in tattoos - although
he did look like a bit of a knob (and has
legally changed his name to King Of Ink
Land King Body Art The Extreme Ink-
Ite). However, I always come to the same
conclusion: no, it’s not wrong. It’s just
too bloody funny to not laugh. Besides,
it does wonders for your ego to know that
you will never be as shit a person as they
are.
Victims of reduced gene pool descend dignity ladder
“Why deny paternity
just because the
baby is ginger?”
Email tv.felix@ic.ac.uk to write for us!
His Majesty the King of Ink-Land - he looks like something out of fucking
Avatar
ing characters, whom we get to know both
on and off the island, thanks to the bril-
liant use of flashbacks, flash-forwards and
flash-sideways. There’s not really any ac-
tor who doesn’t deliver, but there are a few
that need mentioning for their outstanding
performances: Matthew Fox as Dr. Jack
Shepherd; Terry O’Quinn as John Locke
and Michael Emerson as the creepy Ben
Linus, both of whom received an Emmy
for Outstanding Supporting Actor In A
Drama Series.
Created by J.J.Abrams – the man behind
Alias, Fringe and the new Star Trek movie
– and Damon Lindelof, LOST ran for six
seasons and explored a larger panoply of
themes than other Hollywood shows have.
Mortality, religion, relationships and the
human condition are all investigated. Part
The big man himself
Phwoaaarrrrrrrrr - I would
“Most importantly
– how to use a
condom”
of the success of the show is its ability
to transparently approach these without
making them too apparent to the viewer
which allows both the ‘couch potato’ and
the critical mind to enjoy themselves. A
detailed analysis that satirizes modern
society can be derived with little effort as
well which generates great conversation if
you find yourself with similarly minded
people.
The brilliance of the show comes from
its innate ability to appeal to all audiences.
Dog lovers, science fiction fans, scientist
and adventurous shoot-em’-up junkies all
have their slice of pizza to enjoy. This is a
top of the list recommendation for every-
one out there. You just need to watch it,
cos it’s amazing.
FADE TO BLACK.
Oh ye of little faith... It was nice of them to invite Hagrid along

