FASHION
FELIX
32
Fashion Editors: Saskia Verhagen
Alice Yang
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 14 october 2011
Winter is coming, time to go coat crazy
A statement coat is essential this season. Embrace the cold and define your style
with Alice Yang’s pick of the best
Fur
What better way to combat the winter chills than to
wrap up warm in a fluffy fur coat? From Paris to Mi-
lan, fur was seen in a rainbow of colours, lengths
and cuts leaving us spoilt for choice. Sleek glamour
shone through with a seventies vibe at Gucci in the
form of rich, gem coloured, bulging furs matched
with statement sunglasses. Cute baby doll dresses
layered under pale fox furs made Anna Sui’s show a
winter wonderland.
Whether you prefer the long shaggy furs seen at
Isabel Marant, or the sleeker more classic pieces at
Valentino, fur is this seasons must have with the one
big rule – if your coat is going to bulge ontop, ensure
fluid lines flow beneath.
THE PICK:
Karl Lagerfeld brought a plethora of thick woollen
pieces wrapped in rusty shades perfect for frosty
walks to his show at Fendi this seaon. But among
those, it was the fluffy coats that stole the show.
They appeared as lustrous tufts of auburn orange,
chocolate brown and silver greys all mixed into one.
For a similar, but more toned down take, try Miss
Selfridge’s silky tribute to the coming shades of na-
ture.
Full Length
Blazer Cape
There was a great sense of drama and mystery this
season as designers sent floor sweeping coats
down the catwalks. The great coat was seen at
Hermes, Jaeger London and Rodarte – all simple
and perfectly tailored, with just the right amount
of flow. Chanel’s burnt forest catwalk too featured
ankle length knitted numbers with thick defined col-
lars, and DSqaured2’s Western rebel girls matched
tough billowing cloaks to their aggressively shaped
hats and distressed denim.
Giorgio Armani’s overcoats were only zipped down
to the waist, allowing the smooth silk dresses that
shimmered beneath to peak through contrasting the
texturised detailing on the coats. Haider Ackermann
upped the drama – black leather gloves and pow-
erfully layered jackets building sharp silhouettes
topped off with sky high quiffs.
Long, sleek and filled with authority, this is defi-
nitely a statement making addition to your wardrobe.
THE PICK:
In shades of slate grey with fur trimmed lapels and
rough edges, Pheobe Philo’s overcoats at Celine
were modern authenticity at its best. Topshop’s al-
ternative also features a thick fluffy neckline, add-
ing extra warmth to its moulded classic shape and
tucked in waist.
Fitting in perfectly with this season’s trend of an-
drogyny came a sea of sharp cut suit jackets worn
with a sense of purpose and power. Dolce and Gab-
bana pioneered the strong girl-boy look this season,
striking a perfect mix between masculine toughness
and feminine delicacy. Perfect white shirts fastened
to the neck sat under double-breasted jackets with
wide collars and velvet lapels, topped with boyish
quiffs under smart trilbies. Stella McCartney’s jack-
ets gave a new definition to power dressing - mid-
night black knee length blazers with rounded shoul-
ders adding a feminine touch. Acne’s jackets were
traditionally sleek - military greens and candyfloss
pinks adding a twist to the classic two-piece suit.
It’s as much about the jacket this season as how
it’s worn. The models at Jason Wu, Michael Kors and
Paul Smith all casually tossed over their shoulders.
Result? Simple and sexy. The trick? Steal your boy-
friend’s blazer, sling over your shoulders, slip on a
pair of heels and stride with confidence.
THE PICK:
Jason Wu’s blazers were immaculately tailored this
season. His contrasting lapels and defined shoul-
ders were copied at Mango, for only a sliver of the
price.
Capes and ponchos have been a long time coming,
but no one expected the masterpieces Alexander
Wang created this season. Luxuriously soft cash-
meres mixed with tough leathers, draped shimmer-
ing silks and quilted interiors left editors piling over
themselves after his show for pieces that so clev-
erly combined feminine casual wear with tough out-
erwear. Chloe presented show stoppingly beautiful
snow queen-esque pieces flung over white chiffon
dresses. Marc Jacob’s cloaks were short and velvet
in shimmering jewel tones, and Alber Elbaz made
his longer and sleeker for a touch of sixties mys-
tery at Lanvin. John Galliano’s last show at Christian
Dior lacked no drama either as Karlie Kloss strut-
ted down the catwalk in knee high boots, a floppy
wide brimmed hat and billowing black cape swirling
behind her.
Full of drama yet elegantly draped, its hard to go
wrong with a cape.
THE PICK:
Emilio Pucci’s girls strutted dark mysterious pieces
embellished with baroque swirls this season, calling
into mind the misty forests of a fairy tale adventure.
Perhaps a little less heavy, yet with just enough de-
tail to carry you from day to night, Wallis’ version too
will wrap you up perfectly for a midnight stroll.
Fendi
£14,960
Miss
Selfridge
£65
Celine
Topshop
£100
Jason
Wu
£1,510
Mango
£55
Emilio
Pucci
£6,695
Wallis
£75

