GAMES
Gaming in reverse - Quake
Well at first, I did. I wasn’t arguing against the
rushed attempts of some publishers to milk what-
ever cash cow franchise they owned. After seeing the
trailers, I actually had a specific, personal gripe with
Ocarina of Time and its much touted visual spit-and-
polish.
S
o here’s my plan, to get my own back on
the remakes. By actually going back. As
in, back-WARDS in time! Yes, I’m going
to use the power of artistic licence to re-
verse time, and see what pixelated gems
of gaming goodness have been lost along the way.
What has pushed me to this drastic plan of action? I
mean who could argue with taking those hazy child-
hood memories of gaming, and sprucing them up to
preen and perform for modern gamers?
Who could argue with dispatching a new group of
gamers to fell Shadow of the Colossus’ titular titans,
and feel the guilt afterwards? Or with recruiting new
thumbs to pilot anArwing in Starfox 64 3D, listening
to the radio-chatter hubbub of gaming’s most iconic
sound bites?
“I guess I should be thankful!”
And I guess I should be especially thankful for the
super-effective, special attack justification for this re-
make craze: who could argue with a new set of men
becoming boys again, and taking those daunting ba-
by-steps into the expanse of Hyrule field in Ocarina
of Time 3D?
@FelixGames on
Twitter
Extra polygons are always good - or are they?
“The enemies in Quake
are rendered with a jerky,
staccato energy, as if
fighting in strobe lighting”
I mean, did you see the new trees in Kokiri For-
est?!All individually rendered in loving detail? What
the hell had happened to the low-res, is-that-serious-
ly-meant-to-be-a-tree trees that used to surround the
forest? Their endlessly repeating texture of vaguely
wood-y colours suggested deep forest more than any
amount of crafted polygons ever could. And don’t
get me started on the hyper-warm colours in the trail-
ers.
Too late! You just did with your revolting look of
confusion.
Seriously, what were those new Hyper-warm
colours? Was this Hyrule-Del-Sol or something?
Where was my earthy-toned, muddy Hyrule, and
what was this flashy imposter with its cheap greens
and golden hues?!
So the trailers got me worked up. And thinking.
And what I thought was: By Golly! (because that is
how thoughts think) there are a lot of types of re-
make, and most are very good, but maybe some of
them lose something in translation. Even more in-
teresting (By Golly Gosh!) was the idea that maybe,
sometimes, there were some stylistic advantages to
the old limitations on graphic and sound.
Think about it (What ho!): What was originally a
necessity, of using pixelated graphics and 8-bit chip-
tunes, has now been embraced as part of the gaming
aesthetic. Many games, from Minecraft to Megaman
9, relish the unique power of using pixels as their
brush strokes or blips and bleeps as their soundtrack.
So is shinier and spanglier always better? This be-
ing Imperial, we must experiment. As I mentioned
earlier, I will use the power of writing to REVERSE
TIME ITSELF.
By doing this I will (single-handedly) transform
the gaming landscape from one endlessly striving
towards realism and simulation, to one that starts
off realistic and suddenly embraces the abstract. The
slowdown, the short draw-distances and square poly-
gons. We’ll pretend it’s like fine art, starting off all
obsessed with fabrics and shadows and portraits and
landscapes, before being forced by photography into
a kaleidoscope of creativity. Surrealism, impression-
ism, and all those other-isms.
We’ll pretend, just as a null hypothesis type thing,
that even if Miyamoto had the choice of 3D-high-
resolution, bump-mapped, bloom-lit powers when
he invented Mario, or Toby Gard had the access to
performance-capture, anti-aliasing, motion-con-
trolled know-how when he made Tomb Raider, that
they’d still choose to make them just as they did.
I hope to choose a game or two every week, often
ones that’ve since been remade or refined, and see
if any of its retro chic can beat any of our modern
shine.
Let’s reverse time and see what we find!
Since id’s success with Quake 4, it has produced 3
sequels including the trigger-happy Quake 3, and a
true strogg-and-sci-fi sequel Quake 2. But it’s in its
latest incarnation (trendily called just ‘Quake’) that
the series has found the eeriness and atmosphere
it has always strived for. id has eschewed the steel
walls and electric doors of Quake 4 and its sequel
too, instead opting for a uniquely baroque hybrid of
Omar Hafeez-Bore on why old games get better when you pretend they’re new
gothic architecture, thunderous guns and grotesque
fantasy monstrosities.
Its masterstroke of horror however is in reducing
the amount of frames of animation used. Instead of
the fluid and familiar advances of Quake 4’s enemies,
the ones in Quake are rendered with a jerky, staccato
energy, as if fighting in strobe lighting. Funny as it
may sound, it actually gives the gunplay a brutal im-
mediacy of impact, and the already ghoulish designs
the unnerving, alien rhythm of a Ray Harryhuasen
stop motion effect.
Quality reduction - id’s design masterstroke
Laurence Pope
Minecraft: so much more than just Lego for nerds
Quake: Playing them in
reverse
Yesterday one of my friends asked me – what’s the
deal with Minecraft? I tried to explain it to them,
but to no avail. So here’s try two – in print form.
Maybe I’ll enlighten this time around…
It’s easy to say what Minecraft (by developers
Mojang) is – an open-world sandbox game with
no goal in mind other than what you set yourself.
You’re dumped into the middle of the cube-based
world most people are familiar with and bam, that’s
it, do what you want.
What’s the fun in that I hear you ask? The problem
is, most people don’t realise just how complicated
the world presented to you is. Yes, the graphics are
what you’d call retro, but in keeping with what
Omar said above me retro isn’t always a bad thing.
A world of true complexity lies hidden beneath the
simplicity of the blocky textures presented to you.
The thrill (seriously) is in creation and devel-
opment. You start from the bare basics, a small
wooden hut or a hollowed-out rock face in order to
survive the first night, when all manner of zombies
and skeletons come out to attack. From there you
can gather more and more exotic materials – coal,
iron, gold and diamonds to name a few – by delv-
ing into the virtual earth, all the while avoiding the
perils of lava flows and dungeon-dwelling beasties.
As your building grows in grandeur you can start to
utilize the more complicated and subtle aspects be-
hind the game, including power switches, pistons
and automatic minecart tracks. This is the wealth
of complexity concealed beneath the simple de-
sign, and it’s discovering that immense untapped
potential that keeps me, at least, playing on to find
them.
You only have to look on YouTube to find a wealth
of inventive creations – pinball machines, elabo-
rate traps, timed explosives, waterfall lifts, music
devices that play Bohemian Rhapsody...the list is
effectively endless. With regular updates come
more tools to create and more inventive ways to
muck about in your own private universe.
So what are you waiting for? Get playing, and
watch out for my most probably ill-fated Minecraft
how-to in future issues.
Or, you know, just go back to Lego.
Note: not in-game footage
There is nothing as tense as seeing one of Quake’s
huge Shamblers crashing across a hallway in jud-
dered strides, nothing as vicious as a possessed
knight swinging his sword in the few frames of his
frenzied swing, and nothing better as message from
id to the rest of the FPS competition; that in this day
of motion-capture and self-indulgent animations,
less can still be more.
FELIX Friday 14 OCTOBER 2011 33
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk

