FELIX
36
TRAVEL
Travel Editors: Chris Richardson
Dushi Arumuganesan
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 14 OCTOBER 2011
Having been bitten by the travel bug severely
this summer, and with just enough time and
money (for once!), I wanted to book a holiday
somewhere remote and unexplored. I wanted
to discover the sights, sounds and smells of a
foreign land for myself without feeling obli-
gated to visit all the suggested attractions in a
travel guide. However, after realising a return
flight to anywhere “remote and unexplored”
would involve spending at least a month’s rent,
I felt that ignoring Ryanair’s mid-season sale
would just be cutting off my nose to spite my
face – a city break in Berlin it was.
Consulting my Berlin RoughGuide mere
minutes after landing at Schonefeld airport (a
good ten miles or so away from the actual ter-
minal, but who cares about that when you’ve
landed on “yet another on-time flight” as I was
informed by the spectacularly cringe worthy
Ryanair jingle), I was struck by how much like
hard work this holiday was going to be, if we
were going to fit in all the must-sees/eats/dos -
and at times it was. Yes, I had a great time, but
were there sights I wish I hadn’t wasted time
on? Definitely. So here is what I would limit my
efforts on were I to re-do my time in Berlin, in
Wishing You Were Here
Travel tales wanted!
Calling all pretentious gap yahs and casual back-
packers! Been travelling this summer? Felix Travel
wants the lowdown on all your adventures. If you
have anything – whether it’s a hilarious anecdote
or helpful destination guide – send it to us now at
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
sculptures, posters and jewellery. Finally, the
East Side Gallery - a long stretch of what is left
of the Berlin wall that has been painted with
politically themed murals - is categorically
worth a small detour to East Berlin.
Now, the way I’ve tailored my second day
may not appeal to everyone - but as a huge his-
tory buff, I couldn’t help but dedicate a serious
amount of time to the remnants of World War
II in the city where it all began. The best way
to see historical Berlin is a walking tour, and
I would recommend the Original Berlin Walks
Third Reich Sites Tour (www.berlinwalks.de).
The English-speaking tour guide knew every
detail of every story of every site we visited so
well that not only did I barely notice three hours
go by, but I felt like I’d absorbed as much infor-
mation in that space of time as I had all year at
university. Following up this walking tour with
an afternoon at the Sachsenhausen concentra-
tion camp just outside of Berlin completed an
enlightening and exceptionally poignant day.
The final day of any holiday always ought
to be the most relaxed. The beautiful Schloss
Charlottenburg, the largest palace in Berlin, is
set in absolutely stunning grounds and backs
onto the Schlosspark: “a perfect place to re-
lax in the summer”. Within the palace itself,
you can take an audio-guided tour through the
rooms. If you find you still have time left af-
ter exploring this magnificently restored 17th
century structure, or even if you’d rather spend
your last day engaging in less intellectually de-
manding activities (i.e. you save the last day to
shop like me) and it happens to be a Sunday
then make time to pay a visit to the Mauerpakt
flea market in Prenzlauer Berg. It’s a market
you could spend hours meandering around,
with amazing finds in almost every stall - an
excellent place to spend your last euros. Lastly,
if you are able to jump through the necessary
hoops to land yourself on the list of permitted
visitors to the Reichstag then certainly do so -
but don’t sweat it if you can’t.
I’ve saved the “eats” for last. While in Ber-
lin, we discovered possibly the best frozen yo-
ghurt in the world. If you do not visit Berlin
for any other reason, then stop there just for
Wonderpots, please. I could have spent hours
sampling the many flavours and toppings avail-
able at this kitsch frozen-yoghurt café situated
on Friedrichstrasse, the metropolitan hub of
the city. There was one aspect of Berlin that all
the planning in the world could not have made
up for though - the currywurst. Even before I
tried it, I had trouble understanding the appeal
of the concept itself (seriously: frankfurters,
curry powder and ketchup?) and perhaps my
culinary-inclined mind had raised my hopes too
high for this German delicacy; excellent post-
night-out kebab substitute maybe, but nothing
much else.
“A perfect place to relax
in the summer”
Dushi Arumuganesan
A long weekend of artistic pleasures and historical
delights: the perfect European city getaway
Bustling in vibrant Berlin
What’s in it for you?
This year the Felix Travel team are going to work
with writers to get you more freebies on the road:
gain some writing experience over the year and
we’ll show you how to go about approaching com-
panies with writing proposals that’ll heighten your
backpacking experience. We’ve been reaping the
rewards for a while, and are now we’re ready to
share the secrets. So go on, get writing!
‘Illuminated Berline Dome’ by Michael Sohn
The only guy in town to show up to Holocaust memorial day in fancy dress...
order to have a perfect (but probably culturally
ignorant) three days.
Berlin is famed for its many (read: over 150)
museums. Even after having narrowed that
list down to about ten, we struggled. My feet
almost died and I developed a temporary dis-
taste for any form of culture put on show. In
hindsight, if I could only visit one museum,
I’d make it the Hamburger Bahnhof. This is
an especially good tip for any museum-phobe
out there. It’s a converted railway station now
used to exhibit contemporary art, but you really
do forget that you’re in a museum and not the
old station as it was. I found myself spending
as much time studying the infrastructure of the
building as I did the art itself. The massive steel
arches that hail you at the entrance, the cavern-
ous rooms, and the underground passages - all
of these lend an uncanny eeriness to some al-
ready eccentric and extraordinary displays of
art, many of which are in video or audio form.
Making your way around this entire building
would make for an agreeable half day at least,
if not longer for the keener art fan. In a creative
mindset upon exit, I then headed to the Tache-
les, an ex-Nazi prison. The building has been
taken over by a group of artists since the fall of
the Berlin wall and has been painted over on all
possible surfaces with an impressive array of
artwork. Within the building, artists hold work-
shops and sales of their work which include

