numerous papaya trees or helping to prepare food
for the children - but we also got to interact with
the kids: playing with them and learning about
the circumstances they live in and how Ombeyi is
trying to better their lives by improving nutrition.
Special mention MUST be given to our trans-
port, which can only be described as the most
pimped out matatu (mini-bus) Kenya has ever
seen. Clad in black and purple leather and featur-
ing UV lighting to set off the neon interior, it’s fair
to say we travelled in style.
HOVIC (Hope for Victoria’s Children) is a drop
in centre for teenage boys who, for one reason
or another, have found themselves living on the
street. This project certainly proved to be hard-
hitting and many of the KOP volunteers (myself
included) were taken aback by the level of pov-
erty which these young boys were facing. It was
clear that the work going on at HOVIC was both
effective and critical, giving teenage boys a roof
over their heads, but more importantly trying to
get them back to their families and back to school.
The boys also received lessons in maths, English,
Swahili and life-skills during their time spent at
HOVIC, making the transition to school signifi-
cantly easier.
Having chatted to the guys at HOVIC (whose
ages range from 8-16) we were able to hear about
the reasons which led them to live on the streets,
and also their plans for when they left HOVIC.
The experience of HOVIC was inspiring, but also
somewhat saddening; the genuine enthusiasm
and kindness of these boys made it easy to for-
get the fact that many of them came from back-
grounds of drug addiction, glue sniffing (which
is very common in Kisumu) and domestic abuse
and that many of them were suffering from dis-
eases such as malaria and even HIV. As clichéd
as it may sound, HOVIC has remained a key re-
minder of why KOP exists, to tackle the issues
of education, nutrition and healthcare for some of
Kenya’s poorest children. Of course it wasn’t all
doom and gloom at HOVIC. We were kept busy
CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX Friday 14 OCTOBER 2011 37
Matrices and monkeys
David Clarke reports on the Kenyan Orphan Project
Fellwanderers Freshers
Early on Sunday morning, more than 70 sleepy fresh-
ers made their way to Victoria and began to congre-
gate around the Fellwanderers banner which was
proudly flying between two poles. Once everyone had
purchased their tickets and handed them to Heather,
our responsible adult, we made our way to the plat-
form. The group’s size quickly became evident, much
to the dismay of the ticket collectors - who promptly
opened the gates and waved us through without much
question.
We settled on the train and prepared ourselves for
the journey ahead with (hopefully) everyone informed
of which station we would need to change at. Typical
train journey conversations began with quick introduc-
tions and the standard “Name/Course/Halls” ques-
tions, followed shortly by a comparison of hangovers
amongst some of the committee members. We had
a short wait at Lewes where much coffee was con-
sumed after reports of “delicious coffee and hideous-
ly good service”. It was indeed hideously good.
We arrived in Seaford and while the few who had
forgotten to bring packed lunches got things from the
highly convenient Morrisions, the first Fail of the year
was had by James and I who went to look at the sea
and were lured in by deceivingly small waves and then
caught out by a big one. We should have known bet-
ter, and suffered the consequences of soggy feet for
the rest of the day.
We then made a start on the walk itself which large-
ly uneventful before lunch. The educated amongst you
will know that preparing pasta in advance of a trip is
always better than squished sandwiches and is best
served with beer and preferably on a cliff looking out
to the sea and blue-ish skies. Some of us had all 3.
After lunch, we continued our walk across the sis-
ters, and most of us stopped at the pub conveniently
located in the middle, where we able to witness a
frantic phone conversation between a table in the pub
and the top of the next hill (ooops).
Finally, about an hour ahead of usual schedule we
arrived in Eastbourne and regrouped again to organ-
ise fish & chips. We were led to the “best fish & chips
in Eastbourne” by Nathaniel. It was also the only one
open - coincidence? It took rather a long time for ev-
erybody to be served, but we were soon all munching
on our well earned dinners.
Unlike many previous years, trains were actually run-
ning from Eastbourne and this Sunday walk was de-
void of dreaded bus replacement services. The jour-
ney home was much quieter, and while many took the
chance for a quick nap, there were some evaluations
made of the trip too. The general consensus amongst
the new members was that the trip was a “success”
and “good”, however one not-so-satisfied newbie did
state “Beachy Head wasn’t all it was cracked up to
be”.
If you want to join us on a trip, either just for the
day or for one of our weekend trips then come and
meet us in Beit Quad where we meet every Tuesday at
lunchtime. Always feel free to email fellwa@imperial.
ac.uk to find out more! Simon Evans
Nathaniel Bottrell
by the guys and I would no sooner have finished
one conversation when I would find myself being
forced into another game of checkers…or having
my shoes stolen! After three days it was time to
leave for the final project, Oasis of Hope.
This project is one which KOP has been in-
volved in right from the beginning and it is amaz-
ing to see how the school has been transformed.
One of the issues at the school is the fact that they
are unable to provide free meals for the students
(most of the pupils are unable to afford 20p for
lunch) and this is something which KOP is plan-
ning to address in the future.
I don’t want to say that this was a once in a
lifetime experience because I have every inten-
tion of returning to Kenya with KOP again next
summer. Instead I would say the experience
was life altering. People have since asked me so
many questions about my trip: “Did you go out
and save the world?” Well, no, but that was never
our intention. There were no empty promises of
building a town, or curing world hunger in a fort-
night. These things take time, I was just glad to
have the opportunity to be involved in the slow
process of improving the quality of life for the
people of Kisumu. With KOP I managed to make
a real contribution to the development of many
children’s and at the same time I got to meet new
people who have now become close friends, both
in Kenya and from the other university students.
So whether you feel like you want to experience
a new culture, just do something different with
your summer, or if you’re still sceptical about this
sort of charity I would say one thing - just try it
and see. It’s a chance to make a difference to the
lives of people who really need it the most. All
in all, I really couldn’t have asked for much more
from a two week trip. But why would you take
my word for it? The only way to really get what
I’m talking about is to experience it for yourself...
and you can always thank me later!
KOP will be holding a Meet and Greet in room
119 in SAF (up the main stairs) on Thursday 20th
Oct at 7pm. There will be a chance to meet the
committee and other KOP members, find out
what’s planned for the year ahead and ask any
questions. There will also be free pizza and wine!
A more formal presentation on the Student Sum-
mer Programme will follow in the coming weeks.
Email cag-kop@imperial.ac.uk for more info.
H
ave you ever had the chance
to stand in front of a class of 40
wide-eyed Kenyan children and
attempted to teach them about ma-
trices? Have you ever rocked out
with a group of Luo tribeswoman, or been mauled
by a velvet monkey? If you had told me a year
ago by now I would have experienced all these
events I would honestly have called you insane.
Yet last July, I somehow found myself on a plane
to Nairobi with 10 other students, ready to take
part in the Kenyan Orphan Project (KOP) sum-
mer programme.
I first heard about KOP at the Fresher’s Fair last
October and to be honest I was slightly sceptical
to begin with. Remnants of conversations with
friends about their time spent on a “spiritual, cul-
tural, political exchange thing” during their Gap-
Yah had made me question the effectiveness of
projects like this one but I thought “Why not?”
and so signed up to attend the first meeting. If I
liked what I heard, then great and if not, well, at
least there were free Hummingbird Cakes.
Throughout the following year I found my-
self in the middle of a mad fundraising effort to
achieve our group target of over £8000. After a
year we eventually gathered together the required
amount and so the KOP summer team were ready
to pack their bags (full of Kit-Kats and Pringles in
some cases) and head out to Kisumu, eager to find
out what lay in store. By the time we had touched
down in Nairobi, I think it’s fair to say we were all
exhausted from travelling. Luckily for us it was
only an 8 hour journey to Kisumu… by coach…
Upon arrival at the Duke of Breeze hotel in
Kisumu we were introduced to the project lead-
ers: Marti, with a love of jokes about cheese; and
Shona, who had managed to find the only shop
in Kisumu which sold Irn-Bru. After a warm in-
troduction and a brief on each of the projects it
was time for a nice cold Tusker (or three) on the
amazing rooftop bar.
An early start followed by a cold shower set us
up for our first day at Ombeyi Feeding Centre, a
joint project between KOP and local NGO – the
Ogra Foundation. We arrived at the project and
were immediately introduced to the lively man-
ager Ada who quickly filled us in on the day’s
activities. Our time at Ombeyi was mainly spent
carrying out daily chores - such as watering the
“I have every intention of
returning to Kenya”

