FELIX
38
hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 14 October 2011
HANGMAN
Dear whoever invented
minimum spends,
I just want a pint (cos I’m a FUCKING LAD OI
OI TITS); I don’t want to have to buy a bunch
of crisps just to get the total cost up to £5.
‘Oh, but it costs us money to process your
card blah blah blah fuck off I’m trying to re-
write my CV and pretend I’m a politician in
Parliament.’ That’s probably what the Union
will say. Well, yeah, good point, but I’m fairly
sure that overall the profit you are making
on the alcohol will offset the cost of the card
processing – which, by the way, I still think is
either non-existent or is not much.
To Do List ...
1) Fuck Bitches
2) Get Money. Not necessarily in
that order.
3) Stop listening to rap music
4) Stop having danger wanks in labs,
the added risk of chemical burns in
unsavoury areas doesn’t add much
danger.
5) Start having danger wanks in
lectures.
6) Start writing less misogynistic
pieces
Dear smug guy who says he
‘understood that lecture’,
Hey, we don’t give a fuck. Oh, I guess you wrote
that textbook in the library too huh? Newsflash
dickcheese, I bet you don’t understand how to
not be a prick, or how to get laid.
Dear whoever locks Queen’s
Gate,
StopfuckinglockingQueen’sGateatnight.Why
are you doing this anyway? Is this supposed to
keep out would-be burglars? Guess what shit-
face, the other side is like the arse of a woman
who only does anal: it’s a massive gaping hole.
Do you honestly think that nobody can possi-
bly come up with the brilliant plan of walking
to the other side? If you do, you are a moron. All
you’re doing is pissing me off by mildly incon-
veniencing me for no particular reason.
Dear Library,
Those computers with the really high chairs are weird
to sit at. Your knees hit the wall, the keyboards are
too low, the chairs are odd, and this sentence has an
Oxford comma on it. What? I don’t just swear you
know. I fucking know shit too.
P.S. The tables in the Group Study space are absurdly
low. We tall, beautiful Caucasians are finding that
our rounded, beautiful Caucasian knees barely fit un-
derneath them! It’s ok, I’ll just put the seat down...
For fuck’s sake, the seats don’t go down! That’s it,
I’m moving to your mum’s house. Let’s see what she
thinks. Oh wait she’s here, she doesn’t mind. Then
again, her knees are fucked anyway. BOOM!
Dear Library,
Why the fuck have you started giving out
receipts at the library café again? Nobody
wants or needs them; they just piss us off and
make it slightly more awkward to get change.
Oh, and they also hold up the queue slightly,
my luke-warm jacket potato just gets colder.
If someone wants a receipt, they shouldn’t
get one on the grounds of them being a mas-
sive cunt.
Dear Union,
Either put a new cash machine in the union
or take away the minimum spend to pay
on your card. I can’t be arsed to go to the
Sherfield building to get money out. I heard
that apparently the Union are working with
banks to try to get one that is free of charge.
Wait, so they want to put in one that charg-
es me to withdraw my own money? What
the fuck? That’s just absurd. Getting a free
of charge cash machine, you know, just like
pretty much every single other cash ma-
chine in the entire London area is not an im-
pressive feat. It’s barely even a feat.
Drunken mate of
the week
It’s made a glorious return. Keep
sending them in. If you don’t we
will go through ALL of your Face-
book pictures, and then send the
worst to your mum.
Cheers Nick, now go back to Dave
The Hangman Notice Board

