HANGMAN
FELIX Friday 14 October 2011 39
Horoscopes
Scorpio
You spend your week peeving off your
tutorial group, again. Fine, you might
be on the blob, but this has been going
on waaaaaay too long. Never trust
something that bleeds for 7 days and
doesn’t die. If you’ve got issues, fuck
off home. You’re not welcome here.
Aries
You have a danger wank in halls: as
you’re about to reach climax, you
unlock your bedroom door and scream
“HELP!!” You furiously try and finish
off before anyone arrives, full-screening
YouPorn... only for your sub-warden to
get there in record time. Whoops?
Taurus
After a tiring Fresher’s Week, you’ve
enjoyed winding down these last few
days. You’re having some macaroons
and tea, reading Hello magazine. It’s
bliss, pure heaven. You hear a cry. You
run. You get covered in white, gooey
cum. FUCKING FRESHERS!!!!!!!
Gemini
Go fuck yourself. That’s right. Go fuck
yourself. I may have serious anger man-
agement issues, I may be fucked up.
These horoscopes might just be a form
of therapy, I dunno. But just go fuck
yourself. I JUST WANT ALL YOU
PRAT-FACED CUNTS TO FUCK OFF.
Cancer
You actually gave a public BJ in Reyn-
olds bar on Friday. I’m not making this
shit up. If only we’d got hold of the
goddam pics we’d have had a better
front page. Please, please, please send
us the evidence!!!!! Or come to Felix
and give us all BJs. Whatever works.
Leo
You get a nosejob this week. You stupid,
stupid dunderheaded prat. Err, hello??
That should have been a BOOB JOB!!!!
It didn’t work out for Wacko Jacko, it
hasn’t worked out for you. I’m still
not going to be able to motorboat you
or get that tit wank. Fuck, fuck, fuck.
Virgo
You’re like a vuvuzela: loud, obnoxious,
and unwelcome in open public spaces...
...yeh, that’s right. Horoscopes just went
highbrow bitches... what?
...Not happy? See Gemini for response.
Libra
You just spent £4000 on a spanking new,
super-duper HD amazing 2 million pixel
TV. Ahhhh, the satisfaction of knowing
your evening will be spent watching
Avatar and drinking Belvedere. But
what’s this? There’s a white dot on the
screen... noo! Rot in hell, broken pixel.
Sagittarius
The Freshers have settled in. You’ve as-
sessed their merits – tit size, smuttiness,
lips. It’s time to act. You invite some lus-
cious virgins to yours. You tie them up
and make them watch as you furiously
masturbate to Schindler’s List, using
whisky as a lubricant. It stings visciously.
Capricorn
Alas, girls tits are still overwhemingly
under-sized. What to do? Ah, yes. A
good old solo sex game. There’s nothing
quite like the thrill of starving yourself
of oxygen, is there? Auto-erotic
asphyxiation, you LOVE it. You’re
found dead in your room Monday.
Aquarius
As if Business School students weren’t
cuntish enough, you’ve been given
an iPad to improve your “synergy
and work flow through appropriate
channels.” What total bollocks. All
it means is you’re gonna be playing
Angry Birds 24/7. You sad prick.
Pisces
Your Blackberry didn’t work this week.
That’s what you get for having a phone
owned mostly by weed-smoking chavs
and coke-snorting bankers. The total
arse-crap being shared over BBM sent
the whole thing into overdrive. Turn it
off, go outside, see some people. Pint?
DRUNKEN MATES OF THE WEEK
You call THAT deep-throating? I’ll show you ...
Come on I’m offering up the goods here. Why are
there no takers. It’s Freshers’ Week! Please!
Hangman’s Finest College News Source
the turnip
Student stuck in hypothetical
situation
Doctors describe his condition as “possible”
The situation is not the same as
the one pictured.
A second-year studying EEE has been
in a comatose state since last Friday
after thinking about a situation involv-
ing himself with a box of matches, two
bottles of overproof rum and a particu-
larly awful lecturer. Complications only
arose when his hypothetical self began
fantasising about being at the Fresher’s
Ball wearing a silly hat loitering outside
the toilets, at which point a deafening
Inception-style “BWOOOOONG” was
heard throughout Beit Quad, briefly in-
terrupting the consumption of terrible
beer and snakebites. Partygoers shortly
resumed festivities but for the EEE stu-
dent the clock struck twelve rather too
early at the Ball as his brain said “kthx-
bye” and collapsed.
His position will, like Schrodinger’s
cat, undoubtable spawn many thought
experiments. Much like the aforemen-
tioned cat, they will mainly be used by
pricks in Shoreditch in a misguided at-
tempt to look clever.
Leonardo DiCaprio denies any in-
volvement in the incident, the slimy git.
THE NEWS WITHOUT THE NEWS
This was suggested for drunken mate of the week.
Yes, that is an ethernet cable. Yes, this is proof that
we go to Imperial. Better next time please.
Racism makes your penis thiiis big, hello
ladies says repressed homosexual

