5
FELIX Friday 14 october 2011
NEWS
UCL to introduce ‘grade point average’
As the honours system is scrapped, Felix asks whether Imperial could follow suit
University College London is to scrap the
widely used honours system, where stu-
dents are awarded a first, 2:1, 2:2 or third
at the end of their degrees, and move
towards US style Grade Point Averages
(GPA). UCL Provost Professor Malcolm
Grant last week told The Telegraph that
“award inflation over the past three de-
cades has led to student performance be-
ing essentially recognised by classifica-
tion into only two main groups: first class
and upper second class honours.” He
called the system “crude and undistin-
guished” and said that the changes would
“ensure that our students’ mode of study
is internationally recognised”.
In the US, GPAsystem students receive
letter grades, each with associated nu-
merical values. The final grade for their
degree is the average of the numerical
values of the grades that they received
over the course of their studies. It is
petitiveness on the international arena,
which is unfamiliar with the British
system, Heath responded that he feared
this effect might be outweighed by an
increase in competitiveness between
students on a course, resulting in a cor-
responding decrease in cooperation. The
August survey indicated that students
were opposed to any system that ranks
graduates within their class for the same
reason. The ‘White Paper Response’
quotes a student as saying that they think
that “a ranking would be a bad idea as
people would no longer work together,
but against each other.”
the publication of either a percentage
or a year-position, either along with, or
instead of a degree class”, especially in
Mathematics where “due to the preci-
sion of the discipline, [one is] able to rely
heavily on the accuracy of ... individual
marks”. He conveyed his view that while
“very few academics believe the current
scheme of degree classification makes
much sense ... many are reluctant to tin-
ker with a system which works tolerably
mately 67% when taking into account the
unique classification of medics, a figure
that is average for the Russell Group.
Dr Kogelbaur has explained that 92%
of Chemical Engineering’s graduates
receiving a first or 2:1 is a result of im-
provements in the quality of student in-
take and teaching. This was supported
by Heath and Parmar, who praised the
quality of communication between stu-
dents and staff in the department. Dr Luc
Vandeperre, Materials Senior Tutor, has
attributed the five year-on-year increases
in the proportion of firsts and 2:1s award-
ed by his Department (it went up from
69% in 2010 to 72% in 2011) to hard
work by students and admissions tutors
who “have been attracting increasingly
better prepared students”.
Dr Vandeperre is also sceptical about
“how a grade point average would be
better at combating grade inflation”. This
is a sentiment shared by Professor Mestel
who says that “the key question is does
75% this year correspond to 75% next
year?”
Opinion about Grade Point Average
system is clearly divided. However, as
Professor Mestel reminds us, “such mat-
ters are usually decided at College level”
and there are no indications that the Col-
lege is likely to abandon the honours
system any time soon. It is also worth
remembering Dr Kogelbaur’s belief that
“by rushing things students would be dis-
advantaged”.
common that, in addition to this, a fixed
percentage of highest scoring students re-
ceive honours such as summa cum laude.
The exact form of UCL’s new degree
classification is as of yet unknown but
the UCL Council’s ‘White Paper 2011-
2021’, which “outlines a vision and strat-
egy for UCL for the coming 10 years”,
states it “will be distinctive, and will be
developed in such a way as to enable the
GPA score for each student to be gener-
ated automatically from existing percent-
age-based assessment scores.”
The idea of following in UCL’s foot-
steps, however, is not popular with the
College’s students, according to a re-
cent survey. Imperial College Union’s
‘Response to the 2011 [Government]
Higher Education White Paper’, written
by Union President Scott Heath, Deputy
President (Education) Jason Parmar and
Representation Coordinator Andrew
Keenan, notes that a student survey con-
ducted by the Union thisAugust indicates
that the current honours system is gener-
ally supported by students. The survey,
however, also indicates that the system
“was of decreasing popularity as cohorts
progressed, with final year, masters and
PhD students being least supportive.” A
third year UK student is quoted as say-
ing that “all firsts were not created equal;
an employer cannot know which first is a
good first and which is not.”
Asked whether a Grade Point Average
system might improve graduates’ com-
“An employer cannot
know which first is a
good first”
ed that introducing a GPA system would
remove the need to make difficult deci-
sions about what degree to award stu-
dents who are on the boundary between
two honours - a “process that is not [en-
tirely] objective”.
He dismissed fears about increased
competitiveness by pointing out that Im-
perial degree programs are already very
competitive and that the effect of this is
offset by labs and projects that emphasise
teamwork. He also rejected Jason Par-
mar’s concerns that unless most of the
Universities in the UK adopted the new
system at once those who abandoned
honours would be at a disadvantage as a
result of confused employers. Dr Kogel-
baur said that he believed that Imperial’s
“brand” was strong enough for people
to appreciate its degrees regardless of
the system. He believes that the College
“could go it alone” as long as it published
data on how many graduates got what
percentages. This would be to compen-
sate for Imperial’s courses often being
more difficult than other institutions’,
which often results in lower marks.
Professor Jonathan Mestel, Director
of Undergraduate Studies in the Depart-
ment of Mathematics, agrees with many
of Dr Kogelbaur’s points. He says that
“for a scientific institution in particular,
the degree classification system, with its
deliberate reduction of experimental ac-
curacy, is very strange.” He expressed a
personal “sympathy with any drive for
University College London’s new proposals have seen support from some academics at Imperial
University College London
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Imperial academics, however, are more
open to changes in the system. Speak-
ing in a personal capacity, the Chemical
Engineering Senior Tutor, Dr. Andreas
Kogelbauer, agreed with UCL’s Profes-
sor Grant, claiming that the current sys-
tem is crude. He pointed to the massive
difference between a 2:1 degree where a
student achieved 61% and one where the
student achieved 69%. He also highlight-
well, and which employers understand.”
All parties, however, agree that grade
inflation, one of UCL’s main reasons for
the change, is not a problem at Imperial.
Scott Heath has said that he firmly be-
lieves that Imperial is greatly concerned
with its academic reputation and as a
result strives to ensure that the require-
ments for achieving a particular degree
class are the same each year. He also
pointed out that The Telegraph article
about the UCL change was not entirely
correct regarding its statement that 80%
of Imperial College degrees awarded last
year were firsts and 2:1s. Heath claims
instead that the actual figure is approxi-
“Very few academics
believe the current
system makes much
sense”
“Such matters are
usually decided at
College level”
Maciej Matuszewski

