6
In Brief
RCSU President kidnapped
At 11:45 on Wednesday morning Luke Kanczes
(above), the Royal College of Science Union (RCSU)
president, mysteriously went missing. He was seen
locked in a hockey storeroom and being paraded
around the quad before disappearing into the dun-
geons of the East Basement. It is believed that a
crack team of Raising and Giving (RAG) members, or
‘RAG-gers’, carried this out, bagging and tying him
up and quickly removing him from the premises be-
fore security could do anything about it.
RAG subsequently released a statement, reading:
“Luke Kanczes, the RCSU president went missing
at some point on Wednesday October 12. A ransom
demand was made and RCSU, unlike the medics,
won’t try and steal him back at a later charity event.”
RCSU donated the profits from their Autumn Ball,
– in excess of £200 – and the RCSU exec will put a
team forward for LOST, an event where students are
left in mysterious locations and have to hitchhike
back to college, which will be held on November 5.
It is as yet unknown if Kanczes has been freed
from his predicament.
Jack Hewitt
FELIX
NEWS
Friday 14 OCTOBER 2011
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
With less than a month before the online peti-
tion concerning Babar Ahmad closes, his sister
Amna spoke to Felix about her brother’s expe-
rience. For the past seven years, Babar Ahmad
has been in prison fighting extradition to the
United States. The current petition, launched
two months ago, calls on the UK Government
to put him on trial in the UK.
Babar Ahmad, a British citizen, studied engi-
neering as an undergraduate at Imperial, before
moving on to an IT support role at the college.
In 2003, he was arrested under UK anti-terror
legislation, but released after six days without
charge. During his brief time in prison he sus-
tained multiple injuries from the officers who
held him in custody. A year later, the United
States filed a request for his extradition (under
the controversial Extradition Act 2003) and he
was re-arrested. Since then, he has remained in
prison, challenging his impending extradition
to the US.
Babar Ahmad’s sister Amna fears that if he
is extradited to the US, he will face a life in
solitary confinement in a maximum-security
prison. She says he wants to be tried in Britain
as a British citizen and “does not understand
why he needs to go to the US”. Amna believes
that once the UK authorities realized they
could not prosecute Babar, they asked the US
to initiate proceedings against him instead. She
claims the reason for this is that if Babar was
tried in the UK, “it would expose embarrass-
ing details of the way the Police treated him …
and collusion between UK and US authorities
in relation to his case”.
ing to provide evidence (there is no reciprocal
arrangement for the UK to extradite American
citizens).
Amna Ahmad argues that “extradition is for
fugitives who commit a crime in one country
and run away to another country. [Babar Ah-
mad] has never lived or worked in the US, and
even the US acknowledges that all the allega-
tions against him took place whilst he was liv-
ing and working in the UK. If the material was
collected from the UK and the alleged offences
are said to have occurred in the UK then he
should face trial in the UK, in front of a jury
of his peers.”
Babar Ahmad’s supporters have launched a
petition, urging the Government to allow him
to stand trial in the UK. So far, the petition
has received 23,000 signatures. If this number
reaches 100,000, the Government is required
to debate it in Parliament. Amna says “it will
send a strong signal to the British Government
… that there is sufficient public support behind
our quest.” However, given the Government’s
reluctance so far to compromise on the issue,
the outcome of such a debate remains doubtful.
Nevertheless, Amna is closely involved
with the Free Babar Ahmad Campaign and
is actively engaged in promoting the online
petition. She believes it is “shocking that our
Government can hold a man without trial for
over 7 years” and that “uncertainty of fate is
a very difficult thing for any human being to
deal with”.
Links to the petition and more information
on Babar Ahmad’s case can be found at http://
www.freebabarahmad.com/
Babar Ahmad ‘should face
trial in the UK’, says sister
Online petition aims to bring matter to Parliament debate
Aemun Reza
This year’s Silfest committee
Jack Hewitt
flickr/s_falkow
Amna Ahmad claims that a UK based trial would ‘expose’ details of police treatment
Navid Nabijou
Jezebel, fire engine and mascot of the Royal College
of Science Union, has now reached 50,000 miles
on the clock.
Jezebel is a 1916 Dennis N type fire engine with
a 1926 pump. The Royal College of Science Motor
Club (RCS Motor Club), consisting of past and cur-
rent students, have been undertaking maintenance
and repair of Jezebel since 1955 including an en-
gine rebuild in 2000 and repainting in 2004. She is
used on various college occasions including balls,
charity events and even a former Union President’s
wedding.
According to RCS Motor Club, Jezebel is “de-
signed to do one thousand miles a year” with the oil
requiring changing every 500 miles. She is thought
to have exceeded 50,000 miles whilst in Imperial’s
hands alone, despite the mileage reading on the
clock. Despite this, the figures mark a symbolic mo-
ment in Jezebel’s history.
Alex Nowbar
Fire engine Jezebel clocks up
50,000 miles
Babar Ahmad:
The story so far
December 2003
August 2004
January 2007
August 2011
10 November 2011
Babar Ahmad arrested on UK terror-
ism charges. He is released six days
later.
Re-arrested to be extradited to the
US.
European Court of Human Rights
intervenes at last moment to freeze
extraditial proceedings.
Online petition started.
Petition due to close.
Babar Ahmad’s case is just one episode in a
tale that has lasted over a decade. In the years
since the 9/11 attacks, a slew of anti-terror
legislation has been passed into law, by Gov-
ernments both here and in the US. Particularly
controversial elements of this legislation in-
clude the authorisation to make arrests without
evidence, to detain people indefinitely without
charge and to use extreme methods of torture
to obtain information.
Many argue that resorting to such illiberal
measures undermines the fundamental values
of our free society. One of these is the principle
of sovereignty: that a country cannot charge a
foreign national with an offence committed on
foreign soil, and it is in this respect that Babar
Ahmad’s case is unusual. The Extradition Act
2003 allows the US to extradite British citizens
for crimes committed in Britain, without hav-
“He should face trial in
front of his peers”

