FEATURE
9
FELIX Friday 14 october 2011
Interview: Eliza Manningham-Buller
Matt Colvin talks to the former MI5 Director General and current College Chair-
man about her role and the future of Imperial College
Features Editors: Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith
features.felix@gmail.com
L
ate September – it’s the
week before the beginning
of a new academic year. As
a new intake of students
prepare to acclimatise to
their new surroundings, a more expe-
rienced senior member of staff is also
preparing for the hardships of the year
ahead, as one should expect from some-
one in charge of the long and arduous
process of appointing the Rector. Sit-
ting across a table from someone with
such a varied career (teacher, Director
General of MI5, attendee to the House
of Lords) is at least a little intimidating
to begin with, especially since I have no
idea of the manner in which to address
a Baroness. Baroness Eliza Manning-
ham-Buller is keen to do away with any
such preconceptions almost instantly.
“It’s just Eliza,” she tells me as we are
introduced.
Eliza chairs the Council of Imperial
College London, following on from her
predecessor Lord Kerr. She took up the
post on July 16 and is the first woman
to hold the position of College Chair-
man. She is not entirely new to Imperi-
al, having been Deputy Chairman since
2009. Sitting in her office in the Faculty
Building, I aim to discover what her
role, and that of the College Council
itself, entails.
“Most students probably don’t know
that it exists,” Eliza begins; a perceived
wrong that she is without a doubt keen
to right. With responsibilities extending
far beyond the appointment of the Rec-
tor, including advising on College strat-
egy, finance and property, the Council
is not the sole responsibility of one, but
many.
“The Council is made up of several
individuals from different walks of
life, including business, investment,
the Civil Service and management,”
explains Eliza – it’s a list that includes
key figures from institutions such as the
Bank of England and companies such
as BP.
It is also a list that ultimately decides
upon who will take charge of the Coun-
cil, a process that Eliza doesn’t hesitate
to explain when asked about the path
she took to the position of Council
Chairman: “I applied through a formal
At the Council’s heart, Eliza explains
that it is their role to “help Imperial be
even better”. “Universities can’t be stat-
ic. The global world is changing, so stu-
dents are going to go, if they can afford
it. There should be no complacency;
we must continually seek to improve
everything, as it’s a competitive world
and people should be getting their mon-
ey’s worth. Complacency will mean our
downfall.”
It comes as no surprise that Eliza is
still very much in demand by various
institutions, and not only Imperial. In-
trigued as to how she simply finds the
time to fulfil all of her responsibilities,
including sitting in the House of Lords
and acting as a governor with the Well-
come Trust charity, she proceeds to lift
the veil on what was increasingly look-
ing like a professional juggling act:
“The Wellcome Trust takes about 60
days of the year. At Imperial, I found
the exposure to high-grade sciences and
research fascinating, so I had no hesita-
tion in joining the Council. In the House
of Lords I chair one committee while
sitting on two, and yet I still get time to
see my sheep! ”
ered against the impending rise in fees
– something that Eliza assures will be
considered with due attention. “We
need to monitor the situation carefully
and collect statistics on it. There’s no
point asserting that it’s all fine.” In a
similar vein, she is particularly keen to
highlight the benefits of Imperial’s new
bursary scheme, with up to a significant
£60,000 worth of support propelling
the university to the top of the Russell
Group in terms of financial aid avail-
able to students. “Financial support
and alumni contribution is a keen area
as it can help the students, strengthen
finances and aid ailing infrastructure,”
she explains, “It’s a big, long term job.”
“There are lots of external challenges,
but equally we’re constantly seeking
to be better – it’s a competitive world.
We’re going to become pretty vocifer-
ous, after all, we’re educating the next
generation of doctors, scientists, engi-
neers and business leaders.”
Reaching the end of our discussion,
we move to Eliza’s background as an
Oxford arts student, in particular ask-
ing whether she has any regrets not
reading science. “I loved Biology at
school,” she admits, “though my expe-
rience of science teaching was that it
was designed to put off all but the most
passionate – it was all petri dishes and
Bunsen burners; I never understood that
science was about discovery – now, it
excites me to no end!”
process after replying to an advertise-
ment in The Economist, so in addition,
there were external applicants. I was
interviewed by a subset of Council
members, and then a recommendation
followed.” Despite her current position,
she also mentions that it wasn’t some-
thing that she actively sought once she
originally joined the College, explain-
ing, “I never expected to seek [the posi-
tion] when I joined.”
Despite the already substantial cre-
dentials of the Council in its entirety,
Eliza is keen to appoint some new peo-
ple to be more representative of society
in its diversity: individuals “with inter-
national experience and cultural under-
standing.” Such experience is naturally
crucial towards the appointment of the
Rector, a process involving “drawing
up a job specification and headhunting
through an open process,” advising that
for an ideal candidate, ‘it’s central to be
approachable to students.”
“I never understood
that science was
about discovery –
now, it excites me to
no end!”
While others may still seek her ad-
vice, Eliza hopes to reaffirm new
bonds with Imperial College Union, “I
hope to keep in touch with the [Union]
President outside of Council meetings –
without a doubt there are voices to be
heard.” When I ask about Imperial’s lat-
est rankings in university league tables,
with the Sunday Times dropping Impe-
rial 11 places last month, she is quick
to assure me that “[league tables] can
be quite misleading. The real question
we have to ask ourselves is: are we as
good as we want to be? The answer will
almost always be no, therefore we will
almost always want to be better.”
It’s a question that must be consid-
Baronness Eliza Manningham-Buller
“There should be
no complacency;
we must continually
seek to improve ev-
erything”
Do you love to
write?
Why not write
a FEATURE?
Email us to
get involved.
Imperial College London

