F E L I X
LETTERS TO
THB EDITOR
REFECTORY LOSSES
9th November, 1950.
Sir - Hay I, through your paper, address four ques-
tions to the Refectory Committee?
(a) Do special dinners(i.e. club, Hall dinners,
etc.) pay their way?
(b) How many people are employed by the Refectory
and how are they distributed?
(c) Does the Refectory pay rent, gas, and electr-
icity b i l l s , water rates e t c ?
(d) Are provisions bought wholesale and at com-
petitive prices? Have we a competent and economic-
al buyer?
Perhaps the answers to these questions will
help us to understand why the Refectory has made
such a heavy loss during this last year.
Yours faithfully, Peter Rowe.
The Refectory Committee write (Nov. 15, 1950);-
The answers to Mr. Rowe's questions are briefly
as follows:-
(a) The prices charged for "special" dinners cover
the cost of food and overtime wages. If the Refec-
tory i s to pay i t s way, however, the food must not
cost more than half the price charged. In the past
the cost of food has been nearer 75% of this price.
(b) The total staff i s at present 45, distributed
as follows:- (i) management 4, (ii) Kitchen 14,
( i i i ) lower Dining Hall 12, (iv) Upper Dining Hall
8, (v) Snack Bar 7-
(c) Yes, a composite charge of £1,100 i s made for
"overheads" (which includes gas, light, water, heat,
•tc.) ;
(d) Yes, and the buying i s continuously under re-
view by the Manageress and Chef, both of whom have
long experience and useful contacts.
It may be noted that two firms of catering eon-
tractors, who recently investigated our buying and
staffing systems, were both of them unable to sugg-
est any but marginal alterations (most of which have
since been adopted).
Yours etc., J.F.Levy.
(Deputy Chairman, Refectory Committee
DINNER IN HALL
28th Nov.,1950.
Sir 7 Dinner in hall serves a very useful purpose i n
bringing together members of the College Staff and
students, who would not otherwise meet one another.
The time has come to enforce dinner in hall for
every member of I.e. a certain number of times each
session. Dinner in Hall shouls be served in Upper
Hall for, say, 3/- every night of the week except
Saturdays and Sundays and those nights on which Club
Dinners are held. Allowing for 4 nights a week, 30
weeks a session and 1500 members of I.e., every m
e
m
-
ber could attend 6 hall dinners a year without mak-
ing i t necessary for more than 100 to attend any ev-
ening. We feel that to ask everyone to attend 6
times a session, and to be charged irrespective of
his attendance would be acceptable to students and
enforcable by the College Authorities.
B.J.Swain, G.H.Morrell, G.P.Gilbert,
C.D.Allen, S.J.Williams.
Sir - After going to Dinner i n Hall on Tuesday 5th
December, I should like to make three suggestions
to the organisers of the Dinners.
(1) That College Societies, such as the Musical
Society last Tuesday and the Social Clubs Committee
on the 12th December, should not be allowed to swa-
mp a Hall Dinner. If they wish to hold a Dinner
of their own they are, presumably, perfectly at l i b -
erty to do so, but for 8o members.of one Society to
come en masse destroys one of the a ims of the i n s t i -
tution,, to enable people of differing opinions to
come into contact with one another.
(2) That members of Staff attending should be put
upon their honour not to "talk shop" at the Hall.
(3) That, i n any event, the number going to the
Hall Dinner should be restricted to, say, 60 people,
so that the numbers may be manageable.
Yours truly, Polypheme.
FAVOURITISM IN THE REFECTORY
7th Dec. ,1950.
Sir - Why i s i t that at a recent refectory supper
only S.Coppelman was served with boiled snail?
Many amonji us would appreciate this rare delicacy,
and I trust that your journal will use i t s influen-
ce to combat unfair discrimination of this kind.
Yours ete., 'ladignant Diner'
P R O F I L E - S A N T A CLAUS
Do you believe in Father Christmas? You, who have
cast off the cloak of adolescence - have you also
discarded your cynical disbelief i n this most real
of personalities?
The real Santa Claus must not be confused with
the fabulous red-coated, reindeer-drawn-sledge-driver,
the darling of Victorian romanticism, the joy of
childhood days. This conception probably came to
England from Germany about the time when our ties
with that country were particularly close. The
influence of 'Punch' and Victorian family l i f e did
the rest; and, before the close of the last century
the white bearded, generous old chap we a l l remember
was as firmly established i n England as the Albert
Memorial.
But the real Santa Claus was no myth. No snow-
fields for him. No sledges or reindeer. Saint
Nicholas was born at the end of the third century,
in blue-skied Lycia, beneath a Mediterranean sun.
Precocious and pious at early age, he grew up to be
an amiable sort of fellow; an ascetic, but not un-
possessed of that streak of earthiness so necessary
to the churchmen of those days. He became Thaumat-
urge (archbishop) of Myra, was a member of the Coun-
c i l of Nicea and performed sufficient generous and
saintly acts to be eventually canonized. His most
remarkable fact seems to have been the restoration
to l i f e of three children who had been regrettably
cut mp i n pieces and placed i n salting jars. For
this miraculous affair he i s remembered as the pat-
ron saint of children and paupers.
In 1087 some merchants removed his supposed re-
mains from the cathedral at Myra and re-interred them
in the church of San Nicola at Bari, in southern It-
aly. To that pleasant town on the Adriatic seaboard
thousands of pilgrims come each year to do him homage
and receive from the 'Manna of St. Nicholas'. His
generosity lives om: to pilgrims he dispenses cures
for a l l i l l s and to children at Christmas time he has
come t o be regarded as the bounteous f i l l e r of stock-
ings.
The earthy side of his nature i s presumably res-
ponsible for his being also the patron saint of rogues
of pawnbrokers, thieves, vagabonds, Russia, judges
and murderers; and, not least, he i s the patron saint
of scholars, so that no freshman hoping for a f i r s t ,
or a third year man praying for a pass can afford to
negleet him.
LUNCH-HOUR CONCERTS
C&G BOARD ROOM 115 THURSDAYS
II JAN FIRST THURSDAY OF TERM
ALAN LOVEDAY TRIO
IN A BRAHMS PROGRAMME
BEAVER CLUB
9th Dec.,1950.
Sir - We wish to bring to the notice of a l l eligible
members that the BEAVER CLUB i s now fully grown (see
Forthcoming Events).
It shows good promise of being an excellent
philanthropic, philosophic, philatelic, philological
and glass-philling society.
Your loving philtre, Phil. Awn.
SCOTCH MIST
8th Dec., 1950.
Sir - Your last issue of FELIX was marvellous...in
fact i t was so good that I auctioned i t for a bottle
of whisky. I feel personally gratefully to you,sir,
for that bottle of wonderful whisky which I keep
tasting.
I have never tasted such excellent whisky in my
l i f e , and I keep tasting i t . The whishky I got for
Christmas i s marvellous and I keep tashing i t and
how kind of you to get me thish wonderlous whichkey
for Xmaa whieh I keep tashing.
Its really really i t s moshkind of you to get
me thish whichkey which I keep tashing for Xmas and
tashing hie doc dickery dock.
What kind whishky ole man how ex thash ex trem-
ly marvelous to tash on Xmas you greatt fine ud tha
yhank you ole for extrextra extrem whwhaishy ininain
cashcase 6)4 you %®S% XXXX kisses kissmus & Xmu ( 1 %
ft*,
£olc opa ///...fluid MBchaNiczz;
CheerBI loo 00£/^8,
Yours (hie) faithfully, R.Rajau (Guilds).
P.S. I ahope thish hash Xmashy flavour..doc.hie.

