F E L I X
EDITORIAL
DINNER IN HALL
We regard Dinner in Hall as a very sound
institution: not only does i t provide us with
gastronorr.lcal pleasure at reasonable cost, but
also with a not too formal 'occasion' on which
we can meet new faces and an excellent opport-
unity to entertain guests in an atmosphere quite
different from the hurried clatter of the Lower
Hall. It enables us also to meet members of the
staff and talk with them on a more human level,
which Is perhaps the most important function of
Dinner in Hall in a mainly non-residential college.
A few facts and figures may be of interest.
This term there have been nine Hall Dinners, at
the average attendance nas ueen as follows:
Staff - 15.6, Students - 17.S, Guests - 18.2.
The fact immediately emerges that proportionately
fewer students than staff use the facilities aff-
orded by Tuesday Dinners in the Upper Hall. This
is a pity, but we are the losers i f we do not take
advantage of these occasions. One fact which is
not evident from the figures is that of the 155
students and 1S5 members of staff who dineiin Hall
this term, many were present on more than one occ-
asion, so that there remains an enormous number of
both students and staff who have never been to Hall •
Dinner. One of our letters on the page opposite
suggests that dining in Hall should be obligatory
to students once or twice each term.
Surely people £ould afford an extra pound
auring the year for six good dinners; but one
wonders i f enforced attendance would be desirable
or even practicable. In this connection i t is in-
teresting to note that at most Cambridge colleges
undergraduates (even those living in lodgings) are
allowed to dine out of college only once during the
week.
The I.C. Centenary Fund at present provides a
small subsidy to ensure that Hall Dinners pay their
may as far as the Refectory is concerned. That
being so, we evidently get good value for money and,
as students,we should require no further stimulus
to make the most of Dinner in Kail.
U N I V E R S I T Y
Mr. P.T.Walker of Chem. Tech. has joined the staff
of 'University' the new London newspaper. Any art-
icles, news items etc. for 'University' may be sent
to him c/o Union letter rack or by 'phone, Extension
245- Anyone wishing to assist in the production of
'University' should get in touch with Mr. Walker.
Members of the college willing to act as sales-
men of 'University' (9.30-10, Friday mornings,alter-
nating with FELIX) should get in touch with with the
Editors of Phoenix or FELIX.
EDITORIAL BOARD
The Editorial Board which has produced FELIX
this term has been composed as follows:
Editor: CM.Hargreaves; Advisory Editor: E.M.Hughes;
Sub-Editor: Marcus Hull; Sports Editor: J.W.Midgley;
Advertising Manager: J.M.C.Taylor; Sales Manager:
C.H.Barwise. Other members of the Board: Margaret
Evenett, Geoffrey Benson, P.G.Taylor, David Randall,
K.P.Eldridge.
Anyone wishing, to join the staff of FELIX should get
in touch with the Editor. No experience i s necess-
ary but enthusiam and a l i t t l e spare time (mostly at
week-ends) are useful qualifications.
FROM THE EVENING NEWS
"The driver of a motor coach carrying about 20
passengers was trapped in his smashed cabin...
"He was freed and taken to hospital with
cuts and bruises after his seat had been sawn
away."
T H E WIZARD OF GUILDS
On Monday 4th December, Prof. O.A.Saunders de-
lighted a large audience, nominally of the Radio
Society, with a lecture on "Magic". He was lectur-
ing without the small clock that i s a feature of
his other spare time lectures and which his audien-
ce had been hoping to see disappear in a puff of
smoke, and i t may have been the absence of t h i s mas-
cot that made his lecture less weighty than witty.
He dismissed as idle the speculations that he
had been invited to give this lecture because elec-
tricians could only regard the doings of mechanical
engineers as magic, and also that they merely wished
to know how to pass exams. After a brief history
of the origins of magic, and hinting that many old
superstitions may be quite reasonable, he went on to
give his views on modern conjuring - although he wa-
rned us that as a member of the Magic Circle he was
not allowed to give away any secrets, so that any-
thing he said should be taken with pinch of salt.
The Indian rope trick he considered quite feas-
ible; with a native audience, the sun in the right
place, a bit of trickery, mass hypnotism and the aid
of an agile small boy, i t was quite possible to make
an audience think they had seen something unnatural.
Walking on fire he thought was principally an examp-
le of the control of the mind over the body, and swo-
rd swallowing was just a matter of practice, though
hedid not know how one started; however, he recommen-
ded i t as vocation for our children in these days of
increasing Government restriction.
As regards modern conjuring tricks, the Dean con-
sidered that their merit was in inverse proportion
to the amount of mechanical apparatus required, hold-
ing that elaborate contrivances were more a credit to
their designers than to their operators, whereas t r i -
cks with b i l l i a r d balls and cards were a pleasure ev-
en for other magicians to watch - unless they were
playing on the other side. He emphasized the need
for a sensitive touch, in conjuring as well as in
dealing with fathers, quoting as an example the re-
moval of a man's braces without his knowledge -"de-
bagging de luxe". In spite of his Union rules, he
gave a useful hint on techique: a slap on one part
of a person's anatomy, will make them forget what
the other hand i s doing elsewhere. It seems that
a l l i s fair i n conjuring, also.However, the illusion
which most appealed to his audience was that of saw-
ing a woman in half; not only i s lady a contortion-
ist but she and the box can be hired at a reasonable
rate.
After stressing the need for a steady stream of
witticisms to accompany the act, Prof. Saunders end-
ed his lecture with the exhortation: "Roll up and
join the ranks of the wizards, and under the spell
of a cat's whisker put an end to examination blues!"
In the carefully prepared demonstration which he was
reluctantly persuaded to give after the lecture,he
performed two tricks: a very skilful piece of card
passing from the pocket of one gentleman to another,
and a thought-reading act with his secretary, Miss
Margaret Haley. (The implications of this are sha-
ttering). Naturally, everyone afterwards "knew how
i t was done, old boy", but few managed tc. agree; in
spite of his lecture everyone was looking at the wr-
ong thing at the wrong time - No, not you, Margaret,
sit down!.
JOYS OF SPRING
FELIX prints below an extract from 'A Mathemat-
i c a l Treatise on Vibrations i n Railway Bridges' by
CE.Inglis, which i s quoted in Timoshenko & Young -
'Advanced Dynamics'. It i s rumoured that attend-
ance next term at lectures on railway bridges may
have to be restricted to bona-fide students of civ-
i l engineering.
"...In this behaviour of the spring supported
mass, there i s something almost human; i t objects
to being rushed. If coaxed gently and not hurried
too much, i t responds with perfect docility but i f
urged to bestir itself at more than i t s normal gait
i t exhibits a mulish perversity of disposition.
Such movement as i t makes under this compulsion i s
always i n a retrogade direction, and the more i t i s
rushed the less i t condescends to move. On the
other hand i f i t i s stimulated with i t s own natur-
al inborn frequency, i t plays up with an exuberance
of spirit which may be very embarasslng."
MARCH OF TIME ,
The Dean of the City and Guilds College i s anxious
to trace the stranger who walked into the Guilds
Mech. Lab. having mistaken i t for the Science Mus-
eum. After inspecting the machinery, he left, re-
marking: "They don't seem to have any modern stuff
here
"' <u&>~

