FELIX 5
ARMS & T H E MAN
Under the familiar eloak of Shavian cynicism
is portayed an ideal of a man, practical in peace
and free from the illusions of the glory of war;
but unlike that other thoughtful hero, of whom Nat-
ure could stand up to a l l the world and say:"This
was a man", Captain Bluntschli had endearing f a i l -
ings. He was activated by self-preservation and
interest, rather than by the lofty motives of an
idealist.
For four glorious nights, after surviving the
Hades of Miners' Night, the LUDS entertained us
with a superb,-if somewhat overacted, melodrama,
against which the original Shaw lacked lustre. No
sooner had the curtain gone up than '
w
e were capt-
ivated by Beryl Bailey's bouncing brows and were
held spellbound by these active accessories to the
end; while to those not given to falling i n love
with the heroine at f i r s t sight was the compensa-
tion of Eaina's confident ability and nice sense
of timing. Clifford Hose gave a complete and sin-
cere portayal of the most lovable 'Chocolate Cream
Soldier', adeptly serious with himself while laugh-
ing at everyone else.
The rest of the highly commendable cast played
well and amusingly together. How we hated the ob-
sequious Nikola; though he must learn what a butler
does with his hands; pitied the muddle-headed Pet-
koff, and guffawed at the drollery of Sergius, that
bewildered victim of love. Miss Morgan made a
very solicitous mother, but must be more subtle i n
her change of expression, while Miss Edwards flirted
convincingly when she forgot her otherwise woodenly
forward pose.
The interest of the audience was so held that
not one in ten could say what scenery there was; but
it was such that i t blended well with the spirit of
the performance.
Thank you, LUDS, for a most exciting production.
(An appraisal of the production has already appeared
in 'University'; a further critique will appear in
the next Phoenix, published at the beginning of next
term).
MINES DANCE
Begun three years ago as an experiment, the Mines1
Dance soon established itself as an annual Event;
a social Occasion at which students and staff could
meet and a i r their dinner jackets, and introduce
their guests into the friendly atmosphere of the
Eoyal School of Mines.
This year's Dance, held on ¥/ednesday 6th, was
no exception to the usual high standard. After the
usual i n i t i a l difficulty in prising couples away from
the f ire i n the entrance hall and persuading them
that the gym was quite warm really, things went with
a swing. Our thanks are due to the refectory for an
excellent Buffet, the bar for the excellent beer, and
to J.Mackay and his helpers, to whom the smooth run-
ning of the evening and the seasonal decoration of the
hall were due.
IMPERIAL COLLEGE CHESS CLUB
MATCH RESULTS: Played, 8; Won, 7; Lost, 1.
INDIVIDUAL CHAMPIONSHIP CUP 1949-50: Won by Julian
Cook (HCS, Physics P
.
~
G
.
) who i s this year's
University Chess Captain.
LIGHTNING TOURNAMENT: Tie for first place between
M.J.Smith (RCS) and A.Naysmith ( RCS).
I.C. CONTRACT BRIDGE CLUB
FRIENDLY MATCHES: I.C. v. G.E.C. (pairs) - Won 23-13-
I.C. v. May & Baker (teams of 4) - Match drawn.
I.C. v. U.C. (pairs) - Match drawn.
I.C. v. G.E.C. (teams of 4) - Won by 3000 pointI
HOSPITAL & COLLEGES CUP:
I.C. ('A') v. U.S. C O - Won by 5000 points.
COMING E V E N T S
FRIDAY %M 15 DEC.
Beaver's Club - meeting in Union bar, 6.30.
R.C.S. Carnival -'Fairground Frolics'. I.C. Unton,
9.00pm - 4.oo am.
Tuesday 9 Jan.
Lent Term begins.
A C I S & G A L A T E A
The concert opened with a performance of the
overture "Iphigenia in Aulis" by Gluck, conducted
by Fred Marshall. This was the orchestra's debut,
and a very successful debut i t was. In spite of
the fugal nature of the music, i t was played with
confidence by every member. The strings are i n -
clined to falter during soft passages, but as a
whole the orchestra i s a very competent body and
the audience was favourably impressed.
Edward Byles, tenor, then sang an aria by Flo-
to* and "The Flaxenheaded Plough-boy", the latter
pleasing the audience immensely. David Ward,bass,
sang songs by Ireland and Stanford and then gave a
very fine rendering of "Die Beiden Grenadieren".
In both cases the accompanist was Eric Brown who
cannot be too highly praised.
The main work, "Acis and Galatea", followed,
with Angela Rasting,Beryl Holly, Edward Byles and
David Ward (from the R.C.M.), and the I.C. Choir
and Orchestra(leader H.R.Allen), conducted by John
Clements. The quality of the performance showed
that much time and practice had been expended on
rehearsals, the singing of the choirbeing of a very
high standard. The rdle of Galatea was shared by
the two sopranos and, although this was probably
necessary, i t was a l i t t l e unfortunate. Edward
Byles i s a tenor who i 3 very lyrical for Handel,
but this proved to be a good thing in view of the
pastoral nature of the. music, and the aria he sang
in the second part received a large ovation. Ward,
as Polypheme, was excellent throughout.
Thanks are due to John Clements for giving us
so much of his valuable time, and to the organising
genius of the choir, D.M.Tombs.
DIVIDED LOYALTIES
To the Sports Editor. 7th Dec. 1950-
Dear Sir,
I cannot agree that the existence of University
sports teams seriously weakens college clubs: espec-
i a l l y to the extent of affecting their fixture l i s t s .
The fact i s that individual college clubs have not
the strength ana resources to attain and maintain
first-class standards in any branch of sport. "Good"
and "bad" years follow one another.
But the University, drawing from a l l the c o l l -
eges, can and should field first-class teams to which
above-average players may aspire. Such teams att-
ract into the college sides players who would other-
wise join outside clubs, and are a source of strength
and not of weakness to the colleges.
The University has achieved first-cxass status
in the more individualistic sports, e.g. athletics
and swimming, and i s approaching i t in others such as
hockey, soccer and rugby. The progress made is a
result of keen college support, which in turn confirm
that the above viewpoint i s widely accepted and is no
longer a subject of acute controversy.
The division of loyalties within I.C, has been
resolved in a number of cases by the virtual disapp-
earance of the constituent college clubs, except for
their annual inter-college contests. I imagine that
you refer not to these but to others, notably the rug
by club, in which such a sweeping solution has not
been attempted and i s not desirable. The rugby club
has however arrived at a very reasonable compromise,
which i s working well; and will work better as the
college secretaries are able to make their strongest
fixtures in the second term. There i s l i t t l e doubt
that an arrangement by which I.C.'s constituent coll-
eges recognise the prior claims of the University and
for one term only, of the I.C. l s t XV, provides a
basis on which complete and mutually satisfactory co-
operation i s possible.
Yours etc., K. Weale.
{
, Father correspondence on this subject is invited
Sports Editor )
PERSONAL ADVERTISEMENTS
A l l YOG tired of living with your girl-friend?
Are you fed up with your landlady?- Then come into,
the 25/- a week bachelor flat with 3 ex-students.
Great diversity of course-work available and only 3
minutes from the Union, and 1 minute from the Queen s
Apply by letter in the IC Union rack to Box 135-
OFFERS to J. James, Guilds rack, for Kodak Return I,
perfect condition, f . 3 - 5 Xenar, Compur-Rapid 0-1/500
tec., K.R.C. and many accessories.

