9
F E L I X
§ PORT
HOCKEY
U.L. CUP HOCKEY 3RD ROUND
Imperial College 7> Kings 0
The I.C. team, f u l l of potentialities, has not
shown very impressive form in the. f i r s t two rounds
of the University Cup . In this match, however,
they played as a team, and strafed their way into
the semifinal. The key to their success was quick
and accurate passing i n mid-field and in front of
the goal.
The play for the f i r s t 15 minutes was even, hut
several piercing movements by I.C. marked them as
the more dangerous side. Green made two or three
good runs on the left wing, and put a hard shot in
from ah acute angle: the force of the shot carried
i t off the goalkeepers padsinto the goal. Jones
followed this with a clever piece of reversed stick
work, resulting in a second goal.
After half time I.C. ran away with the game.
Justessen and Hart at f u l l back were too fast in de-
fence to let the opposing forwards have more than
an occasional look at our circle. Good thrustful
supporting play by the halves and Waterland at left
wing, led to goals by Jones, Power, Bennet and Bent-
ley. Jones got a third by an almost solo run from
the bully. Bentley, profiting by loose marking ,
ran rings round the Kings defence and played a large
part in this convincing victory.
J. McC.
PLUM PUDDING EIGHTS
in
As i t was dusk by the time the crews competing
the Plum Pudding Eights finished the four mile
course, the positions of the four I.C. crews was
not clear. However, i t is known that the first VIII
did not do as well as e: pected. It is hoped that
they will have a better row when they meet Reading
University next term.
CROSS-COUNTRY CUP
Judging from the performance of the team again-
st Woodford Green the preceding week, I.C. had a good
chance of regaining the Cup they lost last year - a l -
though Kings were very hot favourites.
The course this year was 4 u s
t over 5H miles,
and during the race proved to be very heavy going -
conditions were not helped by a persistent drizzling
rain.
The race i t s e l f proved to be a triumph fox Tea
Whitfock, of I.e., who won the raee quite easily,some
200 yards ahead of his nearest rival, 11.G.Barrett of
Battersea Poly., in the excellent time of 28 minutes.
13 seconds. Unfortunately however, he was not back-
ed up hy the remainder of the team, and though pack-
ing 5 men in the f i r s t 17 home, I.C. were again run-
ners-up for the t i t l e , this year to Kings, by 58 pts.
to 46. It i s gratifying to note that we were well
clear of the third team home - who registered well
over 100 pts.
Individual I.C. order:-
(1) E.f .Whittock R.S.M.; (2) M.Garrod B.CS. ;(3) G.C
Kay C&G.; (4) J.P.Davies H.S.M. * 5 ) A.B.Watts C&. ».
(6) M.G.Royston C.&8.
Result of the Inter-College race:-
lst)C- & G. 23 points
2nd)R.S.M. 25 *
5rd)R.C.S. 30 "
The U.L. Six-a-side competition vras won at Mot-
spur Park on Saturday Dec. 9th by Westminster 'A'.
The Kings 'A', the runners-up, earned the biggest
cheer of the day when they ousted U.C. 'A' with 5
U.L. players i n the semi-final. Scoring i s by
points, 4 for a goal and 1 for a corner.
I.C. entered four teams, of these the B and C
teams both performed very creditably. The A VI
provided one of the biggest shocks of the; afternoon
when, after a bye in the preliminary round, th'ey
went out in the 1st round to Westminster 'B' by 5
points to 4. Briscoe scored the I.C. goal. Wedt-
minster 'B' were overwhelmed by U.C. 'A' in the
next round.
I.C. 'B1
did well to beat N.E.C. 'A' 8-1 in
the prelim, round with goals by Dixon and Wheeler
and excelled themselves in the 1st round by taking
Kings 'A' to extra time before losing 10-5; Wheeler
scored for I.C. This result would appear to put
the 'B' VI on a par with U.C. 'A1
.
I.C. 'C was the most successful of our teams,
beating Battersea !
A' 8-1 in the prelim, round,and
Chelsea 'B' 13-0, in the 1st round, before falling
to Kings 'A' by 20-8 in the 2nd round. Goals ag-
ainst Battersea were scored by Buckroyd, helped by
an opponent's foot and by Hailing; by Manson and
Thompson(2) against Chelsea; and by Thompson(2) in
the final game.
I.C. 'D' had the double misfortune of being
drawn against Westminster 'A' in the prelim, round
and of playing a man short, Webb taken i l l at the
last moment and his substitute apparently losing
his sense of direction. I.C. lost 19-4, Jackman
scoring. A . A . G
BADMINTON
Imperial College v. Oxford-
I.C. Badminton Club, starting the year with three of
the previous year's players, and strengthened by F.
5- Lau, Open Champion of France,started i t s winter on
Nov. 19th with a match against Oxford University II
team.
Oxford sustained an overwhelming defeat, losing
6-0 in the double and 6-0 i n the single, I.C. dropp-
ing only one game in the entire match.
The team have been invited to Oxford for a ret-
urn match early next year.
Imperial College v. Cambridge.
On Sunday Nov. 26th I.C. lost to Cambridge University
II by 4 games to 5- Since this team, which included
2 members of Cambridge I had previously defeated Lon-
don University II, I.C., playing without F. S. Lau,
may be congratulated on such a creditable performance.
Partumasen and Dumhill, playing as 1st pair for
I.C. lost 2 of their 3 games; Partumasen was off form,
but Pnmhill, playing an extremely forceful game, gave
his best performance of the season.
Finch and Smith, as 2nd pair, played brilliantly,
winning a l l three games. They showdd superior tact-
ics, and were extended once only to 3 sets.
The third pair, Reed and Paige, played well ind-
ividually but owing to extremely poor coordination,,
and inability to smash decisively, lost a l l three ga-
mes.
The match was one of the hardest played at I.C.,
and i t i s hoped to reverse the score i n February,
when the team visits Cambridge.
NETBALL
The womens Netball team have had a rather mixed
record to date but at long last, they have vindi-
cated their honour. Last Friday they drew 10-10
with a rugger club side. The next day, Saturday
Dee. yth thej defeated Bedford I by 15-9. This
is the f i r s t time that they have beaten Bedford
for the past three years. It was obvious to a l l
who watched the game that the team has greatly im-
proved, and that i f they maintain this form they
should give a good account of themselves next term
when their fixtures include matches against Q
.
M
.
C
.
,
Kings, Royal Holloway, and the Inter Collegiate
Rally.
Printed by THE FIGARO PRESS Ltd. 97 Moore Park Road, London, S.W.6.

