FELIX 3
GENERAL STUDIES
P H O T O S E T C .
"That i s the use of a hook without
pictures?" thought Alice, as she sat
on the bank idly turning over the pages.
Amongst industrial firms, piotures
have now become a very powerful weapon
both for advertising and educational
purposes, as Mr. CD. Knight pointed
out in his lecture on "Photography and
Public Relations". Photos are the
cheapest form of visual media, and as
"stoppers" (pictures whioh make one
stop and look more carefully when flick-
ing through a book) they can be used
for many years in magazines, adverts
and window displays.
When photographs are used for dis-
tribution to the public, i t is of the
greatest importance that the photo-
grapher, who is essentially a creative
man, works in close oo—operation with
the Public Relations Officer in the
production of pamphlets: i n fact, so
great has been the change since the war
that industrial organisations now run
their own photographic departments, and
a good professional photographer can
easily earn £50 in a day. This is a
far cry from the half-crown paid for
photos for house magazines before the
war.
Nowadays many firms photograph
every component of machines they manu-
facture, and a l l the negatives are
filed: as example, Mr. Knight quoted
the Ford Motor Company i n Detroit, wh-
ioh has a file of 3j million negatives,
and his own company, Shell, which has
a file of 65,000 negatives and an
increase of 7000 per annum. The Hoov-
er Company even u«.e film for time and
motion studies to increase the effic-
iency of their staff and methods.
The Speaker then gave a brief out-
line of the advances in the use of
photography i n Shell: their unit was
formed in 1946 to help in the standard-
isation of ideas and methods through-
out the world-wide subsidiaries of the
Company, and to build up the morale of
their workers by showing them how o i l
is produced, and how i t is used by
many diverse industries. The next step
was the introduction of pictures into
Company Reports to enable shareholders
to keep abreast of new ideas and ad-
vances.
Apart from such literature produced
for individual consumption, exhibitions
were prepared and shown i n many parts
of the world to groups in libraries,
departmental stores, and so on: these
pictures were not used for advertising
in any way, but were made to demon-
strate the perfume industry in France,
the watch industry i n Switzerland, and
others dependant on o i l , with only a
passing reference to o i l itself.
Finally, as an example of the
present trend, Bowaters (the paper firm)
has shown a film recently to share-
holders at the Festival Hall on the
Firms' developments during the previous
year.
Mr. Knight ended his talk with some
slides taken in Africa, and used by
Shell for publicity.
D R A M A T I C S O C I E T Y
I N
T H E B E T
The I.C. entry for this year's
TJ.L. One-Act Play competition was an
adaptation of Chekov's "The 3et".
Set i n a Banker's house on the out-
skirts of Moscow in the year 1890, i t
tells of a bet made between the Banker
And an apparently eccentric Lawyer that
the latter cannot stay in solitary con-
finement for a period of ten years: the
sum involved is a million pounds, while
the Lawyer stands to forfeit the house
he has just bought - a house to which
the Banker has taken a fancy.
Also i n the cast is a Doctor, a very
old friend of the Banker, and a Novelist
who acts as narrator for this adaptation.
Every 30 often the three me jt to -discuss
how the Lawyer is faring i n thi shed at
the bottom of the garden, and as time
goes on, the Banker becomes morS lenient
in his conditions: the Lawyer receives
as many books . .'tfid any amount of food
he :|
emaiids, as well as a servant to tidy
his room.
The play ends as expected, for, ^
as the lawyer explains when his t e n a ^ s
years are almost completed he has been
able to live the events he wished from
books,with a l l the characters and places
moulded according to his fancy, and there-
fore more perfect than the ret.1 t-ing.
What use had he for a million:
Peter Bowden, as the Banker, was
extremely convincing, except for one
weak scene when the bet itself was
being made, and he was consciously
acting the whole time: Desmond Turner
(the Lawyer) was also weak i n the first
scene, spending too much time with his
back to the audience, and teiiding to
lose the ends of many of his words.
He improved during his monologue i n the
scene, but here again there was insuff-
icient variety of action.
The Novelist was an unfortunate ;art
due to the braking effect i t had on the
continuity, but even so Ross 3utler v:a3
not forceful enough ±n the part, and he
was made up to be too young. The small
part of the Doctor was well portrayed
by Terry Wright.
Lighting and scenery were simple
and effective, but why was a stray green
light focussed on the Lawyer's books in
the last scene? Such effects, to be
successful, must be unobtrusive.
But, for a difficult production,
more credit i s due to the producer,
Peter Morgan, than the review in Sennet
would suggest.
L I B E R A L P O L I C Y
The second Mock Parliment of the
Session met on Thursday last with
a Liberal government"and Labour opposi-
tion.
After a policy statement the dis-
cussion centred on capitalism. The
government claimed that competitive
capitalism meant efficiency and low
prices. They thought ownership should
be spread over the employees by co-
ownership schemes. The socialists dis-
puted the efficiency of competition
saying that much organisation was
duplicated and that competition i t s e l f
was often eliminated by the formation
of monopolies. They thought that the
number of shares that could be distrib-
uted among the workers would be too
small to give them appreciable power.
The absence of Conservative opinion
wa3 felt when the House found itself
to be i n agreement on colonial and
foreign affairs.
A b i l l to replace the House of
Lords by elected group representatives
was defeated. An opposition ammend-
ment to abolish the Lords was narrowly
rejected. The opposition also sugges-
ted that the Advisory Council to the
Peoples Representative Assembly should
publish a quarterly report in the form
of a red paper.
The electoral- reform b i l l introdu-
ced the single transferable note and
some seats allotted by proportional
representation. This is not official
Liberal policy and the government
was embarrassed by a speach from the
floor supporting the party line. The
opposition accussed the Liberals of
self interest pointing out that the
system favoured the centre party.
However, the government said the b i l l
was a simple way to rectify present
injustice. A proposal to have some
non-constituency M.P.s solely concerned
with national affairs was also c r i t i c i -
sed. The b i l l was defeated.
At question time the Trade Unions
were discussed. The government thou-
ght that members should have to contract
in and not just be able to contract out
of the political levy. The opposition
said that the Trade Unions should only
be reformed from within and that this
proposal would loose the Labour Party
money, whereupon the Liberals returned
the charge of self interest.
The House adjourned at 10 o'clock
mainly to the bar.
A.D.
m
J: W\.
PAST R.C.S. CARNIVAL FLATS EBSIGN5D BS
VEKE ATKINSON

