FELIX
• H E H O S T E L
C O N T R O V E R S Y
The Editor- FFTXK-
Oh DearASiir,,
The protagonists of Constituent
College Itostel3 have taken for granted
t*c things - (a) that non-segregated
hostels will mean the end of Guilds,
Hinu? md R.C.S., and (b) that this
»OIA1/J be a bad thing for the Imperial
College.
Let's face i t - the constituent
unions are nothing more than faculty
societies and as such they should be
concerned with working conditions, staff
student relationships ( the relevent
committee i n R.G.S. died of neglect a
few years ago) and other matters pec-
uliar to their faculty. Instead
they serve as excuses for childish and
irresponsible behaviour. By a l l means
nave rivalry, but the importance of the
unions has thereby been so exaggerated
that now we have executive members of
these mere faculty societies (all the
segregationists are or have been such)
actually complaining that they weren't
consulted about, who should live in the new
hostels. How big-headed can one get?
Messrs. Warwicker, King etc, want
the unions to 'command greater loyalty!
I'm afraid they visualise themselves
sailing forth at the head (or in the
van) of screaming hordes to tether a
nanny-goat on the roof of Guilds. The
unions deserve no loyalty whatsoever
(other than support for sporting
fixtures) unless they benefit the ind-
ividual members and as far as individ-
uals are concerned, segregation would
certainly not "
b
e a good thing. Not
only would a hostel-dwelling scientist
not meet students of art, languages,
law, medicine and music; he would meet
even fewer engineers and miners than
at present. For sheer narrowness of
mind, segregation and i t s products will
be hard to heat.
I don't think that non-segregated
hostels will mean the end of the cons-
tituent college unions - faculties will
last for ever - but I hope that they
will help to cut these unions down to
size, because in their present state
the latter are a very bad thing for I.C.
The sooner we have some faculty societ-
ies working in the interests of students
and the sooner we throw out the budding
empire builders who are sapping the
strength of the I.C. Union, the better.
Given strong" leadership and support
from the faculties i t would be a very
fine Onion, although having fewer
meetings than ever before isn't going
to help matters.
Compliments of the season,
P. H. Levin
ear Sir,
I must disagree with the views exp-
ressed by some of the elder statesmen
of the College in a letter to the last
edition of "Felix" on the subject of
College loyalties and the new halls of
residence.
If, as they infer, these loyalties
are dying, I would suggest that they
should be allowed to die and not be art-
i f i c i a l l y fostered by grouping R.C.S.
an exclusively or Guildsraen exclusively
in one iiostex.
C O N C E R T
FOR CONNECTION WITH MOUNTAINEERING
SEE NELSON
MOUNTAINEERING C L U B
At the beginning of the year,
owing mainly to disagreements with
various examiners,the Club lost many of
its leading climbers. However, with the
remaining members, plus some very prom-
ising freshers, the standard of rock
climbing is gradually rising again
towards last years very exceptional
level.
Following on the Alpine Meet
described during an earlier issue, the
first meet of term vras the freshers
meet in N. Wales in the Ogwen Valley.
The climbing offered here has long been
recognised a£ ideal for beginners, the
-val: C .ces b-iing neither too steep nor
too e . <sed. A l l freshers climbed, some
H;-vlr.j ^ar.ts of leading, and the
further blessed by fair
weather, w_;i very successful.
This 7/elsh weekend caa followed
up during mid term b;- a Sunday Meet at
Harrirons rocl-.s a-'ar C^roombridge in rent,
these comprising of lev sandstone cliffs,
generally less thou 50 .
'
e t : , ..eight.
They of lint' n aeroua short cJ.ijbs, those
in general being difficult a id very
strenous, tind ireviling luuoh entertain-
ment aoped-liy for onlocr-s.
The final -f is. .1 .aeet this term
was held in t..e Li?.;-herds Pass, UST
North of Snowdcn. The rocVs here are
far steeper and more ijc.-coed than at
Ogwen, requiring a mors ste V nerve,
and better climbing tecimi aie. Xtrinr"
the oourse of the weekend, again
blessed by reasonable v/eathe. , numerous
gooc olimbs were undertaken, "hile
several parties also traversed the
Snowdcn Horseshoe, including one un-
successful attempt by night.
In conclusion, the Club hopes to
hold . Chvistma:. Meet in the Scottish
Highlands with the idea of attempting
some snow and ice climbing, this
providing a pleasant variation en the
normal British rock climbing.
The principal shortcoming of this
proposal would seem to me to be the i n -
creased risk of insularity and ; re-
occupation with studies amor.gsu the
residents which would result i f they
•?ere a l l drawn from the same faculty of
the College.
I would suggest that the contrary
proposal,that the new hostels should be
made open to student of the University
as a whole^is more valuables
Yours faithfully,
Martin Barnes.
Although concerts are far from be
being the ideal places for the perform-
anoesof good jazz - they stifle audience
encouragement of the players and the
kick that comes from a crowded throng
of dancers - some excellent jazz music
was presented by the Imperial College
Jazz Club during the lunch break of
November 20th.
The poor start by the I.C. Jazz
Band was due to the presence of a new
and unrehearsed olarinettist and also
to nerves: those who have heard this
band, under its leader John Gowland, at
dances know that i t is capable of much
better playing. The outstanding mus-
ician in this group at the concert was
the greatly improved pianist Chandu
Kapur. Then oame Richard Rushton, a
bop pianist with an original style and
great technical ability.-
A guitar solo by Adrian Abbot was
marred by amplifier trouble, but in any
case i t was a novelty piece rather than
jazz, Stan Salmons, a fresher i n Chem-
istry, then introduced a quartet with
himself on piano. He is an excellent
Brubeck-fashion pianist with impeccable
rhythm and he was well served by Gordon
Pritchard on Drums and John Farnsworth
on Bass - the last named, in the opinion
of many, the most improved jazz musician
in I.C. Anne Phillips sang one number
with the quartet; she sang well but
was inadequately amplified.
Finally, Denis Leston (piano) int-
roduced a mixed group in a jam session:
this included a remarkable trumpeter in
Tony Newstead. Newstead, one-time
president of the Melbourne University
.Rhythm Olub and now a P.G. i n 0 £ G,
exemplified a l l that is best in jazz
- excitement, originality, technical
competence of the virtuoso grade, a
strong lea'1
* to other j'rout-line ins-
trumentalists; these ann more were to
be found in his playing. Amongst the
musicians playing alongside Newstead,
Mike Newson stood out on clarinet: he
plays loud and clear and is quick to
seize on a r i f f or phrase worth devel-
oping - when he gets r i d of the tear-
away elements of the screaming early
clarinettists he should be a fine jazz
artist.
L U C Y K A S S L E R
There were some more newcomers to
debating last Tuesday when the house
decided to prefer a Saucy Sue to a Love-
ly Lucy by about 250 votes to 10.
Part of this landslide victory for
the Saucy Sue's was doubtless due to
the charming presence of Miss Pamela
Gwytiier from Bedford College.
Lovely Lucy K ssler entertainingly
avoided talking on the motion. He left
i t , he said, t_- his seconder, John
Nation, to pull his case do-.ui.
Les Allen, a last minute substitute
for the sex-appeal of a mission Bedford
speaker, having carefully ascertained
the relative strengt .
3 of Guilds and
R.C.S. in the house, called for a vote
against Kassler and Nation, "tho-.e
crumbling pillars of R.C.S."

