FELIX
5
D O W N A N D
I have just been on a conducted
crawl through the air-tunnels under
E.C.S. The idea was that they should
be written about, and i t is well known
in certain circles that I am literate.
(I imagine people pointing me out to
visitors from Cambridge who have noticed
me already: 'You see that Hoffnung cre-
ation over there - that's one of our l i t -
erate undergraduates! 'You mean - i n
a science oollege?)
And yet, I have nothing positive
to say. Even before I went down
into the tunnels I mean - an acquaintance
said he knew exactly how I was going tc
do i t . Only he never told me and, l i k e
I say, I don't know. I only know that
there are two sorts of tunnel: Hot and
Cold. A l l else is - no, not mystery.
A mystery can be stated. How did the
corpse get under the Main Physics Lect-
ure Theatre? Whose are the echoing
footsteps? "
W
h
a
t happened to the
fourth member of our gallant party?
It is questions like these that make
writers like me scribble like mad.
But there i s not even a mystery. Why
isn't there? I mean, dammit.
Why should there be? There we
have our mystery. We know why physic-
ists have dragged themselves through
filthy holes about fifteen inches by
two feet. Because they, like the
Himalayas, are there. The ffirar^-
ayas, however, not only had Hillary
climbing up them to get them int"> the
news, they had the Abominable Snowman
climbing down. Of the two, the latter
was more popular, purely because i t was
mysterious, alien, while Hillary was a
model of respectability, or none of the
advertisers would have mentioned him.
The advertisers knew that our lives, and
hence our spending, are ruled by good
sense, and the men of Fleet St-eet knew
that our minds are ruled by the opposite.
Between them they gave us articles called
The Yeti - Is i t Human? surrounded by
points of information like 'The Everest
Expedition Chose .... Spark Plugs'.
Nothing abominable lurks beneath
R.C.S. That is what moved the tunnel-
lers to invite me down there. You
may laugh. These adventurers had ex-
plored the lower regions with great care
and found nothing even 3lightly enig-
matic. As you see, they were reduced
to taking with then bottles of Fremlin's
Brown - actually importing mystery - and
photographing themselves drinking i t .
S t i l l there was no savour, no romance.
Beer had failed. Next, i n ascending
order of subtlety, came women, song and
culture. The first, I gathered, was
impracticable, the second wa~ jporadio-
ally attempted, and the last was me.
My guides indicated the points of inter-
est: writings left by a pioneer roup
in '46, primitive drawings of bison,
the pipe that Haggis raised a lump i n
by banging his nut on i t .
O U T BY FRED WHEELER
I said I'd think of something.
What about a coffee bar. Not
another? Yes, just one. Probably
patrons would pay as much as one-and-
six a cup i f they literally had to
grovel in the dirt for i t . Those who
like character with their coffee -
and when civilisation is a l l around,
character is simply unpleasantness - are
frustrated even by that famous place
where the light shines from the eye-
sockets of skulls, the tables are tiny
coffins and the murals depict skeletons
embracing naked girls and vice versa:
for me, the only really macabre thing
here is the apparent waiter (living, and
clothed like a coffee-bar waiter) whose
chief function is to follow new arr-
ivals and t e l l them i t is self-service.
The fact i s that the slightest
actual inconvenience is more disturb-
ing than the most perverted decorations,
although few of us realise this. Our
archetype is Albert i n his Memorial,
surrounded by a mass of rich decoration
that fails to keep the pigeons off:
the living, defacing pigeons .
I'm off again. Off the subject
as well. What to do with the a i r -
ducts. Something must be done with
them, obviously, because the college
is crowded and they are empty.
It has been suggested that the
walls should be decorated - decoration
again - in the palaeolithic style, and
signposted. I find this idea vaguely
frightening. After wall-paintings,
notices and mildly curious visitors,
what? Perhaps I fear the notices
most - the letter kUleth. (Hence the
Editor's name. ) At f i r s t vs shall be
offered polite advice like Mind Your
Head, LEFT Shoulder Forward, Crawl For
Six Feet, and so on. An then, insidi-
ously, a new generation of notices will
appear, notioes without respect. No
Smoking, they will probably t e l l us,
or, To Litter The Tunnels Is An Offence.
With growing insubordination they w i l l
begin to utter threatening wards like
Private, No Entry and finally Silence!
And civilisation w i l l be upon us.
Civilisation is to be avoided at
a l l costs. You 3tart by saying that
you like your comfort, and you wind up,
like poor Lady Docker, complaining
that you simply cannot live without the
Riviera. Remember, comforts and
restrictions are inseparable: the tramp
and the true ararchist are one, having
rejected both.
So l e t us leave the tunnels to
the anarchists. They will not blow
us up. Why should they? A l l they
want i s freedom from our company, our
noise, our conventions and our respect-
ability.., Anarchists are reduced to
nihilism - blowing everything up, that
i s - only when there i s no other escape.
If we restrain ourselves from cleaning,
painting and mapping, the dirt and dark-
ness will defend the anarchists from
the intrusions of their over-friendly
enemies, and they w i l l be able to adver-
tise their retreat openly. A l l the
anti-social characters who don't join
clubs w i l l no longer wander about i n
their spare time looking lost, untidy
....continued in next column
THOUGHTS OF AN
U N F O R T U N A TE
E N G I N E E R
Oft when I rest from a l l the toils
Required to prove that water boils,
I s i t and muse and wonder why
We ever use dx/dy.
With Infinitesimal Calculus, -
Incomprehensible i s this stuff, -
We play around with C*3 of G,
And volumes, too, so eSX can see
That Maths to us is no delight
We Engineers, whose minds are right.
The Civils, i n their concrete, see
Curves and Conies, (not for me):
Whilst for Mechanicals pure and simple,
The details of a turbine's dimple.
Electricals on the other hand
Think of an exponential band.
Aeros i n their flighty moods
Teach logic to the lesser broods.
The Chemicals -jnoving things by bucket,
Show us a l l that they can rough i t .
John K. Taylor.
.....continued from previous column
and frustrated. They will disappear
into the ground, as they have so often
wished to;
I trust there w i l l be no spurious
organisation calling itself the Anar-
chist Club.

