BEIT QUAD
(Part 3)
Little progress has been
made since the last issue of
FELIX: The Quad will not be
ready for Fresher's Fair. The
Queen's Lawn will be used
instead. The right hand
column shows the progress to
date. Students have already
noticed the non-symmetric
layout of the small brick walls.
FELIX GIRL
MAKES GOOD
Gill McConway, long serving FELIX
typesetter scored a notable victory last
weekend when she captured the
National Women's Single Wicket title
hed at Flax Bourten, Avon.
Gill, a top class womens cricketer,
who has been knocking at the door for
full England honours defeated the best
lady cricketers in Englandtocapturethe
title, including the doyen of the womens
game Rachael Heyhoe-Flint.
Earlier in the year Gill had won both
her Club and County (Surrey) Single
Wicket Competition thus making her
eligible for the finals. Last Winter she
toured South Africa with the English
Unicorns, the ladies equivilent to the
M C C , where she played in all three
unofficial Test matches. Gill, who hails
from New Zealnd seems certain to
be a hot contester in becoming the first
overseas-born cricketer to be awarded a
full England Test place.
Gill has worked with FELIX since 1975
and has decided to live a country life in
Hertfordshire and will leave FELIX atthe
end of the month.
H A R D S H I P F U N D
Since the massive and dispro-
portionate increases in the fees for
O v e r s e a s S t u d e n t s C o l l e g e h a s
reaffirmed its decision to run a Hardship
Fund for those Students who find the
i n c r e a s e s p r o h i b i t i v e . T h i s w a s
communicated to Chris Fox by College,
and though the administration of it is still
under discussion Application Forms can
be obtained from College Registry on
Sherfield Level 3.
Anyone with problems should consult
Chris in the Union Office - Beit Quad.
The view from the centre of the entrance archway clearly shows that
the left-hand wall is nearer the centre of the Quad than the right wall.
Looking along the left hand wall one can see that it lines up with the
centre of the small far pillar.
Looking along the right hand wall one can see that it lines up with the
far right side of the pillar. A difference of over two feet.
:'

