WHY NOT STAY FOR BREAKFAST
Starring George Chakiris & Gemma Craven
Why not stay for breakfast (A)
Soon enough a film had to be based
on the hit stage comedy 'Why not stay
for breakfast' - and here it is-. The original
script for stage was written by Gene
Stone and Ray Cooney, the screenplay
was written by the producer, Terrance
Marcel in collaboration with Cooney,
and under the latters influence the film
has retained a stage atmosphere.
George (played by George Chakiris)
is a fussy, fortyish batchelor, whose life
is concerned with thirties music and
potplants, and only complicated by the
presence of his sister, Helen (Yvonne
Wilder) a professional hypochondriac.
But Georgies well-ordered life is
shattered one evening by the loud rock
music emanating from the apartment
above, followed by a knock. Standing
there is Louise (Gemma Craven), a girl
who is to play an important part in
George's life.
It is refreshing to find an English actor
playing a major role in an American film,
she has been seen previously in the
BBC's highly acclaimed series 'Pennies
from Heaven'. She played the part of a
young girl very well, especially in
overcoming the transition from being
plump and pregnant to becoming a
slender mum.
George Chakiris is well known from
his Oscar winning performance in
'West-side story', working with Yvonne
Wilder (who played Helen). Both played
the parts well, especially in the
execution of the comedy periods.
On the whole the film is very amusing,
but I think it is directed towards a more
mature audience and could prove very
boring to people who expect constant
humerous entertainment.
Nick Grattan
CARA
I feel that the plot in this film is typical
of so many films to be found in the B B C
archives and s h o w n on S u n d a y
afternoons. Basically the plot involves
Mark Miller (played by Michael Sarrazin)
travelling to contral Asia to find Ellen
Jasper (Jennifer O'Neill), the wayward
daughter of a US Senetor. Of course she
has met and married an influential local,
Colonel Nazrullah (Behrooz Vosoughi).
He is the Nephew of Sardar Khan
(Christopher Lee). Miller gets captured
by two Bedouins who take him to
VAN (A)
Zalfigar (Anthony Quinn) and his camel
caravan. The plot then develops along a
well trodden path.
All of the film was set on location in
Iran, and was the last film to come out of
Iran before the revolution. The
grandiose scenery (see stills opposite)
alleviate the boredom and gives the film
a great visual impact, perhaps the best
reason for seeing this film. Also shown
in the stills are the three main actors
downwards they are; Michael Serrazin
(as Mark Miller, Jennifer O'Neill (as
Ellen Jasper) and Anthony Quinn (as
Zulfiger).
Anthony gave a good performance as
Zulfiger, a nomad who captures Miller.
He showed his experience and therefore
looked the most professional, perhaps
to the detriment of the other actors.
On the technical side both the filming
and sound were of a high stand. I noted
that the directions were aimed more
towards the scenery and away from the
actors, giving the actors a most difficult
job in competing with the breath taking
scenergy. The film is due for general
release in December.
6

