EDITORIAL
"No news is good news," they say.
There have been no developments in
the John Shuttleworth legal battle
against Imperial College Union.
There have been many newsworthy
events for our news team to report.
Some have had to be left out for one
reason or another but their are signs
that a good news service will be in
operation from the start of next term.
Nick Grattan has joined Jill Dawson in
covering local and college news. I
cannot thank him enough for his help
with this issue of FELIX.
This is the last FELIX before the
Fresher's Edition. My hopes are that
FELIX will contain a large number of
photos next year. I can only r u n a g o o d
selection of pics with the help of many
photographers. If you would like to get
involved in FELIX please come into the
office at any time.
News coverage of major events such
as the funeral of Lord Mountbatten
could have created a very serious air to
this issue of FELIX. Mountbatten
wanted us to be happy at his funeral
and so to balance the events covered in
the centre pages the FELIX news team
went to the Great British Beer Festival.
The Beer was good and cheap. I could
knock our college Bar prices in this
editorial but to-day has shown
promising developments in this area.
We can help cut down Beer prices by
returning glasses to the Bars and a
major campaign is about to be
launched on this subject.
The copy deadline for the Fresher's
FELIX is next Monday. We are being
swamped with Litho jobs and it is now
important that y o u produce 'camera
ready' artwork if you hope to get
posters printed before Fresher's Fair.
Colin Palmer (Acting FELIX Editor)
Thank-you to everyone who helped
with this issue of FELIX including:
Gill McConway
lan Morse
Nick Grattan
Jill Dawson
Karen and Jon Firth
and everyone who helps beat the
folding machine tonight!
T H E 1979 G R E A T B E E R F E S T I V A L
What ever people may think of the aims of Camra, none may
disagree that the affect of their call for a return to traditional ale
has been astounding. This is surely highlighted by the annual
Great Beer Festival held at Alexander Palace. Since the first
festival in 1977 the attendances have greatly risen, as have the
number of brewers and types of ale.
The beer was found to be in good condition (and more
important - high in alcohol content). It was found that on the
Friday night many of the ales were 'off, the remaining beer
being left for the final day. When some bystanders (just!) were
asked on which day it was best to go the answer given was
'every day'. Unfortunately FELIX would not take this advise!
For those not drinking (alot) there was the possibility to lose
money playing impossible pub games, including darts on a
Manchester clock board and the Bat and trap. Live music was
a l s o p r e s e n t e d , u n f o r t u n a t e l y this was u s u a l l y too
overwhelming. For those who enjoy a good pint it was well
worth a visit, as can be seen by these happy faces!
The Acting FELIX editor relaxes at the
Beer Festival

