B
y B.B. Wolffe
Hi, I'm B B Wolffe and I'm in charge of
exposes, scandals, caustic comments
and wry wit. Mr Marshall has allowed
me to cast my evil eye over College and
the Union and to pick faults. I am very
grateful for the opportunity. I must
emphasise that Fishy Tales is not
a gossip column - I don't like any of this
bitchy rubbish about various Union
officers shagging in Chem Eng toilets.
Fishy Tales is simply a cynic's view of
everyday College life. If YOU have any
ideas for future articles then by all
means write to me - of course, you
won't be credited.
IF T H E person next to you in the lecture
theatre smells a little bad, it is a good bet
that he is a New Linstead resident. Students
in this hall are unable to take showers
because they have only one temperature
setting — extremely hot (although if you wait
long enough you may get 'blistering').
As if this wasn't bad enough, there are no
shower curtains meaning that your clothes
and/or towel on the hook on the back of the
door are going to get pretty wet. And, wait
for it, the showers have been specifically
designed to leak onto the hall carpet!
On my way out I espied a sign on the
bathroom requesting that shower attachments
be not used in the bath (why not use the
shower? Hee! Heel).
Later on, I found out that the bathrooms
had not been undersealed and the overflow
pipes overflow onto the floor. As I write this
very word, I am reliably informed by the
person reading over my shoulder that new
Linstead has had numerous floods over the
summer.
IT SEEMS that Mr Roger Stotesbury (current
R C S U Bookshop Rep and last year's ICU
Hon Sec) is a marked man in the IC Union
Office. Liz Ljndsay expressed her desire "to
strangle the wee little bugger" when she
discovered that the hall accommodation for
the INCOST (5th International Conference
for Students O f Technology) had been
'double booked' by Mr Stotesbury. Liz has
spent a considerable amount of time
attempting to find accommodation for the
conference delegates that College were
unable to offer rooms. As it turns out, places
had been booked by Mr Stotesbury for two
conferences of similar sounding names but
which were, in fact, the same conference.
Hence Liz wasted a lot of her time as there
is plenty of College accommodation for the
delegates and College is faced with the
problem of filling the rooms now empty.
A further Stotesbury atrocity has come to
light! During the occupation of the Senior
Dining Room last October a large number of
letters (approximately 150) were written by
the occupants to their MPs and the press
and radio in the hope of publicising the
occupation. However, they seemed to have
little effect; this is now easily understood as
Liz Lindsay found the letters tucked away at
the back of the filing cabinet in the Union
Office.
Is THIS what UGAs are awarded for?
L A D I E S rugby is not dead. Following
numerous reports in the national press last
term, Weekend magazine has just got round
to it (3—9 September). Under the title
' S C R U M P T I O U S ' we were treated to a
picture of some of the girls 'relaxing with a
pint' in the Union Bar and another of Mary
Harrington's bum in the scrum.
\liim S
A
C buudd
T H E S U M M E R Accommodation Centre
does it again! For the second year running,
S A C have not charged a key deposit for
Garden Hall keys issued to student cleaners.
Last year, a number of keys went missing
during the summer (not to mention the
Southside, Linstead and Weeks MASTER
key which turned up after a little internal
bickering when it was discovered an S A C
employee had procured it for his/her own
use of the Hall launderettes). This year, a
similar number have gone missng. Mr Turk
(Warden of Garden Hall) is very concerned
that most rooms have an average 27 people
access and is demanding that a deposit be
charged next year.
Veem w t
i
t
e dwik
WE A T FELIX are fed up with pissing on our
shoes. The Union bog lights have now been
out of action for over a month. Rachel Jane
Snee (ICU Deputy President) should pull her
finger out pretty soon or that poor old tree
in the Quad is going to die of alcoholic
poisoning.
t
j
e
l
f
o
w puke
S O M U C H for the new grey carpets
('costing hundreds') in the Maths Building.
When will College realise that carpets were
not designed for the average IC student?
The toilet in Maths seems to do good
trade as the carpet has been almost worn
down to the tiles in that area. A n d how
foolish to put the carpet near the coffee
machine (have you been able to remove a
cup without spilling at least a third of its
contents on the floor?).
Best of all was the technicolour yawn
deposited not so long ago — the cleaners
were talking about that one for weeks.
A trip to the Union Lower Lounge will
show what IC students think of carpets. This
carpet was put down only last term and now
it is in a disgusting state — I have heard
rumours that human excreta has been
trodden into it!
Finally, how silly to put carpets on the
stairs of Bernard Sunley House; what was
wrong with the good old lino that had coped
remarkably well when one considers the
deviancies peculiar to BSH.
A l l hope is not lost, h o w e v e r ; the
chemistry department has recently come up
with what they believe is the answer to the
students' mistreatment of carpets — they
have hung theirs on the wall!
T
k
e >
i
c
i 5eto U
t
AUTHORITATIVE sources indicate that the
much vaunted cook-freeze system is not
working in College as intended. It appears
that frozen food from the Sherfield kitchens
is being kept in a normal refreigerator in
Southside for a number of weeks before
being served up in the refectory there. After
this period of time it is long thawed out and
getting rotten (see 'Mouldy Chickens' story
in the last issue).
According to the cook-freeze system, the
food should be heated from frozen just
before serving. The message is simple —
don't eat in Southside unless you don't mind
risking food poisoning!
VwhoM
SAD NEWS for all Lower Lounge pinball
devotees: the pinball machines were removed
after one was completely wrecked by
person(s) unknown on 23rd August. There
has not been a pinball machine in the
Lounge since then and it is uncertain
whether we are going to see one in the near
future (although Rachel Jane promises that
new machines will appear by the start of
term).
T O D A Y The Oily Dowson Memorial Prize
for Misleading Headlines was awarded to
Mr S J Marshall. Mr Marshall rose to fame
last month with Alf Coleman's Vasectomy.
ANNIE'S resonant, nay divinely graceful
voice has been heard booming out across
the Union premises over the tannoy lately
requesting that snooker players bring back
their balls. Indeed, it is easy to forget time
while engrossed in a game, but could it be
that people do not return their balls on time
because the Union takes their watches as a
deposit for them?
LAST TERM, some 75 trolleys were returned
to Waitrose in Gloucester Road after a visit
to IC by the assistant manager.
Recently, a friend of ours, went down to
Waitrose to ask if he could borrow a trolley
to move his luggage into his new room. The
manageress told him that they had only 28
trolleys left and muttered something about all
those IC students taking them. Nevertheless,
she c o u l d see that our friend was a
trustworthy sort, and after all, he die! have
the decency to ask; so she took him into the
back room and gave him a Safeway trolley!
Page 14 FELIX, September 29, 1980

