Page 2 FELIX 12th February, 1970
C A R N I V A L C O N C E R T
C H A P T E R O N E
At half-past eleven, Thursday 29th January, Carnival
Concert No. 1 finished, after three hours of folk music
performed in three completely separate ways.
It was a success, both in making money for Carnival
and in giving maximum enjoyment to almost a thousand
people who filled the great hall and gave enthusiastic sup-
port to the Gasworks, Bridget St. John, and A l Stewart.
An Al Stewart Admirer
The Gasworks were the ideal opening act with a come-on-
why-don't-you-all-join-in brand of folk; the introductions to
the songs were longer than the songs themselves, and just
as funny. They finished their act with the saga of the finding
of an ancient Roman stone tablet in a Wigan pit which
detailed the trials and frustrations of Mark Antony when his
own shyness interacted with Cleopatra's lack of verbal en-
couragement. The chorus to the song was a whispered
'Please verbalize your pre-orgasmic tensions . . .'
Following the brashness of the Lancashire duo there
were the quiet, almost naive, songs of Bridget St. John. She
was dressed in a trailing black niaxi-dress, and her long
dark hair almost completely obscured her face. A single
spotlight shone on her from each end of the stage, leaving
the rest of the stage and hall in darkness.
Her songs, sung in her low, almost monotonous voice,
had a curious haunting quality: each song was vaguely
reminiscent of the one before, but it was never boring. The
last song was the only song she didn't compose herself,
Leonard Cohen's 'Suzanne', which was beautiful. The
audience, which had been lively and noisy for the preceding
act, was silent throughout every St. John song.
During the interval, the audience evaporated towards the
bar, where they congregated ten deep. The second half of
the concert was all A l Stewart, looking completely different
from all the posters and photos I've seen. His manner in
introducing his songs was casual but his singing and guitar
playing were not. Each song was accompanied by an annec-
dote; one, 'Zero she flies', was preceded by a complete bizarre
explanation, which, I must admit, seemed to bear no relation
to the song on first hearing.
His main piece was his own version of Dylan's 'It's
alright, Ma, I'm only bleeding', which was also the longest
song. The last verse was separated from the rest by a period
in which Stewart seemed to devote all his ability to a long
guitar instrumental.
His act was fully balanced and not just a simple pro-
cession of songs; he recited one of his songs as a poem and
finished the hour with another poem, a much better one,
accompanying himself solely on the bass string of his guitar.
'If you've ever been to a pop concert', he said, 'you'll
realise this is the time in the evening for the drum solo'.
He turned his guitar over, played a simple rhythm on the
back with the palms of his hands, turned it over again,
finished off the beat with his knuckles on the front of the
resonance box and walked off.
•
He came back for a short encore, 12 seconds, then finally
disappeared, bringing to a close the first carnival concert.
The estimated profits were about £200, the cost for the
artists being only £145 because they had all agreed to take
reduced fees in view of the concert proceeds going to
charity. It was almost a sell out, only some of the 10/- tickets
being left unsold. The concert itself was basically organised
by Phil Taylor and Barry Pywell, who brought the Gasworks
to the attention of the Carnival Committee. It looks likely
that there will be a second Carnival Concert, with ex-
Fairport Convention lead singer Sandy Denny's new group
as a possible attraction.
If it is as successful as the first there should be little
worry about making any substantial loss which would spoil
Carnival's steady success story.
»mmmmmmmmmmmm
The Gasworks
Adventure Stimulus
"What we want is adven-
ture! "
This was the remark made
to a member of the Com-
munity Action Group while
he was visiting the St.
Andrews Home and Club in
Victoria. It could be argued
that the unsatisfied youth
was spoilt for choice.
The club concerned is
housed in a modern (1958)
five storey building and is
well equipped as Youth
Clubs go. There are three
table tennis tables, a very
old and well preserved
billiards table, a woodwork
room where a qualified in-
structor teaches once a week,
a well stocked snack-bar, a
lounge and a gymnasium
with good changing facilities.
Space is inevitably at a pre-
mium and the Club have
been forbidden to build on
top of their gym; however
they have built a wire super-
structure on the roof under
which they can play football
without blocking the fight to
the neighbouring buildings.
There is an interest in
drama and music and a very
evident interest in art: mem-
bers 'let loose' on a wall in
the snack-bar. Weekend acti-
vities, regrettably infrequent,
include climbing and pony
trekking; they have built two
canoes, but lack the oppor-
tunity to use them.
So, to all outward appear-
ances, a healthy and happy
club. However, Mr. Paul
Read, the warden, is keen
that the club diversify its in-
terests, The members do be-
come listless and there is
tangible need for a new
stimulus. This stimulus could
well be provided by Imperial
College clubs and students.
For a successful inter-
change of ideas the involve-
ment must be at a personal
level to be effective. This im-
mediately renders the rela-
tionship as much give as
take, and much more worth-
while.
Not so much 'adventure'
more 'stimulus'.
If you're at all interested
in Youth, and willing to flex
your intuition, why not have
a go? There can be few more
pleasant and satisfying ways
of spending an evening.
INFO: The Club is mixed,
ages 11—21.
Address is 26 Gt. Peter
St.. S.W.K
Guys to contact are J. K
Lindsey, Chem Eng PG, or
myself Andrew.Dean, Chem
Eng 1.
A A Meeting
Only about 20 people
came to the A A meeting/
event on Thursday evening—
Anonymously apathetic IC
again?
The A A people brought
slides with them — a lot of
America, some of the archi-
tecture we all know and
hate — high density office/
flat blocks and towns frag-
mented by motorways, some
surrealist cottages, a few
(half) nude women, and a
sprinkling of Vietnam /
Biafran gruesomes, just
made it clear that "you are
being educated, not enter-
tained."
In the discussion follow-
ing, A A people said that
architectural teaching was
aimed at making inimical
and boring jobs tolerable to
people obliged to do them
— factory (and IC?) design,
for instance.
There is no "alternative
architecture" b u i l d i n g
beautiful cities for us — em-
ployed architects and town
planners are concerned with
making an environment in
which the individual is ar-
ranged for the convenience
of the system. "So you can
see what a load of shit archi-
tectural teaching is". A dis-
sident voice pointed out thai
even in an ideal society,
houses would still need to.be
built, but the idea was hard
to deny.

