12th February, 1970 FELIX Page 7
SPANISH-INQUISITION STYLE
RECORD REVIEWS
Little Free Rock
TRA 208
Of all the requirements for music to bear a
"rock" label, the most prominent must be the
simplicity of the rhythm. This is not as
noticeable on this record as many others, and
Little Free Rock tend to act as more of a
unit than in Ten Years After, where Alvin
Lee takes the fore, or in Led Zepplin where
Jimmy Page does likewise.
Comprising two guitarists and a drummer,
each also being credited with an assortment
of other instruments, they perform nine num-
bers, of which "Making Time" seems to be the
only futile one.
Myself, I liked "Age of Chivalry", "Blud"
and "Tingle", the last of which seems to send
itself up one's spine.
I'm not sure what the future holds for rock,
but this group is one that shouldn't find any
difficulty in expanding their field to become
accomplished musicians.
Spooky Tooth/Piere Henry
"Ceremony"
ILPS 9107
I'll say from the start that this is not an
album for those who like pleasant tunes that
can be hummed at any time.
However the record does achieve its objec-
tive, and I feel this is because of the prominent
influence of Pierre Henry. His electronic score
gives wailing voices on "Have Mercy" and
a nail being driven into a person's head on
"Confession" makes one cringe with every
thud. Even Spooky Tooth's guitars and organ
sound tame compared to this, and yet the
record keep an atmosphere of reverence,
although it is Spanish Inquisition style. It's best
listened to in total darkness and then conjures
up pictures like on the sleeve.
The distortions produced on the vocals
really do sound like a person in agony and
if this is an experimental album, then I can't
wait to hear what the next one's like.
J e i h r o
The new single from
Jethro Tull is more of a
double as both sides are
given equal preference.
"Witch's Promise" and
"Teacher" are the two sides
and show the polished per-
formance that the group has
now achieved, ridiculing the
"commercialised" tag that
has been hung on them by
certain members of the
public.
Blodwyn Pig's new single
"Same old Story" however
is rather dull and I'm sure
that better could be done.
A good memento of the
Young Tradition that used
to be is "The Young Tradi-
tion Sampler" on Transatlan-
tic. This includes all tracks
from their E.P. "Chicken on
a Raft" and a good assort-
ment of tracks from their
three LPs, including "Lyke
Wake Dirge", "Byker Hill"
and "Daddy Fox".
Anyone who remembers
as far back as the days of
Little Richard's hits (and I
don't) will be gratified to
hear that all his original re-
cordings have been released
on the first of a series of
LPs devoted to rock and roll
stars. Tracks include
"Lucille", "Good Golly Miss
Molly" and "Tutti Frutti". Tull
The Owls and the Catty-Puss
The multitude of duplicated news-sheets, I.C.'s answer
to information diarrhoea, and recent Council motions about
FELIX have served to focus attention once again on the
role of an independent newspaper in the college.
The debate is sharpened by the wider national discussion
on the freedom of the press started by various moves in
Parliament to protect individual privacy. As a former F E L I X
Editor and a floor rep. on Council I have more than a
passing interest in the debate at least in college.
The first question that must be faced concerns the role
of F E L I X . The blizzard of bumph-sheets, usually written by
disjointed Daleks, has brought a crisis of identity to F E L I X .
It is impossible for a newspaper printed in remotest Dursley
to compete with a sheet of foolscap, produced at the drop
of a stencil, in speed of news-presentation.
B O G P A P E R ?
Those who see speed as the vital criterion have therefore
questioned the present high F E L I X grant of £800 and sug-
gested it be used to provide even more free bog paper or
at least used to defray the costs of this public-spirited prac-
tice. Indeed if speed was the only criterion they would be
quite correct. However the question is rather more complex,
1 believe both the efficiency of communication is served by
a well-produced, informed and independent newspaper and
that such a newspaper is vital to the ethos of a college which
must ever fight to maintain a little of the academic atmos-
phere.
V I R I L I T Y
It has been said that the standard of living of a family
varies proportionately to the thickness of the note-paper
and inversely as the thickness of the bog-paper. There is
something too about the standard of a College which can
be told by the virility of its newspaper. I make no pretence
to be the kind of journalist with whom it is a pleasure to
travel on the tube, but I do take pride that every year or so
F E L I X does discover a little latent literary talent. Even more
importantly too, I delight to see the growth in critical
awareness of many as the impish little cat continues its
crusade of independence.
D E F L A T I N G
There is nothing more salutary than when, with a snatch
of its paws, F E L I X deflates the ego of some swelling Union
official, or tears away the drape of grandeur with which
Council delights to cloak its parochial schemes. If indepen-
dence does nothing more than to put us Union types where
we belong, in the servants' quarters rather than the throne
room, and to underscore for us all the basic human failing
of pride in supposed self-achievement, it is value for money.
In a university, however, independence means much more
than this; it is part of the whole critical character.
As we frequently tell the Rector, IC must develop critical
minds because in the big world there is nobody to set the
courses or spoon-feed the teaching; only a critically minded
person can educate himself. True, F E L I X makes mistakes,
but this too is part of the process, to better the independence
of the paper, for this would be a direct parallel to the Board
of Studies' actions, or to those forces in society which de-
humanise people.
H O U S E - J O U R N A L S
Suggestion was made in an article I wrote for the Union
handbook this year that the constituent college news-sheets
would not gain sufficient independence from their Union
bosses to be other than house-journals. Sorry to say, not
only has this prediction been borne out, but their very speed
and manner of production has made them even more sec-
tarian, and less independent, Searching comment cannot
easily be made on news an hour or so old, and certainly not
by a party intimately involved. Indeed, in the poorest of
these news-sheets, the comment and news presentation has
become so pettily sectarian that it is they, and not F E L I X ,
that represents poor value for money.
Reproduced below are extracts from a letter by Piers
Corbyn to last year's Publications Board. Piers, then a floor
rep of Council, spearheaded the successful FELIX counter-
attack against certain members of Council who wanted
toghter control over editorial policies.
A number of people have recently been complaining
about FELIX . . , The people who are grumbling, it ap-
pears, are almost wholly establishment figures, largely from
the Union, who are concerned about their images.
I believe that the policies of such a newspaper should
not be largely dictated by the body which "holds the purse
strings" (i.e. Council).
Exec and Council . . i . may be prone to suppress opinion
in an attempt to use FELIX to boost their own images and
bolster their own ego-trips. Attempts have been made in
the past...... to do this and perhaps some may wish to try
again. We must not let the powers of money and ego be-
come unleashed in such dangerous forms.
The concentrated financial power over the purse strings
must largely be separated from the power over expenditure
. . . . The function of the Publications Board is, therefore,
to safe-guard the interests of the "citizens", by separating the
financial control from that over policies.
W I D E R S C O P E ?
A final word about a relatively new and fashionable sug-
gestion that since we are trying to build a single college
community we should turn F E L I X into an organ of this
community. While it is right F E L I X must for the sake of
its very independency accept articles from all sections of the
academic community and from all views in it, especially
those which conflict with its editorial policy; is this idea
correctly reasoned?
Although many interests of the college community are
similar, other interests are different and still others conflict.
FoY instance are the staff vitally interested in hopes, or
technicians in graduate recruitment. Could it not be that
the hand requires a glove, while the foot a shoe. Surely one
of the purposes of our present Union policy is not to show
we are all hands or feet, but rather that hands and feet are
essential different, interdependent parts of one body. Let
the wise owls of Council have the sense to give the catty-puss
F E L I X the freedom to show just that.
Les E b d o n

