Page 8 FELIX 12th February, 1970
T H I R D
W O R L D
S O C I E T Y
The fact that the western world lives in luxury com-
pared with the underdeveloped countries seems to be totally
unimportant to the majority of people in this country.
The people of the western world do see a great in-
equality between themselves and the third world, but either
they do not appreciate the problems or they have the ability
to surpress their consciousness of this gross inequality. Is
it because they do not see these problems on their own door-
step and cannot associate themselves with any event not
having a direct bearing on their lives, or is it because they
are just unconcerned with the problems of people in the
third world?
This third world has problems, many of which have
been encountered before by the western civilization, but
what really makes these problems intolerable is not only
the suffering they produce but the fact that the western
world has the power to conquer poverty, disease and human
misery, and yet does so little about it, except for aggravating
the problems of exploitation. It may relieve our consciences
to talk of these problems, philosophise about them and ex-
pound theories of solution, but does this have any effect
upon the lives of the people in those countries which are
politely referred to as "underdeveloped".
EXISTING ORDER
The Third World Society has just been formed in I.C.,
and our aim is to promote the cause of the third world by
means of study groups, political action, meetings and fund-
raising, and of course any other means possible. We are
working for increased public awareness of the cause for
which we stand.
Furthermore we believe in realistic positive action, and
as we do not foresee the "coming revolution" we shall work
compatibly, but in disagreement, with the existing order.
One of our study groups is examining the research being
carried out within I.C., since it is our aim to press for pro-
jects having value to the specific needs of the T.W. coun-
tries. Projects such as this, indicate the ways in which stu-
dents can act in a creative and positive manner towards
closing the naked gap of inequality which exists between
the nations of the world today. Damian Cummins.
The sixth post of
floor rep on Council
is now vacant, owing
to the recent resigna-
tion of Dave Wield
(on back page)
iLES EBDON lllllllllllllllllllimilllllllillllllllll! PHIL POYSER iililiiililllllllliiilllllliiiliiiiliiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiin iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiihiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
F L O O R R E P S F L O O R R E P S F L O O R R E P S F L O O R R E P S F L O O R R E P S
CHRIS SLEE iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijiiiiiiiiiiCHRISTINE HOLLANDiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii: CLIVE ROBINSON iiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiimiiiiiiiii1
Ford puts
its graduates
in the
driving seat
You have spent the last 17 or so years of yourlife in the
process of "learning". We do not believe that the
process stops now, and we feel sure that you agree
with us. We do believe, however, that it is rime
you had a chance to put your knowledge to the test.
So our initial induction period consists of showing you
what we do and why. We shall then put you in a job
which we feel will match your abilities and reflect
your own inclinations. It will certainly
give you real responsibility.
We offer you, besides this, a good starting salary - at least
£1,176 (£1,260 after six months); a flexible approach,
you can choose your job after seeing several; good
management experience - within three
years most graduates are taking significant decisions;
a realistic approach to career planning, through our
performance reporting system. There are, of course,
many other points we could make and we will be happy
to talk to you about them.
' If you would like to know more about a real career, then
please contact your appointments officer or write to :-
Graduate Recruitment Officer, Room 1 177
Ford Motor Company Ltd, Warley, Brentwood, Essex
From January 1st 1970 the Ford Motor Company Limited has revised its initial starting salary to at least £1272 (£1404 after 6 months).

