Founded in 1949 The Newspaper of Imperial College Union
£1m C O M P U T E R
FOR ICCC?
Imperial College Computer Centre (ICCC) is hoping to replace one of
its two existing computers with a new machine within the next two years.
This announcement follows
the replacement last year of one
ageing computer by a more up-
to-date machine of equivalent
power. It is the very h i g h '
demand placed upon the Centre's
current system that has prompted
this move. During termtime
I C C C can expect to process
5,000 small jobs and around
2,500 larger ones each week. In
addition, over 200 users may be
simultaneously logged-in to the
system at peak hours.
The Centre is looking for a
computer that would enable
I C C C to run bigger interactive
jobs than are currently possible,
thus opening up new possibilities
for developments and applica-
tions. But all interactive users,
even those who only run small
jobs, will benefit from the
installation of a new machine,
Arthur Spirling, the Computer
Manager behind the deal.
since it is expected that any
replacement would have twice
the throughput capability of the
old machine.
The cost of the computer will
be met by the Computer Board
of the Department of Education
and Science who have already
approved the purchase of a new
machine in principle.
The computer room at present. The terminal being studied is linked to
the Cyber 170/720, the machine which would be sold if the deal goes
through. Photo: Dave W Parry
High-rise Flats
A 2 0 % rent rise for the Southside Penthouse flats was pushed through
at the end of a long meeting of Student Residence Committee by ex-
Senior Warden Dr Don Monro. This was in spite of a maximum 4% rise
in any other rents.
The penthouse flats, the subject of much controversy since they
first became available, are now priced at £120pcm per head for a four
person flat. This compares with about £80 for premises in Fulham,
and around £100 for Head Tenancy flats. The rises resulted from a
survey in which prospective residents, when being interviewed, were
asked if they would pay £140pcm, and since none raised objections, it
was suggested that a 20% rise was doing them a favour.
The new price rises brought heavy criticism from Council on ex-
President Nick Morton, because there will be no chance to reverse
the decision since the Student Residence Committee does not meet
again till next term.
Southside Move:
We're Not Going
(Yet!)
The controversial and much publicised Southside move has been
shelved. The plan, had it been accepted, would have resulted in the
total move of all the Union facilities from Beit to Southside,
beginning next July and continuing over the following year.
Negotiations were begun last Feburary between John Smith, the
College Secretary, and Nick Morton then Union President. M r
Morton kept very quiet about the whole thing and it wasn't until
June that knowledge of the proposed move was made widespread. A
final yes or no answer was expected from the Union in the coming
autumn term, and had the answer been yes the Union would have
been committed to the move.
Recent discussions between John Smith and Steve Goulder,
however, indicate that College is now taking a very different attitude.
The current proposals are that the Union should take over and utilise
some of the space in Southside which College has no use for, whilst
maintaining all its facilities in Beit. A complete move is still open to
negotiation, and indeed it seems not unlikely that College will
eventually point out that if some of our facilities are in Southside we
may as well move everything across for greater convenience. But, this
would not be until next year or even the year after, and there is plenty
of room for discussion.
The reasons for the change in plan are unclear at the time of going
to press, but it seems likely that College has been influenced both by
financial factors (the cost of a total move is now estimated at £'/2m,
twice the original estimate) and by the outcry made by the Union at
the end of last term, which cast doubt on the possibility of the
proposals gaining the approval of the student body.
No. 620 Friday, August 20,1982 Free!

