Welfare Committee
Offer Freshers
Advice on Sexual
Problems
Preparations are well under way
for a new Union publication this
year. Following in the footsteps
of the Rag Mag and Handbook
comes the "Welfare Handbook",
which will be issued free to
freshers at the beginning of next
year, and is designed to offer a
range of information on matters
which people may not know
about and may be embarrassed
to ask about.
The idea is based upon the
"Little Blue Book" produced by
' W O L S ' of Oxford, and the
Cambridge Little Blue Book
Committee. This is a publication
that deals purely with sexual
matters (contraception, abortion,
pregnancy, etc). It seemed,
however, that this was somewhat
too narrow a scope and facts
about drugs and the police have
therefore been included.
The publication is still name-
less; the title used by others
seemed inappropriate and no-
one has as yet come up with an
alternative, so suitable sugges-
tions are still being sought. Any
good ideas please to the F E L I X
Office rapidly—liquid reward.
H o n See's
External Telephones
Just to clear up (I hope) some
c o n f u s i o n over the use of
external telephones for Union
business after hours (ie after
6:00pm and at weekends). Please
note that c l u b a n d society
members have to contact one of
the sabbaticals to get an outside
line. For private long distance or
overseas calls you should go to a
messenger's desk (see page (iv)
of the College telephone direc-
tory for other details).
Car Parking
As from the start of term (4
October) the Car Park barriers
will only open with the new key
card, so will all Union members
who currently have old key cards
please return them and collect
their deposits sometime.
Permit application forms are
a l r e a d y a v a i l a b l e f r o m the
U n i o n Office and completed
forms should be returned by
5:30pm on the Friday of the first
week of term, ie 8 October.
Union Office
This will be closed from August
23 to September 1, inclusive, as
most of us will be on holiday (or
Why Not Take A
Cold Shower
In The
Sports Centre?
The Sports Centre is closed
for its annual period of summer
maintenance, and it will re-open
sometime after the bank holiday.
The boilers which supply the
showers in the Centre were shut
down before it closed, and so
anyone using them found the
sprays only gave cold water.
New New Tenancy
Estates have successfully com-
pleted the deal to hire the
Fremantle Hotel as a new Head
Tenancy as reported in F E L I X
619. In addition, they are hiring
the Sovereign Hotel for nine
months w h i c h w i l l be used
exclusively for postgraduates.
Sick Bay Healthy
The College sick bay, threatened
with closure unless finance could
be found, is to be reprieved by an
extra levy on Hall rents.
The sick bay provides some-
where for those not ill enough to
be in hospital, but too ill to be
alone to be looked after. In the
past students have been able to
take examinations there, when
they would otherwise have hade
they would otherwise have had
to retake a year. But the sick bay
is expensive to run, and was fo
be closed unless extra money
could be found. A scheme to
raise money through registry
from all students was abandoned
due to lack of co-operation,
leaving Hall rent bills as the only
option.
The scheme is not as unfair as
it may seem, as almost everyone
who lives away from home (and
so would not need the sick bay)
now spends at least one year in
Hall. The scheme also represents
very good value; for around £10-
15 you get cover for three years,
yet that is at present the price for
less than one week in sickbay.
all of us, depending on whether
you call two weeks playing at
Edinburgh Fringe Festival a
holiday or not!).
Hope you have enjoyedVwill
enjoy* your hols.
Take care.
Mary
•delete as appropriate.
Caroline Metzger has just taken up a new position as Senior Clerk in
Student Services. Brought up in Hong Kong, Caroline studied at
secretarial college in Oxford before coming to work at I.C.
Photo: Dave W Parry
Passwords scrambled after major
breach of security at I C C C
On Tuesday July 13 a computer user inadvertently gained access to
secret passwords while using the Imperial College Computer Centre
(ICCC) system.
The user was attempting to use the Backup/Reload facility to copy
files from magnetic tape onto disk when the error occurred. It was the
inclusion of a rarely used option in the 'Reload' command that caused
a crucial system program to fail, allowing the user access to the file
containing 6,000 user numbers and secret passwords.
M r Arthur Spirling, Operations and Service Manager at I C C C
received a letter from the user on Wednesday July 14 informing him of
the breach of security. He reported to the Users' Advisory Panel—a
committee representing users' interests—and recommended that all
passwords on the system should be changed, a move which they
agreed to, and computer users who had not changed their passwords
by August 6 found that the passwords had been 'scrambled' as a
precaution. A one line addition to the faulty system program was all
that was required to correct the problem. There now exists no further
possibility of the same system fault occuring again.
This is the first time that a breach of security at I C C C has been the
fault of the Centre. Previously, only deliberate attempts by malicious
users have led to a small number of passwords being discovered. The
biggest single cause is the fault of users themselves. Frequently, those
that make use of terminals that print on paper, log-in to the I C C C
system using an abbreviated form that leaves their passwords
unobscured. They then fail to properly dispose of this piece of paper,
often leaving it lying around for anyone to pick up.
M r Spirling stressed the importance of users regularly changing
their passwords as a means of protecting their programs. The episode
has proved useful for some users, since several have commented that
they had not changed their passwords for over ten years.
FELIX, August 20, 1982 Page 3

