I E I 8 P I P I 1 O F I M P E R I A L 0 0 L L K O I O H I O R
No. 160 FRIDAY 17th March 1961 Price 4d.
KINGS TWICE VANQUISHED
U.L. Soccer Cup Final by Martin Crawley — J
Saturday 4th March: Motspur Park.
IMPERIAL COLLEGE: 2
KINGS COLLEGE:1
FIRST GOAL IN S
O SECONDS
The condition at Motspur Park for the
final were excellent: the pitoh was firm
and the weather fine. Before the kick-off
the teams were presented to Professor Sir
David Hughes Parry.
The game opened with a goal scored
in thirty seconds. Mousset-Jones broke
through from the kick-off, and his shot
rebounded from a Kings defender to Case-
more, who drove the ball home for the
first goal. This first goal important in a
Cup-final, should have given the Imperial
side great confidence, but Kings, inspired
by their skipper Lowe, fought back. Luck-
ily for Imperial tlhe Kings shooting was
either too weak to beat goalkeeper Ingram,
or to wide. A fine move by the Kings
forwards resulted in Sankey heading into
the net, but Be was off-side.
The second half opened with Imperial
attacking, and after thirteen minutes their
second goal was scored from the best move
of the match, Olding heading in brilliantly
from an accurate cross by Casemore.
Kings, however, did not give up and con-
tinued to play hard. Their tenacity was
rewarded with a goal scored fifteen min-
utes from the end by left-back Swarbriek
. . . . •
Skipper Austin holds aloft the U.L. Cup.
from a corner. Kings continued to press,
and the Imperial goal survived several
good efforts before the final whistle eame
with the score 2-1.
This was the third year in succession
that Imperial College has won the Soccer
Cup, and with the majority of the side
still in college next session the olub must
stand a good chance of retaining the
trophy.
TEAMS:
IMPERIAL COLLEGE:
Ingram, Fisher, Pick, Harris, Harburn,
Austin (captain), Casemore, Mousset-
Jones, Finney, Olding, Cox.
KINGS COLLEGE:
Bennet, Ross, Swarbrick, Strickland,
Maguire, Lowe (captain), Jones, Harding,
Howley, Sankey, McCarthy.
U.L. Rugger Final by Dick Lewis I
KINGS MISS THREE PENALTIES
Last Saturday. I.C. playing at Motspur
Park, virtually their home ground, beat
King's in the University Rugby Cup
Final to retain the Gutteridge Cup and to
produce the proud record of seven wins
in nine years. They won by 1 try, 1 pen-
alty goal-six points to nil and this was
a fair indication of a game whioh never
promised many points.
A good Cup Final is, in reality, a hard
dour game with plenty of excitement;
the game fulfilled these conditions exactly
and was as enjoyable as could be expected
with so much at stake.
A large vocal crowd, with I.C. supportes
in the majority, made the atmosphere
tense at the start, even the ball felt it
for it refused to stand up for the kick
off. When the game at last started, the
sides seemed evenly matched, and it
King's kicking had been better they would
have gone ahead, for they were awarded
three penalty kicks, two of whioh were
in fairly simple positions. Imperial grad-
ually got on top and pressed hard, mostly
through the forward.
But the promised try came from a
centre, Johnson, who after 25 mins, inter-
cepted a pass on the King's 10 yard line
ran well to beat the full back to score
5 yards in from touch. The resulting dif-
ficult kick failed.
The second half started with both sides
playing as giants refreshed as it was
King's who did most of the attaoking at
this stage, and they misse danother pen-
alty from an easy position. The I.C. def-
enoe stood firm, and long kicking, espeo-
Breguxl goes up in a Hoe-oat.
ially from Seed and Margretts who made
it safe when he landed a 35 yard pen-
alty kick midway through the second half.
The^more powerful I.C, pack had by
this time got on top, but the halves
nursed the touch line so the potentially
dangerous I.C. three quarters had few
changes.
'But the game was won. King's fought
hard, and it was unfortunate that their
captain, Jenkins, had to be carried off just
before no-side, but they were not as
powerful or as skillful as their rivals: At
forward the I.O. pack, after a shaky start
when the ball was lost on their own head,
got well on top to provide a steady
Stream of the ball to their backs as well
as making their own movements. In the
tight, Wronski, had a field day, and the
whole pack played well in the loose. It
was unfortunate that the three-quarters
did not perfom as a unit, and indeed only
once did the ball reach the wing down
the line, it was individual runs, espec-
ally of Johnson and Potter whioh threat-
ened danger. But there were enough to
raaks sure the Gutteridge Cup came back
to its adopted home for another year.
r - THE R.C.S.
CARNIVAL
by I.N. Guy
Last Friday the Union was invaded by
a oouple of hundred pseudobeatniks ar-
rayed in a variety of clothing, and em-
bellished with such oddments as beards,
sunglasses, top hats and lavatory chains.
"Beat for Beginners'' lived up to the high
standard set by last year's Carnival, and
a great time was had, one hones, bv all.
The flats were exoellent. On entering
the Conoert Hall, one felt oneself wafted
3000 miles aorose the Atlantic to gaze
upon the New York skyline that is if
one had the time or the inclination to
stand gazing while such exhilarating music
was setting one's eardrums quivering and
one's whole body throbbing in an irres-
istible urge to "get with it". A change
of surrounding and music could be had
in the.Upper Lounge, and in a nearby
room a poetry (?) reading session took
place to spasmotio bongo-drums accom-
paniment this satisfied the more intel-
lectually minded. The Lower Lounge as
usual, became a heaven for those whose
tastes were simple and basic.
The only real criticism to be made con-
cerns the "eats for beats". Food was to
be provided at 11.30; many people turned
up at that time, to find nothing more
than a few sausage rolls and a litter of
used cartons and squashed sandwiches.
The cabaret, produced by Chris Adams
and others, was enjoyable to watch. The
lyrics were clever without being obscene
and the singing sequences were lively and
well rehearsed. The sketches were, how-
ever, a little pointless (apart from a bril-
liant television advertisement for coffins),
and some of the lines were inaudible. This
was not helped by the presence of a few
loud-mouthed, drunken idiots at the back
of the hall, who spoilt much of the show
for everyone else.
After the cabaret, a basketball match
iwilh rules apparently derived from Shrove
uesday football) took place in the gym.
Mines gallantly'took on the rest, and lost
2-0.
At four o'olock, those hipsters who
were still awake , and not otherwise in-
volved, saw the film "We're no Angels",
set appropriately enough on Devil s Is-
land. The Carnival finished at 6. a.m.,
leaving the deadbeat beatniks the week-
end to reouperate.
The Sir Arthur Aoland English Essay
Prize for 1961 has been awarded to A.J.
Musgrave (Eleotrieal Engineering 2) for
his essay "The English Novel-Contemp-
orary Trends".
I.C. CHOIR & SOLOISTS
J.S. BACH ^
WED. 2ND MARCH.
TICKETS FROM MEMBERS

