1 - 41 •
JAZZ NEWS Carnival Queen Competition
On the 22 nd of February, I.C. Jazz
Orchestras and their supporters set off
by coach for Southamptonville. The jour-
ney passed quickly, the only notable div-
ersion being caused when Rushton stopped
the ooach to explore a field and found an
ancient porcelain bowl of doubtful origin.
We were uncertain as whether or not
English was spoken as far a south as
Southamptonville, and it was intrepid ex-
plorer-drummer-president Mike Smith who
was first to alight, as he is multilingual
(i.e., he can say "Like crazy, Dad" in
fourteen languages). On the suggestion of
Stan Salmons, he came back for some
beads, but the natives proved to be quite
friendly and these were not needed. The
native dwellings were constructed en-
tirely of red cuboids, this building mat-
erial lending them their unique aspect.
Neither was there any form of heating in
their habitations, so the natives must be
quite hardy. After a simple meal, we ad-
journed to a nearby establishment where
we enjoyed the native drink "Red
Barrel".
Thus fortified, we prepared for the
main business of the evening, which was
to be a comparison of the relative merits
of the music of both native and visiting
tribes, viz. the Inter-University Jazz
Federation Jazz-Band Semi-Finals. The
meeting was presided over by Big Chief
Benny Green, of whom the natives say
"him face like Setting Sun", and his
Witch Doctor, Dill Jones ,of whom I.C.
says "him plenty trad.", and was com-
pered by George Melly, of whom a lot
of people say a lot of things. During the
performances, tribal dancing took place in
adjoining rooms, and more familiar cust-
oms behind the stage.
The indigenous music was, as expected,
mainly primitive'in form, since the local
gods are King Oliver and Jelly Roll, but
"Group One" was outstanding for its ex-
citement and swing and took first place.
It comprised valve-trombone/trumpet, two
more trombones, clarinet, piano, guitar,
bass and drums. Of the visiting tribes,
Oxford University's Jazz Band was un-
doubtedly the best. They were polished
and very exciting, and the Hodges-style
alto solos were a real pleasure to listen to.
Line-up was trumpet, alto/clarinet, trom-
bone, piano, bass and drums. They were
placed third buii deserved to win.
They received one of the best criticisms
of the evening; Dill really slated every-
one else. He talked of the "neat piano
and flute-playing" and the "polished and
musicianly sound" of the group. "But",
he said, "jazz content — rather small."
His definition of jazz is questionable.
To everyone's astonishment second place
was awarded to a trio from Reading. The
pianist was extremely good, but the solos
were obviously not spontaneous (from the
way the drummer was phrasing with the
pianist) and if this constitutes jazz, Mr.
Jones' definition is highly questionable.-
Whilst the judges were conferring,
George Melly sang us some suggestive
songs, and this was one of the high spots
of a very entertaining evening.
The native drink probably has an ac-
cumulative effect, since the journey home
was a very lovely one. Judging by the
high spirits, I.C. had won a moral vict-
ory if not a material one. To quote that
little known sage Buskshot le Funky: "A
person should blow good that which he
likes to blow and dig good that which he
likes to dig." And that's what we did.
Counterpoint
Expedition
Reports
The following expedition reports have
been deposited in the Haldane Library:
Iceland 1956; Arctic Norway 1957;
Ghana 1957 (Cargo section) ; Ghana 1958
(Cargo section) ; Iceland 1958; Jan
Meyen 1959; Apolobamba 1959; Spits-
bergen 1960'; Africa and^Americas 1960.
Copies of all but the first three are also
rn the Lyon 3?layfair Library. Reports
of the Azores 1959, Cornwall 1960 and
Kashmir 1960 are being bound and one
will be sent to each of the libraries.
Report for Ghana 1957, Norway 1958,
Greece 1959, Eastern Iceland 1959, St.
Kitts 1960 and Iran 1960 are nearing
completion and will also be deposited in
the libraries in due course.
CHRISTINE BRADFORD
Having studied prospective queen can-
didates for the past few weeks I would
now present for your eyes and thought
a young lady whose qualities I am sure
beats them all. How she can have been
over-looked to date is beyond my compre-
hension. *
The facts are that Miss Christine Brad-
ford is a "very pretty, petite and person-
ality packed young lady with a figure as
attractive and graceful as one could ever
wish to find. However, not only has she
the most feminine and exciting manner-
isms which would indeed honour the Col-
lege, but her Union activity includes
numerous debates where she has shown
her keeness and initiative in proposing and
opposing controversial motions.
If you think all this is eyewash, I would
put it to you to allow Miss Bradford the
ROSEMARY KERFOOT
There's nobody so far who'se been,
Just right for our Carnival Queen.
So may we propose,
This charming girl Rose,
She'll fill the role just like a dream.
This mathematician Miss Kerfoot,
Will in my opinion by perfect,
'To take On the part,
So let's make a start,
By making her Carnival Queen.
Proposed by Dave (K'eates) Nixon.
opportunity o fdisplaying her many tal-
ents by taking the trouble to place your
vote with her: I know she will fully just-
ify it. . ,. ~
Proposed by N.F. Hill.
WHY SOCIALISM 1
by Dave Finney
In my last article I attempted to put
both the moral and cornmqnsense case for
Socialism, my prftjnise\ being that man
will change if his environment is changed.
I intend now to argue that any consequ-
ential change will only arise if changes
are made at the crux of our social system
— at the economic base.
It is often argued that no longer is there
a case for any radical change in the way
we conduct our economic affairs, and in
some circles to suggest public, as opposed
to private ownership, arouses hoots of de-
rision, This is quite un-justified, if only
because if we take central and local gov-
ernment together with nationalised ind-
ustries, public ownership accounts for two
fifths of our investment spending and a
quarter of the national product. Public
ownership is an essential part of our syst-
em, and as such is doing excellent work
in such spheres as education, nuclear en-
ergy and municipal housing. No one sug-
gets that education should be put on the
open market and the thought of Mr.
Cotton bidding for I.C. does not bear
thinking of.
Unfortunately, not only is public own-
ership to be found in education, but it
is also running the basic industries such
as railways and coal at a loss and a great
expense to the tax payer. Why? Because
both the post-war Labour and Conserv-
ative Governments have allowed the pric-
ing and investment policies of the nation-
alised industries, to be determined by, or
varied to suit, short term considerations
in handling the economy. Essentially, the
tendency for profit margins to widen in
private monopolised industries has led the
Government to hold down prices in nation-
alised industries so that private concerns
may still take high margins without caus-
ing too high an inflationary pressure,,
Because no margin is allowed, no ac-
count can be made of replacement depre-
ciation. In a period of inflation cost is
considerably higher at the end of the
plant's life then at the beginning. In fact,
in the 10 years between 1949 and 1958
the revenue of nationalised industries fell
short by JG1,295M. of what was needed
merely to provide for depreciation. Almost
all of this had to be borrowed. Similarly
all increases in capital equipment or stacks
had to-be borrowed, with the result that
between 1949,- 58 the nationalised ind-
ustries paid out £1,419M. in interest I This
may please the moneylenders, but it is
hardly the way to impress the public that
state industry is being run for the bene-
fit of the community.
OPERA
by I.L. Gibson
That this has happened is not surpris-
ing. As long as the private sector of the
economy remains dominant over the publ-
ic sector, the short term profit motive will
always take precedent over desire for
the public good. No long term planning
is possible and consequently the goods are
usually in short supply, making necessary
increased imports which add further
strain to an already delicate balance of
payments.
If public ownership — in a variety of
forms — were made the dominant force
in our economy, the above situation would
be reversed. A system of production for
social needs could be established and a
basis for sustained and balanced growth
of the economy would exist. A remedy
would be found for Britain's shocking negl-
ect of technical and social research, three
quarters of which is either financed or
carried out by the state anyway. At pre-
sent the money spent on technical re-
search just equals that spent on advert-
ising, while private profits accrue from
the selling, at negligible risk, of the pro-
ducts developed by the state at public ex-
pense.
Only by making public ownership the
king-pin of our economy can we establish
a much greater quality of income. Tax-
ation is not enough; the need is to extin-
guish large, unearned and untaxed, cap-
ital gains which have their source in the
private ownership of industry. Public own-
ership would mean that profits would be
diverted into public instead of private cof-
fers.
Finally, only through a drastic change
in property ownership will a move towards
greater democracy ever be made. The
trend under capitalism is towards mono-
polisation and thereby an irresponsible con-
centration of power. We need only to con-
sider the disappearance of newspapers
since the war and how, as a resulf, fewer
people control the minds of men and de-
cide what we ought to think and know.
Advertising provides another example of
haw men's opinions are not asked for but
made. In the U.S. today there is 40 per
cent overproduction of consumer goods, and
if it were not for the good offices of the
depth-motivation ad. men the economy
would stagnate. Through them men and
women buy things they don't need just
because the profit motive dictates.
Perhaps one day men will realise that
it is more moral, more human, and ob-
vious to co-operate rather than to com-
pete in a wasteful, irrelevant way.
"With the Easter Vacation looming up
followed by examinations for a fair pro-
portion of the student body of Imperial
College, it is perhaps rather an inoppor-
tune moment to extole the virtues of Lon-
don's resident opera companies. How-
ever, like many of the contributers to
"Felix", I can only entreat you, the av-
erage student, to make the most of your
opportunities in College and support
some of London's many attractions in
the field of the Arts, whether they be in
the Cinema, Concert Hall, Theatre, or
the Opera House.
Full details of the Summer season at
Covent Garden are not yet available but
one of the highlights will almost certainly
be a new production of "Falstaff", with
Geraint Evans in the title role. This is
the last opera that Verdi, a great lover
of Shakespeare, ever wrote, and into it
he poured the experience of o
v
<
?
r
. 50 y<wr»
as sn opera composer. The resultant work
is often considered to be his finest piece
and is the composer's only successful
comie opera. "Falstiaff" is to be produced
by Franco Zeffirelli who was responsible
for the fine production of Paglacci and
Cavalleria Busticana.
Rigoletto is also to re-enter the repert-
oire after a lapse of some years. New-
comers to Italian opera would find the
'action-packed' melodrama not far re-
moved in style from Gilbert and Stallivan,
although it must be admitted that the
music is on far higher plane. Booking for
iflie Summer season at Covent Garden
opens on March 23rd
When the resident company leaves the
Sadler's Wells theatre at the end of the
present opera season on April 22nd, the
theaflre will be taken over for the summer
by a series of visiting companies, the
first of which is the New Opera Company.
As its name implies the company is ded-
icated to the presentation of Twentieth
Century opera and we have them to thank
having given us such warks as "The
Nightingale" and "A Tale of Two Cities"
in previous years. This year, on 24 April
we are to have the English premier
of "Volopone" a new opera by Francis
Burt as well as "The Prisoner" by
Dallapiccola and Bavel's "L'Heur Espagn-
ole".
FROM THE RECTORS
BULLETIN
Building Progress.
Work continues in the new building for
Civil Engineering and the second instal-
ment for Mechanical Engineering and on
the new Halls ofv
Residence in Princes's
Gardens, although the contractors have-
been hampered by the extremely wet
weather of recent months. Progress, how-
ever, is now improving as the difficult
basement and sub-basement areas are
completed and the buildings begin to
emerge from the ground.
In parallel with this building activity
detailed drawings are in preparation for
the so-called 'Link' and 'Spur' extensions
to the rear of the Royal School of Mines,
and plans for the proposed extension
building for the Aeronautics and Chem-
ical Engineering Departments are under
discussion.
Appointment.
Dr. R. Croasdale, Lecture in the Geo-
logy Department, has been appointed to
succeed Dr. J.C. McCourbrey as Sub-
Warden of Weeks Hall for the summer
term.
General Academic Matters.
Applications for undergraduate places
next session have reached yet another
peak at 4,807. Most of the increase, which
approaches 400, has again come on the
science side, especially in Mathematics,
Physics and Chemistry Departments.
The special entrance examinations in
chemistry, physics and mathematics which
were suspended two sessions ago for a
trial period are not to be reinstated.
Under new arrangements agreed by the
Joint Committee with the London School
of Economics for Technology, Economics
and Administration many of our . third
year students attending courses in indus-
trail administration at the School will be
examined in the subject for finals. They
: will also have fortnightly tutorials.

