FELIX 3
Felix looks at Phoenix YOU A N D TUBERCULOSIS
A n A p p e a l . 1
Yes, our cartoon cat has every cause
to look avidly at this avian counter-part.
Although produced with a cover some-
what reminiscent of "What's On" the eon
tent is definitely of a much' more readable
form.
Looking first at the text of the mag-
azine we find an ardent plea from the
editor to "Keep Britain Plastic"; con-
taining some poignant observations on out
present way of life. Turning over the page
we see in the first line of the next article,
"Social Page'-', the word Felix. Obviously
this warrants further investigation. With
one hand on the telephone, ready to alert
our solicitor (you never know; it might
be libelous), we read on. And we relax.
The writer goes on to expound his opin-
ions of the purpose and usefulness of the
Coustituent College Unions and what he
says may we'll be strongly at variance with
the views of others. Altogether an inter-
esting dissertation which could well do
with, and in fact deserves further dis-
cussion.
A series of four items under the collect-
ive, and very appropriate heading of
"Contemporary Amusements" deal with
pop songs, politics, defence and advert-
ising. Pop songs are a serious art form
and are entitled to serious consideration
says the author of the first one. We are
living in a dying civilisation is the point
which the second tries to make. The third
writer, however, starts off by Showing
just how secure we are in this age of bal-
listic missiles. But his article ends in a
broken word and a series of dots; a pot-
ent reminder of the gravity of the present
situation. Looking aga*in at the article we
cannot help but notice that* the author's
name is at the beginning, not the end;
for there is no end. Glancing through the
remainder of the magazine we see that
the author's names appear variously at
the top and bottom of their contributions.
In this a sign of their state of mind? Pes-
s£mists among them write their names
at the top for fear that at any moment
they may perish and their work will go
unrecognised. Conversely the optimists
sign their names at the bottom.
So much for facetious diversions, how-
ever, let us settle down again and con-
tinue our examination. "No Hawkers" is
a short story written in a style wheh is
sometimes relaxed, sometimes rather
strained, but on the whole giving a very
human picture of a very human situation.
On the other hand "Imp'erial College
— A Criticism" is something of a re-state-
ment of much of what has gone before;
some of the "problems" stated are un-
duly exaggerated and no significantly new
method of approach is applied to those
problems which are real. "The Modern
Epics", in the eyes of most of its readers,
must present a well balanced view of
this rather recent inovation in the cinema
industry.
We turn now to the presentation of the
material. Layout, so often overlooked by
the undiscriminating • reader, is of prime
importance in any magazine and a good,
eye-catching presentation will do much to
enhance the publication no matter how un-
aware of this the reader may be. In this
respect the editorial staff of Phoenix are to
be congratulated. An immaginative layout
has been used which at the same time is
not wasteful of space. The advertisements
too are lively and interesting but for
one exception. Could not the Imperial
College Bookstall produce something more
fanciful than a price list.
To wind up this article just a word to
those of you who have not bought a copy
—II.—
of Phoenix. To you much of what has
been said above will be meaningless. How-
ever, if you can still find a copy laying
about then you are well advised to spend
your eighteenpence. Its worth every pen-
n
r- -r.f.c.
Each year, about one hundred under-
graduates of U.K. universities fall sick
with tuberculoisis. The student tends to
be an easy victim for T.B. because of his
many late nights and the tendency to eut
down on meals when the grant starts to
run out. Medically, T.B. is now easily
treated, but the long convalescence which
is vital part of the treatment (taking from
three months up to a year In serious
cases) poses several problems to the sick
student. He is probably extremely active
by nature and mixing with people of his
own mental ability is necessarily a large
part of his life. Many months of confine-
ment in a general ward, isolated from
any serious academic activities, could kill
off interest in his subject so that success-
ful return to the university, after treat-
ment, is difficult or impossible.
To meet the need 'for a special envir-
onment for students under treatment for
T.B. the British Student Tuberculosis
Foundation was formed in 1951 and since
that time has treated nearly 400 students.
It exists to provide treatment under the
National Health Service, and to provide
tutors and amenities which would other-
wise not be available. Bringing together
students with this disease to provide the
social environment that they require is
probably as important in the later stages
of treatment as the medically necessary
chemotherapy. Since the inception of the
student unit at Pinewood, Berks, almost
every university faculty has been repre-
sented there, and about 50 percent of
the students have been from overseas.
The intimate contact with other students
of such varied nationality and interest
provides something bordering on the ideal
university education: making up in part
for the misfortune of contracting T.B.
Treatment on this scale is necessary and
expensive, yet it costs the sick student
nothing. The Foundation is a charity, and
its nature is such that appeals can be
made only to students and student bodies.
This year an appeal has been launched
which it is hoped will realise about
£10,000, to ensure continuation of the
work for the next three year or so. Since
the Imperial College charity is this year
directed mainly towards the Oxfam cause,
the College contribution to this appeal
will not be massive. A collection will be
held in the College on a single day, Tues-
day 21st March. Imperial College owes
the Foundation a considerable debt, since
1951 at least one I.C, student has been
treated in its student unit every year.
That students here are generous with non-
student charities is evidenced by the ef-
fort put into our annual carnival. It is
not often that we are asked to contribute
to a purely student charity and this is a
really worthy cause, so when a tin is
shaken under your nose on Tuesday
please don't ignore it. Be a little more
generous than you can afford.
£ette>cdtothe Zdttox,
Dear Sir,
I should like to bring to the attention
of the members of the College the fact
that there will be a Blood-Donor session
in the Union Concert Hall on Monday,
May 8th. The session held last term was
fairly well patronised but not well enough.
For a College of about 2,700 young ad-
ults, a total of 140 donations was dis-
appointingly low.
Reflect for a moment just how lucky
the majority of you are. Probably only
a few of you ever had serious operations
involving transfusion of large quantities
of blood, but there are a great many
people who owe their lives to such trans-
fusions . For instance, the repair of a
septal defect (hole in the heart) involv-
ing the use of an artificial lung, requires
about nine pints of blood to prime*" the
machine alone, let alone tihat required by
the patient during and after the operat-
ion. One hospital alone performs about
100 of these operations per year, and this
condition is relatively rare.
If you consider that the only pain a
donor feels, if the pain it can be called,
is the injection of the local anaesthetic,
and that the complete donation (includ-
ing F R E E cup of tea) takes about 40
minutes, you will realise that the incon-
venience involved is an extremely small
price to pay to help save the life of an-
other. I therefore ask everyone of you to
consider seriously enrolling as a Honor
at this next session. Can we realise 250
donations? I sincerely hope so.
Yours sincerely,
D.P. McDermoU
justice be done and arrange a "champion-
ship" fight between Guilds and Mmes,
with adjudicators of course 1 Perhaps,
however, Mr. Carter, Mr. Greaves and
Mr. Munro are not very keen on being
thrashed again by a superior team.
Yours sincerely,
A.S, Chalmers R.S;M.
Dear Sir,
The result of the Debating Challenge Cup
shows how ridiculous the rules are. The
basic facts are that:
a. R.S.M beat R.C.S.
b. Guilds beat R.C.S.
c. R.S.M. beat Guilds.
A fiddle of adding up the points gives
us the result — 1st Guilds.
I am all in favour of unbiassed adjud-
icators to decide on each individual deb-
ate, and so prevent block votes influenc-
ing any result, but they could make the
system much fairer by awarding points
for a win or a tie. The obvious result
should be corrected to:
t. R.S.M.
2. Guilds.
3. R.C.S.
In what other activities and sports does
this fiddle govern results? I can think of
none.
For heaven's sake let vis get rid. of these
anomalous rules. It may even start to dis-
pose of the apathy which led to only
80 people being present at the debate.
Come on Finlay, and Jim Carter, let
Dear Sir,
Being touched by a mixture of hot Ari-
zona sun, and several cans of Fizzy Schlitz
beer ("The beer that made Milwaukee
famous"), I bethought myself to offer
a few words of wisdom to my younger
brethren.
Having moved around a little since
leaving College, and sampled the delights
of New York, Boston, Los Angeles, San
Francisco, and now cow-boy land, I come
to the surprising conclusion that Imperial
College is admirably situated for sampl-
ing:
a. The female sex.
b. The best beer.
c. The best food.
Possibly the worst emotion of all is
regret. I, myself even now find myself
regretting how little use I made of the
opportunities available in Kensington and
environs, and I doubt if anybody would
have classified me as a brown-bagger.
What horrible sensation must a brown-
bagger experience once, he gets into the
wide world and finds it quite barren. Make
the most of I.C. young man, you may
never see its like again
Wilf Corringhan,
Apt. 1
1332 N. 50th St.
Phoenix,
Arizona.
I am a normal British subject, able to
stand up to most of the trials imposed
on a democratic society, but the last straw
breakes the camel's back.
The other afternoon, whilst sitting
quietly in a corner of the Snack Bar and
meditating my meagre portion of bread
and jam, I was assailed by what can only
be termed 'biologists'. They arranged
themselves in adjacent chairs and pro-
ceeded to discuss in detail such sights as
the shaving of a dead shrew by monster
lice. After five minutes I made a hurried
retreat to the Snooker Room,
I forgot about the incident until late
m the evening when, whilst reclining in
my armchair, I found myself scratching
away at what gradually developed to my
horror, into a vicious looking gnat bite.
Hurriedly I immersed myself in a bath
of hot disinfectant to oust the offending
rascal.
Now, I am open to correction, but I
firmly believe that gnats do not appear
at the end of February, and therefore log-
ically deduce that the source of supply
was ip fact the aforementioned gentlemen.
That this event should occur is an out-
rage, and I suggest that an efficient
cleansing arrangement be devised for all
biologists. Alternatively, they could sport
placards proclaiming 'unclean', and have
a section of the Union set aside for their
exclusive use, but for heaven's sake let
innocent people scratch in peace.
Irritatingly yours,
C, Mingo, Physics I.
Dear Sir,
It appears that Felix is leading an al-
most aimless existence. For instance, in
your last but one copy (of February 17th)
there were only four pages. About thirty
per cent of these were taken in moaning
about the low attendance at Union meet-
ings, and included often nonsensical art-
icles on the reason for it. The remaining
content being one or two articles on 'in-
tellectualism' and the Carnival, and a
page of sport. Is this all there is to write
about a supposedly first class college i.f
2,700 members? Surely more of interest
happens in the College in two weeks than
this?
As stated in the editorial of February
the 17th, the principle aim of a college
newspaper should be to "present the col-
lege to the college" (adapting an extinct
phrase). In this respect Felix falls down-
There is not nearly enough factual and in-
teresting material printed. I do not be-
lieve, as the Editor himself has written,
that journalistic talent does not exist at
the Imperial College.
The lack of material in Felix cannot be
blamed solely on the members of the Col-
lege, but also on the Felix stuff. They
should never hope for a lot of evenly bal-
anced material of a high standard to flow
in for successive copies. They should ap-
proach members of sporting and social soc-
ieties for accounts of the activities of
those societies, to a much greater degree
than at) present. They should preview and
review lunchthne and other lectures and
recitals of general interest.
At the present, Imperial College is a
very impersonal college simply because it
is so hard to find out everything that is
happening. By making the material in Fe-
lix so much more informative and inter-
esting, this fault in the College could to
a great extent be remedied with little
extra work for the Felix staff. Perhaps
the attendances at Union meetings might
ilso increase.
Yours faithfully
R.S. Vines

