SPORT
SOCCER
BOAT CLUB
On Saturday 25th February, the
I.C.B.C. entertained Nottingham and
Bristol University on the tideway. The
first and second eights of the three clubs
were supposed to race, but owing to ill-
ness, Bristol were able to send only a
composite crew to which the I.C. second
eight were unlucky to IOOBB by 1J lenghts
over a two mile course, with the Not-
tingham second eight a considerable dist-
ance behind. The I.C first eight beat
Nottingham by a comfortable five lengths
over the same course.
At Beading, on Saturday 5th March,
I.C. had a field day, each or the first five
crews beating the corresponding Beading
University eight by varying but comfort-
able margins. All the I.C. crews raced in
borrowed boats and every credit is due to
them for a first class performance.
Individual reults were:
CBEW DISTANCE COUBSE
1st VIII 1} lengths If miles
2nd VIII 2 lengths 1$ miles
3rd VIII 1} lengths 1} miles
4th VIII 2 lengths 1} miles
5th VIII J lengths l i miles
On the 22nd of February, I.C. Jazz
eights go to Beading again, this time for
the Head of the Biver Bace, rowed over
3J mile course, in which many of the
fastest club and College orews in the
country participate.
Recently, the I.C. first eight has been
training on Sundays with the Barn Cot-
I.C. BEAT NOTTINGHAM
UNIVERSITY AND SWEEP THE
BOARD AT READING.
tage (Molesey) crew which has won the
tideway Head of the River for the last
three years, won the Grande at Henley
and went to the Rome Olympics last year
as two fours. Outings have been arranged
with both the Oxford and Cambridge blue
boats when they come to the tideway later
this month, so the I.C. crew is having the
valuable experience of rowing with world-
class crews, and this experience should
stand them in good stead for this season.
The tideway Head of the River race,
rowed from Mortlake to Putney, is being
held on Saturday 25th March starting at
12 noon, and for those who have never
seen 300 crews racing over a short stretch
of river, the sight can be very spectacular.
I.C. is entering seven crews this year-and
is hoping to do well, so why not come
to the river and give our crews a cheer.
In the University of London Head of
the River Race over the 4J mile course
on Wednesday 8th March, the first four
I.C, crews entered and put up very good
performances. The first eight were only
two seconds slower than the University
crew and 43 seconds faster than any other
college crew. Only one other college first
boat was faster than the I.C. second eight.
The first six places:
1. University of London 20 mins 16 seos.
2. I.C. 1st 20 mins 18' sees.
3. Chelsea 1st 21 mins 1 sees.
4. I.C. 2nd 21 mins 19 sees.
5. Q.M.C. 1st 21 mins 35 sees.
6 I.C. 3rd, U.C. 1st 21 mins 40 sees.
BOXING
I.C. Boxing Club provided two members
of the London University Boxing Team
which regained the U.A.U. Champion-
ship Cup, on Friday, March 3rd, after 35
years. Pierre Scribbribadah (R.C.S.) was
beaten on points in the Flyweight Trial,
and Graham Yorke (C. & G.) won the
Featherweight title in spite of a badly
bruised eye, caused by his carelessness
in the semi-final.
SPORTS DAY
Sports Day will be held at Motspur
Park on the second Wednesday of next
term. It is an official College half holi-
day. A closer fight than last year, when
R.C,S. won comfortably, is almost as-
sured. R.C.S. and R.S.M. each with 3
wins in the last 30 years will yet again
attempt to strip the pants off the Guilds-
men. The aim of the Sports Day is as
much social as athletic; and to achieve
this end E V E R Y O N E ' S support is
needed. Clamber into one of the coaches
on May 3rd. An afternoon of sunshine
(we hope) will do you a world of good.
at Motspur Park
WEDNESDAY
3rd M A Y 2.30
SAILING CLUB
The Club has made certain of winning
both "A" and "B" University point ser-
ies of races. In these series, sailed
throughout1
the two winter terms, the club
has also gained 3rd and 4th in the "A"
and 2nd and 3rd in the "B" points. The
"A" points was won by Graham Taylor,
our oommodore, in Fiasco F2168, by
gaining 4 lst's and 2 2nd's. (The best
•even results are taken out of nine races).
In the last '-'A'' points race Graham was
seen sailing backwards fast from the line
at the start, while adjusting rigging; and
from being lOOyards behind the fleet at
the start he caught up to 5th plaoe after
three laps.
After sailing three successful races in
the "B" points in F2462 Fuff, Johr
Thewlis was made an "A" points helms
man, and Nigel Hill ably took over Fuff
to ensure victory in the "B" points.
Early in the term we had some very
strong winds oompared to the calm of last
winter; but in the last two weleks we
have had light to moderate winds, which
have given us some pleasant sailing. The
Castaways' Cup races lor U.L. colleges and
hospitals, were sailed in light weather.
As usual the Castaways' Hoodoo lay upon
the two Imperial College teams. Both lost
in their first round matches, the 2nd team
to London Hospital, and the 1st after
a resail following a tie, to Q.M.C. London
Hospital and Q.M.C. both Reached the fin-
al, and London Hospital were the victors
for the third year in succession.
Team Races.
On January 25th in icy cold weather
I.C. team beat N.C.L. 1st, having one
capsize in each team, and four dripping
On Saturday 4th March the first XI re-
tained the U.L. Soooer Cup with a 2-1
win against Kings College in the final at
Motspur Park.
As the situation is at present the Pre-
mier division Championship rests between
I.C. and U.C., although if I.C. beat
Kings in their final league game I.C.
will take the Championship. The Champ-
ionship would be just a reward for the good
football the first eleven have played this
season. Their consistency is illustrated
by the fact that they have not lost a
game this term. The second eleven should
finish third in Division I of U.L. league,
but stand a very good chance of winning
the cup against L.S.E. II. In order to
avoid relegation from Division I (R) the
third eleven must win their final game in
the league.
The fourth eleven unfortunately lost
their vital league game against Gold-
smith's seoond eleven and other games
must be played off by their rivals before
it can be seen whether or not they have
gained promotion.
wet sailors walked baok into the club
house shaking the ice off their olothes and
wondering if it was worth it. The same
week I.C. 2nd team went up to Reading
to sail against their 1st team. In blustery
strong winds and heavy rain we event-
ually got the boatB out; but as soon as
they left the pontoon, one mast broke,
two boats capsized, and the rescue boat
rammed a capsized boat, putting a hole
in it. The match was abandoned need-
less to say, but the Reading team were
most hospitable and provided a large fire
and a good tea.
In a three-cornered match against U.C.
and Southampton. I.C. easily beat both
their opponents sailing on the Welsh
Harp. In fact Imperial College has not
lost a single match this term.
The Club has organised two cruises
this Easter Vacation. One, as usual, will
be on the Broads, and the other will be
a sea cruise off the East Coast. At the
end of the Summer Term there is to be
a West Country Tour in Devon and Corn-
wall in whioh we sail against a large num-
ber of clubs there with a team consisting
of eight people.
HAIL THE REVOLUTION
by Jamenski Karterski
1. Rugby and the Revisionist.
Comrades, it is necessary to look for-
ward to the glorious day (long foretold
by Marx), when the Revolution will be
accomplished. It is also necessary to con-
sider the re-organisation of several sports,
the first of which is rugby, a game con-
taining elements of a subversive nature,
not to mention some capitalist, warmon-
gering overtones in the rules. My com-
mittee and I have drawn up the follow-
ing recommendations under two head-
ings. On the field of play, and entertain-
ing after the game.
I. On the field of play.
a. The rules should stand as at present,
but the emphasis should be changed. An
example is, perhaps necessary. Should
one of the hookers strike too soon, the
referee, (who will always be addressed
as "Commissar Referee") will blow his
whistle and say, "Foot up, Comrade
Hooker. Penalty." This offence, and
several others of a somewhat technical
nature, should be treated leniently, and
only for a second offence should the
comrade be sent off. However, for offences
such as kicking, tripping and hacking, it
should be made clear by a salutory term
of voluntary labour in the Cheshire salt
mine that such behaviour cannot be all-
owed in the People's Republic. It is un-
necessary to add subversive shouts such
as "Get your bloody elbow out of my
eye comrade" can no longer be allowed.
Might I also suggest the the scrum
leader should be looked upon rather as
the chairman of a committee than a self-
appointed war-mongering capitalist who
takes it upon himself to tell the referee
that he must be related to the opposing
comrade scrum-half. I would also like to
suggest that in the case of any dispute
arising, the referee should immediately
organise the linesmen and himself into
a court of inquiry. Any deliberate lie be-
fore the court will, of course, be punished
most severelv.
b. Any infringment occuring which
necessitates a delay will not be wasted by
the comrade players. They will immed-
iately take out their pockets their copies
of "The Communist Manifesto of Rugby"
(soon to published), in whioh they will
find endless information about the new
spirit which pervades the game.
c. Spectators, too, will have to re-or-
ientate their attitude. Any partisan sent-
iments whioh may be uttered in the form
form of "Go on, belt that comrade fly-
half" or "Commissar ref., you need
glasses." will be punished by immediate,
expulsion from the ground.
II. Entertainment of Visitors.
a. Captains (who will be chairmen of
ihe team committee) will organise the
soft drink kitty. They should make sure
'that each comrade does not hold any opin-
ion of warlike nature. (They should pay
particular attention to the attitude of the
team's front row. All props must be made
fully aware that tickling, biting, excessive
pushing and such anti-revolutionary cries
as "Do that again and I'll knock your
head off comrade'-' will be dealt with most
severely.
b. Singing of what are now known as
Rugby Club songs will be allowed with
certain modifications. "In Mobile ' will
be changed to "In Vladivostok", "The
Engineer's Song" to "The Comrade
Engineer's Song", etc., etc. Certain re-
citations of a rather vulgar nature must,
of course, be re-orientated in a similar
way to the songs mentioned above.
"Daniel" will be renamed "Gorky'-'.
c. It must be impressed on all comrade
rugby players that beer (the opiate of the
rugby playing masses) will no longer be
drunk. A certain amount of non-alcoholio
cider, will however, be allowed.
I might add, comrades, that these
measures should be put into effect as soon
as possible. We should all try our utmost
to bring nearer that glorious day (long
foretold by Marx) when no longer' will
the bourgeous dominate the game of rug-
by-
Published by FELIX BOARD Imperial College, London, 8.W.7.
Plates A offset printing by WEST LONDON OFFSET CO., 86, Lillie Road, London, S.W.6. Tel FUL 7969

