H U M A N
RIGHTS WEEK
SDPSOC
C i v i l R i g h t s in the U K
What does 'Human Rights' mean to you?
The right to vote? Freedom of expression?
Freedom of information? A 'just' legal system
and 'fair' law enforcement?... Full
employment?? Unlike many countries
Britain has these rights — rights
implemented to high degree and fairly
extensively. The second half of this article
looks at some more controversial areas of
civil rights in this country. First, however, I
want to highlight three problem areas in
human rights in an effort to demonstrate how
complex and difficult this whole field is.
The provision of a 'human right' allows
some members of the population to abuse
that right to the detriment of the rest of
society. Allowing free movement of the
population, assemblage, communication
makes violent protest, in the form of
demonstration, easy. The right to possess
firearms (for self defence) allows for those
weapons to be used in offence.
Secondly, how far should the state be
allowed to go in infringing human rights in
order to prevent crime and bring criminals to
justice? Phone-tapping is an intrusion of
privacy. Trial by jury has long been accepted
as the most practical, fair method, of trial, in
the UK this right is suspended in certain
terrorist cases.
The role of the state in providing for and
ensuring human rights is constrained by
economics, the attitudes of the population
and other 'practicalities'. Racial and sexual
equality is difficult to enforce by law — it is
the attitudes of society which must change.
Food, work, clothes and health can only be
ensured for all by manipulation of the
ecomomic system of the country (and
perhaps the world?). The 'free market' is not
efficient in providing rights and equality. A
government's ability to do these things is
limited, partly I believe, by its political
persuasion.
The human rights scene in any country is
determined by the interplay of the above with
the history and political/religious/social
philosophy of that country. Thus, one might
say, the Soviet economy places more
emphaisis on basic needs such as food,
accommodation, employment, rather than
individual fredom. On the other hand the
West emphasises individual freedom more
than the right to basic needs. The degree of
success of either system is arguable.
Returning to the UK, the following are
some areas of civil rights where, it is claimed
by some, those rights are being eroded or
weakened.
Law and order
New government legislation proposes
greatly increased powers, for the Police —
most notably in the area of 'Stop and
Search'. Arrests will be allowable on
'suspicions' or because of 'possible
consequences' of somebody's actions.
Those suspected of 'serious arrestable
offences' could be detained in custody for
four days without charge . There will still be
no provision for a complaints procedure
which is independent of the police.
Secrecy
The Data Protection Bill and the
prosecution of Clive Ponting for allegedly
revealing political deception have raised
protests from many. There is a case for
secrecy in 'strict cases' of National Security
but the present situation of institutionalised
secrecy which pervades every aspect of
society decreases the accountability of the
state and invades the privacy of the
individual. The transfer of information
between the police, inland revenue, social
security and medical systems has sinister
consequences, in our view.
If the US surives with a Freedom of
Information Bill why cannot the UK?
Sexual equality
Basic civil rights are denied in this country
on the grounds of sex and sexuality.
Women are descriminated against in our
immigration laws, over taxation, social
security and pension regulations, in the
provision of parental leave for women and
not men, and in contraception. The
education system and society deters women
from involvement in male preserves,
including science and engineering courese.
Gay men and lesbian women suffer appalling
and quite explicit descrimination under
British Law — especially in the area of
consent, 'indecency', soliciting, immigration,
inheritiance, taxation, custody of children,
and job loss because of descrimination.
Immigration
Under current law the right of full British
Citizenship is no longer granted to all British
Passport holders. Naturalisation laws give
wide discretion to the Home Secretary
(remember Zola Budd!). Family members do
not have right of entry on even the same
basis as exists for ECC nationals.
Many people have argued for our rights to
be included in the constitution (a Bill of
Rights). This would help prevent abuse by
the government in that new laws could be
tested against the constitution in much the
same way as in the United States.
JEW SOC
Jews in Syria
'Everyone has the right to leave any country,
including his own, and return to his country'.
Article 13/2, Universal Declaration of
Human Rights.
The denial of human rights in Syria has been
a major source of concern in the
international community for many years.
The repressive nature of President Hafez-al-
Assad's regime and the state of emergency
which has existed in the country during his

