continued
from front page
whole term of office, make the maintenance
of civilized standards virtually impossible.
In the introduction to its new report on
Syria published in November 1983, Amnesty
International repeated the concerns which it
had already expressed in letters to President
Assad in 1979. They were:-
1. The use of emergency legislation to
supress political opposition and other basic
human rights;
2. The prolonged imprisonment without
trial of known or suspected political
opponents;
3. The abduction of alleged political
opponents from Lebanon by Syrian forces
and their subsequent detention without trial
in Syria;
4. The use of torture to intimidate and to
extract 'confessions' during interrogation
routine ill-treatment during investigation and
as a means of punishment, and prolonged
solitary confinement of untried political
detainees;
5. The use of the death penalty for both
political and criminal offences.
Four years later, Amnesty was unable to
report either any response to its
representations or any improvemnt in the
situation.
For Jews in Syria the situation in many
times worse than that of the average Muslim
citizen. Syria has a long history of anti-jewish
oppression. On November 29th 1947,
immediately after the United Nations voted
in favour of the partition of Palestine into a
Jewish State (now Israel) and an Arab state
(now Jordan), Arab mobs in Damascus and
Aleppo stormed the Jewish quarter, setting
fire to homes, shops, and synagogues
burning ancient holy books.
The Syrian leader described these events
as the 'spontaneous expression of the
people's anger'. But from then on,
persecution of the Jews became official
policy. During the 1948 Israel War of
Independance, hundreds of Jews in Syria
were thrown into prison, many of them
receiving long sentences for 'Zionist'
activities.
In the wake of the many revolutions that
took place in Syria after 1949, each
successive regime tried to outstrip its
predecessor in its hostility to the Jews and in
enacting new legislation against them.
Consequently, most Jews decided to leave
Syria, whatever the cost. Today, only about
4,600 remain.
Their situation became even worse when
the Ba'ath Party came to power in March
1963, and the persecution of the Jews
reached new heights following the Six-Day
War (1967) and the Yom-Kippur War (1973).
The Jews of Syria became in effect hostages,
victims of descrimination, persecution and
constant new laws directed against them.
Today they are the scapegoats for every
failure of the Ba'ath regime.
The only hope for Jews in Syria is to be
allowed to leave. But this is forbidden.
FRIENDS OF PALESTINE
Israelis on
the West Bank
Occupied by Israel after the Six Day War of
June 1967, the West Bank and its population
have suffered severe forms of oppression,
repression and suppresion. In 1968, the UN
General Assembly resolved to set up a
special Committee to investigate allegations
of Human Rights violations in the occupied
territories, and has since passed numerous
resolutions condemning Israeli practices in
the occupied territores Among the
violations by Israel of the Geneva
Convention were the following:
a The annexation of occupied territores.
Specifically East ' Jerusalem and more
recently the Golan Heights violates the
principle of inadmissible acquisition of land
by. war. Furthermore the policy of Jewish
settlements is considered as 'creeping
annexation'.
bThe establishment of Israeli settlements on
expropriate land and the transfer of an alien
population violates Article 49 of the Fourth
Geneva Convention. There are now over
100 settlements with an estimated 25,000
inhabitiants.
cCollective punishment especially the
destruction of houses is designed to act as a
general detterrant. Houses belonging to
Palestinians accused of security offences or
those in which they lived are blown up
without any court proceedings and
regardless of innocent family members or
residents of the home. Up to 1977, the Israeli
authorities confirmed the destruction of
1,229 houses (Jerusalem Post). Other forms
of collective punishment include weeks of
curfew and closing of univeristies such as Bir
Zeit University which was closed for a total of
six months in 1982.
din the West Bank, political parties and
organizations are forbidden, political
meetings and assemblies are not allowed,
newspapers and magazines are censored or
taken out of circulation. Politically active
Palestinians face arrest, imprisonment and
deportation. By 1978, more than 1000
Palestinians had been deported usually
accused of 'endangering public security.
eTorture: various international organisation
such as Amnesty International and the
International Committee of the Red Cross
have confirmed the systematic mistreatment
of Palestinian Prisoners in Israeli Jails. The
Insight Team of the Sunday Times reported
(19.6.77) that 'torture is so widespread and
methodical that it cannot be dismissed as a
handful of 'rogue cops' exceeding orders.
Torture is systematic. It appears to be
sanctioned at some level as deliberate
policy.' The report continues to say that
'torturing is done for three purposes: to
obtain information, to induce people to make
confessions be they true or false and to deter
the Palestinians in the occupied territories
from resistance activities.'
f The Israeli occupation has eroded the
traditional agricultural economy and many
young men seeking work have been drawn
into the Israeli economy as daily migrant
labourers. Thirty four percent of the
Palestine labour force in the West Bank and
Gaza strip work in Israel on a dailt basis.
They cannot join trades unions and are paid
far less than an Israeli doing the same job.
Other violations concern academic
freedom at universities, the pillaging of
archaeological and cultural property and
interference with religious freedom.
The social and economic effects of
occupation and dispersal have created
among Palestinians a hunger for a national
identity. Palestinians in the West Bank and
elsewhere, despite their hardships, continue
to struggle for freedom and security, basic
rights of which they are denied.
Food for J
thought 1
Have you ever considered food as a
human rights issue? We talk about
political freedom, justice and the
abolition of Torture but we forget about
the right to eat. Starvation is one of the
cruellest methods of torture and the sad
fact is that it is a torture implemented by
man not nature. Our reaction to the
problems of hunger are uninformed and
often erroneous.
1. 'Hunger is caused by food shortage'.
Wrong. The world has enough grain
alone to give everyone a US-style intake
of 3000 calories a day. Many 'food poor'
countries actually export agricultural
products while their poor are underfed.
During the 1971 drought, the Sahel
countries (southern edge of the Sahara)
exported 15 million kilos of vegetables,
mainly to Europe. Four million tons of
rice accumulated in Bangladesh after
the 1974 floods because people were too
poor to buy it.
2. 'Hunger is caused by land shortage'.
Wrong. Only 44% of the arable land is
worked. Much is left idle by large
landowners. Hunger owes more to
unequal land distrubution than land
shortage. In Latin America, 8% of the
people own 80% of the land. In India 22%
hold 76%. Land holdings are increasingly
used for export crops , while people
nearby go hungry. Since 1960 coffee
production in Africa has quadrupled, tea
production has increased six times,
cocao and cotton doubled, and sugar
case tripled. But Africans are eating 15%
less on average than 1970 and 20% less
than in 1960.
3. 'Hunger is caused by overpopulation'.
Wrong. In the 1970's Brazil's economy
grew at three times the population
growth rate, but the number of
malnourished people increased. With
half India's cultivated acreage, China

