has eliminated famines and fed its
population. Some of the world's most
densely populated areas are well-fed (eg
Holland, Britain), and vice versa (Bolivia,
parts of Africa). Hunger is caused—and
overcome—by political changes: in land
tenure, land use, and social priorities.
In conclusion, hunger is caused by the
unjust distribution of food due to the
greed and ingnorance of governments
and us. The reality of starvation is an
infringement of Human Rights. What are
you going to do about it?
Amnesty?
What's that?
Amnesty International won the Nobel Prize
for Peace in 1977 but in a recent public
opinion survey it came last in the list of
common charities and pressure groups
which people had heard of, with 60%
knowing that it existed. In another, it was
found that only 38% know what 'Prisoners of
Conscience' are. Noting this, and the
probability that Imperial College students
are not chosen for their general awareness, it
seems like a good idea to inform you about
Amnesty in general.
Amnesty was founded in 1961 by the
British lawyer Peter Benson and has three
major roles:
1. It campaigns for the release of men and
women who are imprisoned anywhere for
their political, religious or their
conscientiously held beliefs or because of
their colour, sex, ethnic origin or language;
provided they have neither used nor
advocated the use of violence. These people
are called 'Prisoners of Conscience'.
2. Amnesty advocates fair and early trials
for all political prisoners and works to
achieve this for people detained without
charge.
3. Amnesty opposes all cruel, inhuman or
degrading punishment outlawed under
Article 5 of the United Nation's Universal
Declaration of Human Rights. This includes
the death penalty.
Amnesty is an international voluntary
organisation with members in 78 countries. It
attempts to meet these objectives largely by
writing letters to Government Ministers,
Ambassadors and Newspapers of the
country involved. When possible contact is
made with the prisoners involved and relief
required is provided. The Imperial College
Amnesty International Group adopts
particular 'Prisoners of Conscience'. After
the release last June of its last prisoner it has
adopted a new one, Ivan Staroviot of the
USSR, who is serving a five year sentence for
anti-social religious activity. The group's
work at present consists of writing to Soviet
Officials to ask for copies of indictment and
the court's judgment, and requesting a
review of the case. This action is supported
by research at the International Secretariat
(in London) and by the sending of fact finding
missions to various countries.
The action is focussed on political
prisoners because it is believed that
concentration on particular human rights is
more effective than acting as an umbrella
organisation.
Amnesty is not a political organisation. It
does not receive any money from
governments and carefully vets all
organisations which give aid before
accepting money.
Finally the present campaign against
torture, which you can support by signing a
petition to be presented at Parliament, gives
some idea of the scale of the problem. About
65 of the world's 175 governments practice,
or fail to prevent, torture within their states.
They come from both West and East, North
and South.
POLISH SOC
Human rights
in Poland
Since the end of the last war, Poland has
been a one party state, ruled by the soviet-
backed 'Polish United W o r k e r s '
(Communist) Party'. The record of this
government includes the continuing
suppression of human rights. For much of
this time, it has maintained authority by
harassing any grouping outside the Party
which may constitute a 'threat' to its power.
At various times suppression has resulted in
imprisonment or killing of its opponents,
though more commonly this involves
surveillance of the Church, students,
academics and — particularly over the past
decade — the working class, the section of
society whose interests the Party claims to
represent. For this purpose, the authorities
have..employed the militia and security units
made up largely of former criminals. Threats
of Soviet military intervention are not taken
lightly, Hungary and Czechoslovakia bear
witness to this.
The rise of the popular free trade union
'Solidarity' from within the working class
underlined the lack of faith in the Party, and
gave hope of an improvement. Solidarity
pursued improvements in health and safety
conditions at work and was actively
proposing a radical scheme for workers self-
management. Ten million workers flocked to
join Solidarity in the last few months of 1980,
this number including many grass-roots
Party members who had become
disillusioned with the government and now
shared their fellow workers' hope for a better
future.
Solidarity also played an important social
role, pointing out problems ignored by the
authorities (eg alcoholism), suggesting and
implementing solutions. Above all Soldarity
believed and practised peaceful action — a
difficult principle to abide by in the face of
provocations orchestrated by the
authorities. In maintaining this approach,
Solidarity earned a grudging respect within
sections of the government — a government
which was exposed to be morally bankrupt.
As a result of vigorous peaceful negotiation
— often led by the charismatic figure of Lech
Walesa — political prisoners were released,
censorship was relaxed in places, and the
Church was given limited access to the
media.
Unfortunately, many of the agreements
which were signed have never been
implemented by the government. Issues
raised by Solidarity — including that of
Human Rights incorporated in the United
Nations Charter to which the Polish
government is a signatory, were branded as
'anti-state activity' and were given as an
excuse for well-planned military takeover,
still under the auspices of the Party and with
the consent of the Soviet government.
Large scale arrests of those 'acting against
the public interest' included not only trade
unionists — the very people who had the
public interest most at heart — but also
actors, religious writers and students. The
independant student union was closed down
by force, and Solidarity itself has been
declared illegal. Thousands of people were
arrested under martial law, the very fact that
exact numbers were not quoted exposes the
government's disregard for the right to know
who is imprisoned and why.
The official ending of maritial law in July
1984 was followed by the release of most of
the imprisoned solidarity activist. — though
there have been subsequent re-arrests of
several prominent figures. Despite the end of
martial Law, many of its features have been
incorporated into civil law, which now
includes repressive legislation which was
absent even during the early 1950's Stalinist
era.
The recent brutal murder of FR. Jerzy
Popieluszko shows what certain elements
within the authorities are prepared to do in
their belief that the ideals of Solidarity must
be extinguished. These ideals remain
committed to a clear identification of the evils
in society and their causes, plus a
programme of peaceful change wwhere the
dignity of all citizens is respected. The fact
that FR Popieluszko and others have had to
pay for expressing this view with their lives
makes its eventual implementation all the
more necessary.
So while you look around the other stands
at this exhibition and here the plight of other
peoples and read the word 'Solidarity' —
remember the repressed Polish people and
their continuing campaign for truth and
dignity.
Thank you for reading this if you wish to
help in any way, please ask at the Polish
Society Stall.

