CATHSOC
Northern
Ireland
Northern eland is a prime case of familiarity
breeding cortempt or at least numbness.
The 'ti ugedy :s that it is so near at hand and
yet so far from everybody's minds (unless
yc ; happen to live there), so seriously a
probl ;m and yet so apparently insoluble. The
sheer weight of the media attention focussed
on it in the past 16 years has only served to
create the mass of cliches that are now
offered as a poor substitute for the reality of
the war (and its attendant Human Rights
abuses). 'Shocking, isn't it', 'Bastards!',
'When's it going to end?' Comments like
these emerge automatically from the lips of
those suckled on the media's presentation.
They are utterly useless—worse in fact,
since they conceal the vital issues at hand.
Three of these issues will now be
considered in some serious detail.
1. The first issues is legislation. The
'Emergency' Provision Act and the
Prevention of Terrorism Act continue to
cause hardship and suffering to many
innocent Irish people and have serious
implications for civil liberties and legal
procedures here in Britain. Between them
they have completed the shift from policing
offences to policing people. This is seen most
clearly in the present informer strategy
which has done so much to bring the whole
legal system in Northern Ireland into
disrepute.
2. .Then there are the plastic bullets, 4
inche long PVC cylinders introduced to
replace the rubber bullet as a 'minimium
force riot control weapon'. To date fifteen
people, seven of them children, have been
killed by plastic bullets and many more
seriously injured through blindness, brain
damage and shattered bones. The use and
abuse (it does happen) of these weapons is a
continuing source of moral outrage in
Northern Ireland and yet the government
stands by them. What do you think would
happen if they were used in the streets of
Britain?
The Royal Ordinance Factory in Enfield,
North London, is at present testing a riot
machine-gun capable of firing alternate
rounds of plastic bullets and CS gas.
3. A third area for concern is the treatment
of Irish prisoners serving their sentences
here and the women prisoners in Armagh.
The distress caused to parents who travel
from Northern Ireland to visit there sons
here at great expense and sometimes
without even seeing them, is a shameful
story.
There is a strong case for the repatriation
of Irish prisoners. Then there is the
degrading treatment of the 40 women
prisoners in Armagh who are subjected to
regular strip searches. This policy amounts
to nothing more than a brutal attempt to
degrade them as women and make little of
their political beliefs.
Unfortunately there is neither time nor
space to go into these issues more deeply (as
they deserve) but plenty of evidence is
available for those who are prepared to go
beyond the media half-truths. It is simply not
good enough to dismiss these measures as
necessary for combatting the manoevres of
the IRA. If we are prepared to seek justice
and if we claim (as the Government so
adamantly does) to defend Human Rights
then we must not compromise these values
in any circumstances. Certainly the IRA
must be stopped (as must all paramilitary
forces) in its campaign of violence—but the
Government, too, must be fearlessly
challenged when it is seen to overreach its
legal powers. And it has manifestly done so in
Northern Ireland.
Having read this article you are urged to:-
1. Inform yourself (as widely as possible)
on the war in Northern Ireland.
2. Write to your MP and voice your
concern about the human rights issues
involved.
WIST
Female
circumcision
We hope to have a speaker from
FORWARD, a group who want to make
it possible for women in large areas of
North and East Africa to choose not to
subject their daughters to female
circumcision.
Female circumcision is a misleading
term—female castration would be more
appropriate—it is not a matter of lopping
off a piece of skin as it is with men. In
over 80% of cases it means excising the
whole of the clitoris and in many parts of
the Sudan, the Somalli Republic and
Mali, also cutting away the labia and
stitching the wound together so there is
a tiny hole, just big enough for urine and
menstrual blood, In country areas the
'operation' is performed without
anaesthetic, on Muslim (and some
Christian) girls aged between four and
eleven years old.
In its extreme form the aim is that no
flesh should remain at all, only skin
drawn 'tight as a drum' and a pin hole
opening.
Many brides are among emergency
admissions to hospital because a
husband has not been able to penetrate
and after weeks or months of trying has
opened the wound up with a knife or
razor blade.
Childbirth is made complicated and
hazardous because the mother cannot
deliver the baby until she is cut open.
It is claimed that if a girl did not have
her genitals excised in this way she
would be too highly sexed. Women say
that they do it in order to get a husband
and that if it is not done they feel dirty,
look ugly and smell objectionable.
Now many educated African women
are questioning the practice. It is, they
say, completely unnecessary and a
terribly painful and dangerous
mutilation.
ICCAG
Homeless
in London
Homeless in London- A case for Human
Rights
The plight of thousands of homeless people
on our doorstep, is a prime example of how
in a western democracy, groups of people
can suffer injustice which is rarely brought to
the public eye. The so-called 'down and
outs' — living rough on London's
streets—comprise only a minority of those
without homes in London.
Many people still come to London in
search of employment and soon find
themselves stranded without money
employment or anywhere to stay. People
who have become 'marginalised' in their local
communities come to London where they
easily obtain anonymity in the metropolis;
this may be because they have drug or family
problems or that they are homosexual and
thus 'unacceptable' in their home
environment.
The excessive rent charged by many
landlords means that only people claiming
high levels of supplementary benefit can
afford to pay their way; working families are
unable to afford such costs and this has led to
the unusually high proportion of elderly
people living alone in London.
Hostels provide a roof over the heads of
thousands in London but here again the rent
charged can be substantial. Overcrowding
and ill-treatment of the residents is
widespread; some choose to live on the
streets rather than in such accommodation.
The magnitude of the housing
problem — which affects so many
people—can accentuate other difficulties,
such as mental, family or alcohol problems.
The Social Services are wholly inadequate in
providing the levels of preventative care to
cope with these problems and they can only
attempt to help with corrective measures.
The provision of such rights as adequate
housing and standards of living is sadly
neglected for thousands of people.
The plight of such people—who so easily
become isolated—is surely a case for Human
Rights which we, and the society we live in,
need to recognise and take steps to alleviate.

