ElETTERS
OUR
Marathon effort
B A G
Usual drivel
Dear Sir,
We have just read the Xmas FELIX of last
term and feel obliged to comment. Aside
from all the usual drivel, there stood the
feature article on your 35 birthday. We take
exception to your remark 'The first issue was
primitive by today's standards, thin and and
contained little that would be of relevance to
today's student (rather like Broadsheet is
today)'.
Broadsheet is neither primitive (in
production or content), thin (a consistently
higher number of pages over the last two
years than ever before) nor is its content
irrelevant to today's students. On the
contrary, if you read Broadsheet you get: an
easy to read What's on, factual reports of
past events, Executive comment and above
all a number of humourous/satyrical articles
which go together in an attempt to take your
mind off the lecture you are in. Most people
(not only 'hacks') feel that the CCU
newspapers have improved over the last
couple of years and also that FELIX has been
steadily declining to what is almost
universally recognised as an all-time low.
FELIX is neither 'superb' nor 'vibrant'. It is
in fact excessively boring, the staff are (we are
told) disenchanted with the Editor, the
students are disenchanted with:- the absente
of news, letters, editorial comment, CCU
written articles (which have been submitted
but never printed) and generally the lack of
items about what the students have been
doing.
The Editor pleads: 'for goodness sake .. do
something interesting!' Jesus, we've just had
Rag Week and does FELIX write any reports
on events? Does it Hell, it gives two pages of
photographs with little or no text, no precise
details of monies raised, turnouts to event or
even congratulation.
We are reliably informed that most of
FELIX (eg pictures) is printed by Wednesday
— so it's not even up to date!
Come on Dave, get your finger out and
start producing a newspaper that's more
interesting than Friday morning lectures.
Yours
S Banton and others
Dear Sir,
Of course the staff are disenchanted with
Mr Rowe when he prints letters from whining
ninnies like S Banton and others.
P Jarnoyce
Dear Sir,
Students taking up jogging as part of a 'I'm
going to get fitter' New Year's Resolution,
might for the first time be attempting a half
marathon or Fun Run. Some may have even
gone the whole hog and entered into a full
Marathon.
I should like to ask all those students,
through your page, to consider getting
sponsored for ASBAH. We care for
thousands of people who have the handicap
of spina bifida (defect of the spine) and
Hydrocephalus (water on the brain). We
desperately need funds for research, social
welfare, special equipment, education and
employment training and for our special
courses run for young people with these
handicaps to prepare them for a full and
independent life, despite the fact that they are
in a wheelchair.
Please write to me , Madeleine Legg, for
sponsorship forms; and if you do run for us,
then you get a free T-shirt or running vest.
Not in the least bit interested in running?
Then pass the word on to a friend who might
run for us. Mind you, you could always be
carried or pushed round a Fun Run...
I hope some of you can help us.
Yours sincerely
Madeleine Legg
ASBAH Runners
22 Upper Woburn Place
London WC1H OEP
Looney nonsense
Dear Sir,
As many will know, last year saw the end of
the closed shop, with compulsory ballots
being necessary for their continuation. Yet
one important closed shop, the NUS remains.
It is undemocratic, corrupt and a waste of
tax-payers money. A movement is being
started to campaign for voluntary student
unions — Imperial is out of NUS and that is
the way it will remain. So to register your
support I urge all members of IC to write to
Neil Hamilton MP at the House of Commons
and tell him what you think of NUS.
However, Imperial's student union is also
compulsory and I call upon the College to
disband our closed shop and replace it with a
number of (competing) student unions
allowing the individual a freedom of choice. I
am sure an ICU more accountable to its
members would rapidly improve to a stage
where the majority (rather than minority)
will take an active role in our union.
Yours faithfully
Graham Brown
FELIX
The scrapping of the joint honours courses in
Chemistry/Management Science and
Biochemistry/Management Science reveals a
flaw in official College thinking, as well as
making the College less attractive to prospective
students. (See report, page 3).
The joint honours courses consisted of two
years in Chemistry or Biochemistry followed by
one year in Management Science. They
provided graduates who have a better
perception than most, of the realities of
industrial life and the role of the manager. In
short, they provided graduates tailored to suit
industry's needs.
But the worst thing that this decision has
revealed is how out of touch the College is with
the nation's needs. It is producing graduates
who are more and more specialised in their
subjects. They leave College after being told
that they are to be 'Captains of Industry'. But
industry doesn't need thousands of captains; it
only needs a few Admirals. This is a trend that
will become more pronounced in years to come.
So while industry's needs are for graduates of
broadly-based experience, the College is
concentrating its resources in producing highly-
specialized graduates.
The fault does not lie entirely with the
College. The reduction in student numbers that
has necessitated the change has been forced on
the College by the UGC. But the way that the
College has achieved the reductions is short-
sighted, to say the least.
The major sub-committee chairmen and CCU
leaders are being subjected to a financial
guessing game.
Clubs grants have already been cut once this
year; now it seems certain that the sabbaticals
will enforce further cuts.
The annoying consequence for MSC
chairmen is that they can not plan expenditure
for the rest of the year. They simply do not know
how much money they have got to play with.
Why weren't all the cuts imposed at the same
time, and as soon as possible last term? Are the
sabbaticals having trouble adding up? Or are
they simply playing off one sub-committee
against another? I think we should be told.
Acknowledgements: Many thanks to Grenville
Manuel, Peter, Nigel, Dave Jones, Jon Jones,
Hugh Stiles, Hugh Southey, J Martin Taylor,
Tom Osorio, Andrew Causebrooke, Dave
Green, Diane Love, Chris Martin, Pete Hands,
Patrick, Farah, Nick, Tinker, Ian Thomas,
Rosemary and Tony.
Felix is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial
College Union Publications Board and is printed by the Union Print
Unit, Imperial College, Prince Consort Road, London SW7.
Telephone 0
1
-
5
8
9 5111 Ext 3515
Editor: David Rowe, Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1985. ISSN 1
0
1
4
0
-
0
7
1
1
.
2 Friday 11 January 1985 FELIX

