•PUZZLES:
Tinker
The puzzles column will resume next week when we will publish
winners of the Christmas puzzles. Until then, here are four of the
seven solutions.
The shape below is cut into two equal parts thus:
The series
i± 52 <
3
.
.
.
.
. S.
was of course just the series of numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, etc, reflected
about a vertical axis on the left of the numeral.
The identity
• • * •
may be proved as follows:
fi = l + T ^ LET b = J f J t Q f *
J-
A = fl + 1
B =
/T+B
1+B
fl-B
To find the volume of the shape enclosed by two long, similar
cylinders we use the following argument.
After some thought it is clear the volume has a square cross-
section. If we now slice the volume into an infinite number of
square laminas and replace them with circular laminae we get a
sphere. The are of the square is (2r)2
and the area of the circle is
(Pl)r2
. The volume is increased by a factor 4/PI. The volume of
the shape must be 16/3 r3
.
Alphabetic
Jigsaw
ALPHABETIC JIGSAW (1)
A Germicide destroys a pit insect.(10)
B Extorts money from coloured gentlemen, we hear.(10)
C Rich saints may be followers of Jesus.(10)
D Drew the attention of Edward following drastic action.(10)
E Lift the Spanish girl to the right.(8)
F War-fiend exhibits method of close stitching.(4-4)
G Gruesome and ailing:- a revolutionary soldier.(8)
H Holy leader, man and Fool mixed up in a semi-circle.(4-4)
I I criticize doctrine of Mohammed?(8)
J He brings bad news from the employment office.(4,4)
K Unusual talk to Women's Institute about a power unit.(8)
L Solitary person eats headless rose for laxative.(8)
M(ac) Rearranged deck after doctor was ridiculed.(6)
W(dn) Strength of seafood, we hear.(6)
N Point at strange slave with more than one belly-button!(6)
O Emu in Mozambique returns concealing something to do
with the Stock Exchange.(6)
P 99 included in the victims — expensively)
Q Fruit tree. One of five young ones at the church.(6)
R A little root-beer and rye-whiskey: we used it all up.(3,3)
S It's still upper-class in the rea!m(6)
T Initially, there are six spoonfuls in each small cup.(6)
U Move around, changing from right to left and remove
burden.(6)
V Disappear whilst shaving badly without force.(6)
W Cunningly deceitful about artist climbing carefully.(6)
X(ac) Yuletide in Essex Massachusetts.(4)
X(dn) Chromosome gives me a different genus of gull.(4)
Y Other chromosome alters low noise made by dog W
Z Enthusiasm to laze about.(4)
4 Friday 11 January 1985 FELIX

