CFEATURE
Watch out County
Kerry, here we come!
Does a week touring the green and pleasant countryside of Southern
Ireland take your fancy? Does the thought of lungfuls of fresh, sweet air
and the fragrant scent of freshly laid cow dung make your heart leap and
your eyes go all misty? To be travelling in a sociable atmosphere with
about ten other IC students making frequent detours to test the fresh
Guinness. Or to visit all those places you never thought could prosper
tucked away, out of sight in a Hibernian vale. These it is hoped will
include glassware, textiles and carpet manufacturers. Suddenly, will
come home to you the meaning of the words 'Made in Eire'. The fresh
dairy cream will never have been so creamy, the Guinness so stout or
the ham so ham-ish. You, too, could make the journey of a summertime
which very few IC students will ever have dared, or afforded, to make.
Yes, this year, IC Indsoc will be making
their corporate way, 20, perhaps 30, strong
over to Southern Ireland for a week. Last
year, they blitzed the Germans, the year
before, they charmed the Welsh; this year its
the Irish, God help 'em.
The group, already quite fully laden move
off into the Emerald Isle to stock up on the
Jamesons and Stout before they board the
ferry, even more fully laden, on the way back.
The rest will be history after it has happened
in the last week of the summer term. The
experience will be open to any Indsoc
member including any who might join
between then and now, requiring a £5
returnable deposit cheque to IC Social Clubs
Committee to reserve a place. Cost should
be in the order of £50 and is heavily
subsidised at this price. Jim Ward, Chem
Eng 3 and Caroline Foers, Mech Eng 3 are
organising the whole shebang — they're
open to offers of all sorts — so don't blame
me if they miss the boat.
Talking of boats, that leads me nicely on to
the subject of pleasant cruise a few times up
and down the Thames. For those unfamiliar
with spending the night on Victoria
Embankment, I can tell you just how
picturesque the river and its banks look in
the evening and early morning . As a purely
social occasion in the penultimate week of
March, and the last Indsoc event of the year,
an evening river cruise is planned. The cost
will again be subsidised for members and
their guests who are invited onto the boat to
imbibe in the customary refreshments and
dance the night away to the floating disco. A
£3 deposit cheque is required (to ICSCC)
sent to David Green, Mech Eng 2 to secure a
place.
Alcoholics Synonymous?
IC Industrial Society, as you may have
gathered, does bear a striking, or should I say
remarkable resemblance to a Society for
alcoholics. Most events have their own food
and drink laid on, cheese, wine, bread,
biscuits, slimline salad dresssing and so on.
Some even provide full blown, four course,
pass the port dinners.
The most recent such occasion was a
business game organised by Chartered
Accountants, Ernst and Whinney which was
quite lavish in its provision of refreshments.
Starting at lunchtime on a Wednesday with
sarnies, savories and wine, everyone got
warmed up for an afternoon's hostilities in the
Brewery, Chiswell Street. The game, itself,
was fairly typical—putting groups of five or
six students with a graduate trainee to form a
company. The companies would have to
make decisions to outwit the others and
make the largest profit on their product. Two
and a half hours later, though it seemed like
twenty minutes, one team lead by some
future impressario, emerged jubilant and
way ahead of the rest. Just in time for some
wining and dining, conversation ranging from
'Star Trek' to people throwing themselves off
the Queen's Tower and every subject in
between.
It so happens that there will be one more
business game this year—courtesy of Arthur
Anderson this time, on January 16. On past
performances highly recommended. It's for
first and second years; all third/fourth years
and PG's who didn't play one earlier in the
year have missed their chance. Why not fail
this year, then be ready for next year's
Indsoc Programme? Perhaps not.
Also on January 16, next Wednesday, in
fact, we're off to see the lighting wizard
Thorn Emi in sunny Enfield. Need your bulbs
cultivating? Fluorescents to be massaged?
Ever wondered how they get the twiddly bit
in the 40W pearl in the smallest room?
Blinded by brightness? Transfixed by
tungsten? No idea about neon? Stunned by
strobes? Tired of traffic lights? Turned on by
streets lights? Wonder when I will go away?
Wonder how on earth you are ever going to
visit a light bulb factory? The solution to all of
these is: send Bill Chan, Mech Eng 2 a
returnable deposit cheque for £3 and we'll
illuminate your day, light up your life. Come
with us and all your questions will be
answered.
Sub-routine
On February 13, Rolls-Royce and
Associates will be at College, courtesy of
Indsoc. Who are they? What do they do?
They don't build cars or planes as would be
expected, but design and manage the
instalation of the machinery used inside
conventional nuclear submarines, no less.
After years of being pals with the Navy they
are at last coming out of the closet and
showing the world who they are, what they
do and how they do it. Fearless, Courageous
do I hear? Conquerors, perhaps? Invincible?
perhaps not. They are coming in order to be
seen, to publicise their industry and to look
out for potential employees. You have the
chance to meet and question them. You are
invited to come along to find out a bit about
their technology and their work and their
politics. Contact Gareth Rowles, Physics 2
with a £3 deposit cheque before the date.
Two weeks earlier, BSC Port Talbot,
pickets allowing, will have a visit from Indsoc.
The foundry, rolling mills and research labs
will be open for our inspection on 23 January.
BSC equipment now 'lean and healthy' after
Macgregor decimated its workforce and
equipment in his time there, is back fighting.
No longer the lumbering giant unfit for
National Service, BSC nearly made a profit
last year.
Tim Bird, Mech Eng 3 is the man to
contact with the usual gratification. BSC is
dying to get its hands on quality graduates in
all disciplines; Imperial has been given
particular attention and it seems a great
opportunity to learn something first hand
from the horse's mouth rather than through
the eyes of the Daily Star.
Food and drink again
Returning to the subject of alcohol under
discussion earlier, on 20 February, just to
prove that we can do it, we are organisng a
p... up in a brewery at Young's and Co of
Putney. However, their supplies are so large
that they will need more than the three
people who have already volunteered to help
them drink it. Apart from sampling the brew,
a tour of the plant and a talk on the process
and its history will be included. It'll cost you
nothing and you won't have to drive back.
Simon Denye, Chem Eng 2 will be delighted
to receive a £3 cheque from any Indsoc
member, so that he can put their name on
the list.
Freebie time again, on March 6, when the
last, positively the last, absolutely the last
Indsoc visit of the year goes td the Mars
Factory, Slough. O n offer is a
comprehensive tour of the plant with no limit
on the samples off the line. Free planets (ho,
ho) will not be on offer, but the odd case of
chocolate bars has been known to find its
way into the minibus somehow. Simon
Denye is again the person to contact on this
subject. We have been informed however
that no member of the ALF would be allowed
into the factory alive. Rat poison was also
mentioned somewhere, I believe.
Before I run out of space and memory, I
can't neglect to mention the Aston Martin
Trip on 13 February. No Indsoc programmme
would be complete without at least one tyre
smoking, petrol guzzling, metal bashing,
Ferrari smashing, turbocharged, four wheel
drive, very expensive motor car factory visit.
Need I say more? Don't miss it! William
Chan, Mech Eng 2, is the fortunate person in
charge of this trip.
Bananas, I think?
Just before this latest issue of the IC
rag is consigned to the floor in front of
the lecturer, I mist tell you something
about the great nightclubbing, fooding,
drinking and womanizing event to occur
near to the end of this term.
It's all as a result of an annual
competition run by National Student
Industrial Society — SIS for short — and
from whom came the inspiration of IC
Indsoc. Each year they run a
competition called a Business Quiz —
inspiring sounding it ain't, but in
common with a lot of things to do with
Indsoc, the title doesn't do justice td the
activity. However, to brighten things up
this year, they are hoping to be
organising a trip to a famous nightclub in
London, with cheap entrance in the
evening for all those that come along to
the National final of the quiz at a
sumptuous and world renowned venue
to be chaired by someone famous like
Bamber Gasgoigne in the afternoon. Do
I hear a murmur of interest? Does this
sound like yet another Indsoc event
dominated by food and drink I ask
myself? Is this another chance for a lot of
students to get some freebies in the
name of industry? This has the feeling of
a n o t h e r event w h i c h will be
underappreciated by the masses
frightened off by the title. On February
27 (before the National Final) the
London Regional Heat is being run,
organised by Queen Mary College. This
will obviously be a more low key affair
than the final but still worth attending
for the free transport, food, drink and
company. The quiz, along similar lines to
'Ask The Family' I'm told, will ask
unsuspecting teams of students very
easy questions on subjects vaguely
c o n n e c t e d w i t h b u s i n e s s a n d
commerce. If you feel adequately
qualified to answer such questions ie
equiped with an ICU card and a biro,
offer your servies at the earliest
opportunity to the organiser. God
knows, he's badly in need of it. The event
will be for the audience and contestants,
an afternoon and early evening's
entertainment before everyone
adjourns to the pub. If you feel
sufficiently moved or indeed interested
to join those going to either of these
o c c a s i o n s T i m B i r d s h o u l d be
contacted.
From small beginnings...
Also planned for this term is a seminar on
the running of a small business — problems
encountered, solutions to these problems,
grants available, schemes to be taken
advantage of, all these will be introduced and
discussed. Representatives from the DTI
(eager to expound their new scheme for
financing graduates) and a couple of small
businessmen will be organising this seminar
in conjunction with Gareth Rowles, Physics 2
for Indsoc. Enquiries should be directed to
Gareth in conection with the event.
FEATURE!
Anothe seminar being planned will set up
Ford, Vauxhall and BL face-to-face, each
trying to persuade an audience that their
product is better than the rest. The idea is
that each side will have time to present their
case before an open question and answer
session inspired by the audience. This is sure
to be a fascinating experiment in marketing
strategies worth missing an afternoon's
writing up of lab report any day and that of
Wednesday 30th January in particular.
Indsoc members will, as always, receive
confirmation and more details of this nearer
the day via the Newsletter. All speaker
meetings, including seminars, are open to
everyone. Any other event requires a
membership card and its quite a fetching one
this year — yellow with black writing and a
rather nice crest on the front. The
Committee when they all bother to turn up,
meet at 12.35pm on Fridays in Chem Eng
LT4. The perils of Christmas are past, the
snow is melting and the warm summer days
seem only half a year away. Now is the time
to get involved, take part, get you money's
worth. Now is the time to find out about the
Committee, elections are not that far away
and we're looking for freshers with fresh
ideas and second years with strong wills to
take over for next year. Everyone welcome,
(especially Committee members!) to attend
— no lunch is provided, but feel free to bring
your own. If you're not a member and Indsoc
sounds like it gives a lot more than it gets (as
it does) and expends a lot of effort to help its
members and the College then why have'nt
you joined yet? Membership is only £1, less
than the cost of a Mooney or a pint in most
London pubs.
I hope that this has given you an
alternative view of IC Indsoc, differing
slightly from the stuffed-shirt image all too
readily propagated by others.
Dave Green
Publicity Officer
Industrial Society Events 1985
16 JAN — Arthur Andersen Business Game 1st/2nd years
16 JAN — Thorn EMI Lighting Factory visit
23 JAN — BSC Port Talbot visit
30 JAN — Small Business seminar
6 FEB — Car Marketing Seminar
7 FEB — Dunlop High-Tech Sports Equip talk
13 FEB — Rolls Royce and Associates Seminar
13 FEB — Aston Martin Visit
20 FEB — Young's and Co Brewery visit
27 FEB — Business Quiz London Heat —- QMC
6 MARCH — Mars Confectionary visit
13 MARCH— Business Quiz Final
14 MARCH — Evening River Cruise and Disco
6 Friday 11 January 1985

