FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 FRIDAY 18 JANUARY
What aspect of your internship did you enjoy most?
The fact that the work I was doing actually went into active projects that would be seen by senior
management and clients. It made a great change from say, writing a lab report, where the ex-
periment has been done a hundred times previously, everyone already knows the outcome and
there is little space for individuality.
What aspect of your internship did you dislike most?
Deadline changes! Now and then the piece of work you had planned to finish for the end of the
week could be required the very next morning – something that doesn’t really happen at univer-
sity and that takes a bit of getting used to.
Did you feel your work was valued by your team?
Gradually, yes. Due to the nature of the work, the team you’re with can’t give you free reign with
an assignment straight off the bat, however as the summer progressed I was allowed to make
more of my own judgements on various aspects of a project.
Did your internship give you the opportunity to develop your skills and
increase your knowledge?
Yes, a huge amount of information was available and had to be applied continuously throughout
the summer. The hours may seem very tough to some, however in practical terms I was able to
gain so much more experience within a single summer compared to an ‘ordinary’ 9-5 job.
Would you like to work at the organisation full time? Why / Why not?
I enjoyed working with the people within my team and the sector itself interests me greatly so I
would be more than happy to go back.
What aspect of your internship did you enjoy most?
Meeting and working with people my age, who had the same ambitions and goals as me. Also,
getting help and guidance from people who had been working at the company for a while. It
felt very friendly.
What aspect of your internship did you dislike most?
The limited number of full time offers available often meant that stress levels were high. There
was a lot of pressure to produce high quality work, and this often meant working long hours.
Having said that, the intensity wasn’t as high as Imperial; managers are very wary of burnout,
and there is an ethos of making the job sustainable in the long term (I think this is more of a
London thing rather than an industry thing).
Did you feel your work was valued by your team?
As an intern it is difficult to produce “valuable” work because you probably don’t have the skill
set required yet. What is really valued is the amount of effort you put into the work, which is
reflected in its quality. Giving interns work to do actually tends to slow full-time staff down, but
it does provide them with an idea of what it would be like to work with you, which is the most
important thing, as the rest can be learned.
Did your internship gave your the opportunity to develop your skills
and increase your knowledge?
The internship was a form of immersive learning. No academic course can prepare you for the
skills you learn when you are on the job. This is part of the reason why there are no prerequisites
or degree requirements for the job. I learned valuable life skills very quickly, which I believe
were more valuable than the technical skills I picked up.
Would you like to work at the organisation full time? Why / Why not?
I loved my internship and got along with my team really well. The culture of the firm was very
friendly and it was a great place to spend my summer. I accepted an offer to work full-time and
I am really looking forward to going back.
I don’t think that the work is for everyone and there are downsides to the job. But there are
downsides to every job, and for me these were far outweighed by the fact I am working on some-
thing I enjoy, the opportunities the job offers, and the people I will be working with day-to-day.
Internship decisons: City? ..
Already secured a city internship for summer ‘13? Or perhaps you’re lo
4th year Chemist
Intro
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, London Accenture, London
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, London
What aspect of your internship did you enjoy most?
Working with a senior member of the firm to help compile some initial information for a cli-
ent bid. The client project was in Africa and so I was tasked with compiling information about
related work Accenture has done in Africa in the past. It meant I needed to be resourceful, show
initiative and also got the chance to speak with colleagues in places such as Johannesburg and
Lagos.
What aspect of your internship did you dislike most?
As consultants often work on their client’s sites, I was based in the less than exotic Park Royal (at
the end of the West bound Piccadilly line). This meant I didn’t get to join all of the intern social
events in the city and sometimes felt a bit isolated
Did you feel your work was valued by your team?
Kind of. Although I felt that I didn’t have enough technical knowledge to add value most of the
time
Did your internship give you the opportunity to develop your skills and
increase your knowledge?
In some areas, definitely yes. However, at times I felt like I was being given mundane tasks such
as preparing ppt. slides and updating spreadsheets that weren’t giving me much insight into
how the firm operated.
Would you like to work at the organisation full time? Why / Why not?
The people area great and the work is varied and can be interesting. Consulting work is highly
dependent on your team, location and project and this gamble would be one of the things that
would deter me from going back.
4th year Chemist
Everyone wants one. Some people seem to want one more than they want their degree. And
some lucky people alrealy have one. Gone are the days where Imperial students waste their
summers away in Kavos indoors watching Crystal Maze repeats, in these ‘tough times’ it’s all
about the summer internship.
But what makes a good internship? What do we want to gain from a summer of work? And
where can we ﬁnd the best experiences? We all know that the big city ﬁrms oﬀer up healthy pay
packets in exchange for long hours and the oportunity to sample the life of an analyst. But how
do internships elsewhere compare. Are internships in the not-for-proﬁt and charity sectors
valuable too? Read these reports from Imperial students who have sampled both to ﬁnd out...
4th year Physicist

