FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
FRIDAY 18 JANUARY
Ethical InternshipwithCharityComms
What aspect of your internship did you enjoy most?
The independence I was given. The trust too. I was PA to Director and Project Manager. The
project I was in charge of aimed at analysing where communication departments sit within UK
charities, how they are run as well as how they relate to the other core functions within the
organization.
What aspect of your internship did you dislike most?
The team I joined was rather small; hence we all had to contribute to the tedious yet necessary
tasks such as mass emailing or database cleaning.
Did you feel your work was valued by your team?
Definitely.
Did your internship give you the opportunity to develop your skills and
increase your knowledge?
Yes, I was given a lot of autonomy and freedom in my work, and could interact with member
organisations without direct supervision, which felt very gratifying.
Would you like to work at the organisation full time? Why / Why not?
Not in the near future, there’s a great deal of things I would like to try my hand at first! However
I have thoroughly enjoyed being an active part of such a dynamic team and don’t exclude the
possibility of joining a similar professional framework at some point in the future.
3rd year Mathematician
Conclusion?
.. Or Charity?
ooking to work in the third sector? Caroline Wood compares the two
Wellcome Trust
What aspect of your internship did you enjoy most?
I enjoyed the freedom and lack of hierarchy in the workplace. I was able to ask anyone questions
and they were willing to talk to all the interns.
What aspect of your internship did you dislike most?
I disliked the lack of structure in certain aspects of the internship. For example at times I felt I
was doing filler-jobs that weren’t properly thought through.
Did you feel your work was valued by your team?
I do feel my work was valued however I feel I could have done more.
Did your internship give you the opportunity to develop your skills and
increase your knowledge?
Yes it did. I was surrounded by intelligent people, many of them extremely knowledgeable in
fields I would like to go into.
Would you like to work at the organisation full time? Why / Why not?
I would definitely like to work for the organisation full-time. The Wellcome Trust funds bio-
medical research and although I’ve enjoyed my degree , I don’t want to become a researcher.
Working in science, but not at the bench really appeals to me.
3rd year Biologist
Rhiannon spent a six week placement with AHPN, the African Health Policy Network as
part of the Imperial Hub ethical internship scheme. Here’s her report:
I took part in the Ethical Internship Scheme just after completing my second year of a Biomedi-
cal Engineering degree at Imperial College London. I applied to the scheme as I was keen to
explore slightly different career options than those of my course mates, i.e. I don’t want to be
a research scientist, doctor or banker! I knew I wanted to bridge a gap between the scientific
elite and the wider community, educating those who otherwise would be fearful of change and
development.
After the Easter networking event for all Student Hubs interns, I knew I’d met the type of peo-
ple I would like to work with one day: they were dynamic, fascinating and impassioned people
who weren’t afraid to play silly games and express themselves unashamedly.
My six week placement was with AHPN, the African Health Policy Network, a charity that
seeks to represent the healthcare needs and opinions of the Black African population living in
the UK, as well as disseminating guidance and education concerning six key health care issues,
known to affect the Black African community disproportionally (HIV, Tuberculosis, Breast and
Prostate Cancer, Mental Health, Stroke and Diabetes) My main project was to re-draft a report
published by BHIVA, the British HIV Association, which outlined the latest treatment guide-
lines, making it more accessible and relevant to community members. Processing the report
in its original form was quite tough going, (I got the sense they’d been waiting for a scientist
like me to come aboard!) but with a little bit of online research I reached the bare bones of the
report.
It was important information, previously buried under scientific vocabulary; it felt great to
dig it out to genuinely help the lives of others for the long term. I suppose I used my scientific
powers for good this time!.
3rd year Biomedical Engineer
Ethical Internship with AHPN, the African Health Policy Network
his very unofficial comparison of internships within diﬀerent sectors draws out, for me, one
key point. We like internships where we feel we are gaining valuable experiences. hat may be
networking with a team in a sector where we know we want to work, or having the opportunity
to apply our skills to novel situations outside of the library/lab. As long as we are learning, gain-
ing skills and expanding our knowledge we generally seem quite satisﬁed.
If you know what you want to do then it’s obviously best to seek an internship in that particu-
lar area. However, if you are not sure what career path you want to take, does it really matter
where you intern? In my opinion, not really.
A good and useful experience is worthwhile whether it’s with a corporate or a charity. After
all, that’s what an internship is all about right? Trying new things to see what parts you like and
what parts you don’t.
If you are still thinking about what to
do this summer and fancy trying some-
thing a bit different, you can still apply
to the Imperial Hub Ethical Internship
scheme before 5pm on Monday 21st
Feburary. More details can be found by
searching “Student Hubs Ethical Intern-
ships” or by checking out the Imperial
Hub Facebook page.

