Your atomic number’s up
Pavitar Singh Devgon talks about the new clock that has got the masses into a frenzy
W
WAA WAA WAA I HATE COMPE-
TITION. LET’S SUE THEM YEAH
Ugandan pygmy tribe display flexible footwork skills
Nick Kennedy Science Writer
SCIENCE
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 18 JANUARY
14
hether it was us-
ing sand, sun-
dials or swing-
ing pendulums,
humans have
strived to create more eﬃcient time
keeping devices. he past century saw
a large jump with the introduction
of the atomic clock. Current models
operate by measuring the microwave
energy signature of electrons drop-
ping between energy levels. hese are
remarkably precise with errors as lit-
tle as 1 part in 1017, which equates
to dropping a second every 3 billion
years or so.
Since the metric system was deﬁned
(later superseded by the Internation-
al System of Units), physicist have
sought ever more precise methods
to determine the standard weights
and measures. For example, the me-
tre was ﬁrst deﬁned as a fraction of
the meridian line on the Earth – a
very physical and tangible measure.
With the aim of improving accuracy,
however, it was generally adopted to
deﬁne the base units in terms of im-
portant physical constants, which are
more resolute and rigid. his had led
to the metre being deﬁned as a frac-
tion of the speed of light. he second
is measured by the radiation emitted
from electron shell transitions of a
ﬁxed, duplicable atom. All the other SI
units are deﬁned this way, apart from
the kilogram, which is deﬁned only in
terms of a prototype platinum-iridium
rod kept in France.
A research experiment by a team
from the University of California,
Berkeley, intended to produce accu-
rate atomic clocks, and could now also
be used to reﬁne the deﬁnition of the
kilogram. Based on Arthur Compton’s
idea that photons deliver kinetic ener-
gy to electrons and alter their momen-
tum, and Louis de Broglie’s theory that
moving electrons can be thought of as
waves, the new atomic clock works by
measuring the Compton frequency of
atoms.
Characteristic Compton frequen-
cies are used: around 1020 Hz for
electron-waves, and 3 × 1025 Hz for
a caesium atom. An ultra-precise la-
ser is used to deliver ﬁxed impact
pulses to half a sample of caesium
atoms, with the eﬀect of slowing the
Compton frequency. By combining
the pulsed sample with the original
half and using atom interferometry to
measure their interaction. When the
samples separate to a multiple of the
Compton frequency, the output of the
interferometer is high. he frequency
of the ﬁxed impact pulses is then the
frequency of the atomic clock.
hough the new atomic clock is only
accurate to 4 parts per billion, Holger
Müller, leader of the research team,
states that “it’s no better than the
original atomic clocks 50 years ago.
But who knows what we could achieve
with ﬁve decades of improvement.”
What is diﬀerent about this experi-
ment is that other atomic clocks are
dependent on several parameters of
the system, such as spin of electrons
and its interaction with the nucleus.
hese are not always fundamental
and could be improved. Additionally,
they require at least two atoms, one
for reference, while this design could
be adapted to work with single atoms
and high-precision lasers.
Nevertheless, there is criticism of
the research. Claude Cohen-Tan-
noudji, winner of the 1997 Nobel
Prize, is not satisﬁed with the ﬁnd-
ings and what is claimed from them:
their paper “reports a measurement
of the recoil frequency, but this recoil
eﬀect has been known for decades.
Any atomic clock involves masses. But
nowhere in their experiment, does a
real Compton oscillator at 1025 Hz
appear!” While the debate continues,
other physicists are at least interested
in the possibilities mentioned.
DOI:10.1038/nature.2013.12191
Scientists from Dartmouth College,
Hanover, recently focused on the an-
kle-flexibility of pygmy populations
in Uganda. hey ﬁlmed the honey-
gathering behaviour of pygmies to
measure the flexibility of their ankle
joints.
he ﬁndings, reported in he Pro-
ceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences, show that pygmy hunter-
gatherers have extraordinarily flexible
ankles. his enables them to climb up
trees with their shins almost touch-
ing the trunk, like a chimpanzee. If
a person unaccustomed to climbing
bent their foot to such extremes, they
would suﬀer severe damage.
he team used ultrasound to com-
pare the length of leg muscle ﬁbres
in the Twa of Uganda, a pygmy tribe,
with those found in the Bakiga, Ugan-
dan farmers who seldom climb trees.
hey found that the ﬁbres running
alongside the shin bone were much
longer in the Twa.
he pygmy climb trees mainly to
collect honey, a vital component of
their diet and an indicator of social
prestige. But climbing and foraging
at such heights, in excess of ﬁfty me-
tres, is extremely dangerous. Among
the Aka, a nomadic pygmy tribe, falls
from trees account for seven per cent
of male deaths.
Safe, quick climbing could have
acted as the selection pressure driv-
ing unusually flexible ankles.
hese ﬁndings have important
implications for human evolution.
About ﬁve million years ago, ances-
tral humans started walking about on
two feet, but exactly what drove this
milestone in human development has
long been debated. From studying
the fossil record, some anthropolo-
gists believe that early hominids were
incapable of climbing trees because
of their foot structure. his has led
to the over-simpliﬁed classiﬁcation
of dividing human ancestors into two
groups: those that swung through
the forests and those that stalked the
Love Science?
(We have it on good authority that you said
this in your personal statement... twice)
Why not write for us? Get in touch!
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Follow us on Facebook, where we’ll post
up any interesting stuff we stumble upon
(science-related, obviously).
open plains. However, with the dis-
covery of an ankle adapted for life
in the trees in modern humans, the
situation becomes a touch more per-
plexing.
DOI:10.1073/pnas.1208717110
Facebook facebook.com/Felixscience
This may or may not be the scene in
the labs at the University of California
Pygmies display extraordinarily flexible ankles,
allowing them to collect honey from trees
http://www.hsmagazine.net
http://phenomena.nationalgeographic.com

