Aquatic pornography
SCIENCE
The epic genetics (or epigenetics) of invasive species
Fiona Hartley Science Writer
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
FRIDAY 18 JANUARY
Philippa Skett on how bisexuality and fish porn have come together this week
ew research published
this week that involved
female ﬁsh watching
ﬁsh-porn, among oth-
er things, could possi-
bly shed new light onto the causation
of homosexuality, mating preferences
and mate determination. Experi-
ments on the tropical fresh-water ﬁsh
species Poecilia mexicana presented
interesting results that could solve
the Darwinian puzzle of same-sex
mating, despite it occurring in a mul-
titude of species, including our own.
It has previously been found that
female mate choice in certain species
is dependent on information gathered
whilst observing the social interac-
tions of the candidates in mind, to de-
termine if they are worthy of copula-
tion. Social interactions observed can
be sexual or not, and allow for an in-
sight into the reproductive quality of
the male in question. Such organisms,
such as P. Mexicana, prefer to just sit
back and watch the action, then go
from there.
In particular, these nosy ﬁsh like to
observe males consorting with other
females, and tend to prefer mating
with those that they have already ob-
served getting frisky. his “sharing
is caring” attitude is known as mate
choice copying, and places a signiﬁ-
cant value on mating behaviour. How-
ever, with the social hierarchies seem-
ingly experienced in high schools
everywhere also common to ﬁsh
shoals, it is often the case that some
“subordinate” males cannot access the
top notch females of the community.
Listening to the song ‘Teenage Dirt
bag’ allows for understanding of how
this translates Homo sapiens, but, un-
like two tickets to an Iron Maiden
gig, these ﬁsh have developed some-
thing a bit sneakier to bag that mate.
hese lonely males attempt to im-
prove their mating chances by simply
mating with each other to exploit the
mate choice copying strategy, and it
seems like this homosexual behaviour
does the trick. P. mexicana are prone
to a behavioural trait known as nip-
ping, where males nip at the female
genital opening prior to copulation,
and this was ﬁlmed between two male
ﬁsh, one notably less colourful and
therefore less attractive, and shown to
a female on a screen. It was found that
a signiﬁcant increase was observed in
the females’ attraction to the drabber
of the male pair, and not only that, as
there was no signiﬁcant preference
between the males’ homosexual be-
haviour and heterosexual behaviour,
it doesn’t seem to matter too much
who you are screwing, as long as you
are screwing someone in the eyes of
these ﬁckle females.
his therefore means that in this
species of ﬁsh, being a bit more ex-
perimental can do you some favours
if you are particularly unattractive
male. However, does this translate to
the wider world of homosexual occur-
rences?
Exclusive homosexuality so far has
only been observed in humans, sheep
and certain birds, although bisexual
male mating behaviour is much more
prominent. Homosexuality has been a
Darwinian puzzle for decades, with it
seemingly resulting in decreasing the
male reproductive ﬁtness, although
new research is constantly honing in
on what could cause homosexuality
and why.
Many independent studies into hu-
man homosexuality have determined
that people are probably born with
their sexuality deﬁned as opposed to
being environmentally inﬂuenced.
Diﬀerences in brain structure be-
tween homosexual males and het-
erosexual males have been noted,
alongside the pattern of brain activa-
tion seen in homosexual men and het-
erosexual females being distinct from
that of heterosexual men. Genetic
markers on Xq28, a region on the X
chromosome, and also possibly on
three other chromosomes have been
statistically linked to sexual orienta-
tion too.
herefore considering the behav-
iourally-derived advantages of same
sex mating alongside biological in-
ﬂuences may provide an alternative
view point of the evolution of this
completely natural phenomenon. his
research could further the dialogue
about the intricacies behind same sex
mating across the multitude of species
it has been observed in, and bring us
a step closer to understanding it fully.
So, regardless of the species in-
volved, the evolutionary derivation it
may have and what Westboro Baptist
Church say on the matter, same sex
mating is highly prevalent in nature,
and it could be that it will be fully
understood as to why within our life-
time. Until then however, tread care-
fully when from taking a leaf out of
the P. mexicana book of love – what
may work for these ﬁsh may not nec-
essarily work for other species.
DOI: 10.1038/493136a
N
Even at Imperial I doubt you’d ﬁnd bi-
ology students wearing T-shirts refer-
ring to Lamarckism, but you especial-
ly wouldn’t ﬁnd them wearing shirts
that deride, “In hindsight, pretty
ridiculous”. Jean-Baptiste Lamarck’s
evolutionary theories are remem-
bered for suggesting that oﬀspring
could inherit characteristics that their
parents had acquired due to the envi-
ronment. he classic example is that
every generation of baby giraﬀes has
slightly longer and stronger necks be-
cause their parents are continuously
stretching their necks to reach the
leaves of Acacia trees.
Dismissed if not outright ridiculed
for decades, nowadays Lamarckism
has made its comeback in the form
of epigenetics: the study of changes
in gene expression that don’t alter the
genome itself. Such modiﬁcations are
acquired in both childhood and adult-
hood, and can be inherited by one’s
progeny. As well as occurring natural-
ly in cellular processes, such as regu-
lating the fate of stem cells, epigenetic
changes to the genome can be caused
by environmental factors.
With the understanding that vari-
ation exists not only at the genomic
level but at the epigenetic level too,
some ecologists are beginning to
speculate on the roles that epigenetic
diversity might play in evolution-
ary adaptions to the environment.
In particular, they speculate that one
reason that invasive species do so well
in novel environments is because of
epigenetics.
Adaptation needs two things: ge-
netic diversity, and time for beneﬁ-
cial mutations to the genome to ac-
cumulate. But invasive species are
often limited in their genetic diversity
and establish very quickly. Japanese
knotweed reproduces asexually, thus
forgoing the high gene variation that
we think makes sexual reproduction
so advantageous. So if they are not
adapting to the environment via per-
manent changes to their genome, how
are they so successful?
Christina Richards, an evolutionary
ecologist at the University of South
Florida, thinks that epigenetics is one
answer. She has found that Japanese
knotweed exhibits high epigenetic
diversity, with plants possessing dif-
ferent leaf shapes and growing to dif-
ferent heights depending on the envi-
ronments they inhabit. Invasive house
sparrows in Kenya also show high
epigenetic variation between popu-
lations in diﬀerent environments,
despite the limited genetic diversity
of the sparrows (they are descended
from a single group). Both results
support the idea that genes modiﬁed
epigenetically by the environment
could be passed on, ultimately help-
ing invasive species to gain footholds
in new areas.
he jury is still out: critics are not
convinced, arguing that the success of
invasive species is explained perfectly
well by other reasons supported by
well-founded evolutionary theories,
such as expanding into unoccupied
niches where they can thrive despite
limited genetic diversity. But re-
search into ecological and evolution-
ary epigenetics seems set to take oﬀ
as obstacles like the limited number
of sequenced wild plant and animal
genomes are overcome by decreasing
costs.
he budding integration of dis-
parate research ﬁelds investigating
epigenetic variation and inheritance
in natural populations, facilitated by
symposiums and increased dialogue,
is likely to lead to several studies that
will demonstrate how environmental
changes aﬀect gene expression. hese
studies will also address the impacts,
if any, that epigenetics have on the
evolution of species. Once again, it is
an exciting time for evolutionary biol-
ogy.
DOI: 10.1038/nature.2013.12179
P. mexicana doing it’s best “come-hither”
glance- coupled with some fish-on-fish action
http://www.aquaportail.com/fiche-poisson-1620-poecilia-mexicana.html

