COMMENT
Comment Editors: George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
FRIDAY 18 JANUARY
very Christmas for the
past several years I sit
down and I cry. It’s not
that I’m sad; it’s an im-
portant tradition. Every
Christmas I sit down and watch It’s A
Wonderful Life and like a predictable
fool each time I’m blinking back salty
water. And it’s not just with this ﬁlm
– name a tear jerker and it’s probably
worked its magic on me. I even cried
at Susan Boyle’s Britain’s Got Talent
audition.
But books, now that’s a diﬀerent sto-
ry. I’m always so much more engaged
by books. hey can move and inspire.
I’ve changed countless opinions on
the strength of a book I’ve read, and
found myself in many more people’s
shoes than ever I have in ﬁlms. But a
book has yet to win a tear from me.
Perhaps it’s the lack of soundtrack,
I’ve just never had a pile of paper get
the slightest boo or hoo from me, nev-
er-mind both at the same time.
hat is, until I read Faitheist.
Faitheist is a memoir from Chris
Stedman, assistant chaplain at the
Harvard Humanist Chaplaincy. I’ve
actually known Chris for over two
years now, ever since I wrote for his
blog, Non Prophet Status. But while
I’ve been following his work since, I
can’t claim to know him personally,
which is why reading his memoir feels
so strange, like I’m peeking into his
diary. So why does someone just two
years older than me have his memoirs
out already? It’s because as atheists
Faitheism: the importance of dialogue
Rory Fenton
and the religious debate how to en-
gage one another, his is a very impor-
tant story to tell.
Chris tells the story of how he went
from evangelical Christian to athe-
ist. Such a transition could never be
smooth but Chris’ was made all the
rockier by his realisation from his
early teens that he is gay. He tells of
his struggle to reconcile his sexuality
with his faith, a struggle that at ﬁrst he
seems to be loosing. He is told that his
sexuality is a demon inside him trying
to prise him from God. Unable to ac-
cept himself, Chris is driven to despair.
He describes how one evening, home
alone and hating himself for simply
being Chris, he took a sharp kitchen
knife and locked himself in the fam-
ily bathroom. Tears and snot smearing
his face, he rolled up his left sleeve and
practiced, slicing through the warm
air above his living skin, the move-
ment he needed to make to end it all.
Chris is, of course, still with us but
unlike in It’s a Wonderful Life he had
no realisation, crouched with his back
against the cold shower tiles, of what
the world would miss without him –
only the thought that suicide would
be yet another black mark against his
soul made him step out of that shower
and replace the knife in its drawer.
his is a very powerful moment and,
yes, it moved me to tears. his book
and Chris’ life itself could easily, after
that episode, have been dedicated to
vehemently opposing religion in all its
forms. I for one couldn’t blame him
yet incredibly the message of the book
and Chris’ professional life is one of
tolerance; a call for dialogue, not di-
vision, between believer and non-be-
liever. Conﬁdent now in his atheism,
Chris wishes to use his story to high-
light intolerance of all kinds – and this
includes intolerance within the athe-
ist community for the religious. In his
work at Harvard, Chris aims to build
constructive dialogue with religious
people, focusing on shared values and
making genuine, sincere attempts at
mutual understanding. Chris stresses
that the enemy of secularism is not
religion but religious extremism. In
combatting this extremism, atheists
can ﬁnd many allies among the re-
ligious. Indeed, there simply aren’t
enough of us to achieve a good soci-
ety on our own. We simply must work
together and Chris believes it is pos-
sible.
If someone who was driven close to
suicide by religiously-inspired homo-
phobia can make peace with religion,
surely so too can many atheists. he
world is simply too complex to divide
along the tribal lines of religious and
atheist, us and them. In making ac-
tive eﬀorts to reach across this faith
divide we stand to make not just use-
ful allies in ﬁghting the homopho-
bia, sexism and anti-science behind
religious extremism, we stand too to
build real relationships and gain real
friendships. his is Chris’ challenge
to his readers and I’m with him on it.
Atheists and religious people have too
much to gain from sincere dialogue to
wallow in lazy stereotyping. As most
of us begin to loose the momentum of
our two week old New Year’s resolu-
tions, perhaps atheists at large could
make a fresh resolution, to make an
attempt this year to actively engage a
religious person about their beliefs,
to try to understand where they come
from and see what you might have in
common. You could just be surprised.
Let the dialogue begin.
Rory tweets as @roryfenton
E
George Butcher
ast week Felix published
an article discussing the
diﬀerences in workload
between Oxbridge and
Imperial. ‘Who works
harder?’ seemed to be the question it
was asking. It threw lots of ﬁgures at
the reader and seemed to suggest that
Oxbridge gives students more contact
hours and was much better value for
money. he comments online erupted.
Imperial’s longer terms were pointed
out as an explanation for reduced con-
tact times and there were debates on
the quality of the course content, par-
ticularly amongst the physicists.
his all really annoys me. Impe-
rial students seem to be incapable of
getting over an Oxbridge rejection.
The mother of all inferiority complexes
L
Imperial is a world-leading university: we should all stop moaning
about Oxbridge, says George Butcher
Everyone seems to complain and be
all “Oh we work so hard,” or “Aren’t
we so underappreciated?” Or my per-
sonal favourite, “People don’t ﬁll out
the NSS properly and league tables are
just rubbish.” We seem to have a con-
stant ﬁxation with how hard we sup-
posedly work and an innate bitterness
at Oxbridge for not letting us in. It’s
bizarre and no other university is daft
enough to do it.
Firstly, everyone thinks they work
hard. he hours you work are perfectly
comparable to the hours many people
work in a job. It’s a cliché, but nothing
worth achieving has been easy to do
so. I don’t know what you want to do
with your life, and dare I say it, nor do
you. But whatever it is, if you want to
be successful at it, you’re going to have
to work hard to get there. Get used to
it now.
Secondly, Imperial is one of the best
further education institutions in the
world. Let’s say it’s the third best in
the UK. hat’s pretty good. So what
if Oxford and Cambridge claim spots
one and two, you’re still at a university
which consistently ranks in the top ten
world-wide. When you graduate and
go looking for a job, nobody is ever go-
ing to say, “We would give you the job,
but frankly, we don’t think Imperial is
a serious enough university.” Imperi-
al’s courses are diﬀerent to Oxbridge’s
and this is good. I’ll have diﬀerent
skills and experiences to engineering
graduates from there. here is no ‘gold
standard’ on what to do in a course.
Let’s all take the opportunity to learn
from some of the best in the world and
not waste time complaining.
here is research to be done on how
diﬀerent university courses diﬀer all
over the world. Last week’s article
tried it, but with lots of short comings
which it was frank about. For now
though, let’s enjoy our time at Impe-
rial and all its unique qualities. Enjoy
living and working in central London
and take advantage of everything it
can oﬀer. Write for Felix! Take up a
sport. Challenge yourself. Don’t be
obsessed with being ‘as good as Ox-
bridge’ because it’s inane and frankly
it’s boring.
George tweets as @georgebutcher
Come at me bro, and
understand where
I’m coming from

