LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Where to work
his week there is a feature
on page 10 (it’s one of my
picks) about internships.
The basic idea is to inter-
view a few people who
have done city internships and some
that have done third sector work. The
plan is to see what similarities and dif-
ferences there are. Obviously, this isn’t
some survey from the survey fetishists
over at Ipsos MORI, so it’s not the larg-
est most scientific set of data. What’s
interesting is the general trend: we like
internships (and you can extrapolate
jobs) where we gain some kind of valu-
able experience, and where we feel like
we are actually a valued and impor-
tant member of the team. Of course, if
your long term goal is to just work for
the company, then you may be more
interested in networking during an in-
ternship, and there are many other situ-
ations where you may want different
experiences. For example, horny people
maybeseekingmultiplesexualpartners
while also wanting to be valued for their
hardwork–butIwouldn’tputdown“sex
drive of Russell Brand” on your CV. The
point is that we obviously want to feel
wanted in some way. Nobody wants to
just be the person updating a calendar
or reformatting a word document.
When reading the feature, you can
make up your mind as to what you
think and which of the jobs sounds best
based on what they liked and hated the
most.
The reason I write this is because
elections are on their way. That’s when
I’m deposed and someone else takes a
crack at it.
What do I do after this year? Journal-
ism? Science? Science journalism? Do
I apply for a job in the city? I’ve been
thinking about it. Don’t lie and say
you’ve never entertained the thought,
we all have had that “hmm, maybe”
thought.Forsomepeople,theyreallydo
findfinanceandeconomicsfascinating.
Or they just really like the environment
of a company. Perhaps they like the
fact that there is sense of camaraderie.
That’s absolutely fine if you do. Person-
ally, except for the fact that you get to
meet a bunch of new people, I don’t
think I really have much interest in that
sector.
You may then reasonably think that it
seems odd to even think about starting
a career in a job you don’t really care for
too much. Thinking about it a bit more, I
realised that the reason for this sudden,
strange urge to wear a suit and tie every
day was the security it could potentially
offer. The job not the suit – that would
probably rip fairly easily, and so wouldn’t
be that safe. A job at a big company
brings with it a guaranteed salary and
a stable structure to your weekdays.
Some people really hate not having
a structure, some love it. I remember
a friend from halls being very excited
about becoming an accountant (I know,
my friends sound like a right laugh).
I found it amazing that you could re-
ally want that, but he insisted he did. He
disclosed the reason: the fact that you
wake up and go into an office, then you
go home at a similar time each day was
the real reason he enjoyed it.
I think I quite like being able to choose
a structure to my day, but also having
something to aim at is always a good
motivator.
Then what about being an entrepre-
neur or doing something a little bit dif-
ferent without a guarenteed salary?
Well, it really is a risk/reward (uhoh this
sounds like economics) game. You risk
having no security and being tired and
stressed. That’s not to say that the city,
and jobhunting, is not stressful, but,
you know what I mean. The reward
would be doing a job you really love. If
you don’t love the city, then think about
other careers and decide if you want to
take the risk. I’ll be doing so.
That leaves me back at the all too
common university student problem:
“what do I want to do when I grow up.
Oh, shit, I’m grown up. What do I do
now...”
FEATURE POLITICS COMMENT
Where to work? Depardeski Failed an exam?
Internships are all the rage. This
feature looks briefly at the ex-
periences of students interning
in the city and in the third sec-
tor.
The strange news that (for-
merly) French actor Gérard
Depardieu now has a Russian
passport (see right) in protest
to his tax bill rising.
If you’ve ever divebombed be-
low the 40% mark then you’ll
know that often you think it’s
wrong.Thispiecetellsyouwhat
todoifyoususpectamistake.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
>>10 >>16 >>18
CLASSIFIEDS
FRIDAY 18 JANUARY
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editor Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka Rana
Science Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Alex Ramadan, Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Mark England, Ross Gray,
Simon Hunter Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editor Jason Parmar Coffee Break Boss Matt Colvin Travel Editor Veronika
McQuade Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos Copy Chief Annina Sartor Copy Editors Thomas
Lim, Jack Peacock, Joshua Maxey Illustrators Hamish Muir, Sam Lav
Flatmate wanted
I have a large room in a 3 bedroom flat to let. The
flat is by Bishops Park in Fulham, £645pcm. Very
close to 74, 430, 414 and 14 bus routes, living with
one imperial student and one alumnus.
If interested: contact Adam at adam.falk08@
imperial.ac.uk
Email felix@imperial.ac.uk to place Classifieds.
Boy/girl seeking boy/girl also welcome. Accompanying pictures of you in
provocative poses in the Library not.
T

