ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Juergen Teller: @ Institution of Contemporary Art – Teller is one of the few pho-
tographer’s to sucessfuly bridge the divide between comercial and art photogra-
phy. This major retrospective covers his entire career from potraits of Kurt Kobian,
through shoots with a 15 year old Kate Moss up to contemporary work with lan-
scapes and family, £10. 23 January - 17 March.
Spirit Collection @ Natural History Museum – If you have a spare afternoon take
a trip just down the road to the Darwin Centre’s collection of 22 million pre-
served organisms. Not strictly art, but fantastic all the same, Everyday (Booking
required).
Jonas Mekas @ The Serpentine Gallery – Retrospective of the avant-garde film-
maker and poet, who ran in the same circles as Allen Ginsberg and Andy Warhol
in 50’s NYC. The exhibition presents a collection of Mekas’ moving images, poetry
and sound. Best of all... this is just down the road. Now - 27 January.
A Bigger Splash: Painting after performance @ Tate Modern – Rather boring prem-
ise: can painting and performance art be reconciled? The answer is yes. And the
answer would have remained a solid yes without the £12 ticket. However, some
crazy 60’s/70’s video art to be seen. Now - April 1.
Polar-oids
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your drawings
toarts.felix@ic.ac.uk. Thesedoodlesweredone,tonguefirmlywedgedin
cheek,byPavitarSinghDevgon.
FRIDAY 18 JANUARY
22
The Wildlife Photographer of the
Year exhibition always proves an
exciting, engaging, and inspiring
visit if the permanent NHM displays
were not already enough.
Every year, the number of catego-
ries, pictures and confusing path-
ways needed to navigate around
each section seems to expand. This
year it was annoying that they made
the winning photos the first on dis-
play in each section’s line-up, which
ruins the suspense and excitement
when you know the subsequent
images will be (in the judges’ eyes)
worse.
It is always fun to go with a friend
and have a debate about whether the
right winners were chosen and why.
Every visitor has an opinion for eve-
ry photo and it is very interesting to
eavesdrop and hear what other peo-
ple think in comparison to yourself.
Particular highlights include
“Ghost Bears”, an image of two male
brown bears fighting in the east-
ern Finland. Take one look at the
picture, and you hear their violent
growls and roars which seem to be
muffled by the visual blurring of the
picture. It feels as if the lack of clar-
ity of the image makes it less fright-
ening to look at, but at the same time
reminds you of the strength of these
creatures in motion.
Also enjoyed was “Fly-by Drink-
ing”, a snap of the endangered grey-
headed flying fox bat with a cheeky
tongue bobbing out as it skims over
a body of water for a drink, as well as
“Sands of Time”, which displays the
intricate beauty and colour of ma-
rine invertebrate skeletons worthy of
any wrapping paper (which the gift
shop disappointingly did not have).
These were just a few personal fa-
vourites amongst numerous other
unbelievably striking images. How-
ever, fans who regularly attend may
also be slightly disappointed by many
repetitive themes which seen to crop
up each year, and even throughout
the exhibition. It does not make
them uninteresting or unoriginal
pictures, but it does get a bit boring
after seeing, for the upteenth time,
a stranded or struggling polar bear
accompanied by a caption about the
melting ice and our environmental
responsibilities; the opposite reac-
tion to what the photographs were
probably trying to evoke.
This is not an exhibition solely
for photography, wildlife or biology
fans. You do not have to be any of
those things to appreciate the stun-
ning aesthetics of nature, and what
they represent in our world today.
Plus, entry is a bargain: half price for
students (at £5), and the gift shop is
always an exciting end to the visit.
Lily Le Writer
Bad belles
bring the bard
behind bars
brilliantly
AttheDonmarWarehouse,Ihavealways
found my way into the parallel reality
that theatre should create. With Phillipa
Lloyd’s new production of Julius Caesar,
one can simultaneously ﬁnd oneself in
not one, but two diﬀerent realities.
here was no real need to set an all-
female production of Julius Caesar in a
women’s jail. he staging seems to be an
excuse for the all-female cast when a jus-
tiﬁcation is entirely unnescessary. hese
women play men as well as any man can
play a woman.
hat said, the jail scenario is a fresh ap-
proach and works well, especially under
Lloyd’s precise direction. he prisoners
roam the halls in stark, simple costumes,
play-acting at Julius Caesar and guards
interrupt when the rowdiness becomes
intolerable. hese interruptions were
very frustrating to the audience, who
could, however, also feel the frustration
of the women whose only pastime had
been rudely broken oﬀ. It creates a dual
level of complicity with the characters;
our sympathies are not only with Shake-
speare’s characters, but also with the
prisoners who are trying to take part in
a form of escapism, in the same way that
we, the audience, are.
he acting was faultless and every
word was spoken with clarity and with
individual meaning. he characters in
Julius Caesar all search for freedom from
tyrannical rule; even Caesar is under the
tyranny of fear. his struggle was evoked
with lucidity by the very strong cast.
Frances Barber is a sensual, attractive
Caesar. he vulgarity she assumes when
in the role has an element of repulsive-
ness, which plays oﬀ very well against
the nobility displayed by Harriet Wal-
ter’s Brutus. Walter’s Brutus is a man of
restrained emotion, but one who suf-
fers deeply for his actions. Clare Dunne
playsBrutus’wife,Portia,withatouching
combination of frailty and strength. She
also appears as the brutal, murderous
avenger Octavius Caesar, and is equally
at ease in both roles. Finally, Jenny Jules
is a powerful Cassius, compelling as the
instigator of Caesar’s murder.
You and me baby ain’t
nothing but mammals...
...let’s do it like they do at
the Wildlife Photographer
of the year exhibition
...also bi-curi-
ous beauties
Eva Rosenthal Arts editor

