S
ince 2009, after the release
of 21st Century Break-
down, news surrounding
Green Day was few and
far between. However the
american punk band has now not
only released a set of albums, but the
trio has now also become a quartet.
he newest member of the group,
that brought among others American
Idiot, has added Jason White to their
ranks. he guitarist who has toured
with Green Day on several occasions,
and can be heard on previous albums,
has now officially been credited as be-
ing a band-member. If this will have
an impact on the future music that
they will release remains to be seen.
Now to the meat of the article, the
actual review of the album. ¡Uno!, in
contrast to the previous album, is
a bit more back to roots for Green
Day, relying on a more punky theme.
his album is akin more to Dookie or
American Idiot more than 21st Centu-
MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
FRIDAY 18 JANUARY
24
AMS album of the week
Yo La Tengo are not the sort of band you
can pigeonhole. Their albums are a mish-
mash of genres from across the alternative
rock spectrum and beyond. Their latest ef-
fort, Fade, is slightly less of a mixed bag.
All of the standard sounds are here, but
they don’t get their own tracks any more.
There are no songs here that are primarily
shoegaze or psychedelic or folk. The vast
majority of the album is indie pop with
shoegaze or psychedelic or folk influences.
The tracks not only stand up individually,
but they also all work as a coherent body as well. It’s an interesting change
and one I’m not 100% about.
The tracks themselves are generally pretty great. ‘Ohm’ is a Pavement
track slowly drowning under more and more layers of fuzzy distortion, and
it’s as good as it sounds. ‘Is That Enough’ is YLT’s take on Tindersticks-esque
chamber pop and it is one of my favourite tracks of recent months. ‘Well You
Better’ sounds a bit like Eels meets the Housemartins and they have a fairly
subdued evening together, but it’s better than it sounds. ‘Paddle Forward’ is
a fairly standard 90s indie track (think Guided by Voices / Sebadoh), but it’s
a fairly good one. ‘Stupid Things’ is the sort of thing I think Youth Lagoon
would sound like as a full band, and it makes me really want Youth Lagoon to
start being a full band. ‘I’ll Be Around’ is beautiful, understated and subtle.
The delivery of the line ‘and I still miss you at times’ is probably the closest
YLT will ever come to making a grown man cry.
This is a really good album. Come the end of the year this will probably be in
my top 10 and it’ll be getting a lot more listens over the next few weeks. I just
have one problem with it. About halfway through you do really start craving
a huge fucking noise track. Yo La Tengo’s classic albums work because of the
contrasting tracks, not despite them. The whole point was that it didn’t blend
together – it was supposed to surprise and excite and challenge. Fade all feels
a bit safe, a bit, dare I say it, boring. It’s the sort of album I’ll put on when I’m
doing something else, but I wouldn’t be able to sit in a darkened room and
listen to this in the same way I can with I Can Hear the Heart Beating as One.
¡Uno! ¡Dos! ¡Tres!
Max Eggl reviews the first of a trilogy of new Green Day albums
ry Breakdown. It was released on the
21st of September of last year. One
of three singles released prior to the
albums was the song ‘Oh Love’, and
this song perfectly summarises the
rest of the album. Well-placed power-
chords, good lyrics, catchy tune and a
solo that ain’t half bad (albeit some-
what short) that all mesh together to
form quite a addictive song. However,
if you are looking for slow/sad type
songs this is the wrong album for you;
there’s not one ballad on this album,
with ‘Sweet 16’ being the closest you
get. Although some may be dismayed
at the lack of “sadness” to wallow in,
the album is still very well balanced
with each high-powered song adding
something diﬀerent, and it thus does
not feel repetitive at all.
Rather than bore you by describ-
ing each and every song, I prefer to
describe to you what I feel are the
main songs that deﬁne this album and
hopefully you will agree with me on
this. When listening to the CD, ‘Nu-
clear Family’ will be the ﬁrst song
you encounter, and therefore it must
deliver a punch to make you want to
keep listening. For me it certainly did
that. It may not be the best song of
¡Uno!, but it draws you in with lyrics
that I had in my head the rest of the
day. Furthermore the collaboration
of White and Armstrong is apparent
not only in the exquisite solo; the fol-
lowing verse sent a shiver down my
spine. he most popular song of the
album, named as part of Zane Lowe’s
Hottest Tracks of 2012, is ‘Kill the
DJ’, although this may have more to
do with the profanity in it more than
anything else! Looking past the oc-
casional swear word, this is actually
a very well crafted song. Armstrong’s
vocals in this song are outstanding,
powering above the superb bass line,
which gives this piece a diﬀerent feel
from what Green Day usually delivers,
yet does not fail to impress. his may
be a better explanation why this song
is quite such a hit. he last song that
I really believe deﬁnes ¡Uno! is ‘Trou-
blemaker’. If you are a self-proclaimed
punk rock enthusiast, then I hope for
your sake that you cried out “Hey,
I’ve heard that title be-
fore”. If you did utter
(or think) those words,
then I congratulate you
and answer, yes, dear
reader, Weezer did
write a very good as
well as successful song
of the same name (also
Olly Murs released a
song of that name, al-
though I hope for your
sake you didn’t think of
that). Sadly the Green
Day song, does not
pack the same amount
of punch, and the cho-
rus is somewhat lack-
ing. Yet the riﬀ of the
verse describes mis-
chievousness nearly perfectly and the
solo is the best of the whole album.
his song which certainly is not the
best of the album still manages to
wow me, and it displays the future of
what Green Day may be.
¡Uno! is a rocky, fast paced album
with enough variety to keep it from
being boring, it includes some catchy
and well written songs that make it a
joy to listen to. I give it a 4.5/5, with
that last point not being included be-
cause I am dismayed at the lack of a
ballad, as I believe that is where Green
Day thrive. All in all I think is a great
opening for the trio of albums that the
band released last year. It promises to
be a good collection of albums, if this
opening is anything to judge by. Any-
how if you are a Green Day, or just
a punk fan, this album should be on
your shopping list as it is good enough
to warrant its price. Let’s hope the
other albums are just as good, ﬁngers
crossed!
D-beatReview:Krömosom–LiveForever
Within my university life I have had
frequent exposure to cybergrind and
noisecore, whilst maintaining particu-
lar passions for the more punk-routed
powerviolence and the extreme grind
stylings of The Gerogerigegege. hat
said, the ﬁrst thing that struck me
upon listening to Krömosom was the
sheer sonic brutality. he second track
on Live Forever, ‘Bred to Lose’, hits you
from the oﬀ with pounding drums so
dense and fast that, at times, you can
barely distinguish them from the mix.
his sheer aural madness is produced
not by using hundreds of pedals and
a hefty amount of electronics, but
rather by physical annihilation of their
simple instrumental set-up.
As is often the case with bands who,
upon ﬁrst glance, have an almost un-
approachable density and violence
to their soundscapes, once the initial
shock wears oﬀ, rhythms and melo-
dies are so prominent that I question
why I couldn’t initially pick out the
catchy punk refrains from under the
scuzz. It’s really these driving riﬀs and
drum lines under the noise that push
Krömosom to so eﬀectively convey
the kind of aggression that smashes
up the party at 5am. Would some pre-
tentious Wire (magazine, not band)
devotees argue that it’s immature?
Probably. But they’re missing out on
Ross Gray Music Editor
all the fun.
Live Forever is being released by South-
ern Lord on Monday 21st January.
‘Bred To Lose’ was played on the ﬁnal
broadcast of Outhouse, Thursday 17th
January.
Yo La Tengo : Fade
Stuart Masson

