FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
26 FRIDAY 18 JANUARY
Inception: the theory of the ring
Luca De-Benedetti Film Writer
Ok, yes, I am two years late. I am
aware of that. I am also aware of
the fact that everyone has now seen
Inception, discussed it, explained
it and looked for the mathematical
inconsistencies of the dream world
(although I suspect the latter is only
true for Imperial students). What
more can possibly be said about it af-
ter two years?
Well, there must be something,
because you can be certain that, as a
movie conversation grows longer, the
probability of someone bringing In-
ception into it approaches 1 (yes, this
is my own variation of Godwin’s law).
Obviously Inception is a very origi-
nal movie, where its storyline en-
twines and unfold between past and
present, dreams and reality, long
dialogues and James Bond-type ac-
tion sequences (was the snow scene
really necessary?). And certainly the
impeccable ﬁlming, the phenomenal
cast and the breathtaking special ef-
fects contribute towards making this
one of the best ﬁlms of recent years
and one which will be remembered.
Nevertheless, after two years peo-
ple are still racking their brains over
the ending, seeking for an answer to
the question raised by the last scene.
Will the spinning top fall? Was he
trapped in a dream or did he manage
to escape Limbo reaching the real
world? Is there a workable answer or
will Nolan take the mystery to the
grave? Will I be able to ever look at
Ellen Page without thinking: “Hey!
It’s Juno!”?
I never really hoped to ﬁnd a de-
ﬁnitive answer to any of these ques-
tions (although for the last one I’m
pretty conﬁdent that the answer is
no, I won’t). Yet some months ago, in
an afternoon completely dedicated
to work, while I was wandering the
internet during the sixth or seventh
half an hour break of the day, I ran
into a very interesting theory.
A crazy man with too much free
time has noticed a small detail, dur-
ing what I presume was his 100th
screening of the movie. Leonardo
DiCaprio’s character (Cobb) wears
a wedding ring in every sequence
in which he wanders through the
dream world. his ring is however
absent when he is awake. Is this the
deﬁnitive distinction between dream
and reality in the movie?
he intriguing part of the theory is
that, during the last scene, in which
he ﬁnally see his children again,
the ring is not on his ﬁnger. We can
therefore logically conclude that the
absence of the ring proves that Cobb
wasn’t dreaming. Happy ending and
case closed.
But is it? Having gained knowledge
of this theory I decided to watch In-
ception once more. My mind, freed
from the burden of having to under-
stand the intricate plot, was ready
to concentrate on the small details
missed out during the ﬁrst screening.
I ended up watching it twice in two
days. And I understood that the ring
theory is wrong. And actually Incep-
tion tells a completely diﬀerent story.
But let’s try to explain things in an
orderly fashion.
At the beginning and for most
of the movie, Cobb is a character
grieved by guilt. Having performed
Inception on his wife during their
stay in Limbo, implanting deep inside
her mind the idea that the world she
was living in was not real, he became
directly responsible for her death. In-
deed, despite the fact that it was the
right idea, considering where they
found themselves, it was implanted
so deeply into her subconscious that,
even when they came back to reality,
it kept growing in her head, persuad-
ing her that she was still dreaming
and leading to her suicide. Because
of him she was convinced she would
just wake up.
It is this guilt that chains him to
his deceased wife. Cobb cannot ac-
cept her death, he cannot let her go.
In his subconscious he is still mar-
ried with her. For this reason, in his
dreams, in the subconscious world,
he still wears the ring. Deep inside,
she is still his wife.
From there unfold the parallel sto-
ries of the heist and of the evolution
of Cobb’s character and his ﬁght to
ﬁnd inner peace, which culminates
in a scene near the end of the movie.
In the deeper dream level, just before
Cobb goes to Limbo to rescue Saito,
he has a conversation with the mind
projection of his wife, in which he
forsakes the temptation of staying
with her. His subconscious acknowl-
edges for the ﬁrst time that she is just
a projection of his mind, that his real
wife is gone forever and his real life is
with his son and daughter. He takes
the conscious (and unconscious)
decision of leaving her, leaving the
memories behind and freeing him-
self from his chains.
For this reason, in my opinion, the
theory of the ring is wrong. For how
I see it, past that moment Cobb is
not haunted anymore by the memory
of his wife even in his unconscious.
From that moment on, he will not
wear the ring anymore in his dreams
nor in the real world. herefore un-
certainty left by the last scene stays.
But does it really matter? We have
just seen that Inception is not about a
mind heist, or, if you prefer, the heist
is not the main story of the movie.
he actual story told by Nolan is the
An analysis of the real story told by Nolan’s movie and a different vision of the ending
inner and emotional path undertaken
by DiCaprio’s character. In my opin-
ion, the key moment of the ending
scene is not the last shot on the spin-
ning top, which staggers slightly just
before the credits start, but is located
some seconds before. Cobb spins the
totem but then forgets about it when
he sees his children’s faces. He takes
the (unconscious?) decision that he
doesn’t care anymore if this is dream
or reality. He reached inner peace,
which is what he was looking for dur-
ing the whole movie. his is the real
ending of Inception.
Now, having deceived those who
believed I could provide a meaning-
ful answer to the ﬁnale, let me just
say one last thing. You cannot watch
a good movie only once. Cinema is
an art so full of small details that it
makes it impossible to fully appreci-
ate its beauty in one screening. Incep-
tion (like all good movies) is full of
them. Some details are essential for
a deeper understanding of the story,
other are just proof of good writing
and acting. Small things that, how-
ever, make you enjoy the movie a lot
more.
Watch Inception again. Concen-
trate your attention on the charac-
ters and not the plot and I can prom-
ise you that, by the end, you’ll feel
like you have watched a completely
diﬀerent movie.

