They dreamed a dream: an IMAX experience
FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
FRIDAY 18 JANUARY
John Park Film Editor
Les Misérables
Director: Tom Hooper
Screenwriter: William Nicholson
Starring: Hugh Jackman, Russell
Crowe, Anne Hathaway, Amanda
Seyfried, Eddie Redmayne, Helena
Bonham Carter, Sacha Baron Cohen,
Samantha Barks, Aaron Tveit
he BFI IMAX is a strange and won-
derful place. Boasting its “biggest
screen in the UK,” it lives up to its
reputation in giving you a blistering
headache should you sit too far for-
ward, or a set of splittingly painful
eardrums should you sit too close to
the sides where the massive speak-
ers are located. So the lesson here is
this: sit as far back as possible – you’ll
still see everything. he screen is re-
ally that big. And of course, centre
seats are recommended. As soon as
the adverts go full-size, you almost
feel the words and numbers come out
towards the audience. here is hardly
any need for a 3D conversion it seems,
as everything feels so close and awe-
inspiring in the ﬁrst place. Adding an
extra dimension and an extra pair of
glasses would almost certainly have
everyone crawling to their exits.
A certain level of hilarity also en-
sues with a ﬁlm like Tom Hooper’s
latest, Les Misérables, a ﬁlm adap-
tation of the worldwide smash-hit
musical that’s been going strong
ever since its debut in 1986. During
his many, many musical sequences,
especially ones involving solos with
his actors, Hooper is a big fan of tak-
ing their close-ups, and using as few
takes as possible, focusing solely on
their faces. On the IMAX screen, the
actors are placed under a microscope.
Ever wondered how many freckles
Eddie Redmayne has on his face? Or
how about the number of wrinkles on
Hugh Jackman’s face? Or perhaps the
skin tone of Anne Hathaway’s? All
becomes (far too) clear. It’s not ex-
actly a distraction by any means, but
an observation that cannot go unno-
ticed.
hat Hooper doesn’t hold a thing
back further beneﬁts from the IMAX
treatment. As prisoners in 1815
France are forced into physical la-
bour, there are waves crashing in
around them, along with the thun-
derous opening orchestral score, a
mix that generates nothing but ex-
citement for what lays ahead. Here
is where we meet Jean Valjean (Jack-
man) a thief who stole a loaf of bread
– a crime for which he’s served 19
years – 5 for the stealing, the rest for
his numerous failed escapes. He is ﬁ-
nally released on parole, with Inspec-
tor Javert (Crowe) reminding him of
his condition and status. Valjean has
forever been marked as a convict, and
will remain as such for as long as he
lives.
But Valjean decides to reinvent
himself, with some very touch-
ing help from a kind-hearted priest
(Colm Wilkinson in his mighty ﬁne
cameo), breaking his parole, and dis-
appearing, creating a new identity for
himself. he time fast-forwards eight
years, and he’s now a well-oﬀ mayor
and factory owner, under an alias. It
is here he encounters Fantine (Anne
Hathaway), a hard-working single
mother forced into prostitution to
provide for her illegitimate daughter.
Promising the dying mother to take
care of her vulnerable child Cosette
(the pitch perfect Isabelle Allen),
Valjean is once again forced to go on
the run once the persistent Javert ﬁ-
nally catches up with him.
We get another time-jump: this one
of nine years. Fantine’s daughter Co-
sette has grown up now (to Seyfried),
and becomes the subject of passion-
ate desire for Marius (Redmayne),
an idealistic student revolutionary
planning a dangerous demonstration
on the streets of Paris. He too, is the
subject of desire for Eponine (Barks).
It has a lot to juggle: plenty of meaty
characters and decades of events and
themes all expressed through mu-
sic and the ﬁlm’s most unique ele-
ment, the live-singing of its cast,
works massively to its beneﬁt. For
the sharply tuned musicians amongst
the audience, a certain bum notes
will most certainly be evident, most
likely from a certain Aussie Gladiator
whose smooth voice is more suited
for singing the blues rather than an
intense solo (‘Stars’). And it may be a
little awkward at times to hear verbal
dialogue given a musical treatment.
But oh the power and emotion it
adds to the narrative is quite simply
unmatchable to anything we have
ever seen. Take Hathaway’s solo, for
example. Forget about Susan Boyle
and how she blew away everyone dur-
ing her talent audition. Here, Fan-
tine is a bruised and beaten woman,
having reached the lowest of the low,
singing her guts out in Hathaway’s
heart-wrenchingly beautiful rendi-
tion of ‘I Dreamed a Dream’. You
may not like the song – but seeing
Hathaway (a lock for the Best Sup-
porting Actress Oscar) carry the
song throughout a single, intimate
close-up shot is a hauntingly memo-
rable scene.
he closest thing we get to a love
triangle is also interestingly explored
here; with Seyfried proving she can
sing a lot more than her ABBA rep-
ertoire, comfortably reaching those
top notes in her many duets and trios,
Redmayne has an incredible voice to
show oﬀ, and once you can look past
how the actor shakes his face intense-
ly whenever he’s trying to hold on to a
note (unintentionally hilarious, this),
be blown away as he performs ‘Empty
Chairs and Empty Tables’. Barks, who
had previously played the same role
on stage before, is also excellent in
her ﬁlm debut, and her big moment
comes in ‘On My Own’ in which she
despairs over her secret crush on
Marius.
Jackman, previously trained in the
musical theatre, takes on his two
challenging solos (‘Who Am I’ and
‘Bring Him Home’) with gusto and
utmost intensity for his character –
he has ﬁght left in him even when the
universe seems to be against him, he
has compassion for the poor, he has
mercy, he has grief, he has guilt, and
Jackman, in a single performance,
sweepingly embodies all of these
characteristics, most impressively
even whilst he’s singing a set of dif-
ﬁcult tunes.
And of course, the revolution – you
know these students don’t stand a
chance against the well-orgainsed
military, but there is something stir-
ring about their cause their ﬁrm be-
liefs. As they sing their hearts out
with ‘Red and Black’ and ‘Do You
Hear the People Sing?’ the battlelines
are drawn, and subsequent violence
ensues, ending in shocking tragedy.
he scale remains relatively small,
staying true to the stage adaptation,
and feels more intimate because of it.
Without an intermission to wipe
your tears away, bounce back from all
the depressing drama, the 157-min-
ute running time can be a challenge
to sit through. But thank heavens for
the henadiers (Cohen, Carter), the
evil, conning innkeepers who act as
“guardians” to little Cosette. Cohen
and Carter are there for the comedic
purposes only, and it’s sure a wel-
come addition. heir intermittent
appearances add some priceless mo-
ments where we can forget about all
the injustices in the world, and have
a laugh as this outrageous couple go
about their business singing ‘Master
of the House’. Cohen and Carter do
what they normally do best, provid-
ing plenty of wacky comic relief into
a plot that really needs it.
here won’t be a dry pair of eyes in
the house by the time we get to hear
the rousing ﬁnale, as a magniﬁcent
musical comes to a close, one with a
unique approach that will be remem-
bered for years to come. Bravo Tom
Hooper, for thinking that live-singing
would be a good idea, and a special
round of applause to everyone in the
cast for making it work. As everyone
comes together to sing the biggest
song of the musical, ‘One Day More’,
there isn’t a better representation of
what excellent teamwork can really
achieve.

