Sayonara, Dr Ben’s! Measure rice as per the instructions in the “Carbs” section,
depending on how many you’re serving or how many portions you’re planning
on making ahead. We don’t advocate making a massive pot, though; a 4-person
serving is much easier to control evenly during the cooking process.
Wash rice to remove excess starch and any nasties like talc that were used while
processing, then drain and pop into a decent non-stick pan with a lid. Add wa-
ter in a 1:(1.5-2) ratio, so for every 1 cup of rice you’re using about 1.5 to 2 cups
of water. Stick it on the boil, then reduce heat to medium-low and let it simmer,
covered. Resist the urge to stir because you’ll otherwise just destroy the rice
and make it all mushy.
After 20-25 minutes (or until most of the water has been absorbed), take it
off the heat (don’t take the lid off!) and let stand for 5-10 minutes on a damp
tea towel. Fluff up with a fork, and then serve/pack into your bento box/por-
tion up for freezing.
Protip: If you’ve got extra time to kill, feel free to soak the rice post-wash for
about 30 minutes - this seems to make it fluffier and easier to separate. Drain,
then add water and proceed as per directions.
The Lunchbox Lowdown #02
Carol Ann Cheah with more NY Resolution-friendly healthy grub
‘m picking up where my fel-
low Editor Sophia left oﬀ
last week. If you’re stuck in a
sandwich/pie rut but you’re
still aiming to pack lunches
to keep your wallet and waistline in
check, look East for some inspiration.
he Japanese have long been the pur-
veyors of colourful, varied and nutri-
tious bentos (bento = packed lunch
in Japanese) – and you don’t need to
spend hours or make everything from
scratch, as you can opt to use choice
I
Always one loser who
pouts for the camera
FOOD
FRIDAY 18 JANUARY
30
Food Editors: Carol Ann Cheah,
Sophia Goldberg, Yiango
Mavrocostanti
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
First, a disclaimer: proper Japanese
bento boxes like the one on the right
are NOT mandatory., even though I
ﬁnd they oﬀer the advantage of being
easier to pack (the box I have is approx
15cm x 6.5cm x 8cm in size with both
tiers stacked). hat said if you already
have a decent inexpensive leak-proof
container, you’re good to go.
Size does matter a bit (hah!) – don’t
be fooled by the small vessel, as packing
the components in compactly means
there’s less room for them to move and
get messy during transit – so go small-
er than usual. I ﬁnd a 500-700ml ca-
pacity works best for most adults, but
if you’ve got a hearty appetite (or your
bento needs to be packed a little looser)
then 900ml onwards works – please
DON’T crush any poor salad leaves!
Containers without built-in divid-
ers are far more ﬂexible, as your side
dishes may vary in sizes from meal to
meal. You can easily use lettuce leaves,
or silicone muffin cups like I’ve done
above to keep diﬀerent food ﬂavours
from mingling; but if built-in dividers
are more your thing, go ahead.
A proper Japanese bento lunch is
actually meant to be eaten at room
Containers temperature (gasp!), which is NOT
a problem given our current cool
weather, and assuming the proteins are
fully cooked – no medium-rare steak
bites, I’m afraid. But if you want your
food above that temperature, you can
look at thermal lunch containers if you
don’t have a microwave, though they’re
pricier and bulkier. Alternatively, just
make sure your regular container’s
nuke-friendly or pop it into an insu-
lated lunch bag if it’s only going to be a
few hours and you don’t mind it being
scalding hot.
One thing I ﬁnd about thermal con-
tainers: they’re perfect for soups (see
our Lunchbox #01 issue), but not all
foods stand up well in them – main
reason being that food WILL carry on
cooking in residual heat. You’d be ﬁne
with a stew or curry (or anything that’s
ﬁne with slow cooking), and maybe
certain grains (rice!); but steamed veg-
gies, pasta and certain meats will just
look sorry, taste gooey and get bone
dry respectively.
Editor’s Picks: Lock & Lock 550ml con-
tainer, £6.64 from Amazon; Glit & Bril-
lia Bento Lunchbox with Belts, £4.75
from japancentre.com
Bento box with a mini cereal
box for size comparison
Sure, the carb of choice for Asian ben-
tos happens to be rice; but like men-
tioned before it doesn’t *have* to be.
I’ve had bentos with couscous, braised
potatoes and quinoa and they came
out just as yummy. hat said, if you’re
using rice, you don’t have to wake up
at the crack of dawn to prepare it. I al-
ternate between setting the timer on
my rice cooker the night before so I
have fresh rice in the morning, or de-
frosting pre-cooked frozen rice in the
microwave.
he Japanese (and myself) are par-
tial to short grain rice that sticks a bit
when cooked, but I’m not fussy – a
decent basmati or jasmine rice works
just as well. Whatever you do, don’t
use the easy cook stuﬀ; it isn’t as palat-
able whether hot or at room temp, and
the extra time taken to prepare non-
easy-cook rice pays oﬀ plenty in taste.
In the event you’ve scratched your
Carbs head (or the bottom of pan) plenty
of times while trying to cook rice,
I’ve provided a method below – rice
cooker optional. Remember the cardi-
nal rule of Asians: don’t measure rice
by weight; do it by volume. We usually
use the small cups that come with rice
cookers; but one regular coﬀee mug
will cook up two hearty portions de-
pending on your appetite.
It’s funny, but in Asia leaner cuts like
chicken breast sell for much cheaper
than the slightly tougher but more
ﬂavoursome (and more in-demand)
thigh/leg meat, which is the reverse of
what chicken prices are like here in the
UK. Asians have the last laugh though:
darker meat tastes better at room tem-
perature and can withstand reheating
better without turning Sahara-esque,
even sans the sinful skin.
Whatever cut you choose is totally up
to you, though if you’re not using left-
overs and will be prepping the meat
dish in the morning, chances are you’ll
be stir-frying it – so you need some-
thing that’s quick to cook but won’t
dry out over time.
In that case, I ﬁnd chicken leg/thigh,
pork shoulder, or ﬂank from beef (cut
against the grain) work well. Just cut
them into thin strips to save on cook-
ing time. You can tenderize tougher
and cheaper cuts than these if you
prep them the night before in mari-
nade – all you have to do in the morn-
ing is fry! Done right, you should only
need perhaps 5-10 minutes to fry your
meat, plus maybe a few more minutes
to pack into your box and let cool.
If you plan on making a slow-cooked
stew for dinner, why not make an ex-
tra portion seeing as it takes the same
amount of eﬀort? You can reheat, pop
into your bento and serve it with your
other side dishes. the next day.
leftovers. Done right, you can stream-
line the cooking/assembly process
into 20 minutes or less.
To the right is a bento I prepared
some time ago, which I’ll deconstruct
into its components below. his is
what we’d call an Asian bento, mainly
because the main carb component/
staple here is rice. Of course, I’ve
since been able to ﬁt other grains in
that slim Japanese bento box (namely
couscous and quinoa) with other sides
– the possibilities are endless.
Fluffy stovetop rice
Proteins

