NEWS
Imperial chemist dies at home
3
FRIDAY 18 JANUARY
I knew Joachim for the last 23 years
having done our PhD’s together at
the University of Strathclyde under
Professor David’s Sherrington’s ﬁne
leadership.
Joachim was the “crazy” German
guy. It was an incredibly intense but
marvellously fun time of our lives.
he overwhelming thing that struck
you about Joachim was that he was
always utterly, madly enthusiastic and
passionate about chemistry, but he
really, really loved his own discipline
– polymers. He would gabble on for
hours and hours about twiddling this
and altering that part of the polymer
and would then turn and ask me what
eﬀect it would have on the outcome
of the polymer structure. To which
I would often reply “I’ve absolutely
no idea”. I shared a ﬂat with him for
a long time during that period and
learnt all about his silly foibles – his
obsessions with Macintosh mugs, bits
of bicycles, awful fondues and Birken-
stocks – all the things that made him
so much of a colourful character.
After this, we both went our sepa-
rate ways he went to US, to join Fré-
chet’s group at Cornell and then re-
turning to Cambridge whilst I went
to Japan, still keeping in touch over
email. Serendipitously, after our post-
doc’s we both started at the same
time at Imperial College. He hadn’t
changed. He was full of exuberance
and fun, full of stupendous ideas, rich
in their ludicrousness, but at the same
time they had sparkles of brilliance
ﬂecked through them. hat was a very
diﬃcult time of my life and I simply
cannot say how helpful and generous
he was to me during that time.
Joachim always expected the high-
est standards from himself and oth-
ers. He was a true scholar in the real
sense of the word; leaving no stone
unturned in pursuit of the truth. He
was exceedingly well read and knowl-
edgably about a vast range of subjects
both, within chemistry and beyond,
and would severely chastise anyone
who was not as well prepared as him.
I fear that many a research proposal
wilted under that fearsome gaze. He
had a formidable intellect and was
incredibly generous as an individual
giving his time endlessly to any stu-
dent or anyone else who needed help.
He was exceedingly selﬂess in this re-
gard.
Joachim really grew to love this
country that became his home and all
things British – the good bits and the
bad. He had a great sense of humour,
and he genuinely loved the “British”
way of looking at the world. He really
loved life, he loved his food and loved
a good wine.
God-parent to my son, ex-ﬂat mate,
intellectual giant and the best friend a
man could ever have, he will be very
sorely missed by one and all, but es-
pecially by me.
He leaves his long-term partner,
Natasha and my thoughts are with her
at this time.
his obituary was written by Dr Rob
Law from the Department of Chem-
istry at Imperial College London. Dr
Law was Dr Steinke’s oldest and best
friend.
Dr Steinke died suddenly last Tues-
day. he death is not being treated
as suspicious. he cause of death was
most likely a heart attack. His funeral
will be held in Germany.
More student cuts
Men’s cuts £22 (normally £35)
Women’s cut and rough dry £28
Women’s cut and salon finish
blow-dry £38 (normally £55)
FRESH Hairdressers has been
offering high quality, fashionable
haircuts for over 20 years. All of
our haircuts are by highly experi-
enced stylists, NOT trainees.
TO GET A GREAT HAIRCUT
1) You don’t have to spend a lot of
money at expensive trendy salons
2) You don’t have to spend hours
as a Guinea pig at a training school
3) You don’t have to be butchered
at some cheap Barbers
4) You don’t have to wait till you go
back home
Come to FRESH, ask for a student
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
near South Kensington
discount and bring your student ID
we look forward to seeing you.
We use only the best products,
Wella, Moroccan Oil, L’Oreal, and
KMS and offer free coffee and
herbal teas.
To book an appointment call 0207
823 8968.
Tuesday to Saturdays 9.30 to 5.30
We are only 70 metres from South
Kensington tube station.
www.freshhairdressers.co.uk
hard to help all international students
by asking for more transparency: it is
important for us to know how tuition
fees are calculated so that, hopefully, we
can then design a system, which allows
students to know the cost of their entire
degree in advance.”
he latest fee rises come as no sur-
prise, being synonymous with the trend
of previous academic years, with year-
on-year increases superlative to the
rate of inﬂation. Addressing the issue is
now a big concern for the Union, who
have adopted the stance, “that the incre-
mental rise in tuition fees, with sudden
changes as experienced this year, is af-
fecting (international) students on tight
budgets. his causes student dissatisfac-
tion, again aﬀecting university prestige.”
his is in line with the opinion of
Dominic Scott, Chief Executive of the
UK Council for International Aﬀairs,
who expressed deep concern and ac-
knowledged that students deserved in-
creased levels of transparency.
he rhetoric spawned by the issue
has emerged against the backdrop of
a record number of international stu-
dents applying for hardship funds in
the 2012/2013 academic year. his may
come as a surprise to the wider student
body, with the consensus belief that
overseas undergraduates are of affluent
background. It converges with the Un-
ion’s concern that student budgets are
being constrained more than ever. It has
been speculated that only rich students
will be able to come to Imperail if the
University fails to take swift remedial
action. As cited by Wasim Khouri, OSC
chair, “Many international students
have approached me this year question-
ing whether students can do anything to
get justiﬁcation from College as to the
fee rise.”
It is feared that the prospective inter-
national clientele of Imperial College
may become disillusioned by the fee
hikes if they continue to be uninhib-
ited and unjustiﬁed, with guardians and
sponsors withdrawing ﬁnancial backing
for students in the wake of the current
economic climate. In the interval be-
tween the academic years of 2008/2009
– 2009/2010 average fee hikes of 4.88%
were imposed on students, which is
above the current UK inﬂation rate of
2.2%.
Other Universities are experiencing
a back lash from their wider respective
student bodies. he University of Ed-
inburgh has notably engaged in nego-
tiations with its student association to
de-escalate student resentment and to
introduce a sustainable solution. he
University of Oxford and the University
of Cambridge are furthermore known
to charge as much as £37,300 for a num-
ber of courses (2009/2010 ﬁgures).
Other clear action proposed by Impe-
rial College Union is that they intend
to lobby the College to “give students
information on how they come up with
the increase and where the money is
distributed” and provide advance noti-
ﬁcation of future rises in academic tui-
tion fees. Proposed impetuses include a
signed petition, open to all (internation-
al) students, which will be forwarded to
the appropriate College authorities. It
has even been suggested that if nothing
is done about the matter, the there may
be student led protests by the interna-
tional community.
he issue surrounding fee transparen-
cy is borne in context of the waning sat-
isfaction of students at Imperial College
(as indicated by the appropriate student
surveys) which have the potential to
aﬀect prestigious rankings (8th Times
World Universities; 2012-2013).
continued from the front page
>>
Justification sought
Joachim H. G. Steinke died suddenly last Tuesday
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk

