FOOD
31
FRIDAY 18 JANUARY
Food Editors: Carol Ann Cheah,
Sophia Goldberg, Yiango
Mavrocostanti
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
This is the recipe I used for the chicken in this bento. Well, it’s not so much a
recipe as it was me throwing in a bunch of random seasonings with the meat
in the spirit of true old Asian cooking when everything was done in pinches
of X and splashes of Y. Experience and tasting your wares will mean you’ll get
better with time.
1 chicken breast/up to 2 de-boned chicken legs
Light soy sauce
Sesame oil
Cornstarch
Shaoxing Wine - optional
Diced garlic - use however much you feel like
Cut your meat into thin strips, and bung them in a bowl with two tablespoons
of light soy sauce, a drizzle of sesame oil, and a bit of cornstarch. Amounts can
be adjusted – you can always add more! Leave to marinade overnight in the
fridge, and in the morning, chuck them in a hot frying pan that’s already had
about 2 tablespoons of oil and some chopped garlic in it. Stir-fry until almost
cooked through (clear juices + no trace of pink in the meat), deglaze with some
Shaoxing wine (optional) and boil off. Serve up or pack in box.
Protip: Feel free to add other veggies or seasonings which you think would fit.
[Spring] onions would work well.
If there’s something that even the best
meat can’t do, it’s to add a touch of
vibrant colour to the resulting bento.
hankfully this is managed by eggs,
which are quick to whip up in a wide
variety of ways.
If you’re health conscious, slices of
hard boiled eggs add interest with-
out the grease. For those among you
who are suckers for cutesy stuﬀ, some
boiled quail eggs would probably be
up your alley.
Personally, I have three favourite
ways to cook eggs for bento. One is
in the traditional Japanese style called
“tamagoyaki”, a rolled omelette which
is a staple in their cuisine – you’ll
probably have seen slices or strips of it
when dining in a Japanese restaurant.
Unfortunately I haven’t quite mastered
it yet, so I tend to fall back on the egg
“mince” (“iri tamago/tamago soboro”)
you see here. You’d be right in think-
ing that it’s scrambled egg gone past
the “creamy” stage, but it’s an Asian
favourite sans no cream/milk/butter.
he recipe is provided below.
My ﬁnal favourite? Pouring out a
thin layer of egg on a frying pan, not
unlike making an omelette. When it’s
cooked, I remove the circular sheet of
egg and leave to cool on a chopping
board, then roll up and cut into ﬁne
shreds. (try garnishing your next noo-
dle dish with this!) One egg, so many
ways.
hen there’s the token Asian veg-
etarian protein: tofu. A few slices of
the ﬁrm variety, lightly pan-fried on
both sides with a drizzle of soya sauce
–yum!
Stir as much as you want depending on how “minced” you want the it to be.
Eggs (depending how much you want - don’t go more than 3!)
Light soy sauce
Dark soy sauce (adds colour, not flavour. OD and you get brown egg.)
Salt and pepper
Sesame oil
Cornstarch
Heat up a bit of the oil in a frying pan on medium-high while you lightly com-
bine the eggs with sufficient seasoning (don’t use a heavy hand though!) Pour
your egg mix in the pan, and stir as you would scrambled eggs - the only dif-
ference being you don’t have to stir as often if you want your “mince” to be a
bit chunkier like I have in my bento. When you don’t see any wetness, the egg’s
ready for serving or packing.
Protip: Adding a bit of chopped spring onions to the mix adds a nice pop of
fresh colour.
Like it or not, these “bad” boys are
the main way you’re going to get your
lunch to look interesting – they add
pops of colour (apart from the fact
that not having them means you run
foul of the 5-a-day gamut.)
Again, you can make life easier for
yourself here. Pre-chop everything
the night before – sometimes I’ll chop
more peppers/carrots than I’ll need
for the night’s meal and save the extra
chopped veg for use in my bento the
next day.
When time comes to cook them,
you’ve got a good arsenal of methods
at your disposal. Steaming or stir-fry-
ing is the best way to retain their nu-
trients – I’m biased towards the latter.
Now, a confession: the mixed veg-
gies in the bento shown came straight
out of a bag of frozen mixed veg. Be-
fore you go after my head, though,
hear me out – no one’s saying you
CAN’T used frozen mixed veg. In fact,
it’s inherently better than the pre-cut
non-frozen as it’s frozen right after
harvest and cleaning. Of course, I
don’t recommend doing it all the time;
but it’s perfectly acceptable in a pinch.
If you’ve got your veggies all chopped
ready for a stir fry, here’s a simple ba-
sic method you can utilize and tweak.
Heat up a bit of oil in your pan, then
chuck in a bit of minced garlic before
adding your veggies in. Put the long-
er-cooking stuﬀ ﬁrst; so for instance
carrots would go in before pak choi.
Add your seasoning while you stir-fry,
taste to check, and remove when eve-
rything is done. One cardinal rule of
stir-frying: NEVER overcook – you’re
talking a few minutes, tops!
No reason to restrict yourself com-
pletely from having them – the key
here is portion control, or using
healthier alternatives. Sometimes if
I’ve baked something like brownies,
I’ll wrap a small slice and pack it in
together with my bento box. On the
other hand, my housemates will also
testify that I buy clementines like
there’s no tomorrow from North End
Road market, which is another of my
favourite “desserts” (it’s quite com-
mon for Asians to eat fresh fruit at the
end of a meal in lieu of hot pudding).
Sophia also swears by North End Road
market as well, as that’s where you can
ﬁnd other fruits and veggies for dirt
cheap.
Packing and safety
If you’re using a thermal lunch con-
tainer, make sure you preheat it fol-
lowing the manufacturer’s directions
(boiling water for a few minutes?) and
that your food goes in PIPING hot.
Semi-warm food means that your
food will stay at that temperature for
ages, which is a lot better than current
room temperature for nasties to grow.
Otherwise, if you’re using a non-ther-
mal box sans dividers, start by packing
your rice to one side. Compress it a bit
with a moistened spoon, then arrange
your other components to ﬁt the rest
of the space, making sure there’s mini-
mal room for movement. You’ll get
better with time - sometimes I ﬁnd
myself stuﬃng a few boiled broccoli
ﬂorets to ﬁll in the gaps.
Now the important bit for non-ther-
mal containers - make sure *every-
thing* has suﬃciently cooled down to
room temp or just about. Condensa-
tion in lunchboxes is your enemy; the
moisture that resultsdue to that is just
an open invitation for bugs to breed
on the inside. Don’t seal your contain-
er completely until you can be sure
you’ve suﬃciently minimized this!
here’s nothing stopping you from us-
ing leftover dishes to save time. I ﬁnd
that if I’ve made a bit too much stir fry
or stew for dinner one night, it ends
up with a fresh spot of rice as my lunch
for the next day. Have some common
sense, though; the “younger” the lefto-
vers, the better. I’m not responsible
for what happens if you pack that stew
which seems to have developed a new
ecosystem on its surface.
You don’t *have* to make your
lunch look uber-pretty – at the end
of the day, your lunch’s going down
the hatch so there’s no need to fuss
around with various animal-shapped
cutters or the like. However, if it’s
not going to take more than a min-
ute and you’re a closet crafter like
moi, then by all means, arrange your
food in whatever quirky way you
want (like the smiley/frowney faces
you see here. Just try not to handle
the food too much with your ﬁngers
– use clean utensils (cocktail sticks
are your friend for decorations like
these.)
And that’s it – a really rudimentary
insight on how to pack Asian style
lunches/bentos. Hopefully those
with “culinary yellow fever” will now
have an excuse to prepare Asian
home cooking to take with you into
uni. Enjoy, and we hope you get on
alright with your healthy eating
plans!
Editor’s Picks for bento resources,
equipment and ingredients:
- he Just Bento Cookbook: Everyday
Lunches To Go - Makiko Itoh
- Japan Centre, 14-16 Regent Street,
SW1Y 4PH, japancentre.com
- Atari-Ya Foods (as per the famous
sushi place), 7 Station Parade, Noel
Road, West Acton, W3 0DS
- TK Trading, Unit 6-7, he Chase
Centre, Chase Road, NW10 6QD
Should you end up including leftovers,
make sure you heat it through until it’s
piping hot to kill oﬀ whatever nasties
have just begun to grow. Of course you
can do this in the microwave; though
that won’t kill the stuﬀ on the surface
unlike direct heating using a pan.
Sample bento preparation timeline
It helps to practise - the first few times you make bento lunches, don’t be sur-
prised if you’re a bit slow.You’ll soon pick up ways to shave minutes off the prep
process. Here’s an example of what my morning would be like if I was prepping
the bento shown and chopping meat/veg from scratch:
8.20: Take out pans, ingredients and utensils needed (utensils can be laid out
the night before if desired - saves rummaging!)
8.22: Take precooked rice out from freezer, defrost in microwave (if I cooked it
with a timed rice cooker, even better! Just pack and let cool.)
8.23: Cut up vegetables and chicken. Mix chicken with marinade.
8.27: Pack rice into bento box, let cool.
8.29: Stir fry meat and eggs at the same time in separate pans.
8.32: Take eggs out and put into bento box to cool with silicone cup divid-
er. Wipe pan down with kitchen paper and stir fry vegetables (or bung in
microwave!)
8.35: Take meat out, pack into box to cool.
8.36: Pack veggies into bento box with divider, leave to cool. Hunt for treats.
8.40: Close box properly, pop everything in backpack and head out for 9am
class!
NO SUCH THING AS A FREE LUNCH?
Psst - we at Food have been in touch with a couple of London establishments recently, and
we’re expecting to do some reviews in the near future. We’re still on the hunt for more,
though!
If you’d like to suggest a great little place for us to try out – heck, if you want to be the one
doing the trying and giving feedback after – then get in touch! We’re contactable at:
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk.
Proteins: Vegetarians
Iri Tamago/Tamago Soboro (egg mince)
Asian Stir-Fried (Shaoxing) Chicken
Veggies
Treats
Using Leftovers
Frills and fancies

