Steam sales pseudo-soliloquy
Pietro Aronica on“MyRestraint”withforewordbyJeremyPac-man
f you are a student at Imperial
College, then there is a reason-
able chance that you play video
games, possibly on a PC. If you
do, then you’ll most likely be
familiar with Steam, but if not, let me
sum it up for you: it’s like a vacuum
cleaner for money. Speciﬁcally, my
money, and the money of thousands
of others who would never think to
play certain titles if they weren’t sold
at extremely slashed prices. Steam is a
program for the digital distribution of
games that will often pop up with oﬀers
and sales and whatnot for titles that
look interesting and cost half, a quarter,
a tenth of their original price. Might as
well, right? Twenty might-as-wells lat-
er, you have a full library of games, full
afternoons and evenings from here till
the next Steam sale, and a much emp-
tier wallet.
I used to mock women. “Silly wom-
en!” I would say (incidentally, I’m not
very good with girls). “Silly women,” I
would repeat, “What pleasure do they
derive from shopping, from hunting
bargains on shoes and blouses and
dresses that they buy more for the price
than for their actual utility? hey are
worn once, and then left in some ward-
robe, and they complain they never
have enough. Such a waste of money!”
Well, I now understand. For them,
it may be clothes, but for me, it’s the
cheap, intriguing, only-a-click-away
games that Steam oﬀers me.
So last year, I drew the line. I looked
at the list of games in my library, and
saw that most were unﬁnished, some
not even installed, and vowed to not
be tempted by sales or oﬀers until I
reached the conclusion, or equally
satisfying degree of mastery with the
games, of all of them. hat would be
my resolution for the new year.
I started with Bastion, the game that
prompted my change of policy on fall-
ing for Steam’s tricks, and ﬁnished it
in a couple of weeks. It’s an isometric
brawler where you control some dude
going around smashing stuﬀ and ﬁnd-
ing more about this forsaken world you
live in. hough I make it sound simplis-
tic, it is in fact very deep and engaging,
and some of the most satisfying com-
bat manoeuvres I’ve ever pulled were
with this game.
I then had to tackle Oblivion, the Eat-
er of Time. In my folly, I had purchased
the super ultra deluxe collector’s limit-
ed edition, with a bunch more missions
and an entire extra region. hough I
usually try to ﬁnish all games in their
entirety, I had to drastically reconsider
my deﬁnition of completion, or I would
get mired in endless fetch quests. I
powered through the main missions,
which were monumentally disappoint-
ing: virtually indistinguishable from the
other quests, they had more scripted
scenes and a bombastic tone that failed
to deliver. I didn’t really believe we were
all going to die at the hand of a demon
any moment now, when I’d spent the
last in-game month running errands
for various people. It was a problem of
Morrowind before it, and I suspect of
Skyrim as well, though I haven’t played
it. A greater sense of urgency would
help with the narrative.
I then ﬁnished Mass Eﬀect, which
had been in my library for years and
which I went through in a couple of
hours when I managed to tear myself
from the preconception that I should
go for 100% completion. It is a hard
habit to kick, though: both Assassin’s
Creed II and Far Cry II are still in need
of some more playing, despite the fact
that it would take maybe a day at most.
It’s those damn collectibles: pointless,
idiotic baubles that are infuriatingly
hard to ﬁnd and add nothing. If I don’t
retrieve them all, my OCD tendencies
will twitch; if I do by looking at an on-
line walkthrough, I’ll grumble at myself
for giving up; if I actually manage to
ﬁnd them all, I’ll cry at how I was ma-
nipulated and how much time I wasted.
Age of Wonders came next, a crimi-
nally underrated series of turn-based,
fantasy strategy games. he second ti-
tle and its standalone expansion, Shad-
ow Magic, are complex, interesting and
at times very funny; less ﬁnicky than
the Civilization series, with more vis-
ceral combat and a greater emphasis on
ﬁghting than empire-building, I think
they are among the best of the genre.
I then moved onto a Aquaria, a 2D
Metroidvania sort of game, where you
wander in an immense map defeating
enemies, solving puzzles and acquiring
new powers that let you go to diﬀerent
parts of the map. It’s interesting and
challenging, but its save system is pu-
nitive and the ending is an infuriating
(Spoiler Alert) “To Be Continued” that
was never continued, so make of that
what you will.
Torchlight followed, aka Diablo with
WoW graphics, a cute enough game to
keep me busy for a bunch of hours. Af-
ter it, I ﬁnished S.T.A.L.K.E.R. Shadow
of Chernobyl, a gritty, depressing, tough
shooter that will bring you from looting
corpses in grey and abandoned power
plants to ﬂeeing monstrous mutants in
grey and abandoned warehouses. I still
liked it: it’s immersive and atmospheric
and a nice change from games in which
you are a superpowered machine of
destruction, with inﬁnite bullets and
regenerating health. I wouldn’t play it
for too long, though, as getting eaten
by ravenous dogs while evading bullets
and trying to dodge the radiation zones
becomes pretty grim after a while.
With this, I reached the end of the
year, but by no means the end of the
Steam library. I have many more left to
ﬁnish, many realms to save, many en-
emies to shoot, many goddamned col-
lectibles to ﬁnd: who’d knew that being
a gamer would be so hard?
Games Editor’s note – if anyone wants
to gift Steam games to prolong Pietro’s
torment, please do. Let me know, and
I’ll send you his details, and in return,
you’ll get a death warrant signed by the
man himself.
I
GAMES Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 18 JANUARY
32
Bridging the gap
I wonder if any of you actually get any
revision done – by an almost unani-
mous vote, this week’s review selection
is he Bridge Project. A quick intro-
duction to the game’s genre would be
as follows: you have a bridge you need
to build, and you’ve limited resources.
Your bridge will have to stand up to a
varieyoftests(buses,boats(usepistons)
andearthquakes,tonameafew).Savvy?
he game uses a simple physics en-
gine and works out the stress and
strain caused by all the traffic over your
bridge. Uneven or lacklustre construc-
tion commonly leads to broken girders,
snapped cables and drowned pedes-
trians. he only thing missing is a sad
trombone. I really enjoy this type of
game, so I thought it was good to have a
new bunch of challenges to go through,
yet I wonder why no advancements have
been made since the olden days, apart
from graphically. Why not spice up the
gameplay by allowing you to build in
more than two dimensions, to allow
massive bridge networks with helter-
skelter sections? Production team, I
hope you’re reading. Verdict-wise, you’ll
get lots of hours of fun out of it, if you’re
into spending nights creating a bridge
that only spans 100 metres, contains
enough steel to make a few Titanics and
still collapses when a single car drives
over it.
If your interest has been piqued, pick
up the demos for the predecessors and
give them a go. If you take a break in the
middle of a bridge-sesh (as we call them
in the Felix Office) and ﬁnd that 4 hours
have passed since you started, I’d look
into getting this game. And a therapist.
Next week’s options – Garbage Truck
Simulator and Ski Region Simulator.
Get your votes in to games.felix@im-
perial.ac.uk.
Ross Webster They call me Ross
Thomas always said that
Douglas ate too much
over the holidays. “That’s
what I get for living with
the Fat Controller,“
Douglas replied
This was the look on
my face, when I was
told there wasn’t going
to be a Bastion sequel. :(
Single rainbow all the way!

