“Keep the Cat Free”
Issue 1536 felixonline.co.uk
18/01/13
SPORT
Carving it up in Val Thorens
By this point most people will have
just about recovered from the best
week of skiing and partying yet. his
was Imperial’s biggest ski trip by a
long way and did not disappoint!
On the last Friday of term over 200
Imperial students gathered at the Un-
ion in eager anticipation of the perfect
conditions that awaited them in Val
horens. Boarding the four coaches,
we headed on the short trip to the
French Alps; across the channel by
ferry and through France. Stopping at
the supermarket at the bottom of the
mountain to make provisions for the
week we were shocked at the ridicu-
lously low drinks prices. Stocking up
on ﬁve litre petrol canisters of wine, we
were set for the week!
Arriving in Val T we were greeted
with metres of fresh powder. Snow
conditions were amazing throughout
the week with so much oﬀ-piste on
oﬀer. Several of the days had perfect
blue skies allowing everyone to make
the most of the less accessible powder.
Freestyle Captain and self-confessed
gangster, Mikkel, demonstrated the
proper way to do a cliﬀ drop, land-
ing straight on his ass from 20 foot
up. For those more akin to staying on
piste, we had a dual slalom race day be-
tween ourselves and the other London
universities on our trip – ULU, UAL,
Greenwich, Ravensbourne and West-
minster – needless to say, a team from
Imperial took ﬁrst prize.
On top of the great snow there was
the crazy après-ski. Bar 360 was the
place to be after a day’s skiing or snow-
boarding with students partying there
from all of the London SnowOperative
universities (the group of snowsports
clubs who went on this trip). his was
also the venue for the Mountain Meal
of meat fondue and plenty of wine. Ski-
ing down from the Mountain Meal al-
lowed people to do funny challenges,
such as Michael Parkes riding down
on one ski. he après didn’t stop there
with a diﬀerent nightclub each night.
he highlight has to be the Wednesday
night when Danny Byrd of Hospital
Records played to a crowd of almost
2000 students.
After such a week, it was sad to say
goodbye – to new found love, to new
friends and old, and most of all to the
unique beauty that is a university ski
trip. After a rough head count, we were
on our way, exhausted, but in equally
high spirits knowing that we had just
bared witness to an incredible trip.
A big thank you is needed to Vlad,
our trip organiser who worked tire-
lessly on putting this trip together as
well as the rest of the Snowsports com-
mittee. Also thanks to travel company
NUCO for helping us through it. Last-
ly, if you came on the trip, thank you
for making it the best one yet!
If you missed out or have been left
gagging for more, do not fear as we
have our Easter Trip to Alpe D’Huez
from 22nd-30th March. his is BUSC
Main Event with 2500+ UK university
students in one resort – with compe-
titions all week if you want another
sensational holiday. To book on, visit
www.buscevents.com and select Impe-
rial as your university. As well as this,
next year’s winter trip should be just as
big and so don’t leave it to the last min-
ute to book! Any questions – email us
at ski@ic.ac.uk. As always, Snow Love!
John McGuckin Sports Writer
Felix Sport catches up with Imperial’s most successful ski trip yet
Move over Fellwanderers...
Nice curves.
I believe this is what the
call the “lash” part of
the trip

