NEWS
6 FRIDAY 18 JANUARY
Science Challenge returns
he RCSU Science Challenge returns!
With a total prize-pot of over £4,000
to give away and the chance to win an
all-expenses paid trip to CERN, Ge-
neva, this is a competition you don’t
want to miss.
he Science Challenge was created
in 2006 to encourage scientiﬁc debate,
reasoning and the communication of
science in a public-friendly context. In
previous years this has meant the set-
ting of questions by high-proﬁle judg-
es which must be answered through
an essay. he competition is open to
all Imperial College students, and 500
schools nationally.
he Science Challenge 2013 brings a
new edge to the competition, keeping
three questions open to be answered
by an essay, but for the ﬁrst time in-
troducing a dedicated question which
must be answered through the glori-
ous format of video! Video entries
must be answered in less than three
minutes running time, using any
props or setting that you deem nec-
essary – and team entries are very
much welcomed; whilst essay ques-
tions must be answered in an essay
of around 800 words. A key factor
in both entries is that your answer
must be in a ‘public-friendly context’,
that is, a compelling scientiﬁc argu-
ment that any member of the public
who possesses only a basic scientiﬁc
knowledge could understand.
Our Judges this year are an all-
Imperial elite, and will be speaking
at our Launch Event this coming
hursday, 24th. Lord Robert Winston,
Professor of Science and Society and
TV personality leads the panel, with
Professor Sir Brian Hoskins, Director
of the Grantham Institute for Climate
Change, Professor Sir Roy Anderson,
former Chief Scientiﬁc Advisor to the
Ministry of Defence and current Chair
in Infectious Disease Epidemiology at
Imperial, and Dr Jad Marrouche, a re-
search associate both here at Imperial
and at CERN, who has made both the
CERN and video prizes possible, com-
pleting the full judging line-up.
At the Launch Event, the Judges
questions will be released, the full
list of prizes announced, and each
Judge will give a speech detailing
the background of their question as
well as their experience with science
communication. Professor Maggie
Dallman, Principal of the Faculty of
Natural Sciences (generously spon-
soring the event), will also be giving
a guest speech; and there will be the
chance to win tickets to our Grand Fi-
nal (whether you are successful in the
competition or not!).
To register yourself for the Launch
Event (which includes free food and
wine!) visit: http://rcsu.org.uk/exec/
sciencechallenge2013/
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
RCSU Science Challenge is back for another year, with a total prize
pot of £4000 and an all expenses paid trip to CERN up for grabs
James Tsim RCSU President
I wish this story had links and shit.
Well, it will online at felixonline.co.uk
Infringement of exam policy
Rodney Eastwood, the College Sec-
retary at the time. The policy clearly
states that, except for exceptional
circumstances, students should not
“be expected to sit an early morning
examination after having taken a late
afternoon examination the previous
day.” The Business School seems
clearly to be infringing this and, in
doing so, negatively affecting its own
students.
“I can confirm that Departments
are individually responsible for set-
ting their exam timetables but they
have to work within the constraints
of availability of suitable space on
campus”, a College spokesperson of
quality assurance, Laura McConnell
(Assistant Registrar), responded.
Either the lack of enforcement of
internal policy by Imperial College
or the possibility that guidelines have
to be bypassed due to lack of facili-
ties are being raised as issues. There
has been general concern through
the student body, with people fear-
ing that their course management
may too think it acceptable to bend
rules that have been set in place.
Any issues with examinations af-
fect most people and not adhering to
the rules or expectations during the
exam times create greater difficulty,
when those affected are under pres-
sure and have greater priorities.
One student who fears this hap-
pening in his own department has
said, “I wouldn’t want to be left in
the dark or have to protest against
this sort of thing when I’m revising
for exams that will change my fu-
ture”.
continued from the front page
>>

