NEWS
7
FRIDAY 18 JANUARY
Driving Lessons For Imperial Students
•A special offer for Imperial students
from Denis Smyth
•Driving Standards Agency (DSA)
Accredited Instructor
•Mock Test Examiner
5 Driving Lessons for
£95
"Denis is a fantastic teacher and knows how to get people from completely
inexperienced and utterly hopeless driving up to the standard to pass their test. He is
always calm and his comments are constructive; his knowledge of London and his
knack of engineering driving routes that test the learner make the lessons more than
worth it. Since I have met him he has shown a great desire to offer cheaper lessons to
Imperial students and with the backing of other students I am more than happy to
support him."
- Alex Kendall, IC Union President 2010-11
Free Mock Test from
retired Driving Examiner
"I learned to drive in one of the busiest cities in the world. I passed first time. Would I
recommend Denis? Without hesitation."
- Leon Vanstone, Aeronautical Engineering
To make inquiries and book lessons,
call 07808 610 898
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
With the University Challenge team coasting into the
next round, the team for next year is chosen
While this season’s University Chal-
lenge is still underway, with Imperial
College’s team still in the running, the
selections have already been made for
next year.
he tryouts were organised by Im-
perial College Quiz Society, mostly
composed of keen quizzers and for-
mer UC contestants, and was open
to all students at Imperial. Around
seventy people showed up for the
ﬁrst round, in which they had to an-
swer 60 questions set by the makers
of the show. his was no easy task, as
they were ranging very diverse topics
and going quite in depth in very ob-
scure ﬁelds. Wannabe quizzers had to
know about former counties of Wales,
opinion columns of the Economist and
half-asteroid, half-comet astronomi-
cal bodies. It was a hard set, and only
17 would be invited again.
he second round was structured in
a more familiar, University Challenge
manner: teams of four with actual
working buzzers would compete for
starters for ten and sets of bonuses.
A rota was established so that the
judging panel could see everyone and
decide who’d make a good UC con-
testant: they looked for raw knowl-
edge, obviously, but they also had an
eye on impulsiveness, speed on the
buzzer, willingness to listen to team-
mates and ability to guess. he ques-
tions came from a variety of sources,
and ranged from football in Japan to
Imperial Stormtroopers to the Sloan
Great Wall. Again, it was not an easy
quiz and some truly excellent perfor-
mances were given.
Eventually, though, only ﬁve would
make onto the team: four contestants
and a reserve. he following ﬁve indi-
viduals will be representing Imperial
College in the 2013/2014 season of
University Challenge: Charlie Yuan,
the reserve, in ﬁrst year biochemistry;
Daniela Weston, in third year physics;
George Coombs, in second year phys-
ics; Rhys Davies, in ﬁfth year medi-
cine; and their captain, John Wheatley,
in third year materials science. Hope-
fully together they have enough facts
and smarts to bring television glory to
Imperial! he team has already started
practicing in the London Quiz League
Pietro Aronica Reporter
with some success and is meeting eve-
ry week to ﬂex their quizzing muscles.
Soon they will be invited by the mak-
ers of the show in a quiz/interview,
which will determine if they make it
to the televised portion. We have no
doubt they will, and we will be look-
ing forward to their matches starting
from July next year.
In case you missed the selections or
were not chosen, they are run every
year, and you can try again come next
November. In the meantime, the Im-
perial Quiz Society organises quizzes,
where you might help this year’s team
practice.
Contact them at quiz@imperial.ac.uk.
Beat that Bristol, oh, wait, you tried but couldn’t. Sorry

