FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
8 FRIDAY 18 JANUARY
The Manifesto Review
IntherunuptoelectionsUnion President Paul
Beaumontlooksatwhathehasandhasn’tdonethisyear
s the 2012/13 academic
year ﬂies by (this time
last year, I was already
saying ’14 weeks til ex-
ams’ in an attempt to
motivate myself…) there are a number
of developments to update everyone
on. For ﬁnal years, the National Stu-
dent Survey is back; for the whole
student body we have, what I guess is
kind of a survey, the dreaded e-word –
elections – looming. One term down,
and already it’s nearly time to get rid of
the sabbaticals.
Over the next few weeks, all the
sabbs will be writing to tell you about
what’s gone on, what’s changed, what’s
improved, what’s not. Some things
will be obvious (yes, I know every-
one still has to pay £2 to get into the
Union… will come on to that in a
minute), some things are potentially
meaningless without a bit of explana-
tion. What’s both amazing and annoy-
ing about my role (and if you’re think-
ing of running for my position, this
is possibly the most frustrating part
you’ll have to deal with) is that I can’t
tell you half the stuﬀ I do: it’s ‘conﬁ-
dential’ or ‘commercially sensitive’. It’s
that way for a good reason: it’s not that
the College is trying to hide things
from students, but it’s not possible to
put everything in the public domain
(like business deals, etc) until they’re
done. Infuriatingly, I’m also not able
to ask students for help in supporting
me when I disagree with something
the College is doing. Whoever you
elect to be the next President, you’ll
have to trust that they’ll ﬁght for the
right things too, as I hope you’d agree
I’m doing at the moment, if I could tell
you what those things were… catch
twenty-two.
On a more positive note, I thought
best to do a sort of ‘manifesto review’
of the year so far. I’ve marked myself
(wouldn’t it be nice if exams worked
that way too?), and feel free to disa-
gree – as I’m sure a few will. See right.
I’m not going to bang on about it,
because last time people on the online
comments thought I ‘had no mandate’
to do this, but one of the things I’m
most proud of this year is working to-
wards securing a future for the Union:
both through Charity Registration
and through updated and improved
agreements with the College.
Doug and Becky will no doubt be
telling you about the leaps and bounds
in which the College has improved
in their articles; I’ve already rambled
enough but will give you a sneak pre-
view. Lecture recording is being rolled
out. Imperial Horizons has broadened
A
“I promise to revise the new Responsible
Drinking Policy to follow the law, whilst
putting the fun back into our bars.”
A new Retailing of Alcohol policy (I always thought ‘Responsible’ sounded re-
ally condescending too...) went to the Executive Committee on 3 December
and will be taken to the next Trustee Board for final approval in late January.
“As it’s financially viable (RCSU does it), I
want an ‘open bar’ Summer Ball.”
Planning for the Ball 2013 has started and I have in my first version of a budget –
just as the RCSU, which I used to be Vice President for has – included a sizeable
bar tab. This is yet to be approved though, so I won’t say too much: watch this
space. We’re also planning on making the funfair bigger and better, more ‘free
stuff’, and hopefully a cheaper dinner than last year.
“I promise to spend time with students:
currently hardly anyone sees the people
that represent us.”
Well I go to the bar on an evening, but there is genuinely no free time during the
day to go to the JCR like I thought there would be. I get in to the offices at 8:30
and leave (well, stagger out of the bar) late each evening. I don’t know why I
bother renting a flat
“I promise to improve our online systems,
saving time for club officers. “
We’ve launched a whole new website (written by the Union’s Sysadmin, my-
self, and a couple of members of staff… costing the Union very little!) and a
new version of eActivities (also written in-house). Imperial College Union truly
does have the most advanced online systems of any Union in the country; most
are still using paper forms. I know eActivities can be frustrating sometimes
(we’re working on speeding it up), but to be fair: it does do virtually everything
and is a lot better than what other Unions have!
“I promise to stop door charges for entry
to our own Union.“
The awkward one. I wish, when running for election, that I’d been told I had
no ability to change the Union’s budget for this year: that was set last year.
Charges were cut at the start of this year, but not enough, I know. I will (in an
attempt to still act on my promise, yes I know it’s late) propose that the Union’s
Executive Committee does everything it can to pass a budget for next year that
doesn’t require door charges on a normal Wednesday and Friday night. For
anyone running for a sabb position this year, do not, without making it clear
that it will come into effect the year after, make financial promises – you’ll feel
annoyingly helpless like I have this year on this issue. Part of me is still glad I
promised it, as it now means it will hopefully happen next year, but it’s frustrat-
ing all the same. Hopefully by pushing back charging to 21:30 on Wednesdays
we’ve afforded most people some extra pints.
“I promise to put money back in students’
pockets by introducing more student jobs
in the Union.”
Two recruitment sessions have been run so far this year (normally it’d only be
one by now). I’m also planning on introducing more jobs by stealing an idea
from Cambridge Union. They have a brilliant Access programme that both en-
courages widening participation students into University, and pays their cur-
rent students to do the presentations and workshops. I’m still working on this,
but watch this space!
“I want the Union to become a place stu-
dents go to relax throughout the day – us-
ing Metric as a break-out space by day,
and as a club at night.”
Lights were installed over Summer and lots of people use Metric on a lunch-
time for overspill space from FiveSixEight. Not a lot else to say really…
“I want to make the Union more transpar-
ent and better communicate the work it
does for students.”
I think the new website (where we publish all the Council’s responses to gov-
ernment policy and views on College proposals) goes someway to helping this.
I also revamped the newsletter though am not writing half as many Felix ar-
ticles as I’d hoped. I guess people would just get bored anyway. Well done if
you’ve made it this far. We’ve invested some more resources into the Union’s
marketing recently which should hopefully mean that over the coming years
this will improve even more.
everyone’s, well, horizons (and i s
being rolled out to more
years next year). A Union
review of PRES data for
Postgraduate Research
students (the research
version of NSS) has
been welcomed and
will follow on from our
NSS Response. Similarly
for Becky’s Student Ex-
perience survey –
something
that the
College
uses to
h e l p
direct
r e -
sources for developing its support
services. Services such as timetabling
(and improving use of space for
lectures and labs) are changing;
syllabuses are being revised after
student feedback. I’ll stop now.
If you think that you’d enjoy ef-
fecting change (or, ﬁghting behind
closed doors) and you’re even just
contemplating running as a sabb, drop
any of the team an email. his year
the sabbs are going to be asking
candidates questions at
hustings to make sure
they – and everyone
voting – know what
they’re getting them-
selves in for – do
come talk to us!
Ticks, crosses, and neutral are what Paul thinks.
How about you? Comment online at felixonline.co.uk

