10
SCIENCE
Science Editors
Science Editors Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 26 FEBRUARY 2010
For the first time, a wild bonobo has
been seen cannibalising her own re-
cently deceased infant. This behaviour
is extremely rare amongst all apes,
only previously having been reported
among orang-utans. Bonobos, once
known as pygmy chimps, are our clos-
est relative alongside chimps from
which they diverged during the past 1
million years.
Despite cannibalism being an un-
common behavioural trait, it may not
be aberrant, claims the scientist who
witnessed it. Researchers have been
known to emphasise the differences
between chimpanzees and bonobos,
with the latter reported to be less vio-
lent, aggressive or hostile to one anoth-
er, and living in societies dominated by
females as opposed to alpha males in
chimp communities.
It was thought that bonobos did
not commit infanticide, or hunt and
eat other primate species. However,
a study published last year reported
that bonobos had been seen killing
and eating monkeys. Primatologists Dr
Andrew Fowler and Dr Gottfried Ho-
hmann of the Max Planck Institute for
Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig,
Germany have recorded an example of
a bonobo ape, along with other mem-
bers of her group, consuming the body
of her recently deceased 2 and a half
year-old infant.
The event was observed in a group
of bonobos in the forest at Lui Kotale
in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
The female called Olga was seen car-
rying her dead infant, Olivia, over her
shoulder with no signs of injury. The
next day, Olga continued to carry Ol-
ivia and spent an hour grooming her.
“After an hour, Marta, a dominant fe-
male then took the body, retaining it
despite initial resistance from Olga.
She then began to consume it, joined
by most of the community including
the mother,” said Dr Fowler.
“Consumption took several hours,
and possession of the carcass changed
several times. At times Olga and
Ophelia, her remaining daughter, were
not involved but remained nearby
throughout the period,” he says. “When
a single foot and hand only remained
attached to a long skin fragment, Olga
took the remains, placed them over her
back and walked away.”
Dr Fowler said that despite such
behaviour not being usual, it may be
more widespread than one, isolated
incident. He hypothesised that re-
searchers may have witnessed it, but
not reported it due to it drawing un-
due attention to cannibalism among
our close relatives. On the other hand,
there may not have been enough long-
term studies of bonobos to previously
witness it.
“I don’t see that occasionally con-
suming dead infants, however dis-
tasteful it might seem to us, is a sign
of pathology or aberration per se”
commented Dr Fowler. “I don’t think
it necessarily says anything about ‘em-
pathy’ or ‘morality’.” It had previously
been suggested that bonobos might
feel more sympathy for victims, lead-
ing them to shun the hunting of mon-
keys, for example.
Dr Fowler picks out that the “in-
teresting question is why this female
bonobo, Olga, allowed her infant to
be eaten, because this is not always
the case in chimpanzees. The incident
might tell us more about relationships
between adults, and particularly adult
females, in the sense that Marta was
able to take and consume the body of
another female.”
A different
kind of tourism
Brigette Atkins
Brigette Atkins Science Editor
Cannibalism evident amongst
‘peace-loving’ bonobos
James Goldsack
James Goldsack
A black Labrador named Treo has been awarded the Dickin
Medal. This is the animal equivalent of the Victoria Cross and
is the highest accolade a military animal can receive. Treo, a
9-year-old Labrador formerly based in Rutland, was hon-
oured for his life-saving skills in sniffing out roadside bombs
in Afghanistan. He joined soldiers patrolling in Afghanistan
in 2008. Dogs are said to have a sense of smell that is a thou-
sand times more sensitive than that of a human, due to having
more than 220 olfactory receptors in their noses. This enables
them to be useful in identifying material such as ex-
plosives, drugs & forensic material.
This news comes following a
recent report that the Labra-
dor is, still, the most popular
breed of dog in the world. It
looks as though they can do
no wrong.
Scientists have claimed that music lessons could
have a direct impact on a child's ability to learn lan-
guages by affecting the mind's sensitivity to to all
types of sound. Tests have revealed that exposure
to music can be beneficial for the brain whilst in its
developmental stage, and could also aid children
with dyslexia and autism. The researchers from
Northwestern University in Chicago established
a link between musical ability and the capacity of
the nervous system to take in sound patterns. Pro-
fessor Nina Kraus said "Playing an instrument may
help youngsters better process speech in noisy class-
rooms and more accurately interpret the nuances of
language that are conveyed by subtle changes in the
human voice."
Soundproofing has always been a problem for
people who live next door to nocturnal beings
with a penchant for loud music. However, rather
than building a big wall, Zhiyu Yang from Hong
Kong University of Science and Technology in
Kowloon has developed a soundproof panel
made of latex and plastic buttons that does the
job more effectively. The noise-cancelling pan-
els consist of a latex rubber membrane stretched
over a 3 mm-thick rigid plastic grid of
1cm-wide squares, with a small plastic
buttoninthecentre.When waveshit
the sound panel, the membrane and
buttons resonate at different fre-
quencies, resulting in waves cancel-
lingeachotheroutandalackofsound
penetrating the wall.
M
any of us are all too
familiar with the libel
war being fought be-
tween Simon Singh
and the British Chiro-
practic Association. Tuesday marked
the latest stage in this ongoing case
when Singh presented his appeal to sen-
ior judges – see Duncan’s article. Whilst
this is the most publicised libel case at
the moment, it is by no means isolated.
Dr Peter Wilmhurst is currently be-
ing sued by NMT Medical over a claim
that data from a trail of one of their
products is flawed. Being sued for li-
bel is not a cheap affair. Wilmhurst
has already lost £280,000 in court
fees and this figure is set to rise as the
case continues. Even a victory in the
courtroom would be bittersweet as
court fees cannot always be recovered
from the side pressing charges. In this
case, NMT Medical are unwilling to
subsidise these costs should they lose
because, rather ironically, a demand
such as this on a foreign company may
violate the European Convention on
Human Rights. I’m guessing that when
this convention was set out, imped-
ance of free speech was not one of its
objectives.
So if all that’s to face is a lose-lose
outcome, why don’t scientists and writ-
ers such as Dr Wilmhurst just back
down, admit defeat and apologise, re-
gardless of their beliefs? In a column
by Simon Singh in the Telegraph this
week, Wilmhurst is quoted as saying “If
I fail to speak out…I am breaking the
Hippocratic Oath. I’d rather be sued for
libel.” Freedom of speech is evidently
something above monetary value.
Of course, it isn’t just scientific de-
bate being stifled. Britain’s laws prac-
tically invite anyone with sufficient
wealth to enter the circus that is our
courtrooms and try their hand at suing
for libel. ‘Libel tourism’ is a term be-
ing used more and more these days as
Britain plays host to cases from all over
the world, the only requirement being
that the publication in question where
the claim was made is obtainable in the
UK.
A paper by Article 19, an organisa-
tion campaigning to maintain what
should be one of our most basic hu-
man rights, details the case of Rachel
Ehrenfeld. A wealthy Saudi, Sheikh
Khalid bin Mahfouz brought a case to
the UK courts against Ehrenfeld (an
American) after claims made in her
book ‘Funding Evil’ – now unavailable
after selling only a handful of copies in
the UK. Not only is this a case of ‘libel
tourism’, but it concerns me that Mah-
fouz has already sued using UK libel
laws. More than 20 times.
I am by no means suggesting that
writers should be allowed to publish
anything - there should be justification
above just a personal dislike for an in-
dividual or organisation. But I believe
that, for a democratic country, the UK
is making itself a global laughing stock
through these laws where proof is the
defendant’s responsibility.
On Wednesday, a parliamentary
panel agreed “[libel tourism] should be
a matter of profound concern for the
UK”. But whilst many MPs are in sup-
port of reform, few are willing to com-
mit to the cause. I feel the onus is now
on us to put pressure on MPs to act. I
urge you, if you get a moment, to look
at www.libelreform.org and add your
name to the list – Stephen Fry already
has, so it must be important!
In other news – a report from the
Commons is set to call for homeopathy
funding by the NHS to be cut. Fingers
crossed. Sorry Prince Charles.
Bonobos were previously been regrded as the hippies of the animal kingdom
with their passion for ‘free-love’ and peace
In
brief
Novel Latex solution Musical instruments
good for the mind?
Black Lab saves the day

