11
felix FRIDAY 26 FEBRUARY 2010
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk SCIENCE
There aren’t many policies from
George Bush’s eight years that one
can claim the current president of the
United States is ruining, but for those
of us who were hoping to spend their
30th birthday maxin’ & relaxin’ on the
moon, the chances are starting to look
pretty Obysmal. Barack’s proposal last
week to abort NASA’s lunar plans ma-
jorly pissed off scientists worldwide,
and not just the evil scientists who tor-
ture bunnies with shampoo.
The project in question is the Con-
stellation programme: envisaging new
rockets and a new crewship called
Orion (names after the asterism, not
the plural of ‘Oreo’) to put astronauts
on the moon by 2020, and conceivably
humans on Mars by the middle of the
century. But in his 2011 budget request
issued on Feb 1st, Obama described
the project as “behind schedule, and
lacking in innovation”. So much for
Dubya’s plans to invade Mars (sorry,
bring ‘peace and democracy’ to Mars).
Unfortunately, Nasa has already
spent a slick $9 billion (£5.6 billion) on
Constellation, and it will cost an esti-
mated $2.5 billion more just to close
down the project. And you thought
signing up for ‘Get Ripped in Three
Weeks’ online was a mistake.
Former NASA administrator
Michael Griffin, who advocated the
Constellation program, describes
Obama’s budget as disastrous for hu-
man space flight. “It means that essen-
tially the U.S. has decided that they’re
not going to be a significant player in
human space flight for the foreseeable
future. The path that they’re on with
this budget is a path that can’t work,”
he said.
This may not be good for America’s
already deteriorating ego, but imag-
ine how pleased the Russians will be
to finally have a chance at winning the
space race (the last time they did was
in 1957 with Sputnik). I can just pic-
ture Putin celebrating by taking a tri-
ple distilled bath in Smirnoff, and get-
ting Medvedev to massage caviar onto
his head. Interestingly, the legendary
‘space race’, which began in 1947, was
initially just for bragging rights, but
developed into a competition for claim
of new technology. Modern-day space
institutes contend almost entirely for
these rights.
Indeed, faster computers, better
medicines, advanced composites and
alloys, and thousands of other tech-
nologies all owe their development to
space research. Space technology has
shaped the fabric of society in ways
we would never had thought of. Even
everyday objects can be traced back
to a breakthrough in a NASA lab. The
two examples I found of this are not
very inspiring; foam padding adapted
for helmets and flexible tires on the
Apollo 14 pull-cart incorporated into
winter radial car tires. So, next time
you bump into an astrophysicist, give
him (or him) a hug.
Back to the news: Obama’s budget
request, if approved by Congress, will
hand over some spacecraft develop-
ment to the private sector. The budget
calls for companies to spend $6 bil-
lion over five years to develop a com-
mercial spacecraft that could taxi as-
tronauts into low Earth orbit i.e. not
much chance of a moon visit in our life
time (sad emoticon). The Obama ad-
ministration simply does not have the
cash to fund any space projects with-
Obama to abort NASA lunar program?
Arjun Hassard
Arjun Hassard
On Tuesday, journalist, author and
ex-Imperial scientist Simon Singh pre-
sented an appeal to the three most sen-
ior judges in the UK, fighting to be al-
lowed to expose dangerous, deluded or
downright insane practices in health-
care and alternative medicine. You
might not have thought such a case
would be necessary: after all, the law
exists to protect the rights of whistle-
blowers and investigative journalists,
doesn’t it? Unfortunately, under the
UK’s current archaic libel laws, it ap-
pears that the truth is little defence.
Singh found himself in court after
an article written in the Guardian al-
most two years ago, in which he ana-
lysed chiropractors’ claims to be able
to cure infant ear infections and colic
through the medium of rearranging
their vertebrae. Now, shuffling the
bones in an adult carries some fairly
significant risks – it’s not unknown
for neck manipulations in particular to
cause strokes and paralysis; doing it to
an infant, however, is simply danger-
ous. Worse still, it isn’t even effective
– there is no robust evidence at all to
suggest that the ‘therapy’ has any merit
whatsoever. Singh dared to point this
out, and rather than reveal the “pletho-
ra of evidence” upon which the British
Chiropractic Association (BCA) based
their bullshit theories, they instead
opted to sue for libel, for the damage
he had allegedly done to their other-
wise-pristine reputation.
The UK has something of a reputa-
tion when it comes to libel law. The
laws under which such cases are
judged are so arcane and so unfit-for-
purpose that it is almost impossible to
defend one. Even the rare successes
are somewhat Pyrrhic, as the average
cost of such a victory is round about
the same as the price of a house in Lon-
don – meaning that your average jour-
nalist, researcher or science student
can’t possibly hope to defend them-
selves. Furthermore, the UK courts’
out some private investment – for the
Constellation endeavour it’s quite liter-
ally an ‘Insert More Coins’ scenario.
Going commercial with a human
crew would represent a dramatic
change in the way NASA does busi-
ness. Instead of NASA owning the
spacecraft and overseeing every nut
and bolt of its design and construc-
tion, a private company would design
and build the spacecraft with NASA
looking over its shoulder. We can at-
tribute this undesirable situation to
the recession, but it seems these days
that the recession is blamed for eve-
rything e.g. ‘Why didn’t you flush?’...
‘Recession’.
Perhaps the question we have missed
is: why would mankind even want to
return to the moon? If successful, it
could lead to privately-owned moon
colonies, providing even more oppor-
tunities in research. It would finally
shut up all the conspiracy theorists.
And it would be a magnificent human
achievement. As Isaac Asimov stated,
“Why spend billions to place a man
on the Moon? If we don’t, we may lose
the Earth. If we do, we may gain the
universe. You couldn’t ask for better
odds.” Even though he sounds like he
works in William Hill, he’s apparently
the greatest science fiction writer of all
time.
Whether the public pays for it
through retail prices or taxes, the
space race continues. But now, it is
not between competing countries, but
countries’ governments and private
industries.
Looks like the Cheese Society are going to have to wait a little while longer to realise their plans for a trip to the moon
Simon Singh’s battle for free speech continues
somewhat self-important definition of
jurisdiction means that people from all
over the world who wish to stifle criti-
cism choose to do so in London. As
a result, there are currently laws in a
number of US states, specifically lim-
iting the application of UK libel de-
cisions on US citizens. It’s not just a
problem, it’s an embarrassment.
Tuesday’s hearing seemed to go well
- the panel of judges gave the BCA’s
counsel a thorough roasting, both for
their seeming inability to accept criti-
cism and for the “artificiality” of the
case, that “at the end of this some-
one will pay an enormous amount of
money, whether it be from Dr Singh’s
funds or the funds of BCA subscrib-
ers” to resolve a case that could have
been settled in the way such scientific
disputes are normally – via the open
publication and robust criticism of the
evidence. It’s what we do. The BCA
apparently doesn’t agree, and as a re-
sult the safety and efficacy of a medical
(or at least pseudo-medical) treatment
will now be decided by the courts, as
opposed to via clinical trial.
Duncan Casey
Duncan Casey
Tuesday’s hearing seemed to go well for Singh who is being sued by the BCA

