13
felix FRIDAY 26 FEBRUARY 2010
BUSINESS
Business Editor
Business Editor Sina Ataherian
Sina Ataherian
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Imperial gets its own AIESEC chapter
A
IESEC is a very large
transnational associa-
tion of university socie-
ties that aim to provide
their members with op-
portunities to explore the world and
gain valuable life skills. Their activi-
ties include work placements around
the world, skills and leadership work-
shops, and conferences. As well as
engaging with fellow members from
a diverse range of academic and in-
ternational backgrounds, AIESEC’s
members – numbering over a million
worldwide – are given the support they
need to help communities in less de-
veloped regions.
AIESEC now want to advertise their
unique opportunities for gaining real
business and management experience
in a global environment. This week felix
Business is featuring testimonials from
some of the people who have benefited
from their opportunities:
Merwin Man, a second Year student
majoring in Civil Engineering, went
on a work abroad programme with
AIESEC to Ghana last summer and did
marketing for a project called ‘AfriTour’
,
which aims to promote the benefits of
tourism to students and inspire them
to become future entrepreneurs in that
field.
“This was really beneficial and helped
me step outside my comfort zone.
For once in my life, I was actually do-
ing something rather than studying!’’
said Merwin.
While marketing provided a refresh-
Publicity officer Marcus Wu talks to some of the Society’s first members about their projects around the world
Participants in an AIESEC project in Ghana - clearly some of the group were happier before the photographer arrived
of events such as book donation drives,
charity sales and sporting events. With
adequate funds and books gathered,
Betty and her team visited the school
last Christmas and set up the school’s
new library. She taught students how to
manage and use the library, read stories
and educated them on the importance
of environmental conservation. The
success of “Love Literally” also captured
the attention of the media and Betty
was even interviewed by BBC China on
her involvement.
Betty said of the experience, “it was
wonderful spending time with the chil-
dren and what will always stay in my
mind is the time when I read an Eng-
lish pop-up book to them. They gath-
ered around me and remarked “Wow”
as every page turned! Nothing could
be more satisfying! The children have
gained a lot from our visit, but I felt that
we have gained so much more. From
fund-raising to the actual establishment
of the new library, there were things to
be learnt at each stage, such as how to
motivate a team, how to make your pro-
motion stand out from others, how to
reach out to the crowds outside college
and how to deal with unexpected events
especially when children are involved.”
AIESEC organises event throughout
the year in both the UK and abroad.
Conferences have been in places such
as Oxford, Belfast and within London,
and members from universities across
the United Kingdom can gather and
voice their opinions about global issues,
leadership, business plans and market-
ing strategies.
Terry Tsang, a 3rd and final year
student in Bioengineering, attended
AIESEC LDS (Leadership Development
conference so much.’’ said Terry.
AIESEC members in Imperial College
London have enjoyed a positive learn-
ing experience thus far and every mem-
ber has grown in one way or another.
AIESEC Imperial is a young student
group, and all this would not have been
possible without the people behind its
inception in 2009. Weili Dong, current
Local Committee President of AIESEC
Imperial, is the main driving force be-
hind every member of the team and
she has dedicated a lot of her time and
energy in setting up and managing the
new chapter of the world’s largest stu-
dent organisation. Despite the many
difficulties faced while the group was
at its infancy, Weili never regretted in
committing herself to AIESEC when
she saw the enthusiasm of her mem-
bers and how they valued their AIESEC
experiences.
‘’For me, starting up AIESEC Imperial
with a passionate team has been and
will be the highlight of my life in Im-
perial. It is certainly not easy to start a
society from scratch. Over the last year,
we shared the sorrows and pain togeth-
er when faced with uphill challenges.
However, it is amazing to see how our
team managed to keep the morale up
and encourage one another along our
journey.
“For us, AIESEC means more than a
society. It is a family, where we find sup-
port and opportunities to achieve what
we believe in. I especially treasure the
opportunities AIESEC has given me to
develop our members and empower
their future. Their positive feedbacks
for the various events we organised
will continue drive me to work hard for
what I believe in.’’
ing experience for Merwin outside
the engineering sector, adapting to a
whole new lifestyle in Ghana provided
a greater challenge to him due to the
diversities in culture and environment.
Fortunately, AIESECers in Ghana were
present to attend to his administra-
tive and daily needs and helped him
integrate into their local environment.
During the work abroad programme,
Merwin has not only acquired a new set
of skills, but also embraced the warmth
and hospitality of AIESECers from a
different country and made many long-
lasting friendships.
“The change in lifestyle opened
my eyes and I have met many people
from different backgrounds and stat-
ures. I could have only done this with
AIESEC. The extensive social network
that AIESEC provided has allowed me
to feel fully supported in a strange new
environment. As AIESECers, we looked
after each other like family while we
were in Ghana, especially with other
exchange participants. I fully enjoyed
my time doing my job and achieved
some major things that I thought I
would never be able to do.” added
Merwin.
Another participant, Betty Tai – a
second year student reading Chemis-
try – went on a journey of discovery in
Heyuan, China. In collaboration with
Imperial PASS (Public Awareness and
Social Services) Society, Betty initiated
“Love Literally” – a fund-raising project
for the local XinGang Primary School.
Betty and her team organized a series
Conference) 2010, which was held in
Nottingham from 5th – 8th February
this year. The national conference was
targeted at AIESECers throughout the
United Kingdom and focused on lead-
ership development and team dynam-
ics. Together with 5 other AIESECers
from the college, Terry attended this
annual event and returned beaming
with enthusiasm about what he had
learnt.
‘’Throughout the 4 day conference,
we were provided with plenty of op-
portunities to explore leadership and
develop a range of skills from different
aspects. We had leadership and skills
training sessions conducted by leading
companies such as Pricewaterhouse-
Coopers and GlaxoSmithKline. In the
other sessions, we were teamed up ran-
domly and given a short period of time
to achieve a specified set of goals. This
provided us the opportunity to discover
and understand our roles in a team,
and train our abilities to cooperate and
communicate with different people.
It was very exciting and I enjoyed this
“AIESEC’s members
– numbering
over a million
worldwide – are
given the support
they need to help
communities in less
developed regions”
AIESEC has a presence in all counries marked in blue - that’s quite a few...
“The success...
captured the
attention of
the media and
Betty was even
interviewed by
BBC China on her
involvement”
“starting up AIESEC
Imperial with a
passionate team has
been and will be the
highlight of my life
in Imperial”

