14
CULTURE &
THE ARTS
Arts Editors
Arts Editors Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 26 FEBRUARY 2010
W
ell, the weather is
truly grim and we
are all suffering
from little incen-
tive to get out and
explore the damp, and frankly inhos-
pitable, London temperament. So to
keep you entertained, snuggle under
the duvet with this week’s felix and
we will bring what’s out there to you.
However, I do recommend straying be-
yond one’s bolthole so as to keep the
mind clear and free from stagnation
with the sights and smells on offer in
the metropolis (mmm, inviting)!! For
example, close to home is the Hard
Rain photographic exhibit installed
here at Imperial.
A little further afield, but still within a
feasible walking distance at the Saatchi
Gallery just off Sloane Square is Indian
Art Today: The Empire Strikes Back.
I have reviewed this interesting show
if I still can’t persuade you to emigrate
from your warm nest!
Perhaps my co-editor Lucy Harrold
can tempt you with Musical Theatre
Soc’s adaptation of Hair? There are
plenty of plays on in theatre world -
Caz Knight reviews for us Serenading
Louie.
As for me, art is what does it for me
– conventional, traditional, contempo-
rary and downright subversive. As long
as a group of people want to present to
the public the wealth of human crea-
tivity out there in material form, I want
to see it!
Do you feel the same? Why don’t you
write for us? Address to above email!
This is the dawning...
Lucy Harrold reviews Musical Theatre Soc’s Hair adaptation
Never too cold
for culture!
RosieMilton
RosieMilton Arts Editor
American Theatre: Getting Serious in London it Seems
A
merican culture – who
can get enough of it? Ser-
enading Louie, written
by Lanford Wilson, re-
volves around two trou-
bled marriages, and might as well have
been set in any country, with charac-
ters of any nationality. Nonetheless,
there is something distinctly Ameri-
can about the play currently showing
at the Donmar Warehouse. Despite
the presence of an American actor and
the fact that the TV is showing football
(and not 'soccer'), this Americanness
is (thankfully?) not forcefully dumped
upon the audience. Rather, it is more
subtly ingrained into the play's struc-
ture, and comes out in the attitudes
of, and the conversations between, the
characters.
On the face of it, there seems to be
little of the famous American glitz and
glamour in the play. Alex (played by
the American Jason Harner) and Carl
(Jason O’Mara) have been friends from
their college days. Both dreamed in the
past of making it big, and of changing
the world; both dreamed of satisfaction
and happiness. Now, both are in the
middle of faltering marriages, failing to
find any sort of happiness in their daily
activities and struggling, with the rest
of humanity, to understand the greater
meaning of life. Together, they remi-
nisce about the golden old days while
at the same time, they mourn about
how they now feel trapped in a dreary
continuum of chores and unfulfilling
tasks. Carl probably summarises it best
when he tells his wife Mary (played by
Geraldine Somerville, who plays Lily
Potter in the Harry Potter series) how
any small incident was an ‘event’ in his
youth, whereas nothing now seems to
be of any weight or consequence.
The entire play is based around a sin-
gle set: that of a living room which acts
as a home for both families, neither of
which can be described as being stable.
Alex’s wife Gabby (Charlotte Emerson),
is an insecure woman whose meek at-
tempts to be a good wife incessantly
annoy her husband to no end. On the
other hand, Alex is quickly frustrated
by Gabby and finds her undesirable
both as a conversationalist and in the
bedroom. He is more interested in
pursuing a political career, which is
probably an attempt to reconnect with
his younger days, when he believed
that he could make a difference. Emer-
son’s acting, however, can sometimes
be a little unconvincing, and, while it
is true that it is difficult to describe her
character simply, she seems artificial
at times. This is reflected in the on-
stage relationship between Harner and
Emerson, which is somewhat unnatu-
ral and overdone. On the other hand,
the relationship between O’Mara and
Somerville works better, even though
they are in a stranger situation in terms
of the plot. Mary is cheating on Carl,
and though he knows of her affair, he
chooses to do nothing about it, in line
with his apathetic outlook. Interest-
ingly, he justifies his lack of action with
the belief that his wife ‘loves’ the per-
son with whom she has an affair with,
as if this somehow means that there is
no need for him to become involved.
The actors also work well together
as a quartet when the couples inter-
act, and they manage admirably to
connect through a joint conversation,
despite the spatial and emotional iso-
lation of the characters on the stage.
It is this separation that seems to be
a fundamental focus of the play. It is
extremely difficult to fully engage with
the characters or with the drama (or
the lack of it), and this is true despite
the slightly strange ending in which a
sudden melodramatic twist jars awk-
wardly with the rest of the script. It
T
his is the way it is. Jeanie’s
hung up on Claude, Shei-
la’s hung up on Berger,
Berger is hung up eve-
rywhere. Claude is hung
up on a cross over Sheila and Berger.
And furthermore, Woof is hung up on
Berger.
And this is Hair, the American tribal
love-rock musical coming to the Un-
ion Concert Hall courtesy of Musical
Theatre Society from 9th-13th March.
Containing hits such as I Got Life,
made famous by Nina Simone and
Aquarius, erm... made famous by erm...
The Forty Year Old Virgin... prepare to
be taken back to New York in 1967. As
the Vietnam War rages in Vietnam, the
feisty tribe of hippies battle for peace,
beads, flowers and freedom and take
you on a roller coaster of emotions as
the tribe comes to terms with the reali-
ties of war and life in the 60s.
The Vietnam War ran from 1959 to
1975, between America (supporting
South Vietnam) and North Vietnam –
the Democratic Republic of Vietnam.
This war was one of the first that eve-
ryday Americans actually believed was
avoidable; this image was not helped
by extensive television coverage on
the subject. To get enough troops to
sustain the war the government had to
introduce conscription, whereby every
young man could be forced to join the
Army, Navy or Air Force unless they
could provide a good reason why not.
Most of those trying to escape the
“draft” went to Canada or claimed they
were homosexuals.
Many draft-dodgers were hippies – a
counter culture that evolved out of the
Beatniks – think Allen Ginsberg the
poet and Hunter S Thompson the writ-
er portrayed by Johnny Depp in Fear
and Loathing in Las Vegas. The Hip-
pies believed in free love, non-violence
and generally hanging around taking
drugs. Hair was conceived by two such
hippies – James Rado and Gerry Ragni.
Rado and Ragni took the themes of the
times and combined them with kick-
ass music by Galt Macdermot, taking
inspiration from everyone from Shake-
speare to Abraham Lincoln. But Hair
reaches further than just a bunch of
hippies bumming around New York –
it carries the themes of freedom, peace
and happiness that we all long for to-
day. It sends out a strong message to
a world that is once again concerned
with terror and war to “Let The Sun-
shine In”.
Caz KnightreviewingSerenadingLouieattheDonmarWarehouse,aplaywhichfocusesonthenuancesofdomesticlife
is perhaps understandable, as a con-
sequence, that an audience might feel
frustrated with, or on occasion even
disinterested, during the play. While
on one level, this is obviously not par-
ticularly encouraging from an enter-
tainment perspective, on another, the
audience’s detachment from the stage
somehow complements, and helps one
relate to, the characters’ detachment
from life. In this respect, it is unlikely
that Serenading Louie will prove to be
a smashing success, but it is, neverthe-
less, oddly satisfying in its own way.
Probably not Louie being serenaded – a nuance of domestic life, from a frustrating, disinteresting, satisfying play.
Musical Theatre Society’s produc-
tion of Hair is on in the Union
Concert Hall 7.30pm (doors open
at 7.15pm) 9th-13th March. Tickets
are £5 for students and £7.50 for
non students and available from:
www.imperialcollegeunion.org/
musical-theatre-184/category.
html.

