15
felix FRIDAY 26 FEBRUARY 2010
ARTS
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Empire Strikes Back At The Saatchi
Rosie Milton on the current exhibit, better called ‘Artwork from India Which Really Needs No Clichéd Title’
I
couldn’t help but begin my tour
of the exhibition by thinking
about the work and the use of
the gallery space in compari-
son to the last show I had seen
here – The Revolution Continues:
New Chinese Art (or Works of Chi-
nese Artists Saatchi has Gathered and
is Presenting to the Public as New Art
‘Stars’). Titles for these recent exhibi-
tions have been blockbuster-y to say
the least.
The work however, really does not
reflect a heading that sounds so smug
and attention-grabbing in any other
sense. Putting aside surface concerns
about Saatchi and his ‘megabucks’
shows, I took in the work and was
pleasantly surprised by much of it –
proving I think, that it is always worth-
while to look at fresh work.
As there were a lot of artworks, I
reverted to my default way of see-
ing – aesthetically – before locking
in to stronger issues. Indian culture
and politics are a hidden world to me;
especially with the language barrier-
script was an overarching feature of
some of the works I liked best. What
was interesting for me, was consider-
ing who the works were for: one of the
largest works, ‘Public Notice 2’ by Jit-
ish Kallat features a wall-length and
wall-high text in English – a speech by
Ghandi. This fact seemed to pass the
other viewers by, despite their knowl-
edge that this exhibition focuses on a
country whose native tongue is differ-
ent to ours, but also that this country
has had a complicated history – in
many ways shaped by our own. Read-
ing a little research behind this speech,
Ghandi spoke these words on the eve
of the Dandi Salt March – a protest
against the British salt tax in colo-
nial India, 1930. If only meant to sug-
gest the greatness of a bold man, the
words illustrated in ‘Public Notice 2’ in
bones – speak volumes about histori-
cal feelings.
A textual language, unfamiliar to me
becomes a visual field of signs. I start-
ed thinking about language as imagery
and of course there is a strong body
of theoretical thought behind ideas of
this nature. Shezad Dawood’s electri-
fying work ‘The Bestower’, ‘The Judge’,
‘The Protector’ and ‘The Majestic’ – a
series of tumbleweed bushes encased
in vitrines, with neon characters liter-
ally burning through them, instantly
spoke to me with biblical reference.
Initially I thought I should reconsider
my first interpretation, bearing in
mind the focus of the exhibition on art
from (and necessarily about?) India.
However, such are the movements of
people in the world today that a cross-
referencing of culture, religion and
language is what is at stake in many of
these artworks.
Another work that interested me was
Tushar Joag’s ‘The Enlightening Army
Of The Empire’ – a glittering regiment
of metal figures, each resembling the
human form by their posture, limb
structure and each individually har-
bouring a light or electric tube that
crudely suggested an essential vital
organ. These twinkling, motionless
giants looked grand in their corner of
the gallery, but their simplicity is also
reminiscent of the found object and
ultimately how much use, if even only
to mimic ourselves, we can make out
of the things others throw away. Here,
these treasures struck a chord with me
about the fragility of the human body.
On closer investigation, several of the
figures hold aloft fluorescent tubes –
a futile but poignant substitute for a
sword.
Subodh Gupta features in the show
with works that I felt were fairly mod-
est, considering his usual oeuvre with
which I’m familiar, but perhaps fit-
ting in this context. I first encountered
Gupta at the Tate Triennial back in
early 2009. His signature style, as I un-
derstand it, is to create large sculptures
out of a mass of small, everyday metal
utensils. His work at Altermodern (the
Tate Triennial) at the Tate Britain was
nothing less than monumental – a gi-
ant mushroom cloud filled the iconic
cupola in the main hall, in a stationary
explosion of shining pewter-ware. At
the Saatchi, an irregular giant metal
bucket: the kind in which chilled
champagne is normally brought, (one
could observe parallels here) held an
overflow of regular-sized silvery uten-
sils, in the aptly titled ‘Spill’.
Almost every work, but especially
those that I felt spoke to me with the
most clarity, reflected the grandeur of
a greater idea, but in modest terms.
Although emphatically labelled as ‘art
from India’ by the structuring and ti-
tling of this show, external and worldly
influences are palpable.
However, the kind of patience spo-
ken through such modesty apparent in
these artworks tells a truth about the
history and homeland of these artists.
Shezad Dawood, ‘The Judge’, Subodh Gupta, ‘Spill’ and Jitish Kallat, ‘Public Notice 2’, all works © the artists named
Tushar Joag, ‘The Enlightening Army Of The Empire’ – these delicate, marvellous ‘soldiers’ guard a corner of the gallery

