16 felix FRIDAY 26 FEBRUARY 2010
MUSIC
Music Editors:
Music Editors: Alexandra Ashford, Kadhim Shubber & Luke Turner
Alexandra Ashford, Kadhim Shubber & Luke Turner
Online Editor: Christopher Walmsley
Online Editor: Christopher Walmsley
music.felix@gmail.com www.felixmusic.tk
Most listened to this week by
Felix Music members on last.fm
1. Radiohead
2. Bloc Party
3. Florence + The Machine
4. The Beatles
5. Muse
6. Animal Collective
7. David Bowie
8. Coldplay
9. The xx
10. Hot Chip
I have nothing to say about the
Top 10. I’ve only just discovered
Beach House, how awesome are
they? Check out their song ‘Gila’
on youtube and their new album
“Teen Dream”. Yeh, yeh, it’s taken
me three whole albums to even
notice their existence but they
are genuinely so good! Go now,
go listen! It hasn’t been all bad
though, I recently discovered that
Local Natives exist and they have
only released one album so points
go to me; and points to them
also for their song “Camera Talk”.
It’s pretty catchy. By the way,
Phoenix’s album is the Felix Music
chart’s most listened album and
VCR by The xx is the most listened
O
.k. I’m going to say two words and you have
to promise to keep reading, deal? O.k. “Folk
Opera”. Are you still there? Good, because al-
though R. Kelly may have forever tainted the
music as theatre crossover with “Trapped in
the Closet”, this genuine theatre production is an absolute
gem. It’s the story of Orpheus and Eurydice which, for those
without degrees in Greek mythology, involves the lyre play-
ing Orpheus descending into hell to save his love Eurydice
with his musical abilities. This version is set in depression-
era America. Hadestown is a hard-down company town
and Hades is the company boss; oh and of course Orpheus
wields not a lyre, but a banjo. Anais has pulled together an
impressive roster of artists on this album. We’ve got Ani
diFranco, Greg Brown and Justin Vernon of Bon Iver on a
twisting musical tale that grows from toe-tapping theatre to
deep dulcet monologues and soothing ballads. This album
is definitely a music lover’s record, there’s such richness to it
and if you want you can come to the felix office and listen to
it with me. - Kadhim Shubber
T
he story of how John Bull and the Bandits
formed is rather long-winded (and I suspect,
although I’m not certain, mostly untrue) and
so I won’t fill this column with that particu-
lar tale. Besides it’s their knee-slapping, hoe-
down inciting, wild blue-grass and folk music that really
makes this band worth listening to.
Fronted by two Sussex brothers, Sam and Tom Bull (pic-
tured), the band draw deeply from old-time motown art-
ists but their hearts probably live somewhere closer to Bob
Dylan. The two (together forming the imagined persona of
John Bull) had been busking around London since leaving
school and apart from dropping out of University, writing
songs and mastering their instruments, they’d made lit-
tle headway. However now with a fully formed band (i.e.
the Bandits) they’ve been hitting a number of high-profile
venues like Ronnie Scotts, Ain’t Nothing But Blues Bar and
the Troubadour with their finger-clicking whirlwind sets
and next Thursday they bring that energy to the legendary
Proud Galleries in Camden. - Kadhim Shubber
Folk up your life!
B
eing turned away upon ar-
rival at the venue certainly
did make our eventual entry
all the more satisfying, but it
was also pleasing to see that
this place was a comfortingly cosy size
for a relaxed evening of live music.
The opening act, Foreign Slippers,
mentioned that their band this evening
consisted of replacements for their ill
members, but this did not prevent them
from putting on a modest yet charming
show.
The Swedish singer of Foreign Slip-
pers, Gabrielle Frödén, showed a sing-
ing voice that was unexpected from
the gaudy appearance of her attire. Her
curtain-print red dress and match-
ing holly-leaves headpiece suggested
nothing of her fragile and command-
ing voice. Although it was evident that
her band were standing in for absent
members, this did not hinder her ef-
fortless singing style, which reminded
me of the voices of Kate Earl, Feist and
even Billie Holiday. This was a modest
band, with no roadies, and it wasn’t
until after the gig that I learned their
name since they made no mention of
it during their set. They did, however,
thank Animal Kingdom for the oppor-
tunity to play this evening, and ended
the set as swiftly as they had started it.
Animal Kingdom was enthusias-
tically welcomed to the stage by a
number of apparently loyal and very
vocal fans. After quick introductions,
they launched into past singles which
prompted some sing-along from these
die-hards. It was evident that the au-
dience found the music easy to follow
as it didn’t take long for some fully-
fledged dancing to begin, and some
rhythmic spilling of the beverages. The
band’s relationship with the audience
was comfortably amiable and the lead
vocalist Richard Sauberlich certainly
took advantage of the audience’s eager-
ness to engage in banter.
As they played, the idea became
more plausible that perhaps Sauberlich
had become the vocalist of the band
simply because he possessed the traits
that are associated with so-called band
leaders, and lacked the instrumental
skills otherwise. His vocal talents left
something to desire, unless the aim
was to sound strained and weak whilst
It’s vocals versus instruments for Animal Kingdom
maintaining a falsetto throughout the
set, although he was obviously an ex-
trovert who eased his band members’
nerves by mediating conversation be-
tween the audience and the band.
The audience was however very
responsive towards the command-
ing drumming which led the music
throughout. Geoff Lea, the drummer,
was the key to the dynamics of the live
sound, but that is not to say that the
other members simply followed his
lead. Each instrument had its own mo-
ment during the set, and I even go as
far as to say that the instrumental parts
of the set were better by my ears than
the wailing vocals-led part were; so it’s
a shame that Animal Kingdom don’t
allow enough room for the instru-
ments to just play. Instead, each good
passage of music would arrive at the
anti-climax of even more eerie vocals.
When the moment arrived for the
ballad, I knew it was time to leave. Es-
pecially since the opening line of the
singing sounded very similar to an early
noughties pop song by a certain Amy
Studt. But I’m sure nobody else noticed.
-Joanna Cai
Animal Kingdom
Borderline
23rd February
★★★✩✩
John Bull
& the
Bandits
@ Proud:
Thursday
4th
March
Anais
Mitchell’s
Hadestown
released
April 26th
to track - so we can deduce that
Imperial students have a poor taste
in albums and a refined taste in
singles. Alright I’ve strung out this
column to breaking point. Just stop
listening to Radiohead! Just for one
week, please?
-Kadhim Shubber

