22
FILM
Film Editor
Film Editor Ed Knock
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 26 FEBRUARY 2010
An interview with Jean-Pierre Jeunet
H
e is the legend behind
such classics as Delica-
tessen and Amelie. Jean
Pierre Jeunet is prob-
ably the most eminent
director in France and so I jumped at
the chance to interview him. This op-
portunity eventually manifested into a
group interview but as I seated myself
with around ten other journalists I still
could not hide my excitement of finally
meeting the great man in person.
Jeunet enters the room with a laid-
back attitude and the tension in the
room soon dissipates. He quips a joke
about Japanese hospitality and my ap-
prehensions about the language bar-
rier disappear. He is dressed casu-
ally and leans comfortably into the sofa
with an almost mischievous glint in his
eye. “What do you want to know?” he
gently inquires.
Star Crossed Lovers
A reporter across quickly asks about
Jeunet’s writing partnership. At the
start of his career Marc Caro, whom
he met at a film festival, was the oth-
er mind behind Delicatessen and The
City of Lost Children and recently Guil-
laume Laurent has been his collabora-
tor on Amelie, A Very Long Engage-
ment and his upcoming film Micmacs.
“It is important (to have a co-writer)
because it’s like ping pong. You have to
find the right partner”, he explains, “It
is exactly like in life, once you find your
lover it is very important to keep him
or her. Guillaume is my perfect partner
and at the end I could not tell if it was
my idea or his.”
Jeunet elaborates that the original
concept belongs to him as it is his
film. For Micmacs he wanted to mix
his feelings about weapon sellers with
references to Snow White and the
Seven Dwarves and overall theme of
revenge to drive the plot. Sergio Leo-
ne’s Once Upon a Time in the West is a
major influence on Micmacs. They fill
an ‘idea box’ with notes on characters,
incidents and plot mechanisms and
once the box is full they begin to write.
“I love the concept of Pixar or Dis-
ney movies to have one idea per shot.
When we write, we write the dialogue
scenes and the visual scenes and then
put the film together.”
Lost in translation?
Ironically Jeunet has to consult his
translator to understand the next
question which is about the loss of
meaning when the French script is
translated into foreign subtitles. Lau-
rent likes to play with his own lan-
guage and when he chooses to shoot
in French he realises he limits the
audiences around the world. “In this
film we play with old French expres-
sions but at Toronto the audience
were laughing so the subtitles were
pretty good. We have to find the right
balance”
Monster bash
The same reporter asks why there is a
recurring theme of an orphan fighting
a monster in Jeunet’s films. He laughs,
he must have answered similar ques-
tions before. “[This is the] story of all
my films, even Life of Pi which I didn’t
do because of finances. In Micmacs
[the monster] is the weapon sellers, the
butcher in Delicatessen or the slimy
monster in Alien [Ressurection] but I
hope one day I will change.” The room
is taken aback by the honesty of his
answer
A dip in the Seine
Jeunet’s biggest collaborator and good
friend is Dominique Pinon who has ap-
peared in every single one of his films.
“I cant make a film without Dominque,
it’s not a question of superstition , it’s
just that he surprises me every time
and he has a beautiful face. Marc Caro
always reminded Dominique that he
had a beautiful face”. “Do you have a
competition to see how much you can
put him though?”
“No not really, it became a kind of
game instead. He had to have protec-
tion against rat pee [Pinon is fired
from a cannon into the Seine]. Under
the water we had two divers to pull him
under so he rises like a bubble.” “How
did he react when you told him?” “ Oh
he loved it, he had to spend a long time
in the cannon and sometimes we said
‘OK we’re off to eat now.’”
Camera shy
Directors often like to give themselves
cameos in their own films, Hitchcock
was famous for it but Jeunet has never
appeared in front of the camera. He
explains that he feels most comfort-
able in the director’s chair and has
never felt the need to be immortalised
on celluloid although according to one
journalist he was a natural showman
on stage at a Bafta event. “Besides’, he
remarks “I am too good-looking”
A question of ethics
Another reporter is intrigued by Jeu-
net’s research into arms manufacture
and inquires how was able to speak to
Belgian weapon sellers.
“By luck, I knew an ex-minister of
defence in Belgium and they were
very open, they even let us take pic-
tures. We met some interesting peo-
ple, they have a passion for technol-
ogy, the factory is like a chocolate
factory but they forget the destination
of the technology.
We stated that this is to kill people but
they insist they’re on the right side,
‘We work for the minister of defence
not the minister of attack. They pro-
tect themselves that way.”
Green with envy
Although Dany Boon seems the
perfect choice for the character of Ba-
zil, Jamel Debbouze was the original
choice for the part. “Did the character
of Bazil change when Dany came on
board?” “No not a lot, Jamel Debbouze
has a handicap due to an incident
when he was young. so he was origi-
nally meant to have the accident with
the mine but this was changed to Ba-
zil’s father. They [Dany and Jamel] are
very different in physical aspects, but
in fact in the minds they are very simi-
lar. They both come from the streets,
they have imagination, they are very
close.”
Jeunet soon corrects a journalist’s
assumption that Dany Boon was origi-
nally a mime artist and at the same
time reveals his envy of his star’s suc-
cess. “He’s not a mime but a one man
show, he’s a writer, an actor and a di-
rector. I’m very jealous, he had twenty
one million admissions for Bienvenue
chez les Ch’tis [written and directed by
Boon and the most successful film in
France ever]. No can understand why.
Yes it was a good film and it was fun-
ny. But in the world, it is very impor-
tant for me that Amelie is the biggest
French success. In France what can I
do?” The room laughs nervously but
it is obvious that Jeunet has swallowed
his pride to make Micmacs with Dany.
“Did you think of Dany Boon straight
away?” “I thought Jamel could have an
accident which is what happened so
yes, I had Dany Boon on my mind. I
discovered him seventeen years ago at
one of his one man shows. Everything
about him is good.”
A sense of déjà vu
Micmacs is Jeunet’s sixth film and so
where does it lie in the director’s fil-
mography? When Marc Caro was co-
writer the films were quite dark in tone
[Delicatessen, City of Lost Chidren] but
with Guillaume Laurent they are much
lighter as with Amelie. “It’s a mix of
everything I’ve made, a kind of conclu-
sion, now I need to make something
different. I have had some people ap-
proach me and say all you do is make
the same film and it’s true because I
was supposed to make Life of Pi and
it would have been very different but
for money reasons it didn’t happen. If
you like my film its OK but if you don’t,
then don’t go to see it.”
Young at heart
One of the reasons why Jeunet’s films
have been so popular is the range of
people who can enjoy it. He wants a
young audience to be able to enjoy
Micmacs, especially children who typi-
cally watch Pixar films.
“Essentially the film is slapstick”
he notes. The animated sculptures
designed by ‘Tiny Tim’ seem to have
been inspired by recent Pixar pro-
ductions such as Wall-E. “We found
a man in a gallery in Paris who let us
borrow his artwork. Nobody on set
thought we would be able to build
them ourselves.”
On Hollywood
Jean Pierre Jeunet has made only one
film in Hollywood, Alien Ressurection
which recieved mixed reviews. He was
also slated to directed the acclaimed
novel ‘Life of Pi’ which is now stuck
in producton Hell. Would he go back
to America though? “Why not? With
Life of Pi, I had a great script and I had
freedom. Freedom is most important
to me and in France I have complete
freedom. However with Hollywood
there are finances involved, Alien [Res-
surection] was a fight with the studio
everyday though I am very proud of
the film. I prefer the freedom, I would
like to find a compromise because I
want to shoot with American actors.
My agent in America said an American
actor wants to meet you, he lives in
New York and his name is Al Pacino.”
In a excited voice Jeunet adds “and I’m
like OK why not?!”
Ideally, Jeunet explains that he wants
to shoot a French production [French
crew and financers] with an American
cast like Luc Besson was able to do
with Taken.
Finishing Touches
As the interview draws to an end, the
questions become more specific curi-
osities about aspects of Micmacs. One
reporter is intrigued about a Delicates-
sen cameo. “I wanted to make Amelie,
it would have been funnier. I planned
to see Amelie with kids (he does a
hilarious impersonation of a crying
baby) but Audrey [Tatou] said no be-
cause she was shooting for Chanel.
I can’t resist to ask about a part of
the film which puzzled me a lot and
the answer probably puzzled me more.
“What was the significance of placing
billboards advertising Micmacs in the
actual film?” “Oh yeah, it doesn’t make
sense. I wanted to shoot so much so I
thought ‘I don’t care!’. It was funny for
me, it will be funny for some people.
There are five billboards in the film, if
you didn’t see them all then you will
have to buy the DVD!” Apparently
Jean-Pierre is a bit of a joker.
Jeunet’s assistant’s pager bleeps and
a reporter gets in one last question
about if he finds his ideas from every-
day life. “I note everything and Guil-
laume Laurent does the same. In fact
when you make a film, inspiration
comes from books or other films. I put
everything in my ideas box.” His assist-
ant notes that time is up and Jeunet
looks pleased at how the interview has
gone. He stands up, says a quick thank
you, “Have a nice day!” and quickly
leaves the room. One thing is apparent
though, Jean Pierre Jeunet is a genius.
Film Editor Ed Knock is given a rare opportunity and plunges into the mind of the legendary French director
“Micmacs a mix
of everything I’ve
made, a kind of
conclusion”

