26 felix FRIDAY 26 FEBRUARY 2010
TRAVEL
Travel Editor
Travel Editor Dylan Lowe
Dylan Lowe
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
by
byDylanLowe
DylanLowe
Interview with the Extraordinaire Simon Reeve
Author, presenter of BBC documentary Tropic of Cancer
A
voice came through the
speaker to petrify every
inch of my senses. Three
parts modesty, one part
fear – this habit never gets
shaken off when I play amateur journalist
conducting interviews.
Serendipity could never have laid out
its path more celestially than it did on
the grim, January evening. Picking up
the envelope upon which my name was
scrawled, I was still oblivious of the grav-
ity of the invitation it contained.
Simon Reeve’s voice, once the mist of
anxiety cleared, struck me as one im-
mensely composed and calming. One I
feel comfortable to connect with. One
that won over my trust. The research
flashed in reminiscence: for someone
whose travel portfolio contains visits to
90 countries, who endured arrest for spy-
ing by the KGB and evaded the Moroccan
secret police, filmed in Burma, went on
a drug raid with a Mexican SWAT team
and on patrol with the rebel-battling Indi-
an army, drove through the world’s largest
minefield, witnessed trench warfare and
hunted with the Bushmen of the Kalahari,
etcetera etcetera, he had not the slightest
hint of arrogance and self-righteousness I
detest from many TV personalities.
Fresh off his odessey, where he circum-
navigated the globe along the Tropic of
Cancer – a continuation and conclusion
of a documentary trilogy that included
Equator and Tropic of Capricorn – Si-
mon is now promoting his latest pro-
gramme, Tropic of Cancer, soon to be
broadcast on BBC2. Promises are pledged
ahead of its transmission – the first epi-
sode comes out this Sunday – that this
documentary depicts his toughest and
most ambitious challenge yet.
Conveniently, this interview with my
latest extraordinaire may well be my
most ambitious challenge yet.
Dylan Lowe Tell us about your up-
coming BBC documentary, Tropic of
Cancer.
Simon Reeve It’s a new documentary
series, the biggest and most ambitious
challenge I’ve ever attempted in terms
of the size and scale of our adventure,
the number of countries we’ve visited in
the making of this series. With Tropic of
Cancer, I’m following the line that marks
the northern border of the tropics region;
following it took me to eighteen coun-
tries, starting in Mexico and travelling
across the Caribbean and North Africa,
across the Arabian peninsula to India,
then across South East Asia to Taiwan
and hopping over the Pacific to the island
of Hawaii, where I finished the journey
just before Christmas and came home
exhausted.
DL That’s probably more countries
than I’ll ever go to in a lifetime.
SR [Chuckles]
DL As a spoiler, what would you ask
your audience to watch out for in
your documentary?
SR The nature of the programmes I
make, or the style of this series and the
other ones I’ve done, is an attempt to
blend travel with current affairs and is-
sues that are affecting our world. We see
those issues playing out in the lives of,
well, often ordinary people around the
planet, whether it’s a Bedouin tribesman
in Southern Egypt on the frontline of cli-
mate change, or villages in Bangladesh
also experiencing the environmental im-
pacts of climate change. We try to show
our viewers the reality of life out there,
so hopefully they’ll tune in at any point
of the series and learn something new
about our world, as well as seeing amaz-
ing landscapes and the joy that we expe-
rience when we travel around the planet.
Picking out specifics: in the second
programme in the series, I travelled from
Western Sahara – just the south of Mo-
rocco – through the most heavily land-
mined area of the planet, into the desert
of Mauritania, and then travelled through
the vast emptiness into Southern Algeria.
Along the way we learnt about the suffer-
ing of the Sahrawi people – natives of the
territory of Western Sahara which is now
occupied by Morocco – and at the same
time we became some of the first foreign-
ers for thirty years to travel the route we
did through Mauritania and into Algeria,
which was fantastically remote and ex-
traordinarily gorgeous. It was extremely
memorable.
DL It sounds as though you’ve been
immersing yourself into local cul-
tures and the lives of people in the
places you’ve visited. How emotional
it must have been. Any particularly
sentimental moments?
SR Absolutely. One particularly emo-
tional moment was leaving Bangladesh,
having spent nearly two weeks travelling
across the country, and being knocked
sideways on how lush and beautiful it is
as well as packed and desperately poor.
And saying goodbye to Tanjil, my guide
in Bangladesh, was quite an emotional
farewell. I was sad to leave, partly because
I do fear that Bangladesh’s biggest trag-
edies lie ahead of it, given the fact that it’s
pancake flat and just above sea level, and
we were seeing some of the first effects
of climate change as we were travelling
across it.
Another really emotional moment for
me - it almost brings a lump to the throat
remembering it – only happened a couple
of months ago. We followed the Tropic
of Cancer from North-eastern India into
“Politics really
matters in countries
like Burma, rather
than the despised
sport it is in the
UK”
a very remote part of Western Burma,
in an area where the Chin people live. It
was something that hasn’t been done by
foreigners before, rather risky as well, as
we were going into an area where more
than fifty military bases are located. We
went in illegally and covertly to a local vil-
lage, zip-lined across the river and trekked
through the hills to a village of the Chin
people. It had been one hell of an adven-
ture just to get to them. I already knew
about how the Chin people suffer under
the military regime there, but actually
seeing these people – most of which have
never seen a foreigner before in their lives
– and seeing them arm stretched and
welcoming us was a deeply moving mo-
ment. Finding these forgotten people in
a forgotten part of the world was a huge
privilege. And very emotional.
DL This reminds me of a documen-
tary I was watching, about a team of
Burmese journalists conducting ille-
gal filming of the riots back in 2007
and how they smuggled the clips out
of the country.
SR I think I know what you mean: they
were more in the urban areas working at
extraordinary risk to themselves, film-
ing on small cameras. If they are caught
they are likely to disappear – that is the
regime that’s in power there. When we
went to Burma we had a guide travelling
with us who is actually a fantastically
brave Chin young woman who now lives
abroad in exile. She wanted to take us
back into Burma at huge risks to herself,
because she wanted the world to know
what’s going on there. Although, if we
had been caught by the authorities doing
what we did, we would have been in huge
trouble, it would have been life-endingly
catastrophic for Cherry, our guide, who
was on a Burmese wanted list. Politics
really matters in countries like Burma,
rather than the despised sport as it is
in the UK. People are battling for their
lives and their lives in Burma, and some
of them are risking their necks to bring
out news to rest of the planet, to put the
world into perspective.
DL There must be a lot of things that
have gone on behind the scenes, the
abrupt encounters when you haven’t
had the opportunity to document on
a camera.
SR Yes. Though we did film a lot of foot-
age and we’re really keen to incorporate
spontaneous encounters. Often in the
programme I’d be saying something
wordy and dull to the camera and then
something would happen in the back-
ground; whatever happened and my re-
actions to that are incorporated into the
sequence which actually makes it into
the programme. Obviously you can’t
arrange them, but we certainly go with
them when they happen.
In this series we were filming the start
of the monsoon on a bridge in a city in
Western India. Hundreds of people were
on scooters and taxis when, all of a sud-
den, everybody on scooters began to slip
off their motorbikes and were sliding
along the tarmac. It went from traffic
chaos to traffic pileup.
DL [Laughs]
SR I was reacting to that, swearing and
hysterical;thecamera turnedaroundand
Ibegantotalkaboutthatandmakeitpart
of the programme. We don’t have to stop
and wait for it to calm down and start
again. I feel much happier when spon-
taneous, friendly encounters happen.
They’re the happiest of our travel memo-
ries. They’re what travelling is all about.
Clockwise from
top: Simon in
Bangladesh with
his guide Tanjil;
wading across a
river in Burma
towards a village
of Chin people;
posing with
Cherry, Simon’s
Burmese guide
Ubari Lakes, Libya

