27
felix FRIDAY 26 FEBRUARY 2010
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk TRAVEL
DL I have actually seen that scene in
the trailer for Tropic of Cancer.
SR Have you?
DL Yes. That’s why I was giggling to
myself earlier. Awesome and awful
in the same time.
SR Luckily nobody was hurt. There’s a lot
you can extract from a situation like that,
if you’re constantly thinking about what
each situation means in a wider context,
“I feel much happier
when spontaneous,
friendly encounters
happen – they’re
what travelling is all
about”
and whether or not I can use it to the
means of telling the viewers a little more
about the country I’m in. In this case, a
pileup in the middle of a city, nobody in
a uniform appeared at any point to take
charge of the situation. No police, no am-
bulance. People would just have to pick
themselves up and move on. That’s the
chaos of India really; it may be a line in
the commentary, hopefully some view-
ers will identify it as the India they know.
DL I’ve been debating with myself on
where lies the balance between trav-
el-related social media and physical
travel. With travel documentaries
and literature, there certainly must
be a similar balance: they encour-
age people to travel by making des-
tinations seem more attractive and
less alien, whilst at the same time
discourage by taking away the sur-
prise and, occasionally, have places
appear dangerous that they seem
better documented and viewed than
visited.
SR It’s interesting to have that question
in your mind when you’re providing in-
formation. I suppose if you’re a traveller
and you’re looking to go on a big adven-
ture, they have to make their minds up
for themselves whether they wish to
consume the travel guidebooks to such-
and-such a country. A lot of people cer-
tainly don’t want to do that: they do want
to have encounters and experiences that
never come out of a book. They don’t
have to read the books and they don’t
have to watch the programmes.
In terms of the more dangerous areas
of the world, of which there are a huge
number, violence fortunately tends to be
fairly localised now at this point in our
history. There are obviously areas in the
world where you would have to advise
people against going there but generally
the world is a very warm and welcoming
place – anything that reminds people of
how friendly and hospitable foreign folks
are has to be a good thing. It’s a form of
diplomacy really. When a British TV
crew are welcomed with open arms in
any random country, to people watch-
ing back home it’s nice for them to know
there is no hostility from those people,
who are pleased to see visitors.
One thing I suppose is the case that
does worry me a little bit about travel
literature or TV travel documentaries –
including my own - is that it can inspire
or encourage a sort of arms race when
it comes down to travel. People see our
stories and how we film and think they
wouldwanttodoabitofthataswell.They
could try to emulate what we’ve done
and, considering the amount of organi-
sation we put into these programmes, it
isn’t always something other people can
do. That issue with emulation is a prob-
lem particularly with wildlife documen-
taries, a complaint I have about them, in
that often they show only the best bits of
a situation. Or a wildlife reserve’s money
shot, as it were, of the pride of lions lap-
ping up the water at the isolated water-
hole; they won’t show the waterhole, the
context around that, and they won’t say
they filmed that in a packed wildlife re-
serve that’s been overstocked with ani-
mals. So when people go to Africa they
expect to see the same thing: they want
to see the pride of lions around the wa-
terhole. And so wildlife sanctuaries and
conservation centres have to overstock
their parks so they can provide tourists
with what they’ve seen or read about.
There is a risk. I take onboard what
you’ve said but I don’t think there’s an
easy answer to it. In terms of the pro-
grammes I make, we do try and show
both sides of a situation or we try to give
a bit more context and show positive and
negative aspects of different places.
DL I guess your travels sprang from
the need to research first-hand on
your subjects of interest - it was like
a gateway to truly understand your
field of studies. Being a geology stu-
dent, I saw my first ever live lava-
spewing volcano in September; a
textbook and its diagrams can never
prepare me for the grandeur stand-
ing before me.
SR Magnificent eh?
DL Absolutely. How would you con-
vince a student to cast aside their
rigid, repetitive textbook education
and tell him to go into the world and
experience it first-hand in order to
further his knowledge?
SR Nothing would be as memorable
as actually being there. You can read as
much as you like, but being underneath
or on top of a volcano, or in a rainfor-
est, or climbing up a mountain in South
America, having all your senses tingled
and teased by the situation you’re in,
you’ll never forget those adventures. Lit-
erature, frankly, however good it is, can’t
“Nothing would be
as memorable as
being there, having
all your senses
tingled and teased”
hope to compete with them because it
cannot drown you in new experiences
and senses. And on top of your oppor-
tunity to see those places, you also have
the excitement of getting there, the spon-
taneous encounters you’ll have along the
way, the experiences that’ll challenge
your perception of what you knew about
a situation. If you travel with your eyes
and mind open you’ll learn a lot more.
I’m not suggesting casting aside the lit-
erature, merely treating it as supplemen-
tary and as a teaching aid rather than the
principal lesson. Getting out there is al-
ways the best thing.
DL What do you think is your great-
est strength as a traveller?
SR I think I’m very good at empathising
with people. The more I travel, the more I
realise just what somebody means when
they say, for example, the rain hasn’t
come and they haven’t got any food. It
is possible to travel occasionally with a
western mindset, which leads us to think
that they’ll be OK, that the welfare state
will kick in and someone will look after
them. I suppose one of the tragedies of
life outside countries with a welfare state
is that welfare state doesn’t exist in most
parts of the world! These people won’t
be OK. They quite possibly will, at the
very best, be extremely hungry or, worst,
they’ll starve. It’s desperately sad to en-
counter stories like that and it breaks my
heart every single time I hear it. I don’t
just go back and tuck into my rehydrated
boil-in-the-bag meal without being con-
scious of the sufferings I’ve seen on the
journeys.
DL And your worst flaw?
SR Probably my extraordinary inability
to master any language other than my
own. It’s partly laziness, partly inadequate
opportunity, and partly the fact that I’m
travelling to too many countries and
there are too many languages to learn. I
have tried, slightly desperately, to learn at
least a few words in each language. It is my
major failing as it does affect my ability to
engage directly with people, and it does
mean I’m reliant on guides and watching
body language. I’d love to know some ob-
scure languages and be able to talk to eve-
rybody - that would be the most fantastic
invention anyone can ever offer.
DL Where is the next destination?
SR [Hesitates] I really do not know. It’s a
big world; I’ve been to 90 countries which
has been an extraordinary opportunity.
But there are still big chunks of the world
that I haven’t visited and I’d love to go to.
I’d still love to go to West Africa, Cen-
tral America, Russia, Japan, Canada, and
spend more time in the Middle East – I’m
hopeful that one day I’d be able to visit
those places. And the tropics as well: now
that I have finished the series and having
spent a lot of time there, I’m conscious
of the fact that it’s the completion of my
three journeys around the tropics. But,
for me, it is the most interesting, most
spectacular, most beautiful and most
blighted part of the planet – I’d be dev-
astated if I never have the opportunity
to go back there and spend more time in
the most amazing part of the world. I’m
still up for more gobsmacking sights and
adventures and keen to go on for as long
as I can. But it’s up to the BBC: they’re the
ones in charge.
DL I’d happily anticipate a Tropic:
Revisited series from you.
SR [Laughs] Only once we’ve finished
editing the final programme of the se-
ries. And then I’ll have a break and start
working out what to do next. On my desk
there’s a giant mouse pad which is a map
of the world and, it’s big eh? Plenty still to
go, plenty still to see!
An Insider’s Haunt: Singapore
Holly Farrer
Holly Farrer
When most people think of Singapore
they think of some weird kind of police
state where everyone speaks crappy Eng-
lish, where you can’t chew gum or spit on
the streets and where the cops will hang
youifyou’recaughtwithdrugs.Actually,I
guess that’s kind of true – but that doesn’t
stop it from being one of the coolest cities
I’ve lived in. It’s because Singapore is so
safe you can roam the streets at 3am dis-
covering ‘hidden gems’ without getting
stabbed; that’s exactly what my friends
and I did whilst we were growing up.
One of my favourite places to hang out
at in Singapore would definitely have to
be the Tea Party on Bukit Timah Road.
This place is a small two-storey café/bar
full of sofas arranged around low tables.
The owners are always playing really
chilled music and will throw on any mu-
sical suggestions you have providing they
aren’t retarded. You can get some amaz-
ing teas here – my recommendation is
the ‘Fruity Russian Caravan’ – and the
owners also have an extensive collection
of board games that they’ll let you use.
If tea & board games isn’t really your
thing then you might enjoy hanging
around Arab Street. Arab Street itself isn’t
really a hidden gem – every bloody tourist
finds their way there – but there are some
brilliant shisha bars/restaurants around
there that are relatively unfrequented.
Ambrosia Café is a cute little shisha bar
on Baghdad Street – just off Arab street
– decked out with cushions around cof-
fee tables and a general smell of incense;
it offers all your standard shisha flavours
as well as few more and will serve alcohol
(a lot of the shisha places won’t). Food-
wise one of the best places to visit in Arab
Street would be Zam-Zam’s: it’s a small
restaurant/food-court hybrid that serves
the most greasy, tasty north Indian food
you could hope for.
Something I despise about London is
that everything closes so early. Bar the ke-
bab stalls outside Pacha and Koko, there
really aren’t that many places to get food
when you’re out and starving at 2am. In
Singapore one of my favourite places to
eat at is a sort of upmarket food-court
called Spize, just off River Valley Road; it’s
open till about 4am and serves the most
popular local food, mainly Chinese and
Indian, and non-alcoholic drinks (recom-
mendation: the Milo Dinosaur) at very
cheap prices.
Tropic of Cancer will be broadcasted on BBC2, Sunday nights at 8pm,
from March 7th
to April 11th
. For a preview of Simon’s latest adventures
visit www.bbc.co.uk/tropicofcancer
Right: Simon
with young
Aché children in
the Mbaracayú
forest, Paraguay;
below: travelling
across North
Africa to Algeria

