32
CLUBS &
SOCIETIES
Clubs & Socs Editor
Clubs & Socs Editor Alex Kendall
Alex Kendall
clubs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 26 FEBRUARY 2010
x
BioSoc’s big Climate Change debate
T
here is no doubt that Bio-
soc have really come into
their own this year. From
being practically non-ex-
istent a few years ago, they
have grown, and last week put on one
of the most highly attended events I
have seen at Imperial. The premise was
exciting, attempting to debate the best
way to tackle Climate Change. The ad-
vertising was intense; emails, posters,
5000 flyers and frequent badgering by
members of the Biosoc Committee,
showed all other clubs how to prop-
erly advertise an event and shattered
the myth that Imperial students are
apathetic. The main attraction was the
star list of speakers, whose comments
I have tried to report faithfully below.
Tolstoy said ‘every man thinks about
changing the world, but no man thinks
of changing himself.’ Climate Change
is a problem we must solve somehow,
but whether that is by new technology,
changing the world, or lifestyle change,
changing ourselves, is a question on the
mind of every environmentalist. And
so we came to the Clore lecture theatre
last Wednesday to hear some leading
experts debate that very subject.
The event was chaired by Richard
Black, the chief environmental jour-
nalist at the BBC. After beginning
with a warning that many people have
started to question the science of Cli-
mate Change, he introduced perhaps
the most famous speaker, Sir Brian
Hopkins, a member of the Govern-
ment’s Climate Change Committee
and Director of Imperial’s Grantham
Institute for Climate Change. He be-
gan by echoing Richard’s warning that
public doubt about anthropogenic Cli-
mate Change is increasing and briefly
explained the science, just in case any-
one in the audience was in doubt. His
tag-line was that championed by many
climate scientists and politicians, that
the issue isn’t ‘if’ climate change is hap-
pening or not, but by ‘how much’.
Probably the most impressive exam-
ple he gave, and one that made quite
an impression on me, was a map of
the world showing how temperatures
for January were higher or lower than
usual. Northern Europe, which expe-
rienced the cold snap recently that we
all will remember, showed blue and
purple, and yes it had been colder than
usual. The rest of the world though
was green and yellow, showing higher
temperatures than normal for Janu-
ary. No cold snaps for them. And yet
the cold snap has done much to raise
global warming scepticism in the UK.
This shows exactly why this is a global
issue.
His contribution to the debate was
to point out that people need it made
easy when they want to personally
tackle their contribution to Climate
Change, and is it technology which
can make it easier, as efficiency con-
tributions, cited as a major measure to
tackle warming, are only growing at 2%
per year compared to a 5% growth in
aviation.
The second speaker was Malachi
Chadwick, campaign coordinator for
the 10:10 campaign. The campaign,
launched last year, wants each signato-
ry to reduce their carbon footprint by
10% by the end of 2010; individuals or
whole businesses can sign up to it. He
was quick to point out that small per-
sonal contributions do make a differ-
ence to fighting Climate Change and
gives people a sense of empowerment.
Pointing to the bottled water on the ta-
ble he asked us where he could get tap
water, showing that every choice has
consequences, and that the responsi-
bility to reduce our impact on the en-
vironment lies with us as individuals.
He admitted though that it can be
hard to see how you can make a per-
sonal difference, as you can be over-
whelmed by the global situation. ‘In
a few minutes of me speaking,’ he de-
clared, ‘gas flaring will produce more
greenhouse gases than I will for the
rest of my life.’
His assessment of the Copenhagen
talks in December were that they were
a complete failure and that a confer-
ence which could have inspired so
much and led to so much investment
in new technology was merely cheap
talk. He looks forward to the Mexico
talks next year but added to Sir Brian’s
point about making it easy for people
to act against Climate Change in that
it has to be made easy for politicians to
act as well. And this can only be done
by showing public support for decar-
bonisation, which is exactly what the
10:10 campaign does.
The Director of the Energy Futures
Lab at Imperial, Professor Nigel Bran-
don, was the next speaker and gave the
energy perspective on the debate. He
began with the point that energy infra-
structure needs replacing anyway, and
so now is the perfect time to replace it
with low-carbon alternatives.
Worldwide $22tn must be invested
in the energy infrastructure by 2030,
including the UK replacing a third of
its capacity, and this is a tremendous
chance for renewal. He pointed out
that ‘the UK is more fossil energy de-
pendent than China’ getting 90% of its
energy from fossil fuels, mostly for the
production of heat.
The final speaker was Doug Parr, the
Chief Scientific Advisor for Green-
peace. He was overall more optimis-
tic than I imagined someone from
Greenpeace would be, saying that the
UK was good at International talk and
we must pursue this route even after
Copenhagen.
He was positive that the UK could
make the transition to a low-carbon
economy but warned that this must
be without the use of nuclear power
investment as it crowds out other re-
newable methods of energy genera-
tion, which can fill the energy gap on
their own. This prompted a response
from Professor Brandon who casually
inserted a plug for the nuclear research
done by the Energy Futures Lab. Doug
made his main point that lifestyle and
engineering are interdependent and
will back each other up. All that we
need are initiatives to make it easy
for people to make a difference and
leadership by Government, who he
says must change if individuals are to
change.
The 10 minute speeches were fol-
lowed by questions from the packed
Clore lecture theatre. Questions
ranged from defence of the carbon
footprint of Dubai to declarations sup-
porting both sides of the debate. Many
people in the audience supported
technology over lifestyle change and it
even came to light that Imperial is one
of the few Universities in the Russell
Group not to sign up to 10:10.
Mr Black closed the debate and
thanked the speakers who led the
charge to the foyer where wine and
food was waiting. The event was mas-
terfully pulled off and ran without a
hitch. The audience were engrossed in
the discussion and the general feeling
was that both lifestyle change and new
technology are needed to combat Cli-
mate Change.
If this can be appreciated then surely
Imperial is the right place to be to re-
ally make a difference.
With the mass of information on
how to change your individual impact
on the planet available, and a host of
courses teaching the best in how to de-
velop new technologies, we are truly in
the place to change ourselves and the
world.
‘Imperial is one of
the few Universities
in the Russell group
not to sign up to the
10:10 campaign.’
‘The UK is more fos-
sil energy dependent
than China, getting
90% of its energy
from fossil fuels.’
Climate Change Committee member
A full hall turned out to discuss whether lifestyle or engineering can save us from ourselves, writes Alex Kendall
Brian Hoskins, and also of Imperial
Chief Scientist for Greenpeace Mr
Doug Parr - doesn’t like nuclear
10:10 campaign coordinator
Malachi Chadwick
Director of the Energy Futures Lab
‘Pointing to the bot-
tled water on the ta-
ble, he asked where
to get tap water.’
This is a picture of the Chief Scientific advisor for Greenpeace pouring himself a
glass of bottled water. Greenpeace’s website says that people should stop using
bottled water. Talk is cheap.
Professor Nigel Brandon

