6 felix FRIDAY 26 FEBRUARY 2010
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
NEWS FEATURE
WORTH THE EFFORT?
DOES GRADUATING WITH A LOWER SECOND CLASS
DEGREE CONSIGN YOU TO A LIFE OF UNEMPLOYMENT?
IS A 2:2 FROM IMPERIAL WORTH JUST AS MUCH AS A 2:1
FROM OTHER INSTITUTIONS? DAN WAN INVESTIGATES
I
t has long been instilled in
many a student’s mind that they
should be coming out of Univer-
sity with at least upper second
class honours if they’re to make
the leap to employment afterwards.
They say without a 2:1 in your respec-
tive degree, you’re destined to life in a
dead-end job, and failing that, unem-
ployment. Whilst others continue to
fly high, you remain on the dole.
Whether you believe the urban myth
that surrounds not receiving a 2:1 or
not, there is undoubtedly a stigma that
drags along with not getting one.
Butdoes‘2:2’stickoutlikeasorethumb
on your CV? More importantly, does it
immediately make you a less favourable
candidate for a job? Seemingly not.
Pricewaterhouse – Coopers (PwC),
one of the UK’s largest accountancy
firms and graduate recruiters, have
recently announced a new programme
that looks for “inspired talent”. The
necessity of a 2:1 is abolished, and the
focus for PwC’s graduate hunting is
now on an individual’s impressive abil-
ity and extra-curricular activity. This
seemingly opens the door for students
who look set to graduate with that
dreaded lower second class honours
only.
Sonja Stockton, head of graduate re-
cruitment for PwC, told the Financial
Times that whilst people didn’t achieve
the normally-required 2:1, “they were
doing extraordinary and enterprising
things” during their time at University
that may have compromised academic
achievement, but still added value of
employability. An example cited was
the starting of a charity whilst studying.
She continued: “We wanted to create
an opportunity and a window for ex-
ceptionally talented students who have
demonstrated exceptional achieve-
ments beyond the academic.”
The move has been welcomed by
many at the best universities, where
many students find there is a fine bal-
ance between academically-achieving
and fulfilling a recreational and inter-
esting extra-curricular life. It is a bal-
ance that countless numbers of stu-
dents at Imperial cannot find. Whilst
the ones that work on their degrees
more than they fill their CVs with any-
thing else tend to be favoured, PwC can
now look forward to those students
who are arguably better equipped to
apply themselves to a wider variety of
situations and challenges.
Ms. Stockton highlighted their new
recruitment scheme also addressed
the inequality of standards and quality
of a 2:1 degree across the UK’s varying
universities. She illustrated the point
by interestingly singling out Imperial
College students, claiming that they
stood a worse chance of achieving that
gold standard 2:1 than if they attended
a less reputable institution.
Many other large graduate recruiters
are following suit and are becoming
increasingly lenient on the 2:1 ‘floor’
that the majority of companies have
imposed on their recruitment drives.
Unilever, ones of Europe’s leading
pharmaceutical companies, has stated
that graduates without a 2:1 “were not
ruled out” completely. If they had “re-
ally great work experience, drive, ener-
gy and commercial awareness” things
could still look up for them.
It has been reported that in the last
few years that employers accepting
graduates on a 2:2 degree has risen,
despite the economic downturn skew-
ing the market in favour of recruiters
rather than job-hunters. A third of em-
ployers surveyed by the Association
of Graduate Recruiters (AGR) in 2008
were said to be looking at applicants
with a 2:2, compared to a quarter the
year before.
However, felix investigates if gradu-
ating from Imperial does make a dif-
ference. Should Imperial graduates be
given more slack from employers? Do
employers even notice the fact you’re
from the 5th best university in the
world? Does it even matter what de-
gree classification you enter the big,
wide world with?
“The necessity of a 2:1 is
abolished, and the focus
for PwC’s graduate hunting
is now on an individual’s
impressive ability and extra-
curricular activity”
has been the gold standard amongst
the vast majority of major graduate
recruiters. Many however have
increasingly started to recruit graduates
with a 2:2 in order to broaden a talent
pool beyond academic record.
Upper Second (2:1)
W
ith over 60% of graduates hit-
ting the gold standard of a 2:1
classification or better, gradu-
ate recruiters are now having
a tough time sifting through the thousands
of homogenous applications, even with a ‘2:1
floor’ as part of preliminary requirements.
It has long been accepted that if you are not
above the 2:1 floor, you’re simply not in the
room. Some might even say dead and buried
in the ground. Puns and word play aside, com-
panies like PwC and Ernst & Young are have
stated that this 2:1 floor is “flexible”, and that
applicants will now have to demonstrate other
features of their ability that go beyond an aca-
demic record.
Intuitively, by dropping the requirements
needed for a job, the employers stand to re-
ceive even more applications than they do
already. However, by doing this they also
broaden the available talent pool and are able
to recruit the applicants with skills and disci-
plines specific to their sector.
Carl Gillead, chief executive of the Associa-
tion of Graduate Recruiters pointed out the
potential risks of using the tried and tested
method of a 2:1 floor.
“There is a growing awareness that gradu-
ates have other things to offer. If you use a
hard and fast cut-off at 2:1 you might miss
out,” he said.
Sector-specific skills may not necessarily
come from achieving a 2:1. Even if some of
these skills can be attained during a certain
degree course, employers understand it is not
guaranteed on courses at less reputable uni-
versities. Rebecca Fielding, talent manager
at HJ Heinz highlighted the suspected in-
equality in degree standards in British higher
education.
‘The majority now have a first or 2:1,’ she
correctly states. ‘Quality standards across
universities and subjects are also completely
incomparable, so the grade is not necessar-
ily correlated to academic capability of the
candidate.
Jonathan Silver, Deputy President (Educa-
tion) of Imperial College Union is in charge of
representing the academic needs of the Col-
lege’s students and agrees that this rings very
true for graduates receiving their degrees from
Imperial.
“At Imperial a 2.2 is not only perfectly re-
spectable, it is arguably academically equiva-
lent to at least an upper second from many in-
stitutions.” He continues that highly-regarded
institutions are almost impermeable to un-
savoury tactics that are skewing the statisti-
cal surveys used by employers. He states that
“Imperial is culturally opposed to the ‘degree
inflation’ phenomenon, and there is no incli-
nation among departments to align assess-
ment standards with those from competing
institutions, so assessment standards remain
extremely high.”
Many institutions have been publically criti-
cised for urging their academics to keep up
with targets in awarding upper class (1st or 2:1)
degrees to their students. In 2008, an email sent
to the Mathematics department at Manchester
Metropolitan University (MMU) was leaked
into the public. MMU are ranked 90th in the
Times Good University Guide 2010.
Mr. Silver compares the equivalent situ-
ation at Imperial, ranked 3rd in the same
guide, where Imperial have set targets of 70%
of students achieving a 2:1 or better, but only
57% did so. “It is particularly noticeable with
the Mathematics BSc/MSci, where only 21%
of graduates achieved a first class and 36%
achieved an upper second class degree in
2009, having enrolled in 2005/6 with AAB/
AAA,” he states.
Talking to a Pricewaterhouse – Coopers
Graduate Recruitment Advisor, she was cer-
tain in the fact that “the same standards still
applied” as before. The new scheme was more
to focus on individuals who have “an amazing
story to tell”, and less on the fact that any grad-
uates with 2:2 degree could apply. Most inter-
estingly, when questioned how much weight
the institution an applicant is graduating from
holds on an application, she stated that whilst
PwC looked at a full application completely,
which university the graduate was from was
“not particularly taken into consideration.”
Instead, the emphasis was seemingly still on
their academic record.
Quite clearly, the fact that PwC and other
companies have begun to open up their pro-
grammes to applicants with a 2:2, he feels
there is still some way to go in reaching out to
many graduate recruiters who still use heavily
depend on degree classification only.
“It shouldn’t be necessary for a competent,
inspired applicant with a 2.2 from Imperial to
prove that they have done ‘extraordinary and
enterprising things’. It would be more appro-
priate to adjust for the standards required for
each degree class at Imperial. It is, sadly, true
that employers place far more emphasis on
the degree class achieved
than on the
award-
ing insti-
tution,”
he says.
The 2:1 Floor
felixOnline
How much
do you value
an Imperial
degree?
felixonline.co.uk

