7
felix FRIDAY 26 FEBRUARY 2010
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk NEWS FEATURE
Chloe McKeon is final year Biologist currently
juggling her time between applying for jobs,
boosting her 2:2 average to a 2:1 and making the
most of her ever-decreasing time at university.
She’s hoping to become an accountant when she
graduates this June.
Do you feel the job market is only open to people
graduating with a 2:1?
FromtheimpressionI’vegot,yes.Afterapplyingtoover
30 companies, I’ve only come across one offering jobs
with a 2:2 standard. They all specify the requirement
at interviews and ask you if you’re on course for a 2:1.
You definitely get the impression they’re not going to
consider anyone else.
Howmuchdoyouthinkthefactyou’refromImperial
College is taken into account when applying for
jobs?
I think they do notice the prestige of Imperial. They
mention it at interviews. I think they look upon you as
being academic and having all the skills you need in
accountancy jobs. Though, that doesn’t relate to
getting a 2:1. Just because you’re from Imperial,
you still need that grade.
We work really hard to get here, and most
people come here to get a job at the end of it.
We then have to work hard here, and that is
mentioned by graduate recruiters, but I’m not
sure it’s valued enough.
Do you think going to another university would
have increased your chance of getting the jobs,
subsequent from being able to achieve a 2:1
more easily?
It seems like an even playing field, but it’s not. I
have friends that studied Biology at universities
such as Cardiff or Exeter, and they’ve said that
most of their first year was just a re-cap of
A-Levels. Biology at Imperial isn’t like that at all,
and I don’t think that’s reflected when applying
for jobs at all.
Getting a 2:1 from Imperial is probably as good
as getting a 1st from some universities. I feel the
person with a 1st would probably get the job, but
a 2:1 from Imperial is still extremely competitive.
A 2:2 from Imperial can’t compete with a 2:1 from
another university; there’s too much of a gap and
barrier considered by employers between a 2:1
and a 2:2 classification overall.
Student in the process
Getting a 2:2 isn’t the end of the world, by any means
I
n November 2008, then Union Presi-
dent Jenny Morgan and student repre-
sentative Alex Grisman were invited to
the College’s Strategic Education Com-
mittee meeting where they proposed
a paper discussing the value of an Imperial
degree. It said that the “respectable classifica-
tion of a Lower Second” from Imperial ought
to stand a “better chance of securing employ-
ment than it already does.” The suggested
advancement on this point was to talk to the
College’s careers service and urge them to
press the point to major graduate recruiters;
the companies most guilty of using a 2:1 cut-
off point.
felix spoke to Elspeth Farrar, Director of the
Careers Advisory Service, and she has seem-
ingly listened to the suggestions put to her
since then, and has been lobbying companies
like PwC to give a lot more attention to the
reputation of the institution applicants are ap-
plying from.
“We’ve tried to encourage companies to look
for more than a degree classification. Looking
at just that is limiting, but you can understand
why they do it. They receive thousands upon
thousands of applications.”
When asked what advice she would give to a
student that is only on course for a 2:2 degree,
her words were clear and simple. “Don’t pan-
ic!” she says. “There is a misconception that
all graduate recruiters ask for a 2:1. In fact, at
least 34% don’t even specify.” She continues to
assure students on lower classifications that
there are specialist and smaller companies not
looking for a 2:1. “Engineering and public sec-
tor companies often require a 2:2, and smaller
companies are more interested in the individ-
ual. Students with a 2:2 shouldn’t be thinking
‘life is over’ or anything.
Her advice to 2:2 gradutes is not to apply to
jobs clearly stating a 2:1 requirement. “A lot of
students suffer from this tunnel vision of what
they want to do and who they can apply to, we
encourage them to broaden out their
vision,” she says. She mentions about
45% of job offers are subject-unspecific,
and many recruiters look for an “entire
skillset” rather than just a certain degree.
Ms. Farrar also found it difficult to agree
that degree quality and standards across
the country were incomparable and vary-
ing. “The demand for Imperial students
is high, but you need to look at where the
applicant has come from at the start of
the degree and what they’ve achieved by
the end of it. There’s also plenty of rea-
sons why many students can’t attend the
best university on offer to them.” She also
points out that to say an Imperial student
is immediately better than a student from
another university is difficult.
“A student at another university may
have achieved much greater things,
you’ve got to see what they’ve
gained from the experience.”
Elspeth Farrar, Director of Imperial’s Career Advisory Service talks about the value of an
Imperial degree, and what 2:2 graduates can still do despite under-achievement
Is an Imperial degree more attractive to employers?
University of Ulster Imperial College London
Overall ranking (TGUG)
Biological Science subject
rank ((TGUG)
Contact hours
% of 1st of 2.1 awarded
(TGUG)
Graduate prospects indicator
(The Guardian)
Programme Learning
Outcomes
(Numbered extracts taken
from online programme outcome
reports are from equivalent
specifications within the report)
BSc Hons Biology with DIS/DAS BSc in Biology
3
3
18.18 per week
68.5 (32nd place)
84
54
37
17.5 per week
61.4 (56th place)
63
The comparison is taken between Imperial and the University of Ulster, universities from both ends of the university
league tables.The degrees chosen are equivalents of each other, and are chosen as broad pure science subjects that
many employers hold in high regard; as they are thought to have plenty of transferable skills into graduate-level
jobs. E
xternal Examiners reports are effectively the way in
which universities ensure that their course standards
are comparable to those of other universities. These
reports also aim to ensure that students receive similar
grades, had they studied at a different university. However,
in spite of this, often there are often still discrepancies in
the difficulty of examinations set between universities re-
sulting in students achieving lower grades here than they
would at, say, the University of Ulster.
In these reports often external examiners touch on the fact
that our students are part-taking in more difficult courses.
For instance between 07-08 and 08-09 the number of first
class degrees in Biochemistry dropped from 22% to 7%
however an external examiner remarked that the “standards
achieved are similar to those on comparable programmes at
other institutions”. However, other comparable institutions
generally have much higher rates of firsts and 2:1s than Im-
perial. Imperial has a “good honours” rate of 68.5% com-
pared with a rate of 80.4% at UCL (ranked 5th) and Sussex
(ranked 35th) with 81.7%. - Renny Norman
External opinion
1. Advanced knowledge and understanding of
four specialist modules
2. The understanding of economic, financial
and organisational framework within
which business enterprises operate
3. Plan & execute experiments using lab and
field methods, analyse experimental results
and determine their strength and validity,
prepare technical reports and presentations
1. Demonstrate the ability to name,
explain and apply major concepts,
principles and theories
2. Demonstrate the ability to apply subject
knowledge to familiar and unfamiliar
problems in related organisations
3. Recount the variety of research methods
that can be used to collect, interpret,
manipulate and analyse biological data

