8
COMMENT
Comment Editor
Comment Editor Ravi Pall & Charlotte Morris
Ravi Pall & Charlotte Morris
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 26 FEBRUARY 2010
Angry Geek thinks you shouldn’t suffer
“Who needs arts
degrees? We’ve
got all the arts we
need here... then
grab your crotch”
W
hilst walking
through Hyde Park
one day, I came
across a very pecu-
liar sight.
There was a man engaged in a very
passionate argument. He swore, he
cursed, he turned a funny colour. But
his opponent would not be moved by
his entreaties. I can’t be sure what the
disagreement was about but I knew
what I was seeing. There was a man
having an argument with a tree. And
you know what? I think the tree won.
At first, I was confused. How could
a man lose an argument to a tree? We
have legs, we have mouths; we are the
envy of the plant world! But does a tree
need legs? Does it need a mouth? It
has been said it’s better to be silent and
thought a fool than to speak and re-
move all doubt. I admit, I had no gauge
on the tree’s IQ but the man wouldn’t
be winning the Nobel Prize any time
soon. After all, he was arguing with a
Tree!
And losing...
This got me thinking; we could learn
a lot from trees. For instance, when
we find the weights of the world bear-
ing down on us, instead of fretting
and fussing and other very mamma-
lian things, we should just stand still,
breathe, and take a moment out to
think. Is this something I can remedy?
Yes? Then I’ll remedy it. No? Then I’ll
think of something else. Consider, how
many trees do you see drowning their
sorrows in the Union? Exactly.
Another example. Let’s say your
sports club (or whatever) is going on
tour but there are a limited number
of places – someone couldn’t rig the
ACC this year. So only the best (Insert
sport here)-person gets to go. This is
basic biology. When there is competi-
tion for a resource, what do trees do?
They grow, and those that grow that
extra metre up, or across, or wide are
those that make it. You don’t need me
to tell you that university is a fiercely
competitive forest. Just by coming
here, you’ve already beaten sone com-
petition already. So the lesson here is
to start photosynthesising like your life
depends on it!
Furthermore, some trees even need
that extreme pressure to survive. The
seeds of the Giant Sequoia are only
released from their pine cones in the
intense heat of forest fires. Without
the conflagrations, the seeds don’t ger-
minate and... do sod all, basically. And
people are just the same. Some write
irritatingly good essays the night be-
fore the deadline after months of idle
indolence.
But it’s not just their general philoso-
phy that I admire. Just look at what
Man and Tree have both contributed to
society over the years. Trees have given
us medicines like quinine and aspirin,
wood for houses and guitars, fruit for
food and clothing. I could go on. What
has Man made? Fire, axes, chainsaws.
As a species, we’re really quite aggres-
sive. One of these days it’s going to get
us into trouble. So it’s clear that trees
have done much more for us that we
have done for them. Rather decent of
them.
But am I right in comparing human-
ity to trees? Are we compatible at all?
We’ve all seen those tree-huggers, and
while I admit their motives are admi-
rably pure, those kinds of relationships
don’t tend to last. So just keep your sta-
mens to yourselves, boys, kay?
But I’m not just being speciest. Even
with the most futuristic of medical in-
novations, you’ll be lucky to live past a
hundred years. To a tree, that’s noth-
ing. That’s tree puberty, when they
start growing moss in places that didn’t
grow moss before. Trees can grow
for thousands of years – providing
some passing human isn’t in need of
a tooth-pick. In fact, it’s thought that
the world’s oldest tree is more than
six thousand years old. To put that in
perspective, when the Egyptians first
decided that pyramids were a pretty
nifty shape, this tree was already going
grey at the roots. So yes, as a rule, trees
make Methuselah look like a mayfly.
My point is that trees can afford to
take their time over things.
What is a little argument with a lit-
tle man when you can remember the
last time druids climbed your trunk?
There’s no point in getting worked up
when you can outlast almost anything
else on the planet. Except fire. Run
from fire.
But us humans can’t afford to take
our time like that. Our time is short.
Carpe Diem, and all that. If we sat and
pondered for a decade over every little
decision, society would grind to a halt.
So, in conclusion, it appears that
while trees have a valid, even admira-
ble, life philosophy, it is not one that
man should seek to emulate.
Now, if you’ll excuse me, I have to
leave...
Rhys Davies just can’t argue with trees
“As a species,
we’re really quite
aggressive. ...it’s
going to get us into
trouble.”
I
n my Monday morning lectures
there’s a ten-minute break in the
three hours of unending pain,
and during this time one of the
students likes to go and get a
coffee. Without fail, he comes back
ten minutes late each week. As I am
more anal than a particularly uptight
haemorrhoid this irritates me greatly,
and so next week I will attempt to fash-
ion a landmine out of a bottle of wa-
ter, a multivitamin tablet, and some
thumbtacks.
Anyway, this itself isn’t the point,
the point is that this chap also likes to
pretend he’s one of the financial estab-
lishment’s elite young minds. He reads
the financial times and pretends he
understands it, rather than admitting
he just likes doodling stickmen on the
little graphs and charts, and he talks to
his friends about ‘the problem with the
economy’ as if he’s discussing some-
thing he has an iota of experience of.
He’s basically like everyone else in the
financial sector, it’s just he’s within spit-
ting distance of me and that makes him
stand out more.
I only mention him because this
week it’s Imperial’s favourite seven days
of pretending to be something we’re
not – no, not environmentally sound,
the other one. It’s ArtsFest! Ooh. Just
saying it makes me feel like I’m in an
energy drink advert circa 1985. Me
and Gilead Amit are in shell suits with
wacky hair and there’s some cheap
hand-drawn special effects in the back-
ground. I look slightly more effeminate
than he does, but no-one’s really ask-
ing. We rock out for twenty seconds
and then shout something about the
Sherfield building. Cut.
Everyone likes to show off what extra
skills they have – why else would we
write CVs – but ArtsFest just seems
that one step too far, when Imperial
conspires to show everyone that we’re
just as good as the other kids. Look,
you say, we’ve got at least thirteen dif-
ferent kinds of saxophone societies.
Who needs arts degrees. We’ve got all
the arts we need right here, you say, and
then you grab your crotch a bit. Inse-
cure? Us? Would a university who was
insecure have three separate societies
dedicated to interpretive dance? I think
not!
I jest, of course. We actually have
four. And I really love the arts and mu-
sic stuff we’ve got at Imperial; the IC
Big Band is my first good memory of
Imperial (I recorded their performance
in my Fresher’s week like some nineties
bootlegger), and there’s a lot of good
science going on at Imperial that re-
lates to art in some way or another. I’ve
been talking to one academic in partic-
ular lately – who challenged me about
writing this column which I completely
denied at the time, apologies if you
know who you are – who’s got some
great work going on in that area. And
that’s fab. Honestly. I’d even go as far as
to use the ancient slang word ‘fab’. I just
did, in fact.
But Imperial is full of people who
really wish they weren’t here, and it’s
a little bit sad. In most cases, really
sad – most of the Felix staff should be
out there right now replacing the biro-
stuffed-up-a-pig’s-arse journalists that
are currently working day and night to
make all forms of news completely un-
readable. Unfortunately, most of them
are going to end up stuck in dead-end
science and engineering jobs, pretend-
ing to give a shit about tensile stress
and high energy states. So I see Arts-
Fest as more of a distress call than any-
thing else. Maybe that’s more impor-
tant than, you know, a steady job?
What do I know, though, eh? I can’t
even manage a weekly column at the
moment.
Write for Comment! Make your voice heard. Or, rather, read. Like this. comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk

