9
felix FRIDAY 26 FEBRUARY 2010
W
hen I was younger,
and had time on my
hands and noth-
ing better to do, I
frequently fell ill.
Nothing particularly debilitating or life-
threatening, you understand, only regu-
lar healthy doses of the common cold or
flu. Influenza, as they say, and out flew
my health.
It is possibly one of the best indications
when a happy childhood that memories
of sickness past are fond and reassuring
ones. The cramped stomach associated
with food poisoning is forgotten, but the
meal of chicken nuggets we were allowed
to enjoy afterwards remains. The swollen
throats and broken fingers pale by com-
parisonwiththesympatheticbedsidevis-
it from our grandparents, or the presents
waiting for us when we started to recover.
There are, of course, moments of
childhood hardship we all remember
with pride, and whose real or imagined
scars still provide us with stories worth
dining out on. Even if our dinner com-
panions may not be too keen on eating
while we tell them.
I suppose I’ve been comparatively
lucky to make it through the long and
deformative years of adolescence with-
out looking noticeably different to when I
started out. Well, I use ‘lucky’ in a relative
sense. I might have come out looking like
George Clooney.
Otherthanacrossonmyfingertomark
the spot where a sailor’s son once buried
the blade of his father’s Swiss army knife,
I survived my teenage years unharmed. I
look slightly less like a potential fullback
than I did when I first came through the
uprights, perhaps, but I’ve made up for
that with a luxurious head of hair and a
splendidly Roman set of earlobes.
As a result of this idyllic youth, my
own memories may not represent an
accurate cross-section of The Great
British Public. But as The Poet once
said: “when did that ever stop me from
shooting my fat mouth off anyway?”
Sorry, that should be A Poet. Why
should the sons suffer for the crimes of
the father?
Amongst my warmest and fuzziest
memories are those of winters where the
outside temperature continued to fall
as my internal temperature rose, and I
was sloshing to the gills with deconges-
tive syrups and warm chicken soup. My
pajamas laced with eucalyptus capsules,
I would lie on my bed for all the world
like a koala caught in a rare moment of
insomnolence.
What I remember as being hours of
coughing and restless sub-duvet gym-
nastics probably lasted no longer than a
few minutes, but if I am happy with the
illusion then who are you to rob me of it?
If that’s the way you’re going to behave,
young reader, then why don’t you just go
back to where you came from and read
the Catnip section, where they’re used
to this sort of puerile interruption. Now
where was I? Oh yes, tossing and turning
till the early hours of the morning.
It’s one of life’s facetious little ironies
that bed is possibly the hardest place for
a tired pair of eyes to finally close. I can
happily slumber in planes, I will cheerily
doze on sofas and the pen will eventually,
though inexcusably, drop from my relax-
ing fingers during the odd lecture. But
turn the airplane seat into a bed, make
me lie crosswise on the sofa and not lean
against the armrest, or infuse the lecture
theatre with a nocturnal degree of peace
and quiet, and I suddenly find myself
alert and restive and reaching for my
fallen pen.
So if falling asleep in bed proved too
difficult a task for the misguided child I
once was, I would creep to the television
room, blanket held cape-like around my
shoulders, and sit in my father’s armchair
opposite the bulging screen. My parents
have since got rid of that deep burgundy
leather armchair, but it will always fur-
nish the salon of my memory with its
baroquely curlicued armrests, its rows of
shining metal studs and an overwhelm-
ing smell of French polish.
Once I had satisfactorily ensconced
myself in the armchair’s all-embracing
folds, I would reach for the remote con-
trol and, making sure to press the mute
button simultaneously with the on
switch, turn the television on. And so,
late into the night, ‘ickle me would be
lulled into the inviting arms of Morpheus
by the gentle sound of EuroSport’s Eng-
lish-language commentators discussing
the latest curling championships.
For this reason, more than any other,
more even than the little-known and
rarely-admitted fact that I once spent
a week of evenings in an alpine resort
learning how to curl, I have a great and
overriding sympathy for the sport of
curling. For the stones which bruised
and battered my ankles, for the ridicu-
lous plastic brooms which made me lose
whatever grip I claimed to have on the
ice, and the rules which I would certainly
have forgotten had I ever bothered to
learn them.
Being neither a psychic nor one of
those curious individuals whose secre-
tive and intriguing profession it is to
gather statistics about television viewing
figures, I am unable to guess how many
of you have been watching coverage of
the Vancouver Winter Olympics. A few
of you, I’ll wager, or else Hazel Irvine will
be in for a nasty shock when she returns
next week to find a nation desperate to
know where she’s been.
Those of you, however, who join me
in frying the midnight oil will doubtless
have your own preferred sports, your
own most memorable moments and
least interesting commentators from
these XXIst
games. But as civilised peo-
ple, the one thing on which I hope we
can all agree is that the BBC’s choice of
lead-in music and animation sequence
grows on one like a bad case of Rhizopus
Stolonifer, the so-called ‘Galloping Grey
Ghost’ of fungi.
For those of you who have so far not
been exposed to the aforementioned
expository footage, it can be viewed for
a reasonable licence fee on BBC2, or for
nothing on Ye olde Tube.
To my initial mystification, we are
shown a hooded Canadian surrounded
by wolves in a dark forest. Following a
rapid escape on makeshift skis, an impro-
vised snowboard and a lightweight luge,
our hero faces the spirit of an angry bear
locked inside a glacier. To increasingly
dramatic chords, he curls what I can only
assume is a hockey mask into the wall of
ice, thereby freeing a missing section of
the Vancouver Olympics totem. In the
process, of course, he causes a glacier to
disintegrate. I’ll let you-all speculate as to
the message behind that one.
All I know is that when I return from
late nights at college or the union, and
collapse in front of BBC2, it’s a delicious
treat for me to find that the winter Olym-
pics are being broadcast. There is some-
thing so much more comforting about
the pristine whiteness of the snow than
the harsh colours of the tarmac or the
gymnasium.
The sports may seem sterile and dis-
tant, but human nature is such that the
simple knowledge that there will be a
winner and a loser is enough to suf-
fuse the most banal of endeavours with
a degree of interest worthy of 1980s
America. As the skiers carve their way
down the slopes, their bodies almost
entirely hidden in protective soft-shells
and goggles, and the lugers are flagged
up by the metal detectors before they
have a chance to fire, it’s easy to forget
the pressures these athletes are putting
on their bodies. There’s no need to fo-
cus on the unpleasantness of sweat or
perceived effort: the Winter Olympics
always take place in a protective co-
coon of snow and fairydust, and that
is why they will always be so magical.
ColinHillagainst the union refurbishments
A
s I’m sure most of you
have read recently, the
Union has decided to
spend £2.4 million on
renovating dB’s and da
Vinci’s. Personally, I like the union the
way it is; it’s a fantastic establishment
where all my friends are, “cutting up
some mad shapes on the D-Floor” is
perfectly acceptable and the staff give
the right amount of leniency to rau-
cous behaviour.
Do we really need to spend £2.4 mil-
lion pounds on renovations? No. A new
nightclub will not suddenly change the
Union from being a rampant sausage
fest into a quality establishment. In my
opinion, there are much better uses for
this money: either pump it back into
the clubs and societies, whose mem-
bers have spent so much of there not so
hard earned student loans in there, or
use it to offer better drink promotions
to students. From my own calculations
I worked out that £2.4 million pounds
could provide free beer to students for
at least 5 years or make it half price for
10 (based on 4500 pints per week)! Of
course, people will say this plan isn’t
sustainable but surely within the next
10 years even more money will be
spent redoing the union. After all the
current set up is only a few years old.
dB’s is most full on a Wednesday, es-
pecially ACC bar nights, and I’m pretty
sure most sports players would prefer
£1 beers all the time than a new night-
club. The student’s favourite after all is
Cheapskates; a shitty hole in Soho but
with 80p drinks, a comical decor and
packed to the rafters every Wednesday
(and Monday). It’s clearly true that no
one really cares where they are, if your
with your mates, the booze is cheap
and the establishment is marginally
better than Josef Fritzl’s basement then
the night is guaranteed for success. All
the Union needs is a few leopard skin
sofas, some zebra print carpets and
some dance poles.
I’ve got a solution to the fucking pil-
lar problem, make it a pole for drunk
Americans to dance around after a few
too many snakebites on a Friday night.
The classic response from the Union is
that our bars are the cheapest in Lon-
don. Not true. The Goose is £1.65 for
a Tetley’s, a smooth 35p less than John
Smiths and £6 for a bottle of Blossom
Hill, a crisp £4 less than the house in
the Union.
Don’t even get me started on the
new names proposed. As humorous as
“going for a pint in the library” would
be, the novelty would soon wear off.
When UCL did the same thing they
ended up with a bar called the Chris
Akabusi Pleasure Lounge. Do we really
lack a sense of humour that “Library”
is the best we could come up with? If
you agree with me, please email Ash-
ley Brown at president@imperial.ac.uk
under the header “I’d rather have free
beer than a new nightclub!” We can
make a difference people!
Gilead Amit and the Winter Olympics
“...a solution to
the f**king pillar
problem, make it a
pole for Americans
to dance around”
“I use ‘lucky’ in a
relative sense. I
might have come
out looking like
George Clooney.”

