The Rector writes -p.8
R.C.S.IL N
E
A
R
I
V
RUM BY$6000
APARTHEID-NO
On Thursday, Professor Charles Manning, Professor Emeritus
of International Relations at the London School of Economics pro-
posed the motion, "The Apartheid is the only solution for South
Africa to-day." He was opposed by Colin Legum, Commonwealth
Correspondent of The Observer. The motion was defeated by 24
votes to 71 votes with 29 abstentions.
Professor Manning began by saying that the Proposition was
not going to debate the moral issues of Apartheid. He felt sure that
everyone, not least himself, deprecated the use of violence in the
furtherence of any chosen policy. " The «ase for the proposition,"
he said, " is that Apartheid is the only treatment for South Africa
to-day. We, cannot be sure whether this will turn out to be the com-
plete solution, but at this time it is the only possibility which will
lead to a solution." Professor Manning ended with a challenge to the
Opposition to give any alternative to Apartheid.
Mr. Legum, a born South African who was active in politics and
journalism there until he left in 1948, began by regretting that the
Proposition had not dwelt more on the moral issues surrounding
Apartheid. He felt that these were the roots of most people's objec-
tion to Apartheid. He did not feel anyone should accept the situa-
tion where separation existed as in South Africa.
Mr. Cloete, of the Nuclear Technology Department, carried out
Professor Manning's arguments again challenging the Opposition for
an alternative policy. Roy Clarke, Secretary of the newly formed
I C. Society for Racial Equality, spoke very fluently but apparently
on another motion. His vivid description of South Africa was good
but like Mr. Legum he did not offer any alternative policies.
ex-MP fights Race
Lord Brockway s logical and reasoned appeal for racial equality
will, I am sure, have finally converted any wavering segregationists
who heard him talking in the Physics Building on Thursday dinner
time. The IC Society for Racial Equality was fortunate in obtaining
a speaker who not only felt profoundly about racial problems, but
was able to argue with a simple eloquence and practical straight-
forwardness, and Slough, called attention to
The formerly Fenner Brock- our dependence on immigrant
way, and exJLabour MP for Eton labour to run the transport sys-
Com, on page 12.
RAMSEY
to speak
On February 9th, His Grace
the Archbishop of Canterbury is
to visit the College to speak in
General Studies. His visit is but
one event in the TEACHING
WEEK run by the Anglican
Chaplaincy in I.C
Older members of the College
no doubt remember the little
brown men of years gone by.
This year a somewhat more
sober, though equally hybrid,
group of Christians has been
gathered together under the
leadership of Fr. Martin Jarrett-
Kerr. A member of the Com-
munity of the Resurrection, Fr.
Martin is a frequent broadcast*
(Third Programme) and eminent
critic.
A feature of the week, which
starts on February 7th, will be the
three evening talks given in
Southside by Fr. Martin. These
talks on " The Faith " will be fol-
lowed by coffee parties, thus pro-
viding an ample platform for the
exchanging and forming of views.
This informal friendly barter
characterises to a great extent the
happenings of a Teaching Week.
A Scottish sailor came to Imperial College on Thursday, 14th
January, ami offered $6,000 for use by the Royal College of Science
Union. Who the beneficiary was and how R.CS, came to be chosen
were not disclosed.
Secretary Pete Walton was given an address to which he wrote
on Friday. Payment was to be by banker's order, and R.C.S.U. have
since awaited confirmation from their South Kensington bank and *
letter explaining why R.GS. was selected.
But on Sunday night, 24th, Walton collected a letter returned
by the Glasgow post office, which he identified as the one he had
sent the previous week. Subsequent enquiries af Chelsea police
station suggested that this was perhaps a hoax.
No definite plans had been made to use the money, but it had
been suggested that part of it be used to book one or two big
groups for the R.C.S. Carnival.
DJLW.
On Monday, January 11th,
various public-minded or "tele-
conscious" students spent the
afternoon helping to "Go-up1
' a
house in Notting Hill. They
appeared- in the background as
various patrons of the Notting
Hill Housing Trust were inter-
viewed for the programme " Time
Out," on B.B.C.2.
T.V. interviews are not as
straightforward as they appear.
Each question was asked and
answered many times until the
Programme Producer was satis-
fied.
During all this, the students
woe hard at work renovating the
house, a job made difficult by the
strict command of—NO NOISE.

