10 F E L I X
Will it all seem worthwhile 5 years from now?
At Turner &
. Newall a man's degree — whether
in science, engineering or the arts — counts
for far more than a passport to a round of
interviews. Our Training Scheme is planned
to empfoy all his university attainments to
the full, and to be adaptable to his individual
needs.
Just who are T & N ? Turner & Newall is one
of the strongest, most important groups in
British industry. With a large and growing
stake in asbestos-cement, in insulation, in
brake linings and in plastics T & N is closely
linked to all four major areas of economic
growth. To the building industry; the motor
industry; the newer plastics; and to activity in
the developing territories of the Common-
wealth ... all adding up to a strongly expand-
ing £100,000,000 business with 39,000
employees. Overseas, with 17 companies in
10 countries, T &
. N has doubled its interests in
ten years.
Earlier Responsibility T 4 N thus offers
outstanding graduates a career of great scope,
keyed from the first to areas in which expan-
sion is at its fastest.. . opportunity at its best.
Moreover, under our broad and flexible
training scheme, the graduate assumes
managerial responsibility more confidently —
and certainly earlier — than is often the case in
industry today.
Note to Research Men T & N also recruits
scientists and engineers direct into its re-
search and development branches, whose
projects are particularly closely linked to the
needs of the expanding industries. Opport-
unities for supervising work with a practical
application, as well as for fundamental study,
are thus outstandingly good.
Ask your Appointments Board for further de-
tails, or write direct to: Management Appoint-
ments Adviser, Turner & Newall Ltd., 1 5 Curzon
Street, London, W.1. (Tel. GROsvenor 8163)
The Turner & Newall Management Appoint-
ments Adviser will be visiting Imperial
College, London on Thursday 11th March
1965. If you would like an interview, please
contact the Appointments Office.
TURNER & NEWALL LIMITED
TURNERS ASBESTOS CEMENT CO. LTD • TURNER BROTHERS ASBESTOS CO. LTD ' FERODO LTD • NEW ALLS INSULATION &
CHEMICAL CO. LTD • J . W . ROBERTS LTD1
GLASS FABRICS LTD • BRITISH INDUSTRIAL PLASTICS LTD ' STHJJTE PRODUCTS LTD
TURNERS ASBESTOS FIBRES LTD ' AND 1
7 OVERSEAS MINING & MANUFACTURING COMPANIES
N.U.S.
7ZV
TN3/II
Imperial College must stop
being parochial. The issue of
affiliation to N.U.S: is again being
raised because of the changing
status of I.C., and the fact that
under half the present students
were here when the issue was
last raised two years ago.
Many students argue that I.C.
can voice its opinion nationally
without joining N.U.S. But what
hope have 3,000 students in com-
parison with the 250,000 members
of N.U.S. N.U.S. is in fact re-
garded as National Student
opinion, Government Committees
take notice of it, and also it has
a voice in Parliament through
M.P.s drawn from all parties.
For example, through pressure,
it achieved the reversal of a
Ministry of Pensions decision to
charge P.G. students the heavy
self-employed (Class 2) N.I. rate,
and has gained the concession of
allowing students 6 years in which
to pay back N.I. contributions. It
is at present campaigning for
contributions to be credited to
students throughout their studies.
We will not, however, be
swamped, in the vast membership
of N.U.S. I.C. will be able to
continue in its present manner,
but will also have a voice at the
bi-annual N.U.S. council, where
the executive is elected, motions
on many topics concerning stu-
dents and education are debated,
and action is decided upon.
Advantages
There are many activities in
which affiliated colleges may take
part, including the " Observer
Mace " debating competition, the
N.U.S. Drama Festival and the
Student Newspaper Competition.
There are also many concessions
available to individuals such as
cheap travel, charter flights, vaca-
tion employment (non-vocational)
scheme, and discounts in various
shops. Admittedly, these con-
cessions may be obtained by in-
dividual members of N.U.S. (who
pay 15/- subscriptions) but these
members have no voice in the
council of N.U.S.
At the present rate of Is. 3d.
per member the cost of joining
for all I.C. would be about £200
p.a. plus about £100 to send dele-
gate to council, which is less than
is already paid by individual
members of I.C. to N.U.S. This
fee will rise to 2s. 6d. in 1967/8.
This amount is very small in the
light of the c.£16,000 annual bud-
get of I.C.U.
Will our money be wasted by
N.U.S? Consider the benefits and
work done by N.U.S., and also
the fact that of the £500,000 an-
nual budget of N.U.S., only
£16,000 comes from student sub-
scriptions.
The issue will be further dis-
cussed, and more information
will be forthcoming in Felix and
at an N.U.S. Forum.
PENELOPE WILLIAMS
M I K E EDWARDS

