F E L I X 11
^ f A V B i t # # #
Dear Sir,
I understand that the column " Foreign Affairs " is written by
Chris Lampard of Aero 1. Surely he is supposed to give a brief
survey of events in other colleges, not his personal opinions. In the
last edition he used the fact that only six students turned up from
Kings to an Anti-Apartheid rally as an excuse for a long harangue,
full of sarcasms, such as {zealous anties and pink student-politi-
cians."
Let's get a few things straight, Mr. Lampard. You don't have to
be a communist, or even a fellow-traveller, to be revolted by the
brutality which exists in S. Africa to-day. The country is a police
state, geared to the suppression of the black population. The blacks
are unable to hold political meetings, belong to Trade Unions, vote
in a General Election, hold any position of responsibility or power, or
•even move about the country without police permission. Peaceful
demonstrations are impossible—remember the Sharpeville massacre?
Those people were unarmed ; they were shot in the back running away
from armourd cars. (The armoured cars were sold to the S. African
Government by Britain. Does that mean nothing to you ?) Mr.
Lampard asks " is everyone really in sympathy with a terrorist move-
ment ?" I suggest that, regrettably, no other course of action is open
to the blacks.
As for " meddling in the inter-
nal affairs of another country ";
nobody lives in splendid isolation
these days. What happens in S.
Africa concerns us, here and now,
the more because we do an ever
increasing amount of trade with
S. Africa, including a song which
goes " If you make money from
Verwoed, how can you tell him
that he's wrong ?' It's easy isn't
it, Mr. Lampard, you just keep
your eyes shut tight.
Finally, I must level some ad-
verse criticism at the editors,
Messrs. Walker and Williams, for
allowing this to be printed, for,
purely by accident, I saw the copy
before going to press, and voiced
my opinions. I'm afraid that, if
Felix is prepared to print articles
such as this, then I am not pre-
pared to give my services to Felix
any longer—you may consider
me resigned.
B. J. B U L L
(Felix ex-cartoonist).
ANTI—APARTHEID
In your last issue you printed something purporting to be a news
item under " Foreign Affairs " entitled " Anti-Apartfieid Apathy "
concerning the attitude of students of Kings College. However, it
mainly contained a series of naive opinions.
The And-Apartheid rally was to protest against the discrimination
which exists under an oppressive regime, and not to condone acts of
terrorism. It is one of the tragedies of the South African situation
that there can Tie no democratic opposition, and. opposition to the
regime can now only take the form of revolutionary and terrorist
activity. It is because we forsec the repetition of an Algerian, situation
that we oppose Apartheid.
The writer accuses us of " meddling in the internal affairs of
another country." This opinion is superficial. Surely the writer must
realise that the present course of events in South Africa will lead to a
collision, which could easily be a war extending over the whole Afri-
can continent, if not the world. For South Africa has most of the
major problems of the world m microcosms, and to be apathetic
about Apartheid is to be apathetic about many things.
Yours sincerely,
B A R R Y UTTING (Chairman),
R O Y C L A R K E (Secretary),
ROGER A . L O V E .
H I L A R Y A . F. THOMPSON,
I.C.S.F.R.E.
Ed: Due to an oversight C. J.
Lampard's name was left out
from under his Foreign Affairs
Column in issue 211.
L A M L E Y ' S
TECHNICAL & GENERAL
BOOKS
ART MATERIALS
DRAWING
INSTRUMENTS
STATIONERY
PAPERBACKS
1, 3 & 5 EXHIBITION ROAD,
LONDON. S.W.7
w h a t p a r t d o e s
THE PHYSICIST
p l a y i n I C I ?
"It is sometimes thought that the physicist's role in the chemical industry
in general, and in ICI in particular, is subsidiary in nature, and that
neither academically nor administratively is there opportunity for
initiative. Infact, this is veryfar from the truth. Academically, the whole
field of semi-crystalline solids, largely ignored by the universities, cries
out for investigation . . . The challenging properties of semi-ordered
systems . . . offilms, fibres and foams await rationalization. Admini-
stratively, the physicist's training is recognized by ICI as a first-class
preparation for logically based top management."
This extract isfromResearch Opportunities in ICI— one of a series of leaflets
published by ICI for the information of physicists, mathematicians, engineers,
chemical engineers and chemists who are considering a career in industry.
Send for any of these titles:
CAREERS FOR PHYSICISTS
CAREERS FOR MATHEMATICIANS
CAREERS FOR ENGINEERS
CAREERS FOR CHEMICAL ENGINEERS
CAREERS FOR CHEMISTS
RESEARCH OPPORTUNITIES IN ICI
Write to.D.B. Hughes, Central Personnel (Univ.), IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LTD., LONDON S.w.l

