GENTLEMEN O
F M
I
N
E
S
The Mines Ball
The Ball held on the 18th December was a fitting finish to the
term and the foreign students visit. The most successful and enjoy-
able in recent years many Minesmen of repute and long standing have
been heard saying and considering the £20 bar profit they are no
doubt right.
The President's sherry party at the beginning of the evening
brought our guests together, they included the 11 foreign students
who for the first time were able to view the bevy of beauties
assembled for their escort. The foreign students, used to an awkward
situation being miners, quickly overcame any language problems and
judging from the comments heard afterwards really enjoyed the even-
ing. The excess sherry was quickly consumed, it being the loser's
prize at roulette.
The decor of the concert hall was skilfully transformed with
simple decorations and plentiful flowers. This with the combina-
tion of a first-class band, good supper and excellent bar service,
helped to make the Ball a memorable one. Even the cabaret was
applauded. The sketches were good and most appropriate in certain
cases.
Stephenson Hockey Cup
After soundly thrashing both Guilds and R.C.S., our team for
the first time in approximately ten years have won the inter college
hockey cup. A combination of team spirit, skill and spectator
encouragement gave us victory against R.C.S., a far stronger team
on paper.
Scores: Guilds 1—Mines 3. R.C.S. 0—Mines 2.
It is hoped that this year will see Mines with all three cups for
Rugby, Soccer, and Hockey.
carve yourself
a career
in computers
The computer business is expanding fast. It'
you're a graduate (or are just about to become
one), have a quick and logical mind, have an
appetite for hard work aud have a modicum of
imagination then there could be a place in com-
puters for you.
That place could be with us.
We're one of the brightest companies in a pretty
bright industry. Right now we have vacancies
in sales consultancy, systems analysis, engineer-
ing, operating, programming and research.
If you're the right man for any of these jobs
we'll give you the best training going.
Our representative will be visiting Imperial Col-
lege, London, on 11th February. Appoint-
ments should be made through Secretary to the
Appointments Board.
If you can't see our man ; write now for Careers
in Computers, quoting ref. No. F E . G.24, to
E. J. Rowley, University Liaison Officer, Eng-
lish Electro-Leo-Marconi Computers Ltd., Hat-
tree House, Queensway, London, W.2.
ENGLISH ELECTRIC LEO MARCONI
Guildfinger
The column born of our age,
replacing the old Spannerama.
The column that gives you the
news and views of Guildsmen.
Well, that was Christmas, that
was, togetherwith the usual round
of fowl food, and turgid ale.
Sverybody extrudes goodwill,
and makes the annual pilgrimage
to church or panto. The intrinsic
value of London sewerage rose
50 per cent, over Christmas, but
now that all the gorgy-orgies, and
eternal family " puke-togethers "
have tardily passed, what has
happened, will happen, or might
not happen in the world of Guilds.
Carol Singing
Sixty-three Guildsmen and the
self-mobilising mascot assaulted
the sound .perceiving organs of
14,400 of London's West End
Gallants, each of whom stumped
up a turgid penny, thus raising the
crabby sum of £60. That should
just about re-roof one Notting
Hill bog. It would not have been
so bad had it not been so cold
that the clinking of brass was not
all shekels in the kitty. Of course,
everybody enjoyed themse1
ves,
and all had diddled back to South-
side before the catacomb doors
were barred at 12.00 o'clock.
Engineers' Dinner-Dance
This is the great formal occa-
sion when a few people who are
somebody, and a lot of people
who know that the somebodies
are nobodies, all dress up in their
special duds, hired from Moss
Bros, at 3 ghs. a time, and stuff
their gizzards with a meal hired
from Mooney at 5 gns. a time.
The cabaret stars that diaphoretic
piece of goods, Evelyn Dorat.
Double tickets are only 55/- from
crotchy Joe Collins. Of course
if you haven't got yours yet then
you've missed the whole turgid
show anyway, cause they have all
been sold. However, " fear not"
quothe Joe, seventeen tarnished
shillings and a tanner get you a
ticket to dance, listen, or scream
at Paul London and the Mind-
benders. It's certainly a total
happening in the Union Building
on February 5th, and I guarantee
euphoria.
Union Meeting
On February 11th, the first Guilds
Union meeting will twitch into
life. This will really give you a
belt in the Lumbar region, for it
is the occasion of the Guilds
Festival of Music and Culture.
Music and Culture
Each crotchy department does,
or-does not, depending on their
degree of privation of initiative,
produce a panoramic playlet, and
the congregation fracture them-
selves at the vocabulary " noir."
Any department whose artistic
ability has not slipped down the
plug-hole, should chat the Festival
Director, crabby Brian King. The
rumour that Mechanical 1st Year
will win is not necessarily true!
Films
The Guilds entry into the world
of cellulose and "dahling" should
happen in late February. If a
few Guildsmen get their backsides
of their brains, and operate their
retread minds, we should have
something to film other than the
" Festival," shot in the park
rather than in a lecture theatre.
So you see, there are lots of
gear goings-on in Guilds this
term, which will really fracture
you. That is fracture you, if only
you will get your minds out of
neutral. If not, we might as well
all go and join R.C.S. in the face
to become dull scientists.

