0 F E L I X
felix
NEWSPAPER
OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Circulation, 1700
EDITOR
ASSISTANT EDIJTOR
D. I. WILLIAMS
Production Manager Alan Oxley
N . J. W A L K E R
Sports Editor
Late News Editor
Photographic
Editor
Dave Hunt
Ted Needham
Business
Sales
Robin Webster,
Peter Combes,
Geoff. Bean,
Barry Pichler
Andrew Mayo,
Jocetyn Mackintosh
John Cawson
PUBLIC IMAGES
After the unheavaJs of the new Union Officials settling down last
term, a few. new ideas are beginning to develop from the embryo
stage. By far the most important of these is the proposed European
Conference for Technical Students in Manchester during the Summer
vacation. This is one of the very few outward looking ventures
in which I.C. has ever participated, and the pubilicity we shall receive
should do any amount of good in improving our public image.
Far too many people in the past have regarded students as irre-
sponsible layabouts; it does appear, however, that this attitude is
slowly changing. On the B.B-C. programme " Any Questions " last
December "John Fireeman, in particular, thought that students are
responsible beings. The Kensington Post praises I.C. in its selection
of the Notting Hill Housing Trust as this year's charity (see below).
To live up to this slowly improving image, we must beware of
letting our spirits carry us away, if and when participating in rags
of any sort. Morphy Day this year and the Festival Hall Carnival
Raid two years ago were successful—for little inconvenience was
incurred. But Morphy Day 1962 went to the other extreme. Zebra
crossing snakes are fun, but when traffic is held up along the whole
of Cromwell Road, no wonder the public are dubious. (If the
rumour now circulating of placing a zebra crossing outside Mech.
Eng. comes off, wc can be sure it won't stay long if it's misused
every other day.)
The Carnival Commandoes always come into a good deal of
criticism for rowdyism—they do a good job—they collected over
£1,200 last year in the West End.
TO T H E COUNTRY
Silwood Park—to most people the, name conjures up a place
where zoologists and some botanists disappear in their third year.
It is also the venue for Touchstone Weekends. These weekends are
excellent value. They take the form of a prominent person making
a short speech introducing'a topical subject, which is followed by
discussions. Both staff and students are welcome, the charge being
only 15/-. This terms weekend is on. February 6th-7th, when Sir
"Michael Wright, G.C.M.G., a prominent British spokesman on Dis-
armament, will introduce the topic " Is far-reaching disarmament
Utopian ?"
Touchstone is one of the few ways we have to improve our
knowledge on specific matters of general and topical interest. I sin-
cerely hope that this term's Weekend will not be cancelled for lack
of support!; as happened the last Touchstone Weekend.
But for Kensington's two principal housing trusts, the Ken- .
slngton and Notting HiH societies, we shudder to think how |
many families would be facing a cheerJess Christmas this year.
Both have had an exceptionally busy and fruitful year; the
Notting HiH Trust alone has raised well over £50,000 in Its
first year.
This trust was recently adopted by, students! of the Imperial(
College of Science and Technology as its "beneficiary"—and
tihjs is typical of the help the society is getting from students
generally. In addition to collecting money for the Trust students
nave been hard at work on one of the Trust's houses im
North Kensington. They have been scrubbing floors, scraping
off the old wallpaper and generally preparing the place for the
builders who w*II complete the conversion of the houee.
(Which goes to illustrate how stupid arid .unfair it is to j
condemn students as a whole as selfish amd irresponsible.)
extract from editorial of the Kensington Post 25th December 1964
o
T H E VISITATION
Every five years the University Grants Com-
mittee visits the college, and meet representatives
of the students, among others, for a discussion on
any problems or ideas they have. It is extremely
regrettable that although the visit this March was
known about well before the end of lasf term, no
effort was made by the President to ask reps to
prepare memoranda of the opinions of their years
until last week. This gave most of them four or
five days to do the job, hardly enough time for
documents to be prepared. Incidentally, rumour
has it that plans for the Sports Centre in Princes
Gardens arose as a direct result of the last quin-
quennial visitation—is it too much to hope that
the place will actually be built after this next one ?
I.C. EXPANSION
My picture is a copy of a post card available
from the Domestic Bursar's office, and entitled
simply "Aerial View of Imperial College of
Science and Technology." Surely, Mr. Seaford,
we don't own the whole of the G.P.O., three
museums and several embassies, not to mention
the Albert Hall. I still can't get into the latter by
showing my Union card, anyway !
c
u
T
T H E BIRD
I'm still not quite sure whether the hour I
took to read " Phoenix " last night was well spjnt
or not. Certainly " Sussex Rides " was one of the
most entertaining short stories I have read lately ;
certainly the centre page mythological zoo was well
drawn, if a little out of place; and certainly my
intellect couldn't raise or lower itself sufficiently to
appreciate Mr. Lindsay's and Miss Youle's writ-
ings, although I understand that one about the
abacus—I think; certainly most of the articles,
especially Brian Bull's, were worth reading. I
suppose this all adds up to a qualified success.
However, I still remain unrepentant in the belief
that the content does not justify the high class/cost
printing techniques used. Above all, the magazine
is too impersonal and " well written" to really
appeal with a character of its own. I also wonder
if all that blank space'is " artistic " or just due to
lack of copy. Finally, a reading tip—" Margin of
Error " is much more enjoyable if you imagine
Cyrus Balcombe in the astronaut's seat!
SMALL ADS.
F L A T M A T E REQUIRED !
F L A T M A T E NEEDED FOR
COMFORTABLE F L A T IN
SOUTH KENSINGTON.
LOUNGE, 2 BEDROOMS, KIT-
CHEN A N D BATH, RECEP-
TION H A L L . ON GROUND
FLOOR, V E R Y CLOSE TO
COLLEGE, ACCESS TO GAR-
DEN. T H E COST IS £4 PER
WEEK, A N D WORTH IT !
POSSIBLE T H A T TWO
COULD B E ACCOMMO-
DATED A T T H E COST OF £3
PER W E E K E A C H .
PLEASE CONTACT M . K A Y ,
PHYSICS III, T H R O U G H
UNION OR PHYSICS DEPT.
R A C K IF INTERESTED, OR
RING F R O 1482.
S M A L L A D .
Wanted for making I.C. mas-
cot MIKE, any available pieces
of scrap brass, bronze, copper or
aluminium. No bit too small.
URGENT A N D VITAL — all
scrap to 352 Falmouth please.

