8 FELIX
The Rector, Sir Patrick Linstead
writes on the future of I.C.
under the Robins Recommendations
Science and Technology are of vital importance in the national
life to-day. Not only are they important but they are generally
recognised to be important Whether we like it or not they have
become "news," and by force of circumstances the College is now
being pushed more and more into the limelight. Its staff and old
students are taking an ever-growing part in public affairs. Its present
students will have to take similar responsibilities in the future. The
Financial Times recently said that in relation to Technology, Imperial
College " seems to fill the role that All Souls is supposed to play in
politics."
This is a good point from which to take a look at how the
College will probably develop as a result of the Robbins Report. But
in the present climate in Britain, the other major reports which have
led to the reorganisation of the structure of civil science are not
without effect on our work, especially with the growing realisation that
so much depends on the progress which can be made in scientific and
technological fields. It is a challenging time to be helping to guide
the College towards its new role and there is little of the traditional
peace and quiet. A particularly busy and important stage was
reached about a year ago when plans were laid for the Robbins
expansion period.
The Consort Nuclear Reactor being assembled at Silwood Park.
Photo by kind permission of G.E.C. Ltd.
THE ROBBINS REPORT
Tactics to deal with both the
emergency national shortage of
places for undergraduates and the
long-term expansion plan had to
be settled quickly. We were not
caught exactly unprepared by the
recommendations of the Robbins
Report and the unforeseen speed
with which we were asked to sub-
mit our plans caused no insuper-
able difficulty. A committee,
briefed to study our long-term
academic policy, had already gone
some way in its deliberations.
What was practicable in physical
and academic terms could be as-
sessed realistically against the
background of our previous ten
year expansion programme.
Above all, the College already
showed some of the characteris-
tics of a Special Institution to-
wards which it was asked to chart
its course—its level of teaching
and research in Science and Tech-
nology, its very high proportion
of postgraduate students, its very
good equipment and technical as-
sistance. In framing plans for
the future, therefore; we could
take into account other charac-
teristics of these Institutions—
their recommended size and diver-
sification into related fields.
IMPLEMENTATION OF T H E
PLANS
Taking the plans for the- emer-
gency period first, further expan-
sion has already started and the
fiist group of. undergraduates
have begun their courses. Extra
places have been provided in the
Mathematics department, where
52 and 53 Prince's Gate, have
given elbow-room to start a
second undergraduate honours
course biased towards the indus-
trial and statistical applications of
the subject. By reorganising the
use of the building and splitting
the first year into two sections for
laboratory work the Physics De-
partment has been able to increase
its already very large under-
graduate entry. Extra Engineer-
ing places will be possible on the
completion this summer of the
last stage of the Mechanical En-
gineering building with more ac-
commodation for the common
first year course and with the
The Aero and Chem. Eng. Extensions under construction.
Summer 1964.
roofing-in of the space on top of
the Electrical Engineering build-
ing. Nearly all the first wave of
extra places are being provided in
these three main fields. In num-
bers they are expected to build up
to perhaps 450 more students per
annum.
According to the long-term
plans now with the U G C there
should be 4,700 students at the
College in 1973-74. In the inter-
vening years, the emphasis will
shift from undergraduates to post-
graduates- as the emergency of
bulge" expansion is gradually
absorbed into the main one. In-
deed towards 1973-74 the propor-
tion of undergraduates in the
student population will fall. In
the ten years which lie ahead it
does not seem practicable to
achieve the Robbins recommen-
dation that half the students
should be postgraduate, but the
proportion should reach perhaps
43 per cent. In the total of 4,700
students are included 400 Archi-
tects which will be the major di-
versification into fields outside
Science and Technology
REBUILDING PROGRAMME
Major physical changes neces-
sary before there is room for
4,700 students in South Kensing-
ton are: the new College Block
(Administration, Great Hall, li-
braries and social areas), the de-
molition and rebuilding of the
Royal College of Science Building
(for Chemistry), and a massive
southern extension of the Physics
building (mainly for Mathematics
and Meteorology). It is planned
that the students of Architecture
will have a building in the vicinity
and we can look forward to more
residential and social develop-
ments in Prince's Gardens. At
Silwood Park, where facilities are
an essential complement to those
at South Kensington, the first step
will shortly be taken in an expan-
sion of the academic and residen-
tial accommodation. This is
already inadequate for the grow-
ing numbers requiring to use the
Field Station even for short
periods only.
That is a sketch of where we
expect to stand ten years hence
but as the years go by the various
developments will take place in
fits and starts as buildings become
available, equipment is installed,
staff appointed etc. Members of
the College in the years immedi-
ately ahead will find' that there
are many more undergraduates
around and that all accommoda-
tion—academic, social and resi-
dential—will be heavily used since
buildings will probably not keep
pace with the rise in numbers.
Towards the 1970's the physical
shape of the College will be
clearer and, we hope, most of the
building upheavals over. Many of
the academic developments now

