Spring '99 ICU Welfare Newsletter
HAVE YOU GOT A PROBLEM?
Drug Abuse
Drug abuse covers vast areas and many
drugs, ranging from puffing a cigarette to
injecting heroin. But two of the most c o m -
monly used illegal drugs are ecstasy and
cannabis. This section will focus on them.
"Ecstasy", also known as M D M A , A d a m , or
X-TC, is an hallucinogenic and mind alter-
ing drug. It bears great similarity to other
synthetic drugs (like MDA) which are known
to cause brain damage. The many prob-
lems the 1 in 12 people who have tried
ecstasy in the UK encounter during or after
taking ecstasy include:
Psychological difficulties, including confu-
sion, depression, sleep problems, drug
craving, severe anxiety, and paranoia -
sometimes these symptoms occur weeks
after taking ecstasy. Physical symptoms
include muscle tension, involuntary teeth
clenching, nausea, blurred vision, faint-
ness, chills or sweating, increases in heart
rate and blood pressure. However, its sup-
porters claim that ecstasy increases trust
and breaks down barriers.
Cannabis, the most used illegal drug with
8 0 % of drug users using cannabis, is widely
seen as 'relatively harmless' by its sup-
porters. 'Relatively' harmless it may well be
when compared to drugs like heroin, but
it is not entirely safe,
either. Cannabis can
cause problems with
memory and learn-
ing, distorted percep-
tion, difficulty in
thinking and problem
solving, loss of c o -
ordination; a n d
increased heart rate,
anxiety, a n d panic
attacks. Most damning of all is that two in
five people who have used cannabis in the
last year will have also used another type
of illegal drug.
For more information, try:
news.bbc.co.uk/hi/english/health/back-
ground_briefings/drugs/
US Institute on drugs: www.nida.nih.gov/
Drug Abuse W e b ring: www.druguse.com/
Release: www.release.org.uk
Sleepless Nights
Are financial worries affecting your degree?
At this time of year the antics of the previ-
ous term may be catching up. Some students
have major financial worries that are crip-
pling their ability to live comfortably. Other
students may have less serious financial
difficulties but still find that these difficulties
are making them feel stressed a n d
depressed.
If you fall into any of the above categories;
where your financial worries are putting a
strain on your life and degree, then you
could qualify for financial support from the
college. Imperial C o l l e g e has over
£1 5 0 , 0 0 0 to distribute among students who
have financial problems.
So how do you apply?
G o to the Student Finance Office, on Level
3 (Room 334) of the Sherfield Building and
pick up an application form. The form must
be filled in completely (failure to do so will
slow your application) and returned to the
Student Finance Office with the following
information: 3 months of Bank Statements
going back from the date of your applica-
tion.
The closing date for applications is 22nd
March 1 999
Check your bits day
Those of you who were here last year may
remember waking up after Valentines Day
with an unusual union stamp on your hand.
By then it probably said 'heck your bi ', which
was perhaps more alarming than intended!
For those of you who weren't here, and for
those who have spent a year wondering
why they were stamped in such a bizarre
way, let me explain what Check your Bits is
all about.
In this country, it is safe to say you are going
to die of one of two things; Heart disease
or Cancer. Most of us will be lucky and do
it in our 80s. But there are some cancers
which kill young people, and they are the
'sexy' ones; cancer of the testis, cervix and
extent breast. Check your bits day is a
reminder to everyone to do something about
not dying young.
The good news is that there is no reason why
you should die from these; they are easily
checked for, and respond well to treatment.
All it takes is self-examination (a good feel
all over) of your breasts or testicles once a
month. If you find a lump, or a sore bit, or
a change in colour or texture or if it just
doesn't feel the same, then go to the doc-
tor. As for the cervix, that's even easier;
book an appointment with the nurse, phone
for the results, repeat in 3 years time.
Safety in the Big City
We are all enjoying our freedom at uni-
versity - being able to go where we want,
how we want and when we want. As stu-
dents we have to look out for our own well
being. Yes, we have heard it all before
"don't walk alone, don't walk down dark
streets". This is, of course, sensible advice.
This is why your wonderful Imperial College
Union is providing an extra bit of support.
While a free bodyguard for every student is
not on offer, you can get an attack alarm
from the union office or catch the free
women's minibus home from the union
after events nights (Wednesday and Fri-
day). This service runs from 1 2 a m until the
end of the event and will take any woman
anywhere within London.
Compiled by
Rene Frank & the
Welfare Committee

