ICU Welfare Newsletter Spring '99
HEALTH & HOUSING
Accomodation
Most landlords/ladies offer fixed term con-
tracts. There are two basic types of agree-
ment; licenses and tenancies. You should be
able to tell which you are being offered by
reading your contract. The vast majority of
students (along with most other people rent-
ing from private landlords) will have an
'assured shorthold tenancy'.
You will normally be a tenant if you have
exclusive occupation of at least one room,
and your landlord/lady does not live in the
same property. A tenant has greater rights
than a licensee; most importantly, you can-
not be evicted without a court order (and,
hence, a proper reason).
License agreements, though they offer less
protection, are not necessarily a problem.
However, because you might be living in your
landlords/lady's actual home, you should be
clear as to what house-rules are to be
applied. You should also try and get an idea
of what they are like on a personal level.
You should be allowed to live in peace
without interference from the owner (though
they may want to occasionally check the con-
dition of the place). The owner is also
responsible for dealing with any repairs. If
you do experience problems with your land-
lord or landlady then you should raise them
with the Union Advisor immediately. Some
problems that can arise include getting the
landlord to do repairs or to return deposits
at the end of a tenancy. There may also be
issues relating to joint tenancies if you are
sharing with other people. ICU produces a
Housing Rights Guide to give you informa-
tion on your rights and responsibilities while
renting in the private sector. Copies are
available from the Union reception. It is up
to you to ensure that your landlord keeps to
their side of the bargain. Don't put up with
bad or unsafe accommodation and don't
wave goodbye to your deposit at the end just
because "it's one of the facets of student life
in London". It isn't.
If you have any problems with property that
you obtained via the Accommodation notice-
board, you should write and tell them about
it as they can only monitor the landlords who
advertise via your feedback. Properties are
not inspected nor vetted by college in any
way. However, if the Accommodation Office
has been told of a problem, they can and
will remove landlords from their list.
Council Tax
All students are exempt from Council Tax (but
you'll need to obtain a certificate from the
registry that you then send to your local
billing authority). If you share with non-stu-
dents then you may become liable to pay
(even if they are unemployed and receiving
benefits). Speak to the Union Advisor if you
are unsure of your Council Tax situation.
Gas Safety
Every year there are deaths caused by car-
bon monoxide. Danger signs include soot or
discolouring on or around a gas fire, a yel-
low flame in your gas fire or water heater and
a strange smell when the appliance is on.
Symptoms of carbon monoxide poisoning
are tiredness, headaches, and chest and
stomach pains. Your landlord must ensure
that all gas appliances are checked yearly
and, by law, has to obtain a Certificate of
Gas Safety from a Corgi registered engineer.
Speak to him/her if you have any concerns.
If your landlord refuses to show you the
certificate or even to have the appliances
checked, contact the G a s Safety Helpline
immediately.
Meningitis
By now I expect that almost all the students
at Imperial have heard about the tragic
events earlier this year. The best thing we can
do now is learn.
Although knowing the symptoms is vital, the
most important thing is quick action. In real-
ity, you start by feeling unwell, perhaps bad
enough to go home then and there. When
you get home you might be sick or just close
the curtains and try to sleep. This is the point
when you should phone the ambulance, but
you won't because you will feel too silly.
Hopefully, you would phone when the
headache became too bad or you realised
you couldn't stand the light, but you might
still feel daft.
So maybe the truth about surviving meningitis
is bite the bullet. Pick up the phone and dial
999. No-one in Casualty will think you are
stupid. You could save your own or some-
one else's life and if it is only a cold then
you'll live to tell a great story down the bar!
What are the different types?
There are two types: Viral and Bacterial,
whilst viral is the most common it is unlikely
to be life threatening. Bacterial meningitis is
quite rare but may be very serious. There are
H H H k
two types of bacterial meningitis; meningo-
coccal and pneumococcal. In addition the
bacteria can result in septicaemia.
How is bacterial meningitis spread?
Many people carry the bacteria in the back
of the throat. Whilst the bacteria can be
spread by kissing, sneezing and coughing it
is weak outside the body. After exposure
symptoms usually appear after 2-1 0 days.
What does meningitis do?
It inflames the tissues that cover the brain
(meninges) and spinal cord. The same bac-
teria responsible for inflammation of the
meninges are also responsible for the vari-
ant meningococcal septicaemia, which
causes bleeding under the skin.
Can I develop meningitis?
The risk of developing meningitis is very
small, even if you have been in direct con-
tact with a diagnosed case. The causal bac-
teria is carried, in fact, by approximately 10
percent of people. There is still a risk, how-
ever, and it saves lives if you are aware of
the symptoms.
What are the symptoms?
The symptoms are similar to flu in many
respects, but symptoms get progressively
worse very rapidly. Symptoms include; vom-
iting, fever, severe headache, joint pains,
aversion to bright lights, lethargy, confusion
and fits. In addition to this rashes appear dur-
ing septicaemia. However, it is important to
note that not all the symptoms may be pre-
sent.
Don't wait for the rash - sometimes it's only
seen at post mortem.

