FELIX November 7, 1972
A Message
from the
Managing
Director
It has been brought to my notice that, yet again,
we have employees daubing graffiti over company
property.
Let me remind you that this section of property
has only just been repainted after a similar incident
last year. You must all realise that i am the head of
this firm and as such expect to be obeyed—I do not
write these news sheets just to see my name in
print. I warn you that unless the culprits have the
graffiti removed then I will have it removed and
send the bill to the local Trade Union branch. I
am sorry for those many innocent people who are
not involved but you must keep your black sheep in
check.
Good Lord, you can't expect me to do everything.
The personnel manager, Mr. BERTIE MEEAND-
HISMISSUSDENYEVERYTH1NG, reports that we
employ a substantial number of self-styled artists.
Well, let me tell you, this company is going to
the wall, we're not a benevolent society for out of
work artists.
If there are people who are not kept busy enough
about their work then it's high time that they picked
up their ideas and moved on. That's the trouble
with this generation—no gratitude. I worked hard
to get where I am and feel that my conscience is
satisfied—-I've done my bit for the country.
If there was a little more respect for both the man-
agement (who work jolly hard to keep this place
ticking over) and company property then there
would be no need for tempers to flare.
How many times do I have to remind you about
matters.of simple common sense. Talking about
common sense, Mr. JOSHUA MOONEYISTHE-
ROOTOFALLCOOKING tells me that the vending
machine in the canteen will be out of action for a
few weeks because of gross stupidity on the part of
the day shift. When the vending machine starts
smoking and making funny noises, you don't all
stand around pointing and laughing. I
t was two
hours before anybody had the good sense to turn the
wretched thing off.
We can't afford to keep replacing items that aren't
directly involved in production. Because of this, I
am going to have to reduce the management's
donation to the workers' annua! outing.
if you want a fight, then you have come to the
right man: but don't complain if you get hurt in the
process.
KARL DONTBRINGYOURTROUBLESTOME-
SONI'VEGOTENOUGHOFMYOWN.
I'm sorry,
Professor,
we've decided
you're obsolete
Is your lecturer really necessary? Is the guy who's
been boring the pants off you for the last hour
really indispensable? Whether you're the depart-
ment whizz-kid or this year's dummy, you don't
really need him—let's take a look in the staff
common-room
"Right now, lads", says the Head of Depart-
ment to his assembled teaching staff. "Let's see
who gets the second year Systems course". He
delves into the hat and pulls out a piece of paper.
"Sorry Alistair. That's one for you. Now, there's
a fifteen lecture course we're introducing in opti-
misation. What wants that one, then eh? . . ."
There's an old adage that you go into a lecture
and write down what the lecturer puts up on the
board but the message goes neither through his
head or through yours. That's not you? Well, have
you ever picked up notes to revise them for exams
and never remembered writing them a few months
before? No? Yes? I
f you have, you're with me; I
f
you haven't, if you're destined for a first, if you're
the year's whizz-kid, you're with me too.
Right, a lecturer must do a certain amount of
teaching. He's researching in some specialised
field and he gives a lecture course in a remotely
allied subject which he vaguely recollects from his
student days. He picks up the appropriate text-book
and makes notes condensing the subject matter into
the required number of lecture periods. In the same
way that the material, to all intents and purposes,
doesn't pass through your head, neither does it pass
through is. It merely follows a rather tortuous path
from the text-book to the student via an ostensibly
unnecessary middle-man.
That is, of course, an unkind generalisation.
There are many lecture courses for which no decent
text-book exists and the lecture notes are the only
reliable dossier. But the lecturer is still dispensable.
He simply gives out printed notes, the equivalent of
a text-book, and you start from there. To help over
troublesome points tutorials and seminars are still
required though these need not be formal and can
simply be in the way of advice from others on the
course where necessary.
Armed with a text-book or series of printed notes,
a resume of the course topics, and a set of past
papers and examples to aid understanding, you get
through the exam. (Isn't that how we all start, two
weeks before the finals date?).
Presupposing that the object of the lecture course
was to enable the student to pass an examination at
the end (and how many courses at IC are not?) the
lecturer was, and is, obsolete.
"Oh, oh", says the Professor, as the coin lands
face-up. "Old Robert's got that forty lecture
course in materials again. That's two years run-
ning now, isn't it, Bob?". (Consoling laughter).
MARTIN DOUGHTY.
Improvisation
on a
theme
Some (many?) people don't know what they're
missing—but maybe the quality of fringe hap-
penings in I.C. is in inverse proportion to their
notoriety.
Wednesday lunchtime crept into the twilit
afternoon in crescendos of wolf-howlings, re-
curring images of Oedipean (literally) apprehen-
sions and ancient Athenian hang-ups given the
come-down by actors and audience occasionally
falling about in incapacitatory laughter—RADA
was loaning I.C. some of its first year talent in
part-exchange for a stage plus some people to
watch them rehearse/perform/interpret "Oedi-
pus Rex": he was the guy, you remember, who
took his mother to bed after murdering his father
—for those of us who've had the Freudian wool
pulled over our eyes, the message in fact is that
you can't sidestep what's lined up for you just
by knowing about it beforehand (inveterate peru-
sers of Astra Nova, Gipsy Petulengro et al, watch
out. . .).
So it's a good choice of play to take apart and
publicly resynthesise anyway, with constant
tension between suspense and foreknown doom,
containing as well some encapsulated scenes of
condensed and self-evident conflict—but the
play aside, what was happening in front of our
eyes was worth a hundred straight performances.
Probably some us had preconceptions about
drama students—the stereotyped intense intro-
vert, maybe, a veritable Hamlet manque, or the
flamboyant extrovert, laying his trip on everyone
in sight. Well, forget it—these people worked
really hard, not just to perfect a 'technique', but
to push themselves and each other to the limit of
understanding and of translation of understanding
into concrete action. Which is their technique; no
magical Method, no dissociation of 'what' and
'how'. Their director, Angela Langfield, was try-
ing to show how they'd previously developed the
play from a naturalistic performance to a formal-
ised one, with the implicit (and plainly visible)
point that formality, carefully evolved out of what
the students feel while they're rehearsing, elicits
more sense and depth from a performance than
playing it 'naturally'. It's clear, for instance, that
if you try putting over a scene without using the
text, but barking and growling instead, you're
more or less forced into finding out what it is
you're really aiming to get across . . . could liven
up some lectures not a million miles from here?
Most of the audience was, I gather, from I.C.
Dram Soc, so their involvement and interest may
have been, appropriately, quite specialised and
taken for granted. But for me, it was an unex-
pected and tangible experience of the ex-
ploration and exploitation of things I normally
don't question—sounds, words, emotions, inhib-
itions.
Well, there's a lot more I could say, but it's
better and more fun to see it. I
f you want a
glimpse of how another half lives, keep a look out
for posters later on—they've promised to return
for a repeat.
LESLEY SAUNDERS.
Classical Concerts
Thursday, the second of November, was a day for
Tchaikovsky and Beethoven lovers. The precincts
of South Kensington were treated to two very worth-
while concerts. The first, one of the General Studies
series, was held in the Maths Department library
which, as usual, was packed with an expectant
audience.
In writing his Opus 59, the three Rasoumovsky
quartets, Beethoven issued a great challenge to the
artistic and technical abilities of its performers.
The Georgian String Quartet were able to meet this
challenge with a truly excellent performance of the
No. 1 quartet, in which the warmth of the music
came across to a very high degree.
One reason for this apparent warmth is, per-
haps, that chamber music was originally written for
the private room, rather than the concert hall, and
n this respect the library at 53 Princes Gate pro-
vides the ideal surroundings for such a concert.
As to the technical aspect of the performance,
the 'cellist, David Smith, was able to produce from
his insrument the strong and positive effect which
is so much a requirement of the Rasoumovskys and
this together with the other fine playing resulted in
a most enjoyable lunch hour concert.
The Concert Hall at the Royal College of Music
was the scene that evening for the Students Asso-
ciation Orchestral Concert. The orchestra, conduct-
ed by Russell Harris, played a programme consistng
of the Overture to Rossini's Barber of Seville,
Tchaikovsky's Piano Concerto No. 1 and Beet-
hoven's Symphony No. 7.
After a competent performance of the overture,
the soloist of the evening, Ronan Magill, sat down
at the keyboard. In retrospect perhaps this perform-
ance of the concerto illustrated how much the role
of the conductor is taken for granted and how vital
it really is.
Mr. Magill's interpretation of the concerto was
not only original and individual in its tempo but
also contained beautiful contrasting between" the
powerful and stirring sections of say the 1st move-
ment and the softer more lyrical passages. It is a
shame that the orchestra could not match the excel-
lence of his performance, this lack of match becom-
ing more obvious in the slow movement which
requires such delicate orchestration and perfect
timing.
In spite of these difficulties Ronan Magill suc-
ceeded in holding the whole work together and
ended the concerto with a very positive and definite
"Allegro con fuoco".
The success of and the enjoyment provided by
Mr. Magill's performance was apparent from the
loud level of applause and numerous calls he re-
ceived. With such a performance in only his second
year at the college there can be little doubt that
Mr. Magill will go a long way in his career.
After the interval Mr. Harris conducted Beet-
hoven's Symphony No. 7, and by the third move-
ment seemed to have regained control of the
orchestra, providing what was also an enjoyable
conclusion to the evening.

