November 7, 1972 FELIX Page 7
Poetry
Poems by Peter Porter: PREACHING TO THE
CONVERTED. (Oxford University Press). £1.00.
This, so the cover notes say, is Mr. Porter's
fifth collection of poetry. In it he expresses
contemporary views contrasted by the use of
references to the art and sculpture of northern
Italy; a slightly odd and dangerous thing to
attempt, one might think, but overall the idea is a
success.
The title of the collection in itself gives a clue
to the subject matter and its treatment; the 'con-
verted' are the dead, and given that there arises
considerable scope for original imagery related to
the timeless conflict between Man and Time. The
dead are symbolised in the cold marble statesque
figures in European museums or the paintings of
the Masters. (The cover is a photograph of a
Bernini work)
'Preaching to the Converted is preaching
Time,
The only subject that memorials hear';
Perhaps the best place to begin in order to
argue the case for this anthology is with the first
few lines of a particularly poignant poem called
'In The Giving Vein' — an interesting piece by its
mere form, since it consists of three sonnet-like
stanzas (combining tradition with experiment)
which gives an insight into the poetic method in
general and Mr. Porter in particular:
'The evidence, like the weather, is from
An inner storm; the poem, like every poem
Will be merely a beginning, . . .'
And then (in the title poem again):
'The Old is painted on an eye, he's Sleep,
The shadow of a never-noticed death.
The New is pictured on a box, he dreams
Of Ever-Afternoon, Ego-Eternity:
Great Abstracts, which our thin vocabulary
Strains to make real: and this is poetry'.
From this small evidence one can already dis-
cern the morbid and sombre tone which pervades
the whole book . . . the search for Immortality,
(Ego-Eternity), the conflicts between life and
death, old and new, abstract and real, tradition
and revolution.
'God is a Super-Director
who's terribly good at crowd scenes,
but he has only one tense, the present.
Think of pictures . . . ' he says
and then finishing in the same poem with a fur-
ther reminder that
. . . 'God loves music
and architecture, pain and palm trees,
anything to get away from time'.
This theme recurs frequently, if not in the words,
then in the form of the poems which integrates
Eliotesque free verse and an over-large and eso-
teric seasoning of name-dropping (in several lan-
guages, too, which isn't easy for us). But the
repetition is hardly noticeable in the boring sense;
in fact it is one of the most tolerable collections
of similar-theme poetry I have come across, just
because the images seem so diverse within the
framework he sets himself.
It's not all cadaverous as I've made it sound,
however. There are a few consciously light-
hearted pieces dotted about, 'Sex And The Over
Forties' probably amongst the best, and if you
like to laugh at sexual imagery, there's plenty
about even if sometimes it does degenerate into
(patronising?) slang expressions for anatomical
parts . . . one is tempted to say pricks, genitals,
pump and suck, balls and pox out loud just for
the sheer thrill . . .
One particularly good couple of lines I can-
not help but quote:
'You set the alarm clock to remind us
to do it before leaving for the office'
. . . something you might identify with. But even
then at the end of 'Sex and the . . . " there comes
the serious refrain:
'Back to the dream in the garden,
back to the pictures in the drawer,
back to back, tonight and every night'.
Either this, or superficially light aphorisms which
slowly sink in:
'I am the world's digestion, I am love,
I eat and am eaten perpetually'.
The balance is completed by lines of hope like
'. '. . stay with me my friends; truth and
love,
like miracles, need nowhere at all to happen
in'.
and
'Wagner wrote 'Tristran' at forty-four . . . .'
Add to all this some succinct stanzas separat-
ed and given the apt general title of 'Postcard
Poems' and the thing is complete. It is therefore
well worth a read if you're at all into poetry, but
unless you're really keen not a rush-out-and-buy-
it best seller, prices being what they are. I leave
you with this thought put into the mouth of
Schopenhauer, which happily does not apply to
these poems . . .
' Man is ridiculous; if
it weren't for his death,
he'd have no value whatever. . ."
G. P. WENHAM.
T h e R e v i e w s P a g e
Discs
SANTANA. "CARAVANSERAI" (CBS)
Of all the praise that has been heaped on
Santana in the three-and-a-half year recording
career, I don't ever remember their music being
described as progressive, even by writers who
give that description to any group who either con-
centrates on albums rather than singles and
makes their numbers last more than five minutes.
Santana didn't in the past change their style from
album to album—it's only in the last week, when
I've been listening a lot to their first three albums
as a "prelude" to this one, that I've been able to
detect any difference in style between the tracks
on the first and third album.
However, the term "progressive" will be ap-
plied to a Santana album for the first time in the
case of this one. Side one track one "The Eternal
Caravan of Reincarnation" begins with the sound
of crickets (or eez eet cicadas, mi amigo?); Pink
Floyd were doing that years ago. Then an avant-
garde sounding saxophone grunts a bit and a
double bass and "echoplexed" electric piano cut
in and repeat a rather restricted riff for about
three minutes. Miles Davis gets in everywhere
these days. Bells jingle in the background just like
a caravan—well, slightly. The best part of the
track is the way it fades out of one speaker and
the next track "Waves Within" appears through
the other. The guitar is preceded by a peculiar
sound, probably done with reverse tapes, but it
has a very pleasing effect. The rest of the track is
rather disappointing after the superb intro, and
when "Look Up' 'begins in the same way with the
stereo fade-out you begin to wonder if it is done
strictly for laughs. "Look Up" is also, disappoint-
ingly, a second-hand Motown funk machine
effect.
"Song of the Wind" features a long guitar
break from either Carlos Santana or Neil Schon
who I think is still with the band, and I think this
is a mistake. The guitarist has an excellent tech-
nique but nothing new—he would (and does)
do better in the shorter tracks, although I sup-
pose you can always play it at 78. "All the Love
of the Universe" reminds me of nothing so much
as Yes. The slightly phased guitar and high-
pitched vocal harmonies come straight out of
"Heat of the Sunrise", but I'm sure it wasn't in-
tended and the track is a nice climax to the first
side. You certainly wouldn't mistake it for any-
thing on "Abraxas".
"Future Primitive" on Side Two has more elec-
tric piano, with lots of echo and some reverse
tape guitar. (The future). Then in come the
congas and the shouting (The Primitive, presum-
ably) and they fade out once more leaving the
Future. Quite clever but not very satisfying
musically. "Stone Flower" begins in vintage San-
tana fashion with congas-bass-drums-organ-
guitar and has a riff so familiar that it must have
been written by Frank Zappa or Arthur Lee. "La
Fuente del Ritmo" is also typical of the group's
old style and the speed and dexterity of it is quite
frightening—try dancing to it and you'll give
yourself a hernia. The tune isn't exactly classical
but this is my favourite track on the album at
present and I'm sure even the Mahavishnu
Orchestra couldn't go faster.
Having heard "El Fuente del Ritmo" I'd find
anything dull and "Every Step of the Way" is the
unfortunate song in this case. It lasts over nine
minutes but the meat of the track could have been
played in a third of that time. It still snorts along
at 847 times the speed of sound (after Santana,
everything else moves backwards) so perhaps
that's unfair but the previous track'left me so
staggered that I couldn't take this one in.
The first three Santana albums took a long
time to grow on me, to the extent that listening
to them pleased rather than impressed, and I
think it'll be the same with "Caravanserai". I
kept stopping the record to play a bit again:
"Did they really play that" or "What incredible
production". However, Santana fans won't be
disappointed. I should add that the total playing
time is over fifty minutes—that's value.
I think I liked "Abraxas" best . . .
SID AMOR
Paperbacks
VENEREAL DISEASES by R. S. Morton
(Pelican, 35p)
Venereal diseases, all right—that's no prob-
lem: they can be cured now.
Unhappily, however, venereal disease is on the
increase. Though some 250,000 people seek ad-
vice in Britain's special clinics every year, the
numbers infected are growing recognisably and
gonorrhoea has recently been ranking second
among the infectious diseases. In parts of Asia,
Africa and America the position is even worse.
Dr. Morton is a venereologist and his book
produces a frank and sober study of syphilis,
gonorrhoea and other diseases commonly trans-
mitted during sexual intercourse. He treats his
subject without emotion and consequently with-
out bias, his tools are the facts and figures, not
the yellow press's drive against pornography and
permissiveness. He does however fill in the per-
sonal effects which may become so important to
a patient.
When he discusses treatment this is not only
viewed from the angle of curative and preventive
medicine, but also as an application of social
policy which must stem from the science of hum-
an behaviour. In the foreword, G. M. Carstairs
writes: "This is a dispassionate study of a theme
which has often aroused strong remedies . . .":
he is very obviously correct. I suspect that this
will not be the book that most people are going to
rush out and buy, but if you really want to find
out what sexual diseases are and not just swallow
what popular newspapers and magazines have to
offer, then Dr. Morton is the man to read.
Figures may often be distorted to tell the story
that you want; however, when 110,000 people
were treated for some form of venereal disease
in the early 70's you begin to wonder. Dr. Morton
leaves one with much food for thought, little
comfort for the sexual progressives and awkward
problems for the medical profession.
DAVE HOBMAN

