Page 8 FELIX November 7, 1972
SPORT SPORT SPORT SPORT SPORT
Football
On Saturday, 28th October, the I.C, 1st XI, with a
much-changed side, produced their best performance
when they defeated St. Edmund's Hall, Oxford by 3-1.
Right from the start of the game I. C. pressurised their
opponents, contesting every ball and the IC midfield
were soon in control. However, it was St. Edmund's
who put in the first good shot, which was well saved
by Gerwyn Edwards, in the IC goal. However, the hard
running of the IC forwards was soon rewarded when
Alan Williams headed home after fifteen minutes of his
first team debut. For the rest of the half, IC dominated
the field and were unlucky not to add to their score on
several occasions.
After the interval, IC continued to dictate play, with
the St. Edmund's midfield being completely subdued by
John Kelly, Byron Smith and Mick McConvey. The
opposition's defence never really found an answer to
the quick thinking Imperial forwards, and the IC de-
fenders had less and less to do as the game progressed.
The second goal came when Pete Lonnen converted a
penalty, awarded for handball. Soon after this Ian Pos-
thlewaite left the field with a badly bruised knee and
Pete Lonnen took over at centre-half. Barely five min-
utes later St. Edmund's also lost a player, this time with
a more serious ankle injury. IC were unaffected by the
long stoppage which this second injury caused, except
that is for Martin "Gladys" Manning and Pete Lonnen,
who each received a considerable amount of massage
from certain O
f the prettier spectators (you mean you
have spectators—Ed.) and were never quite as in-
terested in the game afterwards.
IC's third goal came when Mick McConvey drove
an awkwardly bouncing ball into the comer of the net
from 15 yards. In the last minute, St. Edmund's grab-
bed a consolation goal when Gerwyn Edwards, who was
by now quite cold due to a long spell of inaction, drop-
ped a hard hit cross.
Team: G. Edwards, M. Manning, R. Kill, I. Bell,
I. Posthlewaite, M. McConvey, B. Smith, J. Kelly, P.
Lonnen, A. Williams, W. Milne.
While the first team werefindingthings fairly easy,
the third XI were having to play well to survive against
an unexpectedly strong Hertford College team. Out-
standing in defence was Paul Hosking who was perhaps
the player most responsible for keeping the score at
0-0 until the interval.
In the second half IC continued to hold out and
Hertford could rightly feel disappointed when, with
only a minute to go, Ian Hyslop snatched victory with
a 20 yards drive.
Back at Harlington, the 4th team cruised to a 5-1
win against Royal Holloway College 2nd. To complete
a good day for the club, the 7th team won a well con-
tested game against University College 7ths by 2-1.
On Wednesday, 1st November, IC played QEC at
Petersham. Although IC won, the quality of football
was poor and apart from the fact that Byron (where's-
me-shorts) Smith scored after 15 seconds, there was little
of merit in the team's performance. With 10 minutes to
go, IC were 3-0 up, then Gladys changed sides without
telling anyone, and the final score was 3-2.
At Shenley, the 2nd came back after conceding an
unlucky goal to beat U.C. 3rds, 3-1. Also at Shenley
the 3rds had a good 3-2 win over UC. 2nds.
Playing at Harrington, the 4ths beat QEC 2nds 5-2,
and in an entertaining match the 5ths beat Royal Hollo-
way 6-4. The 6th team with a suspect defence (just like
the 5ths!) beat RHC 3rds by 4—2. The only team to fail
to win was the 7ths who lost 3-1 to the newly-formed
QEC 3rd team.
Hockey
At last I.C. 1st XI have shown they can play hockey;
under the renewed leadership of midfield general Dave
Richman they held Southampton University to a 0—0
draw.
Surprisingly, after good wins in the UAU, Soton took
a while to settle down; this seemed to give I.C. confi-
dence, culminating in afinemove up the right that gave
Pete Foxton a chance to open the scoring, but he
screwed the shot wide of the left-hand post. However,
most of the first half was played between the 25's as
both sides generally cleared their lines very effectively.
After the tactical murmur at half-time, I.C. had
complete control of the opening period of the second
half, but failed to convert this into goals although Mick
Downs had a short comer cleared off the line.
But increasing Soton pressure ended in the award of
a penalty flick after a brilliant save by Rich Cameron
— he might use his stick next time. Chris Steel had no
trouble saving the very weakflick.However, after Mick
Downs had another short corner stopped on the line —
the back used his feet this time — John Astley also
missed a penalty flick.
Team: STEEL; EVANS, HANSON, ROBINSON.
CAMERON; RICHMAN, GAUKROGER; FOXTON,
GAHIR, ASTLEY, DOWNS.
On Saturday, I.C. 2nd and 3rd XI's lost to weakened
Dulwich 2nd and 3rd XI's 1
—
4 and 1
—
3 respectively.
Chris Tyler scored for the 2nds, but the best goal in
this match was beautifully volleyed into the wrong net
by 'Ron Palmer. Clive Thompson scored for the 3rd's
after good work by Andrew Beal.
The Mixed XI went marching on with a 1
—
0 win
over Heston. "Wonder-boy" Richman got on the score-
sheet but he managed to miss his usual quota of easy
chances.
Oh yes, on Saturday, the 1st XI drew 1
—
1 against
U.C.M. in the Middlesex League Mick Downs actually
scored from a short corner but his night-time activities
knackered him so much that he was unable to write a
report.
Badminton
IC 1st vs. CAMBRIDGE 1st
Team : Dave Ward/Sooty
Chris Forkdodger/A. Shepherd
Rhod. Palmer/B. Slim
With ICfieldinga scratch team against the interna-
tional studded Cambridge tea-tasting society, we played
for the draw. However, with Sooty in such fine form,
Dave Ward's indifferent play soon improved, showing
us just why he is reserve for the IVth's, and they easily
wiped out a 2—0 deficit so unluckily incurred in the
second pair's game, when C. Forkdodger, in attempting
a very difficult shot (the lob), broke the head of his
racket and his best pair of leg-irons. A. Shepherd came
to the rescue and Chris played the rest of the match, on
wheels. Bad luck too for Rhod and B in their first
game since being released. With Rhod playing in blink-
ers due to the amount of male thigh around, B's main
problem was watching for the long one down the
middle. After the initial setback of two rapid defeats
we changed to what turned out to be the winning tactics
— cheating. With more than an ample amount of laxa-
tive in the orange juice, CTTS tended to rush their shots
— to their downfall. IC won 7—2.
Dave, Chris, Rhod, B then went on to play at singles
R. Soalcs, P. Niss, Mike Hunt, Alf Hooker respectively.
IC won 3—1.
(Well, at least the scores are right).
Sailing
Motor Racing
Once again, on Wednesday, 25th October, "Team
Guilds" were out in actipn. This time in their own
twelve-car rally entitled "The Fresher Rally". The pur-
pose of this event was to introduce rallying techniques,
timing and navigational systems. Seven route-cards, each
of a different type of problem for the navigator, des-
cribed a route of about 100 miles through the narrow-
winding country turnings of Hertfordshire and Bucking-
hamshire. Everyone thoroughly enjoyed themselves with
only one car having a minor argument with a tree
stump which unfortunately ended their rally.
Congratulations go to Jeremy Casson and Mark Cov-
erly of Mech Eng 2, on winning the rally in their Mini-
Cooper by a long lead. Messrs. House and Clemow
showed up all mechanics by changing a diff en route
in 35 minutes. As is usual on Guild's excursions, good
relations with the Police were maintained with a friendly
constable stopping at a time-control and having a short
chat with the organisers. Afinalword must be said for
those who ventured out to marshal and uphold that
famous name in the motor-sport world — "Team
Guilds".
Knobbly Knees
On 29th October, the team sailed a close match
against Burton S.C. in National 12's.
In thefirstrace J. Scott soon took up the lead with all
boats closely bunched. Simon Briscoe pulled through
the fleet after a bad start and eliminated one of the op-
position on a port/starboard case only to be put out
soon afterwards trying to cut inside a boat at the gybe
mark. We are now lying first and third against second
and fourth. Their fourth boat was closing, on the run, on
Nigel Charlwood, in 3rd place but, as he tried to pass,
he was luffed out and had to retire. Thus we finished
first, third and retired against second, retired, retired:
a lead of 5J points.
By the time the second race started the wind was
much stronger. We rounded the first mark, after a
reaching start, in 1st, 2nd and 3rd places but, at the
windward mark, we had dropped badly to 1st, 4th and
5th. Brian Rogers, now in first place, was never chal-
lenged, but Dave Law in 5th place was put out in a
luffing incident leaving us 1st, 4th and retired against
2nd, 3rd and 5th. On the run John Labard, in 4th place
suffered a gear breakage and had to retire. The race
thusfinishedwith the positions at the last mark, 1st,
4th, retired against 2nd, 3rd and 5th: that is 11| points
against 10 points, a If pt deficit.
Thus, on aggregate, we won the match by 3^ points.
This was our second successive victory this term.
Winner of the Mr. ICWA contest on Tuesday week.
FELIX no 317. Tuesday, November 7th,
1972. Edited by Oliver F. Dowson. Contribu-
tions and compilation by: Sid Amor, Philip
Amodio, Bob Carter, Colette Robertson, Dave
Hobman, Andy Mafeld, Michael Oliver, Ross
McBeath, Colin McCall, John Horsfall, Dave
Gribble, Geoff Marshall, Keith Thompson,
Martin Doughty, Lesley Saunders, Mike Doh-
erty, Derek Cummings, Ian Mackenzie, M C B ,
etc., etc., and a cast of millions.
National Advertising contractors are Univer-
sity Press Representation, Grand Buildings,
Trafalgar Square, W C 1 , 01-930 1322.
London advertising by Felix Advertising,
Imperial College Union, London S W 7 2 B B ,
01-589 5111 ext. 2229.
Printed by F. Bailey and Son Ltd., Dursley,
Gloucestershire.
Published by the editor for and on behalf of
the Imperial College Union Publications Board.
" F e l i x " is a founder member of the London
Student Press Association.

