A powerful hallucinogenic drug once used by
the CIA in torture experiments may help alco-
holics stop drinking, according to new research.
The research, funded by the Research Council
of Norway and based on experiments conducted
in the 1960s and 1970s, shows that the psyche-
delic drug LSD (Lysergic acid diethylamide)
can have “a significant beneficial effect on al-
cohol misuse.”
It fails to show how LSD works in alcoholics,
but doctors who have seen the research say that
LSD causes the human brain to function more
“chaotically”, inspiring alcoholics to give up
their dependency on booze. Robin Carhart-Har-
ris, a psycho-pharmacologist at Imperial told
Nature, “Psychedelics probably work in addic-
tion by making the brain function more chaoti-
cally for a period – a bit like shaking up a snow
globe – weakening reinforced brain connections
and dynamics.”
Once the dust settles, many people who take
LSD say that their problems appear clearer and
simpler, allowing them to make a strong resolu-
tion to stop drinking.
LSD was introduced on to the market in 1947
as a psychiatric drug and was used by some doc-
tors to treat alcoholics. Several trials conducted
in the decades that followed the drugs release
all showed positive benefits on alcoholics. But,
taken individually, these trials were too small
for researchers to draw any scientific conclu-
sions from.
So Teri Krebs and Pal-Orjan Johansen, re-
searchers at the Norwegian University of Sci-
ence and Technology, decided to pool together
data from six clinical trials conducted in the late
1960s and early 1970s. They found that a single
dose of LSD leads to a “decrease in alcohol mis-
use”.
In the pooled analysis, there were a total of
536 participants, mainly men who had sought
treatment for alcoholism and who were subse-
quently admitted for in-patient treatment.
The alcoholics were given either a dose of
LSD or a placebo at random.
Of those who took LSD, nearly 60% stopped
drinking. In comparison, only 38% of patients
who were given a placebo stopped drinking.
But the beneficial effects of LSD faded after one
year, the research suggested.
“Given the evidence for a beneficial effect of
LSD on alcoholism, it is puzzling why this treat-
ment approach has been largely overlooked”,
the Norwegian researchers said.
LSD, a class A drug in the UK, is the most
LSD may help alcoholics
powerful hallucinogenic drug known. People
who use it report a wide range of intense physi-
cal, sensory and psychological effects. These
psychological effects, known as a ‘trip’, may
be pleasant or unpleasant, and can induce pro-
found short and long-term effects on the men-
tal state of those who take it.
The idea of psychedelics shocking the mind
and altering one’s perceptions so that new
thoughts can be planted is not new or unique
to psychotherapy. The English poet William
Blake wrote that “if the doors of perception
were cleansed, everything would appear as it
is, infinite”.
Humans have used natural psychedelics for
thousands of years for religious sacrament.
LSD was used in the 1950s and 1960s by beat
poets like Allen Ginsberg to spark creativity
and by politicians who thought LSD could help
bring about world peace. Even the Central In-
telligence Agency (CIA) used LSD to try and
control people’s minds in their human experi-
mentation program known as MKULTRA.
The findings from the Norwegian study
show that the use of LSD in treating alcoholics
is just as good as any other treatment we have,
if not better.
Professor David Nutt, from Imperial Col-
lege, summed it up well to the BBC: “Curing
alcohol dependency requires huge changes in
the way you see yourself. That’s what LSD
does. Overall, there is a big effect. Show me
another treatment with results as good; we’ve
missed a trick here. This is probably as good as
anything we’ve got.”
DOI: 10.1177/0269881112439253
Honey bee scouts are at the forefront of bee
exploration, seeking out new sources of food
for the hungry hive and finding suitable nest
sites for the colony when it outgrows its cur-
rent home. These bees differ from their fellow
foragers. They do not wait to be told where to
go or what to do, but seek novelty, maybe even
adventure.
A new study, published in Science, has ex-
amined the brains of honey bee scouts and
found that this novelty-seeking behaviour
appears to be based on the same molecular
pathways used in similar thrill-seeking human
behaviour.
Novelty-seeking behaviour in vertebrates
involves catecholamine, glutamate and gam-
ma-aminobutyric (GABA) signalling in the
brain. The differences in thrill-seeking behav-
iour between individuals are often attributed
to personality differences. So do insects like
honey bees have personalities of their own,
just as we humans do?
The researchers, led by Gene Robinson and
Zhengzheng Liang, compared the molecular
underpinnings of novelty-seeking behaviour
in bees that do and do not scout. The bees in
the colony under scrutiny were fed from a jar
of sugar water with a yellow flower pattern
and faint scent for a few days. On three con-
secutive days an alternative jar with a different
colour and a different scent was placed in the
hive’s vicinity. Bees that visited at least two
new jars were defined as scouts and marked by
Liang, for later capture.
Microarray analysis was performed on the
brains of these scouts, and on the brains of
non-scouting bees, to determine the activity
patterns of genes in each. Among the thou-
sands of differences in gene activity that the
researchers found between scouting and non-
scouting bees – around 16% of 7500 genes in
total showed a significant difference – several
were related to the signalling pathways impli-
cated in vertebrate novelty-seeking, including
receptors for the neurotransmitters glutamate
and dopamine.
As both scouts and non-scouts forage for
food, Robinson and his colleagues were sur-
prised by the magnitude of differentially ex-
pressed genes between the two. In order to
determine whether changes in brain signalling
caused novelty-seeking behaviour in the bees,
they were exposed to different treatments that
would activate or inhibit the neurochemical
receptors involved in the signalling paths im-
plicated in vertebrate thrill-seeking.
The researchers found that octopamine and
glutamate treatments increased the likelihood
of scouting behaviour in bees that had not
previously shown novelty-seeking behaviour.
Bees that were fed chemicals that blocked do-
pamine receptors were less likely to exhibit
scouting behaviour.
Since honey bees and humans are not
closely related, novelty-seeking behaviour has
presumably evolved independently in each
lineage. But the results suggest that insects,
humans and other animals share a “toolkit” of
genes that plays a role in this type of thrill-
seeking behaviour. This kit has been adapted
for use in each species, but it still contains the
same components. Perhaps the pioneers of our
world, be they human astronauts or honey bee
scouts, are not so different after all.
DOI: 10.1126/science.1213962
Fiona Hartley
FELIX
Friday 16 March 2012
14
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
SCIENCE
In brief
Zara Shubber
Scientists at Imperial College have discovered
that efficiency savings of up to 80% in the pro-
duction of biofuel can be made by lubricating the
wood biomass.
Biofuels are used widely in Brazil, where all light
vehicles run on ethanol or a 25% ethanol in gaso-
line blend, and the USA where gasoline with 10%
ethanol content is widely available. Wood chips
from fast-growing trees such as pine are used to
produce cellulosic ethanol as well as biodiesel.
The first stage in this process, which often hap-
pens at the logging site, is the grinding of wood
chips into even smaller particles to increase their
surface area and thus their reaction and dissolution
states. After this, the biomass is treated with ionic
liquids as a solvent for the cellulose and lignin.
The researchers, led by Dr. Agnieszka Brandt of
the Department of Chemistry, studied the effects
of treating the wood before the grinding process.
They found that a short impregnation with ionic
fluids increased the energy efficiency of the grind-
ing process by up to 80% depending on the fluid
used. A short impregnation time was found to be
necessary as the fluid is acting not as a solvent,
changing the chemical properties of the wood, but
as a lubricant for grinding. The findings were pub-
lished in the journal Green Chemistry.
Brandt says: “Tree wood is a mine of really valu-
able chemicals locked up in a safe that we need
to unlock before we can use the different com-
ponents. Breaking down the timber into a fine
powder helps us to access these chemicals, but it
needs to be an energy-efficient process to make
it sustainable. Our previous work showed how the
chemical action of ionic solvents improved energy
efficiency in the processing, but we were surprised
to discover how much more energy could be saved
when take advantage of their lubricating physical
properties.”
These energy savings could reduce the per-litre
price of ethanol fuel by 10%.
DOI: 10.1039/C2GC15663F
Keir Little
Lubricated wood grinds better
Honey bees seek thrills just like us
Pine trees are used to produce biofuels
“
We’ve missed a
trick here. This is
probably as good
as anything we’ve
got
”
hing we’ve
hing we’ve
On his way back from an adventure

