SCIENCE
FELIX Friday 16 March 2012 15
Last great ape genome sequenced
A decade after the completion of the hu-
man genome sequence, researchers have
sequenced the genome of a female west-
ern lowland gorilla called Kamilah from
San Diego zoo. This means we now have
a fully sequenced, representative genome
sequence from each of the four great ape
groups: humans, chimps and bonobos,
orangutans, and gorillas. Having the full
set will enable scientists to better under-
stand when each of these groups evolved
– a current matter of debate.
Humans are identical to our ape rela-
tives in almost all of our DNA base-
pairs. We differ by 1.37% from the
chimp, 1.75% from the gorilla and 3.4%
from the orang-utan. Molecular data
suggests humans and their closest rela-
tives, chimps, diverged about 4.5 million
years ago while evidence from fossils
suggests they diverged as far back as 7
million years ago. Having completed the
sequencing of the great ape genomes,
researchers at the Sanger Institute in
Cambridge now suggest that humans
and chimps split around 6 million years
ago. Additionally, they believe gorillas
diverged from the human-chimp line ap-
proximately 10 million years ago, a find-
ing consistent with previous estimates.
The researchers also confirmed that hu-
mans are most closely related to chimps
but, in fact, 15% of the human genome
more closely matches the gorilla’s.
Dr Richard Durbin, senior author of
the study from the Sanger Institute, said,
“After decades of debate, our genetic
interpretations are now consistent with
the fossil record and provide a way for
palaeontologists and geneticists to work
within the same framework. Our data
are the last genetic piece we can gather
for this puzzle: there are no other living
great ape genera to study.”
Another significant finding was that
gorillas share many parallel genetic
changes with humans including the evo-
lution of hearing. Previously it has been
shown that a gene involved in hearing,
called LOXHD1, had evolved rapidly in
humans compared to the same gene in
chimpanzees and this was thought to be
related the development of language in
humans. However, the sequencing of the
gorilla genome has shown that this gene
has evolved in gorillas at a similar rate to
that in humans, casting doubt on the con-
nection between the gene and language.
As well as sequencing the genome of
Kamilah, the researchers also partially
sequenced the genome of three other
gorillas including an eastern lowland
gorilla, a rare species estimated at only
20,000 individuals. They compared the
genomes of eastern and western low-
land gorillas and concluded that the spe-
cies diverged around 0.5 million years
ago but continued to interbreed a small
amount after that. Researchers have
previously suggested that the shrinking
population and low genetic diversity of
eastern lowland gorillas is due to recent
human activity.
However, the new analysis suggests
that this problem is much older.
Another reason for studying animals is
to help decipher the functions of genes
in the human genome. The researchers
at the Sanger Institute have identified
a mutated version of a gene that, while
strongly associated with dementia in
humans, is present in all the gorilla ge-
nomes they sequenced. Therefore, it is
interesting how gorillas can survive with
this mutation when it causes such prob-
lems in humans.
Today, gorillas survive in just a few
isolated and endangered populations in
central Africa. As well as informing us
about human evolution, this latest re-
search also emphasises the importance
of protecting the full diversity of these
species and may aid conservation efforts.
Harry Marshall, a primate researcher at
the Zoological Society of London, said,
“People can start to take the genome and
try to look for bits of it that might be
linked to animals’ fitness.”
DOI: 10.1038/nature10842
Kamilah the gorilla
Peek-a-boo, I see you! Our eyes are
amazing machines, capable of captur-
ing all of the light coming into them for
the brain to process, as well as adapting
to variations of distance, hue and inten-
sity. And it’s not only humans that are
gifted with this. Almost all animals use
eyes as their primary method of sensing
their environment, be it with two eyes,
four or eight.
Now, new research has been present-
ed which shows that a species of polyp,
Hydra magnipapillata, uses specialised
cells which respond to light in the ab-
sence of eyes. Published in the journal
BioMed Central (BMC) Biology, the re-
port outlines that stinging cells (cnido-
cytes) in the polyp’s tentacles are con-
trolled through a nervous system which
uses light as a stimulus. The light trig-
gers a defence mechanism of poisonous
barbs on the tentacles against potential
predators and or to catch unwary prey.
The research was conducted by a
team led by Dr. David Plachetzki from
the University of California. They fur-
ther discovered that opsin – a light sen-
sitive protein found in sensory cells – is
responsible for regulating the action of
the protective cnidocytes. This is linked
to a simple nervous system with light
sensitive neurons to act as a relay, in a
similar fashion to many other sensory
organs.
Plachetzki described that other pho-
totransduction proteins are also present
in their sensory cells. “Not only did we
find opsin in the sensory neurons that
connect to cnidocytes in the hydra, but
we also found other components of
phototransduction in these cells. These
included cyclic nucleotide gated ion
channels (CNG) required to transfer
the signal and a hydra version of arres-
tin, which wipes the phototransduction
slate clean for a second signal.
“We were also able to demonstrate
that cnidocyte firing itself is effected
by the light environment and that these
effects are reversed when components
of the phototransduction cascade are
turned off,” he said. Though cnidarians
have been around for over 600 million
years in various animals’ systems, the
Hydra’s approach to using light is along
a similar pathway to other animals’
development – sensing more of your
environment can only be an added ad-
vantage to help catch your prey, while
avoiding being someone else’s. The
similarities shared with human evolu-
tion also hints at a common ancestor
going back millions of years.
DOI: 10.1186/1741-7007-10-17
No eyedea
Pavitar Devgon
Last week, just days before the anniver-
sary of the Fukushima disaster, came
evidence that radioactive plutonium has
spread much further from the nuclear
plant than previously thought. Scientists
from the National Institute of Radiologi-
cal Sciences in Japan, found traces of
the potentially harmful substance over
20 kilometres away from the plant –
thankfully though, they say this poses no
health risk.
The crisis, which left 27,000 people
dead or missing and caused billions of
dollars in damage, began on 11 March
2011.Amagnitude 9.0 earthquake on the
Pacific floor triggered a tsunami which
impacted, and subsequently devastated,
the northeast coastline of Japan. Mo-
ments after the initial quake, the three
operating reactors at Fukushima Daiichi
automatically shut down. However, 41
minutes later the tsunami burst through
the plant’s defences, flooding the reac-
tors. Over the following days, emergen-
cy systems failed and the reactors melted
down. Hydrogen gas was released, trig-
gering explosions in the reactor build-
ings which allowed volatile radioactive
chemicals to escape into the air and sea.
Unlike other radioactive contaminants
to come from Fukushima, plutonium is
different. It is not volatile so it is harder
for it to escape from a nuclear reactor dur-
ing a meltdown. But it is thought, in the
case of Fukushima, the force of the hydro-
gen explosions propelled out some pluto-
nium in the form of particulate matter.
Plutonium can be extremely harmful.
When it decays, it releases heavy particles
such as electrons and helium nuclei – not
particularly dangerous outside the body,
but if ingested can cause genetic damage.
The team analysed soil samples for
different plutonium isotopes produced
during the course of the power plants’
nuclear reactions. And for the first time,
detected traces of plutonium-241, which
has a half-life of about 14 years.
The additional plutonium exposure
from inhaling this loose plutonium is
five times higher than the government’s
current estimate for exposure from the
accident. But the health risk is less scary
than you might assume, as the average
person on Earth receives much greater
exposure over a 50 year period from
natural sources of radiation.
Lead author of the study Jian Zheng
estimates that the total amount of pluto-
nium-241 released from Fukushima was
about 10,000 times less than that from
the 1986 Chernobyl accident in Ukraine
– making these recent findings particu-
larly interesting. The distances at which
the plutonium was found suggest that it
was ejected during the hydrogen explo-
sions in the first days of the crisis yet the
relatively low levels indicate that the
heavily shielded concrete casings around
the reactors did offer protection from the
worst of the fallout.
Independent work such as this is par-
ticularly important because, as reported
in Nature last week, mistrust in the gov-
ernment in running high among Japa-
nese residents. And although clean-up of
the immediate site could take four or five
decades, studies like this are key for pro-
viding residents and evacuees with the
information they need to get their lives
back to normal.
DOI: 10.1038/srep00304
Plutonium found far from Fukushima
Emma Houghton-Brown
Sophia David
Want to write for
Felix Science?
Email us.
Sampling sites around the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant (DNPP)
Nature
“
”
Our data are the
last genetic piece
we can gather for
this puzzle

