A note from the Editors
W
hen Mark Pincus founded
Zynga (named ‘Presidio
Studios’ at the time) in
April 2007, only a small
proportion of the relatively
fledgling Facebook user base were aware of the
transformative impact ‘social’ would have on
their digital lives. Even less appreciated was its
application to online gaming, a pastime thought
to be the reserve of a generally derided stereo-
type. But last year Zynga accounted for 12%
of Facebook’s total revenue, and a quick look
at the monthly active user (MAU) rankings for
Facebook apps places Zynga way out in the
lead with 240 million, six times the figure for
second place. So where did this company come
from, and what are its plans for you?
A company founded five years ago next
month naturally hasn’t had a lot of time to gen-
erate much of a ‘history’. Mark Pincus (age 46)
on the other hand, has. After getting his MBA
from Harvard, he started the technology com-
pany Freeloader with a $250k loan in 1995.
Seven months later he’d sold the business for
$38 million, announcing himself as a player in
the evolution of the web 1.0. However, not ev-
erything Pincus touched turned to gold.Among
his failures can be counted tribe.net, a social
network he started at age 37 that never took off.
But the big break came when, in 2007, along
with friend and technology investment power-
house Reid Hoffman, he invested in the social
sapling Facebook.com. This put Pincus on a
collision course with Mark Zuckerberg (Face-
book co-founder) and at the heart of the social
revolution that would, not uncontroversially,
transform all of our digital lives irreversibly.
In his five years at the helm of Zynga, Pincus
has played the role of the quiet revolutionary.
Mark Zuckerberg has had his own Hollywood
film made in his (arguably ‘dis’) honour while
the late Steve Jobs (Apple co-founder and
CEO) was never one to hold back praise of his
own products. Through all this, Pincus focused
on the quality of his products at the expense
of his public profile. This approach paid divi-
dends. When Zynga released its first product
in July 2007, (a poker game for Facebook us-
ers) it ushered in a new age of free high quality
games. Before Poker Blitz (since replaced by
Texas HoldEm Poker), free online games were
more often associated with poor Java applets
on addictinggames.com, miniclip.com and the
like. Zynga were the first to change all this. In
comparison with Apple’s iOS app store, to-
day’s most ready supplier of free digital games,
Poker Blitz was launched almost a year earlier.
Zynga has never stopped growing. Attracting
an investment of $29m early on in its life and
recruiting big names from the gaming industry
(notably Bing Gordon, former Chief Creative
Officer of EA) propelled it to produce hits
such as FarmVille, CityVille and Words with
Friends, to name but three. Expanding across
Google+, Myspace and Yahoo! and generating
enormous valuations year on year culminated
in the company going public in December
2011, following a $10bn valuation in April
of the same year. However, this action forced
Zynga’s hand, revealing a lot of informa-
tion about the company that had been closely
guarded up until that point. For instance, only
2.5 per cent of its users paid for virtual in-game
goods. This was enlightening to other players
What is Zynga up to now?
FELIX
Friday 16 march 2012
16
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Technology Editors: Chris Bowers
Feroz Salam
TECHNOLOGY
of companies who could, and do, offer what
Zynga currently provide, and Facebook has no
qualms about tapping that resource. At present
for Zynga, there’s only one worthwhile social
platform, but while they dominate that market,
they can only grow in tandem with Zuckerberg
and co’s gaming user base.
But has all that just changed? On 1 March,
2012, an overhaul of Zynga.com – first an-
nounced five months earlier – finally arrived,
introducing the ‘Zynga platform’. The press
release describes this as a “new platform de-
signed to bring players what they’ve asked
for: new ways to play and more people to play
with”. This in no way severs Zynga’s strong
and valuable Facebook ties. What it does offer
is a route to Zynga’s vast community of online
gamers, without the Facebook intermediary.
It also boasts enhanced connectivity and user
interaction within games, and with what could
effectively become a quasi-newsfeed dedi-
cated to your gaming-sphere, you can quickly
see how broad and future-proof a move this is
on Zynga’s part. It deftly sidesteps a five year
tie-in deal with Facebook (signed in 2010), for
which most of the details are withheld, while
at the same time tapping into a 800 million
strong user base it has invested little effort in
cultivating.
So now we play the waiting game. Zynga’s
continued success will rely on it building an at-
tractive social environment tuned as much to
its users as to its games, accessible through mo-
bile and desktop. Much akin to Apple’s success
in building a digital ecosystem where hardware
and software are seamlessly integrated, Zynga
must look to blur the line between social and
gaming. By drawing in customers on these two
fronts, it can create a product not only for the
avid gamer, but for the masses. This must be its
next step in expanding the portion of its user
base driving revenue. Regardless of their suc-
cess up until now, just as EA, Activision, and
Blizzard missed the boat on social gaming 1.0,
Zynga could well lose the race to dominate sec-
ond time round. However, with their announce-
ments this month, they don’t look to be going
anywhere just yet.
Apple: reviewing our reviews
Two weeks ago, on this very page, Feroz reviewed
the latest Macbook Air. The review itself was fair,
balanced and overall very positive about the lap-
top. However, this has been tarnished somewhat
by the hoops we had to jump through just to get the
review out to print. The article itself had been writ-
ten and finished three weeks prior to publication,
but we couldn’t print it until two Apple employees
had read through and approved the review. Their
approval was based on the criterion of there be-
ing nothing overtly critical said about Apple or the
product itself. That is stifling.
As the review was generally positive, we passed
through this process, albeit not swiftly. Thankful-
ly, no change was required - the words you read
were 100% Feroz’s. Principally though, that’s not
the point. What would have happened had the re-
view been more critical? It feels like we are being
pressured to write a glowing review – more like an
advert than a critique – just to be able to get it in
these pages.
Perhaps you think this sounds unfair – after all,
Apple did provide us with the laptop, trusting us
with equipment it values at over £1,000. You don’t
need us to tell you that Apple is a popular compa-
ny – it’s going to have students buying its products
left, right and centre; it doesn’t necessarily need
our publicity. Based on this, what right do we have
to criticise its goods?
This isn’t how we see it though – and nor do
other companies: we haven’t had our work pass
through pre-publication scrutiny from other hard-
ware manufacturers. We feel that companies
should be confident enough in their products to
run the ‘risk’ of a bad review. Should a company
fear negativity from a newspaper article, perhaps
it should proactively improve the product; pour its
heart and soul into the project so it’s as good as it
can be. The popularity of the Apple brand however,
would suggest this has already been done, and
that it doesn’t need to fret over student journal-
ism.
Don’t get us wrong – we fully respect and wel-
come any company’s right to respond. That is,
should we print an article or review that the in-
volved company feels is unfair or inaccurate, and
can factually prove as such, we would be happy
to retract our comments. We strive in this section
to bring you accurate and interesting journalism –
we have no desire to slate a company or product
based on preconceptions.
It seems to us then, that Apple has taken this
a step too far. It is a very brand-conscious com-
pany, so it seems fair that it wants to protect that
brand image. However, we feel there needs to be
some trust in a situation such as this – there’s
a fine line between making sure people don’t at-
tack your brand unprovoked and dictating peoples’
opinions. Unfortunately, we feel this particular ex-
ample falls on the wrong side of the line.
Joshua Maxey looks at the past and present of Zynga
in the industry who saw a chink in Zynga’s
armour. Away from all the preposterous MAU
figures, there was only a small proportion of
the gaming community bringing Zynga its
revenue. Overcoming Zynga’s near monopoly
swiftly became a mission to win round a por-
tion of the user base who valued game quality
over loyalty. And with details of Facebook’s
near-preferential treatment of Zynga coming
to light at the same time, competitors were not
short of motives to topple the social gaming gi-
ant either.
Cue Zynga’s next big move. Having firmly
established itself as the industry’s game chang-
er (pardon the pun), it is now on a mission to
become for gaming what Google is to search,
and Facebook to social. In 2007 Pincus joked
that Zynga “[are] a fly on Facebook’s ass”. It’s
certainly true that while Zynga brought in a
lot of revenue for the social network last year
(around $445m), but to really innovate, at some
point it must fly the nest. There is a plethora
“[Zynga is] now on a
mission to become for
gaming what Google is
to search“
Zynga are responsible for many of the most popular games on Facebook

