of a special approach to Africa that
began with colonialism – it is an in-
fantilising attitude that says that Afri-
cans are helpless without the West and
moreover that Africa’s problems and
their solutions are uniquely simple.
So simple that even, say, a four year
old American could understand them.
From this we come to the conclusion
that “we must do something”. So we
send T-shirts to Kenya and destroy
their local garment market. We spend
thousands of pounds to send some
A-level students to build a school in
Ghana, and take jobs from locals. We
buy some Kony 2012 bracelets to pro-
mote intervention in a war we don’t
understand and risk civilian lives.
When we are ill-informed, “some-
thing” is absolutely not better than
nothing.
Those who buy the bracelets and put
up posters will never have to live with
the consequences of their demands.
But here we hit the heart of the matter
– the video was never about Africans.
It was about us, the West. A message
that we are uniquely privileged and
powerful in this world. That by simply
posting or retweeting we are “making
a difference”. I don’t doubt that those
involved have genuine intentions, but
their efforts are unlikely to do more
than make them feel good about them-
selves and have untold consequences
in central Africa.
Some good may yet come from Kony
2012. The fierce backlash it promot-
ed from development experts means
that more people are questioning the
motives and methods of charity cam-
paigns in general. If it encourages
viewers to take an interest in the LRA
and read around the issue, it may well
create and intelligent level of aware-
ness. But neither of these was the
intention of Kony 2012. In so far as
it succeeds in its own goals, the cam-
paign is likely to be harmful.
Film making can and should play
a powerful role in raising awareness
of strife in other countries. A great
example of this is Channel 4’s Sri
Lanka’s Killing Fields which focussed
on interviewing those involved in
the country’s civil war and using raw
footage of the conflict. It managed to
be both a powerful call for change and
an intelligent, realistic account of the
war while maintaining the dignity of
those affected. Invisible Children, on
the other hand, chose simplification
and Mumford & Sons. The public and,
more importantly, the LRA victims
deserve better.
I
f you’ve been online at all in
the past week, chances are
you’ll have seen Kony 2012,
a 30-minute video about the
Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA)
in central Africa made by the char-
ity Invisible Children, officially the
most viral video in the history of the
internet. But along with the inevita-
ble memes, the criticisms came hard
and fast. You will likely have heard
that the charity has dubious finances,
spending just 30% of its income on
projects in Africa, much of the rest on
publicity. But this isn’t why we should
be concerned by the success of Kony
2012. Now a week later, we can re-
flect on a video that was dangerously
simplistic, misleading and ultimately
deeply patronising to Africans. This
article explains why.
It is the year 2007 and alien visitors
arrive to Earth. An American citizen,
George, needs their help. He shows
the aliens a video entitled Bin Laden
2007. They see the terrible events in
New York in September 2001. They
see airborne steel slice through tall-
standing concrete, they see the dust
cloud envelop New York, they see the
misery and destruction, pain and an-
guish; all created at the order of one
man – Osama Bin Laden. Why did
he do all of this? “He hates Ameri-
ca,” comes the reply. The aliens are
moved. They want to help. Surely
they can do something for the poor
people of New York? And what about
Bin Laden? “Your alien firepower can
help us bring this man to justice, dead
or alive.”
We all know how the aftermath to
9/11 turned out. We know that, con-
trary to what the aliens might think,
New York is back to being a thriving
major city – those dust cloud images
are simply out of date. We know that
while Bin Laden was unmistakably
vile, “He hates America” just doesn’t
explain terrorism away – it’s more
complicated than that. We know that
vastly superior firepower, alien or not,
does not make capturing the leader
of a rebel organisation easy, not least
when they can hide in unfamiliar ter-
rain in a foreign country.
We now know that it took billions
of dollars and two wars to finally kill
Bin Laden. We now know that simple
analyses of hostile groups, however
vile they may be, are dangerous. We
know that foreign interventions do not
come without significant civilian ca-
sualties. So now, in 2012, have really
we failed to learn this lesson?
In a word – yes. The similarities be-
tween Kony 2012 and America’s re-
sponse to 9/11 are as clear as they are
disturbing, a perfect marriage between
Bob Geldof and George W. Bush. Just
like Manhattan, northern Uganda is no
longer a war zone – the LRA left over
6 years ago, a fact brushed over by
Kony 2012. As with Bin Laden, Kony
cannot be explained away as an anom-
alous evil, Like Al Quaeda, the Lord’s
Resistance Army exists because the
political situation allows them to – in
the LRA’s case, a complex mix of land
issues, political rivalry and religion.
Just as fighting the “War On Terror”
meant collaborating with some very
unpleasant regimes (like Egypt and
Saudi Arabia) so too would the remov-
al of Kony (the president of Uganda is
all but a dictator).
War on Terror analogies aside, the
video fails to reflect the reality on the
ground. It is simply not the case that
“nobody cares” about the LRA. Amer-
ica has already sponsored two military
strikes against the group with the in-
tention of killing Kony. One resulted
in the deaths of eight Guatemalan spe-
cial forces. And no Kony. The other,
in 2008, resulted in an LRA backlash
against civilians with 1,000 killed and
500 children abducted. And no Kony.
Does this mean that military interven-
“Like Geldof mixed with Bush”
Africa finally gets what its always needed: a bunch of trigger-happy white American students
tion can never work? No. But it does
mean it is very complicated and un-
predictable. It can also have terrible
consequences.
America currently has 100 military
“advisors” working to help the Ugan-
dan army to track down Kony. They
have been there for just 5 months
without the need for a Facebook
campaign and there has been no sug-
gestion by the Obama administration
that they will be withdrawn. And yet
the video urges pressure on the White
House to keep them there. Why? They
offer no explanation.
Thirty minutes of YouTube was never
going to suffice to tell the complete
story. But the problem with Invisible
Children isn’t that they failed to tell a
detailed story, it’s the very story they
chose to tell. It is a centuries old story
of a helpless, childlike Africa at a loss
without “our” help. It is a story that
must stop.
Watch Kony 2012 and the first thing
that jumps out to the politically cor-
rect among us has to be this – why
so few Africans? It is supposed to be
about Africa, after all, and yet so much
of the video is taken up by not just the
white American director but his four-
year-old white American son. Most of
FELIX
Friday 16 MARCH 2012
18
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Politics Editors: Rajat Jain
Joseph Letts
POLITICS
Rory Fenton argues Kony 2012 is not just stupid – it sets a dangerous precedent
Moving On
An American Analogy
The African Reality
An Attitude Problem
the interviews are with white Ameri-
can policy makers and activists, with
just two Ugandan politicians (briefly)
and a former child soldier making up
the African contingency. But this is a
West-focussed video because it has a
West-focussed message; the LRA’s
continued existence is because we in
the West don’t care enough but “make
Kony famous” and he can finally be
brought to justice. This is wildly de-
luded.
Let’s be clear – Africa is not gov-
erned by quantum mechanics. It
doesn’t need us to look at it to exist.
There are amazing local people work-
ing within their own communities to
confront the LRA. But more impor-
tantly, Africa’s problems are at least
as complex as those in the West. Af-
ter all, we still have desperate poverty
in London, we have problems with
our health system and kids who fail
to learn basic literacy at school. We
should never give up trying to tackle
them but we acknowledge the lack of
a simple, one-size-fits-all solution and
we rely on experts to guide us. There
is no reason to assume Africa’s prob-
lems to be any less difficult. Not in-
tractable, just difficult.
So why the different standards for
Africa? Why was Kony 2012’s mes-
sage so opposite to what we would
want for ourselves or, say, the Middle
East? We are seeing the continuation

