POLITICS
FELIX Friday 16 MARCH 2012 19
“Bling-Bling” or “Flamby”?
Isaid Benitez-Cabral takes a look at the choices facing the French people at the Presidential Elections
F
ive years have passed since
the last presidential elections
took place in France in 2007,
which saw the centre-right
populist Nicolas Sarkozy
beat the centre-left Ségolène Royal to
become the sixth president of the Fifth
Republic. The presidency of France is
up for grabs once again and will be con-
tested in two rounds on 22 April and 6
May. In 1981, the French people chose
left over right and booted out the un-
popular incumbent. It is not unrealistic
to think that we could see a replay of this
unusual situation in the upcoming elec-
tions.
François Hollande, the centre-left
Socialist Party presidential candidate,
has been ahead in the polls for the past
five months. Hollande’s ideas appeal to
many in France, but critics point out that
he has never held government office and
doesn’t possess the charisma a presi-
dent should exhibit. In his manifesto, he
vows to introduce higher tax rates for
high earners, scrap tax breaks and create
60,000 new teaching posts. In February
he proposed a 75% marginal tax rate on
incomes above 1,000,000 euros, which
is higher than Sweden’s top marginal tax
rate. This was a bold step and a change
from his earlier proposed marginal tax
rate of 45% on incomes above 150,000
euros. In January he announced, “My
true adversary does not have a name, a
face, or a party. He never puts forward
his candidacy, but nevertheless he gov-
erns. My true adversary is the world of
finance.”
Shortly after the February tax pro-
posal, Hollande visited London, where
he sought to rally the support of the
300,000-strong expatriate French com-
munity residing in the British capital,
the majority of whom voted for Nicolas
Sarkozy five years ago. He met with La-
bour leader Ed Miliband and the shadow
cabinet and gave a speech at King’s Col-
lege to supporters and students. David
Cameron, however, turned down his re-
quest for a meeting.
The British Prime Minister has made
it clear that he supports the incumbent
president – in an interview with Le Fi-
garo he called him “a brave politician’”
and stated that “Nicolas Sarkozy has my
support, I say it clearly”. The presiden-
tial candidate came under attack dur-
ing his five-year term for his perceived
immodesty and flamboyant lifestyle,
leading to the moniker ‘bling bling
president’. Some think that he used his
private life to strategically divert media
attention from political issues, for ex-
ample when he announced his divorce
from longtime wife Cécilia on the same
day as one of the first strikes against his
reform program unfolded.
His merits include pushing through
economic reforms in the wake of the
financial crisis and an assertive foreign
policy. He led the successful military
intervention in Libya and strengthened
relations with other European coun-
tries, in particular with Great Britain –
on military relations and collaboration
on civil nuclear energy. The dynamic
duo of the German Chancellor Angela
Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy, known as
‘Merkozy’, tackled the Eurozone crisis
with zeal. Merkel said earlier this year
that “I support Nicolas Sarkozy across
the line as we belong to friendly (politi-
cal) parties”.
Although Cameron and Merkel have
backed the French president’s re-elec-
tion bid, it is the French people who get
to decide whether he can stay or not.
François Hollande is not the only oppo-
nent in the first round. Marine Le Pen,
president of the right-wing National
Front, announced on Tuesday that she
had secured the backing of 500 elected
officials, required to be able to stand in
the presidential race. She is popular –
according to an ifop poll 16% of French
people support her, which makes her the
third horse in the race. She finds support
among traditionally rightwing voters and
increasingly among the unemployed,
who support her anti-immigration, Eu-
rosceptic and protectionist policies. The
National Front’s appeal has increased,
owing to the current economic crisis and
the softer image projected by a young
and polished Marine Le Pen.
The other presidential candidates
include François Bayrou of the cen-
trist Democratic Movement, who came
third in the first round in 2007 – he is
now fourth in the ifop poll with 13% of
French people intending to vote for him
in the first round. Jean-Luc Mélenchon
is a left-wing candidate who has been
polling 10% support. He was originally
a member of the Socialist Party, but
broke away and founded his own party
Front de Gauche (Left Front) in 2008.
On Tuesday, after five months in the
lead for François Hollande, polls indi-
cated a reversal of fortunes for the first
round, with 28.5% of French people
supporting Nicolas Sarkozy and 27%
supporting François Hollande – only
last week the situation was the other way
round. The polls give Hollande a com-
fortable lead for the second round.
Nicolas Sarkozy attended a mass rally
this week where he announced that the
Schengen treaty that permits free move-
ment of people between European states
had to be renegotiated, otherwise he
would pull out of it. He also proclaimed
a protectionist ‘Buy European Law’.
This can be seen as trying to win back
Between a rock and a hard place: I don’t envy the French people
votes from Le Pen supporters. This
could lie behind the bump in support
seen in Tuesday’s ifop poll. He is not
one to cede to triumphalism, at least not
yet.
The opinions of students are, however,
varied. One Imperial student I talked
to is not enthused by this year’s presi-
dential campaign and complains that
‘France is going straight into a recession
and they are debating on whether the
meat in supermarkets is halal or not’. He
says the solution is to see through and
continue with the policies introduced
by Sarkozy – here he emphasizes that
he doesn’t approve of Sarkozy – and is
afraid that the election will effectively
amount to a referendum on Sarkozy and
not the result of a battle of ideas. Anoth-
er French student is considering voting
for Hollande and approves of his support
for small and medium enterprises, which
she says would promote innovation, and
above all is wooed by the theme of so-
cial justice in his campaign.
“The British Prime
Minister has made it
clear he supports the
incumbent”
Reuters

