Lolcat of teh week
And so we reach the last issue of term. I’ll
avoid the whole “it’s getting nearer and
nearer exams shtick” and instead give you
the lowdown on some of the treats from our
bumper Easter issue.
For starters, take the Felix Sexism Survey
at felixonline.co.uk/sexism. Then, why not
take a trip to Page 11 for the return of the
Felix Easter Egg Review?
Finally, the Spring Issue of I, Science is
out now. If you haven’t picked up your copy
from the Felix distribution bins, get on it!
Editor
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2012.
Editor-in-Chief Matthew Colvin Deputy Editor Charles Betts News Editors Sophia David Alex Nowbar Reporters Keir Little Maciej Matuszewski Aemun Reza Features Editors Katy Bettany Stephen
Smith Sports Editor Indy Leclercq Sports Rookies Gabriel Oppetit Johnny Wong Science Editors Kelly Oakes Alexander Karapetian Business & Finance Editors Will Prince Deepka Rana Politics Editors
Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Technology Editors Chris Bowers Feroz Salam Comment Editors Tim Arbabzadah Samuel Horti Arts Editors Will Prince Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Mark England Ross Gray
Simon Hunter Íñigo Martínez De Rituerto Alex Ramadan Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen Alice Yang Television Editors George Barnett James Simpson Film Editors John Park Lucy Wiles Games Editor
Laurence Pope Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Food Editors Anastasia Eleftheriou Michael Krestas Travel Editors Dushi Arumuganesan Chris Richardson Online Editors Chris Birkett Philip Kent
Jonathan Kim Puzzles Admiral James Hook Photo Editor Miles Robertson Copy Editors Carol Ann Cheah Iulia Gherman Philip Kent Jonathan Peek Annina Sartor Nick Whiteway Christopher Witham
Simon Worthington
Just so we’re clear, Felix accepts no responsibility
for services bought or sold, capiche? Good.
What’s on PICKS OF THE WEEK
Going out in a blaze of glory
The Sex Survey results were too much to handle
HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
Friday 16 MARCH 2012
2
CLASSIFIEDS
It’s the last issue of term and all, so I’d advise
against sending any urgent classifieds in at this
stage. We’ll be back on Friday 4 May, so if you
want to put something right here in this column
around that time, then get in touch!
It’s free and easy. All you need to do is email fe-
lix@imperial.ac.uk.
Insights into China’s
energy future
A Grantham Special Lecture by Dr. Yang Yufeng
of the Energy Research Institute (ERI) of China’s
NDRC, and Ajay Gambhir of the Grantham Insti-
tute. China will have a major role in the future of
the energy sector. Registration in advance, con-
tact g.gayer@imperial.ac.uk for your free place at
this event.
Lecture Theatre G34, SAF
South Kensington Campus
20 March 17:30-19:00
Nature and Society
Professor Martin Scheffer explains the remark-
ably abrupt changes that sometimes occur
in nature and society – and whether we can
predict why and when they happen. Contact
g.gayer@imperial.ac.uk to register your place.
Lecture Theatre 331, Huxley
Building,
South Kensington Campus,
22 March 18:30-29:30

