I’m sat on a couch at The Beans Group head
office, waiting to interview its founder,
James Eder. I’ve been there only a matter
of seconds and I’m already finding myself
forced to adjust my expectations. The men-
tal images evoked by the word ‘office’ cer-
tainly weren’t matching the scenes before
my eyes. As Heart FM gently filled the room
(that I later discovered to be referred to as
the Beanstalk) employees scoured computer
screens, tapped furiously or, as a few were
doing, discussed what I could only deduce to
be this week’s EastEnders. I can’t purport to
be a regular when it comes to ‘office tours’,
but this was certainly not what I envisaged.
The Beans Group is best known for stu-
dentbeans.com, the brainchild of the 29 year
old James Eder. A business that actually
sprung out a final year project during his time
studying at Birmingham University, James,
along with his brother, put their savings on
the line and set off to made a success of it.
Seven years on, studentsbeans.com is now
a nationally recognized brand that receives
700,000 visitors to its website a month,
a fact that swells Eder with pride. “I can’t
write songs, I can’t sing,” he admits, “but
if you’re walking down the street and you
hear someone singing a song you’ve written,
how awesome a feeling is that? We’ve cre-
ated something that has made a difference,
that last month just got over 700,000 visitors
coming through to the site, and if you re-
moved it from the world, in theory 700,000
people would notice it disappear. It’s really
this excitement that keeps me personally go-
ing, and similarly for the team.”
The thought of building a customer base
of 700,000 in seven years would make any
budding entrepreneur baulk but Eder down-
plays his successes as he explains to me the
company’s 25 year vision. Better known as
the BHAG (pronounced bee-hag) – the Big
Hairy Audacious Goal – is for The Beans
Group to touch 100 million people everyday,
a target that James feels keeps the company
progressing in the right direction. He draws
on the example of NASA engineers who, in
getting a man on the moon, worked purpose-
fully to achieve something that excited and
inspired them. This in turn trickles down and
defines the working environment as one in
which work is done with real enthusiasm
and enjoyment, two characteristics that are
both seen in the atmosphere at The Beans
Group.
Clearly well read in the business of busi-
ness, Eder backs up his experience of start-
ups with the words of Vue Cinemas founder
Tim Richard: “it’s a combination of luck,
wind and timing. You need to be in the cer-
tain place, but the wind needs to be blowing
in the certain direction, and also at the right
time. It’s not about luck, but when fortune
meets opportunity, things come together”.
Eder certainly seems to know about for-
tune meeting opportunity. He recounts to
me the occasion when internally they de-
cided to contact Acorn, the company that
powers Virgin Experience Days (similar to
Red Letter Days), with a view to opening up
a working relationship. Minutes later, hav-
ing left the office, he’s standing on platform
at Golders Green, the location of the Bean
Group office, that James is the first to admit
is not the centre of the world. Waiting for
the tube, he gets chatting to the person next
to him. Asking what he does for a living, the
stranger turns and replies “You know Virgin
Experience Days? We’re the company who
organize those…” All this, as James points
out, within the space of ten minutes. “You
couldn’t make that up, I feel like I’m in The
Truman Show sometimes.”
Whilst that story seems purely down to
chance, you get the sense that James is the
kind of guy who makes his own luck. He
tells me about the dark early days of stu-
dentsbeans when, for the first four years,
working 18 hour days was not unusual. In
the face of abuse from shop owners in Shef-
field or intimidation from competitors on
FELIX
Friday 16 MARCH 2012
20
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Business & Finance Editors: Will Prince
Deepka Rana
BUSINESS & FINANCE
In brief
Felix Business recommends...
Six books to fill those poolside,
Easter holiday moments
Spilling all the beans
the streets of Birmingham, James has re-
peatedly picked up his head and powered on.
In fairness, as admirable as James’ ex-
ample of persistence and application is, it’s
nothing unconventional. In every sphere of
life, hard work, generally, results in reward.
However, James has clearly meditated long
on the science of business and his seven
years being his own boss have given him an
impressive ability to view business in a very
stripped down form. When I finally ask him
for some advice for budding entrepreneurs,
his answer is far from conventional.
“Could you imagine if everyone goes out
and randomly speaks to one new person ev-
ery day? Just something random and stupid
and small, that gets people talking. People
do business with people. Who in your net-
work who you’re close to but have never
met yet could be that person who could help
you in the future? Whether its getting a job
or being business partners, you just never
know. And that’s the point of the story about
the platform in Golders Green.”
The point is simple, it’s more of a lesson
in life than in business, but at its core sits
something that’s key for anyone who wants
to get on in the world of work. Moreover, it
strikes me as something that would be par-
ticularly potent at Imperial, given our vast
resources of intellectual capital and appar-
ent lack of any sense of community. If only
the candidates in the presidential election
held such simple yet progressive ideas, we
might yet see some real change for the bet-
ter.
Will Prince
“You get the sense that
James is the kind of guy
who makes his own luck”
We speak to studentbeans.com founder James Eder, who takes
the time out to teach us a short lesson in business.
Full of beans – James Eder
The Naked Leader –
David Taylor: Hailed to
contain the formula for
guaranteed success,
straight from the cel-
ebrated lifestyle guru
himself.
Too Big To Fail
– Andrew Ross Sorkin:
Scene-by-scene narra-
tive of what brought
about the financial cri-
sis and its key players.
The Moral
Sense – James Q. Wilson:
Exploration of the source
and developemnt of peo-
ple’s sense of morality.
Take note Goldman Sachs
interns...
Good to Great – Jim
Collins: In-depth analysis
of what allows both oust-
anding and mediorce
companies to stand the
test of time and achieve
greatness.
Kiss, Bow, or Shake
Hands – Terri Morrison,
Wayne A. Conaway, and
George A. Borden: The
definitive guide on how to
do business across the
globe, the one-stop hand-
book to avoid appearing
on an HSBC advert.
What You See Is What
You Get – Alan Sugar: We
dont think the title is iron-
ic unfortunately.

