Paolo Strampelli
Uniquely this year the competition was
reformatted into a Dragon’s Den style.
Each team had to present their product
or service to the panel of dragons with
a business plan. After scrutinising the
teams, the dragons decided which idea
was most worthy of investment. Our team
of dragons this year consisted of a profes-
sor from the business school, a careers
advisor and two of SIFE’s own business
advisors.
The competition this year was an over-
whelming success, which is amazing
considering a city wide teachers strike
forced teams from half of the schools to
forfeit the competition. In spite of this
the remaining teams performed admira-
bly receiving nothing but praise for their
outstanding presentations and innovative
BUSINESS & FINANCE
FELIX Friday 16 MARCH 2012 21
Graduates from the University of SIFE
T
he Insight Into Business
Program (IIB) works close-
ly with secondary schools
throughout London to im-
prove the financial literacy
and business acumen of young students
today.
High unemployment rates amongst
young people today is a continuing prob-
lem within the UK. With the high costs
of college placements and the low num-
ber of apprenticeships and jobs on offer
young students are facing an increasingly
complex financial world with fewer and
fewer opportunities available. Socially
disadvantaged youth are particularly af-
fected, thereby perpetuating a vicious
circle of poverty and social exclusion. It
has become all too apparent that young
students today are rarely given the chance
to learn about business and finance thus
shrinking a potentially lucrative avenue
of opportunity. Insight Into Business is a
project dedicated to providing the knowl-
edge and skills necessary to allow young
students to create their own success.
It has been said that an individual be-
comes an entrepreneur through the ex-
perience of actually going out and trying
to start a business. Through a number of
specially designed and highly interactive
workshops we provide the fundamen-
tal knowledge and experience necessary
to encourage students to become more
entrepreneurial and give them the confi-
dence to go out into the world and start a
business of their own.
The program runs every year through-
out the autumn term. Our workshops are
typically divided into three sessions that
are delivered on a weekly basis. Each ses-
sion aims to provide an overview of a key
fundamental aspect of the business devel-
opment process.
Each year the program culminates in
a competition in which teams from each
school are set a business related task and
then come to Imperial to compete. This
year students competed to create a prod-
uct or service that would best take advan-
tage of the London 2012 Olympics.
products/services. One such idea, a new
Olympic based Smartphone app, was so
good that certain members involved in
the competition had considered actually
creating it.
IIB is entering its third year of opera-
tion and it is a very exciting time. With
two years worth of experience IIB has
established itself as one of the big pro-
grams currently undertaken by SIFE. Fu-
elled by the success of the last session we
are now looking to expand. We are cur-
rently working with organisations such
as STEMNET to promote IIB and attract
many more schools into the program.
In order to facilitate the higher number
of schools we will naturally need a larger
team. We at IIB are currently looking for
passionate and committed individuals
who are looking to get really involved in
a worthwhile project.
All the work we do is London based so
this is the perfect opportunity for anyone
who is looking for community/ volunteer
work. Also, for anyone thinking of join-
ing the CV2012 award scheme next year,
this will count towards your mandatory
thirty hours. This is also naturally a per-
fect opportunity for anyone who is look-
ing to improve their teaching skills.
There are a number of new initiatives
we are looking to implement for this
coming year to ensure the program runs
smoothly.
A new hierarchy system will be intro-
duced with a larger number of roles of
responsibility being created. This will al-
low the more experienced IIB members
to provide support to new members more
effectively and ensure a smooth transition
when the program is handed down each
year.
This is also a great opportunity for any-
one looking to enhance their CV. From
leadershipandteamworktopresentations,
this program will provide numerous op-
portunities to enhance your transferrable
skill set. Furthermore, our new merit sys-
tem will give members the opportunity to
progress within the project, so work hard,
show us your passion and commitment
and you could end up running the project.
There will be an induction session held
later in the summer term giving an over-
view of the plans for the coming year and
the different roles available. Additionally
we are planning a formal training session
to help everyone with their presentation
and teaching skills.
This is really an amazing program to be
involved in, so if you are interested just
send an email to james.pearle08@impe-
rial.ac.uk and join us in our effort to help
the youth of today help themselves.
SIFE’s Insight Into Business Program aims to teach kids through hands-on experience writes Michael Xiao
The Felix artist’s impression of the judging panel
Are you a Student Upstart?
that students should be presented with
the opportunity whilst still pursuing
their studies.
So, last year they started by offering
an accelerator designed for students still
in full-time education looking to start
a company in the tech, media or tele-
coms industries. At Imperial College,
these sectors account for most of us!
For around 8% equity in their startups,
these student-founders received up to
£15k investment and are entered into a
13-weeks hands-on program. Industry-
specific mentors provide guidance on
clearing the hurdles that often put off
first time entrepreneurs: incorporation,
share structures, taxes and accounting.
And it has caught on even more than
they had imagined – “the response we
have gotten from the students accepted
into the program has been fantastic. In
the coming weeks one company is head-
ing off to Stanford to showcase its work,
and two are currently working on final
applications to Y Combinator,” says
Christian. This is all the more impres-
sive when you realise that there are only
three companies in this current cycle,
with a target of 10 to 15 for this summer.
When asked about why they got in-
volved and decided to set up UpStarts
Matthew is clear in his beliefs, “For me
it’s because when I was studying soft-
ware engineering I saw the potential of
the super-bright coders but there was no
support from the university.” Matthew
studied Computer Science at Durham.
“Then again at business school – all en-
trepreneurial sounding but not one les-
son on sales or how to set up a company.
And the winners of the business plan
competition got £10k but that was use-
less without further support/network.
That’s what pissed me off. I’ve worked
for the corporates and I just found them
too restrictive and slow moving.”
Christian points out similar flaws
in the UK system, “The best students
aren’t offered help from their universi-
ties and so look at the big corporate jobs
in consulting and banking instead, tell-
ing themselves ‘I will do a startup later’.
The problem is, before you know it, you
will have a mortgage, wife and kids and
a tough time trying to start a company.
However, as a student, you are in the
best position to start something with
next to no risk attached. Absolutely
nothing is holding you back.”
The UK has four of the top ten univer-
sities in the world (QS World Rankings
2011/12) and one of the greatest and
most diverse urban centres – London.
However, until very recently, there has
been a huge gap in the market for a ven-
ture that backs student entrepreneurs.
Which, when you think about it, makes
little sense.
That scene is now starting to change.
University entrepreneurial societies
have been growing organically. In ad-
dition, last year the Prime Minister an-
nounced that any higher institute with-
out such a society would be assisted in
its establishment by the end of 2012.
With the European debt crisis, there is
clear government support to back entre-
preneurship as a driving force of creat-
ing new jobs and reducing unemploy-
ment. In this coming budget, the UK
government is set to announce a new
investment option for business angels,
the Seed Enterprise Investment Scheme.
Through this, they can get up to 78% of
their investment deducted from their in-
come tax. Meaning it has never been a
better time to be an Angel investor, and
therefore, the best time to seek out these
Angels.
So what’s next for Students UpStarts?
Right now the current batch of compa-
nies are incorporated and being men-
tored by strong, relevant mentors as well
as getting exposure to Business Angels
and VCs, while networking into the
London start-up scene and they are lov-
ing it. In the summer this could be you.
Christian and Matthew are currently
in the process of getting office space for
the summer startups around Shoreditch
and the Silicon Roundabout, home to
the new Google offices (and more hip-
sters than you have ever seen before!).
If this sounds like something you want
to be a part of, applications opened this
week and you can apply online at www.
studentupstarts.com. The brilliant part
is, your company can still be at the idea
stage. So what’s your excuse to not ap-
ply?
You can stay up to date with Student
UpStarts on Facebook, on Twitter
@studentupstarts, or by dropping
an email to contact@student-
upstart.com.
What do Steve Jobs, Bill Gates and
Mark Zuckerberg have in common with
each other? Apart from being incred-
ibly successful businessmen, all began
their companies during the period that
they should have been in college - and
all dropped out to do so. Indeed, a look
through more recent history gives nu-
merous examples of Americans who
have also begun their great adventure
while still at university.
It is harder, though not impossible, to
find a similar list of Britons who have
done the same thing. But this simply
means there is a clear opportunity to
find such people within our university
system and not wait for them to caught
up in the corporate life on graduation.
Step forward, Student UpStarts.
Student UpStarts is a relatively new
accelerator that sets itself apart by being
focused entirely on students. Founded
by Christian Jakenfelds and Matthew
Stafford – both former Imperial students
(Christian studied Biochemistry and
Matthew graduated from the business
school with an MBA) - they realized

