FELIX
Friday 16 MARCH 2012
22
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment Editors: Tim Arbabzadah
Sam Horti
COMMENT
FELIX
T
he Overseas Societies Com-
mittee is the arm of the Im-
perial College Union which
both looks after the interests
of and manages all of the in-
ternational societies present at Imperial.
With a current strength of 38 societies un-
der our watch, the total membership that
comes under the OSC amounts to a stag-
gering figure of 2126, making us one of
the largest Management Groups around.
The line-up of events for the OSC this
year witnessed the inauguration of the
OSC World Summit and the International
Festival entitled ‘The Melting Pot’, along-
side our staple events which included the
OSC Football World Cup and the Inter-
national Night. Apart from Management
Group level activities, a large number of
constituent societies also very enthusiasti-
cally stage their own annual cultural per-
formances to showcase their tradition and
heritage in an emphatic style.
It may seem like a no-brainer to an out-
sider that the international scene at Impe-
rial College London should be one that
is flourishing and thriving in light of the
highly cosmopolitan make-up of the stu-
dent community. However, the flowery
picture I have painted in the first paragraph
is simply a façade which hides an unset-
tling truth behind it. In reality, the OSC is
suffering from a declining spiral which is
threatening its very existence. A deeper
probe into the situation uncovers several
fundamental issues international societies
are facing, as I shall depict below.
First, Union policies have been struc-
tured to not support activities which in-
volve food. Sadly, food is sometimes
one of the most effective ways of sharing
various cultures and traditions with one
another and it is not surprising that the in-
ternational societies are suffering beacuse
of this.
Second, arguments which are usually
put forward by other Management Group
Executives point to the fact that certain
cultural shows are profit-generating,
hence they should not receive financial
support from the Union. Little do they
realise that they have gotten the order of
cause and effect horrendously wrong. The
progressive cuts in the budget of the OSC
has driven societies to increase their ticket
prices year after year, with the minimal
profit they generate channelled back to
finance events involving food (which they
receive absolutely no grants for) or donat-
ed generously to a charity in an attempt to
benefit the community around us. More-
over, we should also understand the main
source of this ticket income: it comes from
the very pockets of international students
like myself who attend several shows a
year in support of fellow international stu-
dents, with the damage usually amounting
to around £50 by the end of Spring term.
Third, on top of the worrying problem
of a shortage of funding, international so-
cieties are further slapped with huge fees
for running cultural performances. The
cost incurred amounts to £2500 on aver-
age, of which approximately £2000 is at-
tributed to lighting and sound equipment
hire from Dramatic Society, and approxi-
mately £500 is attributed to the charge by
the Conferences & Events office for the
Great Hall hire. While the figure for Dra-
matic Society’s services may seem like an
excessive amount, charging to hire an au-
ditorium within the school which we pay
fees to attend seems a rather ridiculous
policy in my opinion.
What I have described is simply the tip
of the iceberg. These persistent problems
have severely undermined the activities
and events within the OSC. Even the in-
auguration of two new large-scale events
in the form of the OSC World Summit
and the International Festival failed to re-
invigorate our quest to increase funding
for the OSC. The Management Group
took hefty cuts for the third consecutive
year, which saw us drop to a funding lev-
el of £4186 for the upcoming academic
year. This figure reflects the largest per-
centage drop amongst all Management
Groups and Faculty Unions, and the cur-
rent amount stands at a worrying 60% of
the funding level back in 2009/10. With
some simple mathematics, each member
within the OSC is given, on average, a
£1.97 grant for a full academic year. In
my opinion, these figures seem to have
some stark resemblance to poverty statis-
tics quoted in many reports. Such is the
sorry state of the support that the OSC
currently receives.
In the past few weeks, this issue has
been surfaced by several key leaders and
election candidates within the Union.
Comparisons have been made between
the £4186 received by the OSC and the
approximate amount of £15000 received
by a 60-member-strong Gliding club. It
is heartening to know that there are stu-
dent leaders who understand our con-
cerns, and it is the hope of the interna-
tional community that there will be more
amongst the student population who will
lend their ears and appreciate our plight.
There are exemplary models around in
other Universities to draw comparisons
to. The One World Week at Warwick
University is an annual extravaganza
aimed at celebrating the diversity of the
student population through forums, de-
bates, discussions, parades, performances
and a large host of sports and games. This
event is by no means an easy task for
IC’s international scene
volunteers to organize, but it is without
doubt impossible to put in place with-
out ample support from the University.
Glancing over to our close neighbours at
King’s College London, international so-
cieties get their College theatre venue for
performances at negligible running costs,
including light and sound equipment.
International students who are aware of
such discrepancies in funding within our
College can only yearn for equal levels
of support to those provided at other
Universities, and we are left to reflect on
the absence of the true international ex-
perience that Imperial had promisingly
looked to offer. It is the duty of not just
the student leaders, but all members of
the student community to stand up on this
issue so as to curb the degradation of the
international scene at Imperial.
It would be foolish to expect changes
to happen overnight, but it is time for us
to rally together to lift the international
scene to the dizzying heights that it is
potentially capable of reaching. More
importantly, my use of the word ‘us’ in
the previous sentence refers not just to
international students but local students
as well, for the benefits of improving the
international scene will have far-reaching
positive effects for the entire student
community. Local students will stand
to gain from a more holistic experience
of the plethora of cultures and traditions
that international students represent, right
here in their home country. Other con-
comitant positives include improvements
in satisfaction surveys, advancement in
University rankings, and even possibly
the boosting of our reputation to become
one of the most prestigious institutions
where the best minds from all over the
United Kingdom and the world assemble
to study, work, and play in a warm and
inclusive cosmopolitan environment.
It is a dream of many of us that one
day every student who walks through the
gates of Imperial College London can say
that he or she has had a truly international
experience at this world-renowned estab-
lishment. But it is only if everyone works
together that this dream can be achieved.
Do your part, and stand up for our cause!
Want to show
yor support
for the OSC
from the com-
fort of your
own home?
Head over to
felixonline.
co.uk to get
your voice
heard.
Wenjun Er
Felix, unlike many other student publi-
cations, enjoys editorial independence.
This grants us the ability to criticise
the decisions of the Union and College
without interference in the publication
process. Other universities have, for
example, sabbatical positions in place
within their unions, undertaking the
role of covering communications within
the union. This could cover all manners
of media; television, radio, and indeed
the press. Felix, on the other hand,
does not have a sabbatical officer en-
ter the office just before the printing
deadline, looking to remove a quote
that doesn’t tie in with the Union’s own
stance.
Last week Felix ran a comment piece
which called into question the editorial
independence of Felix. This article led a
significant number of people to believe
that College had directly intervened in
the production process of Felix a week
prior to this. I would like to take the
opportunity to reassure readers that
the decision to run or not run articles
remains solely an editorial decision,
with editorial independence remaining
entirely strong. The reasoning in the
case detailed was the result of poten-
tially serious inaccuracies, something
that I feel, as an Editor, should in turn
be taken with the utmost seriousness.
It is certainly right that we have the
ability to hold those who represent us
to account when the evidence is en-
tirely clear. Felix thrives on responsible
journalism and investigations, bringing
light to the student body relevant and
pertinent behind-the-scenes. The com-
ment section, while promoting opinion
and debate, should in no way court li-
bel or defamation when it could threat-
en the responsibility invested in Felix
by its editorial independence.
Once again, I apologise for any con-
cern caused with regards to the rela-
tionship that we hold with both the Un-
ion and College. Investigative reporting
must be encouraged, but what is being
reported must be scrutinised before
we can make anything from grandiose
claims to the smallest of statements
to the most heated tête-à-tête with the
Union. Even when under the banner of
opinion, we cannot allow claims against
institutions to go unchecked. Perhaps
future successors will disagree, but
diving in to expose a story without, for
example, having the hard evidence to
back it up, is not the way that it works.
Independence Days and
Felix
Does the international scene need to reach
explosive new heights?

