COMMENT
FELIX Friday 16 march 2012 25
There aren’t enough intellectuals
T
he world is ruled by ag-
gressive simpletons. We
have all met jobsworths
and nice guys, people
who run things according
to the first thing that comes into their
head, rather than thinking it through.
The first example of this I came
across in the political arena was the
monarchy debate. There are a number
of British people who describe them-
selves as republicans, many of whom
complain bitterly about the royal fam-
ily. This seems to include a dispar-
aging tone about the members of the
family themselves, what they do or are
perceived to do, the constitutional po-
sition they hold, and perhaps even how
that position fits into the running of the
British state. All of these things are de-
lineable, but are never separated in the
debate. Added to which, what repub-
licans think it should be replaced with
is at least as unclear. An elected head
of state? How will they be elected,
and by whom, and how often? Royal-
ists are frequently no better. They do
not complain of course, because they
have their way. But rarely, if ever, do
they put forward a coherent set of rea-
sons for retaining a hereditary monar-
chy. So the debate, such as it is, falls
apart – or never really starts in the first
place. It just becomes a raging torrent
of abuse from republicans up against
slight bewilderment from royalists.
The NHS reform bill disagreement
has many of the same characteristics.
We have an elected government who
are doing what they have said they
will, but in a way that is making a lot
of people bleat furiously. The bleating
may be perfectly correct and justified,
although we will not know that until it
is far too late. As with most govern-
ment policy, it is probably going to be
a mixture of success and failure that is
all too murky to pick apart. Certainly,
we cannot tell exactly what will hap-
pen, not least because the NHS is far
too big and complicated to be readily
predictable. The anti-NHS-reform-bill
campaigners do seem to include quite
a lot of medical professionals, but de-
spite their undoubted intellectual abil-
ity, they have failed miserably at put-
ting forward any coherent argument
against it. Their poster campaign is
a perfect example: a picture of a pho-
togenic woman physician and a strap
line about a high percentage of medi-
cal professionals being against the bill
because it will destroy the NHS.
Even if it will destroy the NHS –
which seems unlikely, frankly – why
is that the best way of getting the point
across? Yes, the attractive female
medic makes it look better, but why
should she, or others at her level in
the organisation, be seen as knowing
what will and will not work in a public
service health care system? To put it
another way, why should a junior doc-
tor be in a position to run the NHS?
Compare it to the idea of a train driver
being in charge of a railway or a post-
doc running a University. It is just not
realistic. More than that, there is no
coherent argument from the self same
people about what should be being
done with the NHS. The opposition to
the bill has become a stroppy barrage
of loathing for both the proposal and
its proponents.
As I say, they may turn out to be cor-
rect, but I think it is more likely to be
only partly correct at best. In any case,
surely, in order to deal with this be-
nighted legislation in an effective way,
the opposition to it needs a coherent
and well-articulated set of arguments.
Medics are not stupid people, why are
they not fighting this on intellectual
grounds? I cannot see why taking an
intellectual approach would be ill-ad-
vised, provided you had lucid reason
on your side, whether it be politically
left, right or down the middle. But
perhaps I am not intellectual enough to
see its short-comings.
Samuel Furse
L
et me ask: what have you
personally done to prevent
rape recently? If you’re a
man, the answer is hope-
fully “not raped anyone.”
If you’re a woman, the answers will be
many: avoiding dark places at night,
avoiding walking alone, taking a taxi
rather than public transport, not making
eye contact with people in the street,
keeping away from groups of men or
calling a friend to make sure that they
got home safely. This is only consider-
ing the relatively rare case of people
being raped by strangers in the street,
compared to the much more common
crime of being raped by someone you
know or someone you’ve just met in a
social situation, which requires its own
preventions: not getting too drunk, not
taking drugs at a party, watching one’s
drink, and avoiding going to social
events without close friends. Men read-
ing this might be shocked at such mea-
sures: surely all of that’s not necessary?
It is. Rape, sexual assault and harass-
ment happen. In 2006, the UK saw
85,000 rapes – around 230 per day. Of
these, less than 1% led to a conviction.
Of children aged 13 to 18, 33% of girls
and 16% of boys have suffered from
some form of sexual abuse. In total,
15% of women are victims of rape at
some point in their lifetime, and it is be-
lieved that 85% of rapes go unreported.
Think about those numbers for a mo-
ment: someone you know, likely sev-
eral people, has been raped or sexually
Just a joke?
assaulted. You may not know about it;
they may not talk about it, but it hap-
pens.
This brings us to our infamous Hang-
man article for two reasons, the first of
which is rape culture. Even disregard-
ing the abysmal rate of conviction noted
above, you may be thinking “rapists
are hated by society, how can there be
a ‘rape culture’?” Rape culture is not
a culture of rapists or one that glori-
fies them, but a culture that downplays
or even disregards the effects of rape.
It’s the idea that women who dress pro-
vocatively are “asking for it;” the idea
that a woman who’s sexually active or
doesn’t fight back is “secretly enjoying
it;” the idea that if someone does walk
through a dark place at night, they “had
it coming to them.” No one deserves to
be raped. These ideas blame the vic-
tim for something that isn’t their fault,
and in doing so, they take some of the
blame away from the rapist. The tactics
for preventing rape may well be good
advice, but they do not constitute blam-
ing someone who fails to follow them:
if I leave my door unlocked, it is still
the burglar’s fault if my TV gets nicked.
Similarly, no one believes that people
will read Hangman and then date rape
someone, or condone someone who
does. Each joke like that, however, con-
tributes to a culture in which rape isn’t
something serious, but something to
be laughed at: where victims of a hor-
rid crime are ignored or dismissed, and
where criminals are seen as, “oh, those
silly rapists!” It leads to a culture in
which rapists aren’t brought to trial or
convicted; where victims are afraid to
report that they’ve been raped and peo-
ple raped by their partners can’t even
turn to the police for help, because it’s
believed that such a thing simply can’t
happen. This is rape culture, and it is
everywhere, even here at Imperial.
Secondly, given the statistics above,
think how many people here are victims
of rape or sexual abuse. Think of how
many people there are reading this ar-
ticle now, and who read Hangman on
the 10th of February. Rape is a traumat-
ic experience, which can cause long-
term distress and damage to sufferers.
Descriptions of rape, especially those
Humour and context are linked in obvious and less obvious ways
Rape culture is not
a culture of rapists
or one that glorifies
them, but a culture
that downplays or
even disregards the
effects of rape.
”
ards the
ards the
pe.
pe.
“
Rape c
Rape c
a cultu
a cultu
which present it in a trivial, humorous
light, can trigger anxiety and panic at-
tacks in victims. Do we really want a
newspaper distributed to over 13,000
students doing that?
On some level, there’s a time and
a place for every joke: you might see
me, for example, playing a game which
trivialises violence and makes fun of
people blowing up. You would not see
me, however, laughing at such a thing
in the context of any real war or shoot-
ing. What’s the difference between this
and rape jokes? In our society, with rape
so prevalent, there is no such thing as a
context that’s removed from rape. Un-
til rape has stopped completely, it’s not
“just a joke.”
Keir Little

