Gilbert & George, an eccentric duo even by
the standards of the London art world, estab-
lish the ultimate vision of a dark, murky, sort-
of-foggy London. As the ghostly reporters of
the ghastliest news stories to hit the capital in
the past years, with the London Pictures they
have created a body of work which should
electrically shock even the most cynical of
us. The London Pictures provide the means
for entering a reality separate yet reflective of
our own. I may never have known anyone in-
volved in a “100 FOOT DEATH PLUNGE” or
been present at a “MAYFAIR NIGHTCLUB
STABBINGS” but whatever, they happen.
They happen all the time, even though we pay
little attention to them, reading about them in
the rush of the grimy Tube or wherever, they
just pass us by, unnoticed. This is the differ-
ent world which Gilbert & George, impartial
heralds, have carefully collated and which we
can now see in impeccable crispness, despite
the tenebrous subject matter. Humour is every-
where, if only because some of the headlines
are absurd to the extreme. The Queen features
prominently – imagine a stamp image of the
Queen with the word “THIEVES” or “STAB-
BINGS” floating above her head. Who knows
if this is meant to be some sort of true politi-
cal statement about the monarchy in a country
where monarchic ideals are still so heavily in-
grained or simply taken as a joke. The whole
thing is in some ways a big joke; the show has
opened in four galleries at the same time (one
of these in Hong Kong) and, being perhaps a
prime example of the commercial nature of the
art world, you might feel predisposed to hate
it. I urge you to rethink that initial gut feeling
and immerse yourself in Gilbert & George’s
mad London – they will certainly make a kill-
ing. So what? They deserve it.
Gilbert & George London Pictures at White
Cube. Entrance free.
FELIX
Friday 16 march 2012
26
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal
ARTS
Eva Rosenthal
Rocio Molina Atienza
Lucian Freud Protraits is a monumental exhi-
bition, revealing the life-long strive of the artist
to capture the mystery of human flesh. Freud,
from his beginnings one of the greatest artists
of the 20th Century, has struggled with his
art, learning and challenging himself up to his
death last summer at the age of 88. Until then,
he had been working closely with the National
Portrait Gallery to prepare this exhibition;
one of the painting was left unfinished, its strik-
ing incompleteness proof of his energy.
Dramatic tension tinges every single one of
his paintings, an undercurrent of conflict that
brought about by the awkward positions of the
body, the unnatural perspectives or the violence
of his brushtrokes. One wonders whether the
sitters he chose were troubled themselves or
whether it was Freud’s own vision that impreg-
nated his paintings with drama.
His early painting possess a unnatural flatness
and a obessive precision that echos old Flemish
artists. Portraits of Kitty Garman, Freud’s first
wife, are dominated by her huge absorbing
eyes, which resemble the females populating
the paintings of Paul Delvaux, pupils dilated as
a result of belladona. Freud deliberately depicts
surreal cartoon-like figures who appear trapped
in their own, flat, world.
Showing some flesh
The bold brustrokes and the myriad of tones
that mark Freud’s style do not appear until the
1950’s during which time he started to develop
his fixation on the human body. ‘Woman smil-
ing, a portrait of Susy Boyt’, marks this transi-
tion: her skin has texture and feeling, and we
can perceive the bone structure that supports
this skin. This is one of the few paintings Freud
did where the subject is smiling.
Freud’s talents now unleashed a powerful
whirl of skin tones and thick brushstrokes that
seem to sculpt rather than paint human flesh.
Frank Auerbach’s portrait is a beautifully craft-
ed piece, were the sitter appears to emerge out
from the canvas. Auerbach was a close friend
of Freud and Francis Bacon, all three of whom
were significant figures of the School of Lon-
don movement in the 80s which revindicated
figurative painting and tried to bring it back to
the art galleries.
Halfway through the show, there is a dras-
tic change in the size and magnificence of the
pieces. The last rooms contain inmense can-
vases, which cover the walls with voluptous
flesh. The encounter between Freud and Leigh
Bowery lead to one of the most thriving stages
of Freud’s career. Leigh Bowery was a perfor-
mance artist whose hefty body and physical
awareness inspired Freud. Bowery introduced
to Freud to his most well-known muse, Big
Sue. Her massive body nurtured Freud’s obses-
sion with flesh and its changeable nuances.
Freud Portraits will remain in the memory
of all of those who go to see it, a mark hard to
remove if ever that was desirable. Worth going
twice if you have the chance.
Lucien Freud Portraits at the National Por-
trait Gallery until 27 May. Tickets from
£14.
The National Portrait Gallery
Freudian slips into something more...
Lucian was on the whole disappointed with the results of his diet regime
“He looks like Michael Douglas”, we thought.
How little we knew.
His lectures made us think,
And his voice made me quiver.
Tutorials were never a chore,
And when your eyes bore into me,
As you demolished the logic of my argument,
I so wanted your...
Approval.
Always devil’s advocate,
But somehow we understood where you really
stood,
Outside Sherfield with your cigarette.
We knew we were less important than nicotine,
But we wanted to be more.
So eloquent in your explanations,
You almost made Plato sound reasonable.
An intellectual giant,
And surprisingly tall.
Greg:
A liberal, cerebral hearthrob.
Michael Douglas has nothing on you.
GILBERT
& GEORGE
IN LONDON
TAKEOVER
The Poet’s Column
Felix Arts is constantly
looking for new poets.
If you want to see your
work appearing here, do
get in touch.
Ode to Greg Artus
by Anonymous
Bread’s dreadful
Wet chewy dough, damn.
Wowwowwowwow.
Strands of mozzerella.
It’s soaking wet
It’s bland
and it’s a thousand miles away from anything
called focaccia
let me tell you
you’re an airhead
who’s got her head stuck in the clouds.
this is business.
Poems about Gordon Ramsay
Freshly hand picked and delivered from
http://gordonramsaypoetry.tumblr.com/
“immense canvases,
which cover the walls
with voluptuous flesh”

