MUJI decided to create the Product
Fitness 80 exhibition. The exhibition
aims to reflect MUJI’s willingness to
educate themselves and ourselves by
renewing our own adequacy and fit-
ness, as their message to the world.
Walking into the Product Fitness
80 felt like taking a step into Japan.
MUJI have a special ability to pre-
serve Japanese culture at its best with
everything they touch and this was
also shown in the exhibition. Less
is more. With small measures it was
easy to see how they revalued the way
we use things and how those items are
manufactured. One good example of
that is the ‘towel with further options’
– by giving the towel segments it
could be cut and changed for its pur-
pose. If the towel has a stain, it can
easily be transformed by using the
path of the segments and cut it into
another size. The ‘box cutter 80’ was
another good example, by decreasing
the distance between the break-off
sections, the blade will last longer and
each blade will be sharper more times.
Small changes with a big impact, that
makes us stick to our objects longer.
If you want step in to the world
of Japan and understand how MUJI
think, don’t miss out on this opportu-
nity.
Product Fitness 80 shows at the
Design Museum, until March 18.
ARTS
FELIX Friday 16 march 2012 27
Blame it on the MUJI
The events that took place on 11
March 2011 in Japan were a wake up
call for many people. 20,000 died and
hundreds of thousands were stranded
without homes. This major disaster
served as an eye opener for Japan: it
made people appreciate the everyday
things that surround us and those mo-
ments that make up day-to-day liv-
ing. The earthquake raised questions
about the increasing concerns around
excessive consumption of goods and
sustainability.
“Eat in measure and defy the doc-
tor” is an old Japanese saying – by
eating moderately or stopping be-
fore we feel completely full we reap
health benefits. The key to health is to
eat the adequate or fit amount; if we
reduce our measures from 100% to
80% we will create a joyful, balance
and healthy life. This saying was the
inspiration for the Design Museum’s
latest exhibition Product Fitness 80.
MUJI has always intented to design
products that are truly fit for their
purpose. Monozukuri, is a Japanese
word for craftsmanship. For MUJI it
is just that, making products wrought
with craftsmanship. With their mini-
malistic approach, even MUJI felt
their need to renew their definition of
monozukuri, to be in harmony with
society and the Earth. This was why
Emma Laurin
Fluent on Paper
This Sunday 18 March from 7pm
Open-mic poetry at The Builder’s Arms
(just off Gloucester Road)
INVISIBLEPOETRY F / invisiblepoetry T / @invisiblepoets
The cost-cutting decision to construct open toilets in one corner of the exhbition was not widely welcomed

