V
ARSITY 2012 VIII
SQUASH WOMENS RUGBY
IC Captain: Stephen Wall
2011/12 has been a disappointing season for
IC squash, after the departure of almost all of
the players who took the 1st team to 4th in the
country two years previously. The 1st team looks
as though it will be relegated in both ULU and
BUCS, as other universities have been able to
strengthen while Imperial have been unable to
replace players like former world No.2 Peter Mar-
shall. The 2nd team has been more successful
in a weaker league, finishing mid-table in BUCS
and aiming for promotion in the final match of the
ULU season, a winner takes all fixture against
RUMS 1st team.
With the season almost over, all that remains
is to defend IC’s honour at Varsity, having won
comfortably against the Medics for the last two
years.
Lineup:
TBC
Medics Captain: TBC
TBC
Lineup:
TBC
IC Captain: Yasmin Edwards
Lineup:
Alice Lieberman
Amy Humphreys
Catherine Lu
Charlotte Hewitt
Esther Liew
Fanny Dehaine
Gemma Singer
Heather Grant
Julia Aubert
Juliette Chupin
Lana Lee
Laura Bellamy
Lize Xia
Lucy Olliff
Rosie Elsmore
Siri Luthman
Yasmin Edwards (c)
Medics Captain: Katherine Fok
Joint season report: A later season start organised by BUCS saw our fisrt fixtures to be the UH 10s
Tournament. Having won all the group games, we were unlucky to lose by 1 point through a converted
try, to GKT in the dying seconds of the final.
The regular season kicked off with a rocky start. Having brought only 11 players to a ULU Cup
game against UCL (who play BUCS in the league above us), we have now grown to a squad of over 30
thanks to the appointment of our coach Danny Badham in January, and the wonderful cameraderie
of the team.
Other highlights saw a tense rematch agains Kings College London. We had lost by a wide margin
earlier in the season but we were narrowly defeated 20-17 having led by two tries for most of the
second half. An amazing testament to the effort and imporovement of all the girls. This leaves us
poised to finish off the season 2nd in BUCS and 3rd in ULU.
With a squad ranging from Freshers to Fifth Year Medics, this was the year we were looking for-
ward to playing the first full length Varsity fixture. However, our last match of the season will see us
play GKT in the BUCS Cup Final also on the 21st of March. Having just played as team united, our
tired selves will split up after the Cup Final into Imperial Medicals and IC teams to play one last burst
of 10s, in true Varsity spirit.
Lineup:
Amani Chowdhury
Ellie Stewart
Evelyn Thangaraj
Helena Lee
Jasmin Hodgson
Katherine Fok (c)
Michell Gatter
Mona Theodoraki
Ran Xiong
Sammy Gottardi
Sarah Burns
Seetha Muthalagap-
pan
Wakana Teranaka
Wei Ren Lau
WE’RE
GOING TO
VARSITY TOO
Just because this is the last issue of term doesn’t mean that we don’t want to cover
the sporting event of the year...
Felix embraces the technological age and provides you with liveblogging from Harling-
ton through the day. The latest scores. The latest action. felixonline.co.uk

