Kadhim’s totally hot
album of the week
MUSIC
FELIX
Friday 16 March 2012
30
music.felix@gmail.com
Music Editors: Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Ross Gray Mark England
Alex Ramadan
Simon Hunter
P
OCA is formed of Poca (vocals),
George Karpasitis (guitars), David
Horler (bass) and Jack Paint-
ing (drums). They have collaborat-
ed with Sophie Frankford (violin),
Midori Jaeger (cello) and Elin Klingfors and
Txako Jones (backing vocals).
Anastasia: How did you get the initial moti-
vation to form POCA?
George: I was probably three years old, when
I decided to become a singer. After that, it did
not take very long to realise, I needed songs to
sing and a band to play with. I started to write
songs when I was thirteen. I came to London
in September 2010, to become a professional
musician. I came to London to find my band.
And now we have POCA.
A: What kind of music do you usually play
in your performances?
G: We play original songs. Sometimes we top
it off with a nice cover. I don’t like to label the
music we create. I just know what my beliefs
are. They lay in magic and wonders, in colours
and dark skies, in moons and stars, in beauty
and love. That is what I bare in mind everytime
I write; everytime we jam.
A: Do you compose music as well?
G: Yes. That is all I do. Every day gives me an-
other melody to work on. When a new melody
is starting to make sense, I add lyrics to it or
vice-versa and take it to the rehearsal. All the
magic happens then. We arrange the songs to-
gether.
A: From where do you get your inspira-
tions?
G: I like to walk a lot, seek for inspiration.
It manages to find me everytime. The streets,
the people, the cafes, the lights, the colors, the
moon taking a swim in the Thames - all that
makes this vibrant city. These are the reasons
for me to write another line. Last week I found
inspiration in a traffic sign.
A: I am sure that you lead very busy lives as
students and recent graduates. How many
hours a week/a day do you spend on re-
hearsing and performing?
G: Yes, that is true. We all have to work non-
music related jobs to support ourselves and
that makes everything a bit more complicated.
However, I really do believe in the saying, that
If it is important you will find a way, If not,
you will find an excuse. POCA is important.
We rehearse when we can. Regulary on Sun-
days, sometimes for a couple of hours, other
times seven hours.
A: Tell me all the details of your next per-
formance. I believe that many Imperial
students would love to spend a music night
with you.
G: And we would love to share our music with
many Imperial students. Our next performance
is on the 4th of April, at The Comedy bar , in
POCA’s poppy atmospheres
Leicester Square. Watch our space in Face-
book for more information closer to the date
(facebook.com/POCAandthecaptains).
Meanwhile, we are participating in the Live
and Unsigned 2012 competition. Our second
round took place on the 11th of March.
A: What are your future plans for POCA?
Ge: We have only just completed recording
our first EP, which will be released very soon.
In the meantime we will be performing in ven-
ues in and around London and possibly some
festivals this summer. We will keep on being
inspired and writing more music, until there is
nothing left for us to write.
Since this interview took place, POCA have
made it through to the London semi-finals of
Live and Unsigned 2012 (congratulations!):
check their Facebook page for details.
You can’t read my P-P-P-P-POCA face
Anastasia Eleftheriou finds even traffic signs can inspire
Rama’s Hip-Hop
Tune of the Week
In an attempt to redeem myself for last week’s
poor no-show this week I’ve upped the ante and
bringing you a whole mixtape.
A month ago Drake was the only Canadian
hip-hop artist I knew of, and judging from a
quick Wikipedia search my knowledge hasn’t
expanded much, however I recently had the
good fortune to come across Shad. I love old
school hip-hop beats and so it would appear
does Shad, his social awareness and general
rapping style remind me a lot of Common’s
older material, all of which make his music
pretty awesome.
‘Besides’, released in December, is a mix of
some of the features he has done over the past
years. It is one of the best mixtapes I’ve heard in
a long time. It’s available for free download on
his website www.shadk.com so I suggest you
go get it.
Shad
‘Besides’
Listen at http://spoti.fi/FelixRevision
Nine weeks until final year exams; boom, let’s
get down to revision. Samiyam, play me in with
‘Cushion’ – the bass means business, my new pen
and ‘revision folder’ mean business too.
That’s how revision plans start: with vigour.
But things calm down pretty quick. ‘Terrapin’,
from Bonobo’s debut album, and Gold Panda’s
attention-grabbing remix, ‘Before Tigers’ are
emblematic of how quickly determination turns to
oblivious relaxation.
Six weeks until final year exams; the whistle
from Kool and the Gang’s ‘Funky Stuff’ gets you
back in gear. Hell, you’ve even got this new spot
in the library where you actually slip a few minutes
of focus into those long meaningless, unproduc-
tive hours. A couple of tracks down the line you’ve
got ‘Camel’ by Flying Lotus, a mesmerizing, metro-
nomic aid to study that might even trump ProPlus...
Four weeks until final year exams; fuck, it’s sun-
ny outside. ‘Ivy & Gold’ by Bombay Bicycle Club
is the sound of your douchebag art school friends
‘preparing’ for their crits in Regent’s Park; ‘The
Look’ by Metronomy is your mother calling you to
tell you how hot it is in Brighton, “you should come
down for the weekend...”; ‘Husks and Shells’ by
Volcano Choir? Sleep can’t come quick enough at
the end of the day.
Two weeks until final year exams; fuuuuuuuuuck.
It’s time to get serious. Sunlight ceases to be a part
of your life. The library starts to feel like the cold
streets of New York, with just as many crazies too.
‘NY Is Killing Me’ by Gil Scott-Heron and Jamie xx
starts to sound like it’s coming out of your heart
not your headphones. ‘My People... Hold On’ by
Eddie Kendricks begins to sound like your eulogy,
and ‘All My Friends’ by LCD Soundsystem, well I
hope I don’t have to explain.
One week until final year exams; the calm before
the shit hits the jet engine. You’ve fallen into a se-
rene daily rhythym, which either means you’re kind
of ready for your exams, or your soul has bailed
and run off with some Mexican chick with tattoos,
piercings, and the cool eyes of a girl who couldn’t
give a fuck about your parents’ expectations. This
is the final stretch of the playlist.
One day until final year exams; ‘STRESS’ –
Justice.
The day exams finish. The summer is here. Quit
working and cool out with ‘Quitters Raga’ by the
unimpeachable Gold Panda.
This is my last column until June; try not to cheer
too loudly. Thanks to David Trevelyan and Sophie
Baker for contributing to the playlist; sorry I didn’t
include your suggestions, Michele Tonutti. Tweet me
@kadhimshubber about music and I’ll tweet back x
This will turn your world upside-down

