Over the past ten weeks, I’ve tried to give an
insight into the wonderful world of post-hardcore
music. Hopefully I’ve achieved my goal in revamp-
ing the record collection of the old-timer P-H fans
and perhaps even converted some people previ-
ously sceptical about this incredible genre. How-
ever, the sad truth is that there’s probably very
few of you willing to read anything labelled “post-
hardcore” but for anyone that is, I urge you to read
this summary and listen to the bands mentioned,
you will not be disappointed.
Starting with the old favourites of post-hardcore,
we came across At The Drive-In with their drug-
induced weirdness and unpredictable live shows.
Next up was Refused, a hardcore band from
Sweden who fathered modern heavy punk. The
almighty Glassjaw came third with American met-
alcore heroes Every Time I Die following in week
four. Then we had The Fall of Troy and witnessed
Thomas Erak’s godlike guitar mastery. Week six
then saw a change of setting as I began to let you
into the UK post-hardcore scene and the amazing
bands it has to offer. Firstly there was funny men
Reuben and then the apparent vagrant-led Meet
Me In St. Louis bringing us up to two weeks ago.
We then had the ever-ranting Blakfish and finally
explosive trio Shapes.
All of these bands, while quite different are phe-
nomenal in their own way and I would strongly
encourage you to check them all out. On a more
specific note, you can find so many decent UK
post-hardcore bands if you just look around the
Facebook pages of Shapes etc. and I would really
recommend you do this because, in the words of
Blakfish, the scene is dead, and any underground
bands you find will really need the support that
you can give them. Don’t get me confused with
Lenny Henry though. I’m not trying to get charity
for these bands; the music they produce is as-
tonishingly good and any money they get is more
than well-deserved. These bands are constantly
touring and their shows (just like all post-hardcore
shows) are fucking awesome, just have a look
around and there will definitely be something you’ll
enjoy, normally in some terrible area of London
but the shows are definitely worth getting a little
bit stabbed for.
If you are a rich man however, something far
more appealing may be Sonisphere 2012 which
will have the newly reformed Refused as well as
Glassjaw playing Worship and Tribute in its en-
tirety. Unfortunately I will not be attending as the
pleasure overload would render me a deadman.
Finally, never stop listening to post-hardcore…
ever.
George Jeffery’s
A beginner’s guide to
post-hardcore
Final Lesson: Summary
MUSIC
FELIX Friday 16 March 2012 31
C
ontinuing my recent binge of
church-based gigs, last Sunday
I had a beautiful foray to The
Union Chapel to see Earth’s
tour, supported by Mount Ee-
rie and the pretty obscure French Canadian
Ô Paon. If you read my recent review of
Nicolas Jaar at Roundhouse, you’ll be well
aware that sweaty, active gigs are not really
my thing. As such, spending several hours sit-
ting in a cold church listening to some sweet
‘ATP’-presented music is pretty much ideal.
Sadly this review will likely lack in humour
as all the patrons were not absolute mugs, so
remained quiet and respectful throughout, as
it always should be.
Ô Paon opened the show, which she in-
formed us was her biggest ever. Her sound is
somewhat hard to describe but she reminded
me of a more singer-songwriter style grou-
per; intricately layered structures of delicate
guitar and vocals built up through extensive
looping. Her singing also made me think
in places of Braids’ Raphaelle Standell-
Preston, with long notes extremely full and
a playful vocal style. Numerous tricks were
employed to coax the full range of timbres
from her voice and guitar; she would turn her
head mid-note to produce a Doppler effect,
alongside not-so standard guitar practice
such as scraping her pick along the ridges
of the strings. All of the lyrics were sung in
French but this was in no way to her detri-
ment; it allowed you to focus more on the
melodies and layers she was creating. Be-
sides, I’m sure whatever her lyrics were they
were pretty great.
I was pretty excited for Mount Eerie’s slot,
mostly because I was hopeful he would play
some of his fantastic 2009 black metal in-
spired folk album Wind’s Poem. Upon open-
ing he immediately dashed my hopes, coming
out with a 12-string guitar and informing us
“This is all new material tonight”. Obviously
he stuck to his word and we were treated to
a set entirely consistent of tracks I had never
heard before. I can’t help but feel I ruined
Eerie’s set for myself by not paying atten-
tion; I’d assure myself that I would focus on
his deep lyricism (perhaps his strongest trait),
but instead ended up daydreaming every
track. He managed to get some interesting
sounds out of his guitar, and I did particularly
enjoy ‘House Shapes’, a track which opened
with 4 – 5 second blasts of atonal strumming,
each separated by piercing silence. All of the
new material was in a far more standard Ee-
rie/The Microphones style, with the two re-
leases penned for May and September.
The man who invented drone metal, Dylan
Carson, revealed no shocks with his band
Earth, now known for their “country doom” –
still slow, drawn out instrumental tracks, but
far less heavy than his massively influential
material (so influential that Sunn O))) named
a track after him). Earth played mostly from
their newest album Angels of darkness, De-
mons of Light II. In this incarnation, Carson
is accompanied by a bassist, drummer and
cellist. It was particularly interesting to hear
some old tracks (though nothing Earth 2 era)
such as ‘Tallahassee’ performed with the cel-
lo; for this track the cello was put through a
pedal that gave it an extremely deep, doomy
sound.
The (pre-encore) set was ended with ‘The
Bees Made Honey in the Lion’s Skull’, prob-
ably the highlight of the evening. Each mem-
ber of the band is extremely tight in their
playing, and everything is controlled per-
fectly – in this track, extensive use was made
not only of guitar feedback, but also cello.
This feedback was never the kind of raw idi-
ocy you would hear morons like Kasabian
(if they even use feedback, I haven’t listened
to them – just blindly assuming) idiotically
bashing out, it was carefully handled, subtle,
and surprisingly quiet. The cello’s feedback
provided deep, resonant bass, only noticeable
if you listened really carefully. These short
bursts of feedback were always followed by
a drop straight back into the grooves Earth
manage to develop in their generally 10 min-
ute upwards tracks. While it’s obviously not
what you would expect had you only heard
the drone metal albums, Dylan Carson is
still a musical force to be reckoned with and
I highly recommend that if you can, you try
and catch this tour at some point.
Samurai Jack rides an antelope for the Day of the Dead
Accurate representation of French Canada
Earth shattering performance
Ross Gray spends Sunday in a church... and enjoys it

