In Brief
Sexism forum held at Union
A forum on sexism at Imperial College was held on
Tuesday, with the intention of investigating the ex-
tent of sexism within the college as well as brain-
storming plans on how best to address it.
Earlier this term, a proposal to create a feminist
society was submitted to the New Clubs Commit-
tee, who rejected it on the grounds that it would
largely fill the same role as Women in Science,
Engineering and Technology.
In light of this and other recent issues, Deputy
President (Welfare) Nicolas Massie held a forum
for a general discussion. It involved short talks
from the Equality and Diversity Unit as well as
group discussions to answer questions, such as
those regarding the role of the Gender Equality Of-
ficer (a position few people know exists), the need
for and specific aims of a feminists’ society, and if
there is sexism and barriers to success for women
at Imperial.
The forum concluded that that a society should
be founded with the aims of raising awareness,
providing a safe space where people who have
been mistreated can go for help, and outreach –
promoting gender equality both at Imperial and in
schools and the wider community. Further details
will be provided when available.
Keir Little
FEATURE
4
Imperial take on BP Grand Final
Following the Regional Semi-Finals last month, two
teams from Imperial College have made it to the
BP Ultimate Field Trip Grand Final. The Grand Final
will take place in the Royal Institute on 8 May. Im-
perial teams make up two of the three teams com-
peting to win the prize of a 6-8 week internship in
Trinidad and Tobago in the Gulf of Mexico.
The first Imperial team to reach the final is C-
Less, which is made up of three third year Me-
chanical Engineering students: Zie Wearn Chua,
Zhi Xiong Chong, and Wern Chia Chang. The other
team is Global Intelligence Consulting which is
comprised of Dun Xiang Ang, Nicholas Kwok, and
Zhen Xiong Lim who are all in their third year of
MEng Chemical Engineering.
Global Intelligence Consulting spoke about their
win with Felix: “We are very excited to be in the
finals! The BP challenge provided a realistic plat-
form for us to put what we had learnt in Chemical
Engineering into use and we are really proud that
we had gone this far in the competition. We really
have to credit our success to the rigours of Chem
Eng […] as well as the support provided by our
lecturers. The final will be tough as it clashes with
final exams, nevertheless we will try our best and
do Imperial proud!”
Aemun Reza
Nicolas: Can you tell me little bit about
yourself?
Phillippa: I’m senior research fellow at the
centre for appearance research at UWE and
I’m a research psychologist who specialises
in body image and eating disorder prevention.
N: Tell me about the type of research that
you do.
I do a range of applied research. It’s all about
research which aims to have a meaningful
change rather than research for research’s sake.
I do a lot of different projects. At the moment
primarily my research is focusing on evaluat-
ing body image and eating disorder prevention
programmes in school and in universities, one
of which is the SUCCEED body image pro-
gramme. And I also do a lot of work looking
at the impact of media images and advertising
on people’s body image and a lot of advocacy
work as well. I am heavily involved with the
Campaign for Body Confidence, a campaign
set up by two liberal democrat MPs, bringing
together involved stakeholders to speak in the
Commons every couple of months.
N: Can you tell me a bit more about your
work with the SUCCEED foundation spe-
cifically?
P: I’m the head of research for the SUCCEED
Body mage programme, which is an evidence
based eating disorder prevention programme
that originated in the US around ten years ago
and was hugely successful in sororities. There
are now over eight years of evidence showing
success at improving body image and reduc-
ing risk factors for eating disorders. It has been
brought over to the UK and we are in the pro-
cess of rolling it out across UK universities,
evaluating how effective it is at preventing
eating disorders and improving body image. It
focuses on women at universities and is a two
session interactive programme. The great thing
about it is that university students are trained to
then deliver the programme to other university
students.
N: Do you have any figures on how effective
it is compared to traditional therapies?
P: Not at this stage in the UK but there is US
data that shows it is more effective than alter-
native interventions.
N: I understand that you are going to be giv-
ing a talk at Imperial in two weeks – what
would you hope to achieve?
P: The talk is part of a campaign. The aim of
this campaign is to raise awareness of body
image and eating disorders, with a particular
focus on body image and how it’s an issue that
impacts upon almost everyone and can affect
people across all key areas of living including
psychological and physical health but also so-
cial relationships, and how well people achieve
in academic stetting. It’s also to discuss social
and cultural influences that affect the way we
feel about how we look and some key tips on
evidence base and a good success rate in the
United States with improving body image
among young women. What individuals can
do is focus on what they like about their bod-
ies, including what it looks like, but also what
their bodies can do for them, trying to appreci-
ate the function of their bodies as well as the
way they look.
N: When should someone consider one of
these programmes?
P: This is a varied answer and it depends on
who you talk to. Taking part of the SUCCEED
body programme has been shown to improve
people’s body image as well as their mood.
From my perspective I would obviously rec-
ommend that everyone take part in the SUC-
CEED programme, especially considering
that over 75% of people are unhappy with the
way they look according to the figures that
we see in the research. I don’t think there is
a critical point anyone needs to reach before
they take part in something like that.
N: Would you say that there is a continuum
from body image issues to eating disorders
and body dysmorphic disorder (BDD)?
Would you say that they are connected?
P: They are connected but I wouldn’t say there
is a continuum. Eating disorders and BDD are
very complex illnesses that are determined by
a range of factors, biological, social and psy-
chological. Body image issues are a risk factor
for certain types of eating disorders but are not
the cause. It’s a lot more complex than that.
Not everybody who has body image concerns
will go on to develop an eating disorder and
how people can improve their body image.
N: A lot of people spend a great deal of time
thinking about their bodies, what they eat,
their exercise regime. Can you tell me when
this sort of fixation becomes a problem?
P: I think it becomes a problem when it starts
to heavily influence how somebody sees them-
selves and judge their value. If you spend so
much time working out in the gym that you
can’t finish your university assignments, or
have a happy, healthy social life, then that be-
comes a problem.
N: You said ‘if you can’t live a happy,
healthy social life’ it becomes a problem.
Would you say it becomes a mental health
problem?
P: Anorexia and bulimia are diagnosable men-
tal health conditions. Body image concerns
are when people negatively evaluate how they
feel about their own bodies and their appear-
ance, whether that’s how they look or how
they function. That’s not a clinical disorder
but there is lots of research over the past twen-
ty years that shows that negative body image
is a significant risk factor for anxiety and de-
pression, and for unhealthy relationships with
food and exercise.
N: You said it isn’t a medical condition but
are there any sorts of treatments or strate-
gies that those who want to improve their
body image could employ?
P: There are lots of effective programmes out
there, one of which is the SUCCEED body
image programme which has a very strong
features.felix@gmail.com
Features Editors: Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith
FELIX
Friday 16 MARCH 2012
All about body image
Dr. Phillippa Diedrichs, an expert in Body Image, gives a talk next week at Imperial. Depu-
ty President (Welfare) Nicolas Massie interviews her for those who won’t be able to make it
Dr. Phillippa Diedrichs delivers a talk at Imperial on Monday 19 March

