MUSIC
FELIX
Friday 16 March 2012
32
music.felix@gmail.com
Music Editors: Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Ross Gray Mark England
Alex Ramadan
Simon Hunter
Demdike Stare
Bristol hauntologists Demdike
Stare are bringing an intriguing au-
dio/visual incantation to the airs of
Islington.
Aesthetically, they take inspira-
tion from the dustiest moments of
horror movie history, recalling ques-
tionable religious practices and bo-
hemian liberation. -Their music may
well be the soundtrack to a latent
Halloween celebration deep in the
Amazon rainforest.
Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Union Chapel
Sunday 31, March
Imagine the strength in the voice of Adele, the soul
of Corinne Bailey Rae and the mellow vibe of Re-
gina Spektor in one artist. Ever since starting her
vocal career at the WOMAD festival in 2007, Sally
Archer has performed in many gigs around the
country and has recorded in Abbey Road Studios.
Her songs include a selection of heartfelt melodies
with beautiful piano and soulful guitar parts; and of
course the wonderful blend of her voice can’t help
but make you smile.
Sally’s first EP
, Wonder, was released last May.
The get-up-and-go title track has creative jazz-
influenced rhythms and a warm, bright feel, while
the beautiful ‘Gold’s Fool’ has a mellowness which
makes the passion in Sally’s vocals stand out. The
talent and charisma of her accompanying band of
musicians shine through particularly in the title
track and the last track, ‘Fearless’. Along with her
well crafted blues-influenced music, the stories in
Sally’s lyrics are deep, emotional and profoundly
honest. As an artist, Sally has also made the al-
bum artwork herself. Overall, the EP has a charm-
ing quality to it with a lovely mix of colours, moods
and sentiments.
Following her last stunning performance at The
Cuban Bar on Wednesday, Sally will be coming to
the Imperial College Union Level 1 to perform in a
live lounge along with other artists, which is kick-
ing off on Friday 16th March at 7pm (hosted by the
Imperial College Christian Union).
R
egular readers of my column
probably need little introduc-
tion to the label that I concern
myself with this week. Hyper-
dub has, with not a hint of exag-
geration, been the most influential electronic
music label to have come out of London in a
long, long time. Why then, you may ask, has
it taken me so goddamn long to dedicate some
prime Felix real-estate to the imprint? Well
Hyperdub is the music label equivalent of a
seven foot, teardrop-tattooed, switchblade-
wielding nut job: fucking intimidating.
This is the label that, in 2005, introduced
the world to Burial; the elusive and outland-
ishly gifted producer hailing from the same
South London school that produced Joe God-
dard (Hot Chip), Kieran Hebden (Four Tet)
and The XX. In all honesty, it was this man’s
most recent release that prompted me to write
this, and I could cover many columns in liter-
ary masturbation about the guy. But I won’t.
It’s eight years ago that Hyperdub released
its first record, and in those early days the
label was predominantly used by the owner,
Steve Goodman aka Kode9, to put out his
own material. Kode9 (often teaming up with
MC The Spaceape) makes dark, jungle and
dub reggae infused electronic music that can
be both smooth and bitingly aggressive at the
same time. Following the release of Burial’s
Mercury nominated album Untrue (ultimately
beaten by Elbow’s Seldom Seen Kid), Hyper-
dub added several new artists to its roster.
Zomby, Samiyam, Ikonika and King Midas
Sound all released music on the label in 2008
and since then output has only increased.
As the UK dubstep scene grew out of
South-East London in the mid-late 00’s, Hy-
perdub began drawing fans from around the
world. Kyle Hall (Detroit), Samiyam (LA)
and Hype Williams (New York) have all put
out EPs on the label, giving it, and the Lon-
don scene it champions, further exposure to
huge audiences. Despite this diversity that
has spread across the label, Hyperdub’s out-
put is still heavily London based with one of
my favourite tunes of last year; Ossie’s ‘Set
the Tone’ which layered meltingly smooth
vibes over lively staccato percussion. Ter-
ror Danjah, the grime-rave producer from
East London and part of the Butterz crew, has
also seen several releases on Hyperdub, add-
ing yet another side to label’s ever-expanding
metaphorical music polygon.
And yet, I can’t resist. Some mention has to
go to Hyperdub and Burial’s most recent re-
lease; the Kindred EP. This record sees Burial
take a different path; yes the stuttering drum
patterns and haunting vocal samples are still
there but in the underlying feeling there is a
stark difference. The tone is more aggressive,
the songs are longer – pulling you further and
further into the twisted and emotional sound-
scapes – and just when you think a song has
finished, it evolves and spits something else
out at you. The track ‘Loner’ sees Burial take
influence from 90’s rave rhythms but layers
them over a bass line so full of dread there’s
no way those kids would have been able to
drop a handful of pills to this without ending
up curled in a corner, shaking with fear.
It’s taken me a long time to get this out of
my system, and in a way it’s been therapeutic.
I’m no longer scared but, boy, does Hyperdub
demand respect.
Techno Nonsense: Hyperdub
Simon Hunter gets to grips with London’s latest dance music pioneers
Honey for the bears of the future.
EASTER GIGGING
Pelican
Chicago post-metal quartet Pelican
play Relentless Garage in Camden,
supporting their upcoming EP At-
araxia/Taraxis. Expect instrumental
sludge, combining angular math
metal style riffs crafted to preci-
sion with evocative guitar melodies
which more than compensate for
the lack of vocals. Not to be missed
by any guitarists nor by fans of Neu-
rosis, Mogwai or metalgaze in the
style of ISIS.
Riaz Agahi
Relentless Garage
Saturday 7, April
Clark
IDM up-and-comer Clark show-
cases his new album, Iradelphic,
live with a variety of synths, a mpc,
and other “musical accessories”.
Support comes from the fantastic
Border Community resident Nathan
Fake, whose live shows generally
showcase the dreamier side of his
material – walls of euphoric, sweep-
ing synths and queit vocals abound.
Further support offered by instru-
mental hip-hop artist Letherette.
Ross Gray
Village Underground
Saturday 7, April
Archer’s Wonder
Peter Barnardo
“Boy, does Hyperdub
demand respect.”
WIN 2 TICKETS TO
ODD FUTURE
29th March @ Brixton Academy
Send your best“YO MAMA”joke to
music.felix@gmail.com
by the end of term.
Winners announced via the Felix Music Farcebook page.

