as revered by Howard Moon. Every second,
a breath suspended. A veritable vertigo of
anticipation, darting between surprises and
unfamiliar instances, each moment a shadow
of the next.
In dance, rhythm entrances the body, allow-
ing the mind to wander elsewhere. A cathartic
release as one’s earthly ties are made sublime.
For the same reasons do we prefer to dance
at night in darkened rooms beneath unnatu-
ral lights. It is the farthest we can get from
the quotidian, an exit from the dragging day
to day. Breaking the cycle of daily obligation
with another of a more tenuous nature can
make the former more bearable. Hence the
sacrament of Friday nights.
There is no reason for music to invariably
alternate between verse and chorus. Such a
MUSIC
FELIX Friday 16 March 2012 33
Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto on the intimate
relationship between rhythm and sound
Rhythm is the Ritalin
W
hy is there rhythm in mu-
sic? To some, this question
may seem utterly super-
fluous, but is arrhythmic
music really so unfathom-
able? The heartbeat is itself a periodic throb,
as is breathing. It appears that rhythm is an in-
tegral part of vitality and perhaps this is why
we are so attracted to it.
The reassurance of repetition acts as a psy-
chic pillow, letting us know that our predic-
tions of the world are congruous. In fact,
some theories on the nature of intelligence
base themselves on the reinforcement of
predictions made while understanding pre-
vious experiences. But what happens when
these predictions are challenged? If you met
a person with ears for eyes, you’d certainly
be taken aback; that’s just not how the world
is. Then again, if our ideas were never chal-
lenged we would learn nothing new and life
would be a mundane thing.
There’s nothing like a steady beat. It cradles
you beyond boredom, tucking you neatly in
your comfort zone, knowing that the next
three minutes are going to be exactly the
same. No change. No worries.
Then there’s jazz. As feared by Vince Noir
“Ever second, a
breath suspended.
A veritable vertigo of
anticipation.”
monotonous structure is a poor man’s kalei-
doscope, recycling a simple pattern ad nau-
seam.
Rhythm is the reappearance of sound in par-
ticular patterns. But couldn’t playing a sound
once be enough? Once it has become, why
summon back its memory? It remains a con-
stant affirmation of its non-vanishment, a re-
minder of something that cannot last forever.
Is it an attempt to remind you what it sound-
ed like – massaging your ears once more in
case you forgot how it felt? Or is it an attempt
to recycle the past? Why do what has already
been done?
Surely there is a better representation of
sound in its subordinance to the time domain
– an ever fleeting object continually disap-
pearing into the past. Something to be left as
a memory and perhaps recall it in a synpatic
disturbance. Or does the recollection serve to
keep us in a single moment, conveying some-
thing greater than time would allow?
Our memory can hold a moment forever,
suspending everything, all at once. We can
experience a tremendous amount in a single
instant and condense the greatest of spaces
into the finest point.
Time is too precious to linger on.
Reviewed in
60 Seconds
Roman Flügel
Waste It All
2012
Despite its five track length and status as an EP,
Waste It All could well stand as the most diverse set
of recordings London-based ‘nugaze’ group Spc Eco
(founded by Dean Garcia of Curve, and his daughter,
Rose Berlin) have ever put out.
The tracks recorded with Skylight employ a slower,
more guitar-heavy mix than Eco’s usually dreamy ma-
terial, with Rose’s vocals pushed lower in the mix. The
EP as a whole is harsher than their older sound, with
some tracks notably employing a kind of dubstep-style
‘dirty’ (awful word) bassline.
Somehow, it works. If you like checking out local
talent be sure to grab this.
Ross Gray
★★★★✩
Experimental electronic musician Ricardo Tobar
proves once again that dance can fully transcend its
boundaries when challenged with influences from
shoegaze, noise and drone. With Betweener EP, he
moves slightly toward standard progressive house
but sticks firm to his principles. His beats are indus-
trial sounding, muted with filters and interesting.
Opening with an incredibly beautiful, swelling,
lo-fi analogue synth, the EP proceeds triumphantly;
spacey, muted sounds are utilised throughout, phe-
nomenal euphoric highs slowly drift into each other,
and short breakdowns lead into nuanced, rarely used
vocal samples.
Tobar yet again manages to produce incredible mu-
sic that breathes beauty in the bedroom and creates
frenzy on the dance floor.
Ross Gray
Ricardo Tobar
Betweener EP
2012
★★★★★
If any of you have seen the recent contentious
article from The New York Times talking about
how depraved and culturally rigid London has
become. Thankfully, Soko, whose origins lie in
France, but spends most of her time in Cali-
fornia, doesn’t hold such views about our fair
capital. You can see from the very first minute
of her show that playing here, at the Union Cha-
pel in Islington, was a special moment. After
interviewing her following the gig she indicated
that the venue was “absolutely perfect, like ev-
erything you could ever hope for” and one can
understand why; her dream-like bedroom pop is
perfectly sited to the intimate, beautiful setting.
It was obvious from when she walked on,
Soko was extremely nervous. The technical
problems which plagued the beginning of the
set only added to any anxiety. I couldn’t really
connect with the opening barrage of songs as
they stuttered into life. I had been warned by a
friend that quality control was something that
Soko was not famed for, and I have to say that
I definitely agree. However, her beautiful and
haunting lyrics began to draw me in. Lines such
times I felt quite uncomfortable having a singer
speak words so painfully honest. She told to me
that every other singer who does not perform
with such sincerity and fragility are “liars and
frauds”.
When leaving the venue I felt a certain sad-
ness that whatever show I went to next, the in-
tensity would not compare with what I had just
experienced. Soko totally excelled in the softer
moments but I was left thinking if only the set
was honed, it would have been a perfect night.
as “real love is looking at someone sleeping for
longer than you can sleep for” as well as the
melancholic crys of “I am still looking for my
father, so I cannot have a lover now”. Her frag-
ile voice only added to the depth and one could
almost reach out and touch the troubles which
she was singing about.
The highlight of the night was the title track
of her debut I Thought I Was An Alien. The ever
rotating backing band excelled on this song
to bring the chapel to a quasi-religious level
of worship. It occurred to me that this packed
crowd sat in almost total reverence to the waif-
like vision that was Soko. They were totally in
awe, remaining silent, only to erupt in rapturous
applause after each song.
The song which first made me aware of Soko
was ‘First Love Never Die’ which is totally
awesome and I would recommend it to all of
you. She explained that creating all forms of her
art was like playtime for a child, and that this is
best represented by the video for this song, co-
directed by her friend Spike Jonze.
By the end of the show, Soko was visibly cry-
ing. It was easy to see that this gig meant ev-
erything to her. However, something I couldn’t
get to grips with was the lack of setlist which
meant that any momentum built up was easily
lost. It took six years to make her debut, creat-
ing a base of 100 songs, but it was easy to feel
that a bit more focus would have helped. And
yet, this is where Soko’s charm lies; the striking
elven figure who has fleeting moments of beau-
ty interspersed with times of utter madness. At
Soko at the
Union Chapel
Mark England
Kudos to Soko: this hat is hard to pull off
Thomas Leeman

