FELIX
Friday 16 MARCH 2012
34
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
FILM
Easter Special: Jesus in Cinema
The King of Kings (1927) – H. B. Warner
The legendary Cecil B. DeMille’s last silent film, it does have its
odd, completely original material (including its fairly creative
opening in which Mary Magdalene, possessed by the Seven Dead-
ly Sins, searches for her lover, Judah Iscariot), but he does mostly
stick to the events outlined by the Bible. He doesn’t put everything
in order, but Hollywood’s most ambitious director does a fine job
adding more of his unique touch. The famous resurrection scene,
one of two sequences in the film shown in colour, remains as pow-
erful as ever.
King of Kings (1961) – Jeffrey Hunter
Released by the same studio (MGM) a couple of years after their
enormous success of Ben-Hur, even the poster for King of Kings
shared a similar style to the Oscar-winning Charlton Heston epic.
So imagine everyone’s disappointment when the box office returns
were weak. The mass appeal of its attractive sparkling blue-eyed
Hunter couldn’t pull in massive numbers at the cinemas, although
his youthful look did give the film its lasting nickname of I Was
a Teenage Jesus, a parody of the title I Was a Teenage Werewolf
(1957).
The Gospel According to St. Matthew (1964) – Enrique
Irazoqui
Famous for having most of its dialogue taken straight out of Mat-
thew’s Gospel, Pier Paolo Pasolini’s take on Jesus is unique in
the way that the director himself couldn’t be further from being
a devout Christian. With his reputation of being an atheist, ho-
mosexual and Marxist individual, he doesn’t sentimentalise nor
does he glorify the story – instead he chooses to keep an accurate
record of events. Most refreshing however, is Irazoqui’s aggressive,
outspoken Jesus.
Godspell (1973) – Victor Garber
The fact that this is set in the 70s New York should immediately
tell you that Godspell: A Musical Based on the Gospel According to
St. Matthew (its full title) is not your typical film telling the story of
Jesus. Yet its fresh, comical approach, smart and never offensive,
full of entertaining, catchy tunes written by Stephen Schwartz (now
an Oscar-winning composer for Disney) is exactly the reason for
the film’s timeless appeal. Jesus does dress up as a clown here,
all the more reason to seek this one out.
Gospel Road (1973) – Robert Elfstrom
The year 1973 saw the release of three musical films based on
the life of Jesus Christ and perhaps the most memorable one is
the feature sung and narrated by American country singer Johnny
Cash. His wife June Carter Cash stars as Mary Magdalene, and
with its on location shoot in Israel, combine these with Cash’s
original songs in his signature performance style perfectly suiting
the film’s every scene, what could have been a cheesy, tacky music
video turns into a touching, sincere piece.
The Greatest Story Ever Told (1965) – Max von Sydow
An expensive flop for United Artists, von Sydow plays Jesus
amongst the starry ensemble cast that includes Charlton Heston,
Claude Raines, Jose Ferrer, John Wayne, Angela Lansbury, Sidney
Poitier and Shelley Winters. This epic tale of massive proportions
(e.g. its 260-minute running time), there is no denying that this is
a challenging, butt-aching watch, but the sheer ambition and vi-
sion director George Stevens carried with the project is well worth
a watch, perhaps not in a single sitting though.
The Passion of the Christ (2004) – Jim Caviezel
The brutal yet riveting portrayal of the last few hours of Christ’s
life is an unforgettably raw and bloody experience, and yet the
violence seems never unnecessary or over-the-top. Whether you
believe in this story or not shouldn’t prevent you from being com-
pletely drawn in. Mel Gibson’s reputation may have gone downhill
over the recent years but his directorial achievement here is un-
questionably bold and unique, putting his lead, the usually quiet
yet intense Caviezel through many tough physical ordeals.
The Last Temptation of Christ (1988) – Willem Dafoe
A more human, perhaps more relatable take on the Crucifixion, Je-
sus contemplates a quieter, less painful life with his “love” Mary
Magdalene. Plagued by doubt, depression and lust, this brave de-
parture from what the scripture says attracted a fair amount of con-
torversy for director Martin Scorsese, but it’s a contemplative piece
and an interesting spin on a widely accepted story. Christians, try
to watch and absorb with an open mind. Non-Christians, indulge in
this honest bit of filmmaking by one of Hollywood’s finest.
Jesus Christ Superstar (1973) – Ted Neeley
It was only a matter of time before Andrew Lloyd Webber’s smash
hit, award-winning stage musical Jesus Christ Superstar caught
the attention of film studio bosses. Two years after its stage debut,
Webber’s biblical tale made it to the screens and was met with
mixed reviews. There is no doubting Webber’s talent when it comes
to music composition, but Neeley’s Jesus has been criticised as
being more “whiny than heroic” with its general tone being “mo-
notonous” and “tedious,” never a good sign for a musical.

